ek te we

a r] 4 . ea 2
‘ ia 5
Ade £. } A

= Co eR Ie Be he bt be bw Rw

ke ie t& Ww jp. “The pe os ie LR o8)

Pr EB Te Be ee pe ie o Ce ee ee oe
um Te, Te. Ye Te dP. es ei ae ee

feree
ka
“= =a
=
we
BS

% ee ; . ‘'y on - $e AS J : ae 7 Le , if be t ' F ‘, i i. x A j }
a mi Ty te &. fic a we a ee Ps. i Ge fe
2 ate, om ° me ie i  & BS Be RS Oi B hb Re he
hoe mo Dp. a *, | J ‘Sw p *o" ‘f ;
Sie a a a

' wy ae ee ae Te te ie fy he | “ie SB > An
Te tt Te . &, De a Pa rar The ee a ae
es 2D ne ee ‘ ‘S. de | wie Wee foe Be mo we) 7
ie a ie is pe ie, a ‘te Fe ke — ee Te he ie Ry Re fe ss
eB i c oe a re as ie De fe @ 2» Ue py Wp o ip: i
e es F ee ee » . i e" fis Be ee ap de Tk ie
AY. ede - is je ie & ale A . ie i hy te Th" ibe i Bi et Te we) g

rd r 2 ; oe ke OR © he = Ne
eect ag A ae . wi Rt a wee te aa ty fy an ee
~ 8 Ph bg ww a * 7 OM ie a

‘yh eee ee ee ae ee ee eo |
he fe 3 wn oe Le * ee ere ee ie |
al Bi Te Gs Sie ie. vi Re) Oe be ; ” ie

See 8 Ya Bs, e Pa te (8. 1 Bh BW od te RS ne fe £Y i Re Bh
” 4 See ee we ae Be eo ee: a ay

eS ae ae Hy we ee TN Tie dee Ta BL BOR Pe Be yy

We Ga: te ta. he. 5 i Aik 48 ‘ i , “ is ie “it me fr Ay we spe! Ie ee : ae

Se Rae aa ae Ye ae Se ge ae fe fe my Be ie Bo 7 ee fk BR me ‘ hav Spe.

oe eet eG He, We Ge ha Bis fa Ye i We. Yeo fp Be] By

Be ew Bete" Pee fe Ty he. “po . hh Beg
es 1 Ta we "ep fhe de dhe feo oe ee ee

wee We ee we me Ae nl Ros

ncoer it _— septerie ty

- ae eae Hint ner eat COE eR Se Na Ss
'
:
Ane i

“ Ni

uf

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE
OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND

CONDITION OR THE INSTITUTION
FOR HE. YRAR. sD ED. TONE 3 30

L943

“Sos ‘IE I Nene

(Publication 3741)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1944

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.
Price $2.00 (cloth cover)
a OME SEC AC ING ey te 1 I Aa

SMITHSONIAN InstrruTion,
Washington, December 28, 1943.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and conditions of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1948. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. G. Axpor, Secretary.

II
CONTENTS

PLATES BOLI CO RAEN Spa pn ot aR i RAI ite oA NN he
Shes omithsonlan Ine warulmMer sacs oo ee ee ee te Ble
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution_____-__
“EVs ISH REST| oy BS 0 Yo kg a ag ean el A
Sen EBA OrtrePentss. eo ses tei eMac Sa) Ue ee a
| RET TE SS Se Aa a MN a aD cop! SAD PG DO, ee eS ae DS ee
PEACE LSE NT ee ee gS ap YS a a Ue a
Orr Larrea Vga ee SN reas ER LD ca Meg aR et tis BAN e yh Cre Wie Ik aka ot
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum____-_------
2. Report on the National Gallery of Art..._......+....-=--

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts__---_-_----

4 Report on the) Preer Gallery of Art. 3.22 222.3 es

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology_-_-_-_------

6. Report on the International Exchange Service.___---------

7. Report on the National Zoological Park______.-.----------

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory, including the Divi-

sion of Astrophysical Research and the Division of Radia-

AICI OOTP AMISIVI Se! ie Bee Se ne i Ve as ee Oe

eerenorton toe Mbrary 26 cn ce aia es Pea A ye

TOS enor On mmBOlCe tons. 2a kak eh ok eee ee

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents___----------

GENERAL APPENDIX

Solar radiation as a power source, by C. G. Abbot___-_---_--------------
Some biological effects of solar radiation, by Brian O’Brien___---_------
The sea as a storehouse, by E. F. Armstrong, D. Sc., F. R. S_-----------
Progress in new synthetic textile fibers, by Herbert R. Mauersberger- ---
Betroleum seology, by Wiliam) Bi (Geroy 208 228 oe Se
The 1942 eruption of Mauna Loa, Hawaii, by Gordon A. Macdonald ___-_-
New metals and new methods, by C. H. Desch, F. R. S__--------------
Oceanography; by Heury C: Stetson: «2.022 ooo ee oe Oe
The ocean current called ‘“‘The Child,” by Eliot G. Mears__-__-_--------
Maps, strategy, and world politics, by Richard Edes Harrison and Robert

CSL LE SUEST 8 901 5 cj RRS Me ae EARP fe ca ORE as ROR ny Rll eR
The natural-history background of camouflage, by Herbert Friedmann _--
Dangerous reptiles, iby Doris M.!Cochranc 22 CU a es ees
The plants of China and their usefulness to man, by Egbert H. Walker---
MIAtUTAl EM ODEr /09 OMe WOOK 22852 ek ce OS ee oe
Lessons from the Old World to the Americas in land use, by Walter Clay

1 Leng ere SOE IS Ep RD SER Bo Rae TR ae he YS epee ee aa ena

99
109
135
151
161
199
213
219
245

253
259
275
325
363

413
IV CONTENTS

Page

Areal and temporal aspects of aboriginal South American culture, by John
MM.‘ Cooper. oo. 2i5 2 eee 2 eS Ea ee eee 429

Origin of the Far Eastern civilizations: A brief handbook, by Carl Whiting
Bishop 22.2 ostu eek Re ee A Se eee ea oe 463
Contours of culture in Indonesia, by Raymond Kennedy .__________-__- 513
The Arab village community of the Middle East, by Afif I. Tannous__-__- 523
Chemotherapeutic agents from microbes, by Robert L. Weintraub__--___- 545

Sulfonamides in the treatment of war wounds and burns, by Charles L.
bey, art ai Me 0 RRMA AA ge ah AD Ma SUE TD ON PR TE UT YS EH UNA A peE , 569
The yellow fever situation in the Americas, by Wilbur A. Sawyer_-__--_--- 575

Some food problems in wartime, by George R. Cowgill_.....-.--_-----_- 591
LIST OF PLATES

Secretary’s Report:

EAR SYS UPS PN SID io ce ST a AY apa a 8 Re
Solar radiation as a power source (Abbot):

VEEN GSS IO PAT ik Ea aN RS icf OU A RS NRT aR eA ee eee
Biological effects of solar radiation (O’Brien):

VETIEG HEY Te awe sk le hc peta SR A Sa WP et Ree ae a
The sea as a storehouse (Armstrong):

TAGES le ares tens ne ces ge Meee) ae a ye a Ayes ce es el ag a ae BN
Eruption of Mauna Loa (Macdonald):

SEAS > URC Sept aaa aA A lS A ial MIE Ae Su AAR Re pot ap ge age Nem Ue mp
Ocean current called ‘““The Child’”’ (Mears):

NS Tex Geseeca lies erste aes ere pte ee Shae ec, SM ke Ee cee le Ne
Maps (Harrison and Strausz-Hupé):

DEN EU GES fel ae peta ree tak cee een MR Dee at ne al eaabat d mee Ce ED
Camouflage (Friedmann):

SEH esp ag sh Gata eS TAN ee SS a aD De ep BN pe OR By pee
Dangerous reptiles (Cochran):

TBARS ere ard Go eS afk pe NG cs An A A ie eat ES Le ay el Aa ee aa te

De F I PA IS Te ML AON en Ag Me AR A A Sa a yD ip St ea
Plants of China (Walker):

TEEN SP Ml Aa gh Raed SS AON at ALU ag A en es te
Natural rubber (Cook):

PLS LES Re (ese Nee ree eee ty 2 MEAS in AI ae Ys Pn gear ree RANA Holeaame Joey 2h
Land use (Lowdermilk) :

TEL eo GLEE, CIN Ss AA a a Of
Aboriginal South American culture (Cooper):

TET eat ss NS eit Te eID APT EI NI CN SE SIE WS a WAN Ly A Da
Far Eastern civilizations (Bishop):

TRAE ep ereh EST UN Eg NNT IR AAA IS gD lO CO ee
Indonesia (Kennedy):

PT eVt CRs iy kB oath a ae HA IIS aang ere ee er ee Ltt toe
Arab village community (Tannous):

TEAS a(S TAD MEA ZL oes 0 RIE 117 IN RU ee Hse Ly Bc GN GN
Chemotherapeutic agents (Weintraub):

EELS Mey fey SP PE CE A aie ey OY a
sae li |

i *
ceopitecnarmeton sm ani me Ne
Pe eae y

nA a
1 an

Fe faa

a

?, z
AN
iat
eotile le
BOR

a ‘Ke

ae,

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1943

Presiding Officer ex officio.—FRANKLIN D. Roosrvect, President of the United
States.
Chancellor.—Hartan F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT, President of the United States.
Henry A. WALLACE, Vice President of the United States.
Haran F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States.
CorRDELL HUuLL, Secretary of State.
HENRY MORGENTHAD, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury.
Henry L. Strmson, Secretary of War.
FRrANcIs Bippre, Attorney General.
FRANK C. WALKER, Postmaster General.
FRANK Knox, Secretary of the Navy.
Haro.p L. Ickrs, Secretary of the Interior.
CLAUDE R. WicKARD, Secretary of Agriculture.
JESSE H. Jones, Secretary of Commerce.
FRANCES PERKINS, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Har.an F.. Srone, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Henry A. WALLACE, Vice President of the United States.
Cuartes L. McNary, Member of the Senate.
ALBEN W. BARKLEY, Member of the Senate.
BENNETT CHAMP CLARK, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
Foster STEARNS, Member of the House of Representatives.
EDWARD E.. Cox, Member of the House of Representatives.
FREDERIC A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Roranp S. Morgis, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Illinois.
VANNEVAR BusH, citizen of Washington, D. C.
FREDERIC C. WALCOTT, citizen of Connecticut.
Executive Committee.—FREDERIC A. DELANO, VANNEVAR BUSH, CLARENCE CANNON.
Secretary.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—HARry W. Dorsey.
Treasurer.—NIcHOLAS W. DoRSEY.
Chief, editorial diwision.—WEBSTER P. TRUE.
Librarian.—Leiwa F. CLark.
Personnel officer.—HEten A. OLMSTED.
Property clerk.—JAMES H. HILL.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper ew officio.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Director.— ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Associate Director.—JOoHN E. GRAF.

vil
vit ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943
SCIENTIFIO STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY: ‘
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, chief preparator.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, associate
curator; R. G. Paine, senior scientific aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary
assistant curator of Old World archeology.

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.*

Collaborator in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy. Associate in .
anthropology: AleS Hrdlitka.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY:
Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist ;
Aime M. Awl, illustrator.

Division of Mammals: Remington Kellogg, curator; D. H. Johnson, associate
curator; H. Harold Shamel, senior scientific aid; A. Brazier Howell, col-
laborator; Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator; W. A. Weber, assistant curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian
of alcoholic and skeleton collections; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; E. D. Reid, senior scientific
aid.

Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin,
curator; R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator.

Section of Hymenoptera: S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; C. R. Shoe-
maker, associate curator; James O. Maloney, aid; Mrs. Harriet Rich-
ardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; J. Percy Moore,
collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman, collaborator in Foraminifera.

Division of Mollusks: Paul Bartsch, curator; Harald A. Rehder, associate
curator; Joseph P. H. Morrison, assistant curator.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz,
collaborator.

Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.

Division of Plants (National Herbarium) : W. R. Maxon, curator; Ellsworth
P. Killip, associate curator; Emery C. Leonard, assistant curator; Conrad
V. Morton, assistant curator; Egbert H. Walker, assistant curator; John
A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological collection.

Section of Grasses: Agnes Chase, custodian.

Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, custodian.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.

Section of Diatoms;: Paul S. Conger, custodian.

*Now on war duty.
REPORT OF THH SECRETARY x

DEPARTMENT OF BioLtocy.—Continued.

Associates in Zoology: Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall, A. G. Bév-
ing, W. K. Fisher.

Associate in Botany: Henri Pittier.

Collaborator in Zoology : Robert Sterling Clark.

Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY :
R. S. Bassler, head curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. ¥. Foshag, curator; H. P. Hender-
son, associate curator; B. O. Reberholt, senior scientific aid; Frank I.
Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Charles BE. Resser,
curator; Gustav A. Cooper, associate curator; Marion F. Willoughby,
senior scientific aid.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection; Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoie collection.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; C. Lewis
Gazin, associate curator* ; Norman H. Boss, chief preparator.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry.

Associate in Paleontology: E. O. Ulrich, T. W. Vaughan.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF IEENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.

Division of Engineering: C. W. Mitman, head curator in charge; Frank A.

Taylor, curator.*
Section of Transportation and Civil Engineering; Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.*
Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber, associate curator,* F. C. Reed,
acting associate curator.
Section of Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.*
Section of Electrical Engineering and Communications: Frank A.
Taylor, in charge.*
Section of Mining and Metallurgical Engineering: Carl W. Mitman, in
charge.
Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.*
Section of Tools: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.*
Division of Crafts and Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Elizabeth
W. Rosson, senior scientific aid.
Section of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
Section of Woods and Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, associate
curator.
Section of Chemical Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
Section of Agricultural Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
Division of Medicine and Public Health: Charles Whitebread, associate
curator.
Division of Graphic Arts: R. P. Tolman, curator.
Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, associate curator.
DIvIsiIon oF History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, assistant curator;
Catherine L. Manning, philatelist.

*Now on war duty.
S ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. S. BRYANT.

Assistant chief of correspondence and documents.—L. HB. COMMBERFORD.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—R. H. TREMBLY.

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHARLES C. SINCLAIR.
Editor.—PavuL H. OEFHSER.

Accountant and auditor.—N. W. DorSsEY.

Photographer.—A. J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk.—LAWRENCE L. OLIVER.

Assistant librarian.—ELiIsaBETH H. GAZIN.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Trustees:
THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES, Chairman.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
DAvip K. E. BRUCE.
FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
SAMUEL H. KREss.
JOSEPH HE. WIDENER.
President.—Davi K. E. Bruce.
Vice President.—FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
Associate Vice President.—CHESTER DALE.
Director.—Davip E. FINLEY.
Administrator.—H. A. McBrIper.
Secretary-Treasurer and General Counsel. HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—JOoHN WALKER.
Assistant Director.—MACGILL JAMES.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Acting Director.—RvuEL P. TOLMAN.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. WENLEY.

Assistant Director.—GRACE DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate in research.—J. A. POPE.
Superintendent.—W. N. RAWLEY.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief —MATTHEW W. STIRLING.

Senior ethnologists.—H. B. Cotiins, Jr., Joon P. HARRINGTON, JOHN R. SWANTON.
Senior archeologist—FRaNK H. H. Roserrs, Jr.

Senior anthropologist —JULIAN H. STEWARD.

Associate anthropologist—W. N. Fenton.

Editor.—M. Hern PALMER.

Librarian.—Miriam B. KETCHUM.

Illustrator.—EpWIN G. CASSEDY.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY XI

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Secretary (in charge).—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Acting Chief Clerk.—F¥. E. Gass.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WiILliaAmM M. MANN.
Assistant Director.—ERNEST P. WALKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

DIVISION oF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH: Loyal B. Aldrich, assistant director;
William H. Hoover, senior astrophysicist.

DIvISION oF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS: Earl §. Johnston, assistant director;
Edward D. McAlister, senior physicist; Leland B. Clark, engineer (precision
instruments) ; Robert L. Weintraub, associate biochemist.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBOT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1948

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and
the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the
fiscal year ended. June 30, 1943. The first 12 pages contain a sum-
mary account of the affairs of the Institution; it will be noted that
many activities usually included in this section are missing, wartime
conditions having forced their suspension. Appendixes 1 to 10 give
more detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum,
the National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the
Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the In-
ternational Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, which now includes the divisions of astro-
physical research and radiation and organisms, the Smithsonian
library, and of the publications issued under the direction of the
Institution. On page 89 is the financial report of the executive com-
mittee of the Board of Regents.

THE SMITHSONIAN IN WARTIME

At the close of the fiscal year, 83 employees of the Institution had
joined the armed forces and 5 had left to serve in special capacities
in the various war agencies. Those leaving included 10 members
of the scientific staff. Many of those remaining at the Institution
devoted 100 percent of their time to war projects assigned by the
Army, Navy, or war agencies, and all other staff members were oc-
cupied in varying degree with such projects, depending on the extent
to which their special knowledge was in demand. In short, all per-
sonnel and facilities of the Institution and its branches were made
available and were extensively used in the prosecution of the war.

The Institution’s normal activities were kept alive to the extent of
continuing observations the cessation of which would leave perma-
nent gaps in records essential to future investigations, and of main-
taining and caring for the National collections. All other research

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

and exploration projects not necessary for the orderly resumption
of cultural activities after the war have been suspended for the dura-
tion with one exception, namely, those activities related to a closer
cultural cooperation with the other American republics. Such co-
operation is of vital importance not only for better relations between
neighboring countries in the present time of emergency, but also as
a permanent program after the war. The Institution is particularly
well fitted to take part in such a program because of its many years
of friendly contact with the scientists and scientific institutions of
the other American republics.

Thus the wartime policy of the Institution has been to use all its
resources to aid in winning the war, while continuing insofar as
possible the recording and publishing of essential scientific observa-
tions and such curatorial work as is necessary for the proper care
of the National collections.

The Smithsonian War Committee, appointed by me early in 1942,
has continued to meet regularly with the aim of originating or con-
sidering plans to increase the Smithsonian’s contributions to the war
effort. The Committee has made many recommendations during the
year, most of which I have approved and put into effect. Several
war projects have also come to the Institution through my own con-
tacts with Army and Navy officials or through contacts made by
other Smithsonian staff members.

It seems desirable to present here, as a record of the Institution’s
part in the war, a brief statement of such of its wartime activities
as can be made public. As regards the year’s publications, most of
which related to the war or to the other American republics, a state-
ment will be found farther on in this report under the heading
“Publications.” It will be seen that much of the Institution’s con-
tribution is of an indirect nature, for the obvious reason that an
organization can only undertake work for which its staff has the
requisite training and experience. In total war, however, accurate
knowledge of obscure peoples and places and other subjects chiefly
of academic interest in normal times suddenly becomes of vital im-
portance to the Army and Navy. In furnishing some of this infor-
mation, urgently needed and often hard to get, lies the Institution’s
major contribution.

Strategic information to war agencies.—As stated, the Institution’s
greatest usefulness, as in the case of other similar organizations,
derived from the specialized knowledge of its scientific staff, which
provided the answers to innumerable urgent questions continually
facing the Army, Navy, and war agencies. More than a thousand
recorded inquiries had been answered up to the close of the fiscal
year, and probably as many more for one reason or another were
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

not included in the record. The great majority of these were not
simple questions that could be answered on the spot, but were of
such a nature that considerable time was required to provide a com-
plete answer. Many inquiries involved a series of conferences or
the writing of extended illustrated reports. A list of selected ex-
amples tabulated by the War Committee shows not only the very
wide range of these questions, but also the extent to which modern
total war depends on scientific knowledge. The Institution was in
a peculiarly favorable position to render this type of service because
of its location in Washington, the headquarters also of the War and
Navy Departments and most of the war agencies. It had the further
advantage of being closely associated with the Ethnogeographic
Board, discussed in the next paragraph.

Ethnogeographic Board.—Early in the fiscal year the Institution
joined with the American Council of Learned Societies, the Social
Science Research Council, and the National Research Council in
sponsoring the Ethnogeographic Board, a nongovernmental agency
whose function is to act as a clearinghouse between the above insti-
tutions and other scientific and educational organizations throughout
the country, and the Army,.Navy, and war agencies within the
Government. The Director of the Board is Dr. William Duncan
Strong, formerly of the Smithsonian Bureau of American Ethnology
and at present on leave from Columbia University. The offices of
the Board are in the Smithsonian building, a portion of its operating
costs have been defrayed by the Institution, and three members of
the scientific staff of the Bureau of American Ethnology have been
detailed to assist the Director of the Board. The War and Navy
Departments assigned liaison officers, and under the energetic leader-
ship of Dr. Strong the Board has become the focal point for the
finding of the best sources of strategic information in the fields of
science within its scope.

War research projects—A number of research and consultation
projects have come to the Institution through the Ethnogeographic
Board, the Smithsonian War Committee, and contacts of various
officials of the Institution. As these were all of a strictly confiden-
tial character, nothing can be said about them except that they were
concerned with many different branches of science, including an-
thropology, biology, geology, physics, and meteorology. These proj-
ects occupied practically the entire time of the instrument and
mechanical shops of the Astrophysical Observatory, the division of
radiation and organisms, and the division of engineering, as well
as the time of numerous members of the scientific staff.

Inter-American cooperation.—F or many years the Institution has
been in close contact with scientists and cultural organizations in the
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

other American republics through its anthropological, zoological, and
botanical explorations and field work in that area and through the
wide exchange of its publications for those of scientific institutions of
Mexico and South and Central America. Thus the Institution has
been in an excellent position to undertake several major projects de-
signed to improve cultural relations with our neighboring countries
to the south. Under the direction of Dr. Julian H. Steward, of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, a Handbook of the Indians of South
America has been brought practically to completion and is expected
to be published during the coming year as a Bulletin of the Bureau.
This comprehensive publication, which will form four volumes of
text and two of bibliography, is a truly cooperative undertaking,
for 50 percent of the contributors are scientists in the other American
republics. Also on the initiative of Dr. Steward, and with Dr. Ralph
L. Beals as temporary director, an Inter-American Society of Geog-
raphy and Anthropology has been organized, with membership open
to scientists anywhere in the hemisphere. More than 700 members
have already been enrolled from nearly all countries on both con-
tinents. A journal with articles in English, Spanish, and Portuguese
will record the activities of the Society. The first part of a “Checklist
of the Coleopterous Insects of Mexico, Central America, the West
Indies, and South America,” prepared under the direction of Dr. R. E.
Blackwelder, is now in press as a Bulletin of the National Museum. A
long-needed tool for entomologists, this check list will be used for
years to come by scientists of the entire hemisphere. A number of
Smithsonian scientists have visited other American republics during
the year in the interest of closer professional collaboration.

Other wartime activities—The new series of publications, Smith-
sonian War Background Studies, will be described in detail in an-
other place. I will say here only that the series is filling a real need
for authentic information on the less well-known peoples and regions
involved in the war, and the demand for the books was so great that
editions had to be increased progressively from 3,500 to 8,000 copies.
In addition both the Army and Navy ordered editions of from 1,000
to 10,000 copies of several of the papers for the use of service personnel.

One of the first recommendations of the Smithsonian War Com-
mittee was for a roster of the technical and geographical knowledge
of the Institution’s staff. The roster has been at the service of the
Ethnogeographic Board and has been of material aid in enabling
the Army, Navy, and war agencies to locate quickly the specialist or
the knowledge they needed.

Under the direction of the Smithsonian library, a file of illustra-
tions of strategic areas appearing in Smithsonian publications and in
the more obscure technical journals has been completed and made avail-
able to war agencies. A brief description of the resources of the Smith-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

sonian library of nearly a million volumes has been distributed to key
personnel.

For the benefit of members of the armed forces, the Museum build-
ings have been kept open all day Sunday. A set of six colored post
cards showing striking Museum exhibits was given to servicemen
entering the Arts and Industries building, where facilities for writing
and mailing the cards were made available. More than 300,000 cards
were given during the year. A small leaflet welcoming service men
and women to the Institution was also made available; in it is de-
scribed the part played by Army and Navy personnel in the past in
building up the National collections. At the close of the year a col-
lector’s manual for members of the armed forces was in preparation,
and a plan was being worked out to provide docents for Museum tours
for service personnel.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES
OF THE INSTITUTION

National Musewm.—Throughout the year members of the scientific
staff have been occupied with furnishing technical information and
carrying on research connected with the conduct of the war. The
Museum buildings have been kept open all day Sundays for the
benefit of service men and women. The Museum collections were in-
creased by 230,231 specimens, bringing the total number of catalog
entries to 17,808,471. Outstanding among the new accessions were the
following: In anthropology, 1,443 specimens of pottery and figurine
fragments from various localities in the United States and Mexico, a
ceremonial mace of serpentine from Maré, Loyalty Islands, and
Weapons, armor, and musical instruments from the Philippines; in
biology, a complete skeleton of the African bush elephant, birds from
New Guinea and Eritrea, the latter a hitherto unrepresented locality,
two large collections of fishes—one comprising more than 50,000
specimens transferred from the Fish and Wildlife Service, the other
nearly 35,000 specimens collected in Venezuela by the curator of fishes,
and the Frank C. Baker collection of mollusks, comprising 10,000 spec-
imens, one of the important mollusk collections of North America; in
geology, the John W. Langsdale collection of minerals, a 316-carat star
sapphire and a 54-carat blue Brazilian topaz, five volumes containing
1,500 photomicrographs of the structure in meteoric irons, presented
by Dr. Stuart H. Perry, associate in mineralogy, and a collection
of 2,000 Triassic fossils from Nevada; in engineering and industries,
an original truss of an iron railroad bridge built in America in 1845,
two sets of aircraft identification models used by our armed forces,
and a collection of specimens to be used as an exhibit of alternates and
substitutes developed recently to cope with shortages of war materials;
in history, the finest accession of firearms, swords, and daggers received

566766—44—2
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

by the Museum in recent years, the gift of Ralph G. Packard. The
few expeditions that were in the field during the year were concerned
with matters connected with the conduct of the war or were the result
of pre-war commitments. Because of travel difficulties, the number of
visitors dropped to 1,355,269 as compared with slightly over 2,000,000
in the previous year. A definite count showed that servicemen aver-
aged 25 to 35 percent of the total number of visitors. The Museum
published its Annual Report, 3 Bulletins, 1 Contribution from the
National Herbarium, and 25 Proceedings papers. Staff changes in-
cluded the death of Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of the
department of biology, and the appointment of Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt,
curator of the division of marine invertebrates, to succeed him. Nu-
merous members of the staff were furloughed for military and naval
duty.

National Gallery of Art.—The total attendance at the Gallery for
the year was 1,508,081, a daily average of 4,182 of whom more than
one-fourth were service men and women. Special activities for mem-
bers of the armed forces have included Sunday evening musical con-
certs, Sunday night suppers for servicemen, and the Servicemen’s
Room, which has furnished a place of relaxation for many men in the
service. Among the outstanding acquisitions of the year were a col-
lection of 23 paintings from Chester Dale; the Widener collection of
paintings, sculpture, and other objects of art, one of the greatest
donations ever made to any Museum; and the famous Rosenwald col-
lection of prints, numbering over 6,500 items. A number of special
exhibitions were held during the year, including an exhibition of
Chilean contemporary art, the Thomas Jefferson Bicentennial exhibi-
tion, and an exhibition sponsored by Life magazine of 125 paintings by
leading American artists, in cooperation with the War Department,
in United States battle zones. There were printed during the year a
check list of the Widener collection, a new general information
pamphlet, a catalog, a portfolio of colored reproductions, and nine
pamphlets dealing with the Gallery and its collections. The daily
Gallery tours of the collection have been supplemented by tours for
service men and women on Saturdays. A motion picture on the
National Gallery of Art was completed in cooperation with the Office
of Strategic Services; this will be widely circulated among educa-
tional institutions and the general public.

National Collection of Fine Arts.——Because of crowded conditions
in Washington the annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Com-
mission was not held, and proffered gifts of works of art are being
held by the National Collection of Fine Arts to be passed upon at the
next meeting of the Commission. Two members of the Commission
died during the year: John E. Lodge, chairman of the subcommittee
on Oriental art, and Charles L. Borie, chairman of the Commission
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

since 1935. Fourteen miniatures were acquired through the Catherine
Walden Myer fund. Five paintings were purchased under the Henry
Ward Ranger bequest; by the terms of the bequest these are as-
signed to various art institutions and under certain conditions are
prospective additions to the National Collection of Fine Arts. Seven
special exhibitions were held, as follows: Oil paintings, water colors,
and pastels by Seforita Carmen Madrigal Nieto, of Costa Rica; oil
paintings by Senorita Pachita Crespi, of Costa Rica; oil paintings
by Frank C. Kirk, of New York; miniatures by members of the
Pennsylvania Society of Miniature Painters; oil paintings and designs
by Simon Lissim, of New York; water colors by Leonora Quarterman,
of Savannah, Ga.; oil paintings by Walter King Stone, of Ithaca, N. Y.

Freer Gallery of Art-—Additions to the collections included Chinese
bronze, Persian gold, Persian and Indian paintings, Chinese porce-
lain, and Chinese and Persian pottery. Besides the regular curatorial
work, the staff devoted much of its time to supplying information to
war agencies and to translating matter from Chinese and Japanese
sources, amounting to hundreds of typewritten pages. In addition,
Chinese and Japanese names on maps of war areas were identified and
transliterated to the number of more than 5,000. The Director gave
a series of lectures to Washington school teachers on Chinese culture
as reflected in the fine arts in furtherance of a plan to disseminate
knowledge of China in the public schools. Visitors to the gallery
numbered 53,769 for the year, and 12 groups were given docent service
or instruction in the study room. John Ellerton Lodge, Director of
the Freer Gallery from its beginning in 1920, died on December 29,
1942. Under Mr. Lodge’s wise administration was developed the
work of the Gallery in the study and the acquisition of Oriental fine
arts. He was succeeded as Director by Archibald G. Wenley, asso-
ciate in research at the Gallery.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—Activities concerned with the
other American republics have been emphasized during the year, and
a large part of the time of the staff has been devoted to war projects.
Several members have worked nearly full time in cooperation with
the Ethnogeographic Board in preparing strategic information for
the Army, Navy, and war agencies. M. W. Stirling, Chief, directed
the fifth National Geographic-Smithsonian archeological expedition
to southern Mexico. Excavations at the site of La Venta in southern
Tabasco resulted in the discovery of construction details of the stone-
fenced enclosure, one of the central features of the site. Three rich
burials contained jade offerings of high quality. Dr. J. R. Swanton
completed the proofreading of his 850-page bulletin entitled “The
Indians of the Southeastern United States,” and did further work
on the now extinct language of the Timucua Indians of Florida.
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Dr. J. P. Harrington investigated the Chilcotin languages of north-
ern California, and later in the year devoted his time to the prepa-
ration of material for the linguistic section of the Handbook of
South American Indians. Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., investigated
a site in eastern Wyoming from which more than 70 projectile points
of the Yuma type were recovered. Dr. Roberts devoted the last two-
thirds of the year to the preparation of a series of “survival” arti-
cles from data furnished by members of the Smithsonian staff. These
articles were made available to the armed forces through the Ethno-
geographic Board. Dr. J. H. Steward continued his work as editor
of the Handbook of South American Indians, assisted by Dr. Alfred
Métraux of the Bureau staff. The Handbook, which will consist of
four volumes of text and two of bibliography, was three-fourths com-
pleted at the close of the year. Dr. H. B. Collins, Jr., was engaged
in furnishing regional and other information to the armed services,
mostly in connection with the Ethnogeographic Board. Dr. W. N.
Fenton devoted most of his time to projects received by the Ethno-
geographic Board from the armed services, and continued to serve
as a member of the Smithsonian War Committee. Miss Frances
Densmore completed two large manuscripts on Indian music. The
Bureau published its Annual Report and three Bulletins. The
Bureau library has been much in use as a source of material for the
Kthnogeographic Board and the war agencies.

International Exchanges.——The International Exchange Service is
the official United States agency for the interchange of governmental
and scientific publications between this country and all other coun-
tries of the world. During the year the Service handled a total of
513,460 packages of publications with a total weight of 248,648
pounds. Although the war prevents shipments to many foreign coun-
tries, nevertheless consignments went forward during the year to
all countries in the Western Hemisphere and to a number in the
Eastern Hemisphere, namely, Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Republic of Ireland, Portugal, the U.S.S.R., Union of South Africa,
India, Australia, and New Zealand. Packages which cannot be for-
warded during the war are held for later delivery. Because of the
limited space at the Institution, arrangements were made to store
the large accumulation of such material at the Library of Congress.
In April 1942 the Office of Censorship placed a ban on the sending
abroad of the Congressional Record and the Federal Register; in
February 19438 this ban was lifted, and the Record and Register were
again forwarded to those countries that could be reached.

National Zoological Park.—By reducing maintenance work to the
absolute minimum, it has been possible to carry on the primary func-
tion of the Zoo, the exhibition of a wide variety of animal life in the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

best possible condition, in spite of the increasing shortages of man-
power, food, and materials. The functioning of the Zoo is thought
to be particularly important in wartime because it provides free
recreation and enjoyment for thousands of war workers and members
of the armed forces. Although automobile traffic to the Zoo prac-
tically ceased, nevertheless a greatly increased number of visitors
walked or came by bus or streetcar. The total number of visitors for
the year was 1,974,500. Officials of the Zoo have furnished much
information regarding animals to the War and Navy Departments,
other Government agencies, and medical groups. Conditions have
precluded expeditions by the Zoo for the collection of animals, and
few animals are offered for sale by dealers. New specimens, there-
fore, have come mainly through gift and exchange. In addition, 101
mammals were born and 83 birds hatched at the Zoo during the year.
Despite adverse conditions, six species never before in the collection
were obtained; these included a specimen of the rarely exhibited
spectacled bear of the northern Andes and a white starling from
Java, also rare in captivity. At the close of the year the collection
contained 2,485 animals representing 684 species and subspecies.

Astrophysical Observatory.—A prediction of the march of solar
variation from 1939 through 1945, based on periodicities revealed by
the solar-constant values published in volume 6 of the Annals of the
Observatory, shows that the years 1940 to 1947 will be the most im-
portant years to study the sun’s variation since the early twenties.
For this reason, every effort has been made to keep the three field
observatories in Chile, California, and New Mexico in operation.
Up to the close of the year, these efforts had been successful. Further
studies of the short-interval changes of solar radiation in their rela-
tion to weather have been even more convincing than previous re-
sults. The weather effects of individual solar changes are found to
last at least 2 weeks. Most of the time of the staff at Washington
has been devoted to war-research problems assigned by the war serv-
ices. In the division of radiation and organisms, the regular research
program was discontinued in August 1942, and since then practically
the entire time of the staff has been directed toward solving war
problems.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of
the executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

Changes in the Board of Regents during the fiscal year were as
follows:

Senator Charles L. McNary, of Oregon, having been reelected to
the Senate for the term beginning January 3, 1943, was reappointed
by the Vice President on February 4, 1948, as a regent to succeed
himself.

On October 26, 1942, the Honorable William P. Cole, Jr., of Mary-
land, resigned from the House of Representatives, which automati-
cally terminated his term as a regent; on January 12, 1943, the
Speaker appointed Representative Edward E. Cox, of Georgia, to
succeed him.

The term of Dr. Roland S. Morris, of Pennsylvania, as a citizen
regent, expired February 20, 1942. By Joint Resolution of Congress
approved July 28, 1942, he was reappointed to succeed himself for
the statutory term of 6 years.

The roll of regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
Harlan F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor;
Henry A. Wallace, Vice President of the United States; members
from the Senate—Charles L. McNary, Alben W. Barkley, Bennett
Champ Clark; members from the House of Representatives—Clar-
ence Cannon, Foster Stearns, Edward E. Cox; citizen members—
Frederic A. Delano, Washington, D. C.; Roland §. Morris, Pennsyl-
vania; Harvey N. Davis, New Jersey; Arthur H. Compton, Llinois;
Vannevar Bush, Washington, D. C.; and Frederic C. Walcott, Con-
necticut.

Proceedings.—The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was
held on January 15, 1943. The regents present were Chief Justice
Harlan F. Stone, Chancellor; Vice President Henry A. Wallace;
Representatives Clarence Cannon, Foster Stearns, and Edward E.
Cox; citizen regents Frederic A. Delano, Roland S. Morris, Harvey
N. Davis, Arthur H. Compton, and Vannevar Bush; and the Secre-
tary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

The Secretary presented his annual report covering the year’s
activities of the parent Institution and of the several Government
branches, which was accepted by the Board, as was also the report
by Mr. Delano, of the executive committee, covering financial statis-
tics of the Institution. The Secretary stated that owing to the
exigencies of wartime travel, there had been no meeting of the Smith-
sonian Art Commission during the year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 1d

In his special report the Secretary outlined some of the more im-
portant recent activities carried on by the Institution and the
branches, with special emphasis on phases of the work directly con-
nected with the war.

FINANCES

A statement on finances will be found in the report of the execu-
tive committee of the Board of Regents, page 89.

PUBLICATIONS

In normal times the Institution publishes the results of researches
by members of its scientific staff in several series, namely, the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, the Bulletins and Proceedings of
the National Museum, Contributions from the National Herbarium,
the Bulletins of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and the Annals
of the Astrophysical Observatory. It also publishes the Annual
Reports of the Board of Regents, which contain a selection of articles
summarizing developments in all branches of science, and other oc-
casional publications. In wartime, however, publication has been
restricted largely to material that relates to the war or is of value
in strengthening cultural relations with the American nations to the
south of us. Otherwise only such papers were sent to the printer
during the year as seemed for one reason or another to be of sufficient
importance to the advancement of science to warrant publication
even in wartime. This wartime policy will not be apparent from
the titles listed in this year’s report on publications, however, be-
cause a large proportion of the papers issued went to the printer in
the previous fiscal year before the policy went into effect.

The new series, Smithsonian War Background Studies, begun in
the summer of 1942, was planned for the purpose of making avail-
able authentic information on the less well-known areas and peoples
involved in the war. Twelve numbers had been issued at the close
of the fiscal year, and four others were in press. As the Far East
and the Pacific islands are probably the least well-known of the war
areas, the majority of the papers deal with those regions. A com-
plete list of the papers issued and in press will be found in the
report on publications, appendix 10. The demand for papers in the
series was immediate and much larger than had been anticipated.
The editions of the first few papers had been set at 3,500 copies,
nearly twice as large as the usual editions of Smithsonian papers,
but these were soon exhausted. Reprints of these were issued, and
editions of later papers were successively increased until at the end
of the year 8,000 copies were being printed. The demand, as might
be expected, was greatest from Army and Navy organizations and
personnel and from universities and schools. In addition to the
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Smithsonian editions, the Army and Navy ordered from 1,000 to
10,000 copies of nearly all the papers in the series.

Aside from the War Background Studies, there was a constant
demand from Army, Navy, and war agencies for other Smithsonian
publications, notably the Smithsonian Meteorological Tables, Smith-
sonian Physical Tables, and World Weather Records. Of the
Meteorological Tables, 5,557 copies were asked for by various Army
units, most of them going to the Signal Corps.

Among the outstanding publications of the year not related to
the war may be mentioned “Compendium and Description of the West
Indies,” by Antonio Vazquez de Espinosa, translated by Charles Upson
Clark, a detailed itinerary of Spanish America written by a Car-
melite missionary in 1628 or 1629; “Fishes of the Phoenix and Samoan
Islands Collected in 1939, during the Expedition of the U. S. S.
Bushnell,” by Leonard P. Schultz, curator of the division of fishes in
the National Museum, who accompanied the expedition; and “The
Native Tribes of Eastern Bolivia and Western Matto Grosso,” by
Alfred Métraux.

A total of 88 publications were issued during the year, and 194,057
copies of these and other Smithsonian publications were distributed.

LIBRARY

The use of the Smithsonian library during the year by the scientific
staff of the Institution was almost entirely in connection with the
war, and more than 85 war agencies have made inquiries, borrowed
books, and sent research workers to use the collections. The branch
libraries of the National Museum and the Bureau of American Eth-
nology especially have been constantly used by war workers because
of their extensive resources of geographical and ethnological material.
Receipt of foreign publications again dropped somewhat but not so
sharply as during the preceding year. The quantity and quality of
scientific publications is still maintained at a high level among our
allies abroad. The publication and receipt of domestic scientific
serials continues to be practically normal. Among the outstanding
gifts of the year were a microfilmed set of the records of Linnean
collections and manuscripts of the Linnean Society of London, and
a collection of 350 books from Ralph G. Packard to accompany the
collection of arms and armor given by him to the Museum. The
record of the year’s activities includes 6,955 accessions, bringing the
total holdings of the library to 907,645; 159 new exchanges arranged;
3,631 “wants” received; 5,012 volumes and pamphlets cataloged;
11,236 books and periodicals loaned; and 2,185 volumes sent to the
bindery.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Axssot, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operation of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 19438:

Appropriations for the maintenance and operation of the National
Museum for the year totaled $892,630, which was $61,652 more than
for the previous year.

THE MUSEUM IN WARTIME

Although there has been a decrease in the total number of visitors
to the Museum below that normal for times of peace, the number
recorded, 1,355,269, indicates the great interest that exists in the
exhibits. The change in hours to allow the public halls to be open all
day Sunday has permitted many people to visit the buildings whose
time schedules would not have otherwise made such visits possible.
This is particularly true of service men and women, about 2,000 of
whom have been included among the visitors each week end.

Last year’s report indicated steps taken for adequate safeguard
of collections. These precautions have gone forward, and a pro-
gram of training has been initiated among groups of employees for
the protection of visitors, employees, and the various buildings. Air-
raid alarm systems have been installed, fire-fighting, air-raid, and
first-aid equipment procured, air-raid shelters designated, and com-
plete black-out facilities where necessary established. Practice air-
raid drills were held, both in cooperation with the District of Columbia
and independently of the city-wide drills.

Throughout the year members of the staff have been occupied with
considerable work connected with the conduct of the war, either
through direct contact with various war agencies or through the
Ethnogeographic Board. This has included “spot” information in
various fields, research, and experiment. The variety of these subjects
is indicated by the following enumeration of some of the items on
which data were requested : Camouflage plants; natural vegetation of
specific regions; illustrations of poisonous plants and of emergency
food plants and data regarding them; destruction of mosquito-har-
boring epiphytes; distribution of certain plants of known economic

13
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

importance; botanical exploration ; the palatability of the flesh of land,
fresh-water, and marine animals, their use for food, and methods of
capture; the serviceability of hides and skins for various purposes;
disease transmission ; noxious, poisonous, or otherwise dangerous ani-
mals; intermediate hosts of animal and human parasites; aid in the
preparation of survival manuals and other military and naval hand-
books; distributional lists of insects and other animals of medical im-
portance; outlines for insect surveys in foreign areas; instruction in
mosquito identification; collection and preservation of specimens,
especially those of medical importance; supplying duplicate sets of
insect material not otherwise readily obtainable for the use of Army
and Navy medical schools; biological and oceanographic problems;
marine fouling organisms; bibliographic surveys; recommendations
regarding personnel.

Assistance has been given in the identification of tribal culture
patterns chiefly of the island peoples of the West Pacific area and of
continental southeastern Asia. Other information provided, in this
instance obtained from Museum photographic files, related to the need
of our aviators and soldiers to recognize religious caste markings, and,
to assist in the orientation of aviators, the types of house construction
in various parts of southern Asia. A mass of information directly
based on the collections was given to such agencies as the Board of
Economic Warfare and the War Production Board, bearing directly
on the development of the use of substitute materials for civilian use.
Various articles describing the more remote peoples and their cultures
were prepared and published.

COLLECTIONS

The Museum collections were increased by 230,231 specimens, which
were included in 1,177 separate accessions. Because of wartime con-
ditions a decrease of 211 accessions, 54,351 specimens, in comparison
with the number received during the previous year was not unex-
pected. The five departments registered specimens received as fol-
lows: Anthropology, 2,514; biology, 213,823; geology, 9,725; engi-
neering and industries, 2,266; and history, 1,902. Most of the ac-
cessions were acquired as gifts from individuals or as a transfer of
specimens by Government departments. The complete report on
the Museum, published as a separate document, includes a detailed list
of accessions, but the more important are summarized below. Cata-
log entries in all departments now total 17,808,471.

Anthropology.—Transferred to the division of archeology by Gov-
ernment departments were 1,443 specimens of earthenware vessels,
potsherds, and figurine fragments from several localities in Mexico
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

and the United States. Important gifts from individuals included
24 earthenware vessels, clay heads, and projectile points from Mex-
ico; 2 wooden figurines excavated in Florida; and 1 obsidian mirror
from a stream bed in Ecuador. Outstanding among the specimens
donated to the division of ethnology was a ceremonial mace of serpen-
tine from the Island of Maré. This specimen is an excellent example
of the ceremonial weapons described in French scientific literature
on New Caledonia and the Loyalty Islands. Other ethnological ob-
jects of special interest are weapons, pieces of armor, inscriptions
on bamboo, and musical instruments from the Philippine Islands, and
fishing paraphernalia, tools, utensils, dance masks, a feathered dance
headdress, and hand-woven costumes from various South and Central
American localities. The collection of ceramics was augmented by
porcelain articles from Capo di Monte molds, dating to about 1821,
and examples of painted terra cotta made presumably by Greek colo-
nists at Apulia, Italy, during the fourth century B. C., and excavated
at Pompeii. Interesting examples of American glass included “Bur-
mese” and “Peachblow” articles manufactured in Massachusetts and
“Case” glass from West Virginia. Among the various collections
assigned to the section of period art and textiles were antique jewelry
from Scotland, Hungary, Portugal, France, Egypt, China, Ceylon,
and the Philippine Islands; Spanish, French, and Chinese antique
ornamental fans; and a handsomely ornamented snuffbox bearing
the registry mark of Bergen, Norway, presented by Mrs. Stejneger
at the expressed wish of the late Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, for many
years head curator of the department of biology. Notable gifts to
the division of physical anthropology included Indian skeletal re-
mains from two ossuaries on a farm in Prince Georges County, Md.,
completing a collection from this locality begun in former years, and
a midget’s skull of 485 cc. capacity, the smallest human adult skull
thus far reported.

Biology.—The first complete skeleton of the African bush elephant
(Loxodonta cylotis) to come to the national collections and four
small rodents collected in the endemic plague area in Boliva were
the most noteworthy accessions in the division of mammals.

Particularly welcome among the birds accessioned during the year
were several forms new to the collection: Representatives of the
pheasant genus Anwrophasis and the shrike genus E'ulacestoma from
New Guinea; 2 specimens of the black-lored grass warbler (Cisticola
nigrilora) ; 65 species of Ecuadorian birds; the type of the warbler
Prinia flaviventris delacouri,; and 8 avian specimens from Eritrea, a
hitherto unrepresented locality. Another interesting accession in-
cluded birds from the widely scattered collections of the United States
Exploring Expedition of 1838-42.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Two rare forms of West Indian snakes were added to the collec-
tion of reptiles and amphibians—Darlingtonia haetiana, from Haiti,
and 7'yphlops richardii, from St. Thomas.

Two large collections of fishes were received, one by transfer from
the Fish and Wildlife Service, comprising more than 50,000 speci-
mens, and one of nearly 35,000 specimens brought from Venezuela
by the curator of fishes. Rare forms accessioned include Ochmacan-
thus reinhardti and Urinophilus erythrurus from South America. To
the type series were added cotypes of Cynopotamus biserialis and
paratypes of Motolepidomyzon intermedius.

A large accession, comprising 4,300 miscellaneous insects, the bal-
ance of the private collection of the late George P. Engelhardt, was
received by the division of insects, accompanied by Mr. Engelhardt’s
extensive and valuable entomological library. As in former years, the
Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine and its Division of
Foreign Plant Quarantines, of the United States Department of
Agriculture, transferred to the Museum collection a large number
of insects, this year the total being approximately 46,000 specimens.
Six specimens of Cycloscosmia truncata, the third known occurrence
of this trap-door spider since it was discovered a century ago, came
as a gift.

To the type collection of marine invertebrates were added the
cotype of Derocheilocaris typicus, upon which a new genus, new
family, and new order of crustaceans were based, and numerous
allotypes, holotypes, and paratypes of crayfishes, worms, ostracods,
and amphibians. A collection of approximately 700 specimens of
miscellaneous invertebrates from the Gulf of Mexico was received
by transfer.

One of the important mollusk collections of North America, com-
prising approximately 10,000 specimens, was bequeathed to the
Museum by Dr. Frank C. Baker, together with 17 bound volumes of
his own published writings. Of special interest was a donation of
1,500 shells, 50 corals, and a collection of echinoderms from New
Caledonia, the first material of consequence received in many years
from this now important part of the world.

Twelve of the seventeen accessions to the collection of helminths
contained type material: Types of Opecoelina pharynmagna, Proto-
strongylus agerteri, P. frosti, Protogynella blarinae, and Diorchis
reynoldsi; cotypes of Parallintoshius tadaridae and Euparyphium
ochoterenai; paratypes, holotypes, and allotypes of Halocercus kirbyt,
Corynosoma obtuscens, and species of Acanthocephala; slides bearing
cotype specimens of Hymenolepis parvisaccata; and additional slides
representing four new species.

Several large collections of plants, mostly from Mexico, Central
America, and South America, were received as gifts or in exchange.
REPORT OF THH SECRETARY 17

Eight of these collections comprised more than 1,000 specimens each.

Geology.—Ten accessions pertaining to minerals—a 1,842-gram in-
dividual of the Harrisonville, Mo., meteorite, and nine lias of meteor-
ites—were added by purchase civonel the income from the Roebling
fund. The largest single accession of minerals was the gift of the
John W. Langsdale collection, including many good examples from
old American and European localities. The outstanding addition to
the gem collection was the 316-carat star sapphire known as Star of
Artaban. This beautiful stone ranks with the finest of the Museum’s
individual gems. Another notable gem stone was a 54-carat blue
Brazilian topaz obtained through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund.
Dr. Stuart H. Perry, associate in mineralogy, presented an album of
five volumes containing approximately 1,500 photomicrographs of the
structure in meteoric irons, which, with the negatives received from
Dr. Perry last year, has resulted in the most complete file of the metal-
lurgy of meteoric irons in existence. Dr. Perry also donated a 4,640-
gram specimen of the Modoc, Kans., meteorite.

The most important additions to the collections of invertebrate pale-
ontology and paleobotany were the Devonian invertebrates collected
in the Mississippi Valley States by Prof. A. S. Warthin, Jr., and
Dr. G. A. Cooper. In return for assistance by Dr. C. E. Resser,
Dr. Franco Rasetti, of Laval University, presented a splendid set of
fossils and casts of types from the classic locality at Levis, opposite
Quebec City, Canada. The income from the Springer fund provided
12 Devonian crinoids from Ontario, one of the most important ac-
cessions of the year to the collection of fossil echinoderms. A col-
lection of about 2,000 Triassic fossils from Nevada will undoubtedly
include many types when the study of these fossils has been completed.
Among the accessions recorded in the section of Cenozoic inverte-
brates were topotypes of the foraminifer Pseudophragmina (Porporo-
cyclina) peruviana and holotype and paratypes of the foraminifer
Paranonion venezuelanum.

In the division of vertebrate paleontology a large series of speci-
mens from the Oligocene beds of Niobrara County, Wyo., was acces-
sioned. Specimens worthy of special mention are nearly complete
articulate skeletons of various mammals known as Merycoidodon,
Leptomeryx, Pseudocynodictis, Deinictis, and Hoplophoneus. Good
series of skulls and partial skeletons of the fossil horse Mesohippus,
the small camel Poébrotherium, the early rhinoceros Hyracodon, the
squirrel Jschromys, and the rabbit Palaeolagus were included. Also
added to the collection by exchange were the nearly complete skele-
ton of the primitive deer Hypertragulus calcaratus Cope, to be mounted
for the exhibition series; a skull and lower jaws of the Miocene horse
Parahippus leonensis and a right ramus of P. blackbergi, the type of
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

a fossil bird Geochen rhuax Wetmore; and 297 teeth of the pavement-
toothed shark Ptychodus mortond.

Engineering and industries—From the viewpoint of engineering
history, the most interesting and valuable accession was an original
truss of an iron railroad bridge designed, constructed, and erected
by the Reading Railroad Co. in 1845. The specimen, approximately
34 feet long, is the only remaining part of the first iron-truss, double-
track railroad bridge built in America, also believed to be the first
iron-truss bridge erected in the United States.

Early in the present war there was instituted as part of the train-
ing program of our armed forces the use of accurately made scale
models of the types of airplanes used by the United Nations and
the Axis, to teach recognition at sight of both friend and enemy. Lt.
Paul E. Garber, U. S. Navy, on military furlough from the Museum,
was actively engaged in the development of this program, and through
him the Museum received two groups of these models. Bequeathed
to the extensive propeller collection by the inventor, Dr. S. Albert
Reed, was a full-sized model, known as the D-1, of an aluminum-
alloy propeller that is now recognized as one of the early successful
types. Another accession of historical interest, likewise presented
by the inventor, H. H. Franklin, was comprised of four die castings,
which are excellent examples of early attempts to produce finished
castings in metal dies. Of current interest is the accession of a scale
model of a plant used for producing high-grade motor fuel for aviation
gasoline blending stock. An exhibit of timely educational value in
the section of mineral technology is one of abrasives and grinding-
machine operations. This exhibit, which has been studied frequently
by the personnel of Government war agencies, has been modernized
during the year, and 178 specimens were added.

In the division of crafts and industries there were received several
specimens of special interest because of their bearing on the war:
A new surgical stitching instrument operated as a sewing-machine at-
tachment, together with a felt sampler showing numerous types of
surgical suturing; a sample of cap ribbon of a new type adopted by the
United States Navy, in which letters in gold leaf are fused into a cut
ribbon of acetate rayon, instead of the silk ribbon embroidered with
gold thread formerly used; specimens of nylon and cotton woven
webbing used for the harness connecting the aviator to his parachute;
and new specimens to be used as an exhibit of alternates and sub-
stitutes developed recently to cope with shortages of war materials.
Of special interest in the public-health collections was the addition of
a collection of food models arranged to show the daily food require-
ment. Important additions to the wood collection were 13 samples
of tropical American woods that had been received by the Bureau of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

Ships, Navy Department, for testing in some phase of their wartime
shipbuilding program.

In the division of graphic arts a large collection of war posters
constitutes a valuable addition to the pictorial and historical record of
our participation in the war. Many were designed by outstanding
American artists, a fact that enhances their purely historical value.

The most important accession received by the section of photog-
raphy was a Woodward Solar Camera. No other example is known
to exist, and it came to light largely as a result of the Nation-wide
drive for scrap metal. This type of camera was manufactured under
patents dated between 1857 and 1877, and it was the first means
available to commercial photographers during the latter half of the
nineteenth century for making photographic enlargements on the
then slow bromide paper, using the sun as a source of illumination.

History.—The three most important accessions of the year in the
division of history were in the fields of art, arms, and numismatics.
The first of these, received by bequest, consisted of five paintings of
unusual interest not only because of their artistic and historical value
but also because they complete the collection of paintings on historical
subjects by J. L. G. Ferris, 71 of which were presented by Mrs. Ferris
in 1932, after the death of her husband. The finest accession of fire-
arms, swords, and daggers received by the National Museum in recent
years came as a gift from Ralph G. Packard. The collection illus-
trates the evolution of firearms from the matchlock to the automatic
of the present day and includes all the methods of ignition used
during the past 350 years. The accession of most importance to the
numismatic section was the large collection of coins, medals, medalets,
and tokens presented by the Hon. Frederic A. Delano, a regent of the
Smithsonian Institution.

Additions to the stamp collection of unusual interest were stamps
of Great Britain overprinted “M. E. F.” (Middle East Force) for
use in the former Italian territory of Eritrea, and stamps issued by
the Norwegian Government in London (used on letters carried by
Norwegian warships and merchant vessels), and by the exiled Yugo-
slavian Government in England.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Field explorations for the year were concerned in the main with
matters connected with the conduct of the war or with commitments
dating back to the pre-war period. With the usual program cur-
tailed, the scope of the investigations has been changed, though
valuable results in a variety of directions have been achieved.

Anthropology.—Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, associate curator, division
of archeology, was detailed to the Bureau of American Ethnology
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

from January 16, 1943, to June 1, 1943, in order to assist M. W. Stir-
ling, Chief of the Bureau, in archeological excavations near La Venta,
in the State of Tabasco, Mexico. These excavations, constituting an
important program of research among the Pan American republics,
were sponsored jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the Na-
tional Geographic Society.

Biology.—In pursuance of the program for the furtherance of
cultural relations with scientists in the other American republics in
cooperation with the Department of State, three members of the
department of biology—Dr. Remington Kellogg, curator of mammals,
Ellsworth P. Killip, associate curator of plants, and Dr. Waldo L.
Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates—visited South America for
periods of approximately 3 months each.

Dr. Kellogg left Washington on March 2 for Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,
and returned May 15, 1948. He spent most of his time working in
collaboration with members of the staff at the Museu Nacional at
Rio de Janeiro, with additional contacts at the Departamento de
Zoologia at Sio Paulo and the Museu Goeldi at Belém. The work of
field stations and laboratories engaged in the study and control of
tropical diseases was observed, particular attention being given to
research work involving Brazilian mammals suspected of being, or
known to be, the hosts of vectors of transmissible diseases. Through
the friendly cooperation of the Fundacio Rockefeller, Dr. Kellogg
was enabled to spend a week at its yellow-fever field station near
Therezopolis in the Serra das Orgiaos.

Mr. Killip was occupied during March, April, and most of May in
Venezuela. Part of the time was given to field work and part to work
with Dr. Henri Pittier, director of the Servicio Botanico, and his
associates, in the identification of large collections recently made in
little-known parts of the Republic. Short collecting trips were made
to Santa Lucia in the State of Miranda, Rancho Grande in the Parque
Nacional, Barquisimeto in the State of Lara, and El Junquito in the
mountains near Caracas. At the invitation of O. E. Nelson, in charge
of the Venezuelan office of the Rubber Reserve Corporation, Mr. Kil-
lip accompanied a rubber-investigation party to the Rio Paragua, a
river rising in the Pacaraima Mountains. Most of the plant collecting
was done between the town of La Paragua and the Cerro Guaiquinima,
a region that had never before been explored botanically.

Dr. Schmitt left Miami, Fla., on April 18 for Brazil, Uruguay, and
Argentina, and returned to Washington on June 30, 1943. He con-
sulted with members of the staffs of various scientific institutions and
spent some time examining collections, particularly of fresh-water
crustaceans, some of which have considerable economic importance.
In Brazil he visited the Museu Nacional in Rio de Janeiro, the Univer-
REPORT OF THD SECRETARY yA

sity of Sio Paulo and the Departamento de Zoologia at Sio Paulo, and
the Museu Paranaense in Curityba. In Uruguay he studied at the
Museo Nacional, the Museo Instituto Geoldgico del Uruguay, the Museo
de Pedagégico and the Museo de Ensefiaza Secundaria de Univer-
sidad, all in Montevideo, and the museum of the Liceo in Paysandi.
In Argentina he examined collections and visited the staff of the
Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales and the University at Buenos
Aires, the La Plata Museum at La Plata, the Museo Cornelio Moyano
and the Universidad de Cuyo, both at Mendoza, the Universidad de
Cérdoba at Cérdoba, and the Universidad de Tucuman at Tucumin.
The director and staff members of the laboratories of the Direccién
Regional de Paludismo assisted him on numerous occasions through-
out northern Argentina, particularly in Tucuman, Salta, and Jujuy.
His field work, accomplished when time and other obligations per-
mitted, included studies in Brazil at Alto da Serra, Sao Paulo, and at
several localities in the vicinity of Curityba, Parana, in Uruguay at
Paso de los Toros, Salto, and Paysandu, and in Argentina at Mendoza,
Tucuman, Salta, San Lorenzo, and Quijano.

Philip Hershkovitz, who before the outbreak of the war had started
his investigations on the mammalian fauna of the northeastern part
of Colombia under the Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholar-
ship, between June 30, 1942, and April 16, 1943, worked mainly in the
Department of Magdalena, Colombia. More recently Mr. Hershko-
vitz has moved camp to the Department of Bolivar.

M. A. Carriker, Jr., under the W. L. Abbott fund of the Smith-
sonian Institution, continued work on the Colombian avifauna in
northeastern Colombia, and Walter A. Weber, also traveling under
the Abbott fund, accompanied the archeological expedition sponsored
jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the National Geographic
Society to Tabasco, Mexico, during which expedition he obtained
about 600 specimens of birds for the Museum collections. Mr. Weber
also visited the Instituto de Biologia at Mexico City.

Geology.—While field work for upbuilding the exhibits has been

curtailed, researches in general geology were increased. Late in July
Prof. A. S. Warthin, Jr., and Dr. G. A. Cooper left for a survey of
Devonian rocks in Illinois and adjacent States. The purpose of the
trip was to correlate isolated areas of Devonian exposures in Illinois
with the better-known sequences in Missouri and Iowa, and for the
first time such correlations were established in that promising area
for new oil fields. After the return of Dr. Warthin, Dr. Cooper went
to southeastern Missouri to report on a deposit from which several
bones of a dinosaur had been taken.

Later in the year, under the cooperative work between the Depart-
ment of State and the Smithsonian Institution, and as the result of a

566766—44—3
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

special request by Ing. Luis Flores C., of the Instituto Geoldgico de
México in Mexico City, Dr. Cooper was detailed to make an economic
survey in Mexico. This field work, which was in connection with
search for war minerals, resulted in the discovery of a long sequence
of Cambrian rocks associated with ore deposits.

Dr. W. F. Foshag, on detail from the Museum, spent the entire year
in continuation of his work in Mexico supervising surveys for stra-
tegic minerals for the United States Geological Survey.

Only brief mention was made in last year’s report of the field ex-
pedition of the Smithsonian Institution to Wyoming under the direc-
tion of C. W. Gilmore, since it extended well into the present fiscal
year. Accompanied by George F. Sternberg, George B. Pearce, and
Alfonso Segura, of the Museo Nacional in San José, Costa Rica, the
party spent 2% months in a systematic search of the Hat Creek
Basin area, Niobrara County, Wyo., for Oligocene vertebrate fossils.
This work resulted in assembling a collection which, when combined
with the specimens obtained in 1932, gives the Museum for the first
time an adequate representation of this important fauna.

MISCELLANEOUS

Visitors—Curtailment of train and bus travel and the rationing
of gasoline resulted in a further reduction in the number of visitors
at the various Museum buildings. The total recorded during the
year was 1,355,269, as against 2,042,817 for the previous year. The
largest attendance for a single month was in August 1942, with 163,413
visitors, and the second largest was in July 1942, with 136,111. The
attendance in the four Smithsonian and Museum buildings was as
follows: Smithsonian building, 264,117; Arts and Industries build-
ing, 516,910; Natural History building, 424,055; Aircraft building,
150,187.

From November 1, 1942, to June 30, 1943, a separate count was
made of members of the armed forces who visited the buildings dur-
ing the first 7 days of each month. This count served to show that
attendance by servicemen averaged 25 to 35 percent of the total
number of visitors.

Publications and printing.—The sum of $27,750 was available dur-
ing the fiscal year for the publication of the Annual Report, Bulletins,
and Proceedings of the National Museum. Publications issued num-
bered 30—the Annual] Report, 8 Bulletins, 1 Contribution from the
National Herbarium, and 25 Proceedings papers. A list of these pub-
lications is given in the report on publications, appendix 10.

Volumes and separates distributed during the year to libraries,
institutions, and individuals throughout the world aggregated 55,631
copies.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

Special exhibits.—Twelve special exhibits were held during the year
under the auspices of various educational, scientific, recreational, and
governmental groups. In addition the department of engineering
and industries arranged 27 special displays—12 in graphic arts and
15 in photography.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

To afford a more usual description of the functions of Dr. Alexander
Wetmore’s position, on January 16, 1943, his title was changed to
Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, Director, United States
National Museum.

In the department of anthropology Dr. Joseph E. Weckler, Jr.,
associate curator in the division of ethnology, resigned on January 6,
1943.

Following the death of Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of
the department of biology for many years, Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt,
curator of the division of marine invertebrates, was advanced to the
position of head curator of the department on June 16, 1943. Dr.
Doris M. Cochran’s title was changed on March 27, 1948, to associate
curator in charge of the division of reptiles and batrachians. In the
division of mollusks, Dr. Harald A. Rehder was reallocated to as-
sociate curator and Dr. Joseph P. E. Morrison to assistant curator
cn September 1, 1942. On July 1, 1942, Walter A. Weber was ap-
pointed assistant curator on the staff of the division of birds to succeed
S. Dillon Ripley, II.

During the absence of Frank A. Taylor, who is now on military
duty, the head curator of the department of engineering and in-
dustries, Carl W. Mitman, assumed charge of the division. In the
division of engineering Fred C. Reed was appointed acting associate
curator on August 1, 1942, while Paul E. Garber is on military
furlough. Other division of engineering staff appointments, to be
effective only for the duration of the war, are: Kenneth M. Perry,
advanced from exhibits worker to senior scientific aid, August 1,
1942; Burlie Parks, transferred from the Museum property office to
the position of exhibits worker formerly held by Mr. Perry. Dr.
Wallace E. Duncan, assistant curator, section of chemical industries,
resigned on July 31, 1942. The vacancy caused by his resignation
was filled November 2, 1942, by the transfer of Joseph W. Schutz
from the Social Security Board.

An honorary appointment was conferred on Dr. Walter K. Fisher
as associate in zoology on June 25, 1948. The honorary title of Dr.
T. Wayland Vaughan was changed on July 28, 1942, from associate
in marine sediments, department of biology, to associate in paleontol-
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

ogy in the department of geology, to represent his existing activities
more properly.

Employees furloughed for military duty during the year were as
follows: Everett A. Altizer, on July 6, 1942; Paul E. Garber, on
July 6, 1942; Samuel T. Fetterman, on July 20, 1942; Dr. Charles L.
Gazin, on July 20, 1942; Preston L. Travers, on July 22, 1942; John
L. Theunissen, on August 24, 1942; Ernest Desantis, on September
30, 1942; John B. J. Peck, on September 30, 1942; Glen P. Shephard,
on October 15, 1942; Dr. Marshall T. Newman, on December 3, 1942;
Harold W. McGiverin, on December 11, 1942; and Frank T. Taylor,
on April 14, 1943. Furloughed for duty in private industry: Ed-
ward Zuranski, on January 28, 1943, and Charles F. Huselstein, on
May 28, 1943.

Through the operation of the retirement act, Joseph H. Boswell,
principal guard (sergeant), on June 30, 1948, retired at his own
option with 17 years of government service.

The year was marked by the death of several staff members long
connected with the Museum. The death of Dr. Leonhard Stejneger
on February 28, 1948, has deprived the Museum of one of its most
widely known scientists. Harry S. Jones, principal mechanic, fore-
man of electricians, died suddenly September 11, 1942; John D. Ray,
junior laborer, died October 28, 1942; and Jennie T. Jackson, char-
woman, on August 29, 1942. In addition to these the honorary staff
lost Dr. Samuel W. Woodhouse, collaborator, section of ceramics,
department of anthropology, by death on February 2, 1948, and Dr.
Mary J. Rathbun, associate in zoology, department of biology, whose
death occurred on April 4, 1948.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WetMoRrE, Assistant Secretary,
Director, U. S. National Museum.
Dr. C. G. Axszor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees
of the National Gallery of Art, the sixth annual report of the Board
covering its operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1943. This
report is made pursuant to the provisions of the act of March 24,
1937 (50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13,
1939 (Pub. Res. No. 9, 76th Cong.).

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1943, the Board was com-
prised of the Chief Justice of the United States, Harlan F. Stone;
the Secretary of State, Cordell Hull; the Secretary of the Treasury,
Henry Morgenthau, Jr.; and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, Dr. C. G. Abbot, ex officio; and five general trustees, David
K. E. Bruce, Duncan Phillips, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Joseph E.
Widener, and Samuel H. Kress.

At its annual meeting held February 8, 1943, the Board reelected
David K. E. Bruce, President, and Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Vice
President, of the Board, to serve the ensuing year. The executive
officers continuing in office during the year were Huntington Cairns,
who succeeded Donald D. Shepard, resigned, as Secretary-Treasurer
and General Counsel, and took office on January 13, 1948; David E.
Finley, Director; Harry A. McBride, Administrator; John Walker,
Chief Curator; and Macgill James, Assistant Director. During the
year Donald D. Shepard was appointed Adviser to the Board;
Elizabeth Mongan was appointed Curator of Painting, Decorative and
Graphic Arts; and David Keppel was appointed Associate Curator
of Prints.

The three standing committees of the Board, provided for in the
bylaws, as constituted at the annual meeting of the Board, held Febru-
ary 8, 1943, were:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEB

Chief Justice of the United States, Harlan F. Stone, chairman
David K. BE. Bruce, vice chairman

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. C. G. Abbot
Ferdinand Lammot Belin

Duncan Phillips

25
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, Henry Morgenthau, Jr., chairman
David K. BE. Bruce, vice chairman
Secretary of State, Cordell Hull
Ferdinand Lammot Belin
Samuel H. Kress
ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

David K. E. Bruce, chairman
Ferdinand Lammot Belin, vice chairman
Duncan Phillips
Joseph E. Widener
David HE. Finley, ex officio

All positions with the Gallery (with the exception of the executive
and honorary officers) are filled from the registers of the United States
Civil Service Commission or with its approval. By June 30, 1943, the
permanent Civil Service staff numbered 232 employees. Since the
opening of hostilities, 41 members of the staff, or approximately 18
percent, have joined the armed forces.

APPROPRIATIONS

For salaries and expenses, for the upkeep and operation of the
National Gallery of Art, the protection and care of the works of art
acquired by the Board, and all administrative expenses incident
thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51), as
amended by the public resolution of April 18, 1989 (Pub. Res. No.
9, 76th Cong.), the Congress appropriated for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1943, the sum of $563,825.00. This amount includes regular
appropriations of $541,365.00 and a supplemental deficiency appro-
priation for the payment of “overtime compensation” authorized by
the Acts of Congress in the amount of $22,460.00. From this appro-
priation the following expenditures and encumbrances were made:

EXPENDITURES AND HNCUMBRANCES

Personalisenvicess=% 2.20 25 he ae ea es $449, 825. 00
Princinge Vaya” Waa ae he Sat ee Oh ee 3, 506. 88
Supplies and (equipments 4ete 22 eae ee 108, 758. 15
Wnencumbered) palace ee ak eee ee ae ey eae 1, 734. 97

MPO ta Lies A aii ai te Oe a a $5638, 825. 00

In addition to the above-mentioned appropriations aggregating
$563,825.00, the Gallery received $32,264.58 from the Federal Works
Agency, Public Buildings Administration, to cover expenses incurred
in connection with the special protection of masterpieces of painting
and sculpture which have been evacuated from the Gallery.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 2%

ATTENDANCE

The total attendance from July 1, 1942, to June 30, 1948, was
1,508,081, a daily average of 4,132 visitors, over 25 percent of this
number being men and women in the uniformed military services.
In spite of war conditions the number of visitors at the National
Gallery of Art has been increasing. The first 6 months of the calendar
year 1943 the attendance was 876,460, as compared with 577,360 during
the first 6 months of 1942, while the attendance during June—the
last month of the fiscal year—was 164,202 in 1948, compared with
91,810 in 1942.

Among the activities contributing to the consistent growth of popu-
larity of the Gallery are the Sunday night openings, the special exhi-
bitions of contemporary art, the variety and excellence of the Sunday
evening musical concerts, the Sunday night suppers for servicemen,
and the Servicemen’s Room, which has furnished a place of relaxation
for many men in the military services who, especially on week ends,
visit the Gallery.

PUBLICATIONS

In the information rooms in the Gallery building, the Gallery con-
tinues to pursue and expand its policy of making catalogs, color repro-
ductions, and similar publications available to the public at moderate
cost. There is also available, without charge, a general information
booklet containing a short account of the history of painting and
sculpture from the thirteenth to the nineteenth centuries, as illustrated
by the Gallery’s collections, and clearly marked floor plans to guide
visitors in their study of the various exhibits. The booklet is of great
assistance to visitors and may be obtained at the information rooms
on request.

AIR-RAID PROTECTION

The Gallery staff, which is organized to form five air-raid services,
namely, fire, police (including morale), health (first aid), mainte-
nance, and evacuation, has been kept in constant training through the
medium of weekly building air-raid drills. Drills held in coordination
with the District of Columbia authorities, when visitors were in the
building, gave evidence of the measure of efficiency which has been
reached by the protective organization in the Gallery.

ACQUISITIONS
GIFTS OF PRINTS

On December 29, 1942, the Board of Trustees accepted from Mr.
and Mrs. J. Watson Webb two sets of etchings by James Abbott
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

McNeill Whistler, and on February 8, 1948, the Board accepted from
Mrs. J. Watson Webb an engraving of St. Jerome by Albrecht Durer;
on March 15, 1943, the Board accepted from Lessing J. Rosenwald, a
gift of his collection of prints and drawings, consisting of some 6,500
items; on April 12, 1943, the Board accepted from Mrs. George Nichols
a gift of four prints; and on June 7, 1943, the Board accepted from
David Keppel a gift of a set of Vedute by Piranesi.

GIFTS OF PAINTINGS AND SCULPTURE

On August 1, 1942, the Board of Trustees accepted from The A. W.
Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust a gift of 62 paintings, 2 en-
gravings, and a bronze bust of the late Andrew W. Mellon, by Jo
Davidson; on September 3, 1942, the Board accepted from the Honor-
able Frederic A. Delano a gift of a portrait of “Captain Warren
Delano” by Charles Loring Elliott; on December 1, 1942, the Board
accepted from Mrs. Jesse Isidor Straus a gift of a terra-cotta group,
“La Surprise,” signed by Clodion; also on December 1, 1942, the
Board accepted from Clarence Van Dyke Tiers two paintings, “Henry
Pratt” by Thomas Sully, and the “Duke of Portland” by Matthew
Pratt. On December 1, 1942, the Board accepted from Mrs. Robert
Noyes a bequest of a portrait by Gilbert Stuart of “William Rickart.”
On February 8, 1943, and on June 7, 1948, the Board of Trustees
accepted from Chester Dale gifts of 23 paintings. On June 7, 1948,
the Board accepted from Miss Ethlyn McKinney a gift of a painting
by Childe Hassam, entitled “Allies Day, May 1917”; also on June 7,
1943, the Board accepted from J. H. Whittemore Company a gift
of two paintings, “The White Girl” and “L’Andalouse,” both by
Whistler.

On June 7, 1948, the Board of Trustees accepted from the Works
Progress Administration a donation of the Index of American Design
consisting of 22,000 or more documented drawings and water colors
made under the auspices of the United States Government as a pic-
torial record of American source material in design and craftsmanship
from early Colonial days to the close of the nineteenth century.

Another notable gift was that of Joseph E. Widener, given to the
Gallery in memory of his father, the late Peter A. B. Widener. This
gift was made on September 9, 1942, and consisted of a collection of
paintings, sculpture, tapestries, jewels, furniture, ceramics and other
objects of art. In this collection the National Gallery of Art has
received one of the greatest donations ever made to any museum. The
Widener collection was begun many years ago by Peter A. B. Widener,
who died in 1915. After his father’s death, Joseph Widener continued
te build up the collection, and in his choice revealed a faultless dis-
crimination.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

On March 18, 1948, the National Gallery of Art announced the gift
of the famous collection of prints of Lessing J. Rosenwald. The col-
lection consists of over 6,500 items, including representative examples
of print-making from the fifteenth century to the present, a number
of drawings, original wood blocks and copper plates, letters and valu-
able reference books relating to the history of engraving. The collec-
tion was carefully built up by Mr. Rosenwald during the last 20 years.
Because of his extraordinary knowledge and discrimination, he has
brought together one of the greatest collections of the graphic arts
ever assembled by a private individual.

LOAN OF WORKS OF ART RETURNED

During the year the following works of art which hud been placed
on loan at the Gallery were returned:

To Dr. A. C. Miller the seven paintings loaned by him to the Gallery
and listed in this report under the heading “Loans of Works of Art to
the Gallery.”

LOAN OF WORKS OF ART BY THE GALLERY

During the year 13 architectural drawings of the National Gallery
building by the late John Russell Pope were placed on loan with the
National Academy of Design, New York, N. Y.

EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of
Art during the last year:

An exhibition of bronze busts of South American Presidents was
shown in the West Garden Court of the Gallery from June 27
through July 19, 1942. The countries represented were Chile, Ecua-
dor, Uruguay, Venezuela, Paraguay, Argentina, Bolivia, Peru, Colom-
bia, and Brazil.

Sponsored by Life magazine, an exhibition of 118 paintings of
military life and activities done in oils, water colors, and charcoal
by artists serving in the United States armed forces was shown in the
Gallery from July 5 through August 2, 1942.

A group of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century prints from the
Gallery’s own collection was exhibited from August 7 through Sep-
tember 29, 1942.

An exhibition of Chilean Contemporary Art consisting of 150 oil
paintings, water colors, drawings, and prints selected from the great
Chilean Exhibition assembled by the University of Chile during the
observance of the 400th anniversary of Santiago, Chile’s capital, was
shown in the Gallery from October 10 through November 8, 1942.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

An exhibition of 850 war posters sponsored by Artists for Victory,
Inc., was shown in the Gallery from January 9 through February
19, 1943.

An exhibition of drawings and water colors on loan from French
museums and others was held in the Gallery from February 28
through March 28, 1943. An exhibition of Whistler etchings, the
gift of Mrs. J. Watson Webb, was shown in the Gallery from February
' 28 through March 28, 1948.

The Thomas Jefferson Bicentennial Exhibition, commemorating
the two-hundredth anniversary of his birth, was held at the National
Gallery of Art from April 13 through May 15, 1943. Displayed were
numerous portraits of Thomas Jefferson, as he appeared to his con-
temporaries during his long and varied career. A unique set of por-
traits of the first five Presidents, painted by Gilbert Stuart, formed
an important group. There were also portraits of Jefferson’s friends
and contemporaries, including Houdon, the celebrated French sculp-
tor, and Gilbert Stuart. Included in the exhibition were architectural
drawings of buildings Jefferson designed, among them Monticello,
the Virginia Capitol at Richmond, and the University of Virginia.

An exhibition of American paintings, gifts from The A. W. Mellon
Educational and Charitable Trust, Chester Dale, and Clarence Van
Dyke Tiers, was held in the Gallery from May 25 through June 18, 1943.

Life magazine also sponsored an exhibition of 125 paintings made
by leading American artists in cooperation with the War Department,
in United States battle zones, which was shown in the Gallery from
June 20 through July 20, 1948. An exhibition of prints, water colors,
and books by William Blake, from the Lessing J. Rosenwald collec-
tion, was opened to the public on Easter Sunday, April 25, 1943, and
has been on exhibition in the Gallery since that date.

SALE OR EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART

During the year no works of art belonging to the Gallery were sold
or exchanged.

LOANS OF WORKS OF ART TO THE GALLERY
During the year the following works of art were received on loan:

From the Belgian Government :

Title Artist
PA CISIN TOTO eee es tees stale eae ay jks SURV EL Bee ee Pes Aertsen, Pieter
Mes (Walivainett ies. Leet ek eet R EE Re SAA Line SY Bles, Herri met de
NatureriMortes: toi 2 fin see sti er DT eee eee Brueghel, Jan, the elder
Way P ara HOle ACES CITC UT a at Oe eee eee Brueghel, Pieter, the elder

La Vierge’a la Soupeyam lait. =. 2a a David, Gerard
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY se) |

Title Artist
Snonaey Loon tee ee ee Goes, H. van der
Saint Ives Patron des Avocats______------------ Jordaens, Jacob
La Martyre de Saint Sebastien________-__-____- Memling, Hans
[Porn Reh MOUS (oy revon eee ee Mostaert, Jan
Portrait de Georges de Zelle, Medecin-_______-_- Orley, B. van

La Sagesse Victorieuse de la Guerre et de la
Discorde, sous le Gouvernement de Jacques I

MeAMeLeberne: Mists 22s Se eee Se eee oe Rubens, Peter Paul
MamVieroeyait, My OSOtIS fos sak he Rubens, Peter Paul
fasGuirtande: desiqMleurss 22 ee ss ee Seghers, Daniel
Amollon et les MUSCSaa 2 se ee ee Vos, Martin de

From Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.:

Art reference library, large rug, and desk

From National Collection of Fine Arts, Washington, D. C.:
Oil painting, High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Winslow Homer

From Dr. A. C. Miller, Washington, D. C.

Title Artist
WENoKorm ae hcbarel (Olan s eae Ne ee ae Lueas Cranach, the elder
POGEAT MeO ts callie rae 2) Ure ee ee Sir Anthony Van Dyck
OTE Ot ety Mie ee Ambrosius Benson
MOTT kn VV OTN ET cea ope eae, Ambrosius Benson
POLPtTaib ots eh) MV Dep nets Nee eer NEE ERO Barthel Bruyn, the elder
Portrait of a Man on Parchment____--.- Peter Gertner
Portrait of a Woman on Parechment___. Peter Gertner

From John S. Broome, Washington, D. C.:
Oil painting, Lost on the Grand Banks, by Winslow Homer

VARIOUS GALLERY ACTIVITIES

The Sunday evening concerts, which were instituted on June 7,
1942, primarily for the benefit of service men and women and war
workers in the city, have been so successful that they have been con-
tinued. The exhibition galleries have been open from 2:00 to 10:00
p.m. each Sunday evening throughout the year. Concerts of orchestral
music and string quartets have been provided with funds donated
by Chester Dale, and by The A. W. Mellon Educational and Chari-
table Trust, and later from the Gallery’s trust fund received from
The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust. In addition,
concerts have been donated by such well-known artists as Albert
Spalding, violinist, Frances Nash, pianist, and by artists in the
armed forces attached to the Navy School of Music, the Army Music
School, the Army Air Forces Band. The Ballet Russe de Monte
Carlo contributed a performance in the East Garden Court on May
2, 1943, especially for the wounded servicemen from the local hospitals.
oe ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943
CURATORIAL DEPARTMENT

The curatorial work for the year consisted of the installation of
over 600 works of art from the Widener collection, and of 173 other
gifts, and of 18 temporary exhibitions; in giving various lectures
on the collections and related fields in conjunction with the program
of the educational department; and in further cataloging the works
of art. A check list of the works of art in the Widener collection,
with an introduction, was compiled and printed, and a new general
information pamphlet was devised and printed for free distribution
to visitors at the Gallery.

During the past year the staffs of the curatorial and the educational
departments have collaborated in issuing a catalog, a portfolio of
colored reproductions, and nine pamphlets dealing with the Gallery
and its collections. Six members of the staff have contributed twelve
articles to several periodicals and pamphlet series. Two books and
several articles are currently in preparation.

In the course of the year, approximately 9,420 works of art were
submitted to the acquisitions committee (including 1,945 prints from
the Widener collection and approximately 6,500 from the Rosenwald
collection) with recommendations regarding their acceptability for
the collections of the National Gallery of Art; 21 private collections
were visited in connection with offers to the Gallery of gifts or loans;
126 consultations were held concerning over 250 works of art brought
to the Gallery for expert opinion; 11 visits were made outside the
Gallery to give expert opinion; and 32 letters were written in answer
to inquiries involving research in the history of art.

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART

During the year, as authorized by the Board and with the approval
of the Director and Chief Curator, Stephen Pichetto, Consultant
Restorer to the Gallery, together with his staff, has undertaken such
restoration and repair of paintings and sculpture in the collection
as has been found to be necessary. AIl this work was carried on
in the restorer’s rooms in the Gallery except in one case, when an
unusually delicate and complicated restoration was required; this
painting is being restored in Mr. Pichetto’s studios in New York.

WORKS OF ART STORED IN A PLACE OF SAFEKEEPING

Early in January 1942, a limited number of fragile and irreplace-
able works of art in the Gallery collections were removed to a place
of greater safety. These works, stored in a place adapted for the
purpose, have since been under constant guard by members of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

Gallery’s guard force and under supervision and inspection by a
member of the curatorial staff of the Gallery.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The attendance (97,000) for the educational program was double
that of the previous year (47,000).

The Gallery tours of the collection, conducted twice daily, Mon-
day through Friday, and once on Saturday, have been supplemented
by tours for service men and women on Saturdays. In addition
to these tours, slide lectures on the collection, given by members of
the curatorial and educational departments, were continued, and
more than 22,000 persons attended the consistently popular feature,
the “Picture of the Week,” a 10-minute discussion of single paintings.

New features introduced by the department during the past year
included film lectures, music lectures, and noon-hour concerts of re-
corded music, all of which have been well attended.

Changes in personnel due to wartime conditions placed unusual
responsibilities and added work on the members of the department
and because of this increased pressure it was not possible for the edu-
cational staff to assume extra assignments. The following projects,
however, were completed: cataloging the collection of approximately
8,500 slides; preparation of manuscripts for lectures on the Gallery
for the Federation of Women’s Clubs; slide lecture on the Gallery,
for circulation by the American Federation of Arts; various articles
for publication in art magazines; and the planning and supervision
of the motion picture on the National Gallery of Art. This motion
picture was completed in June 1943, by the Gallery staff in coopera-
tion with the Office of Strategic Services. Accompanied by a special
musical score and commentary, the film includes views of the ex-
terior and interior of the building, air-conditioning and lighting
equipment, and a color sequence showing many of the outstanding
works of art on exhibition. It is expected that the film will be
widely circulated among educational institutions and the general
public in this country and abroad.

LIBRARY

A total of 746 books and 106 pamphlets and periodicals were pre-
sented to the Gallery; 33 books and 110 pamphlets and periodicals
were purchased by the Gallery; 472 photographs and drawings were
presented as gifts; 27 books and 816 pamphlets and periodicals were
acquired through exchange; 1 film was presented as a gift, and 22
subscriptions to periodicals were made.
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943
PHOTOGRAPHIC DEPARTMENT

Prints totaling 11,401, 459 black-and-white slides, and 2,034 color
slides have been made by the photographic laboratory. The prints
have been placed on file in the library, where they are for sale and
for the use of the Gallery staff. The slides have been made avail-
able for the staff in connection with the public lectures given in the
Gallery and have likewise been lent to lecturers outside the Gallery
and to other galleries.

OTHER GIFTS

During the year there were gifts to the Gallery of plants for the
garden courts; also certain expenses were paid by others on behalf
of the Gallery, the donors being Mrs. William Corcoran Eustis,
David E. Finley, Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection
of Harvard University, Life magazine, The A. W. Mellon Edu-
cational and Charitable Trust, and the Toledo Museum of Art.
Gifts of money were made to the Gallery during the year by Mrs.
Florence Becker, Maj. Curtis Bryan, Chester Dale, Mrs. William
Corcoran Eustis, David E. Finley, Mrs. David E. Finley, Sr., S. R.
Guggenheim, Samuel H. Kress and Samuel H. Kress Foundation,
Lt. Paul Mellon, Mrs. Stephen S. Pichetto, Donald D. Shepard,
Mrs. Gertrude Clarke Whittall, Joseph E. Widener, Avalon Founda-
tion, and The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit has been made of the private funds of the Gallery for
the year ended June 30, 1943, by Price, Waterhouse & Co., a nation-
ally known firm of public accountants, and the certificate of that
company on its examination of the accounting records maintained for
such funds has been submitted to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

F. L. Benin, Acting President.

Dr. C. G. Asszor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1943:

APPROPRIATIONS

For the administration of the National Collection of Fine Arts by
the Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary
employees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling
expenses, uniforms for guards, and necessary incidental expenses, $31,-
993 was appropriated, of which $20,487.44 was expended for the care
and maintenance of the Freer Gallery of Art, a unit of the National
Collection of Fine Arts. The balance was spent for the care and up-
keep of the National Collection of Fine Arts, nearly all of this sum
being required for the payment of salaries, traveling expenses, pur-
chase of books and periodicals, and necessary disbursements for the
care of the collection.

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

Owing to crowded transportation and hotel facilities, it was decided
to omit the December 1942 annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art
Commission. Several proffered gifts of art works have been deposited
with the National Collection of Fine Arts to be passed upon at the
next meeting of the Commission.

The Commission lost two of its members by death during the year.
John E. Lodge, a member of the Commission since its inception and
chairman of the subcommittee on Oriental art, died December 29,
1942, and Charles L. Borie, a member of the Commission since 1926
and chairman since 1935, died May 11, 1948.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Fourteen miniatures, water color on ivory, were acquired from the
fund established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden
Myer, as follows: |

28. “Portrait of a Man,” by Raphael Peale (1774-1825); from Miss Dora
Lamb, Chattanooga, Tenn.

35
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

29. “Portrait of Mr. Lewis,’ by James Peale (1749-1831); from Edmund
Bury, Philadelphia, Pa.

30. ‘Portrait of a Man,’ by Walter Robertson (before 1765-1802); from
Card & Osborne, Inc., Washington, D. C.

31. “Emily Appleton,” by Sarah Goodridge (1788-1853) ; from Miss Bessie
J. Howard, Boston, Mass.

32. “Portrait of a Lady,” by an unknown artist; from Miss Bessie J. Howard,
Boston, Mass.

33. “Beulah Appleton,” by Sarah Goodridge (1788-1853) ; from Gimbel Bros.,
New York City.

84. “Dr. William Beckman,” by Alexander Robertson (1772-1841); from
Gimbel Bros., New York City.

35. “John Trumbull Ray,” by Thomas S. Cummings (1804-1894) ; from Gimbel —
Bros., New York City.

36. “Edward Appleton,” by Sarah Goodridge (1788-1853) ; from Miss Bessie
J. Howard, Boston, Mass.

37. “Matilda Barrington,” by Elkanah Tisdale (about 1771-after 1834) ; from
Miss Bessie J. Howard, Boston, Mass.

88. “Portrait of a Young Lady,” by Robert Fulton (1765-1815); from Miss
Bessie J. Howard, Boston, Mass.

89. “Self Portrait,” by Sarah Goodridge (1788-1853); from Miss Bessie J.
Howard, Boston, Mass.

40. “Mr. Hargreaves,” by Thomas Hargreaves (1775-1846); from Stephen
K. Nagy, Philadelphia, Pa.

41. “Portrait of M. B.,” by Philip A. Peticolas (1760-1843) ; from Mrs. Dora
Lee Curtis, Arlington, Va.

LOANS ACCEPTED

An oil painting, “Maid of the Mist,” by Thomas Cole (1801-1848),
was lent by Mrs. L. T. Gager.

A marble bust of Hon. Charles Evans Hughes, by Bryant Baker,
was lent by Mr. Hughes.

The following were lent anonymously: 435 Chinese jade ornaments;
122 Chinese jade, stone, glass, and porcelain snuff bottles; 44 Chinese
mirrors; 1 Imperial plate, Kuang Hsu (1875-1912), dragon design
in cobalt blue, with stand; 1 Flambé or transmutation copper glaze
bowl, Yung Chéng or Ch’ien Lung, eighteenth century, with stand;
1 Imperial bowl, K’ang Hsi (1662-1722), phoenix and dragon design,
blue, white, and peachblow, and 1 Imperial tea bowl, K’ang Hsi (1662-
1722), Imperial yellow with dragons in green and aubergine.

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS

An oil portrait, “Alice Barney with Jabot,” by Alice Barney, was
lent to the Society of Washington Artists to be shown in connection
with their exhibition held at the Corcoran Gallery of Art from Janu-
ary 23 to February 14, 1943. (Returned February 20, 1948.)

A miniature, “Portrait of a Colonial Gentleman,” signed “Copley
1773,” No. 20 in the Catherine Walden Myer Fund Collection, was
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

lent to the Worcester Art Museum to be included in a loan exhibition
“New England Painting, 1700-1775” held at the Worcester Art Mu-
seum in collaboration with the American Antiquarian Society, Febru-
ary 17 to March 81, 1948. (Returned May 8, 1943.)

A bronze bust of Jeanne d’Arc, by Berthe Girardet, with a pedestal,
was lent to the Hecht Co., where it was shown March 18 to 31, 1943,
in connection with a drive for the recruiting of WAC’s.

An oil painting, “High Cliff, Coast of Maine,” by Winslow Homer,
was lent to the National Gallery of Art on May 15, 1943, subject to
recall by the Smithsonian Institution at any time.

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Two oil paintings, “Henry, First Earl of Mulgrave,” by Sir Thomas
Lawrence, and “Landscape with Cottage,” by Hobbema, were with-
drawn from the Perkins Collection by their owners, Mrs. Feroline
Wallach and Mrs. Mabel Ruggles, respectively, on July 14, 1942.

An oil painting, “Portrait of Theophilus Parsons, First Chief Jus-
tice of Massachusetts,” by Gilbert Stuart, was withdrawn by the owner,
Theophilus Parsons, on October 1, 1942.

A pair of Meissen ewers was withdrawn by the owners, Mr. and
Mrs. J. D. Patten, on November 10, 1942.

A miniature, “Portrait of a Boy,” by Joseph Wood, was withdrawn
by the owner, Miss Sarah Lee, on March 23, 1943.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND PURCHASES

The paintings purchased by the Council of the National Academy
of Design from the fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger bequest,
which, under certain conditions, are prospective additions to the
National Collection of Fine Arts, and the names of the institutions
to which they have been assigned, are as follows:

Date of
Title Artist purchase Assignment

116. Wreck at Lobster Cove._.| Andrew Winter, N. A. | April 1940_|-....... 2. L222... ..------

—

(1893—).
116. Farm in Winter__......-- Milton W. Holm (1903 —)__]____- dows Recorle Faas Library,
reenville, 8. C.
117. Old Chinese GQulch-__-_..- Emil J. Kosa, Jr. (1903 —)_..| April 1941_]| The Montgomery Museum of
mine Arts, Montgomery,
118, Arrangement_..__._._..-- Cathal B. O’Toole, A. N. A. |_----do-_---- The eonewile Public Library,
(1903 —). Bronxville, N. Y.
119. Furbelows.-....-........- Sibert Sterner, N. A. (1863 | May 1942- St ereery, College, Shawnee.

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY

A total of 1,103 publications (527 volumes and 576 pamphlets) were
accessioned during the year. This number includes 258 volumes and
566766—44—-4
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

66 pamphlets added by purchase, and 77 volumes of bound periodicals.
The Parke-Bernet priced catalogs accounted for 53 volumes and 60

pamphlets among the purchases.
Miss Anna M. Link was appointed librarian October 16, 1942.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

The following paintings have been cleaned or restored since July
1, 1942:

“The Storm King on the Hudson,” by Samuel Colman, was relined.

“Mountain Scene,” by I’. E. Church, was cleaned.

“Mountain Scene,” by I. Diday, was cleaned.

“Painting Representing Falls, supposed to be Genesee Falls, N. Y.” by William
Winstanley, was relined and restored. From the geologic formation seen in
the painting, it was determined that the falls could not be Genesee Falls of
New York, but could be part of the Great Falls of the Potomac. This painting
belonged to George Washington and is now the property of the division of history
of the National» Museum.

“Moonlight Scene from a Grotto on a Rocky Coast,” by an unknown artist,
was cleaned. This painting belonged to George Washington and is now the
property of the division of history of the National Museum.

“Portrait of Judge Denny,’ by Thomas Sully, was relined. Property of the

Supreme Court.
“Portrait of Col. Timothy Pickering’ was varnished and the frame restored.

Property of the War Department.

Advice and supervision was given the United States Capitol re-
garding the large Halsall naval painting, “The Monitor and Merri-
mac,” painted in 1884.

Eight exhibition cases containing ancient necklaces, rare Persian
paintings, ceramics, jewelry, cameo glass, and miniatures were moved
from the first floor to the ground floor.

Eight of the antique wooden and terra-cotta statues in the Gellatly
Collection are now shown on shelves against a monk’s-cloth back-
ground. The rearrangement made possible the removal of two large
pedestals, greatly improving the general appearance of the large
gallery.

Another rearrangement made possible by the addition of two exhibi-
tion cases has brought together nearly all the rare Chinese glass,
jade, and pottery.

K. T. Wu and C. M. Wang, of the Library of Congress, translated
the inscription on the Northern Wei stele (357, Gellatly Collection),
and made a number of rubbings of this Chinese statue.

The huge vase showing a copy of Guido Reni’s “Aurora” and a
self portrait of Guido Reni (226, Pell Collection) was appropriately
placed in the center of the National Museum rotunda.

The largest task of the year was the making of a sheet catalog with
cross references of the paintings and sculpture of the collection. The

?
REPORT OF .THE SECRETARY 39

works of art were carefully described and identified both as to artist
and subject, but there still remain some dates and measurements to
be checked.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held:

July 1 through 27, 1942.—Exhibition of 20 oil paintings, 17 water
colors, 2 pastels, by Sefiorita Carmen Madrigal Nieto, of Costa Rica,
and 1 map of Costa Rica and 1 vacation advertisement, was spon-
sored by the Minister of Costa Rica, Sefor Dr. Don Luis Fernandez,
and the Pan American Union.

September 15 through 30, 1942.—Exhibition of 30 oil paintings by
Sefiorita Pachita Crespi, of Costa Rica, was sponsored by the Minister
of Costa Rica, Sefior Dr. Don Luis Fernandez, and the Pan American
Union.

November 5 through 29, 1942.—Exhibition of 61 oil paintings by
Frank C. Kirk, of New York City.

December 12, 1942, through January 17, 1943.—Exhibition of 95
miniatures by 46 members of the Pennsylvania Society of Miniature
Painters.

January 8 through 31, 1943.—Exhibition of 50 oil paintings and 10
designs on Lenox vases and platters by Simon Lissim, of New York
City.

February 5 through 28, 1943.—Exhibition of 70 water colors by
Leonora Quarterman, of Savannah, Ga.

June 4 through 27, 1943.—Exhibition of 46 oil paintings by Walter
King Stone, of Ithaca, N. Y.

Ten special graphic arts exhibits were held in the gallery as follows:

July 18 through August 30, 1942.—Exhibition of 32 “Prints by 24
Masters,” selected from the collection of the division of graphic arts.

September 1942.—Exhibition of 35 prints of “Pop” Hart, selected
from the collection of the division of graphic arts.

October 1942.—Exhibition of 37 pencil drawings by Mrs. Beatrice
Field, of Winchester, Mass.

November 1942.—Exhibition of 35 wood cuts and linoleum cuts by
Norman Kent, of Geneva, N. Y.

December 1942.—Exhibition of 85 etchings by Ralph Fabri, of
New York, N. Y.

January 1943.—Exhibition of 30 color prints by the American Color
Print Society.

February 1943.—Exhibition of 18 lithographs by Peter Hurd, of
San Patricio, N. Mex.

March 1943—Exhibition of 27 etchings and 7 pen drawings by
Mrs. Helen Miller, New York, N. Y.
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

April 1943.—Exhibition of 35 etchings by James McBey, of New
York. Ni-Y.

May 1943,—Exhibition of 12 drypoints and 20 wax-pencil drawings
by George T. Tobin, of New Rochelle, N. Y.

PUBLICATIONS

TormAn, R. P. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts for the year
ended June 80, 1942. Appendix 3, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ended June 30, 1942, pp. 46-50.

Lopcg, J. E. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1942.
Appendix 4, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the
year ended June 30, 1942, pp. 51-55.

Respectfully submitted.

R. P. Totman, Acting Director.
Dr. C. G. Axsgort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Str: I have the honor to submit the twenty-third annual report on
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1948.

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:

BRONZE

42.14 Chinese, 14th to 12th century B. ©. Shang dynasty. Ceremonial covered
vessel of the type yu in the form of two horned owls standing back to
back. Patination: Outside, gray-green with much red (cuprite) in the
furrows of the design ; inside, bare metal with incrustations of malachite,
cuprite and azurite. 0.236 x 0.213 over all. (Illustrated.)

GOLD

43.1. Persian, 10th century (A. D. 967-977). Biyid period. Small ewer of
yellow gold. Decoration chiseled in high relief on a delicately granu-
lated ground, and engraved. Two inscriptions in excellent Kufic script,
the upper reading: “Blessing and happiness and power to Abu’ Mansur
al-Amir Bakhtiyir ibn Mu‘izz ad-Dawla. May God prolong his days.”
The lower inscription repeats good wishes. H. 0.187; over all 0.160.
Weight: 503 grams. (lIllustrated.)

48.8 Persian, 11th to 12th century. Medal, with designs executed in relief:

Obverse: a bearded king, enthroned; two attendants.
Reverse: the same king, mounted, with a falcon on his left hand.
He is accompanied by an eagle and is trampling a dragon.
Diameter: 0.048.
PAINTING

43.2. Persian (Mesopotamia), A. D. 1224. Baghdad school.
By ‘Abdallah ibn al-Fadl. Leaf from an Arabic translation of the
Materia Medica of Dioscorides. Book IV, Caps. 88-84. Two miniatures
in color:
A. Mushrooms.
B. Autumn Crocus.
Text in naskhi script; two rubrics. Paper leaf: 0.320 x 0.225.

PAINTING AND CALLIGRAPHY

42.15. A leaf from a royal album upon which are mounted:
A. Indian, 17th century, Mughal. By Bichitr. The Emperor Jahin-
gir, enthroned upon an hourglass, receiving the homage of a
mullah, two European courtiers and a native prince. In colors
and gold. Signature. 0.275 x 0.180.

41
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

B. Indo-Persian, 18th century (A. D. 1727). By Muhammad Sadic.
Floral borders painted in naturalistic style on a gold ground.
Signature. Gr. W. 0.060.
C. Persian, early 17th century: a page of nasta‘lig writing by ‘Imad
al-Hasani (on the reverse side).
42.16, A’ leaf from a royal album (as above) on which are mounted:
A. Indian, 17th century. Mughal. School of Shih Jahan. An imag-
inary meeting between the Emperor Jahangir and Shah ‘Abbas I,
who are attended by two courtiers with gifts. In colors and
gold. 0.275 x 0.200.
B. Indo-Persian, 18th century (A. D. 1727). By Muhammad Sadiq.
Floral borders, dated. Gr. W. 0.060.
C. Persian, early 17th century (A. D. 1608). A page of nasta‘lig
writing by ‘Imad al-Hasani (on the reverse side).
42.17. Two leaves from a royal album (as above) on which are mounted:
42.18. A. Indian, 17th century. Mughal, school of Shah Jahan. Shah
Jahan holding a night audience for a large company of mullahs:
a double-page composition mounted on two facing pages. In
color and gold. 0.305 x 0.460 over all.
B. Indo-Persian, 18th century (A. D. 1727). By Muhammad Sadiq.
Floral borders. Signature and date. Gr. W. 0.048.
C. Persian, 17th century. Two pages of nasta‘liq script, unsigned (on
the reverse sides).

PORCELAIN

42.19. Chinese, A. D. 1662-1722. Ch‘ing dynasty, K‘ang Hsi period. Ching-té
Chén. Flower vase with “ox-blood” glaze. H. o. 176.

42.20. Chinese, A. D. 1662-1722. Ch‘ing dynasty, K‘ang Hsi period. Ching-té
Chén. Flower vase with “peach-bloom” glaze. Six-character mark in
underglaze blue. Ivory stand. H. o. 198.

43.5. Chinese, A. D. 1662-1772. Ch‘ing dynasty, K‘ang Hsi period. Ching-té
Chén, Circular, covered box for seal cinnabar, with a “peach-bloom”
glaze. Six-character mark in underglaze blue. 0.072 x 0.036.

43.6. Chinese, A. D. 1662-1722. Ch‘ing dynasty, K‘ang Hsi period. Ching-té

43.7. Chén. Two water-pots glazed in very pale greenish-blue inside and out.
Both have a six-character mark in underglaze blue. a, 0.087 x 0.087;
b, 6.089 x 0.088.

POTTERY

43.4. Chinese, 7th to 10th century. T‘ang dynasty. Sepulchral vase with
serpent handles; slightly beveled foot and coneave base. Body of a
hard, close-grained, buff-white clay, covered with a transparent glaze
tending to pale green. 0.529x 0.286. (Illustrated.)

42.21. Chinese, 11th to 12th century. Sung dynasty. Chii-lu hsien. Pillow,
square in section with concave sides; vent-hole in one end. Body
of hard, buff clay covered with a faintly crackled glaze over an ivory-
white slip. A Ch‘ien Lung (18th century) inscription of 78 characters
and 2 seals painted in reddish-brown. 0.124 square x 0.209 over all.

42.13. Persian, 11th century. So-called Aghkand. Bowl, shallow, flat rimmed ;
low ring foot. Body of soft, red earthenware covered with a thin,
transparent glaze of greenish cast over a white slip. Bird decora-
tion incised with areas of the design colored green, yellow, and aubergine
underglaze. 0,076 x 0.283. (Illustrated.)
Secretary's Report, 1943.—Appendix 4 PLATE 1

42.13

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE
FREER GALLERY OF ART
Secretary's Report, 1943.—Appendix 4 PLATE 2

42.14

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE
FREER GALLERY OF ART.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

43.3. Persian, early 13th century. Kashan. Large, shallow bowl with flaring
rim and bold foot ring (repairs; restorations in the rim). Body of
soft, firm, buff clay covered with an opaque white glaze. Decoration
painted in turquoise green, blue, dark red, aubergine, and flesh-color over-
glaze. Inside: the assault by a band of horsemen upon a walled town
defended by bowmen; outside: six hero scenes. Inscription in black
naskhi script. 0.111 x 0.478.

The work of the curatorial staff has been devoted to the study and
recording of the new acquisitions listed above and to other Arabic,
Chinese, Japanese, and Syrian objects submitted for purchase. In
addition to this work within the collection, 1,941 objects of Oriental
provenance and 235 photographs of such objects were examined, and
oral or written reports made upon them. Written translations of 105
inscriptions in Oriental languages were made upon request. In addi-
tion to this regular curatorial work, that contributing to the war
services which occupied a major part of the time of the staff is sum-
marized as follows:

WAR WORK

Aside from answering many inquiries from, and supplying infor-
mation to, various Government agencies, a considerable amount of
translation has been made for the Government from both Chinese
and Japanese sources, amounting to hundreds of pages of typewrit-
ten matter. Work upon maps of the war areas has entailed the identi-
fication and transliteration of Chinese and Japanese names to the
number of more than 5,000. This work is continuing.

In May 1943 three lectures on Chinese culture as reflected in the
fine arts were given at the Freer Gallery by the Director in response
to the combined request of the United States Office of Education and
the acting superintendent of the public schools of the District of
Columbia, in furtherance of their plan to disseminate knowledge of
China in the public schools. The audiences were composed of Wash-
ington teachers (total number 264). The subjects of the lectures were
as follows:

May 8: A short discussion of art in general. China and her people.

May 15: Bronze and jade. Purpose and use.

May 22: Chinese painting.

A lecture on Asiatic painting, illustrated with Freer Gallery slides,
was given by Miss Guest on October 2, 1942, in the St. Francis Audi-
torium of the Art Museum, Santa Fe, N. Mex., for the benefit of the
Indian Service Club. The sum realized ($160) made possible the
Christmas boxes sent by the club to its members in the armed forces
in this country and abroad.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943
CHANGES IN EXHIBITION

Four hundred eighty-eight changes were made in exhibition, as
follows:

Apahic:, (Amida) palatine cola! 2 sos Rk ee ae a! oe. 2
@himese s+ Dro rie le ee a a ic aa 103
Ghinese colic :ci eee NAR ee SD aa id Sle DR 6
ab BaYctfeNegn F216 {cpaylegaa Mes a hae Sie DERE AP a ea ERR AS ee 164
Chinese mMArh leis eee ene ee STE NO ae ees Eek 2
Chinese eg sulin t Lrg se pe at is i a RE A a as al Pa) 38
Ch imese: por Cel ey fra a ae a TRL DT A ge 14
Chinese! pottery 22 a eee Sea UE a nie eg a eee ae 95
@himeses Sil Ver sexe eed a et rate eee a eR ape a ead 2
Chinese sil ver=pilCee sea eee NL ake RO Nth Pile ae eA 6
Chinesevsculpture; bronze eee esas ee at aa Ne Tee 10
WhHineserseul PUT es FSCO Oe eee ee oa 1 Be AR el ee eee 2
OP Vip Clara a POSEN tal yep Ob Geer ype a a al a 1
RO esa mn |W TO Ze a a i I yy al
FROYGAN OCCT ye ae ee a a BD =) Oo
Persian) Otter ya ee a A RS ee TER Sena melee Sy aN LEY 2
POLS Tera Sih yer ee ee UN ts eee eee lo Ee 1
ATTENDANCE

The Gallery has been open to the public every day from 9 until
4:30 o’clock with the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day and
New Year’s Day.

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance was
53,700. Sixty-nine other visitors on Mondays bring the grand total
to 53,769. The total attendance on weekdays was 380,759; Sundays,
22,941. The average weekday attendance was 118; the average Sun-
day attendance, 441. The highest monthly attendance was in August,
with 5,832 visitors; the lowest in December, with 2,571 visitors.

There were 1,026 visitors to the main office during the year; the
purposes of their visits were as follows:

Hor general timo ry ayo mses a aa Ne io a Tee) de oe Sa 316
PE OWSEE: OJ OC tay ANN) SS TOT a 2s ee ER te i ne LP 175
Far. Hasterd paintings and stex tile ge Ne ee ee eee 37
Near: Hastern paintings and manuseriptse2 2 ee 27
Oriental pottery, jade, glass, bronze, sculpture, lacquer, and
Damo Ws sae eae aS dso Or AGRE rans Se ee Ne Be a 82
By Za ntine (OD JOC ae ee ee A ee yg ee 9
WQsNang con i REGALSCTAD Eee ee ae a eae Ue ela a Le Sek BTL 20
Tot read * in ehes i ryrey se sees te eae Pe 10a i aie ie 2 EU a wv 168
To make tracings and sketches from library books_______-___---_-.. 18
Tovsee bullding: and: installation (ose eee ee ea eee 14
To obtain’ permission’ tomphotorraph, or sketch= 222 ee 7
To TSU MLE VODIECES LO! (eK VV ATA NE Le Tye ee aes 97
Tovseeimembersvotiithe ss ta hes aes ee ae es eee 163
Novsee exhibition galleries jon Monday se see aes eee an eee iat

TNolexamine or purchase photograph sees sae eee eee eee 273
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

DOCENT SERVICE

Eight groups were given docent service in the exhibition galleries
(total 415); four groups were given instruction in the study room
(total 21).

PERSONNEL

It is with great sadness that we have to record the death on
December 29, 1942, of John Ellerton Lodge, Director of the Freer
Gallery from its beginning in the autumn of 1920. Under his wise
administration the Freer collections and endowment were founded
as a public institution for the further prosecution of the study and
the acquisition of Oriental fine arts. Both branches of this work
were developed simultaneously. The first led to the training of
language students and to field work in China, as well as to studies
within the collection; the second, to an immense and very significant
expansion in every field: the sections devoted to Chinese bronzes,
jades, painting, and pottery raised to higher levels of quality; the
sections devoted to Near Eastern and East Indian manuscripts,
paintings, ceramics, glass and metal work created almost in entirety
upon small and, for the most part, unimportant nuclei in the original
collection.

Elizabeth Hill Maltby, librarian since December 17, 1935, resigned
her position on August 15, 1942. On the same day Frances Poncelet,
who had reported for duty July 27, was appointed librarian.

Archibald G. Wenley, associate in research, was appointed Acting
Director on January 1, 1943. On January 16 he was appointed
Director.

William R. B. Acker, language assistant, was placed on furlough
December 31, 1942, being detached for service with the Office of
War Information.

Daisy Furscott Bishop terminated her long service at the Freer
Gallery on January 27, 1948, being transferred to the library of the
Smithsonian Institution.

John A. Pope, formerly Lecturer on Chinese Art at Columbia Uni-
versity, was appointed associate in research on April 1, 1948.

Grace T. Whitney worked intermittently at the Gallery in the Near
East section between October 22, 1942, and June 16, 1943.

Joseph H. Boswell, principal guard, who had been on duty here
since September 1923, retired at his own request June 380, 1948.

Other changes in personnel are as follows:

Appointments: Joseph P. Germuiller, guard, recalled from re-
tirement August 1, 1942; Charles W. Frost, guard, August 25, 1942;
Norman E. Baldwin, guard, November 16, 1942; James W. Burns,
guard, by temporary transfer from the United States National Mu-
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

seum, May 11, 1948; George S. Young, cabinetmaker, employed for
special help in the cabinet shop, February 16, 1943.

Separations from the service: Everett A. Altizer, guard, on in-
definite furlough for naval duty, July 6, 1942; Glen P. Shephard,
guard, on indefinite furlough for military duty, October 15, 1942;
Norman E. Baldwin, guard, resigned February 26, 1943; Charles
W. Frost, guard, by transfer to Airport Detachment No. 5, Gravelly
Point, Va., April 18, 1948; Joseph P. Germuiller, guard, retired
June 19, 1943.

Respectfully submitted.

A. G. WenNtey, Director.
Dr. C, G. Apgort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 19438, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of June 27, 1942, which pro-
vides “* * * for continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii and the excavation
and preservation of archeologic remains. * * *”

During the fiscal year, activities concerned with the other American
republics have been emphasized, and the energies of various staff
members of the Bureau have been directed to an increasing extent
to projects bearing on the war effort. In particular, members of the
Bureau staff have cooperated with the Ethnogeographic Board in
preparing information for the armed services, and it is expected that
efforts in this direction will increase as the war continues.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

On January 18, 1943, M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau, left
Washington on the fifth National Geographic Society-Smithsonian
Institution archeological expedition to southern Mexico. Excavations
were continued at the site of La Venta in southern Tabasco and re-
sulted in the discovery of numerous new details of construction of
the rectangular stone-fenced enclosure, one of the central features of
the site. Three rich burials of important personages were uncovered
containing offerings principally of jade of unusually high quality.
Two mosaic floors in the form of jaguar masks made of polished
green serpentine were discovered, one at a depth of more than 20 feet.
During the course of the work an exploration trip was made up the
Rio de las Playas, one of the headwater streams of the Tonala River, in
order to verify the existence of a ruin in this vicinity. The collections
obtained during the course of excavations at La Venta were shipped
to the National Museum in Mexico City. Mr. Stirling was assisted
throughout the season by Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, of the division of
archeology of the United States National Museum.

During the course of the fiscal year Mr. Stirling contributed to the
War Background Studies of the Smithsonian Institution an article
entitled “Native Peoples of New Guinea,” which was published as

47
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

No. 9 of that series. He also contributed several articles to the Ethno-
geographic Board for distribution to the armed forces. During the
year Mr. Stirling’s paper entitled “Origin Myth of Acoma and Other
Records” was issued as Bulletin 135 of the Bureau.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, devoted a considerable por-
tion of the year to the reading and correcting of galley and page proof
of his work entitled “The Indians of the Southeastern United States,”
which is being published as Bulletin 187 of the Bureau. This will bea
volume of approximately 850 pages exclusive of the index.

Some further work was done on the materials preserved from the
now extinct language of the Timucua Indians of Florida, but it was
decided to discontinue this for the present. These materials—con-
sisting of a catalog of Timucua words and English-Timucua index
to the same, photocopies of the religious works in Timucua and
Spanish printed in Mexico in the seventeenth century, and typed copies
of these with some interlinear translation—have been labeled care-
fully and placed in the manuscript vault.

Time was also devoted to the extraction of ethnographical notes
from the volumes of Early Western Travels, edited by Reuben Gold
Thwaites. A paper entitled “Are Wars Inevitable?” was contributed
as No. 12 to the War Background Studies of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. A few investigations were undertaken for the Board on Geo-
graphical Names, of which Dr. Swanton is a member.

Dr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, was occupied during the first
part of the year in an investigation of the Chilcotin languages of
northern California. The results of this work indicated that Chilcotin
was introduced into California from Canada in pre-European times,
but owing to the varying rate in time reckoning for the accomplish-
ment of linguistic changes, the length of Chilcotin occupancy in Cali-
fornia cannot be estimated. With the exception of a small area south
of the mouth of the Klamath River, Chilcotin occupies the entire
coastal region of northern California to the mouth of Usal Creek
in Mendocino County. In addition to the linguistic connections dis-
covered, local traditions were obtained linking the Chilcotin peoples
with a more northern group. Two separate stories were recorded
deriving the Hupa from the region north of the mouth of the Klamath
River, and one was obtained deriving the Indians of a part of the Eel
River drainage from the Hupa region.

Since his return to Washington, Dr. Harrington has been engaged
in the preparation of material for the linguistic section of the Hand-
book of South American Indians. This work resulted in the discovery
that Witoto is Tup{-Guarani, and also the very interesting finding
that Quechua is Hokan. The Hokan hitherto had been known to ex-
tend only to the Subtiaba language of the west coast of Central
America. Detailed studies of Quechua and of Cocama have been made
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

for the purpose of making comparisons with other South American
languages and with a view to discerning possible further linguistic
affiliations. In addition to this work, Dr. Harrington has also made
an extensive study of the grammar of the Jivaro language of South
America.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
senior archeologist, was engaged in prospecting and testing an in-
teresting site in the Agate Basin, on a tributary of the Cheyenne
River between Lusk and Newcastle, in eastern Wyoming. Dr. Roberts
had been sent to make preliminary investigations at this location,
despite the general policy of no regular field work for the duration
of the war, because of the possibility that much information might
be lost as a result of erosive activities in the area and from disturb-
ance of the deposits by amateur collectors hunting for specimens.
The site gave evidence of having been the scene of a bison kill on the
edges of a marsh or meadow. Animal bones and artifacts were found
in a stratum that breaks out of the bank some 20 feet above the bottom
of an eroding gully. This layer is covered by an overburden that
deepens rapidly as it is followed back into the bank, and at a depth
of 4 feet, where the tests were terminated, was still continuing. All
the bones found, of which there were many, proved to be modern
bison. Associated with these were projectile points, which, although
they suggest an affinity with the Collateral Yuma type—a form that
has been considered relatively early in the Plains area—nevertheless do
not have all the significant characteristics of that type. The points
have unhesitatingly been called Yuma by numerous people who
have examined them, and there is no question of their belonging
in that general category, although they should not be considered
classic forms. All the points found at the site are consistent in
pattern, yet have a considerable range in size. In the seventy-
some points or large and easily identified fragments found there,
no shouldered, barbed, or tanged forms appear. The material un-
questionably represents a cultural unit without intrusions from
other sources. Dr. Roberts dug 32 examples out of undisturbed
deposits. The remaining specimens are in the collections of local
residents, who picked them up as they weathered out of the gully
bank. Only a few end and side scrapers have been found, prob-
ably because of the fact that the camp proper has not yet been
located, but they are typical of those associated with the so-called
early hunting complexes. Geologic studies have not yet been made
of the deposits. They indicate some antiquity, but that they are
not as old as the age formerly postulated for Yuma remains is demon-
strated by the fact that the bison represented are all modern forms.
It is hoped that when present conditions are over, the site can be
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

thoroughly excavated and detailed studies made of the material. The
site was found by William Spencer, of Spencer, Wyo., and was re-
ported to the Smithsonian Institution by Robert E. Frison, deputy
game warden, Wyoming State Game and Fish Commission of New-
castle. Permission for the investigations was granted by Leonard
E. Davis, owner of the land.

Leaving Newcastle, Wyo., on August 1, Dr. Roberts proceeded to
Tucumcari and San Jon, N. Mex., for the purpose of disposing of some
of the equipment stored there at the close of the 1941 season and ar-
ranging for storage of the remainder for the duration.

On his return to Washington, Dr. Roberts resumed his office activi-
ties. Galley and page proofs were read for his report, “Archeologi-
cal and Geological Investigations in the San Jon District, Eastern
New Mexico,” which appeared in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections, volume 103, No. 4. Manuscript was prepared and galley
and page proofs were read for a paper entitled “Egypt and the Suez
Canal,” which was published as No. 11 in the Smithsonian Institu-
tion War Background Studies. By request, an article, “Evidence for
a Paleo-Indian in the New World,” was written for the Acta Ameri-
cana, an international quarterly review published by the Inter-Ameri-
can Society of Anthropology and Geography. During the period from
October 1 to June 80 a series of survival articles was prepared from
data furnished by members of the Smithsonian staff. These articles
were made available to the armed forces through the office of the
Ethnogeographic Board. Dr. Roberts devoted considerable time to
the task of gathering this information from the Institution’s authori-
ties in the various fields of science and working it into articles for
general reading. He also furnished information on various subjects
in response to requests from numerous members of the armed services.
At the close of the fiscal year he was engaged in assisting in the prepa-
ration of a survival manual for the Ethnogeographic Board.

On April 1, 1948, Dr. Roberts was designated as Acting Chief of the
Bureau of American Ethnology whenever the Chief, by reason of
absence, illness, or other cause, is unable to discharge the duties of his
position.

Dr. Julian H. Steward, anthropologist, continued his activities as
editor of the Handbook of South American Indians, one of the Smith-
sonian projects conducted under funds transferred from the State
Department for “Cooperation with the American Republics.” He also
prepared a number of articles for publication in the Handbook. The
Handbook, which is three-fourths completed, will consist of four
volumes of text and a two-volume bibliography. Material has been
contributed to it by 100 specialists on the Indian tribes of Central
and South America and the Antilles.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OM

Dr. Steward took an active part in the creation of the Inter-Ameri-
can Society of Anthropology and Geography, the purpose of which
is the development of cooperative anthropological and geographic re-
search. Dr. Ralph L. Beals was appointed to take over the work of
organizing and developing the society. The society has approxi-
mately 700 members throughout the Americas, and the first issue of its
quarterly journal, Acta Americana, was in press at the close of the
fiscal year.

Plans were developed for cooperative Institutes of Social Anthro-
pology to assist in training students and in carrying on field work
in the other American republics.

Dr. Steward served as a member of committees concerned with co-
operative work in the field of inter-American relations and was a
member of the Board of Governors of the National Indian Institute
of the United States. He also represented the Smithsonian Institu-
tion at the inauguration of Dr. Everett Needham Case as president of
Colgate University.

Dr. Alfred Métraux, ethnologist, continued his work as assistant to
Dr. Julian H. Steward in preparing the Handbook of South American
Indians. In addition to editing materials furnished by other contribu-
tors, Dr. Métraux completed a large amount of manuscript material
of his own for use in the, Handbook. Through an arrangement with
the National University of Mexico, Dr. Métraux went to Mexico City
to teach from March until the end of the fiscal year. During the year
Dr. Métraux’s paper entitled “The Native Tribes of Eastern Bolivia
and Western Matto Grosso” was issued as Bulletin 184 of the Bureau.

During the fiscal year Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr., ethnologist, was
engaged in work relating to the war, for the most part in connection
with the Ethnogeographic Board. Early in July 1942 Dr. Collins
was detailed by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and by
the Chief of the Bureau to assist in handling requests for regional
and other information received by the Ethnogeographic Board from
the armed services and other war agencies. On February 28, 1943,
he was elected Assistant Director of the Board and in this capacity
continued in charge of research relating to the above-mentioned re-
quests.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. William N. Fenton, as-
sociate anthropologist, was engaged, at the request of the Pennsyl-
vania Historical Commission, in a brief field trip among the Seneca
Indians on the Cornplanter Grant in northwestern Pennsylvania.
The object of this work was to collect Indian geographic names and
traditions on hunting and fishing along the Allegheny River.

Following his return to Washington, Dr. Fenton devoted most
of his time during the remainder of the year to projects received
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

by the Ethnogeographic Board from the armed services and other
war agencies. One of the results of his work has been a strategic file
of personnel in the United States familiar with foreign countries.
Growing out of the Roster of Personnel, World Travel, and Special
Knowledge Available to War Agencies at the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, as first compiled by the Smithsonian War Committee early
in 1942, the present World File of Regional Specialists at the Eth-
nogeographic Board now includes over 2,500 names of individuals,
their travel and special knowledge. Cross-indexed by name, as well
as by country, this index has enabled the Director of the Board to
locate promptly any person in response to requests from the armed
forces for authorities who might possess unusual information, photo-
graphs, maps, and knowledge of languages of a given area. Certain
officers as well as civilian specialists have returned repeatedly to the
Smithsonian building to consult this file. In recognition of this
work, in February Dr. Fenton was elected a research associate of
the Ethnogeographic Board.

At the request of the War Department, Office of Chief of Engi-
neers, to the Institution, Dr. Fenton delivered a lecture on “The
Nature and Diversity of Human Culture” to a class in Psychology
of Administration.

Dr. Fenton has continued membership on the Smithsonian War
Committee, acting as its secretary.

Work on the Indian place names of western New York and west-
ern Pennsylvania has continued by correspondence with Messrs. M.
H. Deardorff, Warren, Pa., and Chas. E. Congdon, of Salamanca,
N. Y. At the end of the fiscal year, another correspondent, Dr.
Elizabeth L. Moore, of Meredith College, had about completed the
translation of J. F. Lafitau’s Moeurs des Sauvages Amériquains (2
vols., Paris, 1724), a project reported last year.

Publications for the year include: Songs from the Iroquois Long-
house: Program Notes for an Album of American Indian Music
from the Eastern Woodlands, published jointly by the Smithsonian
Institution and the Library of Congress as vol. 6 of Folk Music of
the United States (Archive of American Folk Song) ; Contacts be-
tween Iroquois Herbalism and Colonial Medicine, in Smithsonian
Report for 1941; Last Seneca Pigeon Hunts, en Warren County Penn-
sylvania Almanac, 1943; and Fish Drives among the Cornplanter
Seneca, in Pennsylvania Archaeologist; also several book reviews in
professional and other journals. At the close of the fiscal year, the
paper entitled “The Last Passenger Pigeon Hunts of the Cornplanter
Senecas,” which had been prepared with M. H. Deardorff for the
Anthropological Papers of the Bureau, had been accepted for pub-
lication in the Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Do

In December 1942 Dr. Philip Drucker, assistant ethnologist, re-
ceived a commission in the United States Naval Reserve and was
granted a military furlough. Dr. Drucker had spent the preceding
portion of the fiscal year in preparing final reports on archeological
work previously conducted in Mexico by the National Geographic
Society-Smithsonian Institution archeological expeditions. These
reports, in press at the end of the fiscal year, will appear as Bulletins
of the Bureau.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the Bureau, continued
work on the study of Indian music by completing two large manu-
scripts—Seminole Music, and Music of Acoma, Isleta, Cochiti, and
Zuni Pueblos. She also devoted considerable time to a study of the
traces of foreign influences in the music of the American Indians,
During a portion of the year she was engaged in writing a handbook
of the Smithsonian—Densmore collection of sound recordings of Ameri-
can Indian music for the National Archives.

Miss Densmore presented to the Bureau a record of her field work
on Indian music and customs for the Bureau from 1907 to 1941, and
completed the bibliography of her writings on that subject. She also
presented the original phonograph record of a speech in the Ute
language by the famous Ute chief Red Cap, made in 1916, and a
similar record of a speech in the Yuma language by Kacora, made in
1922, with accompanying information.

In 1943 Miss Densmore completes 50 years’ study of the music,
customs, and history of the American Indians,

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editorial work of the Bureau continued during the year under
the immediate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. There were
issued one Annual Report and three Bulletins, as follows:

Fifty-ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1941-1942.
12 pp.

Bulletin 132. Source material on the history and ethnology of the Caddo Indians,
by John R. Swanton. 332 pp., 19 pls., 5 text figs.

Bulletin 134. The native tribes of eastern Bolivia and western Matto Grosso,
by Alfred Métraux. 182 pp., 5 pls., 1 text fig.

Bulletin 135. Origin myth of Acoma and other records, by Matthew W. Stirling.
123 pp., 17 pls., 8 text figs.

The following Bulletins were in press at the close of the fiscal year:

Bulletin 133. Anthropological papers, numbers 19-26:
No. 19. A search for songs among the Chitimacha Indians in Louisiana, by
Frances Densmore.
566766—44—_5
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

No, 20. Archeological survey on the northern Northwest Coast, by Philip
Drucker. With appendix, Early vertebrate fauna of the British
Columbia Coast, by Edna M. Fisher.
No. 21. Some notes on a few sites in Beaufort County, South Carolina, by
Regina Flannery.
No. 22. An analysis and interpretation of the ceramic remains from two sites
near Beaufort, South Carolina, by James B. Griffin.
No. 23. The eastern Cherokees, by William Harlen Gilbert, Jr.
No. 24. Aconite poison whaling in Asia and America: An Aleutian transfer
to the New World, by Robert F’. Heizer.
No. 25. The Carrier Indians of the Bulkley River: Their social and religious
life, by Diamond Jenness. ;
No. 26. The quipu and Peruvian civilization, by John R. Swanton.
Bulletin 1386. Anthropological papers, numbers 27-32:
No. 27. Music of the Indians of British Columbia, by Frances Densmore.
No. 28. Choctaw music, by Frances Densmore.
No. 29. Some ethnological data concerning one hundred Yucatan plants, by
Morris Steggerda.
No. 30. A description of thirty towns in Yucatan, Mexico, by Morris Steggerda.
No. 31. Some western Shoshoni myths, by Julian H. Steward.
No. 32. New material from Acoma, by Leslie A. White.
Bulletin 1837. The Indians of the southeastern United States, by John R.
Swanton.
Bulletin 138. Stone monuments of southern Mexico, by Matthew W. Stirling.
Bulletin 139. An introduction to the ceramics of Tres Zapotes, Veracruz,
Mexico, by C. W. Weiant.
Bulletin 140. Ceramic sequences at Tres Zapotes, Veracruz, Mexico, by Philip
Drucker.
Bulletin 141. Ceramic stratigraphy at Cerro de las Mesas, by Philip Drucker.
Bulletin 142. The contemporary culture of the Cahita Indians, by Ralph L.
Beals.

Publications distributed totaled 10,793.

LIBRARY

Accessions during the fiscal year totaled 321. There has been a
sharp decrease in all classes of accessions, owing to reduced funds in
the case of purchases and to war conditions in the case of gifts and
exchanges.

The Library of Congress cards for nonserial matter on hand at the
beginning of the fiscal year, amounting to several thousand, have
been prepared and filed. Cards for foreign periodicals and society
transactions have been prepared and filed, including shelf-list cards.
A record of holdings appears on each of these shelf-list entries and
some are now in their permanent form.

Several thousand pamphlets, including a number of valuable ones
pertaining to the Indian Territory and the Five Civilized Tribes,
were reclassified and reshelved.

The library has been much in use as a source of material for the
Ethnogeographic Board and the war agencies.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

ILLUSTRATIONS

During the year E. G. Cassedy, illustrator, continued the prepara-
tion of illustrations, maps, and drawings for the publications of the
Bureau and for those of other branches of the Institution.

COLLECTIONS

Collections transferred by the Bureau of American Ethnology to
the department of anthropology, United States National Museum,
during the fiscal year were as follows:

Accession
number

162682. Archeological materials collected at Tres Zapotes, Tuxtla District, south-
ern Veracruz, Mexico, during the winters of 1938-39 and 1939-40 by
the National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution expedition
under M. W. Stirling. (1,859 specimens. )

163712. 14 ethnological specimens originally obtained by C. Spencer from the
Payamino Indians, eastern Ecuador, and 3 archeological specimens
from excavations along the Napo River in the vicinity of Eden, Hcuador.
(17 specimens. )

165128. Stone ax blade and 5 bark-cloth dance masks collected by Dr. Irving
Goldman from the Kobeua (Cubeo) Indians, southeastern Colombia.
(6 specimens. )

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning
the North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mexican
peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various speci-
mens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them furnished
for their owners.

Personnel.—Indefinite furloughs for military service were granted
to Dr. Philip Drucker and Walter B. Greenwood on December 31,
1942, and January 15, 1948, respectively; Miss Nancy A. Link was
appointed editorial clerk in connection with the preparation of the
Handbook of South American Indians on August 15, 1942, by trans-
fer from the Bureau, and resigned on January 238, 1943; Mrs. Eloise
B. Edelen was appointed editorial assistant on August 24, 1942, on
the Bureau roll; John E. Anglim was appointed senior illustrator
for the Handbook on August 12, 1942, and resigned on April 21,
1943, to be inducted into the Army; Mrs. Verne E. Samson was
appointed editorial clerk for the Handbook on December 22, 1942;
Mrs. Ruth S. Abramson resigned as assistant clerk-stenographer on
May 28, 1943.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Srietine, Chief.
Dr. C. G. Apzor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1943:

From the appropriation “General Expenses, Smithsonian Institu-
tion” there was allocated for the expenses of the Service $45,808.
This amount was reduced by the Bureau of the Budget by setting aside
a reserve of $10,000, making the sum available $35,808. This latter
included $928 to meet within-grade promotions to certain employees
as provided for by the Ramspeck Act.

In addition to the above, $1,500 was allotted to the Institution by
the Department of State from a special Congressional appropriation
to that Department for carrying on its work of promoting the cultural
relations between the United States and other American republics.
The money transferred to the Institution was used by the Exchange
Service to send packages of publications by mail directly to their
destinations in Argentina and Brazil, the only countries in South
America with which there are no reciprocal arrangements for the ex-
change of publications under governmental frank.

The number of packages received during the year for distribution
at home and abroad was 513,460, a decrease from last year of 47,691.
These packages weighed a total of 248,648 pounds, a decrease of
77,758 pounds. This material is classified as follows:

Packages Weight

Sent |Received| Sent Received

Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad_-________-- EEL t (70 (el a, se pes 126; 820} 2 sone
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents_-_-_|_.-__----- STB ae ee ae 2, 529
United States departmental documents sent abroad________-__- 59) 6640 |Los eee 49, 803° | 223.
Publications received in return for departmental documents____|__._____-- OOTP ae 2 Se ee 2, 403
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad_ 06; G04) aseea amen BS OAL Eee
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States____...........___|_--------- BxO8D |e eae es 8, 967
4 BL 0) 4) bie Meats nt ian hi wl od A Se aya so oad 507, 095 6,365 | 234, 749 13, 899
(Gage bole Uh oles) eA Raee sea. MM ayy Veree Sem ee See har ea abe 513,460 248,648

Packages are forwarded abroad partly by freight to exchange bu-
reaus for distribution, and partly by mail directly to their destina-
56
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

tions. The number of boxes shipped abroad was 643, an increase over
last year of 44 boxes. Of these, 418 were for depositories of full
sets of United States governmental documents, and 225 were for de-
positories of partial sets and for various establishments and indi-
viduals abroad. The number of packages sent by mail was 100,074.

As has been stated in previous reports, the war has made it nec-
essary for the Institution to suspend shipments to many foreign
countries. However, since last year’s report was issued, shipping
conditions have improved sufficiently to make it possible to add a
few countries in the Eastern Hemisphere to those to which consign-
ments are being transmitted. ‘The countries to which shipments were
being made at the close of the fiscal year 1943 were as follows:

Hastern Hemisphere:
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Republic of Ireland (formerly Irish Free State).
Portugal.
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
Union of South Africa.
India.
Australia.
New Zealand.
Western Hemisphere: All countries.

It was stated in the last report that packages for places in the
Western Hemisphere were sent by,mail and that there was some de-
lay in transit due to examination of their contents by the censor. The
Office of Censorship has been good enough to make special arrange-
ments whereby packages mailed abroad by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution now pass the postal censor with little delay.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
for transmission abroad through the International Exchange Service
is 91 (55 full and 36 partial sets). On account of war conditions it
is possible at this time to forward only 54 of these sets. The remain-
ing 37 sets are being withheld for the duration.

Through arrangements with the Librarian of Congress, the large
number of boxes of governmental documents that had accumulated
at the Institution and were overtaxing the limited space here, are
now stored in the Library of Congress.

The partial-set depository of the Dominican Republic has been
changed to the Library of the University of Santo Domingo, and the
depository in Paraguay, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Library
Section, Asuncién.
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

A complete list of the depositories follows. Under present war
conditions, consignments are forwarded only to those countries listed
on the previous page.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Direccié6n de Investigaciones, Archivo, Biblioteca y Legislacién
Extranjera, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SoutH WaAtes: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
SourH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
Vicror1A: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
BELGIUM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.
BrAziu: Instituto Nacional do Livro, Rio de Janeiro.
CaAnapA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
OnTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.
QuEsBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CHILE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago..
CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking.
CoLomBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
CusA: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Heyer: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Reichstauschstelle im Reichsminsterium ftir Wissenschaft, Erziehung
und Volksbildung, Berlin, N. W. 7.
PrussIA: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
Huncary: Library, Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
InpIA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
ITaAty: Ministero dell’Educazione Nazionale, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
LAtv1A: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.
LEAGUE oF Nations: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Mexico: Direcci6n General de Informacién, Secretaria de Gobernacién, Mexico,
D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NorTHERN IRELAND: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)
Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.
PoLAnD: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.
PortuGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
RumMAnrIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.
Spain: Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Avenida de Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.
SwEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SwITzZERLAND: Bibliothégue Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
TuRKEY: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education,
Istanbul.
UNIon oF SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Union or Sovier Soctatist Repusiics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115.
UKRAINE: Ukrainian Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries,
Kiev.
Urnvueuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
Yueostavia: Ministére de l’Education, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Publications Department, Kabul.
BottviA: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

Minas GeEraAks: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
BritisH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA;

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

BRITISH CoLUMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

Prince EpwArD IsLanp: Legislative and Public Library, Charlottetown.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.

Cryton: Chief Secretary’s Office, Record Department of the Library, Colombo.
CutnA: National Library of Peiping.
DoMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo.
Hcuanor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Hartt: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:
Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:
Beneat: Secretary, Bengal Legislative Council Department, Council House,
Calcutta.

BIHAR AND ORISSA: Revenue Department, Patna.

Bompay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-

ment, Bombay.

Burma: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,

Rangoon.
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

PunsAB: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore.
UNITED PROVINCES oF AGRA AND OUDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
LiperiIA: Department of State, Monrovia.
Matta: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Home Affairs, St. John’s.
NIcARAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PanaMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Secci6n Biblioteca, Asuncién.
SALVADOR :
Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
THAILAND: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
VaTIcAN City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

In the last report it was stated that the sending of the daily issues
of the Congressional Record and the Federal Register was discon-
tinued in April 1942, at the request of the Office of Censorship. The
ban placed on the forwarding of these journals was lifted in Febru-
ary 1943, and the regular transmission of the Record and the Register
were resumed. Copies of the back numbers were forwarded, in order
that the series of the journals would be complete in the files of the
depositories. The number of copies of each of these journals de-
livered to the Institution for this interparliamentary exchange was
reduced from 71 to 58—the number that it was possible to forward
under the curtailed operations of the Service.

The Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D. F., was added to
those countries receiving the Record and Register. A list of the
countries to which these journals are now being forwarded follows:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
CAmara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
Boletin Oficial de la Repfiblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e In-
struccién Publica, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA?
Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New Soutu WALES: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
BRAZIL:
Biblioteca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
AMAZONAS: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Man4os.
Bauria : Governador do Estado da Bahia, SAio Salvador.
Espirito SANtTo: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rio GRANDE po Sut: “A Federacio,” Porto Alegre.
SerciPz: Biblioteca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracajt.
SAo PAvto: Diario Official do Estado de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

BritisH Honpvuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
Cusa: Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana,
GREAT Britain: Library of the Foreign Office, London.
GUATEMALA: Bibiloteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Haiti: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
Honvuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Inp1a: Legislative Department, Simla.
IRIsH FREE STATE: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
MExico:
Direccién General de Informacién, Secretaria de Gobernaci6én, Mexico, D. F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CxH1apas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoAHuILA: Periédico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
Corima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
DuRANGO: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
GUANAgUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
GUERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JALISCO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
Lower CALirorniA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicuoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
MoreEtos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
Nayarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
NugEvo Le6n: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
Pursia: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QueréTaRo: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.
San Luis Porosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
S1nartoa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.
Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
Tasasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién 38a, Ramo de Prensa,
Villahermosa.
Tamau.ipas: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TraxcaLa: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
VERACRUZ: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departmento de Goberna-
cién y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucaTAn: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida.
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Prru: Camara de Diputados, Lima.
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA?
Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.
State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Urueuay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

As a matter of information for those making use of the facilities
of the International Exchange Service in the distribution of their
publications in India, it should be stated that since the inauguration
of the Provincial Autonomy authorized in the Government of India
Act of 1935 (which did not come into force until several years there-
after), the Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery
in Bombay no longer acts as the distributing exchange agency for
British India, which work it had conducted since 1918. Except in
a few instances where the governments of other provinces reimburse
the Bombay Agency for expenses incurred in transmitting publica-
tions to governmental offices, the exchange activities of the Super-
intendent of Government Printing and Stationery now are confined
to the distribution of packages in the Province of Bombay. To other
provinces packages are sent direct from Washington by mail.

There is given below a list of bureaus or agencies to which con-
signments are forwarded in boxes by freight when the Service is in
full operation. To all countries not appearing in the list, packages
are sent to their destinations through the mails. As stated previously,
shipments are sent during wartime only to the agencies in those coun-
tries listed on page 57.

LIST OF AGENCIES

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

AZORES, via Portugal.

BELcIuM: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de
Belgique, Bruxelles.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CuinA: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de l’Assem-
blée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

DENMARK: Service Danois des TMehanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen V.

Eeyer: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasiirngatan 24,
Helsinki.

FRrANcE: Service Francais des changes Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universititstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND JRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 721 North Circular Road,
Willesden, London, N. W. 2.

Huneary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

InpIA: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

ITALy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero dell’Hducazione Nazionale,
Rome.

JAPAN: International Exchange Service, Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park,
Tokyo.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LUXEMBOURG, Via Belgium.

MApAGASscAR, via France.

MaAperrA, via Portugal.

MoZAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de 1’Uni-
versité Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

PoLANpD: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortTuGAL: Seceio de Trocas Internacionaes, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Ministére de la Propagande Nationale, Service des changes Inter-
nationaux, Bucharest.

SoutH AusTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Government
Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicié6n de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote-
cas Putblicas, Ministerio de Educacién Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo, 20.
Madrid.

Sweprn: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwITzERLAND: Service Suisse des changes Internationaux, Bibliothéque Centrale
Fédérale, Berne.

TAsMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TourKEY: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Wngraving,
Istanbul.

Union oF SoutH Arrica: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town,
Cape of Good Hope.

Union oF Soviet Soctatist Repustics: International Book Exchange Depart-
ment, Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, Moscow, 56.

Victor14: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yucostavia: Section des Echanges Internationaux, Ministére des Affaires
Etrangéres, Belgrade.

C. W. Shoemaker, Chief Clerk of the Exchanges until his retirement
in November 1941, died on January 6, 1948. Mr. Shoemaker had been
with the Institution 59 years. He had a translating knowledge of
many languages and, in addition to his duties as Chief Clerk, served
as translator for the Smithsonian and its branches.

Mrs. Mary D. Gass, clerk-stenographer in the International Ex-
changes for over 18 years, was transferred to the Translating Bureau
of the Department of State June 21, 1943.

John W. Cusick, assistant clerk in the International Exchanges,
was retired November 30, 1942, after having been with this office
for over 17 years. Prior to his appointment in the Exchanges, he
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

was a guard in the National Museum. Mr. Cusick was a veteran of
many wars, having served in the Spanish-American War, the Vera
Cruz Campaign, the Philippine Insurrection, and the First World
War. Mr. Cusick died at Marathon, N. Y., on June 380, 1948.

Paul M. Carey, skilled laborer, was granted military leave on
August 12, 1942, for the purpose of enlisting in the armed forces
of the United States.

Leigh Lisker, translator, having been drafted, was granted military
leave March 22, 1943.

Respectfully submitted.

F. E. Gass, Acting Chief Clerk.
Dr. C. G. Apgor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sm: have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1943:

The regular appropriation made by Congress was $261,510, all of
which was expended. Legislation that became effective during the
year provided for salary increase in certain classes and grades and for
overtime payments for increased hours of work. This resulted in
a considerable increase in cost for personal services, which, however,
was largely offset by savings through delay in filling positions or
failure to fill them, as well as by savings in regular operating costs
and special items. Asa result, the deficiency amounted to only $7,690,
which was supplied through the Urgent Deficiency Appropriation
Act, 19438.

Money was provided in the 1948 Appropriation Act for the construc-
tion of an incinerator and for the purchase of two trucks, but priorities
could not be obtained. Plans and specifications were completed for the
incinerator, and the project will go forward as soon as funds and ma-
terials are available.

The primary function of the Zoo is to exhibit a wide variety of
animal life in the best possible condition, and in order to accomplish
this aim under wartime conditions it was necessary to curtail all phases
of maintenance work about the Zoo that could be slighted without
harm to the animals. In this way it has been possible to keep the
Zoo going in a satisfactory manner in spite of the shortages of man-
power, food, and materials incident to wartime.

Because of the longer evenings due to the change to war time, the
time of closing the Zoo buildings and gates has been delayed 1 hour,
the opening hour remaining the same. It is believed that this length-
ening of hours in the evening has materially contributed to the en-
joyment of the Zoo by the public.

PERSONNEL

As in most other agencies, there has been a considerable personnel
turn-over at the Zoo, several employees having gone into agencies
more directly concerned with the war and others having gone else-

65
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

where or retired. In spite of efforts to fill vacancies, many positions
have remained unfilled for some time. The abolition of the Satur-
day half-holiday, however, has made it less difficult to maintain fairly
adequate care of the Zoo.

MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS

No extensive improvements have been attempted during the year.
Activities have been confined to maintenance work, and because of
the difficulty in obtaining critical materials this has frequently been
of a temporary or makeshift nature. Many things that should be
done have been postponed until circumstances are more propitious.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

The needs of the Zoo remain the same as outlined in previous re-
ports. On account of war conditions no request is being made for
unusual expenditures at this time.

VISITORS FOR THE YEAR

The attendance for the year was:

ORDO Kye vr ens aS ohn ee ee 250000] Mh eb RU ai yan eee 108, 600
ATICUSt Stes Sto eee See ee Q04AS 4008 MAT chia ees eee 148, 150
September2 200) nhs ee DO2SS800 PAs ee See Tee 269, 050
October hee tee ste o 169; BOQo (Mayes nee) seciee coir a 186, 200
IN@vVembern ste ak TSG SSOOM pane De Ae ee a 140, 650
Decembers ssa has eae 37, 600 SSS
Dama ey ee se ee 70, 950 Motal iets a eee 1, 974, 500

The sharp curtailment in driving occasioned by gasoline rationing,
tire mileage restrictions, and the prohibition against pleasure driving
brought about a drastic reduction in the number of visitors coming
to the Zoo by automobile, but an increased number of visitors walked
cr came by bus and streetcar.

In previous years a census has been made each day of the cars parked
in the Zoo at about 3 p. m., for the purpose of determining the propor-
tional attendance by States, Territories, and foreign countries. Owing,
however, to the almost total cessation of automobile traffic to the Zoo,
the record from such a census would have been of no value during the
past year. It may be pointed out that in the previous year District
of Columbia cars comprised about 39 percent; Maryland, 22 percent;
Virginia, 15 percent; Pennsylvania, 4 percent; the remaining 20 per-
cent were from other States, Territories, and foreign countries.

Prior to the curtailment of automobile and bus travel, numerous
groups and classes came to the Zoo from a distance of several hundred
miles. Of course these have been almost completely eliminated, and
there has been a reduction in the number of groups and classes from
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

Maryland, Virginia, and the District, although this attendance has
held up fairly well.

Many of the wartime residents in Washington who have not previ-
ously had an opportunity to visit a large zoo, now take their rest
and recreation in the National Zoo. The ease of reaching the Park
and the fact that it is open every day practically from daylight to
dark and without cost enable many people to obtain relaxation they
could not otherwise enjoy. Service men and women constitute a sub-
stantial proportion of the visitors. It is plain to be seen that many
of the service people anticipating going overseas are endeavoring to
learn something of the animal life that they might find in the region
to which they may be sent. There is also an increasing attendance by
servicemen recuperating from injuries or sickness.

Medical groups have come to the Zoo specifically for the purpose of
studying certain types of animals and to receive instruction regarding
snakes. The Zoo officials receive many requests from various agencies
of the Government including the War and Navy Departments for in-
formation to assist them on biological problems.

The Zoo continues to be a regular study ground for art and biology
classes, as well as an important focal point for letters, telephone calls,
and queries regarding care of animals, their behavior, and methods to
be followed in preventing or remedying injuries from animals.

AIR-RAID PRECAUTIONS

As pointed out in the last report, it is anticipated that in the event
of air raids the Zoo will be one of the safest places in the city. How-
ever, plans were made and have been kept up to date for meet-
ing such contingencies as may arise in the event of air raids or other
emergencies.

ACQUISITION OF SPECIMENS

Specimens are usually acquired by purchase, gift, deposit, exchange,
natural reproduction, or collecting expeditions by members of the
Zoo staff. Conditions have prevented travel by the Zoo personnel
for collecting specimens, and the customary array of animals offered
for sale by animal dealers has been greatly reduced both in kinds and
numbers; therefore the importance of gifts and deposits is relatively
greater than before. The return of members of the armed forces
from foreign lands has resulted in a gratifying number of gifts of
smal) animals that have been picked up by these persons as pets or,
specifically for the Zoo. When Army and Navy personnel evince an
interest before going abroad in obtaining specimens for the Zoo, efforts
are made to arrange for importation permits to facilitate entry of the
animals into this country. Such permits are required by a law which
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

rigidly excludes all animals except under permit in order that this
country may be properly safeguarded against introduction of animals
or disease pests that might become serious menaces.

GIFTS

Among the gifts to the Zoo, the following may be mentioned as
particularly prized accessions:

Mammals.—Two Bailey’s lynx from the Fish and Wildlife Service,
through Louis H. Laney, Albuquerque, N. Mex.; a white-tailed doe
from Mrs. A. C. Henry, East Falls Church, Va.; two polar bear cubs
from the Greenland Administration, through Henrik de Kauffman,
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary for Denmark in
Washington, and Tage Nielsen, manager of the Danish Consulate
General, Greenland Section, New York; a woolly monkey from Mrs.
Jenny Shifflette, Washington, D. C.

Birds.—A. Leadbeater’s cockatoo from Judith R. Shearer, Orange,
Va.; two mute swans from Mrs. Eleanor Patterson, Washington,
D. C.; a peafowl from H. §. Rawdon, Bethesda, Md.; two Nepal
kallege from Lowry Riggs, Rockville, Md.; a cheer pheasant from
Charles Denley, Washington, D. C.

The Hershey Estates Zoo presented 80 specimens.

The full list of donors and their gifts follows:

DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

Clinton P. Anderson, Bethesda, Md., red salamander.

Miss Ann Bartlett, Washington, D. C., worm snake.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, Washington, D. C., Cuban conure.

Charles Beck, Fredericksburg, Va., bald eagle.

Dr. Edgar Beckley, Washington, D. C., snapping turtle.
Mickey Bing, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mrs. Raymond Bittinger, Ridgeley, W. Va., 2 rhesus monkeys.
Miss M. Bitzmann, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Morris M. Brown, Colonial Beach, Va., ring-billed gull.

Mrs. L. D. Buford, Washington, D. C., fence lizard.

B. Harrison Carl, Cumberland, Md., alligator.

Mrs. H. F. Clark, Washington, D. C., 5 guinea pigs.

Mrs. H. G. Clark, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Miss Arlene Cole, Route 2, Arlington, Va., Pekin duck.

J. A. Connolly, Washington, D. C., black widow spider.

L. B. Cronin, College Park, Md., through John N. Hamlet, Cooper’s hawk.
Mrs. Anna Davis, Baltimore, Md., common marmoset.
Charles Denley, Washington, D. C., cheer pheasant.
Marguerite Dent and Patricia Swive, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.
Robey Dodson, Washington, D. C., South American gray fox.
J. R. Earle, Arlington, Va., raccoon.

Billy and Dick Eckert, Washington, D. C., 2 white rabbits.

Dr. J ©. Eckhardt, Washington, D. C., zebra finch.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

T, Ellery, Washington, D. C., 4 sparrow hawks.

Fish and Wildlife Service, through Louis H. Laney, Albuquerque, N. Mex.,
2 Bailey’s lynx.

Miss Fisher, Washington, D. C., orange-winged parrot.

P. Ford, Martinsville, Va., albino raccoon.

J. A. Fowler, Washington, D. C., 2 pilot snakes, black snake, 10 painted turtles,
4 snapping turtles, 4 spotted turtles, 4 mud turtles, 4 Carolina box tortoises.

Janet and Lynn Fulmer, Washington, D. C., 2 common rabbits.

EB. W. Gentz, College Park, Md., 4 flying squirrels.

G. M. Gooch, Washington, D. C., red-tailed hawk.

Spencer Gordon, Washington, D. C., 2 angel fish.

Mrs. Goy, Washington, D. C., gray fox.

Greenland Administration, through Henrik de Kauffman, Envoy Dxtraordinary
and Minister Plenipotentiary for Denmark in Washington, and Tage Nielsen,
manager of the Danish Consulate General, Greenland Section, New York,
2 polar bear cubs.

Mrs. F. G. Guttenplan, Washington, D. C., alligator.

E. H. Halbach, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Mrs. Haltsman (address unrecorded), common goat.

Mrs. A. VY. Hanson, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

Maury Hanson, Jr., Bethesda, Md., screech owl.

Mrs. Haughawout, Colmar Manor, Md., barred owl.

Mrs. S. T. Hellman, Washington, D. C., 2 guinea pigs.

Mrs. A. C. Henry, Hast Falls Church, Va., Virginia deer.

Hershey Hstates Zoo, Hershey, Pa., snowy owl, sea lion, prehensile-tailed por-
cupine, 7 spotted turtles, 7 snapping turtles, 2 Cumberland terrapins, 10 box
turtles, 10 wood turtles, 1 South American turtle, 2 hinge-back turtles, 5
western painted turtles, brown terrapin, American crocodile, 4 ball pythons,
Curtis or blood python, 2 Surinam toads, 6 red-bellied newts, giant land snail,
smooth-clawed frog, giant salamander, rainbow boa, Cook’s tree boa, Barbour’s
map turtle, green tree snake, boa constrictor, 4 Gila monsters, 2 spiny-tailed
iguanas, common iguana, 2 Brahmany kites, douroucouli.

Mrs. Hertsch, Cabin John, Md., Javan macaque.

W. E. Hopper, Arlington, Va., 2 common rabbits.

Mrs. G. T. Hugo, Mount Rainier, Md., yellow-naped parrot.

Donald Humphrey, Washington, D. C., yellow chicken snake.

J. N. Jacobson, Alexandria, Va., alligator.

Walter Johnson, Washington, D. C., 2 toads.

William A. Johnson, Washington, D8C., 2 zebra finches.

Mrs. Victor Kayne, Washington, D. C., 3 horned lizards,

James Kelly, Washington, D. C., common rabbit.

James King, Mount Rainier, Md., alligator.

W. A. King, Brownsville, Tex., 6 blue honeycreepers.

King-Smith Studio School, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Rear Admiral Emory S. Land, Washington, D. C., red-Shouldered hawk.

Otto Martin Locke, New Braunfels, Tex., 3 nine-banded armadillos, 105 horned
lizards.

Jane Lynch, Washington, D. C., 2 alligators.

Sergeant Lynch, Bolling Field, D. C., nine-banded armadillo.

J. H. MacElhose, Washington, D. C., LR black mollies, 3 guppies, 3 snails, 1
catfish.

566766—44——_6
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Mrs. M. K. Macknet, Takoma Park, Md., opossum.

Mrs. Gladys Mahler, Silver Spring, M4., alligator.

Franklin Mallory, Washington, D. C., 7 common newts.

Jacob Manoogian, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Brian McDonald, Arlington, Va., collared turtle dove.

Mrs. Thomas McVeary, Washington, D. C., yellow-headed parrot.

Sgt. Wilson McVey, Maryland State Police, sooty mangabey.

Mrs. John Meatale, Washington, D. C., 2 strawberry finches.

M. Miller, Washington, D. C., 2 Cooper’s hawks.

Michael Miller, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mrs. H. M. Mitchell, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Mrs. T. J. Moody, Leesburg, Va., red fox.

H. A. Morse, Washington, D. C., 2 guinea pigs.

Mrs. J. C. Myers, Chevy Chase, Md., Pekin duck.

Sefior Dr. Don Francisco Castillo Najera, Mexican Ambassador, Washington,
D. C., capuchin.

National Institute of Health, Bethesda, Md., woodchuck.

John Nicholas, Berwyn, Md., rhesus monkey.

Mrs. R. P. Oliver, Falls Church, Va., weeping capuchin.

Mrs. Eleanor Patterson, Washington, D. C., 2 mute swans, 17 mallard dueks.

Senator Claude Pepper, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. M. W. Pettigrew, Washington, D. C., white rabbit.

Mrs. Polhamus, Chevy Chase, Md., common rabbit.

Dr. Hans F. Prausnitz, Washington, D. C., false chameleon, soft-shelled turtle,
common snapping turtle, painted turtle, mud turtle.

Mrs. A. M. Raeger, Washington, D. C., white-fronted parrot.

Wayne Randel, Washington, D. C., 2 Central American boas.

H. 8. Rawdon, Bethesda, Md., peafowl.

Lowry Riggs, Rockville, Md., 2 Nepal kallege, 4 red jungle fowl, 2 cheer pheasant,
3 white ring-necked pheasant, 4 silver pheasant, Swinhoe’s pheasant, 2 Japa-
nese long-tailed fowl, American black bear, alligator.

Mrs. E. Rogg, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. V. H. Rohwer, Arlington, Va., grass paroquet.

Miss D. Roland, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Mrs. EH. H. Russell, Washington, D. C., diamond-back terrapin.

Mrs. R. Sadler, Chevy Chase, Md., 2 muscovy ducks.

Miss Thelma Selle, Washington, D. C., Pekin robin.

Judith R. Shearer, Orange, Va., Leadbeater’s ecockatoo.

Mrs. Jenny Shifflette, Washington, D. C., woolly monkey.

Donald G. Shook, National Geographic Society, Washington, D. C., copperhead

E. W. Sisks, Washington, D. C., alligator.

C. HE. Smith, Arlington, Va., common marmoset, titi monkey.

Mrs. Homer R. Spence, Washington, D. C., gray capuchin.

L. Thomas, McLean, Va., American bittern.

Robert Thompson, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

Dr. R. Truitt, College Park, Md., pied-billed grebe.

United States Coast Guard, Washington, D. C., 2 red foxes.

R. J. Werner, Isaac Waiton League, Washington, D. C., mallard duck.

Mrs. W. H. Wetmore, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

BE. T. White, Norfolk, Va., screech owl.

Mrs. H. Whitelow, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. J. H. Wilkins, Washington, D. C., canary.

Mrs. P. Yahraes, Washington, D. C., grass parakeet.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 71

Tom Yahraes, Washington, D. C., timber rattlesnake, bull snake.
Mrs. Gertrude Zeppenfeld, Pittsburgh, Pa., rhesus monkey.
Cc. D. Zimmerman, Chevy Chase, Md., canary.

NATURAL REPRODUCTION

Although the Zoo does not have ideal conditions for animals to
raise their young in captivity, there is generally a fairly satisfactory
increase from births and hatchings. During the year 101 mammals
were born and 83 birds were hatched. Noteworthy among the
former was a litter of five woolless sheep, an unusually large litter;
unfortunately, none of the little ones lived. There were also births
among the reptiles which, however, are not recorded.

. The births and hatchings are listed below:

MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name Number
Ammotragus lervia_____._.------_-_-___. AO WO ad BAe See a hee ee le 3
PALDUS MO DUS ee ares ek EE Ub IASB LCC Tes ee We 8 os hh el te 1
BES OSC CULT US eine i a eT i GSU a Ne, Ek Ek 1
SPRON” O1SONa c= sh eh ATHCTICs hy ISON. oe eee ee 2
ES COSULCULET LES eee eee eee NE, Len nee IBTibiSh Parke cathlesa= 2) === soe 1
COMSAT farSHeL Os Me LE Texas redi.wolisza tess eae 7
Oenhatophius) nige; 2 eee one Bilagekw a wikens se ei tse vrewde i Be if
OCT CVUSKCONTAENSIS a 2 Tee See TS Bh hE et a 1
CER UINSKCLUD NUS ee ee a See ae Redd eer sess tee 3
Ohoenopsisiberiensis22 2 2 ee es Pygmy hippopotamus____--_-___ 2
Choloepus didactylus__________________ Ttwo-toedisloth see se ke 1
Cynomys ludovicianus_______-+--___-_- BERIT do gee aaa © BA SS 26
JONGRAYVOR UNGH fd aps oe ee aaa ee PN UPS ER Pee Mallow sdCers 22 ae ey Le eee 2
DOM ORCINUS Sat ee SY White) fallow; deer. == so fees 1
DCHOTGLOGWSLANIUSE Se ee nee TreemKanvavoons 220 lew ay 1
Dolichotis magellanica________________ Patagsontanieav yoo ee ee 4
CVI SIMON CG: Peek Me Ee i SRLS od PAS UATE Hee Es ee ee eee ee 1
SE CULR SUL TUS Cae SE Teli eee NNR Bengallstiger.2 i si soe he a
Hemitragus jemiahicus_——-__ REST) 0G A Sak A es tes eT CTL ENS 2
Hippopotamus amphibius_____________ Eni ppOpotamMUs= ee ase a ee ab
UT UIT os the ee gS, ARG 1 Sau ring ees ee see 1
BTC OLIVER (UC O Soe and Soe Ge a ea NO PAN eee ee a eee aa 1
LY ESI TLES CLILT LISS ORES A SNAILS Ss A Moonmacaque= 22 ant ean eee i
MEDTUUGUSHU GTO ene eee ree ners eee re EA Ser eat 2 ek ee eR a 5
Mi OCASTOT A COYDUWa = SE ee eee CS OY Uae ete a EO 6
INGE UG MNO TAC Ces eer a iho ee aoe a Coatimund? shee 2
NEOLOMAHORIdANG soe a ee noridanwOOGeia tes sae eae any 2
(OOS TR eee ee ee Woolless sheep___---_-__-_---__ 5
Poephagus grunniens____________§_____ BY 6G AREA AS Nl dS a aa a 3
IP SCUCOUSI NOY CULT re ee ee eee BI Wem shee eee aes See REE NE EE 1
SULCUS UIC eS te ae Re EE RAE Sikatidee row ee a ye 1
SY MCCTOSACG: {fi C1 ne es ee ce ES Avr Cans pute] O 2a aa Se il
TODUTAUS ME CTNESETIS eee ee a Se South American tapir_____-_--__ 1
Urocyon cinereoargenteus__________-_- (Garey if 0 ie ie ie re 1
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

BIRDS

Scientific name Common name Number
Anas platyrhynchoss 3 Mallard\ducks 2s oes ee 23
ATES SIN OTED CSS 2a wate he Ee et Blake Quekiid = ones ees ey 4
EVONECICONACENSIG mee tn lee ee ee @anadargodne= 62a) Sis heya 8
Branta, canadensis minima___________ Cackling goose __________ Dar lay 4
Branta canadensis occidentalis________ White-cheeked goose____________ 12
Carmina moschatds= 22a eae peewee Muscovy. du ck2 =e See 5
Pulicasamericana 22 tes Sa Coot ik) RITE SAM Essie) At Le ae 7
GaUarg Gaia. SEE AULT B hedyungle fowl) f= see eee 6
Larus novaehollandiae_____-_-_-_-_-_-_-____ Silver! qull= Sc eS eh d ee 1
Nycticorav nycticoraz naevius________ Black-crowned night heron______ 12
Serinus canarius____-_.-._-_--_______ VO} Ua oh pu Se See AEs SR PR pl 1

DEPOSITS

The more outstandingly interesting and desirable animals that were
deposited during the year were a spectacled bear, the first ever exhib-
ited in this Zoo, deposited by Louis Ruhe, Inc.; a beautiful West
African guenon monkey, which we have so far been unable to identify,
deposited by H. Allender; a great gray kangaroo deposited by H.
B. Harris; a wallaby and a West African palm civet deposited by
H. L. Shaw; a group of four yellow-handed tamarins and seven mar-
mosets deposited by Miss Martha G. Hunter; a West African crowned
hawk-eagle deposited by Louis Ruhe, Inc., and another specimen of
the same species deposited by C. P. Haskins; an electric eel, Indian
python, and several regal pythons, including one unusually large
specimen that weighs 320 pounds, all deposited by Clif Wilson.

EXCHANGES

Among the more desirable animals received by exchange were two
cape hyraces obtained from the Philadelphia Zoo, five Dybowsky deer,
and one tahr goat.

PURCHASES

The more outstanding animals obtained by purchase included a
pair of woolless domestic or Barbados sheep which are natives of West
Africa; a laughing falcon; and a pair of klipspringers, a remarkable
little antelope from southern and eastern Africa.

The Hershey Estates Zoo at Hershey, Pa., which depended for its
attendance on people coming by automobile, suffered such a sharp
curtailment in number of visitors that the management decided to
dispose of most of its stock, which permitted us to obtain from that
organization a number of interesting and desirable additions.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY To

REMOVALS

Reductions in the collection are due to deaths, return of animals
on deposit, and exchanges. During the year the more noteworthy
losses by death were:

MAMMALS

AUIS DAMULGINOSUSH 2 oe ee ee West African water civet.

COMelUsHUCCHianUse at aes ee ea Arabian camel.

Cephalophus nigrifrons__________-___-. Black-fronted duiker.

Ohoeeronsis Wberiensiss a. 22) ee esses Pygmy hippopotamus.

Erythrocebus patas._____._____--.--_-- Patas monkey.

CURE EVG US te eee A nee ee Ae ae Bengal tiger (male).

Hippopotamus amphibius_____-_------. Baby hippopotamus.

LEED VCO ee African porcupine that had been in the
collection since October 1926.

LOCACG: SILCNUSE an et Wanderoo monkey.

Mandrillus leucophaeus_______--_----__ Drill baboon, in the collection since
1916.

Muntiacus sinensis______-___________--. Chinese barking deer, in the collec-
tion since 1934.

INUCTICECOUS COUCONG” 2 ee Slow loris, received in 1937 from

Smithsonian Institution-National Geo-
graphie Society Expedition.

PRORGOUGU CLG a Aten ae bie one Poker ye Sumatran orangutan (“Susie”).
IPSEUGOIS NAYOUT aime ee eee Blue sheep.
Traguus favanicus. else eee Javan mouse deer, in the collection
since 1937.
WaSts ERLOClONUS 222 ee eee eo ee Himalayan bear.
BIRDS
ICU OLOG TCNMTOStT See ne ee Slender-billed cockatoo.
Sagittarius serpentarius____________-_. Secretary bird.
Stephanoaetus coronatus______-------- Crowned hawk-eagle.
SEMUT ONCE INCLU Sas an ae eae SEEN Ostrich, received October 16, 1921, from

U. S. Poultry Experiment Station,
Bureau of Animal Industry, Glendale,

Valiuriorypnuss eee i sou condor.
REPTILES

TESLUGO VICES ee Se eee Galapagos tortoise.
FISHES

Electrophorus electricus_____.______---- Hlectric eel.

SPECIES NEW TO THE HISTORY OF THE COLLECTION

Despite the few animals purchased and the factors militating against
obtaining outstanding additions, the Zoo was fortunate enough to
obtain six species never before in the collection. These were a spec-
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

tacled bear (Zremarctos ornatus), which inhabits an indefinitely
outlined range in the northern Andes and is very rare in captivity; a
pair of klipspringers (Oreotragus saltator), a beautiful little cliff-
inhabiting antelope that originally ranged from southern Africa to
Abyssinia; five Dybowsky deer (Sika hortulorum), which inhabit
Manchuria; one laughing falcon (Herpetotheres cachinnans), a beau-
tifully marked falcon of medium size that inhabits the forested parts
of tropical America from Mexico to northern Argentina; two quetzals
(Pharomachrus mocinno), the state bird of Guatemala, which inhabits
the higher mountains from Guatemala to Panama; and a white
starling (Graculipica melanoptera), which inhabits Java and is rare
in captivity.
Statement of accessions

How acquired Mam- Birds | Reptiles |A™Phib-| pishes | Inverte- | otal

mals ians brates
Presented 8 oe Bie ey oe 64 91 228 20 18 5 426
Bonn oratched sets ees 101 SOG] Bae ee AUR ie acme ee cu | ie ote eo Ce 2 a 184
Received in exchange__-_______- 13 7 De A eae a US ee ers leer eel 37
IPprehasedee eee ee ene i 11 116 Be a ee a ad DAN SRS Aas 161
Onideposites 42. 222. eT Bawa 31 9 10M} ater ahem ped Peace 2. le 53
TOta eat eens meee 220 306 265 20 45 5 861
Summary

Animals)}on hand: July 119422122 eo a nab te hed ERA IES oD) (AED
ACCESSIONS GUTING the: year sien Sule 8 oe a ee We oe 861
Total, animals, in’ collection during year eee Saeke

Removals from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals
OTN CLC OOS ib a i a ele IS se rr 837
In collection une, SO Oa 2 eee ee Se eee 2, 485

Status of collection

Species Air Species wag
Class a sub- Pidivid. Class and sub- paren aes

species - species
IMIAIIINGIS 228 Seen eee 204 664311) dnsects: 28.024 eee 1 100
Birdsess wee ela eee he obla pl 329 CLOT PIVOUUSKS eee et wee ee 1 1
Reptiless. atone ee ase 96 3807) i) Crustaceans.) 0 manana 1 2
Amphibians’ 200.2: lf pee we 15 69 a
THIS GS Sy seee eer uae ee enn 36 306 Potale ss eee ee 684 2, 435
Arachnids! 2020s eae we oe 1 1

Respectfully submitted.
W. M. Mann, Director.
Dr. C. G. Azzgor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ-
ities of the Astrophysical Observatory, including the Division of
Astrophysical Research and the Division of Radiation and Organisms,
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948:

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

The study of the solar-constant values published in March 1942
as table 24, volume 6 of the Annals of the Observatory, confirmed the
discovery that the variation of the sun’s output, seemingly irregular,
is really made up of numerous regular periodicities, all being closely
aliquot parts of 273 months. By combining their influences a pre-
diction was made of the march of solar variation from 19389 through
the year 1945. This appears in figure 14 of volume 6 of the Annals.

In this way it was shown that the years 1940 to 1947 would probably
be the most interesting and important years to study the sun’s varia-
tion since the early twenties. As the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory is the only agency in the world which follows the varia-
tion of the sun’s output of radiation, it therefore seemed of extreme
importance to keep the record unbroken through these critical years.
Hence, despite demands of the war manpower situation, every avail-
able means has been used to keep the three field observatories at Mon-
tezuma, Chile, Table Mountain, Calif., and Tyrone, N. Mex., in opera-
tion. Thus far these efforts have been successful, notwithstanding ,
the loss of three experienced observers from a total field staff of six.

Considerable progress has been made at Washington in the study
of short-interval changes of the solar radiation in their relation to
‘weather. As first shown in Smithsonian publications Nos. 3392 and
3397 in the year 1936, the sun’s short-interval variations, though aver-
aging only 0.7 percent, are important elements, even governing ele-
ments, in weather. The weather effects of individual solar changes
are found to last at least 2 weeks. These studies of the year 1936 have
been repeated this year employing the improved and enlarged “solar
constant” data published as table 24, volume 6 of our Annals. The
new results are even more convincing than the provisional ones just
referred to. They have been extended to deal with the weather of
several cities in different parts of the world, for both temperature
and barometric pressure. It is expected to publish soon on this
subject.

At Washington two computers have continued reductions of solar-
constant observations, but have not, of course, been able to keep up
to date with the results, inasmuch as these computers were also called

75
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

on frequently for work relating to war problems assigned by the
Army and the Navy, or requested by outside agencies engaged in war
work. It is hoped that with the return to Washington of Mr. Hoover,
who has been carrying on measures at Tyrone Observatory for 2 years,
the solar-constant computations can be pushed along more rapidly
so as to disclose the remarkable changes of solar radiation expected
for the years 1940 onward, as referred to above.

Most of the time of Messrs. Abbot, Aldrich, and Kramer has been
devoted to problems assigned by the war services on which no report
can be made at this time.

Personnel.—Mr. and Mrs. A. F. Moore completed their term of
service at Montezuma. Mr. F. A. Greeley succeeded Mr. Moore in
June 1948 as field director there with Mrs. F. A. Greeley as his as-
sistant. Mr. Stanley C. Warner continued as field director at Table
Mountain with Mr. Kenneth G. Bower as assistant. Mr. W. H. Hoo-
ver acted as field director at Tyrone Observatory. Mr. Alfred G.
Froiland, bolometric assistant there, was inducted into the army in
June 1948, after which Mr. Hoover carried on alone. Mr. Moore will
take over at Tyrone, and Mr. Hoover will return to Washington. No
changes in personnel occurred at Washington.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
(Report prepared by Dr. Earl S. Johnston, Assistant Director)

The regular research program of the Division was discontinued
early in August. Since that date practically the entire time of the
members of the Division has been directed toward solving problems
relative to the Nation’s war activities. By far the largest percentage
of this work has dealt with problems submitted by the Naval Re-
search Laboratory. Because of the nature of some of this work, it
is obvious that a detailed report cannot be submitted at this time..
The personnel and laboratory equipment of the Division was such
that adaptation to this new work in physics, chemistry, and biology
was very readily made. However, the efficiency of the Division as a
unit has been decreased somewhat through loss of personnel.

At the request of the Annual Review of Biochemistry, a review ar-
ticle on photosynthesis was prepared last summer by Dr. Johnston of
the Division and Dr. Jack E. Myers of the University of Texas. This
paper has now been published in volume 12 of the Review.

Personnel—On August 1, Mrs. Phyllis W. Prescott, the junior
clerk-stenographer for the Division, was transferred to the admin-
istrative office as assistant clerk-stenographer.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Aszor, Director.

THe SECRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1943:

Intensification of the war effort, so evident throughout the whole
Institution, has been both reflected in, and shared by, the library dur-
ing the difficult year just past.

The library has been confronted by two major responsibilities that
have motivated its work: How best to adjust policies and adapt pro-
cedures to wartime changes and demands, and how to maintain, as far
as possible, the basic continuity of the collections.

Urgent as is the first of these, experience during and following the
First World War has shown that the second cannot be neglected with-
out serious weakening of the library’s service to the Institution. In)
wartime, normal growth is inevitably diminished, and a certain amount
of change of emphasis in acquiring material is necessary and even de-
sirable, but the responsibility that the library has for implementing
the deep-rooted and continuing work of a scientific institution cannot
be overlooked even in an emergency of the present heroic proportions.

WAR WORK

Never before in the history of the library have its collections and its
staff been called upon to give aid in so many different kinds of re-
search, virtually all of which were concerned in some way with the
war effort. Regular use of the library by the scientific staff of the
Institution has been almost entirely in connection with the war, and
more than 35 of the war agencies have made many direct inquiries,
have borrowed more than 500 books, and have sent research workers,
some of them for extended periods of time, to use the collections.
Indirectly too, through the use of the library by the staff of the Ethno-
geographic Board, still other of the war agencies have been repre-
sented. Rich in certain kinds of geographical and related material,
and in ethnological works, the branch libraries of the National Museum
and the Bureau of American Ethnology especially, have been con-
stantly visited and called upon by war workers.

It has been most gratifying to find that the Institution has not in-
frequently been able to supply data of urgent importance that could
not be found elsewhere.

77
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The index of foreign geographical illustrations begun last year as
a special war service and originally planned to cover only the publi-
cations of the Institution itself was later enlarged, at the request of
the Smithsonian War Committee, to include files of selected journals
on special subjects containing incidental geographical illustrations
likely to be overlooked in any routine search for pictures. The selec-
tion of these journals was made by the scientific staff of the Institution
and the indexing was done in their offices, the library serving as the
coordinator and keeper of the file, which now contains more than
12,000 entries.

As another aid to the war agencies in making use of the library,
the librarian prepared a brief account of its resources, mimeographed
copies of which were distributed to key personnel in Washington and
elsewhere by the Ethnogeographic Board.

The cordial response of the whole Institution to the library’s plea
for books in the Nation-wide Victory book drive for men and women
in the armed services, is worthy of record. More than 500 fine clean
copies of highly readable contemporary books were contributed.

It may be of interest to note here the transfer to the Library of
Congress of an uncataloged collection of miscellaneous war pamphlets
accumulated by the library during the First World War. This col-
lection, numbering some 3,000 pieces, largely the so-called ephemera
of the period, though valuable as historical source material, had no
direct bearing on the scientific work of the Institution.

ACCESSIONS

Receipt of foreign publications dropped somewhat, but not nearly
so sharply as during the preceding year, after shipments from enemy
and occupied countries ceased. Through the International Exchange
Service, 355 packages, or only 70 fewer than last year, were delivered.
Even this decline was more apparent than real, for a good: many
foreign serials came directly by mail. Fortunately there have been
comparatively few actual losses, and not many prolonged delays in
the arrival of the most important of those scientific serials that are still’
being published in the allied and neutral countries, though some of
the foreign institutions and societies are postponing shipment of their
publications until after the war. The maintenance of both the quan-
tity and quality of scientific publication at a high level among our
war-torn allies abroad is worthy of remark.

The publication and receipt of domestic scientific serials continued
to be practically normal.

In the Museum library an accession of special importance was a
selection of 250 books and 2,300 separates and pamphlets, mostly on
the subject of reptiles, from the library of the late Dr. Leonhard
Stejneger.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

Received in the sectional library of the division of fishes, by trans-
fer from the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the
Interior, was the large collection of manuscript records of the dredg-
ing and hydrographic stations of the U. S. F. 8. S. Albatross and
other fisheries vessels.

By regular and special exchange, and by purchase, considerable
progress has been made in filling gaps in the serial sets, some of
them of long standing, and in strengthening certain collections on
special subjects, for example, the published results of scientific sur-
veys and travels. The importance of such material, always apparent,
especially in connection with the work of the curators in the Museum,
has been doubly emphasized by the increased wartime demand for it
both within and from outside the Institution.

One of the larger special exchanges of duplicates, with the Marine
Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, yielded a good many parts
of periodicals needed in the Museum library, while from Cooper
Union came 35 publications on art for the National Collection of Fine
Arts library.

Among purchases, wartime deviations from the normal have been
the unusually large number of requests for atlases, descriptive geog-
raphies, and foreign-language dictionaries.

GIFTS

There have been a number of especially notable gifts during the
year. One that is invaluable in itself, and noteworthy as well for
being the library’s first considerable accession of microfilmed material,
was the very generous gift of the Linnean Society of London of the
records of its Linnean collections and manuscripts, the copying of
which was made possible by a grant to the society from the Car-
negie Corporation. This is one of two sets deposited in American
libraries, the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University having re-
ceived the other. We are much indebted to Dr. Elmer D. Merrill,
the administrator of botanical collections there, for his good offices
in arranging the whole matter. All the actual specimens in the
Linnean herbarium are said to be covered in the 60,000 exposures of
the set, as well as records of the mollusks, fishes, and insects, of vari-
ous manuscripts, and those of Linneaus’ own publications to which
he had added corrections and emendations.

To accompany the very fine collection of arms and armor given by
him to the Museum, Ralph G. Packard presented also his collection of
350 books on the subject, many of them rare and beautiful volumes.

The sectional library of the division of marine invertebrates received
another special collection of great usefulness in connection with speci-
mens previously received from the donor, by the bequest of the late
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Dr. Frank Smith of his working library of oligochaete literature,
1,103 pieces in all.

A unique gift to the sectional library of the division of minerals was
a five-volume set of phetomier gravis of meteoric irons presented by
Dr, Stuart H. Perry.

As always, the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary, and many other
members of the Smithsonian staff made generous contributions of
books and papers. From the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science came 578 publications. Among other donors were
the American Association of Museums, the American Committee for
International Wild Life Protection, the American Wildlife Institute,
Barton A. Bean, Mrs. Arthur 8. Blum, Hon. Usher L. Burdick, the
Detroit News, Haydn T. Giles, Daniel C. Haskell, J. Cramer Hudson,
the International Association of Printing House Craftsmen, Mrs, Vera
F, Lewis, Fritz Lugt, Dr. John P. Marble, Dr. Salvador Massip, Dr.
Riley D. Moore, Olaf Nylander, W. J. Orchard, Hon. Chase S. Osborn
and Miss Stella Brunt Osborn, the Pan American Union, the Pennsy]l-
vania Academy of Fine Arts, the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy
and Science, Dr, A. E. Porsild, Dr. L. A. White.

CATALOGING

Cataloging of the regular inflow of current accessions was excep-
tionally well kept up under the handicap of the understaffing of the
catalog division, but there was no time that could be devoted either
to the older material so badly in need of attention, or even to some
of the larger recent gifts of special collections. There are at least
15,000 uncataloged volumes in special collections scattered throughout
the Institution, while in the Museum library many more thousands
of volumes have never been cataloged by subject and are represented
in the catalog only by antiquated author cards. The difficulty, or
actual loss of use of much important material by this lack of adequate
cataloging is a serious matter, and one that should receive first con-
sideration in post-war planning of the library’s work.

PERSONNEL

Changes in personnel were the retirement for disability of Miss
Marian W. Seville, senior library assistant, on August 31, 1942, after
many years of faithful service; the appointment of Miss Minna Gill
as assistant librarian in charge of the catalog, on September 2, 1942;
the appointment of Mrs. Daisy F. Bishop as under library assistant on
February 17, 1943, and the resignation of Miss Marion Blair, junior
clerk-typist, on April 21, 1943. Since January 21, 19438, W. B. Green-
wood has been absent Fro the library of the Piere of American
Xthnology on military duty.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Sl

There were a number of promotions and reassignments to duties
among the staff. Miss Anna Moore Link was given charge of the
National Collection of Fine Arts library and Miss Elizabeth G. Mose-
ley was promoted to Miss Link’s former position in charge of the
serial collections in the Museum library ; Mrs. Hope H. Simmons was
promoted to be assistant librarian in charge of accessions and Miss
Marjorie R. Kunze was promoted to be chief assistant in the accessions
division.

The loss of one position and the time lag in filling other vacancies
have been serious obstacles in the way of keeping work up to date. The
fine spirit of the whole staff in meeting emergencies, in taking on extra
work, and in accepting temporary assignments to new or unaccustomed
duties is much to be commended.

STATISTICS
Accessions
Approxi- Approxi-
Volumes mate Volumes| mate
and pam-| holdings and pam-| holdings
phlets June 30, phlets | June 30,
1943 g
Astrophysical Observatory - -- 276 10, 675 || National Museum__-_--------- 3, 680 226, 967
eels of American Ethnol- National Zoological Park- --__- 102 4, 043
a ae has Berd a SRE 321 33,811 || Radiation and Organisms---- 13 619
ieee Gallery of Art__._.-_--- 165 16, 531 || Smithsonian Deposit_-_---_---- 1,051 571, 028
Haney Aeronautical Li- i ee Smithsonian Office_-__------- 227 31, 282
Dae eee ne Liha Bo. , 092 ——
Notas Collection of Fine TMotale 2 ee wise 6,955 | 1907, 645
oI NGF pra ar ee ls RP cP 1, 103 9, 097

1 Neither incomplete volumes of periodicals nor separates and reprints from periodicals are included
in these figures.

He«changes
Newmexchanzes (arranged 202. oe ee es 159
88 of these were assigned to the Smithsonian Deposit.
SAAR Esa HY OSE TES Dy (RN ts Seca 3, 631
549 of these were obtained to fill gaps in the Smithsonian Deposit
sets.
Cataloging
Volumes and pamphlets cataloged ss ee ee ee 5, 012
Oardsiiiledcinicatalogs;andsshelfilistee 222) le Se ee ee 80, 635
Periodicals
Peromenl parts Cnteced <2 meek yl Ors Se A eee eee 11, 756
Circulation
Moansrofpoolks; ang period cal sae wae ea en ee ee 11, 236

This figure does not include the very considerable intramural circu-
lation of books and periodicals assigned to sectional libraries for filing,
of which no count is kept.

Binding
Volumes, Sentuton thew Dimdenya = atk | aie ie ek Dee eee 2, 135
Respectfully submitted. |
Lema F. Cuarn, Librarian.
Dr. C. G. Axszor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publica-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government branches
under its administrative charge during the year ended June 30, 1943:

The Institution published during the year 13 papers in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, and title page and table of contents
of volumes 101 and 103; 10 papers in the War Background Studies
series; 1 Annual Report of the Board of Regents and pamphlet copies
of 23 articles in the Report appendix, and 1 Annual Report of the
Secretary; 2 special publications, and reprints of 2 volumes of the
Smithsonian’s series of tables.

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report; 25
Proceedings papers; 3 Bulletins; 1 separate paper in the Bulletin
series of Contributions from the United States National Herbarium.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report and 3
Bulletins.

Of the publications there were distributed 194,057 copies, which
included 21 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions
to Knowledge, 37,732 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Mis-
cellaneous Collections, 24,986 volumes and separates of the Smith-
sonian Annual Reports, 60,464 War Background Studies papers,
2,529 Smithsonian special publications, 55,631 volumes and separates
of National Museum publications, 10,793 publications of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, 28 reports on the Harriman Alaska Expedi-
tion, 36 Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, and 1,810 reports
of the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

There were issued 2 papers and title page and table of contents of
volume 101, 1 paper comprising volume 102, 10 papers and title page
and table of contents of volume 103, as follows:

VOLUME 101

No. 16. The snow and ice algae of Alaska, by Erzsébet Kol. 36 pp., 6 pls., 5
figs. (Publ. 3683.) September 19, 1942.

No. 18. A new species of sand bug, Blepharipoda doelloi, from Argentina, by
Waldo L. Schmitt. 10 pp.,1 pl. (Publ. 3687.) August 10, 1942. -

Title page and table of contents, (Publ. 3695.) October 27, 1942.

82
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

VOLUME 102

Compendium and description of the West Indies, by Antonio Vazquez de
Espinosa, translated by Charles Upson Clark. 862 pp. (Publ. 3646.) September
1, 1942. 6

VOLUME 108

No. 1. Distribution and variation of the Hawaiian tree snail Achatinella
apexfulva Dixon in the Koolau Range, Oahu, by d’Alté A. Welch. 236 pp.,
12 pls., 8 figs. (Publ. 3684.) December 16, 1942. ‘

No. 2. The skeleto-muscular mechanisms of the honey bee, by R. EH. Snodgrass.
120 pp., 32 figs. (Publ. 3688.) September 30, 1942.

No. 8. A revision of the Indo-Chinese forms of the avian genus Prinia, by H. G.
Deignan. 12 pp. (Publ. 3689.) September 1, 1942.

No. 4. Archeological and geological investigations in the San Jon District,
eastern New Mexico, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. 30 pp., 9 pls., 3 figs. (Publ.
3692.) October 12, 1942.

No. 5. New Upper Cambrian trilobites, by Charles E. Resser. 186 pp., 21 pls.
(Publ. 3698.) October 21, 1942.

No. 6. On the preparation and preservation of insects, with particular refer-
ence to Coleoptera, by J. Manson Valentine. 16 pp., 5 figs. (Publ. 3696.)
November 21, 1942,

No. 7. The musculature of the labrum, labium, and pharyngeal region of adult
and immature Coleoptera, by Carl Kester Dorsey. 42 pp., 24 pls. (Publ. 3697.)
January 20, 1943.

No. 8. The 1914 tests of the Langley “aerodrome,” by C. G. Abbot. 8 pp., 1 fig.
(Publ. 3699.) October 24, 1942.

No. 9. Mystacocarida, a new order of Crustacea from intertidal beaches in
Massachusetts and Connecticut, by Robert W. Pennak and Donald J. Zinn. 11 pp.,
2pls. (Publ. 3704.) February 238, 1948.

No. 10. A remarkable reversal in the distribution of storm frequency in the
United States in double Hale solar cycles, of interest in long-range forecasting,
by C. J. Kullmer. 20 pp., 19 figs., 10 storm-frequency year maps. (Publ. 3729.)
April 5, 1943.

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3731.) June 9, 1943.

Additional copies of the following volume were printed:

VOLUME 86

Smithsonian Meteorological Tables. Fifth Revised Edition. First Reprint.
Ixxxvi+282 pp. (Publ. 3116.)

WAR BACKGROUND STUDIES

In the new series of Smithsonian publications, War Background
Studies, Nos. 3-12, inclusive, were issued during the year. In order
to list all the papers in this series, Nos. 1 and 2 are included, although
they were issued toward the end of the previous fiscal year. Nos.
13-16 are also listed, although they had not actually been issued at
the close of the year.

No. 1. Origin of the Far Hastern civilizations : A brief handbook, by Carl
Whiting Bishop. 53 pp., 12 pls., 21 figs. (Publ. 3681.) June 10, 1942.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

No. 2. The evolution of nations, by John R. Swanton. 23 pp. (Publ. 3686.)
June 24, 1942.

No. 3. The peoples of the Soviet Union, by AleS Hrdlitka. 29 pp. (Publ. 3690.)
July 15, 1942.

No. 4. Peoples of the Philippines, by Herbert W. Krieger. 86 pp., 24 pls., 4 figs.
(Publ. 3694.) November 18, 1942.

No. 5. The natural-history background of camouflage, by Herbert Friedmann.
17 pp., 16 pls. (Publ. 3700.) December 11, 1942.

No. 6. Polynesians—explorers of the Pacific, by J. E. Weckler, Jr. 7 pp.,
20 pls., 2 figs. (Publ. 3701.) January 13, 1948.

No. 7. The Japanese, by John F. Embree. 42 pp., 16 pls., 3 figs. (Publ. 3702.)
January 23, 1943.

No. 8, Siam—land of free men, by H. G. Deignan. 18 pp., 8 pls., 1 fig. (Publ.
3703.) February 5, 19438.

No. 9. The native peoples of New Guinea, by M. W. Stirling. 25 pp., 28 pls.,
1 fig. (Publ. 3726.) February 16, 1943.

No. 10. Poisonous reptiles of the world: A wartime handbook, by Doris M.
Cochran. 37 pp., 17 pls., 2 figs. (Publ. 3727.) March 19, 1943.

No. 11. Egypt and the Suez Canal, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. 68 pp., 25 pls.,
1 fig. (Publ. 3728.) March 381, 19438.

No. 12. Are wars inevitable? by John R. Swanton. 36 pp. (Publ. 3730.)
May 11, 1943.

(Issued after the close of the fiscal year)

No. 18, Alaska: America’s continental frontier outpost, by Ernest P. Walker.
57 pp., 21 pls., 2 figs. (Publ. 3783.) July 8, 1943.

No. 14. Islands and peoples of the Indies, by Raymond Kennedy. 66 pp.,
21 pls., 7 figs. (Publ. 3734.) August 5, 1943.

No. 15. Iceland and Greenland, by Austin H. Clark. 103 pp., 21 pls., 2 figs.
(Publ. 3735.) August 19, 1943.

No. 16. Island peoples of the western Pacific: Micronesia and Melanesia, by
Herbert W. Krieger. 104 pp., 21 pls., 2 figs. (Publ. 3737.) September 15, 1943.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1941.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1941 was received from the Public Printer
in September 1942.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show-
ing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ended June 80, 1941. xiii++596 pp., 121 pls., 17 figs. (Publ. 3651.)

The general appendix contained the following papers:

What lies between the stars? by Walter S. Adams.

Artificial converters of solar energy, by H. C. Hottel.

The new frontiers in the atom, by Ernest O. Lawrence.

Science shaping American culture, by Arthur H. Compton.
Mathematics and the sciences, by J. W. Lasley, Jr.

The role of science in the electrical industry, by M. W. Smith.
The new synthetic textile fibers, by Herbert R. Mauersberger.
Plastics, by Gordon M. Kline.

Vitamins and their occurrence in foods, by Hazel E. Munsell.
Science and human prospects, by Eliot Blackwelder.

Iceland, land of frost and fire, by Vigfus Einarsson.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

The genes and the hope of mankind, by Bruce Bliven.

Care of captive animais, by Hrnest P. Walker.

The influence of insects on the development of forest protection and forest
management, by F. C. Craighead.

Growth hormones in plants, by Kenneth VY. Thimann.

Useful algae, by Florence Meier Chase.

The excavations of Solomon’s seaport: Ezion-geber, by Nelson Glueck.

Decipherment of the linguistic portion of the Maya hieroglyphs, by Ben-
jamin Lee Whortf.

Contacts between Iroquois herbalism and colonial medicine, by William
N. Fenton.

The study of Indian music, by Frances Densmore.

Snake bites and the Hopi Snake Dance, by M. W. Stirling.

The Eskimo child, by AleS Hrdli¢ka.

Wings for transportation (Recent developments in air transportation
equipment), by Theodore P. Wright.

Report for 1942.—The Report of the Secretary, which included the
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
and which will form part of the Annual Report of the Board of Re-
gents to Congress, was issued in January 1948.

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report of
the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30,
1942. iii+112 pp. 2pls. (Publ. 3698.)

The Report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press
at the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Songs from the Iroquois Longhouse: Program notes for an album of American
Indian music from the eastern woodlands (issued by the Library of Congress),
by William N. Fenton. 34 pp.,9 pls. (Publ. 3691.) September 11, 1942.

The Smithsonian Institution and the United States Natiowal Museum welcome
the members of our armed forces. 4 pp. April 1943.

The following special publication was reprinted:

Smithsonian Mathematical Tables—hyperbolic functions, prepared by George
F. Becker and C. HE. Van Orstrand. Fifth reprint. lii+321 pp. (Publ. 1871.)
August 21, 1942.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 Annual Report, 25 Proceedings papers, 3 Bulle-
tins, and 1 separate paper in the Bulletin series of Contributions from
the United States National Herbarium, as follows:

MUSEUM REPORT

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1942. iii+118 pp. January 1943.

PROCEEDINGS: VOLUME 88

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-viii, 587-615. August 18, 1942.
566(66—44——-7
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

VOLUME 89

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-ix, 583-620. November 28,
1942.
VOLUME 90

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i—vii, 553-581. December 18,
1942.
VOLUME 91

No. 8131. Catalog of human crania in the United States National Museum
collections : Eskimo in general, by AleS Hrdlitka. Pp. 169-429, fig. 39. August 1,
1942.

No. 3132. The species of Aegla, endemic South American fresh-water crusta-
ceans, by Waldo L. Schmitt. Pp. 481-520, figs. 40-64, pls. 25-28. August 18,
1942.

VOLUME 92

No. 8147. New species of bark beetles (Pityophthorini) from Mexico and tropi-
cal America (Coleoptera, Scolytidae), by M. W. Blackman. Pp. 177-228, pls.
20-23. November 25, 1942.

No. 3148. Osteology of Polyglyphanodon, an Upper Cretaceous lizard from Utah,
by Charles W. Gilmore. Pp. 229-265, figs. 16-36, pls. 24-26. October 13, 1942.

No. 3149. Notes and new species of Microlepidoptera from Washington State,
by J. F. Gates Clarke. Pp. 267-276, pls. 27-82. October 13, 1942.

No. 3150. The genotypes of some of Ashmead’s genera of ichneumon-flies, by
R. A. Cushman. Pp. 277-289. October 8, 1942.

No. 3151. New Neotropical insects of the apterygotan family Japygidae, by
H. BE. Ewing and Irving Fox. Pp. 291-299, pls. 33, 84. October 1, 1942.

No. 3152. The fresh-water fishes of Liberia, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 301-
848, fig. 37, pls. 35, 36. November 13, 1942.

No. 3153. Mexican herpetological miscellany, by Hobart M. Smith. Pp. 349-
895, fig. 38, pl. 37. November 5, 1942.

No. 3154. Revision of the genus Phloeosinus Chapuis in North America (Coleop-
tera, Scolytidae), by M. W. Blackman. Pp. 397-474, pls. 88-41. December 21,
1942.

No. 3155. The Late Cenozoic vertebrate faunas from the San Pedro Valley, Ariz.,
by C. Lewis Gazin. Pp. 475-518, figs. 39-47, pls. 42, 43. December 10, 1942.

No. 8156. The type species of the genera and subgenera of bees, by Grace A.
Sandhouse. Pp. 519-619. March 5, 1943.

VOLUME 93

No. 3157. The Nearctic species of parasitic flies belonging to Zenillia and allied
genera, by Wendell F. Sellers. Pp.1-108. January 19, 1943.

No. 3158. A new fossil reptile from the Upper Cretaceous of Utah, by Charles
W. Gilmore. Pp. 109-114, figs. 1-5. December 12, 1942.

No. 3159. Some American geometrid moths of the subfamily Ennominae here-
tofore associated with or closely related to Ellopia Treitschke, by Hahn W. Capps.
Pp. 115-151, pls. 1-10. February 24, 1943.

No. 3160. Skeletal remains with cultural associations from the Chicama, Moche,
and VirG Valleys, Peru, by T. D. Stewart. Pp. 1538-185, pls. 11-18. January 23,
1943.

No. 3161. New marine mollusks from the Antillean region, by Harald A. Rehder.
Pp. 187-208, pls. 19, 20. January 20, 1943.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

No. 3162. A new pest of Albizzia in the District of Columbia (Lepidoptera:
Glyphipterygidae), by J. F. Gates Clarke. Pp. 205-208, pls. 21-25. March 9,
1943.

No. 3163. Osteology of Upper Cretaceous lizards from Utah, with a descrip-
tion of a new species, by Charles W. Gilmore. Pp. 209-214, figs. 6-10. January
19, 1943.

No. 3164. The birds of southern Veracruz, Mexico, by Alexander Wetmore.
Pp. 215-340, fig. 11, pls. 26-28. May 25, 1943.

No. 3165. New genera and species of bark beetles of the subfamily Micracinae
(Scolytidae, Coleoptera), by M. W. Blackman. Pp. 341-865, pls. 29-30. March
22, 1943.

No. 3166. Notes on some barnacles from the Gulf of California, by Dora
Priaulx Henry. Pp. 367-873, pl. 31. May 3, 1943.

BULLETINS

No. 180. Fishes of the Phoenix and Samoan Islands collected in 1939 during
the expedition of the U. S. S. Bushnell, by Leonard P. Schultz. x+316 pp., 27
figs., 9 pls. January 20, 19438.

No. 181. The cyclophorid operculate land mollusks of America, by Carlos de la
Torre, Paul Bartsch, and Joseph P. E. Morrison. iv-+306 pp., 42 pls. August
21, 1942.

No. 182. Monograph of the West Indian beetles of the family Staphylinidae,
by Richard EH. Blackwelder. viii+658 pp., 3 figs. 19 maps. January 27, 1943.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM

VOLUME 28

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-xii, 677-694. December 16,
1942.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the Bureau has continued under the imme-
diate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. During the year
there were issued 1 Annual Report and 3 Bulletins, as follows:

REPORT

Fifty-ninth annual report of the Bureau of American Hthnology, 1941-42.
12 pp. January 30, 1943.

BULLETINS

182. Source material on the history and ethnology of the Caddo Indians, by
John R. Swanton. 332 pp., 19 pls., 5 figs. January 16, 1943.

134. The native tribes of eastern Bolivia and western Matto Grosso, by Alfred
Métraux. 182 pp., 5 pls., 1 fig. November 23, 1942.

135. Origin.myth of Acoma and other records, by Matthew W. Stirling. 128
pp., 17 pls., 8 figs. December 3, 1942.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided by
the act of incorporation of the Association. The following reports
were issued this year: .

Annual report of the American Historical Association for the year 1936.
Volume 3. Instructions to the British Ministers to the United States, 1791-1812.

Annual report of the American Historical Association for the year 1937.
Volume 2. Writings in American History, 1937, 19388.

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1940.
Proceedings.

Annual report of the American Historical Association for the year 1941. Vol-
ume 1. Proceedings; private letters from the British Embassy in Washington to
the Foreign Secretary, Lord Granville, 1880-85 ; manuscript accessions. Volume 2.
Talleyrand in America as a financial promoter, 1794-96. Volume 3. List of doc-
toral dissertations in history now in progress at universities in the United States
and the Dominion of Canada.

The following were in press at the close of the fiscal year: Annual
Report for 1942, volume 1 (Proceedings and list of members) ; volume
2 (Letters from the Berlin Embassy) ; volume 3 (The quest for politi-
cal unity in world history).

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Forty-fifth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, December 1, 1942.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Annual Reports to Congress and the various publications of the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administration of the Institution were
virtually used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for the
coming year ending June 30, 1944, totals $88,500, allotted as follows:

Shown clot=(onew ketal Goysjoh mbierkoy ops Ay sue OLS Ns oa ea ee el Ne $16, 000
IN Gtlomalle Mise wirrte La eek al I a Le A 43, 000
Bureau of American Hithnolopys 2 eee 17, 480
Nation ale@ollectiow (of Time Ais teres eece ee n eren e e 500
Internationals Wxechan ees ci 22 iii ie pee eee ae 200
NationalhZ00logical ‘Rarleeiie: fete arsine sitesi s eal aE aT 200
AstrophysicaliVObservato tyes ee ee ee ee 500
American VHistorical’Association2 22. sur aay pa eee 10, 620

To Gall) Ss eee yt WC rh oT aul alee ile Sie at lh a Oe BS re Ree al _ 88, 500

Respectfully submitted.
W. P. True, Chief, Editorial Division.
Dr. C. G. Axsgor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 19438

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d.—$508,318.46. Re-
funds of money expended in prosecution of the claim, freights, insurance, ete.,
together with payment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld
during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the amount of
$550,000.

Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from various sources
chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income from which may be used for the
general work of the Institution. These are invested and stand on the books of
the Institution as follows:

Avery, Robert 8. and Lydia T., bequest fund________________ $50, 498, 44
Endowment fund, from gifts, income, ete___________________ 272, 549, 65
EL SS) Tes S22 ey TLS Eee a a ig 500. 00
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund__________ 8, 942. 03
EL TOT FATNESS heey aa Cl ese ee A ea NS Nap aE 2, 895. 70
Henry. Caroline bequest tum Cees eee eee 1, 185. 46
Hod ekins ss bhomas Graph Gee ee eee ee eae 145, 623. 83
JERS ET AN NT eb U0 Loyaabeee MA ar il SC lat Vane ele Se AS PE Dt eae 728, 836. 59
Rhees, William Jones, bequest fund______________________-- 1, 053. 72
Santord, George Ho menorial funds: 2222 ee 1, 972. 56
Witherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund___--__---______--__ 126, 491. 58
SRC GL a EE fe Tn he a UDR ef RI 2 a 1, 400. 00

Total endowment for general work of the Institution______ 1, 336, 949. 55

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested and stand
on the books of the Institution as follows:

Abbott, William L., fund, bequest to the Institution______________ $104, 010. 11
Arthur, James, fund, income for investigations and study of the sun
ANGRlEGEUGe Onathe SUN swe een ee 39, 200. 44

89
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to investi-

gate fauna of countries other than the United States____________ $49, 107. 53
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird__ 17, 942. 00
Barstow, Frederic D., fund, for purchase of animals for the Zoolog-

RGaT Pa Thee Skat Se eh er a) Ohl kk cad ORL Ricca ee mea 2 bee 745. 61
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield col-

lection Of cmiimeral ge a see es ed a ds Se Ea iN a a es 37, 488. 80
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection

and promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera_____________ 8, 990. 30
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of

Isaac Lea collection of gems and mollusks______________________ 27, 602. 19
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collec-

GLON OL APH EIN Se ODT SCES tes as bie ata ee el ee ae 6, 441. 94
Hitchcock, Dr. Albert S., Library fund, for care of Hitchcock

ASrostologicall MUlD rary soree We cme savin pie 1 abn Sa eet ee eee ee 1, 448. 66

Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact

knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric

SULTS eS Tek 2 Re A A ue esd ba athe Raed Se aiden el ee 100, 000. 00
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove____________________ 18, 761. 82
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of

art for the use of, and benefit of, the National Collection of Fine

A TiS SS ase oe eh OS Oe Ee eed i A on UE, Sea Ate ies Ea 18, 580. 22
National Collection of Fine Arts, Strong Bequest-_-_____________ 9, 799. 76
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane

Pellijcollection# siyer sO un eit els ea ie a te eee EL 7, 265. 59
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institu-

tion when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000___________ 88, 009. 95
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of

FNS} Veh el WM Nob aW ts [Oe Spee eR ees ae oh ep A PCRS Ee a Pe ee ae Eee 29, 764. 02
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling

COMECH OME OL ITT ET aS ee ea ca are eee me a ld 118, 295. 54
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics

SUING CHOATE Ey yc a a ep Be eed a 91, 565. 20
Smithsonian employees retirement fund_-______________________ 82, 704. 36
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, ete., of Springer collection and

DE weary ae 2 hE a Mane at ea 17, 577. 31

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop-
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing

results! (there kM eT ae Ter ace eee A ee, rT 408, 867. 73
Wounger; Helen Walcott. fund) held Mnaerus te ee 50, 112. 50
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria_________ 745. 99

Special research fund, gift, in the form of real estate____________ 20, 946. 00

Total endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
endowment). Sot lee ale See OAT pines i nen eA URSA Tagan ly © pn Se Say Ores ar

The above funds amount to a total of $2,642,923.12, and are carried
in the following investment accounts of the Institution:

U. S. Treasury deposit account, drawing 6 percent interest______ $1, 000, 000. 00
Consolidated investment fund (income in table below) ______-____ 1, 316, 533. 49
Realestate. monrtegges, (Cte: Sore ee is eee 274, 877.13
Special funds, miscellaneous investments____.__________________ 51, 512. 50

2, 642, 923. 12
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 91

CONSOLIDATED FUND

Statement of principal and income for the last 10 years

Fiscal year Capital Income se Fiscal year Capital Income ire ih
126 ea OS ee $754, 570. 84 | $26, 650. 32 3. 66 1OSG meee on es $902, 801. 27 | $30, 710. 53 3.40
Tht Ges te ea aa 706, 765. 68 26, 808. 86 3.79 1940... st ee 1, 081, 249. 25 38, 673. 29 3.47
iith\) aes eee 728, 795. 46 26, 836. 61 3.71 LOA Tr eae es 1, 093, 301. 51 41, 167.38 3. 76
CY 2 eee as 738, 858. 54 33, 819. 43 4. 57 i Key is SR oo BY 1, 270, 968. 45 46, 701. 98 3. 67

Ma S een a ae 867, 528.50 | 34, 679. 64 4500) 194325" S22s0>— 1, 316, 583.49 | 50, 524. 22 3. 83

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects of
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler,
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for the
construction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his
will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities to
_ the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endowment fund for the
operation of the Gallery. From the above date to the present time
these funds have been increased by stock dividends, savings of in-
come, etc., to a total of $5,836,772.01. In view of the importance and
special nature of the gift and the requirements of the testator in re-
spect to it, all Freer funds are kept separate from the other funds of
the Institution, and the accounting in respect to them is stated sepa-

rately.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are classified as follows:
Cour bya. Ss ere aa ae RA Se $653, 866. 10
Court and grounds maintenance fund__—____- = 164, 230. 01
Cnrator etm dss SS 2 ee RR reer a ee eee eee 665, 412. 78
RRCSIOUATY WIOL a CY. 2A Ts REREAD TeS eek 4, 353, 268. 12

BS a ep Da a Es RS en ee ec ees Se ON ES A 5, 8386, 772. 01
SUMMARY
Invested endowment for general purposes______________________ $1, 336, 949. 55
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
Crmligwia nites Sets ig) Bile Sih putt en hla Nao eS Se by Farha a 1, 305, 978. 57
Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment____ 2, 642, 923. 12
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes_________________ 5, 836, 772. 01

Total invested endowment for all purposes________-______ 8, 479, 695. 13
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as au-

thorized in the United States Revised Statutes, sec. 5591_______ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value

at date acquired) :

BONS (A GHOMECLeN Ge OTO UTS ee see eae ae ee $515, 343. 75
Stocks (40: ditterent groups) =) ee ee ee 795, 761. 87
Real-estate and first-mortgage notes____________ 824, 989. 63
WUninyested™ capitate. \eelan See ees ee 6, 827. 87
——————— 1, 642, 9238. 12
Total investments other than Freer endowment___________ 2, 642, 923. 12

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market value at date
acquired) :

Bonds) (28 different soroups) soe ae ee $2, 222, 113. 26
Stocks) (G62 ditterent sroups) 2-2 ee 3, 600, 969. 47
Real estate first-mortgage notes_____. ________ 7, 500. 00
Uninyested capitals U2 ie eer ee 6, 189. 28
5, 836, 772. 01
TP OPA nny Gre ra Gs oi 9 IL I Lp 8, 479, 695. 13

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE
FISCAL YEAR*

@ashi balancevon hand! Junels0:)1942 SN ae eee Pe ne $740, 823. 73
Receipts:
Cash income from various sources for general
WOT Of ney MS tL GUT Tyee ee eee en $82, 792. 06
Cash gifts and contributions expendable for spe-
cial scientific objects (not to be invested) ____ 25, 233. 00
Cash gifts for special scientific work (to be
TIVES TOC) ey eee eet oe eee PUNT Ng tO tia 500. 00
Cash income from endowments for specifie use
other than Freer endowment and from miscel-
laneous sources (including refund of tem-

PORATY) GAOVAT COS) ee ee see ee es See star ee 131, 518. 33
Cash received as royalties from Smithsonian

Scientitie Series. 22-2 eth Siva eee 17, 766. 32
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.

(to” bey reinvested) esi ase ee PO 373, 564. 26

Total receipts other than Freer endowment_________-______ 631, 373. 97

Cash income from Freer endowment __________ $216, 125. 07
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete. (to
be:reinvested)) SUs2 2 2 re eee reer 8 ries 1, 440, 606. 70
Total receipts from Freer endowment______-__.___-___-___- 1, 656, 731. 77
FR Gy eg a age NS NN ey A ee Ok cas 3, 028, 929. 47

‘This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative
charge of the Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 93

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FIS§-
CAL YEAR—Continued

Disbursements:
From funds for general work of the Institution:
Buildings—care, repairs, and alterations__ $2, 980. 12
Furniture and) fixtures=.22 sss ee 173. 43
Generaliwadministrationys ceo] ek wa 83, 108. 71
DERTS TUT yee eet ode eee Sen ida ee et nL 2, O17. 92
Publications (comprising preparation,
printing, and distribution) ---___-_---_- 36, 634. 70
Researches and explorations_--_----_---- 1D eoienee
SE EEEEEEEEEEieeT $90, 787. 10
From funds for specific use, other than Freer
endowment :
Investments made from gifts and from sav-
Ings On income kaye. ee eee 50, 752. 65
Other expenditures, consisting largely of
research work, travel, increase and care
of special collections, ete., from income
of endowment funds, and from cash gifts
for specific use (including temporary
ACVATICES)) Tes Fay ea tere See 122, 872. 78
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
OL Securities: \ele=t 2a. eae eee 285, 264. 19
Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on
bonds purchasedt ssl Aes 3, 779. 05
——_—_———_—_——- 462, 668. 67
From Freer endowment:
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries,
field “expenses; Wetes. oo oe sae eS 37, 224. 00
Purchase of antobjects- eee 131, 971. 87
Reinvestment of cash capital from Sale,
call of ‘securities, etelse. ae ase — 1,611, 775. 28
Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on
bonds) purchased seu ke een wane 22, 804. 12
1, 808, 775. 27
Cashvbalancersuner 302 9432.2. ne eee eee eee 671, 698. 43
IYO 2 en SRR SC Se A ee Ea ee 2 3, 028, 929. 47

2 This includes salary of the Secretary and certain others.

Included in the foregoing are expenditures for researches in pure
science, publications, explorations, care, increase, and study of collec-
tions, etc., as follows:

Expenditures from general funds of the Institution :

PU Hi CateTOn see ee ees ee ee ee $36, 684. 70
Researches and) explorations2.2 2222222 ee eee 15, 372. 22

$52, 006. 92
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes :

Researches and explorations___________-_________~_ $37, 032. 59
Care, increase, and study of special collections_______ 7, 062. 42
PUD Cert Oris Sk Be ee ea a ae eee ie oe 6, 054. 74
$50, 149. 75
Hi D0) oY BER al ea A a GP Se 102, 156. 67

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been continued
during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to
$1,348.28.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from the
following:

Funds from sale of certain publications, property of the late E. J. Brown
to be used, at his request, for the study of birds.

Florence Brevoort Hickemeyer, bequest, income of which to be used for
exhibition, preservation and care of photographie works and collection
of Rudolph Hickemeyer, Jr.

Friends of Dr. Albert S. Hitchcock for Hitchcock Agrostological Library.

John A. Roebling, further contributions for research in radiation.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the In-
stitution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues are
deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances deposits
are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are with-
drawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Insti-
tution.

The following annual appropriations were made by Congress for
the Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1943:

General. expenses. Se a ee ae ee $394, 334
(This combines under one heading the appropriations heretofore

made for Salaries and Expenses, International Exchanges, Amer-

ican Ethnology, Astrophysical Observatory, and National Collec-

tion of Fine Arts of the Smithsonian Institution, and for

Maintenance and Operation of the United States National

Museum.)

Preservation of collections (including supplemental appropriation for

overtime'\salaries)) 2000 eos ti iat ys CeO ae oe 699, 246
Printing (ands bindings 22.) e es eee a ee ee ee ee 88, 500
National Zoological Park (including supplemental appropriation for

overtime) salaries) ooo se ee ae eee a ce 269, 200
Cooperation with the American Republics (transfer to the Smithsonian

Terns tit ca til corn’) eo 0 ar wee hore le et mec naan SR Lo 57, 500
WYO irc Err ee nh ae es a 20, 000
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 95

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is given
below:

SEPTEMBER 23, 1943.
WXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. OC.

Sirs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948, and certify the balance of
cash on hand, including Petty Cash Fund, June 30, 1948, to be $673,598.48.

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by the
Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
record and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1943, together with the authority
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expenditures
and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust
fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.

We certify the Balance Sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1943.

Respectfully submitted.

WILLIAM L. YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.
Freprertc A. DELANO,
VANNEVAR BusH,
CLARENCE CANNON,
Executive Committee.
Matty
. ae Pee aus ain
ti Hl Kh PRN TARR edi fh

)
inves

; " 4 fat iv)

y ie

Her Rana Sy ts 5 0
ic s act seh hiss ce i Napa git ‘tinh 4
Na " A i} pent
‘ \ 240 ar 8 a ir batt ry wnat element
, j ' , he mt BM id Vode
pe iad wel eet Tae set i vette, aa!

ho
pry
i

ape hei EMAL ment
Mt dap hh tia kee yoaelind
x é
acai G ate

H nf i shied ail) aitly,
i BAAN

LOX

nan
fn bite

a i pense Hy WS bf tenet

F
nay d

r han
oan

i fi } : ! ; fl i wr
4 SRM Ea 9 podtin Hack ad

? hy \
pi ce nea

|
Gira

fh inte P
aE tig asw

eth
A re a

ae "

ne al

CuaNhahn Aa

4
Att scnieyt mi me WL
DUA TA bi ’ 7 4

heii nie

Vie ‘.
ay
we
Ae a fies |
eh ea
3 Le Dis
nl ek i

a A da

ite qt

eer Hae

Mh ee

nine

ve, Ni i i ene ;

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1943

97
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Gznzrat Appenpix to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1948.

98
SOLAR RADIATION AS A POWER SOURCE?

By C. G. ABBOT
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

[With 3 plates]

This major power source of the world is as yet almost unused by
engineers. The intensity of solar radiation at mean solar distance
outside the earth’s atmosphere is about 1.94 calories per square centi-
meter per minute. Expressed in English measures, this is 7.15 B. t. u.
per square foot per minute. Actual supplies of sun heat, however,
vary with the season. Owing to the ellipticity of the earth’s orbit,
we are about 3 million miles nearer the sun in January than in July,
and the actual intensity of the sun’s rays outside the atmosphere is
about 6 percent greater in January than in July. As there is less hu-
midity and clearer air in winter, it follows that the sun’s heat at the
earth’s surface in the Northern Hemisphere is a good deal more intense
in winter than in summer for equal solar altitudes above the horizon.
The reason winter is cold is because the sun lies so far south that its
rays shine very obliquely, so that the average intensity on a horizontal
surface is thereby greatly reduced.

Thick clouds reflect away about 75 percent of the sun rays which
strike them. Much of the area east of the Mississippi is 50 percent
cloudy, so it follows that in these sections a third of the sun’s radia-
tion is reflected out to space. Besides this cloud loss there is an
actual absorption by the water vapor and other ingredients of the
atmosphere. This amounts in humid localities to from 15 to 25
percent. Accordingly, solar power propositions would operate at
great disadvantage in most of the States east of the Mississippi, ex-
cepting Florida, as compared to the arid and generally high-altitude
regions of the Southwest.

Measurements of solar radiation made at the earth’s surface upon
a receiver at right angles to the beam, and with the sun at 15° or more
above the horizon, range from 1.5 calories per square centimeter per
minute down to 1.0 calorie, or even less, depending on the clearness
of the atmosphere. In favorable localities a value of about 1.35

1 Reprinted by permission from The Military Engineer, vol. 35, No. 208, February 1943.
99
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

calories may be assumed as the average for the day of solar energy
on a surface normal to the beam, except while clouds obscure the sun.
This corresponds in ordinary power units to 1.15 horsepower per
square yard.

Whether or not it is worth while to employ the solar energy for
power depends on the efficiency which can be achieved in converting
solar radiation into mechanical energy. On that factor depend the
size and cost of the equipment. An efficiency of only 1 to 5 percent
would be apt to involve prohibitively cumbersome and costly equip-
ment. But a solar engine with an efficiency of 10 to 15 percent might
be commercially competitive with other sources of power, even at
present. As times goes on, it is to be supposed that the cost of the
major power sources, coal and oil, will rise, though the limited supply
of water power may remain relatively unchanged in cost. Hence,
in the future, unless some as yet unused source of power becomes
important, it is probable that solar power will be extensively employed.

If such a change in the major sources of power should occur, it would
tend to alter very much the distribution of population. Such a State
as New Mexico would become a great manufacturing center. With
machines of the type already devised, that State could furnish from
solar radiation more power than is now used for heat, light, trans-
portation, and manufacturing in the United States, and at a cost not
perhaps exceeding the present cost of power from coal.

There are two major difficulties in the way of utilizing solar radia-
tion. First, except on overcast days, the sun’s rays come from a moon-
sized spot, which moves daily through the sky from the eastern to the
western horizon, and yearly from 28° north to 28° south of the celes-
tial equator. Second, from sunset to sunrise the sun’s rays are wholly
cut off.

EARLY EXPERIMENTS

In one interesting series of experiments, reported by Willsie and
Boyle in Engineering News, May 18, 1909, the first difficulty was
avoided by employing a stationary horizontal receiver. This, how-
ever, is at great cost in thermodynamic efficiency, owing to the low
temperatures of operation, and to losses of radiation by reflection, due
to the very oblique incidence of the rays during many hours of the
day and year. It would seem fatal to sacrifice so much efficiency.

The work of Shuman at Tacony, Philadelphia, also reported in that
same issue of Engineering News, led on at length to the very different
experiments of Eastern Sun Power, Ltd., described by Ackermann in
the Smithsonian Report for 1915. These experiments came nearer
being a commercial success, I believe, than any others on solar power
up to that time. A large plant was erected near Cairo, Egypt, and
used for a time for irrigation from the Nile. It appears to have been
SOLAR RADIATION AS A POWER SOURCE—ABBOT 101

abandoned during and since the World War of 1914-18. In these ex-
periments the sun’s rays were roughly focused upon boilers, and thus
from the thermodynamic viewpoint more eligible temperatures were
attained than those of Willsie and Boyle’s experiments.

Some inventors have attempted to employ thermoelectricity or
photoelectricity as means of escaping from the necessity of working
through gaseous heat cycles to achieve mechanical motion. It is diffi-
cult to conceive that thermoelectric couples could ever be a valuable
expedient for this purpose. The electromotive forces available are so

SS

wie

iE

V
PAA.

=
=
f]

HY
\
h
"
\
i
2
<j "s
[| y
i,
p:

IR

Ficure 1.—Eneas’s solar generator, patented March 26, 1901.

small that the multiplication of couples is necessarily great, and the
apparatus required would contain enormous numbers of parts. The
wires used would all be metallic conductors of heat, so that a very large
fraction of the solar input would be dissipated in useless heat losses.
As for photoelectricity, it seems to be limited to comparatively narrow
regions of the spectrum, so that large fractions of the solar rays would
be wholly useless to these devices. Of the remaining useful rays, no
inconsiderable part would be converted into heat, and would also be
useless. I cannot think that at present these direct electrical conver-
sions of solar radiation seem promising solutions of the solar-power
problem.
566766—44—8
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943
INSTRUMENTS

Within the past quarter century, so much progress has been made
in the commercial use of aluminum products, and also of high-vacuum
technique, that it is possible for one who is familiar with the astrono-
mers’ solution of their problem of following the heavenly bodies with
telescopes to design types of apparatus for utilizing solar radiation
for power, combining minimum expense with maximum efficiency.

Formerly the choice for solar mirrors lay between mirror glass and
metals of rather low reflecting power and short reflecting life. Such
materials for mirrors were heavy, costly, inefficient, and quickly
deteriorating. We can now purchase commercially the bright reflect-
ing product called Alcoa in thin sheets of large size. It is a special
preparation of aluminum, long retaining its reflectivity, and with a
coefficient of reflection for solar rays slightly exceeding 80 percent.
Frames of suitable curvature being made from duralumin shapes,
these may be covered with the thin Alcoa sheets to make up cheap,
light, and fairly permanent solar mirrors.

In consideration of best design, we come to the question of waste
of heat. It is well known that heat is lost by three processes: conduc-
tion, convection, and radiation. Of these, metallic conduction would
be very important, as stated before, if one should be using a great
number of thermoelectric elements, but it is possible almost entirely
to eliminate losses by conduction with boilers of certain forms. With
moderate temperature differences, and for objects in the open air,
convection is a far greater dissipater of heat than radiation. But
direct convection may be eliminated almost altogether if the body
to be cooled is enclosed by highly evacuated space as commonly
practiced in the thermos bottle. In that case cooling proceeds almost
wholly by radiation from the inner to the outer wall of the enclosing
evacuated sheath, and thence by convection and radiation to the
surroundings. This consideration leads us to see at once that the
advantage of employing an evacuated sheath becomes less and less
as the temperature of the solar boiler rises higher and higher. For
radiation increases as the fourth power of the temperature for the
so-called black body or perfect radiator. Since we must use a trans-
parent sheath to admit rays to the boiler, it is not practicable to cut
down radiation by fully plating the inner wall of the evacuated
sheath, as in the thermos bottle. We must, therefore, regard the inner
wall of the sheath as approximately a “black body.” Hence the inner
wall of the evacuated sheath, when at high temperatures, will radiate
strongly to the outer wall, which conducts the heat to its outer
surface and there loses it by convection.

On this account it follows that although the sun’s temperature is
so high that boiler temperatures up to the melting point of materials
SOLAR RADIATION AS A POWER SOURCE——ABBOT 103

could readily be attained, this is not advantageous. For though the
thermodynamic efficiency factor 7,—7:/7, would gain, this would
be more than offset by the increased heat losses of the boiler. Fur-
thermore, though quartz glasses like Pyrex enable us to use transpar-
ent evacuated sheaths at fairly high temperatures, high vacua lose
their excellence with very high temperatures, so that convection
becomes serious.

On these accounts it is not desirable in solar-power machines to
employ boiler temperatures much above 200° C,. (392° F.). If oper-
ating to a condenser at 30° C., such a temperature of the boiler gives
a thermodynamic factor of 473—303/473=36 percent, which, for
reasons just explained, may be regarded as the maximum to be ex-
pected if due regard is paid to loss of heat from the boiler.

Another fundamental consideration in designing solar-power de-
vices is that the loss of heat from a body through convection or radia-
tion is directly proportional to the external area of the surface of the
body. Hence it is of importance for diminishing the waste of heat
that the boiler surface should be as small as possible, by using fairly
accurate optical mirror forms.

Astronomers have long ago agreed that the simplest mechanical
motions that could be devised for following celestial objects are those
of the equatorial telescope. This scheme involves mounting the in-
strument which is to follow the celestial object upon an axis parallel
to the earth’s axis, and imparting to this “polar axis” a uniform
motion of 15° per hour. If the instrument is to be adapted to follow
objects at different distances north or south of the celestial equator—
that is, of different declinations—there must be a second axis at right
angles carried by the polar axis. This second axis, called the decli-
nation axis, carries the telescope or other following device and is to
be set by hand to the position of any desired celestial object, and
clamped there. If the sun remained stationary with regard to the
celestial equator, no second axis would be needed in solar-power ma-
chines. But the sun travels through 47° north and south during the
year.

It is highly desirable to operate with a stationary boiler. The
withdrawal of steam from a moving boiler involves costly and un-
satisfactory connection. It is clear that a spherical boiler placed
in the intersection of the two axes of an equatorial mirror mounting
could be stationary. But it would be impossible to enclose thoroughly
with an evacuated sheath. The mirror in this case would be circu-
lar and preferably of parabolic curvature, which is an awkward
shape for fabrication.

It has seemed to me preferable to neglect the north-to-south mo-
tion of the sun, using a mirror rotating uniformly at 15° per hour
104 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

about a single polar axis. The boiler then becomes a tube of small
diameter lying in the axis. The vacuum sheath is an elongated
Pyrex thermos bottle, of which about one-third the circumference of
the outer surface of the inner wall is gold-plated. The mirror is
a rectangular concave cylindric mirror, of parabolic curvature, whose
equation, as I prefer it, is y? = 36z. The mirror is long and narrow
and rotates about its focus, the polar axis. Being long compared to
its width, the deliberate end-loss of light at the solstices, June 20 and
December 20, from neglecting the sun’s motion in declination, is not
serious, and this loss becomes zero at the equinoxes. The metallic

SE

eevde
PEAR.

ABESSIN
UES

Fiaurre 2.—Diagram of flash boiler (4), in vacuum sheath (1), served by water
supply (2), governed by air pressure in steam chest (7), operating extensible
chamber (14), governing injector (15). First arrangement.

boiler tube is blackened by painting with a suspension of lampblack
in alcohol with a slight addition of shellac. At the low temperatures,
not exceeding 200° C., this paint does not burn. It absorbs about 95
percent of the solar radiation.

The mirror in my small model comprises several castings of alu-
minum, machined to accurate parabolic curves and joined by L-string-
ers of duralumin to form a cradle. To this cradle are attached Alcoa
sheets not previously bent, and held down by narrow metal straps
screwed through the sheets to the parabolic frames. At the ends the
mirror frame supports steel hanger bars which carry hollow trun-
nions, and supports above a counterbalance bar of metal, set edgewise
to the beam and extending from end to end of the mirror as a stif-
SOLAR RADIATION AS A POWER SOURCE—ABBOT 105

fener. Simple stout wooden posts, set in the ground, are adapted
to carry rollers on which the trunnions rest with their axis parallel
to that of the earth. The elongated Pyrex thermos bottle enclosing
the boiler tube rests axial to the hollow trunnions and is closed at
the lower end.

To drive the mirror most conveniently, a worm-and-wheel mecha-
nism is attached to one end of the mirror and its support. The worm
is driven at the correct speed by a tiny 60-cycle electric motor. Where
alternating electric current is difficultly available, a weight drive may
be substituted, regulated by an escapement controlled by an ordinary

PON

SS
Lz

WLLL

N
N
\
\
\
N
N
N
NN
N
Ni
\

i
Yl

NYS SN NSIS
BRS NY] a ‘ CZLLLLLLLLLLA

el
ie oes KG peo

Figure 3.—Diagram of variable-delivery injector, with delivery governed by
pressure of steam as first used with Dr. Abbot’s flash boiler.

alarm clock. I have used such a contrivance successfully for a large
mirror on Mount Wilson.

For solar power, I prefer the “flash boiler” principle because of its
economy of fair skies? Even in the desert regions, cumulus clouds
occasionally hide the sun. If the boiler had a considerable ca-
pacity for heat, a series of such clouds might prevent getting full
steam pressure at all on a day when the sun shone clearly one-half
the time. But when the flash boiler is properly designed, full steam
pressure comes on within 5 minutes after the sun emerges from such
acJoud. This design involves the automatic regulation of the water
supply, to be completely turned to steam as fast as supplied while

2 I have changed my view recently, as indicated in the concluding paragraph of this paper,
106 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the sun shines and to be completely cut off when the sun is obscured.
This requires a pump able to force water in against full steam pres-
sure, and so regulated by the temperature of the boiler that the water
flow ceases when the boiler cools, and reaches a maximum when the
boiler temperature reaches the point for the desired pressure of
steam.

I accomplish these objects by employing a diaphragm pump, whose
stroke is governed from zero to maximum displacement by a rotating
cam of regularly increasing throw, operating through a pitman upon
the pump. The cam is driven from the 60-cycle motor, above-men-
tioned, and is mounted on a longitudinally displaceable carriage. The
position of the carriage, and hence the throw of the cam, is governed
by the differential heat expansion between the boiler tube and a tape
of the nonexpansible alloy, invar, attached thereto.

The water is forced through a small tube centrally to the lower
end of the boiler tube, where it is guided by a spreader tube into a
thin sheet bathing the inner wall of the boiler tube. The water bursts
immediately into steam, which flows out to the engine through con-
nections from the upper end of the boiler tube. A maze of heat-con-
ducting copper vanes extends throughout the upper part of the boiler
tube, so that only dry steam can escape therefrom. In large solar-
power installations, no doubt it would be desirable to use auxiliary
superheaters.

The efficiency of such a device is a matter of critical interest for
the future of solar power. It may be estimated as follows:

Percent
Mirrorretlectlomissok2) Sot il aek eh Ee ee aA ane een aD 82
SheathViransmission seo o.oo ee De ne ee 85
ESOL] rss en 3S ry Eh. ra ee ae ear eer 95
Heat ‘NOE. | Wasted saan ee ae So hg be ed 90
Boiler efficiency 0.82 X 0.85 X 0.95 X0.90=____________-______ 60
Thermodynamic:-factor, (as above) _22. 2252 bane ee ee 36
Assumed mechanical efficiency of engine________-________-_____- 75

Over-all efficiency of conversion: 0.60 X0.36X0.75=______-- 16. 2

Recalling, as stated above, that the average receipt of solar energy
throughout cloudless days in a favorable region corresponds to 1.15
horsepower per square yard of surface normal to the beam, we con-
clude that it will require a mirror of not less than 5.4 square yards, or
48.6 square feet, surface per horsepower under the most favorable of
circumstances. Such a mirror might well be 10 by 5 feet in projection.
When we consider wind resistance and other limitations, including
especially the glass tubing of the evacuated sheath, it seems difficult
SOLAR RADIATION AS A POWER SOURCE—ABBOT 107

to suppose that units of more than 5 horsepower (area of mirror
projection 121% by 20 feet) would be found desirable.

Such units could be assembled in groups of 30, occupying a ground
area 150 feet, east-west, by 250 feet, north-south, without undue
mutual shading, so as to give a maximum of 150 horsepower per
group. Such a group of machines could be mechanically operated
in common as regards rotation of mirrors and pumping of feed water.
They could also deliver steam to a common superheater for use.

It is estimated that the United States uses the equivalent of ap-
proximately 10 trillion horsepower hours of power annually for light,
heat, transportation, and manufacturing. Assuming, as above,
37,500 square feet of space required for 150 horsepower from the solar
source, there would be required 380,000 square miles of territory to
supply this entire requirement, assuming only 8 hours’ sunshine per
day of the average solar intensity stated above, namely, 1.35 calories
per square centimeter per minute. The State of New Mexico alone
has approximately four times this area.

COST AND OTHER CONSIDERATIONS

The cost of solar power is difficult to estimate. It depends on the
quantity used. With large installations, care and upkeep would
become nearly negligible, so that, with a 10-percent return on invest-
ment, the cost of power at the plant might be estimated as less than
one-third cent per horsepower-hour.

There remains to consider the serious drawback that direct solar
power is unavailable at night. [or certain purposes, as irrigation,
this is not a serious objection.

However, since writing the above I have thought that the means
shown in United States Patent No. 2,247,830, of July 1, 1940, could
be expanded to include a strong insulated reservoir of water. Solar
heating would be conveyed to the water, by gravity circulation
through a coil immersed therein, from a black high-boiling liquid
filling a vacuum-sheathed glass focus tube. In this way all the ex-
pense of the flash boiler would be eliminated, all moments of solar
heating would be utilized, the water in the reservoir would be main-
tained in a superheated state night and day, and superheated steam
would issue to the engine on opening a cock.
Oy aw, saa i) Be ren
‘harem eo

Hata Aditi aesbid Bh is Rethgpsouly tb
iene cae ethutabiluawias. anh: bade egittelsian, (
1 Sa bes hosel Ney beni dec dite EE Ct :
Hea Maan se icabisiess il ri
aba Melek die lave nek 7 ve

eR eabe hd sus
Lponmeachichy tan ih

A ong a bai

cn ah sth MA fn ay Wy, |
ha Hy A pean Wea
| Hie aie: aieee
ion? t hehe

SG td it
co a

A al

| Faas aas

men: Lie
pee ‘tahond
Samet cia

“CIEL (IGVAW ‘YeseyosEsy SAOG-NYWNHS JO HLNOS AHL WOES MAIA TIWVWYANAD

A a ot aR J

agen OER :

sean
ail

ae S78, ae ese

«ih facing nomenon jnanntstaitthe
er mam tierra ent

| 3AaLV1d qqyY—"Er6l *‘qaodayy uetuOsyzIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Abbot PEATE

DIAPHRAGM PUMP INJECTOR OF VARIABLE THROW GOVERNED BY DIFFERENTIAL
HEAT EXPANSION BETWEEN BOILER AND INVAR TAPE.

Rollers which support the mirror seen behind the aluminum plate.
loud) ‘3 949 1% Uses ys £0} $,10QqY Iq ‘“puRy Yel s,Joqqy “Aq Jevou odid oy} UW
“SUIp[INg UIUOSyIUIg 9Yy} PUTYE UOJ do Ul UMOYS SI Yeoy IY UOJ poyeleues URI}

“YaTIOgG HSV14 YV1OS S,Llossey

hh 8, OTE
, - tual

¥ ¥€ ee
at Pepe ae
taut *
: ous

t ne ae
ba Rte,

€ 31WV1d yoqqy— ¢r6| ‘woday ueruosyy

SOME BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION 1

By Brian O’Brien
Institute of Optics
The University of Rochester

[With 1 plate]

Man and the higher animals depend for their very existence upon
sunlight. The temperature of the earth’s surface and of the earth’s
atmosphere is maintained within limits which can support life only
by the flood of radiation which comes to us from the sun. The power
supply for all air movement, all winds, everything that goes to make
up weather, is this same solar radiation. Most of the higher animals
and land plants can survive only with a supply of fresh water, a
supply which exists simply because of sunlight. Without the constant
working of the distillation plant which evaporates water from the
sea and condenses it as rain and snow there would be nothing but salt
water on the face of the earth. This distillation plant runs purely
by solar heat.

But our dependence upon the sun goes far beyond this. Animals
cannot by themselves synthesize food and fuel. Even man with all
his ingenuity has not yet learned to do this. He can convert food
from one kind to another, as he can convert fuel into altered and
more convenient forms, but he cannot yet create either. This job
is reserved for the green plants. The green coloring matter, chlo-
rophyll, permits a plant to utilize sunlight in converting carbon
dioxide and water vapor into sugars, starches, and cellulose. This
process, which literally unburns our coal as rapidly as an active
human race can burn it, supplies, directly or indirectly, all the food
and fuel available on the earth. Here again, through the medium
of plant life, man and the higher animals are dependent upon radia-
tion from the sun.

These relations of sunlight to man have been discussed in previous
Arthur lectures. Tonight I would like to discuss some less evident
effects of sunlight, which, though subtler, are important too. These

1The tenth Arthur lecture, given under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution,
February 25, 1941.

109
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

have to do with biological effects, direct or indirect, of sunlight upon
the animal organism. They are specific and depend upon the wave
length and character of the ight. For this reason we must start by
considering something of the nature of the radiant energy which we
receive from the sun.

The light from most sources is made up of many different frequencies
or wave lengths, and sunlight is no exception to this rule. Such light
may be analyzed into a spectrum with a prism and the wave lengths
separated from each other, much as a chemist might make a qualitative
analysis to determine the elements of which some material or com-

_— OUTSIDE EARTHS ATMOSPHERE

INTENSITY

— AT EARTH'S SURFACE
‘ SEA LEVEL ZENITH ATMOSPHERE

2 4 6

8 1.0
WAVELENGTH IN MICRONS

Ficure 1.—Distribution of energy in the solar spectrum (Abbot) with new exten-
sion at ultraviolet end.

pound is composed. If light from a narrow source or slit is allowed
to pass through a prism, a series of images will be produced corre-
sponding to the several wave lengths present, and so a spectrum is
formed, This spectrum shows the familiar sequence of colors of the
rainbow from violet at the short-wave-length end through blue, green,
yellow, orange, to red at the longest wave length which can be seen.
There are, of course, wave lengths beyond the range to which the eye
is sensitive. At longer wave length than the red is the infrared
extending for many octaves, and at shorter wave length than the
violet is the ultraviolet, a region which will be of particular interest
to us here.

It is of interest to know what wave lengths are present, but it is
even more important to know how much of each. This can be deter-
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN CiT

mined in a variety of ways. The most fundamental method consists
in converting the radiation into heat by absorption in a blackened
surface, and measuring the amount of heat produced in each narrow
region of the spectrum by the rise of temperature of a delicate elec-
trical thermometer. This is analogous to quantitative analysis by the
chemist. The energy in each wave length having been determined,
it may be plotted as a graph of energy against wave length, such a
plot representing the spectral-energy distribution of the light from
the particular source measured.

Fortunately, this has been carried out for solar radiation very
completely and with high accuracy by Dr. Abbot and his associates at
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, so that the spectral-
energy distribution of sunlight is now well known. Although the
measurements are made at the earth’s surface and are thus measure-
ments of sunlight after loss by transmission through the earth’s atmos-
phere, there is a perfectly definite procedure by which the amount of
this loss is determined, and so the spectral energy outside the earth’s
atmosphere as well as that at the earth’s surface is known. These
are plotted in figure 1. It will be seen that in sunlight the greatest
energy occurs in the visible region of the spectrum, the intensity falling
off rapidly as one passes beyond the violet into the ultraviolet region,
and falling off more slowly as one goes beyond the red into the infra-
red.

In order to act upon living matter, solar radiation must be absorbed
by some part of the living organism. In the case of micro-organisms,
this absorption occurs throughout the volume of the whole animal or
plant, much of the radiation passing entirely through the organism.
In the higher animals and man, practically all the radiation is ab-
sorbed in the skin, no significant amount penetrating to an appreciable
depth. In animals, even the skin is protected by the hair, which thus
becomes the principal absorber of light. Oddly enough, this absorp-
tion by hair is utilized by animals in at least one important vitamin
reaction. When radiation of wave length in or near the visible spec-
trum is absorbed by living matter, the energy is either converted into
heat or enters directly into a photochemical reaction. Either or both
of these effects constitute the first step in the direct action of sunlight
upon a living organism. Since this energy transformation must oc-
cur when and where the light is absorbed, we may expect a primary
action anywhere within a small organism. In larger organisms, and
in particular in higher animals and man, the primary action must oc-
cur at the surface; that is, in the skin.

Human skin is somewhat different from that of any animal, al-
though the gross structures are roughly comparable. Even unpig-
mented human skin absorbs ultraviolet light strongly, while at the
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

red end of the spectrum, unpigmented skin is a relatively poor ab-
sorber, reflecting back much of the light energy received. This is
shown by two photographs of unpigmented human skin which are
reproduced in plate 1. The first photograph was made with ultra-
violet radiation, while the second was made with infrared radiation at
a wave length just beyond the visible spectrum. For comparison a
block of white magnesium carbonate was held in the hand in both
photographs. This was a good diffuse reflector (i. e., “white”) in the
ultraviolet and infrared as well as in the visible spectrum.

Although unpigmented skin reflects much of the visible light near
the red end of the spectrum as well as the infrared just beyond, that
which is absorbed appears to produce a rather specific thermal reac-
tion. If one examines a cross section of human skin, it will be seen
that the overlying layers contain no pigment materials that absorb
red or near-infrared radiation strongly. Reflection does take place in
these regions, owing to the many discontinuities in refractive index
produced by the cell boundaries in the epidermis, but no measurable
absorption occurs until the level of the capillaries is reached at 1 milli-
meter or so beneath the surface. Here the blood pigments absorb
strongly, with the result that the temperature of this layer is elevated
above the surface temperature of the skin, and even above the depth
temperature of the body when the skin is exposed in not-too-cool air to
intense radiation. This effect was first observed by Carl Sonne, who
measured the temperature at successive depths beneath the skin’s sur-
face with a delicate needle thermocouple and found a marked rise in
temperature under intense illumination. The conversion of radiation
to heat at this level in the skin raises the temperature of the capillaries
above adjacent layers, heat being conducted both to the cooler skin
surface and the cooler tissues at a depth. Since the more sensitive
innervation is above the capillary layer, it should be possible to pro-
duce without discomfort a higher temperature in the capillary blood
by the direct absorption of radiation in it than by conduction of heat
from the skin surface inward, as would occur with a hot object held
against the skin. In the latter case, with the temperature gradient in-
ward, the nerve endings would be at a higher temperature than the
capillaries. Sonne reports capillary temperatures produced by light
absorption comparable to high fever temperatures, yet without dis-
comfort to the patient, and without a corresponding increase of either
surface or depth temperature. The significance of this effect is not
yet determined. It must occur in only moderate degree when human
skin is exposed to sunlight, since several times the intensity of sunlight
may be borne without discomfort.

With the exception of this thermal effect in the red and the near-
infrared, and excepting also the action of visible light upon the eye,
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN 113

there appear to be no other specific effects of sunlight upon any por-
tion of the animal organism until the ultraviolet limit of the sun’s
spectrum is reached. Effects of visible light upon the eye are, of
course, most important and profound, but except under destructively
intense illumination, the response of the eye appears to be limited
1o providing us with a sensory contact with the external world. The
subject of vision belongs properly in the field of sensory physiology
and psychology and is not included in the types of biological reaction
I am discussing tonight; so, for lack of time, and with some reluc-
tance, I shall omit it entirely.

Most of you, I am sure, have experienced sunburn, or erythema,
produced by light, but have you considered how it comes about? In

ERYTHEMA REACTION

RELATIVE UNITS

2500 2600 2700

2800 2900 3000 3100 2200
WAVELENGTH IN. ANGSTROMS

Ficure 2.—Erythema sensitivity of human skin.

spite of its name, sunburn is not a heat reaction, but a photochemical
reaction, produced without heat by ultraviolet light. Moreover, it is
not produced by all the ultraviolet spectrum, but only by a very nar-
row region at the extreme ultraviolet limit of the sun’s spectrum
confined to wave lengths less than about 3150 angstrom units. This
reaction appears to be a type of photo-oxidation, produced with the
aid of certain enzymes present in normal skin. Hausser and Vahle,
and later Hausser, determined the spectral sensitivity of this re-
action, obtaining a reaction curve showing two maxima and ap-
proaching zero for wave lengths longer than about 3150 angstroms.
This is shown in figure 2. These results have been confirmed by
Luckiesh, Holliday, and Taylor. The significance of erythema and
114. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the subsequent pigmentation or tanning of the skin has been a dis-
puted point. The pigment of tanned skin is melanin, which appears
physiologically inert, produced by an oxidation reaction following ex-
posure to light. It seems most reasonable to suppose that the pri-
mary function of pigment is the protection it affords the underlying
portions of the skin and blood stream from further excessive exposure.

It is worth while to examine in more detail the ultraviolet end of
the sun’s spectrum responsible for this reaction. The area under a
spectral-energy distribution curve represents the energy in that
spectral region. It will be evident from figure 1 that the area under
the solar-energy distribution curve for all wave lengths shorter than

2.0

!Omm. PATH IN OZONE AT S.T.R

Ds)

DENSITY

OPTICAL

WAVELENGTH IN ANGSTROMS

FicuReE 3.—Ultraviolet absorption of ozone.

3150 angstroms represents less than one-thousandth of the area under
the total curve. The small energy involved renders the effects pro-
duced by this region of the spectrum the more remarkable.

It is noteworthy that at the earth’s surface the sun’s spectrum ter-
minates very abruptly at about 2900 angstrom units. The spectrum
of the stars and all known heavenly bodies terminates at about this
same wave length, and long ago the conclusion was inevitable that
something in the earth’s atmosphere must be absorbing abruptly at
this point. It is easy to produce much shorter wave lengths from
artificial light sources, and there is no reason to attribute this abrupt
termination to anything characteristic of the emission spectrum of
the sun and stars. More than 50 years ago Hartley correctly attri-
buted this abrupt termination to absorption by the gas ozone, tria-
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN 115

tomic oxygen, located somewhere in the earth’s atmosphere. Since
only traces of ozone could be detected in the atmosphere at the earth’s
surface, Hartley concluded that the ozone must be at a considerable
elevation. In 1920 Fabry and Buisson, at the University of Mar-
seilles, measured the ultraviolet end of the sun’s spectrum very care-
fully, and from these measurements and previous laboratory measure-
ments which they had made upon known amounts of ozone, concluded
that the total amount in the earth’s atmosphere was equal to a layer of
the pure gas about 3 millimeters thick at standard temperature and
pressure. Subsequent measurements have confirmed this, and we now
know that ozone is distributed in the earth’s atmosphere in amounts
dependent upon the latitude and the season of the year. This is im-
portant to us, since fluctuation in this amount of ozone causes a very
large fluctuation in the amount of ultraviolet light reaching the earth’s
surface at the limit of the sun’s spectrum.

The profound effect of ozone is evident from an examination of its
absorption spectrum. This is shown in figure 3 in the form of a plot
of optical density (logarithm to the base 10 of the reciprocal of the
transmission) as a function of wave length. The very rapid increase
in absorption at wave lengths below 3200 angstroms is evident from an
inspection of this curve.

Recently automatic instruments have been devised for measuring
by spectroscopic means the amount of ozone over any given station and
recording this amount from hour to hour. As might be expected, fluc-
tuations do occur, although the average amounts for any given week
or month appear to follow the general seasonal and latitude distri-
bution. In figure 4 is shown the day-to-day variation of ozone in a
zenith atmosphere over Rochester, N. Y. (latitude 43° 7’ N.), for 4
weeks in the summer. The two curves labeled “3050 A.” and “3110 A.”
are simply independent determinations of the same quantity and will
be seen to be very consistent.

Not only the amount of ozone in a zenith atmosphere but the angle
at which the sun’s rays pass through the atmosphere is of importance
in determining the ozone absorption. This will be evident from con-
sidering the path of solar rays through the atmosphere when the sun
is, say, 80° above the horizon. For this condition (a zenith angle of
60°) the light path will be increased by the secant of 60°, or by a
factor of 2. This is referred to as air mass 2, air mass 1 being the
mass of air through which light must travel in passing through a
zenith atmosphere.

A striking example of the influence of sunlight upon man is found
in the disease of rickets. Affecting infants and young children, it
was long known to be associated with dietary deficiencies and par-
ticularly with a deficiency of fats. Cod-liver oil was known to be an
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

important remedy and to be much superior to other fats for this
purpose. In 1890 Palm, observing that rickets was more prevalent
in the Temperate Zones than in the Tropics, and that there appeared
to be seasonal variations, attributed this to the influence of sunlight.
However, for many years thereafter little attention was paid to
Palm’s work, and the relation of light to rickets was considered inci-
dental. In 1919, however, Huldchinsky, working with undernour-
ished children in Vienna following the war, found that rickets could
be cured by exposure of the affected child to ultraviolet light from a
mercury arc. This surprising result was soon confirmed by work-
ers in various parts of the world, notably by Hess and his asso-
ciates. This discovery that exposure of a child to light could com-

3050 A

JUNE, 1940

Ficurgm 4.—Daily variations in quantity of atmospheric ozone.

pensate for a deficiency in diet was of great significance. Closer
attention was directed to the fats, and in 1924 Steenbock and, inde-
pendently, Hess reported that fats and oils which were not curative
in rickets could be rendered potent by exposure to ultraviolet light.
It became evident that the active principle, or vitamin D as it was
called, was being formed from some provitamin by the action of
light. Numerous investigations by Hess and his associates, by Rosen-
heim and Webster, by Windaus, and by others too numerous to men-
tion here, demonstrated that ergosterol, first isolated by Tanret in
1889, is a parent substance from which vitamin D is produced by
ultraviolet radiation.

At first it appeared that only from ergosterol could vitamin D be
formed. However, discrepancies were soon noted in the vitamin-D
potency of irradiated preparations when tested on birds (usually the
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN 117

chicken) as compared to tests on mammals (usually the rat). This
led to the discovery that at least one other substance, 7-dehydro-
cholesterol, could be converted into vitamin D by exposure to light.
Ergosterol is a characteristic plant sterol, while 7-dehydro-cholesterol
is a sterol found in animal substances. It seems probable therefore
that it is 7-dehydro-cholesterol and not ergosterol which is acted upon
when human skin is exposed to sunlight, and so converted into vitamin
D, which, entering the peripheral blood stream, prevents or cures
rickets in the child so exposed. It was first shown by Kon, Daniels,
and Steenbock that the quantum efficiency of the photochemical reac-

eee ERGOSTEROL
vF-T EFFICIENCY

——— 7-DE

HYDRO-
CHOLESTEROL

oO

RELATIVE UNITS
wo

>

ABSORPTION
COEFFICIENTS

COMPARISON OF ERGOSTEROL ABSORPTION
WITH SPECTRAL ANTIRACHITIC EFFICIENY

2500 2600 2700 2800 2900 3000 3100 35200
WAVELENGTH IN ANGSTROMS

FIGURE 5.—Ultraviolet absorption of provitamin sterols and relative antirachitic
reaction.

tion converting the sterol into vitamin D is substantially independent
of wave length, and there is reason to expect such a result. This
would mean that the energy efficiency of the reaction could be arrived
at from the characteristic absorption of the sterols as a function of
wave length. ‘These absorption curves are shown in figure 5, and it
should be necessary only to divide the ordinates by the energy value
of the quantum at each wave length (i. e., multiply the ordinates by
the wave lengths) to obtain the spectral-response curve. However,
such a spectral-response curve would be correct only when the sterol
was irradiated in dilute solution and in the absence of other con-
taminating substances exhibiting masking absorptions in the same
spectral regions. In animal skin the condition of dilution is no doubt
566766—44—_9
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

fulfilled, but many other light-absorbing substances are present. It
is not surprising, therefore, that the spectral response for the anti-
rachitic effect of ultraviolet radiation directly upon the animal’s skin
should be modified somewhat from the response of the pure sterol.
Knudson and Benford have measured this response in albino rats,
their results being shown also in figure 5. The response in human
skin may not be identical with that occurring in the albino rat, but
may well be very similar, so the results of Knudson and Benford pre-
sent the best approximation to date.

In order that we may calculate the antirachitic effect of sunlight °
under a variety of conditions when acting directly upon animal skin,
it is necessary that we know more than the spectral response per unit
energy shown in figure 5. In addition, it is necessary to have the
spectral-energy distribution at the short-wave-length end of the sun’s
spectrum for the several conditions under which we wish to calculate
the effect. Because of the strong selective absorption by ozone in
this region of the spectrum, the energy is dropping rapidly as one
proceeds to shorter wave lengths. For this reason the usual thermal
method for measuring spectral-energy distribution is not as satis-
factory as are certain photographic procedures. In these, suitable
precautions must be taken as have been described elsewhere, and a
double dispersion spectrographic instrument must be used to eliminate
the effects of scattered light. The details of these measurements will
be published elsewhere. The results are shown in figure 6 for the
spectral intensity of solar radiation as received at the earth’s surface
at sea level through a clear zenith atmosphere (air mass 1) for two
ozone quantities. The upper curve is for total ozone in a zenith
atmosphere equal to 2.0 millimeters of the pure gas at standard tempera-
ture and pressure, while the lower curve is for 2.8 millimeters of ozone
under the same condition. These curves have been smoothed to
eliminate the Fraunhofer structure while still preserving the correct
average ordinates over any small wave-length interval. This is to
simplify the graphical integration to be carried out as described below.

In general, sunlight must reach the earth’s surface after passing
obliquely through the earth’s atmosphere at some angle Z with the
zenith. This results in an increase in path through each stratum of
the atmosphere in the ratio of the secant of the zenith angle. The
resultant increase in absorption by the ozone and increase in scattering
by the air molecules can be calculated. The result is shown in the
curves of figures 7 and 8 for a series of air masses (i. e., secants of the
zenith angle), and for two quantities of ozone, 2.0 and 2.8 millimeters
S. T. P. in a zenith atmosphere.

2The writer wishes to acknowledge the assistance of Mrs. F. Dana Miller in making

calculations or antirachitic effects under a research grant from the Wisconsin Alumni Re
search Foundation.
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN 119

The antirachitic effect of sunlight for the several conditions of
ozone and air mass can now be calculated at each wave length by
multiplying the antirachitic response per unit energy (fig. 5) by the
solar energy at that wave length (figs. 7 and 8). This has been done
and the product at each wave length plotted to form the family of
curves in figures 9 and 10. For each condition of ozone and air mass
the solar antirachitic effect is represented by the integral of the

14 Tat Al DREGE

12 SEA LEVEL ZENITH ATMOSPHERE

INTENSITY

2900 000 100
WAVELENGTH IN ANGSTROMS

Ficure 6.—Distribution of energy at the ultraviolet end of the solar spectrum at
sea level through zenith atmosphere (air mass=1.0).

relative efficiency as a function of wave length. This is represented
by the area under the appropriate curve of figure 9 or figure 10. The
functions are not analytic, so the integration must be carried out by
graphical or mechanical means, but this is easily done with the aid
of a planimeter. The results of this integration are plotted in figure
11 in which the antirachitic efficiency of solar radiation is shown as a
function of air mass for 2.0 and 2.8 millimeters of ozone S. T. P. in
the atmosphere.
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The significant feature of the curves of figure 11 is the rapid falling
off of the antirachitic effectiveness of sunlight, with increase in atmos-
pheric ozone and with increase in the air mass resulting from obliquity
of the sun’s rays. For air mass 2 corresponding to the sun 30° above
the horizon it will be noted that the antirachitic effect is less than
one-tenth that of the sun in the zenith under otherwise identical con-

2.0 mm. OZONE

INTENSITY

WAVELENGTH IN ANGSTROMS

Ficurs 7.—Solar spectral-energy for various air masses. (2.0 mm. ozone in
zenith atmosphere.)

ditions. For air mass 3 corresponding to the sun about 20° above
the horizon the effect has fallen to about one-eightieth that of the
zenith sun.

It now becomes possible to predict the antirachitic effectiveness of
sunlight for a clear day at any point on the earth’s surface at any
season and at any time of day, providing only that the zenith ozone
over the station be known. This has been carried out for latitudes
33°, 38°, and 43°, and for the conditions of 2.0 and 2.8 millimeters of
ozone, representing average low and average high ozone quantities
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN NVA

for the Temperate Zones. The results are shown in figures 12 and 13
for clear days at noon as a function of time of year. The scale of
months is for north latitudes, but exactly similar curves will apply
to south latitudes except that the scale for time of year must be
shifted by 6 months from the indicated values. In order to show the
effects of hour of the day at the three selected latitudes and for the

14

2.8mm. OZONE

INTENSITY
a

a

| ee ea

2900 ~ 3000 | 100
WAVELENGTH IN ANGSTROMS

Figure 8.—Solar spectral energy for various air masses. (2.8 mm. ozone in zenith
atmosphere. )

two selected quantities of ozone, it is necessary to plot six families
of curves. These are shown in figures 14 to 19, inclusive. It will be
noted that near midsummer the spread in latitude between 33° and
43° results in only a slight drop in the effectiveness of sunlight near
noon, providing that the ozone is constant. In midwinter the effective
change of latitude is far more important, the 10° difference between
33° and 43° resulting in a change in effectiveness of sunlight of more
than fourfold.
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The seasonal and geographic differences in antirachitic effect are
more impressive when one considers the actual exposure to sunlight
necessary to protect a child against rickets. This figure is not easy
to arrive at, since it is difficult to control the factors in any single
direct experiment with sufficient accuracy. However, there is indirect
evidence from which we may arrive at 15 minutes’ exposure per day
of a nude child to zenith clear-day sunlight under tropical (2.0 milli-
meters ozone) conditions as entirely adequate to protect against
rickets, even in the absence of other vitamin-D intake. A Negro

PRODUCT CURVES OF SOLAR ENERGY
TIMES ANTIRACHITIC EFFICIENCY
2.0 mm OZONE IN ATMOSPHERE

ee ae
ie SE Pam ee
PE OCS ae

Sn (Aad |
HES

RELATIVE EFFIENCY

5000
WAVELENGTH IN ANGSTROMS

F1curE 9.—Product curves of solar spectral energy by antirachitic efficiency. (2.0
mm. ozone in zenith atmosphere. )

child may require somewhat greater exposure because of loss of radia-
tion in the skin pigment, although this is by no means demonstrated.
If we use the above figure of 15 minutes per day, the scale is immedi-
ately set for figures 11 through 19. Thus for sun in the zenith and 2.8
millimeters ozone in the atmosphere, 27 minutes per day (clear sky)
would be required. For midwinter conditions at the higher latitudes
the exposures become so long as to be entirely out of the question.
For example, in midwinter at 48° latitude with 2.8 millimeters ozone
in the zenith atmosphere the exposure required even at noon on a
clear day would be 66 times 15 minutes, or more than 16 hours, and
even with only 2.0 millimeters of ozone in the atmosphere the expo-
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN 123

sure required would be more than 7 hours! Evidently even in ideal
weather one cannot rely upon direct exposure to winter sunlight in
the higher latitudes, and it is upon the winter food supply that the
population must depend except in tropical or semitropical latitudes.
Actually much of the vtiamin D in the food may have been sunlight-
produced, but this topic lies outside of our present discussion.

The calculations thus far have been limited to the three latitudes
33°, 38°, and 43°. In figure 20 is shown a reproduction of a United
States Geological Survey map upon which these three latitudes have

"PRODUCT CURVES OF SOLAR ENERGY r
TIMES ANTIRACHITIC EFFICIENCY
2.8mm. OF OZONE IN ATMOSPHERE

3
|

RELATIVE EFFICIENCY f

5000 5050
WAVELENGTH IN ANGSTROMS

FicurE 10.—Product curves of solar spectral energy by antirachitic efficiency. (2.8
mm. ozone in zenith atmosphere. )

been drawn. It will be seen that these latitudes are fairly represent-
ative of the United States, although significant areas of the country
lies above 48° and below 33°. Similarly in figure 21 latitudes 33° and ©
43° north and south of the Equator have been drawn on a Mercator
projection of the earth’s surface. It will be seen that a substantial
portion of the populated areas is included within these latitude belts.
If one desires the antirachitic effect of sunlight outside these belts it
is only necessary to determine the zenith angle of the sun for the
place, time of year, and time of day with the aid of a nautical almanac.
The secant of this zenith angle determines the air mass from which
the relative antirachitic effect may be determined by reference to
figure 11.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

RELATIVE EFFICIENCY OF SOLAR RADIATION AS
A FUNCTION OF AIR MASS (M)

20mm OZONE

EFFICIENCY

25
AIR MASS

Figure 11.—Variation of solar antirachitic effect with air mass.

100

20mm OZONE IN ATMOSPHERE
12 NOON

EFFICIENCY - RELATIVE UNITS
b
oe

3

SEASONAL VARIATION IN
10 ANTIRACHITIC EFFICIENCY

So

JAN. FEB MAR APR MAY JUNE JULY AUG SEPT. CCT NOV. DEC

Figure 12.—Seasonal variation in solar antirachitic effect for three latitudes.
(2.0 mm. ozone in zenith atmosphere.)
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN 125

SEASONAL VARIATION IN
ANTIRACHITIC EFFICIENCY

28mm OZONE IN ATMOSPHERE
12 NOON

JAN. FEB MAR APR MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT oct NOV. DEC.

Fieurre 13.—Seasonal variation in solar antirachitie effect for three latitudes.
(2.8 mm. ozone in zenith atmosphere.)

100
VARIATION OF ANTIRACHITIC
90. EFFICIENCY WITH TIME OF DAY Sete date
. 3S°N. LAT
80
70
e
=z
> 60
wu
2
%
a 50
& JUNE 22
> JUNE | AND JULY IO
z AUG IZ
= 40 AUG 29
a SEPTI2
rs SEPT 27
30 OCT 12
OCT 28
\ NOV It
20) NOV28
eu DECI2
10

W 12 1
TIME OF DAY

IlicurEe 14.—Hourly variation of solar antirachitic effect. (2.0 mm. zenith ozone,
33° N. latitude.)
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The phenomenon of sunburn is probably of less physiological im-
portance than the antirachitic effect of sunlight, but it has seemed
worth while to calculate the relative erythema production by sunlight
for one latitude, 43°, and for one ozone quantity, 3.0 millimeters S. T.
P. Using the data for erythema reaction per unit energy as a func-
tion of wave length shown in figure 2, the series of product curves
shown in figure 22 have been calculated by the same procedure fol-
lowed in obtaining the curves of figures 9 and 10. The integrals of
these curves as represented by the area under each are shown in figure
23 and are analogous to the results plotted in figure 11. Finally,
in figure 24 are shown the results for erythema reaction under sun-

100

tiihoRat . 71

VARIATION OF ANTIRACHITIC EFFICIENCY
WITH TIME OF DAY

2.0mm OZONE
358’ N.LAT.

JUNE 22
>. a JUNE | AND JULY iO
\-————-MAY | AND AUG IZ

\ PRIS AND AUG29

V \ \ APR. | AND SEPT I2

YY "MAR 15 AND SEPT 27

\ \ MAR. | AND OCT. 12
\

\ FEB 15 AND OCT 28
\ \ FEB. 1 AND NOVI

AND DEC IZ
\
SW |

FiguRE 15.—Hourly variation of solar antirachitic effect. (2.0 mm. zenith ozone,
38° N. latitude.).

EFFICIENCY - RELATIVE UNITS

ff

5 6

i 12 |
TIME OF DAY

light at noon on clear days as a function of time of year for latitude
43° and 3.0 millimeters of ozone in the zenith atmosphere. The ex-
posure to sunlight necessary to produce an erythema varies greatly
among individuals and is dependent upon the condition of the skin.
The skin of a sensitive individual not previously exposed to ultra-
violet radiation will show an erythema reaction if exposed for about
15 minutes to zenith sunlight through 3.0 millimeters of ozone.

In contrast with the effects just discussed, the destruction of bac-
teria by ultraviolet light is a typical example of the influence of
radiation upon micro-organisms. Also it is probable that its impor-
tance to the human race is as great as any of the reactions mentioned
above, for by this means sunlight keeps bacterial growth in check.
Because of the small size of the individual bacterium most of the ultra-
violet radiation incident upon the bacterial cell passes on through,
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN

loo
VARIATION OF ANTIRACHITIC EFFICIENCY
90 WITH TIME OF DAY
2.0mm OZONE
y 43° N.LAT.
BO
70
”
te
z
> 60
uJ
2
%
a 50
i" 4
x JUNE 22
9 JUNE 1} AND
iy 40 MAY | AND
18) APR 15 AND
He APR | AND
ur 30 AR.15 AND
\ AR | AND
\ FEB I5 AND
\—FEB. | AND
20 WA AN. 15 AND
go. JAN. | AND
10
5 6

TIME OF DAY

Ficure 16.—Hourly variation of solar antirachitie effect. (2.0 mm. zenith ozone,

43° N. latitude.)

even in those regions of the spectrum where the specific absorption per
unit thickness of bacterial protoplasm is high. Thus the primary
photochemical reaction which results in the destruction of the organ-
ism may occur anywhere within the bacterial cell, and very possibly

within some components of the cell nucleus.

100
VARIATION OF ANTIRACHITIC EFFICIENCY

ITH TIME OF DAY
90) Mi

2.6mm. OZONE
53" N.LAT.

EFFICIENCY -RELATIVE UNITS

JULY 10
AUG.I2
AUG 29
SEPT. 12
SEPT 27
OCT 12
OCT 23
NOV.I1
NOV 28
DEC i2

FEB.IS AND OCT. 28

FES.) AND NOV. Il

. JAN.) AND DEC.I2

it 12 t
TIME OF DAY

Ficure 17.—Hourly variation of solar antirachitie effect. (2.8 mm. zenith ozone,

33° N. latitude.)

128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

VARIATION OF ANTIRACHITIC EFFICIENCY
WITH TIME OF DAY

28mm OZONE
S8°N. LAT.

—_—_——————J UNE 22
ay ———— JUNE | AND JULY 10
\—_-——— MAY 1 AND AUG.1I2

\ APR. IS AND AUG 29
\Y APR. | AND SEPT 12
’ _—— MAR.15 AND SEPT 27

— 2

EFFICIENCY - RELATIVE UNITS

MAR. | AND OCT 12
FEB.IS AND OCT 2B

. —FEB.! AND NOVI)
, JAN. | AND DEC 12

1 Zhe es SG 7

i 12
TIME OF DAY

FiecureE 18.—Hourly variation of solar antirachitic effect. (2.8 mm. zenith ozone,
38° N. latitude.)

(ele)
VARIATION OF ANTIRACHITIC EFFICIENCY WITH

TIME OF DAY

2.8mm OZONE
43° N.LAT

76

8

JUNE 22

UNE | AND JULY 10
MAY | AND AUG 12
APRS AND AUG29
—APR. | AND SEPT 12
MAR IS AND SEPT 27

EFFICIENCY - RELATIVE UNITS
Beoies

N
oO

FEB. 15 AND OCT 23 |
FEB. | AND NOVII
JAN. 1 AND DEC I2

~
oO

12 4 te ia
TIMEOF DAY

Ficure 19.—Hourly variation of solar antirachitic effect. (2.8 mm. zenith ozone,
43° N. latitude.)
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN 129

Ficurs 20.—Latitude belts across the United States for which solar antirachitic
effects have been calculated.

Fieure 21.—Latitude belts on the earth’s surface for which solar antirachitic
effects have been calculated.
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

43° N. LATITUDE

3.0mm. OZONE

ERYTHEMA (ReL)
o

2900 5200

WAVELENGTH IN ANGSTROMS

Ficure 22.—Product curves of solar spectral energy by erythema efficiency. (3.0
mm, ozone in zenith atmosphere. )

100 eee

30
ERYTHEMA
80
25 70
ae
I=
o.
& 60
Ww
>
= 50
< \
!
Ww
«
40 se
30
20
10
NS a bout are Mae YL ROSA
1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.2 2.4
AIR MASS

FIGURE 23.—Variation of solar erythema effect with air mass. (3.0 mm. ozone in
zenith atmosphere. )
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN 131

As early as 1877 Downes and Blunt investigated the destruction of
putrefactive bacteria by sunlight and made rough measurements of
the relative action of different colors. There followed many investi-
gations of the effect of ultraviolet light on bacteria, but the spectral-
response curve for this reaction was not determined for more than 50
years. It was measured by H. W. Lyall and myself in 1926 and inde-
pendently by Sonne in 1927. We had expected the spectral-response
curve to be quite different for different bacteria, but to our surprise
eight pathogenic and two saprophytic organisms showed surprising
similarity in spectral response, although those selected included cocci,
Gram-negative baccili, and two acid-fast strains. Our most complete

ico

90

80

70

60

SO

40

RELATIVE EFFICIENCY

30

JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP ocT NOV DEG

Ficure 24.—Seasonal variation in solar erythema effect. (3.0 mm. zenith ozone,
43° N. latitude.)

work was done with a strain of Staphylococcus aureus. 'The spectral
response of this organism is shown in figure 25. It is interesting to
note that Sonne’s measurements on the colon bacillus agree almost
perfectly with this curve, although the characteristics of the colon
bacillus are different in every respect from those of Staphylococcus
aureus. More recently similar measurements have been made by
Gates, with good agreement over part but not all of the spectral range.

We may calculate the seasonal variation in the bactericidal effect
of sunlight by following the same procedure already applied to the
antirachitic and erythema reactions. This has been carried out to
form the product curves of figure 26, for the condition of 3.0 milli-
meters of ozone in the zenith atmosphere. The integrals of these
132 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

BACTERICIDAL REACTION

UNITS

RELATIVE

2500 2600 2700 3100 3200

WAVELENGTH IN ANGSTROMS

FIcurE 25.—Variation of bactericidal effect with wave length.

43° N. LAT. TUDE

3.0mm. OZONE

BACTERICIDAL REACTION (Ret)

——]

2900 000 Paty 5100 5200
WAVELENGTH IN ANGSTROMS

FicurE 26.—Product curves of solar spectral energy by bactericidal efficiency.
(3.0 mm. ozone in zenith atmosphere.)
EFFECTS OF SOLAR RADIATION—O’BRIEN 133

curves (i. e., the areas under each curve) are plotted in figure 27,
showing the bactericidal effect of sunlight as a function of air mass
for 3.0 millimeters of ozone in a zenith atmosphere. In figure 28 is
plotted the bactericidal effect as a function of time of year for clear
days at noon, 48° N. latitude. Although the general trend of this
curve with time of year is similar to the curve for antirachitic and
erythema effects, it will be noted that the summer-to-winter differ-
ence is even greater. Because of this the effective bactericidal action
of sunlight is even more dependent upon short air path (sun near

i

30
BACTERICIDAL EFFECT
80
70
60

50

40

RELATIVE EFFICIENCY

30

20

1.0 1 1.4 16 2.0 2.2 2.4

18
AIR MASS

Figure 27.—Variation of solar bactericidal effect with air mass. (3.0 mm. ozone
in zenith atmosphere. )

zenith) than are the antirachitic and erythemal reactions. Thus the
effects of latitude, time of year, and time of day are all more
pronounced.

In spite of the similarity in the spectral sensitivity of different bac-
teria to ultraviolet light, there is a considerable difference in the ab-
solute exposure necessary to destroy different strains. Acid-fast or-
ganisms, such as the tubercle bacillus, are relatively resistant to ultra-
violet ight and require for their destruction an exposure of about 14
minutes to zenith sunlight through 3.0 millimeters of ozone. Certain
Gram-negative organisms, such as the colon bacillus and particularly
Baccillus paratyphosus B, require an exposure of only about 2 min-
utes to sunlight for complete destruction. Most pathogenic bacteria
appear to lie between these two extremes as regard sensitivity to
ultraviolet light. From this the scale can be set for figures 27 and 28.

566766—44—10
134 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

It will be seen that even very resistant bacteria are quickly destroyed
by summer sunlight, but that even the more sensitive organisms will
not be destroyed by all-day exposure to midwinter sunlight in the
higher latitudes.

BACTERIGIDAL EFFECT

RELATIVE EFFICIENCY

AUG G

Figure 28.—Seasonal variation in solar bactericidal effect. (3.0 mm. zenith
ozone, 43° N. latitude.)

It is difficult to evaluate the full significance to the human race of
this solar bactericidal action. Ultraviolet radiation from the sun
and desiccation are the two great natural agencies for destroying bac-
terial growth, and of these the former is probably the more im-
portant. Here again man’s very existence must depend upon ultra-
violet radiation, without which bacteria and other micro-organisms
would crowd him from his place in the sun.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—O’Brien PEATE

1. Using only ultraviolet radiation of wave length 3300-3900 A.

2. Using only infrared radiation of wave length 7600-8000 A.

PHOTOGRAPHS ON PANCHROMATIC FILM OF UNPIGMENTED SKIN
AND MAGNESIUM CARBONATE COMPARISON BLOCK.

«
‘

te ‘i

A is 4
te
VT a
Pw
- »

pt

eee

my Pi ;
CaF larity

‘A d 9
AER OM .
eve neti)
Halen a

THE SEA AS A STOREHOUSE?

By H. F. Armsrrone, D. Sc., F. R. S.

[With 4 plates]

In an island country the quest for relaxation normally brings the
great majority of us to the coast for holidays, where we make ac-
quaintance with the sea and perhaps also with some of its wonders and
the things which live and grow in it. Many people cross the narrow
seas to the continent, in others the urge of discovery takes them across
the oceans: all are conscious of the immensity of the sea and the fact
that it is salt.

Saltness is an indication that substances in some quantity are dis-
solved in the water, largely common salt, which in many lands is won
from the sea by solar evaporation. Sea water contains appreciable
quantities of other salts besides sodium chloride, in particular of mag-
nesium and potassium sulfates and chlorides. More complete analy-
sis has disclosed the presence of quite minute quantities of other ele-
ments present to the extent of 1 part in 1,000 or less, and still others
present in even more minute quantity; and a little reflection shows that
this must be so, for the oceans are the ultimate receptacle of everything
that is washed from the land by the rain and carried by the rivers into
the sea. This includes both dissolved and suspended matter.

The wind and the rain and frost—the agencies of destruction and
denudation—break down the hills and scour the valleys. Acid waters
on the moors, neutral or alkaline waters on the plains, salt water in
the sea, all act to bring into solution traces of the most sparingly solu-
ble substances. The quantity of any one of the rarer constituents of
the earth’s crust in a million parts of sea water is minute and, indeed,
many are only detectable by the most refined methods of the analytical
chemist. Some, indeed, can only be found in the ashes of plants.

About three-fourths of the earth’s surface is water. In bulk this
is estimated to amount to 300 million cubic miles.

A cubic mile seems to be a handy unit for statistics regarding the
content of minerals. It is, however, a gigantic unit, for in round fig-
ures it will contain 6 million tons of magnesia, 4 million tons of potash,

1 Reprinted by permission from Discovery, March 1943.
135
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

117 million tons of common salt, and some 300,000 tons of bromine,
which is present to the extent of less than 70 parts per 1 million of sea
water.

Such quantities, if extracted, would satisfy the world for a con-
siderable time, while a cubic mile of sea is not out of range of a
single plant located on an ocean seaboard. The sea clearly forms
an inexhaustible storehouse of minerals, provided that man can find
out how to recover them individually at prices comparable with the
cost of winning the same substances from the earth.

THE COMPOSITION OF OCEANS

Before describing what has been done in this direction, it is well
to devote a few words to the composition of the oceans. One theory
is that they have been salt from the beginning rather than the alter-
native theory that they have become so by washing out of salts from
the land and gradual concentration by evaporation of the oceans.
This hypothesis is based on the great similarity between the salts of
the ocean and the gaseous products of volcanic eruptions rich in chlo-
rides and sulfates of all kinds. The theory explains the main con-
stituents, though it does not necessarily apply to the trace elements
where any postulate of constancy of composition is untenable.

Apparently the first quantitative analyses of sea water were made
by Lavoisier in 1872.

It transpires that the variations in the proportions of individual
salts to the total salts are very small; sea water may be regarded as of
constant composition, the individual ingredients being considerably
dissociated in the dilute solution. This interdiffusion accounts easily
for the uniformity of composition of sea water throughout the
whole ocean, so that the only appreciable difference from point to
point is the total salinity of the mixed solutions.

In each of the three oceans the salinity is lower in the equatorial
regions where the rainfall is high; there are two maxima—one in the
north, the other in the south tropical belts where evaporation pre-
dominates; at the Poles there are regions of lower salinity. The North
Atlantic maximum is the highest at 37.9 parts per 1,000 salinity; as
a whole, the Atlantic has the highest salinity of 35.37. The average
of the whole surface of the oceans may be taken as 34.5. There is a gen-
eral increase of salinity with depth.

Common salt is essential to both man and beast; we need more salt
as the proportion of meat we eat diminishes. In Britain and else-
where there are large deposits of pure salt resulting from the drying
up of inland seas in past geological ages. This is recovered by mining
or more generally by dissolving the salt underground, pumping up
the brine, and evaporating it. The export of salt from England has
THE SEA AS A STOREHOUSE—ARMSTRONG 137

long been a significant part of our overseas trade: it is the founda-
tion stone of the heavy chemical industry, and salt and the “heavy
chemicals” made from it have helped to make Liverpool one of the
world’s greatest ports.

Less favored countries where, however, evaporation exceeds precipi-
tation of water are driven to making an impure salt from thé sea by
allowing it to evaporate in basins in the heat of the sun until it
crystallizes. This is termed solar salt.

In England the deposits of salt are not capped with beds of mag-
nesium and potash salts, but at Stassfurt in Germany there is a great
thickness of these; and it would seem that in geological times a lake
approximating closely in composition to sea water had dried up
completely here leaving everything behind. Stassfurt in consequence
enjoyed a virtual monopoly in the production of potash salts and of
bromine.

The Dead Sea, and certain lakes in America, represent inland seas
evaporated almost to the point of crystallization in which, however,
the salts have a different composition than in sea water. Sulfates,
for example, are absent from the Dead Sea, a fact which makes the
isolation of the other salts more simple. In such lakes it is possible
to assume that the salt is derived from rivers or underground springs,
which themselves pass through and leach out earlier deposits.

At Seales Lake in California, where evaporation is nearly complete,
the salt crust has the appearance of a frozen waste and is so hard
that a motorcar may be safely driven over it. At first potash and
borax were made from the deposits; a byproduct is burkeite, a remark-
able double salt of sodium carbonate and sodium sulfate. This lake
also serves as a source of more than half the world’s very tiny pro-
duction of lithium salts. Lithium is an odd element; it is allied to
sodium and is beginning to find commercial applications which will no
doubt multiply when it is available in quantity at an attractive price.
Sea water contains about 1 part in 10 million lithium.

BROMINE

Apart from the quite minor amount of solar salt produced, the
mineral reserves of the ocean had not been tapped until a start was
made with the recovery of bromine in 1924. There is the same element
of romance in tapping the resources of the ocean as in turning to
practical use the rare gases of the atmosphere: in both the elements
sought are present in minute proportions, beth are all around us in
unlimited quantities.

Bromine in the past was largely a Stassfurt monopoly and ex-
pensive; it was used in photography, drugs, and dyestuffs in quan-
tities measured in pounds rather than tons. The need for it in
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

quantity arose out of the search for substances which could be added
to petrol to prevent the engines of automobiles knocking. Midgley
solved this problem with a chemical known as tetraethy! lead dissolved
in ethylene bromide—the substance marketed as “Ethyl.” At once
very large quantities of bromine were needed, and a new cheap source
out of the control of the monopoly had to be found.

Work was begun in 1924 by a process which involved the addition
of aniline to chlorinated sea water to form tribromoaniline. After
laboratory trials the process was operated on board a boat, the S. S.
Ethyl, fitted out as a chemical factory.

This sailed off the coast of North Carolina and the voyage was
successful though it was not repeated. The experience gained was
applied to an alternative method which consists in (a) oxidizing
the bromide in brine with clorine, (6) blowing the free bromine out
of solution with air, (c)absorbing the bromine with an alkali car-
bonate solution from which it can be recovered in a commercially
desirable form.

Every stage in this process had to be carefully worked out in the lab-
oratory. Sea water is alkaline, the equivalent of 1 ounce of caustic
soda in 1,000 tons of water. Even this small quantity gives con-
ditions unsuitable to the oxidation. Acid must be added, the right
quantity being 0.27 pound of 96 percent sulfuric acid per ton of sea
water. These figures are quoted to show the layman how sensitive
chemical reactions are to small things, in particular to the acid-alkali
reaction of the medium. The biochemist has of late years discovered
that the reactions in the living body are even more sensitive to these
acid-alkali variations.

The conditions of the operations having been settled by the chemist,
the next step is for the engineer to design a plant (a) to carry out the
chemical changes, (6) to bring the water from the sea in the required
large quantity.

It requires 4,000 gallons of sea water to yield 1 pound of bromine, so
that a factory making 15,000 pounds a day must be able to pump 60
million gallons. The engineering problem of the intake of such quan-
tities, the freeing of the water from extraneous matter and sedi-
ment and its delivery continuously to the plant, all at low cost, has
been one of the first magnitude; it required great ingenuity and fore-
sight. It is clear that it would not do to put the extracted water back
in the sea. It has to be discharged some way off, for example, on the
other side of an isthmus where the set of the currents prevents its
mixing with the untreated incoming water. Obviously the choice of
location of a sea-water plant is both all-important and limited.

When the operations are all finished the bromine is obtained in
liquid form. Its transport requires special bottles and is costly. It
is therefore at once converted on the same site into ethylene bromide.
THE SEA AS A STOREHOUSE—ARMSTRONG 139

The first bromine recovery plant, started in 1934, worked efficiently
from the outset, producing 15,000 pounds of bromine per day; the
yields over all were high. Many thousands of tons are now produced
per annum, and bromine today belongs to the class of substances of
which the cost is reasonable and the supply assured for all time. The
chemical engineer and the Dow Chemical Co. have had their first vic-
tory over the sea.

Calculations indicate that there are nearly 1 billion tons of bromine
in the Dead Sea. As this sea is evaporated to the point of crystal-
lization of the sodium chloride the concentration of bromine is nearly
90 times that in the seven seas, and the ease and cost of its recovery
should be less. However, the possibilities of obtaining low costs are
superior in industrial America to what they are in Palestine; more-
over, any bromine produced here is a long way from the user. It is
probable therefore that bromine from the sea will always remain com-
petitive with that produced in Palestine, while users will have the ad-
vantage of reasonable prices brought about by such rivalry.

Dr. Ernst Bergmann in his paper before the recent British Asso-
ciation Conference on Mineral Resources, reminds us that the Mid-
dle East shows a certain affinity to bromine. He recalls that the an-
tique purple, used in the Imperial toga, manufactured in Sidon and
Tyre, is a coloring matter containing bromine. Tyrian purple is one
of the few known organic bromine compounds found in a living cell.
The purple snail from which it was obtained is one of the several
known strange instances, of which more anon, of selective affinity of
cells to a special element.

Dr. Bergmann makes the interesting suggestion that in past ages
vast numbers of maritime organisms containing bromine have decayed
in the soil in Palestine, and that today the hot springs of the Sea of
Galilee derive their bromine from this source. It is probable that all
the bromine in the Dead Sea is derived from these springs.

MAGNESIUM

This success with bromine partly prepared the way for the next
problem, the recovery of magnesium. On January 21, 1941, the first
commercial ingot made in America from sea water was produced in
the plant of the Dow Company at Freeport, Tex. The urge was again
economic; the demand for magnesium for aircraft parts suddenly
reached vast proportions, for as much as 1,000 pounds may enter into
the manufacture of a single plane. Magnesium, the lightest of metals,
cost a sovereign a pound in 1915 and barely a shilling last year. The
metal was first made around 1869, mainly as a source of high-intensity
light for photographic purposes. Later sundry other uses, including
fireworks, came along. It awaited war to start its use in airplanes,
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

incendiary bombs, and military pyrotechnics. Today tens of thou-
sands of tons are required.

Magnesium in combination is one of the most abundant elements
on the earth’s crust. The most favored source is magnesite, which in
particular is used for refractories. Other sources are dolomite, which
consists of calcium and magnesium carbonates, and carnallite from
Stassfurt, which is a double chloride of magnesium and potassium.

If the metal is to be made by electrolysis—hitherto the favored
process—magnesite has to be converted into chloride by briquetting
the calcined material with carbon and binding substance and exposing
to the action of chlorine in an electric furnace. Since in the course of
electrolysis chlorine is evolved, the process becomes in theory cyclic,
although in practice there is waste through formation of hydrogen
chloride.

Faced with the large new requirements, the sea seemed an obvious
source of magnesium chloride. The knowledge about the intake of
sea water and the location of a plant was available. In addition,
cheap power and plentiful supplies of lime, the other necessary raw
material, were requisites. The latter also came from the sea in the
form of oyster shells dredged from the bottom of Galveston Bay,
which, when washed, go straight to the lime kiln. Some 300,000,000
gallons of sea water per day are drawn into the plant.

Though in practice the recovery of magnesium metal from sea
water involved comparatively simple operations chemically, it is far
from being an easy task economically to utilize a raw material which
contains only about 1 part of magnesium in 800 of water. Quite
unusual chemical engineering methods, equipment, and control, had
to be invented. Such work involves research on the grand scale by
large teams of chemists and engineers. It is Discovery with a capital
D, and costs very large sums of money.

The magnesium is precipitated as hydroxide by means of lime.
This is collected on special filters and converted into chloride using
for this operation a 10 percent aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid
which is largely derived from a later stage of the operation. The
magnesium chloride is evaporated and dried until anhydrous, when
it is electrolyzed in suitable cells to produce metallic magnesium.
Natural gas is used as the source of power and heat. The effluent water
is discharged 7 miles from the intake, which is almost 30 feet below the
surface so as to obtain the highest concentration of salts. The current
of sea water is always in the same direction, which prevents mixing.
There is a bromine factory on the same site and the two effluents, the
one acid and the other alkaline, mingle.

We have been able to describe the work done in the United States
on these materials since it has been widely published in the technical
THE SEA AS A STOREHOUSE—ARMSTRONG 141

press. Their manufacture has not been neglected in this country and
great credit is due to the British Periclase Co. and to Dr. H. H. Chesny,
and no doubt to others of whom we shall hear more after the war,
for their achievements.

There are no oyster shells on the British beach; it was evidently not
the one chosen by the Walrus and the Carpenter for their walk. But
there was a convenient source of dolomite which is quarried and
calcined in shaft kilns and the resulting mixed lime slaked with suf-
ficient water to give a thin slurry.

This slurry is allowed to react with sea water previously treated
and filtered to remove bicarbonate hardness and suspended matter in
a special reaction vessel. The calcium hydroxide precipitates the
magnesium salts in the sea as magnesium hydroxide while the mag-
nesium oxide from the dolomite remains unchanged and in suspension.
The resultant mixture is pumped into large circular tanks, where the
magnesia settles out and the spent sea water passes to waste.

The settled magnesia slurry is filtered off by means of rotary
vacuum filters, and the paste obtained burned in pulverized-coal-fired
rotary kilns. The temperature of firing is varied according to whether
it is desired to produce reactive caustic magnesia for the magnesium
industry, or dead-burnt magnesium oxide for the manufacture of
refractories.

By this ingenious modification magnesium is obtained from dolomite
and from the sea by one and the same operation.

POTASSIUM SALTS

It would be possible to recover a potassium salt from the sea, but
here the economics are not yet favorable. The main use for potash
salts is as fertilizers, which command a low price. Moreover, there
is a source of potash in the Dead Sea, now under rapid development,
which will insure sufficient supply of these to meet world demand at
competitive prices and will destroy the Stassfurt monopoly. There
are also similar sources of supply in the United States. The quantity
of potassium chloride in the Dead Sea is estimated at 2 billion tons.

As the concentration of salts is greater at the bottom of the Dead
Sea than at the surface, the solution is pumped from depth and
evaporated fractionally in shallow natural pans which have an im-
pervious clay bottom. First, common salt crystallizes, then a some-
what impure double salt of potassium and magnesium chloride termed
carnallite, and finally magnesium chloride; the mother liquors go
to the bromine plant. The chemists of the Palestine Potash Co. have
made a very thorough study of the sequence of events involved in the
evaporation and crystallization, and by an ingenious application of
the knowledge of the solid equilibria of the salts concerned coupled
142 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

with first-class chemical engineering technique are able to produce
highly purified potassium chloride.

Over 40 years ago the distinguished Dutch chemist, Van’t Hoff, and
his pupils, made a profound study of the sequence of events on con-
centrating sea water at 25° C. The order in which the various salts
are deposited was found to be in very fair agreement with the geologi-
cal succession as observed at Stassfurt, though there are indications
that these dried up at a slightly higher temperature. These celebrated
deposits consist of an immense thickness of rock salt, interspersed at
fairly regular intervals with narrow bands of anhydrous calcium sulfate
capped with beds rich in magnesium and potassium salts. The beds
are obviously of marine origin, but a constant flowing-in of water con-
taining salts during the period of evaporation must be assumed to
account for the magnitude of the deposit. The inland sea ultimately
dried up completely.

The extensive salt beds in Cheshire have no potassium or magnesium
salts, and it must be assumed that in this locality the remaining waters
went elsewhere before final evaporation.

In the Dead Sea the process of salt accumulation and evaporation
go on at the same time. The level is roughly constant, though it
varies a little from season to season and decade to decade. Evapora-
tion thus keeps pace with the inflow of fresh water. The Jordan and
other rivers bring in 40,000 tons of potassium chloride per annum.
The ratio of the various salts remains constant. The relative quanti-
ties differ from those in the sea and in salt deposits; in particular there
is no sulfate.

The magnesium content of the Dead Sea is some eight or nine times
that of the oceans, but here again it is the relative costs at the two sites
and the cost of transport to and from them that settle the competitive
effort. It is quite clear that given a demand for large quantities of
magnesium its manufacture from the ocean will continue.

Dr. Bergmann and the Palestine Potash Co. draw an attractive
picture of the potentialities of establishing a large chemical industry
there from which the markets in the Middle and Far East can be
supplied. The factors are there—and who knows what the future
may produce?

PHOSPHATES

It may well be that the minerals in the sea can be considered in two
classes, namely, (a) those present in constant proportion to each other
and in relatively large amount, i. e., the salts formed from the elements
sodium, potassium, magnesium, chlorine, bromine, sulfur in the form
of sulfates, and (0) those present in traces and though universal are
possibly in variable amount locally. Fresh supplies of these are being
THE SEA AS A STOREHOUSE—ARMSTRONG 143

received all the time from the land and returned, as we shall see, to the
bottom of the ocean.

Analyses of sea water showing the amount of the rarer minerals
are so far scanty, and it cannot, for example, be said that a particular
compound is present everywhere to the same extent. Evidence is
also lacking whether some of them are accumulating or whether they
are being deposited either as such or after absorption into the struc-
ture of some marine organism. The occurrence of minerals in veins
or lodes in sedimentary rocks gives support to the idea of deposition.
Moreover, the vast deposits of limestone and chalk so characteristic
of southern England are all derived from organisms which have
taken up the traces of calcium salts from the sea. Elsewhere calcium
has been deposited as sulfate.

At this stage therefore one can state purely as a working hypothesis
that while the ocean is constant in composition in regard to its main
constituents it is variable and even local in regard to the trace
elements.

Quite another problem is the fate of those minerals the world
over which are constantly reaching the sea either from sewage or by
the leaching out of cultivated lands. While these in the aggregate
total far less than what is produced by denudation, they are of im-
portance because they represent the constituents which are of primary
value to man.

One of the most interesting of these is phosphate, of which the
mineral deposits are limited in amount and may well become ex-
hausted. Many of the agricultural soils of the world are definitely
short of phosphates and their crop-bearing qualities impaired in
consequence. A new widely distributed source of phosphate would
therefore be of great value and importance.

It has been calculated that the sewage from 5 million people is
equivalent to 17,000 tons of rock phosphate in a year, and this happens
to be the quantity present in the annual export of meat from New
Zealand, which Dominion is the loser of the same amount. The popu-
lation of Great Britain discards as sewage the equivalent of 150,000
tons of rock phosphate, most of which reaches the sea. An estimate
of the annual losses of phosphate from all sources to the sea in the
United States amounts to the equivalent of 60 million tons of rock.
The world’s consumption of phosphate rock is said to be 18 million
tons; there are of course other sources of phosphatic fertilizers.

The question may well be asked, what is happening to the phos-
phate; is it being concentrated and removed or deposited? Here is
an interesting problem for study. The concentrations of nitrates,
phosphates, and silicates in sea water are subject to considerable
fluctuation depending on the activity of the marine organisms, and
144. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

although the absolute figures may appear insignificant these fluctua-
tions may have a strong effect on the population of the sea. Indeed,
this is subject to regular cyclic changes very pronounced in planktonic
forms.

The annual crop of plankton depends on the amount of phosphates
and nitrates, and there is an apparent relation beween the quantity
of phosphate available at the beginning of each year and the number
of young fish which have had enough food and survived during the
ensuing summer months. In temperate seas almost all these salts have
been used up during the summer and continued growth depends on
new supplies brought up from below by vertical mixing caused by
convection currents during the winter, when a rather thorough re-
newal takes place.

The annual crop of plankton depends on the amount of phosphates
and nitrates, and there is an apparent relation between the quantity of
phosphate available at the beginning of each year and the number of
young fish which have had enough food and survived during the ensu-
ing summer months. In temperate seas almost all these salts have
been used up during the summer and continued growth depends on new
supplies brought up from below by vertical mixing caused. by convec-
tion currents during the winter, when a rather thorough renewal takes
place.

SOFTENING SEA WATER

The chemist is already searching for materials capable of selectively
absorbing and retaining substances present in small quantities in
large volumes of water. Such base-exchanging materials are widely
used in the softening of hard waters, a process which involves the
replacement of soap-destroying and scale-forming calcium and mag-
nesium by relatively innnocuous sodium. Natural zeolites were first
used for this purpose and later supplemented by artificial zeolites
and by sulfonated carbonaceous materials. These last offer the addi-
tional advantage of replacing the calcium or magnesium with hydro-
gen instead of sodium if desired. In this way the dissolved salts can
be removed altogether instead of merely replaced. Such a process
is particularly valuable in water for boilers. They are made by treat-
ing coal or lignite with strong reagents such as fuming sulfuric acid,
sulfur trioxide, chromic acid, etc. The active group in these zeolites is
believed to be a sulfonic acid group.

Much the same principle explains the action of polyhydric phenol
formaldehyde resins. These contain hydrogen (in an hydroxyl group)
which readily goes into solution to replace calcium or sodium ions
and forms acids. Such resins are reported as physically more stable
and faster in action than the other softeners mentioned. There is
another group of resins described as amine-formaldehyde, which
THE SEA AS A STOREHOUSE—ARMSTRONG 145

achieves actual removal of the acids just mentioned. The mechanism
is obscure, but it may include both surface absorption and reaction of
the acids with the amine group. Resin treatment may convert an
ordinary hard water into something approaching distilled water.

Naturally experiments have been made along these lines with sea
water with the hope of being able to convert it into drinking water
for shipwrecked mariners in apparatus small enough to be carried in
lifeboats. The amount of salt in the sea makes this problem a very
difficult one and the solution is not yet in sight.

It seems clear that in these base exchangers the chemist has useful
tools to effect the concentration of small quantities of dissolved sub-
stances. Some technical applications are already known, but we
would illustrate what it is hoped to achieve by citing some results
obtained with copper by Professor Furnas and R. H. Beaton working

at Yale.
COPPER

The ideal conditions using carbonaceous zeolites have been deter-
mined. The absorption for copper is a function of the ratio of cop-
per ions to hydrogen ion concentrations, or in more simple language
there are ideal conditions of acidity favoring the transfer of copper
from solution to zeolite. The collection of copper is complete and
takes place at a rapid rate of flow of the very dilute solution over
the columns of the exchanger. The recovery of the copper when the
zeolite is saturated is effected by fairly strong solutions of sulfuric
acid. At the same time the zeolite is regenerated for another cycle.
There remains as final product a strong solution of copper sulfate.

Putting the results in plain figures rather than in the form favored
by the chemist, it appears that a solution which contained 1 pound of
copper in 6,300 pounds of water is turned into one of copper sulfate
containing 1 pound of copper in 6.87 pounds of water. To do this
1.54 pounds of sulfuric acid (100 percent strength) are necessary, and
simple arithmetic indicates that 1 pound of acid performs the same
duty as the evaporation of 4,200 pounds of water. This illustrates
the tremendous difference in energy requirements between the base
exchange process and evaporation for the concentration of very dilute
solutions and is evidence of the unique possibilities of the use of
zeolites.

The Yale achievement of increasing the concentration of copper
in dilute solutions is rivaled by that of the oyster which we must be
prepared to treat with greater respect after learning that it gargles
a barrel of water per day. Around the British Isles and in certain
sections of the Atlantic coast oysters become green due to the forma-
tion of a pigment containing copper. The amount of copper which
an oyster can accumulate is variable; it varies in the Cape Cod variety
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

from 0.16 to 0.24 mg. per oyster, and from 1.24 to 5.12 mg. per oyster
in Long Island Sound, where the average is 2.5 mg. This last figure
has enabled someone to calculate that in Long Island Sound the
oysters accumulate about 7.5 tons of copper every year from the sea.

The average content of copper in the sea appears to be of the order
of 0.01 part per 1 million. There is more copper in the fresh water
coming into Long Island Sound than in the sea; indeed, the amount
there fluctuates between 1 part per 1 million at high water and 0.5
part per 1 million at low tide.

Copper salts apparently have a peculiar effect on oyster larvae,
inducing their attachment to the substratum and initiating their
metamorphosis. The result is that the best settling areas are found
on bottoms affected by fresh water, while natural oyster beds occur
mainly in the mouths of rivers. It has been estimated in the United
States that 200 tons of copper are lost in sewage each year per 1 mil-
lion people, together with 50 tons each of such metals as magnesium,
lead, aluminium, and titanium. The 10 million people of New York
City provide on this recovery ample copper for their oysters.

Copper is well known as the metal in the respiratory pigment,
haemocyanin, which is present in lobsters, shrimps, crawfish, and
other shellfish and plays the same part as iron does in haemoglobin,
the respiratory pigment of human red blood corpuscles. It is found
in sardines, herrings, salmon, and other sea animals, and is obviously
quite an essential element in marine life notwithstanding its lowly
proportion in the sea.

A considerable proportion of the trace elements seem to be con-
cerned in the life history of marine organisms. Where there is plenty
of an element the organisms flourish, where it is scanty they are ab-
sent. When the organisms flourish they live their allotted span and
die, their skeletons falling to the depths of the ocean and decom-
posing into their constituents. Where there are vertical currents the
trace elements are brought to the surface once more and there is
renewed growth of organism; when there is no upward current a
deposit is formed rich in the trace element. New reactions resulting
in the formation of sedimentary rocks take place. We pass from
the science of biology to geology. Some of these elements enter direct
into the structure of the organism, others—in particular the heavy
metals—are believed to be largely taken out of solution by absorption
on the surface of the protoplasm, a purely physical phenomenon.
This applies to gold and silver.

GOLD

A matter in which the more credulous portion of the public is inter-
ested is the possibility of obtaining gold from the sea. Gold is said to
THE SEA AS A STOREHOUSE—ARMSTRONG 147

be present to the extent of 1 part in 1 billion (1 mg. per cubic meter),
but the Haber expedition found very much smaller amounts—often
none. Gold has actually been extracted from the sea during a month’s
working at one of the American bromine plants, but the cost of doing so
was several times more than the value of the gold and it would appear
that it will always be cheaper to mine gold in South Africa and else-
where even when the present mines are exhausted and the reefs have to
be followed deeper into the earth at an increased cost of production.

Gold is probably one of the elements which does not stay in the
sea, but is being removed by absorption onto the surface of organisms
and taken down to the bottom. In agreement with this the bottom
sludges obtained by dredging in certain localities contain very much
larger quantities of gold than there is in the sea. Indeed, the amount
is most variable; estimates in the literature vary from 23 to 1,200
tons of gold in 1 cubic mile of sea.

One may perhaps answer this interesting question by saying that
gold will continue to be mined rather than won from the sea, particu-
larly since it has few uses other than as a financial token.

IODINE

An element of universal distribution in air, sea, and land is iodine
which is of fundamental importance alike to man, animals, and plants.
It is a constituent of the thyroid gland and if we lack it in sufficient
quantity we are afflicted by goitre. Many marine plants have the
power of concentrating it, thus the dry matter of deep-water sea-
weed, such as Laminaria, contains as much as 0.5 percent. Iodine was
in fact first discovered by Courtois in 1811 in the ash of sea kelp.
Kelp, or Varech as it is called in France, has been used for many years
for the commercial extraction of iodine even though this practice
cannot compete economically with the production of iodate from the
caliche in Chile. Certain coral species are said to contain up to 8
percent of iodine and it is of interest that it is present both here and
in the bath sponge in the organic state as di-iodo-tyrosine.

The question of the form of iodine in the sea is still indefinite: it
may well be organic. The sea contains 0.001 percent and is much
richer in this rarest of the halogens than the land. It is obviously
in a continual state of change, being oxidized and reduced, and pass-
ing into marine plants and animals. When the seaweed moves lazily
to and fro at our feet large quantities of iodine are being withdrawn
from circulation. Some of it is constantly being lost through vapori-
zation into the atmosphere, and this is why people living sufficiently
near the coast, as the great majority of the population of this island
do, do not suffer from goitre in the same way as the population of the
great central plains of the United States.
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943
ARSENIC AND CALCIUM

The arsenic in the sea exists apparently in organic form and, like
jodine, is concentrated in animals and plants. The lobster has 40-50
parts per 1 million and Laminaria twice as much.

There are many points of interest connected with the calcium in the
sea; in fresh water it is the most abundant of the three cations—cal-
cium, magnesium, and sodium; in sea water it is the least abundant
as all the time animals and plants are removing it, a fact to which the
white cliffs of Dover bear abundant testimony. It is related to the
carbon dioxide content of the oceans which is some 15 to 30 times the
amount present in the atmosphere, and it may be well that the carbon
dioxide content of the air is regulated by the oceans acting as a reser-
voir. There is a continual exchange between the air and the surface
of the sea which, among other things, controls the acidity of the sea
water to which much of the life of the ocean is acutely sensitive.
Further, in the sea, as on land, plants use carbon dioxide as the basic
source of carbon for the building up of organic compounds.

When the carbon dioxide in solution in sea water is reduced, the
conditions are favorable for the deposition of calcium carbonate. The
building of shells by animals which live on the sea bottom and of the
smallest Protozoa is an interesting subject. It accounts for an an-
nual deposition of 1,400 million tons of calcium. Shells are of two
classes, those containing calcium carbonate alone or with magnesium
carbonate, and those containing calcium phosphate. As yet we have
no clue to the reactions involved in building shells. One minor point
is that in tropical waters the percentage of magnesium carbonate is
higher. :

The relative abundance of the alkaline earths in the sea in the order
calcium, strontium, barium, is about 4000:100:1. The temperature of
the water may also have an effect on the presence of strontium in-
stead of, or together with, calcium in shells. In very cold waters
strontium may replace calcium and there is a report of a radiolarian
from the Antarctic whose shell is composed almost entirely of stron-
tium carbonate. In other shells both are present in much the same
proportion as that in which they occur in sea water.

The sea is the greatest potential source of raw materials. It con-
tains traces of every element ready to hand so that marine plants or
animals can adapt them to their purpose. There is true symbiosis be-
tween animal, vegetable, and mineral. Our approach to this subject
has been from the mineral aspect, to ascertain what minerals can be
economically won from the sea in competition with land sources of
the same materials deposited in bygone geologic ages. The sea gives
us a great quantity of food in fish of all kinds. The study of these is
THE SEA AS A STOREHOUSE—ARMSTRONG 149

an important branch of science, for it is certain that in times to come
we shall not only require more fish but make better use of the catch.
The great medicinal value of the liver oils as a source of vitamins is
an example. Less use is so far made of seaweeds, but here also re-
search is beginning to show that novel and perhaps useful and valuable
substances are present, and before long there will have been worked
out methods of harvesting the weed and fabricating diverse products
from it.

566766—44——_11
ae

}
bi Ati

sigh

i hich) iV
Ja oe
mnt nna J
ara,

he iit
ren, we

th ‘ AN
ngs oy |
i ae: Ve
nut pita tia at

Aa
Ay i 1

he i. Hi

site

i
ry
ity

iN, tae | Hh
ph Nya

i NM
tha H $i! i: ‘"
A

iv

‘og Aungusy-uojddy *q ,,“Adsturey) ofuBs1ouy UT SSUIPBOY [B1IVI[O.,, WLOIJ poonpoidey )

"yIOK MON *
"YOINSAWY AO ANVdWOD TIVWOINAHD MOQG-TAHLA SHL AO LNV 1d ANINOYSE SHL

| SLV1d Su01]SULIW —"¢p6 | ‘qaodayy uRTUOsy WIG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Armstrong PLATE 2

1. SETTLING TANK, WHICH HAS A CAPACITY OF 2,000,000 GALLONS OF WATER
AND APPROXIMATELY 1,000 TONS OF MAGNESIUM HYDROXIDE.

(Courtesy of British Periclase Co.)

2. THE ROTARY KILNS, WHICH ARE 160 FEET LONG AND 10 FEET IN DIAMETER,
EACH BURNS APPROXIMATELY 300 TONS CF MAGNESIA PER WEEK.

(Courtesy of British Periclase Co.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Armstrong PEATE 3

A REFINERY IN SOUTH PALESTINE.
(Courtesy of Palestine Potash, Ltd.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Armstrong PLATE 4

EVAPORATION PANS IN THE PALESTINE POTASH PLANT.
(Courtesy of Palestine Potash, Ltd.)
PROGRESS IN NEW SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS’

By HERBERT R. MAUERSBERGER
Technical Editor, Rayon Textile Monthly

It is again my privilege to report on the subject of Progress in New
Synthetic Textile Fibers. My previous report made on October 17,
1940, has been reproduced in the General Appendix of the 1941 An-
nual Report of the Smithsonian Institution, showing that our Gov-
ernment takes cognizance of our activities in identification, nomen-
clature, and technology of our new textile fibers and materials. It
also appeared in the American Society for Testing Materials Stand-
ards on Textile Materials.”

The information in the present paper is an addition to that given in
the previous one. Much of the previous information is today quite
inadequate, so fast has this industry grown and these developments
taken place. My information has been obtained from sources be-
lieved to be authentic and reliable. Some of these developments are
already well known and are only included for the record; others have
taken place quietly and may have escaped notice or attention.

Some of them are gigantic and could be dealt with at great length,
which is not permitted here, whereas others are still in the formative
stage and data must be withheld owing to the war. No matter what
your own experience is with these individual fibers, or what your opin-
ion of them may be, remember at all times that practically all these
fibers, yarns, and materials are custom-made to meet any domestic
technological demand that may arise. Their versatility of use and
flexible properties have been of tremendous value in the war effort
and will be after the war.

IMPORTANCE IN WAR EFFORT

Even in your fondest dreams could you imagine that insect and
mosquito screens could be woven actually better with a synthetic
monofilament yarn than with copper wire? Again, just imagine for
a second where we would be in this war if it had not been for nylon

1 Presented at the March 1943 meeting of Committee D-13 on Textile Materials. Re-
printed by permission from Amer. Soc. for Testing Materials Bull. No. 122, May 1943.
? Abstracted in Amer, Soc. for Testing Materials Standards on Textile Materials, p. 351,
October 1941,
151
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

parachutes and shroud lines, high-tenacity rayon bomb chutes,
“Bubblfil” life preservers, Vinyon screen printing cloths, nylon tooth
brushes, rayon paint brushes, and Velon or plastic-coated window
screens ?

These certainly are not laboratory or experimental ghosts or guinea
pigs; they are absolute realities and accomplished facts! A fine
tribute to American ingenuity and the product of arduous and per-
sistent research by American chemists, chemical engineers, and tech-
nologists.

Time and space limitations preclude the inclusion in this paper of
many technical details, and only the most important and outstanding
advances in new synthetic fibers can be given. Only those fibers
that have gone beyond the experimental stage and are in actual pro-
duction now or will be immediately after the war are dealt with.

Nothing new or of interest can be reported on nylon, fibroin, fibers
from corn, chitin, ossein, lichenin, Iceland moss, alginates, or agar-
agar. There are, however, developments of great significance in the
protein-base fibers such as casein and soybean, which have been de-
veloped to a considerable extent in the past 3 years. There has also
been a rapid advance in the vinyl resin group and in the thermoplastic
resin groups.

THERMOPLASTIC RESINS

When Dow Chemical Co. produced saran in 1939 (mentioned only
briefly in my 1940 paper), no one believed that it would have any
significant possibilities in the textile industry. It has seen many new
textile applications since then.

The raw materials for these monofilament yarns are a group of
resins from unsymmetrical dichlorethylene, known as vinylidene
chloride resins, made from petroleum and brine. Ethylene is made
by cracking petroleum, while chlorine comes from the electrolysis of
brine. They are combined to form trichlorethane, which is converted
with lime into the vinylidene chloride monomer. This product can
be readily polymerized to form the long-linear-straight chain poly-
mers. By careful selection of copolymers and control of the poly-
merization conditions, many different polymers can be formed. These
resins range from a flexible, moderately soluble material, having a
melting point of about 158° F. to a hard, tough thermoplastic, having
a softening point of 350° F. or more. The basic resin is odorless,
tasteless, and a nontoxic powder.

One of the several methods of extrusion is the one of crystal orien-
tation, which produces long continuous monofilaments, tapes, bands,
and ether shapes. The oriented form is produced by extrusion, sub-
sequent plastic deformation as by stretching, and by heat treatment.
SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS—-MAUERSBERGER 153

The material may be heat treated after or during stretching to affect
the desired degree of crystallization. It produces monofilament yarns
of considerable toughness and tensile strength, abrasion resistance,
and chemical resistance to water, acids, alkalies, and many organic
solvents.

Little of textile interest was done with these yarns until Mr. Sted-
man, of Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., Akron, Ohio, took up the
development and gave the name “Velon” to these products and estab-
lished the Velon Department. A unit for production was set up at
the Worldbestos Plant in Paterson, N..J., where monofilament yarns
are being made as fine as 0.007 inch in diameter running from 10,000
to 12,000 yards to the pound. Experiments for the extrusion of
multifilament yarns are under way and it is expected that yarns as
fine as 100 denier can be produced eventually.

At first, flat continuous bands were made to imitate rattan in the
seat covers of buses and subway cars, and next, shoetop fabrics were
woven for evening and sport shoes, using the Velon threads as warp
and cotton yarns for filling.

As soon as round, monofilament yarns of sufficient fineness were
produced, Mr. Stedman interested August Hafner, president of Haf-
ner Associates, who is a well-known specialty and experimental weav-
ing expert in this country, to work out the textile possibilities. Mr
Hafner could see the potentialities of these yarns at once, and sug-
gested their use for handbag, trimming, and millinery fabrics of un-
usual color, design, and weave variations.

Then came the war with its restrictions on copper, steel, aluminum,
and metals in general. This brought about replacements of metals
in making mosquito and fly screens. These fly screens are now made
successfully with vinylidene chloride resin yarns in 16 by 16, 12 by 12,
and even 20 by 21 mesh. Window screens made from this yarn are
supposed to provide better vision due to their greater transparency.
At present, it is restricted for civilian use and its application in dress
goods and wearing apparel will have to await the end of the war.

NEW ELASTIC VINYON E

Late last year, the Vinyon Department of American Viscose Corpo-
ration in addition to Vinyon filament yarn, explained in my earlier
paper, offered a new vinyl resin yarn with considerable elastic prop-
erties known as Vinyon E. It possesses many characteristics of rub-
ber and opens an entirely new field of applications. For some pur-
poses it has been found superior to rubber, because it has exhibited
better resistance to sunlight, tropical heat, and humidity and is not
affected by body acids. At present it is restricted to military uses,
where it replaces rubber. However, after the war we will see many
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

textile applications such as elastic webbing, tapes, cords, girdles,
brassieres, surgical stockings, suspenders, and supporters, and many
articles now made of sponge rubber.

CASHIN FIBER

The next remarkable development has been in casein fiber. The
National Dairy Products Corporation has further developed and made
remarkable progress with its trade-named product “Aralac.” The
company has now formed Aralac, Inc., an entirely new division of the
National Dairy Products Corporation, which has increased its pro-
duction almost eightfold since 1940.

The original 4,000-pound-a-day plant at Bristol, R. I., was moved in
July 1941 to Taftville, Conn., with an output of 15,000 pounds per
day. The product, originally used by the felt-hat trade, was then
investigated by textile manufacturers. The advent of the war with its
WPB restrictions on civilian wool use boomed interest in Aralac, so
that in 1942 the plant capacity was doubled to 30,000 pounds per day.
The felt usage being relatively stable, a much larger percentage of this
fiber now goes to the textile trade.

Aralac is offered in finenesses corresponding approximately to 50’s
60’s, and 70’s wool grades and in staple lengths from 1% to 6 inches.
Specialty uses include stuffing for pillows, comforters, and quilted
goods, interlining for cool-weather garments, and protection for
milady’s hair, when it is given a permanent wave. The last-mentioned
is in the form of a highly crimped combed top, and is known under
the trade name “Wavecrepe.”

Casein, the basic raw material from which Aralac is made, is a by-
product of the milk industry. National milk production is upward
of 117 billion pounds of milk annually. About 50 percent of this is
skimmed for its cream. The skim milk thus formed yields over
1 billion pounds of casein a year or over 3 million pounds of casein a
day, a pound of casein making roughly 1 pound of Aralac fiber.

Casein fiber, unlike nylon, Vinyon, and acetate rayon, is made by a
wet spinning process, somewhat similar to viscose rayon. Even these
two processes are similar only at one point, namely, the extrusion
through a spinnerette into a coagulating bath. Before this point,
the Aralac process is much simpler than viscose; afterward, it is
many times more complicated. The casein is dispersed in water by
means of an alkali; the dispersion is clarified, spun, coagulated, and
the tow treated to give the filaments flexibility and hot-water resist-
ance. The fiber is then washed, dried, cut to staple length, and baled
for shipment to textile mills.

The properties of Aralac are in some instances similiar to those of
wool and it is being used entirely in mixtures with wool, rayon, and
SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS—MAUERSBERGER 155

cotton fibers. It is not affected by organic solvents. It is not thermo-
plastic below charring temperatures. It withstands sulfuric-acid car-
bonization as well as wool. Its alkali resistance at higher temperatures
is somewhat lower, so low temperatures and mild alkaline or neutral
detergents are recommended for scouring and washing. Considerable
research has been done on dyeing this fiber and the dyeing problem
is now well in hand.

Uniformity has made rapid strides and is now well under control.
Being an animal base, it burns with the same odor and bead formation
as wool and silk. Its strength, both dry and wet, is the same as last
reported, about 60 and 20 percent, respectively, that of wool. Regain
at 70° F. and 65 percent relative humidity is 12.6 percent. Commer-
cial regain is established at 13 percent.

The largest textile use of Aralac at present is in dress goods, but it
is expanding into other uses, where a resilient, lofty hand is desired.
The hat trade absorbs large quantities and practically every man’s felt
hat in this country and Canada, which has been made within the past
3 years contains some Aralac fiber.

It looks as if this fiber will go far, especially under present war
conditions and with pressing needs for fiber conservation in the textile
industry.

SOYBEAN FIBER

Ford Motor Co. of Dearborn, Mich., has considerably enlarged
the production of this staple fiber which was explained quite fully
in my 1940 paper. The company has now given this staple fiber
the trade name “Soylon,” and I understand is offering it to the cotton
and worsted spinning, weaving, and knitting trade in volume. Robert
A. Boyer has been in charge of this development at Dearborn and
reports that the new plant has now reached 5,000 pounds a day or
1,825,000 pounds annually. All machinery and equipment were
designed by Ford engineers and are supposed to incorporate the
latest mass-production principles and devices. The fiber has been
improved in strength and other physical, chemical, and microscopical
properties.

PEANUT PROTEIN FIBER

It appears that casein of animal origin and soybean of vegetable
base points to the future use of other vegetable proteins for textile
fiber manufacture. An instance is a textile staple fiber from peanut
protein.

Reports indicate that Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd., of Glas-
gow, Scotland, has done considerable research work, and D. K. Baird

*Since delivery of this paper Ford Motor Co. has sold this entire equipment to The
Drackett Co. of Cincinnati, Ohio, and has discontinued the manufacture of this fiber.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

of the above company brought a sample of peanut protein fiber and
cloth (made of 50 parts peanut fiber and 50 parts wool) to this
country in 1939.

I am informed by the New York office of Imperial Chemical In-
dustries, Litd., that this work is at present still in the experimental
stage. There has been no commercial development of the fiber in
England or in any other country, neither could they state when such
commercial development is likely to be achieved.

The only public knowledge of this work is in United States patent
No. 2,230,624, applied for on February 4, 1939, and granted on Febru-
ary 4, 1941, to Andrew McLean, Saltscoats, Scotland, and assigned
to Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd., England. There are seven
claims.

From what I have seen in very small samples the fibers have an
excellent appearance, are softer than wool and fine, and take dyes
even better than wool. It might be stated also that the above
company has produced satisfactory fiber from castor seed and edestin,
a crystalline globulin found in many edible seeds such as wheat,
rye, maize, etc. This indicates that we may see more of these
protein fibers after the war.

PLASTIC-COATED TEXTILE YARNS

Another unusual development, which has gone forward quietly and
is now assuming considerable proportions and importance in the war
effort, is the coating of cotton, rayon, and fiber-glass yarns with in-
finitely fine coatings of plastic solutions to give them added and almost
unlimited strength, brightness or dullness, color, to make them com-
pletely waterproof and moisture-resistant, flame-retarding or self-ex-
tinguishing, or to make them resistant to mild acids, perspiration, oil,
and grease, as desired. This may seem difficult of accomplishment but
is now a reality and has found many interesting and technical applica-
tions in the textile industry.

It is the invention of two Frenchmen, Roumazeilles and Girard, and
was patented in France in 1925 and in the United States in 1930. The
American patent rights to the now-called Plexon Process were pur-
chased by Freydberg Bros.-Strauss in 1938. The first Plexon yarns
were introduced here in 1939 after making many improvements in the
methods and machinery required. At first quite expensive, the speeding
up of the process and finding suitable and practical plastic formula-
tions resulted in price reductions, which now brings these yarns within
reach of many new applications.

In 1942 the entire procedure was revamped again, both as to ma-
chine construction and speed of production, so that today these yarns
SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS—-MAUERSBERGER L57

are made five times as fast as on the original French machine, a tribute
to American engineering practice and genius.

It is possible by this process to apply as few coatings as 6 or as many
as 24, depending on the ultimate use of the thread. It is possible, for
instance, to make a plastic-coated yarn as fine as 0.008 inch in diameter
and up to approximately 0.09 inch in diameter. The dimension of
the uncoated yarn could be almost anything within this range. It is
possible to get an absolutely round thread by using graduated round
disks. It is also possible to obtain different shapes such as elliptical,
triangular, or square threads by using dies shaped to these forms. The
process also envisions the application of plastic coatings and impreg-
nations to flat tapes, bands, cords, and even wires.

In addition to shaping the coating, the yarns can be made in various
finishes. They can be made stiff or soft, or any graduation in between.
They can be made transparent, translucent, or opaque, smooth or rough,
by changing the plastic coating. Color ranges take in the entire scope
of pigments available, the current color line consisting of more than
120 different shades. Such plastic-coated yarns can be made com-
pletely waterproof, moisture-resistant, verminproof, weatherproof,
rotproof, flameproof, as well as resistant to mild acids, perspiration,
oil, grease, gasoline, and even to withstand extremes of temperatures
as in tropical or Arctic climates.

Such plastic-coated yarns can be and have been woven, knitted,
braided, twisted, plaited, or crocheted into many types of sheer and
dress materials, drapery, auto upholstery, slip covers, curtains, hand-
bags, and shoe fabrics. A notable contribution to the war effort was
made by developing a special type of coated yarn as a complete sub-
stitute for steel and copper wire in the weaving of insect and fly screens.
Through intensive research a Plexon wire yarn was perfected, which
used noncritical materials both in the support (a cotton yarn) and in
the chemical formulation of the coating. A stiff, wirelike coated
cotton yarn was introduced to the insect-screen industry, woven on
ordinary wire looms without many change-overs or adjustments. The
resultant insect screen was tested by the National Bureau of Standards
and found completely satisfactory. These screens will not rust, can
withstand high tropical temperatures, and require no painting, lac-
quering, or brushing, and are in actual use now.

While there are several other developments, most of these are in the
formative or experimental stages, and they may not bear fruit until
sometime after the war. However, they bear watching. It may be
pointed out here that America at this rate need never again experience
a shortage of textile fibers will have a greater diversification of
fibers for every purpose, demand, or use after this war.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

NEW CLASSIFICATION OF MAN-MADE FIBERS

Concurrent with these facts given in this and my previous paper
and as a summary thereto, I wish to present a new classification for all
man-made fibers, which, I believe, will aid in clarifying this picture
and serve to place the fibers in a logical grouping.

In the past few years, it has become more and more apparent that
the word “synthetic” is not the best or an all-inclusive word for the
fibers I have discussed but has been used for lack of another or more
suitable word or words. It has become very clear to me that we have
now two distinct types or groups of man-made fibers.

One large group distinctly derives from natural sources such as wood
pulp, cotton linters, cow’s milk, soybeans, peanuts, and silicate glass.
I should like to term these “regenerated natural fibers.” (See fig. 1.)
They are not really synthetic at all. The dictionary defines synthetic as
“of or pertaining to synthesis” and again synthesis “is the art or
process of making a compound by combining elementary ingredients.”

Furthermore, I suggest that these regenerated natural fibers be
broken down into three distinct subdivisions according to the bases
from which they originate, namely, (a) cellulosic bases, (6) protein
bases, (¢) mineral or inorganic bases.

Under the cellulosic bases we have, first, the viscose and cuprate;
second, the cellulose esters; and third, the cellulose ethers, all in fila-
mentous and fibrous conditions.

Under the protein bases, we have, first, the animal protein fibers,
namely, casein and Aralac; and second, the vegetable protein fibers,
where we have soybean and peanut fibers and others.

Under the mineral or inorganic bases, we have fiber glass (filament
and staple) and the mineral wools, such as rock wool, glass wool, and
slag wool.

None of these products or fibers are made by true synthesis, there-
fore should not be termed synthetic fibers at all. I should like to
recommend that we drop the word “synthetic” entirely for this group
at least. I merely suggested the words “regenerated natural fibers”
because to regenerate means “to produce anew, to give new life,
strength, or vigor to, to reproduce.” Is that not exactly what we do
with these fibers? If someone can think of a more appropriate word,
I should be delighted to substitute it for the above.

In the second main group of man-made fibers belong all filaments
and fibers produced by a combination of elementary or complex chemi-
cals through synthesis, polymerization, copolymerization, heat treat-
ments, stretch and setting operations, all of which are complicated,
strictly chemical processes. Such materials as nylon, Vinyon, saran,
159

SYNTHETIC TEXTILE FIBERS—-MAUERSBERGER

ANaIdVLiNe

uagene

SNOSYVD
~OUGAH

‘S19QY IPBUI-UBIM JO UOl}BOgISSe[D MoN—’

S1OOM
TWHININ

NIS3Y JILSWId 3 = asva
~OWU3HL SU3LS3-A10d SGINV-A10d WHANIN

SY¥agl4 GAZISAHLNAS

SY3agl4 JOVW-NVW

T Hand

NYSILUOS | | DWN3L-IM’
Ws0H13 NOAVY
3Lvuan>

a TaVL393A WWINY

asva
N!IZLOUd

NOAVY

asva
3S071N1139

SH3gid IWYNLVN
G3aLVYAN3934u4

160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Velon, and synthetic rubber yarns belong to this group. I should like
to suggest the words “synthesized fibers” for this group, instead of
synthetic fibers, although the latter could be used here justifiably.

This second main group I should like to subdivide, for the present at
least, first, into the polyamids, which cover Du Pont’s nylon filaments,
staple fiber and bristles; second into the polyesters, which cover
Vinyon filament and Vinyon E, the new elastic yarn; third, into the
thermoplastic resins, under which would come saran, Velon, Permalon,
and others; fourth and last, the hydrocarbons, which are to include
all new synthetic rubber filaments, threads, and cords in full develop-
ment now.

This classification separates the main products, and subordinates
none. I recommend it to you for consideration.
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY ?

By Wir11AmM B. Hrroy
Director of Foreign Production, Petroleum Administration for War

INTRODUCTION

Among the various substances which are found in the earth’s crust,
petroleum and natural gas occupy a unique position in that they are
combustible fluids. The highly distinctive and interesting properties
of petroleum would alone have led to close investigation of its origin
and occurrence, but its widespread distribution and great usefulness
to mankind have made it the objective of many lines of scientific
research and have gained for petroleum geology a leading position in
geologic science.

The geology of petroleum may be considered from either of two
standpoints. In the field of economic geology it has become one of
the most important branches and has attracted to it the largest group
of specialists concerned with any mineral resource. Apart from its
economic importance and in its proper relation to other divisions of
geologic science, petroleum geology may be regarded as a branch of
sedimentary petrology, coordinate with hydrology or the geology
of coal deposits.

A distinction may be made between the science of petroleum geology
and the art of oil finding and development. The latter lies in the
field of applied science or engineering. ‘The line between the two is
not sharply drawn, and the association between the science and the
art is so intimate that the advance of both has been hand in hand.
The need for advancing the art has stimulated the progress of the
science. New scientific concepts have soon been tried out in practice.
As a part of a survey of the advances made in geologic science during
the last half century it is fitting that this account of the progress in
petroleum geology should emphasize the scientific rather than the
engineering aspects, and the writer has approached the subject from
that direction. Geographic distribution of petroleum deposits and
other matters which are primarily economic in character will not be
considered in this paper.

1Reprinted by permission from Fiftieth Anniversary Volume, Geological Society of
America, June 1941.

161
162 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Petroleum geology is, in point of age, one of the younger divisions
of geologic science. It has not attained the senatorial dignity of
paleontology nor even the maturity of the geology of ore deposits.
It spans but little more than the half century of American geology
that this symposium commemorates. Some eminent living petroleum
geologists were born before the first oil well was drilled in Pennsyl-
vania in 1859. Petroleum geology is still making the rapid strides
of youth.

The writer is faced with difficulties in making proper acknowledg-
ment of his deep indebtedness to his professional fellows. The ideas
of others have been incorporated in this paper without hesitation in
an endeavor to present as completely as space permits the progress
and status of petroleum geology. Where the writer is conscious of
having drawn on specific sources he has endeavored, through appro-
priate reference, to give due credit. If, unconsciously, he has failed
to do so, indulgence is asked. Grateful acknowledgment is made to
Dr. L. C. Snider for constructive criticism.

PETROLEUM GEOLOGY IN 1890

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

In the geologic world of 50 years ago two men, Edward Orton and
Israel C. White, were the foremost authorities on the geology of
petroleum. Both were original Fellows of the Geological Society
of America, Orton having served on the committee which drafted the
constitution and White on the first committee on publications. The
first paper on petroleum geology published by the society was by
Orton (1890), and, in the discussion of that paper, Dr. W J McGee
(1890), of the United States Geological Survey, paid the following
tribute to the work of these two men:

But within the past 3 years the laws governing the origin, distribution, and
pressure of rock gas have become as well known as are the laws governing
artesian water supply; so that today the geologist prognosticates rock gas nearly
if not quite as definitely and certainly as he prognosticates artesian water; and
it is not only just to our associates and to American science to say that this
great advance in geologic science was due almost wholly to two of our fellows—
to Professor Orton, the author of the communication before us, and to Professor
White, who has already spoken upon it. To these men we are indebted for this
unparalleled stride in American geology. Others, indeed, contributed facts, but
they philosophy ; and science was immeasurably enriched by their contribution.

To the papers of White and Orton one must therefore turn for the
ablest presentation of the geology of petroleum and natural gas of
that day.

Peckham (1884) had compiled for the Tenth Census a summary of
the previous literature on the origin and accumulation of petroleum,
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 163

but it remained for Orton (1888) to publish the first treatise which
critically studied and compared the evidence and reached consistent
conclusions on this subject. As this report best presents the state
of knowledge of petroleum geology as of 50 years ago, its conclusions
will be extensively quoted.

ORIGIN

After reviewing the various theories that had been advanced by geol-
ogists and chemists to account for the origin of petroleum and natural
gas, Orton presented the following summary (1888, pp. 82, 83) :

1. Petroleum is derived from organic matter.

2. It is much more largely derived from vegetable than from animal substances.

3. Petroleum of the Pennsylvania type is derived from the organic matter of
bituminous shales and is of vegetable origin.

4, Petroleum of the Canada type is derived from limestones, and is probably of
anintal origin.

5. Petroleum has been produced at normal rock temperatures (in Ohio fields)
and is not a product of destructive distillation of bituminous shales.

6. The stock of petroleum in the rocks is already practically complete.

After showing that petroleum is almost universally present in small
quantities throughout the limestones and shales of Pennsylvania and
Ohio, he concluded:

It is obvious that the total amount of petroleum in the rocks underlying the
surface of Ohio is large beyond computation, but in its diffused and distributed
state, it is entirely without value. It must be accumulated in rocks that serve as
reservoirs before it becomes of economic interest.

RESERVOIRS

He then summarized the existing knowledge concerning petroleum
reservoirs. As to sandstone reservoirs, he contrasted those of Pennsy]l-
vania, as described by Carll, with those of Ohio. The Venango sands
of Pennsylvania were standstones of medium or coarse grain, or even
in some cases conglomerates, ranging from a shell to 100 feet in thick-
ness. The productive fields were found to extend in length for a score
or more miles in some cases, while their width was confined to 1 or 2
miles. The reservoirs were lenticular in transverse section. The
coarser the sand and the more open, the greater the amount of oil; and,
in like manner, the thicker the stratum, the larger was its production
likely to be, other things being equal. The sandstone reservoir of east-
ern Ohio was “a stratum of sandstone that rests on and is covered by
shales, but the stratum, so far from being lenticular in character, is
wonderfully persistent, though varying in thickness and grain from
point to point and occasionally nearly disappearing for short spaces.”
He concluded his remarks on sandstones as reservoirs with the
following:
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

In all of these fields [Pennsylvania, New York, and eastern Ohio], without im-
portant exception standstones buried in shales have proved to be the reservoirs
of oil and gas when the latter are found in large quantity. The overlying shale
is the cover or roof of the reservoir; the underlying shale appears to be the source
from which the bituminous products are derived.

As to limestone reservoirs, Orton was more fully informed than any
geologist of his time, in view of his studies of the Trenton. The fol-
lowing is quoted from the same report (p. 86) :

The limestone has been penetrated for about 550 feet without being exhausted.
Through most, if not all of its extent, it is petroliferous, as is shown by the
drillings, but the accumulated stocks of both oil and gas are always found in the
uppermost beds of the stratum, and generally not more than 15 feet below its
upper surface. * * * ‘The oil rock carries, at a lower level than that in which
the oil is found, but sometimes dangerously near, a brine of unusual character.
It has, in fact, the composition of a bittern, or a water left over from the con-
centration of ordinary brine. * * * ‘The facts as to the occurrence of oil and
gas in this stratum seem reconcilable with the theory that they have risen through
the limestone rock until they find themselves arrested in their ascent by the
overlying shales, and their accumulation therefore takes place at this point.

PERMEABILITY

Orton had noted the difference in permeability of these main classes
of oil reservoirs and also the variations which occurred ineach. It had
been early established in Pennsylvania that different portions of the
oil sands communicated with some degree of freedom, for adjacent wells
were found to affect each other’s yields. As an example, he cites the
Bradford sand and its division into gas, oil, and salt-water zones, the
gas holding the highest and the salt water the lowest levels, and found
“the conclusion well-nigh irresistible that the entire rock is permeable
and that, in the course of ages, the various contents have been differenti-
ated as we now find them, under the influence of gravitation.” In con-
trast, he found that in other areas “there was no necessary and absolute
connection between different portions of an oil sand”; the stratum
might be divided into lenticular masses which might be nearly or en-
tirely disconnected. “The rapid changes in thickness of the oil-sand
in adjacent wells furnishes conclusive proof upon this point. We can
follow the stratum down to a feather edge by these records.” In the
Berea sand of eastern Ohio he observed that such interruptions occurred
frequently. “Communication through a few square miles of the rock
can be occasionally inferred, but beyond this we have, thus far, found
no warrant for going.” It was Orton’s observation that in the lime-
stone reservoirs the same freedom of communication did not exist as
in the sandstones. He noted, however, that the gas wells at Findlay
affected each other noticeably. He recognized that there could not
be as free communication through massive limestones as through sand-
stones. In the case of sandstones, however, he did not apparently
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 165

realize that lack of porosity was one of the reasons for lack of com-
munication but rather attributed it to changes in thickness and lensing.

The presence of an approximately impervious roof over the oil reser-
voir was, to Orton, the primary requisite of oil accumulation. Source
beds were plentiful and widely distributed, and various kinds of rocks
were suitable as reservoirs, but “more interest centers in the roof shales
or cover than in any other part of the system.” The Utica and Hud-
son River shales overlying the Trenton, the Niagara shale overlying
the Clinton, and the Cuyahoga shale overlying the Berea were con-
vincing examples. “It is apparent that the composition and order
of arrangement of a series of strata have a vitally important relation
to the accumulation of oil and gas that may take place within it.”

Orton accepted the conclusion of Carll (1880) that the yield of oil
wells was fully accounted for by the presence of the oil in the pores of
the reservoir and that there was no necessity for resorting to other ex-
planations, such as “crevices” in the rocks, to account for their
productivity.

STRUCTURE

The principles of petroleum geology which have just been outlined
appear to have been quite generally accepted by the geologists who
were contemporaries of Orton. But in the field of the relation of
structure to the accumulation of petroleum there was dissension of the
first order. .

I. C. White was connected with the Second Pennsylvania Geological
Survey from 1875 to 1883, when he resigned and entered commercial
work. Two years later (1885a) he published his epochal statement
advocating the anticlinal theory of oil accumulation. The observation
that accumulations of oil were associated with anticlinal axes had been
made 25 years before by several geologists, including Hunt (1861),
Rogers (1860), and Logan, but their opinions had been forcefully
opposed by the Director of the Pennsylvania Survey, J. P. Lesley, and
probably had little influence on oil discovery or development. So im-
portant was White’s revival of this theory that Orton (1888, p. 93) pro-
claimed that his applications of the theory “mark a new period in our
study of the geology of oil and gas.” The following quotation gives
White’s (1885a, pp. 521-522) views in his own words.

After visiting all the great gas wells that had been struck in western Pennsyl-
vania and West Virginia, and carefully examining the geological surroundings of
each, I found that every one of them was situated either directly on, or near, the
crown of an anticlinal axis, while wells that had been bored in the synclines on
either side furnished little or no gas, but in many cases large quantities of salt
water. Further observation showed that the gas wells were confined to a narrow
belt, only one-fourth to 1 mile wide, along the crests of the anticlinal folds. These
facts seem to connect gas territory unmistakably with the disturbance in the
rocks caused by their upheaval into arches, but the crucial test was yet to be

566766—44—12
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

made in the actual location of good gas territory on this theory. During the
last 2 years, I have submitted it to all manner of tests, both in locating and
condemning gas territory, and the general result has been to confirm the anti-
clinal theory beyond a reasonable doubt.

But while we can state with confidence that all great gas wells are found
on the anticlinal axis, the converse of this is not true, viz, that great gas wells
may be found on all anticlinals. In a theory of this kind, the limitations be-
come quite as important as, or even more so than, the theory itself; and hence I
have given considerable thought to this side of the question, having formulated
them into three or four general rules (which include practically all of the limita-
tions known to me, up to the present time, that should be placed on the state-
ment that large gas wells may be obtained on anticlinal folds) as follows:

(a) The arch in the rocks must be one of considerable magnitude; (b) A
coarse or porous sandstone of considerable thickness, or, if a fine-grained rock,
one that would have extensive fissures, and thus, in either case, rendered capable
of acting as a reservoir for the gas, must underlie the surface at a depth of

several hundred feet (500 to 2,500 feet) ; (c) Probably very few or none of the
grand arches along mountain ranges will be found holding gas in large quantity,
since in such cases the disturbance of the stratification has been so profound that
all the natural gas generated in the past would long ago have escaped into the
air through fissures that traverse all the beds. Another limitation might possibly
be added, which would confine the area where great gas flows may be obtained
to those underlaid by a considerable thickness of bituminous shale.

Very fair gas wells may also be obtained for a considerable distance down
the slope from the crest of the anticlinals, provided the dip be sufficiently
rapid, and especially if it be irregular, or interrupted with slight crumples.
And even in regions where there are no well-marked anticlinals, if the dip be
somewhat rapid and irregular, rather large gas wells may occasionally be found,
if all other conditions are favorable.

Ashburner (1885), of the Second Pennsylvania Geological Survey,
replied promptly to White’s announcement. While conceding that a
relation existed between the position of anticlinal axes and the loca-
tion of gas fields, he regarded the problem as more complex and cited
other factors which he considered to be controlling, as follows:

Although it is a fact that many of our largest Pennsylvania gas wells are
located near anticlinal axes, yet the position in which gas may be found, and
the amount to be obtained, depend upon (@) the porosity and homogeneousness
of the sandstone which serves as a reservoir to hold the gas; (b) the extent to
which the strata above or below the gas-sand are cracked; (c) the dip of the
gas-sand and the position of the anticlines and synclines; (d) the relative pro-
portions of water, oil, and gas contained in the sand; and (e) the pressure under
which the gas exists before being tapped by wells.

Lesley, in a paper published the following year (1886, pp. 654-655),
strongly opposed White’s theory; the following quotation states his
views:

Quite recently the location of the anticlinal lines in the Pittsburgh region has
become a sort of popular mania, produced by a theory. The whole community

interested in the subject of natural gas has been carried away by a theory
* * * the anticlinal theory of gas.
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 167

Stated in a few words, it is a theory that oil, being lighter than water, must
rise to higher levels. If the application of this theory was confined to bottles
no one would dispute it; the water in a bottle must collect at the bottom, the
oil in the middle and the gas on top. But the earth is not a bottle. It has no
great caverns in it. More than that, the arrangement takes place naturally
under the pressure of only one atmosphere; while any arrangement of water,
gas, and oil, made at depths of a thousand or 2,000 feet, must be made under
pressures of from 100 to 400 pounds to the square inch. * * * It therefore
seems to me irrational to assign any importance whatever to the extremely
gentle anticlines of the gas-oil region.

To this I add the important consideration that the movements of oll and
water have been shown by actual practice to be governed entirely by the char-
acter of the rock in which they take place, and that they are effectually stopped
at fixed geographical lines where porous rock changes into sandstones and
sandstones into shales. And these changes of character in the rock itself have
no fixed relation whatever to the anticlinal waves, which, on the contrary, cross
them transversely or diagonally.

White, in replies to these criticisms (1885b; 1886), again emphasized
his position that not all anticlines would be gas-bearing, especially
such subordinate anticlinal folds as occurred within the synclines. He
pointed to the success which had attended development along eight
anticlines in the vicinity of Pittsburgh and the failures which had
resulted from drilling in the intervening synclines. Thus the im-
portance of structure as a factor in the accumulation of oil and gas
came to be recognized by the geological profession and by practical
operators.

With the extension of oil and gas production to areas other than
western Pennsylvania, it was soon found by the geologists working
in them that modifications of White’s theory were required to explain
all the structural problems that arose. Minshall, by careful surveys
along the White Oak anticline in West Virginia, had shown that the
axis itself was undulating, with pronounced domes or summits at
some points and sags or depressions at others, and that the commercial
gas accumulations were confined to the domes. In Ohio, Orton (1888,
pp. 93-95) found that anticlinals were of infrequent occurrence but
that oil and gas accumulation was controlled by another type of
structural deformation, which he termed “arrested anticlinals,” or
terraces.

PRESSURE OF GAS

One other major problem in connection with the occurrence of oil
and gas greatly concerned the petroleum geologists of a half century
ago—to find a satisfactory explanation for the pressure exerted by
the gas upon the reservoir within which it was contained. Closed-in
pressures ranging up to 1,000 pounds per square inch had been ob-
served, and the enormous expulsive force of the gas, frequently caus-
ing the drilling tools to be violently thrown from wells, was well
168 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

known to operators. One explanation was that the gas formed in
the earth much as steam is formed in a boiler and that the pressure
resulted from the confinement of the gas. The theory most commonly
held was that the weight of the overlying rocks caused the compres-
sion of the gas, and the resulting pressure was accordingly called “rock
pressure.” Lesley (1885) exhaustively studied this theory and dem-
onstrated that the pressure of gas did not accord with the weight of
the overburden. Orton seems to have been the first geologist clearly
to understand the function of artesian pressure in relation to the
pressure of oil and gas in the same stratum. He says (1888, p. 99):

In the porous rock that contains them there is always, outside of the pro-
ductive fields, a body of water, and in almost every instance, salt water. This
water occupies the rock as it rises to day in its nearest outcrops. Communi-
eating there with surface water or with rainfall, a head of pressure is given
to the gas and oil that are held in the traps formed by the anticlinals or
terraces into which the stratum has been thrown. The amount of pressure would
thus depend on the height to which the water column is raised, in case con-
tinuous porosity of the stratum can be assumed.

Later Orton (1890) published a paper on the origin of the rock
pressure of the Trenton limestone which laid the foundation for all
later studies in dynamic geology as related to oil and gas.

SUMMARY

The preceding review of the status of petroleum geology in 1890,
though brief, may, nevertheless, demonstrate that this division of the
science had been placed on a sound foundation by the pioneer work
of the men whose writings have been cited. The difficulties which they
encountered and the differences of opinion which developed among
them were in large measure the result of an endeavor to oversimplify
their science.

The tracing in detail of the evolution of these various ideas and
theories and of their development into those which make up the present
content of petroleum geology would unduly extend this paper. The
writer accordingly passes to a review of its present status without
attempting to follow closely all the changes in thought during the
intervening period.

GENESIS OF PETROLEUM

GENERAL PROBLEM

Starting with an accumulation of factua] information concerning
the nature and occurrence of petroleum, and following the scientific
method of thought, petroleum geologists have sought to discover the
sources from which it has come and the manner in which it has origi-
nated. Most of them have held the opinion that oil and gas have been
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—-HEROY 169

derived from organic matter deposited in sedimentary rocks. Some
chemists and, more rarely, geologists have sought to explain the origin
of these hydrocarbons as due to inorganic processes. Through the
years this smaller group has diminished in numbers, and at the present
time the organic origin of petroleum is “generally accepted” (Snider,
1934, p.51). But agreement on the general principle has proven much
simpler than the collection of pertinent and adequate supporting evi-
dence. Like the broader biologic principle of evolution, precise knowl-
edge of its mechanism is attained only by many years of intensive
investigation.

The general problem of the conversion of the organic material de-
posited in sedimentary rocks into oil and gas may be divided into more
specialized fields of investigation, such as:

1. The character of the organic material which ultimately becomes petroleum.

2. The characteristics which give to a sedimentary deposit the capacity to pro-
duce petroleum.

3, The steps of chemical change whereby the organic matter of animals and
plants has been converted into the various hydrocarbons of which petroleum is
composed. n

4. The nature of the forces which have been instrumental in, or have con-
tributed to, the transformation of organic matter into petroleum.

5. The manner in which widely disseminated and minute quantities of such
derivatives have been aggregated into appreciable quantities of fluid.

In attacking these problems most geologists and chemists have con-
sidered that the doctrine of uniformity of Lyell (1842, pp. 323-327),
which assumes that the geologic processes and conditions of the present
are essentially the same as those of the past, was applicable to the
formation of petroleum. This is questioned by Woolnough (1937, p.
1106) who considers that petroleum may have been formed under “con-
ditions of accumulation not now exhibited, on a major scale, in any part
of the world.” Any progress in the solution of problems of origin
must, however, rest upon detailed examination of present processes on
the assumption that, at least in kind if not in degree, they were opera-
tive in past ages.

NATURE OF ORGANIO MATERIAL

As to the kind of organic matter that is requisite to the production
of petroleum, there is much divergence of view. Trask (1938, p. 384)
considers that petroleum is a very special substance and that only
certain types of organic material can be changed into petroleum, while
Snider (1934, p. 62) holds the opinion that almost any kind of organic
matter buried in sediments may, under proper conditions, be changed
to petroleum and natural gas. These are wide extremes of thought
which have been developed through quite different lines of approach.

Trask (1932), in an intensive study of the organic constituents of
recent sediments, found that oils and fats form a very small part of the
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

organic matter present; that cellulose compounds derived from higher
plants are also present in small quantities; and that nitrogenous com-
pounds and complex compounds of lignin and humus form the bulk
of the organic matter. He therefore reasons that petroleum must come
from these complex organic compounds rather than from the very small
quantities of oils, fats, and cellulose. However, no evidence is pre-
sented by him which suggests that, to the extent that they were pres-
ent, these other substances may not also have become constituents of
petroleum.

Whereas Trask’s work has been primarily concerned with quantita-
tive determinations of the presence in sediments of particular types of
organic matter, other investigators have been attempting, through the
analysis of individual oils and through the isolation of particular or-
ganic constituents, to develop suggestive relations with living organic
matter. The presence in crude oils of a wide variety of microscopic
objects, such as diatoms, Foraminifera, insect scales, and petrified
wood, may be significant (Sanders, 1937). The identification in crpde
petroleum of chlorophyll porphyrins suggests a direct relation with
higher forms of vegetable life (Triebs, 1935). Hlauschek (1936) con-
siders that plants, producing lignin, form the principal source of cyclic
hydrocarbons and that the life of the sea has been the source of the
straight-chain type of hydrocarbons. Brooks (1936) regards fatty oils
as the principal source materials, with other types of organic sub-
stances such as cellulose, starches, sugars, proteins, lignins, and waxes
as additional sources. He points to the presence of heptane in pine
trees and to the close relation between the terpenes and certain petro-
leum hydrocarbons. Berl (1938) also regards carbohydrates and
derivatives thereof as the chief parent material of crude petroleum.

In the evolution of life from the earliest times to the present the
dominant types of plants and animals have been different at various
periods. It is probable, therefore, that the chemical characteristics of
the remains of such life have also varied. Modern plants, for example,
doubtless contain more lignin than Paleozoic plants.

Most geologists will probably accept the thesis that petroleum has
been formed at all times in the earth’s past by the transformation of
the then existing organic matter and that the distinguishing character-
istics of the petroleum found in deposits of different ages are related
to the nature of the particular organic matter present in the area where
the petroleum was formed at the time of its origin.

SOURCE BEDS

The concept that certain sedimentary deposits had greater capacity
than others to originate petroleum is as old as petroleum geology itself.
Dana (1871) taught that shales and argillaceous sandstones were the
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—-HEROY BAL

most common original source and that the oil found in arenaceous sand-
stones was supposed to have been derived from the shales above or
below. Black shales were thought to be rich in oil, probably because
“coal oil” had been distilled from them. A relationship was thus early
assumed to exist between the amount of organic matter present in sedi-
ments and their capacity to originate petroleum. The term “source
beds” gradually came into use to distinguish those rocks from whose
organic matter petroleum has originated. As the science advanced,
however, it became apparent that such generalizations were not com-
pletely true, and about 20 years ago the need for experimental investi-
gation of source beds began to be recognized. This took definite form
in 1926 when the American Petroleum Institute sponsored a research
program which is still continuing.

Investigation of so complex a subject was initially faced with in-
herent difficulties. The assumption that the source beds were strati-
graphically closely associated with the reservoir beds depends for its
validity on the premise that oil has accumulated near the zone and
area of origin and has not migrated horizontally or vertically for long
distances, a premise on which petroleum geologists are by no means
in agreement. If organic matter in the form of petroleum has origi-
nated in particular strata, then the movement of the petroleum out
of these strata will leave them poorer in organic matter than they
were originally; hence present organic content may not be conclusive
as to whether or not a particular bed has acted as a source of petroleum.
On the other hand, if certain strata were originally sufficiently rich in
organic matter to originate petroleum they may still, even after giving
up some of their organic content, be richer in organic matter than other
sedimentary deposits. If the geologic forces to which an area has
been subjected subsequent to the deposition of the source beds are an
important factor in the genesis of petroleum, then the amount and
character of the organic matter originally present in the sediments
may not be the major factor; the dynamic history may be controlling.
These and other questions complicate the problem of recognizing source
beds. Work on details of the problem has led to some specific con-
clusions, and in the following paragraph the writer has attempted to
summarize present prevailing opinion on this subject.

Recent marine sediments contain as high as 7 percent organic matter
with the average around 2.5 percent. Some older rocks, such as Mon-
terey shale, may have had a higher organic content than recent sedi-
ments at the time of deposition. All ancient sediments have probably
lost some of their original organic content, and the loss through aging
may be as much as 40 percent. The proportion of the original organic
content that may have been converted into petroleum is unknown but
has been estimated at from 5 to 10 percent. In recent sediments the
172 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

organic matter consists of about 60 percent carbon, 7 percent nitrogen,
and the remainder chiefly hydrogen. In ancient sediments the pro-
portion of nitrogen increases, indicating that there has been loss of
hydrogen and carbon through geologic change (Trask, 1932, p. 222).
Dark sediments generally have a higher organic content than lighter
ones, and the blackness of many marine shales is chiefly due to con-
tained organic matter (Twenhofel, 1939, p.1181). Hence, dark marine
shales are generally regarded as good source beds and, when near oil
reservoirs, are considered as the most probable source of the petroleum
(Snider, 1934, p. 62).

The organic matter in recent sediments consists of a highly complex
group of substances (Trask, 1932, p. 198). Oils and fats constitute
only 1 percent; waxes, resins, alkaloids, and alcohols comprise about
5 percent; carbohydrates form less than 1 percent; sugars, starches,
and other water-soluble substances, chiefly organic acids, form 3
percent. Nitrogenous compounds form the largest group, comprising
about 40 percent, about half being proteins and the remainder more
resistant nitrogenous compounds. Finally, about 30 percent of the
organic matter consists of lignins and humic complexes. It is from
such source materials that hydrocarbons must have been derived.

The organic matter of recent sediments is nearly all present in solid
form. The proportion soluble in hot water comprises only about
3 percent, and all the material extracted from such sediments by solu-
tion in carbon tetrachloride appears to be solid in nature (Trask,
1932, p. 178).

CONVERSION OF ORGANIC MATTER TO PETROLEUM

The problem of when, where, and how the organic content of sedi-
ments was converted into petroleum is a refinement to which the geolo-
gist of half a century ago had not advanced and which received very
little attention until 20 years ago. From the time that the problem
assumed definite form, geologists have been primarily concerned
with the time and place of conversion, while the manner in which the
change occurred has been left largely to the chemists and biologists.

The uppermost layers of newly deposited sediments have a dense
bacterial population, and such microorganisms are probably an im-
portant factor in the generation of hydrocarbons. Bacteria func-
tion to remove nitrogen and oxygen from the organic matter con-
tained in the sediments, which is thus changed in composition so as
more nearly to resemble petroleum (Hammar, 1934). This trans-
formation probably occurs very early in the history of the sediments,
and there is little if any evidence to support the view that bacterial
action continues after sediments have been deeply buried and subjected
to dynamic action (David White, 19385).
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 173

Up to quite recently such evidence as was available to geologists
tended to show that petroleum was formed at the time of deposition
and buried with the sediments (McCoy, 1926, p. 1022). However,
extensive chemical examination of recent marine sediments indi-
cates that petroleum is not present in them and consequently is not
formed at the time of deposition or shortly thereafter (Trask and
Wu, 1930). Recent sediments, therefore, appear to have reached
a stage in their history at which the bacterial action has largely run
its course but at which petroleum has not yet been formed. The
organic matter, the “mother substance” of petroleum, as it is some-
times called, presumably is present in such sediments in solid form,
analogous to the solid bituminous material, called “kerogen,” found
in oil shales (McCoy and Keyte, 1934, p. 271). Berl (1938, p. 2)
considers that, after bacterial action has ceased, carbohydrates,
humic acids, and lignin are converted into intermediate substances
which he calls “protoproducts” and which he considers the parent ma-
terials for petroleum. Other chemists, notably Hackford (1932),
have also sought to trace the transformation of vegetable matter into
petroleum. Most chemists consider that only moderate temperatures,
such as are within the bounds of geologic probability, are required to
effect such changes. Time, of which the geologist sees an abundant
supply, is also thought to be an important factor in the conversion.

Much work remains to be done before the various steps in the
conversion of organic matter into petroleum can be accurately traced.
At some stage in the process the solid organic matter laid down with
the sediments is converted into fluids, and it is only then that move-
ment from source bed to reservoir becomes possible.

As a result of studies of crude oils in the Gulf Coast, Barton (1934)
concluded that petroleum, when first formed, is heavy and viscous and
has, as the result of the operation of heat, pressure, and perhaps other
forces, evolved into progressively lighter oils. He has, however, also
observed that deeper oils have lower specific gravity than those nearer
the surface. To what extent this relationship may be explained by
loss of volatile constituents through escape to the surface is unknown,
but the inference of recent intensive geochemical studies is that there
is a definite upward movement of hydrocarbons from the reservoirs
to the surface, even though the cover rocks may appear highly im-
pervious to such migration.

GEOLOGIC FORCES OPERATING TO PRODUCE PETROLEUM

The chemical reactions required to produce petroleum from the
“mother substance” have presumably not occurred spontaneously but
have been brought about by competent physical forces, such as heat,
pressure, and movement. All these forces are operative in deeply
174. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

buried sediments, and geologists, contrasting conditions in such sedi-
ments with those occurring at the surface, have naturally sought in
some way to relate the origin of petroleum to them.

As a section of sedimentary rocks is deposited, the weight of the
overburden progressively increases, and the deeper beds become
heavily loaded.. The pressure thus created causes compaction of
the sediments, which become more dense with increase in depth
(Athy, 1930a). Compaction is accompanied by closer spacing of the
grains and by the gradual displacement from the sediment of most
of the interstitial water. The friction resulting from movement of
the grains may produce some heat (Pratt, 1934, p. 242), and chemical
reactions, such as the oxidation of pyrite, may be another source,
but it is probable that the internal heat of the earth is the chief
cause of increase in temperature with depth. Whatever the cause,
recent drilling in sedimentary basins to depths approaching 8 miles
has revealed the existence of temperatures of nearly 300° F. Such
temperatures are greater than those which chemists have usually
considered would be available for geochemical reactions leading to
the formation of petroleum. The opinion (McCoy and Keyte, 1934,
p- 269) that most of the known oil fields were formed at temperatures
lower than 140° F. may, therefore, require revision. Even tempera-
tures of around 300° F. are, however, lower than those usually
considered to be within the “cracking range,” and the reactions by
which petroleum has been formed may still, from the chemist’s
standpoint, be considered low-temperature changes. The reactions
by which organic matter is converted to petroleum are essentially
endothermic, and the energy present in the form of heat in the sedi-
ments where petroleum is being formed accordingly facilitates them.

Pressure may have had an important effect in the formation of
petroleum by favoring polymerization (Brooks, 1938, p. 51). Hy-
drogenation and other types of chemical transformation of hydro-
carbons are also facilitated by pressure (Pratt, 1934, p. 241). In
addition to the weight of the overburden, pressure in sediments may
be due to hydrostatic head, the presence of petroleum gases in porous
reservoirs, and possibly other factors such as cementation and
chemical metamorphism. As water-free sedimentary rocks have an
average specific gravity above 2.5, the weight of the overburden
might be expected to result in pressures at depths greatly in excess
of the weight of a column of water of equivalent height. Measure-
ments indicate, however, that the hydrostatic pressures existing in
underground reservoirs normally correspond to the weight of such
a column of water (Versluys, 1932) rather than to the weight of
the overlying sediments. This has been found true in wells drilled to
depths of over 13,000 feet in which the reservoir pressures exceed
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 175

6,000 pounds per square inch. When pressures of that magnitude
occur in combination with temperatures of 300° F., their potency
to effect chemical changes must be great.

Recent unconsolidated sediments contain large amounts of water.
As compaction progresses, fluids in the strata which are being com-
pressed are forced from them. While this movement may be of
great importance in connection with the migration of petroleum
(Athy, 1930b), it may also be a significant factor in the chemi-
cal reactions which produce petroleum by facilitating molecular
rearrangement.

AGGREGATION

The work of Trask and others has indicated that there is great varia-
tion in richness of organic content between types of sediments and be-
tween beds in the same geologic section. Vertical variation in organic
content is generally greater than horizontal variation. But, after full
allowance has been made for such differences, the fact remains that
organic matter is quite universally distributed throughout sediments of
marine origin. The sediments which are usually richest in organic
matter are fine-textured shales, and the organic matter is minutely
disseminated through them. The pore spaces of such sediments are of
capillary dimensions, and older sediments of this character are highly
impervious to the movement of fluids. When first deposited, such sedi-
ments were clays and silts with large volumes of interstitial water
(Trask, 1932, p. 77; Twenhofel, 1932, p. 258).

It is in such an environment that the solid organic matter laid down
with the sediments has been transformed into other compounds which
are capable of being transported by water. If the organic matter were
water-soluble its movement through capillary spaces would occur more
readily than if it were in the form of minute globules of hydrocarbons
insoluble in water. It is conceivable that the solid organic matter
which is later to become petroleum has at first been converted into
water-soluble or water-miscible intermediate compounds and that it
was in some such state when it first left the place of original deposition.
In that case the further chemical change of such intermediate com-
pounds to petroleum might occur after the organic matter had been
removed from the point of original deposition and had, in the course
of its movement, come into contact with solutions or forces which had
caused further reactions to produce the hydrocarbons which collec-
tively form petroleum and natural gas. No experimental work with
which the writer is conversant clarifies this problem.

Whatever the precise process of chemical change may have been, it
seems necessary to postulate that somewhere in the very early history
of petroleum there must have been an aggregation of finely divided
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

material into appreciable quantities of hydrocarbons which would be
present in the water-saturated sediments either as a solute or in the
form of globules physically distinct from the water. While the mecha-
nism of this process is unknown, it appears to be an essential link in
the chain of the origin of petroleum.

The available evidence indicates that this aggregation occurs within
the source rock. Older sediments of marine origin, both dense and
porous, are impregnated with small quantities of petroleum, in con-
trast with recent sediments in which it is rare or absent. This was
well known to Orton (1888, p. 83) who estimated the quantity of
petroleum present in this diffused condition in some of the rocks
of Ohio. Surprisingly little detailed investigation of the quantity
and distribution of petroleum in older rocks has been carried on.
Trask has determined the organic content of many samples of older
rocks from wells, but the analyses do not disclose the amount of organic
matter present in the form of petroleum. Stout (1936, p. 799) studied
various Ohio limestones and shales and found that the content of hydro-
carbons was about 0.5 percent. Most geologists will probably be in
accord with the statement of Illing (1938b, p. 209) that

There can be no doubt that a still larger amount of oil and gas occurs as a more
widespread but less concentrated impregnation of the denser rocks, the clays,
marls and limestones surrounding the reservoir rocks.

In concluding this discussion of the genesis of petroleum, the state-
ment seems justified that the conversion of the complex organic sub-
stances deposited with the sediments into the petroleum found in older
rocks takes place within the source bed and results from the various
chemical and physical forces to which the organic matter has therein
been subjected.

MIGRATION OF PETROLEUM
GENERAL STATEMENT

The accumulation of petroleum in immense concentrations in oil
pools is in contrast with its wide diffusion through the source beds in
which it had its origin. The movement of petroleum from source to
reservoir has resulted from the operation of physical forces, and
geologists are vitally concerned with the character of these forces and
the extent of their effectiveness. This movement is collectively called
migration, but the use of such an inclusive term is deceptive, for the
process is doubtless highly complex. In its simplest form it may
be resolved into a consideration of (1) movement of oil from source
bed into carrier bed; and (2) movement through the carrier bed to
the reservoir.
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 177

MIGRATION FROM SOURCE BED TO CARRIER BED

The compaction of sediments by the increasing load of younger beds
deposited in succession is accompanied by the loss of a large part of the
interstitial water they originally contained (Athy, 19380). The con-
nate water remaining in the sediments adheres closely to the individual
grains and fills the intervening voids. Because of the presence of this
film of closely adhering water, which is present even in well-saturated
oil reservoirs, it is probable that petroleum normally does not wet the
grains but remains in the interstitial passages in the form of minute
globules (Schilthuis, 1937, p. 200). The movement of the interstitial
water is regarded as the principal cause of the migration of oil from
the source beds. The outward movement of water from such sedi-
ments will be in the direction of least resistance, from the clays and
marls into the more permeable strata. If at the time this outward
movement is in progress petroleum has already formed in the sedi-
ments, it may be expected to move with the expressed water into the
more porous beds which are competent to act as carriers (Illing, 1933).

With the passage of time and the completion of the cycle of deposi-
tion the sediments gradually become lithified and a condition will ulti-
mately be reached in which the compaction of the deeper beds will cease.
The more competent members of the series will acquire strength to sus-
tain the load of the overlying sediments, and the fluids which they
contain will reach a state of equilibrium.

Capillarity has also been thought competent to cause the movement
of petroleum from the source bed to the carrier bed. McCoy (1926, p.
1027) concluded, on the basis of experimental evidence, that there is
an interchange of fluids between the source bed and the carrier bed,
the oil in the source bed being expelled into the more porous bed and
replaced by an equal amount of water. This interchange was thought
to occur in the capillary spaces of the source rock and to be caused
by the superior surface tension of the water ; the water, having a greater
adhesive tension for the wall of the capillary than does the oil, and
its adhesive tension for the wall of the capillary being greater than the
surface tension of the oil, the oil column in the capillary would be
broken, and minute globules of oil would be split off and moved through
the capillary in the direction of the more permeable bed.

Other forces which have been considered as contributing to the move-
ment of oil from denser to more porous rocks are artesian circulation
and diastrophic movements in the sedimentary basin. The effective-
ness of the first-mentioned is questionable, for artesian flow is likely
to take place through the most porous beds and is unlikely to be effec-
tive in the denser sediments. Diastrophism may have been effective
in creating compressive forces which may, in turn, have acted on the
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

denser strata and caused fluid movements in the capillary spaces, but
there is little in the way of direct evidence to support this thesis. Dias-
trophic movements, by producing fractures and faults, have opened
new channels for the vertical movement of fluids from one porous bed
to another or have brought into contact reservoir beds not previously
communicating.

MIGRATION THROUGH THE CARRIER BED

The term “carrier bed” was introduced by Rich (1931) to designate
porous beds, such as coarse sands or cavernous limestones, which were
favorable in texture to the movement of oil. While the term was in-
tended especially to describe beds that would facilitate long-distance
migration, it is a convenient designation for any porous stratum
through which petroleum may have moved, and it is used here in that
broader sense.

It has been postulated that, during the compaction of a series of
sedimentary rocks, water carrying globules of petroleum has moved
from the source bed into the more porous adjoining carrier beds.
Firstly, if a bed were sufficiently extensive to have a surface outcrop
along the margin of the basin, the excess water would have an oppor-
tunity to follow it toward the outcrop and, perhaps, there to make its
escape. But the same outcrop would also permit the entry into the
carrier bed of meteoric waters and, depending upon the altitude of
the outcrop and other conditions, the meteoric waters might be able
to resist the outward movement of the connate waters to such an extent
that their escape through the carrier bed might be prevented. In that
case, the line of least resistance to the movement of the excess water
might be across the bedding, through the less pervious rocks forming
its cover. Secondly, if the carrier bed does not have a surface out-
crop, the excess waters deposited with the sediments will ordinarily
have only one avenue of ultimate escape—across the bedding planes.
It seems probable that most of the excess interstitial water must have
passed upward through the section, for, at the time when the basin
was in formation and compaction was in process, the basin would
usually not have been sufficiently deformed and eroded to provide the
carrier beds with surface outcrops.

Once having entered the carrier bed, the particles of petroleum
which had passed through the capillary pores of the source rock would
tend to coalesce into larger globules in the wider interstitial spaces of
the carrier bed. These larger globules would be capable of lateral
movement through the carrier bed but would not be able to enter the
smaller capillary spaces of an overlying clay or shale. If the water
in the carrier bed were forced upward as a result of compaction, the
globules of oil would be left behind and would be held at the interface.
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 179

This concept has been developed by Illing (1933) who called the
process “filtration.” It was also well described by Versluys (1982)
who remarked that “fine grained strata act as screens when water,
charged with small globules of oil or minute bubbles of gas, is forced
through them.”

By some such mechanism petroleum has moved from the source beds
into the more porous beds throughout the entire extent of their con-
tact. Information gained over many years by drilling into porous
beds has shown that it is exceptional that more than a small part of the
entire area of a porous bed is saturated with oil and gas; by far the
larger part contains water. It seems evident that in some manner
the petroleum must have been collected from the wide areas through-
out which it entered the porous beds and concentrated in the relatively
much smaller areas which it is now found to occupy.” The movement
by which this has been accomplished is essentially a lateral movement,
one which continues until the petroleum reaches a stratigraphic or
structural trap.

An explanation of this movement which is satisfactory to the
geologist and which will withstand successfully the criticism of the
physicist has been difficult to attain. The earlier geologists had a
simple and, to them, complete explanation. Oil and gas, being lighter
than water, floated above it and filled the highest portion of the porous
rock. Abundant evidence accumulated which was considered to sup-
port the principle of flotation, and it became quite generally accepted,
along with the corollary that, if the dip of the porous beds were sufli-
cient to overcome friction, the particles of oil and gas would gradually
move up the slope to the pool, the gas with its lower specific gravity
occupying the higher places (Griswold and Munn, 1907, p. 24).

Munn (1909) was, perhaps, the first to question the adequacy of
flotation or buoyancy to account for the accumulation of oil pools,
considering that the enormous pressures developed in oil and gas wells
were not satisfactorily explained by it. Following him, other in-
vestigators down to the present have thought that flotation alone
could not produce migration. Iling (1938b) says:

It is therefore not at all certain from first principles that gas, oil, and water will
separate out by flotation in the pores of the rock, and it is clear that the separation

will depend upon certain limiting conditions, the relative importance of surface
tension and buoyancy.

2 Some geologists, on the contrary, consider that the accumulation of oil takes place essen-
tially in situ (McCoy and Keyte, 1934) and is due to the juxtaposition of rich source bed
and reservoir. Clark (1934) also favors this view, explaining the absence of oil in some
apparently favorable traps by the absence of rich source bedg in their immediate vicinity.
It would appear to the writer coincidental that zones of unusually rich source material
should have been formed in the source rocks in the same localities that later become the
loci where traps were formed by structural deformation. The writer thinks that the organic
matter has been more uniformly distributed and that wider areas have been drawn upon to
fill the traps.
3
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

In contrast with the principle of flotation, which requires no lateral
movement of the fluids in the reservoir but only displacement of indi-
vidual particles, other theories which are based on the fundamental
principle that the fluids in the porous bed are in motion have been
developed to account for oil migration. Munn (1909) announced the
“hydraulic theory” that moving water under either hydraulic or capil-
lary pressure has been the direct agent of accumulation of oil and gas
pools.” It was his view that hydraulic pressure was the result both of
compaction and of invasion by water from surface sources. The causes
of hydraulic movement were more definitely stated by Rich (1931) to.
be compaction, generation of gas by regional metamorphism, and
artesian pressure.

Cheney (1940, p. 116) has recently suggested a modification of earlier
views concerning hydraulic movement. He visualizes
* * * the main controlling movement of fluids (except in reservoirs having
intake greatly elevated above sea level) as occurring updip instead of downdip;
the time of movement being largely restricted to the early periods when porosity
was being reduced actively by sedinfentary loading or compressive diastrophic
forces instead of later when erosion and unloading progressively reduce pres-
sures; and the source of the migrating water being not meteoric but from the
compacting sediments of the basin or geosynclinal areas. ©

A combination of the principles of flotation and hydraulic movement
seems best to explain the movement of oil and gas to areas of accumula-
tion. If globules of oil are put in motion in currents of water which
are passing through porous rocks, they will at every opportunity seek a
higher position. Because of the difference in specific gravity a definite
upward pressure is exerted on each oil globule and, if it is in a condition
of flotation and can move freely, it will tend to move upward with ref-
erence to the water by which it issurrounded. It will come to rest when
it reaches a capillary opening too small to permit its passage, taking
into account the pressure exerted against it by the moving water.
Ultimately the decrease in the size of the capillary spaces due to
compaction will retard and perhaps completely stop hydraulic move-
ment in a sedimentary basin, bringing about at the same time a cessation
of oil migration in the carrier bed.

The fundamental cause of the movement of fluids through porous
beds is differential pressure, and the amount and direction of pressure
are determined by the geologic conditions in the area at the time the
movement takes place.

EFFECTIVENESS OF CARRIER BEDS

The extent to which movement of oil from source rock to reservoir
may occur is largely determined by the effectiveness of the carrier bed
as a conductor. The capacity of a porous substance to transmit fluids
is termed permeability. Some of the factors which influence the perme-
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 181

ability of rocks are congenital; others are the result of subsequent
geological processes.

Congenital factors are lithology and areal extent. Sands are ini-
tially more permeable than marls and clays; coarse sands more per-
meable than finer ones. Certain fragmental or oolitic limestones,
however, originally had permeability comparable to that of sands.
Porous rocks that were deposited over limited areas in the form of
lenses or that gradually became less porous laterally as a result of
change in composition are obviously less effective as carriers than
those which were laid down over wide areas. Even “blanket” sand-
stones such as the St. Peter, Berea, Dakota, and Woodbine, which are
regionally continuous, are, however, by no means uniform in per-
meability and frequently contain “tight” areas. Limestones show an
even greater variation, such as that which accompanies a change from
reef to offshore facies.

Factors which have reduced the permeability of rocks subsequent
to deposition include compaction, lithification, cementation, and re-
crystallization. The effect of compaction in reducing the size of pore
spaces has already been mentioned. Changes in density, such as from
sands to sandstones and from clays to shales, however they may have
been accomplished, usually reduce the effectiveness of rocks to conduct
fluids by forcing the individual grains into closer contact. The factors
just mentioned are usually most effective soon after the sediments are
deposited. Cementation, which may occur either during the early
or the later history of the sediments, may change a rock which was
originally a competent carrier to one which may be highly impervious,
as illustrated by the change from sandstone to quartzite (Twenhofel,
1932, p. 229). Recrystallization may in some cases increase porosity
but it is quite as likely to decrease permeability by closing capillary
passages. Dynamic metamorphism has an influence of the second
order by bringing into play some of the factors which have been
specified.

Permeability has, on the other hand, been increased by other factors
such as solution and fracturing. Solution has functioned chiefly in
calcareous and dolomitic rocks. It has resulted from subaerial ex-
posure and weathering and in many limestone fields has unquestion-
ably increased the porosity of the reservoir (Adams, 1934). Such
paleogeographic conditions would presumably be local rather than
regional and may therefore have influenced migration of oil over
limited areas. Solution has in many cases acted to increase the ini-
tial porosity, and it then becomes difficult to determine how much
of the permeability is primary and how much secondary. The impor-
tance of fracturing in increasing permeability also varies greatly
among different areas. Such highly permeable limestones as the

566766—4418
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Permian of the Yates and Hobbs pools have apparently not been
affected by fracturing. In contrast, the movement of oil in the
Panuco field in Mexico is largely due to fracturing and faulting
(Muir, 1934), and Lees (1933) considers that the permeability of the
Asmari limestone in the Iranian fields is primarily due to fault cracks.
Limestones such as the Asmari and the El Abra have enormous per-
meability over wide areas.

DISTANCE OF LATERAL MIGRATION

One of the most debated topics in petroleum geology is the extent
to which petroleum has migrated from one area to another; some
consider that such movement has been restricted to comparatively
short distances (Clark, 1934; McCoy and Keyte, 1934), while others
contend that it may have traveled for “tens or even hundreds of
miles” (Rich, 1981).

The basic factors which determine the distance of lateral migration of
oil and gas are the extent, permeability, and continuity of the carrier
beds. In the hypothetical case of a carrier bed of high and uniform
permeability and of regional extent it is evident that, under conditions
of differential pressure, fluids should be able to move through it for
long distances. But conditions of sedimentation which even approach
such uniformity are exceptional; lateral variation is the normal
condition.

The simplest case is that of a lenticular sand enclosed within shales
and having an areal extent of a few square miles. In such a carrier
bed the movement of fluids is not caused by artesian pressure but by
forces of more limited scope; it occurs most readily while the sediments
are in process of compaction and while the shales are sufficiently per-
vious to permit substantial movement across bedding planes. During
this interval the sand would have received from the source beds adja-
cent to or near it its quota of oil and gas. It is difficult to see how,
later, after compaction and lithification are essentially completed,
much migration beyond the limits of the sand would normally occur.
Any further movement of fluids in a carrier bed of such limited extent
would result from the deformation of the sedimentary basin, produc-
ing tilting, faulting, and folding. Cementation in sands and lime-
stones would limit lateral migration by creating restrictions on
movement comparable to lensing.

On the other extreme are carriers such as the Woodbine and the Da-
kota in which artesian conditions are known to occur over many thou-
sands of square miles. Drilling, both for water and for oil, have dem-
onstrated that through basins such as East Texas, the artesian pressure
system is essentially continuous even though there may be local varia-
tions in permeability. It is again difficult to explain how such an
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 183

immense accumulation of petroleum as is present in the East Texas
field has been derived from a highly restricted and local source; it is
more reasonable to consider that the Woodbine has been an effective
carrier bed across large areas.

Between such extremes the geologist meets an almost complete grada-
tion. The writer considers that each field presents a special problem
in migration and that a simple generalization which will explain all
cases is not to be expected or even sought.

ACCUMULATION OF PETROLEUM

METHOD OF ACCUMULATION

The fundamental force which determines in what part of a carrier
bed accumulation of oil and gas will take place is gravity. Having
ordinarily a lower specific gravity than water, they have, when
present in the same reservoir, greater buoyancy, and gravitational
separation results. The mechanism of accumulation has been well
stated by Rich (1923) :

Accumulation results from the selective segregation of oil and gas, which, on
account of their buoyancy, always tend to work their way upward toward the
roof of the reservoir as they are carried along by the water, and so are caught in
anticlinal or similar structural [and stratigraphic] traps, or in places where
differences of porosity cause a “screening” section which permits the passage
of water, but holds back oil and gas.

PLACE OF ACCUMULATION

General statement.—A trap is a geologic feature causing the ac-
cumulation of fluids in porous rocks; in petroleum geology the use
of the term is restricted to an accumulation of oil and gas—the
“structure” of the practical oil man. Various classifications which
make it possible to visualize more readily the wide range of circum-
stances under which such accumulation has occurred have been
proposed by geologists (Clapp, 1929; Wilson, 1934). The porous
zone in which the oil and associated fluids have accumulated within
the trap is called the reservoir. Accumulation occurs, in principle,
because the upward and lateral movement of the oil and gas is
arrested by the presence of a barrier—in other words, a trap or
closure.

Traps are formed by conditions which were established at the time
the sediments were deposited, by the diagenesis and lithification to
which the sediments have later been subjected, and by deformation.
Most of those in the first two groups (depositional and diagenetic),
described in the following paragraphs, may also be classified as
stratigraphic traps, while those in the third (deformational) are
structural traps (Levorsen, 1936, p. 524). While some traps are of
184 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

simple types, most of them are formed by a combination of factors.
Oil fields may be due to only a single trap, but more frequently
several traps are present and these may be of more than one type. In
the following summary the more important types of each group, and
some of the oil fields which are illustrative of each, are mentioned.

Depositional traps.—Traps which are the result of conditions estab-
lished when the sediments were deposited are of two principal types:
those in which the reservoir bed wedges out laterally between less
permeable strata or in which the character of the reservoir bed
changes lithologically; and those in which the porous bed has been
truncated and the beveled edge has been overlapped by a less
permeable bed.

In order for the wedge to be an effective trap it must point up-dip,
and this inclination may be either initial dip or the result of sub-
sequent tilting. Important oil fields of this type are Burbank (Sands,
1927) and Glenn (Wilson, 1927), Oklahoma, and the East Coalinga
field, California (Atwill, 1940). These fields occur on the margin of
sands which have large regional extent. A similar type of accumula-
tion occurs in lenticular and “shoestring” sands where the areal
extent of the trap may be quite small, as in the fields of eastern
Kansas and western Pennsylvania (Rich, 1938).

The truncation of a porous bed and the unconformable deposition
across its edge of a cover rock forms an excellent trap. An out-
standing example is the East Texas field (Minor and Hanna, 1933),
in which the oil has accumulated in the truncated edge of the Wood-
bine sand. The sands of the Simpson group in the Oklahoma City
field are overlapped by Pennsylvania strata to form traps of this
character (McGee and Clawson, 1932).

Diagenetice traps.—In this group are included those traps which
have resulted from changes in the petrology of the reservoir rocks
subsequent to their deposition—that is, from diagenesis. Accumu-
lation in sandstones may be controlled by cementation, as in some
of the Venango sand fields of Pennsylvania (Torrey, 1934, p. 472)
and the Clinton sand fields of Ohio (Billingsley, 1934, p. 505).
More frequently, however, traps of this group are formed by the
solution and recrystallization of limestones (Howard, 1928; Adams,
1934). Long after they were deposited diastrophic movements have
frequently exposed limestones to weathering. Subaerial exposure
and solution by ground water have then produced secondary porosity
in the limestone, and, when the weathered surface was covered by
later sediments, a trap suitable for oil accumulation has resulted.
The formation of dolomite by the recrystallization of calcite and
aragonite is probably responsible for increasing the porosity of lime-
stones, and this alteration seems frequently to be a part of the paleo-
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 185

weathering just mentioned. Certainly some of the most prolific lime-
stone reservoirs are in dolomites which seem to be of secondary origin.

In the Lima-Indiana field oil has accumulated in the upper zone of
the Trenton limestone, the porosity of which has probably resulted
from dolomitization (Carman and Stout, 1934). In the fields of
Michigan, where the Dundee formation is the most important reser-
voir rock, dolomitization is the principal cause of porosity (Hake,
1938). Inthe Oklahoma City field the Arbuckle limestone, the lowest
producing horizon, of lower Ordovician age, has been partly eroded,
and the porosity of the reservoir has evidently resulted from weather-
ing (McGee and Clawson, 1932).

Deformational traps—Tilting, folding, faulting, and intrusion
have for the most part, resulted from movement which has occurred
in sedimentary deposits since their deposition, and each has been
responsible for the formation of oil and gas traps.

The tilt which may be imparted to sediments largely controls the
direction in which oil and gas move. In some fields the accumulation
is due primarily to tilting of the porous bed into a monoclinal position.
If, at the same time, erosion has exposed its margin at the surface the
oil which moves upward through it will escape. Lighter oils are thus
drained from the reservoir, but more viscous oils may, through loss of
lighter fractions, form a brea which gradually seals the reservoir near
the surface and becomes a barrier to further movement. Examples of
this type of trap are found in the Sunset-Midway field, California, in
which some of the sands are filled by tar near the surface (Pack, 1920,
p. 87), and in the Lagunillas field, Venezuela, where the oil gradually
decreases in Baumé gravity eastward as the sands rise toward the out-
crop. More commonly, however, tilting has produced traps through
combination with other factors, such as stratigraphic variation.

Folding, causing anticlines and synclines, domes and basins, is in all
probability the most important factor in producing traps for oil and
gas. The first structural form recognized as controlling accumulation
was the anticline, and for many years the petroleum geologist was
chiefly concerned with the finding of domes in which the trapping of
oil was primarily dependent on structural closure. Fields in which
folding of this type is the primary cause of accumulation are numer-
ous, and only a few of the most prominent need be mentioned. Long
Beach, Calif., is the most productive dome in the United States, with
a total yield of over 630,000,000 barrels. Santa Fe Springs, Elk Hills,
and Kettleman Hills are other California fields of this type. Salt
Creek, Wyo., the most productive field of the Rocky Mountain area, is
a domal structure. Accumulation in the Seminole fields of Oklahoma
is primarily on domal folds (Levorsen, 1929). Domal folding has
been the controlling factor in forming traps in the Hobbs field, New
Mexico, and in the Yates and Big Lake fields in west Texas.
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

In Iran, the Haft Kel field is situated on a structural high on a long
anticline, while the Masjid-i-Sulaiman field is on a more complicated
anticlinal structure (Lees, 1938). In the Baku district of the U.S.S. R.
such structures as Bibi-Eibat and Surakhany are typical domes, while
most of the other fields are apparently anticlinal folds (Hobson, 1938).

Faulting, resulting from both tensional and compressional forces,
has been the controlling factor in the formation of another group of
traps. The importance of faulting in oil accumulation did not receive
recognition until about 20 years ago when the discovery of the Mexia
field in East Texas, followed by that of a number of others in the same
structural province, directed attention to this form of trap. In the
Mexia district the regional dip of the sediments is eastward ; the faults
nearly parallel the strike and are upthrown to the east, and the accumu-
lation occurs in the upthrown block against the fault plane (Lahee,
1929). Some 20 fields of this type have been found in the district, but
elsewhere in the United States such fields are unusual. Whittier and
Round Mountain are California examples.

Overthrust faulting, while not the major factor in accumulation, is
an important feature of such fields as Turner Valley, Alberta (Link and
Moore, 1934), and McKittrick, California. Tlling (1938a) states that
the Tabaquite field, Trinidad, appears to have accumulated in a thrust
block. At Boryslaw, Poland, oil is believed to be trapped by the over-
turn of a thrust block (Cizancourt, 1931).

The penetration or deformation of sediments by intrusions, either
saline or igneous, forms a varied group of traps for oiland gas. Under
the weight of the overburden deeply covered salt masses become plastic
and, at points of weakness, burst through the strata above them to form
intrusive plugs. Depending upon the pressure, the volume of salt
available, and the character of the overlying sediments, salt plugs show
great variation in size, form, and extent of movement. Those of the
piercement type have, in many cases, penetrated many thousands of
feet of overlying deposits, often reaching the surface; on the other
extreme are deep-seated domes which may have penetrated the beds
above them for only a comparatively short distance.

Piercement domes tend to drag upward the edges of the beds pene-
trated, and the porous beds, sealed against the salt mass, form annular
reservoirs. Ifthe salt plug does not reach the surface, overlying strata
may be arched upward, forming circular reservoirs above the plug. If
the section above the ascending salt mass contains beds of some degree
of competency, faulting may result. The stretching of the beds over
the plug may be compensated by the formation of a central graben.
Tangential faults along the margins of plugs are frequent. In some
regions, such as Germany and Rumania, the salt masses have been
highly distorted by diastrophic movements, and the accompanying
reservoirs have been intricately folded.
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—-HEROY 187

The most important area in which petroleum has accumulated in
relation to salt plugs is in Louisiana and Texas, near the coast of the
Gulf of Mexico. The discovery of the Spindletop field, Texas, in 1901
originated a campaign of exploration which has resulted in the devel-
opment of over 200 oil-bearing structures, of which over 100 are defi-
nitely known to be salt domes, while most of the others, from struc-
tural and other evidence, are believed to overlie deep-seated salt plugs
(Barton and Sawtelle, 1936). Salt domes are important types of
accumulation in Mexico, Germany, Rumania, Arabia, Transcaspia,
and Iran.

Igneous intrusions have caused the deformation of sediments and
thus produced traps. Well-established examples of this type of ac-
cumulation are the Thrall (Udden and Bybee, 1916), Chapman (Sell-
ards, 1982), and Lytton Springs (Collingwood and Rettger, 1926)
fields in Texas, the Furbero field in Mexico (DeGolyer, 1932), and,
probably, the Motembo field of Cuba (Lewis, 1932).

Combination traps.—Many oil fields are more complex in character
than those which have been cited. Among larger fields Bradford,
Pennsylvania, is an example of a trap formed by a combination of de-
positional and deformational factors. Structurally the field is anti-
clinal and has a gas cap and a marginal oil-water contact, but the
lensing out of the principal reservoir sand within part of the area of
closure has limited commercial production to only part of the structure
(Fettke, 1938). In Cushing, Oklahoma, and other mid-continent
fields, folding, faulting, and overlap all occur and to some degree have
influenced the accumulation of oil and gas. Nienhagen, in Germany,
Boryslaw, in Poland, and Bustenari, in Rumania, are European ex-
amples of complex structures. Many other fields throughout the world
could be mentioned as examples of involved conditions of accumula-
tion but, to the extent that the facts have been ascertained, it has been
found that the fundamental principal of buoyancy may be universally
applied.

TIME OF ACCUMULATION

The sedimentary rocks in which petroleum has originated were de-
posited in submerged areas in the earlier phase of an orogenic cycle.
The volume of sediment which may be deposited in a single cycle in
an area undergoing depression may reach enormous proportions.
In the Rocky Mountain region over 10,000 feet of Upper Cretaceous
sediments were deposited (Spieker, 1931), and in the Gulf Coast
geosyncline the maximum thickness may be greater than 30,000 feet
(Barton, Ritz, and Hickey, 1933). This earlier phase is one of quiet
sinking (Bucher, 1933, p. 126), accompanied by compaction, and the
sediments may be undisturbed by major diastrophic movements for
many millions of year after deposition (Levorsen, 1935). The later
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

phase of the orogenic cycle is one of crustal folding, during which
ranges are formed that divide the original submergent area into sepa-
rate basins. Additional materials are removed from the uprising
ranges to add to the volume of sediment in these basins. Local folding
and progressive overlap will, during this phase, form traps along the
margins of the basins and the flanks of the uplifts (Herold, 1988,
p. 837).

The generalized history just outlined is typical of some areas which
have undergone a single orogenic cycle. Most basins have had more
complex histories; breaks in deposition are marked by unconformi-
ties, and folding may have occurred at more than one period. The
petroleum generated and retained in the sediments, equally with
them, has been affected by all the forces exerted during the orogenic
cycle. In contrast, petroleum is capable of movement, and its loca-
tion has shifted es a result of changes in the attitude of the containing
sediments. Each successive orogenic cycle, therefore, may influence
the accumulation of petroleum and the location of petroleum deposits.

Movement of petroleum during the earlier phase of an orogenic
cycle is controlled primarily by the regional dip due to subsidence,
and such movement, conceivably, can occur quite early in the history
of the sediments. At the close of the first phase, the quiet sinking
period, petroleum should have been concentrated toward the more
elevated portion of the area of deposition insofar as the continuity
of carrier beds would permit. During the second phase, the period
of crustal folding, local traps are formed into which the petroleum
migrates and accumulates. Levorsen (1935) has pointed out that
those local traps which form in the area of primary regional accumu-
lation tend to be more productive than similar traps outside such
areas.

In areas which have been affected by more than one period of
orogenic movement some traps formed during earlier cycles have
survived through later cycles while others have been destroyed. The
traps that lie in the deeper parts of the basins have the better chance
of survival. In some cases oil has migrated from rocks which were
formed during the earlier cycle into those which were formed during
a succeeding one; traps in basal sands above an unconformity have
been filled with oil which has moved upward from older deposits
below the unconformity.

Traps which are formed during earlier cycles of orogeny or during
earlier periods of folding have an advantage over those which are
formed later in the history of a basin. The Kelsey anticline, Texas,
is an illustration of a well-closed but barren trap which is thought
to have been formed too late to accumulate oil in the Woodbine sand,
which is so productive in other neighboring fields in the East Texas
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—-HEROY 189

basin (Denison, Oldham, and Kisling, 1933). The East Texas field,
in the same basin, is a trap formed in the Cretaceous cycle, the outline
of which has shifted northward as a result of recent diastrophic
movement (Levorsen, 1935).

In conclusion, we may accept the generalization of David White
(1935, p. 608) that the great migrations of oil and gas were accom-
plished mainly in periods of orogeny.

DISPERSION OF PETROLEUM

It is probable that the oil and gas of every reservoir, however deeply
buried and covered by “impervious” rocks, is escaping, either upward
through the overburden or laterally along the bedding. Generally
the process must be exceedingly slow and almost imperceptible, else
most oil fields would, in the course of geologic time, have been de-
stroyed by such leakage. The presence in Oklahoma of large oil
fields of Ordovician age at depths of less than a mile illustrates how
effective overlying rocks may be in preventing, through many mil-
lions of years, the dispersion of petroleum. In contrast, the loss of
petroleum from underground reservoirs may be relatively rapid and
visible, as is evidenced by the large quantities of petroleum that have
reached the surface in many areas. Such asphalt deposits as those
at Pitch Lake in Trinidad are proof of how great such wastage may
be under suitable conditions.

In most petroliferous regions this reservoir loss is manifested by
various surface indications, such as oil and gas seepage, deposits of
brea and asphalt, bituminous dikes, tar sands, and mud volcanoes.
These may be regarded as incidents of the erosion cycle in such areas.
Where uplift and erosion have exposed the margin of an oil reservoir,
so that a direct avenue of escape to the surface has been formed, its
contents will soon be lost. Light oils and gas may be completely
drained, while heavier oils, on reaching the surface, may solidify, seal
the exposed reservoir beds, and thus retard the process of dispersion.
Faults which in some cases form traps for petroleum may in other
cases produce at the same time a channel along which some of the
trapped oil may escape to the surface. The deformation which pro-
duces folded structures may also develop faults in the flexed strata
along which the oil and gas may pass upward to shallower reservoirs
or to the surface. An example is the Salt Creek anticline, Wyoming,
to which attention was first directed because of the presence of oil
seeps near the axis of the structure and the development of which has
revealed the presence of numerous faults, some of which extend to
the surface (Beck, 1929).

Another possible means for the dissipation of petroleum deposits
is the movement of underground water. Students of Rocky Moun-
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

tain geology (Krampert, 1934; Coffin and DeFord, 1934) have sought
to explain the absence of commercial deposits of oil in certain struc-
tures otherwise favorable as due to the flushing action of circulating
water.

Even though visible evidences of the escape of petroleum from under-
ground reservoirs may not be detected, evidence is accumulating that
petroleum and petroleum gases penetrate the overlying strata and
eventually reach the surface in minute quantities. Such microseep-
ages may be revealed by precise chemical analysis of soils and subsoils,
and the results of such analyses support the belief that in some degree
all oil deposits are subject to continuing dispersion (McDermott,
1940.)

DYNAMICS OF PETROLEUM

Petroleum and natural gas, as they occur in the earth, are confined
under pressure. Their geologic history is one of motion, and in their
movement they obey laws of physics related to the flow of liquids and
gases (Muskat, 1937). From the beginning of the oil industry it was
observed that, when oil and gas sands were penetrated, the fluids which
they contain were under pressure, the amount of which increased
normally with depth. This was at first attributed to the weight of the
overlying rocks and was called “rock pressure.” Lesley (1885) showed,
however, that the pressure of the oil and gas in the reservoir was ap-
proximately equivalent to the artesian head for the corresponding
depth, and much less than the pressure which would correspond to the
weight of the overburden. Nevertheless, the industry continued to use
the term “rock pressure,” and it was not until many years later that
pressure under which fluids are confined in underground reservoirs
was termed “reservoir pressure” (Heroy, 1928). Reservoirs which
occur in artesian basins and are controlled by hydrostatic head form
one group, while those in which the porous bed does not reach the
surface and consequently is not directly influenced by artesian con-
ditions form another group.

The outstanding example of a large oil field under artesian control is
East Texas, in which the reservoir bed is the Woodbine sand. This
formation outcrops in east-central Texas and, after passing under the
East Texas syncline, is truncated along the west side of the Sabine
uplift to form a stratigraphic trap. The original reservoir pressure in
this field was 1,620 pounds at 3,300 feet below sea level, which closely
approximates the calculated hydrostatic pressure. It is probable that
the sand is continuously porous from the outcrop to the field and that
the fluids in it are governed by a common pressure system (Millikan,
1932, p. 902).

Meinzer (1936) has pointed out that, in coastal plain areas, porous
horizons may have a submarine outcrop and that there may be artesian
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 191

balance between the portion submerged under salt water in the conti-
nental shelf and the portion lying under the land. His reasoning may
be extended to coastal plain beds which have no surface outcrops be-
cause of overlap or up-dip pinching, but which may have a submarine
outcrop at the edge of the shelf. An explanation is thus afforded of
the normal reservoir pressures noted in coastal plain oil fields (Cannon
and Craze, 1938). Fluid relations in a large coastal plain field, Conroe,
Tex., have been well described by Michaux and Buck (1936).

Reservoirs which are essentially sealed by surrounding rocks of low
permeability may contain oil and gas under pressures which have no
direct relation to the hydrostatic pressures corresponding to their
depth. The oil and gas in such reservoirs may have pressures sub-
stantially in excess of the equivalent hydrostatic pressure and tending
to approach the pressure corresponding to the weight of the over-
burden (Cannon and Craze, 1938). It has been noted that in some
cases shallower reservoirs may have higher reservoir pressures than
those in the same area at greater depths (Millikan, 1932). Reservoirs
which are essentially lenticular in form and isolated from artesian
conditions may be expected to contain oil and gas under a pressure
determined primarily by the amount of gas which has migrated into
the reservoir and, if the surrounding section were highly impervious,
pressures approaching the weight of the overburden may be built up.
Excess pressures in shallower strata may, however, in some cases be
caused by supercharging from deeper horizons as a result of upward
migration of oil and gas along zones of fracture or faulting. Unfortu-
nately geologists, on the whole, have given scant attention to this
phase of petroleum geology, leaving this interesting field mostly to
petroleum engineers.

CONCLUSION

The natural history of petroleum, from genesis to dispersion, is
cyclical. In some regions where petroleum deposits occur, only a
single cycle is represented, while in others several cycles, either partial
or complete, may have occurred. In the preceding pages the writer has
described in sequence the phases which form a complete cycle and the
character of each. While each phase has been the objective of much
scientific investigation, there is great variation in the quality and com-
pleteness of the results attained. This is partly inherent in the nature of
the problems themselves. Science, however advanced, is as yet not
adequately implemented to investigate some of them, and the progress
in the solution of others may be ascribed to the immediate importance
of the results; economic considerations frequently determine the
amount and thoroughness of research.

Although petroleum geologists are conscious of the inadequacy of
their present information as to many details of the petroleum cycle,
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

they have a feeling of pride that so much has beer definitely estab-
lished. The basic principles announced a half century ago have been
tested, evaluated, and amplified; the work of the fathers was so well
done that little has been discarded. New and more precise laboratory
and field methods have made possible many studies which could not
have been carried to success even two decades ago. Such a compilation
as the present paper would not be possible without the existence of a
wealth of data which have resulted from an immense amount of
investigation.

This work still flourishes. Each unsolved problem challenges the
attention of a new generation of investigators with fresh minds and
new techniques. Large industrial and educational units are facilitat-
ing research on a scale far beyond the capacity of the individual worker.
It may be expected, therefore, that the rate at which our knowledge
of petroleum geology has advanced will be accelerated during the com-
ing years. The writer who, 50 years hence, may be called upon to review
the progress of a century of petroleum geology will find that many of
the baffling uncertainties of our time will have been cleared away ; many
of the generalities and qualifications that characterize this paper will
be replaced by more specific knowledge. Thrice armed though they
may be, he and his contemporaries will still find in petroleum geology
problems worthy of their steel.

WORKS TO WHICH REFERENCE IS MADE

In the following list are included the publications referred to in this paper.
While it comprises only a small part of the literature on petroleum geology, refer-
ence has been made to the more important publications in which the principles of
petroleum geology are discussed. It will therefore to some extent serve as a guide
to those who may be interested in more detailed consideration of this subject.

ADAMS, JOHN EMERY.

1934. Origin, migration and accumulation of petroleum in linfestone reser-
voirs in the western United States and Canada, in Problems of
petroleum geology. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers Mem.
vol., pp. 347-363.

ASHBUENER, CHARLES A.
1885. The geology of natural gas. Science, vol. 6, pp. 42-48.
ATHY, L. F.

1930a. Density, porosity, and compaction of sedimentary rocks. Amer.
Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 1-24.

1930b. Compaction and oil migration. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull.,
vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 25-85.

ATWILL, E. R.

1940. Significant developments in California, 1989. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.

Geol., Bull., vol. 24, No. 6, pp. 1112-1125, fig. 3.
BARTON, DoNALp C.

1934. Natural history of the Gulf Coast crude oil, in Problems of petroleunt
geology. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers Mem. vol., pp.
109-155.
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 193

Barron, Donan C., Rirz, C. H., and HicKry, MAUDE.
1933. Gulf Coast geosyncline. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull, vol. 17, No.
12, pp. 1446-1458.
Barton, Donatp C., and SAWTELLE, GrorGre (editors).
1936. Gulf Coast oil fields. Amer. Assoc. Petrol Geol.
BEOK, EXLFRED.
1929. Salt Creek oil field, Natrona County, Wyo., in Structure of typical
American oil fields, vol. 2, pp. 589-603. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol.
BERL, E.
1988. The origin of petroleum. Petrol. Techn., vol. 1, No. 2, Techn. Publ. No.
920, pp. 1-18.
Briurncstey, J. E.
1934. Occurrence of oil and gas in West Virginia, eastern Ohio, and eastern
Kentucky, in Problems of petroleum geology. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.
Geol., Sidney Powers Mem, vol., pp. 485-514.
Brooks, BENJAMIN T.
1936. Origins of petroleums: chemical and geochemical aspects. Amer.
Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 20, No. 3, pp. 280-301.
1938. The chemical and geochemical aspects of the origin of petroleum, in
The science of petroleum, pp. 47-53. Oxford Univ. Press.
BUCHER, WALTER H.
1933. The deformation of the earth’s crust. 518 pp. Princeton Univ.
Press.
Cannon, G. E., and Craze, R. C.
1938. Excessive pressures and pressure variations with depth of petroleum
reservoirs in the Gulf Coast region of Texas and Louisiana.
Amer. Inst. Min. Metall. Eng., Trans., vol. 127, pp. 31-38.
CaRLL, JOHN F.
1880. The geology of the oil regions of Warren, Venango, Clarion, and
Butler Counties. Second Pennsylvania Geol. Surv., vol. 18, p. 482.
CARMAN, J. ERNEST, and STouT, WILBER.
1934. Relationship of accumulation of oil to structure and porosity in the
Lima-Indiana field, in Problems of petroleum geology. Amer.
Assoe. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers Mem. vol., pp. 521-529.
CHANCE, H. M.
1887. The anticlinal theory of natural gas. Amer. Inst. Min. Metall. Eng.,
Trans., vol. 15, pp. 3-13.
CHENEY, M. G.
1940. Geology of north-central Texas. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull.,
vol. 24, No. 1, pp. 65-118.
CIZANCOURT, HENRY DE.
1931. Geology of oil fields of Polish Carpathian Mountains. Amer. Assoc.
Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 1-42.
CLAPP, FREDERICK G.
1929. Role of geologic structure in the accumulation of petroleum, in
Structure of typical American oil fields, vol. 2, pp. 667-716. Amer.
Assoc. Petrol. Geol.
CLARK, FRANK R.
1934. Origin and accumulation of oil, in Problems of petroleum geology.
Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers Mem. vol., pp. 309-335.
CoFFIN, R. CLARE, and DEF orp, Ronatp K.
1934. Waters of the oil- and gas-bearing formations of the Rocky Moun-
tains, in Problems of petroleum geology. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.
Geol., Sidney Powers Mem. vol., pp. 927-952.
194. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

CoLLinewoop, D. M., and ReTtcEr, R. EH.
1926. Lytton Springs oil field, Caldwell County, Tex. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.
Geol., Bull., vol. 10, No. 10, pp. 953-975.
Coomner, S. E.
1938. Distribution of petroleum: Poland, in The science of petroleum,
pp. 177-183. Oxford Univ. Press.
DANA, JAMEs D.
1871. Manual of geology, rev. ed., appendix L, pp. 756-757.
DEGOLYER, E.
1932. Oil associated with igneous rocks in Mexico. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.
Geol., Bull., vol. 16, No. 8, pp. 799-808.
Denison, A. R., OLDHAM, A. E., and KIsLine, J. W., JR.
1933. Structure and stratigraphy of Kelsey anticline, Upshur County, Tex.
Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 17, No. 6, pp. 656-679.
FETTKE, CHARLES R.
1938. The Bradford oil field, Pennsylvania and New York. Pennsylvania
Geol. Surv., ser. 4, Bull. M 21, p. 454.
GRISWOLD, W. T., and Munn, M. J.
1907. Geology of the oil and gas fields in Steubenville, Burgettstown, and
Claysville quadrangles, Ohio, West Virginia, and Pennsylvania.
U. S. Geol. Surv. Bull. 318, pp. 1-196.
HACKForD, J. HE.
1932. The chemistry of the conversion of algae into bitumen and petroleum
and of the fucosite-petroleum cycle. Journ. Inst. Petrol. Techn.,
vol. 18, pp. 74-123.
HAKE, B. F.
1938. Geologie occurrence of oil and gas in Michigan. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.
Geol., Bull., vol. 22, No. 4, pp. 393-415.
HamMar, Haro E.
1934. Relation of microorganisms to generation of petroleum, in Problems
of petroleum geology. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers
Mem. vol., pp. 35-49.
HEATH, DAISY WINIFRED.
1937. Comprehensive index to the publications of The American Associa-
tion of Petroleum Geologists. 382 pp. Tulsa.
HeEROLD, STANLEY C.
1938. Criteria for determining the time of accumulation under special cir-
cumstances. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 22, No. 7, pp.
834-851.
Heroy, WILLIAM B.
1928. Rock pressure. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 12, No. 4, pp.
355-384.
HLAUSCHEK, H.
1936. Naphthen- und Methandle, ihre geologische Verbreitung und Ent-
stehung. Schrift. Gebiet der Brennstoff-Geologie, vol. 2. Stuttgart.
Hogson, G. D.
1988. Distribution of petroleum: U. S. S. R., in The science of petroleum,
pp. 155-166. Oxford Univ. Press.
Howarp, W. VY.
1928. <A classification of limestone reservoirs. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol.,
Bull., vol. 12, No, 12, pp. 1153-1161.
Hunt, T. Srerry.
1861. Notes on the history of petroleum or rock-oil. Canadian Nat., vol. 6,
pp. 241-255.
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 195

Tru1ne, V. C.

1933. The migration of oil and natural gas. Journ. Inst. Petrol. Techn.,
vol. 19, pp. 229-260.

1988a. Distribution of petroleum: Eastern Venezuela and Trinidad, in The
science of petroleum, pp. 106-110. Oxford Univ. Press.

1938b. The migration of oil, in The science of petroleum, pp. 209-215. Ox-
ford Univ. Press.

KRAMPERT, BE. W.

1934. Geological characteristics of producing oil and gas fields in Wyoming,
Colorado, and northwestern New Mexico, in Problems of petroleum
geology. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers Mem. vol.,
pp. 719-733.

LAHEE, FREDERIC H.

1929. Oil and gas fields of the Mexia and Tehuanaca fault zones, Texas,
in Structure of typical American oil fields, vol. 1, pp. 304-388. Amer.
Assoc. Petrol. Geol.

LEEs, G. M.

1933. Reservoir rocks of Persian oil fields. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol.,
Bull., vol. 17, No. 3, pp. 229-240.

1938. The geology of the oil field belt of Iran and Iraq, in The science of
petroleum, pp. 140-148. Oxford Univ. Press.

Lrstry, J. P.

1885. Some general considerations of the pressure, quantity, composition
and fuel-value of rock-gas or the natural gas of oil regions of
Pennsylvania. Ann. Rep. Pennsylvania Geol. Surv. 1885, pp.
657-680.

1886. The geology of the Pittsburgh coal-region. Amer. Inst. Min. Metall.
Eng., Trans., vol. 14, pp. 618-674.

LEvorsEN, A. I.

1929. Greater Seminole district, Seminole and Pottawatomie Counties,
Oklahoma, in Structure of typical American oil fields, vol. 2, pp.
815-361. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol.

1935. Time of oil migration and accumulation (abstract). Oil Weekly, vol.
79, No. 10, p. 16.

1936. Stratigraphic versus structural accumulation. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.
Geol., Bull., vol. 20, No. 5, pp. 521-530.

Lewis, J. WHITNEY.

1982. Occurrence of oil in igneous rocks of Cuba. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.

Geol., Bull., vol. 16, No. 8, pp. 809-818.
Link, THEODORE, and Moors, P. D.

1934. Structure of Turner Valley oil and gas field, Alberta. Amer. Assoc.

Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 18, No. 11, pp. 1417-1453.
LYELL, Str CHARLES.

1842. Principles of geology: or, the modern changes of the earth and its
inhabitants, considered as illustrative of geology. Hilliard, Gray
& Co., Boston.

McCoy, Atex W.

1926. <A brief outline of some oil accumulation problems. Amer. Assoc.

Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 10, No. 11, pp. 1015-1034.
McCoy, ALEx W., and KrytTr, W. Ross.

1934. Present interpretations of the structural theory of oil and gas migra-
tion and accumulation, in Problems of petroleum geology. Amer.
Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers Mem. vol., pp. 253-307.
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

McDrrmMort, EUGENE.
1940. Geochemical exploration (soil analysis). Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol.,
Bull., vol. 24, No. 5, pp. 859-881.
McGee, D. A., and CLAWSON, W. W., JR.
1932. Geology and development of Oklahoma City field, Oklahoma. Amer.
Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 16, No. 10, pp. 957-1020.
McGEE, W. J.
1890. Geol. Soe, Amer., Bull., vol. 1, p. 97.
MEINzER, O. E.
1936. Movements of ground water. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol.
20, No. 6, pp. 704-725.
MICHAUX, FRANK W., Jr., and Buck, EH. O.
1936. Conroe oil field, Montgomery County, Tex. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.
Geol., Bull., vol. 20, No. 6, pp. 736-779.
Mmu1Kan, C. V.
1932. Geological application of bottom hole pressures. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.
Geol., Bull., vol. 16, No. 9, pp. 891-906.
Minor, H. E., and HaAnnAéA, Marcus A.
1933. East Texas oi] field. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 17, No.
7, pp. 757-792.
Muir, JoHn M.
1934. Limestone reservoir rocks in the Mexican oil fields, in Problems
of petroleum geology. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers
Mem. vol., pp. 377-398.
Munn, Matcotm J.
1909. The anticlinal and hydraulic theories of oil and gas accumulation.
Econ. Geol., vol. 4, pp. 509-529.
MusxKar, M.
1937. The flow of homogeneous fluids through porous media. 763 pp. Mce-
Graw-Hill Book Co.
ORTON, EDWARD.
1888. The origin and accumulation of petroleum and natural gas. Rep.
Geol. Surv. Ohio, vol. 6, chap. 2, pp. 60-100.
1890. Origin of the rock pressure of natural gas in the Trenton limestone
of Ohio and Indiana. Geol. Soc. Amer., Bull., vol. 1, pp. 87-94.
Pack, R. W.
1920. The Sunset-Midway oil field, California. U. S. Geol. Surv., Prof.
Pap. 116, pt. 1, pp. 1-179.
PECKHAM, STEPHEN F.
1884. Report on the production, technology, and uses of petroleum and
its products. U. 8. 10th Census Rep., vol. 10, 319 pp.
PRATT, WALLACE E.
1934. Hydrogenation and the origin of oil, in Problems of petroleum
geology. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers Mem. vol.,
pp. 2385-245.
RicH, JOHN L.
1923. Further notes on the hydraulic theory of oil migration and accumu-
lation. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 213-225.
1931. Function of carrier beds in long-distance migration of oil. Amer.
Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 15, No. 8, pp. 911-922.
1988. Shorelines and lenticular sands as factors in oil accumulations, in
The science of petroleum, pp. 230-239. Oxford Univ. Press.
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY—HEROY 197

Rogers, H. D.
1860. On the distribution and probable origin of the petroleum or rock-
oil of western Pennsylvania, New York, and Ohio. Proc. Philos.
Soc. Glasgow, vol. 4, pp. 335-359.
SANDERS, J. MCCONNELL.
1987. The microscopical examination of crude petroleum. Journ. Inst.
Petrol. Techn., vol. 23, pp. 525-572.
SANDs, J. MELVILLE.
1927. Burbank field, Osage County, Okla. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol.,
Bull., vol. 11, No. 11, pp. 1045-1054.
ScHILTHUIS, RALPH J.
1937. Connate water in oil and gas sands. Amer. Inst. Min. Metall. Eng.,
Trans., vol. 127, pp. 199-225.
SELLARDS, KE. H.
1932. Oil fields in igneous rocks in coastal plain of Texas. Amer. Assoc.
Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 16, No. 8, pp. 741-768.
SNIDER, L. C.
1934. Current ideas regarding source beds, in Problems of petroleum geology.
Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers Mem. vol., pp. 51-66.
SPIEKER, H. M. :
1931. The Wasatch plateau coal field, Utah. U. S. Geol. Surv. Bull. 819,
p. 16.
Strout, WILBER.
1936. Source material for petroleum and natural gas. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.
Geol., Bull., vol. 20, No. 6, pp. 797-804.
THom, W. T., JR., and SpreKER, EDMUND M.
1931. The significance of geologic conditions in Naval Petroleum Reserve
No. 8, Wyoming. U.S. Geol. Surv. Prof. Pap. 163.
Torrey, Paut D.
1934. Origin, migration, and accumulation of petroleum and natural gas in
Pennsylvania, in Problems of petroleum geology. Amer. Assoc.
Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers Mem. vol., pp. 447-484.
TRASK, PARKER D.
1932. Origin and environment of source sediments of petroleum. 3823 pp.
Gulf Publishing Co., Houston.
1988. One way of finding oil more cheaply. Drilling and Production Prac-
tice, 1937, pp. 382-398. Amer. Petrol. Inst.
TRASK, PARKER D., and Wt, C. C.
1930. Does petroleum form in sediments at time of deposition? Amer.
Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 14, No. 11, pp. 1451-1463.
Triess, A.
1934-1935. Chlorophyll—- und Himinderivate in bituminosen Gesteinen,
Erdoel, Erdwachsen und Asphalten. Ann. Chem., vol. 510, p. 42;
vol. 517, p. 172.
TWENHOFEL, WILLIAM H. o
1932. Treatise on sedimentation. 2ded.,926pp. The Williams and Wilkins
Co., Baltimore.
1939. Environments and origin of black shales. Amer. Assoc. Petrol.
Geol., Bull., vol. 23, No. 8, pp. 1178-1198.
UppEN, JOHAN A., and BYsEE, H. P.
1916. The Thrall oil field. Univ. Texas Bull. 66.
566766—44——_14
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

VERSLUYS, JAN.
1932. Factors involved in segregation of oil and gas from subterranean

water. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 16, No. 9, pp. 924-942.
WHITE, DAviD.
1935. Metamorphism of organic sediments and derived oils. Amer. Assoc.
Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 19, No. 5, pp. 589-617.
Waite, I. C.
1885a. The geology of natural gas. Science, vol. 5, pp. 521-522.
1885b. Reply to Ashburner. Science, vol. 6, pp. 43-44.
1886. The geology of natural gas. Petroleum Age, vol. 5, pp. 1263-1267,
1464-1465.
1892. The Mannington oil field and the history of its development. Geol.
Soe. Amer., Bull., vol. 3, pp. 187-216.
WILSON, W. B.
1927. Geology of Glenn pool of Oklahoma. Amer. Assoc, Petrol. Geol., Bull.,
vol. 11, No. 10, pp. 1055-1065.
1934. Proposed classification of oil and gas reservoirs, in Problems of
petroleum geology. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol., Sidney Powers
Mem. vol., pp. 433-445.
WooLnoucH, W. G.
1937. Sedimentation in barred basins and source rocks of oil. Amer. Assoc.
Petrol. Geol., Bull., vol. 21, No. 9, pp. 1101-1157.
THE 1942 ERUPTION OF MAUNA LOA, HAWAII?

By Gorpon A. MAcDONALD

Geological Survey, U. S. Department of the Interior
Honolulu, T. H.

[With 2 plates]

INTRODUCTION

Mauna Loa volcano, on the island of Hawaii, is probably the
largest and most active volcano in the world. It rises to a height of
13,680 feet above sea level, and some 30,000 feet above the surrounding
ocean floor. On the north and northwest its great lava shield abuts
against the dormant or extinct volcanoes of Mauna Kea and Hualalai,
and on its southeastern slope rests the smaller, younger shield of
Kilauea volcano (fig. 1).

Mauna Loa is a broad, basaltic shield volcano transected by three
great series of fractures, known as rift zones, which intersect at the
summit in the caldera of Mokuaweoweo. Along them have taken place
most of the innumerable eruptions which built up the mountain. One
rift zone extends from the summit southwestward to the southern
point of the island. Another extends northeastward toward the city
of Hilo, and a third, less prominent one trends northwestward toward
Hualalai voleano. The rift zones are marked on the surface by many
cinder cones, spatter cones, pit craters, and open fissures.

Throughout recorded history, Mauna Loa has erupted on an average
of once every 3.6 years, but the frequency of eruption may actually
be somewhat greater owing to the possibility of small summit erup-
tions having escaped notice during the earlier part of the period of
occupation of the island by white men. During the 110 years since
the first recorded eruption, in June 1832, Mauna Loa has been in ac-
tivity approximately 2,527 days, or 6.3 percent of the time. Flank
eruptions occupied about 3.3 percent of the total elapsed time, and
eruptions in and near the summit caldera occupied 3 percent of the
time.

1 Published by permission of the Director, Geological Survey, U. S. Department of the

Interior. Reprinted by permission from the American Journal of Science, vol. 241, No. 4,
April 1943.

199
200 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The latest period of activity of Mauna Loa commenced on April
26, 1942. A fissure opened across the caldera and a short way down
the northeastern slope, and lava fountains played along it. Two
days later the principal eruption began along a fissure in the north-
east rift zone, at an altitude of 9,200 feet. Activity continued until
May 10, 1942. The last preceding activity had been in 1940, when

156° 155°

2omiles

156° Wotehy
FieuRE 1.—Outline map of the island of Hawaii, showing the location of the 1942
lava flow (solid black), and other historic flows of Mauna Loa and Kilauea.

lava fountains played in the summit caldera with gradually abating
strength from April 7 until August.

The following account of the eruption of 1942 is based partly on
personal observation and partly on data gathered from other ob-
servers. The activity at the vent at 9,200 feet was watched at close
range throughout its duration by a succession of witnesses, but the
early summit activity was seen only from a distance. Most of the
ERUPTION OF MAUNA LOA—MACDONALD 201

observations used, other than those of the writer, were made by the
personnel of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory and Hawaii National
Park, and the writer wishes to thank all those who contributed in-
formation for their generous cooperation. Special thanks are due
Lt. P. E. Schulz for his description of the front of the flow. R. H.
Finch, Director of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, H. T. Stearns
of the U. S. Geological Survey, and C. K. Wentworth of the
Honolulu Board of Water Supply, have kindly read and criticized
the manuscript. James Y. Nitta prepared the illustrations.

PREDICTION OF THE ERUPTION

The 1942 eruption of Mauna Loa was predicted by R. H. Finch
several months in advance, on the basis of seismic activity, coupled
with the known periodicity of the volcano. On February 8, 1942,
a strong earthquake occurred on the line of the northeast rift zone
near Hilo, at a depth of 27 miles.2- This was followed by a series of
quakes which migrated up the northeast rift, across the summit, and
a short way down the southwest rift, then returned across the summit
and settled in the northeast rift. The seismic activity will be de-
scribed in detail by Finch in another paper.

In memoranda for the Superintendent of Hawaii National Park,
dated March 1 and 5, 1942, later published in the local newspapers,
Finch called attention to the growing uneasiness of Mauna Loa,
indicated both by earthquakes and the accumulation of easterly tilt
at the Volcano Observatory. Easterly tilt has long been known to
indicate tumescence of Mauna Loa accompanying the rise of magma
pressure preceding eruption. In a memorandum dated April 10 he
wrote, “The progressive splitting of the northeast-southwest rift of
Mauna Loa that was pronounced in February continued in March
* * * Tf Mauna Loa erupts within the next several months, as
seems probable, the indications point to a flank eruption from the
northeast rift.”* Although military considerations forbade release
of the prediction, its value as a contribution to practical volcanology
remains unimpaired.

DESCRIPTION OF THE ERUPTION

EARLY SUMMIT ACTIVITY

The eruption commenced on the evening of April 26, 1942, with
activity along a fissure that opened part way up the cliffs on the west-
ern side of Mokuaweoweo caldera and across the smaller pit crater,

? Finch, R. H., personal communication.

* Finch, R. H., Memorandum to the Superintendent of Hawaii National Park, April 10,
1942.
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

known as North Bay, which adjoins Mokuaweoweo on the north. It
was first reported by observers about 6 p. m., but the seismograph
record shows that it actually commenced at 5:05 p. m* Lava foun-
tains played along the fissure, building up small ramparts of spatter,
and streams of molten pahoehoe* cascaded down the caldera walls
forming a lava flow along the base of the western wall and around the
west and north edges of North Bay. Shortly afterward the fissure was
extended on down the northeastern flank of the mountain for a dis-
tance of 214 miles, passing close to the south edge of the main cone
of the 1935 eruption. Highly fluid lava issued from the fissure along
its entire length. Small spatter ramparts were built in places, but in
general there was little accumulation of spatter along the fissure.
Much of the early lava was covered with a pumiceous top, half an inch
to over an inch thick, owing to the extreme vesiculation of the gas-rich
magma. The lava flow streamed northward down the mountain slope
toward Mauna Kea for several miles, dividing into two major lobes.
Pahoehoe near the source gave place to aa® at the lower ends of the
flow. On the night of April 26 the fume column, illuminated by glow
from the fountains beneath, was clearly visible from Kilauea, rising
nearly vertically to an altitude of about 15,000 feet and then drifting
southwestward.

At 2a.m., April 27, G. O. Fagerlund and B. J. Loucks, of Hawaii
National Park, began the ascent of the mountain. The ground was
quaking continually, averaging three or four distinct shocks a minute.
On reaching the rest house at Puu Ulaula, at an altitude of 10,000 feet,
the shocks appeared to originate directly beneath their feet, and a
crude heavy pendulum set up by Loucks showed almost no horizontal
displacement. They therefore decided to remain at Puu Ulaula in-
stead of continuing to the summit, as had been planned, and as a result
they had the rare privilege of witnessing at close range the opening
phases of the flank eruption.

FLANK ERUPTION

Opening phase-—At 4:40 a. m., April 28, molten lava broke out
along a fissure in the northeast rift zone about 114 miles east-northeast
of Puu Ulaula (fig. 1). Fagerlund and Loucks reached the site of the
eruption at 7:30a.m. At that time a nearly continuous sheet of lava
fountains was issuing from a fissure over half a mile in length, form-
ing the “curtain of fire” frequently observed during the opening
stages of Mauna Loa eruptions. The fissure extended from an alti-
tude of about 9,500 to 9,200 feet, with a trend of N. 85° E. The foun-
tains played to heights of 200 to 300 feet above the ground.

4¥Finch, R. H., personal communication.

© Pahoehoe=lava that congeals in smooth, sometimes ropy forms.
§ Aa=lava with a rough, clinkery top.
ERUPTION OF MAUNA LOA—MACDONALD 203

During the day the fissure gradually lengthened down slope, its
course changing to N. 70° E., and by 3 p. m. the total length of the
erupting fissure was about a mile. Fountains were active along both
its upper and lower ends. Along its middle part lava welled forth
copiously, forming a lava river which followed the course of the fis-
sure. Along this portion of the fissure fountaining was much less
prominent than elsewhere, but occasional bursts of fountain activity
through the river suggested that the paucity of fountain activity re-
sulted from drowning of the fountains by the lava river. Thin flows
of very gas-rich pahoehoe were poured out on both sides of the rift
and flowed downhill alongside it, changing to aa half a mile below
the bend in the fissure. Fountain activity reached a maximum at 8
p. m. on April 28, the fountains attaining a height of 500 feet, or a
little more.

The fissure along which the lava broke out extended up the mountain
probably to the summit, and although no lava issued in the zone be-
tween 10,000 and 12,000 feet, fume was observed at several localities.
Fume was also noted at the source cone of the 1935 eruption. Lava
extrusion at the summit decreased greatly on the 27th and appeared
to have stopped when the flank eruption began. Fissuring was later
found by R. H. Finch also to extend well down slope from the locus
of the eruption. Several observers reported seeing new lava fountains
on the northeast rift near the summit late in the afternoon of May 1,
but this reported eruption was probably merely the effect of sunset
colors on a fume cloud, as it was not visible after dark. Moreover,
it appears unlikely that once the activity had broken out at 9,200 feet
altitude, it would migrate back up the fissure and break out anew at
or above 12,000 feet.

Shortly after the outbreak at 9,200 feet altitude, lava issued at an-
other locality 3 miles farther down slope, at an altitude of 7,800 feet.
This lower locality had none of the characteristics habitually ex-
hibited by true vents on Mauna Loa. The lava issued relatively
quietly from beneath the toe of an older aa flow which overlies a still
older brown pahoehoe. Fume was liberated in much less volume than
at the vent at 9,200 feet, and no lava fountains appear to have been
present. Only a very small amount of dense spatter was formed, and
the lava was denser and much poorer in gas than that at the higher
sources. Steam issued from arcuate fissures which lay at approxi-
mately right angles to the flow and to the rift zone just above the point
at which the lava issued.’ No traces of fracturing parallel to the rift
zone could be found. This lower outbreak probably represents lava
draining through an older pahoehoe tube which intersected the erup-
tion fissure at some point higher up the mountain.

™An excellent aerial photograph of the lower source, showing these features, has been
published in Life, vol. 12, No. 22, p. 36, June1, 1942.
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

After attaining its maximum length and strength on the evening
of April 28, the fountain activity at the vent at 9,200 feet gradually
became restricted to the central part of the fissure, building up a chain
of cinder and spatter cones 1,000 feet long. The restriction of the
fountains marked the end of the opening phase of the flank eruption.
This opening phase was characterized by the “curtain of fire” extend-
ing nearly uninterrupted along a fissure over a mile in length, and
by the copious outwelling of lava along the fissure with the building
of low ramparts of spatter but no true cones.

Middle phase——The middle phase of the flank eruption was char-
acterized by lava fountains restricted to the central part of the fissure.
It was a phase of cone building.

H. T. Stearns and the writer reached the lava fountains late in the
afternoon of May 2. For 1,500 feet at its western end activity along
the fissure was confined to the liberation of fume, although the walls
in places were still red hot. At night pale blue flames, having the
color of hydrogen flames, were seen at two places rising 6 or 8 feet
above the ground. The lava fountains during the early phase of the
eruption had built a rampart of spatter cones 10 to 20 feet high.
In many places the spatter cones had bridged the fissure, and it was
possible to cross to the other side. Several of the cones were partly
coated with thin deposits of sulfur. The fume along the upper part
of the fissure was largely steam, but the odor of boric acid was de-
tected in several places.

Lava fountains were still vigorously active for a distance of 1,000
feet along the fissure, and had built up a chain of spatter and cinder
cones to an average height of 75 feet (fig. 2). The westernmost of
these cones had exceptionally steep sides, and enclosed a vent from
which there was no true fountaining, but which liberated great rolling
clouds of fume (pl. 1, fig.1). Occasional violent gas explosions at this
vent hurled blocks of pumice high in the air. At other times periods
of strombolian activity of a few minutes duration occurred, during
which there were ejected ribbon- and spindle-shaped bombs which
cooled during flight and struck the cone in a solid condition, to roll
clattering down its sides. The most copious ejections of pumice were
of several minutes duration, and were accompanied by a roaring sound
of escaping gas. Blocks of pumice, of a pale tan color, some of them
as much as 8 or 10 inches across, were projected to heights estimated
at 1,000 to 2,000 feet. The larger blocks shattered on striking the
ground. Smaller pumice fragments pattered down like rain on the
hat brims of the observers.

The rest of the cone chain was in typical Hawaiian activity. Lava
fountains played to heights of 100 to 400 feet above the cones. At
night the color of the molten lava in the fountains varied from
ERUPTION OF MAUNA LOA—-MACDONALD 205

orange to pale yellow, indicating temperatures in the vicinity of 900° to
1050° C. Irregular shreds of molten lava, many of them several feet
across, were hurled into the air (pl. 1, fig. 2), accompanied by the
constant evolution of large volumes of fume. The magma shreds
gradually cooled during flight, and changed in color to red and then
to purple, and many of them to black before they struck the ground.
Most fell back into the vents, but occasionally showers of ejecta struck
the outer slopes of the cones in splashes of fiery red liquid. The
fume cloud ranged in color from white to bluish-gray and pale
reddish-brown, the latter color being predominant. The cloud smelled
strongly of sulfur dioxide. The ground in the vicinity of the vents

Ouvlidew tlavas
500 FT

Older lavas

FicurE 2.—Geologic sketch map of the vent area at 9,200 feet altitude during the
eruption of Mauna Loa, on May 2, 1942.

was constantly agitated, the tremor resembling that caused by the close
passing of a heavy railroad train.

The pahoehoe flows extruded at the beginning of the eruption were
cool enough to walk over, but too hot to sit on for more than a few
minutes. Food was easily cooked over hot cracks in the lava, and
glowing rock could be seen at depths of a few inches. The odor of
boric acid was detected at several cracks in the lava, and the so-called
foundry odor, resembling the smell of hot iron in a blacksmith shop,
was constantly present. The lava was exceedingly frothy. Thin
shells 2 or 3 inches thick covered cavities a few inches to 2 or 3 feet
deep and several feet across. Many of these cavities were pahoehoe
tubes, but others ended in lobes against the adjacent older lava with
no possible means of escape for any enclosed liquid. The latter cavities
are probably the result of inflation by expanding gases in the highly
gas-rich, fluid pahoehoe.
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

At the lower end of the cone chain there issued a lava river 50 feet
wide which flowed seaward through an open channel along the course
of the eruption fissure. The speed of the fastest-moving central part
was estimated to be 15 to 20 miles an hour. This speed is comparable
to that of 25 miles per hour determined by stop-watch observations
by M. H. Carson during the 1926 eruption,’ and 7 to 19 miles per hour
by C. K. Wentworth during the 1935 eruption.® Near the cones small
fountains occasionally erupted through the lava river. It was impos-
sible to approach close to the river on May 2, but on the 4th the writer
crossed the eruption fissure and obtained an excellent view of the river
from the north side near the lower end of the cone chain. Its surface
undulated and bounded like that of a large river of water in flood.
Broad standing waves, 3 or 4 feet in height, extended entirely across
the river. Where it left the cone, its entire surface was one of orange-
red molten lava, but crusts of gray, ropy pahoehoe started to form
within 100 feet from the cone, and 200 yards downstream the river
was completely crusted over. The crusts were repeatedly broken up
and swept away, many fragments slowly tilting, elevating one edge
above the river before sinking out of sight.

On the morning of May 4 the fountain activity had become largely
restricted to a single central fountain, which played to an average
height of 150 feet above the cone, with occasional bursts going as high
as 500 feet. The cone had increased in height to about 100 feet.
The vent at the western end of the cone chain, which had been in
strombolian activity on May 2, had become a roaring gas vent with
occasional violent explosions hurling ejecta 500 feet in the air with a
noise like artillery fire. The fume at the fountains had greatly in-
creased in volume, and smelled strongly of sulfur dioxide.

An epoch of frequent small lava flows which broke laterally from
the cones probably commenced on May 2. Two such small flows of
pahoehoe had already occurred, one on each side of the cone chain,
previous to the afternoon of May 2. Both spilled over low places in
the cone rim, and flowed only 100 feet or so beyond the foot of the
cone. The one on the south side was probably erupted early on May
2, for it still showed many glowing apertures on the afternoon of that
day. In the early morning of May 4, E. G. Wingate saw the southern
wall of the western cone partly collapse, liberating a short flow of
viscous, slow-moving pahoehoe. At about 8:45 p. m. of the same
day F. B. Herman witnessed the break-down of part of the cone,
which liberated very hot fluid flows that carried away a small sec-
tion of the cone wall. These lava streams broke out on both sides of
the cone chain. That on the northern side soon rejoined the main

8 Carson, M. H., personal communication.
® Wentworth, C. K., unpublished memorandum, 1935,
ERUPTION OF MAUNA LOA—MACDONALD 207

lava river, but that on the southern side formed a new flow which
advanced down the mountain for a distance of about 6 miles, and
continued flowing until May 7.1° The lowering of the lava level in
the cone was accompanied by a temporary increase to about 600 feet
in the height of the fountains, probably owing to the removal of part
of the damping effect of the ponded lava on the gases rising through
it. This new flow diverted a large volume of lava from the older
flow, and was probably largely responsible for the cessation of move-
ment at the front of the older flow which occurred on May 5 or 6.4

R. H. Finch visited the fountains on May 5 and 6, and reported that
two flows were moving eastward from the cones. Both were pahoehoe
for over half a mile from the source but changed to aa in less than
a mile. At 7,000 feet altitude the new lava was in places 40 feet
thick.

On the morning of May 7, Paul and Sarah Baldwin, of Hawaii
National Park, witnessed the outbreak of two more small flows from
the western cone, which had become the site of the principal fountain
activity. The first flow broke from the south side of the cone at 6: 30
a. m., and continued for less than half an hour, forming a short
stream of aa. At 7 a. m. the second flow escaped through a wall of
the cone on its southwestern side, and formed a short pahoehoe stream
along the south base of the cone chain. This flow did not escape over
the edge of the cone, but forced its way through the cone wall, ap-
pearing first as a slightly glowing bulge which slowly distended and
developed into a stream of pahoehoe. These repeated short outflows
heaped up a small lava dome about the edges of the cinder and spatter
cone, burying the base of the cone to a depth of 30 feet.

Declining phase—The cones were again visited by the writer on
May 9. Activity had greatly decreased, and was restricted to two
small fountains. The ejected lava was a deeper red than during
the previous visit, indicating a decrease in temperature. The larger
fountain occupied the western vent of the cone chain, and was
in explosive activity, throwing lava clots 50 to 70 feet above the
cone, but with no true jet of liquid lava visible. The smaller foun-
tain occupied the next pit to the east, and was a true fountain 15 to
20 feet high, with frequent explosive bursts reaching a height of 50
feet. During the intervals between bursts, a jet of magma could be
seen curving obliquely upward from one side of the pit and splashing
down against the other side. A lava river 15 feet wide cascaded
rapidly from this pit and flowed sluggishly off (pl. 2, fig, 1), at a rate
of about half a mile an hour, forming a ropy crust in which the
glowing lava beneath could be seen through the cracks. The lava

10 Finch, R. H., press release, National Park Service, U. S. Dep. Interior, May 23, 1942.
41 Winch, R. H., op. cit.
208 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

river flowed at the top of a long embankment 30 feet high, enclosed
between levees built by its overflow. The lava repeatedly broke
through the levees and sent short streams down the side of the
embankment.

Several times fragments of the river bank crumbled away, tumbling
large blocks of lava, as much as 10 feet across, into the river. These
were rolled along, and wrapped up into ball-shaped masses by the
moving lava.

About 200 yards below the vent the lava was mostly aa. The
walls of the aa channel were 10 to 15 feet high, and composed of
loose blocks of clinker. Between them the aa stream was moving
very slowly, blocks occasionally tumbling down and revealing the
glowing, pasty interior. Along the axis of the aa stream flowed a
river of pahoehoe, and across the jagged top of the aa blocks borne ~
on the lava river could be seen moving slowly by. Small flows of
pahoehoe occasionally broke from the lower portions of the aa. In
one of these, when stirred with a stick, the molten lava had the
consistency of very viscous taffy.

On the morning of May 10, activity at the fountains was nearly at
an end. The western vent showed moderate fuming and weak lava-
ejection activity, throwing scattered shreds of red-hot lava 10 to 25
feet above the rim of the cone. The other fountain and the lava
river no longer existed. The channel occupied by the river was
empty, and about 12 feet deep. In places its walls had collapsed.
The cones were still very hot. It was impossible to stand still on them
for more than a few moments, and sticks thrust into glowing cracks
were quickly ignited. On the morning of May 11 the cone area was
completely dead, except for minor amounts of fume. On May 31,
small amounts of white fume, probably largely steam, were still rising
along the fissure.

LOWER PORTION OF THE LAVA FLOW

The lava river that escaped from the lower end of the cone chain
flowed seaward, dividing and reuniting like a braided stream, and
finally being joined by that from the lower source to form a single
flow. The earlier lateral outpourings formed broad fields of aa
along the edges of the flow, but the actively moving central portion
remained pahoehoe for about 6 miles, finally changing to aa at an
altitude of about 6,500 feet. During the first few days the advance
of the flow front was rapid. At noon on May 1 it was reported to
have reached a point 15 miles from the 9,200-foot source, and only
11 miles from the city of Hilo. If the advance continued at the same
rate, it appeared likely that there might result serious damage to the
Waiakea section of the city and possibly to Hilo harbor.
ERUPTION OF MAUNA LOA—MACDONALD 209

The front of the lava advanced into a region of dense jungle.
The only trained scientific observer to reach the flow terminus while
it was still in motion was Lt. P. E. Schulz, formerly assistant at the
Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, who has kindly supplied the writer
with an excellent description of the advancing lava. Mr. Schulz
reached the lava flow on May 1. The jungle was extremely wet and
swampy, and much rain water was standing or flowing on the surface
of the ground. The flow was 20 to 25 feet thick, and was typical aa,
with an exceedingly active front. Trees in the path of the flow were
rapidly bowled over and burned. Contact of the lava with the water
and wet vegetation resulted in large volumes of dense smoke and
violent explosions which made impossible a close approach to the
flow.

The explosions were frequent, and caused great billowing black
clouds to rise 500 to 1,000 feet in the air, the color of the cloud chang-
ing after a minute or so to gray and then to white. Some of the
explosions were probably caused by rapidly generated steam, but
others were probably the result of combustion of hydrocarbon gases
distilled from the inundated vegetation. The smell of marsh gas was
distinct in the hollows near the lava. Explosion craters 10 feet or
so across and a couple of feet deep were observed up to several
hundred feet beyond the margin of the flow. These contained no new
lava, nor any evidence of heating or alteration, and must have re-
sulted from the migration of steam or explosive gases through lava
tubes and other openings in the underlying older lava.

The lava advanced at a speed estimated as 300 to 500 feet an hour,
and the flow was also spreading laterally, but at a much slower rate.
The movement of the edges of the flow could be observed at much
closer quarters than could that of the flow front. “The lateral ad-
vance was made by yellow-hot lava in small amount which oozed
from the loose steep wall in a highly fluid condition. It was ap-
parently of such low viscosity solely on the strength of its great heat.
J was unable to detect any effervescence or other indication of escaping
gas * * *, After 2 or 3 seconds the fluid material very abruptly
lost its high mobility and became friable, forming fragments that
rolled down the steep, rough flank. During the next 4 or 5 seconds
* * * the fragments still remained soft enough so as not to make
any appreciable sound, yet of such a consistency that the descending
pieces fragmented as they bumped down the slope. Then the frag-
ments cooled and hardened to the point that the characteristic clinking
sound was made, and at this point the yellow-orange glow was gone,
the fragments being quite red in color with grayed and darkened
edges and projections.” #

“% Schulz, P. E., letter of June 11, 1942.
210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The advance of the flow toward Hilo probably stopped on May 5
or 6, as a result of the diversion of part of the lava by the new flow
that started on the 4th. The first definite confirmation of this fact
came when H. T. Stearns and the writer crossed the flow on the
morning of May 7, at an altitude of 6,100 feet. All movement had
then ceased, although parts of the flow were still very hot. Red
glowing lava could be seen in many places. The lava was nearly all
aa, but a few small tongues of pahoehoe were observed. Accretionary
lava balls, formed by the rolling up of viscous lava about some
solidified center, were abundant.’* Some had diameters of as much
as 12 feet. One secondary fumarole was observed, consisting of a
hot glowing area liberating a small amount of sulfurous fume, and
encrusted with a thin deposit of sulfur. This secondary fumarole
was located at the edge of one of the dead aa rivers, at the foot of
the levee, and the edges of the lava rivers were generally found to be
the hottest areas. Organic gases such as methane or ammonia, re-
sulting from the partial volatilization of vegetation overflowed by
the lava, were not observed, but were probably present at least in
small amounts during earlier stages.

The final termination of the lava is at an altitude of approximately
2,750 feet, about 10 miles from the center of Hilo. The total length
of the flow below the principal lateral vent at 9,200 feet altitude is
approximately 16 miles.

BOMBING OF THE LAVA

On May 1, there apeared to be imminent danger that the lava flow
might successively cut the Olaa flume which supplies water to the
town of Mountain View, block the road around the island, and de-
stroy part of the city of Hilo and the Waiakea plantation. Con-
sequently, the United States Army decided to try to divert the flow
by aerial bombing. It was proposed to break down the levees and
allow the lava river to escape laterally, thus reducing or eliminating
the supply of lava to the main front of the flow. R. H. Finch made
a reconnaissance flight and selected the most favorable sites for
bombing, but before the bombers could reach the area, it was covered
by clouds. Therefore, the bombs were dropped higher up the flow
at less favorable localities.

Altogether, about 16 demolition bombs were dropped, some weigh-
ing 300 and others 600 pounds. Most struck directly on the target.
Some bombs were dropped on the lower source, but without appre-
ciable effect. The others were dropped at a place where the open
lava river swung against the outside of a long loop in its course,

18 These have been termed bombes A roulement, but the name is inappropriate. Their
origin is not at all like that of true volcanic bombs.
ERUPTION OF MAUNA LOA—-MACDONALD 211

and where the levee was unusually narrow. The levee was broken,
and a small lava stream escaped to one side of the main flow, but the
topographic depression that had guided the original flow also guided
the new branch. It flowed parallel to the main river for a short
distance, and then rejoined it.

Although the bombing had no effect in stopping the flow, it did
demonstrate that under favorable circumstances it might, by breaking
down the levees, be possible to create new branches of a flow and
thus retard the advance of the main front. Total diversion of the
flow would, however, depend on a combination of favorable circum-
stances, including a lava river flowing in a channe] higher than the
surrounding territory, narrow levees that could be broken down by
bombing, and topography that would direct the new flow away from
the old one rather than back into it. The necessity for further
bombing was removed by the stagnation of the principal flow a few
days later.

There appear to be three manners in which bombing may cause
the formation of new branch flows, and thus lessen or terminate the
advance of the previous lava front. One of these involves the break-
ing down of a narrow levee along an open lava river, as was done
in the 1942 eruption. Another and similar method is the breaking
down of part of the cone wall, allowing lava to escape laterally and
form a new flow, as it did naturally during the 1942 eruption, on
May 4. The third method involves the breaking in of the roof of
a lava tube through which the lava river is flowing. This may, if the
roof of the tube is thick enough, block the tube with solid fragments,
or it may cause local congealment of the lava, perhaps partly or en-
tirely through violent stirring by the explosions resulting in local
change of the flowing lava from pahoehoe to aa. The local congeal-
ment may plug the tube, resulting in the development of a new lava
river. This appears to have happened as a result of the bombing of
the 1935 lava flow, ** but was not to be expected in the 1942 eruption,
where the lava river was open, not enclosed in a tube.

It appears to the writer very doubtful if bombing would ever cause
the termination of an eruption. Its value probably lies only in the
possibility of delaying the advance of the main flow front, by causing
the formation of new lateral flows, or with very favorable topography
by deflecting the flow into new channels.

CONCLUSIONS

The 1942 eruption of Mauna Loa opened, like most others, with
activity in and near the summit caldera. The principal activity, a

4 Jaggar, T, A., The Volcano Letter, No. 431, January 1936, and No. 465, July-September
1939.
212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

flank eruption on the northeast rift, began 2 days later. The flank
eruption may be arbitrarily divided into three phases, which are
characteristic of most flank eruptions of Mauna Loa. They may be
summarized as follows:

1. A period of a few hours during which very hot fluid lava is
squirted from a narrow fissure, forming a nearly continuous wall of
lava jets thousands of feet in length. Lava extrusion forms extensive
thin flows. Low ramparts of agglutinate are built by spatter along
the fissure, but no large cones are formed.

2. Restriction of the lava fountains to a relatively short medial
portion of the fissure, and the building of cinder and spatter cones.
One or more major flows issue continuously from the cones, and numer-
ous minor flows may occur.

8. Decline of the fountains, with cooling of the liquid lava in the
vent, and decrease in the amount of liberated gas. The flow of lava
may die out with the fountains, or may continue for weeks or even
months after the cessation of fountain activity.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Macdonald PLATE 1

1. LAVA FOUNTAINS AT 9,200 FEET ALTITUDE, SEEN FROM
THE SOUTHWEST, MAY 2, 1942.

The fountains are about 200 feet high. In the foreground new pahoehoe lava has overflowed older aa.

2. CENTRAL LAVA FOUNTAIN OF THE ACTIVE CONE CHAIN, MAY 3, 1942.

The large lava shred is about 100 feet above the rim of the cone. The light-colored ejecta are ascending
and the darker, cooler ejecta are falling back.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Macdonald PLATE 2

1. LAVA RIVER 15 FEET WIDE, ISSUING NEAR EAST END OF
CONE CHAIN ON MAy 9, 1942.

The lava in the foreground was still hot enough to scorch shoe leather.

dele

2. LAVA FOUNTAINS AND FLOWS AT 9,200 FEET ALTITUDE,
SEEN FROM THE NORTH, MAy 5, 1942.

The flow in the foreground is the result of the partial breakdown of the cone on May 4. Aerial photograph
by Allan Campbell for Acme Newspictures, Inc.
NEW METALS AND NEW METHODS?

By C. H. DrEscuH; FE. R. S.

There has been an enormous increase in the production of the most
important metals, the output doubling itself in quite a short period:
12 years for copper, 17 for pig iron, 18 for tin, and so on. Along with
this quantitative growth, the development of modern industry has
brought with it remarkable qualitative changes, elements which until
lately were curiosities of the laboratory rising into industrial impor-
tance. Aluminum, which 75 years ago had only been obtained in quanti-
ties of a few pounds, had a world production at the beginning of the
War approaching a million tons, while its later development on both
sides of the Atlantic has been on a very large scale. Aluminum is not
one of the rare metals; it is, in fact, the most abundant of all metals
in the earth’s crust, but at present bauxite, a rich mineral of very local
distribution, is alone used for its extraction. But elements of rare
occurrence, such as tungsten, molybdenum, and vanadium, now occupy,
in consequence of the ever-increasing demands of the engineering in-
dustries for materials of higher strength or other special properties,
a key position out of all proportion to their abundance. This is largely
due to the discovery that the properties of a metal may be profoundly
altered by very small additions of another element, metal or nonmetal.
Pure iron is even softer than copper, but less than 1 percent of carbon
converts it into steel which may be made so hard as to scratch glass.
This fact had been discovered empirically many centuries ago, but now
that the process is better understood there are many other instances
of the same kind. Copper can be made hard enough to serve as springs
and even as nonsparking mining tools by adding 2.5 percent of beryl-
lium, while the soft metal lead may be strengthened, so as to offer a
greater resistance to frost when used for water pipes, by alloying with
so little as 0.05 percent of tellurium.

These and similar observations have led to important developments
in metallurgy depending on the use of comparatively rare metals which
are mostly found only in local concentrations in various parts of the
earth. In a statistical table, the production of some of the minerals

1 Paper read at the Conference on Mineral Resources and the Atlantic Charter arranged
by the Division for the Social and International Relations of Science of the British Associa-
tion on July 25. Reprinted by permission from Nature, vol. 150, No. 3806, October 10, 1942.

566766—44 15 213

214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

from which these rare elements are obtained may not seem impressive,
but the access to them may be an important factor in the capacity of a
country to produce machinery and other constructions into which
metals enter.

The usefulness of the less common metals is, of course, not confined to
small additions. The possible combinations of metals with one an-
other are virtually infinite, and in spite of the vast amount of research
and practical experience in this field, there must be many valuable
combinations as yet undiscovered. The first recognition, partly acci-
dental, that steel could be made to resist corrosion by incorporating
14 percent or so of chromium, led to the development of the important
class of stainless steels, while the new magnet steels, containing alu-
minum and nickel, and in their later forms also cobalt and copper,
have brought about a revolution in the construction of electrical instru-
ments and loudspeakers, the very high magnetic concentration which is
possible with them enabling very small permanent magnets to be used.
For other purposes, such as the clutches used for holding work in mill-
ing and grinding machines, they replace electromagnets. With these
steels it is possible to realize the image of Mahomet’s coffin—heavy
bars floating in the air in consequence of their strong magnetic
repulsion.

A few of the rare metals find applications depending on their own
peculiar properties. Thus tungsten, with its very high melting point
of 3650° C., has superseded all other materials for the filaments of
electric lamps. The invention of the fountain pen called for an ex-
ceedingly hard and incorrodible substance for the tips of the gold
nibs, and this was found in a native alloy of osmium and iridium.
Tantalum has proved specially suitable for the spinnerets used in mak-
ing artificial silk, rhodium and indium for depositing in thin layers
on other metals for protection against corrosion, and so on. The non-
metal selenium is used in photoelectric cells. Further uses of this kind
will present themselves as the properties of the less common elements
are studied more completely. .

The high melting point of some of the metals has led to research in
two main directions. On one hand, it has been necessary to devise
means of making metals compact and strong without melting them;
and on the other, to develop new materials and new techniques for op-
erations at temperatures higher than those in ordinary metallurgical
furnaces. Tungsten cannot be melted in a container of any known
refractory material. The powder obtained by reducing its oxide is
therefore packed into the form of bars under pressure and heated elec-
trically until the particles cohere, and is then hammered in a special
way until its strength is sufficient to allow of its being forged or drawn
into wire. The same process has been applied to other metals, and a
NEW METALS AND NEW METHODS—DESCH 215

new branch of technology, known as powder metallurgy, has grown up.
Not only the metals of high melting point, but also copper, bronze,
and even the low-melting alloys of tin, are prepared in the form of
small particles and made to cohere by heat and pressure.

The method has several advantages. Small objects may be produced
of accurate shape, requiring no machining, by pressing in dies, while
the mass may be made completely solid or given any required degree
of porosity. Such porous masses are particularly useful for bearing
metals, the spongy metal holding the lubricant better than by any ar-
rangement of grooves. The method of consolidating a powder is also
used in the making of carbide tools. Certain very hard compounds,
especially the carbides of tungsten and titanium, which for many pur-
poses can replace diamonds, are brittle in the mass, but if crushed and
mixed with a metallic powder, mainly cobalt, and then heated until
perfect union with the binding material is brought about, yield a com-
posite mass which is excellent for tools and dies.

The chief obstacle to chemical operations at very high temperatures,
1600° C. or above, lies in the difficulty of finding materials for furnace
construction and for containing vessels which are both strong and
resistant to chemical attack at such temperatures. The ordinary fire
clays become soft and are attacked by slags. A few oxides, especially
alumina, magnesia, thoria, and beryllia, meet severe requirements in
this field, but their refractory qualities are lessened by quite small
proportions of impurity, and their preparation calls for special tech-
nique, which has been developed as a result of long research in the
laboratory, but has as yet been little applied on a large scale. When
such materials become available in quantity—and there is no difficulty
in principle, although the procedure may be costly—we shall see im-
portant developments in chemistry and metallurgy at high tempera-
tures. It is interesting to note that it is the oxides of some of the rare
elements—thorium, beryllium, and zirconium—which have the highest
softening points among the refractory materials, so that their impor-
tance will grow with the extension of high-temperature processes.

In the heating of metals or other conductors, it is not necessary
that the heat should pass through the walls of the containing vessel,
as it does when a metal is melted in a crucible furnace. Modern
heating by induced currents of high frequency allows the heat to be
generated where it is required, that is, within the mass to be heated.
This involves a less severe tax on the refractory materials, and also
makes it possible to enclose the charge in an outer closed vessel which
remains cold, so that the operation can be carried out in a high
vacuum or in an atmosphere of some inert gas. This is not merely
a laboratory device, but is used on a large scale in a number of manu-
facturing operations, which will become more numerous in the future.
216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Melting in a vacuum, out of contact with furnace gases, gives a means
of preparing many substances in a state of great purity and sound-
ness, unobtainable in other ways, and is already applied to certain
alloys in amounts of several tons at a time.

Many chemical reactions are made possible or are accelerated by
high pressures. The autoclave has long been a familiar piece of
chemical plant, but some of the processes for the production of am-
monia from the air or for the hydrogenation of coal to form oils
and petrol called for higher pressures than those of the usual auto-
clave, and recent work, especially in the United States, has shown
the remarkable results which may be obtained under pressures of
many thousands of atmospheres. To construct vessels to be oper-
ated at such pressures, sometimes combined with high temperatures,
naturally involves entirely new engineering methods. The materials
used are mainly steels, although hard carbides may have to be used
for certain parts; but for the highest pressures counterbalancing
stresses have to be applied by shrinking one cylinder over another or
in various ways producing an internal stress opposite to that which
will arise in operation. Here is another new branch of engineering
of great scientific interest, extending the range of usefulness of known
materials.

The substitution of one metal for another for particular purposes
is not always due to inherent advantages, but is often a consequence
of a policy of self-sufficiency adopted by an industrial country. This
motive has been very prominent in recent years. It is natural that
Germany, producing much aluminum but very little copper, should
adopt the lighter metal for overhead electric power cables, but a
similar replacement in the windings of motors and dynamos was
purely due to conditions of blockade and could not be defended on
other grounds. During the period of armament and of hostilities
such substitutions have been very numerous, but the subject is too
big to be entered on here. A few instances of substitution under
normal conditions may be mentioned. The saving of weight by using
light alloys of aluminum or magnesium in place of steel has mainly
been utilized in aircraft and rolling-stock construction, but it has
occasionally been applied in ordinary structural work. <A bridge in
Pittsburgh, having been condemned as insufficiently strong for the
increased traffic, was lightened by replacing the wrought-iron road
girders and floor by aluminum alloy. The main girders were still in
good condition, and the lightening of the dead load gave the bridge
a new lease of life.

The substitution of one material for another is not, as a rule, a
simple matter. Metals differ not only in strength but also in elastic
properties, and this difference has to be allowed for. The new Quebec
NEW METALS AND NEW METHODS—DESCH QZ

Bridge was designed to take advantage of the high tensile strength
of nickel steel, the designers considering that the Forth Bridge, a very
stable structure, was unnecessarily heavy. The disaster of 1907, when
the unfinished bridge collapsed, was due to the crumpling of the lower
members, although calculation had shown that the direct load-carry-
ing capacity was ample. It has been proposed to use alloys of
aluminum on a large scale in shipbuilding, their use in small vessels
having proved successful, while the particular alloys used—those with
magnesium—are highly resistant to corrosion by sea water. In chang-
ing from steel to light alloy, however, it would not be enough to
calculate the dimensions of each member to give a strength equal to
that in a steel ship. The hull would float too high in the water, and
problems of stiffness would arise from the very different elastic prop-
erties; to build a successful vessel the design would have to be new
from the beginning.

So, when the hard carbide steels were introduced to take the place
of tool steels for very heavy work or large output, allowing cuts to be
made on a lathe at much higher speeds than before, advantage of the
improved properties could not be taken until the machines themselves
had been completely redesigned to allow of such high speeds without
undue vibration; and in fact the introduction of carbide tools has
meant a revolution in the machine-tool industry, much plant intended
for large outputs being rendered obsolete.

Three examples may be given of the substitution of an entirely new
material for one of which the supplies have been found to be in-
adequate or too costly. Platinum, a metal of very local occurrence,
has been largely replaced for chemical purposes, fused silica taking
its place in the concentration of sulfuric acid, and iron oxide in various
catalytic processes. Ona larger scale, Chile nitrate, a product formed
under quite exceptional climatic conditions and almost unique, is no
longer indispensable as a fertilizer, the nitrogen compounds required
for agriculture and explosives being obtained synthetically from the
air. The third example is the introduction of plastics, resinlike sub-
stances which may be given the most varied properties. For many
purposes they replace metals, and when reinforced by textile material
or paper have a strength comparable with that of a metal. Trans-
parent varieties replace glass and are far less brittle; other types take
the place of porcelain and earthenware. The manufacture of plastics
is one of the rapidly growing industries, and the uses of these new
materials are continually being multiplied.

It must be realized that even such substitutions as these do not
necessarily lessen our dependence on mineral resources, although the
relative importance of different deposits may be altered. Nitrogen
compounds are obtained by the use of electric power, which in some
218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

countries is derived from water, but in some of the most highly in-
dustrialized countries has to come from the combustion of coal. Many
of the plastics are also derived from coal or petroleum, but being
organic compounds, there is always the possibility of producing them
from vegetable matter, as for example through the production of
alcohol by fermentation and its conversion into more complex com-
pounds. Such a procedure would be in line with the policy of depend-
ing on current revenue, derived from plants, rather than drawing un-
necessarily on mineral capital, which, once exhausted, is not replaced.

Much might be said of means of economizing metals: the use of
structures built up by welding, in place of heavy castings; the com-
bination of concrete with steel in buildings and bridges; the saving of
valuable metals by employing them as thin coatings on mild steel in
chemical plant, and so on; but space does not permit. As new ma-
terials come into use and new techniques are developed, while at the
same time the known reserves of some indispensable metals are being
depleted, it becomes clear that the efficient use of the world’s mineral
resources demands systematic planning. First of all, a far more
thorough world survey is needed, gathering together the information.
collected by prospectors in the interest of large industrial corpora-
tions as well as by the various national surveys. Such a survey would
be the essential basis of any system of international control of mineral
resources.
OCEANOGRAPHY?

By Henry C. STETSON
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University

INTRODUCTION

Oceanography is a young science and in the modern meaning of the
term includes not only the study of the physics and chemistry of the
sea water itself but the animals and plants that live in it, the sediments
that have settled out of it, together with conditions governing their
transportation and deposition, and the topography and geologic struc-
tures of the various basins that contain it. Inclusiveness, however, is
not solely the result of youth, for by its very nature the different
branches will always be closely interwoven. For instance, the problems
of the chemist also concern the biologist studying the ecology of ani-
mals in the sea, and they will also be of importance to the geologist if
an adequate attack is ever to be started on the diagenesis of sediments.
The forces governing the different types of currents are of interest to
physicist and geologist alike, and it has recently been demonstrated
that some of the principles of oceanic circulation are equally applicable
to the atmosphere.

The different divisions are further tied together by the purely prac-
tical necessities which the study of the ocean imposes. A seagoing
vessel is expensive to acquire and to mantain, and in addition there is
the cost of the special equipment which a research ship must have. An
investigator whose field work is carried out by such costly and time-
consuming methods has little choice but, to work in conjunction with
others whose data likewise must be gathered by the same means.

Surveying, sounding, and charting have always played a part in
oceanographic expeditions, but, until recently, geological work has
been secondary. Small bottom samples were taken in the course of
routine sounding, and a generalized knowledge of the areal distribu-
tion of the oceanic sediments was early acquired, but here the matter
rested. However, before tracing the growth and development of the
geological branches of this science, it is necessary to review the begin-
nings of the subject as a whole.

1Reprinted by permission from Fiftieth Anniversary Volume, Geological Society of
America, June 1941.

219
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

BIRTH OF THE SCIENCE

On December 21, 1872, H. M. S. Challenger sailed from Portsmouth,
England, on what proved to be one of the memorable voyages of his-
tory. It lasted 314 years, circumnavigated the globe, and investiga-
tions were carried on in every ocean except the Arctic. It was the first
combined assault on the ocean with all the techniques which were then
available. Nothing approaching this undertaking in detail and com-
pleteness had been attempted heretofore or even contemplated. At
each station the following observations were made insofar as practi-
cable: The depth was determined and a bottom sample taken; serial
samples of water were obtained from the surface to the bottom for
chemical and physical examination; serial temperatures were taken
from the surface to the bottom; a fair sample of the bottom fauna was
dredged, and samples from intermediate depths and from the surface
were taken in townets; atmospheric and meteorological conditions
were noted; and the direction and rate of the surface currents were
observed, and at some stations attempts were made to ascertain the
movement of the water at various depths,

The initiative for this undertaking was furnished by the interest and
enthusiasm of two British naturalists, Dr. W. B. Carpenter and Prof.
C. Wyville Thomson. A few years before, through the influence of
the Royal Society, the Admiralty was persuaded to fit out an old gun-
boat, the Lightning, for a dredging and sounding trip in the vicinity
of the Faroe Islands. Biological dredging was carried out in a little
more than 600 fathoms, which was a record for that time. This voyage
proved so successful, in spite of bad weather, limited equipment, and
a poorly found ship, that in 1869 the Admiralty was again persuaded
through the same channels to fit out another ship for similar purposes.
The Porcupine was a better vessel, and more extended cruises were
taken around the British Isles, into the Bay of Biscay, and the Medi-
terranean. Successful dredgmg was carried on to over 2,400 fathoms,
and it was all done with hemp rope. On these cruises temperatures
were taken at various depths on the dredging stations. Having demon-
strated the feasibility and the scientific importance of this type of
research at a time when attempts to lay transoceanic telegraph cables
were drawing attention to the ocean basins because of the need for
more accurate knowledge of their topography, the moment was oppor-
tune for projecting a major expedition.

Wyville Thomson, who was knighted for his leadership of the
expedition, died a few years after its return, and the task of preparing
the reports fell to John Murray. The 50 quarto volumes, with many
specialists contributing, are evidence of the huge quantity of data
OCEANOGRAPHY—STETSON PPA |

collected. Although the publications in biology bulk by far the largest,
nevertheless considerable geological information was also obtained.
The depths and main contours of the ocean basins were determined
for the first time, and the general distribution of the bottom deposits
was mapped. Many out-of-the-way corners of the world were charted,
and something was added to our knowledge of ocean currents both
on the surface and at various depths. Pioneer work was also accom-
plished in the field of hydrography and on the chemistry of the ocean.
Today it is, of course, easy to pick the flaws. Methods in every field
have become more precise; improved gear has been developed as well
as more exact procedure. Nevertheless, theirs was the pioneer attempt,
and with that voyage the broad framework of the science as a whole
was laid down to remain scarcely altered until modern times. Others
have profited by their experiences and improved on their results, but,
taken by itself, no other subsequent expedition has left so deep an
impress.

Interest was so stimulated in other countries that a succession of
deep-water expeditions to various parts of the world followed. By
1900 the United States had sent out Blake, Albatross, and Tuscarora;
the French, 7'ravaillewr and Talisman, the Germans, Valdivia and
Gauss; the Italians, Vettor Pisani; the Danes, Jngolf; and the Dutch,
Siboga, and this by no means completes the list. None of these cruises
was so extended as that of the Challenger, and although the gear was
constantly being improved the work was laid out along essentially the
same lines. Although the expedition sailed more than 50 years ago,
the voyage marks the birth of oceanography as a science. Conse-
quently some description of the vessel and her gear is pertinent as a
background against which to view modern developments.

EARLY EQUIPMENT AND METHODS

Selected by the British Admiralty for this voyage, the Challenger
was a corvette of some 2,000 tons with auxiliary steam. The guns
were removed, and she was refitted in various other ways for her new
purpose. She still remained a navy vessel, however, and Capt. George
S. Nares, an officer of much experience in surveying, was given
command. Prof. C. Wyville Thomson was in charge of the civilian
scientists, and the work of the naval and civilian staffs was kept
separate. Thomson (1877, p. 11) writes of the voyage:
the chart room * * * is a commodious compartment on the starboard side,
with ranges of shelves stocked with charts and hydrographic, magnetic, and
meteorological instruments. All work in these departments, as well as the

whole of the practical operations in dredging, sounding, and taking bottom and
serial temperatures, is conducted by the naval officers.
»

222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The natural-history workroom corresponded with this on the port
side, and a chemical laboratory was also fitted up. These were both
in charge of the civilians.

All soundings were taken with a specially made hemp line wound
on reels. The sounding instrument was a tube around which de-
tachable weights were fitted. On striking the bottom the weights
were released, and the tube was hauled to the surface with its plug
of sediment or perhaps a short core. The line was marked off every
25 fathoms, and, in deep water, contact with the bottom was ascer-
tained by the slackening in the rate at which the line ran out.
All hydrographic work—that is, the taking of temperatures and
water samples—was done with this same line. Hemp rope 2, 21,
and 3 inches in circumference, and spliced in 3,000-4,000 fathom
lengths, was used for trawling and dredging. Steam winches were
used for hoisting; but, even so, the labor of handling and coiling the
miles of rope required for the deep tows must have been very great.
However, as warships always carry proportionately larger crews than
other vessels, plenty of manpower was available. It is interesting
to note that with present-day equipment exactly the same work can
be, and is, done by three men in a watch.

In 1872 Sir William Thomson, later Lord Kelvin, seeking an im-
provement in the laborious and not too accurate method of sounding
with rope, developed a machine for using piano wire. The great
disadvantage of rope for sounding is the frictional resistance it
presents to water. Not only does it take longer to run out than does
wire, but the currents encountered often throw it into large bights,
making the sounding inaccurate. Kelvin’s method with various
modifications gradually came into general use and, up to the in-
vention of echo-sounding wire, was used in all surveying. At the
start, however, difficulties were encountered in securing wire of suf-
ficient tensile strength and in making strong splices, and although
the Challenger had one of these machines on board, it was never
used. It is interesting to note, however, that only 2 years later
Lieutenant Commanders Howell and Sigsbee (1880), of the United
States Navy, adopted wire and used it successfully on the United
States Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer Blake, which they suc-
cessively commanded. Sigsbee modified Kelvin’s machine and in-
vented another which bears his name, but the principle remained
the same.

LOUIS AND ALEXANDER AGASSIZ, MONACO, AND NANSEN

Four individuals deserve special mention in this historical review for
their unique accomplishments: Louis and Alexander Agassiz, who were
responsible for the inception and growth of oceanography in the
United States, the Prince of Monaco, and Fridtjof Nansen.
OCEANOGRAPHY—STETSON 223

Louis Agassiz’ interests in the field of natural history were exceed-
ingly catholic, and oceanography was but one of the many matters
which came in for a share of his attention. Throughout his lifetime
his relations with A. D. Bache and Benjamin Pierce, the superintend-
ents of the United States Coast Survey, were most cordial, and his
suggestions for projects which could be carried out from Government
vessels, in addition to their regular surveying duties, were always wel-
come. The man who was responsible for the actual dredging was L. F.
Pourtalés, one of Agassiz’ associates who had followed him from
Switzerland to America in 1848 and who 2 years later became an assist-
ant on the Survey. Today he is comparatively obscure, although he
was the pioneer of deep-water dredging in this country and antedated
the first English cruises. In 1869 he published a short account of the
sediments of our east coast continental shelf, which is believed to be
the first paper on modern marine sediments to appear in this country
(U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, 1869, appendix No. 11, pp. 220-225).
Although Agassiz was primarily a zoologist, his interest in geological
matters was always keen, and in a report to Pierce on the work of the
Bibb in the Gulf Stream and off Florida and Cuba appear the following
observations (1869, pp. 368-870), which are of interest considering
the date:

From what I have seen of the deep sea bottom, I am already led to infer that
among the rocks forming the bulk of the stratified crust of our globe, from the
oldest to the youngest formation, there are probably none which have been formed
in very deep waters. If this be so, we shall have to admit that the areas now
respectively occupied by our continents, as circumscribed by the 200-fathom curve
or thereabout, and the oceans at greater depth, have from the beginning retained
their relative outline and position; * * * Moreover, the position of the
cretaceous and tertiary formations along the low ground east of the Alleghany
range is another indication of the permanence of the ocean trough, on the margin
of which these more recent beds have been formed. * * * Geologists, and
especially those of the school of Lyell, have again and again assumed the slow
rising of extensive tracts of land from beneath the water and taken all sorts
of loose materials * * * as evidence of its former submersion. But since
the dredge has been applied to exploration of the deep, and a great variety of
animals, in a profusion rivaling that of shoal water, have been brought up,
* * * no observer is justified in considering extensive deposits of loose
materials aS marine in which no trace of marine organic remains are found.

He made his last cruise in the Coast Survey steamer Hassler around
the Horn from Boston to San Francisco in 1872 shortly before his
death.

Oceanography is such an extensive field of research that few individ-
uals have been able to finance their own investigations. Alexander
Agassiz was one outstanding example; the Prince of Monaco was an-
other. Agassiz’ early cruises were made from 1877 to 1880 in the
United States Coast Survey steamer Blake. It was on the first of these,
224 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

only 1 year after the return of the Challenger, that Agassiz, with his
background of practical mining experience, first introduced wire rope
for dredging. The tremendous advantages over hemp rope—greater
tensile strength for a given diameter, ease of handling, and ease of
storage—are, of course, obvious, and its value for use at sea was
quickly demonstrated. Nevertheless, considerable time elapsed before
it was generally adopted in Europe. To Lieutenant Commander
Sigsbee (1880), the man who first successfully proved the entire prac-
ticability of sounding with piano wire by a modification of Lord Kel-
vin’s machine, should go the credit for the proper installation of the
winches and all the details for the practical handling of the dredging
wire aboard the Blake. Sigsbee, it will be remembered, later was in
command of the U. S. S. Maine when she blew up in Havana Harbor.

The Blake worked off the east coast of the United States, in the
Gulf of Mexico, and in the Caribbean, in shallow water and deep,
and these cruises marked the most serious attempt in the United
States, up to that time, to solve oceanographic problems. They were
but the forerunners of Agassiz’ many expeditions, as he remained
active up to the time of his death in 1910. He chartered many ves-
sels privately, and even when using the Albatross, belonging to the
United States Bureau of Fisheries, he bore a large part of the ex-
pense of operation. His voyages took him into the Pacific and
Indian Oceans as well as into the Atlantic and throughout the West
Indies. Although biology was his chosen field, he took a lively
interest in the coral-reef problem and probably investigated more
reefs than has any geologist. He added hundreds of deep-water
soundings to the charts, and in certain parts of the Pacific they
remain to this day the only ones that have been taken. It does not
often happen that a single individual is able to further the develop-
ment of his particular field to such an extent or to exert so much
influence on it.

The Prince of Monaco became interested in oceanography as early
as 1885 and used his own private fortune to finance his researches.
He successively equipped several yachts for this type of work, fre-
quently commanding them himself, and built a laboratory and mu-
seum at Monaco where the results of his investigations could be
worked up and published. A long series of important reports and
monographs have come from his institution, and oceanography has
been greatly advanced by the efforts of this one man, particularly in
the field of biology. K

Nansen began his career as an oceanographer by planning and
successfully carrying out one of the most remarkable voyages that
has ever been undertaken. His idea was to freeze a vessel in the
ice and drift across the Polar Sea, possibly reaching the Pole itself.
OCEANOGRAPHY—STETSON 225

He was confident from the slight evidence available about the cur-
rents that this could be accomplished, although many predicted that
he would never return. Fram was a heavily constructed, wooden
vessel and of such design that when squeezed in the ice she would
tend to lift and not have to take the full crushing force of the shifting
floes, which no ship has ever been able to withstand. She was frozen
in off the New Siberian Islands in 1893 and emerged from the ice 3
years later off Spitzbergen. The Pole was missed by less than 5°, but
many valuable hydrographic data were obtained through holes cut
in the ice during the drift across the then unknown Arctic Basin,
and the first bottom samples were secured. Fram, after several sub-
sequent trips, is now preserved as a national monument at Oslo, like
Nelson’s flagship Victory at Portsmouth, England, and the Constitu-
tion in the United States, an honor which but few of the vessels
that have made history have attained.

PROGRESS IN SUBMARINE GEOLOGY UP TO 1900

GENERAL STATEMENT

The turn of the century roughly divides the older from the modern
phases of the science as a whole; consequently it is pertinent to give
a brief summary of progress up to this point, before the advent of
various new techniques which have put submarine geology on a par
with the other subdivisions of oceanography.

MURRAY’S CLASSIFICATION OF SEDIMENTS

Up to this time most geologists had taken little interest in ocean-
ography. They accepted Murray’s broad and rather inclusive classi-
fication (Challenger Expedition, 1891) of marine sediments without
critical comment, as though sediments in the sea and sedimentary
rocks on land were unrelated phenomena. The interest of the ocean-
ographers, where sediments were concerned, largely centered in the
oozes of the deep sea; and though plenty of shallow-water samples
had been collected, nobody paid much attention to them. Murray’s
classification became standard the world over, and for that reason it
will be restated here.

He lumped all marine sediments in two main categories—terrigenous
and pelagic. The former group includes all sediments consisting of
waste derived from the land. Once outside the zone of littoral and
shallow-water deposits, which are supposed to cease at 100 fathoms,
the terrigenous sediments covering the continental slopes and parts
of the ocean basins nearest the land are pigeon-holed in five divisions.
Blue mud is characteristically found in the neighborhood of conti-
nental land masses. Green mud is a variety containing glauconite
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

and, according to Murray’s description (1912, p. 162), usually oc-
curs “off high and bold coasts where currents from different sources
alternate with the season, as off fhe Cape of Good Hope, off the east
coast of Australia, off Japan, and off the Atlantic coasts of the
United States.” It may grade into greensands. Red mud is still
another variety “found in the Yellow Sea and off the coast of Brazil,
where the great rivers bring down a large amount of ochreous mat-
ter” * * * (1912, p. 162). Volcanic mud and coral mud are
self-explanatory.

Pelagic deposits begin to make their appearance in the ocean basins
proper, at sufficient distances from the continental margins to prevent
their being masked by detritus from the land. Of these, Globigerina
ooze is the most widely distributed. Diatom ooze is characteristic of
the colder waters, particularly the great circumpolar seas of the
Southern Hemisphere; pteropod ooze is found in the warm waters
of the Tropics; and radiolarian ooze occurs in the deeper parts of the
Pacific and Indian Oceans. The last and most interesting of the
deep-sea oozes is red clay, which floors vast areas of the Pacific far
from the continents. It is supposed, according to Murray, to be a
hydrated silicate of alumina derived from the disintergration of
pumice and volcanic ash. Its rate of deposition is extremely slow,
and consequently it is found only in the more remote parts of the
ocean where the deposition of other debris and planktonic material
is practically zero.

Such, in general, is the horizontal distribution of the various types
of marine sediments as determined from the Challenger’s data. Sub-
sequent expeditions merely defined the areas more exactly. It was
worked out, in a sense, merely as a byproduct of sounding. The
samples, as we have seen, consisted of small plugs of mud brought up
sticking in the end of the sounding tube, and they were so short that
to all intents and purposes they were surface samples. During this
period no one seems to have made any serious attempt to secure cores.

IMPROVEMENTS IN SOUNDING TECHNIQUE

The gear for deep-water sounding had been greatly improved as
time went on, and with this development in technique came a cor-
responding increase in our knowledge of the true configuration of the
ocean basins. When deep soundings were first undertaken, an at-
tempt was made to haul up the whole sounding lead. Consequently
a heavy line was necessary and, when any considerable length was out,
its weight bore so close a ratio to that of the sinker that in deep water
it was impossible to tell when bottom had been reached. Further-
more, the line kept running out endlessly of its own momentum even
after the sinker had touched. On the early charts, for instance, some
OCEANOGRAPHY—STETSON 227

fantastic figures appear for mid-Atlantic soundings which can be at-
tributed to this cause.

The first attempts that can claim even approximate accuracy at
depths exceeding 1,000-1,500 fathoms were made in the United States
Navy by using a light line and a heavy weight. It was easy to tell
when bottom had been reached by the sharp check in the rate at which
the line ran out. The line was then cut, and no attempt was made to
retrieve it or the sinker. The depth was ascertained by the simple
method of measuring the remainder. The next important advance,
made by a midshipman named Brooke, eliminated the obvious draw-
backs of the former method. Still using a light line, the weight—a
cannon ball with a hole through it—was released when it landed on
bottom, and the sounding tube—a metal cylinder which passed
through the ball—alone was hauled to the surface. Simple as this
seems from the vantage point of today, this scheme of detaching the
weight made the difference between accurate and inaccurate sound-
ings in deep water. Piano wire soon replaced hemp, again with an
increase in the accuracy of the results and a great reduction in the
time required for sounding, as the frictional effect of the water on
rope was thereby eliminated. The machines for handling the wire
have been greatly improved since Sir William-Thomson’s first at-
tempt, so that it became possible to take a sounding in a small frac-
tion of the time formerly required. This method remained in gen-
eral use until the perfection of echo sounding within the last decade.
In the literature perhaps too much stress has been laid on the sound-
ings made by various oceanographic expeditions. An enormous
amount has been done in deep water by government vessels, and, of
course, all near-shore and shallow-water surveying is a government
undertaking. Nor should the cable ships be forgotten. They, like-
wise, have played an important part in charting the oceans—a fact
not generally appreciated—for it was the need for a better knowledge
of the ocean bottoms in connection with laying cables that first stimu-
lated systematic deep-water sounding.

RISE OF MODERN TRENDS

By 1900 the broad configuration of the ocean basins had been mapped
and all the major deeps had been discovered and charted. This, plus
a very general knowledge of the distribution of the sediments, particu-
larly the pelagic oozes, comprised the chief contributions to geology
before the advent of what we shall call the modern period. The other
sciences, especially biology, had advanced much farther in the same in-
terval. This lag is largely due to the fact that few geologists paid any
attention to the sea, except around its margins. They seemed to regard
oceanography as lying outside the boundaries of their particular do-
228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

main and having little to offer. Men whose chief interest lay along
other lines were mainly responsible for what geological information
there was.

Up to this point the study of oceanography had proceeded more or

less along the same lines which the Challenger expedition had laid
down. The same general problems were attacked in the same general
way and from the same point of view. The biological sciences, particu-
larly systematic zoology, had long been the mainspring which moti-
vated oceanography as a whole, but even here diminishing returns were
beginning to be felt toward the end of the century, as each subsequent
expedition merely added data which tended to confirm what was al-
ready known. “And”, as Dr. H. B. Bigelow (1931, pp. 8-9) says:
a period of general oceanographic stagnation might then have succeeded to the
preceding peak of activity (this did, in fact, happen in America), had there not
arisen new schools, centering their attention on the biologic economy of the in-
habitants of the ocean as related to their physical-chemical environment, on
mathematical analysis of the internal dynamics of the sea water, and on the
geologic bearing of submarine topography and sedimentation, rather than on
areal surveys of one or another feature of the sea.

This conscious alteration of viewpoint, from the descriptive to the analytic,
is one of two chief factors that gives to oceanography its present tone; the other

is the growth of an economic demand that oceanography afford practical as-
sistance to the sea fisheries.

In Europe the Conseil International pour l’Exploration de la Mer
was formed as a cooperative effort to handle this latter problem of such
vital importance to the nations engaged in the North Sea and neighbor-
ing fisheries, and attention was perforce directed to the shallower
waters. Interest in the mathematical study of the dynamics of the cir-
culation of the sea centered in the Scandinavian countries. This school
developed rapidly, until today perhaps more attention is focused on
physical and dynamical oceanography than on any other single sub-
division of the science.

Lest it be thought that too much space has been devoted up to this
point to nongeological matters, it is once again pointed out that ocean-
ography is, of necessity, a cooperative affair, and not to consider the
development of the science as a whole is to lose perspective. Interest
and impetus generated in one field may be used to advantage in another.
Indeed, if this were not the case, submarine geology in its present state
would not exist. Although the recent advances in surveying methods,
in the application of geology techniques, and in sedimentation and
stratigraphy have been marked, and in some cases spectacular, the
geologist must remember that the main emphasis in oceanographic
research is still on physics and the internal dynamics of sea water and
on biology.
OCEANOGRAPHY—STETSON 229
RECENT ADVANCES IN SUBMARINE GEOLOGY

INTRODUCTION

The student of submarine geology, except in the field of sedimenta-
tion, tries to attain the same objectives that are pursued ashore.
The difficulties arise in adapting the various land techniques to
marine conditions, and in handling the necessary gear on shipboard.
Whatever the objective, it is subject to the limitations that a ship
imposes, and the first thing which an oceanographer must realize, no
matter what his field of endeavor, is that it is impossible to work
with the same precision that is attainable ashore. This is a perfectly
valid objection, but, if it were heeded, no oceanographic work of any
kind would ever be undertaken.

MODERN MARINE SURVEYING

The prime requisite for most geological undertakings is a good
‘map; therefore, let us first take up modern developments in chart-
ing the ocean bottom. As we have seen, until comparatively re-
cently deep-water soundings were taken with small-diameter wire
and a sinker, and, although the machines for handling the wire had
been improved to a point where the operation was vastly less time-
consuming than during the early period when hemp was used, never-
theless, accurate soundings could be obtained only during good
weather, and in any event the ship had to be stopped. Modern echo
sounding has come into general use only since World War I.
Although prior to this date attempts had been made to locate ice-
bergs by this method, its value in the detection of submarines led
to more intensive experiments. The term “echo sounding” is practi-
cally self-explanatory. The recording instrument measures the travel
time of the sound wave through the water from the ship to the
bottom and back again, translated into terms of distance. As the
velocity of sound through water varies somewhat with the density,
it is necessary to make temperature and salinity observations in the
different water masses for accurate soundings. Many types of in-
struments have been developed, and it is not necessary to go into the
details of their construction here. With the earlier models it was
necessary to read off each individual sounding, but recently they
have been made self-recording. The tremendous advantages of this
machine are that the surveying vessel can sound continuously while
steaming at full speed, accurately, and in comparative independence
of the weather. To quote Capt. G. T. Rude (Geophysical Explora-
tion of the Ocean Bottom, 1937, pp. 10-11) :

* * * in 15 working days in the month of July 1937, the party on the Coast

and Geodetic Survey Ship Lydonia recorded 12,489 soundings of the continental
566766—44—_16
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

slope and covered an area of 1764 square statute miles extending more than 150
miles offshore, all of which was precisely controlled by radio acoustic ranging
and taut wire traverses tied in to the shore triangulation net on North American
1927-datum.

As a contrast, he cites the 504 deep-sea soundings made by the
Challenger and the then remarkable number of 3,195 made between
1874 and 1879 by the Blake. Similar work is constantly being carried
out on the Pacific coast and in the Gulf of Mexico as well as on the
Atlantic. |

Almost as important as the development of the fathometer is the
new method of determining positions accurately at long distances
from shore (Geophysical Exploration of the Ocean Bottom, 1937,
pp. 9-25). Formerly only the inshore waters within sight of the
triangulation stations were accurately surveyed. Once out of sight
of these fixed marks the position of the surveying ship becomes more
and more doubtful as she proceeds offshore, until at some distance
from land the positions of individual soundings on the older charts
are not much more accurate than an ordinary sextant fix. As an
illustration, on all charts prior to 1938 the steep, outer part of the
Hudson Gorge makes a pronounced S-curve. The recent surveys have
shown that this S-curve is fictitious, and that the head of the Hudson
Gorge had been connected with the mouth of a smaller neighbor,
and its own mouth had been missed entirely. When vessels were
slow a very generalized representation of the continental shelf and
slope was considered sufficient for all practical navigational purposes;
but now, when many liners have cruising speeds of over 20 and even
30 knots and all are equipped with echo-sounding apparatus, the
Survey decided that more accurate detail of the offshore bottoms
would be of considerable assistance to shipping. In thick weather a
topographic profile could be constructed by taking continuous sound-
ings and the ship located by comparison with the topography on the
chart. This decision on the part of the Survey was more far-reaching
than was at first realized, for in carrying out this work the true
configurations of the now famous submarine canyons were revealed
for the first time, far greater numbers of them were discovered
than had hitherto been dreamed of, and a major geological discussion
was precipitated which is still far from settled.

To solve this difficulty of accurate positions offshore, the United
States Coast and Geodetic Survey developed a method which they
call radio-acoustic ranging (Geophysical Exploration of the Ocean
Bottom, 1937, pp. 9-25). Briefly, the system is this: Two or more
radio stations are equipped with hydrophones, and their positions
are determined with reference to the triangulation on shore. The
surveying vessel, out of sight of land, steams along her course,
sounding continuously with her fathometer. When a position is
OCEANOGRAPHY—STETSON 231

necessary, a small bomb loaded with TNT is dropped overboard, and
the time of the explosion is recorded on a tape. The sound waves,
traveling through the water, are picked up by the shore stations and
radioed back to the ship, and the time of reception is recorded on
the same tape. The travel times of the sound waves, after the nec-
essary corrections have been applied, give the distance of the ship
from each hydrophone. As the surveying vessel works farther and
farther offshore it eventually becomes necessary to move the hydro-
phones farther seaward as well. Originally they were operated from
anchored vessels, but recently buoys, equipped with radio apparatus,
have taken their place. Both, of course, are tied in with the shore
triangulation stations.

One more device is used in offshore surveying—the taut-wire ap-
paratus which was originally developed by the British. It consists
of a large drum of fine wire which is used as a steel tape in lengths
of over 140 miles. One end is anchored to the bottom, and, as the
ship proceeds on her course, the wire is paid out over a sheave which
registers the distance run. When a large area is surveyed, this
method is used to measure the distances between anchored buoys
over the shoreward portions of the regions to be covered, as it can
be employed successfully only in relatively shallow water. As the
work progresses offshore it is replaced by radio-acoustic ranging.

All the maritime nations have charted their own coastal waters,
and various naval vessels have done valuable work in the deeper ocean
basins. The recently published bathymetric charts of the East In-
dian seas from soundings taken by the Snellius expedition are out-
standing examples (1934; 1935). Not only do they clearly depict the
morphology of the basins, fore deeps, and fault scarps, but the to-
pography is sufficiently detailed to serve as the basis for general
geological discussion by Dr. Ph. H. Kuenen of such fundamental
problems as the theories concerning the structure and origin of island
arcs and fore deeps, so well exemplified in this interesting region.

Surveying on an equally large scale has been carried out in the
South Atlantic by the Meteor. As a result, Stock and Wiist have
been able to draw a greatly improved bathymetric chart of that
ocean (Meteor Expedition, 1935-39). The true configuration of the
southern extension of the mid-Atlantic ridge has been depicted for the
first time, as well as the longitudinal basins on either side of it which
are separated from each other by smaller transverse ridges.

The United States Coast and Geodetic Survey deserves great credit
and the gratitude of geologists everywhere for the introduction of
precise methods into offshore surveying. The production of topo-
graphic maps such as the series for the Atlantic continental shelf and
slopes, drawn from their soundings by A. C. Veatch and P. A. Smith
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

(1939), under a grant from the Penrose Bequest of the Geological
Society of America, the detailed work in some of the California sub-
marine canyons both by the Survey and by the Scripps Institution, and
the chart of the submarine contours around Bogoslof Island (Smith,
1937) are but forerunners of a type of work which we may expect
in the future to become universal.

TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM

Magnetic surveys at sea, according to Dr. J. A. Fleming (Vaughan
et al., 1937, pp. 50-56), were first attempted over 200 years ago on
Halley’s expedition. From that time until the construction in 1908
of a nonmagnetic ship by the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism
of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, other surveys of varying
accuracy were made, depending on the instruments used and the
amount of magnetic disturbance set up by the hulls of the different
vessels. The commissioning of the Carnegie, however, marks the
awakening of a full appreciation of the value of magnetic measure-
ments at sea and a concerted effort to make them as accurate as possible
by the optimum equipment and by long cruises devoted exclusively to
this aim. Seven cruises totaling nearly 300,000 miles were made
before this ship was destroyed by fire in 1929.

Any investigation that holds the possibility of making more com-
plete our knowledge of the earth’s structure is worth pursuing for
its own sake; furthermore, data accumulated in this field can also
be used to advantage in other branches of geophysics, particularly
gravimetric studies. This being the case, the need for additional
observations at sea are self-eyident, considering the large portion of
the earth’s crust that is covered with water, and entirely aside from
the practical values of these studies as an aid to navigation at sea
and in the air.

Fleming (Vaughan et al., 1937, p. 53) lists a few theoretical investi-
gations which should be continued in the further survey of the oceans:
Determination of secular-variation of progressive changes of the Earth’s mag-
netie field involving particularly their accelerations * * *. The study of
regions of local disturbance and particularly of those indicated * * * over

“deep-sea” areas * * *, The determination of additional distribution-data
in a few large areas not already covered.

Simultaneously with these investigations work should be continued
in the field of terrestrial electricity along the following lines:

Additional determinations to establish changes in the values of the atmos-
pheric-electric elements with geographie position. * * * More and widely
distributed determinations of the diurnal variations in atmospheric elec-
tricity * * *. Determinations and investigations in the field of earth-cur-
rents—a field not yet touched at sea.

Although the Carnegie Institution did not build another ship, the
British Admiralty, in view of the importance of these investigations,
OCEANOGRAPH Y—STETSON Dao

decided to continue them and ordered the construction of another
nonmagnetic vessel, the Research, to be placed in commission with
equipment similar to that formerly used on the Carnegie.

GRAVIMETRIC MEASUREMENTS

Attempts to measure gravity at sea by static methods have never
proved particularly accurate, although many different instruments of
this type have been devised. The pendulum has always been the
standard instrument on land; but, because the difficulties of using it
on board surface ships seemed insurmountable, it was disregarded by
the earlier workers. In 1923 the Gravity Survey of Holland began to
consider the possibilities of using a submarine for this work, and, after
preliminary tests, the first really accurate measurements were made, on
board a vessel of this type, by Dr. F. A. Vening Meinesz, on a cruise
to the Dutch East Indies. Two pendulums were employed instead of
one to eliminate the effects of horizontal acceleration. So successful
was this cruise that, following the lead of the Dutch, similar expedi-
tions were sent out by other countries. Since 1928 the United States
Navy on three separate occasions, in cooperation with Princeton Uni-
versity, has dispatched a submarine for surveys in the West Indies,
and the French, Italians, Russians, and Japanese one or more each to
the. Mediterranean, Black Sea, and the Far East. The Netherlands,
in the meantime, has completed seven additional surveys and is about
to send out an eighth. The original apparatus has, of course, been
considerably modified and refined since the first model was constructed,
but the Meinesz method has been followed in all this work.

As in the case of terrestrial magnetism, not only is it desirable to
extend the measurement of gravity to the oceans so that the areal sur-
vey of the earth may be as extensive as possible, but in this particular
case fundamental data can be gathered at sea that cannot be obtained
on land. The discovery of the large negative anomalies in the vicinity
of island arcs and fore deeps has greatly influenced our ideas on the
processes involved in mountain building and gives another clue as to
what may have happened in depth during deformation. Solving the
problem of measuring gravity at sea may be ranked as one of the major
contributions of geophysics to geology in recent years (Vening
Meinesz, 1930; 1934).

SEISMIC TECHNIQUE

The importance of seismic techniques as an aid to structural geology
has long been recognized, but the practical difficulties which stood in
the way of the adaptation of this well-known procedure to marine
conditions long delayed its use at sea. It is the most recent of the three
geophysical methods to be applied to oceanic problems. The first
934 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

experiments were carried out in the shallow water of our east coast
continental shelf by Dr. Maurice Ewing (1937) 5 yearsago. The tech-
nique for shallow water can be regarded as nearly perfected, while
that for deep water is still in the experimental stage. A new develop-
ment in the technique for deep-water work is the use of floats filled
with an oil of low density for bringing the instruments to the surface,
thereby dispensing with a long wire rope which has many disadvan-
tages. The first plans, as described by Ewing (1938), have since been
greatly modified, though the principle remains the same.

A profile consisting of four sea stations has been run from Cape
Henry, Va., across the shelf to the continental margin, and while, of
course, one profile is far from being a complete picture, it has
demonstrated that the method is a usable one and that a new tool
has been acquired. A thickness of the order of 12,000 feet of un-
consolidated and semiconsolidated sediments is found at the conti-
nental margin over rocks which registered much higher velocities.
This presumably represents the thickened seaward extension of the
Coastal Plane monocline lying above the relatively flat basement
complex, which itself has a seaward dip. The same relationships
which have been observed in the subaerial portion of the Coastal
Plain are apparently continued beneath the sea. The east coast shelf,
with its relatively simple structure and the presence of numerous
deep artesian wells close to the shore line, is a particularly favorable
place for the development of this new technique.

Recently Drs. E. C. Bullard and T. F. Gaskell have used the same
method in the approaches to the English Channel out to a point 175
miles west-southwest of the Lizard. At the station nearest shore it
is thought that an extension of the Triassic is picked up. Farther
out unconsolidated sediments were encountered over an igneous
basement, but they are relatively thin in comparison with the same
type of deposit found off the east coast of the United States.

It is at present impossible to predict how far offshore the work
can be carried and still retain its significance from a structural point
of view, because with increasing distance from the known strati-
graphic column, which must be constantly used as a check, the results
are more uncertain. This will be even more of a limiting factor in
regions where the structure is complicated. Deep water enormously
increased the difficulties. This of course is true of any operation
carried out on shipboard. However, even though it will never be
possible to work at sea with the same precision that can be attained
ashore, or to make as close a network of stations, or get in as many
shot points, this should be no deterrent to future activity in this partic-
ular field, for the same criticism can be leveled at any kind of
oceanographic endeavor.
OCEANOGRAPH Y—STETSON 235

BOTTOM SAMPLING

In the beginning, as we have seen, sampling was merely an adjunct
of sounding. A sample was taken merely to inform the navigator,
by notations placed on the printed chart, over what general type of
bottom he was sailing. For this purpose a small bit of sediment
plugged in the sounding tube or a smear stuck to the grease on the
end of the lead was sufficient. Later, scraper dredges were de-
veloped by the biologists, and various kinds of scoops and bucket
dredges, capable of taking measured portions of the bottom, were
designed for ecological studies. However, these men were mainly
interested in obtaining samples for the animals which they contained,
and the sediment itself was broadly classified as sand or mud and
usually discarded.

The coring tube can be considered as a sampler primarily for
geological purposes. Until the invention of the Piggot gun, those
used in anything but the shallowest water were merely weighted
tubes, which penetrated the bottom by their own kinetic energy.
They attained varying degrees of success, depending on their weight
and the speed at which they could be dropped. Some had a thin,
inner tube of glass or metal which could be slipped out, thus giving
the core a permanent container. The length of such cores rarely
exceeded 8 or 4 feet, though recently Dr. F. P. Shepard reported taking
one of 11 feet.

Coring has played a prominent part in the work of two recent
expeditions; the Meteor in her traverses across the South Atlantic has
taken numerous cores with a modified Ekman type of sampler, and
an important series of papers on the sediments and their faunas by
Pratje, Correns, and G. and W. Schott has resulted (Meteor Expedi-
tion, 1935-39). Besides showing the areal distribution of the differ-
ent types of material, the tube penetrated deeper layers in which evi-
dence of climatic changes are recorded. The Snellius, in the Dutch
East Indies, also took many cores, particularly in and around the
deeps and on the slopes of submarine volcanoes. These have been
discussed by Kuenen (Snellius Expedition, 1935) in connection with
the question of the sliding of sediment down the sides of the deeps as
a process which might tend eventually to fill up these downwarps,
and also with regard to the structures which submarine landslides
might be expected to produce.

The Piggot gun has been fully described by its inventor (Piggot,
1936), and the details of its construction need not be discussed here.
Support for the original design and experimentation was furnished by
a grant from the Penrose Bequest of the Geological Society of Amer-
ica. The driving force for the tube, or bit, is produced by a powder
charge, contained in a watertight cartridge, which is detonated when
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the instrument hits the bottom. More uniform performance has been
secured with this coring tube in deep water than with any other yet
devised, and cores up to 10 feet in length are frequently taken, al-
though occasionally greater lengths have been attained by tubes
which are dropped at high velocity. The extra 6 or 7 feet of core
obtained by these newer instruments may not seem to be of much
significance as compared to the probable total thickness of the de-
posit, but it must be remembered that the rate of deposition de-
creases as one goes beyond the continental slopes into the ocean basins.
Accordingly, 10 feet of sediment may represent a considerable inter-
val of time. Indeed, in a series of cores taken by Piggott across the
Atlantic basin, and worked up by the United States Geological Sur-
vey, four warm and four cold alterations of climate are represented
(Geophysical Exploration, 1937, Bradley et al., pp. 41-46).

Using this same instrument, numerous cores have been taken by the
Atlantis in and around the east coast submarine canyons, along the
continental slope, and for some distance out into the Atlantic basin.
In these, one or more climatic cycles are usually found. The pres-
ent-day warm-water fauna from the tops of the cores occurs in a
green silt which is being deposited under modern marine conditions.
The cold-water fauna from the bottom sections is found in a com-
pact, varicolored clay. Such fine-grained, terrigenous material is not
being deposited on the surface of the present-day bottom in this area,
on the shelf, slope, or even in the westerly part of the Atlantic basin,
as practically all river-borne sediment is now effectively trapped in
the bays and estuaries which today border the entire eastern sea-
board. The clay in question evidently dates from the last glacial
stage of the Wisconsin when, because of the lowered sea level, the
rivers were able to cross the shelf and dump their loads directly on
the steep continental slope.

The possibilities, therefore, of being able to trace the history of
Pleistocene sedimentation in the Atlantic basin and on the continental
slope by the continued use of the coring tube are very good. It is
even possible that from this source some light may be thrown on the
far from settled problem of the origin of submarine canyons. This
investigation is already under way at the Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution, and similar work is in progress at the Scripps Institution
of Oceanography at La Jolla. At the latter institution an extensive
program for submarine geology is being carried out under the direc-
tion of Dr. F. P. Shepard, which is, in part, financed by a grant from
the Penrose Bequest of the Geological Society of America.

Cores have one limitation which is only just beginning to be recog-
nized. The deeper the tube penetrates the sediment the greater be-
comes the friction on the inside walls of the tube. Dr. M. Juul
OCEANOGRAPH Y—STETSON 237

Hvorslev, of the Harvard Engineering School, has recently com-
pleted extensive sampling experiments for the Committee on Sam-
pling and Testing, American Society of Civil Engineers, in varved
clays with different types of coring tubes. He finds (personal
communication) —
that the layers in the upper parts of the cores are often subjected to an increase
in thickness due to plastic flow of additional soil into the tube caused by the
pressure of the cutting edge. With increasing depth of penetration, and thereby
increasing friction between the sample and the tube, the general load on the soil
becomes so great that it now becomes squeezed out from under the sampler and
the thickness of any given layer is thereby reduced. Finally, at a certain critical
depth, internal wall friction becomes so great that no more soil can enter, and
the core and tube are driven as a solid pile, pushing a cone of sediment ahead
of them. There is, therefore, for each particular type of sampler, and for each
type of soil, a maximum length of sample that can be obtained in a single drive.
When the soil consists of alternating layers of firm and soft material a further
complication, originally observed by Pratje, arises in that the soft layers may
be squeezed out partly or completely while the firm layers still enter the tube
without any change in thickness.
This behavior of the material introduces a serious factor of error into
all attempts to determine rates of sedimentation from linear measure-
ments.

SHALLOW-WATER SEDIMENTS

Like organisms, sediments are the resultants of the long sequence of
factors to which they have been exposed: current action, wave-gener-
ated and otherwise, distance from shore and depth of water, the type of
material supplied and its availability, plus their combined effect in the
past. These environmental forces have acted on the sediments at their
source, during the period of transportation, and at their place of depo-
sition. Many inferences have been drawn in regard to the conditions
of marine deposition from the study of sedimentary rocks, but insofar
as present-day marine sediments are concerned very few observational
data have been accumulated. Of the sediments in the geologic column
those laid down in the neritic zone bulk the largest, but our knowledge
of them is still very elementary. The earlier oceanographers were, as
we have seen, more interested in the deposits of the deep sea, and they
added but little information concerning those sediments which to the
geologist are the most important. Chiefly by increasing our knowl-
edge of present-day marine sediments and the environments under
which they are being deposited will we be able to reconstruct with any
degree of certainty the conditions which governed the formation of
ancient sediments. With this purpose in view, detailed regional stud-
ies are now being carried out off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, by the
Woods Hole and Scripps Institutions, based on traverses of closely
spaced surface samples as well as long cores. In addition, some ap-
238 |= ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

proach has been made to an understanding of the factors controlling
the transportation and deposition of sediments by means of traps
placed on the bottom, although this work is still in its early stages.

Additional regional studies have been carried out in the Baltic and
neighboring waters by the Thalassological Institute at Helsinki and by
the marine laboratory of the University of Kiel; these studies have
added much to our knowledge of the conditions of sedimentation found
in inland seas. Princeton University has sponsored expeditions to
the Bahamas for the investigation of shallow-water, calcareous sedi-
ments, a relatively unexplored field. It is hoped that data obtained
from studies of this type, to cite but a few examples, will help solve
some of the problems of the stratigrapher and lead to a better interpre-
tation and understanding of the environments which produced the
different sedimentary rocks.

SUBMARINE CANYONS AND ROCK DREDGING

Within the last few years the submarine-canyon problem has pro-
voked so much discussion that the subject has become familiar to all
geologists. Although their existence has been known since J. D. Dana’s
day, they had attracted but little attention until the United States
Coast and Geodetic Survey completed the first surveys of Georges
Bank by radio-acoustic ranging. For the first time an adequate picture
of their true configuration was available, and Dr. F. P. Shepard (1938;
1934) was quick to grasp the significance of the new evidence. As
more of these gorges were discovered, and particularly as the continen-
tal slope between the major valleys was shown to be deeply scoured and
channeled, geologists realized that they were faced with a problem,
world-wide in its scope, for which they had no ready explanation. The
multiplicity of the theories that have been put forward is an index
of the general perplexity. Some consider that the erosion is due to
stream cutting and would alter the relationships of land and sea to a
hitherto undreamt of extent (Veatch and Smith, 1939) ; another con-
ceives of a great lowering of sea level by postulating a vastly thickened
and extended Pleistocene ice cap (Shepard, 1936) ; still others consider
that the erosion took place beneath the sea. One hypothesis calls
for turbidity currents made heavy by their load of mud acquired from
the Continental Shelf by wave action during the lowered sea level of
the Pleistocene. These currents ran down the slope and scoured it as
they sought the depths of the ocean, as well as “triggering off” mud
slides by the friction of their passage (Daly, 1936). The latest hy-
pothesis in the case of the east coast of the United States invokes
artesian springs flowing out from the Coastal Plain formations along
the continental slope, possibly at a time when this wedge of sediments
had a greater westward extent than it has today, and by their long-
OCEANOGRAPHY—STETSON 239

continued action producing the present topography largely by solution.
Before introducing his new theory, Johnson (1939) gives an excellent
account of the whole canyon problem to date.?

Whatever their origin, these submerged canyons offer the only
available opportunities for getting at the older formations beneath
the mantle of Recent veneer, for in places their walls stand as cliffs,
steeper than the angle of repose of unconsolidated sediment. The
fossiliferous fragments broken from the outcropping ledges indicate
that these valleys are comparatively young. This adds to the com-
plexity of the problem, because we cannot retreat into the security
of the distant past when called upon for an explanation of their
origin. Heavy iron scraper dredges have been successfully employed,
in comparatively deep water, both by Woods Hole and Scripps, off
‘the east and west coasts, for obtaining samples from these outcrops.
Where the beds are nearly horizontal it is even possible to work out
roughly the stratigraphic succession. This serves the double pur-
pose of not only giving some information as to the rocks constituting
the continental shelves but also of fixing at least the maximum age
of thecanyons. On the east coast the formations are all sedimentary,
ranging from Upper Cretaceous through the late Plioecne. In texture
the different beds vary from indurated sandstones to friable green-
sands and compacted silts and clays (Stetson et al., 1936). Cores
taken from the bottom of the canyons show a clay, with Arctic For-
aminifera, presumably deposited during the last stage of the Wis-
consin. The time of canyon excavation can thus be bracketed with
fair exactness, and further work will doubtless narrow this span.
Mollusks and echinoderms have proved useful in some cases as guide
fossils, but Foraminifera have been by far the most valuable. AJ-
though the shelf is the submerged extension of the Coastal Plain, the
fauna of the sediments at the continental margin differs from that
of the emerged portion, and the formations evidently belong to differ-
ent facies. In some cases there is a curious parallelism with the
warm-water fauna of the Mississippi Embayment. The walls of
the west coast canyons likewise consist, for the most part, of sedi-
mentary formations, the youngest of which are Pliocene, although in
the upper part of Monterey Canyon Shepard has reported granite.
Any theory which is put forward to explain the much-disputed ques-
tion of origin of these extraordinary topographic features must take
into account the data which this dredging has afforded, namely, their
age and the type of rock into which they are cut. Similar work in
the canyons of other continents is much to be desired, in order that

2 Since the manuscript has been completed yet another theory has been added to the list.
Bucher (1940) considers that the erosive effect of tsunamis spending their energy against
the continental slope may be the most important single factor in producing this maturely
dissected submarine topography.
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

all possible information may be brought to bear on this perplexing
and still unsolved problem.

PRESENT STATUS AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF
SUBMARINE GEOLOGY

As a result of a newly awakened interest, stimplated by the intro-
duction of new techniques, the geological branch of the science is,
at present, in a position to make a rapid advance. The foreword to
the reports of the Snellius Expedition (1938, p. vii) reflects this
change of attitude which has taken place both here and abroad.

While in the Siboga expedition of 1900, biology stood in the foreground, physical
oceanography came only in second place and geology was not included in the

program at all; in the Snellius expedition the parts were reversed and more-
over a prominent place was given to geology.

The application of the geophysical methods has placed within our
grasp the means of dispelling much of our ignorance concerning the
suboceanic lithosphere, a subject of primary importance to our think-
ing concerning the structure of the earth. The procedure for meas-
uring terrestrial magnetism and gravity can be regarded as perfected,
while that for securing seismological data is rapidly approaching that
stage.

The recent advances in offshore surveying methods have so far been
applied only to charting comparatively small areas of the ocean floor,
but these preliminary results, if they may be so called, have been suffi-
ciently startling to unsettle, in many minds, deep-rooted ideas con-
cerning the relative stability of land and sea, and possibly even the
permanency of the ocean basins. For others they have stimulated
thought concerning submarine currents and rivers of liquid mud of
a type which had never before been considered among the processes
of erosion. The study of submarine morphology has thus taken on a
new significance.

In the field of sedimentation the emphasis is shifting from a purely
areal study of a region to investigations of the sediments in relation to
the marine environments which have produced them. The forces
governing transportation and deposition are all too imperfectly known,
and a clear understanding of conditions of sedimentation in the sea
today will go far toward helping the stratigrapher in the interpreta-
tion of sedimentary rocks on land. Modern methods of mechanical
analysis, largely developed in connection with studies in soil mechanics
and foundation engineering, and the statistical treatment of data have
been of great assistance in this work. The ability to take long cores
is playing an increasingly important part in the study of sediments,
and it is possible in many instances to penetrate the mantle of present-
day deposition and reach the older formations. It is hoped that in
this way at least something of the Pleistocene history of the ocean
OCEANOGRAPH Y—STETSON 241

basins may be unraveled. When long cores have been obtained from
the red clay of the Pacific, where the rate of deposition is extremely
slow, it is expected that valuable data will be obtained on the rate of
decay of radioactive minerals, which are exceedingly abundant in these
clays.

Little enough is known of the clastic sediments—black shales, for
instance—but even less is known about the origin of limestone and its
corollary, dolomite. Chemistry in relation to marine sediments, both
organic and inorganic, and its connection with the processes of di-
agenesis is a field which has scarcely been scratched. Even the com-
position of the water contained in the bottom sediments and the part
it plays is an unknown quantity. Along these lines the possibilities
for future development are practically limitless.

No longer does oceanography have to depend on the outfitting of
special expeditions for its continued advancement. As a science it has
become firmly established, and the study of the sea in all its phases is
now carried out both here and abroad. Not only are numerous labora-
tories devoted exclusively to this purpose, but many government de-
partments have also made it an integral part of their programs. Using
this country as an illustration, the Coast and Geodetic Survey has
engaged in charting operations which have proved particularly signifi-
cant in the field of submarine morphology. The Navy has furnished
submarines on several occasions for the measurement of gravity at
sea, and the Hydrographic Office is constantly accumulating and pub-
lishing deep-sea soundings. The Coast Guard has incorporated the
study of the internal dynamics of sea water as part of its work on the
ice patrol off the Grand Banks of Newfoundland. The Bureau of Fish-
eries investigates for the most part ecologic problems which concern
the various inhabitants of the ocean but has also taken much hydro-
graphic data. Similar work is being carried out by the governments
of all the important maritime nations.

If the greater part of the initiative and impetus for the development
of the biological and physical oceanography has been furnished by
European countries, America may lay claim to this role in the field
of submarine geology. The support which has been, and continues to
be, furnished by institutions, learned societies, and government
agencies in this country in the form of money, ships, and equipment
is a measure of the importance of the problems and of the success which
has been achieved. However, after the original impetus has been
given, international cooperation is essential if the study is to reach its
fullest development. There is every indication that such will continue.

To attempt a list of institutions and bureaus engaged in oceano-
graphic work or to make a complete catalog of present activity in
submarine geology is not the purpose of this chapter. The student
242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

desiring such information should turn to a recent publication of the
National Academy of Sciences edited by Dr. T. Wayland Vaughan
(1937) where these data have been fully compiled, and which also
give a bibliography of the serials which are published by the various
institutions. The bibliography appended here is only intended to give
a person unacquainted with the subject a working knowledge of the
literature and to provide a starting point. The purpose of a short
sketch of this sort is to trace the rise and development of present-day
trends and lines of endeavor in submarine geology and to present a
summary of progress, as seen against the background of oceanography
as a whole, so that the general perspective does not become distorted.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

AGASssiz, ALEXANDER.
1888. ‘Three cruises of the Blake. Mus. Comp. Zool., Bull., vols. 14 and 15.
AGaAssiz, Lovts.
1869. Report on deep sea dredgings during the cruise of the U. S. C. steamer
Bibb. Mus. Comp. Zool., Bull., vol. 1, No. 13, pp. 368-369.
BIcELow, H. B.
1931. Oceanography. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston.
BucHer, W. H.
1940. Submarine valleys and related geologic problems of the North At-
lantic. Geol. Soc. Amer., Bull., vol. 51, pp. 489-512.
BULLARD, EH. C., and GASKELL, T. F.
1938. Seismic methods in submarine geology. Nature, vol. 142, pp. 916—-
917.
Challenger EXPEDITION.
Report on the scientific results of the voyage of H. M. S. Challenger,
1873-1876.
1885. Narrative of the cruise.
1891. Deep sea deposits.
Daty, R. A.
1936. Origin of submarine canyons. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 31, pp. 401-420.
DEUTSCHE SUDPOLAR-EXXPEDITION, 1901-1903.
1905-1931. Vols. 1-20. Berlin.
Discovery REPORTS.
1929-date. Results of investigations made by the Discovery and the
William Scoresby ... Univ. Press, Cambridge.
Ewine, Maurice, Crazy, A. P., and RUTHERFORD, H. M.
1987. Geophysical investigations in the emerged and submerged Atlantic
Coastal Plain. Geol. Soc. Amer., Bull., vol. 48, pp. 753-802.
EwIine, Mavrice, and VINE, ALLYN.
1938. Deep sea measurements without cables or wires. Trans. Amer.
Geophys. Union, pt. 1, pp. 248-251.
GEOPHYSICAL EXPLORATION OF THE OcHAN Bortrom.
1937. Symposium arranged by the American Geophysical Union. Proc.
Amer. Philos. Soc., vol. 79, No. 1, pp. 1-166.
HERDMAN, W.
1923. Founders of oceanography. Longmans, Green, New York.
OCEANOGRAPH Y—STETSON 243

JOHNSON, DOUGLAS.
1939. Origin of submarine canyons. Columbia Univ. Press, New York.
JOHNSTONE, J.

1928.

An introduction to oceanography. Univ. Press, Liverpool.

KRUMMEL, O.

1907.
1911.

Handbuch der Ozeanographie, Bd. 1. Engelhorn, Stuttgart.
Idem, Bd. 2.

MarMer, H. A.
1926. The tide. D, Appleton and Co., New York.
Meteor EXPEDITION.
1982-date. Wissenschaftliche Ergebnisse der deutschen Atlantischen Ex-

MoNAco.

ped. auf dem... Meteor, 1925-1927.

1889-date. Results des campagnes scientifiques.

1904-date. Bulletin Inst. Oceanographie.

1909-date. Annales, Inst. Oceanographie.
Murray, J., and Hsort, J.

1912.

The depths of the ocean. Macmillan and Co., London.

NANSEN, FRIDTJOF (editor).
1900-1905. Norwegian North Polar Expedition, 1893-1896. Scientific re-

sults, vols. 1-6.

NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL, COMMITTEH ON PHYSICS OF THE HEARTH.

1932. Physics of the earth. Vol. 5, Oceanography. Nat. Res. Counce.
Bull. 85.
Piceot, C. S.
1936. Apparatus to secure core samples from the ocean bottom. Geol.
Soc. Amer., Bull., vol. 47, No. 5, pp. 675-684.
ScuHort, G.
1926. Geographie des Atlantischen Ozeans. Boysen, Hamburg.
1935. Geographie des Indischen und Stillen Ozeans. Boysen, Hamburg.

SHEPARD, F. P.

1933.

Submarine valleys. Geogr. Rev., vol. 23, No. 1, pp. 77-89.

1934. Canyons off the New England coast. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 27, pp.

24-36.

1936. The underlying causes of submarine canyons. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci.,

vol. 22, No. 8, pp. 496-502.

Siboga-ExPEDITIE.

1901-date. Results des Explorations . . . Leyden.
SiGssex, C. D.

1880. Deep sea sounding and dredging. U. S. Coast and Geod. Surv.
Smiru, P. A.

1937. The submarine topography of Bogoslof. Geogr. Rev., vol. 27, No. 4,

pp. 630-636.

Snellius EXpepITION IN THE HASTERN Part OF THE NETHERLANDS Hast-INpIES

1933.
1934.

1935.

1938.

1929-1930.

Vol. 5, pt. 2, Geology of coral reefs.

Vol. 2, Oceanographic results; pt. 2, Soundings and bathymetric
charts.

Vol. 5, Geological results; pt. 1, Geological interpretation of the
bathymetric results.

Vol. 1, Voyage.

Stetson, H. C., STEPHENSON, W. L., BAsster, R. S., and CusHMAN, J. A.

1936.

The geology and paleontology of the Georges Bank canyons. Geol.
Soc. Amer., Bull., vol. 47, pts. 1-4, pp. 339-440.
244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

THOMSON, C. WYVILLE.
1873. The depths of the sea. An account of the dredging cruises of
Porcupine and Lightning during the summers of 1868, 1869, and
1870. Macmillan and Co., New York and London.
1877. The voyage of the Challenger. Macmillan and Co., London.
TrAsK, PARKER D. (editor).
1939. Recent marine sediments: A symposium. Amer. Assoc. Petrol. Geol.,
Tulsa.
UNITED STATES COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
1844-date. Reports of the Superintendent (now Director).
VAUGHAN, T.. WAYLAND, ET AL.
1937. International aspects of oceanography. Nat. Acad. Sci., Washington.
VEATCH, A. C., and SmirTH, P. A.
1939. Atlantic submarine valleys of the United States and the Congo
submarine valley. Geol. Soc. Amer., Spec. Pap. No. 7.
VENING MEINESz, F. A.
1930. Gravity expeditions at sea 1923-1930. Vol. 1, The expeditions, the
computations and the results.
VENING MEINEsz, F. A., UMBGROVE, J. H. F., and KUENEN, PH. H.
1934. Gravity expeditions at sea 1923-1932. Vol. 2, Report of the gravity
expedition in the Atlantic of 1932 and the interpretation of the
results.
THE OCEAN CURRENT CALLED “THE CHILD”

By Etior G. Mrars
Stanford University, California

{With 2 plates]

Every year about Christmas time, a hot current swings inshore
along southern Ecuador and northern Peru. Because this is the
season of the Christ Child, the devout inhabitants of the region have
named it “The Child” (El Nifio). Its location, and that of the
great Humboldt (Peru) Current, are shown on the accompanying
maps.

Ordinarily the coasts of southern Ecuador, Peru, and northern Chile
are dry; they even lack sufficient quantities of drinking water. This
aridity is due to the usual dominance the year round of the cool
Humboldt Current. The Humboldt is cool because of the almost
continuous upwelling near shore. The California Current is cool
for the same reason in summer, the season when California is also
dry. Except when a warm stream or wedge invades or pushes its
waters away from the shore, the area affected by the Humboldt Cur-
rent is arid throughout the year.

To inhabitants of both land and sea, the unforeseen intrusion of hot
sea water is a phenomenon with extremely disastrous consequences,
for people and property located on this section of Pacific South
America are habitually protected from dry but not from wet weather.
Their houses are built largely of adobe bricks made from native clay
and grasses. Their water supply comes chiefly from the melting
snows in the high Andes, or from the fog and mists of the coast
ranges. Their farms are situated in the river valleys and on the
sides of slopes laid out in numerous terraces. Their railroads are
placed along or across these elevations. In short, here is a desert
economy in a region of pronounced land relief.

So long as the northward-flowing Humboldt Current with its up-
welling remains continuous and strong, kept so by south and south-
east winds, and while the equatorial low-pressure area keeps its ac-
customed place along the Equator, difficult weather problems in
Peru and northern Chile do not exist. There are no storms. In-

566766—44—17 245
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

deed, more than a century ago the storm-free character of the region so
impressed Alexander von Humboldt, for whom the current was
named, that he advised ships proceeding in this general region to sail
along this coast whenever possible.

The absence of thunderstorms is exceedingly noteworthy. For the
Humboldt Current flows into the Tropical Zone in northern Peru,
and to the Equator itself in the Galapagos Islands. Equatorial
latitudes are supposed to be the worst in the world for thunder-
storms. Indeed, directly across the Pacific in Java is found actually
the most thundery portion of the earth. So the contrast is striking.

The explanation is that along this eastern South Pacific coast the
Humboldt Current acts as a water- and air-conditioner. Except for
the aridity, the climate has no extremes. It is always cool, but never
cold. It is like coastal California in summer. It is foggy and often
misty in the hills, yet rain occurs seldom. The climate varies scarcely
at all from the inward seaward edge of the Humboldt Current to
the crest of the coast ranges. It is more or less the same, also, from
where the current starts near Valparaiso, Chile (33° S., 73° W.), to
approximately Talara, Peru (4° S., 81° W.).

Flowing from south to north, the Humboldt Current is the feature
which makes the weather approximately the same for a distance of
2,500 miles. This vast marine river extends some 100 miles in width
in Chile to 250 miles off Peru, where it turns from the continental
border seaward. West of southern Ecuador it continues its normal
character to the Galapagos Islands, 600 miles away. The numerous
bare and rocky islands within this vast stretch afford ideal nesting
sites for uncounted millions of cormorants, penguins, and other sim-
ilar fowl.

The wise people along shore protect this oceanic life, and have done
so from prehistoric times, except for a half century when foreigners
interfered. The birds repay their human benefactors with huge de-
posits of the richest fertilizer on earth—guano. The ancient beds pro-
vided many fortunes in the latter half of the nineteenth century. Re-
cent and accumulating stores, the result of highly constructive con-
servation practices, will insure permanent fertility to the soil in the
neighboring fields. Indeed, it is because of guano that the nearby
land areas have maintained a high productivity for more than 1,000
years of intensive cultivation.

The fertilizer manufactured by the birds is the result of the gor-
mandizing on the enormous fish population in the surface waters of
the Humboldt Current. Although fishing is a profitable industry to
the fishermen of the countries adjoining, no systematic exploitation
of the valuable aquatic resources of Peru has ever been made, except
by the birds.
OCEAN CURRENT CALLED “THE CHILD’—MEARS 247

The Humboldt Current carries to the Equator a cool temperate
climate, and the region is noteworthy for the absence of tropical dis-
eases as well as tropical storms. Consequently the inhabitants of this
part of the Tropics are unaccustomed to the features usually associated
with such regions and are unprepared to cope with them; they regulate
their lives largely upon the course and force of the Humboldt Current.
Their faith is usually justified. But occasionally a violent year like

yf

65 4)

Ficure 1.—Invasion of warm waters from the north (commonly called El Nifio)
during average year (southern summer).
Warm waters of El Nifio ———> ———~ ——— ———>
Cool waters of the Humboldt— — — — -~ — — >= — — >

1891 or 1925 appears on the calendar. Then the northward-flowing
Humboldt Current is abruptly either pushed aside or covered up tem-
porarily by the southward-rushing El Nino. In 1925 disturbances
were reported as far south as Valparaiso; in 1941, as far as Pisco
(12° S., 76° W.), or thereabouts.

Wherever El Nifio goes, both air and sea water become tepid. The
cool-water life in the Humboldt Current, consisting of birds as well
as fishes, migrates or dies. In 1925 the entire coast line was strewn
948 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

with the dead from the sea. On Jand, swarms of mosquitoes, flies, and
other insects infested the country. All living creatures suffered from
the intense heat. Furthermore, tropical diseases afflicted the
population.

Worse still, the normally storm-free region was visited by violent
thunderstorms, cloudbursts, and other torrential rains throughout the
entire length of El Nifo’s extension. The Chanchan River is said to

1
\
A
'

>+— — > —- - > —

Ficure 2.—Invasion of El Nifio into the Humboldt Current area in 1941 (south-
ern summer).
Warm waters of El Nifio ———> ——> ——>> ———>
Cool waters of the Humboldt — — —- — — ~ — — ~ — — >

have risen 18 feet in 1 day. The famous inscriptions at Chan Chan,
which had remained little changed for more than four centuries, were
almost obliterated. Railway lines were washed away.

In 1939 even a part of the foundation of the international highway
bridge in northern Peru was swept off with the flood. A creek that
usually could be waded had to be crossed in a basket attached to a
cable. The adobes crumbled. Streams drowned entire valleys or
overflowed their banks. Crops in the lowlands, where most of the
OCEAN CURRENT CALLED “THE CHILD’—MEARS 249

agricultural production takes place, were ruined. The rich soil was
carried out of its place, and rocks, boulders, and debris left in its stead.
This meant that when the weather conditions became stable, the farm-
ers had to clear away the wreckage, replace the soil, and provide seed
beds for next year’s crops.

Strangers, unfamiliar with these unique conditions, ventured the
belief that the inhabitants would have bumper crops on the usual desert
lands, for the unusual abundance of moisture had produced a record
rank growth in an astonishingly short time. This prophecy was borne
out, for in recent deluges the inhabitants have taken advantage of the
excessive precipitation by erecting temporary fences to protect their
excellent harvests. However, it is apparent that these farms on the
open desert are of sporadic value only. Lands that yield once in many
years naturally do not have the same importance as those that produce
unfailingly year after year during the season, or, in some localities, all
the year around.

Permanent benefits of the visitations from the Child Current are
decidedly minor in any attempt to balance the enormous disasters that
accompany it. One favor it leaves in its wake is drinking water in the
ancient reservoirs of southern Ecuador and part of northern Peru,
although, it should be added, in Peru much safer water is obtained
from the melting snows of the eastern mountains. Furthermore, the
rich sea pastures of the Humboldt Current benefit by the action of the
rains in washing down these occasional huge additions of fertilizing
material.

Also, although El Nifio drives away swarms of cool-water fish, it
transports numerous warm-water species to take their places, at least
in part. In 1939 and again in 1941 the tuna, which rarely are seen
beyond the border of the cold current, were observed near Callao
(12°S., 77°W.). Indeed, in 1941 they were caught among the rocks of
the port and were plentiful.

Every year, in the southern summer, El Nifio approaches Capo
Blanco (4°S., 11° W.) or Punta Aguja (5°S., 11°W.) with storms
and their accompanying features. Between 1925 and 1941 only twice
did the hot current go beyond these two bulging, westernmost points of
the South American continent. Farther southward, invasions oc-
curred in 1932 and 1939. It seemed that the old tradition of a 7-year
cycle was being substantiated. The local inhabitants were well pleased
to be able to anticipate the disasters at certain definite periods.

Then came the invasion of 1941 in northern Peru, only 2 years after
the heavy downpours during 1939. The floods of 1941 were much
more generally extended than those of 1939; likewise the heated waters
of El Nifio from shore seaward were more widely spread out. In
1939 its waters were kept away from the shore line south of about
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Punta Aguja by a narrow band of cooler water. In 1941 such a band
did not exist. Not only did the rains of 1941 prove disastrous to
crops, buildings, birds, fish, and local industries, but, even more im-
portant, they upset the sense of security associated with the reputed
7-year cycle. For the Child Current in 1941 was not observing the
rules; it was cheating with an unexpected, off-schedule call which
spelled uncertainty regarding the forecasting of future invasions.

Many attempts have been made to explain the vagaries of El Niiio.
Both the sun and the moon have been named as Nature’s accomplices.
Sun-spottedness or lunar tides in the Antarctic have been blamed for
the behavior of this turgid, hot current. Other explanations offered
center nearer home, notably the southward shift of the low-pressure
area along the Equator and its subsequent retreat southward of the
South Pacific High off the coast of Chile. During unusual extensions
of the Child Current, declining strength of winds from the south
and southeast have been noticed, and northerly winds across Panama
may have some effect at this season. It is noteworthy that northerly
winds often precede or accompany El Nifio’s abnormal movements.

The current has been identified definitely as a branch of the Equa-
torial Counter Current, which normally either turns northward or
recurves westward before reaching Panama. It joins up with the broad
streams of the North or the South Equatorial currents. The Equa-
torial Counter Current, it is well known, enjoys an abnormally high
marine temperature because it flows directly under the heat equator
across the entire width of the Pacific Ocean, approximately at its
most widely separated points.

Why the branch El Nifio is sometimes hotter and stronger at some
places than at others has not been satisfactorily explained. In 1939,
for instance, the heated current, appearing in the form of bands or
strips, was marked by a considerable range of temperature over a
relatively small area. Some of these bands were hotter away from
land than close inshore; and vice versa. At the same time it was
observed that upwelling along shore in the Humboldt Current became
weak or tended to cease altogether. Since the Humboldt and Califor-
nia Currents are “mirror images” of each other during the season
of upwelling within the California Current (as already stated, nor-
mally there is upwelling within the Humboldt Current throughout
the year), the most plausible explanations may be gleaned from fur-
ther research applied to the northern stream.

It is known, for instance, that there is a relatively warm subsurface
coastal current flowing in the opposite direction from the Humboldt,
and a similar counter subsurface current continually runs under the
California Current. When upwelling ceases off the California coast,
this subsurface current rises and flows inshore at the surface as
OCEAN CURRENT CALLED “THE CHILD”—MEARS 251

well as underneath. The writer continues to surmise that when
winds, atmospheric pressure belts, and other phenomena cause a ceas-
ing or a tendency to cease in the Humboldt Current upwelling,
perhaps the subsurface counter current underneath tends to rise to
the surface in a similar manner. When its rise occurs near or at the
boundary line of the Humboldt, the subsurface current carries with
it the hot surface water of the equatorial region.

In other words, it appears likely that El Nino is the counterpart of
the Davidson Current along the California shore, except that the
Davidson is never a hot current. The Davidson Current originates
within the cooler Temperate Zone.

We know that “The Child” comes every year to Pacific South
America shortly after Christmas. We know where it comes from and
the general direction of its travel. How vigorous and active it may be
cannot be foretold with any certainty. The traditional and still
popularly accepted 7-year cycle no longer constitutes a sure basis of
reckoning. The southernmost extension of its migration is another
uncertainty. Someday we shall be better informed about the ranges
and vicissitudes of this oceanic mystery. Until then, we can at least
recognize the overshadowing importance of one of Nature’s most
powerful forces in dominating a relatively unknown part of the
Western Hemisphere.
“Sina vp chiens adit # atc § oy hy a
jaete te4 pears “nie HBO 8
. onions: wi? Hr at'l

; ae) toh

rn

PA et

erotica Laas Ta ot nuoy ere 3
| hse cred hearin ah ides seenbs ae
ee oudgainn 3 syditop Juth ebrovogt? old.
| -ftise hate ah Mok rikiet,}* ‘ott
aieued on we hie pre
ai

an rt th dueed ie
Pa OF Aodtd “nin eine in oie 2
hes aed eae beta ii eae hea 8

Smithsonian Report, |943.—Mears PLATE 1

1. A GENERAL VIEW OF GUANO-GATHERING OPERATIONS, PERU.

Photograph from Pan American Union.

2. RUINS OF CHAN CHAN, NEAR TRUJILLO, PERU.

Photograph from Pan American Union. Courtesy W. R. Grace and Co.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Mears

PLATE 2

2k yee .

fe te,

1. LOADING COTTON AT PAITA, PERU.

Photograph from Pan American Union. Courtesy Grace Line.

2. PORT WORKS, CALLAO, PERU.
Photograph from Pan American Union.

Courtesy Frederick Snare Company.
MAPS, STRATEGY, AND WORLD POLITICS:

By RicHargp EpEs Harrison
Cartographer

and

ROBERT STRAUSZ-HvUPE
University of Pennsylvania

[With 5 plates]

Geography is the study of the earth, its regions, and, more particu-
larly, the relationship of one region to another. Maps are tools for
the study of geography.

If the earth were flat as a table top, there would be few problems
in map making. Each item of geographical interest could be shown
in true relationship to any other item since the map, like a table top,
is a plane and, hence, two-dimensional. The earth, unfortunately, is
a round solid. Map making is mainly concerned with the problem of
representing three dimensions on a two-dimensional piece of paper.
Consider a globe—it represents the world in all respects, distances,
areas, directions, shapes; this it does because it is a three-dimensional
scale model. If a globe had a skin, it would be impossible to peel it
off and flatten it into any single shape without splitting or stretching
it. How to perform this operation is the dilemma of map making.
The greater the extent of the sphere’s surface depicted by the map
the greater is the distortion, and the smaller the extent of the surface
the smaller the distortion. In large-scale tactical maps it shrinks
almost to the vanishing point but it is present, nevertheless. In an
area large enough to show a perceptible curvature of the earth, the
distortion becomes an appreciable factor. It reaches a maximum
when we attempt to depict the whole earth on one map.

This difficult art of trying to represent the impossible is called
cartography, and the devices by which cartographers attempt to show
a round surface on a flat and generally rectangular piece of paper
are called projections. Map making through the ages has necessarily
limited itself to controlling distortion, so that one of the four prop-
erties—distance, direction, shape, or area—is shown correctly at the

1 Reprinted by permission from the Infantry Journal, November 1942.
253
254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

expense of the others, or to achieve the best compromise among them
without any one being mathematically true. For example, a map on
which all areas are shown in true relative size (called equal area)
is bound to have distortions in shape, distance, and direction. In
some, two properties can be satisfactorily combined, as for example in
the azimuthal equidistant map. This is so constructed that from
its central point direction and distance are true to any other point,
but a nonradial distance is more or less seriously out of scale. (The
term “azimuthal” is typical of the obscure terminology of cartog-
raphy. In the case of maps it simply means radial, or as the spoke
of a wheel.) The well-known Mercator map has the remarkable
property of showing both true compass directions (but not the great
circle directions) and true shape. The size of areas and distances,
however, are highly misleading.

Perhaps the question most frequently asked of cartographers is,
“What is the best world map?” The question goes to the heart of
the cartographer’s problem for the answer is “There is no such thing
as the perfect map.” One can pick out a “best” map for a given
purpose, but that map will not satisfy other requirements. For ex-
ample, the density of population is measured by the number of people
inhabiting a specific area and should be shown on an equal area map,
for to show it on a map where unit areas differ would introduce
another variable making the study of relative density valueless.
Where true compass direction between points is required (as in navi-
gation), we must use Mercator; where great circles (the shortest dis-
tance between two points on the globe) is the object of study, we
must use the gnomonic projection which is unfortunately limited in
scope to less than a hemisphere. To measure distances accurately we
must have recourse to the globe or use cumbersome methods for trans-
lating these distances from different projections. In fact, all these
questions can best be studied on a scale model of the earth. Only
a scale model is proportionately accurate in all respects—provided it
is accurately made. Unfortunately the globe has disadvantages too.
One can see less than half of it at a given moment; it is bulky; it is
expensive. A fine collection of good detailed maps or a first-class
atlas can be purchased for the price of an 18-inch globe. But a
globe is the one and only corrective for the distortion present in all
maps.

Selecting a world map on which to study strategy or the geography
of war is practically an insuperable problem. For strategy demands
geographical truth—distances, directions, and areas must be pretty
close to scale because when they are true it follows that geographical
relationships in general are true. This is, however, impossible in any
kind of world map.
MAPS—HARRISON AND STRAUSZ-HUPE 255

The search for a compromise solution has led to many ingenious
projections, but for strategy we still have to revert to the globe. One
way of approximating true geographic relationship is to decide what
part of the global area is of least interest and select a projection
which tends to lump the distortion in that area. Thus the “center of
remoteness” from the war and its connecting lines is at or very near
the South Pole. In fact, from the South Pole to the thirtieth parallel
south of the Equator is an enormous area, nearly one-third the
earth’s surface, in which no engagement of importance has been
fought and which supply lines touch only peripherally. To banish
the distortion into the “inactive” area, we center the map on the
opposite, or North Pole, and make linear scale true along radii from
its pole along the meridians. This is called—in the semantics of
cartography—the North Polar azimuthal equidistant projection and
is, in spite of its name, a pretty good map for global strategy. At
least it has the prime advantage of showing continuity of the main
land areas involved in the war.

From the Pole to within 20° of the Equator there is remarkably
little distortion on this map. This area contains all the major world
powers, all the major fighting fronts, except the Southwest Pacific
islands, and most of the supply lines. The Mercator projection which
for centuries has had an iron grip on the naval, military, and teach-
ing professions, divides its distortions equally between the North and
South Polar regions and is true on the Equator only. Owing to the
construction of the Mercator projection, the regions immediately
adjacent to the Poles cannot be shown at all, since they fade into
infinity. Yet, because of the Mercator’s usefulness in navigation,
most seafaring men have come to think of intercontinental relations
mainly in terms of Mercator. Mercator’s world is the world of sea
power.

Politically ours is a Northern Hemisphere world. For 93 percent
of the world’s population and about 75 percent of the world’s
habitable land lie in northern latitudes. Modern history has been
made in the northern latitudes. The power centers of the world are
situated 40° or more north of the Equator. London, Berlin, Tokyo,
and Moscow lie from 900 to 1,500 miles closer to the North Pole than
to the Equator. Obviously a map whose maximum accuracy is at
the Equator (like Mercator) cannot be expected to show the inter-
relation of the centers of power in North America, Europe, and Asia.
This relationship can be rendered most successfully on one of the
polar projections.

The map reader need not be misled by the distortions of a particular
map; it is only necessary to note the specific distortion and make the
proper visual correction. The main pitfall to avoid is the continual
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

use of one map, for the mind is inexorably conditioned to its shapes.
It begins to look “right” and all others “wrong.” There are some ex-
amples of how this conditioning has produced false notions of geog-
raphy. Example number one is provided by the Pacific war area.
The Pacific is so large that any map of the entire ocean must have
considerable distortion, but for generations we have depended almost
exclusively on the Mercator projection. Similarly, the interrupted
homolosine projection, devised by the late Chicago Prof. Paul Goode,
sacrifices the polar regions to distortion. Its greatest accuracy lies
in the zones of the world’s great shipping lanes and, hence, in the
areas of naval strategy as conceived in the nineteenth century. Now
both the United States and Japan lie on the fringe of Mercator’s and
Goode’s area of reasonable accuracy, and the shortest line between them
goes far above this area from Seattle across the Alaska Peninsula and
curves above 55° N. before swinging southwestward along the Kurile
Islands to metropolitan Japan. A few miles south of this line lies
that too-long neglected bastion of North American defense, Dutch
Harbor, while 2,300 miles south of that is Pearl Harbor.

Pearl Harbor, in fact, lies on a line between San Francisco and
Australia, and could only be called a flank defense by one familiar
with the globe. Alaska, on the other hand, offers a jumping-off place
for all the shortest routes from the United States to Asia, Japan,
Siberia, China, India. For example, from the midwestern industrial
center of the United States to Chungking, as flown by our ferry com-
mand across the South Atlantic to Lagos to Khartoum to Karachi, and
so on, is more than 12,000 miles; by way of Fairbanks and Siberia about
8,000 miles. On Mercator the 12,000-mile jaunt looks reasonable
enough. But the direct air route New York-Chungking (which passes
close to the North Pole) is difficult to trace on the Mercator projection,
as on this map it would go vertically off the top of the map near
western Greenland, reappear above the central coast of Siberia and
drop directly south to Chungking.

Example number two is provided by the Atlantic theater of war.
Both New York and London lie in the area of sharply increasing dis-
tortion on Mercator. The great circle route between them reaches
the fifty-third parallel. Hence the earlier perplexities of Anglo-
American relations. Hence also the widely held misconceptions of
the Arctic, which is not a stagnant, impassable waste, but a fluid, prac-
ticable pathway of the Atlantic. In fact, the Mercator mind blankly
abandons the Arctic to infinity while it faithfully records the true
proportions of the jungles of equatorial Africa, Amazonian rain for-
ests, and the deserts of the Arabian peninsula. The Arctic is not only
a branch of the Atlantic but provides a back-alley access to the Pacific.
To be sure, ice blocks it for half of the year, but the savings in time
MAPS—HARRISON AND STRAUSZ-HUPE 257

and distance mark it still as a potential traffic lane. For example, the
distance from North Atlantic naval bases to the Bering Sea by way of
the Northwest Passage is less than half what it is by way of the
Panama Canal.

The importance of Iceland has been long recognized by the British
and American commands. A glance at an Arctic map reveals the
Norwegian coast as the only Axis frontage on the Arctic basin. The
importance of a northern all-year route is shown by the figures: New
York-Moscow via Murmansk, 5,300 miles; New York-Moscow via the
Persian Gulf, 14,400 miles. This is not to suggest that the southern
route be abandoned, for this route has the great advantage that sup-
plies delivered at the head of the Persian Gulf can be distributed on
comparatively short notice to several different fronts, the Russian,
Egyptian, Syrian, and Indian.

Example number three of thought conditioning by maps we can find
on our home continent. Our eastern and western seaboards are far
more conscious of danger from Axis bombing, yet Todelo, Detroit,
Duluth, and Winnipeg are as close to Nazi-held Norway as Norfolk, Va.

Salt Lake City, all of Montana and Idaho, part of North Dakota
and Winnipeg are as close to Japanese air bases as Los Angeles. If
either Axis partner were to establish advance bases in Greenland or
Alaska, most of the Middle West would be in as great danger as
the seaboards. Here again are facts not revealed on most of the
maps in common use.

We have pointed out that all maps must be misleading in them-
selves, but use of a map even with knowledge of its limitations can
also produce misleading conceptions of geography. Continual use
of a given map in a fixed position results in dulling of perception.
For example, the Mercator projection shows us with perfect accuracy
the north-south geographical relation, yet most people are skeptical
when told that all of South America lies to the east of Savannah, Ga.
By looking at a Mercator wall map with the aid of a mirror, the
true relation is made plain. The shapes on the map, of course, have
not changed, they are merely reversed, and in the reflected image
the immense eastward sweep of the coast from Brownsville to Natal
is startlingly revealed. It is useful to turn maps upside down, or
point them in a direction which might represent the point of view
of an individual or a nation, as for example a Briton’s view of the
continent, or Hitler’s view of the Middle East. This practice is
recommended in defiance of the rooted conviction of the cartographer
that north must always be at the top of the page. The globe has
no “top.”

The assault on map traditionalism has been led mainly by Ameri-
can magazines and newspapers in their search for visual aids to
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

reports from the theater of war. The North Polar equidistant pro-
jection, for example, had hardly ever been used as a world map
since Cassini (1696). After its reappearance in a leading national
monthly, it has become increasingly popular with magazines and
newspapers. Another case is the even older orthographic projection.
This map has remarkable visual properties and its neglect is one of
the major mysteries of cartography. A series of orthographics
recently published provides in four maps a good and inexpensive
substitute for a 20-inch globe. In the increasingly popular conic
projection—the cone having been laid tangent to the forty-fifth
parallel of latitude north—the battlefields of south Russia are very
nearly true to scale.

Many college geographers now realize that the United States has
been lagging far behind other nations—the British and notably the
Germans—who not only produce large quantities of maps but pound
away at geography and all its lessons, political, economic, and
military, throughout all grades of schooling. American cartography
is now meeting this challenge with boldness and ingenuity—par-
ticularly as regards the representation of large areas. German map
making—profuse in detail and meticulous in execution—has largely
stuck to conventional projections, and Mercator’s hold on German
cartography may account for some German misconceptions as re-
gards the strategic position of the United States and the Soviet Union.
By contrast, American cartography now leads in the imaginative
use of those projections which show large areas and true distances, and
thus are best suited for teaching the new geography of international
air communications,

The psychological isolationism of the United States, be it said in
conclusion, can be in large measure traced to our failures in map
making and the teaching of geography—the prerequisites of educa-
tion in international relations. The world is round. By the skill-
ful presentation of its “roundness” strategic realities are made clear.
“HSAIM ADNAYMV] “LS AHL AO HLNOW AHL SAOSY AYAHdSOLVYLS AHL NI LNIOd V WOY84 NaS 3d0OuNgA

OA “osjaaey sepy paeyqory

| 3LVW1d edn}yy-zsnesg pue uostiep{J—"¢¢6| ‘j40dayy ueluosyyIuIg
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Harrison and Strausz-Hupé PEATE 2

|
4
‘

MERCATOR PROJECTION.

The cylinder is wrapped around the globe tangent to the Equator. Distortions which increase as polar
f f : 1 ae
latitudes are approached resu!t from straightening out the curved meridians.
“apn4yyey jo fay[esed yore Joy JoJW90 B JoYyeI IN ‘uorjoefoid Jo 1a}u90 9,duris ou ‘edueNnbesuod UT ‘st e104 L, “quIOd B JO PRA4SUI opo1Id Jo ov UB Aq poyUdseIded st Jfosyt afod oy} Aqoloy TL,
‘deur oue[d 04} UO SepaII0 JURISIPINbe 0}UT WIN 9qo[s ayy UO sjoyrerzed juejystpinbe eyxeur 0} pojsn{pe Wet) SI e[Bos [eIpeI ey, “SefddJo vuL0d0q sjoyvered oy} pue ‘deur 9y} UO Soul,
}YSTeIYS SUIVIPBI 9UIODEG SUBIPIOUI OUT, “SIXB rejod ay4 JO UOISU9}X9 BY} UO 9UOd 9} JO XoJIVA OY} YIM ‘apnqyey Jo Juesuey °G 9} 0} JUEZUBy oqo[s 9Y} PUNoIe poddeiM st eU0d 9,

“NOILDOALOYd DINOD

€ ALVW1d adnyy-zsneiqg pue uosizep{—*¢p6| ‘Oday uetuosyiwS
*poyovoidde st deur 94} Jo efog YINOg ey} SB poyoje1}s A[SNOUIIOUS SI 9pN4i4e] Jo sje[[ered
94} JO o[Ros OY, “Opn, JUSIOYIp YoRe 0} Sulpuodsoes10d 194090 JUOIOYIp B INq ‘sepNjye] [[e Jo} woyd9fo1d Jo 10}U90 9[sUIS OU SI o19y} ‘MOMI0foId 10JBvdIOP, OY} JO 9SBO 9] UI SY

“NOILOALOYNd LNVLSIGINOFA WHLAWIZY YV1Od HLYON

palLyvid gdnyy4-zsneig puke uostiiep{—'¢p6 | *‘qaodayy UetuosyzIWICG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Harrison and Strausz-Hupé PLATE 5

ORTHOGRAPHIC PROJECTION.

In this case the center of projection is at infinity, and the projecting lines all fall perpendicular to the plane
of projection. The oblique case is like a picture of the globe and recommended for its visual qualities.
Yet the scale is true at the center and along any concentric circle. Distortion increases toward the periph-
eries
THE NATURAL-HISTORY BACKGROUND
OF CAMOUFLAGE?

By Hersert FRIEDMANN
Curator, Division of Birds, U. S. National Museum

[With 16 plates]

INTRODUCTION

If we look up the word “camouflage” in a standard dictionary, we
find it defined as concealment by disguise. The disguise may be of
such a nature as actually to simulate the immediate background or
merely to break up the outline or reduce the visible solidity of the
object camouflaged. When man tries to camouflage an object, he is
literally disguising it; in nature on the other hand, the “disguise” is
the normal coloration and is so termed because it has the effect, without
effort, that man consciously aims for in his attempts. Although the
word “camouflage” did not come into common usage until the time
of the last war, the application by man of the ideas involved dates far
back into antiquity. Based originally upon his observation of its
occurrence in nature and its relative effectiveness under varying cir-
cumstances, it has been adapted by man to his own purposes. So far,
these purposes have been chiefly related to warfare, although, to a
lesser extent in civilized societies and to a somewhat greater one in
primitive peoples, camouflage has been applied to such activities as
hunting and fishing as well.

The essential elements involved in camouflage are those of conceal-
ment and surprise. Concealment, to use military adjectives, may be
either defensive or offensive (i. e., the value may be to render a pro-
spective victim safe by its invisibility to a predaceous enemy, or it
may render the marauder invisible from, and thereby help it to cap-
ture, its intended quarry). Most wild creatures live in constant danger
from enemies or are themselves ever on the alert for prospective prey.
They do not know the comparative peace and security of our peacetime
civilized lives. It is, therefore, not surprising to find animals of all
sorts exhibiting countless types and degrees and variations of such

1 Reprinted from Smithsonian War Background Studies, No. 5, Publ. 3700, December
11, 1942.

259
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

concealing adaptations as are implied by the term “camouflage.” One
of the fundamental factors in the lives of wild creatures is the combat
between species (for food primarily, one feeding on the other or
competing with it for a common food supply), generally referred to as
the struggle for existence. The problem of self-preservation in nature
is very real, ever present, and often so difficult to cope with that some
species appear to be numerically limited by it to a very marked degree.
As has been emphasized recently by Cott (the Royal Engineer’s Jour-
nal, vol. 52, p. 502, 1938) , the vital—

* * * urgent nature of this * * * problem of self-preservation is re-
flected in the variety and specialization of Nature’s adaptive experiments in
offence and defence. For instance, we see evidence for this in * * * speed,
on land, in the air, and under water, by pursuer and pursued; in the use of stealth
and surprise, of deception and ambush; in the display of warning signals, or
of alluring baits; in the elaboration of smoke screens, traps, nets, and para-
chutes; in retreat obtained by burrowing underground, or by the adoption of
nocturnal habits; in the development of poison, and of deadly apparatus in the
form of fangs or stings for its injection into the bodies of enemies or prey; in
protection afforded by plated or spiny armor; and in the use of chemical warfare
which is practised, for instance, by certain insects; and of poison gas, by crea-
tures like the skunk.

Of all these various adaptations—which it will be noted each have their parallel
in the paraphernalia of modern warfare—perhaps none is so important, so
widely distributed, or so perfect as that which renders animals inconspicuous,
and often well-nigh invisible, in their natural surroundings.

He even goes so far as to say that—

* * * concealment appears to have been one of the main ends attained in
the evolution of animals. And although in most spheres of modern warfare
man has now (though in some cases only recently) advanced far ahead of the
animal creation in his equipment for protection and aggression—in regard, for
instance, to the development of armor and mobility, to the use of projectiles
and of devices such as the balloon barrage (which in principle is"a gigantic
spider’s web), smoke screens (which are used with effect by cuttle-fishes who
dart for safety behind a dense cloud of sepia), and of instruments such as range-
finders and sound-detectors and the like—the case of camouflage is an exceptional
one.

During the last war camouflage was developed extensively along
such lines as dazzle-painting of ships to break up their mass and render
their outlines less definite and less recognizable, of splotch-painting of
field artillery pieces to simulate their surroundings, and of lightening
those parts of objects that were usually in shadow to reduce the visual
solidity of the objects involved. On the whole, it may be said that the
bulk of the camouflage work done was to create concealment from
ground level or at least from fairly low levels. Concealment from high
above was relatively less important then than now. However, with
the present enormous development in aerial warfare and the ever-in-
creasing use of the air arm in both military and naval operations of all
CAMOUFLAGE—FRIEDMANN 261

kinds, the problem of effective concealment has come to resolve itself
more into concealment at a distance or from a height than from nearby.
It is probably no exaggeration to say that military camouflage has
a greater and more vital importance now than it did in previous
wars. Coincident with this increase in its use in warfare, there has
been a growth of interest in the subject on the part of the public in
general. Military camouflage, particularly with respect to its new
developments and discoveries and applications, is necessarily a secret
of the armed forces. But the natural-history basis of all this work may
be here outlined for the interested reader.

The modern study of concealment and disguise in nature may be
said to date from the work of the American artist-naturalist, Abbott
H. Thayer. His first paper, originally published in an ornithological
journal, The Auk, in 1896, was given wide distribution to scientific
circles generally in the following year in the annual report of the
Smithsonian Institution. First among our scientific institutions to
recognize the theoretical and potential significance of this work, the
Smithsonian has ever since followed with critical interest the unfolding
of the subject. In 1909 Thayer brought together in definitive form
his discoveries, ideas, and observations in a stimulating book entitled,
“Concealing Coloration in the Animal Kingdom,” which has served
as a basis for all subsequent work and which is still useful and interest-
ing in spite of subsequent data. Parts of it have been modified or even
negatived by more recent studies, but on the whole it still serves as a
good introduction to the subject. The most recent comprehensive
book on the topic is Cott’s “Adaptive Coloration in Animals,” published
in 1940. ‘This book has very extensive literature references and may
be consulted by the reader interested in details beyond the scope of a
general paper such as the present one.

As Thayer first pointed out, in order to discuss intelligently the im-
portance of distinguishability (i. e., the degree of possibility of being
seen) in the lives of animals, we must remember that it is at the crucial
moments, when they are on the verge of catching or of being caught,
that sight is commonly the indispensable sense. Smell and hearing
may lead an animal toward its prey or away from its enemy, but in the
last all-important seconds, sight is relied on almost entirely in many
animals. It is for these moments that animals have most need of
concealing coloration, and for which, on the whole, their coloration is
often best adapted, and when looked at from the point of view of the
potential victim or the potential enemy, as the case may be, often proves
to be what Thayer terms “obliterative.” It should be stressed at the
outset that not all animals are concealingly colored, but this does not
affect the interest in, and suggestive value of, those cases where they are.
Overzealous students of animal coloration, especially the pioneers, have

566766—44—18
262 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

at times overstated their exposition of the subject by applying their
ideas too widely and by insisting too much on one general explanation
to cover all cases. The fact that the camouflaging of animals is not
successful at times is not entirely a negation of the camouflaging effect
of their coloration but may be due to the fact that other’senses, such
as smell, are not affected by the visual results of concealing coloration,
and offset or render futile the best that camouflage can do.

OBLITERATIVE SHADING

The immediate surroundings in which animals are found are natur-
ally very variable in such matters as vegetation, amount of light, type
of earth (whether rocks, gravel, sand, or bare earth are visible, or if
everything is covered by leafage), and consequently the patterns needed
for effective concealment are equally diverse. There is, however, one
underlying factor common to animals in all of these backgrounds
to a greater or lesser extent. It is this: regardless of its particular
color pattern, to become relatively invisible an animal must lose its
appearance of solidity, or, to put it in other words, must not appar-
ently cast a shadow on itself. The light falling on an animal usually
comes from one direction, generally from above, so that some parts
of the animal (usually its back) are in stronger light and the opposite
parts (usually the underside) are in dimmer light or even in the
shadow of the illuminated parts and tend to look darker. This is
easily seen by placing a white ball on a table with the ligh coming
from above—the under surface of the ball is shaded and at once re-
veals the spherical solidity of the ball, even though it be placed on
a white table. In most animals the light and dark tones are so ar-
ranged that they somewhat counteract the effect of self-shadowing.
This is brought about by having the darker tones where the light
strikes (usually from above) and the paler tones on the parts in
shadow (usually the lower parts). In other words, darker tones plus
more light on one side tends to equalize paler tones plus shadow on
the other. The result is a greater or lesser degree of reduction of the
visible solidity of the animal. This distribution of light and dark
tones on the animal, tending to counterbalance the unequal lighting
the parts receive, is known as obliterative shading or countershading.

Countershading is, therefore, a basic principle of animal coloration
and is of wide occurrence in nature. Many and quite unrelated
groups of animals—mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, etc.—in all parts
of the world show it. Countershading may he described in relation
to body form, to environment, and to habits. In some fishes with
deep-bodied, laterally compressed forms having nearly vertical sides
with but very slight convex curvature, strong countershading would
defeat its own end, and it is noteworthy that such species are only
CAMOUFLAGE—FRIEDMANN 263

slightly countershaded. In them, the degree of countershading shows
a relation to the body form. (Examples are some of the ilarchid,
scatophagid, and cichlid fishes, which, unfortunately, have no com-
mon names.) Other animals living in dim light, where shading
would be less extreme, reveal in the slightness of their countershading
a relation to this environmental factor. Likewise, animals living on
open plains in bright sunlight, such as many antelopes, deer, larks,
etc., are strongly countershaded. In the case of the shark sucker, a
fish that has the habit of attaching itself by a sucker on its head to
different parts of sharks, no countershading is present. However,
since it may have any side uppermost, the lack of countershading may
be considered in relation to this habit, as the fish maintains no con-
stant position with reference to the source of light. In some cater-
pillars, the normal resting position is inverted; 1. e., the back is down
and belly up (example, the larva of the eyed hawk-moth, Smerinthus
ocellatus), and it is indeed suggestive that in these creatures the coun-
tershading is reversed being darker on the underparts and paler on
the back.

The simplest form of countershading is merely an even, gradual
transition from darkest on the parts receiving the most light to lightest
on the parts most in shade. However, the same effect may be, and in
nature often is, effected by patterns which blend at rather short dis-
tance. For example, the spots in many spotted animals are larger on
the back and become smaller on the sides and disappear on the under-
parts. If these spots are fairly close together, at a distance they tend
to blend, forming a graded countershading. The body stripes of
zebras, for example, are very broad on the back and taper very ap-
preciably on the sides, giving again something of the effect of counter-
shading. Mottram (Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1915, pp. 679-692) ex-
pounded this idea that certain patterns found on animals become
blended with distance and result in obliterative shading. ‘This depends
on the fact that if a pattern composed of alternating dark and pale
markings, regardless of shape (they may be bars, stripes, spots, etc.), is
looked at from successively increasing distances, a point will be reached
from which the separate markings are lost in a blended effect, pro-
ducing a tone depending on the relative amounts of dark and pale. It
may be pointed out that this type of countershading is effective only at
a distance and would be of little value to an animal in the last
crucial seconds when it is about to catch or to be caught, but it might
help prevent the situation from arising. However, the picture is not
as simple as it has been presented so far in this paper. In the majority
of cases, the immediate background against which even the most per-
fectly countershaded animal is to become invisible is not an even tone
of one color without breaks of any kind. If there is a background of
264 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

grass, for example, each blade (when close up) has a shadow, or at
least an outline; fallen twigs or leaves present even more shapes and
irregularities of light and dark. The combination of countershading
and pattern resemblance does result, however, in something similar
to blended patterns, but, however, functions also, and in many instances
chiefly, at close range. Having now grasped the role played by obliter-
ative shading, we may proceed to examine the varieties of patterns
and color arrangements found in animals which are concealingly
colored.
COLOR RESEMBLANCE

Most of us have at one time or another become aware of a general
similarity in appearance between certain animals and their surround-
ings. We have come to expect creatures living in deserts or sandy
places to have pale or sandy hues and not to startle us with the bril-
liant greens and reds of some of the denizens of dense tropical forests.
Without asking ourselves why or even consciously wondering, we con-
nect the white of the polar bear and of the snowy owl with the snow and
ice of their Arctic habitat. Again it must be emphasized that not all
animals are colored to resemble part of their environment; but the
fact that exceptions are easy to find should not minimize the other
fact that a very great many animals of all groups and living in all parts
of the world and in all kinds of surroundings do bear on their coats a
resemblance to their immediate environment.

General color resemblance, of necessarily only moderate value in
effecting concealment, is shown by the preponderance of green birds,
ereen tree toads, tree snakes, arboreal insects, etc., in the forested parts
of the world, with a similarly large number of brownish forms
dwelling on or in the forest floor. The common salt-and-pepper
mottling or grayish-brown washes of shore birds show a general re-
semblance to their sandy or pebbly habitat. The whole question of
color resemblance is still unfortunately largely couched in terms of
human color vision. This will have to be altered with increasing
knowledge of the color vision of the enemies of each animal showing
color resemblance to its background. An example may help clarify
this point. It is known that modern developments in infrared pho-
tography have revealed that different green animals differ greatly in
their absorption of infrared light, and consequently those with great
absorptive properties photograph as dark objects and those that
reflect (and do not absorb) the infrared come out as light objects in
the photographs. It is suspected that some predaceous animals, such
as certain owls, have a visual range beyond the human one on the
infrared end of the spectrum. It would follow from this that some
green animals might be seen readily by the owls while others would
CAMOUFLAGE—FRIEDMANN 265

not, although to our eyes both would seem equally well con-
cealed by their color. This problem is well known to the military
camouflage experts in their experiments in concealing buildings, etc.,
with green paint or with leafy branches, the paint absorbing the
infrared light and the chlorophyll in the leaves reflecting it.

Just aS we may consider the general applicability of color resem-
blance in animals by virtue of the impressively large numbers of
species that show some general color similarity to their surround-
ings, we may also sense its importance by considering the diversity
of coloration in related species with diverse habits and habitats. Not
only may we say that many forest denizens are greenish, many ter-
restrial dwellers brownish, many beach forms sandy in color, but also
that within single groups of animals with diverse habitats we find all
types of coloration in greater or lesser harmony with their back-
grounds. In spiders, for example, the bark-dwelling species are
usually brownish, those that live on stones are frequently grayish or
with a broken pattern of dark and light; grass spiders are often
green, while flower-inhabiting forms are whitish, yellow, pink, etc.,
in keeping with the flowers in each case.

Going still further, we find that color resemblance to particular
local backgrounds varies geographically within single species. For
example, in northern Africa crested larks of the genus Ammomanes,
birds that dwell on the ground in open arid places, match surpris-
ingly the color of the earth and sand. In one spot the ground color
may be pale and tawny, so are the larks in that place. In another
area, the terrain may be dark brown—so are the larks; in still another
where blackish lava is a prominent feature of the substrate, the larks
are similarly blackish. Yet all are one species, and intergrading
specimens may be obtained between all their various extremes of
color. A similar condition has been demonstrated in numbers of
small mammals, such as deer mice, pocket mice, etc., by Benson (Con-
cealing Coloration among Some Desert Rodents of the Southwestern
United States, Univ. California Publ. Zool., vol. 40, p. 1-70, 1933).
The cases of this kind could be greatly multiplied, and practically
every group of animals would be found to contain instances of the
sort.

In some animals we find a seasonal change in coloration which ap-
pears to be directly correlated with seasonal changes in the back-
ground. Well-known examples of this type are many of the ptarmi-
gan, a group of northern grouse which are mottled gray, brown, and
black in the summer, blending remarkably well with the pebbly and
grassy habitat, and pure white in winter when their environment is
covered with snow. The arctic fox shows a similar seasonal change
in color. This type of color resemblance is, however, not very fre-
266 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

quent in nature. In many cases the seasonal changes in coloration
are not such as make for greater concealment.

All the examples of color resemblance hitherto mentioned are fixed
for their durations, whether they be for life or for a season only.
There are a number of types of color resemblance in animals which are
variable and depend on changing environmental conditions. Some
are built up gradually over a considerable period of time, while others
are very rapidly brought about. In a sense, the seasonal changes al-
ready alluded to are a connecting type of color resemblance between
definitely fixed and purely variable resemblances, but their period of
effectiveness is long enough to warrant our considering them with the
fixed types. In the lives of many kinds of animals, especially the more
active ones—that is, not sessile or parasitic forms—individuals are con-
stantly coming into contact with differing variations of their im-
mediate surroundings. In many cases when danger is sensed these
creatures tend to get back as rapidly as they can to their optimum
backgrounds, but others have the ability to meet the changed condi-
tions with variable coloration. Probably the best-known case of
rapid change in color is that of the chameleon, a small lizard which
in the course of a few minutes can change its color through a sur-
prising range of browns, reds, and greens, and darks and lights.
Other lizards, such as some iguanas and geckos, are also known to
possess the ability to alter their color rapidly. All are essentially
arboreal dwellers and rely on concealment more than on speed for their
safety. Terrestrial forms rely, in many cases, on speed first, and then
on concealment.

Fishes also possess amazing ability to change their color in keeping
with changes in the background against which they find themselves.
A notable series of experiments on the flounder was conducted by Mast
(Changes in Shape, Color, and Pattern in Fishes and Their Bearing
on the Problems of Adaption and Behavior, with Special Reference
to the Flounders, Paralichthys and Ancylopsetta. Bull. U.S. Bureau
Fisheries, vol. 34, pp. 178-238, 1916). The flounders, ordinarily gray-
ish brown or grayish olive in color, speckled with darker brown, not
only can and do respond to altered backgrounds by changing from pale
sandy yellow to dark blackish brown, but even alter the fineness or
coarseness of their pattern in keeping with that of the background,
simulating to an astonishing degree the texture and pattern of the
bottom on which they are resting. When lying on a uniform muddy
background, they tend to be uniformly colored, the speckling being
much reduced in size and number of specks and in any difference in
color from that of the rest of the fish; when placed on coarse gravel
they become coarsely flecked and speckled. The mechanism by which
the chromatophores in the skin are caused to effectuate the resulting
changes is only partly understood and is out of our province in this
CAMOUFLAGE—-FRIEDMANN 267

short review, our interest in the present paper being in what happens
rather than in how it is caused. Longley found that reef fishes effect
rapid color adjustment following vertical movements—some species
change from the decidedly patterned colors that they wear when on the
bottom (and can be seen only from above) to a uniform coloration
when rising upward through deep water (where a bottom-approxi-
mating pattern would be revealing rather than concealing). Another
important result on Longley’s work is the demonstration that parti-
cular phases of color pattern are frequently correlated with definite
types of activity in a manner which is in keeping with what seems to
result in optical illusion (Year Book Carnegie Institution of Washing-
ton, vol. 27, pp. 158-163, 1918). For example, different fishes which
have—

* * * alternate costumes of longitudinal stripes or uniform color, and of
transverse bars, wear the former when in motion (an arrangement which makes
for concealment in that it tends to mask forward movement) and the latter when
at rest (when bars better serve to break up the contour and surface form against
a broken background). Moreover, precisely similar adjustments are found in
certain squids, which wear stripes for swimming and bands for resting [ex.
Cott, Adaptive Coloration in Animals, p. 28, 1940].

Other examples of rapid color change have been recorded for other
groups of animals—crustaceans, cephalopods, etc., but the important
fact in the present connection is that beneath all the diversity of ana-
tomical and physiological mechanisms involved in these different
animals there is usually a common type of external stimulus (change in
immediate environment as far as color, texture, etc., is concerned) and
a common type of response.

Slower responses of similar type are known in certain insects and
spiders. Poulton (Philos. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, vol. 178, pp.
311-441, 1887) showed by experimental studies that the larvae and
pupae of certain butterflies possess the power of acquiring the color-
ation of their immediate surroundings and showed that in species of
Vanessa and Pieris the pupal adjustment was due to extreme sen-
sibility of the larvae to reflected light during the final resting position
prior to pupation.

Aside from obliterative shading and color resemblance many animals
are still further concealed by the fact that the patterns of their
coloration tend to break up their outlines, so that at a distance they
seem to be bits of the general surroundings rather than a recognizable
shape which would tend to reveal them. This type of marking is

known as—
DISRUPTIVE COLORATION

Even with better than average color resemblance and with some
countershading, an animal is recognizable frequently by the fact that it
presents a continuity of surface enclosed by an easily identified contour
‘

268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

with which we (or its enemies) are ordinarily familiar. Thus, as
Cott rightly insists—

* * * for effective concealment, it is essential that the telltale appearance
of form should be destroyed. The difficulty of doing this is met, often with
extraordinary success, by the application of optical principles involving the use
of pattern.

The function of disruptive coloration (which is a combination of color
and pattern tending to break up or to reduce the visible outline of
the animal) is to prevent or to delay the quick recognition of the
object by sight.

Its success depends not only upon optical principles, but upon a psychological
factor. When the surface of a fish * * * is covered with irregular patches
of contrasted colours and tones, these patches tend to catch the eye of the
observer and to draw his attention away from the shape which bears them.
The patterns themselves may be conspicuous enough, but since they contradict
the form on which they are superimposed, they concentrate attention upon
themselves, and pass for part of the general environment.

In a general way it may be said that the concealing effect of a dis-
ruptive pattern is greater if parts of its included pattern bear a good
color resemblance to the background while other elements are strik-
ingly distinct. The result is that the background seems to be seen
through the animal in places, thus breaking up its visual form. Thus,
a butterfly with a brown and green pattern would stand out as a
butterfly against a background not containing either of these colors,
but against a brown ground it would look like an aggregate of green
spots, or, against a green ground, like a bunch of brown marks. This
partial matching of the background is spoken of as differential
blending. The effectiveness of this disruptive coloration is greatly
increased if the adjacent contrastingly colored markings are also con-
trasting in tone (lightness or darkness). Cases such as the black
collar bands on white or pale sandy plovers, of dark lateral longi-
tudinal stripes on some pale-colored antelopes, come readily to mind
in this connection. Everyone who has watched ring-necked plovers
on the beach is aware of the disruptive effect of the collar at a
significantly short distance.

CONSTRUCTIVE SHADING

The amount of difference in tone and color of immediately adjacent
parts of the pattern has an important bearing not only on the degree of
success in its disruptive illusion, but also on the illusory pictorial relief
it may create on the animal’s surface. For example, if between the
darkest and the lightest elements in a color pattern there is a gradual
change from one to the other, the optical effect is that of a rounded sur-
face (from shade to light) ; if, however, the darkest and the lightest
elements are in immediate juxtaposition the effect produced is one of
CAMOUFLAGE—FRIEDMANN 269

sharp ridges. Convexities may be made to appear concave, flat surfaces
to assume undulations, and curved areas to flatten out, by the relation of
adjacent pattern elements. The consequent distortion of the true
shape of the creature into the resulting optical shape helps to conceal
it just as well as the actual disruptive marks tend to reduce it to a mass
of unconnected pieces. It is a curious fact, and one which demon-
strates the enormous range of form, color, and pattern to be observed
in animal coloration, that the general result of camouflaged appear-
ance can be arrived at by such diametrically opposed methods as oblit-
erative shading (which reduces or dissolves solid form) and construc-
tive shading (which builds up the appearance of form that is not
there—such as ridges, convexities, etc.). It may be well to state again,
in different words, this matter of constructive shading and disruptive
marks. In a very general way it may be said that the illusion of dis-
continuity (the result of disruptive marks in their simplest form) is a
matter of color contrast on a fairly even surface, while constructive
shading produces the illusion of surface modeling. A combination of
the two not only fragments a whole into optically distinct and appar-
ently unrelated parts, but also by its sculptural illusion renders it more
difficult for the eye to conceive these pieces as being in the same plane
and therefore connectable. In some instances, constructive shading
brings about an astonishing similarity to other objects such as the
appearance of leaf vein ridges in some caterpillars.

Somewhat akin to constructive shading in its power of optical distor-
tion is another type of disruptive pattern which has the effect of seem-
ing to connect wholly distinct and not even adjacent parts of the body,
thus further confusing the eye of the beholder and to that extent help-
ing to hinder or delay recognition of the animal. A good example is
the banded pattern in many frogs. When the frog is at rest (and in
most cases no camouflage is of use when the creature is moving) the
legs are folded close against the body and the bands of the body ap-
pear to be continuous with those of both the upper and the lower por-
tions of the leg, optically merging into one mass. If the bands went
in different directions on the legs they would stand out distinctly from
the body and attract attention.

In many fishes there is a dark diagonal disruptive band on the body
which often extends on to the pectoral or the pelvic fins, which, if not
so connected by pattern with the body would be much more noticeable.
Many insects show similar patterns involving legs or antennae as well
as portions of the body. This type of color pattern has been termed
coincident disruptive pattern by Cott, who was the first to emphasize
the continuity of patterns of the head across the eye in order to hide the
eye itself, ordinarily the most difficult part of an animal to conceal.

Many fishes, frogs, snakes, birds, and mammals have large rounded black pupils
which conform to this very shape most likely to catch an observer’s eye. However
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

effectively such animals may be camouflaged in other respects, unless the eye re-
ceives special treatment, it will prejudice the success of the whole color-scheme.
It is therefore very interesting, though not surprising, to find that nature—the
supreme camouflage artist—has dealt in great detail with this problem, which is
evidently one of urgent importance. * * *

In its essentials, the method * * * invokes the optical principle of coinci-
dent disruptive coloration. * * * If aneye, and particularly its staring black
pupil, can be made to appear another shape, then it will cease to resemble an eye.
In theory, such an illusion could be created by covering the eye, or its pupil, with
a black mask of irregular shape—so designed as to blend with and seem part of
the pattern which surrounds it. Now that is essentially the system devised in
nature. * * * Animals belonging to many widely separate families and orders
have the eyes camouflaged in precise detail. Although the underlying principle
is everywhere the same, the incidents of the picture vary widely in different
cases. Sometimes an irregular dark disruptive area includes the whole orbit.
Sometimes the upper margin of an elongated patch of dark pigment crosses the
iris exactly on a level with the top of the pupil. Or conversely it may extend
beneath to the pupil’s lower limit. Or again the eye may be crossed by a stripe
exactly the width of the pupil itself. In other cases similar effects are produced
in vertical bars instead of horizontal stripes; or in diagonal markings or irregular
shapes varying greatly in size and distribution. The one consistent feature in all
this diversity is the significant relation between that unmitigated black spot—the
pupil—and the dark element which serves to absorb it.

Given an animal with any or all of the types of concealing color
pattern already discussed, it may yet be concealed in vain in some cases,
if its contour or bounding margin be unaffected by the camouflage.
Actually, in most cases of disruptive pattern the outlines of the animal
are affected by it, and further marginal disruption is unnecessary, but
in some instances the peripheral parts—tail, limbs, head and neck, or

even the lateral contour margin are disruptively marked.

CONCEALMENT OF THE SHADOW

We have already seen, in the case of the white ptarmigan against a
snowy background, that aside from the bird’s lack of obliterative
shading and its consequent visual solidity, its presence is revealed by
the shadow it casts on the snow at its feet. In case of danger the shadow
would be largely done away with, as the bird would squat low on the
snow and actually cover a good part of itsshadow. It is actually no ex-
aggeration to say that in many cases of animals with a color pattern
more or less concealing in nature, the shadow is more noticeable than
the animal casting it. In creatures of laterally compressed form such
as butterflies that rest with wings closely over the back, we find two
definitely established orientation habits which appear to be related
to the matter of shadow concealment or reduction. A number of
species, notable among which is the green hairstreak butterfly (Thecla
rubi), tilt the wings away from the median vertical plane toward the
shadow, thereby hiding a large part of it. The degree of tilting is said
to be constant for each species, and numerous independent observers
CAMOUFLAGE—-FRIEDMANN Bel

have testified to the fact that the wing tilting is not a casual or acci-
dental reaction, but is definitely correlated with the direction of sun-
light and also to the approach of enemies. Another group, without
the wing-tilting habit, always seem to orient the body with respect to
the direction of sunlight when alighting on any object so that the
shadow cast by the wings (which are the largest part of the creature)
is reduced to a thin, inconspicuous line instead of a sizable dark area.
In animals with dorsoventrally flattened or depressed body form,
shadows are often reduced by the animal’s squatting closely against
the ground or branch or whatever the creature is resting on, but in
many cases there are structural features which, whatever their other
functions may or may not be, do serve to reduce shadow by covering
it from sight. Many reptiles and amphibians, such as the horned toad,
have lateral finlike flanges on the tail which not only help to cover
the shadow that would otherwise be visible, but by their gradual slope
from the top of the tail to the substratum throw little if any shadow
beyond themselves. These flanges make for unbroken continuity be-
tween the more substantial part of the animal and its immediate
surroundings. The sides of the body are flattened out into longitudinal
flanges. As we have already noted in discussing constructive shading,
the effect of false shadows, such as those of the leaf vein ridges, may
be brought about by pattern in some creatures, such as certain
caterpillars.
DISAPPEARING COLORATION

All the items examined so far have to do with animals that are more
or less stationary. There are also a great many animals that show
bright patches or patterns when in motion but suddenly conceal them
when alighting. From the standpoint of the pursuer it is very con-
fusing to be chasing something with a bright, vivid telltale mark and
then find it suddenly vanishing. It often results in the pursuer racing
on beyond the hiding prey and thereby losing all chance of obtaining
it. Color patterns of this disappearing type are of two main kinds,
the one depending on the distinctive pattern being actually covered
when at rest, the other depending on differential orientation to light.
In the first type the cases may be very simple, involving merely the
disappearance of the bright color area, or they may involve elaborate
protective color resemblance to the substratum on the part of the
covering portions of the body. As may be expected, the second is far
more effective as concealment than the first, but in both the element
of confusing surprise is equally present. An example of simple dis-
appearing coloration is the common North American woodpecker,
the flicker (Colaptes auratus). In flight this bird shows a large con-
spicuous white patch on the rump, and bright golden yellow under-
sides on the wings and tail. On alighting these parts are immediately
272 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

concealed, and an enemy following these beacons might well be con-
fused by their sudden extinction. An example of the more elaborate
type is the leaf butterfly (Kallima paralekta). This insect has a
bright orange, brown, and whitish pattern of bold markings on the
upper surface of its wings, which make it a conspicuous sight when
the creature is flying. On alighting on a twig, however, the wings
immediately close together over the back, leaving only their undersides
visible. Both in color and in form the closed wings look amazingly
like a dried leaf and the insect is suddenly completely concealed, to
the bewilderment of its possible pursuer.

The other type of disappearing color is that found in animals with
iridescent scales, feathers, etc. A gleaming ruby light, as on the throat
of the male ruby-throated hummingbird (Archilochus colubris), is
suddenly extinguished as the bird, in its darting about, alters its
orientation to the sunlight. This is, in effect, disappearing coloration
in motion, as opposed to concealment of color when at rest, and it may
be argued that when in motion the creature is less in need of camouflage
than when still, but within this lesser sphere of necessity, it may have
a protective effect.

THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CONCEALING COLORATION IN NATURE

There has been much difference of opinion among naturalists as to
the real effectiveness of concealing coloration in animals, some esti-
mating its success as almost unbelievably complete, while others con-
tend that it has no value whatever and is a reflection of a purely
human approach to the subject. This paper is hardly the place to
evaluate the arguments and the evidence pro and con, but it may be
pointed out that the great majority of opinion does grant it some
effectiveness, and, what is even more important, animals that are what
we call concealingly colored seem, by their habits, to rely on their
coloration to save them from attack. It may be further mentioned
that the application to man’s war efforts of the principles involved
in concealing coloration in nature have been generally conceded to be
of sufficient effectiveness to warrant their continued and even in-
creased use. We are not concerned in this brief review so much with
the various details of the functions of concealing coloration as with
a survey of the methods by which it is attained.

CONCEALING BODY FORM

Not only are many animals rendered less conspicuous by reason of
their coloration, but also in many (and some of the most startling)
cases by their form as well. We have already had a suggestion of
this in the body and tail flanges that tend to eliminate or conceal
shadow, but may now briefly consider some of the main types of dis-
CAMOUFLAGE—FRIEDMANN 273

guise brought about by the shape and contours of the animals
involved.

As might be expected, morphological (i. e., form) resemblances are
to be found chiefly among smaller creatures whose whole lives are
spent against unchanging backgrounds, i. e., creatures that are en-
vironmentally more rigidly fixed. Also, inasmuch as morphological
resemblances are generally more specifically related to definite items
in the surroundings than are many color resemblances (that are often
of a general similarity to a background complex) it is to be expected
that these special resemblances are chiefly to such things as leaves,
bark, stems, seaweed, etc. On the whole, it may be said that the
value of the various types of camouflaging coloration depends upon
principles of visual concealment or confusion, while the morphological
resemblances partake more of the nature of definite, specific, particu-
late disguises. For purposes of simplification, it may be said that
we have to do here with the actual modeling of the body and not
with constructive shading.

We have already seen an instance of leaf resemblance in the case
of Kallima, the leaf butterfly. The ends of the wings are actually
shaped like the stems of leaves and the outlines of the closed wings
are duplicates of the periphery of leaves. Even more elaborately
worked out is the leaf resemblance of not only the whole, but even
the parts of such leaf insects as Chitomiscus and Cycloptera. Aside
from the all-important details which make or mar the effectiveness
of the disguise, the basic common element in all leaf-resembling
creatures is thinness. Whether the thinness is produced by a dor-
soventral flattening or depression of the body or by a lateral com-
pression, the creature orients itself accordingly with respect to its
background, just as we found in the types of shadow elimination in
butterflies. Leaf resemblance is found not only in insects, but also
in some fishes, chameleons, and other forms of animals.

Resemblance to bark is one of the commonest types of morphologi-
cal disguise. The reason for this is that all barks (in spite of defi-
nite specific differences) show a smaller range of variation than do
all leaves, for example, and at the same time the bark fauna is very
extensive. Bark-resembling creatures include many moths, beetles,
spiders, tree frogs, climbing lizards, and a few birds. In the moths
alone, many distinct families have produced instance after instance
of bark resemblance.

Closely connected with bark resemblance is resemblance to lichen,
as lichen is so frequently found on places analogous to tree trunks
(from the standpoint of their inhabitants). Not only do we find the
same range of animals in all parts of the world with lichenlike ap-
pearances or with strong bark resemblances, but we even find animals
using lichens apparently for their concealing properties. For example,
274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the ruby-throated hummingbird (Archilochus colubris), the wood-
pewee (Iyiochanes virens) and the blue-gray gnatcatcher (Polioptila
caerulea) cover the outsides of their nests with lichens, with the result
that they are very well concealed.

Also associated with bark resemblance are those cases of twig re-
semblance, well illustrated by the familiar walking-stick insect. All
parts of the body are here modified into slender twiglike pieces, and
the joints between them have much of the appearance of plant nodes.
Furthermore, the postires struck by the insects are in keeping with
the illusion of small twigs. As a matter of fact, the harmony be-
tween usual posture (which is not rigidly fixed in most cases) and
the illusory form or color resemblance in many of these concealingly
colored animals is one of the strongest lines of evidence for the reality
of the camouflage. Otherwise, it might well be a purely man-made
interpretation, but when creatures seem to act according to this color
or form, or to be colored and shaped according to their normal activi-
ties, it is difficult not to grant the reality of this correlation.

In the sea we find crustaceans and fishes that have many irregular
filamentous appendages, which bring about an astonishing resem-
blance to the seaweed in which these particular species live. The
fauna of the Sargasso Sea, an area in the Atlantic Ocean filled ‘with
the Sargassum weed, are perhaps the best-known examples of this
kind, although others occur in all the oceans wherever seaweeds are
common. There are numbers of species of small fishes, of crabs, etc.,
that spend their lives in the floating masses of Sargassum weed, and
of this ecologically closely limited fauna, the percentage of seaweed
form resemblance is high indeed. Specimens taken out of their nat-
ural environment seem merely bizarre curios of the naturalists’ cab-
inet, but in their native haunts they merge completely into their
surroundings.

CONCLUSION

Camouflage in nature, is, then, widespread, both in all parts of the
world, and within all groups of animals. It may be brought about
by coloration alone, by form alone, or by any possible degree and type
of combination of color or morphological characters. It may be rig-
idly fixed or remarkably plastic. Its degree of success in different
forms is highly variable, and, as might be expected, the opinions of
investigators as to its merits have been equally diverse. In this brief
review we have merely pointed out some of the types of camouflage,
have given some idea of its complexity, of its multiplicity of methods
and approaches, and of the astonishing heights of deceptive efficiency
it attains in many cases. Such controversial outgrowths of the sub-
jects as mimicry and the theoretical difficulties it entails have been
deliberately left out of the present discussion.
( AJOISTAA [BINQE NY
“POUYSIP SSe[ PUB Sse] SUTUODG Sod114s 94} ‘puUNoIsyoRq ay O1UT puatq 0} pue] sBiqez jue

“SNIV1Id NVOIWAY LSVA AHL NI SAHOINLSO ANY SvHaazZ

J UINASN IY UBdeUTW Asoqinod ‘AspayW “MO Aq Ydeasojoyq) ISIP e1Ou ay} MOY VION

3LV1d uueulpalt.jJ—"¢ep6 | “quoday urruosyyiwiG
(Cuimesnyy [BUOIIBN *S “0 ‘297 “ha Woy)

-GNNOYDMOVA SH1L AO LVHL HLIM
MOH DPNIMOHS ‘VoHSvV1V ‘HUVd WNOILVN

SGN31q sauig AHL AO NYaLivd YO1OD AHL TIAM AZINIMOW LNNOW LV NVSINYVLd HOOY

2
, ,

-

uueuipels j— “€rol ‘yaoday ueluosyzIWig

2 a1Vv1d
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Friedmann

1. COUNTERSHADING AND COLOR RESEMBLANCE IN THE

SANDERLING (CROCETHIA ALBA).
(Drawn by W. A. Weber.)

2. COLOR RESEMBLANCE WITHOUT COUNTERSHADING IS NOT ENOUGH.

The white-tailed ptarmigan is revealed by its visual solidity and by its shadow.

(Drawn by W. A. Weber.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Friedmann PLATE 4

1. Photograph from life.

2. Bird retouched to remove color pattern.

THE OBLITERATING EFFECT OF COLOR RESEMBLANCE IN THE
WHITE-TAILED PTARMIGAN (LAGOPUS LEUCURUS).
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Friedmann PLATE 5

1. Nighthawk, adult, young, and eggs.

OS,

git

2. Spotted sandpiper, young, and eggs.

CONCEALMENT AFFORDED BY COLOR RESEMBLANCE AND LOW
SQUATTING POSITION.

(From exhibits in the U. S. National Museum.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Friedmann PLATE 6

1. SCORPION FISH (GSCORPAENA PLUMIER!).

A good example of background resemblance both in color and in pattern. (From Longley and Hildebrand,
Carnegie Inst. Publ. 535, 1941.)

= ee ON cea. eee

2. PARROTFISH (SPARISOMA PACHYCEPHALUM) IN FOREGROUND AT RIGHT

An example of blending with the background. (From Longley and Hildebrand, Carnegie Inst. Publ. 535,
1941.)
PLATE 7

Friedmann

Smithsonian Report, 1943.

CHANGE IN COLOR AND PATTERN IN FLOUNDERS.

S. Bur. Fisheries, 1941

(From Mast, Bull. U

These photographs are all of the same individual fish in an aquarium tank under which different card bottoms were placed.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Friedmann PLATE 8

1. Swimming fish with ‘‘normal’’ coloration.

2. Resting fish changing its pattern to simulate surroundings.

NASSAU GROUPER (EPINEPHELUS STRIATUS), A FISH THAT ALTERS ITS
COLORATION IN KEEPING WITH ITS BACKGROUND WHEN AT REST.

(Photographs by Longley and Hildebrand.)
CIogoM “VM Aq UMBIC,) “punoIsyoR sit Noy ‘gq {puNoIsyORq [eUIIOU Sj JsuIese Sy

(SNLYWIVdINWSS SNIYQVYHVHD) YSAO1d GSMOAN-ONIY AHL NI SONIMYVAW SANILdNYSIG AO LDOF4459 FHL

ba é seta

6 3ALV1d “uuewIpaldjJ—"¢p6 | ‘yaoday uetuosyzWG
(rege M “VAN Aq UMC)
“(WLVINOVWOYDIN VIAH) DOYS 3ASYL NVITIZVYg AHL NI SONIMYVW FAAILdNYHSIG LNADIGNIOD

OL 3LV1d uueulpalljJ—'¢p6| ‘qacdayy uRtuOsyyUG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Friedmann PLATE 11

1. CONSTRUCTIVE SHADING.

A, extreme dark and light tones connected by intermediate shading, giving a smoothly rounded appearance ;
B, extreme dark and light tones in contrasting juxtaposition, giving the effect of ridges; C, a leaf caterpillar
(Epistor gorgon) with constructive shading giving the appearance of leaf vein ridges. (Drawn by W. A.
Weber, after H. B. Cott.)

A fA CARA ALY
etre hician
PAV ah ag.
pha A Aa

a aii es

a?

2. SHADOW ELIMINATION IN THE HORNED TOAD (PHRYNOSOMA CORNUTUM).

A, the animal as it appears; B, a diagrammatic cross section to show the lateral flanges covering the shadow;
C, a diagrammatic cross section of what the animal would look like if it did not have the lateral flanges;
note the revealing shadow. (Drawn by W. A. Weber.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Friedmann PLATE 12

1. NEST OF WOOD PEWEE (MYIOCHANES VIRENS) SHOWING USE OF
LICHEN FOR NEST CONCEALMENT.

(From exhibit in the U. S. National Museum.)

2. TRUMPET FISH (AULOSTOMUS MACULATUS) CONCEALED BY FORM AND
COLOR-PATTERN RESEMBLANCE IN A SEA FEATHER.

(Photograph from Longley and Hildebrand, Carnegie Inst. Publ. 535, 1941.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Friedmann PLATE 13

LEAF BUTTERFLY (KALLIMA PARALEKTA).

A, the butterfly in flight, showing the conspicuously marked upper surface of the wings; B and C, butter-
flies at rest, looking like the leaves around them. (From exhibit in the U. S. National Museum.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Friedmann

Se J08 wo »

LEAF INSECT, CHITONISCUS, SHOWING MORPHOLOGICAL AS WELL AS COLOR
RESEMBLANCE TO THE LEAVES UPON WHICH IT FEEDS.

(From exhibit in the U. S. National Museum.)
PEATE 15

Friedmann

1943.

Smithsonian Report,

INSEGIS=

RESEMBLING

BARK-

seum.)

National Mu

ps

rom exhibit in the [

F

(
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Friedmann PLATE 16

1. Walking-stick insects on twigs. (Photograph by H. S. Barber.)

2. Sargassum fish (Pterophryne histrio) in Sargassum weed.
FINE EXAMPLES OF CONCEALMENT BY BODY FORM.
DANGEROUS REPTILES!

By Doris M. CocHran

Associate Curator, Division of Reptiles and Batrachians
U. 8. National Museum

[With 23 plates]

CONTENTS
Page
Lu USCS A Fs a gal aa RD aD ha aD atl ofall aa a eh ie ga ce a 278
CS DEETRAE SOA) Si2) 0) UN S'S eae go A a de pnp page ap aap ga pepe LAs ang 279
ARNE) OMENS ZO AO 6 Meas pea A sytem gape ee i VAL a 42 279
ihe United Staves of Americas seins et LOE Ms Bay oe Le 279
ELM Sy Ob sy LECT GY C25 ig pete apie puns me mM gL 0 sa OO 280
La DY Su DE hy 0) SY a te a epg egal $I ance dead pe 281
Phetiniger rathler 2 Nil ss fe ih ae a A ith 284
Phe diamondback rattlene 2 shee Lina ee Ba 284
ne pigmy rattlesnakes. 15 72 o2 Sh A eee Sok ees 285
REDE WALCKUc OC CERLIAY M thse rntuiri Tae NMR RR no 285
PRUETCOP POLICE RG ae mere es eee eee cree ee cy ee 285
Distribution of our poisonous snakes___.-__..-..__-_____- 286
Pees Calero ne Gers smn aha et hh ue inleee eae) AOE AY DIA LL! 8 2 Ll ees 287
Tabi AMVenr rae eee ee Rw ern Lee seem ks nye SE SPSEAT UNI 287
Phetcoraltennen ees sate ove lk wale SAAR OST OL 288
gf TY ote R oF ergs iil Oras beget Raped ces ROE 2S 2 A a 288
(Theta tienanmem see yee eet een eter tenon, OF a Rt vey) eal 288
Bele ernie Nas Nea mk oa Mak A Me CICS NU Oi Rc a 289
he bushmibaten ewes vaca men awn earn t oir MR Be ik 289
The fer-de-lance or barba amarilla__________________- 290
Phe palin vipers latte eee meemiaeremene nee, Soe eO TURE By a i! 290
Phe WMP pS VIpeKsss t= eee eet eee cee OS RN 291
abe sho g-nosed’ Vipers:s 432 awe a eke ye ht I 291
Oiverpip Vipers. 2 Ae Seo Ae ee eee heen balla 291
Ale: Teat-an ped. Buaicest 62 hk Peer ER Meee eck ee aby ae: 292
he-vellow-bellied' sea ‘snakes. 22 ULE Se ey TN 292
ue \Mexicanonesded lizards 2). eaAnee Aid as Line ko 293
EMS 1D) A OV tLe AS TG Ost Bela aera a Me 8 ca See EN de Ma Sec 293
Europe sire More Hern) Acie: hc) 020 2 OU RA AUD PE eM pe 294
ERercommom viperandits allies: 22 2s 25s so Pains Bihie 294
Orsmirsaand henara s-vipers 2.22 6222 Fe Pe a a 295
The asp, Lataste’s, and the long-nosed vipers.____________ 295
The blunt-nosed viper and its allies____._.._._._________- 296

1 Reprinted, with extensive revision and additional plates, from Smithsonian War Background Studies,
No. 10, entitled ‘‘Poisonous Reptiles of the world: A wartime handbook.”

275
276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Poisonous reptiles—Continued. Page
The Old World—Continued.

India. China Japan an devia a yaw apnoea irae kee aL nee 296

PHO VIPOre ics Le ee Oe a NE I RS Ne a Oe ee ee 296

The daboia, tic-polonga, or Russell’s viper._.._._------ 296

The carpet or saw-scaled viper___......-.----------- 297

FE We Sib seperate ees SN es ee 297

The mamushi and its relatives. 2...) ec oe 297

Bamboo snakes and their allies.__._____.__..._-------- 297

Cobras:and Verena. 05 50s op ee okie eh ee 298

Indian or spectacledicobra: _& 2522-222." -- 2 eee 298

The king cobra ‘or bamadryad! 222 see ee 299

AD Tate cpr ess 0 aia ae SN snl LO mo 299

The sea snakes: series 2 Se ECAC i See ey fe a aloes 300

/ aX (Repeal ca ci RN OE A gL AS BRE AD EN geet eqns ty Dt 300

MUR WIPRO ee cnet ane 2 og ea 1 aaa te a Te wl SL A 301

The night adder or Cape’vipers 0-8 Soest aa eek 301

Phe spindle). Soe ae hae Ta aed ak a a Sa 301

"Dhe THINCCELOS VIPCr Sik se oe as eae 301

he Gaboon: vipers cs. = eee eo Se ee ila ae es ee 302

acheshorned: adders: 224 Sistyer aes Ae es a a te Cana Ae 302

Phe BANA VIET ele ORE RCS ee Nid See aed 2 303

‘The cobres-and their allies: sa ape wee eee eae sh se 303

The ringhals or ‘spitting, snake- 2-3. Me ee 2 ee 303

The spitting or black-necked cobra_-____--_-_----------- 304

AHS LACK NGO tor sys ae aah a 2 ie sa Ley 2 304

The Egyptian cobracor asp 23 oie ceil sat pal ee 304

A he' Cape: Cobras ceo see y 2 Re Sc hat ek De eee 305

Whe water CObr aes: wef yeh 5 ph a a es oe = se 305

NO} AAMAS A ee io be a) UN ey te cl 305

‘Phe rear-fanged snakes: 0b. DU ic ue papier ay Ua Sl Se 306

The: boonslang22 ir) CNG de Wale OPI ee Sa Sa We 306

Australia, New Guinea, and the South Pacific islands_____-_-_----- 306

Mhe-Dlackpsma kes cs His te else alae SP eS Te Mh dh Ward ea yes 307

The copperhead snake:2. 2 %es5- oo ko es Depa a Se eee 307

The brown ‘snake gig) Sas ba a li et ee 308

he tiger snake's fe 52S 2 cet ice Ge eae en ae 308

The death adderys (220) nei k ether 0a Loe ad ae ey ee 308

The sea snakes ei) oe A as ee esd aly dards) ee en a 309

Dangerous nonpoisonous' reptiles: 22324 ee ee 309

NOx Gh Acrrier ies (a ta A A ee a, 2 ee a 309

whe: Americanierocodile 922 00 Bee ae oe ee ee ee 310

The ‘American allicators: jou. pa00 28 et 2S ae ee ree 310

The allivator-snapnere foo oe oe ol ee eee 310

‘The common snapping’ turtles 2s 62a et ae eee 311

Toektina {A rrr ea a he a LE Ea a 311

The anaconda «iy see eA er tage a aeons 311

HID c= a) 0 6): epeineamty tia vere NEL 1h tee ar YAU gem RS AP IRN USC NE, Ee 312

The Belize crocodile: Seu Pete be ee) ye ade oe yee 312

The Orimoeoeroeodile 272i) 2 a aah Rs oe LR ee mae oe 312

he eaymanse.: 2 )2 54 Sout Sl a ANE 2 Le ge es 312

Iguanas and other large lizards_____-_...-.------------------ 313

Musope and northern Asia © a 2000 2 eee Se ee ee eee 313
DANGEROUS REPTILES—-COCHRAN

Dangerous nonpoisonous reptiles—Continued.

Appendix

Selected bibliography

1. Copperhead and coral snake. 11.
2. 1, Coral snake.
2, Timber rattler. 12.
3. 1, Pigmy rattler.
2, Copperhead. 13
4. 1, Tropical rattlesnake.
2, Bushmaster. a
5. 1, Fer-de-lance.
2, Palm viper. 15.
6. 1, Hog-nosed viper.
2, Mussurana. 16.
7. Mexican beaded lizard.
8. 1, Common viper. ile
2, Orsini’s viper.
9. 1, Daboia, or Russell’s viper. 18.
2, Indian, or spectacled cobra.
10. 1, King cobra. ‘ 19
2, Banded krait.

India, China, Japan, and Malaya

‘Lhe reticulatedspythonwe-- cee 49 se se a
‘he Tndigninpiioure. mae 2 ee ea ee a

The Komodo dragon lizard

@Obher:monitor lizards evs ees eee ae eo ee ie es Eee ae
‘Bhe7sobt-shelledturtlegieye atte eee ee te ey ame alate) Le ae
The'salt-water or estuarine Crocodile s49 52 ese Se oe ee ee
ADHE*SIAMERE CLOCOGTIO Rs earn eee eee oe LANs SAO be ay ee ee ev
AB ove ts anthteyeXey cuenemeeyremae bs Unley MCL wae oy es Bh fale ee lala Jared Je ARE Sam
TRG) @avisleas se 2 Oe a ila apie pity el cite Rad Ee, Ue

They rock python: ty G20 rok Bea eg 2 8 eng re VL pa) ae ip

The waral and other monitors

Ue MINGETCrOCOGI Gass steer eee ne Sec eee Rg TEL aes pares ale ae

The long-snouted crocodile
The African soft-shelled turtle

AUstralianesetet prise 2 3.5) fcr spit pygt pias eek eee ater eyed ty ET cho + |
ALR VOISIODD GI DY LOOM soe co here ih Mk eh nes ere oh Ec nes
Cie wm lETee Se ese i RS Oe ee
“AN GYEN TRO TATA Wan = Wate Rte ten chee I) — Poppa alee a oak tal ad Ot eS os
GOUlAZS TOMI GOT See ees he Ne CERT OR SRE ANB eeprom pee oan arte ORR
Theisalt-water crocodile: isk: 200i 7b. Bolin gn” Bey Mas

HIPse MC TEAt Ment ee fe oe ee ee ep ek OG

Antivenin and its preparation

Directions for making scientific collections____.______-.______-_-_-

ILLUSTRATIONS

PLATES

[All except pl. 1, frontispiece, follow p. 324]

566766—44—_19

Night adder, or Cape viper.
, Puff adder.

Rhinoceros viper.

, Gaboon viper.

. 1, African sand viper.

2, Ringhals, or spitting snake.
, Egyptian cobra.

, Water cobra.

, Mamba.

, Black snake.

Australian copperhead.
Brown snake.

Tiger snake.

Death adder.

PrpRPNH

at ies

-

. 1, American crocodile.

2, American alligator.

. 1, Alligator-snapper.

2, Common snapping turtle.
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

20. 1, Anaconda. 22. 1, Salt-water crocodile.
2, Boa. 2, Indian python.

21. 1, Galadpagos land iguana. 23. 1, Rock python.
2, Komodo dragon lizard. 2, Gould’s monitor.

TEXT FIGURES

Page
Ly -VenomapparatusoL rattlesn alle ssc ee Wied Meee tion pba ANNA Oo pein be erele 283
2. Yellow-bellied sea snake__._-___-_______-______ Sli gM AC Nea AL cs LS 293

INTRODUCTION

Among a world population of some 2,400 different kinds of living
snakes, less than 200 are poisonous toman. These poisonous snakes be-
long to the following families: The Elapidae, represented by coral
snakes and cobras; the Viperidae or true vipers; the Crotalidae or pit
vipers; the Hydrophidae or sea snakes; and the Colubridae. To this
last-named family most of the harmless snakes also belong, the only
dangerous ones being those having poison fangs in the back part of
the upper jaw. Some poisonous snakes are extremely useful in de-
stroying rats and mice, but this desirable trait is offset near in-
habited districts by their occasional biting of human beings or
domestic animals.

The chances of being bitten by poisonous snakes are exceedingly
small. Only about one-sixth of our native snakes are poisonous.
One person out of every fifteen bitten receives the bite while handling
or “playing” with a poisonous snake. “In the United States alone
automobiles kill more than 30,000 people annually, snakes probably
160; for every person killed by a snake, 200 die in automobile acci-
dents.” ? This does not mean that vigilance should be relaxed in
traveling through snake country. On the contrary, it is well to
recognize the presence of a very real danger as the best means of
avoiding it.

The distribution of poisonous snakes throughout the world is now
fairly well known. They do not live in the extremely cold regions of
any country; thus in North America they are known only as far
north as the southern borders of Canada. Since the continents to the
south of the Equator lie much farther from the Poles than do those
to the north, we find poisonous snakes over the whole of Africa and
in most of South America, except on the high mountains and in
southern Patagonia. An extremely hardy viper occurs in Scan-
dinavia to within the Arctic Circle; this is the record for cold en-
durance among the venomous snakes. The Polynesian islands are
free of land-dwelling poisonous snakes. So are Madagascar and
New Zealand, although both of them are relatively close to areas

4 Pope, Clifford, Snakes alive and how they live, p. 171, 1937.
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 279

where many very dangerous kinds prevail. The Azores, and the
Canary and Cape Verde Islands near Africa, have none. The large
and small islands of the West Indies lack poisonous snakes, except
Trinidad, Tobago, Martinique, and St. Lucia. In the Temperate Zone
their absence from Ireland has often been noted. They are also
missing from Iceland, the Shetlands, and the Orkneys.

The true vipers (family Viperidae) are found only in the Old
World, and the one dangerous rear-fanged colubrid (the boomslang)
is confined to Africa. The crotalids are found in the New World and
in Asia, while the elapids occur in all the continents except Europe.

Snakes and lizards are both members of the same order—Squa-
mata—in the class of reptiles.

Only 2 kinds of lizards out of nearly 3,000 now known to science
have proved to be poisonous, with 1 other very rare species suspected
to be so. The 2 poisonous lizards live in the southwestern United
States and Mexico. The 1 suspected of being poisonous occurs in
Borneo.

The other living members of this class—turtles, tuatara, and
crocodilians—are not equipped with venom glands.

Some of the larger nonvenomous reptiles are potentially dangerous
to man because of their lacerating bite or their muscular strength. The
crocodile in particular has a bad reputation, while the crushing power
of anacondas and pythons is traditional. Less spectacular because less
widely known is the alligator snapping turtle found in the Mississippi
River and other water systems of some of the southern States. The
soft-shelled turtles, one genus of which is found in North America,
and others in Asia, while usually very shy, have exceedingly strong,
sharp jaws, which can administer a severe bite to anyone rash enough
to get near the darting head.

Not all giants among the reptiles are savage, however. The Gala-
pagos turtles, some of which easily tip the scales at 300 pounds, are
noted for their docile temperament.

Many reptiles are of great economic value to man, either because
their hides, flesh, or eggs are useful, or because their food consists
of rats, mice, and other pests which annually destroy vast quantities
of agricultural and other products. A great many of the smaller
kinds of snakes are roden eaters. Through lack of space, only a few
of the larger snakes are mentioned in this paper.

POISONOUS REPTILES OF THE NEW WORLD

THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Every one of our 48 States has at least one kind of poisonous snake
living within its boundaries. All except the most northerly have
several kinds. The Gila monster, our only poisonous lizard, brings to
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

nearly 40 the total number of kinds of poisonous reptiles in our
country.

The poisonous snakes of the United States belong to two major
groups: the Elapidae, represented by coral snakes, which are related
to the cobras of Asia and Africa, and the Crotalidae or pit vipers,
represented by the true rattlesnakes, the pigmy rattlers, the massa-
sauga, the copperhead, and the cottonmouth.

The venoms of the different species of poisonous snakes differ to a
greater or less degree.

All venoms are complex mixtures containing several toxic elements. In gen-
eral these may be divided into two main groups—the neurotoxins and the
haemotoxins. Apparently all snake venoms include the neurotoxic factors, and it
is these which usually bring about the death of the snakes’ victims. They have
several different actions against nerve tissues, most important of which is their
effect against the nerve centers controlling respiration. Death following snake
bite most often results directly from respiratory failure. The venoms of the
cobras, coral snakes, and their allies are almost purely neurotoxic, but viper
and pit viper venoms usually attack the circulatory system as well. The common
effects of the haemotoxins in such venoms are destruction of red blood cells and
weakening of the walls of the smaller blood vessels, particularly the capillaries.
(Nigel Wolff.)

THE CoRAL SNAKES

The first group, family Elapidae, is very similar in build to most

harmless snakes. The poison apparatus consists of short, vertical
fangs requiring a full bite for the injection of the poison. There
is no very conspicuous enlargement at the base of the jaws to give a
triangular shape to the head supposedly characteristic of poisonous
species.
It has been repeatedly asserted that the mouth [of the coral snake] is so small
that it cannot bite as well as the other poisonous snakes. This, however, is some-
what of amistake. Externally and superficially the head * * * appears very
short and narrow, and the opening of the gape but of slight capacity. An ex-
amination of the skeleton, however, shows the skull to be comparatively large
and rather elongate, especially the cranial part, which occupies fully two-thirds
of the total length of the head. The articulation of the lower jaw, which is cor-
respondingly lengthened, is consequently far enough back to permit, by means
of the elasticity of the ligaments, the opening of the mouth quite out of pro-
portion to the external aspect of the snake.*

Since the coral snake is often sluggish and “gentle” when handled,
some persons have said that it can hardly be induced to bite. It some-
times will bite very suddenly and unexpectedly, however, but as the
wound appears small and unimportant, the necessary treatment is
often neglected, with serious results to the victim because of the
highly toxic character of its poison.

3 Stejneger, L., Poisonous snakes of North America. Ann. Rep. U. S. Nat. Mus. for 1893,
p. 355, 1895.
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 281

The coral snake is attractively colored with bright red, yellow, and
black transverse rings on its body (pl. 1, frontispiece, and pl. 2, fig. 1).
The snout from the eyes forward is black. If in killing the snake the
pattern of the head is lost, the coral snake may be identified by its
black rings being bordered on each side by a yellow ring, while in
the harmless species it is the yellowish ring which is bordered on
each side by a black ring. There are three subspecies of Micrurus
fulvius in the United States, the typical form occurring from south-
eastern North Carolina south throughout Florida and the Gulf States
to the Rio Grande, north in the Mississippi Valley to Arkansas; the
subspecies barbouri in extreme southern Florida, and the sub-
species tenere from Mississippi to northern Tamaulipas, Mexico. An-
other kind of coral snake, now called Micruroides euryxanthus but
for many years considered a full species of the genus MJcrurus, is
said to occur in New Mexico, Arizona, and northern Mexico.

Our North American kinds seldom exceed 3 feet in length, but
numerous larger relatives are found in South and Central America,
where they are a recognized menace. Our species feed upon other
snakes and small lizards. They burrow in soft ground or under logs
and are hence seen more infrequently than their actual numbers
warrant. They come out of their burrows at night or after a rain
to search for food. Their eggs are deposited in decaying bark or
damp soil, about seven in a clutch. The time of incubation, in this as
in all other egg-laying snake species, depends upon the heat and
moisture; it is usually about 3 months.

THE PIT VIPERS

The pit vipers, so called because of the small pit between the nostril
and the eye, representing the Crotalidae, are much more numerous
than the Elapidae since about 35 different species and subspecies are
recognized within the United States. The rattlesnakes need no intro-
duction, for they are known by reputation, if not by actual contact,
to everyone in this country. The presence of a whirring rattle on the
tail tip is their spectacular and distinguishing characteristic, The
rattlesnakes are divided between two genera, Crotalus and Sistrurus,
the first having many small scales on top of the head, the second
with several large regular shields in that region. To the genus
Sistrurus belong the massasauga and the pigmy rattlesnakes, whose
venoms are less to be feared because of the small size of these snakes.

Venom and bite—While we usually speak of the “bite” of a pit
viper, it is much more accurate to refer to it as a strike. The snake
strikes usually from an S-shaped position, the posterior third of
the body remaining on the ground to give necessary leverage for
the blow. Hence two-thirds of the body length is the maximum
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

striking distance. None of our North American pit vipers actually
jumps off the ground in making an attack. As the head is thrown
forward for the blow, the mouth is opened, and the fangs, which are
attached solidly to the movable maxilla, are brought into striking
position as shown in figure 1. The venom is contained in a large
specialized salivary gland near the angle of the jaw (its presence is the
cause of the conspicuous triangular widening of the snake’s head pos-
teriorly), and this venom runs forward through a tube connecting
with the hollow fang in the upper jaw. The comparison to a hypo-
dermic needle is very appropriate. When the snake’s fangs strike
the victim’s flesh, the weight of its body drives them deep, and they
leave their load of venom or are sometimes broken off and stay in
the wound. The loss of its functional fangs does not long incon-
venience the pit viper, however. There is a series of developing teeth
at the base of each fang, and whenever a fang is shed or breaks off,
a new one comes forward to take its place in a few days. To render
a pit viper “harmless” by removing all these fangs thoroughly would
necessitate cutting into the upper jaw so deeply that the snake would
probably die. Every pit viper has also some solid teeth with which
to hold the prey and prevent it from wriggling away while the snake
is attempting to swallow it. The amount of venom delivered at one
strike varies greatly even in the same individual. If the snake is in
poor condition, if it has already struck recently, or if the fangs have
to penetrate layers of hide, fur, and fat—or in the case of human
beings, clothing or shoes—the amount of poison that may be injected
is correspondingly less than normal. The diamondback rattler of the
southeastern United States is our largest species and hence has
probably the longest fangs—about three-quarters of an inch in a
6-foot snake. The fangs at rest are covered by whitish folds of skin,
very apparent when the snake opens its mouth.

Additional facts about pit vipers.—It is a popular but erroneous
belief that a rattler’s age is told by counting the “rings” in its rattle.
The fact is that a segment is formed every time the growing snake
sheds its skin; hence a young snake acquires three or four during its
first year of life, and about as many more each year during its later
years. By the time it has reached nearly maximum growth, it often
accidentally breaks off most of its rattle—which is composed merely of
segments of a dried, horny substance—so that a very large snake pre-
sumably several years old may have only one or two segments. Circus
men overcome that difficulty by fitting several rattles onto a big
snake’s tail to make it more imposing to the trusting audience.

The colors of most pit vipers are much duller than those of the
brilliant coral snake previously discussed. Rattlers especially are in-
clined to dull, dark tones as they reach adulthood, and this effect is
increased by the keels of the lusterless scales which further roughen
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 283

their skins. A diamond or chevron in brown or gray on a light tan
ground is often the basis of the color pattern. The diamondback has
an unusually distinct diamond design ; hence its name.

ENOM puc VENOM oucT

“8
poi —~ PHANTOM SKETCH OF TONGUE
oy

’ (MOT EXTRUDED WHEN BITING)

MAXILLA
POISON FANG A
OENTARY
ra)
Se olin in
SH NE @
Qos ra
ay is < <
ajigey iD
TOL LO eae >
a 5 ae) iC 4
oy)
MAXILLA
POISON FANG

a seas TEETH

PALATINE TEETH

MANDIBLE

MANDIBULAR
TEETH

FIcuRE 1.—Upper, diagram cf venom apparatus of rattlesnake. Lower, diagram
of bones involved in biting mechanism of rattlesnake. <A, jaws closed, fang
folded back against roof of mouth; B, jaws open and fang erected for biting.
(From The reptiles of Ontario, by E. B. S. Logier, 19389.)

The pit vipers are so named from the presence of a small pit in the
side of the head between the eye and nostril. This pit is filled with
sensory cells the function of which is still somewhat in doubt. It is
284 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

believed from experiment that the cells in the pit enable the snake to
distinguish between cold and warm air currents and hence to know
when some warm-blooded animal approaches it in the dark—a useful
function since most pit vipers are nocturnal and do their hunting at
night. Their food consists of anything small enough to be swal-
lowed—birds, mammals, sometimes fish, frogs, snakes, lizards, or small
turtles—each species showing a “preference” for some of the food
items that it normally can obtain in its own particular environment.

Most pit vipers are viviparous—that is, their young are born (hav-
ing developed in the eggs retained within the mother’s body) instead
of being hatched from eggs as is the case with the coral snakes. Young
snakes begin to look for food very soon after birth. Their skin is
usually shed within a few days for the first time.

The timber rattler.

First of the more common species on the list for easterners is the
timber rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus, pl. 2, fig. 2), also called the
banded or black rattler.

Distribution of this rattlesnake in the Northeastern States is associated with hills
and mountains of moderate height, on which there ‘are broken ledges with large,
loose fragments on the slopes and top. These flat fragments may be a foot or
more in thickness and from a yard to 6 or 8 feet in length, sloping back into
a fissure, the bottom of which may be covered with soil or leaves, and which pro-
vides a position of security during storms. It is the common habit of rattle-
snakes to coil under the edge of these rock masses, protected from the too hot
summer sun, and ready to quickly retreat if disturbed. If the intruder goes on
his way, the snake may lie in its motionless coil, without sounding the rattle,
thus seeking to escape notice. Near these natural homes are specific crevices
or “dens,” where rattlers that have roamed over a considerable area during the
summer congregate each fall preparatory to deep penetration and hibernation,
beyond the frost line. During the late summer the females return to such places
and here the young are born, with a natural instinct to return to this specific
area each year for winter shelter * * *.4

The diamondback rattler.

The diamondback rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus), already men-
tioned, lives in wooded areas of the Southeast, especially among the
scrub palmetto of the sea beaches in Florida. “It is not a swamp spe-
cies, although it may frequent woods close to water and does not hesi-
tate to swim across small bodies of water. In the coastal strips it
crosses fair-sized tide pools and has been noted several miles from
shore, where it has been accidentally carried by the currents. It is also
found among the keys. When adult, its food consists largely of
rabbits,” ° and sometimes of quails. There is a western diamondback
which is said to cause twice as many deaths as the eastern species. The

4 Ditmars, R. L., Snakes of the world, pp. 114-115, 1934.
5 Tdem, p. 113.
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 285

prairie rattlesnake and the water moccasin constitute the other species
which together with the diamondbacks are responsible for about 95
percent of deaths by snake bite in this country.

The pigmy rattlesnakes.

“The bites of pigmy rattlers and massasaugas (genus Sistrurus) are
practically never fatal to adults, except possibly through septic com-
binations. These rattlers are our least poisonous snakes, for of 20
cases on record, none ended fatally.”®° They frequently feed upon
frogs. The massasauga is about 314 feet long. It frequents swampy
places, although it shuns the actually wet places. It,is brownish or
grayish, with chestnut-brown blotches on the back and a similar row
on each side. The ground rattler (pl. 3, fig. 1) is seldom more than
20 inches long, with a very minute rattle. It prefers dry areas with
low vegetation. Its venom is particularly powerful, but the small
amount of it injected at a bite is not known to have been lethal to
man.

The water moccasin.

While the rattling of the rattlesnake is said to be a warning device,
there are many pit vipers which have no rattle and hence cannot
give the warning, unless the vibrating tail should strike against dry
leaves or rushes, in which case a rattling sound is produced. By far
the most dangerous of these in the confines of the United States is
the water moccasin (Agkistrodon piscivorus), or cottonmouth.
Adults are dull olive or brownish above and paler on the sides, on
which are indistinct blackish bands. Young specimens are brilliantly
colored, usually of a pale reddish brown with bands of dark brown
narrowly edged with white. The snake is one of the largest of the
poisonous ones in this country, attaining a length of 6 feet, and it is
also one of the most pugnacious in its wild state. Over most of its
distribution it lives along streams and lakes or in swamps and is
particularly abundant along abandoned rice ditches of the south-
easterly and Gulf States. In captivity it feeds upon small rabbits,
rats, birds, fishes, and frogs.

The copperhead.

Another rattleless pit viper is the copperhead (Agkistrodon moke-
son, pl. 1, frontispiece, and pl. 3, fig. 2).. It can be recognized by its
reddish-brown hour-glass-shaped marks crossing the back, set off by
the light buff or reddish-tan ground color. It feeds upon small ro-
dents, birds, and frogs. In the northern States it frequents rocky
places, usually in the vicinity of moderately thick timber, marshy
glades or hollows. In the South it is found on higher and drier ground

® [Kellogg, R.], Poisonous snakes of the United States. Mimeographed circular Bi-571,
U.S. Dep. Agr., Bur. Biol. Surv., February 1925.
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

than are the timber rattler and water moccasin, which seem to prefer
the swamps. A very large copperhead may be as much as 4 feet long.
Baby copperheads, as well as the young of all other poisonous snakes,
are venomous from the moment of birth. Although an adult copper-
head secretes a relatively small amount of venom, a great many persons
are bitten owing to the snake’s concealing coloration, which blends per-
fectly with the ground covered with fallen leaves. A number of
harmless snakes are similar in appearance to the copperhead and are
often confused with it. Several species of watersnakes (Natriz)
are characterized by brown markings on the back somewhat like the
pattern of the copperhead. They are savage in disposition and the
lacerating bite from the many short, solid teeth may lead to an infec-
tion if not thoroughly disinfected.

DISTRIBUTION OF OuR PoIsoNous SNAKES

The matter of distribution cannot be explained in a few words.
Sometimes no poisonous snakes occur in what seem to be the most
favorable localities. Again they will be found in some special habitat
perhaps near a town or city where repeated attempts to exterminate
them have been made. The more northerly the locality, the fewer
the species asarule. New England, for instance, has but two species,
the copperhead and the timber rattler, and the former does not go
north of central Massachusetts. The massasauga is added in the
upper Mississippi Valley. The canebrake rattler, the diamondback,
and the pigmy (two subspecies) complete the number of rattlesnakes
in the Southeast.

Crossing the Mississippi, we find a much more numerous assem-
blage. The western diamond, the red diamond, the Pacific, and the
prairie are among the most formidable. The western massasauga and
the western pigmy rattler, the Texas rock rattler, the tiger and the
black-tailed rattler, the speckled and faded and Great Basin rattlers,
and the Willard’s, Price’s, and green rock rattler, each with its own
particular distribution, occur through the west between Canada and
and the Mexican border. One of the most peculiar, though not partic-
ularly dangerous, is the little sidewinder, so called from its method of
progressing through the sand. It has “horns” on its head, as the scale
above its eye is enlarged and bluntly pointed, although it is not stiff
enough to cause any damage, nor is it known to be used in self-defense.
To this list must be added two forms of the copperhead, and the water
moccasin. Each of these snakes thus briefly mentioned deserves a
much fuller discussion than can be accorded in a paper of this size.
. The best advice in dealing with supposedly poisonous reptiles is to
leave them alone if possible. It is not at all a wise policy to exter-
minate every snake in sight, since many harmless snakes are of actual
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 287

economic value. The depredations of rats, mice, moles, and gophers
are certainly controlled by the rodent-eating snakes, and such snakes
even if poisonous should definitely be protected in any agricultural

area.
THE Gita MONSTER

The final poisonous reptile under consideration is the Gila monster
(Heloderma suspectum) or beaded lizard, occurring from the southern
part of Utah and Nevada through Arizona into Sonora, Mexico. This
and a related species in Mexico are the only known poisonous lizards.
The Gila monster is heavily built and may grow to 2 feet in length,
of which over one-third consists of the rounded tail. The entire
animal is covered with coarse beadlike scales, salmon-red and black in
color and forming a very beautiful blotched pattern. The head is
blunt and massive, and the rather small legs seem inadequate to sup-
port it. In the warm sun the lizard can become very active, however,
and can move about with surprising agility. The clublike tail is a
storage place for fat. When the lizard has been getting an abundance
of food, the tail becomes swollen and heavy. In time of starvation,
the tail shrinks decidedly, as the body of the lizard is nourished by
the stored-up fat. The food consists of eggs of birds and reptiles and
also probably any small animal that it can pick up. For a long while
its ability to poison was doubted.

The first confirmation of its poisonous nature seemed to be established by the
discovery of grooved teeth, about 3-4 mm. long, four on either branch of both
maxilla and mandibular. * * * The mandibular appears somewhat swollen,
owing to the projection of its disproportionately large, elongated submaxillary
glands, whose four separate ducts lead to the base of the above-described grooved
teeth. * * * The arrangement of the teeth and of the glands makes us under-
stand why opinions as to the poisonous nature of heloderma have differed so
widely. When an animal seizes its victim only with the front teeth, or does not
lie on its back while biting, none or very little of the buccal secretion may enter
the wound. * * *”

The Gila monster is known to turn over on its back when it is biting,
and after it has once taken hold it chews on the wound.

LATIN AMERICA

While most tropical countries are abundantly supplied with poison-
ous snakes, it is a surprising fact that they are totally absent on nearly
all the large and small islands that make up the West Indies. On
Trinidad and Tobago, allied faunistically as well as geographically to
the mainland of South America, we find the bushmaster, a typically
South American species, and the coral snake. On Martinique and St.
Lucia as well as in Trinidad the fer-de-lance, a close relative of the

7 Ditmars, R. L., The reptile book, p. 170, 1907.
288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

bushmaster, occurs. The mongoose was brought from India and intro-
duced upon Martinique and Trinidad to kill snakes but has proved to be
a pest in many instances where it turned to the destruction of fowl
and other useful birds instead.

Since many of the tropical poisonous snakes of this hemisphere range
over both Central and South America, these species will be considered
first, with the more important of the localized forms which are confined
to a smaller area considered at the end of this section.

THE CorAL SNAKES

Like their relatives of the United States, the tropical coral snakes
(genus Micrurus) are burrowing and secretive in their habits. Their
brilliant coloring of red and black bands makes them easy to detect
among the vegetation. Some nonvenomous snakes mimic their color-
ing closely. Their bright pattern, much alike in all the species, has
given them the common name of coralilla in Mexico, and of gar-
gantilla (necklace) in Central America. While they are not ag-
gressive if undisturbed, they will bite when stepped on or handled
roughly. The larger kinds can inject a lethal dose of poison; the
wearing of canvas leggings and leather shoes provides adequate pro-
tection against coral snake bite when traveling in “snake country,”
their fangs are not long.

Two of the commonest South American coral snakes are Micrurus
frontalis, found in southern Brazil to the Argentine, and Micrurus
lemniscatus, occurring in the Guianas and Brazil. While these may
appear “gentle,” they will treacherously turn and bite if they are
carelessly handled. A length of 4 feet is fairly common.

THE Pit VIPERS
The rattlesnakes.

The rattlesnakes (genus Crotalus) with which we have become so
familiar in the United States have many close relatives in the lands
to the south. The habits of these tropical rattlers are much like those
of the rattlesnakes of our own country. Some of the species are
very rare, only three or four ever having been found by naturalists
even after the most assiduous collecting. Some are very small, and
unable because of their short fangs to inject a lethal amount of poison.
One of the larger kinds, Crotalus durissus terrificus (pl. 4, fig. 1),
is the only member of the genus in South America, ranging from
northern Venezuela to southern Brazil except for the wet valley of
the Amazon. Its length is up to 7 feet. The venom has a largely
neurotoxic action, in this respect being different from that of the
northern rattlesnakes. It is more aggressive than most reptiles,
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 289

since it deliberately glides forward toward the intruder. It carries
its neck in an S-shaped lateral loop, in readiness to strike. It does not
always use its rattle to give warning. While it sometimes coils, with
its rattle buzzing steadily, more often it gives no more warning than
a few quick side flings of the rattle, producing single harsh clicks.
This is a sound well worthy of recognition in the higher ground of
the Tropics, as it may be immediately followed by the serpent’s
stroke with no further warning. This serpent has many common
names, the most frequently used being cascabel, although in differ-
ent parts of Brazil it is called boicininga, maracaboia, and boiquira.
It is not found south of southern Brazil and the Chaco region of
the Argentine.

The cantil.

The cantil (Agkistrodon bilineatus) takes the place of our water
moccasin from central Mexico to Central America. The adult is
black, with white or yellow markings. The head is dark, with a vivid
yellow stripe along the snout and another on the upper lip. It is
semiaquatic in habit and attains about the same size as the related
copperhead—less than 4 feet. Its poison is highly toxic; fortunately
it does not seem to be abundant.

The bushmaster. .

The most feared of tropical American snakes is the bushmaster
(Lachesis mutus, pl. 4, fig. 2), the giant among the pit vipers, which
attains a length of about 11 feet, although such large individuals are
very rare. It is also exceptional among the pit vipers because it lays
eggs, all the others bearing the young alive. It is aggressive in charac-
ter, and while the vibrating of its tail on the ground when the snake
is uneasy makes a loud buzzing sound somewhat like that produced
by the warning rattle of the rattlesnake, the bushmaster holds its
ground and usually comes near to the intruder. Its teeth inject a
large quantity of venom, and by their length (1% inches in a snake 11
feet 4 inches long) they can penetrate very deeply through coverings
that would render the striking of an ordinary-sized snake practically
harmless. The body is yellowish or reddish brown with a series of
dark blotches, wide on the back and narrow on the sides—a pattern
that blends in very well with the surrounding vegetation. Its skin is
very rough. It is long and slender, hence well able to travel through
underbrush, and its lance-shaped head gives it an extremely sinister
appearance. It is found from Nicaragua through southern Central
America and South America, also in Trinidad. It is called sirocucu
and mapepire in some places where it occurs. It lives in damp forests
in holes made by other animals.
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The fer-de-lance or barba amarilla.

The fer-de-lance (Bothrops atrow, pl. 5, fig. 1) is another tropical

snake which it is well to avoid, as the effects of the poison are said to be
dramatically sinister and rapid, the action being largely haemolytic, destroying the
red blood cells, breaking down the walls of the carrying vessels, and producing
great extravasation. * * * The tissue about the wound is practically dis-
solved by rapid necrosis. These effects are, however, effectively neutralized
by serum produced by the several research laboratories in the tropics.*
Its length may be over 8 feet. The ground color is variable, from
gray to brown or reddish, with a row of dark, light-edged triangles
down each side, the tips of the triangles reaching the center of the back.
Its body is relatively slender, setting off the lance-shaped head. Since
it is not uncommon for a female fer-de-lance to produce 60 to 70 young
ones in a litter, the abundance of this species is readily understood.
The range extends from southern Mexico through Central America
and northern South America, including the islands of Martinique
and St. Lucia in the West Indies. Some of its other native names are
jararaca, terciopelo (=velvet snake, Costa Rica), and tomigoff (Pana-
ma). It is especially dangerous to laborers on sugar plantations, as
it is attracted there in numbers by the rats which make their homes
in such places.

The palm vipers.

These small snakes (genus Bothrops *®) are arboreal in habit, being
found in the low trees or bushes (pl. 5, fig. 2), sometimes coiled up
where the base of a palm stem joins the trunk. Their prehensile tail
helps them to cross from tree to tree when the branches nearly touch.
Men pushing their way through thick underbrush should be careful to
avoid being bitten in the face by these vipers. The green palm
viper (B. bicolor) is leaf green above and below, and hence is nearly
invisible among green foliage. Other species have green, brown, and
yellow in the coloring, suited to concealment among branches and
leaves. A few of the species have “eyelashes”—hornlike projections
of the scales above the eye, of no known use to the snake. They are
found in Mexico and Central and South America. Because of their
often greenish or yellowish coloration and their habit of living in
banana trees, these snakes, especially Schlegel’s palm viper (B.
schlegelit) , are extremely dangerous to laborers on banana plantations.
Although these snakes are only 2 feet in length, their proportionately
large head and long fangs enable them to do more harm than their size
would indicate, and fatalities have resulted from their bites.

§ Ditmars, R. L., Snakes of the world, p. 184, 1934.

® Some scientists now use the generic name 7'rimeresurus instead of Bothrops for the bulk
of the Latin American pit vipers.
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 291

The jumping viper.

Most poisonous snakes in striking keep the tail and posterior part of
the body on the ground for leverage, but the jumping viper (Bothrops
nummifer) is able to slide and strike in a way that carries its body 2
feet forward. From a slight elevation it is able to jump for a yard.
Since its length is somewhat less than a yard, it has several times the
striking range of most pit vipers. Its body is stout, its head propor-
tionately large, and its skin so rough that one is reminded of that of the
bushmaster. The fangs are short, and the venom is of lower toxicity
than in other species of Bothrops, so that this snake is not so greatly to
be feared as are most of its relatives. It ranges through most of Cen-
tral America into Mexico. Its native names are timba and mano de
piedra, the latter coming from its supposed resemblance to the native
implement used for grinding corn.

The hog-nosed vipers.

These three small terrestrial vipers (Bothrops nasuta, B. lansbergit,
B. ophryomegas) may be recognized by their upturned snouts (pl.
6, fig. 1). They live in Central America and southern Mexico, with
two species extending into northern South America. Their native
names are chatilla or tamagé. Some of these savage little vipers strike
with such force that they slide a few inches on smooth level ground
and sometimes jump forward several inches, although this habit is
not so characteristic of them as it is of the true jumping viper
(Bothrops nummifer) mentioned above. They grow to about 2 feet
in length.

Other pit vipers.

Maximilian’s viper (Bothrops neuwiediz) of Brazil is of the fer-de-
lance type and might be mistaken for that species. But it is usually
smaller, and details of the triangular brown markings are different.
Its native names are jararaca and urutu. It ranges into northern
Argentina and Paraguay. The name jararaca is also applied to other
closely related kinds of poisonous snakes.

One of the most poisonous of all the pit vipers is the island viper
(B. insularis), which is confined to a small rocky island barely three-
quarters of a mile in extent lying 40 miles southwest of the Bay of
Santos, Brazil. Since there is little else on the rock for snakes to eat
except the small birds that nest there, this snake’s highly toxic bite evi-
dently insures the death of the bird before it has been able to flutter far
enough to fall into the sea and so be lost.

While most people do not associate beauty with a poisonous serpent,
B. alternatus, commonly called urutu, has one of the handsomest pat-
terns of all the pit vipers—a series of dark brown crescentic marks on
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

each side, on a pale cream ground color. It grows to 5 feet in length,
with a thick, heavy body. It occurs in southern Brazil, Paraguay,
Uruguay, and the Argentine.

The value of using scientific rather than common names for species
is well illustrated by my attempt to give the Indian names for some of
the foregoing snakes. The word jararaca is used for several different
kinds of pit vipers. The same is true of urutu. Likewise it will be
seen that the name copperhead is used for an Australian snake of a
different family from that of the copperhead found in the United
States.

THE REAR-FANGED SNAKES

Some of the opisthoglyph (=back-fanged) snakes (Oxybelis, Pseudo-
boa) have taken to an arboreal existence. These are less dan-
gerous to man because of the small amount of poison, its relative
mildness, and the fact that the teeth placed in the rear of the mouth
do not always make good contact with a victim’s flesh. Most of
these snakes are slender and whiplike in body, with elongate heads
and large eyes. Some are green, others grayish or brown in color.
The green whip snake, Oxybelis fulgidus, is light green with a lemon-
yellow stripe on the sides. When frightened, it stiffens its neck and
slowly waves its head from side to side to imitate a stem blown by
a breeze. Its food consists of lizards, which are very susceptible to
its poison.

The mussurana (Clela clelia, pl. 6, fig. 2) is a large, heavy-bodied,
terrestrial serpent which uses its constricting powers as well as its
poison to subdue its prey. Its chief food consists of other snakes,
among them being the deadly fer-de-lance—not deadly at all
to the mussurana, which is unaffected by the poison or the injuries
of the fangs. Unfortunately, the mussurana is rather rare through-
out its rather wide range—Guatemala through Brazil. Most of the
natives know of its snake-eating habits, and so it is seldom killed.
Brazilian specimens are blue-black all over, while Central American
ones are white beneath. Young ones are said to be coral red.

THR YELLOW-BELLIED SEA SNAKE

Only one species of sea snake (Pelamydrus platurus, fig. 2) has
crossed the Pacific Ocean from its native home off the coast of Asia.
This snake is compressed, with very small scales and no enlarged
plates across the ventral region. Its back and upper sides are rich
brown to black, sharply set off from the bright yellow ventral colora-
tion. Its tail is compressed and rounded at the tip like a paddle and
acts as a rudder. While this species seldom exceeds 3 feet in length,
some of the other species (to be discussed in the section on Asia)
are more than twice as long. Fatalities from its bite have been re-
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 293

ported, but as a rule sea snakes are disinclined to bite, although some
are equipped with very deadly poison, and are said never to attack
bathers. Their food consists of fish and other small marine or-
ganisms. They are now established along the west coast of Central
America, especially in the Gulf of Panama.

THE Mexican BEADED LIZARD

The Mexican beaded lizard (Heloderma horridum, pl. 7) is the
only other known species of poisonous lizard in the world, besides its
relative, the Gila monster. It occurs from the central part of Mexico
to the northern part of Central America. Its habits are very similar,

. o ver—eeas

——we es *

FIGurE 2.—The yellow-bellied sea snake (Pelamydrus platurus), entirely aquatic,
and having a compressed, rudderlike tail.

to those of its northern relative, but it is a little larger, being known
to reach 30 inches in length, and its tail is proportionately longer.
Its head is usually black, and its beadlike scales are colored with ir-
regular patches of black and yellow. The very young lizard has
vivid yellow stripes with bands of yellow on the tail. With age this
regular pattern disappears, and some specimens turn nearly black or
dark brown. The bite results in the same poisoning symptoms as
that of the Gila monster.

POISONOUS REPTILES OF THE OLD WORLD

The family Viperidae (true vipers) is as characteristic of the Old
World fauna as are the rattlesnakes of the New World. Some repre-
sentatives of the Crotalidae, the family to which the rattlesnake be-

566766—44—20
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

longs, are found in southeastern Asia and the East Indies, however.”
These are pit vipers, and differ from the true vipers which are likewise
found in those regions by the possession of a complex pit on the side
of the head between eye and nostril. Both these families differ from,
the following ones in having a head distinctly set off from the body by
the swelling at the base of the jaws due to the poison glands, which are
much smaller in the Elapidae and Hydrophidae.

The family Elapidae, represented in the New World by the coral
snakes, contains some of the most widespread and dangerous of Old
World snakes—the cobras. Australia has about 80 kinds, while Africa
and southern Asia boast of numerous species also. Elapidae have the
head and body nearly continuous in outline, with no distinctly marked
“neck” in most cases, in this respect resembling the harmless colubrine
snakes.

The Hydrophidae (sea snakes) are found near the coasts of southern
Asia and northern Australia. Most of them hug the shore and dislike
to swim far away from land. One kind has successfully crossed the
Pacific and established itself on the west coast of Central America, as
stated above, and this same species has likewise crossed the Indian
Ocean to the eastern shores of Africa.

Some rear-fanged snakes of the family Colubridae occur in Asia, but
as their bites are not deadly to human beings, they will not be dis-
cussed here. Some of the African species are potentially very dan-
gerous to man, however.

While no poisonous lizards are positively known from the Old
World, an exceedingly rare lizard from Borneo possibly related to the
Gila monster has been assumed to be poisonous. As yet no proof of
this has been put forward.

EUROPE AND NORTHERN ASIA

The true vipers (family Viperidae) are the only poisonous snakes
to be found in Europe and northern Asia.“ Some of their character-
istics are a vertical pupil, relatively small size, and a zigzag dark
stripe down the middle of the back more or less pronounced in Euro-
pean species. These vipers fall naturally in groups of closely allied
species which have much in common.

The common viper and its allies.

This snake (Vipera berus, pl. 8, fig. 1), called northern viper or adder
in part of its range, is the only poisonous species inhabiting the British
Isles, where it is found in Scotland, Wales, and England, but not in
Ireland. It likewise ranges over northern Europe at least to the 67th

10Qne species, Agkistrodon halys, just reaches into eastern Europe near the Caspian Sea.

u Except the pit viper Agkistrodon halys, a predominantly Asiatic species which extends
westward to the Saltan Murat Desert and the Induski hills near the Caspian Sea.
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 295

degree in Scandinavia and across northern Asia to the Amur River and
Sakhalin Island. Southward it extends to the Pyrenees, Apennines,
andthe Balkans. Two distinct forms occur in different parts of Yugo-
slavia, while another lives in northwestern Spain and Portugal. It
prefers a cool climate, but in the north selects hills well exposed to the
sun on which to bask, although it is partially nocturnal also. It eats
any small living creatures of suitable size—mice, birds, lizards, frogs,
salamanders, and slugs, while the very young ones feed on insects and
worms. The young are born alive in August or September, and num-
ber from 5 to 20 in a litter. Many fatalities from bites have been
recorded, especially in France and Germany. Exceptional specimens
are nearly 3 feet long, although 2 feet is the more usual length.

Orsini’s and Renard’s vipers.

Orsini’s viper (V. wrsinii, pl. 8, fig. 2), rather similar to the com-
mon viper in appearance, is found in southern France, northern Italy,
Hungary, and parts of Yugoslavia. It is not found with the common
viper in any part of its habitat. It grows to a maximum size of 2
feet. Its disposition is much less aggressive than that of the common
viper, and in some places it is said not to make use of its poison appa-
ratus since it feeds entirely on grasshoppers. Renard’s viper (V.
renardt) is closely related, except that its snout is much more pointed.
Its length does not exceed 2 feet. It is found in the Crimea and parts
of eastern Russia, extending far into Central Asia. Its food consists
of small mammals and lizards.

The asp, Lataste’s, and the long-nosed vipers.

These three European vipers can be recognized by their “turned-up
noses,” that is, the tip of the snout is distinctly above the level of the
top of the head. The asp viper (V. aspzs) is found in southern France,
the Pyrenees and Apennines, and Yugoslavia. It likes hot, dry locali-
ties, and lives in holes in rocks or in the earth. It is both nocturnal
and diurnal, with food habits similar to those of the common asp. Its
disposition is savage, and many accidents, some of them fatal, are
caused yearly in southern France where it is very abundant. A sub-
species occurs in Sicily and Calabria (southern Italy). Lataste’s
viper (V. latasti) prefers stony, arid, and forested regions in Spain
and Portugal, also in Morocco and Algeria. It is not known to ex-
ceed a length of 2 feet. It climbs low trees in search of young birds.
Its bite is supposed to be less dangerous than that of the asp viper
and rarely causes the death of human beings or domestic animals.
Its nose is likewise somewhat “turned up.” In the sand viper or long-
nosed viper (V. ammodytes) the snout appendage is particularly evi-
dent, giving it one of its common names. It occasionally grows to
a length of 3 feet. It has numerous geographical varieties. The typi-
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

cal form is found in Austria and the Balkan states. It likes dry,
stony hills with low bushes, which it frequently climbs. Its poison is
stated to be more active than that of other European vipers, so that
fatal accidents to man are frequent. It is extremely abundant in some
parts of Austria and is said to be the commonest of all snakes in Bos-
nia and Herzegovina. A closely related form (Vipera ammodytes
meridionalis) takes the place of the typical form in Greece and
European Turkey.

The blunt-nosed viper and its allies.

The blunt-nosed viper (V. lebetina lebetina), also called kufi, is
found on the island of Cyprus and in Europe on Melos (one of the
Cyclades Islands), and has an extensive range in Asia and Africa.
Some poorly defined varieties occur, among them a form called wan-
thina from Asia Minor and others named mauritanica and deserti from
Morocco, Algeria, and Libya. Large examples are 414 or 5 feet long.
They live in rocky regions and are nocturnal in habit.

INDIA, CHINA, JAPAN, AND MALAYA

This region is very well provided with poisonous snakes. Represent-
atives of the Viperidae (true vipers), Crotalidae (pit vipers), Elapi-
dae (cobras and kraits), Hydrophidae (sea snakes) and Colubridae
(colubrine snakes) are found here, comprising examples of all existing
families containing dangerous poisonous snakes. The most spectac-
ular are the cobras, although the daboia (or Russell’s viper) is one
of the commonest and deadliest snakes of India.

THE VIPERS

Although the total number of species known from Asia is not large,
this family (Viperidae) represents some of the most dangerous of all
poisonous snakes.

The daboia, tic-polonga, or Russell’s viper.

This beautiful serpent (V. russellii, pl. 9, fig. 1), more than 5 feet
in length at its maximum, is pale brown with 3 longitudinal series
of yellow-bordered black rings enclosing spots of chocolate brown. A
very loud warning hiss is given when the snake is disturbed. It will not
strike until considerably irritated. The venom is secreted in large
quantities. The snake is found nearly everywhere except in dense
jungle, preferring open, sunny regions. It is nocturnal in habit and
feeds by choice upon rats and other small mammals. It is found in
India, Ceylon, Burma, Siam, the Malay Peninsula, and southern Yun-
nan in China. The period of gestation is more than 6 months, the lit-
ter of about 30 young being born usually in June and July; they are
less than a foot long.
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 297

The carpet or saw-scaled viper.

This little snake (#'chis carinatus) burrows in the sand to hide, hence
prefers sandy places throughout its range through Syria and Persia
into India. Its common name, “saw-scaled,” is given by reason of the
fine, sawlike “teeth” down the center of the lateral scales. It reaches
a length of 2 feet, but in spite of its small size it is very fierce and
aggressive.

A related species, 2’. coloratus, is known from Arabia and Palestine.

Another small viper of a different genus (Azemiops feae) grows toa
length of 2 feet. It is extremely rare, only about four specimens ever
having been collected in Upper Burma and in southern China (Szech-
wan and Kiangsi). It resembles a harmless colubrine snake in ap-
pearance, being blackish above with 15 narrow transverse white bands.
Nothing is known about its venom.

THE PIT VIPERS

Asiatic members of this family (Crotalidae) used to be considered as
part of the family Viperidae. A more correct estimate of their dis-
tinctness is obtained by putting them into the family of which the
New World rattlesnake is the representative. The Old World cro-
talids, however, do not have any rattle. The following belongs to the
same genus as do the copperhead and moccasin described under North
American poisonous snakes.

The mamushi and its relatives.

This snake (Agkistrodon blomhoffiz) is restricted to the Japanese
islands, although close allies are found on the Asiatic mainland. Aver-
age specimens are about 20 inches long. The pattern consists of a
series of dark brown rhomboid blotches on each side near the center of
* the back, separated by a pale grayish band which lightens nearly to
white next to the dark blotches. Some specimens are much darker.

One of the most poisonous species of the genus is ;A. rhodostoma,
found in Malaya. Its pattern is very striking—angular, dark brown,
black-edged markings on a reddish-brown background. The snout
is pointed, and as the posterior part of the head is widened, the ser-
pent has a very sinister “lance head.”

Some of the other species are very abundant. <Agkistrodon halys
and its relatives are the commonest poisonous snakes in China and the
Himalayan region west almost to southeastern Europe.

Bamboo snakes and their allies.

- Some of the Asiatic members of the genus 7rimeresurus closely
correspond to the palm vipers of tropical America. They are the
arboreal species with prehensile tails and green coloration, such as
Trimeresurus gramineus, the bamboo viper, and its relatives. Some
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

species of 7'’rimeresurus are terrestrial, and these are also like Bothrops
of the American Tropics. The head is always broad and distinct from
the neck, while the body is not very stout in this genus. The arboreal
species are particularly slender. The fangs are proportionately very
long, and the bites are dangerous, although the venom is not quite so
toxic as that of some of the true vipers. The habu (7 7imeresurus
flavoviridis) grows to a length of 5 feet in the Riu Kiu Islands, and its
bite is considered to be very serious.

CoBRAS AND KRAITS

These snakes (family Elapidae) are slender in build, with the head
scarcely enlarged. Some species of cobras have more or less expansible
“hoods” behind the head, produced by moving the ribs forward inside
the loose skin.

Indian or spectacled cobra.

This snake (Vaja naja, pl. 9, fig. 2) is probably the best known of
any of the poisonous snakes of Asia, as it takes more lives and is more
feared than the others. It grows to be about 6 feet long, and is yellow-
ish or dark brown in color, with a more or less spectacle-shaped black
and white marking on the raised hood. Occasionally the hood has no
pattern, sometimes there is a single spot. The cobra is nervous and
excitable, spreading the hood and arching the neck when disturbed.
It strikes with a forward sweep of its raised body, accompanied by a
sharp hiss. This striking is not nearly so quick as the darting of a
viper’s head, which strikes laterally from the bent neck. The cobra
becomes irritable, sometimes gliding forward to attack its enemy, but
there is no deliberate rush, and the snake can be held off with a light
stick. When it bites, it retains its hold just as the coral snake does,
since the fangs are relatively short, and a larger amount of poison can
enter the wound with the longer contact. The cobra feeds on rats, mice,
and frogs by choice, and often takes up its residence in the dark corners
of a native hut in order to prey upon the rodents attracted to human
habitations. This snake is accountable for more deaths from snake
bite than any other species. It is impossible to state accurately just
how many people in India die each year from its bite. Owing to the
natives’ habit of going bare-legged, especially at night, fatal accidents
from cobra bite are unnecessarily numerous. On plantations where
the natives are made to take precautions, and where serum is available,
fatalities have greatly decreased. The Indian cobra and its very
closely allied subspecies occur from the eastern shores of the Caspian
Sea through Asia into China and Formosa, the Malay Archipelago,
and the Philippines.

Some cobras of this species have the habit of spitting venom at an
intruder. One from Java was observed to eject poison in a spray
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 299

from the partly opened mouth for a distance of 2 feet. Cobras that
spit have likewise been reported from the Philippines, the Malay
Peninsula, Burma, and Ceylon. There seems to be no report from
China or mainland India west of Bengal of a cobra. spitting.

The king cobra or hamadryad.

The king cobra (Naja hannah, pl. 10, fig. 1), largest of all poisonous
snakes, has been authentically reported as reaching a length of 18
feet 4 inches. While its anterior ribs are elongated, it cannot spread
a hood nearly so wide proportionately as that of its smaller relative.
It feeds almost exclusively upon other snakes and probably ranks first
as a wholesale destroyer of snakes, taking kraits and smaller cobras
along with the harmless species. It occurs in eastern India, China,
and the Philippines, as well as the Malay Archipelago. It is diurnal
and lives in dense jungles near streams, sometimes climbing trees. It
is said to be fearless and may attack human beings when disturbed.
It lays from 21 to 33 eggs on a pile of leaves, and these eggs are
guarded by the female. In captivity it displays an intelligence very
unusual in snakes by learning, after a very few days, not tostrike its
head against the glass of its cage. The color is olive or yellowish
brown, often with black rings on the body.

The kraits.

The common krait (Bungarus candidus) grows to a maximum
length of 4 feet. It is lustrous black or brown above, with narrow
white bands across the back; below it is pearly white. It is one of
the most numerous snakes where it occurs and likes to live near
human dwellings, also in fields or low scrubby jungle near water. Its
food consists almost entirely of other snakes, occasionally frogs,
lizards, and small mammals. It is one of the most inoffensive of
snakes, hiding its head beneath the ‘coils of its body and refusing to
move when teased. Like the cobra, it lays eggs, 6 to 10 in a clutch,
usually in soft earth. Experiments show that its poison is four to
five times as virulent as that of the cobra. It has a wide distribution |!
throughout India and the Malay Archipelago to Formosa and south-
eastern China. Members of this genus can be recognized by their
ridged backbone, on which there is a row of widened, enlarged scales.
They are nocturnal in habit.

The banded krait (Bungarus fasciatus, pl. 10, fig. 2) prefers jungle
districts. It is ringed with yellow and black bands. It is even more
sluggish than the common krait. In India the banded krait is re-
stricted to the northeast, occurring no farther south than the state
of Hyderabad. The common krait is found throughout peninsular
India and is the only one south of the Ganges Basin. Their ranges
overlap in Siam, Burma, the Malay Peninsula, Java and Sumatra.
200 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

THE SEA SNAKES

The sea snakes (family Hydrophidae) live in the tropical parts of
the Pacific and Indian Oceans. They occur along the coast of Asia
from the Gulf of Persia to southern Japan, among the islands of
Oceania, and to the coast of tropical Australia. All the species but
one stay close to the shallow waters near the coast, especially near river
mouths. They feed entirely upon fish. Those sea snakes with the
smallest heads and slenderest bodies limit their diet to eels. Some-
- times on a calm day they are to be seen, often in hundreds, basking
upon the surface of the water. Their structure is well adapted to an
aquatic existence, since the tail has become compressed and rudder-
like, while the ventral plates are much reduced in most of the species,
appearing like the rest of the small scales covering the body. The
poison of at least one of the species is known to be more deadly than
that of the Indian cobra, while some are said to be only slightly poison-
ous. They are not inclined to bite except when forcibly restrained and
are said never to attack bathers in the water. Fishermen are sometimes
bitten when they haul in a sea snake along with their net of fish, and
sometimes fatalities result, because these fishermen do not think of
seeking trained medical assistance. All sea snakes bear their young
alive, 2 to 18 at a time, in tide pools and shallow flats of deserted
shores. Few sea snakes exceed 4 feet in length, although examples
of two species have been found measuring nearly 9 feet.

AFRICA

The Dark Continent has nearly as great an array of poisonous
serpents as is found in Asia. While the king cobra of southern Asia
claims the record of being the world’s largest poisonous snake, Africa
has the distinction of having produced 2 kinds of spitting snakes—
both cobras—which blow their venom into the face of the attacker
from a distance up to 12 feet. Africa is the home of about 30 kinds
of true vipers also, some of them very peculiar.

Since sea snakes do not occur in Atlantic waters, it is only on the
east coast of Africa that we find an occasional example of the same
far-traveling species that occurs on the western coast of Central
America.

No pit vipers occur in Africa. The remaining family containing
dangerous poisonous snakes is the Colubridae, of which one section,
the rear-fanged snakes, is represented in Africa by the boomslang and
a number of other snakes having poisons of varying degrees of toxicity.

No poisonous snakes are found on the island of Madagascar.
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 301

THE VIPERS

The night adder or Cape viper.

As its name indicates, this snake (Causus rhombeatus, pl. 11, fig. 1)
emerges at night to hunt for rats, mice, and toads. It is rather in-
offensive, and unless hurt or frightened, it does not attempt to bite.
It grows to be about 3 feet long. It is yellowish or gray in color, with
a chain of dark, light-edged spots along the back, and smaller ones
on each side. There is a dark chevron at the back of the head. The
snake hides in rubbish heaps, rock piles, or shallow holes when not
hunting. It frequently enters farm houses in its search for rodents.
It is very common around Nairobi and extends from the Nile over
the greater part of South Africa. The poison is not so highly toxic
as in many of the other vipers. A peculiar anatomical feature is the
extension of the poison glands into the neck to several inches behind
the head. Another interesting peculiarity is that this snake and others
of this genus lay eggs, while most of the other vipers are viviparous.

The puff adder.

This snake (Bitis artetans, pl. 11, fig. 2) is one of the most widely
distributed in Africa, being found all the way from southern Morocco
and the southern Sahara to the Cape of Good Hope, as well as in
Arabia. It likes grassland, rocky regions, or light forests, especially
near streams, but is not found in heavy forests or at very high alti-
tudes. It grows to a length of 5 feet and is massive and bloated in
appearance. The head is flat, and the nostrils are on top of the snout.
The skin is deep golden yellow to orange brown, with regular chevron-
shaped brown or black bars pointing backward, with a large dark
blotch edged with light yellow on the crown of the head. It often
lives around houses in order to feed on the rats and mice. When dis-
turbed, it suddenly hisses by exhaling its breath. It is not aggressive,
but when danger threatens it can strike with lightning speed. It
is extremely prolific, a female laying up to 72 eggs at a time. Some-
times the young are born before the egg is laid; more usually hatching
occurs immediately after the fully developed egg is deposited. The
bite is extremely dangerous, as the great length of the fangs causes
the venom to be injected deeply into the tissue. This venom is highly
active neurotoxically as well as haemotoxically, and because of the
snake’s size a very large quantity can be injected at a bite. Cattle
when grazing often get struck, and in the absence of an injection of
the proper serum rapidly succumb. Another closely related snake,
the Cape puff added (B. inornata), is restricted to South Africa.

The rhinoceros viper.
With a pair of horns jutting from its nose, its swollen, wicked-
looking head, and its stout, ponderous body covered with rosy, purple,
302 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

blue, yellow, or brown colors—brightest after the skin is shed—the
rhinoceros viper (Bitis nasicornis, pl. 12, fig. 1) is a most astonishing
creature. One would expect that these bright hues would make the
snake very conspicuous, but on the contrary they render the serpent
almost invisible in the swampy regions near streams, especially when
its rough scales are caked with mud. Another common name, the
river jack, is derived from its partially aquatic habits. It does not
seem to grow longer than 4 feet. It is peculiarly placid and inof-
fensive in disposition and is said to be most reluctant to bite, although
the venom may be even more toxic than that of the following species.
Its food habits are not known, although presumably from its aquatic
habits it may add frogs, toads, and even fishes to the usual viperine
diet of rodents. It is practically confined to the rain forest, including
Liberia, the Gold Coast, Togo, Nigeria, Cameroon, Portuguese Guinea,
Belgian Congo, Uganda, and part of Kenya Colony.

The Gaboon viper.

This malevolent-looking serpent (Bitis gabonica, pl. 12, fig. 2) is
very highly poisonous, and its prey is killed almost instantly by
injections driven deeply with the long fangs. Its venom is partic-
ularly deadly as far as mankind is concerned, for it contains both
the normal viperine haemotoxic elements and powerful neurotoxic
properties. It lives in heavy forests in West Africa. It is known
to reach a length of 5 feet 8 inches, the fangs of such a monster meas-
uring nearly 2 inches, and the body nearly 15 inches around. It is not
usually aggressive and has the habit of deflating its body in a loud
hiss. It feeds upon small mammals and birds, toads and frogs. There
is a series of oblong buff markings on the back, surrounded by rich
brown and purplish spots; the sides have irregular brown or purple
spots, the points directed upward. The ground color of the skin is
pinkish brown. The eyes are silvery. Sometimes there is a blunt or
forked horn on the nose,

The horned adders.

Two of these small snakes (Bitis cornuta and B. caudalis) have one
or more hornlike scales over the eye, hence their common name.
They are no more than 114 feet in length but are extremely danger-
ous in spite of their small size, owing to their habit of burying them-
selves in the sand with only the head above, where they lie for hours
watching for lizards and other small creatures on which they feed.
They bite instantly at the bare feet of any native who may come
near them, for they are practically invisible as they lie hidden. They
occur only in the sandy areas of the southern part of Africa.

The berg adder (B. atropos) as its name indicates, lives upon the
mountain ranges throughout the whole of South Africa. It devours
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 303

lizards and the young of ground-nesting birds, as well as insect larvae,
and mice and rats. It is highly venomous.

The sand vipers.

The Sahara Desert harbors two species of sand vipers (Aspis cornuta,
A. vipera, pl. 18, fig. 1) admirably adapted for life in dry desert sand.
The ribs are capable of flattening the body, and there is a muscular
arrangement that permits the snake to use the sharp edges of its
flattened body to shovel sand over its back by a sort of wavy motion
that permits the body of the snake to sink quickly below the surface,
where it lies with the top of its head protruding. The eyes are above
the general level of the top of the head, and are the same color as the
sand, so the snake cannot readily be seen. Aspis cornuta has a small,
sharp spine over each eye, which is lacking in A. vipera. While these
two species resemble the horned adders of South Africa in habits, their
ranges are widely separated, and there are several structural features
to distinguish them.

The carpet viper (Zchis carinatus), living in sandy regions of
Africa north of the Equator likewise occurs in Arabia, Persia, and
India, as mentioned above (see p, 297), unlike most other poisonous
snakes of Africa, which are confined to their own continent. It some-
times burrows to hide but is not confined to arid plains, since it is found
on grassy, sandy plains or even in sandy forest land. It is less than a
yard in length, marked with square brown spots on a cream or reddish
ground color. It is nocturnal by habit and largely insectivorous.

THE CoBRAS AND THEIR ALLIES

Except for Australia, there are more different members of this family
(Elapidae) in Africa than in any other part of the world. They are
terrestrial, aquatic, or arboreal, and some kind is found in almost every
region of Africa except the snow-clad mountain tops and sterile des-
erts. The traveler has to fear not only the biting at close range but
the “spitting” of venom from a short distance by some species. These
will be considered first.

The ringhals or spitting snake.

This snake (Haemachates haemachatus, pl. 13, fig. 2) differs from
other cobras in having keeled scales, so that the skin is not so shiny
and sleek as that of its relatives. It is the smallest of the cobras,
averaging about 4 feet in length. It is black with irregular cross bars
of brown above, and the throat often has one or two white or yellow-
ish bands, hence its Dutch name of ringhals (ring neck). The
ringhals is aggressive when disturbed and will advance on a man or
even pursue him for a considerable distance. The danger from this
snake comes when people stoop toward the ground or rock pile where
304. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

an alert ringhals may be lying, as the venom is ejected in two streams
from the fangs, accompanied by the expulsion of air from the lungs,
so that it. is sprayed in a fine shower for several feet. The entry of
venom into the eyes causes intense pain, followed by inflammation
and partial or total blindness. The eyes should be promptly and
efficiently treated by washing at once with water and boric acid. The
poison is not harmful when it falls on the unbroken skin. Eye-
glasses or goggles afford adequate protection to the eyes against the
spray of venom. Owing to its small size, the ringhals can throw its
venom only about 6 feet. The bite of the ringhals is as deadly in
proportion to its small size as that of any other cobra. Unlike most
cobras, this snake produces its young alive, in litters of from 24 to
60. It is common throughout South Africa.

The spitting or black-necked cobra.

The black-necked cobra (Naja nigricollis) also sprays its venom.
Larger in size, it is even more formidable than the ringhals. It has
a much wider range than the ringhals, being found from upper
Egypt to Angola and the Transvaal, and is very common in some
regions. It rears and “spits” upon shght provocation, and the venom
is effective at distances up to 12 feet. The snake is 7 feet long when
fully grown, and since it rears its head to a height of 3 feet from
the ground, its attack is unexpected and overpowering. The effect of
the venom on the eyes of the victim is as disastrous as that of the
ringhals. It is probable that if nothing were done to dilute or wash
away the poison from the absorbent membranes of the eyes, blindness
would result. Not enough of the poison seems to be absorbed to
cause death, however. This snake may be lustrous black, olive, brown,
or salmon pink in color. The black variety may show a pair of large
crimson blotches under the hood when this is spread. The lighter-
colored specimens have a black band across the throat, giving the
snake its common name.

The black cobra.

This serpent (Naja melanoleuca) is slightly larger and heavier
than the spitting cobra and looks somewhat like it. It does not spit
venom but is quick to become angered and will rush to attack whoever
comes near. It is confined to tropical Africa. The shiny texture of
its skin distinguishes it from the dark variety of the spitting cobra.

The Egyptian cobra or asp.

This snake (Vaja haje, pl. 14, fig. 1) is the most widely distributed
of the African cobras, being found in the whole of North Africa ex-
cept in the coastal area of Algeria. It is especially numerous in
countries bordering the Sahara and extends through East Africa all
the way to Natal. Its color is dull brown, blending well with the
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 305

hot, dry sand through which it prowls in search of rats and mice. It
takes freely to water, where it devours frogs and toads. It grows to
6 feet in length. By disposition it is very irritable, hissing and
striking repeatedly at the slightest disturbance.

The Cape cobra.

The bad temper and ferocity of this snake (Naja flava) is well
recognized in the south of Africa, where it occurs from Cape Colony
to southern Tanganyika. It is found with several different colora-
tions, individuals being yellowish, reddish, brown, or black. It
frequently climbs trees in search of young birds and eggs.

Several other species of cobras inhabit rather restricted areas in
West Africa or Angola, some of them nearly “hoodless” but other-
wise unmistakably cobras.

The water cobras.

These aquatic cobras (Boulengerina, pl. 14, fig. 2) live in Cameroon,
the French and Belgian Congos, and in Lake Tanganyika. In the
last-named place they stay around rocks, on top of which they bask
in the early morning sun before taking to the lake. They grow to
around 8 feet in length. Their degree of toxicity is not definitely
known, but out of the water they are apparently not nearly so ag-
gressive as the true cobras. Most of them have a black bar behind
the head, followed by a number of black, usually light-centered spots.
They probably seldom go far from water.

The mambas.

These deadly snakes (Dendraspis, pl. 15, fig. 1) are set apart from
the other poisonous snakes of Africa by their extreme slenderness.
This makes them admirably adapted for an arboreal existence, and
their green or blackish coloration makes them almost indistinguishable
among the stems of climbing vines. The head is narrow and the eyes
large. The mamba looks rather like the harmless tree snakes of sim-
ilar build found in the Tropics of both hemispheres. When it opens
its mouth, however, there is no mistaking its poisonous character, for
the large fangs are situated at the very front of the mouth. One
species may be as long as 12 feet, a length unmatched anywhere among
elapine snakes except by the king cobra of southern Asia. In strik-
ing, it takes advantage of its length by doubling back its neck laterally
and then lunging forward nearly half of the body length. Birds
and small rodents comprise its food ; in searching for the latter it often
takes to the ground and even enters native huts. There are several
species of mambas now recognized, and in distribution they pretty
well cover the southern part of Africa north to Abyssinia and the
Niger. Mambas are said to be very sociable, several males and fe-
males being frequently found inhabiting the same hollow in the trunk
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

of a tree, a crevice among boulders, or a hole in a bank, and often
sharing their retreat with a black-necked cobra. The eggs are laid
in dense vegetation, and the young snakes take to the trees as soon as
they are hatched.

THE REAR-FANGED SNAKES
The boomslang.

The boomslang (Dispholidus typus) belongs to the rear-fanged
group of the family Colubridae and in build is like one of our racers.
The color varies greatly, from green through all shades of brown
to black, the scales of the lighter-colored individuals often being edged
with black. An adult may measure over 6 feet in length. Its name in
Dutch means “tree snake,” and the trees are its natural environment.
In sparsely wooded country it takes to the ground to hunt frogs, liz-
ards, ground birds, caterpillars, and various insect larvae. The eggs
are laid in decaying vegetation on the ground. When biting, the
boomslang does not readily let go when once it has seized its prey.
Unless its grip is complete, the fangs do not penetrate the flesh, since
they are set halfway back in the upper jaw under the eyes. Fortu-
nately this snake is very timid and will make off into the bushes at
the slightest alarm. When it bites, however, its venom is very active,
and the results may be fatal to human beings, as they undoubtedly
have been fatal to dogs, oxen, and other farm animals.

AUSTRALIA, NEW GUINEA, AND THE SOUTH PACIFIC ISLANDS

Aside from the sea snakes of the family Hydrophidae which live in
the waters of the northern coasts, Australia has but one family of pois-
onous snakes, the Elapidae.? This family has an extremely large
representation there, however, as 14 genera and 80 species are known.
While a number of these are not considered dangerous to man owing
to their small size, short fangs, and timid dispositions, the larger
kinds are outstanding for their abundance, insolence, and high toxi-
city. There is a great range in the toxic power among the really
dangerous species. While the action of the poison is more largely
neurotoxic—as in other members of the Elapidae throughout the
world—there are some haemolytic effects as well. Most of the cases
of snake bite in Australia could be avoided by the use of boots and
leggings, as the snakes do not rear very far from the ground in at-
tacking, and few are aboreal, hence the feet and legs of a pedestrian
are in most danger of being struck by the fangs.

New Guinea has, in addition to a liberal population of sea snakes,
several representatives of some of the deadly kinds found in
Australia.

2 Australia is the only part of the world where a majority of the snakes are venomous.
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 307

There are no snakes in New Zealand, poisonous or nonpoisonous.
The Hawaiian Islands are likewise devoid of them, as well as most
of the scattered islands of the South Pacific. One genus of the fam-
ily Elapidae, Ogmodon, is found in the Fiji Islands. Several of
the same family occur in the Solomon Islands, while some of the sea
snakes live in the surrounding waters.

The black snake.

This snake (Pseudechis porphyriacus, pl. 15, fig. 2), most abundant
of the larger poisonous kinds of Australia, grows to a length of 6 to 7
feet. The smooth scales are satiny blue black above, while below they
are brilliant scarlet edged with black. The neck is slightly extensible
so that a “hood” about half as broad as that of a cobra can be formed.
When about to attack, it does not rear like the cobra, but instead raises
the head only a few inches from the ground. It will not attack man
unless trodden upon or cut off from means of escape. It prefers
marshy places or streams and dives and swims well. It can stay under
water for a long time, and from its habit of lying still at the bottom
of lakes and streams it is dangerous to bathers. Its food consists of
frogs, lizards, and small mammals and birds. The young are born
alive in March, up to two dozen to a litter. During the winter the
black snake hibernates in holes in the ground. It is found through-
out Australia, except in the north, but does not occur in Tasmania.
Its bite is said to be less dangerous than that of the other large Aus-
tralian snakes, owing to the lower toxicity of its venom.

Several other snakes of the genus Pseudechis live in Australia. One
of these, inhabiting central Queensland, grows to be 9 feet long, with
proportionately large fangs and poison glands.

A still larger snake, the giant brown snake (Oayuranus scutellatus) ,
belongs to a closely related genus. It is restricted to Cape York Pen-
insula. It is known to reach a length of over 9 feet.

The copperhead snake.

While a reddish-brown or dark-brown color usually characterizes
this snake (Denisonia superba, pl. 16, fig. 1), occasionally a bright red
or black individual is found. The head is usually of a coppery tone,
especially so in the young ones. It is a stouter-bodied creature than
the black snake and does not grow quite so large, as 6-foot specimens
are considered uncommonly large. When angry, it is said to rear a
few inches from the ground, with the neck slightly curved, as the cobra
does. Like the black snake, it frequents swamps and feeds on lizards
and frogs. It is found in southeastern Australia and in Tasmania.

There are about two dozen other closely related species belonging to
this genus in Australia, some of them being no more than 15 inches
long and with relatively weak venom.
308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The brown snake.

The larger members of the genus Demansia are considered highly
dangerous, especially the brown snake (D. tewtilis, pl. 16, fig. 2), which
is usually 5 to 6 feet long, and widely distributed all over Australia.
It is light yellow to brown or gray above and white below. The young,
hatched from eggs, are ringed during the first year. This snake has
a small head, but its bite is extremely serious, owing to its highly toxic
venom. The snake is all the more dangerous as there is nothing in its
appearance or behavior to excite fear, since it resembles one of our
whipsnakes. There are about a dozen species of this genus, and several
of them are called whipsnakes, owing to their slender build.

Related forms of this dangerous snake occur in New Guinea as well.

The tiger snake.

The dark bands on a tawny ground suggest the name of this, the
most savage and dangerous of Australian reptiles (pl. 17, fig. 1).
Sometimes the ground color is so dark that the bands are indistinct.
The venom is of such extremely high toxicity that it is not equaled by
that of any other known snake. It seems to cause more fatalities in
Australia than all the other poisonous snakes of that country put to-
gether. The tiger snake (WVotechis scutatus), when disturbed, becomes
furious, spreads out the neck to twice its usual width, and rushes
toward its enemy. It resents being interfered with by other snakes
and is said to be more than a match for the black snake. A man bitten
by this snake may die within an hour if no treatment is given, and a
dog in less than 20 minutes. The tiger snake is between 5 and 6 feet
in length when full-grown, and its body is rather stout. It is extremely
prolific, producing 50 or more young in a litter. Its food consists
mainly of lizards. It likes dry country, hence its range is extensive
both in Australia and Tasmania.

The death adder.

A short, thick, clumsy body not more than 3 feet long, and resembling
that of a viperine snake far more than its own relatives just enu-
merated, characterizes the death adder (Acanthophis antarcticus, pl.
17, fig.2). In color it resembles the ground it lies on, so that it may be
gray, brown, pink, or brick red, depending on the sandstone of the
region in which a particular individual may live. In younger speci-
mens, bands of darker shade cross the body; these may disappear with
age. It is found in sandy localities over most of Australia except in
southern Victoria, as well as in New Guinea and the Moluccas, thus
having the widest range of any Australian poisonous snake. The
young are born alive, about a dozen at a time. It has very rough
scales, even on the head, and there is a spine on the tail. Its large
head bears fangs that are no longer than those of the tiger snake, and
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 309

its venom is so active that it is reckoned as highly dangerous. It
is not so quick to strike as the tiger snake, but as it is likely to be
stepped on, it is a constant menace.

The broad-headed snake (genus Hoplosephalusg, the black and white
ringed snake (genus Fwrina), the red-bellied snake (genus Pseudelaps),
and their allies are not considered very dangerous to man, either
because of their small size, their relatively weak venom, or their short
fangs, and therefore will not be considered here. The status of the
poison of some snakes, such as Micropechis ikahekae of New Guinea
and the Solomons, is not yet established.

THE SEA SNAKES

This family (Hydrophidae) is the only other family of poisonous
snakes found in Australia besides the Elapidae just discussed. It
would be more proper to say “in the waters off the coasts,” for these
snakes are never found inland. Twenty-seven species have been listed
from the waters bathing the northern shores of Australia; these belong
to 12 different genera. Since this group has been discussed under the
section on “India, China, Japan, and Malaya,” it will not be further
touched upon here.

DANGEROUS NONPOISONOUS REPTILES

Certain of the nonpoisonous reptiles may be important to man for
one or more of three reasons: First, because their large size and
great strength may allow them to bite, scratch, or crush whoever is
unwary enough to approach them too closely; second, because their
natural food may comprise rats, mice, and other pests which, if un-
checked, would destroy the results of man’s industry; third, because
their skins, flesh, or eggs may be economically useful. While the
following comments are by no means complete, they will nevertheless
bring to mind some of the more dangerous nonpoisonous reptiles to be
encountered in the various geographic regions, with a brief mention
of their positive economic importance.

NORTH AMERICA

The three large nonpoisonous reptiles on this continent which may do
considerable bodily harm if they are interfered with are the Ameri-
can crocodile, the alligator, and the alligator-snapper (a turtle); a
smaller but very vicious turtle, the common snapping turtle, is also
considered. The several species of soft-shelled turtles (family Triony-
chidae) occurring in the United States are vicious biters like their rela-
tives in Asia and Africa, but their smaller size—not exceeding a shell
length of 18 inches—does not warrant their inclusion among the more
dangerous reptiles of this area.

566766—44——-21
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

THe AMERICAN CROCODILE

In the United States the American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus,
pl. 18, fig. 1) is found in southeastern Florida and in the Florida Keys,
while beyond our borders it is known from the Greater Antilles (except
Puerto Rico), and on both coasts of Central America from Mexico to
Ecuador and Colombia. It attains a length of more than 14 feet, and
for so bulky a creature it is surprisingly agile on land, being able to run
with its body raised clear of the ground. It usually rushes for cover
if startled while basking on the shore, but if brought to bay before it
reaches the water, it can turn on its pursuer quickly with snapping jaws,
at the same time dealing a heavy blow with its tail. In the water it ap-
pears to be inoffensive; nevertheless, a large one might be tempted to at-
tack a person bathing near its haunts. Its narrow snout serves to
distinguish it from its broad-nosed relative, the alligator. Its jaws
are very powerful in closing, so that its bite could easily sever an arm
oraleg. In Cuba, as elsewhere, it is actively pursued for its valuable
hide. The flesh of the tail of all crocodilians is greatly prized as food
by the natives wherever these reptiles are found.

THE AMERICAN ALLIGATOR

The American alligator (Alligator mississipiensis, pl. 18, fig. 2) is
found in rivers and swamps of the lowlands of the Carolinas, Georgia,
and Florida, west to Louisiana, Mississippi, and the Rio Grande in
Texas. Because of the industrial demand for the hides, large ones are
hard to find nowadays, a 12-foot specimen being a rarity, although
some as long as 15 feet probably once existed. It is timid by nature
and will.try to escape into deep water when surprised. Like its rela-
tive, the crocodile, it can defend itself with heavy jaws and threshing
tail when the need arises. It feeds largely upon crustaceans, taking as
many fish, turtles, birds, or small mammals as it can get, however.
Very young alligators likewise devour insects.

THE ALLIGATOR-SNAPPER

The savage alligator-snapper (Macrochelys temminckii, pl. 19, fig. 1)
is a relative of the common snapping turtle, and because of its large
size would be a serious menace to bathers except for its shy and secretive
disposition. It is seldom found around heavily populated areas. It
could defend itself very effectively against molestation by using its
powerful jaws, but, as a matter of fact, accidents to human beings from
its bite are very few. It attains a weight of about 140 pounds and a shell
length of about 28 inches. It lies on the muddy bottom waiting for
fish that may swim within its reach, enticing the fish to come near by
opening its mouth, on the inside of which is a white filament of flesh,
which looks like a large worm to a fish and acts as a very efficient bait.
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN Sit

The flesh of this turtle was greatly esteemed by the Indians, for its
bones can be found on many ancient camp sites. It occurs from Texas
east to southern Georgia and northwestern Florida, as far south as
the Suwannee River drainage system, north in the Mississippi Basin
to central Illinois.

Tue CoMMON SNAPPING TURTLE

Found practically everywhere east of the Rockies south of Nova
Scotia (excepting peninsular Florida), the common snapping turtle
(Chelydra serpentina serpentina, pl. 19, fig. 2) is one of our commonest
and most aggressive reptiles. It strikes with its head as a snake does
and the sharp-edged jaws, although without teeth, can cause very seri-
ous injury. A large one may weigh about 40 pounds, with a shell
length of 14 inches. It is much less shy than its large relative, the
alligator-snapper, and its fondness for shallow, muddy barnyard
streams results in the loss of many young ducks and geese, which it
catches by the foot and pulls under water to drown. It also feeds
largely upon fish. Its flesh is sold in the markets, and the soup made
from it ranks high on the menu of most sea-food restaurants. A
subspecies occupies the peninsula of Florida, similar in habits and
disposition to the common snapping turtle.

LATIN AMERICA

There are several kinds of large turtles found in Latin America,
but none of these shows much inclination to bite even in self-defense,
while their flesh and eggs are of decided value. Though snapping
turtles related to those discussed above occur also in Mexico and
Central America, they are rarely encountered. Several kinds of
caymans and crocodiles, the anaconda, the boa, and some of the
lizards large enough to scratch and bite complete the list of poten-
tially dangerous nonpoisonous reptiles from this region.

THE ANACONDA

The anaconda (Zuneéctes murinus, pl. 20, fig. 1) is aquatic, often be-
ing found submerged close to the banks of rivers in the Guianas, Brazil,
and Amazonian Peru. It eats birds, mammals, crocodiles, fish, or
anything that it can swallow. Its tremendous muscular power could
be immediately fatal to a human being who was constricted within its
coils, and undoubtedly there have been some fatalities, especially
among Indians who go to the river to bathe. There is a difference of
opinion as to the maximum size attained by this snake, some
authorities maintaining that specimens over 30 feet long have been
killed. It breeds when less than half that length, however, the young
being born alive. A litter from a 19-foot female weighing 236 pounds
312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

contained 72 young snakes, each about a yard long. The leather made
from anaconda hide is strong and of high quality, while its flesh can
be used as food, since all snakes are edible. In Brazil its native names
are sucuri or sucurijuba. Several varieties mostly based on color
have been described.

THe Boa

The boa (Constrictor constrictor, pl. 20, fig. 2) has a much wider
range than its relative, the anaconda, its several varieties being found
from Mexico to the Argentine. Its maximum length seems to
be about 13 feet. Some individuals can be quickly tamed in captivity,
but others remain bad-tempered, striking and hissing with a great
show of ferocity. Its sharp, recurved teeth can inflict a very severe
and lacerating bite. It seldom stays long in water, but is an excellent
climber and is frequently found in trees, where it goes to hunt for
nesting or sleeping birds and small mammals. Its hide is much sought
after, being very beautiful in color and pattern.

THE BELIZE CROCODILE

Found in great numbers in the Sibun swamp west of Belize, Brit-
ish Honduras, the Belize crocodile (Crocodylus moreletii) has been
doubtfully recorded as far north as Tampico, Mexico. It grows to
about 10 feet in length. Water beetles and insects comprise the
food of the younger individuals. It is too shy to be of much danger
to bathers. Its hide is valuable to commerce.

THE ORINOCO CROCODILE

Noted for its ferocity, the Orinoco crocodile (Crocodylus inter-
medius) is greatly dreaded by the Indians who live in the Orinoco
Delta where it occurs. Early writers insisted that it was 25 feet long
when full-grown, but few over 10 feet long are to be found nowadays.

THE CAYMANS

In Central and South America occur seven species of caymans, two
species belonging to the smooth-fronted genus Paleosuchus, the others
to the “spectacled” Caiman, the “spectacles” in the latter consisting
of a heavy ridge of bone between the eyes, lacking in the former genus.

Very little is known about the habits and life histories of the smooth-
fronted caymans. Both species are small (about 5 feet). They are
found in the Paraguay, Amazon, and Orinoco Rivers. As far as is
known, they are not vicious toward man.

The spectacled caymans live in streams of Central and South
America. The only one that reaches a considerable length is the black
cayman, Caiman niger, found in the Amazon, and known to reach a
length of more than 16 feet. It is feared by the natives, who tell
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 313

many tales of its voracity. The Paraguayan cayman (C. yacare) is
less than 10 feet in length, while the broad-snouted cayman (C.
latirostris) from the Rio Sao Francisco and Alto Parana is about 7
feet. The flesh, especially that of the tail, is reported to be excellent
eating.

IGUANAS AND OTHER LARGE LIZARDS

Several kinds of large lizards (genera /guana, Conolophus, pl. 21,fig.
1, etc.) can bite and scratch fiercely when captured. The true iguanas
belonging to the genus Jgwana are extremely plentiful over most of
tropical America including the southernmost of the West Indies. The
value of their flesh as food, and of their skins for leather, makes them
important to man wherever they are found. Most lizards are largely
insectivorous, and in the insect-plagued Tropics every natural check
on the increase of insect pests is to be encouraged.

EUROPE AND NORTHERN ASIA

There are no nonpoisonous reptiles of sufficient size to be dangerous
to man in this region. Some snakes here, as elsewhere, will defend
themselves if molested by attempting to bite. As these snakes can
do little more than break the skin with their short teeth, they will not
be further discussed.

INDIA, CHINA, JAPAN, AND MALAYA

This region is particularly rich in large and dangerous, though non-
venomous, reptiles. The pythons come first to mind, then the Komodo
“dragon,” the largest of all lizards living today. There are several kinds
of smaller monitor lizards, close relatives of the Komodo dragon, able
to battle fiercely with tooth and claw when their safety is at stake.
The salt-water crocodile is known to be a man eater at times, and the
Siamese crocodile is not blameless in this respect. The mugger and
the gavial are less dangerous to man. The several kinds of soft-
shelled turtles, while shy and retiring in habit, have knifelike jaws
similar to those of their North American relatives and resent being
disturbed in the same manner.

THE RETICULATED PYTHON

The snakes most frequently seen by the American public in side
shows at circuses are the reticulated python (Python reticulatus) and
the Indian python. The former is known to reach a length of 32
feet, but whether this snake or the anaconda of South America can
truly claim the title of “largest snake in the world” is still somewhat
in dispute. A 28-foot python weighs 250 to 300 pounds, so that it is
far less bulky in proportion to its length than the heavy-bodied
314 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

anaconda. Its coils possess great constricting power, and a large
python has no trouble in crushing a pig or goat, which it then pro-
ceeds to swallow whole. The tales of pythons being able to swallow
an ox are utterly false, but there is an apparently authentic story of
a 14-year-old boy being eaten by a python in the East Indies.
Leather made from python hide is very beautiful and is much desired
by the trade, and before the war a great number of skins were ex-
ported each year from Asiatic ports.

THE INDIAN PYTHON

Snakes of this species are welcomed by snake charmers because of
their sluggish and “gentle” dispositions. Even in a wild state, the
Indian python (Python molurus, pl. 22, fig. 2) is known to make little
effort to escape, and when attacked often makes no attempt to avenge
offense or injury. It is fond of lying partially submerged near the bank
of a river and can remain under water entirely for several minutes. It
possesses great muscular strength and, in spite of its lack of aggres-
siveness, can overpower a leopard with ease. It is active by day as
well as by night, feeding on mammals, birds, and reptiles. Two
color phases of this species are known, the individuals of one phase
being light in color, the others dark. The extreme length is about 25
feet.

THE Komopo Dragon LIzARD

The Komodo dragon lizard (Varanus komodoensis, pl. 21, fig, 2), the
largest existing lizard, was unknown to science until 1912. It occurs on
Komodo, Flores, Rindja, and Padar Islands, all lying close together
east of Java and south of Celebes. Small deer and wild pigs form
its staple diet, with turtle eggs which it digs up on the shore where
other food is scare. It is extremely voracious, falling savagely upon
a wounded member of its own species if it has the opportunity. It
is naturally wary toward man, but fights desperately when cornered,
using the tail as a means of defense, as the crocodilians do. Its maxi-
mum size appears to be about 10 feet, and such an individual may
weigh 250 pounds if in good condition. In walking, it swings its
head from side to side close to the ground, usually dragging the tip
of the tail. The young lizards before they are strong enough to pull
down larger game climb trees to hunt for birds’ eggs. The old ones
make burrows between tree roots and sometimes under rocks.

OTHER MONITOR LIZARDS

Nearly 20 species of monitors (genus Varanus) live in southern
Asia and Malaya. After the dragon lizard, the largest of these,
measuring 8 feet in total length, is the kabara goya (Varanus sal-
vator), also called water monitor by the English because it is more
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 315

aquatic than the other Asiatic species. It climbs trees in search of
food, but when frightened, it takes to the water for safety and has
been seen swimming far out at sea. It can run at good speed when
pursuing its prey on land. The soft-shelled eggs, from 15 to 30 in
a clutch, are laid at the beginning of the rainy season in holes on the
bank of a river or in trees beside the water. The desert monitor
(Varanus griseus) lives in arid regions of northwestern India west-
ward throughout southern Asia to the Caspian Sea and North Africa.
Tt retires to its own burrow or the disused hole of some other animal
during the heat of the day. The other species of monitors are more
or less intermediate in habits between the two mentioned. Monitors
can be destructive to poultry and their eggs, but this is offset by the
number of rats and mice that they destroy. They can all bite and
claw with great vigor when hunted down, and the tail is often used as
a lash. Other monitors occurring in Africa will be mentioned below.

Tur Sorr-SHELLED TURTLES

Several genera of soft-shelled turtles (family Trionychidae), all very
similar in appearance, occupy the region under discussion. They are
fond of burying themselves in mud, with only the head and part of
the back exposed, where they remain nearly invisible waiting for their
food to pass, when they seize it with a quick movement of the long neck.
They eat fish, mollusks, and frogs, but will take carrion also. Much
of their food is found by hunting, for they are extremely voracious,
and very active when swimming, although clumsy on land. The
adults are vicious and powerful creatures, some species with the upper
shell nearly a yard long. They are dangerous to handle, for they can
give severe bites. Their long flexible necks enable them to reach most
parts of their body, and when catching them the only place to hold
them with safety is the margin of the soft disk or “shell” just in front
of the hind limbs. Their flesh is said to be delicious, and they are for
sale in many markets of the Orient.

THE SALT-WATER OR ESTUARINE CROCODILE

The salt-water or estuarine crocodile (Crocodylus porosus, pl. 22, fig.
1) can without any doubt be called the giant among living reptiles, be-
cause authentic specimens measuring more than 20 feet are known from
the Philippines. The species ranges also to the east coast of India,
Ceylon, Malaya, the north coast of Australia, the Solomon and Fiji
Islands. It lives in the mouths of muddy rivers and canals near the sea,
seldom ascending a river above tidal limits, and has been found several
miles out to sea. Its huge size enables it to overcome large and powerful
animals. It is the species that causes most of the annual loss of human
lives in Asia which is attributed to crocodiles. When an individual
316 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

has once acquired man-eating habits, it appears to have a preference
for human beings as food, probably because they are more easily ob-
tained than wild beasts. It is only the adult crocodile that is able to
attack man and large animals. Fish, birds, and turtles are likewise
relished. Young ones eat crustaceans and even insects. The female
makes a nest of reeds and rushes, the heat of decomposition of which
incubates her eggs. The Burmese and some other Asiatic races are
fond of the flesh of this crocodile, while the Siamese trap it for its
gall bladder, believed by them to have remarkable medicinal powers.

THE SIAMESE CROCODILE

While the Siamese crocodile (Crocodylus siamensis) grows to a
length of nearly 12 feet, it is not as a rule aggressive toward adult
human beings, although small children are said to be seized sometimes.
In the rivers it prefers to stay above the tidal limits. It feeds chiefly
upon fish. Its flesh is sometimes eaten but is no longer a regular article
of commerce.

THE MuccER

Two other popular names of the mugger (Crocodylus palustris) are
the marsh and the broad-snouted crocodile. Its range extends through-
out the whole Indian Peninsula and Ceylon, west almost to the Per-
sian frontier in Baluchistan, north to Nepal and east to Assam. It
lives in swamps and rivers, usually above the tide line. During the
dry season it buries itself in the mud and aestivates until the rains
come. It feeds chiefly on birds and fish, and only occasionally at-
tacks man. The mugger is hunted by the natives of Sind, but only
as a defensive measure in order to protect their fish.

THE GAVIAL

Living in rivers of India and Burma, the gavial (also spelled
gharial) (Gavialis gangeticus) reaches a length of over 21 feet. Its
food consists mostly of fish, with some birds, and it has been known
to seize goats and dogs. It rarely attacks man and hence is little
feared.

AFRICA

The dangerous nonvenomous reptiles found in Africa belong to the
same groups as those found in Asia—in fact, one or two are of identical
species on both continents.

THrEr Rock PyTHON

Reliable records indicate that the rock python (Python sebae, pl. 23,
fig. 1) grows to a length of at least 25 feet. It is found all over Africa
except in Egypt and the Mediterranean and desert regions of the north.
It is common in some localities and remains so even in the vicinity of
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN aby

some native villages, for it is often reputed to be supernatural, hence is
avoided by the people of the region. Wart hogs are said to kill pythons
sometimes, and crocodiles may occasionally become involved in a
struggle when the snake drinks at a river. In Natal the rock python is
a valuable ally of the sugarcane growers, for it devours considerable
numbers of rats and is the chief enemy of the destructive cane-eating
rat. Pythons are in consequence encouraged, and semitame specimens
frequent most of the sugar factories. There are very few authentic
cases of human casualties due to the rock python’s embrace, although
there are plently of instances of fully adult persons being caught who
were strong enough to get away.

THE WARAL AND OTHER MONITORS

The waral (Varanus niloticus), sometimes called the Nile monitor,
is found all over Africa except in the northwestern part, being espe-
cially conspicuous along the banks of the Nile. It is more or less
aquatic in habit and lives largely on fish, but eats rats and mice with
avidity also. Its habit of digging up and eating the eggs and young
of the crocodile is sufficient reason to ensure its respectful regard by
the natives. Its total length when full-grown is slightly over 5 feet.

Several other monitors occur in Africa, though ranging over a
less extensive area than does the waral. Some live in desert regions,
one of these, Varanus griseus, being found in southern Asia. All can
bite and scratch fiercely, and the tail-lashing habit is more or less
prevalent.

THE NILE CROCODILE

The Nile crocodile (Crocodylus niloticus) attains a length of 17 feet,
and is generally abundant from the Nile to the Senegal, and south to
the Cape of Good Hope, as well as in Madagascar. It is extremely
vicious and dangerous, taking many lives each year. Its food consists
chiefly of fish, with birds and mammals unwary enough to come near
it. The eggs are laid in dry sand, 40 to 60 in number, and are about
the size of goose eggs. The young are nearly 6 inches long when
hatched. They make for water at once, although many of them be-
come the prey of the Nile monitor (Varanus niloticus) as already
mentioned. The ancient Egyptians worshiped the crocodile, and its
mummified remains have been found in tombs dating back thousands
of years.

THE LONG-SNOUTED CROCODILE

The long-snouted crocodile (Crocodylus cataphractus) is definitely
a West African species, being confined to the Congo basin. It attains
a length of 12 feet. Like that of the gavial of India, its elongated snout
is ideally adapted for fishing. Young individuals feed on anything
they can find, including shrimps, crabs, frogs, snakes, fish, and even
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

grasshoppers. Not many accidents from the bite of this crocodile are
reported; this may be due to the fact that palisades are erected in the
river near villages where crocodiles occur, providing places of safety
for bathing and obtaining water.

Two other crocodiles, Osteolaemus tetraspis and Osteoblepharon
osborni, are characteristically West African in distribution. The for-
mer has a very short, turned-up snout but otherwise looks much like
the latter. Both are rather small, not exceeding 5 feet, and probably
are not at all dangerous to man.

THE AFRICAN SOFT-SHELLED TURTLE

The African soft-shelled turtle (7'rionyx triunguis) frequents the
Nile, the Congo, and the Senegal Rivers and their tributaries, as well
as rivers in Syria. When fully grown its shell is over a yard in
length, and its body weight 200 pounds. It has all the biting ability
of its relatives in Asia and in North America. In all parts of its
range this turtle is hunted and eaten by the natives.

AUSTRALIA

Except for the large pythons and some monitor lizards and the salt-
water crocodile, this region has few nonpoisonous dangerous reptiles.

THE DIAMOND PyTHON

The diamond python (Python spilotes) grows to a length of 20 feet,
hence ranking with the half-dozen or more largest living serpents. In
addition to eating rats, mice, and rabbits, it destroys some of the rarer
and more valuable Australian mammals. Its skin is much sought
after, and python farming for commercial purposes may some day
be a reality. 3
OTHER LARGE SNAKES

It is necessary to give only a brief mention of the six or seven other
large members of the python family (genera Python, Liasis, Aspi-
dites) found in Australia, some of which are said to grow to 16 feet
in length. They are mostly arboreal in habit and have great muscular
power in constricting.

It is well to emphasize again the fact that a great many Australian
snakes not of the python family are dangerously poisonous.

THE GOANNA

The goanna (Varanus varius) is also known as lace monitor or
(erroneously) as the iguana. It climbs trees habitually for birds’ eggs
and young birds. It is equally fond of poultry and makes itself a
nuisance in the henyards of populated areas. It bites severely with
its sharp teeth if handled incautiously. A
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 319

The skin of the goanna is in even greater demand for shoes than
snake skin, as it is tougher, and is very attractive when properly
prepared.

GouLb’s MONITOR

Unlike the preceding species, Gould’s monitor (Varanus gouldii,
pl. 23, fig. 2) does not take to trees, but lives on the ground in holes and
is usually found in waterless districts. It is much less vicious than the
goanna, although it hisses loudly if vexed and inflates the loose skin of
the body. It grows to a little over 4 feet in length.

Other Australian monitors are more or less intermediate in habits
between these two.

THE SALT-WATER CROCODILE

The salt-water crocodile (Crocodylus porosus), a dangerous man
eater, has already been discussed under the section on Asia, since
it ranges there as well as in northern Australia. It infests the tidal
mouths of streams especially in North Queensland, and when sur-
prised it actively resents any intruder’s presence. It has excellent
hearing and is very difficult to approach for this reason, as it slides
into the water at the slightest sound. It ascends water courses, so
that the clear pools of fresh water in the upper reaches are by no
means safe for bathers.

APPENDIX
FIRST-AID TREATMENT

While it is not within the scope of this paper to give any medical
advice as to the treatment of cases of snake bite, it is desirable to re-
publish the first-aid directions contained in a leaflet issued by the makers
of standard antivenin serum. They say:

IN CASE OF BITE

Snake bites. should be treated immediately. The following first-aid measures
should be employed: ve
FIRST AID

Apply constricting band. above bite. just tight enough to prevent ‘absorption
and not interfere entirely with flow of blood. A cold, numb limb means constric-
tion is too tight and should be loosened.

Make deep X-shaped: cuts %4 inch long through skin at points where fangs
entered skin. Let the blood flow from these cuts. Make additional: cuts at edge
of swollen: area: Help flow of blood from these’ cuts. by suction. Make suction
for 15 or.20. minutes every hour for.several hours. : ‘In-interval between suction
treatment, cover with cloths wet with, strong. solution of table salt or epsom’ salts
in’ water.

Don’t cauterize the wounds or r apply postassium permanganate.

Don’t run or exercise. Don’t take any alcoholic stimulants;
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

ASSOCIATED TREATMENT

Of general measures apart from antivenin, sedatives such as morphine or
aspirin, or small doses of a barbiturate may be given to relieve pain and nervous-
ness. For collapse, strychnine, aromatic spirits of ammonia or other general
stimulants are of some value. In all severely poisoned persons, great relief is
likely to be experienced from the infusion of a large amount of physiological
saline, or still better, transfusion of blood, the effects of which may be life saving
in borderline cases.

ANTIVENIN AND ITS PREPARATION

Antivenomous serums used to combat the deadly effects of the bites
of poisonous snakes are prepared by medical institutions in many coun-
ties. In the United States the Sharp and Dohme Laboratories at
Glen Olden, Pa., furnish a serum effective against the bites of all the
important poisonous snakes to be found in this country, as well as
serums for use in tropical America.

“The first step in preparing an antivenomous serum, or ‘antivenin,’
is the extraction of the venom from the snakes by manually forcing
it into a suitable container. It is then partially purified by centrifuga-
tion, dried, and stored for use. As it is needed it is dissolved, steri-
lized, and injected into horses, starting with very small doses which are
repeated in gradually increasing amounts every week or every 2 weeks.
Eventually the horses become so highly immune that they can with-
stand amounts several hundred times as great as would kill a normal
horse. Their blood is tested periodically to determine its antiven-
omous potency. When it is up to a set standard, the horses are bled at
regular intervals. The serum is separated from the cells and is con-
centrated in such a manner as to remove much of the inactive sub-
stances, leaving a highly active material that is the antivenin of com-
merce.

In general, it may be said that an antivenin is satisfactorily effec-
tive only against bites from snakes of the same type that supplied
the venom used in its preparation. Jt may be useful in treating bites
from closely related species, but usually it is worthless, or nearly so,
in accidents from unallied types. Thus, an antivenin prepared
against the venom of a rattlesnake is useless, or nearly so, in treating
bites of cobras, and vice versa. Fortunately, however, it is possible
to prepare one antivenin that will counteract several different venoms,
merely by using a mixture of venoms in immunizing the horses. This
method is used in the United States and results in a product that is
effective in treating bites of all native poisonous snakes except the
coral snake, bites from which are rare. Such polyvalent serums are
prepared in other countries as well, and they greatly simplify the
treatment of bites. When the snake responsible for the bite can be
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN 321

identified beyond any doubt, it is best to use the specific antivenin,
if one is available.” (Nigel Wolff, personal communication. )

A famous laboratory for making antivenin for the bites of neo-
tropical poisonous snakes is the Instituto Butantan at Sao Paulo,
Brazil. In exchange for live snakes from which to obtain fresh
venom, which are sent in by planters and farmers all over Brazil,
the institute furnishes fresh antivenin to use in the many cases of
snake bite occuring among the laborers clearing ground for new
plantations. The death rate from snake bite in Brazil was estimated
to be about 3,000 a year before the establishment of the institute. In
1930, however, after careful tabulation, the total appeared to be well
under 100.

In Australia, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories at Melbourne
manufacture antivenin for the bites of the tiger snake and death
adder, the two most deadly snakes of that region.

In the French colonies, various branches of the Pasteur Institute
provide serums for different kinds of local poisonous snakes. The
Burroughs-Wellcome products, of English manufacture, are available
in India and Egypt and other areas of British influence, while the South
African Institute for Medical Research, Johannesburg, supplies serum
for the bite of many African species.

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING SCIENTIFIC COLLECTIONS

In little-explored regions there is always the incentive of dis-
covering unknown species, which would be of great scientific value
if they could be collected and preserved for the United States Na-
tional Museum in Washington, D.C. It is relatively easy to preserve
snakes, lizards, frogs, and toads. All that is necessary after killing
them is to make a short incision with a penknife on the ventral surface
into the stomach and intestines, then they can be dropped into a
solution of 1 part formaldehyde and 10 parts water and left for 2
or 8 days. They should then be changed into a fresh solution of
the same strength. When they are to be packed for shipment, an
empty gasoline tin should be lined with paper or straw to prevent
the rust from discoloring the skins of the preserved specimens. The
specimens themselves should be loosely wrapped in cheesecloth damp-
ened with formaldehyde, with the place of collection, the date col-
lected, and the name of the collector very plainly written with soft
black pencil on heavy paper. This information is absolutely neces-
sary, for without it the specimens are valueless. The gasoline tin
may then be soldered shut, and the specimens will keep for several
months without more attention. Those interested in natural history
will find it a pleasant occupation for spare time to make such collec-
tions, and the collections will be assured of prompt study and identi-
fication upon their arrival at the United States National Museum.
322 = ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY

ANTIVENIN INSTITUTE OF AMERICA (NOW SHARP AND DOHME).
1927-1931. Bull., vols. 1-5. Glen Olden, Pa.
BouLenceER, E. G.
1914. Reptiles and batrachians. London and New York.
- BOULENGER, GEORGE A.
1880. The fauna of British India including Ceylon and Burma. Taylor
and Francis, London.
1912. A vertebrate fauna of the Malay Peninsula. Reptilia and Batrachia.
Taylor and Francis, London.
1913. The snakes of Europe. Methuen and Co., London.
BURDEN, W. DOUGLAS.
1927. The dragon lizards of Komodo. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York and
London.
ConANT, RoGER, and BRIDGES, WILLIAM.
1939. What snake is that? D. Appleton-Century Co., New York and London.
CurrRAN, C. H., and KAUFFELD, CARL.
1937. Snakes and their ways. Harper and Brothers, New York and London.
De Roors, NELLY.
1917. Reptiles of the Indo-Australian Archipelago. II. Ophidia. EH. J.
Brill, Leiden.
De Sota, C. RarpH.
1938. The crocodilians of the world. Bull. New York Zool. Soc., vol. 26,
No. 1, pp. 2-24 (photographs), Jan.—Feb.
DirmMars, RayMonpD L.
1907. The reptile book. Doubleday, Page and Co.
1930. The poisonous serpents of the New World. Bull. New York Zool.
; Soe., vol. 33, No. 3, May—June.
1934. Snakes of the world. Macmillan Co.
Firzsimons, EF. W.
1912. The snakes of South Africa. Longman, Green and Co., London.
GaDow, HANS.
1901. Amphibia and reptiles, in The Cambridge Natural History. Macmil-
lan Co., New York and London.
GLoyp, Howarp K.
1940. The rattlesnakes, genera Sistrurus and Crotalus. Chicago Acad.
Sci., Spee. Publ. 4.
KincHorn, J. R.
1929. The snakes of Australia. Angus and Robertson, Ltd., Sydney, New
South Wales.
Lucas, A. H. S., and Le Sousr, W. H. D.
1901. The animals of Australia. Mammals, reptiles and amphibians.
Whitcomb and Tombes, Melbourne, New Zealand, and London.
PITMAN, CHARLES R. S.
1938. A guide to the snakes of Uganda. Kampala.
Pore, CLIFFORD H.
1987. Snakes alive and how they live. Viking Press, New York.
1939. Turtles of the United States and Canada. Knopf, New York and
London.
ScHmipT, Karr P.
1919. | Contributions to the herpetology of the Belgian Congo based on the
collection of the American Congo Expeditions, 1909-1915. Bull.
Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 39, art. 2, pp. 385-624.
DANGEROUS REPTILES—COCHRAN o2e

ScHMinpT, Karr P., and Davis, D. DwicHr.
1941. Field book of snakes of the United States and Canada. G. P. Put-
nam’s Sons, New York.
SmirH, Matcotm A.
1926. Monograph of the sea-snakes (Hydrophiidae). British Museum,
London.
1931. The fauna of British India. Reptilia and Amphibia, vol. 1, Loricata,
Testudines. Taylor and Francis, London.
1935. Idem, vol. 2, Sauria.
STEJNEGER, LEONHARD.
1895. The poisonous snakes of North America. Ann. Rep. U. 8. Nat. Mus.
for 1893, pp. 337-487.
Von IHERING, RODOLPHO.
1934. Da vida dos nossos animais. Fauna do Brasil. Rotermund, Sao
Leopoldo.
WALL, FRANK.
1907. The poisonous terrestrial snakes of our British Dominions and how
to recognize them. Higginbotham, Madras.
1921. The snakes of Ceylon. H.R. Cottle, Ceylon.
(Seles dYT]UsINg UBIUOSyIIUIg ASeqINOY) ‘sdoiny Jdeoxe YUeUTJUOD AIOAA Ur Ind90 ‘soyeuUs
auldela JoY}O PUB SBIGOD 9Y} SUIPNOUL ‘SoAT}e[oI S,AYVUS [B10 OY} ‘BISW Jo sjied UI PUB PLIOAA MAN 9Y} Ul ATWO puNoyj ose ‘sdodtA qd ay) ‘SsoatRfed S,peoyseddoa 94) IGA, + ‘“Sayeus
snouostod Jo sdnois juv{1od uit JSouI OM AY) JUASeIddI SOABOT OY) SuOUIR BUI[MBIO (SNIQIN{ SNINLIY) PYBUS [BION BY PUB YdOI 94} UO po[lod (Wosayow UWOpo1jsiyb¥) pesyeddod oy J,

| 3LV1d uely20—"E $6] *quodayy uetuosyzIWG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 2

fae : : os
bee Be aire sf ra, eI 2 . rs tile al

1. Coral snake (Micrurus fulvius), also called harlequin or bead snake. Color: wide rings of crimson and
black, the latter narrowly bordered with yellow (see plate 1). Length: 3 feet. Range: North Carolina to
Florida; the Gulf States and Mississippi Valley States north to Ohio and Indiana. Poisonous. (Courtesy
Philadelphia Zoological Society.)

; x
on aa ie oe em
f Gite: se
Se

Be ee a es

2. Timber rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus), also called black or banded rattler. Color: yellow or tan with
wavy cross bands of dark brown or black, sometimes almost entirely black. Length: 515 feet. Range:
Maine to Georgia, west through Louisiana to Texas; the Mississippi Valley States into Wisconsin. Ex-
tremely poisonous; aggressive if disturbed. (Courtesy Philadelphia Zoological Society.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 3

1. Carolina pigmy rattler (Sistrurus miliarius), also called ground rattler. Color: grayish with a series of
darker rounded blotches and a reddish band along the back. Length: 2 feet. Range: North Carolina to
Georgia and Alabama. Poisonous. (Courtesy Dr. W. Gardner Lynn.)

2. Copperhead (Agkistrodon mokeson), also called rattlesnake pilot, chunk-head, and highland moccasin.
Color: pale brown, pinkish or light reddish brown, with a series of chestnut-brown hour-glass-shaped
markings (see pl. 1). Length: 4 feet. Range: Massachusetts to Georgia and the Carolinas, exclusive
of peninsular Florida. Not aggressive unless disturbed. Poisonous. (Courtesy Philadelphia Zoological

Society.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 4

bs
4

1. Tropical rattlesnake (Crotalus durissus terrificus), also called cascabel. Color: yellowish gray with
large dark brown ‘‘diamonds”’ on the body, and a pair of dark longitudinal stripes on the neck. Length:
6 to 7 feet. Range: drier parts of the Guianas, Venezuela and Colombia to northern Argentina, Paraguay,
and southern Brazil. Most poisonous of all the rattlers: very aggressive. (Courtesy Bulletin of the Anti-
venin Institute.)

¥ 2. Bushmaster (Lachesis mutus), also called la cascabela muda in Central America, sirocucu in Brazil,
and mapepire z’anannain Trinidad. Color: pale brown, often pinkish, with a series of large brown blotches
wider op the back and abruptly narrower on the sides. Length: over 11 feet. Range: southern Central
America through tropical South America, including Trinidad. Exceedingly poisonous; aggressive. (Cour-
tesy New York Zoological Society.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran

PEATE 5

1. Fer-de-lance (Bothrops atroxr), also called barba amarilla, jararaca, terciopelo, or tomigoff. Color: gray
to olive, brown or reddish, with dark, light-edged cross bands or triangles, the apex of these extending to
the center of the back. Length:8 feet. Range:southern Mexico to central Brazil, also Trinidad and Tobago;
Martinique and St. Lucia in the West Indies. Exceedingly poisonous. (Courtesy New York Zoological
Society.)

9

March’s palm viper (Bothrops nigroviridis marchi).
into yellowish green on the sides.
(Courtesy Nature Magazine.)

Color: uniformly brilliant green above, merging
Length: not quite 2 feet. Range: Honduras. Dangerously poisonous.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 6

as Ein sora aw nN eS é : %

1. Hog-nosed viper (Bothrops nasuta), also called nose-horned viper. Color: brown with alternating small
black spots along the back separated by a pale line. Length: 2 feet. Range: eastern Central America to
Colombia and Ecuador. Poisonous. (Courtesy Nature Magazine.)

Heeseect
iB etch
ee) AS Sere a

2. Mussurana (C/elia clelia), a beneficial snake because of its habit of eating other snakes, especially the
fer-de-lance. Color: blue black above, white below (Central American specimens). Length: 8 feet. Range:
Guatemala through Brazil. Back-fanged, but the bite not fatal to man. (Courtesy Nature Magazine.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PEATE 7

Mexican beaded lizard (Heloderma horridum). Color: yellow with dull brown or black irregular markings.
Length: 235 feet. Range: Central Mexico to northern Central America. Not aggressive unless disturbed.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 8

1. Common viper (Vipera berus), also called adder or kreuzotter (in Germany). Color: gray, olive, brown,
or reddish, uniform or with small dark lateral spots; a dark zigzag pattern along the back. Length: over
2 feet. Range: Great Britain; northern Europe, and Asia to the Amur River and Sakhalin Island; south-
ward in Europe to the Pyrenees, the Apennines, and the Balkans. Dangerously poisonous, savage, and
quick. (Courtesy New York Zoological Society.)

2. Orsini’s viper (\7pera ursinii), also called marasso alpino in Italy. Color: yellowish or pale brown
with aseries of dark brown spots which may run together in a wavy or zigzag band; sides dark gray or brown.
Length: 2 feet. Range: southern France, northern Italy, Hungary, and parts of Jugoslavia. Slightly poi-
sonous; not aggressive. (Courtesy Bulletin of the Antivenin Institute.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 9

1. Daboia (Vipera russellii), also called Russell’s viper or tic-polonga. Color: pale brown, with 3 rows of
large black rings bordered with white or yellow, having red or brown centers. Length: 5 feet. Range:
India, Ceylon, China, the Malay Peninsula, and some of the East Indian islands. Extremely poisonous;
not aggressive unless disturbed. (Courtesy New York Zoological Society.)

Ree see

2. Indian cobra (Naja naja), also called spectacled or Asiatic cobra. Color: yellowish to dark brown,
with a black and white, usually spectacle-shaped mark on the hood when spread. Length: 6 feet. Range:
eastern shores of Caspian Sea through Asia into China and Formosa, the Malay Archipelago, and the
Philippines. Exceedingly poisonous; aggressive when disturbed. (Courtesy New York Zoological Society.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 10

1. King cobra (Naja hannah), also called hamadryad. Color: olive or yellowish brown, often with black
cross bands. Length: over 18 feet. Range: eastern India, China, the Malay Archipelago, and the Philip-
pines. Extremely dangerous; very aggressive. (Courtesy New York Zoological Society.)

2. Banded krait (Bungarus fasciatus), also called ular welang in Malay. Color: yellow above, with broad
black rings. Length: nearly 5 feet. Range: southern India and China, the Malay Peninsula, Sumatra,
and Borneo, Extremely poisonous; not aggressive unless disturbed. (Courtesy New York Zoological
Society.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 11

%

fe é aes

1. Night adder (Causus rhombeatus), also called Cape viper. Color: gray, with a chain of dark, light-
edged spots along the back. Length: 3 feet. Range: the greater part of South Africa to the Nile. Extremely
poisonous; aggressive when disturbed. (Courtesy New York Zoological Society.)

2. Puff adder (Bitis arietans). Color: a series of black chevrons separated by yellow crescents down the
back. Length: 5 feet. Range: southern Morocco and the southern Sahara to the Cape of Good Hope, also
Arabia. Extremely poisonous; hisses loudly when disturbed. (Courtesy New York Zoological Society.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PEATE 12

DE Be ES ke
See ean ay eae

~

1. Rhinoceros viper (Bitis nasicornis), also called river jack. Color: a row of large blue oblong marks down
the back, with a yellow line in the center and black borders; a series of dark crimson triangles bordered
with blue on the sides; top of head blue with a black arrow-shaped mark pointing forward. Length: 4 feet.
Range: tropical West Africa. Extremely poisonous, but not aggressive. (Courtesy New York Zoological
Society.)

Die

2. Gaboon viper (Bitis gabonica). Color: a series of oblong buff marks enclosed in brown ovals along the
back, with a chain of purplish marks outside of these; sides with triangular purplish blotches; eyes silvery.
Length: nearly 6 feet. Range: forests of West Africa, also Uganda, Tanganyika, Northern Rhodesia, Angola,
and the island of Zanzibar. Extremely poisonous. (Courtesy New York Zoological Society.)
PLATE 13

Soha wh
ee ee

1. Common sand viper (Aspis vipera). Color: pale yellowis
Length: 2 feet. Range: northern Africa from Algeria to Egypt. Poisonous. (Courtes

2. Ringhals (Haemachates haemachatus), also called keel-se¢ spitting cobra. Color: brown or dull ble
above, sometimes with cross bars of brown; underside blackish, except for a pale band or two on the neck.
Length: about 4 feet. Range: Cape of Good Hope and Namaqualand. Dangerously poisonous not only
from the bite, but from its habit of spraying poison in the eyes of its victim, and very aggressive. (Courtesy
New York Zoological Society.)

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 14

1. Egyptian cobra (Naja haje), also called asp. Color: brown, sometimes with faint darker markings.
Length: 6 feet. Range: northern and eastern Africa from Morocco to Natal. Extremely poisonous; irritable
and aggressive. (Courtesy New York Zoological Society.)

2. Water cobra (Boulengerina stormsi). Color: light brown with a series of black, light-centered bands or
spots on the body. Length: 8 feet. Range: lakes and rivers in Cameroon, the French and Belgian Congos,
and Lake Tanganyika. Degree of toxicity unknown; aquatic; not aggressive out of water. (Courtesy New
York Zoological Society.)
mithsonian Re ort, 1943.—Cochran PEATE aS

1. Green mamba (Dendraspis viridis). Color: green or dark olive, uniform or each scale brown at the end;
lips yellowish, outlined with black. Length: 746 feet. Range: West Africa from the Senegal to the Niger.

Poisonous. (Courtesy New York Zoological Society.)

2. Australian black snake (Pseudechis porphyriacus). Color: above blue black: beneath scarlet, the scales

often edged with black. Length: 6 to 7 feet. Range: Australia, except the northern part. Poisonous.
(Courtesy Bulletin of the Antivenin Institute.)

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 16

1. Australian copperhead (Denisonia superba). Color: brown to black above, the head usually coppery.
Length: 6 feet. Range: southeastern Australia and Tasmania. Dangerously poisonous; not aggressive.
(Courtesy Bulletin of the Antivenin Institute.)

2. Brown snake (Demansia teztilis). Color: light brown or gray above, white below; young specimens
ringed with black. Length: 5 feet. Range: widely distributed throughout Australia. Extremely poisonous;
not aggressive. (Courtesy Bulletin of the Antivenin Institute.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 17

1. Tiger snake (Noftechis scutatus). Color: green, gray, orange or brown, with dark bands. Length: over
5 feet. Range: southern half of Australia. Extremely poisonous; very aggressive. (Courtesy Bulletin of
the Antivenin Institute.)

‘ ; me ee Dg AR

2. Death adder (Acanthophis antarcticus). Color: brownish or gray, with dark bands which are most
apparent in the young. Length: 3 feet. Range: dry parts of Australia, except Victoria. Extremely poi-
sonous. (Courtesy Bulletin of the Antivenin Institute.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 18

1. American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus). Color: adults olive to dull gray; young, greenish with black
markings. Length: over 14 feet. Range: southeastern Florida and Florida Keys; the Greater Antilles
except Puerto Rico; both coasts of Central America from Mexico to Ecuador and Colombia. Usually not
aggressive but dangerous because of powerful tail and jaws. (Courtesy National Zoological Park.)

2. American alligator (Alligator mississipiensis). Color: Adults uniformly black or dull gray; young,
black or dark brown with bright yellow cross bands. Length: about 12 feet. Range: from the Carolinas to
Florida, west through the Gulf States to the Rio Grande in Texas. Usually timid, but able to defend itself
by lashing its tail and biting savagely. (Courtesy National Zoological Park.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 19

1, Alligator-snapper (Macrochelys temminckii). Color: light brown or yellowish. Shell length: about 28
inches. Range: from Texas to southern Georgia and northwestern Florida, as far south as the Suwanee
River drainage system, north in the Mississippi basin to central Illinois. Shy and retiring in the wild
state, but able to bite viciously when disturbed. (Courtesy Philadelphia Zoological Society.)

2. Common snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina serpentina). Color: upper shell dull olive or dark brown;
lower shell yellowish; head and limbs very dark above, light beneath. Shell length: about 14inches. Range:
eastern North America from southern Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, except peninsular Florida, where it
is replaced by a related subspecies. Able to inflict a severe bite with its sharp-edged jaws. (Courtesy
A. I. Ortenburger.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 20

ah
sereiyes

Seo yissantaees:

feoketiecaes

1. Anaconda (Hunectes sp.). Color: olive with two rows of large black spots on back, and smaller ones,
often with yellowish or orange centers, toward the belly; orange dark-bordered streak on side of head.
Length: possibly over 30 feet. Range: Guianas, Brazil, and Peru. Constricts and crushes its victim;
jaws with long, backward-slanting teeth to hold prey. (Courtesy Philadelphia Zoological Society.)

2. Boa (Constrictor constrictor subsp.). Color: pale tan or yellow to reddish brown, with dark brown
saddles often enclosing lighter markings; scales highly iridescent. Length; about 13 feet. Range: Mexico to
the Argentine (in several varieties). Constricting and biting. (Courtesy Philadelphia Zooloicgal Society.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 21

as
<

1. Galapagos land iguana (Conolophus sp.). Color: head and neck dull orange to yellow; body, tail, and
limbs dark brown. Length: about 4 feet. Range: the Galapagos Islands. While these and other large
iguanas of other genera are not at all aggressive, they can bite and scratch with great vigor when captured.
(Courtesy National Zoological Park.)

2. Komodo dragon lizard (Varanws komodoensis). Color: dull brown or black; tongue yellow. Length:
about 10 feet. Range: restricted to four small islands (Komodo, Flores, Rindja, and Padar) lying east of
Java and south of Celebes. Wary toward man, but very strong and a vicious fighter with teeth, claws,
and lashing tail. (Courtesy Philadelphia Zoological Society.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 22

i .

1. Salt-water crocodile (Crocodylus porosus). Color: dark olive brown to black. Length: up to 33 feet.
Range: India, Ceylon, southern China, the Malay Archipelago, the Solomon and Fiji Islands, and northern
Australia. Extremely vicious and aggressive, being accountable for many deaths each year in the Malay
region and India. (Courtesy New York Zoological Society.)

2. Indian python (Python molurus). Two color phases: dark olivaceous with almost black markings,
and bright tan with olive-brown blotches, with usually a pinkish band on each side of head. Length: up
to 25 feet. Range: India, the Malay Peninsula, Ceylon, and Java. Sluggish and ‘“‘gentle,’’ but because
of its great size able to constrict, crush, and bite. (Courtesy National Zoological Park.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cochran PLATE 23

1. Rock python (Python sebae). Color: pale brown above, with dark brown sinuous cross bars; sides witb
large and small dark spots. Length: 25 to 30 feet. Range: Central and South Africa. Able to crush and
constrict because of its great strength, as well as to bite savagely if disturbed. (Courtesy Philadelphia
Zoological Society.)

2. Gould’s monitor (Varanus gouldii). Color: blackish with yellow dots in rosettes on the back. Length:

about 5 feet. Range: Australia and New Guinea. Like others of this genus, it fights with teeth and claws
and threshing tail when threatened. (Courtesy National Zoological Park.)
THE PLANTS OF CHINA AND THEIR USEFULNESS TO
MAN

By Easpert H. WALKER
Assistant Curator, Division of Plants, U. S. National Museum

[With 12 plates]

Foreigners traveling in China are struck by the contrast between
the barren, treeless mountains and hills, with here and there small
patches of dense forest hiding the picturesque temples, and the inten-
sively cultivated fertile valleys or strikingly terraced hillsides.
Scholars delving into the history of the people or the causes for the
locations of the present centers of population find that the plants
and their distribution, past and present, lie at the base of many
problems. Foreign residents meet curiosity-arousing plants on their
rambles or strange plant foods on their tables. The great majority
of the Chinese people are farmers, a much larger proportion than
in America. Likewise most merchants are constantly dealing with
plants or plant products in their business transactions. These and
many other considerations stress the importance to China of her plants
and vegetation.

The flora of China is the richest of any temperate region in the
world and is one of the most, if not the most, important and useful to
man. Although it has long been explored and studied, no one has
yet prepared a manual of the flora of this vast area or of any major
part of it comparable to our well-known Gray’s Manual of Botany
or Britton and Brown’s Illustrated Flora of the Northern States and
Canada.

HISTORY AND PRESENT STATUS OF BOTANY IN CHINA

How we have come to know about this plant wealth is important
in understanding what we know about it and where to find the re-
corded knowledge. Recently a student came to the Smithsonian In-
stitution to find a detailed map showing the distribution of the vege-
tation in China and its character in every locality. Had he under-
stood the stage of development of our knowledge of the botany of
China, he would have known that no such map existed and that the

566766—44_22 325
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

materials from which one could be prepared are widely scattered,
very incomplete, greatly generalized, and often very unreliable. It
is therefore of advantage to trace the history of the botany of China
before viewing the vegetation as a whole and examining some of its
principal component parts; that is, the individual species, of which
there are over 15,000 now known, with hundreds of new species being
described every year.

This history has three branches: the first, the accumulation of
knowledge now represented in the rich Chinese literature prepared
before the advent of modern science; the second, the development of
scientific knowledge by westerners; and the third, as yet only a vig-
orous shoot scarcely 25 years old, the development of Chinese scien-
tific botanists and institutions.

PRESCIENTIFIC STUDY BY CHINESE

Chinese nonscientific knowledge can be traced back to the mytho-
logical emperor and scholar, Shen Nung, who is supposed to have
lived some 2,000 years B. C. In the third century B. C. a diction-
ary of terms, including botanical names, which were used in the an-
cient Chinese classics, was compiled by Chou Kung under the title
“Ehr yah.” In 1590 appeared the most important of all Chinese
botanical works, the herbal called “Pén ts’ao kang mu,” by Li Shih-
chen, a record of all knowledge of Chinese medicinal plants. Since
that time many editions of this famous work have been prepared,
as well as other herbals. Most of the data recorded in these numer-
ous Chinese works are agricultural, medicinal, or economic. Valu-
able information on plants is inscribed in the huge Chinese encyclo-
pedias, which are often so large as to dwarf our familiar reference
works of this type. More information is buried in the numerous pro-
vincial and regional gazeteers. A few western scholars of the Chi-
nese language, or Sinologues, have delved into these storehouses of
literature and have made translations of scattered portions, but the
bulk of this material is still hidden from modern scientists in the
intricacies of the Chinese language. It is of relatively little value
to us from the purely scientific point of view but is of use in the field
of economic botany.

STUDY BY WESTERNERS

The growth of our western scientific knowledge of the plants of
China shows a steadily increasing seriousness in its scientific objectives,
progressive changes in the nationality and qualifications of its workers,
expansion of the areas where they worked, and changes in the loca-
tion of the centers in which they labored. The earliest westerners
who came to China were much interested in the strange new fruits
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER |

and economic plants which were used by the Chinese people and
which happened to come to their attention. Later westerners made
more serious search for plants grown in Chinese gardens and shipped
cuttings and seeds home so that their own gardens and greenhouses
might be enriched. Later still definite exploration for useful plants
was undertaken, from which developed scientific botanical exploration
and the collecting of herbarium specimens of all species. The first
westerners who concerned themselves with the plants of China were
traders whose primary interest was business. These were followed by
specially employed plant explorers, the earliest of whom were not
highly trained as botanists. Later came better-qualified men to
gather and interpret the wealth of botanical material so much desired
by horticulturists, agriculturists, and scientists in the west. It is
specially significant that almost all the European countries and the
United States were interested in exploring for China’s botanical
treasures, for the open-door policy in China prevented any one nation
from excluding the others. In the beginning, of course, all material
collected was sent back home, so that today the important scientific
collections are scattered throughout Europe and the United States.
Later, when stable centers were established in or near China, botanical
work was carried on from places nearer the collecting grounds, and at
least part of the material was retained in the country. Soon after
Hong Kong was ceded to Great Britain in 1841, the Hong Kong
Botanical Garden and herbarium were established, and similar
institutions in various places were started as opportunities opened
up. In the earlier part of the present century western missionary
schools, colleges, and universities were founded and, together with
various native Chinese schools and institutions, undertook botanical
work. Until recently most of the basic or purely technical study has
been done in Europe or America, Jargely because the institutions in
China lacked the basic scientific collections so essential to such studies,
but now much is being done by Chinese in China.

This story of Chinese botany is closely bound up with the pro-
gressive opening up of China to western penetration. At first only
the prized plants of Chinese gardens in the few coastal cities open to
foreign trade were known. Later the foreigners were permitted under
special restrictions to explore the nearby hills. Still later, when the
great diplomatic missions were allowed to travel overland between
Peiping and the southern ports, glimpses were obtained of the botani-
cal wealth of the interior. Following the opium wars, 1840 to 1861,
permission was wrested from the reluctant Chinese rulers to penetrate
farther inland and to establish consulates, customs stations, mission
compounds, and other centers from which botanical work could be
conducted. Eventually botanical explorers began to enter the back
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

door of China from Burma and to scour the far distant borderland
and even the still largely forbidden land of Tibet. Now the eastern
part of China is closed to all outsiders except the Japanese, and the
westerners can enter only by the back door.

Of course the first westerner to observe the plants of China was the
Italian merchant Marco Polo. His written accounts of what he saw
contain many references to the plants and vegetation and are of some
use in reconstructing a picture of the vegetation in the thirteenth
century, so different in many places from that found today. But to
scientific knowledge Marco Polo made almost no contribution.

From the rediscovery of China by the Portuguese in 1516 to the ex-
clusion of the western botanists from eastern China after “Pearl
Harbor,” there has been a steady accumulation of knowledge of
Chinese botany by the west. Following on the heels of the Portuguese
traders came Jesuit missionaries, who, unlike the merchants, pene-
trated far into the interior. In 1601 the Dutch arrived but their pred-
ecessors, the Portuguese, were too well established to permit these
newcomers to do much in China, so the Dutch concentrated their efforts
on Japan and were more important in the botanical history of that
country. They introduced tea into Europe soon after their first ar-
rival. The English came in 1637 and the French at a somewhat later
date. When the Swedish botanist Linnaeus wrote his epoch-making
Species Plantarum, published in 1753, he had access to a surprising
number of Chinese plants brought by the Swedish sea captains or sent
by various traders established in the few coastal ports then available,
especially by the enterprising chaplain Peter Osbeck at Canton. As
these treasures from the east and other parts of the world reached
Europe, gardens were established for their cultivation and herbaria
were built for their preservation. Scientific societies were formed to
promote world exploration and to study the accumulated specimens.
Thus grew the famous Chelsea Physic Garden in London and the
Royal Gardens, the latter now the world-famous Royal Botanic Gardens
at Kew, almost universally known simply as Kew. Likewise there were
established the Jardin des Plantes in Paris, and botanical gardens in
Leiden, Geneva, Vienna, St. Petersburg, and elsewhere. After 1800
there was developed the Royal Botanic Garden in Calcutta with its
eminent botanists, especially Wallich and Roxburgh. The Royal
Horticultural Society, the Linnaean Society of London, and other
scientific organizations were founded, and botany thrived throughout
Kurope. Governments became interested in the subject, and botanists
accompanied many of the world exploring expeditions that were so
popular during the eighteenth century and the first half of the nine-
teenth. All these foreigners except the Russians began their activities
in China at coastal cities. 'The Russians, however, pushed overland and
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 329

entered China from the north as part of their exploration of Siberia
and adjacent lands, and today the basic botanical collections from
northern and northwestern China are to be found in Leningrad.

The first real American botanical interest in China came with the
famous Perry expedition, which forced Japan to open her doors to
foreign trade in 1854. Charles Wright, the botanist of the expedition,
collected in China only about Hong Kong and Canton. His collec-
tions were studied by our own famous Asa Gray, working closely with
European botanists. Sets of duplicates were sent to London, St.
Petersburg, and probably Paris or Berlin. The famous Russian
botanist, C. J. Maximowicz, founded several new species on Wright’s
collections.

Numerous famous botanists were associated with various aspects of
this increasing interest in botanical exploration. Robert Fortune ex-
plored the coastal regions of eastern China from 1843 to 1861, largely
for the Royal Horticultural Society of London, and practically ex-
hausted the possibilities of Chinese gardens as sources of material for
cultivation in Europe. He wrote several very readable books on his
explorations, and from Chekiang and Fukien he obtained tea plants
from which were developed the now extensive and important tea
plantations in northern India. He was unable, however, because of
restrictions on travel, to penetrate very far into the back country.

The most learned botanical scholar in China in the nineteenth cen-
tury was probably H. F. Hance, a consular officer established in Hong
Kong and Whampoa below Canton. He accumulated there a fine
herbarium, wrote scholarly botanical papers, and corresponded ex-
tensively with other botanists and collectors in the east. His herbar-
jum eventually reached the British Museum. Charles Ford and
various others were in charge of the Hong Kong Botanical Garden and
enriched these collections by exploring southern and southeastern
China. Augustine Henry was a medical officer and assistant in the
Chinese Maritime Customs, who was stationed at various times in
Formosa and Hainan, and at Ichang in Hupeh, and Mengtze and
Szemao in Yunnan. He was much interested in studying the economic
botany of the country and collected, with the aid of Chinese assistants,
thousands of herbarium specimens, which were sent to Kew, whence
duplicates were distributed to various herbaria throughout the world.
They are now considered among the best and most important of all
botanical collections from China. Besides collecting herbarium ma-
terial, Henry observed the uses made of these plants and wrote an
important account of the economic plants of the country.

Among prosperous businessmen in Shanghai around 1870 was an
energetic American, F. B. Forbes, who delighted in collecting plants
on his week-end houseboat trips in the vicinity. Having need for a
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

list of the known plants of China, he persuaded the famous British
botanist, W. B. Hemsley, who named his collections, to prepare a list
of all the known plants of China. This project developed into the
only comprehensive enumeration of all the plants of China ever writ-
ten, namely, An Enumeration of All the Plants Known from China
Proper, Formosa, Hainan, Corea, the Luchu Archipelago and the
Island of Hongkong, published between 1886 and 1905. Forbes’ name
appears as first author, but, although he made some contributions, the
work is largely the result of Hemsley’s effort. It was never intended
to be a manual for ready identification of the plants mentioned and is
now greatly out of date. It is important, however, as it brings together
the scattered material published up to that time.

In 1899 the search in China for ornamental and other useful plants
was renewed with great vigor. In that year E. H. Wilson, trained as
a gardener at Kew, was sent to China by the famous horticultural con-
cern, Veitch & Sons, of England, with the encouragement of C. S.
Sargent, founder of the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University.
Wilson subsequently made several trips for this American scientific
institution, the first in this country to interest itself seriously in the
Asiatic treasures. Following Wilson there came three Britishers:
George Forrest, who died in Yunnan; Reginald Farrer, famous for
his additions to English garden plants; and Francis Kingdon Ward,
who is still exploring in Asia. Austria was represented by Camillo
Schneider and H. Handel-Mazzetti, the latter marooned in China by
the First World War. American workers included Frank N. Meyer,
pioneer plant explorer for the United States Department of Agri-
culture, who was drowned in the Yangtze River (pl. 11, fig. 1) ; P. H.
Dorsett, another Government explorer of North China in the 1920's,
now deceased; and J. F. Rock, an enthusiastic collector in western
China for our Government and other organizations, recently returned
from Yunnan, Most of these men and others were employed pri-
marily. to bring back seeds and cuttings of economically useful plants
and more or less incidentally to make scientific herbarium collections.
However, their dried specimens and technical publications have con-
tributed greatly to the knowledge we have today of the rich flora of
China. Because they were especially interested in plants for cultiva-
tion. in temperate Europe and America, they confined their en-
deavors largely to the rich hunting grounds of western China, first
explored about 1870 by the French missionary-explorer, Armand
David. Frank N. Meyer and P. H. Dorsett, however, made especially
valuable discoveries of little-known cultivated plants in northern, cen-
tral, and eastern China. Meyer, furthermore, penetrated into Chinese
Turkestan and beyond. ;
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 331

THE BEGINNINGS OF SCIENTIFIC STUDY BY THE CHINESE

Until about 1918 practically all the scientific botanical work in China
was done by foreigners from Europe and America, who took back to
their home countries all their valuable collections. But following the
Chinese Revolution in 1911, the idea was developed of initiating simi-
lar work by Chinese as part of the modernization of China. In 1916
the staff of Canton Christian College, now called Lingnan University,
started accumulating a herbarium with the encouragement of W. T.
Swingle, of the United States Department of Agriculture, and of E. D.
Merrill, then director of the Bureau of Science in Manila, and estab-
lished a department of botany where students were trained to do re-
search work. F.A.McClure,a member of the staff, a plant explorer of
many parts of South China, especially of Hainan, and collaborator
with the United States Department of Agriculture, undertook the in-
vestigation of the bamboos for the purpose of training Chinese stu-
dents in scientific research. About the same time Nanking University,
another mission school, and National Southeastern University, a gov-
ernment institution, now called National Central University, started
herbaria and undertook similar work. Gradually other schools, espe-
cially those under the Government, inspired by the examples of the
earlier ones and staffed by their graduates or by botanists trained
abroad, instituted botanical research. In the beginning various for-
eign foundations fostered these developments by direct or indirect
means, and later, Chinese scientific societies and other organizations
aided their growth. Soon the initiative in botanical work was taken
by trained Chinese botanists, most of them with degrees from American
or European universities. At first these herbaria were dependent on
foreign specialists for most of the naming of their collection, because
the basic collections needed for comparison were in Europe and Amer-
‘ica, and library facilities in China were inadequate. But gradually
these obstacles have been overcome by obtaining photographs or dupli-
cates of important collections or by making new collections which were
carefully compared with the older ones, and by buying books or getting
photostats or other reproductions. Now many parts of China have
been explored by Chinese botanists and large collections of valuable
material have been accumulated. These workers have been able to
penetrate areas either not accessible to foreigners or not worth their
exploring because of their primary interest in horticulturally useful
material from temperate regions.

There has thus been a steadily increasing interest in Chinese botany
from the time of the first Portuguese trader to the establishing of
modern herbaria and scientific research by Chinese institutions. Much
has already been learned, but there still remains extensive work to
be done.
332 = ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

THE PRESENT STATUS OF CHINESE BOTANY

The principal botanical centers in China before the war were Canton,
the Nanking-Shanghai area, and Peiping, with some activity in Sze-
chwan. In Canton were Lingnan University and Sunyatsen Uni-
versity. In Nanking were Nanking University and National Central
University, the Academia Sinica, and the Botanical Laboratory of the
Science Society of China. In Peiping the principal institutions were
the Fan Memorial Institute of Biology and the National Academy of
Peiping, the former especially interested in southwestern China, the
latter centering its activities largely in Mongolia and Sinkiang, or
Chinese Turkestan. On Lu Shan near Kiu Kiang, in Kiangsi Prov-
ince was the Lu Shan Arboretum under the Fan Memorial Institute
of Biology. This arboretum is now established in Likiang, Yunnan.
Besides these major centers many other colleges, universities, and
societies were engaged in botanical work, such as Amoy University,
which was especially interested in marine algae, Hong Kong University,
National Wuhan University, Kwangsi University, Science Institute
of West China, and others.

It is of considerable interest and of no little importance in the light
of Chinese-American relations to note that most of this work by
Chinese botanists has its roots in American activity in China. Thus
their methods and points of view are primarily American rather than
European, and a far larger proportion have degrees from American
than from European universities. In Japan the reverse is true.

Of the many fine Chinese botanists, one of the most outstanding
is Dr. H. H. Hu, head of the Fan Memorial Institute of Biology, a
graduate of Harvard University, now president of Chung Cheng Uni-
versity (Chiang Kai-shek University) at Taiho, southwestern Kiangsi
Province. Prof. W. Y. Chun, of Sunyatsen University, also a Harvard
student, whose present location is unknown, is especially versed in the
flora of southeastern China and Hainan, where he has collected ex-
tensively. On the fall of Canton to the Japanese forces he established
the university’s herbarium temporarily in Kowloon in British territory
opposite Hong Kong Island and saved most of the collections. The col-
lections he could not remove from Canton are reported to have been
taken by the Japanese to Formosa. We have no knowledge of what
happened on the fall of Hong Kong. R.C. Ching (pl. 11, fig. 2), head
of the Lu Shan Arboretum in Likiang, Yunnan Province, is the fore-
most authority on ferns, and Dr. Y. L. Keng, of National Central
University in Chungking, is a thorough scholar who has specialized
on the grasses of China. Prof. W. P. Fang, of National Szechwan
University, Omei Hsien in Szechwan Province, is working on the
flora of that region and has made extensive collections. Dr. Tseng
Cheng-kwei, who is still in America, is a specialist on marine algae,
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 333

and Li Liang-ching, last heard from at the Fan Memorial Institute of
Biology in Peiping, is an authority on fresh-water algae. Dr. Tai
Fang-lan, a student of fungi, was at least formerly with National
Tsinghua University, now joined in exile with the National Southwest
Union University in Kunming, Yunnan. At this same Union Uni-
versity is C. Y. Chang, a plant morphologist. Many others, equally
worthy of mention, are in various places unknown to us because of the
wartime disruption of communication. Whereas in former years in-
quiries about Chinese plants were usually directed to some foreign
institution, now they can be directed to Chinese botanists at home.

Even at the present time botanical work is going forward in China.
Research and even exploration is being carried out, although on a
small scale and under tremendous handicaps, and scientific papers
are occasionally printed. Exchange of publications with western na-
tions is impossible, except as many scientific periodicals in America
are being microfilmed and sent by mail through cooperation with the
Cultural Relations Division of the United States Department of
State.

It should not be forgotten, however, that much botanical work on
Chinese plants is still being done by westerners in America and
Europe. Dr. E. D. Merrill, director of the Arnold Arboretum of
Harvard University, is the foremost authority in America, and that
institution, along with the Gray Herbarium of Harvard University.
has the finest collection of Chinese herbarium specimens in the United
States. The United States National Herbarium in Washington has
many thousands of specimens in the care of the present writer, who
is especially interested in the plants of China. The New York Bo-
tanical Garden, the University of California, and the Missouri
Botanical Garden also have large Chinese herbaria. In Europe the
largest collection is probably at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, but
very large and important deposits are at the British Museum in
London and the Royal Botanic Garden in Edinburgh. In Berlin
there was developed a large and very important herbarium, which
is reported to have been almost completely destroyed in March 1943
in a bombing raid. Other important collections are in Paris, Vienna,
Stockholm, Copenhagen, and Leningrad.

THE LITERATURE ON CHINESE PLANTS

Ever since the time of Marco Polo and the earliest Portuguese
explorations, people have been writing about the plants of China.
There is now a tremendous literature written in almost every Euro-
pean and Far Eastern language and in the books and periodicals of
almost every country. It deals with these plants from almost every
point of view, taxonomic, economic, agricultural, geographical, and
334 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

others. Because these plants from China have found their way
into cultivation in all parts of the world, horticultural and agricul-
tural literature is full of valuable accounts of interest to students
of Chinese botany. Much of the literature is highly technical and
would be of little interest to the general reader. Very little of a
popular nature has been written on the plants as a whole; indeed the
subject is so vast and there is so much even yet unknown that it is
a difficult task to treat the flora as a whole. Everyone in China who
is interested in plants longs for a manual by which he can learn the
scientific, Chinese, and sometimes the common English names of the
trees, shrubs, and herbs about him, but no one has yet undertaken to
write such a comprehensive work. For a few restricted areas there
are such books, but they are of little use outside their boundaries. A
few years, ago Dr. E. D. Merrill and the writer compiled A Biblio-
graphy of Eastern Asiatic Botany, listing over 21,000 titles of books
and papers on the plants of China proper, Manchuria, Mongolia,
Tibet, Japan, Formosa, Korea, and eastern Siberia. It is the most
extensive regional plant bibliography ever published. By means of
its extensive indexes one can find a great mass of information on
many subjects. For further details on the principal works on Chi-
nese plants, see pp. 360-361.

FLORAL REGIONS OF CHINA

The great number of species of plants in China, numbering over
15,000 seed plants and ferns alone, along with the great diversity in
the vegetation, ranging from the steaming Tropics of Hainan Island
to the cold, wind-swept Mongolian deserts and from the China
Sea to the eternally snow-capped peaks of Tibet, makes the task of
gaining a general concept of China’s flora a difficult one. The aver-
age person in most parts of China sees, besides the well-tended plants
in cultivated and usually irrigated fields, a limited amount of wild
vegetation. This consists largely of scattered trees among the culti-
vated fields (pl. 1, fig. 2) or along roadsides and paths or an occasional
grove in or near a village (pl. 4, fig. 1). Striking oases of luxuriant
vegetation hide the temples and monasteries scattered about the
countryside or nestled in mountain valleys. One will notice also
that most of these mountains and hills are covered with grass or small
shrubs (pl. 1, fig. 1), or bear scattered pine trees of no great size
(pl. 2). But if one travels into the interior on the divides between
the major rivers and away from tillable lands, he may find genuine
forests, even dense primeval jungles.

The most outstanding feature of the Chinese landscape to a new-
comer from the west is the barren and treeless appearance of the
hillsides throughout most of the country. Reforestation is the most
| Northeastern ¢
2 Gob Desert Re
3 Loess Region
4 Middle China

, a 7 - on oi a i a ~ a
\ : a ert ek v4 hi Be, i Rope
: VE @. << ae, ed i, Ki i 5
7 . Ty. holes iy” me |
: + it) r¥, Ae 7 I yy
: f ; A Aaa t,\ TY b, : - Ph a
a | ; ay ; LS . 5 aa : va
} 7 . ine ° Md »
a Mi ei , 7 Te hy wl
; . ' A a . iy 7 7 A
7 oe 7 _ - le 7 i , rh i
ca: a 7 - i ye 2 a.
« 7) J i , 7 y .
Uma. " . 1. eee
7 i 7 7 7 7 aT i 2
i ® 7 “ ;
" : : <7 y.
7 i re .
a a a D =a 7 Ly ; ‘yg y
2. : - 7 : “hy OC heed @
: , ; ; - 7 >e4 an
: 7 : : a
¥ a " 7 - ' ig
ee 7 F , J we 4! 7 a - oe “a I :
he. - ; : a i ~ +. Side ae
RAF he : 7 eh 7) an
: in we
nf at - —— - Oe ’
7 a? 7 ’ ‘ 7 7 a
ne a ‘ . uy
: pul : a 4 7 as 7 | : : : t. ie
: Ara a eee © - + i> ee
7 ; ieay
oF i 7 @ 7 7 - N
7 v] 7 e ‘-
a s ” f : }
} _ - ; rl : in : 4 - ; i 7 : Fy
we f cO - on yo Pee :
7 5 . ; - ; - :
. 7 4 7 - . f
7 ‘ - i a a
» - aa) as 7 q Y - " ia
: : ? 7 @ nae oat i 7
— nv ——-. Wit) hae ie
7 7 i 7 Te wr) a by 7
7 ' 7 i: in
gd re nm | 7% 6
? A - = 7 y | ares
a ‘oh pd eee oF 7
- n j \ t ie
Lor : 7 7 my hk v 7
- “i ova a a ;
y, n " cn) ie i 7 7 ’ )
one 7) : : a
7 : Ae i PU Ge i)
nt 7 i i é : 7 , Lil vs a i ,
. = 7% : | a, oe tio
; ‘ “ae ! ch ae
I me, ff 7 ite ‘< ‘oe Op rn
ew i ; i 7 oe Yee ‘ a
ac * =e) ul : if 9 «fen a 9 ey
t - 1 iz, .!
+) om ' BRP 4 iT; a, apts ae o
a - 3 es Cy ee
: 7 7 7 : ; ome an i - s iy ule _s. 7
i . fe > 7 Se ere
ra —_ x, v 7 ve mY io aT
» fi 7h oe JP ay soe 7
‘ i - 7 J . aS By A eed
7 a ny =a | 7 Peay pf 7 as Bia ‘ a
i , : - 7 , 7 7 ~ 2 i
7 : : i 1 a : oY ; Dy ft) rT to
a 7 : i i a : "by oy Lf
' ; 7 ak Aa a AY > ee ae
7 _ y paul fis ‘wo WO me, 177 7 a eo aD : wy" A
at : "7 , i +. as ys ae i a -
yo st ’ 9 Si) ae ps
7 © ts a watt cre Pena iat | of
Oe a en pee as Ye.
ewe Mle “2, She a sie a
ay a ‘eo, a pr 7 e - us ca ; of Pore wae,
: 7 - io 4 - won 4 TA ye i“ 10 \é oy mud ‘
an i Se i ea ey
: rn) - f - ; , s > 7 = : - : 7 At a - a , a eas {
° : tA 7 ‘ ; ;
a : oe Vy Terror : ' vee a i nin x it : 7 a
- ace fi ’ ra. : abe j . ne: |
- ae nc’ y : aa 2 ee r i»
- : s OTT am i" i. aac War « an r
= : ¥ a - i oe - ' 7 7, 7 7 -
, a a va aii ~ a ‘ ih a) ne int} i i vs ao A Say _ ; ”
ae i ¥ a" a iy or oe ti : 7
oan fy oP Weal Tot ee vo ae
UREN eh ie
ee wa Bo wa Chics hosed i an __ 7
Gi 1 Se
en Ve
es° 90° 95°

PRINCIPAL FLORAL REGIONS wei. BERI Y (Oe we : =
OF > J
peek att ll if °
c H / NV A / *. .
| Northeastern China S Southern China ( =~ °
J ‘ . P * 2
2 Gobi Desert Region 6 Southwestern Yunnan OUTER »M™ ONGOL, = a :
3 Loess Region 7 Highlands of Western China Pao.
4 Middle China 8 Grasslands of Tibet a “ Harbin
vA 5 2 .'S
JS ° R
€ CHAHAR pe A
j Bae ° -
gets eC Ns eo \ 7 e \ £
Pod ce Nf ie oO } . "el
6) . | _ ° (ip 5 ee
nw SS a Mukden : 2
0 ) (a i
SUTY UA we :
© Peking 2

PAN ; Tientsin

“ S»
mn
J | ‘ z
rs be
i] 3 6 *
J é tec ) HANTUNG
| le , Q { = iy
eo # o x Fi
Me eo? a ‘wn — i as a) YY
& RK O Siz
el Fat ~S *} °s : e fics t, is Son. o° se
a 1 é c a CebeSeseoee) Va .%
3 oP ie | | ae Gx" Ste 4 ae.
: } Sang CO Hansen, ce AY KI AS
er PA 5 ) ee / \
: § pe 1 a> ees 3) ° sc Nanking
5.¥ Ad Chee cola eee
Some 3 = Hankom, A MI WF
9 7 &: hengty (cj 2 4 Ay FS Ae
fi ir. = \ 4 p ) Hankow
hel ) NS Beth” as ae ae NG.
i" S Ze ¢ w 7) ‘hungking i }. Py) Lan iM { (ousets ,
«at? ele, = sai * ) }
ge ; Vous a) Changsha “> Bes: e
"iain ee, ia Page rae
fa) ‘ 7
/ HUNAN } 4 id

\ KIANGSI

?
— { /
vA ‘g /
°*/e a ae Va.
ee * eee ee ee

\

Figure 1.—Principal floral regions of China. CORPO 8a: CE Ey ORs
raoranpy, naaets
, ye ri

Np Gehmizard €

«. a
St % tee dts “en
pe Te oz

ats

a . — vee at * ed
ae ee “ ae in Pe es ?
7 ay 5 * tae 4 oe. /& | ot 7 :
S “~ hing 1, ae ne ‘ 1 ;
; ma ;
ee as ; * %. \ aed erg :
” a et a a <, : yA a
he «oie f e a ee ve :
on , on # a \ 7
>
« .
hy items ay « 2 oe
a * . ‘ 4 L
ro ; 3 if Y
eel ) { : . ri a )
od 1.5
- “ vy egw
4 age cs bid i , .
ns . epee qr, i
q eye
s - * * f % 4 0
aie. a, To 4) —w% ~*~
e » 2 3s th ‘« *

" * « set ~ N ise

og iat Sh,
ye, Thesity

inten. &. Jf aecnnnnyeagstvns Bopmeneneet

bony P. a ane
SPN ence = = ren nner

_ |
~~ "\ AnurH908
} G

apna}

;

w8 Eig tt rs ia

A

PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER Se)

urgent economic problem in China next to that of raising enough
food for its millions of people.

The vegetation of China varies with respect to the rainfall and
humidity, which are in turn governed largely by the direction of the
winds, the seasons, and the location and altitude of the mountains,
which rise in the west to peaks over 22,000 feet. The distribution of
the rainfall throughout the year, the average temperature, the ex-
tremes of temperature, the character of the soil, and various other
factors also determine the type of vegetation found in any given area.
As these factors differ widely throughout the country, so there is
great variation in the vegetation.

Geographically China can be divided into at least eight floral
regions as follows (see also map, fig. 1, where approximate bound-
aries are shown) :

1. Northeastern China, including most of Korea and extending
from northern Manchuria to the great plains of China, marked off
from the lower Yangtze Valley by the extension of the Tsinling
Mountains, and reaching westward to the Gobi and Ordos Deserts
and the loess regions of Shansi.

2. The Gobi Desert region of Mongolia, especially the southern
part, including the Ordos.

3. The loess region covering eastern Kansu, most of Shensi, and
part of Shansi.

4. Middle China, comprising the main part of the country from
the Tsinling Mountains on the north to the Nan Shan on the South
(that broad range which separates the watersheds of the Si Kiang
from the Yangtze Kiang) and extending westward across the plateau
of Yunnan and the basins and lesser mountains of Szechwan to the
foot of the snow-capped peaks in the west.

5. Tropical and subtropical southern China, including most of
Kwangsi, all of Kwangtung except the most northern part, coastal
Fukien and southern Chekiang, and of course Hong Kong and
Hainan.

6. Southwestern Yunnan, which has the same type of luxuriant
tropical vegetation as adjacent Burma.

7. The highlands of western China with their deep river gorges
and snow-capped peaks and corresponding parts of western Szechwan
and Kansu.

8. The grasslands of eastern Tibet, covering parts of Sikang, Tsing-
hai, and Kansu.

If Tibet as a whole be included in this greater China area, two more
floristic regions would be added, namely: (1) the northern plain or
Chung Tang along with the Tsaidam, the part with internal drainage;
and (2) the outer plateau, the part of Tibet drained by several rivers
which flow through great gorges across the Himalayan Range.
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

These divisions are not clearly marked off from each other, but
gradually intergrade. Of course it must not be supposed that the
vegetation is uniform within these divisions; it actually varies con-
siderably according to soil, altitude, and climate. Also in general
aspect the vegetation in most parts has been enormously changed by
man from that which unhindered Nature has developed. In fact,
to a very large extent we can only determine what is the normal
vegetation by careful study of the few remnants which man has not
yet altered.

The plants that compose the vegetation of these regions can be
divided according to their geographic affinities. For example, the
banyan trees of southern China occur elsewhere only in southern
Asia, and the species of pines found in Manchuria occur elsewhere
only in Siberia and northeastern Asia. Thus the plants of China
can be divided into the following eight groups based on their geo-
graphic affinities, with the addition of a ninth group, if the strictly
cultivated plants be considered as part of the flora of the country.

1. Palaearctic, consisting of plants which occur in northern Asia,
often also in Europe and northern North America.

2. Central Asiatic, occurring in Turkestan and vicinity, usually
also in Asia Minor and often even in northern Africa.

3. Himalayan, consisting of plants found in the temperate and
alpine parts of this vast range south of Tibet.

4. Indo-Malayan, the plants which are found exclusively or nearly
so in Indo-China, the Malay Peninsula, and the East Indies.

5. Insular or Japanese, including plants extending over Hokkaido,
Japan proper, the Liu Kiu Islands, and Formosa.

6. North American, consisting of that group of plants found in
eastern Asia and eastern North America, which has been of so much
interest to plant geographers.

7. Cosmopolitan, those which occur so widely distributed over the
world that they cannot be considered as indigenous of any one part.

8. Endemics, or those plants, either species, genera, or even fam-
ilies, which occur nowhere else.

The following discussion is mainly concerned with the floral re-
gions, because considerable knowledge of the distribution of plants
is needed in order to understand floral affinities. However, these re-
lationships will be considered in connection with each region.

NORTHEASTERN CHINA

This floral region includes Manchuria, most of Korea, the great
plain of China in Shantung, Shansi, Chihli or Hopei, and most of Ho-
nan, and extends south over northern Anhwei and Kiangsu. It is
bounded on the west by the loess deposits of Shansi and Shensi and
PLANTS OF CHINA—-WALKER BEY

the desert and grasslands of Mongolia, including the Ordos Desert in
the great bend of the Yellow River. This is a region of rather se-
vere winters and adequate, but not extremely abundant, rainfall.
The climate is greatly influenced by the monsoon winds, although less
so than in the regions farther south, and is not extremely continental,
as is that of Mongolia and of central and northern Asia.

The characteristic plants are broadleaved deciduous Temperate
Zone trees and shrubs, the genera of which are mostly familiar to
people of eastern North America, such as oak, maple, birch, beech, ash,
walnut, elm, willow, etc. There are many conifers, such as larch,
spruce, fir, and pine, but they are found in less abundance or on the
higher mountains. Bamboos are found in northern Korea. In Man-
churia and northeastern Asia occurs that gorgeous phenomenon of
autumn leaf coloration, so familiar to us in the northeastern United
States and Canada, but occurring nowhere else in the world to such a
degree.

Throughout most of this region in China proper the trees now
occur singly or in small groves. Originally great forests extended
almost unbroken, though changing in constitution, from Manchuria
and even farther north, all the way down through eastern China to
the tropical jungles. There remain today large forests in northern
Korea and in some of the mountainous parts of Manchuria. These
forests furnish much valuable timber for use in northern China and
even for export to Japan and elsewhere. Until about 30 years ago
there were some magnificent forests east, west, and north of Peip-
ing, which were saved by the emperors for hunting preserves; but,
with the passing of the last imperial dynasty and the uncontrolled
pressure of the population for forest resources, these have rapidly
dwindled to almost nothing. In Shansi has occurred the same phe-
nomenon; the once great forests on Wu Tai Shan described in early
Chinese literature have steadily dwindled till now there is almost
nothing left. The tragic story of this mountain has been ably told
by W. C. Lowdermilk and Dean R. Wickes under the title “History
of Soil Use in the Wu T’ai Shan Area.”+ This account, prepared in
connection with our own Government’s soil conservation efforts, was
traced largely from the records found in various Chinese works.

In north-central Shensi, north of the loess-filled valley of the Wei
Ho and south of the loess area of the northern part of the province,
are some forests of pine, birch, and poplar, which might be considered
as belonging to this floristic region. It has been reported that in this
wild area, partly denuded in earlier years, the forests returned to some
extent after the destruction of the population in the great Moham-

1 Published as a monograph issued under, the auspices of the North China Branch of the
Royal Asiatic Society, 31 pp., illustrated, 1938.
338 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

medan rebellion of 1867 to 1878. In the mountainous or hilly Shan-
tung Peninsula the original forests have disappeared and been re-
placed in small part through scientific reforestation, in some cases
with foreign trees such as American black locust, Scotch pine, and
others. This work was started when the area was partially under
German control.

The ranges of many of the dominant plants of this northeastern
region extend northward into Siberia. These species are thus con-
sidered as Palaearctic. There are, however, a number of endemic
species of considerable importance. Here occur also a number of
plants belonging to the eastern Asiatic-eastern North American group,
as for example the popular oriental medicinal plant ginseng.

THE GOBI DESERT REGION

The Gobi Desert region covers most of Inner and Outer Mongolia
and includes the Ordos Desert within the great bend of the Yellow
River. It is really the eastern end of the great desert region that
extends from northern Africa across Arabia, Iran, central Asia,
northern Tibet, and Sinkiang or Chinese Turkestan. The flora of all
these regions is closely related, the ranges of many species found in the
Gobi Desert extending far to the west, some even to Africa. The driest
and most desertlike part is in the south, roughly along the line of the
Yellow River, where are found in places, especially in the Ordos and
in eastern Kansu, large wind-blown sand dunes with no vegetation
to hold them in check. Elsewhere are rock-strewn plains or hills with
an occasional, usually dry, watercourse, along which occurs'some vege-
tation consisting largely of drought-resistant, dull green shrubs, trees,
and grasses. Just north of the Yellow River lie paralleling mountain
ranges, the Alashan and In Shan, which are high enough to intercept
in summer the remnants of the monsoon winds from the southeast and
to drain from the clouds sufficient moisture to maintain forests of
spruce, pine, and poplar. Toward the southeast, east, and north
the desert becomes more moist and merges into grasslands, which
in turn merge on the north into the forests or steppes of Siberia and
on the east into the Manchurian forests.

There are of course very few trees and shrubs in the true desert.
Those which can survive the extremes of this severe continental climate
and the scant moisture are mostly willows, elms, poplars, tamarisks,
saxauls, and a few others. The saxaul (Halorylon ammodendron) is
the most characteristic plant of this desert as of all central Asia. It
is a leafless tree, rarely reaching 30 feet in height, with green branches,
and is a member of the goosefoot family (Chenopodiacae), which
is largely composed of herbs and semiwoody shrubs. The garden
beet and the common lamb’s-quarters or pigweed of our gardens and
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 339

waste places belong in this family. A favorite food of the camels
and other browsing desert animals is the nitre bush (Vitraria scho-
beri) of the caltrop family (Zygophyllaceae), which grows in the
saline soil so common in deserts. It isalsoan emergency food for man.
The characteristic central Asiatic desert vegetation is largely com-
posed of other members of these same families and of the orpine and
tamarisk families (Crassulaceae and Tamaricaceae, respectively), and
certain genera and species of the mustard (Cruciferae), pea (Legum-
inosae, especially the spiny caraganas), pink (Caryophyllaceae), and
other families as well as euphorbs, sedges, and grasses. The interest-
ing drug plant Z’phedra, rather new in western medicine, but long used
by the Chinese, is found in the desert.

There are no endemics in this flora, a fact of considerable im-
portance in considerations of the extent to which the deserts of Asia
may be man-made and how much they are the result of natural condi-
tions. Whatever may be the answer to the question of the origin of the
Gobi Desert, we are very sure that it is gradually extending itself east-
ward and southward and encroaching on the more habitable lands
which man needs. Besides the unmistakable historical evidence for
this progressive desiccation, which is to be found in ancient written
records, in the reports by people still living, telling of present desola-
tion where once they saw green fields, and in the ruins of once prosper-
ous cities now buried in sand, we have botanical evidence in the buried
and fossilized remains of trees of species which can grow only under
more moist conditions than now exist. Other evidence is seen in the re-
mains of Chinese agricultural activity north of the Great Wall, where
now it is impossible, and in the increasing occurrence of dust storms
spreading down over China, even as far as Canton. Probably, this pro-
gressive desiccation is a result of a progressive change in climate, and
nothing will stop it except a reversal of the trend. In this advance of
the desert the conifers succumb first, and then the maples, oaks, walnuts,
and other hardwood trees. The poplars, elms, and willows survive
the longest, and these constitute the principal trees found today in the
towns and cities along the Yellow River and the edge of the Gobi
Desert. In some places one finds the fruitful jujubes or Chinese dates
cultivated or wild. For people who are accustomed to seeing the best
of woods used in ship construction it is rather hard to imagine boats
made of willow planks, but, having no better material available, boat-
builders on parts of the Yellow River or Hoangho must of necessity
use this material.

THE LOESS REGION

The dust blown out of the Gobi Desert has throughout the ages
settled down on regions to the south, building up great deposits of
the distinctive material called loess. This deposit varies in thickness
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

from a few inches to several hundred feet and covers a large area in
Kansu, Shensi, and Shansi. (For approximate location, see map, fig. 1.)
The climate of this area is essentially continental, and the vegetation
is scarcely better off for quantity of moisture than is that in the Gobi
and Ordos Deserts. Most of the rain comes in July and August. How-
ever, the fine loess soil holds by capillarity the water which it does
receive and raises it from the water table to heights where deep-rooted
plants can reach and use it. The loess itself is highly fertile, and good
crops of shallow-rooted plants can be grown where sufficient water
can be brought to the fields. Thus, the loess region is better provided
with vegetation than is the desert, but yet, as compared with the rest
of China, the plant cover is woefully thin. In composition this vege-
tation is closely related to that of central Asia and the desert regions.
Jujubes, poplars, elms, and willows constitute the principal woody
plants. There are no endemics. In all probability forests grew here
in former times, but scarcely any remnants are left today. As wood is
lacking there is little fuel and practically no timber for building, but
the happy circumstance that the loess deposits can be tunneled into
without caving in enables whole villages to be carved out of the cliffs,
and wood need be used only for doors, window frames, furniture, and
farm implements. As the walls of these cave dwellings conduct little
heat, the houses are cool in summer and warm in winter.

The great problem in the loess region is that of erosion by water and
by wind, aided by violent earthquakes. With such unstable conditions
prevailing and with the inhabitants scraping the hillsides for every
possible bit of fuel, a thriving native vegetation could hardly be
expected.

7 MIDDLE CHINA

The bulk of the flora which is commonly thought of as character-
istically Chinese is found in the great basin or basins of the Yangtze
River and its tributaries. This is the largest floral province in China
and extends from the Tsinling Mountains, southern Honan, and north-
central Anhwei and Kiangsu on the north to the northern border of
Kwangsi, the northern portion of Kwangtung, and southern Fukien,
and from the coast of the China Sea, except parts of Fukien and
Chekiang, westward to the lower parts of the high snow-clad moun-
tains in the west. The plateau of Yunnan lies within this floral area.
The Tsinling Range on the north effectively cuts off the cold winds of
central Asia and permits the vegetation toward the south to thrive
under the more benign influence of the summer monsoon from the
southeast. Hence, in contrast with the cool-temperate flora of north-
eastern China and the desert vegetation of the Gobi and loess regions,
we find in middle China a warm-temperate or even, in places, a sub-
tropical vegetation. It varies, of course, with the distance from the
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 341

sea and the consequent intensity of the rainfall and its distribution
through the growing season. The monsoon reaches the Yangtze River
in April and Kansu in late summer. Furthermore, the regularity of
the monsoon winds decreases toward the north, where, because of the
caprices of these winds, occur most of the well-known periodic famines
of China. For instance, that of 1877 and 1879 in Shansi was the result
of a continuous current of air flowing down the Yangtze Valley which
prevented the monsoon winds from the south or southeast from reach-
ing northern China as they usually do.

As in most of the northeastern floristic region and in the semi-
tropical part to the south one of the most significant features of the
vegetation in middle China is its alteration by man. Wherever agri-
culture is at all possible, we find the native wild vegetation entirely
replaced. The demands of the dense population for fuel and other
plant products are so great that the original vegetation on the neigh-
boring hills, which cannot be cultivated, has been largely destroyed.
Only the hardiest native plants remain, unless protected by temples
or monasteries or sometimes by enterprising villages in communal
forests or woods. True forests remain only where they cannot be ex-
ploited profitably because of their distance from rivers on which logs
can be floated to market. Im consequence of the almost complete
alteration of the native vegetation in the various large basins and
valleys which comprise this area, we can learn of the original vegeta-
tion of middle China only by studying the forests still remaining on
the major divides.

The northernmost forested area is the Tsinling Range lying south
of the loess area and dividing the Wei and Han Rivers in southern
Shensi. It extends eastward into Honan where it is much less prom-
inent. The eastern part of this range reaches up to 12,000 feet in
places, high enough to have subalpine rhododendron thickets above
a zone of firs (Abdzes), pines, birches, and willows. Somewhat lower
down, especially on the southern side of the range, occur forests of
deciduous broadleaved trees, as in northeastern China, but containing
species less tolerant of the severe winters of that area, such as ash,
liquidamber, Fortunea, Paulownia, Catalpa, Ailanthus or tree-of-
heaven, and even bamboo.

South of the upper part of the Han River, forming the northern and
eastern border of Szechwan, lies the Ta Pan Shan, which, together
with the Tsinling Shan, is the eastward extension of the Kuenlun
Range separating Turkestan from the Tibetan Plateau. Forests of
great commercial importance are found in the Ta Pan Shan in
Szechwan, southern Shensi and western Hupeh. From them much
timber and many other products, such as various gums, resins, nut
galls, edible fungi, and medicinal plants, are exported to adjacent

566766—44—_23
342 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN 1NSTITUTION, 1943

populated areas. These forests contain many of the same species of
trees as are found in the Tsingling Shan, with the addition of some
more southern species such as Dalbergia hupeana, valued for its
heavy, close-grained wood used for farm implements, oil presses, and
similar objects. The boats built on the Han River are better than
are those built on the Yellow River, for here are found many more
suitable woods, among them being Paulownia and Catalpa.

South of the Ta Pan Shan in eastern Szechwan is a hilly area where
many trees are grown for their commercial products, especially wood
oil (pl. 8, fig. 2), varnish (pl. 8, fig. 1), and wax, and mulberries for
their leaves to feed silkworms, and bamboo for its multitude of uses.
These trees are also grown throughout most of the Red Basin of
Szechwan. This province is so well protected from the severe conti-
nental climate of central Asia by mountains on the north and west
that it has in places an almost subtropical vegetation. Much fog
occurs here in summer; indeed, the name of the next province toward
the south or southwest, Yunnan, means “south of the clouds.” The
high humidity is especially favorable for plant growth.

South of the Yangtze, in southern Szechwan, Kweichow, south-
western Hupeh and western and northwestern Hunan, are more
mountains whose forests have been saved from exploitation by their
inaccessibility. In general, these forests have the same composition as
those on the Ta Pan Shan, but there are in addition many species with
more southern affinities. The important southern fir, Cunnninghamia
lanceolata, which also is found north of the Yangtze River, but not
north of the Han Ho, is found here. Western Hunan and the ad-
jacent parts of eastern Kweichow have been very important centers
of timber supply to central China for many centuries. Here are
found pines of species different from those of northeastern China,
also Cedrela sinensis, a northward-extending member of the mahog-
any family (Meliaceae), the camphor tree, and nanmu (Phoebe
nanmu), a tree of the laurel family (Lauraceae) with exceptionally
valuable wood, various oaks and chestnuts, and many others. It has
been reported that there are in Hunan many forests or woods planted,
protected, and managed in a very satisfactory manner by clan effort.
These are located away from the main traveled routes and are not com-
monly seen by people just passing through.

Another important forest-bearing area is the Nan Shan Range,
a broad, irregular mountainous tract extending east from the Yunnan
plateau and separating the Yangtze valley from that of the Si Kiang
or West River in Kwangsi and Kwangtung. In its inaccessible parts
are forests, primarily of the oak-chestnut formation. These are,
however, mere remnants of the vast, rich forests which once grew here
and include, of course, many other species than oak and chestnut.
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 343

Along with those species which form the forest canopy are found also
members of the tea family (Theaceae), essentially a subtropical group
of trees and shrubs. Characteristic of the lower woody plants are
members of the laurel family (Lauraceae). Indeed, the members of
this group in middle China are so prominent that the vegetation of
central China and Japan is sometimes referred to as of the “laurel
type.” Conifers are not abundant, but the south China fir, Cunning-
hamia lanceolata, thrives here and is the most promising tree for re-
forestation. The more primitive people dwelling here use this species
in maintaining forests in northern Kwangtung and elsewhere. It is
encouraging to read that where Chinese are in close contact with these
earlier inhabitants of the land, they are using this same species in re-
forestation work. This fir is very easily grown, because it sprouts
readily from the cut stumps and may be grown from cuttings. The
only other conifer with the natural ability to propagate vegetatively is
the Sequoia or giant redwood of our west coast.

The only other major forested watershed of middle China is formed
by the mountains of southeastern Anhwei, Chekiang, Fukien, north-
eastern Kwangtung, and the adjacent border of Kiangsi. In this area
are still found some fine and even fairly extensive coniferous and
broadleaved forests, the former of several valuable species, the most
important being red pine (Pinus massoniana, pl. 2), the funeral
cypress (Cupressus funebris) , Cryptomeria japonica, and the southern
fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata). The principal broadleaved trees are
camphor, oak, chestnut, and Ormosia henryi of the pea family. Many
of the species found here occur also in western China. Although we
commonly think of the flora of eastern China as distinct from that of
western China, because of the different flora of the intervening area,
yet on careful comparison the east and west are found to be too much
alike to be properly considered as distinct. This is good evidence that
originally the flora of the central region was the same, but that its
character has been materially altered by man. These forests of south-
eastern China also have definite southern affinities. In the southern
part are many species occurring in Kwangtung, Hainan, and even
Indo-China, but in the northern part there is a much smaller propor-
tion of southern species.

These forests are, of course, being extensively exploited, but Dr.
H. H. Hu, of the Fan Memorial Institute of Biology, who explored the
region about 1925, reports that conditions are not so serious as they
are usually depicted by western writers and that in many regions
the forests are properly cared for. With proper governmental pro-
tection others can be restored.

The plants occurring in the larger part of Yunnan belong to the
middle China vegetation. East of the high mountains of this province
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

lies a large highly dissected plateau ranging downward from about
4,000 feet altitude. It has a warm-temperate climate with more tropi-
cal conditions in the lower parts of the valley, as along the Yangtze.
The vegetation of this part of Yunnan is, therefore, subtropical with
warm-temperate elements. In general, the hills are less denuded
than in the eastern mountains of China, owing in part to the lesser
Chinese population and the greater abundance of Thai, Shan, and other
non-Chinese peoples. These latter inhabitants are less agricultural
than the Chinese, hence the wild vegetation is less disturbed. They
do, however, affect the vegetation adversely to some extent by clearing
the hillsides and cultivating them without terracing or using other
means to reduce erosion. In 2 or 3 years, when the fertile soil is
washed away, these areas are abandoned and new fields are cleared.
The abandoned fields may eventually revert to the original forested
condition, but only after a succession of stages, some of which are very
undesirable.

Taken as a whole the flora of middle China is warm temperate with
admixtures of subtropical families, genera, and species. It is rich in
endemics and includes most of the eastern Asiatic-eastern North Amer-
ican species and genera (pl. 4, fig. 2). The Japanese flora, except for
that of the more tropical parts, is essentially of the same type as that
of middle China.

TROPICAL AND SUBTROPICAL SOUTHERN CHINA

In this area is found the extension into China of the tropical or
subtropical jungle vegetation of Indo-China and the Malayan region.
The area comprises all or most of Kwangsi, most of Kwangtung, the
coastal region of Fukien and part of Chekiang and, of course, of
the islands of Hong Kong and Hainan. The lowland vegetation of
Formosa and that of tropical Japan are of this type. Climatically
the region is dominated almost wholly by monsoon winds, which
bring an abundance of rain from March or April through October,
with relatively little rain from then till March again. The Nan
Shan Range on the north cuts off most of the coldest winter winds
from that direction, so the winters are milder than in middle China.
Freezing temperatures are very rare near the coast. Judging by
the jungles still found in Hainan and by the oases of tropical vegeta-
tion still found in a few remote mountain ravines and around temples,
and in comparing this area with places in other parts of the world
which have a similar climate and formations, but which are as yet
undevastated, it is rather clear that large broadleaved evergreen rain
forests formerly occurred where we now find only grass-covered hills.
The amount of cultivated land in this area is relatively small, con-
sisting mostly of the rich delta of the West, North, and East Rivers
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 345

and their rather narrow valleys, and of similar delta areas along
the coast. Here the luxuriant vegetation is under complete control,
and the hills that protrude through the delta plains are given over
to the graves of past generations on which the cattle graze. There
is little room for native forests and no incentive to develop them.
Hainan Island, being more thinly populated with Chinese around the
edges and with more primitive peoples in the interior, still has
tropical jungles, which vary in character at different altitudes. On
the higher parts are oak-chestnut forests with broadleaved evergreen
rain forests below.

Hong Kong Island and Kwangtung are botanically the best-ex-
plored parts of China, the flora of Hong Kong published in 1861 being
the first real plant manual of any part of the country. The flora is
rich in species but poor in numbers of plants. In Hong Kong much
reforestation has been carried on by the British, and the appearance
of that island contrasts sharply with that of adjacent islands and
the mainland. The red pine (Pinus massoniana) occurs widely
throughout south China, usually planted more or less widely spaced
on the mountains, but sometimes as groves, and occurs spontaneously
as a forest tree in the mountains of Fukien and Chekiang. The wide
spacing of the planted trees encourages the development of side
branches, which are eventually cut off (pl. 2) and used as fuel in
brick and lime kilns. The groves are needed for geomantic or “fung-
shui” purposes, to propitiate the evil spirits which are popularly sup-
posed to infest the country (pl. 4, fig. 1).

Another common tree in the region is the banyan, of which there
are several species (pl. 5, fig. 2). These trees have little use as fuel
or timber. Hence they grow unmolested, spreading wide over the
villages and temples their huge branches from thick, gnarled and fur-
rowed trunks, which rise from a broad, often exposed base of tangled
roots. Palm trees, mostly cultivated, can be seen in places, and
clumps, groves, and even small planted forests of bamboo add much
to the picturesqueness of the landscape. Planted or possibly spon-
taneous along the muddy tidal canals and channels of the delta occurs
the water pine (Glyptostrobus pensilis), a close relative of the bald
cypress of our southern swamps. Strangely enough this species has
been found in abundance growing spontaneously on hilltops in
Kiangsi Province in middle China. Our own cypress will also grow
in much drier situations than in its characteristic swamp habitat,
especially with human encouragement.

The vegetation of Kwangsi Province is very similar to that of
Kwangtung but has more forests and perhaps a few more Indo-
Chinese species, at least in the south. (See pl. 3). Extensive
botanical collections have only rather recently been made, and as yet
little has been written of the vegetation of the province as a whole.
346 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

SOUTHWESTERN TROPICAL YUNNAN

The southwestern part of Yunnan adjacent to Burma is under the
influence of the monsoon winds which in summer flow from the Bay
of Bengal laden with moisture. The lower portions of the great
parallel gorges, which are such a prominent feature of western Yun-
nan, lie under the influence of these winds and are filled with luxuri-
ant rain-forest vegetation. Here most of the trees are evergreen,
and the jungles are filled with lianas, palms, tropical nettles, and
other characteristic plants of the dense rain forests. This floristic
region of China is only an extension of that of Burma and Siam.
Many of the very numerous species of plants occurring here are Indo-
Malayan or are characteristic of tropical India. As in other tropical
rain forests, malaria is common and conditions are unfavorable for
human habitation. This diffculty is overcome in some of the gorges
by building the villages high up on the sides, whence the people
descend to the fertile river bottoms to till their crops.

Southern Yunnan also has a highly tropical vegetation with many
species of plants which likewise occur in Hainan and elsewhere in
southeastern China, but with a gap between. ‘There is, however, in
the valley of the Red River and adjacent streams a dry area of limited
extent due to local variations in climate.

THE HIGHLANDS OF WESTERN CHINA

The western and northwestern portion of Yunnan is botanically
more or less distinct from the great dissected plateau to the east and
the monsoon-drenched mountains and lower ends of the gorges to
the south. In these deep gorges flow the great rivers which arise
on the Tibetan plateau and cut across the eastward and northeast-
ward extension of the highest mountains of the world, the Himalayan
Range. Originally these mountains extended in an east-west direc-
tion, but their deep intersection by southward-flowing streams has left
the intervening ridges stretching north and south. The original
mountain peaks tower up to over 20,000 feet, well up into the regions
of perpetual snow. It is obvious that this tremendous range in alti-
tude and the extremely rugged character of the land would greatly
affect the type of vegetation found in the region.

When the moisture-laden monsoon winds from the southwest are
forced to rise up the slopes of these mountains they lose their load
and are dissipated. Hence the vegetation in this region is less lux-
uriant than that farther south. Another meteorological phenomenon
that occurs in the gorges results in very arid conditions. During the
day the sun heats the air in these closed-in canyons to a temperature
much above that in the side canyons and on the surrounding moun-
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 347

tains. About the middle of the afternoon this heated air suddenly
starts to rise and creates such a current that any attempts of moisture-
laden monsoon winds from the southwest to penetrate the area are
completely thwarted. This dry area occurs in the valleys of the Sal-
ween, Mekong (pl. 7, fig. 1), and Yangtze Rivers. On the Salween
' it begins at about the 28th parallel but farther south on the other riv-
ers. On the Yangtze it includes the gorges around the great bend
north of Likiang.

Thus only drought-resistant stunted shrubs and moisture-holding
herbs can survive here and the vegetation in part is related to that of
Central Asia. A strange exotic is an American cactus (Opuntia)
which somehow reached this out-of-the-way land and found con-
ditions favorable to its growth and survival. Its seeds and fruits
are eaten by men, beasts, and birds. How it arrived is quite un-
known. Possibly it was brought by some missionary long ago or
possibly it came with some caravan from the Near East where it was
introduced soon after the discovery of America.

Higher up on the mountains occur great forests of deciduous trees
of various kinds, then conifers in zones (pl. 6), then rhododendron
thickets, and finally alpine formations of various kinds, especially the
gorgeous alpine meadows. Here is found the rich vegetation so
eagerly sought for by plant explorers in search of ornamentals for
western gardens, especially rock gardens (pl. 5, fig. 1). This is the
plant-lover’s paradise, for from this varied region have come many
of our most exquisite rhododendrons, primulas, poppies, larkspurs,
and other garden favorites. Here occur vast forests, mostly as yet
unexploited, a future storehouse safe from the ax until railroads
and roads have opened it up.

The area extends northward from Yunnan through eastern Sikang
and Tsinghai to western Kansu. It is peopled largely by Tibetans
and has been called Tibetan China. On the east it merges with the
more temperate or even subtropical vegetation of Szechwan and on
the west with the grasslands of Tibet.

In respect to affinities this rich flora contains many elements of
the Himalayan flora of northern India, in contrast with that of
tropical Yunnan, which is largely Indo-Malayan. It contains also
a large number of endemics as well as elements of the flora of middle
China. Yunnan as a whole has the richest flora of any of the 18
provinces of China, having over 6,300 species. This is not surpris-
ing in view of the great diversity of climatic and physiographic con-
ditions, the proximity of a great variety of floras of different
composition and origin, and the long uninterrupted geological history
of the larger part of the province.
348 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Far back in geological history, in the Oligocene period, Eurasia
was divided by the Tethys Sea, which occupied about the present
location of Burma, Assam, and Tibet and separated China from
India. Asia was a continent of undulating wooded lowlands without
high mountains. The flora was probably fairly uniform. Later
mountains were formed which upset the climate and brought about
a diversified flora. Finally the Himalayan uplift occurred, which
eliminated the Tethys Sea and replaced it with the world’s highest
mountains, through which the rivers from the uplifted Tibetan pla-
teau cut transverse courses. In the succeeding Pleistocene period
huge glaciers developed in these mountains and spread out north-
ward over the southern half of Tibet and east and south over western
Yunnan. Thus the plants of these ice-covered parts were wiped out,
but, because of the limited spread of the glaciers eastward, the vegeta-
tion of central and eastern Yunnan remained. It may have been
altered and forced southward but was not destroyed. When the
glaciers receded, this altered vegetation spread back into the released
western part of the province, and the plants of Indo-Malaya spread
northward again. At the same time conditions were favorable for
the flora developed in northern India to invade this territory. Hence,
the Yunnan flora today contains elements from the diverse floral
regions round about, as well as remnants of the early flora developed
in the province in earlier geological times. The lack of extensive
glaciation in north China, such as occurred in Europe and northern
North America, accounts in part for the richness of the flora of China
as a whole in comparison with that of the heavily glaciated continents.

THE GRASSLANDS OF EASTERN TIBET

The grasslands of eastern Tibet lie in the new provinces of Sikang
and Tsinghai west of the great mountain ranges of western China
and extend somewhat into western Kansu Province (pl. 7, fig. 2).
These lands are the home of the Tibetan nomads where flocks of yak
are herded and the people live in yerts or felt tents. The vegetation
is almost entirely composed of grasses and grasslike plants, with
many herbs remarkable for their ability to burst forth early in the
short growing season, cover the landscape with a riot of gorgeous
color, and quickly ripen and shed their seeds before the early winter
forces them into dormancy again. Shrubs and trees are few or
wanting on the uplands, but exist in the sheltered valleys and in belts
on the mountains, where the clouds are forced to drop more moisture.

The vegetation of these grasslands is essentially central Asiatic and
alpine, and the few woody plants and trees are largely of northern
affinities.
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 349

TIBET

Besides the floristic provinces already discussed as extending into
Tibet, namely, the arid valleys of the great rivers draining south-
eastern Tibet, the high mountain vegetation of the Tibet-China bor-
derland, and the grasslands, Tibet has two other areas. These are
(1) the northern and northeastern parts, called by F. Kingdon Ward?
the Chang Tang or Great Plain, including the Tsaidam in Tsinghai
Province, the whole draining entirely into salt lakes and swamps, and
(2) the outer plateau part north of the Himalaya Mountains drained
by five great rivers, the Indus, Tsang Po, Salween, Mekong, and
Yangtze. The divide between these areas is generally low and rather
imperceptible.

The Great Plain and Tsaidam on the north at an altitude of over
8,000 feet have a rainfall ranging from almost nothing at all to only
10 inches per year. The flora, according to Ward, is extremely
meager and consists of about 53 species of plants, with only 3 woody
genera and no endemics, nearly all being central Asiatics. A richer
vegetation could not exist in such an extremely dry and severe climate.

The outer plateau toward the south has a better climate, with rain-
fall ranging from 10 to 20 inches per year. Its altitude of around
12,000 feet, with its exposure to the cold winds of the north, permits
only a limited and rather xerophytic flora to develop. However, there
is sufficient moisture and protection, at least in the river valleys, for
the development of an alpine and semidesert flora, the dominant woody
plants being willows, poplars, junipers, and certain elms. At the
head of the gorge country toward the east are found some forests. In
the gravel portion of this plateau, in the vicinity of Lhassa, Ward
reports that 541 species of plants are known. It is in this part of
Tibet that the bulk of the population is found.

THE ECONOMIC BOTANY OF CHINA

CONCERNING DEFORESTATION

The most outstanding economic problem of China is raising food
for her more than 400 million people. So intense has become the
struggle for food in China that little energy has been left for the
consideration of other problems. The need for more and more food
has been met by increasing the amount of food grown on an acre of
land and by increasing the acreage. This has been accompanied by a
steady increase in the human labor expended and in the taking of
land away from other uses, notably the taking of forested land. In
the wake of these changes have come numerous other problems which

?See his A sketch of the geography and botany of Tibet * * *, Journ. Linnean Soc.,
Botany, vol. 50, pp. 239-265, illustr., 1935.
350 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

have demanded adjustment, such as the loss of timber and plant cover,
the exposure of the hills to erosion (pl. 1, fig. 1), the destruction of
agricultural lands through washing away and silting, and a host of
other consequences. As in other countries, the demand for increased
crops and more tillable land has fallen on individuals and small
groups, who in many, if not most, cases have been unable to meet the
resulting larger problems and who have in time been reduced to the
direst poverty or been driven away from the lands they so urgently
need to areas where they can only eke out a bare subsistence and repeat
the destructive processes. Thus, next to agriculture, reforestation is
the most urgent economic botanical problem in China. Many refer-
ences have already been made to this subject, but its importance
justifies separate consideration.

The major cause of forest destruction in most areas, at least in the
past when there were extensive forests, was the need for agricultural
land rather than for the products of the forests. The same is true in
some regions today, as is shown by the wanton abandoning of thou-
sands of board feet of merchantable timber, as was observed by W. C.
Lowermilk in his studies in Shansi. After the lowlands were cleared,
this demand for more land could be met only by terracing the hillsides
(pl. 1, fig. 1), progressing gradually higher and higher until the slopes
became too steep for cultivation even by these means. Even on the
still steeper and higher slopes agriculture is often possible for a few
years without terracing by growing, at least in north China, special
crops such as maize or Indian corn and potatoes, both originally from
America. Soon, however, the soil washes away and the fields must be
abandoned.

The second most important cause for the forest removal is the need
for forest products, especially timber. With the gradual removal of
the timber near centers of population the quality of the lumber de-
creased and the price went up, so that the standard of living fell lower
and lower. Much of the timber now seen rafted to market in China
would not be transported in America even for fuel or pulpwood.
When the huge wooden pillars of the Temple of Heaven in Peiping,
originally brought down from Manchuria, were destroyed by fire,
_they could only be replaced from the fir forests of the northwestern
United States. But the common man cannot rebuild with imported
lumber; he must use sun-dried bricks or mud plastered over kaoliang
stalks. Every stick of available wood must be used for the best pur-
pose to which it can be put. The ever-increasing demand, as the
population has grown, has led to more and more cutting of the forests,
then to scratching the treeless hillsides for whatever would serve as

3 Kaoliang is a variety of Sorghum nervosum resembling kafir corn which is sparingly

grown in America. Kaoliang fields in Shantung remind one of the vast cornfields of
Illinois and Iowa.
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER aol

fuel. It is little wonder, then, that the hills near the great cities are
denuded.

A factor favoring destruction in some areas has been the fear of
wild animals, such as tigers, leopards, and wolves, and of wild men
or bandits, who, indeed, may be the very people who in the first
instance lost their land through erosion and then turned to banditry
in order to maintain life. Thus forests have been cut down and the
new growth kept under control by repeated burning, till grasses were
thoroughly established which can now be replaced by forests only
with the greatest of difficulty. It has been reported that hillsides
have been burned over so that the ashes will wash down and fertilize
the cultivated lowlands,

It might be supposed that the obvious value of the forests to the
country as a whole would have led to governmental control of cut-
ting and to replanting on an extensive scale. Such has indeed oc-
curred in certain ancient times and has been resumed in the modern
period of China’s awakening, But governmental control in China has
long been weak, and the intense preoccupation of the people with the
struggle for existence has prevented any general demand for im-
proved conditions. It has been observed that in the Ming and Ching
Dynasties the officials were drawn largely from the “literati” or
scholars of the country, who, though they appreciated the forests
around the villages and temples, were little inclined to protect, main-
tain, and develop forested areas. They left the problem to the lower
classes, who had little or no vision beyond their narrow fields nor
means to carry out what little they did have. Furthermore, the
rulers, unlike many of the feudal governors of Europe, were not
given to sports requiring hunting preserves. Hence, no wild areas
were protected for their immediate owners and for posterity, as
happened in Europe. An exception is found in certain imperial
hunting preserves in north China, most of which, after the fall of
the Empire in 1911, were sold by the abandoned and impoverished
Manchus for commercial exploitation, so that they themselves might
still subsist. This lack of- interest in forests on the part of the
“literati” rulers has prevented the Government from protecting any
private investment in maintained forests, so that the common people
have been unimpeded in their seizing of whatever they could. Even
safe titles to nonagricultural lands could not be had, so that there
was little incentive to private initiative in forest development, and
lumber companies could profit only by quick and complete exploita-
tion of whatever concessions they could obtain.

Even the little protection which the Government could give in
peace times has been impossible in times of war. During these crises,
especially following the revolution in 1911, forest destruction has gone
352 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

on unhindered. Records of the Taiping Rebellion are full of ac-
counts of destruction of trees and forests. In 1911 there were large
forests on Loh Fau Shan about 50 miles east of Canton, but Prof.
R. Mell reports that by 1921 only a sixth of them were left and by
now they are probably all gone. Loh Fau Shan was, for at least
10 years following 1922, a bandit land where no government official
dared intrude.

Along with the weakening and modernizing of the Government
following the revolution has occurred the steady decline in the in-
fluence of the Buddhist temples and monasteries, which have long
protected their encircling forests and jungles as part of their reverence
for wildlife. But as their official state support dwindled they, like
the abandoned Manchu officials, sold their assets for commercial
exploitation.

The factors making for preservation of forests in China are far
weaker than those making for destruction, but are, nevertheless, worthy
of someconsideration. Foremost among these is the difficulty of trans-
porting the forest products in areas distant from rivers and streams.
Where trees must be carried for long distances on the backs of coolies
over simple mountain trails, forests can remain (pl. 9, fig. 1). Until
the motor or railroad age reaches western China its vast forests are
safe. Likewise the Buddhist philosophy of the preservation of all life
and the demands of that religion for isolated seclusion have preserved
throughout the ages many remnants of the primeval forest and even
aided new forests to grow up. These preserved oases are of great
scientific value in showing what the original native vegetation was and
thus enabling modern reforestation to proceed on a sound biological
foundation.

The emphasis that western writers have put on the destruction of
Chinese forests has often blinded people to the practice of forestry
that has existed in the country even for many centuries. In places
there are clan or community forest projects, a few of which have al-
ready been referred to. W.C. Lowdermilk has mentioned seeing well-
managed communal forests that exceed any similar enterprises, even
those of Germany. Foresters who have visited some of the more in-
accessible parts of Kwangtung and Kwangsi have been surprised to
find thriving reforestation projects using the southern fir (Cunning-
hamia lanceolata), grown when young under the shade of manihot or
cassava bushes. They report that this is largely the result of a greater
appreciation by the aboriginees of the value of trees and that the
Chinese near them are favorably influenced to adopt their methods.
These efforts at reforestation probably result largely from the need
for forest products. Indeed throughout much of Kwangtung the
growing of the red pine (Pinus massoniana) for fuel, including the
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 350

branches for brick- and lime-kiln fuel, may be considered in this same
light, though the scattered way the trees are grown hardly leads to
real forests.

Scientific reforestation has made a beginning in China. Its first
attempts were in Hong Kong under British supervision and in Shan-
tung when it was under German control. In the former colony there
bas long been a forestry department, and much replanting of the hill-
sides with native pine has occurred. In Tsingtao foreign trees, includ-
ing American black locust, Scotch pine, and many others, have been
successfully used. Nanking University and Lingnan University have
contributed much to the program, and Sunyatsen University has had
an active forestry department and careful studies have been made
leading to a thorough program of reforestation. Experimental plots
have been tried with various trees, some of which are encouraging,
others not so promising. Cunninghamia is the most promising for
the higher parts in northern Kwangtung, but it proves to be unsuited
to the lower lands. Here must eventually be established evergreen
tropical forests on the now grass-covered hillsides. This transforma-
tion cannot be made in one step. Instead intermediate growth must
be established using carefully tested trees, capable of growing well
on these open hillsides, such as possibly Hucalyptus of selected species,
Dalbergia sisoo, a leguminous tree from a similar formation and
climate in Assam, the native Pinus massoniana, the chinaberry tree
(Melia azedarach), wood oil (Aleurites spp.), Lewcaena glauca, and
others. An enlightened insight has come to the leading scientific men
of China, but as yet it has not come to the masses.

THE USES OF CHINESE PLANTS

Almost all the Chinese prescientific interest in plants from the mythi-
cal scholar Shen Nung of 2000 B. C. to the beginning of the scientific
period in China in the present century related to their usefulness to
man. ‘The same was true in western countries, for the earliest Euro-
pean botanical books, like those of the Chinese, were herbals or books
on the medicinal and food-yielding properties of plants. Even today
most people are economic-minded. Ask any person not trained in
science about a plant and his reply will be either that it is a weed or a
useless plant, or that it is “of some good”—that is, useful. So we find
a vast storehouse of information on useful plants in Chinese literature,
but little if anything concerning noneconomic plants.

The first great use of plants to man is of course for food, and in
this field the Chinese excel. Whether it be their greater control of
prejudices against certain food plants as lowly, unpalatable, or harm-
ful, or whether the constant recurrence of disasters which have taken
away their normal foods and thrust them back against the evil choice of
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

starving or of eating whatever can be consumed regardless of prej-
udice, it is hard to say. But the fact is that in China more kinds
of plants are eaten than in the west. Famines have occurred in
the west, but never was there written outside of China a book telling
what to eat in times of famine, or a “famine herbal,” such as that
written by Chu Hsiao in the fifteenth century under the title “Chiu
huang pén ts’ao.” This book has been issued in many editions, sev-
eral in Japan, and large parts have been translated into western
languages.

Intensive agriculture is probably more highly developed in China
than in any other part of the world. Throughout its thousands of
years of growth methods have been found that derive from the soil
almost the last possible ounce of food, but at the same time leave
the land capable of growing more crops indefinitely. Of course
modern scientific agricultural methods can make and are making
valuable contributions to Chinese farming and furnish explanation
for many of the empirical methods used in China, but at the same
time the west is learning much from the east. Certain food plants
have long been grown in China which the west is only beginning
to appreciate (pl. 9, fig. 2), and we are discovering there methods of
storing and marketing which we can well consider. For example,
in 1924 P. H. Dorsett, agricultural explorer for the United States
Department of Agriculture, studied for the first time the methods
used near Peiping in handling the large persimmon crop. The fruits
mature throughout the fall. When fresh, these large tomato-sized
orchard fruits are too full of tannin to be eaten. Hence, the first
of the crop is carefully treated in a hot-water bath for about 12 hours,
which process removes the tannin and renders the fruits readily
marketable. The bulk of the crop, however, matures late in the fall.
Most of us in the southern and south-central United States have
learned that persimmons picked before the frosts of early winter will
pucker one’s mouth, but that those gathered later are good. This
fact has never been used for commercial exploitation of the American
persimmon, but the Chinese have applied the principle on a large
scale and millions of persimmons are stored in special outdoor beds
where they quickly freeze (pl. 10, fig. 1). Not only are they thus
rendered delicious by the removal of the tannin, but they are also
preserved, so that they can be marketed throughout the long winter,
being thawed out only as needed. Frozen or frosted foods in the
west are of very recent development and require complicated arti-
ficial refrigeration. The Chinese industry resulted from the careful
development of the right varieties or forms of persimmons, grafted
on the proper stock, and grown in a country where natural freezing
is possible. Also the size of the crop must not be so great as to
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 355

flood the facilities for early treatment by hot water, or to flood the
early market, nor too great to be consumed before the heat of spring
and summer finds unsold stocks in the storage beds.

So it is with many other food plants and methods. We in the
west, handicapped by our prejudices of taste, have only probed the
surface of Chinese agriculture for new food plants, or new forms of
old ones, or methods of handling them. Of course the major diffi-
culty lies in the fact that labor is cheap in China and agricultural
methods give scant consideration to the human efforts expended,
whereas in western agriculture labor must be saved at every turn.

Next to their use as foods, plants are sought by man the world
over for their medicinal virtues. In China food and medicine are
closely linked, and a skillful housewife of the wealthier classes keeps
her family in health by the right selection of foods from the great
range available, rather than by the administration of drugs. A
Chinese pharmacopoeia is full of food plants. It contains likewise
a far larger number of drug plants than do our western medicinal
handbooks, which, indeed, with each new issue list fewer and fewer
plants as sources of useful drugs. Many of these Chinese drugs
and their plant origins have been examined by modern scientific
methods and some have proved of real value, as the ma-huang, the
desert plant HX phedra sinica, which has long been used in China as a
haemostatic and for the treatment of asthma, and only relatively
recently adopted into western medicine. Other Chinese drugs have
proved of little or no value, such as ginseng, long valued highly
in China as a giver of fertility. As far as western science ean de-
termine, its virtues are purely psychological, and the plant is not
included in our pharmacopoeias. However, only the surface of Chi-
nese medicine has as yet been scratched by modern science.

Plants as givers of building material probably rank in importance
ahead of their use for medicine. The supply of wood exerts a pro-
found influence on Chinese life, for in western China, where the
population is thinner and wood more abundant, we find it much used
in house construction, but in most parts of China, mud or bricks,
either kiln-burned or sun-dried, are used, the mud plastered over
kaoliang stalks in the north or over bamboo or other materials in
the south. In the latter region bamboo frames covered with palm-
leaf thatch are often erected for temporary buildings. Few who
have seen the construction work in any of the large cities, especially
in the central and southern parts, have failed to marvel at the
strength, magnitude, and skillful fabrication of the scaffolding erected
by lashing together bamboo or pine or fir poles with seemingly frail
strips of bamboo and with no use of nails. The lack of wood for ties
or sleepers is a great handicap in the building of railroads in China.
356 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Although coal, oil, and natural gas are used in China as sources of
heat, their limited distribution and the high cost of transportation of
such bulky materials prevent their general use throughout the country.
Instead wood and charcoal are burned, except where their lack forces
people to comb the countryside for whatever will give off heat. Quan-
tities of rice straw and kaoliang stalks are likewise used for fuel, and the
leaves, grass, pine needles, and weeds garnered from the hillsides find
their way into the stoves in quantities just sufficient to maintain the
minimum of warmth. This combing of the hillsides removes the po-
tential humus and protection needed for seedling trees and shrubs
and prevents the restoration of the woody cover (pl. 4, fig. 1). The
ashes go to the fields for fertilizer. Charcoal isa favorite fuel because
its light weight enables a coolie to carry on his shoulders more po-
tential heat than if he were carrying wood. Nothing is wasted in
China. Of course much of the heat problem is solved by the wearing
of more clothes, which in turn is related to another plant, cotton.

Besides food, medicine, building material, and fuel, plants also
furnish fiber for clothing and other textiles. Cotton is by far the most
important, as it is the most economical. Wool is less economical be-
cause land is required to feed the sheep or goats, but cotton grows
directly, thus producing more “warmth” per acre in spite of its lesser
insulating properties. Silk is a luxury, yet probably a greater re-
turn per acre of land can be obtained from silk than would be possible
from wool, because of its greater value and the export demand. A\I-
though the silk comes from an insect, the industry is essentially based
on the culture of the mulberry, which grows well in all the warmer parts
of China, but especially in the delta of the West River in Kwangtung.
Here the long growing season permits the development of sufficient
leaves to feed three and sometimes four or five generations of silkworms
per year. In some places in north-central China, where the mulberry
will not grow, silkworms are fed on certain oak leaves. Many other
fibers are grown in China. An important crop in parts of Chihli
Province is the ching ma or American jute (Abutilon theophrasti), a
member of the mallow family (Malvaceae). This is grown as a sub-
stitute crop when others have failed for a season. From it is produced
a fiber, which, when mixed with other fibers, is used in the manufac-
ture of brocades and silk substitutes.

Many kinds of plants find uses in the manufacture of the numerous
articles used in China. Much thought has been given throughout the
ages to their cultivation, selection, and adaptation to special uses. A1-
though many plant sources have been scientifically determined, many
others remain as yet unknown. It has often been difficult to determine
what plants furnish the materials from which even well-known manu-
factured articles are made, and even today many may not be rightly
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 357

named. Indeed, some of the plants may not yet be known to science,
for only about 3 years ago it was found that the lo han kwoh, a long-
known Chinese fruit of the melon family (Cucurbitaceae), repre-
sented a new species, and the same may well be true of some industrial
plants. Often a manufactured product or food comes from a special
variety or form of a well-known plant, which has been developed in
a limited isolated region never visited by anyone with an inquiring
scientific mind. Likewise many processes of manufacture have not
been adequately described, for few observers give attention to the
many minute and apparently trivial details of the intricate processes
of turning raw materials into manufactured products or of preparing
plants for food.

It is impossible within the scope of a paper dealing in a broad way
with the botany of China to do more than suggest the existence of the
fascinating field of economic botany. To discuss the plants from which
are manufactured paper and textiles other than those already men-
tioned, or from which oils, resins, gums, varnishes, dyes, drugs, and a
host of other products are extracted, would require far too much space.
The subject of the uses of the many kinds of bamboo alone is itself one
for a separate book. One of the great fascinations of China is the
finding of the different ways in which things are done. A factor
which makes for the ready observation of such things is the home-and-
shop method of manufacture of numerous articles, in contrast with the
closed-factory method used in this country. Generally, too, the people
are responsive to an interest in their occupations and the methods
used.

THE EXCHANGE OF USEFUL PLANTS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES

Most of the important crops of Europe and North America
originated in Asia. Likewise the most important crops of China are
introductions, wheat being a native of southwestern Asia, kaoliang *
probably of India, and rice of southern or southeastern Asia, as far
as known. Many plants were exchanged between Europe and China
in early days along the caravan routes across central Asia and Persia,
as has been told by B. Laufer, of the Feld Museum in Chicago, in his
scholarly study under the title “Sino-Iranica: Chinese Contributions
to the History of Civilization in Ancient Iran, with Special Reference
to the History of Cultivated Plants and Products.” The taking of
useful Chinese plants to Europe has already been mentioned as the
major objective of most western botanists in China. In recent years
the methods of search have been much perfected, and the results at-
tained have considerably affected our economic life.

4 See footnote 3, p. 350.
566766—44——_24
358 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Of all the parts of the world from which plants may be introduced
into Europe and America, China is the most promising because of the
great number and diversity of the plants occurring there and because
most of them are Temperate Zone plants, hence suitable for cultivation
in other temperate regions. Another factor is that during the long
development of Chinese agriculture many new varieties and forms have
been selected and developed which are also suitable for our use.

Many kinds of introductions have been made from China. Some are
ornamentals for adorning our gardens, others are new food plants or
new varieties or forms of old ones, or disease-resistant forms, and still
others are plants needed in industry, such as wood or tung oil.
Furthermore, some plants have been introduced for special protective
plantings, such as the Chinese elm (Ulmus pumila) from dry north
China, much used in our well-known Prairie States shelter-belt project.

The methods used by plant explorers vary according to their ob-
jectives, their own individual peculiarities and abilities, and the
regions in which they work. Most of them have been sent by some
scientific society or government to collect living plants, seeds, or cut-
tings. Others have been foreign residents in China, teachers, mission-
aries, or consular officers, who have obtained material in their spare
time, or as part-time collaborators with their home governments.
Some explorers have traveled far and fast with little baggage, picking
up the most promising plants from here and there for mailing home.
Still others have traveled in large parties with full equipment and
many helpers (pl. 6), usually with official military escorts. Some-
times they have gone unobtrusively about their work, speaking the
language and mingling with the people as one of them, or perhaps
working with or through a trained native assistant. Some of our ex-
plorers have established themselves with full equipment in some large
city near the region to be explored, from which they have sallied forth
on frequent journeys into the country. This enables them to return as
often as necessary to the same place to see the different stages of de-
velopment of plants they were gathering, or the local process of
harvesting and preserving them. Frequently in working in this man-
ner they first visit the markets to discover what fruits and vegetables
are being offered for sale (pl. 12, figs. 1 and2). Then they find whence
they came and finally visit the farmers who raised them. One of the
plant explorer’s greatest problems is packing and shipping the seeds,
cuttings, and full plants to their new homes, so that they will arrive
safely and in viable condition. They must also be disease-free, so
that they may pass the rigid quarantine established to keep foreign
diseases from reaching plants in this country not immune to their
ravages. Often these collectors have endured great hardships, and
a number have died in the field as a result of privations. Many, too,
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 359

have lived to see fruitful fields in their homeland bearing valuable
crops as a result of their hard labors in distant China.

The plant-disease aspects of plant introduction are very important
and interesting. In 1913 after the chestnut-bark disease, then of
unknown origin, had begun its devastating attack on this highly
important forest tree in America, Frank N. Meyer, well-known United
States Department of Agriculture explorer (pl. 11, fig. 1), discovered
the same disease in China. He also found that the Chinese chestnut
trees were able to survive the attacks of this disease, suffering only
wounds from which they could recover (pl. 10, fig. 2). The evidence
is strong that by some unknown means this disease of the inner bark,
caused by a fungus called Endothia parasitica, found its way into
this country where our trees were not immune. To replace our
doomed chestnuts the United States Department of Agriculture has
cbtained large quantities of seed from selected Chinese trees which
have survived the disease and are therefore known to be immune.
Hence, in the course of time, we will have new chestnut trees for shade
and chestnut bark for tannin.

Another aspect of the plant-disease problem is the introduction
from China of insecticide plants. A few years ago the casual dis-
covery of an article published in Chinese in a current entomological
periodical from Chekiang Province revealed the use there of an in-
secticide powder prepared from the roots of Tripterygium wilfordii,
a shrub of the staff-tree family (Celastraceae). This organic poison,
long known in China, is far superior to mineral poisons, such as those
prepared with arsenic, because it disintegrates and becomes harmless
by the time vegetables and fruits sprayed with it are ready to be
eaten. Plants of this species were obtained by the United States
Department of Agriculture through consular officers and Chinese
plantsmen for experimental cultivation and investigation in this
country. Great benefits are likely to result from this introduction
when the details of its growth and preparation have been perfected.

Many other examples might be given of various benefits to this
country resulting from plant introduction. In like manner China is
destined to benefit from importations from the United States and
other temperate regions. As yet little attention has been given in
China to this method of helping to solve her food problems, but be-
ginnings have been made in extending the work on a scientific basis.
In certain parts of China, as for example the higher parts of Kansu
Province, it would be possible to grow more nutritive plants than are
now commonly cultivated, if the right varieties adapted to their par-
ticular climates and soils could be found. Reference has previously
been made to the introduction of foreign trees for planting in inter-
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

mediate stages in the reforestation of denuded mountains. A number
of foreign trees have already been planted for this and for various
other purposes in China, especially black locust from America, which
is being grown to furnish much-needed railroad ties. The possibili-
ties for more profitable introductions are almost endless, and with the
cessation of the present war, rapid progress will undoubtedly be
made in introducing plants, as well as in using more effectively and
scientifically the rich Chinese flora for the benefit of mankind in
China and elsewhere.

SELECTED BIBLOGRAPHY OF GENERAL WORKS ON CHINESE PLANTS

The following list contains the major general works on Chinese plants, espe-
cially those which might be useful in identifying plants. Some other references
are given concerning the vegetation or phytogeography of the country and the
history of botany in China, and a few works are listed by which Chinese names
of plants may be identified with their Latin or English equivalents. For other
notes on the literature of Chinese botany see pp. 333-334.

BRETSCHNEDER, HE. V.
1898. History of European botanical discoveries in China. 2 vols. London.
A facsimile reproduction was issued in Leipzig in 1935.
Ca#’EN, YUNG.
1937. Chung hua shu fen lei hsueh. 1,544 pp., illustr. Nanking.
An illustrated manual of Chinese trees and shrubs. In Chinese with Latin
names.
CHow, HANG-FAN.
1934. The familiar trees of Hopei. English ed., 370 pp., illustr.; Chinese
ed., 269 pp., illustr.
CHUN, WOON-YOUNG.
1922. Chinese economic trees. 309 pp., illustr. Shanghai.
CHUNG, H. H.
1924. A catalogue of the trees and shrubs of China. Mem. Sci. Soc
China, vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 1-271.
This is a check list of Latin names only.
Diets, Lupwic.
1900-1901. Die Flora von Central China. Bot. Jahrb., vol. 29, Hefte 2-5,
pp. 169-659. Leipzig.
A systematic treatment in German without keys or descriptions, except of
new species.
DunN, STEPHEN T., and TUTCHER, WILLIAM J.
1912. Flora of Kwangtung and Hongkong. Kew Bull. Misc. Inf., Add.
Ser., No. 10, 370 pp.
A systematie work with keys but without descriptions.
Forzes, FRANCIS BLACKWELL, and HEMSLEY, W. Botrina.
1886-1905. An enumeration of all the plants known from China proper,
Formosa, Hainan, Corea, the Luchu Archipelago, and the Island
of Hongkong... Journ. Linnean Soc. London, Botany, vols. 23,
26, and 36.
The most complete enumeration ever published. See p. 330 for further data.
PLANTS OF CHINA—WALKER 361

HANDEL-MAzZETTI, HEINRICH.
1931. Die pflanzengeographische Gliederung und Stellung Chinas. Bot.
Jahrb., vol. 64, Heft 4, pp. 309-3823. Leipzig.
Abstracted in English in Abstracts of Communications, Fifth International
Botanical Congress, Cambridge (England), pp. 315-319, 1930.
Hu, HSIEN-HSU.
1936. The characteristics and affinities of Chinese flora. Bull. Chinese
Bot. Soc., vol. 2, pp. 67-84. Peiping.
KuneG, CHING-LAI, et al.
1918. Chih wu hsueh ta t’zu tien, or Botanical nomenclature. 1,726 pp.,
illustr. Shanghai.

This illustrated botanical dictionary containing Latin, Chinese, Japanese,
German, and English names is largely translated from Japanese. Probably
it is mostly correct.

LrE, SHUN-CH’ING.
1935. Forest botany of China. 991 pp., illustr.

A systematic treatment with descriptions of all species, but often botanically
inaccurate.

Liv, JU-CH’IANG.
1931. Systematic botany of the flowering families in North China. 212
pp., illustr. Peiping. 2d ed., 1934.
This is not a general manual.
MATSUMURA, JINZO.
1915. Shokubutsu mei-i. (Revised and enlarged.) Pt. 1, Chinese names
of plants. 405 pp.

By means of this work the Latin equivalents of Chinese names of plants may

be found, especially those mentioned in the Chinese classics.
MERRILL, ELMER D., and WALKER, EcBErT H.
1938. A bibliography of eastern Asiatic botany. 719 pp., 2 maps. Arnold
Arboretum, Jamica Plain, Mass.
A source for finding much literature on numerous subjects.
SHaw, NoRMAN.
1914. Chinese forest trees and timber supply. 351 pp., illustr. London.
A description of forests and trees from the commercial foresters’ point of view.
WILSON, Esnest H.
1914. A naturalist in western China. 2 vols. New York.

A very readable account of the author’s explorations.
ye wr cea:
PEC rT as ise:
¥ ‘ x : ‘hi
ay Chae hike , sini ve eidy ies
* sera i |
y me Cay i De Oey ih
; . PTO ahi Ras oa i} ie. Habe Cldh |
| Apa Rt tah, achat Ra
(pb sp, (ep ‘pada ats
Hadas ag out
4) CM ee ite yh, pe for Ay? eek
\
}

oe Wy ial SANA bp " te iy
ition ent pity: i Re tress Bie Oh

Pew b ant)
“s

Lie ivi Hig ba
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Walker PLATE 1

1. BARREN, ERODING, PARTIALLY TERRACED MOUNTAINS IN NORTH CHINA.

Orchards grow on the terraces, but only Vitex incisa shrubs, small wild jujube trees, and grasses clothe the
mountain slopes. Note the stone walls supporting the terraces. (Photograph by P. H. Dorsett, courtesy
U.S. Department of Agriculture.)

2. A TYPICAL FARM SCENE IN MIDDLE CHINA.

The trees mark the farm houses or temples, all the remaining land being used for growing rice. (Photo-
graph by P. H. Dorsett, courtesy U. S. Department of Agriculture.)
(AjoI0g d1ydeIs00H [VUOBN © ‘loopy Woqoy “MM Aq ydvisojoyd) ‘s{{ty yuBISsIp oy} puoAoq
IBJ SSOIOJ OYVOIPUT JYSII puB Jo] YB Syjv1 so] OY, “STITY pypnusp yons uo vuroy ye ayInb ‘eARSB UBOLIOULY UB ST PUNOIs0IOJ OY} UL 4JN} OY} :(DUDIUOSSDUL SNUIT ) sould pod o1B S901} OUT

“SAONIAOYd NAIMNA ‘YSAIN NIW AHL NO MOHDOO4 YaAddfN

¢€ ALV Id JIH[EA\— Eph] ‘Woday uvruosyyug
“Ayoro0g d1ydeiso0Ixy) [BUOTIeN ©))
‘goutAoid sty) 0} pojttaly ore ‘JaAoMOY ‘Yor ‘syved SutseM0} yons yordep 0} OACT S}styAw odwospuR] VSeUIYH MOTE Spfoy peyeari[no oy} YIIM s}se1ju0d Uo

“AONIAOYd ISONVM™M NI SGONM ANOLSAWIT GAHLOID ATASNAG

349590A YOU ogy

LEM

.
\

er

Oe make

3aLV1d J9¥4]&\\—'Ep6| ‘Wodey ueruosyyws
vy ALVId

(amynousy jo jueuyIedeq "9 ‘"Q
Asoeqanod ‘1aA0TT *N ‘qf AQ ydeisojoyg) ‘“Bolloury YON Use4sBe
PUB BISY U10JSvd UI ATUO MOIS SOLIOYOIFA “YSNOIyY JooJ Z ST YUNAY SIU

((dS SAHOVLSOTIAHd) JTSNNAF COSWYVgG DNVIMAHD V
N! (SISNSAVHLV9D VAYVD) 3541 AMYOMSIH SSSANIHD V “2

(aoqine oy4 Aq ydeisojoyg) ‘spees Sumnords oyy djey 07 snurny
OU SUIABZ ‘So[peeU aUId aTqvuINg [[B Jo 91eq PoyYBA [IOS 9Y) DION
‘purl oy} Jo sqtards [IA0 04} UlBIJSeI S8AOIS YONs uel ofdood sy,

“ASVTTIA VNIHD HLNOS V
YVAN (VWNVINOSSVW SNNId) SHNId G3Y AO 3AOHD VY ‘1

~, aaa a saiaiiaeitel

JIAPEM—'Eb6l *quoday UeIUOSYIIWG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Walker PLATE 5

A : a ~ . . a , Re ; Bi : x
ee ee Re oe

1. HIGH ALPINE PLANTS IN THE LIKIANG SNOW RANGE, WESTERN SZECHWAN.

These medusa-headed composites (Saussurea leucoma) were found at 16,500 feet altitude, about the upper
limit of plant growth. Such alpine treasures are among the goals of plant explorers. (Photograph by
J. F. Rock, © National Geographic Society.)

These venerable trees spread wide their huge branches from short, gnarled trunks. Among the twisted
roots one may find a simple shrine with glowing incense sticks. (Photograph by E. H.Wilson, courtesy
Arnold Arboretum.)
(‘Ayo100g orydeisoo4) [BUOTIBN © ‘yooy ‘wf Aq
ydeszojoyg) ‘osoy) O¥!, SIYZIoY Wod oU0d s}ue[d Uapses-yoOI oLBY “SpNoypo oy} Ui USpplY oe S}TWIUUNS OY, “BUIYO UJojsoM ul ofplopeukYyD Juno] Ye UolyIpodxo s,yooy “A ‘f

‘SHV4ad GeddVD-MONS MO1AG SAHOYXV] ANY SHIH DNOWY GAdWVONA

9 3LV1d JI4|B=A—'€h6 | *‘qaoday uvtuosyzIUICG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Walker PLATE 7

1. ANCIENT MUD WATCHTOWERS IN THE ARID MEKONG VALLEY IN YUNNAN.

Corn has been harvested in the foreground and compost piled for the next crop. Scattered trees, probably
pines, cover the distant heights. (Photograph by J. F. Rock, © National Geographic Society.)

2. GRASSLANDS OF NORTHEASTERN TIBET.

An explorer’s party resting for lunch. Note the almost complete lack of woody plants. When the spring
frosts disappear the alpine flowers clothe the hills in a riot of color. (Photograph by F. R. Wulsin, ©
National Geographic Society.)
(umm 4o1oqry (unjo10qi1y ploury Asojin0d
ploury Asoqyinood ‘uos[iM “H ‘a Aq ydeis0j}04q) ‘spaos Addod Ayuo J0 ‘uOstIM “H “a Aq ydeisojoyq) “41 suryono} ynoy4IM des snouostod Zurpnxe
‘ainido surpjetA sdeysed ‘sepnsdeo yytm sotddod jo yoyed & st 4YsII oy} 04 oq} JOJ YuNI, oy} dvy 0} sloyIOM [GBA 9914 9} 0} Por} sadaId ssold OT,
pues ully puodeg ‘vouvisely syt sAOlue Jooy payepuRS YIM JouLIey [eoIdAy VW

*"NYMHO&ZS NI (WHSAIOINYSA SNHY)
-WOO1g W1N4 NI Saul WO-OSNNL YO -GOOM TIVWS VY “Zz 33ayY 1 YSNOOV7] YO HSINYVA ASANIHOD Y °1

8 3LV1d JaxJeA\—'Ep6| ‘Wodeay ueruosyqwig
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Walker PLATE 9

1. HAND-HEWN HEMLOCK TIMBERS EN ROUTE TO MARKET.

These measure 7 by 9 inches and are 18! feet Jong and weigh nearly 400 pounds. When such means of
transport are replaced by trucks and trains, the remaining forests may be doomed. (Photograph by
E. H. Wilson, courtesy Arnold Arboretum.)

2. AN OLD ORCHARD OF JUJUBES OR CHINESE DATES NEAR PEIPING.

Winter wheat is planted in rows in this crchard. It makes a good growth before the leaves of the trees in
spring cast too much shade. Jujube orchards are now established in California. (Photograph by P. H.
Dorsett, courtesy U. S. Department of Agriculture.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Walker PLATE 10

1. MILLIONS OF PERSIMMONS FROZEN SOLID IN NATURAL COLD-STORAGE
BEDS NEAR PEIPING.

Note the bundles of kaoliang stalks placed across mounds of earth, thus enabling the cold air to penetrate
under the fruit. Thin mats are spread over the top. (Photograph by P. H. Dorsett, courtesy U. S.
Department of Agriculture.)

2. BLIGHT-RESISTANT CHINESE CHESTNUT TREES (CASTANEA
MOLLISSIMA) IN A CHIHLI PROVINCE ORCHARD.

Note the healing scars of branches killed by the blight and the crop planted beneath the trees. American
chestnut trees would have died. (Photograph by F. N. Meyer, courtesy U. 8. Department of Agri-
culture.) ;
Canjeog yuoy ‘y Aq ydeisojoyg) ‘“UeUUN A Ul WINjWoqIy ueYyg NT (aIn{[nolis y Jo JWoUL
ay} JO 10J081IpP MOT SI 9A “UOPIBy) [BIIULIOG SUOY SUOR IY} UL ST SIQ.L -jledact ‘S$ °q Aseyinos ydeisojogd) “Ysnoiy) oa} ¢ INo9qB sI YuNIY sy
“ISNVHS NI (SISNSNIHO
VIOVLSId) 3SYL AHOVLSId ASHNIHD V Ad ‘YseuYO 1d
“XQ LNVId WHYHNALINDIYSY YSSaNOld ‘YSAAW 'N ‘A ol

°8Z61 NI DNOM DNOH NI (VOIGNI Va1vZyv) HSNG VAIVZV
Nv B3qISag ‘Ya3YuYO1dxXy LNV1d 3SSNIHD ‘DSNIHD “DO YY “Z

LL 3LV1d JI¥[PM—E$6| ‘Oday ueruosyytuig
(eany no
-13y Jo juewuyedeq “§ “MQ Aseqano0d “4jes10d “H “d Aq ydeis0j,0y4 4)
‘djnd saded optaoid sjooys yons WO1y UMOIS SUIO}S SUNO X *SULYO00
10} poredaid Apjaed sioyyo oy4 ‘poysoArey ysnf ore qysii oy} TO OM) OU

“YNIHD TIVYLNAD WOUS
(SI1nNGaga SAHOVLSOTIAHd) SLOOHS OOEWVd 3418104 ‘e

cé\h SE Gs/ars|

(‘emny[NoWs y JO UOT
-yuedeq, *g§ *(Q Asoqjinoo ‘yyesiod “H *d Aq qdviz0joyg) “Boleury 04
SUI[LEUL 10] pol9y}es SBUT}{ND Puw Sp9es PUB ‘ouTBD AY} BDUOTM SUIpIES
pU®B SPILYI.10 9} 0} PadV1} aq [ITA So[qvyI59A PUB S}IMJJ Say} JO Seq OGL

“ISHUYVW WOYS SLONGOCdd
SONIYNG ‘YSLSYdYALN| 31SV S,LLaSHYORd ‘NIT Y¥s13d ‘1

‘  %

JOH[EA—'Ep6| “Oday ueruosyziwig
NATURAL RUBBER!

By O. F. Coox

[With 20 plates}
CONTENTS

Page

Why the two principal rubber trees are confused______._____.----_--_- 365
Comingiet-the mubber- ames ne nies io oe ee alae Bue Li Le 367
Anew realmrof human attainment—22- 24 V2 ee ee eae 368
Service Of rubber torsciencese22 we stae 8 Ss es 369
Kubber-discoveries accidentals. +. s2s.uue ce ee Oe 370
ne wrest. wuropean to.appreciate nubbers.< o2. ee) 2 ee eee ba 8 371
iia Condanmine in: Brazil\and: Guiana feu oe ee ORY Ure Ok 372

A basic discovery in extracting Para rubber latex.____._._.__-__.---_-_- 373
Scopevol Ridley si@iscovery sesh ce oy et he a as 374
Explaining, the) wound Tesponse se se hee 52 ae oe ees as Elid 375
Commereial surveys) of, wild) rubber sii.) oo hr 2 en antag ted 375
Genera related tO MASUR. 20 aioe ak Ti ly Le en eda 377
Genera’ related to’ Para Tubberse kt oil w ie) Vg No eon 377
Eralustion of rubber treeaisi 2 Aso eet Nee le oie leya ies 377
Reasons for preferring itreeicropso oe oes See a 378
Rubberiacia gardencrop see ses Sea sO le A 379
Proplemsyot. rubbery latex. é = erse tt Cc 2 ee eet en yo A ake UR 380
ECU Or Bry PILE: OF (UR EETE by oy s'est nen hte ecu MESS nai acy oe ee Cg ae, RO - 880
Rabber-and neartrubberl2te fie Ie 1 LU) VION APE od 382
Rubbermwithoutiatexs 22 Sos Peer a ert Pasi eas) its 382
Rubber-forming cells'in ‘Castilla latex a 204.2 Soe eb 384
Castilla handicapped by jan. enzyme ys. bese i ee a ale a a 384
Iatex separate from Sap y kn le 2 a ie ee Mt ul Ween, 0 Nata 386
Specialized branches and leaves in Castilla...______-__---_-_.--_------- 387
Two. forms /of branches’ ih’ Castillas.c Jitsu ood. Tn ee i 388
Specialized leaves of dimorphic branches__.--___-_-__------------ 389
Dwouwpreliminary, leaf forms, in, Castilla: 0% jeu oie e ee ee 390
Propagation of Castilla from permanent branches___._______------- 391
Forest adaptations of the Para rubber tree..........------.----------- 391
Branching “habits! of Para tubber tree.) 2 Vee se or el as 393
Inermittent growthrof tromki Oe eed Lk ee pe ae 393
eaves: arranged in rosettes rer steht seu sy hh Ee al he 394
Many, léaflessim etamenrs its aearut aa lil fultitat Nida! S220) Uy ache ign Genial iano 394
BDONRY, PETISHADIESCEOR S22 Me kh ie Oe Lee eh ai ee 395
heaves OF NECN PS aeeatp a) oss ae fe oe eye es Soe he 395

1 Much of this material is recast from previous papers and reports by the same writer in publications
of the U. 8. Department of Agriculture. A bibliography is appended. Titles of some of the papers are
mentioned in the text, with other references by date only.

363
364 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Page

A growth disorder in seedlings of Para rubber__.__.._.......---------_ 396
Diversity in’ abnormal wplantsc2 2292) es te 1S eee ee 397
Recovery of normal: leaf forms... Sais en ie ee ee 397
Amature tree with narrowilesvesso SOL a ee 398

The Para: rubber ‘tres as-a;bybridistoek 4 20 a ee ee 398
Rubber in a Gesert/ suru ys ss erie eae te el RL ee Res Sac 398
Developing’s' guayule Industrywena ee oe ee 400
Effect of Ridley’s discovery on guayule and Castilla___.__._..__-_-- 400
Possibility of applying guayule extraction methods to Castilla__.____ 401
Rubber in’ desert mulkweeds i). seen same 2 eee se 402
Cryptestagin asr a; SO Cover. veces view te Bei eee eter OURS St Ta eR Lye 403
The African rubber tree in shelter elise. ss. Gee oars ee ee 404
An hardy. Cut bas prea Gree en il oly ele lag bells sR Miah ak Ne 404
Eucommia, & treethat never blossomse 222.2255. 8 2 eee 405
Eucommia suppresses all terminal buds_________-._-.-_._---------- 406
Anite Walshe ELGG! Pe eee ehh ee kU eae Lan ee LLG ands a 407
he sapodilia, “or chewine-pumiptrees 220 teeta oe ee ee 408
Ourihousehold! “ruber tani 7 ees seal ON UTE oe Ue ae gl al 409
AD WOrRTUDeTS im (ONG ECG ests 8 PE a pa A he 409

Taking account of natural sources of rubber is a scientific task of
enormous proportions, which as yet has received only casual and inter-
mittent attention. Only a few species have been studied and evaluated,
while thousands are known to contain rubber, and other thousands
doubtless remain to be discovered. Rubber and rubberlike substances
are not restricted to plants that have latex, the milky juice that is car-
ried in minute tubes apart from the other tissues. Latex may have
functions in the plant economy other than the storage or transfer
of the rubber-forming material, but nothing has been found to indi-
cate that the rubber material itself is more than a waste product, like
the resins, tannins, or lignins that are formed in the various groups of
higher plants. Thus no biological limit can be set to the need of a
general survey of the plant kingdom.

A beginning of the search for rubber resources may be reckoned
from a century ago, when the Para rubber tree in the forest of the
Amazon valley began to be exploited on a large scale, after the Castilla
or Central American rubber tree, the original source of commercial
rubber, was largely exhausted. To the middle of the last century most
of the rubber had been obtained from the Castilla tree, and Brazil has
continued to furnish Castilla rubber from the more remote or less
accessible districts. The Castilla rubber is handled in Brazil under the
name caucho, while the Para rubber is known as borracha. The com-
mercial preponderance of the Para rubber in recent decades has left
the Castilla rubber in such obscurity—or even oblivion—that popular
writers were led to suppose that the history of rubber began in the
Amazon valley. In reality the Castilla rubber had been known in
Mexico and elsewhere in tropical America for more than three cen-
turies before the Para rubber became prominent.
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 365

The Para rubber tree was not widely utilized in the early days be-
cause much more labor was required to get the rubber from it than to
gather the rubber of Castilla. A Castilla tree was exploited in Brazil
in a single complete operation—felling the tree and ringing the trunk
in many places, thus obtaining several pounds of rubber, often 10 to
20 pounds—while a Para rubber tree had to be punctured repeatedly
through weeks and months, and the latex collected in daily driblets.
But with the greater demand for rubber and the rapid advance in
prices after the middle of the last century, following Goodyear’s im-
provements of manufacturing processes, the gathering of Para rub-
ber was greatly stimulated. The discovery of vulcanization is dated
from 1839, and Goodyear obtained his patent in 1844.

When Richard Spruce, a first-rank botanical explorer, landed at
Para in 1849, he found that the tapping of the Para rubber tree was
“limited to the immediate environs” of the city, but in a few years of
rising prices thousands of people turned to gathering the Para rubber.

The extraordinary price reached by rubber in Par& in 1853 at length woke
up the people from their lethargy, and when once set in motion, so wide was the
impulse extended that throughout the Amazon and its principal tributaries the
mass of the population put itself in motion to search out and fabricate rubber.
In the small province of Parad alone (which includes a very small portion of the
Amazon) it was computed that 25,000 persons were employed in that branch
of industry. Mechanics threw aside their tools, sugar-makers deserted their
mills, and Indians their rocas, so that sugar, rum, and even farinha were not
produced in sufficient quantity for the consumption of the province.

Spruce was told of an earlier period when the rubber trees had been
felled for tapping, and he inferred from this that the method of har-
vesting had been changed in the interest of obtaining more rubber “by
successive tappings of the same tree.” Since felling and ringing the
trees was the usual procedure with Castilla in South America, a tran-
sition from Castilla to Para rubber is indicated. Some of the up-river
tribes that Spruce visited did not know that rubber was being gathered
from the Para rubber tree.

WHY THE TWO PRINCIPAL RUBBER TREHS ARE CONFUSED

The generic name Siphonza, dating from 1791, was used by Spruce
for the Para rubber tree, and for several related species that he dis-
covered in Brazil, such as Siphonia lutea, S. pauciflora, and 8S. dis-
color. The use of Hevea instead of Siphonia by Mueller von Aargau
in 1865 was a mistake, and has led to much confusion in the histories,
habits, and uses of the two principal rubber trees. The native name,
heve, the original of Hevea, did not belong to the Para rubber tree or
even to the Amazon valley, but to the Castilla tree and to the district
of Esmeraldas on the Pacific coast of Ecuador, visited by La Conda-
mine in 1736. The Para rubber tree and the related species of Sipho-
366 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

nia do not extend beyond the Andes, but only to the eastern foothills
of the mountain barrier. The natural distribution of Castilla in-
cludes most of tropical America from Brazil and Peru to Mexico,
but not the West Indies.

Writers who traced the origin of the name Hevea to the district of
Esmeraldas naturally inferred that the Para rubber tree was first
discovered on the Pacific coast of Ecuador, though some have assumed
that Esmeraldas was a locality in Brazil. As late as 1876 James
Collins, the most competent author on rubber of that period, contrib-
uting to a book on “British Manufacturing Industries,” represents
La Condamine as finding Para rubber trees, “siphonias or seringas in
great abundance,” along the Pacific coast, “adjacent to the sea.”

The usual supposition that rubber history began in Brazil arises
largely from the fact that rubber was coming from Brazil in the days
of Goodyear, but the preceding centuries of rubber history should not
be disregarded—three centuries in Mexico and at least one century in
Brazil. The first rubber industry in Brazil was the gathering of
Castilla rubber on the eastern slopes of the Andes, as witnessed by
La Condamine when he descended the Amazon in 1748. This indus-
try entered Brazil from the Spanish settlements on the Pacific coast,
and spread eastward through the Amazon valley, until it was replaced
or at least overshadowed at the middle of the next century by the ex-
ploitation of the Para rubber tree, beginning around Para and spread-
ing westward, as witnessed by Spruce. The word caucho came from
the west with the Castilla industry, the word borracha from the east,
with the Para rubber.

The primary error was made by Aublet in 1775 in associating the
vernacular name heve from Esmeraldas with a native rubber tree of
French Guiana. But Aublet’s Hevea had been discarded as a hom-
onym in Lamarck’s encylopedia, and replaced by Siphonia. To
overlook this fact was a technical error, violating one of the basic
rules of nomenclature, that names abandoned as homonyms are not to
be resumed. The name Hevea doubtless will continue in popular use
for many years and will only gradually be replaced by Siphonia. An
alternative is to treat Hevea as a popular name, like petunia, aster, or
chrysanthemum. The name Para rubber tree is familiar and not
equivocal.

It seems remarkable that Spruce should have botanized in so many
places along the Amazon without encountering a single Castilla tree,
from which it may be inferred that a nearly complete extermination
had taken place. Many other botanists, before and after Spruce, ob-
tained no specimens. The Castilla of the lower Amazon had no botani-
cal status until it was described by Warburg in 1905 as a new species,
Castilla ulei, named for Ule, the collector. This tree may be less strik-
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 367

ing than the other species of Castilla in Mexico and Central America,
since the leaves are smaller, but the trees grow large and yields of
30 to 50 pounds of rubber are reported.

The confusion of the names might be supposed to have little rela-
tion to the study of practical problems, since the two types of trees
are entirely unlike in appearance, habits, and cultural requirements.
Castilla is a striking, large-leaved tree like a magnolia, while the Para
rubber has the appearance of an ordinary tree—an ash or a boxelder.
Although nobody who knows the two trees would be expected to con-
fuse them, yet much confusion regarding their characters and behavior
has existed and still continues, even among those concerned with rub-
ber experiments and projects. The commercial, industrial, mechan-
ical, and chemical aspects of the rubber problems have been intensively
elaborated, but not the plant-life aspects. Not many tree crops have
been domesticated, and people rarely have experience of a kind to
make them familiar with such differences as those of the rubber trees.

Outside of the Amazon valley, popular knowledge of rubber trees
in tropical America has related almost entirely to Castilla, with the
Para rubber tree coming forward only in recent years. The uncon-
scious carry-over of ideas from the Castilla to the Para rubber has
occasioned many destructive errors and interferences, even to the ex-
tent of Para rubber trees being cut down as complete failures because
they did not yield latex freely like Castilla. This reason was given
for cutting down several Para rubber trees in an experimental plant-
ing in Haiti. One of the stumps survived for many years, as shown
in plate 11.

On account of confusion of the trees, a certain indifference appears
when the planting of Para rubber is advocated by speakers or writers
not familiar with the Castilla tree. Separate recognition of the two
trees in the minds of interested people is the first step toward effective
understanding and utilization of either of the trees in tropical Amer-
ica, or of both together. Castilla may serve under some conditions
as a nurse crop for the Para rubber, but the extraction of the latex
will need to be done in a different way.

COMING OF THE RUBBER AGE

Enormous resources of Para rubber were discovered in the forests
covering the valleys of the Amazon and its principal tributaries, and
yet in a few years all the accessible areas were being exploited, more
wild rubber was being sought in other continents, and the question of
planting rubber trees was being raised. In 1876 Wickham made his
famous shipment of Para rubber seeds to the Kew Gardens near
London, for planting in India, and 20 years later the first commercial
planting of Para rubber was made in Malaya. The search for other
368 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

sources lapsed when the planting project came through at the begin-
ning of this century, and now is largely forgotten. From Goodyear
to plantation rubber was only 50 years, and 50 more to the present
time.

The rapid advance of industrial civilization in the United States
during this short period is viewed with complacency as the “Rubber
Age,” usually without reflecting that in most of the other countries the
utilization of rubber is only at the stage of beginning. The eventual
need of rubber must be, in many parts of the world, hundreds or
thousands of times the merely “token” requirements as yet recognized.
Not only the populous countries need rubber, but the waste places have
even greater needs, the vast areas of denuded lands, scarcely populated
now, but to be made accessible and habitable by means of rubber.
Every nation will need rubber. Developing adequate supplies of
rubber is a basic provision for the general advance in human welfare
that now is contemplated.

Rubber has come to be a normal need of civilized people, hardly less
than food, clothing, and shelter. The power of motion is an enlarge-
ment of our lives that we purchase at any price. The wider attain-
ments and satisfactions of this rubber-brought freedom still are beyond
the range of constructive imagination, but there is no thought of turn-
ing back to our previous immobile state. We have tried our new legs
and wings, but have scarcely learned to use them. Even with us the
Rubber Age lies mostly in the future. The futility of all the world
depending on the production of a single rubber tree in a single region
is amply demonstrated in the present emergency. ‘The production of
Para rubber is being decentralized as rapidly as possible, and many
other trees, shrubs, and herbaceous rubber-bearing plants are being
studied, with special attention to those that can live outside the
Tropics. The hardy Zucommia tree from China, if it produced rubber
instead of gutta-percha, undoubtedly would be hailed as one of the
most valuable introductions. The rubber crops of different countries
eventually may be as diversified as the sugar crops or the starch crops,
after the cultural qualifications of the various rubber bearers have been
determined. Only a beginning could be made in this scientific project
with the intermittent interest and support that could be obtained while
it appeared that ample supplies of rubber were assured from the plan-
tations in Malaya.

A NEW REALM OF HUMAN ATTAINMENT

From a scientific viewpoint the course of human progress is entering
a new realm in adopting and developing the uses of rubber. Pro-
found changes are involved, comparable to those encountered by our
primitive predecessors in adopting fire, contriving tools, weapons,
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 369

hunting gear, and fishing tackle, discovering fish poisons, building
houses and boats, domesticating food plants and animals, developing
textiles, ceramics, and graphic arts. All these activities and attain-
ments, superposed and interacting with each other, were modified in
many ways when metal tools replaced wood and stone, and again when
iron and steel could be substituted for copper and bronze. Rubber is
a material with new and different properties, not a food or a textile
or a metal, but not inferior to any of these in its powers of modifying
and transforming the activities and conditions of living in our civiliza-
tion. Rubber had only a few uses among primitive peoples, but with
us the uses are so many that no limit can be imagined, if our civilization
is to continue.

Rubber is a new realm not only in the sense of being only recently
entered, but also as causing many abrupt changes in the lives of millions
of people. Little analogy is found with the gradual developments of
other natural resources that have altered conditions of life in the course
of centuries. Rubber already has brought many profound transforma-
tions to vast numbers of people, leaving very little of their former lives
unaffected. In view of the extent and rapidity of this transformation
it doubtless will be reckoned in the future as one of the major events of
history, and yet the botanical basis and background of the change
attained no public recognition during the first quarter-century of
intensive utilization.

SERVICE OF RUBBER TO SCIENCE

Rubber is serving civilization in so many ways that efforts to enu-
merate them become tiresome, but services to science often are omitted
from such reckonings. Not only are airplanes, automobiles, trucks,
speedboats, and countless other machines dependent on rubber, but also
a world of scientific apparatus, the veritable tools of investigation.
What would chemical laboratories be without the equipment made
possible by rubber tubes and gaskets, or electric research without
insulation? That chemistry should have achieved at this juncture the
knowledge and skill to make synthetic rubber will doubtless feature
with future historians as a “decisive battle” in the scientific field, an-
other escape of civilization from a major disaster. The development
of synthetic rubber lends a new interest and significance to natural
rubber.?

Another service to science is seen in the special studies of the rubber-
bearing plants, many of which would otherwise have remained but
little known, as most of the forms of plant life still are, especially in

2A discussion of synthetic rubber and of chemical research connected with rubber will

be found in a paper entitled “The Rubber Industry, 1839-1939,” by W. A. Gibbons, Ann.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1940, p. 193, 1941.
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

tropical countries. Only a few of the species that are known to con-
tain rubber have as yet been accessible to comparative study, but even
these preliminary surveys have opened new chapters in botany. That
many unknown and unexpected features should be found among the
rubber-bearing plants need not be taken to mean that such plants as a
class are peculiar, but only that our knowledge of and interest in the
plant world still are strangely limited.

RUBBER DISCOVERIES ACCIDENTAL

Many writers have stressed the fact that Goodyear’s discovery was
made accidentally, and this is true, to an even greater extent, of other
contributions not less significant than Goodyear’s to the development
of the rubber industry. Goodyear’s contribution is in no way dimin-
ished by recognizing that the services of other men were likewise
indispensable. Wickham’s exploit of 1876 in sending rubber seeds
from Brazil to England for planting in India is frequently recounted,
but two other names should be as widely recognized: La Condamine,
who was concerned with rubber a century before Goodyear, and Rid-
ley, who came half a century after Goodyear.

Wickham’s exportation of rubber seeds from Brazil and Ridley’s
discovery of a tapping method at Singapore were both voluntary
contributions due solely to the interest and initiative of the two men
involved. Neither had gone to the Tropics to study rubber, and the
services that they rendered had not been planned or expected. Cross
was being sent to Brazil at the time that Wickham was obtaining his
shipment of 70,000 seeds by persuading the captain of a tramp
steamer to take a chance of being rewarded. Previous seed shipments
had failed, and that method of introduction was being abandoned.
Cross, a few months later, took home a thousand young seedling
plants, but only a few survived. Without Wickham’s seeds the ex-
periments of that period could not have reached a practical scale.

Ridley’s solution of the tapping problem also came, so to speak, from
the side lines. Specialists in plant physiology had been sent to Ceylon
and a station established for experiments with rubber trees, but under
a policy of tapping the trees by methods carried over from Brazil,
such discouraging results were obtained that Ridley had difficulty in
getting his facts considered. Without the spontaneous interest of
these two men, the history of rubber culture must have been com-
pletely different.

Even with these contributions, the outlook for rubber planting
remained doubtful until actual production was demonstrated. As
late as 1900 unfavorable opinions of Para rubber were reported in
Java, where experimental studies of this and other rubber plants
were supposed to have received more attention than in the British
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK Syl

colonies. Further planting of Para rubber as a regular crop was
no longer considered advisable on the basis of careful studies by
agricultural specialists. For Java it appeared that Ficus elastica
was more promising, and even on the general question of rubber
plantations the Dutch investigators were said to have reached an
adverse conclusion, on account of the small prospect of meeting the
expense of competent and honest administration of the estates.

THE FIRST EUROPEAN TO APPRECIATE RUBBER

The statements of many books that rubber was “discovered” by
La Condamine in 1736, are misleading, since rubber undoubtedly
had been known and used by native peoples over most of tropical
America through many generations. Many travelers and explorers
had visited America before La Condamine, and several had reported
the existence of rubber, but none had considered rubber as more than
a curiosity, one of the many marvels of the New World, but with no
impression of practical value. La Condamine was the first European
to become constructively interested in rubber—the first to see that
this tough, elastic substance might become valuable material in France
and other civilized countries.

Alexander von Humboldt and many other European travelers
visited tropical America before and after La Condamine without
receiving, or at least without reporting, any such impression of the
potential importance of rubber. Thousands of Europeans—soldiers,
sailors, missionaries, travelers, and settlers in America—had seen and
handled rubber, as shown by casual references in several early books
on America. Many incidental uses were noted by Sahagun, who
reached Mexico in 1528, and by Hernandez, who came in 1570. Saha-
gun also described many religious ceremonies among the Aztecs in
which Castilla rubber, or wlli, was used with copal as a burnt offering,
or made into sacred images of the gods. The resemblance of rubber
to a living animal or to human tissues may be reflected in some of
the native names. The Aztec name, wle, was adopted into Spanish
in North America; in South America another native name, caucho,
rendered in French as caoutchouc. Many languages of Central and
South America have distinctive names for rubber or for the rubber
tree.

La Condamine was not a botanist or even a naturalist, but is usually
described as an astronomer or mathematician, and also as a geographer
or engineer. His errand in South America was to determine more
definitely the figure of the earth by making astronomical measure-
ments of sections of the meridian of Quito, close to the Equator. The
expedition was sponsored by the Academy of Sciences of Paris, under
the auspices of the King of France, Louis XV. Since the astronomical
372 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

project was responsible for La Condamine’s visiting South America
and seeing rubber in its natural state, rubber may be reckoned his-
torically as a byproduct of astronomy.

La Condamine went to South America by way of Panama and landed
in “Peru” at the small port of Manta, actually on the coast of Ecuador
north of Guayaquil. The Andes were ascended by way of Esmeral-
das, another coast locality north of Manta. Heavy rains in the moun-
tains made the trails impassable, and the few weeks of enforced delay
in the coast district doubtless were responsible for his contacts with
rubber. Thus a mere incident of travel appears to have had a much
more important relation to human progress than anything else that
La Condamine was able to contribute. No time would appear to have
been lost by La Condamine in sending his first report on rubber to the
Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris, in 1736. A further account was
published in 1745, soon after La Condamine returned to France.

LA CONDAMINE IN BRAZIL AND GUIANA

The fact that La Condamine descended the Amazon and visited
French Guiana before returning to Europe is responsible for the
strange confusion of the principal rubber trees already noted. The
chief purpose for which rubber was being collected at the time of La
Condamine’s visit was for making torches and candles, which are said
to have burned very well. The evil smell of burning rubber comes
largely from the sulfur that is added. At the time of La Conda-
mine’s visit, supplies of rubber were being obtained from the eastern
slopes of the Andes in the Maynas district of the upper Amazon, as
well as from the forests along the Pacific coast. No rubber gathering
on the lower Amazon was mentioned by La Condamine, but at Para
small objects modeled from rubber were seen, and some of these were
carried to French Guiana, where a search for rubber trees was started.
Fresneau, an engineer who spent 14 years in this colony, found several
latex-bearing trees, as reported through La Condamine to the Paris
Academy in 1751.

One of the Guiana trees was supposed from native information to
be the kind that furnished rubber in Brazil, and this was described by
Aublet in 1775 as Hevea guianensis. Several localities were noted, and
the nuts were said to be gathered and eaten by the natives, the “al-
mond” having a pleasant taste. La Condamine and Fresneau are not
mentioned, but a reference is given to the “poor figure of the Guiana
tree in the memoir of 1751.” The name “Hevea peruviana” engraved
on Aublet’s plate 335 leaves no doubt that the Guiana tree was sup-
posed to be the same that La Condamine had found on the coast of
Esmeraldas, “northwest of Quito,” where Castilla grows, and the
native name heve was encountered.
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 373

Thus it came about that the name eve, used by the natives of Es-
meraldas for the Castilla tree, was employed by Aublet as a generic
designation for the Guiana rubber tree, and later was extended to the
Para rubber tree. The writers who placed Esmeraldas in Brazil or
in Venezuela, rather than in Ecuador, show the extent of confusion
that a misleading name may generate. Ducke says in a footnote of his
“Revision of the Genus Hevea,” in 1935: “I do not know why Aublet
attributed the origin of the name heve to Esmeraldas on the Pacific
coast of Ecuador, where the genus Hevea is unknown.” The reason is
that the trees were assumed to be the same, since both produced rubber.

A BASIC DISCOVERY IN EXTRACTING PARA RUBBER LATEX

The rapid extension of the use of rubber during the present century
was made possible by the discovery at Singapore about 1890 of a new
method of tapping the Para rubber tree. The discovery was made by
Henry N. Ridley, then in charge of the Singapore Botanic Gardens.
A definite date is difficult to assign because the tapping experiments
were made incidentally and not published by Ridley until 1897. Even
then the report was fragmentary and not explicit, so that little ac-
count has been taken of what in reality was a basic discovery that made
plantation rubber feasible on a large scale. The idea that latex could
be drawn repeatedly and at short intervals from the same wound, by
paring the margin, doubtless seemed too absurd to be credited by rea-
sonable people and was therefore difficult to disseminate. No effective
record might have been made if Ridley had not been visited at Singa-
pore in 1896 by David Fairchild, as described in an article in the
Journal of Heredity for May 1928, “Dr. Ridley of Singapore and the
Beginnings of the Rubber Industry.”

Fairchild appears to have appreciated more clearly than Ridley that
a definite and indispensable step had been taken in Ridley’s experi-
ments. To Fairchild it seemed that Ridley had worked out “the most
important single point of technique connected with the very vital
problem of how to get the rubber out of the Hevea trees.” Fairchild’s
evaluation of Ridley’s work is as follows:

It is to Dr. Ridley that we owe the discovery that you can open a wound in
the bark of the rubber tree, let it “bleed” and collect the latex as long as it will
run, and when the wound dries cut it open again the next day and get not only
another run of latex but a larger run than from the original incision. It is this
discovery which led to the development of the modern methods of rubber tapping
and, it may be fairly said, solved the planter’s difficulties; turned the trick so
to say, in a critical period of the rubber industry. Every well informed manu-
facturer in America will see that such a trick, such a discovery, had it been in
the field of patentable inventions would have resulted in royalties sufficient to
have enriched the discoverer and placed him in the class of the great inventors
of the twentieth century. But it did not do this. Dr. Ridley today is a man of

566766—44——25
374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

small means whose chief pleasure is in studying the herbarium material which he
had collected years ago in that part of the world which he chose as a young man
for his special field of study—the Malayan Region; and in the preparation of a
Flora of that remarkable area of the tropics.

The introduction of a new plant into a new region is an “event.” The first
exploitation and adaptation of that plant to the conditions of life which surround
the new plant immigrant is another “event.’””’ And we must indeed be lacking
in imagination if we fail to raise on a pinnacle the pioneers whose vision and
ingenuity and scientific curiosity guided the developments of these vast and indis-
pensable industries during their formative days.

SCOPE OF RIDLEY’S DISCOVERY

A more fateful discovery than Ridley’s method of harvesting the
rubber of the Siphonia tree would be difficult to adduce from the
pages of history. Many “epoch-making inventions” are recounted,
but none that so promptly affected so many millions of people. In
all civilized countries living conditions and social relations were
profoundly changed in a few years. Even among primitive tribes
in remote and backward regions of the Tropics, rubber cultivation had
almost immediate effects. ‘Thousands of Malays, Hindus, and Chinese
soon were engaged as contract laborers on the rubber plantations,
while other thousands of even more primitive people were released
from the gathering of wild rubber in forest regions of both hemi-
spheres, and in effect were reprieved from extinction through Ridley’s
discovery.

A parallel may be seen in Eli Whitney’s invention of the saw gin
for short-staple cotton, which had social and political significance
in the rapid expansion of Negro slavery in the southern States,
eventuating in the Civil War, but these effects were relatively local,
while the rubber reactions were world-wide. The ascendancy of the
northern nations of Europe may be ascribed to the introduction of the
potato, but centuries were required for the potato sequence to work
out, while less than half a century has elapsed since the first com-
mercial planting of the Siphonia tree in 1896.

Rubber production offered at once such definite advantages that
only a few years were required for a new agricultural industry to be
created in the East Indies, and new manufacturing industries in
Europe and America, providing new systems of communication and
transportation in all civilized countries. Rubber and gutta-percha
as insulating materials made it possible for electricity to be utilized.
Riding on rubber has become our “standard of living.” A vast exten-
sion of the human environment has taken place.

Hundreds of chemical and physical discoveries have contributed
to “modern scientific progress,” but rubber in thousands of tons was
necessary for the endless new applications to be developed. Ridley’s
biological observation was the critical point in quantity production,
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 375

making it possible for our industrial and cultural transformations to
go forward with such amazing speed. It might be said that Ridley
turned on the rubber, and caused an industrial deluge.

EXPLAINING THE WOUND RESPONSE

Studies of the tapping problems of the Para rubber tree in the
early period were confused by a special theory of wound response,
devised to explain the’ gradually increasing flows of latex after the
first tapping, which usually yields very little. The theory assumed
a greater intensity of physiological action to account for more latex
being formed in the bark adjacent to a tapping wound, but such a
reaction is not indicated. The underlying causes, determined by
later investigators, are the branching latex tubes, which form a con-
tinuous network throughout the bark, and the fact that the latex
becomes more liquid with a lower content of rubber. Subsequent
tappings produce a freer flow because the tubes adjacent to the
wound are gradually freed of the thicker, more creamy latex shown
in its original state at the first tapping; other changes, of a nature
to form more latex in the tissues around the wound, are not indicated.

Instead of an effect of the tapping upon the adjacent tissues, the
lack of such an effect is the remarkable fact that needs to be appre-
ciated in order to understand that in the Para rubber tree renewal of
the same wound may be repeated frequently and continued indefi-
nitely. Because the latex tubes are united into a network, the supply
of latex is always sufficient to replenish the tubes near the wound,
and thus to restore the bark pressure. The entire system of the tree
contributes to the drainage from the tapping wound. The prompt
replacement of the latex and renewal of the bark may be viewed as
. a remarkable provision of the tree against the wound reactions that
otherwise might occur if the tissues remained depleted or became
infected by fungi or bacteria, which rarely happens.*

COMMERCIAL SURVEYS OF WILD RUBBER

From the commercial standpoint it appeared that the search for
resources of wild rubber had been carried to a practical conclusion
in the later decades of the last century. With supplies of wild rub-
ber from Brazil becoming inadequate, large expenditures were made
by commercial agencies in exploring the tropical forest regions of
both hemispheres. In Africa, Madagascar, and Malaya, many new
rubber-bearing trees, vines, and “root-rubbers” were found and rap-
idly exhausted, though several were exploited extensively during

2A lack of wound response in an experiment with repeated tapping was reeognized by

Karling in a latex-bearing tree (Couma guatemalensis), studied in eastern Guatemala as
a possible substitute for chicle. See Amer. Journ. Bot., vol. 22, p. 580, 1933.
376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

periods of years. Such efforts continued until the plantations of Para
rubber trees in the Malay Peninsula began to supply the market, and
the need of searching further for wild rubber seemed to have passed.

In reality the commercial surveys had taken only a partial view of
the general problem of natural rubber. The rubber-producing plants
were not studied or evaluated from the standpoint of agricultural
production possibilities, but only with reference to their existence in
large numbers over wide areas, in sufficient abundance to be exploited
in commercial quantities. No commercia! interest would be taken in
trees or plants limited to small areas or occurring as rare, widely scat-
tered individuals.

With a plant that is brought into cultivation, it obviously makes
little difference whether the wild stock is scattered widely in nature
or limited to a single district, or even to a single locality. Many spe-
cies are localized, especially in tropical regions, to an extent that is
seldom appreciated. The apparent uniformity of tropical forests al-
lows us to suppose that the same species are widely distributed, but
even where forests are continuous the species may prove to vary.
Richard Spruce, after several years of intensive exploration in the
Amazon valley, estimated that with every degree of latitude half of
the species were changed.

Alfred Russell Wallace, who visited Brazil during the same period
that Spruce did, also failed to distinguish between the two types of
trees that were being exploited in the Amazon valley. Even in 1908,
in publishing Spruce’s Journals, Wallace writes of cutting the trees
down as a method of utilization that had been applied to the Para
rubber in the early days. Wallace held that the latex served for the
growth of the trees and that tapping should be suspended during
the flowering and fruiting season.

Several species of Siphonia, or Hevea, have been described from the
Amazon valley, but only one species of Castilla. The number of per-
ceptibly different local forms of Castzla doubtless would run into
scores or hundreds, if a thorough study could be made. Ten species
were distinguished in a monograph by Pittier published in 1910, and
others may be described, but the number that can be separated and
classified by definite differences may not be much larger. The species
of Castilla are less localized than in many tropical genera, the fleshy
fruits being eaten by birds and monkeys, and the seed scattered. Vari-
ations of structure or habits within the species, such as thicker bark
or greater tolerance of drought or other unfavorable conditions, may
have cultural importance far beyond the characters formulated in
describing species in the usual manner, that is, from differences in
leaves, flowers, or fruits.
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 377

GENERA RELATED TO CASTILLA

Several genera related to Castilla are worthy of being canvassed as
rubber trees, in view of reports by botanical collectors that the latex
was abundant and formed an elastic substance. Thus Olmedia aspera
and OQ. laevis were noted by Ruiz in 1784 at Pozuzo on the eastern
slope of Peru as “trees that on incision give an abundance of very
white milk, which, exposed to the air, turns into a very elastic resin of a
reddish-chestnut color; it can be shaped into any form desired.” The
presence of rubber may explain a statement by Sandeman in “A For-
gotten River,” that a waterproof bark cloth is obtained from this
Olmedia, which the Indians call Vlanchama. <A species of Perebea in
Panama was described by James Collins as Castilla markamiana, and
shares the native name wle with Castilla panamensis. Some of the
Brazilian trees referred to Helicostylis have a notable similarity to
Castilla ulei.

GENERA RELATED TO PARA RUBBER

Another rubber-bearing genus in South America, closely related to
the Para rubber tree, was described by Bentham under the name J/-
crandra. It seems to be widely distributed in South America, but
apparently has not been found in sufficient abundance for commercial
exploitation. Spruce used the name Muranda for this genus, of which
he saw two species on a tributary of the Rio Negro, differing notably
from the Para rubber tree in their simple leaves and clustered trunks,
“often as many as ten from a root.” They were said to yield “pure
rubber.”

Several South American rubber trees belong to the genus Sapium,
also a member of the spurge family. Some of the sapiums grow at
rather high altitudes in the Andes, 6,000 to 8,000 feet, and produce
what has long been known as “virgin rubber,” some of it reputed to
be of excellent quality. Other species grow in the Amazon valley and
are reported to share the habits of the Para rubber tree and to yield
latex in the same manner, by the native method of making many wounds
with small hatchets. This may mean that the latex tubes of Sapium
form a continuous network as in the Para rubber. A plantation of
70,000 Sapium trees was reported from Colombia in 1888 as “growing
with great rapidity, and averaging about five feet a year,” according to
a letter published in the Kew Bulletin of 1906.

EVALUATION OF RUBBER TREES

The rubber planter encounters the problems of choosing favorable
natural conditions, devising suitable cultural methods, and selecting
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the plants best adapted to the conditions under which he must oper-
ate. That American planters in the early days gave their attention
so exclusively to Castilla, and planters in the East Indies to the Para
rubber, was not the result of any demonstration of the cultural su-
periority of one tree or the other, but of becoming interested in the
possibilities of the tree they had at hand. The desirability of many
other species that ‘have been reported as promising remains to be
determined.

It is not to be expected that any one species will be found to have
a sufficiently superior value under all conditions to warrant its being
planted to the exclusion of all others. Rubber, like starch, is pro-
duced in nature in many different environments ranging from deserts
to swamps. The number of cultivated rubber plants will probably
never equal that of the starchy cereals and root crops; but there is the
same practical reason why the cultural requirements, hardiness, vigor,
and productiveness of the different rubber plants should be consid-
ered—not merely those of the distinct genera and species, but also
those of the varieties of races into which each species will be found
divisible by cultural selection. The cultural characters or adaptive
differences of behavior under varied conditions are as important as
differences in percentage of rubber, or even in quality of rubber, in
determining whether production is practically feasible in competition
with other crops. The adaptive ability of a tree or plant to grow
readily on an extensive scale and produce abundantly under condi-
tions that can be provided, is a basic requirement.

REASONS FOR PREFERRING TREE CROPS

Among the factors to be recognized in rubber production are the
general advantages of tree crops over field crops, especially in tropical
countries, in requiring less labor and affording greater protection of
the soil against erosion. Rubber plants that can be grown as annuals
or biennials in northern countries may be valued as insurance against
emergencies without being expected to compete in normal production
with rubber produced from tropical tree crops. The costs of clear-
ing the land and weeding the crops are among the principal items
of expense in tropical undertakings, although it is now recognized
that these cultural activities often lead to rapid decline of soil fer-
tility through surface erosion. The only permanent agricultures
are those that do not involve the working of the soil. Denudation
of the land through continued cultivation is now being recognized as
a limiting factor of agriculture in many tropical regions.

Vast areas in the Tropics have the status of waste lands, more or
less denuded by previous cultivation and burning, and lacking the
surface layer of fertile soil, which may be formed again if forest con-
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 379

ditions are restored through the use of tree crops. Many areas of
miscellaneous second-growth forests in tropical America, represent-
ing various stages of reforestation, are formed mostly of worthless
trees, which might be replaced by rubber forests to great advantage.
Guatemala, for example, would be considered as a rather populous
country, compared with many other regions, yet is estimated recently
to have only 10 percent of the land in cultivation. Complete clear-
ing and cultivation would not be necessary for replacing the present
mixed growth of waste areas with rubber trees, such as Castilla or
Funtumia, which are somewhat tolerant of thin soils and drought
conditions. Such trees may furnish wood, fiber, or other useful ma-
terials as byproducts, and also may shelter the early stages of Para
rubber trees.
RUBBER AS A GARDEN CROP

Rubber trees need to be appreciated and popularized in all the tropi-
cal countries. Although the tendency to think in terms of large plan-
tations is difficult to escape, careful consideration will make it apparent
that the Para rubber tree is remarkably well adapted to production
on a small scale. Large plantations operated by contract labor as
in the East Indies may be very difficult to establish in tropical America,
but other systems of production may be practicable. Millions of
people in tropical America are landowners only to the extent of
small “gardens,” as they are called, where root crops, green vege-
tables, potherbs, and fruit trees are grown, often with poultry or other
farm animals, to meet some of the family needs or to provide a small
surplus for sale or exchange.

Replacing the native gardens with rubber plantations, or removing
the garden people to rubber estates, may be practicable to a limited
extent, but enlisting the interest of the people to add rubber trees to
their gardens may supplement other lines of production, or even ex-
ceed them, once the advantages of small-scale production are worked
out and understood.

With a small planting, as a dozen or a hundred rubber trees, col-
lecting the latex is relatively light and pleasant work, to be done in the
cool of the morning, and shared without detriment by women and
children. No other labor is likely to be more remunerative to the small
landowner than tapping rubber trees for an hour or two a day. The
rubber harvest does not spoil if other work is more pressing. The
requirements of tools and equipment for extracting the latex and
preparing the rubber are extremely simple and cheap. The Para rub-
ber tree is extremely well suited to the purposes of the small producer,
and is the only tree that will yield rubber by regular tapping.

Castilla trees are often planted or allowed to grow in dooryards in
Mexico and Central America, and tapped occasionally, but the latex
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

can be stolen by thieves and the trees mutilated by severe tapping,
whereas the Para trees have little interest for rubber thieves. Castilla
is considered beneficial to the soil, a claim also made for several of the
tropical fig trees. Coffee and cacao grow well under the shade of
Castilla and Para rubber trees. Both trees have an annual leaf fall,
allowing subcultures a few weeks of sunlight.

People who live in these tropical gardens have an initial advantage
in raising their rubber trees at no expense, if seeds or seedlings are
available. Little room is required for the young rubber trees, which
are very slender at first, and interfere very little with other uses of
such gardens. In addition to familiar fruits and medicinal trees,
many useless “wild” trees are often allowed to grow in and around the
tropical gardens and small farms, for protection from sun and wind.
If only the useless trees in native gardens of tropical America were
replaced by Para rubber trees, an extensive production would be as-
sured, possibly more than from plantations in tropical America, where
plantation labor is difficult to obtain.

Local supplies of seeds or seedlings are the first requirement for al-
lowing the Para rubber to spread widely as a garden crop in tropical
America. The seeds have hard shells, but the kernels are soft and
perishable, so that prompt planting is necessary unless special packing
and handling are provided. The seeds may be planted “at the stake,” |
or budded seedlings might be planted, if proper care is used.

PROBLEMS OF RUBBER LATEX

Many theories of the function of rubber in plants have been ad-
vanced, but none has had general acceptance. A flow of latex may
cover a wound, but many plants that contain rubber do not form
latex. Other functions, as storage or transportation of water or food
materials, may be performed by systems of latex tubes, apart from
the rubber particles that the latex may carry. Rubber is not, like
sugar, starch, or cellulose, to be viewed as a convertible storage product
of further use in growth or tissue building, but is rather to be segre-
gated in one part or another, the bark, the leaves, the fruits, or the
roots in the various cases that are known, with or without the assistance
of latex tubes. To consider rubber as a waste product makes more
understandable its occurrence in so many unrelated plants, and in so
many different tissues of the plants—principally the bark, leaves, and
fruits. The tissues that are discarded are likely to contain more
rubber than those that remain as permanent parts of the plant
structure.

RUBBER BY RULE OF THUMB

In any latex-bearing tree or plant the presence or absence of good
rubber can be determined by an extremely simple test made with the
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 381

thumb and first finger. Only a small drop of latex is needed—not
enough to spread beyond the opposable surfaces of thumb and finger
that come in contact, where the skin is thick and resistant. In han-
dling latex from any unknown plant, caution is advised not to permit
the latex to touch any thin skin, as between the fingers, where juices
of poisonous plants may cause painful injuries. The eyes, of course,
as well as mucous membranes, are to be especially guarded. Many
latex plants, especially in the dogbane and spurge families, have
poisonous properties. Some of the fleshy euphorbias of Africa and
Madagascar, in appearance much like cacti, contain acrid poisons.
The rubber reactions can be learned without harm, however, if the
latex is handled carefully and all traces of it are removed by dry rub-
bing after the test. Native information regarding any plants that are
considered caustic or poisonous should be sought, although many plants
that are feared by natives are in reality harmless. Poisonous plants
are relatively few in the Tropics, compared with our poison ivy and
poison sumac so widely encountered in the United States, or with
manchineel in southern Florida. Not only our woodlands are infested
with poison ivy, but villages and cities. Precautions against poison ivy
are likely to be effective with other poisonous plants.

To make the rubber assay, the little drop of latex is pressed between
the thumb and finger, which then are separated, exposing the surface
films of latex to the air. After a few exposures, fine threads of
elastic rubber may be seen stretching between the moist surfaces,
and minute curds of coagulated rubber are formed. The quality of
the rubber may be judged from the length, toughness, and elasticity
of the threads that appear, and by the formation of a minute roll
or spindle of rubber that separates cleanly from the skin when the
thumb and finger are rubbed together. If of good quality, the minute
sample is not adhesive and shows its elasticity and toughness on
being pulled. Samples that are not tough are also less elastic and
soon become sticky on the surface, while samples of good rubber
remain unchanged. Samples of poor quality, even though they show
favorable reactions at first, soon deteriorate, sometimes within a few
minutes.

When a flow of latex is encountered in an unknown plant the
question naturally arises whether it contains rubber that would be
of value if commercial quantities were obtainable. On this question,
“Ts it rubber?” the thumb and finger may give in a few minutes a
fair judgment. After a tree or plant is seen to contain rubber, the
finder may be interested to learn its native name and bring home
samples of the leaves, flowers, and fruits, so that the species may be
identified and studied further. Although the finding of large re-
sources of wild rubber in latex trees or plants that are abundant in
382 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

nature is no longer to be expected, it is in order to take account of
any rubber bearers that may be encountered in regions that have not
received careful explorations.

RUBBER AND NEAR-RUBBER

Two very different meanings are carried by the word rubber—the
more common physical meaning of a highly elastic substance, and a
more general chemical meaning, admitting as rubber all the sub-
stances sufficiently related to rubber to show the same reactions with
solvents and precipitants, with little regard to the factor of elasticity
which seems so all-important from physical and mechanical view-
points. The trees or plants that produce fully elastic, high-grade
rubbers are relatively few, the best known being the Para rubber
tree, the Castilla tree, and the Assam rubber tree. Several others,
the African rubber tree (Funtwmia), the African rubber vines (Lan-
dolphia), the intisi rubber of Madagascar (Huphorbia intisi), the
Sapium, or virgin rubbers of South America, and the Cryptostegia
vine may also qualify as producers of real rubbers. To be reckoned
as near-rubbers are gutta-percha, balata, chicle, guayule, goldenrods,
milkweeds, and many other rubberlike gums, some of them of distinct
industrial and commercial value.

Some of the near-rubbers, like some of the synthetic rubbers, have
special uses which they may serve even better than the best elastic
rubber. Gutta-percha, for example, had developed) many special
uses for which rubber became serviceable after being vulcanized.
Making rubber more like gutta-percha was one of the immediate
advantages of vulcanization, rubber being much cheaper. Gutta-
percha was indispensable to the early discoveries and applications
of electricity. Insulating the first Atlantic cables was the epoch-
making contribution of gutta-percha. If rubber had not arrived,
gutta-percha doubtless would have been the great wonder-working
material, and all the other nonelastic or slightly elastic gums doubt-
less would have had relatively greater values than they can attain in
competition with rubber. Yet each of these substitute substances is
worthy of being considered from the standpoint of possible use and
potential improvement. The advance of rubber chemistry may make
it possible to improve the quality of the rubber material in any
plant by simple treatment in connection with the processes of ex-
traction or of manufacture.

RUBBER WITHOUT LATEX

Even if rubber were confined to plants with latex, to make a com-
plete canvass of the rubber bearers would be a large undertaking, but
no such limit can be set to the plants that need to be examined to
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 383

determine the presence of rubber. With rubber viewed as a waste
product, it might be formed in any group of plants, and indeed is
found in many plants that have no specialized latex system or other
indication of rubber. The Z'ucommia tree of China, though not pro-
vided with latex, has the rubber material sufficiently segregated to show
many fine elastic threads when the leaves or the bark are broken and
pulled apart. The guayule shrub is the typical example of a rubber
producer with no latex or other external sign, the presence of the gum
being learned from the Indians who obtained it by chewing the bark.

The tendency to think of rubber only in terms of latex plants still
is dominant. The only investigator to face the question of finding
rubber among the plants without latex was the great inventor, Thomas
A. Edison, who was inclined to believe that the storehouse of nature,
if sufficiently searched, would meet any special requirements. In the
hope of finding rubber in a plant that could be grown in the United
States, preferably as a field crop, large numbers of weeds and other
common plants were assayed for rubber, leading to the discovery of
rubber among the goldenrods. Many members of this group were
subjected to intensive study and selection, to find a type of plant
adapted to general cultivation. Because they were so common and
so widely distributed in the United States, the goldenrods appeared
promising, but cultural limitations were encountered. The rubber
is formed mostly in the leaves, and these are difficult to harvest, many
falling off before the plants mature.

While the goldenrods were being investigated, thousands of other
plants, mostly natives of our southern States or of adjacent districts
of Mexico, were examined, and rubber was found, at least in small
traces, in hundreds of species where none had been known. Some of
the plants were propagated for preliminary tests, but the goldenrods
remained the chief interest. Records of Edison’s work were placed
with the United States Department of Agriculture, and the rubber
assays were continued on many other plants. Such assays no doubt
are being made in many other countries in view of the present scarcity
of rubber. An eventual completion of the Edison project may be
hoped for—a world-wide extension of the survey he undertook. Edi-
son, like La Condamine, contributed a new element of interest in the
science of rubber, the project of determining all the potential sources
of production.

Although Edison’s search was projected for herbs or shrubs to be
used for field crops, it should, of course, extend to trees—not only to
those of temperate regions, but to the tropical trees as well. Rubber
trees or lianas without latex are as likely as shrubs or herbs. Hucom-
mia is an example of suchatree. Even if important rubber discoveries
were not made, such a survey could be expected to yield valuable ex-
384 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

perience and information, for, doubtless, many other materials as im-
portant as rubber remain to be discovered.

RUBBER-FORMING CELLS IN CASTILLA LATEX

Much has been written about rubber latex as a chemically balanced
emulsion or suspension of small particles of rubber, without consider-
ing biological facts discovered at the beginning of the present century.
The bulletin on Castilla rubber published in 1903, in a chapter en-
titled “The Structure of Latex,” referred to a paper by Molisch de-
scribing a rubber globule as surrounded by a thin coating of proto-
plasm, with a small nucleus on one side. This observation was con-
firmed in a study of fresh Castilla latex in eastern Guatemala in June
1907. The globule of rubber material is clearly distinct from the
protoplasmic envelope, which often shows in profile a somewhat thick-
ened area, interpreted as a nucleus, of a standard width and thickness,
but with the peripheral margin somewhat uneven. The globules of
the fresh latex are in rapid Brownian movement, but gradually come
to rest, when it can be seen that the peripheries of contiguous globules
are not at first in optical contact, although the thin separating layer
eventually disappears, so that the circles of rubber appear to fuse
where contacts occur. At the same time the rubber material becomes
distinctly more transparent than when the latex is in fresh condition.
An oxidizing process is suggested by the gradual change, showing first
a narrow hyaline rim around the margin of a cover glass, while the
central area is still opalescent like the fresh latex.

CASTILLA HANDICAPPED BY AN ENZYME

The presence of a natural ferment or oxidizing enzyme in the Cas-
tilla tree has complicated several problems of utilization of the rub-
ber, and of the tree as well. The latex as it oozes from the margins of
a cut is creamy white, but in a few minutes shows a brownish tinge,
and drops of watery brownish liquid soon appear to separate from the
creamy latex and run down the bark of the tree. Some of the creamy
latex may run down, or all may remain in the cut, to form the “scrap
rubber,” which gradually darkens on the surface to nearly black. The
shreds or strands of rubber, usually pulled from the cuts in 2 or 8 days,
are white or light color inside, but eventually blacken throughout.

More serious than these color changes is the slow, persistent digestive
or corrosive action of the enzyme on the rubber. After a few weeks or
months the surface of a rubber sample becomes soft and sticky, and
the change continues gradually through months and years, so that
even a large mass of rubber eventually is reduced to paste. Washing
the latex was tried in the early years, to prevent discoloration and
softening of the rubber, but this proved to be entirely ineffective. Such
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 385

disintegration naturally gave the impression that Castilla rubber is
inferior to Para rubber, though in reality no difference has been estab-
lished by comparison of material not affected by the enzyme.

Since most of the rubber that reached Europe and the United
States in the time of Goodyear came from the Castilla tree, the tend-
ency to become sticky was often supposed to be a general quality of
rubber. Thus Goodyear’s efforts to develop a treatment of rubber
that would keep it from becoming sticky, the efforts that led to the
accidental discovery of vulcanization, hark back to the enzyme. When
Para rubber from Brazil proved not to be sticky, it was naturally con-
sidered a superior kind.

That some of the Castilla rubber, even in the early days, was not
sticky, may be inferred from the extent to which rubber was being
used in England and America before Goodyear’s discovery was made.
Even the uses of rubber among the Indians of Mexico and Central
America would not have developed with a sticky material. The In-
dians knew how to treat the rubber to keep it from becoming sticky,
by spreading the latex in thin layers on large leaves and exposing it
on open ground to the heat of the sun, thus destroying the enzyme.
The native procedure in coagulating the Castilla rubber, witnessed
and photographed in the Soconusco district of southwestern Guate-
mala in 1902, was described and illustrated in the bulletin of 1903.
The samples of Castilla rubber prepared by the native “uleros” re-
mained in good condition for more than 20 years, as little affected by
age as samples of Para rubber, showing that the treatment had been
completely effective in destroying the enzyme. Samples from washed
latex seemed to deteriorate even more rapidly than others, perhaps
because the enzyme was more thoroughly distributed among the rub-
ber particles. It was known already that an enzyme was responsible
for the deterioration of the Castilla rubber, and that the enzyme
could be destroyed simply by heating the latex, as published by Parkin
in 1900, in the Annals of Botany.

Although the demand for rubber increased more rapidly after
Goodyear’s discovery was made, the previous century, between La
Condamine and Goodyear, had witnessed a gradual advance. The
properties and uses of rubber, largely in waterproofing, furnished the
last chapter on “Vegetable Substances” in the “Library of Entertain-
ing Knowledge,” published at London in 1838, concluding with a
statement of imports and prices.

More than fifty-two thousand pounds of caoutchouc were imported into England
in 1830, being nearly double the quantity brought during the preceding year.
The consumption for the year ending April 5, 1833, is stated at 178,676 lbs. Its
price is from 1s. 6d. to 2s. 3d. per lb.; the duty upon it being 5d. per lb. The

increase in the demand is to be ascribed to the application of the substance as
an article of general utility.
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The sources of the raw rubber were not stated, but even Brazilian
rubber of that period came mostly from Castilla. Methods of treating
rubber in England may have involved heating it enough to destroy
the enzyme. Nothing was said of rubber being sticky.

A discovery made in Haiti in 1930 in relation to the enzyme of
Castilla showed that the enzyme may be destroyed while the latex is
still in the bark. Abundant threads of elastic rubber were found that
separated readily from the decaying bark of Castilla logs, known to
have been felled nearly 3 years before. ‘The usual failure of proper
coagulation to take place in the bark may be ascribed to the oxidizing
enzyme, and the exceptional occurrence of good rubber was ascribed
to the fact that the logs had not been shaded but lay in an open place
where the trees had stood.

The pertinence of the expression “oxidizing enzyme” is appreci-
ated when it is known that the Castilla latex as it flows from the tree
will retain its creamy color and show no separation of the rubber
material if kept from the air by being corked in a glass bottle. Fara-
day had a bottle of rubber latex from southern Mexico which is said
to have reached England very nearly in the same state in which it
came from the tree; a slight film of solid caoutchouc had formed on
the surface of the cork which closed the bottle. Efforts have been
made in the present century to ship Castilla latex to the United States
in tin cans, but the latex blackened and spoiled, or the rubber coagu-
lated, as it does in bottles when not corked.

LATEX SEPARATE FROM SAP

Another fact relating to the enzyme was discovered in June 1907
in experimental tapping of Castilla trees in eastern Guatemala, on
the Trece Aguas estate near Senahii between Panzos and Cahabén.
It was noted that occasional drops of latex exuded from the surfaces
of the tapping wounds after removal of the scrap rubber, and that
these drops did not show the usual separation of a brown liquid, nor
the usual staining of the rubber.

These creamy white drops were observed repeatedly during the day,
but no discoloration took place, and the latex eventually coagulated
without darkening. The drops resulted, obviously, from the loss by
the latex tubes of their plugs of coagulated rubber when the “scrap”
was pulled from the cuts. Considering these drops as samples of the
latex as it exists in the tubes, the failure to show any of the discolor-
ing fluid that gradually separates from latex in the tapping cuts of
Castilla was specially noted. Thus the behavior of these nonstain-
ing drops of latex brought into question the general assumption that
the enzyme is a normal constituent of the latex of the Castilla tree.
It is known, of course, that the latex tubes are separate from the other
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 387

tissues of the bark, but it appears that sap as well as latex exudes
in the tapping cuts and that the two are mixed, to the detriment of
the rubber.

SPECIALIZED BRANCHES AND LEAVES IN CASTILLA

Botanical textbooks do not prepare us to appreciate the vegeta-
tive specializations of plants. The floral organs in many families
are highly specialized and have been studied in great detail, while
little account has been taken of different forms of branches and leaves,
even among agricultural plants where pecularities of the vegetative
organs often determine methods of culture or pruning. Several ex-
amples of two distinct kinds of branches were described in a publica-
tion of the United States Department of Agriculture in 1911, Bulletin
198, “Dimorphic Branches of Tropical Crop Plants; Cotton, Coffee,
Cacao, the Central American Rubber Tree, and the Banana.”
Specialized branching habits in the Para rubber tree were also re-
ported in 1930.

The vegetative parts of plants, like the flowers themselves, are
formed as a succession of equivalent structural units, known to mor-
phologists as metamers or phytomers. Each unit consists theoret-
ically of two structural elements, a stem section or caulomer, and a
leaf section or phyllomer. Either of these elements may be sup-
pressed, but both are present in normal vegetative metamers. It is
usual to think of the vegetative metamers as all alike, and of floral
metamers as of many forms. In reality the vegetative metamers are
capable of being as definitely specialized as the floral metamers, some
as preceding the flowers, others as forming specialized branches.

Not only the structures and functions of two kinds of branches are
different in Castilla, but also the forms of the leaves, showing that the
vegetative specializations are deep-seated and long-standing. No
other tree has afforded more outstanding examples of vegetative
specialization than Castilla. The sexes are on separate trees, the in-
florescences are of three kinds, the branches of two kinds, and the
leaves of four kinds. An adaptive advantage of the specialized
branching habits is seen in the fact that Castilla outgrows the Para
rubber tree in the early stage of development, before fruiting begins.
Instead of the early growth being limited to the production of a very
slender trunk as in the Para rubber tree, the young Castilla trees de-
velop specialized lateral branches and soon form a thicker trunk and
a thicker layer of latex-bearing bark, so that in a few years the total
content of rubber in a Castilla tree may be several times larger than in
a Para rubber tree. Illustrations of Castilla trees, showing their rapid
growth and peculiar branching habits, were published in 1903.
388 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

TWO FORMS OF BRANCHES IN CASTILLA

The habits of growth of Castilla under forest conditions, where the
trees have tall, cylindrical trunks are shown in plate 1. In open places
branches are produced only a few feet from the ground, as in plates 2,
3,and 4. The upper figure in plate 4 shows a young plantation of Cas-
tilla with all the trees producing the slender horizontal branches that
mark the juvenile stage of this tree, preceding the production of the
stout ascending branches that form the permanent framework of the
tree, as shown in the mature tree in plate 2. Two young trees also
are shown in plate 2, and the mature tree has a new shoot with large
leaves on long horizontal branches, like the young trees.

The horizontal lateral branches, slender and simple, are the out-
standing feature of the Castilla tree, since they bear most of the leaves
and all the flowers and fruits. Yet all the branches of this type are
temporary and deciduous, being released after two or three seasons by
a basal socket of abscission. The leaves of the lateral branches are
oblong, large, and pendent, inserted in two ranks. Lateral branches
are produced only on new growth, one branch from each stem section
of the trunk, rising from an axillary bud. The lateral branches re-
main simple because no leaf buds are produced, only flower buds.

The lower lateral branches often grow several feet long, and are to
be considered as the most specialized, since even the flower buds are
suppressed. The basal joint of a lateral branch is notably shorter than
the others, and the leaf is suppressed. The leaves near the base of a
lateral branch are not as large as those farther out, and in a few weeks
may turn yellow and fall off. Leaves of lateral branches are often
found with one of the auricles distinctly lobed, always on the lower
side, toward the base of the branch. The upper auricle may be larger
than the lower, but is never lobed.

The branches of the trunk, those that provide the permanent frame-
work of the tree, usually develop much later than the lateral branches.
They do not project horizontally like the lateral branches, but are up-
right or ascending, and are not self-pruning at the base. They are
not produced consecutively at each joint of the trunk, as the lateral
branches are, but are relatively few, and do not arise from the axil of
a leaf but from an extra-axillary bud at the right or left of a lateral
branch. The location of the extra-axillary buds is consistent in each
tree, so that the trees can be distinguished readily as right-handed or
left-handed with respect to the buds that. give rise to the permanent
branches. The leaves of the trunk are not distichous like those of the
lateral branches, but in several ranks, probably representing a spiral
of five-thirteenths. Two or three short, leafless joints are formed at the
base of a permanent branch, instead of the single short joint on a
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK: 389

lateral branch. The leaves of the branches are like those that subtend
the lateral branches on the original trunk.

From a morphological viewpoint the lateral branches of Castilla
may be interpreted as inflorescences that have developed a special
form of leaves and assumed a major proportion of the vegetative
functions. This appears strikingly in the young trees, the lower
lateral branches growing to the greatest length, often 10 or 12 feet,
and yet not bearing any flowers or fruits. The shorter laterals, far-
ther up the trunk, most of them only 8 to 4 feet long, produce flowers
or fruits in a continuous series, except on a few of the basal joints.

The long laterals of the lower part of the trunk may be compared
to the spreading rosette leaves of many herbaceous plants. A wide
expanse of foliage is formed on young trees standing in open places
where the branches have full sunlight and develop symmetrically
so that the ground underneath is well shaded. An adaptive function
of the specialized branching is seen in the rapid and continuous de-
velopment of further new sections of the trunk, each with its lateral
branch, and these in turn soon replacing those lower down. The
young trees are of striking appearance, regular in form and vivid in
color. Apart from the interest in rubber, Castilla trees might well
be planted around schools in southern Florida, and in other tropical
countries, to facilitate the study of the vegetative specializations.

SPECIALIZED LEAVES OF DIMORPHIC BRANCHES

As previously indicated, the leaves of lateral branches of Castilla
are different from those of the main trunk and the permanent
branches. The oblong form, the pinnate venation, and the short
petioles are the outstanding features of the lateral-branch leaves.
Compared with the leaves of the lateral branches, those of the trunk
and the permanent branches are relatively short and broad, and the
petioles notably longer. The venation of the trunk leaves is mark-
edly different, being palmate rather than pinnate, with a basal vein
on each side more oblique and longer than the others. The secondary
veins along the lower side of these long primaries are much stronger
than other secondary veins, sometimes attaining a length of more
than 2 inches. The leaves of the trunk and its permanent branches
often appear as reduced or rudimentary. Some of them are only
4 or 5 inches long and less than 8 inches broad. Such leaves may be
seen only on new growth, since they usually turn yellow and fall off
in a few weeks. On other trees the trunk leaves may be nearly as
wide as the branch leaves but only half the length, broadly shouldered
or angled at the side, with less than half the number of primary veins,
and the large basal vein on each side strongly developed.

566766—44—26
390 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

TWO PRELIMINARY LEAF FORMS IN CASTILLA

In addition to the leaves of the trunk and those of the lateral
branches, two other forms of leaves precede those found on mature
trees. A seedling stage of development may be recognized, and also
a juvenile stage, between the small seedlings and the stage of form-
ing lateral branches. A young Castilla tree just beginning to develop
lateral branches is shown in plate 5, with two of the large juvenile
leaves still in place; above these large leaves is a much smaller, heart-
shaped leaf subtending one of the lateral branches. Preceding the
formation of branches, several joints of the axis produce what may be
considered as juvenile leaves, with large blades and long petioles
as their outstanding features.

Usually the petioles of the juvenile leaves are 3 to 5 inches long,
sometimes 6 to 8 inches, while leaf blades may be more than 20 inches
long and 8 to 10 inches wide. Leaves of the juvenile form occur also
on sprouts from stumps or wounded trees and may be even larger
than those of seedling trees. Juvenile leaves a foot wide and nearly
2 feet long were found on stump shoots in Panama June 1923, much
exceeding the largest leaves on lateral branches of Castilla panamensis,
even where growth is luxuriant.

The transition from the large, long-stalked juvenile leaves to the
leaves that subtend the lower branches may be gradual, but often is
remarkably abrupt, with leaf blades smaller and petioles shorter. The
normal leaves of the trunk and permanent branches in Castilla elastica
have petioles about 2 inches long, with the blades 6 to 7 inches long
and 5 to 6 inches wide. The leaves of the lateral branches in vigorous
young trees may attain a length of 15 to 20 inches and a breadth of
6 to 7 inches, but with petioles only 1 inch long, often equaled or ex-
ceeded by the broadly rounded basal auricles.

Preceding the large juvenile leaves are the small, short-petioled
leaves of the seedling stage, only 2 or 8 inches long, as shown in plate
6. The first two leaves of the seedling, shorter and broader than the
others, and nearly opposite, may be mistaken for cotyledons. They are
borne on a long stem section or epicotyl, while the true cotyledons
remain in the ground, no hypocotyl] being formed. The paired basal
leaves, borne on a long stem section or epicotyl, are broadly cordate
and open-veined, in contrast with the alternate, oblong, close-veined
leaves that follow, between the epicotyl leaves and the enlarged juve-
nile leaves. Thus the foliage of the Castilla tree may be considered as
a series of specialized leaf forms: cotyledons, basal leaves or epicoty-
ledons, seedling leaves, juvenile leaves, trunk leaves, and branch leaves.
Castilla thrives in southern Florida and is worthy of study from the
standpoint of structural specialization, apart from its economic
interest.
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 391

PROPAGATION OF CASTILLA FROM PERMANENT BRANCHES

The specialized branching habits must be recognized in order to
appreciate the fact that Castilla is readily propagated from cuttings
of the permanent branches. Cuttings of lateral branches would not
serve, even if roots were formed, since lateral branches have no vege-
tative buds. Many cases were encountered in southern Mexico in 1902
where roadside Castilla trees had been planted as fence stakes, and
had grown into large trees.

Propagation from cuttings is a cultural expedient that may be ap-
plied to Castilla in the event that suitable methods of mechanical ex-
traction are developed and a rapid extension of production from
Castilla is attempted. Abundant material would be available in dis-
tricts where abandoned plantations still exist, and such cuttings could
be shipped readily if needed in other localities.

With Castilla grown in forest formation and the trees lumbered out
for mechanical extraction of the rubber, the smaller limbs of the more
productive trees might be utilized in new plantings. Time and labor
might be saved in thus avoiding the need of seed beds, transplanting,
and caring for young seedlings. Sprouts that grew from the stumps
of productive trees also might be used for propagation with no loss of
time in obtaining the advantages of selection.

Although Castilla grows generally as a forest tree, it is rarely found
in deep forests, but is like the related trumpet tree or Cecropia in
being better adapted to relatively open “second-growth” forests, on
lands previously cleared and planted for a season or two, under the
native system of agriculture.

FOREST ADAPTATIONS OF THE PARA RUBBER TREE

The natural adaptations of a plant are clues to its cultural require-
ments. The seedling and sapling stages of the Para rubber tree show
several peculiar characters that render them specially adapted to
undergrowth conditions in tropical forests. Many types of plants
are definitely specialized to live as undergrowth, and the development
of undergrowth vegetation in the forests of the Amazon valley is
probably greater than in any other region. The seedlings of forest
trees live at first as undergrowth plants, and have their share of
specially adapted characters. Unless these adaptations are recognized,
several features in the behavior of the young Para rubber plants may
not be understood.

Some of the specialized shade plants require protection and do
not thrive in the open, while others can grow in open places but with
certain changes of accommodation, such as shortening the joints of
the stems, branching closer to the ground, reducing the leaf surfaces,
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

and thickening the tissues of the leaves. Such adjustments to condi-
tions are shown in the Para rubber tree, but to a rather slight extent.
Although the seedling foliage is delicate, exposure to the sun is not
injurious as long as the soil and the air conditions do not reach a state
of stress or injurious shortage of moisture. With other conditions
sufficiently favorable, more growth may be made in the sun than in
the shade, but the manner of growing is the same.

The adaptive specializations of the Para rubber tree offer several
complete contrasts with those of the Castilla tree. The number of
specialized features is nearly as great, but they are not along parallel
lines, or even analogous. Instead of developing branches 3 or 4 feet
from the ground, where the Castilla tree produces its longest lateral
branches, the Para rubber tree normally produces no branches at all
to a height of 12 to 20 feet. The suppression of all branch-forming
buds on the many joints or sections of the trunk is a specialized feature,
since it is possible for branches to be formed at any height if the
trunk is cut back. Even in the axils of the cotyledons are buds that de-
velop if the plumule is removed. This makes it possible for the seed-
lings to be split, by methods described and illustrated by Loomis in
1942, and two plants raised from the same seed.

The habit of branching in the Para rubber tree is consistent with the
habit of forming the leaves in clusters or “flushes.” Branching be-
gins abruptly, with several vegetative buds developing at the same
time from the axils of several leaves of the same whorl or cluster, at
nearly the same level. The formation of such a cluster of branches
normally makes an end of the main trunk of the tree. In exceptional
cases only two or three branches are formed in the first whorl, and the
trunk may continue its upward growth until more branches are de-
veloped, but after a normal whorl of 6 to 12 branches has developed,
a spreading or ascending treetop is usually formed, with no indica-
tion of a central trunk. A brief account of “Branching Habits of the
Hevea Rubber Tree,” explaining their cultural significance, was pub-
lished in 1930.

The earlier fruiting of the Castilla tree is determined by the habits
of branching. Although the lowest branches of Castilla usually
have no flowers or fruits, they are of the fruiting type, and the func-
tional fruiting stage is soon reached, as in plate 2, often within 5 or 6
feet from the ground. At the corresponding stage of growth the
Para rubber tree has only half completed the development of its
primary upright as a simple, straight rod, normally without the few
branches shown at the right in plate 11. The uniform suppression
of branches on the many trunk sections that form the primary up-
right of the Para rubber tree is therefore to be considered as a special-
ized feature of adaptation to forest conditions, The numerous differ-
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 393

ences in adaptive characters between the Castilla and the Para rubber
tree emphasize the need for critical comparison of the cultural require-
ments of the two trees.

BRANCHING HABITS OF PARA RUBBER TREE

As a consequence of the habits of branching in the Para rubber
tree, two distinct phases of growth may be recognized: a juvenile
phase that includes the development of a simple primary upright,
and an adult phase that comprises the subsequent growth of the
tree, after the formation of branches. The pattern of growth in
the young tree is characterized by the suppression of lateral buds
in all the joints of the trunk, which results in the formation of a
tall, simple trunk as rapidly as possible; in the adult phase many
diverging branches are formed, and the upward growth of the trunk
to form a central axis of the tree is discontinued.

Although the branching of individual Para rubber trees is ex-
tremely variable, there is a notable tendency to form a cluster or
whorl of branches at the end of the primary upright, so that many
of the trees have the form of a brush or candelabrum. In exposed
places, where the trees are checked or stunted, the branching pattern
is often disturbed, and a few branches are formed along the trunks,
usually as singles or pairs, before a normal whorl of branches is
produced; or the branching pattern may remain irregular.

INTERMITTENT GROWTH OF TRUNK

The pattern of branching undoubtedly has a relation to the mode
of development of the trunk, by flushes or spurts of growth. Each
period of activity results in the formation of a new section of the
trunk, composed of numerous joints of different lengths. The ter-
minal leaf-bearing members of a growth section are much shorter
than the basal metamers, which often are without leaves, or have
the leaves reduced to minute hooklike rudiments.

The development of a new growth section is very rapid, so that
the entire whorl of leaves is produced practically simultaneously,
following a period of rest when the terminal bud remains completely
dormant. Under forest conditions, with the rubber seedlings re-
ceiving little light and competing with other vegetation, long intervals
may elapse, perhaps entire seasons, between the development of suc-
cessive growth sections.

It is not difficult to see that the habit of intermittent growth may
have advantages under forest conditions where light is deficient. The
only seedlings that can be expected to develop on the floor of the deep
forest are those that live with very little light. The chance of reach-
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

ing maturity may depend very acutely upon the ability of the plant
to take full advantage of the light that reaches it. The danger of
the young plant losing any light by shading its own leaves is avoided
by the arrangement of the leaves in rosettes, forming a circular
cluster at the end of the shoot, like a small umbrella.

LEAVES ARRANGED IN ROSETTES

The leaves that form a rosette are of different sizes and have
petioles of different lengths, so that the rosette arrangement gives
them full exposure to the light. The complete suppression of the
leaves on the lower joints of each of the growth sections—the leaves
that would be shaded by the terminal rosette—is another feature of
the arrangement. The leafless lower joints add notably to the length
of the section and contribute to the height of the young tree. With
every section that is added the light conditions are improved and the
tree’s chances are increased of emerging eventually through the roof
of the forest and finding a place in the sun.

The number of leaves in a rosette is increased rapidly in the suc-
cessive sections that are formed, from the 2 leaves of the first stage
of the seedlings to 12 or 15 leaves. Vigorous plants in the second
and third seasons may have from 20 to 30 leaves in a rosette, while
5 or 6 of the lower joints of the growth section are without leaves.

MANY LEAFLESS METAMERS

A further specialization for forest conditions is seen in the suppres-
sion of the leaves on many of the metamers, the structural units that
make up the trunk of the Para rubber tree. The first stage of the
seedling is highly specialized in this respect, with basal joint or
epicotyl, the first trunk section above the cotyledons, not bearing
leaves, although remarkably elongate. Epicotyls measuring 9 to 14
inches in length were noted in Haiti. The Castilla epicotyl ends with
a pair of leaves, as shown in plate 6, while that of the Para rubber
tree has the leaves suppressed, and two or three shorter leafless meta-
mers may be formed above the epicotyl, below the first pair of leaves.

The long epicotyl and adjacent leafless metamers of the Para rub-
ber seedlings, shown in plates 7 and 8, carry the first leaves often a
foot or more above the ground, much higher than the short epicotyl
of Castilla, shown in natural size in plate 6. Thus it may be said that
the seedlings of the Para rubber tree have all the leaves suppressed
in the lower stem sections corresponding to those of Castilla shown
in plate 6, where all the metamers bear leaves.

As seen in plates 7 and 8, the first two leaves of the Para rubber
seedlings are borne at nearly the same level, while the next leaf above
this first pair usually stands alone at the end, above an intervening
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 395

series of leafless metamers, usually three to five, corresponding to
the leafless metamers below the first leaves. Thus the alternation of
groups of leafless and leaf-bearing metamers in the subsequent devel-
opment of the trunk may be homologized with the specializations
of the seedling.

In the later development of the tree the specialized basal metamer
of the seedling appears somewhat distinct. Often this section is rather
abruptly thickened in advance of the others, and the enlargement con-
tinues in many trees to the formation of salient angles or buttresses
around the base of the trunk. The production of adventitious roots
from the surface of the enlarged basal section also occurs rather fre-
quently, especially on young trees that stand in depressions or where
the soil is deepened by top dressing.

SPONGY, PERISHABLE SEEDS

a

The seeds of the Para rubber tree are very similar to the seeds of
some of the palms that are specialized for forest conditions. There
is a thin outer shell of very hard columnar tissue, filled with the rather
succulent, loose-textured cotyledons, like the endosperm of some of
the forest palms, as Oenocarpus and Astrocaryum. The soft texture
of the seeds may not be an advantage in itself, but is doubtless due
to the fact that water is carried in the tissue, so that the preliminaries
of germination can go forward without waiting for moisture to be
absorbed from the outside. Thus it is possible for the seeds of the
Para rubber tree to germinate without being covered, but merely
lying among the dead leaves or on the surface of the ground under
the forest shade. Germination may be deferred to some extent if the
seeds are kept a little dry, but they die very soon if drying is carried
too far.

The hard shell is not ruptured in the germination of the seed, the
plumule, carried by the growth of the petioles of the cotyledons, emerg-
ing through a small round hole, a method of germination that is fol-
lowed in many palms. As soon as the roots are exposed, the seedlings
can absorb moisture from wet surfaces, though the soft-textured coty-
ledons, protected by the shell of the seed, may continue to function
for storing and equalizing the supply of water until the roots have
penetrated to permanent moisture. Having made its contacts with
the soil, the Para rubber seedling wastes no time forming leaves near
the ground, but sends up a smooth, slender, green stem, sometimes a
foot long before producing any leaves.

LEAVES OF SEEDLINGS DELICATE

The delicate texture of the leaves of the seedlings is another forest
adaptation that seems to be definitely established in the Para rubber
396 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

tree. The seedling leaves are much thinner than those of adult trees,
and apparently much more susceptible to injury from exposure to
adverse conditions. The change in texture from the thin seedling
leaves to the thicker and firmer adult leaves occurs much earlier in
some trees than in others, a difference that may be of value in develop-
ing resistant varieties.

Where soil conditions are perfect, seedling plants may tolerate full
exposure, but in heavier soils the seedlings are more susceptible to in-
jury from direct sunlight. Under the equable forest conditions the
seedlings have a persistent vitality that probably allows them to
survive for many years in places that are too dark or too unfavorable
in other ways to permit normal growth. Plants abandoned in old
seed beds, after being stunted for 2 or 3 years, have been able to re-
cover the vigor of normal plants. The tolerance of shade conditions
shows the extent of forest adaptation, which also may be inferred
from the absence of surface protection by hairs or bud scales as in
Castilla, and from the presence of special openings or water pores in
the lower surface of the leaves, as described by Bobilioff.

A GROWTH DISORDER IN SEEDLINGS OF PARA RUBBER

A growth disorder often affecting large proportions of the seedlings
of the Para rubber tree is worthy of careful study and comparison
with analogous disorders of other plants, in the interest of better
understanding of habits of growth and cultural requirements during
the seedling and juvenile stages. Since the disorder is most severe
and striking in the young seedlings, much of the injury has been
avoided by the simple expedient of discarding all the stunted or dis-
torted individuals in the nursery stocks, under the usual precaution
that only normal, vigorous trees are to be set in the plantations. Even
among normal rubber trees, those that pass muster in transplanting
and make satisfactory growth in the plantations, an enormous di-
versity is found—greater than in other tree crops.

The trees in the rubber plantations are found to differ not only in
the stature and proportions of the trunks, leaves, floral characters, and
seeds, but also in the bark texture and in the latex tubes, which more
definitely affect the yields of rubber. The surface of the bark may be
smooth or finely wrinkled like a beech tree, or rough and remose like
an elm or an oak, while the structure may be uniform, soft and cheesy,
or brittle and gritty with stone cells. In experiments where records
of individual trees are carried through long periods some trees are
found to be yielding scarcely any rubber, and others only small
amounts, while a few individuals are far above the general average,
so that 75 percent of the rubber is produced by 15 to 25 percent of the
trees. Budding from high-yielding trees raises the average, although
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 397

the individual yields still vary widely on account of diversity of the
stocks.

The multifarious individual diversities shown in these disorders
are of potential interest and significance in relation to heredity and
evolution, in showing that great numbers of different patterns of di-
vergence from normal heredity are set up and consistently followed
for weeks, months, or years in the development of the individual
plants. These individual patterns are often so completely different in
closely contiguous plants as to forbid any assumption that different
conditions of growth explain the variations. The effects of local
conditions or injuries may be seen as inducing the general instability
in the expression of the hereditary characters that seems also to occur
in some of the deficiency diseases, giving rise to extremely varied

symptoms.
DIVERSITY IN ABNORMAL PLANTS

In addition to the variants that grow with nearly normal vigor,
there are great numbers of seedlings that must be reckoned as defi-
nitely abnormal. Many are practically leafless, or with leaves so pale,
dwarfed, and distorted that the plants are able to survive only while
protected in the seed beds.

* Many illustrations would be required to show the range of diversities
in the various characters, but the three given in plates 9 and 10 il-
lustrate abnormally narrow leaves of different forms. A rather ex-
treme form is shown at the right of plate 9, with the primary veins
much closer and more numerous than those of normal pinnae shown
at the left in plate 10. The narrow, tapering, erect pinnae at the right
of plate 10 have little resemblance to the long, drooping pinnae of
plate 9. Many variants have still narrower pinnae, with the margins
notched to the midrib, while others have curved or twisted pinnae, or
funnel-shapel “ascidia.” The series of foliar aberrations is compara-
ble to that of the familiar “crotons” or codiaeums, which also belong
to the spurge family. Pinnae of normal form are only 2 or 3 times
as long as wide, while some of the abnormal pinnae are 10 to 20 times
as long as wide. Some abnormal plants have the stalks of the pinnae
longer than usual, or the stalks may be very short and grown to-
gether, so that the pinnae do not separate. Some leaves exhibit super-
numerary pinnae.

RECOVERY OF NORMAL LEAF FORMS

A notable feature of these abnormal rubber seedlings is that sudden
and striking changes toward more normal leaf patterns and growth
behavior are possible, as shown in plate 9. A plant with only narrow,
slender leaves develops a new cluster with its leaves of normal, or
nearly normal, proportions. This ability to recover shows that the
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

pattern of normal growth has not been lost, but only suppressed during
the stage of abnormality, as in growth disorders that are caused by
feeding punctures of plant lice, mealybugs, or leafhoppers, presum-
ably as effects of salivary secretions of the insects, without virus in-
fection, so that normal growth is resumed upon removal of the insects.
Such disorders are known in cotton and many other plants, but these
malformations are relatively uniform in each disorder, with no such
individual diversity as in the disordered rubber seedlings. Marked
diversity with potential recovery is a distinctive feature of the growth
disorder of the Para rubber seedlings, and the interest of this combi-
nation is not lessened by ascribing the abnormalities of the rubber
seedlings to mites or “red spiders,” as reported from the Dutch Indies.

A MATURE TREE WITH NARROW LEAVES

That some of the marked variations might survive and reach ma-
turity is suggested by the discovery of a mature, narrow-leaved tree
in a neglected planting of Para rubber at Bayeux, Haiti in 1925.
Leaves and flowers of this tree are shown in natural size in plate 10,
in comparison with those of a normal broadleaf tree in the same
planting. The entire tree was narrow-leaved like the branches that
were photographed. One branch had a fully developed fruit. Such,
an aberrant tree in ordinary practice would be left in a seed bed instead
of being set in a field planting, but may have grown in this instance
from a volunteer seedling. Taken by itself such a tree might be re-
corded as an outstanding mutation, but doubtless should be considered
against the background of wide diversity pee as a growth
disorder.

THE PARA RUBBER TREE AS A HYBRID STOCK

This variability of the cultivated rubber tree may be connected with
the biological status of the wild stock in South America. Because of
the geographic position of the species in the lower Amazon valley and
the adaptation of the seeds for floating, unusual conditions for hybrid-
ization are afforded, not as a rare contingency, but as a frequent occur-
rence. Swollen currents from the upper river often reverse the flow
of the lower tributaries, so that floating seeds may be stranded far
from the main stream. Thus the stock of Siphonia over a wide area
of the lower valley must have remained continually accessible to cross-
ing with the several up-river species. Hybridizing as a preliminary
to selection has been accomplished in nature.

RUBBER IN A DESERT SHRUB

The third place in rubber history must be accorded to the guayule
shrub, Parihenium argentatum, a native of windswept desert table-
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 399

lands in northeastern Mexico and the adjacent Big Bend area of west-
ern Texas. Greater contrasts than actually exist between this rubber
shrub of the open deserts and the rubber trees of the tropical forests
would be difficult to imagine. The only resemblance lies in the
presence of rubber, and even in this feature there is no similarity, since
guayule does not have latex, but forms its rubber in separate cells of
the bark.

Guayule is one of many low, compact, woody shrubs with small gray-
ish leaves, forming one of the principal types of desert vegetation, as
appropriate under the desert conditions as are the tall, spreading trees
to the conditions of tropical forests. Hundreds of similar grayish
shrubs have developed in desert areas in different parts of the world,
alike in general form and appearance, but showing unlimited diversi-
ties in structural features and derived from many different families
of plants. Guayule stands apart from other rubber plants in its rela-
tionships as a member of the thistle family, not of the lettuce or chic-
ory family, which also have rubber but in the form of latex. The dis-
covery of rubber in guayule doubtless was made long ago, since the
natives of northern Mexico relied on guayule rubber for making the
rubber balls used in traditional games and ceremonies. The natives
extracted the rubber by chewing the guayule bark. The presence of
guayule in Texas was learned from finding balls of rubber as obstruc-
tions in the stomachs of range cattle that had died suddenly.

Little has come to light regarding the early development of a guay-
ule industry, first as an export trade that had reached a practical scale
before 1902 preceding the development and use of machinery for ex-
tracting guayule rubber in Mexico, and later in western Texas, at
Marathon. The photograph reproduced in plate 18 shows a quantity
of baled guayule in a storage yard at San Luis Potosi, in June 1902.

No other experimental undertaking by private interests in the field
of applied botany has been carried so far. With the specialized meth-
ods and machinery it appeared that costs of production might be
brought down to 20 cents or less per pound, in the period before the
price of plantation rubber declined to that level. Even with Para rub-
ber at 15 cents or less, the demand for guayule as a compounding in-
gredient provided a market for the limited quantity that was obtain-
able. A limiting factor in California was the advance of land values
to a point too high for the development of a large guayule industry.
In Texas, where large areas of low-priced land were available, guayule
proved to be susceptible to the root-rot disease, caused by a fungus that
lives in the soil and is often destructive to cotton and other crops.
The factory at Marathon closed in 1926, but was reported in November
1943 as opened for emergency production, using the wild guayule in
the Big Bend district.
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

DEVELOPING A GUAYULE INDUSTRY

In a few years it was plain that the natural supplies of guayule
were becoming inadequate, and measures for maintaining the indus-
try began to be considered. Large areas of desert land were acquired
by some of the rubber companies, and various expedients tested, such
as protecting young plants and scattering seeds in places that seemed
most favorable, but with little result. Cultural experiments also were
undertaken in Mexico and later transferred to southern California,
near San Diego, in the period of unrest following the revolution of
1906. The results appeared promising, and in the course of about 30
years the work was carried through the stages of selecting and testing
many superior varieties, and of developing highly mechanized equip-
ment for large-scale production and extraction. The proportion of
rubber in the better strains of guayule is higher than has been deter-
mined in any other plant, approaching 20 percent.

Plantings of guayule in the vicinity of Escondido, northeast of San
Diego, were increased to about 400 acres, and later, near Tucson, Ariz.,
plantings were expanded to a scale of thousands of acres. There,
however, conditions proved less favorable for the growth of the
plants than had been expected, and the undertaking was transferred to
the Salinas Valley, Calif., in the vicinity of Monterey. There a fac-
tory large enough to extract the rubber from several thousand acres
of guayule was built and operated. Grinding, retting, and vacuum
treatments are necessary, the last to waterlog the wood particles and
allow all the rubber to float, which completes the separation. The
expenditures for land, research, and equipment of the three large-scale
experiments with guayule were credibly reported as approaching
$2,000,000.

EFFECT OF RIDLEY’S DISCOVERY ON GUAYULE AND CASTILLA

To infer from the history of guayule that the undertaking was de-
fective or ill-advised would be unfair. The planting of guayule in
northern Mexico was projected in the same period as the planting of
Castilla in southern Mexico, and either or both of these undertakings
might have returned good profits if rubber had not declined below
a dollar or even 50 cents a pound. Ridley’s discovery in the Orient
of a continuous method of extracting rubber from the Para rubber
trees remained, as we have seen, practically unknown and unexplained
for many years, even after it was being utilized on an extensive scale.
The Ridley method was possible because the Para rubber tree was
equipped with a system of connected latex tubes, and because large
supplies of cheap and skillful labor were available in the East
Indies.
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 401

Nobody could know beforehand how soon the Para rubber of the
East Indian plantations would come, like the cotton of our Southern
States, into speculative markets where prices would be forced down far
below the costs of production by a normal farming population, to 12
cents, 10 cents, or 5 cents. The rapid advance to large-scale pro-
duction of rubber in Malaya had the effect in a few years of pre-
empting the field and placing commercial handicaps on any alterna-
tive developments. Every invention or improvement runs the risk
of being blanketed or outrun by some competing improvement, more
effective or more attractive. The chance of such a discovery and de-
velopment as took place with the Para rubber in the East Indies must
be considered very small, but it did actually occur, with the effect of
reducing the Castilla and guayule projects to the status of nearly
complete failures, as long as rubber could be had in unlimited quan-
tities from the East Indies.

POSSIBILITY OF APPLYING GUAYULE EXTRACTION METHODS TO CASTILLA

A possibility recognized in recent years is that the mechanical
methods of extraction developed through the long experience with
guayule may be adapted to the extraction of rubber from the bark of
the Castilla tree. An observation was made in Haiti in 1930, reported
in 1987 and in 1948, of the finding of good-quality rubber in decaying
Castilla bark, instead of merely a black pasty residue left by the latex
in the dead bark, ‘as previously observed and ascribed to the action
of the oxidizing enzyme. This internal coagulation of the latex means
that the rubber of Castilla is brought within the possibility of
mechanical extraction by grinding the bark and separating the rub-
ber, as practiced with guayule. Such an approach to mechanical ex-
traction is entirely different from attempting to draw out or to squeeze
out the latex, or to extract the rubber by solvents. The means of
coagulating the rubber in the Castilla latex is a simple heat treatment
to destroy the oxidizing enzyme, only moderate temperatures below
the boiling point being required.

Mechanical extraction of Castilla rubber, if a feasible process were
worked out, would open the way to a system of rubber production
requiring much less labor than for tapping and collecting the latex
in plantations of the Para rubber tree. The reason why a mechanical
system is less applicable to the Para rubber tree is that the latex layer
of the bark is only a few millimeters thick, while that of Castilla
attains a centimeter or more in thickness, Only a small proportion
of the rubber material in the latex tubes of Castilla trees has been
extracted by any of the methods of tapping used in the past.

A popular impression that the latex of Castilla “pours like water
from a pipe,” and that “the entire content of rubber runs out quickly,”
402 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

is without foundation. The latex tubes are only slightly compressed
by the release of the bark pressure and are still full of latex, which
remains in the bark and is lost. The proportion of rubber to bark
tissue in Castilla is doubtless much lower than in guayule, since the
Castilla bark is woody and fibrous, but with the rubber coagulated in
tough elastic strands, the extraction process may be much simpler.
Guayule must be ground very fine, to the point of breaking down
individual cells, in order to release the rubber material.

Several cultural advantages of Castilla are obvious. The seedlings
and young plants are hardier than those of the Para rubber tree, in
the sense of being adapted to a much wider range of adverse con-
ditions. The young trees develop and reproduce more rapidly, and
also propagate readily from large cuttings of the vegetative branches.
Thus it may be hoped that the renewal of interest in Castilla and
guayule during the present wartime emergency will carry through to
an effective determination of production possiblities.

Not only the Castilla rubber tree, but other latex trees with similar
tapping problems, such as Ficus elastica, chicle, and balata, are of
interest from the standpoint of mechanical extraction. It is not
unthinkable that trees adapted to mechanical extraction eventually
might replace the Para rubber and lend a wider significance to the
work done on guayule. A man of great energy, acute intelligence, and
constructive engineering ability, the late George H. Carnahan, presi-
dent for many years of the Inter-Continental Rubber Company, was
largely responsible for the remarkably persistent and effective in-
vestigation of the cultural and mechanical problems. Unlike many
private undertakings in the scientific field, detailed accounts of var-
ious stages of progress in the guayule undertaking were published.
Carnahan undoubtedly should rank with Edison, Ridley, Wickham,
Goodyear, Faraday, and La Condamine among eminent names in
rubber.

RUBBER IN DESERT MILKWEEDS

A specialized milkweed, Asclepias subulata, adapted to extreme con-
ditions in the open deserts of southern California and Arizona, was
studied for several years from the standpoint of utilization as a field
crop, and a report was published in 1935. The rubber-bearing stems
are simple and straight like grass stalks, forming upright tufts 3 or
4 feet tall. The leaves are only rudimentary, hardly wider than pine
needles, and soon fall off. The upper figure of plate 14 shows the
habit of the wild plants growing in a cactus desert near Superior,
Ariz. The plants grow readily from seeds and form abundant shoots
from rootstocks creeping below the surface of the soil, as shown in
natural size in the left-hand lower figure of plate 14. The right-hand
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 403

lower figure shows a planted field with the milkweed behaving like
a grass crop, from which successive cuttings could be made.

The rubber content ranged usually from 2 to 5 percent in the wild
plants, in exceptional cases reaching 6 percent. The stems have a
rather heavy coating of wax and a layer of rather strong bast fibers,
to be considered as byproducts; also, the floss from the seeds of milk-
weeds is reported as being of industrial value. A general difficulty is
that the leaves are difficult to harvest, as in the case of the goldenrods
already mentioned. Another desert milkweed, Asclepias erosa, with
very large leaves, was also investigated, as reported in 1938. The
leaves were found to contain about 90 percent of the rubber, and the
rubber content of the leaves was definitely higher than that of the
stems of A. subulata, with a mean of 50 determinations showing more
than 8 percent and a maximum of 13 percent. Recent observations
by Dr. Walter T. Swingle indicate that this species may be adapted
to a wider range of conditions than S. subudata, and may be better
suited to regular cultivation.

CRYPTOSTEGIA AS A SOIL COVER

An incident that occurred during rubber experiments in Haiti
showed an unexpected cultural relation between two types of rubber-
bearing plants, the Para rubber tree and Cryptostegia grandiflora, a
woody trailing vine of the dogbane family, native in Madagascar. The
latex of Cryptostegia yields rubber of good quality that was formerly
exported from Madagascar. It is one of the plants that was tested
by Edison in Florida and is now being tested on a large scale in Haiti
and in Mexico as an emergency rubber resource.

A casual planting of Cryptostegia near Port-au-Prince was made
in a small seed bed previously used for Para rubber, but from which
all the Para seedlings had been removed except a few stunted, leafless,
and moribund survivors, overlooked or disregarded when the Crypto-
stegia seeds were planted. A vigorous growth of Cryptostegia soon
covered the ground, so that the stunted Para rubber seedlings were
concealed and forgotten. It was a surprise to find a few months later
that two plants of the Para rubber, instead of being finally smothered
and suppressed by the Cryptostegia, were making vigorous growth,
with normal, full-sized leaves. It was plain that the Cryptostegia,
instead of competing with the Para rubber, had served to advantage
as a soil cover or nurse crop for the seedlings of the Para rubber.

As the planting was done in a heavy but very shallow soil, a con-
dition definitely unfavorable for open planting of young Para rubber
trees, it would have been impossible for these depauperate seedlings
to have recovered and grown vigorously if the Cryptostegia had not
been planted. This favorable reaction seems worthy of further study
404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

to determine the extent of the advantage and the range of conditions
under which Cryptostegia might contribute in establishing planta-
tions of the Para rubber or other useful trees. The Cryptostegia rub-
ber might become a byproduct if suitable methods of extraction could
be developed. Cryptostegia is not a shade plant and would not be
expected to form a continuous canopy of foliage. The use of cover
crops in the East Indian rubber plantations had become a general
practice in recent years, showing that a very dense shade is not
formed.

THE AFRICAN RUBBER TREE IN SHELTER BELTS

Another member of the dogbane family, the African rubber tree
Funtumia elastica, may serve cultural purposes quite distinct from
those served by Oryptostegia. Shelter belts are often needed in
tropical cultures, not only as soil covers and windbreaks, but also for
excluding other vegetation. Barriers against grass or other weeds
may be very important for fire protection or for other reasons. The
behavior of Funtumia in Haiti and in Florida shows several adaptive
characters that may make it useful for planting with other trees.
One of these characters is the formation of a close, continuous leaf
crown or canopy of foliage which does not admit enough sunlight
to enable plants to grow beneath it, so that grass and weeds are
excluded. Projects for reforestation with rubber trees or establishing
rubber reserves may be assisted by using borders or barriers of
Funtumia. Mechanical extraction of the rubber from the bark is
likely to prove practicable, as with Castilla, if /untumia should be
grown in sufficient quantities for such a process to be developed.

A HARDY GUTTA-PERCHA TREE

A hardy tree from central China, Hucommia ulmoides, has been
studied in several European countries as a potential source of rubber
and has been found to thrive in numerous localities in the United
States from Massachusetts to California. No lack of hardiness is
indicated, but the sexes are on separate trees and relatively few
cases of seed production have been reported. At Lanham, Md., seeds
are produced in normal seasons, but all the flowers may be killed
by late frosts. ‘The seeds are winged and are widely disseminated,
but only a few self-sown plants have appeared. Only one volunteer
tree has grown well—this in an open place. Tolerance of shade is
not indicated.

Latex tubes are not found in Z'ucommia, but a rubberlike substance
is formed in small chambers of the bark, leaves, and seed capsules,
a substance that dissolves and precipitates with the same chemical
reagents that are used with rubber and gutta-percha. The Eucommia
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 405

gum is like gutta-percha in being tough rather than elastic; it is not
at all pasty or sticky, as are many of the near-rubbers.

A peculiar feature of the Hucommia gum is that it does not become
plastic or adhesive when heat up to the boiling point of water is
applied. Though such a property of resistance to heat is of special
value in some of the uses of rubber, the lack of cohesion among the
rubber particles has prevented the application to E'ucommia of the
processes of mechanical extraction that have been developed for
guayule. Extraction with solvents is possible, and samples obtained
in this manner leave no doubt that the material is firm, tough, and
flexible, but costs may be prohibitive unless special uses are discovered.

EUCOMMIA, A TREE THAT NEVER BLOSSOMS

The Hucommia tree has features of such botanical interest as to
be valuable for purposes of instruction in any institution where
botany is taught. All universities or other schools that have tree
collections, or even “garden and grounds,” should have H’ucommia
branches as “laboratory material.” The period of reproduction is
in the early spring, when floral botany usually receives attention.
The tree is vigorous and handsome, the foilage much resembling that
of an elm, as the specific name indicates.

The educational function that Hucommia may serve most effectively
is to furnish background for all the courses of study that relate to the
development of special floral envelopes in the various families of
higher plants, the “flowering plants,” as they are usually called. The
lack of floral specialization in E'ucommia is most complete and re-
markable; there are no organs that can be interpreted as calyx or
corolla, or even as a trace or indication that such organs existed pre-
viously and have been suppressed. A more primitive state or base
line of floral development is hardly to be imagined.

The stamens and pistils, shown in natural size in plate 15, are the
only floral organs, and these are green like the leaves, so that nothing
mm the nature of a blossom in the popular sense is ever to be seen. An
alder or a pussy willow has a much more striking “bloom.” Not only
are floral envelopes lacking in Hucommia, but there are no subtending
bracts or other indications that a specialized inflorescence ever
existed. The stamens and pistils are mounted directly on simple re-
ceptacles rising from the axils of the bud scales and the foliage leaves,
and from the axils of intermediate leaf forms, between the bud scales
and the foliage leaves. Some of these are slender and weak, not de-
veloping éhlorophyil and soon withering, while others persist ‘through
the season as undersized leaves.

At Lanham, Md., the buds were noted as completely dormant on
March 9, 1936, after protracted cold weather, but as beginning to sep-

5667

406 | § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

arate and show green color on March 18, when Corylus flowers were
well advanced, with many empty stamens. The H'ucommia stamens
are deep green and notably accrescent, becoming only slightly yellow-
ish at maturity. A length of 8 to 10 mm. is attained, with the fila-
ments 1 to 2 mm. long, the receptacle 2 to 4mm. The number of
stamens on one receptacle varies from 3 to 10, usually 6, 7, or 8, with
6 as the modal number.

The pistils and fruits are green, those that are not fertilized, or at
ieast not fertile, often persisting with the fertile fruits, not growing
as large but retaining a deeper green color. The fertile fruits exceed
4cm. in length, the infertile 3 cm. The large, straight embryo is en-
closed in a hard shell near the middle of the fruit, shown in plate 15.
Two collateral ovules develop in the unfertilized fruits to a length of
about 3 mm., noted as still living on July 23, when the fertile fruits
were nearly full size but immature. The seeds ripen in September
or October, but do not fall until a rather severe frost has occurred—
in Maryland about the middle of November. The female tree may
defoliate 2 or 3 weeks in advance of the male, while the fruits are
still in place.

The Hucommia tree is now placed by botanists as a monotypic
family Eucommiaceae, apart from any other group, after being as-
signed provisionally to several other families, such as Magnoliaceae,
Trochodendraceae, and Hamamelidaceae. The last group, the witch-
hazel family, is considered as remotely related.

EUCOMMIA SUPPRESSES ALL TERMINAL BUDS

Another special character of E'ucommia, adding to the educational
interest of the tree, is the complete suppression of terminal buds.
Each branch or twig of “ucommia ends with an internode that de-
velops only a rudimentary bud, concealed in a minute pit in the leaf
base. In the absence of a bud, the petiole of the last leaf continues
in the direction of the branch, instead of being pushed aside to a
somewhat oblique position by the enlargement of an axillary bud, as
happens with all the preceding leaves; also, the petiole of the last
leaf of a shoot or twig of H'ucommia is usually longer than that of
the adjacent leaves. Such an elongate petiole marked at the base by
the pit enclosing the rudimentary bud is shown in natural size in
plate 15, extending obliquely at the right of the lower figure.

The term “sympodial” might be applied to the branching habit of
Eucommia, as to plants where terminal buds are replaced by flowers
or by tendrils, but with H’ucommia there is no replacement, the apical
internode being merely deprived of its bud and then appearing as a
sterile lateral stub after a new shoot has grown from the subterminal
bud.
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 407

The suppression of its terminal buds places Hucommia in complete
contrast with the tropical rubber trees, where specialization is ac-
complished very largely by suppression of all the lateral buds in the
early stages of growth. The simple primary trunk of the Para rub-
ber tree, without any twigs or scars of branches, represents a complete
suppression of the vegetative buds, like the trunk of a palm, with only
the terminal bud serving for vegetative growth.

THE BALATA TREE

The balata tree of South America, first noted in French Guiana by
Aublet in 1775, apparently extends through several neighboring coun-
tries. It is one of the near-rubbers that seems worthy of being utilized
on a much larger scale. The balata gum is similar to gutta-percha,
and although not elastic like rubber, is flexible and tough, even when
rolled very thin. In the opinion of manufacturers experienced in the
use of both gums, balata would have been valued as highly as gutta-
percha if regular supplies had been available. Although the balata
gum has had commercial status for nearly a century, the tree remains
little known, with even its botanical identity still in question. Leaves
and fruits of balata from an experiment at Bayeux, Haiti, are shown
in natural size in plate 16. The stock may have come from British
Guiana. The growth of balata has been reported as very slow, which
doubtless is true of the forest trees, but the growth in Haiti was com-
parable with that of the rubber trees.

The name given by Aublet was Achras balata, which Gaertner
placed as Mimusops balata in 1807, a designation that has been widely
used. A different name, M/anilkara bidentata, appears in Record’s new
work on “Timbers of the New World,” adopted from writers who in-
ferred that Aublet’s balata was not a native tree in French Guiana, but
had been introduced from Mauritius. Such an introduction is not
implied in Aublets statement, which merely associates the Guiana
balata with a tree previously seen in Mauritius, where Aublet had spent
several years. Two localities in Mauritius were noted, but no Guiana
locality, which may simply mean that the tree was well known at
Cayenne. Aublet’s description is brief, but parallel to those of the
sapote and the sapodilla, as species of Achras.

The similarity of the leaves and flowers of dalata in plate 16 with
those of the sapodilla in plate 18 leaves little doubt that the trees are
closely related. They belong to the sapota family, a remarkable group
of tropical trees, some of them attaining great size, producing edible
fruits, useful latexes, and valuable woods, very heavy, hard, and dura-
ble. Some of the famous South American “milk trees,” those known
as massaranduba, also are included ; the latex is potable and is reported
by many travelers as pleasant and wholesome. The lucuma of Peru,
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the sapote of Mexico, the star apple of the West Indies, and the shea-
butter tree of Africa are members of the same family, as are also the
original gutta-percha trees of the East Indies, Palaqguiwm, Isonandra
or Dichopsis.

The balata gum has often been described as intermediate between
rubber and gutta-percha. Gutta-percha has been replaced to a great
extent by vulcanized rubber, and now by plastics, but the need for
balata may be expected to continue. Insulating of the early Atlantic
cables was the culminating service of gutta-percha, largely exhausting
the natural resources of that gum. Mechanical extraction of gutta-
percha from the leaves of cultivated trees is a modern development in
the Dutch colonies, and balata may be obtainable either in that manner,
or by extraction from the bark, as practiced with guayule and proposed
for Castilla. The close-grained, durable woods obtainable from mem-
bers of this family may feature as byproducts in considering the
cultural problems.

THE SAPODILLA, OR CHEWING-GUM TREE

One of the near-rubber trees that doubtless will become better ap-
preciated in the future is sapodilla, well known in the West Indies and
in southern Florida for its delicious fruit. The same tree, named by
Linnaeus Achras zapota, grows extensively in the forests of southern
Mexico and Guatemala, where most of our chicle or chewing gum has
been obtained, though in recent years substitutes have been sought in
many countries and also in laboratories.

The chicle trees in the forests grow so slowly that setting out plan-
tations for the sake of the gum has scarcely been thought of, but other
elements of interest should not be overlooked in southern Florida or
in other tropical countries. The fruits are delicious and wholesome,
the trees are magnificient, and the wood is of fine texture, rich color,
and amazing durability. The ancient Mayas used carved timbers of
yas, as they called it, as lintels over the doorways of their temples,
and some of these remain in place after many centuries, even in a
tropical climate. The abundance of chicle and breadnut trees (Brosi-
mum alicastrum) in the forests that now cover the ruins of the ancient
Maya cities suggests that the edible fruits of these trees may have
contributed to the support of the former population, supplementing
field crops of maize, beans, yautias, and sweetpotatoes.

When it grows in open places the sapodilla is a stately tree with
densely tufted, deep green leaves, firm-textured and persistent on all
the branches, even near the ground. The tree shown in plate 17, the
largest known in Florida, grew at Fort Myers in the main street of
the town, but was destroyed in a building project of the boom period.
The leaves, flowers, and immature fruits of the sapodilla are shown
NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 409

in natural size in plate 18. The shape of the fruits varies from oval
to broadly rounded, or the base may be flattened like a tomato. The
fruit has a russet surface, with white or slightly pinkish flesh, much
resembling a high-grade pear in color, taste, and texture, even to the
presence of stone cells. The texture may be too delicate for commer-
cial handling in storage and shipment, but for home use in southern
Florida and in other tropical countries, the sapodilla is one of the
finest fruit trees.

OUR HOUSEHOLD “RUBBER PLANT”

One of the tropical rubber trees is well known in Europe and the
United States as an ornamental. It is the familiar “rubber plant”
of our livingrooms, conservatories, and hotel lobbies, with its bur-
nished emerald leaves. The house plants are grown from cuttings of
a large fig tree, Ficus elastica, frequently referred to as the Assam rub-
ber tree from its original habitat in the forests of northern India.

Growing in an open place, the tree has a spreading habit, with the
trunk and lower branches supported by many buttress roots, like the
banyan fig of India. A thriving tree of Ficus elastica in Florida is
shown in plate 19. The leaves on young and thrifty trees are 6 to 12
inches long, like those of our house-plant cuttings, while the leaves of
fruiting branches are only 8 to 4 inches long, as shown in natural size
in plate 20, with the small cylindrical figs.

Under natural conditions in deep forests the tree is said to be “us-
ually epiphytic, throwing down numerous aerial roots from the
branches.” As the first commercial rubber tree to be discovered in
the East Indies, it was given much attention during a period of
years. The trees in the forests were exploited and mostly extermi-
nated, but large plantings were reported in several districts. The
results were reported favorably at first, until the plantations of Para
rubber brought prices too low. The latex system and the limitations
of the manual tapping method are similar to those of Castilla, and
the use of mechanical extraction is an alternative that may be consid-
ered in the future.

TWO RUBBERS IN ONE TREE

The rubber of the Assam fig tree is of uneven quality, often weak
and sticky in young trees, and sometimes in older trees. Even in rub-
ber from the same tree perceptible differences may be found. A large
tree in Haiti that in a previous year had furnished a sample of good
rubber happened to be heavily manured from an adjacent barnyard.
On that side the trunk thickened rapidly, and produced a large, heavy
branch, out of proportion with the previous development. Only weak
and sticky rubber was found in the latex of the new growth, but on
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the other side of the tree, where the previous tapping had been made,
the rubber still showed good quality. The contrast of the two sam-
ples, one elastic and tough, with the surface clean and dry, the other
weak and sticky, left no doubt that the quality of the rubber material
formed in the latex could be seriously affected by conditions of
growth.

SELECTED LIST OF PREVIOUS PUBLICATIONS RELATING TO
RUBBER OR TO GROWTH DISORDERS OF PLANTS

(Unless otherwise stated, all papers were written by the present author. Papers
in this list are usually referred to in the text merely by dates.)

1900. Rubber cultivation for Porto Rico. U.S. Dep. Agr., Div. Bot. Circ. 28.
12 pp.

1901. Agriculture in the tropical islands of the United States. U.S. Dep. Agr.
Yearbook for 1901, pp. 349-368.

1903a. The culture of the Central American rubber tree. U.S. Dep. Agr., Bur.
Plant Ind. Bull. 49. 86 pp.

1903b. Four new species of the Central American rubber tree. Science, vol. 1&8
pp. 436-439.

1909. Vegetation affected by agriculture in Central America. U.S. Dep. Agr.,
Bur. Plant Ind. Bull. 145. 30 pp.

1910. A preliminary treatment of the genus Castilla, by H. Pittier. U.S. Nat.
Mus., Contr. U. 8. Nat. Herbarium, vol. 18, pp. 247-279, pls. 22-42.

191la. Dimorphic branches in tropical crop plants: cotton, coffee, cacao, the
Central Amercian rubber tree, and the banana. U.S. Dep. Agr., Bur.
Plant Ind. Bull. 198. 64 pp.

1911b. Notes on southern Mexico, by G. N. Collins and C. B. Doyle. Nat.
Geogr. Mag., vol. 22, pp. 301-320.

1913. Nomenclature of the sapote and the sapodilla, U.S. Nat. Mus., Contr.
U. 8S. Nat. Herbarium, vol. 16, pp. 277-285.

1920. A disorder of cotton plantsin China. Journ. Heredity, vol. 11, pp. 99-110.
Illustr.

1923a. Malformations of cotton plants in Haiti. Journ. Heredity, vol. 14,
pp. 323-325.  Illustr.

1923b. Sources of crude rubber. U.S. Dep. Agr., Rep. of Chief, Bur. Plant
Ind., for 1922-19238, pp. 28-30.

1923c. Possibilities of rubber production. U.S. Dep. Agr., Rep. of Secretary
for 1923, p. 51.

1924a. Acromania, or “crazy top,” a growth disorder of cotton. Journ. Agr.
Res., vol. 28, pp. 803-827. Illustr.

1924b. Rubber plants. U.S. Dep. Agr., Rep. of Chief, Bur. Plant Ind., for
1923-1924, p. 34.

1925a. Rubber. U.S. Dep. Agr., Rep. of Chief, Bur. Plant Ind., for 1924-1925,
pp. 21-23.

1925b. Tropical America adapted to rubber. U.S. Dep. Agr. Off. Rec., vol. 4,
No. 39, pp. 1-2.

1926. Para rubber tree is found at Palm Beach. U.S. Dep. Agr. Off. Rec.,
vol. 5, No. 39, pp. 1-2, 8.

1927. Rubber plants. U. S. Dep. Agr., Rep. of Chief, Bur. Plant Ind., for
1926-1927, pp. 28-29.
1928a.

1928b.

1928c,

1929a.

1929b.

1930a.

1930b.

1930c.

1930d.

1930e.

1931.

1932.
1933,

1935a.

1935b.

1935c.
1937.

1938.

1941.

1942.

1943a.

1943b.

NATURAL RUBBER—COOK 411

Dr. Ridley of Singapore and the beginnings of the rubber industry, by
D. Fairchild. Journ. Heredity, vol. 19, pp. 193-203.

Beginnings of rubber culture. Journ. Heredity, vol, 19, pp. 204-215.

Early days of rubber experiments. A letter from Dr. Ridley pictures
Singapore of thirty years ago. Journ. Heredity, vol. 19, pp. 485-486.

Rubber trees thrive in Florida planting. U. S. Dep. Agr. Off. Rec.,
vol. 8, No. 5, pp. 1, 8.

Rubber plants. U. S. Dep. Agr., Rep. of Chief, Bur. Plant Ind., for
1928-1929, pp. 26-27.

U. S. hunts a way to produce its own rubber. Washington Daily News,
January 29.

Branching habits of the Hevea rubber tree. Science, vol. 71, pp. 386-387.

Rubber plants. U. S. Dep. Agr., Rep. of Chief, Bur. Plant Ind., for
1929-1930, pp. 31-32.

Habits of Hevea rubber trees. 1st Inter-American Conf. on Agr., For-
estry, and Animal Ind., Washington, D. C., Rep. of Delegates, pp. 40-41.

The debt of agriculture to tropical America. Bull. Pan American Union,
vol. 64, pp. 874-887. (Reprinted in Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for
1931, pp. 491-501; also, with title ‘Tropical America’s Agricultural
Gifts,’”’ in Mid-Pacific Mag., vol. 42, pp. 344-350, 1931.)

Rubber plants. U.S. Dep. Agr., Rep. of Chief, Bur, Plant Ind., for
1930-1931, p. 24.

Study of supply sources of raw rubber. U.S. Daily, vol. 7, p. 874.

Rubber content of various species of goldenrod, by L. G. Polhamus.
Journ. Agr. Res., vol. 47, pp. 149-152.

Hevea rubber trees in Florida. Science, vol. 81, p. 435.

The desert milkweed (Asclepias subulata) as a possible source of rubber,
by R. E. Beckett and R. S. Stitt, U. S. Dep. Agr. Techn. Bull. 472.
20 pp.

The Maya breadnut in southern Florida. Science, vol. 82, pp. 615-616.

Rubber production from Castilla and Hevea. Science, vol. 85, pp.
406-407, April 23.

Rubber content and habits of a second desert milkweed (Asclepias erosa)
of southern California and Arizona, by R. E. Beckett, R. 8. Stitt, and
E. N. Dunean. U.S. Dep. Agr. Techn. Bull. 604, p. 11.

Naming the cultivated rubber tree Siphonia Ridleyana. Journ. Washing-
ton Acad. Sci., vol. 3, pp. 46-65, February 15.

Methods of splitting Hevea seedlings, by H. F. Loomis. Journ. Agr.
Res., vol. 65, pp. 97-124.

More rubber from Castilla. Agriculture in the Americas, January,
pp. 7-9. Spanish trans., La Hacienda, pp. 297-299, July 1943.

A summary of the literature of milkweed (Asclepias spp.) and their utili-
zation, by A. G. Whiting. U.S. Dep. Agr. Bibliogr. Bull. 2, 41 pp.
Oct. 15.
‘A Me
YP ea

Mei rei
te, vay { wT

4
(ati

“fh . rf 4
Y abiior i: ch nen

Ly a Nvtaley sacle
TASee (fe 1 aN eT A i

pave i, ahi He

hi

(oS BRITO D a4 pas iy beh Uy ei

nA Be r 1G a vreitlie

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—-Cook PLATE 1

CASTILLA RUBBER TREES IN FOREST FORMATION.

An abandoned Castilla plantation in Panama, with self-sown young tr

indicating that self-renewing rubber forests may be established if methods of mechanical extraction of
the rubber can be devised.

developing as undergrowth,

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 2

BRANCHING HABITS OF CASTILLA RUBBER TREES.

The young trees in the foreground have only lateral branches, horizontal or drooping, slender, simple, and
deciduous. The older tree, fruiting on its lateral branches, also has strong ascending branches, forming
the permanent divisions of the trunk. Trees of fruiting age have an annual leaf fall at the flowering season,
but a strong shoot at the left holds its leaves like a young tree.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 3

A CASTILLA TREE WITH SEVERE TAPPING WOUNDs.

Four or five tappings are indicated, although many trees do not sury a second or a third tapping. The
creamy, thick latex of Castilla often fails to flow, but coagulates in the cuts and is gathered as scrap rubber.
The cuts are made more oblique if a flow of latex is expected.

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 4

of
a ee ae
aoe “g

YOUNG CASTILLA TREES WITH SPREADING LOWER BRANCHES.

Upper, a young Castilla plantation in southern Mexico; lower, a close view of a vigorous young tree, one
of the branches subtended by a broadly cordate leaf borne on the trunk, different from the oblong leaves
borne along the branch.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook REPATESS

SPECIALIZED LEAF FORMS IN CASTILLA RUBBER TREES.

A young Castilla tree showing three of the specialized leaf forms. The juvenile type is represented by two
very large, long-stalked leaves; the trunk type by the much shorter and relative roader leaf subtending
a branch; the branch type by the short-petioled leaves produced in two ranks along the lateral branches.

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 6

SEEDLING LEAVES OF CASTILLA RUBBER TREES.

Left, a seedling plant natural size, showing subterranean cotyledons and long epicotyl. Right, above,
seedling leaves, lower surfaces, the first leaves broadly cordate, the second leaves oblong, with different
venation; below, two Castilla seedlings in 4-inch pots, showing that first leaves are opposite and have
rather long petioles.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—-Cook PLATE 7

seo

SEEDLINGS AND EARLY STAGES OF THE PARA RUBBER TREE.

The cotyledons are subterranean and the lower joints of the trunk produce no leaves for a foot or more above
the ground, where two adjacent joints bear leaves. Larger groups of leaf-bearing trunk sections are formed

farther up, with leafless groups between.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 8

FIRST LEAVES OF HEVEA SEEDLINGS.

Shown in natural size at the stage reached in plate 7 (upper), the lower internodes of the axis not developing
leaves. The pinnae continue in the drooping position to nearly full size, a habit shared with other plants
that are specialized to live as undergrowth in tropical forests. The leaves and branches of Hevea are not
specialized as in Castilla.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 9

ABNORMAL HEVEA SEEDLINGS WITH NARROW LEAVES.

A frequent growth disorder, resulting in remarkable diversity of leaf form among the affected plants, most
of them stunted and smothered in the seed beds, but afew recovering by abrupt transitions toward normal
leaf forms, as in the figure at the left. Right, an example of extreme attenuation of the leaves, abnormal
in length and number of veins; natural size, to compare with plate 10
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 10

LEAVES AND FLOWERS OF NORMAL AND ABNORMAL HEVEA.

Left, from a normal broad-leaved tree; right, from an abnormal narrow-leaved tree, both natural size. The
development of a narrow-leaved tree to maturity is relatively rare, but significant in the study of variation.
The flowers of Hevea are pale creamy yellow with the odor of lilaes, to which the Brazilian name seringa
or seringueira may refer.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 11

er
wy oe
\

MODIFIED BRANCHING OF HEVEA TREES.

Left, an old Hevea stump in Haiti sprouting profusely, although uninjured trees produce no branches near
the ground. The sprouts show the normal habit of intermittent growth with several short stem sections
forming a ‘‘flush’’ of new leaves, supported by a series of leafless stem sections. Right, a young tree in
the Panama Canal Zone, 20 months old in April 1925, with scattered branches a few feet from the ground.
mithsonian Report, 1943.—Coo PLATE 12

METHODS OF TAPPING HEVEA TREES, NATIVE AND IMPROVED.

Above, tapping with a small ax, the native method in Brazil. The ax wounds do not kill the trees, but the
bark becomes too rough for more latex to be collected. Photograph from the Amazon Valley, above Para.
Below, method of tapping developed from Ridley’s discovery at Singapore of repeated paring of the
same wound.

Smithsonian Report. 1943. —Cook PLATE 13

Set od ibibo

a —_ = ye nt. 1 om

GUAYULE, A RUBBER-BEARING DESERT SHRUB.

Upper, bales of guayule at San Luis Potosi, Mexico, 1902, awaiting shipment to Europe. Lower, left, a
guayule shrub, reduced; right, a basal section, natural size. A low, compact, woody shrub scattered
through high-altitude desert districts in northern Mexico and in the Big Bend district of western Texas.
Rubber is extracted by a process of grinding, retting, and flotation.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 14

A DESERT MILKWEED, ASCLEPIAS SUBULATA, CONTAINING RUBBER.

Upper, wild plants growing with cacti near Superior, Ariz. Lower, left, rootstocks and upright stems,
natural size; right, experimental cultivation as a field crop. T'he stems are straight and slender like grass
stalks, with minute nonfunctional leaves that soon fall off.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 15

A HARDY CHINESE TREE, EUCOMMIA ULMOIDES, CONTAINING GUTTA-PERCHA.
Upper, stamens and pistils, natural size, the stamens grouped on simple receptacles, the pistils solitary in
axils of bud scales or of foliage leaves, lacking any specialized floral envelope, either calyx or corolla. The

sexes are separate and the tree is placed in a family by itself. It looks like an elm, and is hardy throughout
the United States.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 16

THE BALATA TREE OF SOUTH AMERICA.

Leaves and mature fruits, natural size, from a tree at Bayeux, Haiti. The gum is similar to gutta-percha
tough, but not elastic, and has been exported for many years from South America, though the tree is
little known.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 17

m

NY

Qe
IN

4

a VSueant
- 4 i ,

A SAPODILLA TREE IN FLORIDA.

Native in Mexico and Central America, where the latex is the principal source of chewing gum. Planted
in Florida for its fruits, juicy and delicious like high-grade pears. This tree grew at Fort Myers on the
principal street but was replaced by a building. The royal palms, possibly 40 years old, may have been
younger than the sapodilla tree.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 18

LEAVES, FLOWERS, AND FRUITS OF THE SAPODILLA.

A flowering branch of the sapodilla tree, natural size, showing the tufted leaves of firm texture with even
margins and smooth surfaces, the veins scarcely distinct, the small white flowers, anc russet-hrown
immature fruits.

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 19

4 4
eS

‘% : . ot.
a ~ PS “

Lye

AN ASSAM RUBBER TREE IN FLORIDA.
Our familiar household “rubber plant,” a species of fig (Ficus elastica) commonly grown from cuttings for
decorative use. The tree is native in northern India, but thrives in Florida, the spreading limbs supported
on aerial roots, like the banyan fig of India.

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cook PLATE 20

FRUITING STAGE OF THE ASSAM FIG TREE.

Leaves and fruits, natural size, from a large tree at Port-au-Prince, Haiti. As with many tropical trees,
the leaves are much smaller in mature trees than in juvenile stages. These leaves are only 3 to 4i nches
long, while the tree in plate 19 had leaves nearly a foot long.
LESSONS FROM THE OLD WORLD TO THE
AMERICAS IN LAND USE?

By WALTER CLAY LOWDERMILK
Assistant Chief, Soil Conservation Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture

[With 4 plates]

Lands of the Old World bear an indelible record written across land-
scape after landscape by resident populations. The longer the occu-
pation, the deeper is the record written and the easier it is to read the
story of man’s stewardship of the earth, whether it be wasteful ex-
ploitation or use with conservation of the resource. One finds suc-
cessful adjustments of populations to the land in remarkable terrac-
ing and reclamation works, as well as tragedies of land misuse, in gul-
lied fields and alluvial plains, in rocky hills and mountain slopes
washed bare of soils, in shifting soils and sands, in silted-up and aban-
doned irrigation reservoirs and canals, in ruins of great and prosper-
ous cities and in ruins of olive presses and cisterns in desertlike land-
scapes. The effects of land use through the centuries are cumulative.

In the United States of America, we have in a comparatively short
period written far and wide on the face of our country a story of
wasteful exploitation and reckless use of abundant natural resources.
We have grown wealthy by an economy of exploitation. The time
has come with the occupation of all lands of the earth to change to
an economy of conservation. It is of timely interest to the New
World to read the story of land use as it has been written in the lands
of the Old World, that we may profit by the experience of the past
in its failures as well as its successes.

Western civilization had its beginnings in the Near East in the
alluvial plains of the Nile Valley and of Mesopotamia. Early tillers
of soil by irrigation and by selection of food plants produced more
food than they themselves required. Surplus food supplies released
other members of early societies to engage in useful activities other
than food production. Division of labor thus began and increased
the command over nature and progress in civilization.

* Reprinted by permission from Proceedings of the Eighth American Scientific Congress,
vol. 5, 1942.

413
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

From these far-away lands of the Near East, western civilization
has moved westward, until now its vanguard has reached the gleaming
billows of the Pacific Ocean that wash the western sands of the Ameri-
cas. For the first time in the history of the human race there are no
more continents to discover, to colonize, and to exploit. The fron-
tiers of new lands are gone forever. The nations of the Americas
occupy the last frontier of western civilization.

A survey of land use throughout this westward march of civilization
discloses successes and failures in the long use of land. The object of
this survey was to profit by failures and achievements of the Old
World in our national movement for the conservation of land. This
survey covered 28,000 miles of overland travel by automobile from
humid England to the margins of the deserts of Sahara and Arabia.
Studies were made in consultation with fully a hundred specialists in
124 areas of special interest within 14 countries and dependencies in
a period of 15 months of field work.

No attempt is made in this brief paper to account for the destruction
or conservation of lands on economic grounds. To profit by the ex-
perience of the past it is important to know what has happened to the
land after centuries and thousands of years of use. Complexity of
causes cannot hide the menace to national welfare in soil erosion and
the necessity for setting up national objectives to conserve basic re-
sources of soils and waters in the land. Means of achieving the ob-
jectives of conservation will vary in accordance with the genius of
peoples and their institutions. Soil erosion, if not controlled, has
demonstrated its ability to undermine nations and civilizations re-
gardless of what may have been the social or economic conditions that
set it going or stimulated its destructiveness.

The land of special areas was examined for evidences—in changes
of the original soil profiles insofar as they could be reconstructed ;
in the shifting of soils from slopes by erosion; and in the accumulation
of sediments on valley floors and plains; in the shifting of sand dunes;
in the cutting out of alluvial plains with deep gullies; in the filling
cf stream channels with erosional debris producing marshy condi-
tions; and in ruins of agricultural works for the control and conserva-
tion of waters for domestic and irrigation use; as well as evidences of
changes or stability of climate. Furthermore, the fate of the physical
body of the soil resource was given more attention in the survey than
problems of fertility maintenance. For if the soil is maintained in
place, liberty of action in use is assured to succeeding tillers of the
soil, in applying more or less fertilizer, in growing this or that crop;
but if the soil itself is destroyed, the present and succeeding genera-
tions are deprived of their basic heritage.

Throughout this broad expanse of land it became plain that the fate
of land under use has been most influenced by slope. The hazard of
LAND USE—LOWDERMILK 415

soil erosion is low on flat lands, but it is critical on sloping lands.
Flat lands have their problems, it is true, in the rise of water tables
and in the accumulation of salts, but drainage is usually sufficient.
Other problems occur in the formation of sand dunes, for which
fixation with vegetation is the solution. But the tiller of soil has met
his greatest problem throughout the ages in maintaining cultivation
on sloping lands. We found failures and successes throughout this
broad expanse of land.

ANCIENT PHOENICIA AND SLOPE FARMING

The Near East is believed by archeologists to be the scene of the
beginnings of agriculture which made the growth of western civiliza-
tion possible (11).?_ It is probable that irrigated agriculture preceded
rain agriculture. The flat lands of the Nile Valley and Mesopotamia
were irrigated before the slopes of ancient Phoenicia were cleared and
cultivated. It is probable also that it was on the slopes of the orig-
inally forest-clad mountains of ancient Phoenicia that rain agriculture
first began, and at the same time the tiller of soil of our western civil-
ization first encountered the hazards of slope cultivation and of soil
erosion. It is also probable that the tillers of soil first controlled
erosion here with rock walls to terrace sloping lands.

In this connection, we must refer to the remarkable terraces of
Peru. I am unaware if the age of the terraces of Peru has been de-
termined. Certainly they were developed by the genius of a resource-
ful people in great antiquity and independently of the Phoenicians
in the Near East, for which they deserve equal praise for a marvelous
achievement.

About 5,300 years ago, the Phoenicians migrated from the desert
and settled along the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea, estab-
lishing the harbor towns of Tyre and Sidon, Beyrouth and Byblos.
They found their land mountainous, rising to a crest of 10,000 feet
and heavily covered with forests, the greatest extent of which were
the forests of the famous cedars of Lebanon. These forests became
the timber supply for the treeless alluvial plains of the Nile and of
Mesopotamia. This conclusion is inferred from inscriptions such as
one on the Temple of Karnak, Egypt, placed at 2840 B. C., which
announces the arrival in Egypt of 40 ships laden with timber of the
cedars of Lebanon (2). Inscriptions found in excavations of Nineveh
and of ancient Babylon refer to the use of “huge cedars from Mount
Lebanon” in the construction of buildings (9).

In this mountainous land rising boldly out of the sea there was little
flat land along the coast. The growing population doubtless soon
exceeded the carrying capacity of these restricted flat lands and was

2? Numbers in parentheses refer to literature cited.
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

faced with the alternatives of shipbuilding, trade, founding colonies,
and the cultivation of slopes. As these slopes were cleared of forests
and cultivated, they were subject to soil erosion under heavy winter
rains, then as they would be now. The great area of terrace walls in
various states of repair indicate that the ancient Phoenician slope
farmer sought to retard or control erosion with rock walls across the
slope, 40 or possibly 50 centuries ago.

The famous forests of the cedars of Lebanon, which are associated
with the rise of civilization in the alluvial plains of the Near East,
retreated before the ax and the hoe until today only a few remnants of
the original forest of about 1,000 square miles are left. The best known
relic is the Tripoli grove of cedars, consisting of about 400 trees,
saved from vandalism by a church and from goat grazing by a stone
wall. (Pl. 1, fig. 1.) Restocking of this grove within the protection
of a stone wall against grazing signifies that under present climatic
conditions the forest would spread and grow where soil enough has
escaped the ravages of erosion. The disappearance of these famous
forests is symbolic of the decline and deterioration of the resources
of the country.

Today one may find on the mountains of ancient Phoenicia bare lime-
stone slopes strewn with remnants of former terrace walls, showing
that the battle with soil erosion sometimes was a losing fight (18) ; else-
where one may find terraces that have been maintained for several
thousand years. (Pl.1,figs.2 and 3.) Such astounding achievements
demonstrate that when the physical body of the soil resource is main-
tained, it may be cultivated and made productive for thousands of
years. Its yield in crops then depends upon its treatment.

The cost in human labor to level terrace slopes of 50 to 75 percent as
were found in Beit-Eddine, Lebanon, works out at modern wage scales
at 2,000 to 4,000 United States dollars per acre. Such costs are not
justified when other lands are available; moreover these costs repre-
sent what may and sometimes must be paid in an economy of survival.
Such remarkable works demonstrate to what lengths a people will go to
survive, as well as the necessity of maintaining the soil resources to
support a population. Such examples warn us to find ways of saving
good lands before necessity drives a people to such extremes in costs
of human effort.

A “HUNDRED DEAD CITIES”

Syria holds some of the grandest ruins to be found in the ancient
world, such as Baalbek and Jerash. But to a soil conservationist the
most striking ruins are found in the graveyard of a “hundred dead
cities.” (Pl. 2, fig. 3.) An area of about a million acres in North
Syria lying between Aleppo, Antioch, and Hama exhibits soil erosion
LAND USE—-LOWDERMILK 417

at its worst. Here are ruins of villages, market towns resting on the
skeleton rock of limestone hills, from which 38 to 6 feet of soil have been
swept off. Evidence of the depth of soil eroded from these slopes is
found in doorsills of stone houses now 8 to 6 feet above the bare rock.

Here soil erosion has done its worst and spread a ghastly destruction
over a formerly prosperous landscape, as judged by the ruins of splen-
did houses in villages and in cities, such as at El Bare, which we ex-
amined in the summer of 1939. In reality, these cities are dead, with
no hope of resurrection; for the basis of their prosperity is gone.
These cities have not been buried, but have been left high and stark
by the removal of soil through the irreversible process of erosion.
The good earth of terra rossa soils is completely gone from the slopes
except in patches where it is held back by walls of ruined buildings
or in pockets in the limestone. In these patches a few vines and olive
trees stand as sad remnants of a former profitable use of land, which
provided exports of olive oil and wine to Rome during the empire.
Seminomads now inhabit repaired ruins in a few of the former cities.

As one travels in the desolation of this man-made desert today, amid
the barren limestone hills once forested before they were converted to
cultivated fields, I was moved by continuous astonishment to find ruins
of dead cities which gave every evidence of former prosperity and
well-being. (P1.2,fig.1.) While buildings of some cities are tumbled
amid their masses of overturned blocks, those of other cities stand
upright, showing facades, towers, arches, and walls of convents and
cathedrals, as well as details of houses, villas, shops, stores, public baths,
hotels, and superb tombs such as those at E] Bare. This area was
flourishing from the third to the seventh century, without sign of
decadence. The invasion of the Persians in 614 and the Arabs in 630
decimated the inhabitants, blotted out their culture, destroyed their
cities, and even the traditions of their agriculture.

Today, after 13 centuries of neglect, of terraces overrun by herds
and patch cultivation of grain by seminomadic descendants of the
invaders, soil erosion has completed the destruction of the good earth
with a thoroughness that has left this formerly productive land a
man-made desert, generally void of vegetation, water, and soil. The
cities could be made habitable again, but they will remain dead for-
ever, because their soils are gone beyond hope of restoration. Here
the “unpardonable sin” of land use has been committed.

THE “PROMISED LAND” OF PALESTINE

When Moses stood on Mount Nebo and looked across the Jordan to
the “Promised Land” about 3,000 years ago, he described the land to his
followers as a “land of brooks of water, of fountains and depths that
spring out of valleys and hills; a land of wheat, and barley, and vines,
418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

and fig-trees and pomegranates; a land of oil-olive, and honey; a land
wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not lack
any thing in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou
mayest dig brass” (1). The “Promised Land,” as it is today, is a
sad commentary on man’s stewardship of the earth.

The “Promised Land” which 3,000 years ago was “flowing with milk
and honey” has been so devastated by soil erosion that the soils have
been swept off fully half the area of the hill lands. The soils have
been washed off the hills into the valleys (pl. 2, fig. 2), where they
are sorted: the finer particles are swept out in flood waters to change
the beautiful blue of the Mediterranean to a dirty brown as far as the
horizon; the coarser particles are spread out on former alluvium where
they are still cultivated but in a progressively reduced area. Acceler-
ated run-off from barren slopes continues to cut gullies through the
alluvial valleys and to carry erosional debris out to choke up the
channels of streams flowing through the coastal plains.

In times past, such erosional debris together with sand dunes blown
in from the coast created marshes in the plains; then malaria came
in, practically depopulating the lowlands. The hills also have been
greatly depopulated as shown by the studies of Dr. Guy (5). A survey
of ancient village sites abandoned and now occupied discloses how the
hill lands of Palestine have been depopulated since the seventh cen-
tury. The watershed of Wadi Musrara of 312 square miles draining
the western slope from Jerusalem to Tel-Aviv was divided into three
altitudinal zones: (1) the plain, 0-100 meters; (2) the foothills, 100-300
meters; (3) the hills, 300 meters and over. In the plains outside
marshy areas, 32 sites are now occupied and 4 abandoned; in the foot-
hills, 31 occupied and 65 abandoned; and in the hills, 87 occupied and
127 abandoned. The break-down of ancient terrace walls and the
erosion of soils to bedrock on the upper slopes is sufficient reason to
account for the reduction in population. Erosion in the hills as well
as marshes with malaria in the coastal plain has been sufficient to
reduce the population of the “Promised Land” to one-third of the
Roman and Byzantine period.

Palestine can never be restored to its original condition as the
“Promised Land”; it can be much improved over its present condition
as the splendid works of the Jewish colonies on 5 percent of the total
area have demonstrated, but the lands have been so devastated by
the irreversible process of soil erosion in the uplands that they can
never be restored to their original productivity as the “Promised
Land”—it is too late. This case brings home the tremendous lesson
that sloping lands may be damaged beyond full restoration; that
unless suitable measures are taken in time, land resources are reduced
in the face of increasing populations with their augmented demands.
LAND USE—LOWDERMILK 419

The recent movement of Jewish colonization to redeem the wasted
lands of Palestine is an excellent example of what can be done, but
at great cost. (Pl. 1, fig. 4.) Works of reclamation of swamps and
of reforestation of barren rocky slopes cost more than can be justified
as commercial investments in land. The insidious nature of erosion
is here made apparent. It reaches a point where the value of the
lands will not justify their restoration as an investment for profit.
This work can be justified only on the basis of survival of a people.
Such expenditures fall into the category of national defense against
a ruthless invader or destroyer; for land is the basis of life of a
people.

ROMAN AFRICA

North Africa bristles with astounding ruins of opulent and popu-
lous cities and of thousands of villages and works of the Roman epoch.
(Pl. 2, figs. 4 and 6.) A century or more after the destruction of
Carthage by Scipio in 146 B. C. Rome began to colonize North
Africa and in the course of time established several important and
stately cities at the sites now known as Timgad, Sbeitla, Tebessa,
Jemila, El Jem, and Lambesis. These cities were established at cross-
roads and along the southern edge of the great agricultural region,
devoted principally to the growing of grain and olives.

The Roman city of Thydrus, at the present site of El Jem, was
located in the midst of the great coastal plain of Tunisia. The most
conspicuous remnant here is the ruin of a great coliseum to seat
60,000 spectators, which was second in size only to that at Rome.
(Pl. 2, fig. 5.) Now a wretched village stands on the site of this
great Roman city. This center was supported by intensive agricul-
ture of grain fields and olive orchards; now this plain is sparsely
covered with wild vegetation and isolated groves of olives overrun
by herds of grazing animals.

The Roman city of Thamugadi, at the site called Timgad in Al-
geria, was one of the more famous centers of Roman power and cul-
ture. It was established by Emperor Trajan about A. D. 100 and was
laid out in symmetrical pattern, equipped with a magnificent forum
embellished with statuary and carved porticoes, with a public library,
with 17 Roman baths adorned with beautiful mosaic floors, with a
theater to seat some 2,500 and with marble flush latrines. Timgad
was a stately city supported by extensive grain fields in the valley
plains and olive orchards on the hills.

After the weakening of the Roman power by the Vandal invasion
in A. D. 480 the Berbers captured the city, and after the Arab in-
vasion of the seventh century it was lost to knowledge for 1,200 years,
buried by dust, the product of wind erosion. Only a few columns
and a portion of Trajan’s arch stood above undulating mounds as
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

tombstones to indicate that once a great city was here. There is no
counterpart today of the magnificence of this ancient city. A
wretched village of mud-wall houses sheltering a few hundred in-
habitants is the only descendant of this center of Roman power and
culture. Water erosion as well as wind erosion has been at work on
the landscape. Gullies have cut through portions of the city and
have exposed the aqueduct which supplied the city with water from
a great spring some 3 miles away.

Ruins of the land are as impressive as the ruins of cities. The hills
have been swept bare of soil, a story which may be read throughout
the region. The original soil mantle is being washed off the slopes,
often showing that the upper edge of the soil mantle is being grad-
ually worked down slope by accelerated run-off from the bared up-
per slopes. Erosional debris has been deposited on the lower slopes
and valley plain. Torrential storm waters cut great gullies into the
alluvial plains. Water tables are lowered and rain waters quickly
flow off the land leaving it dry and thirsty. The effects of desiccation
of the land are brought about even if rainfall has not diminished.

Out toward the Sahara, 70 miles south of Tebessa, were found ruins
of remarkable works for conserving and spreading storm run-off.
Check dams were constructed to divert storm waters around the slopes
and to spread them on a series of terraces, dating back to Roman
or pre-Roman times. Why these terraces were constructed is not yet
known. At any rate the French Government is rebuilding the works
and is spreading storm waters out on these terraces to increase forage
growth for the herds of the Arab nomads. These works of water
conservation out so near the Sahara Desert might indicate that cli-
mate has changed or that all good lands were intensively utilized
during the Roman epoch. All North Africa, as indicated by such a
vast display of ruins and works in the midst of a sparsely settled
and depressing land, must have had an agriculture of remarkable
refinement in measures of soil and water conservation.

The striking contrast between the prosperous and populous con-
dition of North Africa in Roman times and present decadence led
early students to believe that an adverse change of climate was re-
sponsible for the decline of the granary of Rome. But the researches
of Gsell (4), Gautier (3) and Leschi (7) discount an adverse change
in climate since Roman times (6 and 10). The most telling evidence
of unchanged climate in the past 2,000 years is the successful planta-
tion of olive groves on the sites of ruins of Roman stone olive presses.
An experimental grove planted at Timgad by Director Godet demon-
strates that olive orchards would thrive today where soil still remains
on slopes. The great plantation of more than 150,000 acres in the
vicinity of Sfax, Tunisia, which now supports thriving enterprises at
LAND USE—LOWDERMILK 421

Sfax, also discredits the change of climate theory. Moreover, in the
vicinity of Sousse, Tunisia, there are a few Roman olive orchards which
escaped the destructive invasions of the seventh century and survive to
the present day. No pulsations of climate have been sufficiently ad-
verse to kill off this remnant of the agriculture of Roman times.

The astounding decline in agriculture of the Near East and North
Africa is not due primarily to adverse climatic change (14 and 12).
It was begun by successful invasions of desert nomads during the
seventh century and completed by soil erosion. This remarkable in-
vasion, which not only destroyed a civilization, but its agriculture
and, more important, the traditions of its agriculture, is another in-
stance of the age-old struggle between Cain and Abel, between the
shepherd and the farmer, between the tent dweller and the house
dweller. ‘The desert has always produced more people than it could
feed. Farmers built up thriving cultures in the alluvial plains. From
time to time the hungry tent dwellers swept into the valleys, when
defenses were weak, and destroyed and robbed, sometimes passed on,
and left destruction and carnage in their path. At other times they
replaced the former population to become farmers and city dwellers
themselves, only to be destroyed by another invasion of hungry deni-
zens of the steppes or deserts.

These nomad invaders and their herds unleashed the forces of soil
erosion by water and by wind which through centuries have reduced
the capacity of the land to produce or to be restored to its former
productivity, except in some alluvial valleys. The achievement of
conservation of land resources by long and tedious methods was nulli-
fied by ruthless invasions and wars. !

Such are some instances of the decline in the usefulness of the
land due to the wastage of erosion and quickened run-off of storm
waters, by the break-down of measures arrived at by long and slow
experience of trial and error. The wisdom of the ages was nullified
in a brief time, breaking into fragments the glories of the past.

It is also fitting to examine some of the recent works to reclaim
lands damaged by inconsiderate and reckless use in the past.

RECLAMATION OF MARSHES

The climate of the Mediterranean sets the stage for land destruction
by erosion if special precautions are not taken in cultivated fields and
on grazed slopes. Heavy rains occur generally as erratic storms dur-
ing the winter months—October to April. The remainder of the
year is rainless and hot.

Where bold mountain ranges are bordered by comparatively broad
coastal plains, as in Italy, Greece, Palestine and Algeria, cultivation
of slopes unprotected by rock-wall terraces has induced serious soil

566766—44__28
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

erosion. Eroded soils and debris have choked up stream channels in
the plains, converting these coastal plains into marshes. Malaria
made the lowlands pestilential, weakened or practically depopulated
extensive populous areas.

Such is the history of the Pontine Marshes in Italy, whose reclama-
tion is an outstanding example of the application of the modern
sciences of medicine, engineering, and agriculture to such problems.
The Pontine Marshes were once well populated if we are to accept
as evidence remains of 16 cities which predated Roman occupation.
Following the rapid rise of Rome from the eighth century B. C.,
cultivation of the slopes of the Apennine Mountains took the same
course as it did in Phoenicia. By the fourth century B. C. Appius
Claudius undertook to drain the marshes, which had become a
problem (pl. 3, fig. 1). He was unsuccessful in reclaiming these
pestilential Pontine Marshes as were his successors, Julius Caesar,
Trajan, and Theodoric, and later on a number of Popes, especially
Pope Pius VI. But in 1931 the Government of Italy undertook the
reclamation of this age-old problem of Rome and Italy with military
thoroughness as for a battle. Within 2 months the swamps had been
drained and within 6 months farms had been laid out, concrete farm-
houses built, and the town of Littoria fitted out with all necessary
public buildings, centers, and residences as a service town to more
than 100,000 acres of reclaimed land (pl. 3, fig. 2). In this time,
260 miles of roads were built, nearly 6 million cubic yards of dirt
were moved to make 1,097 miles of canals.

This is a splendid achievement; 7 years prior to our visit (1938)
this thriving area was a deadly marsh, impassable to man and beast
alike; only water buffalo were able to survive. During this period
approximately 863 million dollars were spent by Italy on public
works. An additional amount of about 124 million dollars was
granted to private landed properties for reclamation work. More
than a third of the total expenditure was made to assist private land-
owners to prepare their lands for subdivision and colonization.

The justification of such great expenditures is the fundamental
importance of the nation’s welfare, looking to self-sufficiency in agri-
cultural crops. Investments of public funds for making lands pro-
ductive for settlement of farm families also served the purposes of
giving employment to thousands of unemployed, of settling people
from congested industrial centers on the land, and of increasing the
productive wealth of the nation as a whole.

CONTROL OF TORRENTIAL FLOODS

Population pressures in Italy of 836 and in France of 547 per square
mile of cultivated area have exceeded the carrying capacities of the
flat lands and have pushed the cultivation line up slopes in the Alps
LAND USE—LOWDERMILK 423

to steep gradients as forests were cleared away. These mountains had
been sculptured by glaciers of the Ice Age into deep gorges bordered
by hanging valleys, which set the stage for torrential debris floods as
slopes were cleared of forests for cultivation or heavily grazed.

France and Italy have been engaged for many years in the control
of debris floods in mountain valleys. France has carried out for 60
years a comprehensive program of works, with notable achievements.
The experience of 60 years of such works is especially valuable in meet-
ing the increasing hazards of floods in mountainous areas of the New
World. Debris floods bury fields, orchards, and villages in valley
floors, interrupt communication, and destroy livestock and human life.
Losses over the past century have reached enormous figures and have
stimulated brilliant engineering and remarkable measures of erosion
control and revegetation.

Correction of mountain torrents is most economically and effectively
carried out as a gigantic chess game. It is man against nature, where
man may perchance delay the inevitable long enough for his purposes.
It takes time and daring as well to play this game, in addition to
minute study of natural forces at work. As the torrent-control
engineer builds each structure he waits to observe the responses of
natural forces. These in turn determine his next move, whether to
build another structure, or reinforce existing works, until in due time
he is successful in checkmating torrential floods. The high costs of
the control of torrents are justified by the protection of valley lands
from damage, by the reduction of debris accumulations in stream
channels, as a safeguard against rising water tables and marshy condi-
tions in high-value alluvial lands, and by saving life.

Two essential principals are followed in all torrent-control works:
establishment of base levels of cutting in torrent channels with per-
manent check dams, and revegetation of the catchment area. Similar
work has been done in Bavaria in southern Germany, but it was not
possible for me to continue the projected survey into Germany because
of the outbreak of war in that fateful September.

FIXATION OF SAND DUNES

Problems of water-erosion control are most common on sloping
lands, but those of wind-erosion control most often occur on flat lands.
Sand dunes have been formed in semiarid regions by the sorting effect
of wind erosion of cultivated lands. The wind sorts dry soils, lifting
the fine and fertile particles to blow them away in dust clouds, whereas
the heavier particles as sand are left behind to form hummocks and
finally active sand dunes. Usually former farm lands of the Old
World so damaged have been abandoned and left to their fate (8).

In southwestern France the government has carried out the classic
and greatest achievement in the fixation of a vast area of a “moist
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Sahara” of sand dunes. A great pestilential sore spot in France,
where dwelt poverty, malnutrition, and despair before the merciless
march of gigantic sand dunes, was converted into a beautiful and
productive forest and into a region of health resorts and prosperity.
The destructive invasion of the Vandals in A. D. 407 set sand dunes
onthe march. By Napoleon’s time they had covered 400,000 acres and
had buried forests and farm villages, and dammed up the streams,
causing a great area of coastal plain to overflow. Marshes brought
in malaria, which diminished and weakened the resident population.

Work of fixation and control was begun by Bremontier in 1786
under the command of Napoleon. Reforestation of the dunes was
made possible by creating a great littoral dune. This was done by
means of a movable palisade of planks which were successively pulled
up as the dune crest was raised. In time a dune was built up along
the coast whose windward slope reached a grade too steep for the
winds longer to blow sand over it. Thereupon, the slopes of the
dune were fixed with sand grasses. Reforestation to the leeward and
streams were thus safeguarded from further advance of dunes. Fol-
lowing the fixation of dunes, drainage of 214 million acres of lowlands
was made possible under the direction of Chambrelent. By 1865
this memorable task was completed.

One dune, near d’Arcachon, however, was left uncontrolled for
some reason (pl, 4, fig. 1). It is 2 miles long, 14 mile wide, and 300
feet high and is advancing on the forest at the rate of 60 to 65 feet
a year. This active dune serves as a comparison of the present re-
claimed dune area and gives some idea of the magnitude of the
achievement of converting a devouring menace affecting 214 million
acres of land into a healing resource. It is estimated that the return
from the resin crop alone from the pine plantations has been sufficient
to pay off all the original costs of this classic example of reclamation
of sand dunes and pestilential marshes.

CONQUEST OF THE SEA FOR LAND

Conservation and utilization of natural resources is the striking
lesson gained from Holland. Few nations have done so much with
what little they have. Among the masterpieces of land reclamation,
The Netherlands has achieved wonders in dewatering the ocean and
transforming hundreds of thousands of acres of ocean floor into pro-
ductive farm lands. Holland, with 2,500 persons to the square mile
of cultivated area, required more land. She chose a policy of rec-
lamation instead of conquest. When the present Zuider Zee project
is completed, more than 550,000 additional acres, formerly inhabited
by fish, will be occupied by people. In 1939 we saw farmers plowing
the land, 13 to 16 feet below sea level, over which the salt fishermen
had plowed the waves only 6 yearsbefore. (PI. 4, fig.3.) We watched
LAND USE—LOWDERMILK 425

the farmers threshing their huge stacks of grain, which resembled
African villages on the landscape (pl. 4, fig. 2).

Hollanders are experts in the use of land and the control of water.
Since early times, picturesque Dutch windmills have drained the
otherwise useless lowlands and lifted drainage water into canals to
empty into the ocean. Since the completion of the huge 26-mile
ocean dyke across the outlet of the Zuider Zee, Holland has con-
quered her thousand-year-old enemy, the North Sea, and has provided
her people with a much-needed sweet-water lake, new agricultural
lands, and better transportation. The Dutch take an artistic pride
in the excellence of the crops of their native soil; their farms and
forests are models in management. This conquest of the soulless sea
has carried with it none of the destructive horrors of modern war
and has cost much less. The hope of the world in conservation
rather than in destruction is made realistic by this masterpiece of
reclamation.

THE INSIDIOUS NATURE OF EROSION

Our studies in lands long occupied by man disclose that soil erosion,
i, e., man-induced erosion as distinguished from normal geologic ero-
sion, is an insidious process that has destroyed lands and undermined
progress of civilization and cultures. Achievements in the control of
soil erosion and in adjustments of a lasting agriculture to sloping lands
are steps in the march of civilization as momentous as the discovery of
fire and the selection of food plants.

Solutions to problems of population pressure have too often in the
past been sought in the conquest and destruction of the works of
peoples rather than in conservation and improving the potential pro-
ductivity of the earth, with provision for exchange of specialty prod-
ucts. The formula of exploitation and destruction has interrupted
the orderly solutions to land-use problems in the past and has un-
leashed the forces of erosion to spread like the tentacles of an octopus
through the lands of North China, North Africa, Asia Minor, and the
Holy Lands, as well as in the United States and other countries of the
New World.

One generation of people replaces another, but productive soils de-
stroyed by erosion are seldom restorable and never replaceable. Con-
servation of the basic soil resource becomes more than a matter of indi-
vidual interest; it becomes a matter of national interest necessary to
the continuing welfare of a people. The day is gone when lands may
be worn out with the expectation of finding new lands to the west.
The economy of exploitation must give place to an economy of con-
servation if a people will survive into the unknown future, Peace
among nations must rest upon such a policy.
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

In face of the limited area now available to the human race, the
realization that enormous areas of land are still being destroyed by
inconsiderate and wasteful methods must arouse thinking people to
action. Ifman is making deserts out of productive lands, it is a matter
not only of national, but of world-wide concern.

If Moses had foreseen how soil erosion induced by inconsiderate use
of land would devastate the “Promised Land,” as well as vast areas of
the earth, resulting in man-made deserts and decadence of civiliza-
tions; if he had foreseen the impoverishment, revolution, wars, migra-
tions, and social decadence of billions of people throughout thousands
of years because of the exploitation and desolation of their lands by
erosion, he doubtless would have been inspired to deliver an Eleventh
Commandment to complete the trinity of man’s responsibilities—to
his Creator, to his fellow men, and to Mother Earth. Such a Com-
mandment should read somewhat as follows:

Thou shalt inherit the holy earth as a faithful steward, conserving its resources
and productivity from generation to generation. Thou shalt safeguard thy fields
from soil erosion, thy living waters from drying up, thy forests from desolation,
and protect thy hills from overgrazing by thy herds, that thy descendants may
have abundance forever. If any shall fail in this stewardship of the land thy
fruitful fields shall become sterile stony ground or wasting gullies and thy descend-
ants shall decrease and live in poverty or perish from off the face of the earth.

Hitherto, mankind in its conquest of the land, except in very limited
areas, has not been governed by such an injunction; on the contrary,
mankind has been impelled by an economy of exploitation, looking to
the discovery of new lands or new sources of food and materials as
needs arise. The lands of the world are occupied and such a policy
leads inevitably to conflict.

The solution of such conflicts in the past has been sought generally
in a formula of war with destruction of property, works, and human
lives as means of arriving at agreements. As this paper is being written
fully half the human population of the earth, more than a billion
human beings, have as their most absorbing purpose to destroy the
achievements and works of generations and the annihilation of popu-
lations, soldiers and civilian men, women, and children. Civilization
is committing suicide.

Sooner or later peoples engaged in modern warfare will become
weary and exhausted by this hellish frenzy of destruction and car-
nage. Mankind may then be prepared to accept an alternative—a
substitute for destruction in the conservation of the earth’s resources,
in maintaining and improving necessary supplies. Under scientific
conservation, the earth will produce beyond the dreams of mankind.

Besides, the formula of destructive exploitation has failed miser-
ably to solve problems of growing populations; it has only set back
the same problem to come forth again with more insistence. The
LAND USE—LOWDERMILK 427

fate of lands devastated and despoiled by erosion, which is most often
associated with war or conquest, stands as a warning to mankind to
change from an economy of exploitation to an economy of conserva-
tion—of healing and saving conservation.

We must be fully prepared to defend our sovereignty and liberty
of action against all aggressors. At the same time, the Americas
are best situated to make the principle of conservation realistic in
the use of land resources. Thus interpreted and reduced to works
of saving soils and waters on the land as necessary to the conserva-
tion of human resources and values, the principle of conservation
may be compelling and enticing enough to turn a war-weary world
from a suicidal frenzy of destruction and carnage to a saving and
healing conservation. The lands of the earth will record the decision
of mankind as to this momentous question.

LITERATURE CITED
1. BIBLE.
Deuteronomy VIII, 7-9.
2. BREASTED, JAMES H.
1906. Ancient records of Egypt, vol. 1, p. 146. Chicago.
3. GAUTIER, E. F.
1935. Sahara, the great desert, pp. 95-99. Translated by D. F. Mayhew.
New York.
4, GSELL, STEPHANE.
1913. Histoire ancienne de 1’Afrique du Nord, vol.1. Paris.
ay (Chop'g, 328% JOR (0),
Unpublished notes.
6. KNIGHT, M. M.
1928. Water and the course of empire in North Africa. Quart. Journ.
Econ., vol. 48, pp. 44-98, November.
7. LESCHI.
Unpublished reports.
8. LowpDERMILE, W. C.
1939. Field notes.
9. LUCKENBILL, DANIEL D.
1927. Ancient records of Assyria and Babylonia, vol. 1, pp. 98, 194 f.
Chicago.
10. MARTONNE, EMMANUEL DE.
1930. a degradation de Vhydrographie. Scientia, vol. 47, pp. 9-20,
January. (See p. 19.)
11. PEAKE, HARoup J.
1933. Early steps in human progress. Philadelphia.
12. PLAYFAIR, Sin RopertT L.
1877. ‘Travels in the footsteps of Bruce in Algeria and Tunis, p. 155.
London.
18. THoumMIN, R. L.
1936. Geographie humaine de la Syrie Centrale, p. 125. Paris.
14. WooLry, C. LEONARD, and LAWRENCE, T. BE.
1914-1915. The wilderness of Zin (archaeological report). Palestine
Exploration Fund. London.
ah

sevtsadte: Ac Rare

ai py percent
_altow of - yates bat t ;
| “BY T92«109 8 old OF, Yideernait 2a ‘
aotlerrsastos. ‘to. aliouin 6 ei
- bliow IBV 18 Bi
— bas gaivse 6 of ale ina

— orld broaer fiw sitie od} tovebitel aT. .wotany pe

Pie Po:

Ai soto A vane ae

Ati

aed Eloy Jn ‘ub

er
ie ,

at sad a

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Lowdermilk PLATE 1

1. The Tripoli groves of cedars in the forests of the cedars of Lebanon, Lebanon, Syria, September 1939.
2, 3. Not far from Beyrouth is a valley where we found the climax in adjustment of permanent agriculture
to steep, sloping lands. September 1939.

4. Well-planned and well-constructed Jewish colonies have great agricultural possibilities if the Jews are
permitted to continue with their program of land reclamation in Palestine.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Lowdermilk PLATE 2

il:

fen

Oblique aerial view of Kalaat Samaan ruins of the sanctuary of St. Simon, showing the denuded condition
of adjacent slopes. Some cultivation is taking place within the walls of the ruins which have held back
the soil from being eroded away. (Courtesy of Father J. Mattern, Serdis)

Aerial view of hills of Judaea near Hebron. April 1939.

Vertical aerial view of Gerade, which belongs to the southern group of Dead Cities.

The largest and only village for many miles around the former city of Djemila, which in Roman times
boasted more than 11,000 population. January 1939.

View of the giant coliseum at El] Djem. February 1939.

The market square in the excavated Roman city of Djemila, where once were sold products of the sur-
rounding lands. The denuded erosion-gullied slopes bear mute evidence of their wreckage and soil
losses. January 1939.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Lowdermilk PLATE 3

1. The ill-famed fever-infested Pontine Marshes, being a view of the site now occupied by the City ol
Littoria. Before reclamation.

2. Oblique aerial view of Pontine Marshes, as seen in photograph above, after reclamation, showing the
city of Littoria under construction as a beautiful administrative and market center of the reclaimed
area. Note scores of farm houses sprinkled over the plain.

Photographs courtesy of the Government of Italy.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Lowdermilk PLATE 4

_

. Leeward side of the untamed dune near d’Arcachon, showing the advance of the dune on the forest,
engulfing it at the rate of about 60 to 65 feet a year. November 1938.

2. Inside view of a Holland farmer’s crop of gold in this “‘Dutch-made Agricultural Heaven on Earth”
below sea level. September 1939.
3. Wieringerwerf, the last of three villages, is shown under construction. The broad freight canal running

diagonally across the picture has movable bridges. The dark borders around the rectangular farms
are barge canals. The drainage ditches for leaching out the salt content from the new-born lands appear
as fine lines. Agricultural specialists nurse the land with special treatment until it can be cropped to
clover. It is then weaned and turned over to individual farmers.
AREAL AND TEMPORAL ASPECTS OF ABORIGINAL

SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE!

By Jonn M. Cooper
The Catholic University of America

[With 4 plates]
CONTENTS

USED De RE Eee RRR Sl, na
hy Sica eenwinOninent =.) eee no ee ee eS ee ek oe
Por nO ean TORO se Mw. Ue MS RSL el
Briheterescod lowlands fae. Ne Aime pe be Le

Oe Due DEN-COUNUrY: DElUGe = =o. samemet eo fee Se Seely
SOmMAtolom ye see es Nee LER AMS ULI ee Rae BEET Pie SN DA pdb oy ae
MEIRMINTIRISEOGES Se his bts SPER ay) | pea. eS. tle el $2. a ge
OGRA eee et oes hee ag Be eee Sod hy hie eee AL
AM TATE AIEGISET DO ULIOM pane ne ao eens ee BA Lysis ys UE ey 2

1. Marginal culture

Py PSPUN AEM UU AVO REY = 5 ie pti ls ae alas iy Tae
SoMierred euloremes emcee OOD ER ALE Slt bs BLO

BS Diffusion andstemporalisequence. tseteds_fece_ oo ose ele je

1. European and Negro diffusion: post-Columbian__________--_-

2. Aboriginal diffusion and sequence: since circa A. D. 1000_--_-

a. Diffusion within and from Sierral culture_-.._-__-_--_---

b. Diffusion within and from Silval culture__.______--_-_-

3. Aboriginal diffusion and sequence: before circa A. D. 1000_ -

a. Sierral versus Silval and Marginal______-_-_-_-__-------
DoneiiVelivera@srntarginalon. one es ko liad ee eee i

ChpO wlbursevidence 2 2022 8 2 ok oe
(aymoourhvAmencanen i. 2a ut a Li eee eee

tb) Pan American: 1) 8. yi) i ek a es

(2) Somatological evidence. ___-_-.___--------------

(3) Geographical evidence______--------------------

4. The question of Old World influence____.__--.-_-__----_-_-
PURI AD Ue ame Re ee ED oa Si a Neg
Tentative prehistorical reconstruction
Bibliography

INTRODUCTION

The purpose of the present paper is to give a bird’s-eye view of

aboriginal cultural distribution and sequence in South America.

The

West Indies and southern Middle America from the Isthmus to about

1 Reprinted by permission from Primitive Man, vol. 15, Nos. 1 and 2, January and April, 1942.

° 429
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

central Honduras are included, since they are linked culturally more
to South America than to North America.* The paper has been
written, not for seasoned specialists in South American anthropology,
but for nonspecialists, to set up an areal and temporal framework into
which the enormously complex factual data can be provisionally fitted
and to offer a first-aid guide to the anthropological literature of the
continent. No attempt has been made, of course, to include an ade-
quate list of the innumerable first-hand sources. Good bibliographies
of these may be found in Nordenskidld, especially 1920; Krickeberg,
1922, 1989; W. Schmidt, 1913; Izikowitz, 1935; Gillin, 1940.

For a better understanding of cultural distribution and sequence
in South America, a few of the more pertinent data upon physical
environment and racial and linguistic divisions are premised.

PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT ®

Geographically Pan America may be looked upon as a quasi
peninsula jutting out from the extreme northeast tip of the Afro-
Eurasiatic land mass which we assume to be the birthplace of the
human race. Thus, of the larger continental areas of the world,
South America is farthest removed from man’s primal home, the most
isolated, and probably the latest to be inhabited.

South America may, for our present purpose, be divided into three
major regions: (1) the mountainous western fringe, with its flanking
coastal plains, and, east thereof, (2) the forested lowlands of the
north, northeast, and center of the continent, and (3) the more or
less open country of the east and south. With these three areas co-
incides fairly well the distribution of the three major cultural group-
ings of the continent—a correlation to which we shall return later.

1. The Andean region—The Andean cordillera lifts its peaks,
ranges, and plateaus, paralleling the coast, from Panama to its dip
beneath the ocean at Cape Horn. Toward the Pacific it is flanked
over most of its extent by a narrow strip of lowland: tropical rain
forest down to about Payta (5° S. lat.), in extreme northern Peru;
the Peruvian-Chilean coastal desert thence about 1,600 miles to near
La Serena (30° S. lat.), Chile; dry forest and temperate rain forest
from La Serena to the Magellanic archipelago.

2. The forested lowlands—The forested lowlands of the Orinoco
and Amazon watersheds, lying east of the northern half of the
cordillera, form a vast, roughly quadrangular area. The northwest-
ern and southwestern sides of this quadrangle are formed by the
Andes; the northeastern, by the Atlantic coast line from central

2 Thomas and Swanton, 1911, p. 96; Mason, 1938, pp. 311-314 ; Lothrop, 1940 ; Kidder II,
1940. Cf. Lothrop, 1939. —

3 Geographical data in this section of paper largely based on: Jones, 1930; Denis, 1927;
Zon and Sparhawk, 1923; Whitbeck, Williams, and Christians, 1940. Cf, James, 1942,
~
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 431

Venezuela to about 400 miles southeast of the mouth of the Amazon;
the southeastern, by a broken line running from this last point across
country to central Bolivia. The sides of the great quadrangle are
about 1,300 to 1,500 miles long. Most of the area is covered with
dense tropical rain forest, except for the extensive savannas of the
middle Orinoco and of the Guiana highlands.

3. The open-country belt.—The third division of South America,
representing about one-half of the continental area, is the region
bounded on the west by the southern Andes, on the northwest by
the Amazonian rain forest, and on the northeast and southeast by
the Atlantic. It is mostly open country, treeless or only sparsely
wooded—grasslands, savannas, bushlands, and steppes—including the
eastern Brazilian and Matto Grosso highlands, the Gran Chaco, the
Uruguayan plains, the Argentinian Pampa, the Patagonian plateau
and part of Tierra del Fuego. On the Atlantic border of the
Brazilian highlands, the tropical rain forest extends in a narrow
coastal strip down to about 25° S. lat. The chief break in this great
open-country belt is that made by the subtropical forests of southern
Brazil and of the Paraguay and Parana basins. The inland and up-
land savannas of the Brazilian and Matto Grosso highlands are thus
practically ringed with heavily forested country, mostly lowlands.
To the far southwest of the open belt lies the Chonoan and Magellanic
archipelago, flanking the mainland for about 1,200 miles from Chiloé
to Cape Horn and covered mostly with temperate rain forests.

SOMATOLOGY

Our data on the living races of man on the Southern American con-
tinent are very incomplete. Only in four or five scattered spots do they
approach anything like adequacy, while for enormous areas, such as
most of the Amazonian forested area, they are lacking almost entirely.
No thorough analysis or interpretation even of the sparse data we
have has been attempted. Dixon dealt with only certain selected
elements. Biasutti’s review is wanting in detail. Our most recent
study, Hickstedt’s, is at best provisional; however, such as it is, it
represents at least a start.‘

Eickstedt isolates four main physical types (pl. 1) two tending to-
ward brachycephaly, two toward dolichocephaly—although one of
these latter two, his Brazilid type, falls in the main within meso-
cephaly. Eickstedt blocks out the following distributions: The Andid
subrace, broad-headed and of relatively low stature, occupying most

4Dixon, 1923, pp. 443-472; Biasutti, 1912, pp. 140-143, maps 1-7; Eickstedt, 1934, pp.
720-759, 838-876, map opp. p. 752; Pericot, 1936, pp. 593-727, passim, good for bibliog-
raphy; Krickeberg, 1922, pp. 217-219. For references to other classifications and distri-
butions, see: Gusinde, 1939, pp. 406-418; Imbelloni, 1937.
432 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

of the Andean area down to Chiloé; the Pampid subrace, brachy-
cephalous and of relatively tall stature, of the Matto Grasso plateau,
the Chaco, the Uruguayan plains, most of the Pampa region, and Pata-
gonia; the Brazilid subrace, of medium to short stature and heavy
torso, tending toward dolichocephaly [mesocephaly], of the Ama-
zonian and Orinoco watersheds, most of the coastal forest belt flanking
the Brazilian highlands, and the Buenos Aires region; the Lagid sub-
race, more markedly dolichocephalous, of medium to low stature, and
of lighter torso, occupying the Brazilian highlands, and the Chonoan
and Magellanic archipelago.

In general it can be said that the Andean region is more dominantly
brachycephalic, while in what we are calling the open-country belt
there is much more of dolichocephaly. In rain-forest areas, apart
from the Colombian coastal region, there is more tendency toward
mesocephaly. These broad generalizations are subject to local
exceptions.

On the prehistoric South American racial types our data are like-
wise very sparse and inadequate, particularly for the tropical rain-
forest region. None of our prehistoric human remains is of demon-
strated great age. Ameghino’s claim to have discovered Tertiary man
has long since been successfully challenged and disproved. In the hill
caves of Lagoa Santa in southern Brazil and in the sambaquis (shell
heaps) of the southeastern Brazilian coast have been discovered skel-
etal remains of a race or races of seemingly considerable age. But there
is no clear evidence of very great age. The 17 Lagoa Santa skulls are
fairly high and, with one exception, dolichocephalous; the coastal
shell-heap or sambaqui type is likewise dolichocephalous but with
rather low forehead. A number of older post-Pleistocene remains
have been found in the Pampas; some others here and there in the
Andean region, such as the Punin skull of Riobamba, Ecuador. These
earlier skulls from the Pampa and Andean region, like the Lagoa
Santa and sambaqui skulls, are consistently long-headed, and many
of them show other seemingly significant similarities with some of the
living peoples such as the Botocudo and Fuegians, whom Eickstedt
includes in his Lagid race.°

From such evidence as we have, sparse and incomplete though it be,
we seem to be on fairly safe ground in concluding that earlier man in
South America was long-headed,® that the broadheads represent a
later stratum, and that many of the modern Lagids are survivors of
this earlier type and have preserved to greater or lesser degree its
characteristics. ‘The modern Lagids, or at least many of them, would
thus seem to represent the more primitive type of South American

5 Hrdlitka, 1912; Hickstedt, 1984, pp. 748-759; Sullivan and Hellman, 1925, Punin

ealvarium ; Walter, Cathoud, and Mattos, 1937, Confins man.
6 As in North America: Stewart, 1940.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 433

man. Whether the brachycephalic type or types developed out of
the earlier dolichocephalic type or types, or represent a later migra-
tion into South America across the Panama bridge or the Antilles, is
an open question. All that we can say with any confidence is that the
broadheads appear in the main to be more recent. |

LINGUISTIC STOCKS

As our evidence stands today, there are more linguistic stocks, by
probably a good 50 percent, in South America than in North and
Middle America combined. Our most important recent review, Riv-
et’s, lists 77 such South American linguistic stocks. In view of our
scant evidence for many areas and peoples and of our lack of a thor-
ough analysis of the evidence we have, this number is provisional only.
In all probability it will be appreciably increased or decreased as our
information itself and the analysis thereof become fuller. Particu-
larly defective is our information for the Brazilian highland region, al-
though Nimuendaji and one or two others are helping to clear up the
situation.’

Of these 77 stocks, about 14 are spoken over a good four-fifths of
the continental area. In the Andean region, passing from north to
south, Chibcha, Quechua, Aymara, and Araucanian cover nearly the
whole area. Over a good two-thirds or more of the Orinoco-Ama-
zonian forest belt and in the West Indies are spoken Arawak, Carib,
Tupi, Tucano, and Pano, or were in post-Columbian times spoken.

In the open-country belt, about four-fifths or more of the area
is or was inhabited by people of Gé, Guaycurti, Charrua, Puelche, and
Tshon stocks.

Most of the remaining 63 stocks are scattered over the rest of the
continent, not checkerboard fashion, or at random, but in the main
distributed in a great broken crescent extending in the west along
the base of the Andes and to the south along the southern borders
of the Amazonian forest and of the Brazilian highlands to the At-
lantic coast. This marginal distribution may be explained in either
one of two ways. The peoples speaking these stocks may have been
driven to marginal areas by the more numerous and more powerful
peoples of Arawak, Carib, Tupi, and other stocks. Or else we may
assume that before the deployment of these latter through the Ori-
noco-Amazonian belt, this area was occupied by a very great number
of peoples of distinct linguistic stocks, and that, as the Arawak, Carib,
Tupi, and others spread out over the area, these earlier residents

7Rivet, 1924, pp. 639-707; Nimuendajii and Lowie, 1937, pp, 565-566. For linguistic
(and tribal) maps of South America, see: Rivet, 1924; W. Schmidt, 1926, Atlas, largely
utilizing Rivet; Krickeberg, 1922, 1939; Pericot, 1936, largely based on previous maps,
bibliography ; Krieger, 1935, adapted from Krickeberg and Roth. For linguistic maps of
Middle America, see Mason, 1940, and Johnson, 1940; Thomas and Swanton, 1911.
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

took over the languages of the invading swarms, thus leaving the
earlier atomistic distribution of stocks on the uninvaded margins of
the area. We have many instances, historically and ethnologically
verified, of such change of language as a result of Tupi, Carib, and
Arawak invasion or contact.

At any rate, the distribution of stocks in South America is in itself
evidence of very wide migrations and drifts, many of them estab-
lished historically—migrations and drifts facilitated by the lack of
great natural barriers over the vast lowland areas of the continent,
and stimulated to a considerable extent, within the horticultural belt
by the prevalent milpa agriculture,’ and for the Tupi, by the ancient
and deep-seated tradition of a distant Utopia beckoning them on.°

CULTURE
A. AREAL DISTRIBUTION

For purposes of description and interpretation, the aboriginal cul-
tures of South America may be classified regionally into three large
divisions, the areas occupied by these divisions corresponding roughly
to the Andean uplands, the forested Orinoco-Amazon lowlands, and
what we have called the open-country belt. For convenience we are
calling these three cultural groupings the Sierral, the Silval, and the
Marginal, respectively. The Marginal is so denominated in view of
the fact that technologically it is simpler than either of the other two
and that regionally it borders on” and is marginal to the Sierral
and Silval areas.”

1. Marginal culture.—In this grouping we include the Gé-speaking
peoples (provisionally) and the Botocudo (Borun), Masakali Pataso,
Puri, Waitaka, and others of eastern Brazil, together with the
Bororé, Guaté, and Guayaki, as well as the peoples of the Chaco, of
the Uruguayan plains, of the Argentine Pampa and of Patagonia, and
the Ona, Yahgan, Alacaluf, Chono, and Chango—who, in the main,
may be looked upon as externally marginal to the Sierral and Silval
areas; and also certain peoples now or until recently of very simple
culture such as the Yaruro, Maki, Schiriana, Waika, Bahina, Huhit-

8M. Schmidt, 1917; cf. Cook, 1921.

® Métraux, 1928, pp. 201-224.

- 10 We have no satisfactory comprehensive description of South American culture. Kricke-
berg, 1922 and 1939, and Nordenskidld, 1912b, come nearest, but much new material has
come out in these last two or three decades. Stout, 1938, has a good short summary. The
Handbook of South American Indians, now being prepared by the Smithsonian Institution,
under the able direction of Dr. Julian H. Steward, with the cooperation of a group of
specialists, will be published about 1944 or 1945. For West Indies see: Fewkes, 1907;
Lovén, 1935.. For Panama region : Lothrop, 1937.

‘11 Wissler, 1917, used a fivefold division. Krickeberg, 1922, adopted a twofold one:
Naturvélker, with six subdivisions, and Kulturvélker, with four subdivisions; in 1939, a
threefold one: collectors, gardeners, and Kulturvélker. Stout, 1938, has worked out a
ninefold division, his Nos. 4-6 corresponding roughly to our Sierral, No. 7 to our Silval,
the remaining five to our Marginal.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 435

teni, Katapolitani, Mura, and Sironé, who are found widely scattered
here and there in the Silval area as internally Marginal groups. (See
fig. 1.) The externally Marginal peoples occupy most of our open-
country belt, except such sections of the forested land therein as are
or were occupied by horticultural tribes, mostly Tupi.? Some of the
foregoing tribes, such as the Gé, Mura, and Sirion6, may later turn out
to be culturally retrogressed Silval peoples.

Between these many Marginal peoples one finds very numerous
and profound regional and tribal divergences of culture.* But un-
derlying these divergences there exists very considerable uniformity
of culture both in what is present and in what is absent.

We may sum up this basic uniformity about as follows: Food-
getting by hunting, fishing and gathering, with horticulture either
absent or only rudimentary or less developed among most groups; no
domestic animals except the dog, and even the dog absent here and
there; more commonly no stimulants (alcoholic beverages, tobacco,
coca), or else demonstrably or probably of relatively recent or even
post-Columbian introduction; pottery very often absent or, where
present, of relatively crude type; clothing and adornment usually
either very meager or very simple; weaving absent or at best rudi-
mentary; shelter of the simplest, such as the lean-to, beehive hut
(pl. 8, upper), and so forth; mats or skins on ground for sleeping;
use of stone, bone, or wood for weapons and utensils, with practically
complete absence of metals; unusually long bows and arrows among
many of the internally Marginal and northern externally Marginal
peoples; fire-making by drill over most of the area, but by the per-
cussion method in the Magellanic archipelago and among the
Guayaki and some Tehuelche; cannibalism absent or practically so;
well-organized ,family system with prevalent monogamy or simple

2 For the convenience of readers who may desire to follow through or check up on the
content of the culture of these Marginal peoples, the more important first-hand and second-
hand sources, many of them containing bibliographies, are here listed. Gé and other eastern
Brazilian marginals: Ploetz and Métraux, 1929; Métraux, 1939; Snethlage, 1930; Nimu-
endaji, 1938, 1939, 1942b; Nimuendaj and Lowie, 1937, 1939; Lowie, 1940b, pp. 423-439,
1941; Henry, 1941. Bororé: Colbacchini, [1924]; Lévi-Strauss, 1936; von den Steinen,
1894. Guat6: M. Schmidt, 1905, 1914. Guayaki: Vellard, 1934. Chaco: no satisfactory
survey available that embodies the newer data from the many scattered sources ; a thorough
one by Métraux about completed but not yet published ; short surveys in Krickeberg, 1922,
pp. 293-305, and 1939, pp. 108-117; cf. also Nordenski6éld, 1919, 1920; bibliography in
Pericot, 1936. Uruguay and Paran4 delta: Lothrop, 1932; Rivet, 1930. Argentine Pampa
and Patagonia : Outes and Bruch, 1910; Palavecino, 19384. Ona, Yahgan, Alacaluf (Chono) :
Gusinde, 1931, 19387; Lothrop, 1928; Cooper, 1917. Chango: Latcham, 1910. Yaruro:
Petrullo, 1989. Schiriané, Waika, MakG, Bahtina, Huhbtiteni, Katapolitani: Koch-Griinberg,
1906a, 1906b, 1922, and 1923, pp, 248-319. The Bahtna, Dr. Irving Goldman informs me
from his field studies in the area, are a sib rather than a tribe; there is some question, too,
as to the correctness of Koch—Griinberg’s assumption that the Schirianfi and others had
only recently adopted horticulture. Mura, Sirion6é: extremely meager data available; for
Mura, cf. Tastevin, 1923 ; Bates, 1892, pp. 166-170 ; for sources on Sirion6, see Pericot, 1936;
Gillin, 1940, p. 648. Four subdivisions of the South American Marginals are suggested in
Cooper, 1942.

13 As among Marginals elsewhere, as Lowie, 1940a, pp. 417-418, has recently emphasized.
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

YARURO

BAHUNA
MUHUTENI
KATAPOLI TANIA

2

EASTERN
LIMIT OF
SIERRAL
CULTURE

re)
Oo F4-PATASO
MASAKALI
BOTOCUdDO

PURI
A WAITAKA
a CHACO TRIBES

fi. f
GUAYAK |
Ye.

eeseeean = e
APPROAIMATE
SOUTHERN
LiMo hwOF f

HORTICULTURES

v TEHVELCHE

Ficure 1.—Distribution in historic times of South American Sierral, Silval, and
Marginal culture, and southern limit of agriculture. Apart from the areas in-
habitated by the Marginal peoples designated on the map, nearly all the territory
east of the eastern limit of Sierral culture and north of the southern limit of
horticulture has in historical times shared the Silval culture.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 437

polygyny, and here and there rather strict monogamy; the typical
political unit a small band, usually made up of relatives, with bands
occasionally forming loosely cohesive tribes with or without chief-
taincy of limited power; moieties and moietylike tribal divisions
as a rule absent, but reported among the Yaruro, Bororé, and some
of the Gé peoples, the moiety organization among the latter
being of marked complexity; levirate, sororate, and avoidances of
fairly wide distribution; among a number of the tribes, especially
the Yaruro and Ona, land-tenure systems resembling closely the
northeastern North American family hunting-ground system; sha-
manism, but absence of priesthood; religion in general seemingly a
little more animistic than manistic, with well-defined theism among
at least a good many groups, and recorded in detail among the
Fuegians, the Apinayé, and the Yaruro (pl. 4, upper).

2. Silval culture*—The area of the Silval culture includes not
only the broad Amazonian-Orinoco forested region with its adjacent
and enclosed savannas, but also the Guianas, the West Indies, most
of Middle America from Honduras to the Isthmus, the rain-forest
belt of the Colombian and eastern Brazilian coast, the temperate
rain forests of southern Brazil and the Parand-Paraguay region,
and the forested Andean foothills bordering the northern Chaco.

As in the Marginal culture, so in the Silval culture there are in-
numerable and important local differences, but underlying these there
is a quite perceptible uniformity. These more uniform character-
istics of this far-flung Silval culture may be summed up about as
follows: Horticulture universal, with use of dibble rather than hoe,
and carried on under the slash-and-burn, shifting-cropping or milpa
system; manioc (pl. 2, upper), sweet or bitter, a, or the, basic staple
over most of the area, with, however, a good deal of maize, beans,
sweetpotatoes, and so forth; the dog, at present, practically but not
quite universal; widespread use of poison in fishing, and, toward the
northwest particularly, of the blowgun with curare-poisoned darts in
hunting; tobacco and alcoholic beverages throughout the area, the
latter made with mastication (except of course for wines and mead)
and indulged in to intoxication at festival drinking sprees; canni-
balism widespread, particularly but not exclusively among Tupi- and
Carib-speaking peoples; well-made but simple pottery, here and there
reported archeologically and ethnologically of unusually good type as
at Santarem and around the mouth of the Amazon; notable meagerness
or absence of clothing, with, however, rather elaborate body adorn-
ment, particularly featherwork; lip plug of fairly wide distribution;

144Qur best reviews of culture of area are Krickeberg, 1922 and 1939. For distributions
of material culture elements, see Nordenskiéld, 1919, 1920, 1924, 1931. For social organi-
zation, see Kirchhoff, 1931; Haeckel, 1938. For sources, see Gillin, 1940; Pericot, 1936.

566766—44——_29
438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

fairly well-developed weaving; shelter of timber framework demand-
ing fairly advanced carpentry and commonly of dimensions large
enough to house a considerable number of people (pl. 8, middle), with
inside ground areas reported up to about 10,000 square feet or more;
hammocks; weapons and tools of stone, where it is available; some
metal ornaments; major social unit in the tribe consisting more com-
monly, where data are reported, of the extended family or sib living
in the large houses above mentioned, with villages often comprising
only one or two, at most several, such houses; villages at times con-
federated into a loose tribal organization; moiety and sib systems
recorded here and there, some of the moiety systems bearing marked
resemblance in certain details to those found among the Gé peoples;
levirate, sororate, and avoidances not uncommon; couvade widespread ;
religion, as far as known, largely shamanistic and animistic, with at
least a good deal of theism among many groups (pl. 4, lower).

8. Sterral culture.—The Sierral culture extends from Colombia to
the northern Araucanian area and is shared by the peoples of the
region we have previously described as the Andean area, except the
tribes of the rain-forest coastal strip in the north who belong more
to the Silval culture, and the Changos of the Chilean coastal desert
and the Chono-Fuegian Canoe Indians whose culture is of the Mar-
ginal type. The Araucanians of middle Chile down to Chiloé are
in the main on a markedly simpler culture level than the peoples far-
ther north, but in many respects are linked genetically with the
Sierral culture proper and so may best be included therein.

Again, as in the Marginal and Silval culture, marked local
differences appear in the Sierral culture as one passes down the
Andean highland from Colombia to the south, but there is like-
wise beneath the divergences an underlying cultural uniformity.

The more characteristic traits of the Sierral culture may be summed
up as follows: Horticulture universal, with maize as the chief
staple and beans ranking next, except in the very high altitudes where
white potatoes, oca, and quinoa are basic; garden plots and fields tend-
ing to be of more permanent location than under the Silval milpa
system, with irrigation in the drier lowlands and with terraces in the
highlands (pl. 2, lower) ; the lama and alpaca domesticated and used
for transportation, wool, food, and sacrifices ; coca chewing as a stimu-
lant, in addition to tobacco and alcoholic beverages; very high develop-
ment of pottery and weaving; full body clothing (in contrast to
predominant Silval near-nudity); advanced metallurgy, in copper,
platinum, gold, and (from Ecuador south) silver, but not in iron, with
smelting, casting by direct and lost-wax methods, alloying of gold and

16 Thompson, 1936, gives an excellent summary of Sierral cultures, for the general reader,

with selected bibliographies. For fuller treatment, especially of Peru, with bibliography,
see Means, 1931. For types of horticulture in Sierral and Silval cultures, see Sapper, 1954.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 439

copper (tumbac), of gold and silver, and of copper and tin (bronze),
sintering of gold and platinum (Ecuador), plating, gilding, sold-
ering, and welding; ordinary dwellings as a rule of very simple con-
struction but advanced megalithic architecture (pl. 3, lower) in the
central Andean region in the building of temples, fortifications, and
other public structures ; roads, suspension and stone bridges; the quipu
knot-record system, but no writing; wide use as weapons of slings,
stone-headed and metal-headed clubs, spear and spear thrower, and
bolas, with bow and arrow absent or of quite secondary importance (as
contrasting with the Silval and most of the Marginal area where the
bow and arrow and the unheaded club predominate) ; advanced politi-
cal institutions with high organization and centralization, and partic-
ularly in the Inca civilization, militaristic imperialism; tribute and
taxes; organized standing army; earlier pre-Inca tenure of garden
plots in severalty supplanted later under Inca rule by limited com-
munal control of land; elaborate market system; highly organized
priesthood and ritualism, alongside of considerable shamanism;
animal and, to a limited extent, human sacrifice; marked solar cult.

As is obvious from the foregoing summary descriptions, the Margi-
nal, Silval, and Sierral cultures represent in the main three fairly dis-
tinct levels of technological and economico-political achievement, the
Marginal being the simplest, the Silval more developed, and the Sierral
the most complex.

It has been our main purpose so far to block out only in broadest out-
line the nature and distribution of these three contrasting cultural
types over the South American Continent and the adjacent areas of the
West Indies and Central America. To keep the picture from becoming
too intricate, we have purposely closed our eyes to the numberless
tribal and areal cultural diversities and have tried to see the continent
as a cultural whole, even at the risk of appearing to oversimplify the
well-recognized unending complexities of South American aboriginal
culture.

B. DIFFUSION AND TEMPORAL SEQUENCE

Our next task is that of interpretation—here an attempt to deter-
mine spatial and temporal relationships. As initial steps toward
working out a provisional reconstruction of cultural sequence on the
continent we may first isolate and strip off certain cultural elements in
modern aboriginal South American culture that are demonstrably
post-Columbian, and secondly, survey some of the more significant
earlier diffusions that are clearly or reasonably inferable from the data
at our command.

18 Bergsge, 1937 (cf. reviews by J. A. Mason and D. Horton in Amer. Antiquity, vol. 4, pp.
84-87, 1938.
7 Santa Cruz, 1940.
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

1. EUROPEAN AND NrcGro DiFrusion : Post-CoLUMBIAN

A very great number of important elements, widespread among and
well integrated into contemporary aboriginal South American culture,
are, as is well known, due to introduction by Europeans since 1492.
Such are, for instance, among domesticated plants, sugarcane, banana,
watermelon; among domesticated animals, the horse, cattle, sheep,
goats, pigs, chickens; firearms; weapons, utensils, and tools of iron;
perhaps the pellet-bow; and of course many social, economic, political,
and religious concepts and practices. Some less widespread and less
significant elements are traceable to post-Columbian Negro influence,
such as the marimba, and specific types of African drum.’®

2. ABORIGINAL DIFFUSION AND SEQUENCE: Sincp Ciroa A. D. 1000

With the historical, ethnological, and archeological data at our com-
mand today we are able to plot for a great many cultural elements,
complexes, clusters, and types the diffusion routes that can be chron-
ologically classified as of post-Columbian times or else as of the centu-
ries immediately preceding the Discovery, and consequently relatively
recent. Some of these diffusions are demonstrable or practically so,
others rest on reasonable probabilities. Such diffusions of course pre-
suppose and are temporally posterior to the rise and establishment of
the respective cultures involved. If we strip them off the cultural pic-
ture of modern aboriginal South America we can see a little more
clearly the broader outlines of cultural distribution in South America
several centuries before the Discovery—say about the year A. D. 1000,
to select a more or less arbitrary date. Diffusion of cultural elements
from the Marginal peoples to the Silval and Sierral has seemingly
been minimal. Diffusion has occurred almost exclusively from and
within the Sierral and Silval cultures. In each there have been certain
marked major diffusions and others of minor significance. Let us
begin with the Sierral.

a. Diffusion within and from Sierral culture—Two major Sierral
diffusions may be distinguished, one definitely tied up with the rise
and spread of the Inca Empire, the other of less determinable prov-
enance. In the two or three centuries prior to the coming of the
Spaniards the Inca Empire developed and spread from around Cuzco
to the north along the Andes as far as northern Ecuador and to the
south as far as the Rio Maule in central Chile and along the eastern
slope of the Andes to the Diaguita territory carrying with it a great

18 Post-Columbian white influence: Nordenskiold, 1919, pp. 232-234; 1920, pp. 119-126,
197-202; 1930, ch. 7. Post-Columbian Negro influence: Nordenski6éld, 1930, ch. 7; Iziko-
witz, 1935, p. 415. Pellet-bow: Nordenskiold, 1919, pp. 48-51, evidence for post-Columbian
origin ; Friederici, 1920, p. 186, for pre-Columbian origin.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 44]

* number of elements which we have previously listed as typical of the
Sierral culture. (See fig. 2.) 1° j

Partly in pre-Columbian times (Inca and presumably pre-Inca),
partly in post-Columbian times, many of the typical Sierral elements
drifted south into Araucanian territory. Such elements include, to-
gether with others of less importance, irrigation and possibly quinoa
and the white potato, the domestication of the llama, wool weaving,
certain pottery types, metal work in silver, and the quipu. In post-
Columbian times prior to the middle of the eighteenth century the
Araucanians deployed far out over the Pampas toward the Atlantic
coast, carrying with them their culture, many elements of which
through contact diffused well north and south of the central Pampas.
Some time between the dates 1670 and 1741 this Araucanian influence
profoundly modified the culture of the Tehuelche to the south of the
Pampas proper as far as the southern limit of the Tehuelche territory
at the Strait of Magellan. The culture of the Tehuelche as recorded
in our 20 sources from 1520 to 1670 differed markedly from it as re-
corded consistently from 1741 on, and the majority of the new elements
are obviously of Araucanian origin.”°

Through trade and other contacts a good deal of Sierral culture has
filtered down from the highlands into the adjacent wooded lower
eastern slopes of the Andes. But in general only minor Sierral in-
fluences, some of them at least recent post-Columbian, are discernible
in the Silval and Marginal regions. Such in the Silval region are
probably elements such as coca chewing, the feather fire-fan, and the
Panpipe.27. Among the seemingly Sierral elements in Chaco culture
are the feather fire-fan, games of chance, sandal and fillet, and certain
textile and fictile patterns.” AJl in all, however, Sierral influence
on the Amazonian and Chacoan peoples did not, so far as we can de-
termine, very appreciably change their fundamental culture
Whether in far distant prehistoric times agriculture with such arts as
weaving and pottery had their origin in the Andean region and thence
spread out over the Silval area, in this manner greatly changing an
assumed earlier archaic collecting culture there, we are not in a
position to say, nor probably will be unless or until the archeologist’s
spade digs up decisive evidence.

b. Diffusion within and from Silval cultwre.—Let us pass to the
cultural diffusions stemming out from the Silval area. It is possible
that in remote times the cultivation of manioc originated in the Silval
belt east of the Andes and thence spread to the lowlands of the Sierral

19 Means, 1931; Thompson, 1936. The Diaguita, higher culture was, however, at base
independent of, and anterior to, Inca influence and domination.

20 Cooper, 1924, pp. 406—410.

21 Nordenskiéld, 1920, pp. 202—206 ; 1924, ch. 21 ; 1930, ch. 9.

2 Nordenski6ld, 1919, pp. 235-251 ; 1920, pp. 202-206 ; 1924, pp. 225-226.
442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

CULTURE DIFFUSION ROUTES

——> = PRE-INCA SIERRAL

INCA

ARAUCANIAN

SIERRAL TO CHACO

TUPI TO MARGINAL BELT

ARAWAK-CARIB TO
WEST INDIES

natu

oer = EASTERN LIMIT OF
SIERRAL CULTURE

woes APPROXIMATE LIMIT OF
SILVAL CULTURE

——= SOUTHERN LIMIT OF
HORTICULTURE

Ficure 2.—Tentatively reconstructed distribution of South American Sierral,
Silval, and Marginal culture, as of circa A. D. 1000, and major cultural dif-
fusions and drifts since then. Marginal enclaves within the Silval belt are
not included in map. Araucanian territory is placed in the Marginal area,
although horticulture may possibly have reached that far south by A. D. 1000.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 443

region, but the evidence is far from decisive. As regards one minor
and two major diffusions of Silval culture, we are on more secure
ground.

A minor drift or drifts brought into the Chaco certain Silval
elements such as manioc horticulture, the manioc grater, wooden
stools, hammocks, and the rubber ball for games.”

The first of the two major diffusions is that of the Arawakan
peoples into practically the whole of the West Indies probably some
centuries before the coming of the Spaniard, and later the invasion,
still under way at the time of the discovery, of the Caribs across the
Lesser Antilles as far as some of the nearer Greater Antilles islands.
Whether or not the presence of typical South American Silval culture
in southern Middle America represents migration or cultural intrusion
into the area from South America cannot at present be decided. At
any rate, most of the region of Middle America where culture similar
to the South American Silval culture is found is, like the latter’s area
of distribution, rain forest.

The original centers of dispersion of the Arawak and Carib peoples
cannot in the present state of our evidence be determined. With only
rare exceptions the areas over which they have spread are areas of
tropical rain forest. They have, it is true, occupied the smaller lower-
Amazon savannas and part of the Brazilian highland savanna, but
not, except in part, the more extensive savannas of the middle Orinoco,
where in historic times at least have dwelt peoples of other linguistic
stocks, such as the Otomac, Guahibo, Saliva, and the very primitive
Yaruro. The Arawaks and the Caribs appear, in other words, to have
shunned the open country and to have kept in the main to the deep
forests. Some of the spread of Arawak and Carib culture within the
forested area is pretty clearly a matter of relatively recent genera-
tions—as e. g., in the case of the Schiriana and Waika, if we can rely
on Koch-Griinberg.** Most of the Arawak and Carib spread must, on
the other hand, go back to relatively remote prehistoric times.

The Tupi, like the Arawak and Carib, have also kept pretty con-
sistently to the forests. The earliest determinable center of dispersion
seems more probably, since Métraux’ studies, and Klimek and Milke’s
statistical analysis, to be the Amazon basin. Then well prior to the
coming of the European they appear to have drifted down to the
Paraguay-Parana and southern Brazilian region, the historic home
of the Tupi-Guarani. At least it is mostly from these two centers on
the Amazon and the Paraguay-Parana that the Tupi spread out along
the southern bank of the lower Amazon, and along the Brazilian coast
with almost no break from the mouth of the Amazon to the extreme

23 Nordenski6ld, 1919, pp. 252-255 ; 1920, pp. 208-213.
24 Koch-Griinberg, 1923, pp. 284-319 ; cf. M. Schmidt, 1917.
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

southern Brazilian coast.2® Thus the Gé-speaking, Botocudo, and
other Marginal peoples of the Brazilian highlands became almost en-
tirely ringed by the Tupi, who brought with them into the forested
areas wherever they went their typical Silval culture. The regional
distribution of the Tupi as mapped by Métraux coincides almost per-
fectly with the area of distribution of the tropical and subtropical
rain forests that all but surround the eastern Brazilian and Matto
Grosso highlands.

Silval influence, in most cases mediated through the Tupi, has deeply
penetrated into the Brazilian highlands and adjacent regions and has
overlaid to differing depths the preexisting Marginal culture, leaving
only areas here and there untouched or relatively untouched. To such
Silval influence can be with reasonable confidence ascribed such ele-
ments as horticulture, tobacco, intoxicants, the hammock, and so forth,”
and possibly, although the question is still an open one, the basic pat-
tern of the complex social organization revealed among the Borordé
and by more recent studies among some at least of the Gé-speaking
peoples such as the Apinayé, Canella, and Serente.7 Many of these
element diffusions from Tupi sources can be well dated by historic
documents as post-Columbian. Furthermore, from the scattered dis-
tribution of these Silval traits in the area, from their seemingly imper-
fect assimilation, and from the recency of much or most of the Tupi
invasion of the area, Silval influence on the highland region appears
to be in the main recent. All in all, then, we have good ground for
concluding that the process of Silval diffusion into this Marginal
region has been mostly a relatively late one, much of it known definitely
to be post-Columbian and most of the rest probably dating back not
many centuries prior to the coming of the European.

The numerous migrations of Sierral and Silval peoples and cultures
which we have briefly summarized in the preceding several pages are of
course by their very nature chronologically later phenomena in the
respective regions. Many of them are post-Columbian, most or all of
the remaining ones are—some quite clearly, others very probably—of
dates later than the one selected above, somewhat arbitrarily, that of
circa A. D. 1000. At or about that date, the distribution of the three
cultures—the Sierral, the Silval, and the Marginal—was much less
broken and more regular than it was at the time of the Spanish con-
quest or than it has been in more recent times (see fig. 2). At that
more remote date, the Sierral culture without the Inca overlay occupied
about the area where it was found at the time of the Discovery; the

% Métraux, 1927; Klimek and Milke, 1935, pp. 87-88. Cf. Nordenski6ld, 1917, on Chiri-
guano migration across the northern Chaco to the forested foothills to the west thereof ;
more fully documented in Métraux, 1929b.

20 Ploetz and Métraux, 1929.

27 Haeckel, 1938—a valuable assembling of the factual evidence, but theory of ultimate
Andean origin provisional only.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 445

Silval culture, approximately where it Las been in recent times, in the
Amazon-Orinoco watershed; the Marginal culture, the rest of the
continent to the east, southeast, and south. In case, however, the Gé
should turn out to be partly retrogressed Silvals, the dividing line be-
tween the Silval and Marginal cultures would have to be drawn far-
ther to the southeast than we have drawn it in figure 2.

3. ABORIGINAL DIFFUSION AND SEQUENCE: BrrorE Circa A. D. 1000

We have so far blocked out certain important temporal sequences
that have occurred within the last millennium. How far can we get
toward determining such sequences prior to our date of circa A. D.
1000? It is recognized of course that any such historic reconstruction
on a continental scale must rest on probabilities rather than on cer-
tainties. But at least it seems worth while to assemble and appraise
such evidence as we have. We shall take up first the temporal relations
of the Sierral to the Silval and Marginal, and after that the relations
of the Silval to the Marginal.

a. SIERRAL VERSUS SILVAL AND Marcinau.—That the higher pre-Inca
culture or cultures of the Sierral region developed at a date later than
did the Silval culture appears to rest on fairly solid ethnological and
archeological evidence. Ethnologically these civilizations presuppose
and are built upon well-advanced horticulture. And we have no good
ground for assuming that horticulture developed in the Silval area
prior to or at least appreciably prior to its development in the Andean
area. A plausible case can even be made for the Sierral region as the
birthplace or earliest area of origin of agriculture on the continent,
although the claim may be disputed by Middle America or perhaps by
the Silval region.** While archeologically the earlier Andean pre-
Inca civilizations cannot, over most of the area, be shown to have
been preceded by simple cultures of the Silval level, at two points at
least in the area, Taltal and Arica, early and perhaps the earliest
archeological horizons seem to show an even simpler one comparable
to that of the nonhorticultural Marginal peoples.”

b. Sttvau versus Marcrnat—As regards the temporal relations of
the Silval and Marginal cultures the evidence calls for a little more
in the way of discussion. Theoretically the Marginal belt might con-
ceivably represent a retrogressive break-down and offshoot of the Silval
culture. Actually, the evidence seems to be accumulating that the
Marginal culture is in reality a tarriant culture, earlier in point of
time on the continent than the Silval. The evidence for this inference
we shall now summarize and discuss—first and chiefly the cultural

8 Cook, 1925 ; Mangelsdorf and Reeves, 1939 ; Sauer, 1939 ; Thompson, 1936, pp. 13-14.

2? Summary from earlier sources, in Cooper, 1924, p. 413; important recent excavations,
in Bird, 1943.
446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

evidence from ethnology and archeology, then briefly the somatologi-
cal and geographical evidence. Some of the cultural evidence is
derived from a consideration of the data from South America alone;
other, from consideration of pan-continental conditions, from North
as well as South America.

(1) Cultural evidence.—(a) South American.—That the Fuegian
culture represents in the main such cultural tarriance from very early
times seems reasonably clear. The evidence for this conclusion has
been previously presented in detail by the present writer, a conclusion
strengthened, it seems, by the archeological investigations of Lothrop:
and Bird which indicate that the earliest inhabitants of the area had
a culture seemingly even more simple than that of the modern
Yahgan and Alacaluf, and of the Ona and their close cultural rela-
tives, the Tehuelche of southern Patagonia. Furthermore the mod-
ern culture of the Yahgan and Alacaluf in particular corresponds in
many seemingly significant respects with the extremely simple culture
determined archeologically on the earliest horizons at Taltal and
Arica, well up the Chilean coast.*°

That the Gé(?), Botocudo (Borun), Puri, Waitaka, and other Mar-
ginals of eastern Brazil represent a survived archaic pre-Silval cul-
ture in the region seems the most reasonable hypothesis to account for
the evidence we have. The evidence for the region has been mar-
shaled by Ploetz and Métraux, much of the evidence for the northern
Gé, by Snethlage.** This conclusion, to which we have previously
adverted, is drawn partly from the abeed primitivity of the culture
as eorhipared with the Silval, and partly from the historically proved
and reasonably inferred later intrusions of the Tupi and of Tupi
culture into the area.

We may also call attention in passing to the fact that, apart from
the Carib Pimenteira and (Carib or independent stock) Kariri in the
eastern part of the highlands, the Carib and Arawak tribes of the upper
Xingt, the Arawak Guana and Tereno of the upper Paraguay—all of
these last four on the far western borderlands of the highlands—and
the Karaya of the Araguaya River, the Tupi are the only or almost
the only people of horticultural or of typical Silval culture who border
on and are intrusive into this whole great highland and savanna section
of eastern Brazil.*? Lift Tupi peoples and Tupi influence from the

39 Cooper, 1917, pp. 223-226; 1924, pp. 411-414; Lothrop, 1928, pp. 110-115, 178-197,
198-212; Bird, 1988. ‘The results, published since the above was in proof, of Bird’s more
recent excavations along the north Chilean coast show, however, some important con-
trasts between the earlier Chilean coastal cultures and the modern Yahgan and Alacaluf
(Bird, 1948).

31 Ploetz and Métraux, 1929, pp. 227-234; Snethlage, 1930. Among the foregoing
peoples of eastern Brazil, the Gé may turn out to be partly retrogressed Silvals, to judge
from the trend of the evidence within the last couple of years.

* Nimuendajt’s 1937 and 1942 unpublished maps of the area are our best and most com-
plete ones. Cf. also ae previously listed in footnote 7
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 447

area and there remains an almost unbroken vast region of nonhorticul-
tural Marginal culture in the east from the lower Amazon to the La
Plata.

The Bororé likewise give every indication of being a fundamentally
Marginal culture overlaid only lightly by Silval elements. The Tupi-
speaking Guayaki in the midst of Tupi peoples but. with a culture
sharply contrasting at almost every point with the Tupi, seem to be
either remnants of prehorticultural Tupi or else a group later Tupi-
ized as regards language but preserving a pre-Tupi culture. The
Guat6 are somewhat problematical but both the archeological and the
ethnological evidence suggests cultural tarriance in their case rather
than retrogression.

Upon the Chaco peoples have rained influences from east, north, and
west, many of these influences certainly of post-Columbian date. The
reasonable assumption is that in times prior thereto and not very re-
mote the Chaco peoples were closely akin in culture to the Charrua
of the Uruguayan plains and to the Puelche-Querandi of the Argen-
tine Pampa. Moreover a considerable number of widespread Chaco
cultural elements, such as skin clothing, the hairbrush, the sinew bow-
string, suggest rather strongly cultural kinship with the peoples of
the Pampas and Patagonian plateau to the south.** At any rate the
peoples of the Chaco, of the Uruguayan plains and of the Pampas have
a relatively very simple culture as compared with the more elaborate
Silval culture, and there is no evidence whatever to suggest that this
simplicity has been the result of cultural retrogression.

Tt looks, too, as if the internally Marginal peoples scattered here
and there in the Silval belt, or at least most of them, may be cultural
tarriants from pre-Silval times. The marked simplicity of their culture
contrasting sharply with that of the Silval, the absence of evidence of
retrogression, except perhaps with the Mura, the scattered type of
distribution, and, in some cases, specific historic evidence, all suggest
that these peoples are earlier occupants of regions near where they
now are, who have been driven forward, conquered, scattered, pene-
trated, or surrounded, and in some cases profoundly influenced cul-
turally and linguistically by later-coming Silval Arawak, Carib, and
Tupi, as well as other peoples of Silval culture. Such is the view, from
first-hand study in the field, of Koch-Griinberg, as regards the Schiri-
ana, Waika, and Maku, although it is possible that what he took for
definite recent historical tradition may have been legendary tribal
lore. Some of these people, too, seem to differ somewhat somatologi-

33 Nordenskiéld, 1919, pp. 259-261; Lathrop, 1932, pp. 188-189; Palavecino, 1934, p. 229.

34 Koch-Griinberg, 1906a, p. 878; 1906b, pp. 180-181. 1922, pp. 226, 260-262, 265-266;
1928, pp. 15-16, 284, 299-300, 307. Cf. Nordenskiéld, 1924, p. 233, Sirion6 tribe “repre-
sents perhaps a remnant of the original population” [of northeastern Bolivia].
448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

cally from the surrounding peoples of Silval culture.* Certain cultural
correspondences, too—such, for instance, as the extremely long bows
found among the Sirioné and among many of the Brazilian highland
Marginals—appear significant, and as far as they go, suggest Marginal
tarriance with later Silval cultural intrusion. But our information on
most of these internally Marginal groups is at present woefully frag-
mentary. We may say in passing that perhaps no more urgent task in
South American ethnology clamors for attention than that of thorough
field investigation of these very simple peoples scattered here and
there through the Silval belt.

(b) Pan American evidence.—The foregoing South American evi-
dence for the priority of the Marginal culture or cultures to the Silval
is appreciably corroborated by the Pan American evidence. A very
considerable number of specific and diagnostic cultural elements found
in South America, particularly though not exclusively among the
Marginal peoples, largely disappear in Silval South America and in
Middle America, and then reappear in North America, and in a
number of cases even in northeastern and northern Asia.

Nordenskiéld first called attention to the phenomena and their
probable significance nearly three decades ago. In his final paper on
the subject published shortly before his death in 1932, he listed 64
such elements. Krickeberg later barred or fused some of these but
added about 25 others. Loeb, Schmidt, and von Hornbostel called
attention to certain specific correspondences in puberty rites, religion,
and musical style respectively. A number of striking resemblances in
folk lore have been noted by Lowie, Métraux, and others.*° To the
above lists the present writer can add about 15 or 20 further items. All
in all, we have before us about 100 or more such North-South
correspondences.

Of these, some—such as family hunting territories or the use of
skin garments, of crutchless paddles, of plank houses and plank boats—
should best be left out of count, as they are not specific enough, or
else may well be chance convergences, or convergent functions of
similar natural environment or basic Wirtschaft in the far north and
far south of the continent. Some few of them, too—such as scalping,
the hollow rattle, sandals, the husking peg—may quite possibly be
the result of independent diffusion from horticultural cultures. But
a great many of them, probably a good majority, cannot seemingly be

35 Koch-Griinberg, 1906a, p. 878; 1906b, p. 180. The Sirion6é are assumed by Eickstedt,
1934, pp. 758, 855, so to differ, but such differences as exist may well be due to intrusions of
white and Negro blood to which reference is made by Cardfis, 1886, p. 280. Cf. Outes, 1924.
Definitive conclusions on the Sirion6 will have to await the completion of Allen Holmberg’s
field study now in progress.

30 Nordenskiéld, 1912a, 1931, pp. 6-15, 74, 77-94 (cf. same, 1926; 1930, pp. 163-165) ;
Krickeberg, 1934; Loeb, 1931, pp. 532-583; W. Schmidt, 1929," pp. 1008-10383 ; von Horn-
bostel, 1986 (cf. Danckert, 1937) ; Lowie, 1957, pp. 194-195 ; 1940a. pp. 421- 422; Métraux,
1939 (cf. Palavecino, 1940) ; Luomala, 1942.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 449

accounted for on any of the foregoing grounds. Such, for instance,
are: Thread-tattooing; fire making by the percussion method ; sundial
and inclined-stick traveling signs; the association of head-scratcher,
drinking tube, hoof rattle, ashes (charcoal), foot race in early morn-
ing, and gathering firewood with girls’ puberty rites; the remarkable
grouping of games—hockey, lacrosse, ring-and-pin, hoop-and-pole,
dart game, battledore, dart sticker, dice—in the Brazilian highlands
and particularly in the Chaco; the perhaps still more striking oc-
currence of a large number of very specific folk-lore motifs, especially
in the Chaco.

These very numerous and quite specific phenomena appear best
accounted for on the hypothesis that the Marginal peoples of North
and South America, or many of them, have retained much from a
common cultural ancestry of archaic days prior to the rise and spread
of the more advanced material arts on the continent. In other words
the Marginal cultures of South America, or many of them, are more
primitive than the Silval, in the sense that they in appreciable measure
represent cultural tarriance with partial retention of pattern from
times anterior to the development of the Silval.

Added weight accrues to this inference from the fact that a certain
number of these North-South correspondences—such as thread-tattoo-
ing and the ring-and-pin game—are shared as well by some of the
Marginals of northern Asia.** A certain amount of further support
is derived from archeology—as for example, the consistent absence of
head deformation and sporadic absence of the dog, among earlier
populations, as among modern Marginals, of North or South America
or both.*

(2) Somatological evidence.—Somatological data cannot as a rule
be cited as evidence in the cultural court. But the fact that so many
of the peoples of the Marginal belt appear more or less closely related
physically to the earliest physical type so far recorded on the South
American continent, does seem to corroborate, as far as it goes, the
cultural evidence for the primitivity of the Marginal culture itself.
So related physically to the ancient Lagoa Santa-sambaqui type are
the modern Yahgan and Alacaluf together with the Ona and Tehuel-
che, as also many at least of the living Marginal peoples of the
Brazilian highlands, and some perhaps of the other Marginal peoples.”

(8) Geographical evidence-—Geographically the externally Mar-
ginal peoples are in the main in more remote areas of the continent,
farthest removed from the doorways of ingress to the continent via
Panama and the Antilles, and farthest removed by sheer distance as

37 Birket-Smith, 1929, pt. 2, passim.

88 On absence of head deformation, cf. Stewart, 1940; Nordenskiéld, 1931, p. 73; Imbel-
loni, 1934 ; Lovén, 1935, pp. 488—490 ; Harrington, 1921, vol. 2, p. 386.

*%” Hrdlitka, 1912, pp. 179, 183 ; Eickstedt, 1934, p. T56—759.
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

well as by natural barriers from the cultural influences of the advanced
civilizations of the continent. Most of the internally Marginal peoples
are likewise in remoter “refuge” areas of the tropical rain forest.

4. THE QUESTION or OtD WorupD INFLUENCE

Within the limits of a short paper like the present, which has
already gone far beyond the length originally planned, it is not
possible to enter into a detailed review of the evidence bearing on
this supercomplicated problem. And unless the evidence pro and
con is discussed in minute detail and against a pan-continental
and even world-wide background, discussion of it is all but futile.
The ablest treatment of it which has yet appeared is, to the present
writer’s best judgment, that by Nordenskidld, to which the reader
is referred for details.*? Without entering into the minutiae of the
controversy and merely to fill out some of the main lines of culture
sequence in South America, we shall confine ourselves to the briefest
statement of the conclusions which, in the view of Nordenskiéld and
of most of us interested in the problem, seem to follow from such
evidence as we have.

The earliest prehistoric human migrants from northeastern Asia
to the American continent brought with them their heritage of Old
World “paleolithic” culture. Beyond, however, this initial heritage
from Old World culture, there appears no convincing or even good
probable evidence for appreciable accretions in pre-Columbian days
to South American culture through the migration from the Old
World either of peoples or of cultures, whether by a northern route
across Bering Strait or the vicinity thereof or by a southern route
across the Pacific.

Our evidence regarding an element here and there, such as the
sweetpotato, the calabash, or the coconut, makes plausible—though
far from proved—the assumption of sporadic pre-Columbian cultural
contacts between Oceania and South America.*t But the inference
that there has been notable or basic pre-Columbian Old World in-
fluence upon South American culture, as maintained by the Helio-
lithic and Kulturkreis schools,*? seems to rest on extremely weak
positive evidence and furthermore to be in conflict at scores of crucial
points with our massive ethnological and archeological evidence.
The resemblances on which these two schools mosily rest their re-
spective cases seem far too few, too scattered, and too vague to justify
conclusions of large-scale diffusion from the Old World to the New by

* Nordenskidld, 1931, pp. 16-53.

“1 Nordenskiéld, 1931, pp. 27-30; Dixon, 1932; cf. Cook, 1910.

4aW. Schmidt, 1913; Smith, 1929. Cf. critiques in: Dixon, 1928, chap. 7 and passim;

Lowie, 1937, chaps. 10-11. For most recent exposition of Rivet’s theories of Oceanic
influence in aboriginal South America, see Rivet, 1943.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 451

the Oceanian or any other route. Apart from the initial “paleolithic”
(in the sense of “prehorticultural”) inheritance, apart from a pos-
sible stray pre-Columbian accretion here and there, and apart from
obvious post-Columbian influences, the culture of aboriginal South
America gives every indication of being home-grown.

SUMMARY

In attempting to discover and reconstruct the broad lines of cul-
tural sequence on the South American continent we have resorted
to the stripping process, following reverse chronological order.

Since the coming of the white man, four-and-a-half centuries ago,
a large group of important elements of European provenance, and a
very limited group of minor elements of Negro origin, have spread
widely over the continent or parts thereof.

Since our more or less arbitrary date of about A. D. 1000 or since,
in round numbers, about a millennium ago, a half-dozen major cul-
tural diffusions or drifts have occurred—the Inca and _ pre-Inca
within the Andean area, from the Southern Andean (Araucanian)
out into the Pampean and Patagonian, from the Silval (mostly
Tupi) into and around the Brazilian highlands, and (Arawak-
Carib) into the West Indies—and other minor diffusions, such as
those from the Silval and Sierral into the Chaco, from the Sierral
into the Silval, and a great number, not dealt with in the present
paper, of more localized ones within the Sierral, Silval, and Marginal
respectively.

Earlier, perhaps around the beginning of the Christian Era or
maybe long before, came the beginnings of horticulture in the Silval
or Sierral area or both, and together with associated or subsequent
more advanced material arts and divergent social and religious
structures and usages spread out over the western, northern, and cen-
tral regions of the continent, penetrating to about the limits of the
arable land in the Sierral area and of the tropical and subtropical
rain forests of the Silval. These cultural drifts, however, left rela-
tively untouched the cultures of the great eastern and southern open-
country belt, and seemingly, too, a number of archaic cultural islands
here and there within the Silval area as represented by the internally
Marginal peoples still surviving there, and even within the Sierral
as represented by the coastal Chango.

Still earlier, between the remote first migration or migrations of
man to the continent—perhaps 10,000 to 25,000 years ago—and the
beginnings of aboriginal American horticulture, the original
“paleolithic” culture of these earlier immigrants was carried by them
over all or most of both North and South America as they deployed
out over forest and open country, highlands and lowlands. Some of
452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the very early culture, perhaps even of the earliest, survived, and
has been retained down to the present. Much or most of it suffered
more than a sea change, in the process of adjustment to varying new
external environments and under the impulsion of internal forces.

TENTATIVE PREHISTORICAL RECONSTRUCTION

Before bringing this paper to a close, it seems worth while, at the
risk of some repetition but in the interests of clarity, to give a résumé
in chronological order of what, for purposes of discussion, has been
dealt with in inverse temporal order. In doing so we are venturing
to fill out the picture a little by adding a few details only implicitly
or incidentally touched upon in the preceding pages. Some of these
details in the following attempted reconstruction of the broad lines
of culture growth on the South American continent—and in a certain
sense the basic reconstruction itself—must of necessity, in view of the
many lacunae in our evidence, be tentative and provisional only.
Workers in the natural sciences take for granted that it is legitimate
to formulate provisional theories, if only as working hypotheses.
Why may not the cultural anthropologist do the same, provided he
keeps reasonably close to his evidence and proposes his reconstructions
as provisional only and not as established verities? There is a via
media between giving free rein to fancy and speculation and setting
up tentative hypotheses to be tested.

The long-headed earlier peoples of the South American continent
must have reached it from North America either by way of the Isthmus
of Panama or across the Antilles route. How many thousand years
ago this occurred there is no very definite evidence for concluding—
possibly only the 4,000 which Spinden allows, perhaps some thousands
of years earlier as suggested by our linguistic data, and by some of
the more recent archeological evidence for South as well as North
America.**

Man on his arrival in South America had in all probability a very
simple culture without agriculture, weaving, or pottery, without alco-
holic intoxicants or tobacco, and, judging from its earlier absence
from the extreme southern tip of the continent and its modern absence
from a great many other peoples of the Marginal and Silval belts, quite
possibly, too, without the dog. Fire in the early stages was more
likely by the percussion method as well as by the drill. Boiling with
hot stones was practiced. Body painting and depilation went along
with the use of the brush comb. Head deformation was lacking. The
autonomous politico-economic unit was the small band, mostly com-
posed of kin, each band with its own more or less circumscribed sover-
eign territory. Sibs, moieties, age classes, marked social stratification,

48 Spinden, 1937 ; Bird, 1938 ; Roberts, 1940.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 453

and powerful chieftaincy were probably absent, although there is some
question regarding moieties and age classes in view of the recent Gé
evidence. The family was the basic social unit, polygamous or pre-
valently monogamous in form, with probably some strict or fairly
strict monogamy in groups here and there. Esthetic culture was
weakly developed; recreative, very slightly organized. Religion was
most probably a combination of shamanistic, magical, animistic, and
theistic concepts and practices, with relatively less manism. The prob-
able later derivation of the hollow rattle from the Silval culture and
the actual absence of rattles of any kind south of the Strait of Magellan
suggest that the rattle, at least the hollow rattle, was not part of
the earliest magico-religious culture.

The marked dominance of weapons like the sling, club, spear, and
spear thrower over most of the Andean area to Cape Horn contrasting
broadly with the dominance of the bow and arrow and unheaded club
over most of the area east of the Andes, seems to point toward two
great more or less independent cultural drifts in the western and east-
ern regions of the continent, drifts which may well date back to
remote archaic times.

For some hundreds, and perhaps thousands, of years the South
American continent was occupied by peoples of such simple culture as
has been above outlined, a culture partly preserved in varying degrees
until the present or until very recent times here and there in the Sierral
and Silval regions, and over most of our open-country belt. During,
however, these centuries or millennia countless major and minor local
and tribal cultural divergences developed within this pre-horticultural
pattern.

At the latest during the first millennium B. C. and perhaps much
earlier, came the beginnings of horticulture, together with more or
less sedentary village life, alcoholic intoxicants and tobacco, weaving,
pottery, and other more advanced material arts. Whether horticulture
first reached South America via the Isthmus from Middle America,
or originated independently south of the Isthmus, is an open question,
although some of our recent evidence seems to be a little more favor-
able to the theory of South American origin. Middle America’s claim
to be the birthplace of maize cultivation is being sharply challenged.
Then, too, at least some weight is given to Peru’s claim to priority from
the marked variety of plants, about 70 in all, cultivated there in pre-
Discovery times. Or else the domestication of plants on the southern
continent may have begun as root-tuber horticulture, with perhaps
white potatoes in the central Sierral region, or with manioc somewhere
in the Silval.

In any case, waiving as still sub judice the question of the exact
locality or localities of its origin, horticulture in South America

566766—4430
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

seems to have later diffused in two main streams: one, carrying chiefly
maize, beans, and white potatoes until it covered the western belt
from Colombia to Chiloé; a second one carrying chiefly manioc and
beans until it extended over the great rain forests of the Orinoco-
Amazonian region and flooded out over the Antilles.

At later dates, mostly after our more or less arbitrary one of A. D.
1000 and in many sections even after the coming of the white man,
this basically manioc culture spread around and deeply penetrated
into the eastern Brazilian and Matto Grosso highlands, diffused into
parts of the Chaco, and swept over many of the savannas within and
adjacent to the tropical rain forests—areas until then occupied by
nonhorticultural Marginal peoples.

In general, it looks as if the typical larger groups of the Silval belt—
especially the Carib, Arawak, and Tupi—pretty consistently kept
in their spread to the tropical and subtropical rain forests, penetrated
to the limit thereof, and stopped short at the savannas and grasslands.
They stayed in the deep forests and avoided the open country. Even
the ‘Tupi-speaking Chiriguano on their western trek out of the Para-
guay country across the Chaco, settled, not in the open Chaco region,
but in the forested foothills and lowlands bordering thereon.

For the beginnings of the high civilizations of the Sierral region,
archeology has so far yielded us no well-established dates, nor has it
determined definitively how much of this more advanced culture may
have had its origin north of the Isthmus. Such facts as we have can
be fitted comfortably within the assumption that Sierral civilization,
with its advanced weaving, pottery, metallurgy, megalithic architec-
ture, and political institutions—to mention only a few of its outstand-
ing characteristics—does not date in its origin or origins beyond the
beginning of the Christian Era. At least there is no specific evidence
for an earlier date.

Assuming, albeit with reserves, an origin or origins of Sierral civili-
zation around the first centuries of the Christian Era, this pre-Inca
higher culture developed and flourished for about a millennium.

Then, somewhere between about A. D. 1100 and A. D. 1300 came the
rise of Inca imperialism which, during the generations immediately
preceding the coming of the Spaniard, carried its truculent conquests
as well as its characteristic culture from around Cuzco to the north
as far as northern Ecuador, to the south as far as the Rio Maule in
middle Chile, and out into the Diaguita country in northwestern
Argentina.

Apart from this main area of diffusion of earlier Andean and later
Inca civilization, Sierral culture in diluted form spread to the Arau-
canians of middle and southern Chile, partly in pre-Columbian times,
partly in post-Columbian. In post-Discovery days, this diluted An-
dean culture was carried by the Araucanians far to the east of the
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 455

southern Andes—by the middle of the eighteenth century, through
actual Araucanian invasion, to the peoples of the Pampa, and, some-
time between 1670 and 1741, through Araucanian contacts, to the
Tehuelche of Patagonia as far south as the Strait of Magellan.

Such in brief appear to be the broad lines of aboriginal South
American cultural evolution, as far as our available somatological,
linguistic, ethnological, archeological, and historical evidence reveals
them. Some of this reconstruction is derived from dated historical
documents. Much of it rests on evidence that yields temporal infer-
ences of from reasonable to high probability. But on many points our
data are pathetically meager, and the provisional reconstruction we
have ventured to propose will in all likelihood have to be revised not
only in many of its details but also in some of its major lines long be-
fore the several kindred disciplines concerned shall have gleaned their
last fact and spoken their last word.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bates, H. W.
1892. The naturalist on the river Amazon. Reprint. London.
BERGS¢E, P.
1987. The metallurgy and technology of gold and platinum among the pre-
Columbian Indians. (Translated by C. F. Reynolds.) Copenhagen.
1938. The gilding process and the metallurgy of copper and lead among
the pre-Columbian Indians. (Translated by C. F. Reynolds.)
Copenhagen.
BERNATZIK, H. A., AND OTHERS.
1939. Die grosse Volkerkunde. 3 vols. Leipzig.

Brasurtt, R.
1912. Studi sulla distribuzione dei caratteri e dei tipi antropologici.
Firenze.
Brrp, J.

1938. Antiquity and migrations of the early inhabitants of Patagonia.
Geogr. Rev., vol. 28, pp. 250-275.
1943. Excavations in Northern Chile. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., Anthrop.
Pap., vol. 38, pt. 4, pp. 171-316.
BIRKET-SMITH, K.
1929. The Caribou Eskimos, 2 vols. Copenhagen.
Carpts, J.
1886. Las misiones franciscanas entra los infieles de Bolivia * * * en
1883 y 1884. Barcelona.
CoLBACCHINI, A. bd
No date (circa 1924). I Bororos orientali “Orarimugudoge” del Matto Grosso
; (Brasile). Torino.
Coox, O. F.
1910. History of the coconut palm in America. Contr. U. 8. Nat. Herb.,
vol. 14, pt. 2.
1921. Milpa agriculture, a primitive tropical system. Ann. Rep. Smith-
sonian Inst. for 1919, pp. 307-826.
1925. Peru as a center of domestication. Journ. Heredity, vol. 16, pp. 32-46,
93-110.
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

CoopeEr, J. M.
1917. Analytical and critical bibliography of the tribes of Tierra del Fuego.
Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 68.
1924. Culture diffusion and culture areas in southern South America.
Compte Rend. 2le Congr. Internat. Américanistes, pp. 406-421.
Goteborg.
1942. The South American Marginal cultures. Proce, Highth Amer. Sci.
Congr., vol. 2, Anthropological Sciences, pp. 147-160.
DANCKERT, W.
1937. Musikethnologische Erschliessung der Kulturkreise. Mitt. Anthrop.
Ges. Wien, vol. 67, pp. 53-57.

DEnNIs, P.
1927. Amérique du sud. Paris.
Dixon, R. B.

1923. The racial history of man. New York and London.
1928. The building of cultures. New York and London.
1932. The problem of the sweet potato in Polynesia. Amer. Anthrop., vol.
34, pp. 40-66.
EICKSTEDT, E. von.
1934. Rassenkunde und Rassengeschichte der Menschheit. Stuttgart.
Essays IN HISTORICAL ANTHROPOLOGY OF NorTH AMERICA.
1940. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 100.
FEWKES, J. W.
1907. The aborigines of Porto Rico and neighboring islands. 25th Ann.
Rep. Bur. Amer. Ethnol.
FRIEDERICI, G.
1920. Review of Nordenskiédld, 1919. Gdétt. Gel. Anzeig., vol. 182, pp. 185-
189. Berlin.
1932. Review of Nordenskiédld, 1981. Ibid., vol. 194, pp. 350-355.
GILLIN, J.
1940. Some anthropological problems of the tropical forest area of South
America. Amer, Anthrop., vol. 42, pp. 642-656.
GUSINDE, M.
1931. Die Selk’nam. St. Gabriel-Médling bei Wien.
1987. Die Yamana. St. Gabriel-Médling bei Wien.
1939. Anthropologie d. Feuerland-Indianer. St. Gabriel-Médling bei Wien.
HAECKEL, J.
1938. Zweiklassensystem, Miinnerhaus und Totemismus in Stidamerika.
Zeitschr. Ethnol., vol. 79, pp. 426-454.
HARRINGTON, M. R.
1921. Cuba before Columbus. 2 vols. Indian Notes and Monographs, Mus.
Amer. Indian, Heye Found. .
Hay, C. L., Linton, R. L., LotHrop, S. K., SHaprro, H. L., and VAILLANT, G. C.
(editors). 8
1940. The Maya and their neighbors. New York and London.
HEnNrYy, J.
1941. Jungle people: a Kainging tribe of the highlands of Brazil. [New
York. ]
HORNBOSTEL, E. M. VON.
1936. Fuegian songs. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 38, pp. 357-367.
Howakrp, FE. B.
1936. An outline of the problem of man’s antiquity in North America, Amer.
Anthrop., vol. 38, pp. 394-413.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER A57

HrpuéKa, A, ;

1912. Early man in South America. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 52.

IMBELLONI, J.

1934. América: cuartel general de las deformaciones craneanas. Act. y
Trab. Cient. 250 Congr. Internac. Americanistas, La Plata, 1932,
vol. 1, pp. 59-68. Buenos Aires.

1937. Razas humanas y grupos sanguineos. Rel. Soc. Argentina Antrop.,
vol. 1, pp. 23-42.

IzikowlItTz, K. G.
1985. Musical and other sound instruments of the South American Indians.
Goteborg.
JAMES, P. E.
1942. Latin America. New York.
JOHNSON, F.
1940. The linguistic map of Mexico and Central America. In Hay and
others, editors, The Maya and their neighbors, pp. 88-114.
JONES, C. F.
1930. South America. New York [1940].
Kkrpper II, A.

1940. South American penetrations in Middle America. Jn Hay and others,

editors, The Maya and their neighbors, pp. 441-459.
KikcHHOoFF, P.

1931. Die Verwandtschaftsorganisation der Urwaldstimme Stidamerikas.

Zeitschr. Ethnol., vol. 68, pp. 85-193.
KLIMEK, S., and MILKE, W.
1935. An analysis of the material culture of the Tupi peoples. Amer.
Anthrop., vol. 37, pp. 71-91.
KocH-GRUNBERG, T.
1906a. Die Makti. Anthropos, vol. 1, pp. 877-906.
1906b. Die Indianerstiimme am oberen Rio Negro und Yapuré and ihre
sprachliche Zugehorigkeit. Zeitschr. Ethnol., vol. 38, pp. 166-205.

1922. Die Vélkergruppierung zwischen Rio Branco, Orinoco, Rio Negro und
Yapura. Jn Festschr. Eduard Seler (W. Lehmann, editor), pp.
205-266. Stuttgart.

1928. Vom Roroima zum Orinoco, Band III, Ethnographie. Stuttgart.

KRICKEBERG, W.

1922. Die Volker Siidamerikas. Jn G. Buschan, editor, Dllustrierte Volker-
kunde, vol. 1, pp. 217-423. Stuttgart.

1934. Beitrige zur Frage der alten kurlturgeschichitlichen Bezeihungen
zwischen Nord- und Siidamerika. Zeitschr. Ethnol., vol. 66, pp.
287-373.

1939. Siidamerika. Jn Bernatzik and others, Die grosse VOlkerkunde, vol.
3, pp. 95-258, 288-292.

KRIEGER, H. W.

1935. Indian cultures of northeastern South America. Ann. Rep. Smith-

sonian Inst. for 1934, pp. 401-421.
‘ LatcHAM, R. E.

1910. ;Quiénes eran los Changos? An. Univ., Santiago de Chile, vol. 126,

pp. 377-439.
Lfvi-StTrauss, C.

1936. Contribution 4 l’étude de Vorganisation sociale des Indiens Bororo.

Journ. Soe. Amér. Paris, n. s., vol. 28, pp. 269-304.
458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Lors, #. M.
1931. The religious organizations of north central California and Tierra
del Fuego. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 338, pp. 517-556.
LorHrop, S. K.
1928. The Indians of Tierra del Fuego. Mus. Amer. Ind., Heye Found.,
Contr., vol. 10.
1932. Indians of the Parana delta, Argentina. Ann. New York Acad. Sci.,
vol. 33, pp. 77-282.
1987. Coclé, pt. 1. Peabody Mus. Amer. Arch. and Hthnol., Mem. 7. Cam-
bridge.
1939. The southeastern frontier of the Maya. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 41,
pp. 42-54.
1940. South America as seen from Middle America. Jn Hay and others,
editors, The Maya and their neighbors, pp. 417-429.
Loven, 8.
1935. Origins of the Tainan culture, West Indies. Goteborg.
Lowig, R. H.
1937. The history of ethnological theory. New York.
1940a. American culture history. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 42, pp. 409-428.
1940b. An introduction to cultural anthropology. Enlarged ed. New York.
1941. A note on the northern Gé tribes of Brazil. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 43,
pp. 188-196.
LuoMALA, K.
1942. Review of Métraux, 1939. Journ. Amer. Folklore, vol. 55, pp. 188-190.
MacCurpy, G. G. (editor).
1937. Early man. Philadelphia.
MANGELSDorF, P. C., and Reeves, R. G.
19389. The origin of Indian corn and its relatives. Texas Agr. Exp.
Stat. Bull. 574.
Mason, J. A.
1938. Observations on the present status and problems of Middle American
archaeology, pt. 2. Amer. Antiquity, vol. 3, pp. 300-317.
1940. The native languages of Middle America. In Hay and others,
editors, The Maya and their neighbors, pp. 52-87.
MEANS, P. A.
1931. Ancient civilizations of the Andes. New York and London.
METRAUX, A.
1927. Migrations historiques des Tupi-Guarani. Journ. Soc. Amér. Paris,
n. S., vol. 19, pp. 1-45.
1928. La civilisation matérielle des tribus Tupi-Guarani. Paris.
1929a. Les Indiens Waitaka. Journ. Soc. Amér. Paris, n. s., vol. 21, pp.
107-126.
1929b. Etudes sur la civilisation des indiens Chiriguano. Rev. Inst.
Etnol., Univ. Nac. Tucumén, vol. 1, pp. 295-493.
1939. Myths and tales of the Matako Indians (The Gran Chaco, Argen-
tina). Etnol. Stud., vol. 9, pp. 1-127.
NIMUENDAJU®, C.
19388. The social structure of the Ramko’kamekra (Canella). Amer.
Anthrop., vol. 40, pp. 51-74.
1939. The Apinayé. Catholic Univ. America, Anthrop. ser. 8.
1942a. The Serénte. (Translated from MS. by R. H. Lowie.) Publ. Hodge
Anniv. Publ. Fund, Southwest Museum, Los Angeles, vol. 4.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 459

NIMUENDAJG, C.—Continued.
1942b. Map of tribal distribution, eastern and northeastern South Amer-
ica. Expansion of 1987 map. Unpublished. In Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution.
NIMUENDAJ, C., and Lowir, R. H.
1937. The dual organizations of the Ramko’kamekra (Canella) of north-
ern Brazil. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 39, pp. 565-582.
1939. The associations of the Serénte. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 41, pp.
408-415.
NORDENSKIOLD, E.
1912a. Une contribution 4 la connaissance de l’anthropo-géographie de
Amérique. Journ. Soc. Amér. Paris, n. s., vol. 9, pp. 19-25.
1912b. De sydamerikanska indianernas kulturhistoria. Stockholm.
1917. The Guarani invasion of the Inca empire in the sixteenth century:
an historical Indian migration. Geogr. Rev., vol. 4, pp. 103-121.
1919. An ethno-geographical analysis of the material culture of two In-
dian tribes in the Gran Chaco. Comp. Ethnogr. Stud., vol. 1.
Goteborg.
1920. The changes in the material culture of two Indian tribes under
the influence of new surroundings. Ibid., vol. 2.
1924. The ethnography of South America seen from Mojos in Bolivia.
Ibid., vol. 3.
1926. En jiimférelse mellan indiankulturen i sdédra Sydamerika och i
Nordamerika. Reprint from Ymer. Stockholm.
1980. Modifications in Indian culture through inventions and loans.
Comp. Ethnogr. Stud., vol. 8. Gd6teborg.
1931. Origin of the Indian civilizations in South America. Ibid., vol. 9.
OutTEs, F. F.
1924. Descripcién de un créneo Sirionéd. Physis, vol. 7, pp. 190-212.
Buenos Aires.
Outss, F. F., and Brucg, C.
1910. Los aborigenes de la Republica Argentina. Buenos Aires.
PALAVECINO, EK.
1934. Areas culturales del territorio argentino. Act. y Trab. Cient.
250 Congr. Internac. Americanistas, La Plata, 1932, vol. 1, pp.
223-234. Buenos Aires.
1940. Takjuaj: un personaje mitol6gico de los Mataco. Rev. Mus. La
Plata, n. s., Seec. Antrop., vol. 1, pp. 245-270.
PERICOT y Garcia, L.
1936. América indigena, vol. 1. Barcelona.
PETRULLO, V. ‘
1939. The Yaruros of the Capanaparo River, Venezuela. Bur. Amer.
Ethnol. Bull. 123, pp. 161-290.
PLortz, H., and M&TRAUX, A.
1929. La civilisation matérielle et la vie sociale et religieuse des Indiens
Ze du Brésil meridional et oriental. Rev. Inst. Etnol., Univ. Nac.
Tucuman, vol. 1, pp. 107-288.
Rivet, P.
1924. Langues américaines. Jn A. Meillet et M. Cohen, editors, Les
langues du monde, pp. 597-712. Paris.
1930. Les derniers Charrtias. Rev. Soc. “Amigos de l’arqueologia,” vol.
4, pp. 5-117. Montevideo.
1943. Les origines de Vhomme américain. Montreal.
460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Roserts, F. H. H., JR.

1940. Developments in the problem of the North American Paleo-Indian.
In Essays in historical anthropology of North America, Smithsonian
Mise. Coll., vol. 100, pp. 51-116.

ROvSE, I.

1939. Prehistory in Haiti. Yale Univ. Publ. Anthrop., No. 21.
SANTA Cruz, A, M.

1940. Land tenure in pre-Inca Peru. New Mexico Anthrop., vol. 4, pp. 2-10.
SAPPER, K.

1934. Geographie der altindianischen Landwirtschaft. Petermanns Mitt.,
vol. 80, pp. 41-44, 80-83, 118-121.

SAUER, C.

1939. American agricultural origins: a consideration of nature and culture.
In Essays in anthropology, presented to A. L. Kroeber, pp. 279-297.
Berkeley.

ScHuMintT, M.

1905. Indianerstudien in Zentralbrasilien. Berlin.

1914. Die Guato und ihr Gebiet: Ethnologische und archiologische Ergeb-
nisse der Expedition zum Caracara-Fluss in Matto-Grosso.
Baessler-Archiv, vol. 4, pp. 251-288. Leipzig and Berlin.

1917. Die Aruaken: Hin Beitrag zum Problem der Kulturverbreitung. Leip-
zig.

ScHMipT, W.

1913. Kulturkreise and Kulturschichten in Stidamerika. Zeitschr. Ethnol.
vol. 45, pp. 1014-1124.

1926. Die Sprachfamilien und Sprachenkreise der Erde, with Atlas. Heidel-
berg.

1929. Der Ursprung der Gottesidee, Band II. Miinster i. W.

SERRANO, A.
1938. Los sambaquis o concheros brasilefios. Rev. Inst. Antrop., Univ. Nac.
Tucuman, vol. 1, pp. 43-89.
SMITH, G. ELLIor.
1929. The migrations of early culture. Reprint. Manchester.
SNETHLAGE, EH. H.

1930. Unter nordostbrasilianischen Indianern. Zeitschr. Ethnol., vol. 62,

pp. 111-205.

SPINDEN, H. J.
1937. First peopling of America as a chronological problem. In G. G. Mac-
Curdy, editor, Early man, pp. 105-114.
Stewart, T. D.
1940. Some historical implications of physical anthropology in North Amer-
ica. Jn Essays in historical anthropology of North America, Smith-
sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 100, pp. 15-50.
Stout, D. B.
1988. Culture types and culture areas in South America. Michigan Acad.
Sci., Arts, and Letters, Pap., vol. 23, pp. 73-86.
Suttivan, L. R., and HELLMAN, M.
1925. The Punin calvarium. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., Anthrop. Pap., vol. 23,
pp. 309-324.

TASTEVIN, C.
1922. Les indiens Mura de la région de ’Autaz (Haut-Amazone). L’Anthro-

pologie, vol. 33, pp. 509-533.
ABORIGINAL SOUTH AMERICAN CULTURE—COOPER 461

THOMAS, C., and SWANTON, J. R.
« 1911. Indian languages of Mexico and Central America. Bur. Amer.
Ethnol. Bull. 44.
THOMPSON, J. E.
1936. Archaeology of South America. Field Mus. Nat. Hist., Anthrop.
Leaflet 33.
VELLARD, J.
1934-35. Les indiens Guayaki. Journ. Soc. Amér. Paris, vol. 26, pp. 223-
292; vol. 27, pp. 175-244.
VON DEN STEINEN, KARL.
1894. Unter den Naturvélkern Zentral-Brasiliens. Berlin.
WALTER, H. V., CATHOUD, A., and Mattos, A.
1987. The Confins man. In G. G. MacCurdy, editor, Early man, pp. 341-848.
WHITBECK, R. H., WILLIAMS, F. E., and CHRISTIANS, W. F.
1940. Economie geography of South America. 3rd ed. New York and
London.
WISSLER, C.
1917. The American Indian. New York.
Zon, R., and SPARHAWK, W. N.
1923. Forest resources of the world. 2 vols. New York.
i velit 104 8 ah phir _antioanh tinea |
: a (i M4 NAT a Pa i hig th iyi 1

Vii

oy so? we pit nt hee th sh th sR he a 6 ” wy inl

~ - nA

; Me 4 SY y { 4 ;
aA EN mai a moe y") NP ee
tits a) i Y
Dae DOAK Sat Ww

MARY " dahon pee, ier soe

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cooper PLATE 1

SILVAL PHYSICAL TYPES.
Upper left, headman of the Naravute, a tribe of the upper Xingu River region, eastern Brazil. (Courtesy
Vincenzo Petrullo.)
Upper right, boy of the Yagua tribe, of northeastern Peru, with decorative face painting and palm-fiber
forehead band and ‘“‘bib.’’ (Courtesy Paul Fejos.)
Lower, Yagua mother and child. Courtesy Paul Fejos.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cooper PLATE 2

FOOD.

Upper, Wapisiana women of British Guiana grating cassava (Manihot utilissima) root, preparatory to
squeezing out the juice which contains poisonous hydrocyanic acid. (Courtesy The University Museum,
Philadelphia, Pa.)

Lower, Aymara gardening terraces at Ichu, Peru, in sierral territory. (Courtesy Alfred Kidder II.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cooper PLATE 3

SHELTER AND CONSTRUCTION.

Upper, beehive hut of the marginal Yahgan, of the Magellanic Archipelago, the southernmost people of
the world, now nearly extinct. (From Hyades and Deniker.)
Middle, half-completed dwelling of the silval Naravute, upper Xingi River, eastern Brazil, showing heavy
timber framework. (Courtesy Vincenzo Petrullo.)
Lower, ancient part-ruined chulpas, used as burial places, at Kacha Kacha, Peru, showing a type of sierral
dressed-stone construction. (Courtesy Harry Tschopik.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Cooper PLATE 4

nc:

ae

THE LIGHTER SIDE OF LIFE.

Upper, a wrestling match, among the marginal Bororé, of Matto Grosso, Brazil. (Courtesy Vincenzo
Petrullo.)
Lower, Yagua boy, of northeastern Peru, with pet monkeys. (Courtesy Paul Fejos.)
ORIGIN OF FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS:
A BRIEF HANDBOOK?

By CarL WHITING BisHoP
Freer Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution

[With 12 plates]

INTRODUCTION
AIMS AND METHODS OF STUDY

Anthropology is that science which studies man in connection with
his environment, physical, social, and economic. But to this end we
must also lay under contribution many of its sister sciences, notably
those of geology, climatology, biology, and history; for these too can
throw light on various aspects of our problem—the career of mankind
in ancient eastern Asia. The cultural significance of that part of the
globe, moreover, like that of every other, can only be rightly under-
stood if we view it in relation to the cultures of neighboring areas;
while the growth of civilization there must, as always, be interpreted
in terms both of time and of space.

CHINA

Physical environment.—As a preliminary survey, we need to know
in at least its main outlines the geography of China; since it was there
that our particular phase of the great human drama began (Cressey,
1934, passim; Latourette, 1934, vol. 1, ch. 1).

As a glance at a map or, better still, a terrestrial globe will show,
the area in question occupies a position marginal or peripheral to
the Near East—the region where, as we now know, civilization first
developed. Ever since fairly remote geologic times, however, these
widely sundered areas have been linked by two great land routes or
thoroughfares of migration and travel, vegetable, animal, and human.
(See map. fig.1). These pass in a generally east-and west direction to
the north and to the south, respectively, of the lofty tableland of Tibet.
The former route, that on the north, has in general played far the more

1 Reprinted from Smithsonian War Background Studies, No. 1, Publ. 83681, June 10, 1942.
The author died June 16, 1942.

463
464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

important role in human history; but the latter, known in part as the
now famous Burma Road, has come into renewed prominence of late.

The sea route between the Occident and the Far East did not come
into use until much later, well on in the historical period—not, in fact,
until sails and seagoing ships had long been known in the Near East.

Surface features—Northern China is preeminently a vast, low-
lying alluvial plain, bordered by the sea on the one hand, on the other
by rugged areas that form the scarp of the central Asian plateau. The
Ch‘in-ling chain of hills—dwindling outliers of the mighty K‘un-lun
Mountains of inner Asia—divides the basin of the Huai River from
that of the Yangtze and forms a faunal, botanical, and historical
boundary of great importance.

oO: Ps Y Ye 2
Line Lip
ZY if

CY) /
/

i Yj

Figure 1.—The “steppe corridor” and the Far East.

Southern China, on the contrary, is in general hilly—in parts even
mountainous; but its elevations do not form continuous, well-defined
ranges.

Loess soil.—Over much of northern China, and extending far into
central Asia, lies a thick mantle of loess soil (likewise found in other
parts of the world, as for instance in many of our western States and
portions of Europe). This type of soil, of a fine powdery consistency
and grayish yellow in hue, is divided by geologists into two varieties,
primary (eolian) and secondary (alluvial) loess. Of these, the first
was deposited by the wind, in the form of dust, during the (geologically
speaking) Recent epoch, since the close of the last ice age; while the
second, a derivative of the first, has been laid down by water (which in
this way, for example, created the great North China plains just

mentioned). (Cressey, 1934, pp. 184-189 and passim; Anderson, 1934,
_ passim.)
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 465

Rivers and lakes.—In northern China the rivers are “young” (again
in the geologic sense) and are therefore subject to devastating floods.
By far the largest is the Huang Ho or Yellow River, sometimes called
“China’s Sorrow” on account of the terrible loss of life which it often
causes. ‘This stream rises in northeastern Tibet and is 2,500 miles in
length. Too shallow and swift to be an important waterway, it has
often altered its lower course; the most recent of these changes occurred
less than a century ago. South of it flows the Huai River, much
shorter, and the mouth of which has for the past few hundred years
been cut off by the Grand Canal, so that it no longer flows directly
into the sea.

The rivers of southern China, on the other hand, are “mature” in
character, with deep, well-defined channels. The most important is
the Yangtze, second in size and volume only to the Amazon, in South
America. Like the Yellow River, it too rises in northeastern Tibet,
and flows in a general easterly direction for 3,200 miles before it
reaches the sea, near the present city of Shanghai. Its value as a high-
way of commerce is very great, and oceangoing steamers are able to
ascend it for over 600 miles. In the early historical period it entered
the sea through a delta with three mouths, now reduced to one.

The river systems of southeastern China are nearly all short and
coastal, few of them extending back into the interior of China. There
are likewise, especially in the center and north of the country, nu-
merous lakes, some shallow and subject to seasonal fluctuations of out-
line, while others are deeper and more permanent in character.

Flora and fauna—tThe great plains of northern China were before
the dawn of history probably open grassland, with belts of timber
along the streams and on the watersheds—much like our American
prairies in aboriginal times. The Yangtze Basin and southern China
in general, on the other hand, seem to have been covered with luxuriant
subtropical forest continuous with that clothing Indo-China and much
of India, and not unlike the one that once occupied the southeastern
part of North America.

There are in eastern Asia two main zoological provinces, a northeru
and a southern. The boundary between these today extends, roughly,
along the southern border of the Yangtze Basin; but in ancient times
it ran at least as far north as the latitude of Peiping.?

Hence as late as the second millennium B. C. China had, even in
the north, many large forms, such as the elephant, the rhinoceros, and
the water buffalo, now living only in regions much farther south.

Eastern Asia was, in fact, during ancient times (before human activ-
ity had yet had time to produce its usual destructive effect) a region
teeming with very many forms of wildlife, both animal and vegetable.

2This parallel, of very nearly 40° N. latitude, passes through northern California and
central New Jersey on our side of the globe.
466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Among these, numerous species in both the animal and the vegetable
kingdoms were closely related to others that we look on as especially
characteristic of the New World. For instance, the only parts of the
globe where the true alligator occurs today are North America and a
small area on the Yangtze River. Many other examples of like nature
might be cited.

There was—and still is—a bird life wonderfully rich in both number
of individuals and variety of species, the latter including terrestrial,
arboreal, and aquatic forms.

Climate-—The controlling factor in the climate of China—of all
southeastern Asia, in fact—is the alternating occurrence of the mon-
soon winds and their influence on precipitation (Cressey, 1934, pp. 60-
64 and passim). The summer monsoon, blowing steadily from the
south, off the equatorial ocean, is warm and moist, whereas the winter
monsoon, from the interior of the continent, is dry and bitterly cold.
These distinctions are very marked, and their effect is to divide the
year rather sharply into a hot, rainy summer and a cold, dry winter.

The Middle and Late Pleistocene periods, when the vast deposits of
loess soil were being slowly formed, seem in general to have been much
drier than now but to have been followed, during late prehistoric and
early historic times, by an interval of rather greater rainfall and
warmth than are found in northern China today. The general tend-
ency for at least the past 1,500 years seems to have lain in the direction
of growing aridity, interspersed with somewhat wetter phases. All
these climatic fluctuations have influenced human activity in countless
ways, the effects of which are still clearly visible.

ADJACENT LANDS

Northwest of China proper are the lofty plateau of Tibet and that
nexus of mountain ranges forming the Pamirs, the “Roof of the
World.” North and northeast of China extend the elevated plains
of Mongolia and Manchuria, wooded on the east, bare and tending
more and more to aridity on the west. Other lands—Indo-China,
Korea, and numerous great island groups—lie to the west, south, and
east. All these, together with China itself, form that part of the
globe which we know collectively as the Far East. The region is one
that is playing an increasingly large and important part in world
history, as we all realize.

PRIMITIVE MAN
RACES OF EARLY MAN

It is still undetermined exactly where the human race originated,
although we may at least be sure that it did so in the Old World, not
in the New. Recent discoveries have revealed, however, that numer-
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 467

ous forms of man once existed, but that all save the one found
today—Homo sapiens—eventually became extinct (Abbot et el., 1938,
passim).

“PEKING MAN”

About one of these very early human types—whether or not di-
rectly ancestral to modern man is still disputed—we have been hear-
ing much of late. This is the primitive creature commonly called
“Peking man” (Sinanthropus pekinensis), which lived around the
very beginning of the Pleistocene period, variously estimated at from
250,000 to 1,000,000 years ago.

MEN OF THE OLD STONE AGE

During the past few years also, traces of men of the Old Stone Age
or Paleolithic period have come to light in eastern Asia, as, for in-
stance, in northwestern China proper and on the borders of Mon-
golia. These people lived much later but still as early as the begin-
ning of the deposition of the loess, not less than from 10,000 to
20,000 years ago. From this time onward until late prehistoric times
there is a great gap in our knowledge of man in eastern Asia. Pos-
sibly he did not exist there at all then, the climate following the ice
age being too unfavorable to permit living in that part of the globe
by people still in a food-gathering (as opposed to a food-producing)
stage of culture.

MORE RECENT RACES
NEGROID TYPES

In times much less remote from our own but still long before his-
tory began, southern Asia and some of the islands off its coast seem
to have been inhabited by two dark-skinned races, one of pygmies,
the other of a taller people, perhaps akin to the Papuans of New
Guinea or to the aborigines of Australia.? This second race, some
students have suspected, once extended its influence northward as far
as Japan, there to contribute to the formation of the Ainu, still
found in some of the northern islands of that archipelago.

A CAUCASOID TYPE

Somewhat later but still far back in prehistoric times, southeastern
Asia and many of the East Indian islands seem to have been over-
run by a brown-skinned race of Caucasoid type, perhaps distantly

2 Of these pygmies, a few scattered remnants still exist, in the Malay Peninsula, the
Andaman Islands, the Philippines, and elsewhere; and they are mentioned in old Chinese
records. The larger Negroid race was perhaps best represented by the (recently) extinct
Tasmanians.
468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

related to the “Mediterraneans” of the west. This type may still be
seen entering into the composition of the present population of the
area; thus travelers often mention seeing individuals there with the
aspect of southern Europeans.

MON-KHMER STOCK

The Mongoloid or yellow-brown variety of man seems to have be-
come specialized somewhere in central Asia and to have spread
thence outward, toward the sea. The first traceable members of this
race in the Far East seem to have belonged to the Mon-Khmer
linguistic stock, still found in many parts of southern Asia. They
spread (or were driven) southward until they occupied much of
southern China, Indo-China, parts of India, and apparently some
of the islands. Physically they are shorter and darker than Mon-
goloid man in general, possibly on account of very early admix-
ture with the pygmies already mentioned.

SINO-T’AI STOCK

Probably a good deal later than the Mon-Khmers came the
speakers of the Sino-T‘ai family of languages (to which, re-
spectively, belong the Chinese and the Siamese). These two groups
of speech are very closely related to each other, and this may account
in part for the success of the Chinese emigrants to Siam.+*

The Chinese ancestral stock spread, at some prehistoric time, over
northern China (roughly, the Yellow River Basin), while the T‘ai
speakers occupied much of the Yangtze Valley. Southern China and
Indo-China became more especially the home of the Mon-Khmers.®

Throughout the historical period, various forms of Chinese speech
have been steadily supplanting both T‘ai and Mon-Khmer in south-
ern China or have driven them into Indo-China.

TIBETO-BURMAN STOCK

Yet another linguistic family, the Tibeto-Burman, is related to the
Sino-T‘ai group, although less closely than are the two branches of the
latter to each other. As their name indicates, languages of the Tibeto-
Burman family are today spoken mainly in Tibet and in Burma; but
in ancient times they extended over much of northwestern China, and
remnants of them still exist there. Physically this stock is very
variable, though essentially Mongoloid in character.

4The Siamese like to call themselves the T‘ai (or, less correctly, Thai) ; but they are by
no means the only people speaking a T‘ai language.

5 All the groups of whom we are now speaking are today much alike in physical aspect,
their distinguishing marks being more especially matters of speech, costume, and custom.
This applies in very large measure also to the Japanese.
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 469
NEOLITHIC PERIOD

Characteristics —This stage of culture is characterized by the use
of ground and polished stone for tools and implements, but it also
marks a really tremendous step in man’s progress; for it was then that
he became a producer of food instead of depending, as he had always
done hitherto, on what he could find for his nourishment, whether
animal or vegetable. It was then that he began to domesticate various
kinds of animals (except the dog, already associated with man far
earlier) and different food plants.

This Neolithic phase of culture prevailed over practically the entire
globe, only disappearing from different areas as civilization slowly
diffused itself. This was true of eastern Asia as of every other region ;
thus the Ainu of the Kurile Islands, northeast of Japan proper, re-
mained in that stage until well into the nineteenth century.

About the Neolithic period in western and southern China we as yet
know little, for not a great deal of archeological work has been done
there. Of that of northern China, Korea, and Japan, we know
much more. The Neolithic inhabitants of these regions seem nowhere
to have been pastoral nomads but invariably semisedentary planters.
It is also interesting to note that in northern China at least the skeletal
evidence shows the prehistoric population to have been directly an-
cestral to the present one.

Like the Neolithic culture of much of eastern Asia was the one that
we find in northern China (Bishop, 1932a). There, however, it disap-
peared, or perhaps more accurately was submerged, under a developed
civilization of Bronze Age type, with a knowledge of metal, consid-
erably sooner than was the case in many adjacent lands. In parts of
Mongolia, Manchuria, Korea, and Japan, for example, Neolithic
cultures survived until the Christian Era and even longer.

In northern China this cultural phase spread over the entire country
save for areas subject to seasonal inundation or too heavily timbered
for easy clearing with stone tools. There as elsewhere (for instance
in Europe), the Neolithic peasants sought more especially lands cov-
ered with loess soil, as being at once more fertile than others and less
densely overgrown with trees and brush.

Habitations—Habitations in northern China, as in so many other
northern lands during this stage of progress, were pit dwellings or
earth lodges, roughly circular in form and beehive-shaped, usually with
a depth and diameter of around 10 feet, and entered from the top.
(See pl. 2.)

The Chinese character Asiieh, now meaning a den or cave, in its
ancient form clearly represents a vertical section of such a pit dwelling,
with its domed and timbered roof (fig. 2). Archeology has in this in-
stance, as in so many others, confirmed the evidence of epigraphy.

566766—44——31

470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

During the warmer months, which comprised the period of growth
and also the rainy season, these pit dwellings seem to have been
temporarily deserted for huts built in trees or on piles and aptly likened
to “nests,” situated near the cultivated patches.

No signs of fortification of any sort have been found; and in general
the Neolithic peoples, in northern China at least, seem not to have been
very warlike.

Villages of these underground huts were not occupied continuously
over very many years. On the contrary, as soon as the soil of the vi-
cinity had lost its fertility through the wasteful mode of cultivation
then used, and which included clearing the ground with the aid of
fire, villages were shifted to other localities with unexhausted soil.

Tillage —Cultivation was probably carried on in common, perhaps
mainly by the women for magical reasons connected with the idea of
fertility. The implements used were digging sticks, hoes, mattocks,
sickles, and perhaps spades, shod with stone or shell. (See pl. 3, fig. 1,
and fig. 3.) The staple crop was common millet (Panicum mitlia-

KR

Figure 2.—Modern and ancient forms of Chinese character for hsieh
(a den or pit dwelling).

ceum), and many mullets and mealing stones, used in preparing this
grain for human consumption, have been found. Rice also was being
grown in the Yellow River basin in Neolithic times; and there is some
slight (though doubtful) indication that sorghum (kaoliang or giant
millet— now an important food crop) was also known then.

Beer, brewed from millet and perhaps also from rice, may likewise
have been made. The method used in early times to set up fermenta-
tion was that of chewing the grain and then steeping it in water.

Animal husbandry.—In its variety of domestic animals during this
cultural stage, China was far poorer than was the Occident. The lat-
ter then had the ox, sheep, goat, pig, and dog. China, on the other
hand, had only the two last, though toward the close of the period the
ox, sheep and goats, and even the horse may have appeared (the horse,
however, perhaps not as a domestic animal).

Implements and clothing.—Supplies of the right kind of stone for
making tools and implements have always been of vital importance to
Neolithic man everywhere. The most common implement in China, as
in other lands, was the ground and polished stone celt, which occurs in
two forms, the ax and the adz. A rectangular or semilunar stone
knife had a very wide distribution, being found not only in northern
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 471

China but also in Siberia, Japan, and even as far afield as among the
Eskimo. (See fig. 3.)

Arrow points were of stone, bone, and shell; and picks of deer antler
similar to ones found in Europe also occur. Spindle whorls of clay or
stone and perforated needles of bone show that at least sewing was
known, and perhaps weaving also, for impressions of cloth on certain
ancient Chinese potsherds may possibly date back to Neolithic times.
Bark cloth like the Polynesian tapa seems also to have been made; and
during the cold season furs were undoubtedly worn.

Figure 3.—Mattock and knives of stone, northwestern China.

Pottery.—Pottery was well known in eastern Asia during this cul-
ture phase. Broadly speaking, it falls into two great categories, a
northern and a southern, the former usually ornamented in various
ways, the latter most often plain.

The northern family is itself divisible into two classes. Of these,
one is a coarse gray ware, sherds of which are found all over northern
China and are closely akin to the pottery of the neighboring areas.
Hand-made, often by the coiling process, it appears in a wide variety
of forms. Ornamentation is incised, impressed, punctate, or applied,
and the ware itself is as a rule poorly fired.
472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The other sort of northern ware, far finer in texture and apparently,
in some instances at least, made on some rudimentary form of potter’s
wheel, likewise displays a wide range of shapes, which as a rule differ
from those of the foregoing type. This finer ware occurs more espe-
cially along the great migration route from Chinese Turkistan across
northern China to southern Manchuria. Varying in hue from a light
bluff to a dark reddish brown, it is as a rule highly burnished; some-
times it bears simple geometric designs in color, most likely with some
magical or symbolic meaning.

Both types of ware occur together, however, and seem to have been
made by the same people. The Chinese burnished pottery gradually
deteriorated and finally died out before the dawn of history. Not so,
however, with the coarse gray ware; for this kept on being made, at
least by the peasantry, until well within the Christian Era.

In northern and especially northeastern China there has also recently
come to light a very fine black pottery, somewhat later than the kind
just discussed. It was, however, still Neolithic; for no metal has been
found with it. Its exact significance is not yet clearly understood.

Trade.—Trade seems to have been little developed in China then,
for given communities were self-sustaining. No particular demand
for imports had as yet arisen. Cowry shells from the southern sea-
coasts and obsidian (volcanic glass) for certain implements must have
been traded from considerable distances; so contacts of some sort must
have existed, most probably of an indirect, “hand-to-hand” sort.

Religion —Religion in northern China, as in most lands during
the Neolithic period, most likely consisted of beliefs in magic and
animism and in orgiastic ceremonies for the promotion of fertility
in general. In these, women probably played a large part. In China
as elsewhere, indications of human sacrifice and cannibalism have
been found in this connection.

The bodies of the dead were buried in the earth; for cremation
has never been general in China.

Discussion.—The Neolithic stage of culture in northern China
lacked many of the elements that it needed to develop into a more
advanced civilization. However, it long survived the advent of the
Bronze Age, and formed the basis of the peasant culture of the latter
period—just as it has done in large measure during even later times.

A word may be said here in regard to the influence of bamboo on
cultural progress over so much of southeastern Asia. That plant
(which anciently seems to have extended somewhat farther north
than now) lends itself to such a wide variety of uses of all kinds that
its presence appears to have acted as a definite deterrent to experi-
mentation with other materials, and so to further progress. (See

pl. 4).
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 473

The Neolithic period elsewhere in the Far East seems to have been
similar in a general way to the one just discussed, though in most
places without the burnished pottery. Nowhere were the people yet in
a pastoral stage, with tending of flocks and herds as their means of
livelihood. On the contrary, they were planters, though with more
dependence on hunting and fishing than in northern China. Mon-
golia, for instance (which today we look on as preeminently a pastoral
region), seems only to have adopted that type of culture when it
acquired sheep and cattle (apparently from the west, to judge from
the skeletal evidence) ; and nomadism proper after obtaining the
horse, probably not long before the middle of the first millennium
B. C. The effects of the acquisition by the Mongols of the latter
cultural trait, incidentally, may profitably be compared with those
that took place among our own Plains Indians when they got the
horse from the Spaniards.

SOUTHERN CHINESE CULTURE

Southern China, Indo-China, Malaya, and the islands off the
coast, like the Netherlands East Indies, Borneo, and the Philippines,
had a somewhat different type of Neolithic culture, characterized by
pile dwelling (see pl. 7, fig. 1), long dugout canoes, undecorated pot-
tery, and in many if not all areas head hunting, tattooing, and ritual
cannibalism. The peoples of these areas did some planting, more
especially of leaf and root crops, but also depended greatly on fishing.

This southern culture made its way northward along the coast
as far as southern Korea and western Japan, where its impress still
survives. Eventually it reached a northern form of Neolithic cul-
ture more like the one just described.

CHALCOLITHIC PERIOD

TRANSITION BETWEEN STONE AND BRONZE AGES

Except in northwestern China, almost nothing is yet known about
the transition from the Neolithic period to the Bronze Age. In
Kansu, stone implements remained in use long after copper (or
bronze?) arrow points and trinkets appeared, as signs of contact with
metal-using peoples to the west. Burnished (and sometimes
painted) pottery continued to be made, but was not as fine as before,
and its designs tended to become naturalistic rather than. geometric.
Villages were now protected by earthern walls, suggesting an increase
in warfare, perhaps even invasion from without.

In Shansi there has lately come to light still another Chalcolithic
culture. This had a small amount of true bronze and also a different
kind of pottery, bearing an impressed spiral design; and sheep seem
474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

to have been the principal if not the only domestic animals. Little,
however, is known of this new culture as yet.

DISTRIBUTION

Both Kansu and Shensi (for these provinces, see map of China,
fig. 21), we should note, are situated along the eastern terminus of
the more northern of the two transcontinental migration routes.
(See map, fig. 1.) Hence the presumption that bronze and the
herding of sheep had diffused themselves to China from the west
(where both these culture traits had been known much earlier) be-
comes almost irresistible,

The Chalcolithic period in eastern Asia still forms a “dark age.”
In many areas, indeed, it probably never appeared at all, the tran-
sition from the Neolithic period to a fully developed Bronze Age or
even to one of iron having been a direct one, without intermediate
phases.

BRONZE AGE

GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS

A Bronze Age is by no means an invariable cultural phase every-
where on the globe. It has, on the contrary, been strictly limited in
both time and space. Roughly it extended along the North Temperate
Zone of the Old World, from the Atlantic to the Pacific. (See map,
fig. 4.) Before it had had time to diffuse itself beyond this area,
bronze had been overtaken and supplanted, save for limited uses, by
that cheaper and more useful metal, iron.

DIFFUSION

The true Bronze Age, as distinct from the Chalcolithic period that
ushered it in, began in the Near East some 6,000 or 7,000 years ago,
and lasted until about 3,000 years ago, when it gradually gave way
to the Iron Age. It reached western Europe and eastern Asia less
than 4,000 years ago, and lasted there for about 1,500 years.

All the Bronze Age civilizations are based on the same set of funda-
mental elements. These were: the use of bronze itself for weapons and
implements; possession of the common domestic animals, and cultivated
plants; knowledge of the wheel and of animal traction; and some form
of writing. The spread of these cultural traits took place in various
ways, through war, trade. and migration, and of course took a long time.
Our present civilization has spread far more rapidly, mainly as the
result of improved means of communication and transportation. Wit-
ness, for example, the rapidity with which the airplane, invented
hardly a generation ago, has reached all parts of the earth.
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 475

To return to the Bronze Age, however, the third and second millen-
niums, before our era were marked by great disturbances, widely felt
in the Old World. The ancient kingdoms of the Near East fell, in most
cases through invasion by peoples having war chariots and improved
weapons of bronze. It was such peoples that overran and conquered
Mesopotamia, Egypt, Asia Minor, northwestern India, and northern
China. These movements, when traced backward, all point to the
western end of the Eurasiatic steppe belt (see map, fig. 1) as their
region of dispersion. Significant too is the fact that bronze weapons
and war chariots appeared latest and survived longest at the two ex-

RIVER-VALLEY CIVILIZATIONS

-OF THE-

ANCIENT WORLD

1c OF CANC,

oes an @ BABYLONIAN

x @EGYPTIAN
@ INDUS VALLEY
@Earty CHINESE

@ Use oF BRONZE
INANTIQUITY.

FIGcurE 4.—River valley civilizations of the Ancient World, showing (in black)
area of use of bronze.

tremities of their region of occurrence—in the British Isles in the west
and in China in the east, having gone out of use slightly earlier in the
latter region than in the former.

BRONZE AGE CIVILIZATIONS OF THE NEAR EAST AND OF CHINA

It is illuminating to compare and contrast the Bronze Age civiliza-
tions of the Near East and of China. In the former region the de-
velopment of the Bronze Age has been traced step by step out of the
antecedent Neolithic cultures into the fully developed metal-using
civilizations of early historical times. This evolution required at least
4,000 years and in some particulars much more than that.
476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Thus in Babylonia, writing, wheeled vehicles, the ox-drawn plow,
wheat, and all the common domestic animals except the horse, with
a complete mastery of bronze working, all existed well before 3000
B.C. In China, on the other hand, there seems to have been no knowl-
edge of the metals before around 2000 B. C. Yet only something like
500 years later we find the Yellow River basin occupied by an already
well-developed Bronze Age civilization which had most (though not
quite all) of the elements known to the Near East a thousand years or
more earlier. This civilization must therefore have appeared in north-
ern China during the first half of the second millennium B. C.

Thus not only did the Bronze Age begin in China many centuries
later than in the Near East, but it survived there nearly a thousand
years longer. Moreover the Chinese form had from the first, ap-
parently, a well-developed system of writing, a very skilled knowledge
of bronze working, and the same domestic animals and food plants
(though not yet the ox-drawn plow) as in the Near East. Also it had
wheeled vehicles and animal traction, including the use of horses to
draw the chariot. The latter object, moreover, was used in exactly the
same way as in the Near East, for pagentry, ceremonial, hunting,
and war.

On the other hand, in China the local Bronze Age lacked certain
traits characteristic of the same cultural stage in the Near East. Thus
the Chinese had no dairy economy or weaving of woolen fabrics; and
it was not until around the fourth century B. C. that the ox-drawn
plow finally appeared there (Laufer, 1914-1915 passim).

CHINESE ORIGIN LEGENDS

Chinese legends about the origin of their civilization (the only one
of which they knew in antiquity) have come down to us in late form,
and do not represent genuine folk recollections, at least as they stand.
They are not, however, mere inventions or fictions, but preserve, albeit
in distorted form, the real beliefs held by their Bronze Age ruling
classes about the beginnings of their civilization (Latourette, 1934, vol.
1, pp. 37-40; Bishop, 1934, p. 297):

The oldest traditions cluster about northwestern China, especially
southwestern Shansi and central Shensi. This localization is signifi-
cant; for the area in question is again—like the one just cited as that
where the Neolithic painted pottery and traces of the earliest knowl-
edge of metals in China occur—near the eastern terminus of the “cor-
ridor of the steppes.” (See map, fig. 1.) Archeologically and cul-
turally, this region is by far the most important in eastern Asia.

THE HSIA DYNASTY

According to the orthodox Chinese accounts, the first dynasty was
that of the Hsia, but of this we have neither contemporary records nor
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP AT7

identifiable archeological remains, and some have even doubted its
existence. In later (but still fairly early) times, however, the Hsias
seem to have been regarded as in some sort the forebears of the ruling
class during the Chinese Bronze Age; and it seems most probable that
they were an actual group, perhaps a local one (Creel, 1937, pp.
97-131).

THE SHANG DYNASTY

The second dynasty claimed by the Chinese was the Shang. Here
we are on much firmer ground, for of this we have both actual remains
and contemporary written records. The Shangs seem in the beginning
to have been merely one of several bronze-using groups in northwestern
China, located in southwestern Shansi if we may believe an early
legend. Our oldest accounts—reduced to their present form centuries
after the close of their period—declare that they shifted their capital
several times.

Eventually however, perhaps about the sixteenth or fifteenth cen-
tury B. C., we find them seated in the great North China plain, near
the Yellow River. Here they established themselves, thenceforth to
be for several hundred years the dominant group in that region.
Either then or perhaps earlier the Shangs seem to have adopted
numerous cultural features from the aborigines, descendants of the
old Neolithic peoples; but essentially the Shangs themselves were a
Bronze Age group, of rather primitive type.

In later times the Shangs were sometimes called the Yins; but there
is no contemporaneous evidence that they ever applied that name to
themselves.

With the Shangs, then, authentic Chinese history may be said to
have begun ° (Creel, 1937, chap. 3; Latourette, 1934, vol. 1, pp. 40-46).

Nature of the Shang “empire.”—The Shang “empire” meant simply
the area, mainly in the middle and lower Yellow River basin, in which
they exercised a precarious supremacy over as many other groups
(most of them probably with a similar type of culture) as they could
hold in subjection. Thus it was a mere tribute-collecting machine of
the same kind as the earlier “empires” of the Near East. No evidence
exists of any effort on the part of the Shangs to set up a feudal, much
less a bureaucratic, system of government—forms which seem indeed
to have been quite beyond their political concepts.

The Shang rulers were not emperors but kings, of a primitive priestly
type, though some of them seem to have been great war leaders as well.
They were regarded by their subjects as intermediaries between man-
kind and the Unseen Powers and as responsible for the maintenance of
the due course of Nature through their observance of the proper rituals

® Both Chinese and Occidental scholars agree that China’s authentic and continuous

history does not begin until the ninth century B. C., long after the Shang Dynasty had come
to an end.
478 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

and tabus. Not the reigning king, however, but his deceased ancestors
were the real power in the state. Their will was ascertained by divina-
tion, and elaborate worship was paid to them. Succession to the
kingly office was of the fraternal type, from older to younger brother,
not the filial one, from father to son, usual in later times.

Habitations—Both the rural population and the city poor seem to
have lived in round pit dwellings like those of their Neolithic ancestors
already described. The ruling class built large rectangular timbered
houses of developed type, with roofs supported by rows of wooden
pillars with stone or bronze bases. (On this type of architecture,
which has survived in China down to recent times, see pl. 12, fig. 2.)
These structures, which in some ways recall the megaron house of
ancient Greece, were sometimes erected on low platforms of rammed
earth.

This last-named material was also used for walls about towns and
enclosures, just as it still is in portions of China. This method of
erecting walls and platforms is, or once was, common throughout the
North Temperate Zone of the Old World; in Babylonia, for example,
it was already at least 2,000 years old when the Shang period opened.

Dressed stone and brick did not appear in China until many cen-
turies later. Literary references, however, perhaps based on con-
temporary evidence, attribute to the Shangs a varied and developed
architecture.

Tillage-—The economic foundations of the Shang civilization were
animal husbandry and especially agriculture. As previously noted,
the ox-drawn plow was not yet known in China; but tillage was carried
on by the peasantry, direct descendants of the old Neolithic popula-
tion, with the aid of hoes, mattocks, and apparently foot plows, shod
with stone or shell. There is also some indication that irrigation was
already being practiced during Shang times.

The staple crops were wheat, millet, and perhaps rice. Of these,
the first originated in western Asia, where it had already been domesti-
cated probably thousands of years before the Shang period began.
Millet was an inheritance in China from Neolithic times, and later
on was the only cereal regarded as sacred—itself a sign of a high
antiquity on account of the workings of religious conservatism. There
is also some reason to believe that rice was grown.

Beer was brewed from millet and perhaps from rice, though as to
the processes employed, we know nothing. No spirits (distilled liq-
uors) were known in China for something like 2,000 years after the
Shang period.

Animal husbandry.—Animal husbandry was also economically im-
portant. Species both of the wild pony and of the wild ass are known
from eastern Asia, although neither has ever been domesticated ; but
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 479

evidence of the domestic horse in China in Neolithic times is wanting,
just as it is, practically, in Europe during the same cultural phase.
That the Shangs had it, however, there is no doubt; but they did not
ride it, using it instead to draw their chariots. For in China, as in
most ancient lands, the horse was driven long before it was ridden.

Shang inscriptions reveal that cattle were the most important do-
mestic animals. They were offered in sacrifice, their flesh was eaten,
and their hides made into leather; but milk was not used. Oxen were
probably employed to draw carts and carry packs.

Sheep and goats were also kept. They seem, however, not to have
been derived from native wild forms but from the same western
ones as the domestic sheep and goats of the Occident. Sheep were
sacrificed by the Shangs, though not to the same extent as cattle;
and mutton was an article of diet. Wool, however, was not spun or
woven, either then or later.

Ficurp 5.—Country oxcart, a primitive survival.

Swine were bred in large numbers, just as in Neolithic times; and
dogs were both sacrificed and eaten. The domestic fowl was known,
and appears to have reached China, probably by the Burma Road
(see map, fig. 1) from Indo-China, during the “dark age” which fol-
lowed the Neolithic period, for its remains have not been identified
from sites of the latter cultural phase in China.

Trade and transportation —A Bronze Age civilization always pre-
supposes a considerable amount of trade, both domestic and foreign.
The northern Chinese plain was, however, deficient in many kinds of
raw materials, especially metals. And since these played an im-
portant part in the life of the time, they had to be imported from
other regions, particularly from the Yangtze Valley, then and for
long afterward not regarded as part of China.

Some transportation was carried on by water; but mainly it seems
to have been by land, probably in oxcarts (for a modern but primi-
tive survival, see fig. 5) and on the backs of oxen, for the horse
seems to have been reserved for the uses of war, the chase, and
religion.
480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

There seem to have been even then, just as there were later on,
contacts with the rich metalliferous regions of the Yangtze Valley,
just mentioned; and cowries (Cypraea moneta) and bones of the
whale show that the Shangs were in touch, directly or indirectly,
with the sea. The presence of jade, not known ever to have occurred
in China proper, suggests that the Shangs obtained that substance
from central Asia. Also, supplies of salt are necessary, for dietetic
reasons, to a people subsisting mainly, as the Shangs seem to have
done, on a cereal diet.

Attempts to obtain such raw materials from abroad were, how-
ever, often not true commercial ventures but great plundering raids,
undertaken as state enterprises, with regular armies. The penetra-
tion of the Yangtze Valley by certain Shang kings was probably of
this character.

Arts and crafts—Among arts and crafts, bronze working was
carried to a pitch of technical and esthetic excellence hardly if ever
equaled in later times, in any land. Bronze is an alloy of copper and
other metals, usually tin and lead. It is uncertain whether Shang
metallurgists knew the two latter as separate metals or whether they
used copper ores containing them as impurities.

The Shangs also cast magnificent bronze ritual vessels for use in
ancestor worship. These vessels bear two styles of ornamentation
which regularly appear in combination. Of these, one was a highly
conventionalized animal style, the other geometric in design and
apparently akin to the old Neolithic art of southeastern Asia. Some
and perhaps all designs were thought to have magical power, espe-
cially over the weather, most important to a predominantly agricul-
tural community such as were the Shangs. There seems nothing to
suggest that oramentation was ever applied for purely decorative
effects.

The wants of the ruling class were supplied by highly skilled
craftsmen and artisans of many kinds; for specialization of tasks
was already being carried to a high pitch. The needs of the
peasantry and of the city poor probably differed little from those
of their Neolithic ancestors.

Pottery——The painted pottery of Neolithic times had practically
disappeared from northern China by Shang times, most likely during
that as yet little-known “dark age” already mentioned. The coarse
gray ware, also Neolithic in origin, continued however under the
Shangs, as it did in fact all over northern China until well after the
Christian Era. The potter’s wheel was regularly employed by the
Shang potters.

A limited use was also made of a kind of glaze, which, however,
disappeared with the fall of the Shangs; and when glaze is again
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 481

found in China it is of an entirely different type. The Shang potters
also made fine white ware, neither glazed nor painted but bearing
incised or impressed on its surface designs identical with those on
the bronze ritual vessels just mentioned.

Among all these types of earthenware there appeared a wide
variety of forms, shapes, and sizes, many of them being represented
in bronze also.

Textiles—Both hemp and silk were woven into cloth during
Shang times. Hemp, we may note, occupied the place in ancient
China held in the Occident by flax and its derivative, linen. Matting
and basketry were also woven.

Decorative arts—Carving, sometimes of very fine quality, was done
in stone, ivory, and probably wood. Both bone and bronze objects
were inlaid with turquoise or mother-of-pearl. The Shangs also did
considerable carving of jade, probably then as later believed to possess
magical significance.

Weapons and implements.—The weapons used in Shang times were
as a rule of bronze. Socketed spears were known, and there were also
two distinct types of battle-axes, each with its own method of hafting.
Arrow points of bronze, stone, and bone were also used. The bronze
sword did not appear in China until very late—not, in fact, until the
Shang period had closed.

Needles of bronze and of bone are also known, and knives and chisels
were of bronze or stone. Agricultural tools of bronze are however
almost entirely lacking; for that metal was always costly and was
probably reserved almost exclusively for purposes of religion, luxury,
and war.

Warfare.—Among the causes of war mentioned in the Shang inscrip-
tions are border raids and encroachments on grazing grounds. There
was also the recurring need to enforce the authority of the Shang
king over the subject states that withheld tribute and submission; and
expeditions were made against non-Chinese people for plunder and
captives.

Armies are recorded as numbering from 3,000 to 5,000 men, and the
main reliance in fighting was on the chariot, drawn, just as in the
ancient Near East, by two horses yoked—not harnessed—abreast.
Slaves and captives were employed as foot soldiers, as were also prob-
ably levies of peasants. Weapons used by the charioteers were, as far
as we know, bronze battle-axes and spears and the composite bow—
the latter a weapon of circumpolar distribution. How the foot soldiers
were armed, we do not know.

Hunting —Hunting played an important role during Shang times.
Many products of the chase were utilized, as for example ivory, hides,
horns, and plumes. Great organized battues were periodically held by
482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the kings, riding in chariots just as in the ancient Near East. Their
motive seems to have been not so much that of mere sport as the duty
of ridding the land of dangerous and troublesome wild animals and
of procuring victims for the sacrifices.

Among the creatures whose bones have been found in Shang de-
posits are the elephant, the tiger, the bear, the wild boar, deer, hares,
and, strangely enough, the whale. Shang inscriptions sometimes state
that elephants have been captured alive, not killed; and there is no
doubt that the Shangs sometimes tamed these great animals.

Writing.—There is no indication of even the beginnings of writing
during Chinese Neolithic times, although perhaps quipus (knotted
cords) or notched sticks may have been used then to aid the memory,
just as by unlettered people in so many lands.

The earliest known Chinese writing, already mentioned as occurring
in surviving Shang inscriptions, dates from around the latter half
of the second millennium B. C. Even then, however, it was already
highly developed, and must have had a long previous period of evolu-
tion somewhere. It is moreover directly ancestral to the Chinese writ-
ing of the present day (Creel, 1937, pp. 1-16).

Existing specimens of these inscriptions, aside from very brief ones
on bronze vessels, are incised or scratched on animal bones and shells
of the tortoise. Shoulder blades of oxen were often used. The in-
scriptions that we possess consist largely of oracular inquiries and
responses; but it is known that the Shangs also wrote on wooden
tablets and bamboo slips. Hence it is quite possible that a consider-
able body of literature may have existed; but if so, it has entirely
perished.

Inscriptions on bone and shell were incised with a sharp point, per-
haps of bronze or obsidian, for steel was not yet known, and the Shangs
probably had nothing else hard enough. Some kind of brush was
also used. A few characters thus written on potsherds have been
found, and it is almost certain that writing on bamboo and wood was
done with a brush.

Knowledge of writing during the Shang Dynasty was confined to
a very small class, and the art itself was regarded as having a magical
and mysterious character. Thus recorders were also diviners. The
same way of thinking has survived in China down to much later times.

Religion—We know something of the Shang pantheon—in part
from contemporary inscriptions. The supreme god was Shang Ti.
The title “Ti” indicated a divine being, and was applied by the Shangs
not only to their highest divinity but also to the spirits of deceased
royal ancestors. Hence it has been surmised that Shang Ti may have
originated merely as the (legendary) first ancestor of the Shang
kingly line.
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 483

Shang Ti was entreated both for abundant harvests and for success
in war. He was believed to live in the sky, perhaps in the North Star,
and so was in this sense a sky god; although we have no evidence that
the Shangs worshiped the sky itself.

The Shangs also revered many other divinities, often female.
Among them, according to the inscriptions, were the Eastern Mother,
the Western Mother, the Dragon Woman, gods of the Winds, of
Rivers, of Earth, and one called the Ruler of the (Four?) Quarters.
This frequency of female divinities is in marked contrast to the later
Chinese Bronze Age, and may have been due to aboriginal influence.
For goddesses play a great part in the primitive beliefs of eastern
Asia, the Japanese Sun Goddess being probably the best-known ex-
ample.

Of ancestor worship among the Shangs, the only direct evidence
applies to the royal line alone; but there is little doubt that the ruling
class in general practiced it throughout the original Chinese culture
area.

The welfare of the spirits of the dead depended, it was held, on
the sacrifices offered to them by their living descendants. It was
regarded as highly dangerous, therefore, to withhold them and thus
rouse the ancestral spirits to anger. The sacrifices consisted of both
human and animal victims (Creel, 1936, pp. 206-216). The former
were often “barbarian” (i. e., non-Chinese) captives of war, taken
most frequently from the Chiangs, a people to the northwest. The
Shangs appear in fact to have been in the habit of raiding the
Chiangs for supplies of human victims in a way that recalls similar
practices among the Aztecs of ancient Mexico.

Lastly, we may note, the Shangs had a “week” of 10 days, used in
connection with their religious observances.

Disposal of the dead—During Shang times, important people were
buried in great rectangular or cruciform pits, together with much
wealth and many human victims. Mounds were not, however, erected
over such tombs as yet.

Fall of the Shangs—A later tradition asserts that the Shang
Dynasty came to an end during a period of protracted drought for
which the reigning king was held responsible through his neglect to
observe the proper rites. And quite apart from such superstitious
ways of thinking, such a long interval of dryness must necessarily
have led to much suffering, unrest, and discontent. There is also
some evidence that the king himself added to this feeling by a de-
termined effort to assert his power over some of the rebellious rulers
of the subject city-states that composed the Shang “empire.” And,
worse still, in this attempt the king appears to have enlisted the
aid of certain aboriginal tribes.
484 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The rulers of these city-states were constantly trying to throw off
the sway of their titular suzerian; and now some of them sought the
aid of a group called the Chous, who lived on the northwestern fron-
tiers of China, along the border between what are now the provinces
of Shensi and Kansu (see map, fig. 21).

These Chou people had been in contact with the Shangs for several
generations at least. When we first hear of them they seem to have
been in process of exchanging a pastoral for an agricultural mode of
life. In some ways they appear to have been less civilized than the
Shangs, but to have had a better organization for war and more effec-
tive leadership. In certain particulars their civilization appears to
have had a closer resemblance to those of the ancient Near East than to
that of the Shangs. Examples of this are: the use of a 7-day week
instead of the one of 10 days employed by the Shangs; possession, by
the Chou rulers at least, of regular harems, with eunuch attendants, ap-
parently unknown among the Shangs; and succession in the kingly
line from father to son. Lastly, the bronze sword (Janse, 1930a,
pp. 67-184; Karlbeck, 1925, pp. 127-133), long known in the Occident
(where in fact it was already being replaced by much more effective
swords of iron), reached China either with the Chous or early in
their period.

The overthrow of the Shangs is not known to us through con-
temporary accounts; but it seems pretty surely to have been the
result of a concerted attack on them by some of their subject city-
states together with the Chous. The latter are said to have had with
them as subject-allies eight peoples occupying parts of western and
northwestern China, mainly in the central and upper Yangtze basin
(Bishop, 1932c, pp. 236 et seq.).

The Shangs collapsed perhaps as much from lack of unity and
cohesion among the various and heterogeneous elements under their
rule as from external force. Their conquest by the Chous did not
however take place as the result of a single battle, as the “orthodox”
account states. On the contrary, it required a long time, and was
not completed for half a century at least after the initial invasion by
the Chous.

Perhaps the Shangs were too strong to be wholly crushed by the
newcomers; for they were allowed to retain the nuclear part (called
Sung) of their former territory, as vassals of the Chous. The princes
of this remnant of the old Shang kingdom, said to have belonged to
the Shang royal line, were granted the title of kung (duke), which
no other feudal prince was permitted to hold.

The historical Chinese civilization that we know had its roots
firmly implanted in the Bronze Age culture of the Shang period,
and there has been no serious break with the past until recent and
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 485

even modern times. In this sense, and in this sense only, may we
speak of the Chinese as “unchanging.”

THE CHOU DYNASTY

There are certain slight indications that during the Shang period
and possibly even earlier, members of the Tibeto-Burman linguistic
stock from the region north of the Tibetan plateau (see map, fig. 1)
were pushing eastward and southward. With this movement of
peoples the Chou invasion seems to have been connected, if indeed
it was not actually part of it.

These migrations perhaps account for the appearance of Tibeto-
Burman peoples in so much of western China, especially in the upper
Yangtze basin. Be that as it may, at all events there was established
there, somewhere around a thousand years before our era, a Bronze
Age civilization in large part associated with them. In extreme west-
ern China the local culture also contained elements from northern
India. Similarly, culture traits, passing through the region traversed
by the now famous Burma Road, have gone on diffusing themselves
from prehistoric times right down to the present day. To take a fairly
recent example of this, maize or Indian corn, an American plant
brought by the Portuguese to India during the sixteenth century, lost
little time reaching China by this route. And the vital importance
of the Burma Road to China today is well known to all.

Chou origin legends.—At the time when the Chous first come within
the purview of history they were, we are told, being pushed steadily
eastward. Legend also states that they even for a time became guard-
ians of the western frontier for the Shang kings. That the latter ever
conquered the Chous, we have no evidence; but they evidently attracted
them strongly into their cultural orbit.

This outward thrust of the Chous from inner Asia in the direction
of the coast Jands was, it would seem, comparable to contemporary
movements outward from the steppe regions into western Europe,
southwestern Asia, and Egypt (Latourette, 1934, vol. 1, pp. 42-44;
Creel, 1936, pp. 227-229).

The chief deity of the Chous, now as later, was a sky god, T‘ien, be-
lieved to control the weather and whom the Chou royal line claimed
as its ancestor. For it was from Hou Chi, “Prince Millet,” said to have
been miraculously sprung from T‘ien and who became God of Agri-
culture under the Chous, that the latter claimed descent. In historical
times, indeed, we find the Chou kings arrogating to themselves sole
conduct of the worship of Tien, and also the title of T‘ien-tzi (Son
of Heaven). This appellation remained the common one for the
Chinese supreme rulers—the individuals whom we term “emperors”—
down to 1911.

566766—44—_32
486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The Chous conquer northern China.—The Chous seem long to have
meditated conquest of the Shang kingdom, against which they are
said to have made at least one ineffectual attempt before they embarked
on their final venture.?. They and their allies are said to have de-
feated the Shangs in the region of the Shang capital, which recent
archeological excavation shows they then savagely sacked and
destroyed.

The Chous then conquered much of northern China, where they
established their power far more firmly than the Shangs had ever done.
(On the Shang and Chou culture areas, see map, fig. 6.) The task

Figure 6.—Shang (in black) and Chou (cross-hatched) culture areas, showing
southward extension of the latter.

seems to have required something like half a century, and a passage in
Mencius tells us that they subdued 50 states. Over these they then
set up a feudal kingdom of primitive type but still forming a great
step in advance over anything in the way of a political organization
that the Shangs had undertaken.

However, the Chous failed to subdue the aboriginal populations of
the northern coast lands, and these long remained independent or at
most became tribute payers. Their thorough assimilation into the
Chinese political body was not accomplished until many centuries
later.

7 The traditional date of 1122 B. C. for the Chou conquest is almost certainly too early by
about three-quarters of a century. On this point, see Bishop, 1932c, pp. 285-237.
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 487

The Chou conquest of northern China marked an important epoch
in the history of civilization in the Far East, for as a result of it,
many Shang refugees seem to have carried their own higher culture
to various outlying regions hitherto barbarous. Such a process has,
in fact, always been one of the ways in which cultural advances have
taken place in the Far East just as everywhere else. Further, the
Chou period was the one in which the Chinese people gradually de-
veloped a consciousness of cultural unity.

Nature of the Chou kingdom.—tThe earlier Chou kings, in organizing
their feudal kingdom, are said to have divided it for administrative
purposes into 9 (sometimes given as 12) chow or circuits. Over these
they placed superintendents (significantly called mu, bullock drivers)
to collect tribute.

Politically, the kingdom is said to have contained at first 1,800 fiefs,
many of them grouped into large territorial units granted to the con-
quering Chou king’s relatives and allies. The old city-states did not,
however, entirely disappear ; in certain instances, indeed, they retained
their identity for long periods.

By the eighth century B. C. the Yellow River basin (essentially the
Chou kingdom, though the latter seems to have embraced extensions
outside of it, particularly on the south; see fig. 6), had about 100 fiefs ;
but in time even this number was still further reduced. Finally, to-
ward the end of the dynasty only 7 large states were left.

For some three centuries after their conquest of the Shangs, the
Chou kings remained in their old seats in the west. They were at
first rulers of the war-leader type; but they also took over the sacerdotal
functions of their predecessors the Shang kings. As high priests of
the kingdom, their persons were sacred, and they were the fountain-
heads of all legitimate authority. Their royal symbol was the battle-ax.

The early Chou kings pushed their conquests (at least temporarily)
into the Yangtze basin, and perhaps also toward the northwest. But
at length their power dwindled. In the eighth century B. C. the
Chou line was driven eastward by renewed attacks from the west,
and established itself in northern Honan. (See map, fig.21). It thus
lost the territorial basis of its power, and its scions gradually sank to
the position of mere political figureheads. But for several centuries
longer they retained their priestly functions and remained the sources
of legitimacy.

Social organization.—Society was divided during most of the Chou
period (we know little of its earlier portion) into two classes, a small
one of nobles, who held all the land and offices, and a large one of com-
moners—peasant-serfs, artisans, traders, and slaves—who performed
the labor.

The nobles were grouped in 30 or fewer ancestor-worshiping clans.
In the “Spring and Autumn Annals,” for example, 124 feudal states
488 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

are mentioned but only 22 clans. Branches of the latter were located
in various parts of the country, often widely separated from one an-
other.

The head of each clan was trustee for its land (which was thus not
his own personal property, to do with as he liked); and he also con-
ducted the clan worship. The head of the ruling clan of a state wor-
shiped his own ancestors and also the patron divinities of his state.
For no separate priestly class existed in ancient China.

Nobles were subject only to their own code, not to the laws govern-
ing the lower classes. Knowledge of these laws gave the nobles a great
advantage, and they objected strongly to their being reduced to writing.
They also practiced polygamy, though custom strictly forbade their
taking wives or even concubines of the same clan as their own, no
matter how remote the kinship might be in reality. Headship of
the clan passed in the male line, usually to the eldest son of the princi-
pal wife; though in this respect usage was not fixed. The latter fact
often caused great trouble, through disputed inheritances. Noble-
women could not hold land or succeed to headship either of a clan
or of a state. Hence inheritance of these privileges in the female line
was impossible.

Of the plebeian class, on the other hand, we know little; for early
Chinese writers did not concern themselves with the masses. We may
say however that the vast bulk of the population consisted of peasants in
a state of serfdom, practically at the mercy of their lords. These
peasant-serfs may have been grouped in matrilineal clans; and they
probably retained much—as indeed Chinese peasants still do—of the
old Neolithic culture of their remote forebears. They seem to have
lived in rural hamlets, and to have had little contact with the urban
life of the nobility. These little peasant hamlets were organized com-
munally, and their inhabitants did their field work in common. Stone,
shell, and wood continued to be used for agricultural implements. The
ox-drawn plow was not yet known in China, its place being taken by
foot plows used by men working in pairs.

Serfs were bound to the estates on which they were born, and efforts
were made by their lords to keep them from shifting their villages
about in old Neolithic fashion ; for it was the labor of the peasants that
gave value to the land, and there was a great demand for workers. It
was therefore a crime to entice them away, and runaways could be
reclaimed. There are indications, too, that the feudal lords dreaded
uprisings among their peasants, and it was a capital offense to arouse
discontent or unrest among them.

The peasants tilled the land, but did not own it, although plots of
ground on which to grow food for themselves and their families were
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 489

periodically assigned to them, on which, however, they had to pay
tithes. They had also to perform other work, such as ditching and
draining; and they had likewise to follow their lords in the frequent
wars, both public and private.

The serfs on an estate were supervised by a land steward or bailiff
appointed by the lord, and who among other duties exercised control
over peasant marriages.

At the bottom of the social scale, in Chou times as later, was a not very
large class of slaves, recruited partly from criminals and captives of
war. These were not attached to the soil, like the serfs, but were
bought and sold in the market place with domestic animals.

Economic development.—During much of the Chou period trade was
by barter, and taxes and tribute were levied in kind. Cowry shells were,
however, highly prized, both for their scarcity value and because of
their religious and magical associations (which seem to have existed
in many other lands also). The only basis of wealth, however, was
land—arable, pasture, forests, salt marshes, and mines—which could
only be held, whether in absolute ownership or as fiefs, by clans of
nobles. Plebeians were thus barred from obtaining wealth and
consequent power.

Later, however, there occurred a gradual but great economic evolu-
tion. No coined money yet existed; but there came tobe used in its
place as units of exchange rolls of silk and fixed quantities of grain.
We have no evidence that oxen or sheep were ever so used in ancient
China, as they were in the west.

Trade and transportation.—Trade, both domestic and foreign (i. e.,
mainly with the Yangtze Valley, not then regarded as a part of China)
was active, and was partly in the form of state enterprises and partly
in the hands of traders, who had however to pay heavy imposts.

No understanding of the true function of trade, as a form of wealth
production, seems ever to have arisen in ancient China, where the
nobles despised it and regarded traders with contempt. Hence com-
merce was tolerated merely, not actively encouraged. There are some
indications however that it was more highly esteemed in the great
Yangtze Valley states, and that they knew better how to make it con-
tribute to building up their strength than did those of the more purely
Chinese north.

This earlier dependence on a natural economy and especially on
taxes levied in grain rendered transportation of revenue from distant
districts to the royal capital a difficult matter, and added greatly
to the decentralization characteristic of the time.

But around the middle of the Chou period the idea arose of cast-
ing—not striking—metallic token money, or in other words a coinage.
490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

This practice seems to have originated in northeastern China. At
first it took the form of miniature models of domestic utensils—knives,
spades, and hoes—cast in copper. (See fig. 7.) This innovation
fundamentally altered the basis of wealth, and for the first time per-
mitted its accumulation in a form other than that of land. It thus
deprived the nobles of that monopoly of the power and prestige that
accompany riches, and played an important—perhaps even the de-
cisive—part in undermining the old feudal system and causing its
disintegration and ultimate downfall.

This process became accelerated toward the end of the Chou period,
and was of course accompanied by the disappearance of many of the

Ficure 7.—Ancient Chinese token money of copper.

barriers that had formerly separated different classes of society.
Traces of these however still survive in both the Confucian and the
Taoist beliefs and practices, as we shall see in a moment.

Arts and crafts—What has already been said in regard to the arts
and crafts of Shang times will apply, in most cases with increased force,
to those which flourished under the Chous.

While few actual remains of the technical skill and esthetic talent
of the Chous have come down to us aside from their work in bronze
casting and carving in jade (for examples of their work in bronze, see
pl. 10, and figs. 8, 9, and 10), we know that their work ranked very
high indeed. The subject is, however, too vast a one to receive detailed
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP A491

treatment here. Fortunately there is no lack of excellent and author-
itative books on various aspects of this fascinating subject, and to these
the student may turn for further information.

Figure 9.—Ancient Chinese bronze bell, Chou period.

Habitations—The Chou nobles and their dependents lived in towns
protected by rectangular ramparts of pounded earth provided with
gates flanked by wooden towers. (See fig. 11.) In the center stood
492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the palace enclosure of the local feudal lord (or in the capital of a
state, that of its ruler), including his ancestral temple and the “altar”
(a mere mound of earth) of the Shé or God of the Soil of the region.
Every town had just north of it a market place, from which the lord

% ia
Cees

Figure 10.—Lid of Chou Dynasty bronze vase with bird figures.

Bi,

Ee 4 lig

A . 4 *
se

EF TEE|
es —— we
. ow

SS

Figure 11.—Tile model of ancient Chinese city gate.

drew additional revenue through a sales tax. (For a plan of the
ruins of such a town, of the Chou period, see fig. 12.)

The palace enclosure also contained a school for the sons of nobles,
the subjects taught being the rites (1. e., correct procedure on all occa-
sions, religious as well as secular), music, archery, chariot driving,
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 493

reckoning, and writing. Reverence to superiors or divinities was
shown by bowing, kneeling, or prostration, as in the Occident, not by
squatting as among the peasants and the peoples of southeastern Asia
and the islands off the coast.

Houses were of timber, pillared (see pl. 12, fig. 2), carved, and
painted (or laquered), red being a favorite color, regarded as lucky.
On the plastered walls were executed paintings of various auspicious
creatures, such as the tiger and dragon. Pleasure towers, summer
houses, and gardens are also mentioned. The upturned roof cor-
ners, regarded in the Occident as so typically Chinese, did not appear

Se ee seer

PATH

FORMER

PALACE
QUARTER?

PATH

P 4
- BUDDHIST
TUTTE ne! SHRINE
QuXS. £. CORNER
MOUN@

S.W. CORNER
BROKEN DOWN

OUTER || MOAT Pond
SOUT GATE \

0 4

Scale of Miles Ruins oF YING
9
PATHS wee CAPITAL OF CH‘u

Ficurg 12.—Ruins of Ying, ancient capital of Ch‘u, on the Yangtze River.

in China until long after the beginning of the Christian Era; during
Chou times Chinese roofs had straight lines, as in the west.

Costume.—Costume, of course, varied according to rank, social
position, and wealth, and probably, too, from state to state. That of
the nobles was in general of silk, and was long and flowing, as in the
Near East. Furs and feather capes were worn, particularly in cold
weather. Embroidery and fine needlework were highly regarded,
and bright colors esteemed. Shoes, at least among the well-to-do,
were often ornamented with jade.

Manners and customs.—The rank of a noble was indicated espe-
cially by his headgear. This, on attainment of his majority by a
494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

patrician youth, was conferred on him with much ceremony in his
ancestral temple. The token of a young noblewoman’s reaching
marriageable age was the assumption of a hairpin, similiarly
bestowed.

Shoes were removed on entering a house; and bathing seems to
nave been customary, at least among the nobles. Chairs and tables
had not yet been introduced; hence people sat cross-legged on the
floor or knelt on mats or cushions, and food was served on low stands.

Food and drink.—Generally speaking, the basis of diet among all
classes, nobles and commoners alike, was one of cereals—millet,
wheat, and rice. Nobles, however, in contradistinction to the peas-
antry, were also great eaters of meat, especially beef, mutton, and
game, and of fish. And, just as today, there was a great variety of
sauces.

Dishes were of earthenware, wood, and bamboo. Glazed pottery
disappeared with the fall of the Shangs, and true porcelain was still
far in the future. Chopsticks were a late invention, and whether
they had yet appeared during the Chou period we do not know; they
are mentioned even as far back as late Shang times, but this may be
an anachronism.

The diet of the peasants was mainly millet, just as it is today in
northern China. Their flesh food was chiefly dog, pig, and fowl—
the latter apparently more highly esteemed than duck.

All classes were given to drinking, usually done in connection with
some religious or other ceremonial occasion; and beverages were
various kinds of beer, brewed from millet or rice. The ancient
Chinese, like the peoples of the west, early learned, empirically, that
water was unsafe to drink on account of risk from typhoid; and tea
was as yet unknown. As among many peoples, including ourselves
not so many centuries ago, drinking vessels were often horns; those of
the wild ox were especially prized by the ancient Chinese, perhaps
on account of their capacity.

Law.—As we have already remarked, the nobles had their own codes
of conduct; and they were, moreover, until long after the beginning
of the full historical period, sole repositories of the regulations gov-
erning their peasants. These were committed to memory, not put in
writing, and this of course gave the nobles a great advantage. Hence
the latter vigorously opposed the issuance of written codes, which
in fact did not appear in the various states until around the middle of
the first millennium B. C. In the Near East advanced codes of laws
had appeared 2,000 years earlier.

Witchcraft was much feared, by high as well as low, and penalties
against it were severe. In general, execution of the laws was harsh,
and included such punishments as boiling alive, tearing asunder, de-
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 495

capitation, and mutilation of various kinds. In addition to the regu-
lations imposed on them by their lords, the peasantry also observed
the ancient local customs of each region; but just what these were,
we have only incidental knowledge.

Warfare—The Chou period, like that of Bronze Age civilizations
everywhere, was one of constant war. With the weakening of the
royal power, especially after the Chou kings were driven eastward
just after 770 B. C., the more powerful feudal states began a process
of absorption of their weaker neighbors and of the neighboring non-
Chinese peoples which led finally to only seven great kingdoms being
left.

In theory, wars were undertaken to punish and coerce those, whether
Chinese or “barbarian,” who refused to acknowledge obedience to the
Son of Heaven; but in reality they were waged for purposes of ag-
grandizement. The third quarter roughly of the first millennium
B. C. came, in fact, to be known as the Age of the Contending States
(Latourette, 1934, vol. 1, pp. 251-256).

Figure 13.—Ancient Chinese snaffle bits of bronze.

The feudal lords also carried on private wars with their neighbors,
even of the same state. Rulers, however, constantly tried to put down
this practice, productive as it was of so much disorder and misery.

There has been at no time in Chinese history a special military class,
comparable, for instance with the Japanese samurai. All Chinese
nobles, however, were supposed to be warriors. The title of a minister
of war, Ssii-ma, meant Master of the Horse, and reflected the great
importance of the horse in war.

Armies were composed of two main classes of troops, chariotry and
foot. The former, composed of nobles, was called shih, while the latter,
a rabble of levies of peasant-serfs, was called di. Hence an armed force
as a whole was known as a shih-lii. In theory each feudal lord’s chariot
was accompanied by from 75 to 100 of his peasants, on foot, but in
reality the proportion of foot soldiers attached to each chariot rarely
exceeded 50. Cavalry did not form an element in Chinese armies
until near the close of the Chou period, and chariots continued to be
the main arm until about the third century B. C., after which they
ceased to be mentioned as being employed in war. (For ancient Chinese
Bronze Age bits, see fig. 13.)
496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Chinese armies in Chou times were divided into an advance guard,
a center, right and left wings, and a rear guard. Provisions were
carried in oxcarts and on pack oxen, and consisted largely of dried
flesh (often that of wild game) and of grain. Armies then, however,
just as elsewhere, eked out their supplies by foraging and pillage.
The enormous numbers sometimes attributed to ancient Chinese armies
by old writers are evident exaggerations; for it would have been, as
a simple calculation will show, impossible to maintain them in the field
under the conditions of transport that then prevailed.

Methods of combat.—Each chariot carried three men clad in hide
armor—a driver, an archer, and a spearman. How the infantry were
armed there are no clear indications, although they seem not as a rule
to have carried missile weapons such as bows and arrows or slings.

Ficure 14.—Chinese mounted archer, from design on tile; late first millennium
B. C.

Chariots (see pl. 3, fig. 2 for what seems to have been an antler cheek-
piece of a Chinese Bronze Age bit) did not generally fight in massed
formation but singly, each accompanied by its supporting contingent
of foot. Every noble bore his own standard, by which he might be
recognized in battle; and nobles as a class deemed it derogatory to
fight on foot, “like peasants.” There are indications, however, that
the practice was growing more usual toward the end of the Chou period.
Armies were accompanied on campaigns by special sacred chariots
bearing the tablets (perhaps originally images) of the Shé or God of
the Soil of the state and also of the chief ancestor of its ruler; these
tablets were supposed to extend their aid in battle, much like the Ark
of the Covenant among the ancient Israelites. Omens were taken be-
fore an action; and the signal for advance was given on a drum, that
for retreat on a gong, both instruments borne on the chariot of the
leader. Cessation of these sounds was apt to cause a panic among the
troops by giving the impression that the leader had been either slain
or made a prisoner by the enemy. ‘Trumpets were not used in war.
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 497

Principles of strategy were well understood and applied, but tactics
were undeveloped. According to our evidence, battles were confused
affairs, with no attempt at maneuvering. Various simple strategems
were, however, employed, especially feigned flights, meant to throw the
foe off his guard. Attacks were usually directed against the weakest
part of the hostile line, and particular efforts were made to kill or
capture the enemy commander or seize his standard.

In the Occident, mounted troops and iron weapons began to appear
toward the end of the second millennium B. C., but in China not
until around 500 years or so later. The idea of riding almost certainly
came to the latter country, as it may already have done in the west
also, as a culture loan from the nomad peoples of the steppe belt
of inner Asia. For example, there are indications that the western
“barbarians,” who around 770 B. C. expelled the Chous from their

Figure 15.—Modern dragon boat, Yangtze River; from a photograph.

old seats in Shensi and drove them eastward, were already in pos-
session of mounted troops.

The earliest Chinese cavalry seem to have been light lancers riding
bareback and employed for scouting, skirmishing, and foraging, not
in battle. Around 300 B. C., however, the northwestern Chinese
states adopted the use of horse archers from their steppe neighbors.
(See fig. 14.) Such troops were far more formidable than chariotry,
on account of their mobility and speed, and soon supplanted the use
of chariots in war. They thus contributed to the downfall of the
already crumbling feudal system by depriving the Chinese nobles,
preeminently charioteers, of much of their prestige in war.

In the Yangtze basin and along the southern Chinese coasts, wars
were often waged in fleets of large dugout canoes, ancestors of the
later dragon boats (see fig. 15); for in that region chariotry seems
to have been unknown until introduced by Chinese refugees from the
north, while the great rivers provided abundance of waterways.

Armor and weapons.—The nobles, fighting, as has already been
said, from chariots, wore hide armor, with helmets of leather or
498 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

copper (perhaps of bronze). Shields, of leather, wood, or wicker,
were also used (Laufer, 1914, passim). The infantry too may have
carried shields; but in other respects their costume in war was prob-
ably simply what they wore in peace. Of their weapons we know
almost nothing, though in some instances they seem to have borne
dagger-axes. (See fig. 16.)

Missile weapons were the bow and arrow and the sling. The for-
mer was of the compound type, of wood, horn, and sinew, and in
time became the especially characteristic arm of the steppe nomads;
the famous Turkish bow is probably the best-known example. Arrow

Fee

ZEEE EIA A
LE

LLZAt 2 P/M a
UTA sh cr
EE

Ficure 16.—Ancient Chinese dagger-axes of bronze.

points were of bronze, often with three edges. Crossbows were
mainly used from chariots and in defending or attacking fortified
places. That spears and javelins were ever hurled, there is nothing
to indicate.

Hand weapons included different kinds of battle-axes, the dag-
ger-ax especially being often mentioned; and there were different
types of bronze spears. (See pl. 10.) The bronze sword, as already
noted, appears late in China; and when it does so, it is in an unde-
veloped Altaic form, perhaps a culture loan from steppe regions.
(See fig. 17.)

Standards were of silk, yaks’ tails, and tufts of feathers. Forms
of these have survived in parts of eastern Asia until very recently.
499

FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP

In general, siegecraft was well understood, and cities were taken
in various ways—by surprise attacks, storm, or building around

Or their ram-

them walls of circumvallation and starving them out.

swords.

Ficurre 17.—Chinese bronze

g rivers

parts, of rammed earth, might be breached by divertin

against them, or by tunneling under them and then setting on fire

the timber props supporting the roof of the mine and thus causing

its collapse.

The latter method was also employed in the Occident,

where it seems to have appeared rather earlier.
500 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Blood feuds.—In addition to waging private wars, already men-
tioned, the Chou Dynasty nobles, turbulent, aggressive, and given to
fighting, regarded the relentless prosecution of blood feuds as a
sacred duty. This custom the rulers of states found it exceedingly
hard to abolish, in spite of the disorders to which it gave rise.

Social effects of war.—This constant warfare naturally produced in
time important social consequences. For example, as improved
methods of fighting appeared, the exclusive place in war held by the
Chou nobles could no longer be maintained, and social barriers were
broken down. Various classes of plebeians were rewarded for courage
or loyalty in war by being elevated to higher positions than any to
which they might have aspired before. Thus peasants and members
of the artisan class might be ennobled (i. e., become landlords and
hence feudal vassals). Slaves were similarly rewarded by being
granted freedom.

Hunting —Originally, as we have already noted of the Shang period,
it was the duty of Chinese nobles to rid the land of dangerous or
troublesome wild beasts; but in Chou times the sport motive seems to
have predominated.

For this purpose the Chou kings and nobles held great seasonal hunts,
conducted on a large scale. These were carried on in chariots, just as
in the ancient Near East, with the aid of large armies of peasant
beaters on foot. Such hunts served as training and preparation for
war, and they also sometimes masked surprise attacks on unsuspecting
states. Game laws were very strict, it being for instance as great a
crime to kill a deer as to murder a man.

As the country grew more settled, however, and game scarcer,
rulers and powerful nobles enclosed private hunting parks, just as
did, for example, the ancient Persians. Prohibitions against killing
game or even gathering wood in these parks were among the chief
grievances of the peasantry, who regarded them as a great hardship.

Religion.—Peasant religion during the Chou period seems to have
been derived from the old Neolithic fertility cults, and was marked by
much witchcraft, magic, and even human sacrifice, though the latter
practice was opposed by the lords, probably on economic rather than
humanitarian grounds, and eventually disappeared.

Toward the close of the Chou period feudalism declined, its decay
not unnaturally going hand in hand with a recrudescence of the old
popular religion. At the same time, too, the masses seem to have
adopted elements from the ancestor worship of the nobles. In this
way gradually evolved the Chinese cult of ancestors of later and
modern times.

Among the nobles, on the other hand, a quite different religion pre-
vailed. In this, the chief god, Tien, was regarded both as the ultimate
ancestor of the royal line and also as a sky god.
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 501

Fairly early in the Chou period a tendency arose to identify T‘ien
with Shang Ti, chief god of the Shangs. This confusion was appar-
ently facilitated by the fact that both divinities were sky gods, just as
were the Greek Zeus and the Roman Jupiter, also eventually identified.

The Chous also had a Goddess of Earth, Ti, a kind of consort of
Tien (Bishop, 1939c, pp. 29-31); thus the Confucian “Classics” tell
u& that “Tien and Ti are the father and mother of all things living.” §
In the religion of the Chous, in marked contrast to that of the Shangs,
goddesses seem to have played a very minor part. They are found
more particularly among the coastal populations, not yet fully Chinese,
and also among the insular and other peripheral peoples of eastern
Asia.

The Chou pantheon, which we know only in late form, comprised,
in addition to the gods brought with them by the Chou and including
of course the royal ancestors, other divinities, some of them taken
over from the Shangs and perhaps also from the aboriginal peoples
of eastern Asia. Thus there were local gods (not goddesses) of the
soil, the Shé, already mentioned (Bishop, 1933c, pp. 32-34) ; these we
know existed at least as far back as Shang times, and theirs was a
primitive concept with many archaic features. There was also a Rain
God in the form of a frog.

The dragon was regarded, if not actually as a divinity, at least as
a supernatural being, benevolent in nature—not, as in Europe, malefi-
cent. The original of this concept dates back at least to Shang
times, and seems to have been founded in part on the Chinese alligator,
regarded as a rain bringer, and therefore as a friend of man.

But the real basis of aristocratic religion under the Chous, as most
probably under their predecessors the Shangs, was the cult of an-
cestors. Whether the Chous were ancestor worshipers before their
conquest of the Shangs is unknown; but after that event the deceased
forbears of their kings became the patron divinities of their kingdom.
Hou Chi, “Prince Millet,” was at once an ancestor of the Chou royal
line and also its official God of Agriculture (Bishop, 1933c, pp. 37 et
seq).

Souls of nobles after death became Shén; those of plebeians, hued.
The latter term was also applied to the gods, demons, and ghosts of
non-Chinese peoples.

There is little to indicate that divinities in Chou times were regarded
as having human form, or even »f their being represented by images.
Rather, they seem to have been indicated by symbols. That of Ten,
for example, was a circle or disk; that of Earth, a square. This sym-
bolism persisted, officially at least, down to very recent times.

In general, ancient Chinese divinities and supernatural beings were

8 The notion of marriage between Sky and Earth is a very common and widespread one.
566766—44 33

502 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

usually regarded as having grotesque and composite forms, and thus
belong to a stage of religious throught corresponding roughly to that
of the old Egyptian “beast gods,” familiar to most of us. Thus Ho Po
(“Count of the Ho”), God of the Huang Ho or Yellow River, had a
human face and the body of a fish. Shén-nung, God of Agriculture
in the Yangtze basin and who in northern China supplanted Hou Chi
in the same capacity toward the close of Chou times, had a human
body and the head of a bull. Beings with the bodies of birds and
human faces or with the bodies of serpents and human heads, as well
as many others of similar composite form, also occur in the old writ-
ings. ‘

Among the natural objects worshiped were mountains, rivers, springs
(see pl. 9, fig. 1), rocks, and trees. Thus, “famous mountains and great
rivers” are often mentioned as worshiped by the feudal princes. This
was undoubtedly a very primitive survival; for such objects have been
venerated in many countries from remote prehistoric times.

The sacrifices that accompanied worship in the Chou period were
similar to those of the Shangs, but with certain progressive modifica-
tions. Among the victims offered were cattle, swine, sheep, and dogs.
Horses were also sacrificed, especially to the Chou God of War.
Human sacrifices, common in Shang times, were still occasionally
offered by the Chous; but this practice became rarer as time went on,
and at length disappeared almost entirely.

As in most lands at certain stages of religious development, the will
of gods and ancestors was sought before embarking on any enterprise
of importance. -In the official religion this was most usually done
with the aid of the shell of the tortoise; hence “to consult the tortoise”
came to mean to inquire about the future. Omens were also drawn
from various natural phenomena, such as dreams or the flight of birds.
The howling of ghosts and the hooting of owls were portents of evil.

With the decline in power of the Chou royal line and the decay of the
old aristocratic religion, popular concepts once more rose to the sur-
face. During this period also the religious ideas of the northern
Chinese were influenced and modified by others traceable to the Yang-
tze basin. Instances of this are the displacing by Shén-nung (the
“Divine Husbandman”) of Hou Chi as God of Agriculture in northern
China, and the extension to the latter region of the dragon concept,
pretty surely of southern origin.

We may note in this connection that many of the elements of the
ancient Chinese religious beliefs and practices had a far wider range
than China proper. Some of them point to western Asia and even to
eastern Europe. In the main, however, they belong to that body of
religious ideas and customs that pervaded southeastern Asia and cer-
tain adjacent island groups from times probably before the appear-
ance of a Bronze Age civilization in northern China,
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 503

Examples of these latter traits are: the dragon-boat festival, espe-
cially characteristic of southern China but extending over a wide area
outside China itself (Bishop, 1938b, pp. 415-424); the tug-of-war;
ceremonial swinging; and the ritual bullfight (Bishop, 1925)—all of
them practices apparently connected with the promotion of fertility.

Later Chinese religion was only in part an outgrowth of the beliefs
that prevailed during Chou times. For the eventual disappearance
of the feudal system with its aristocratic ancestor worship caused the
destruction of the latter in its old form and its adoption, with certain
important modifications, by the Chinese people in general. Traces of
the old aristocratic religion may, however, be seen even today in the
Confucian system (for the temple to Confucius at his birthplace see
pl. 12, fig. 1); and many of the ancient beliefs of the masses, among
them probably survivals from Neolithic times, still appear in modern
Taoism.

For Confucius (551-479 B. C.) was himself a member of the Chou
nobility (though claiming descent from Shang times), a loyal subject
of his feudal prince and of the Chou king, and a faithful follower
of the code of conduct of his own social class. (See pl. 9, fig. 2 for
the tomb of Confucius.) During several centuries after his death,
however, his teachings exerted little influence; and it was not until
the founding of the Han Dynasty (ca. 200 B. C.) that the authorities,
realizing the importance of Confucianism as an instrument of state-
craft and a means of controlling the people, began to give it recognition
and encouragement.

On the other hand, the ancient Chinese popular beliefs and practices
tended more and more to associate themselves with the doctrines of
Laotze (traditional date of birth 604 B. C.). That philosopher, of
whose teachings the later Taoist system is in part the product, voiced
the resentment of the masses against the arrogance, tyranny, and
bloodshed of the feudal princes. His views were essentially demo-
cratic, and denied the value of petty human distinctions and ambitions.
Hence the very ancient but long-submerged beliefs of the lower classes
have naturally tended to crystallize about his teachings.

Later, during the early centuries of the Christian Era, Chinese
religious ideas, together with other cultural features, spread over a
large part of the Far East. Notably was this the case with Indo-
China, Korea. and Japan. Manchuria, Mongolia, and Tibet—regions
no farther away geographically but with different types of culture
patterns—were less intimately affected.

Music.—Music played a part of great importance during the Chou’
period in all ceremonial life, on religious occasions as well as at
banquets, archery contests, and the like. It had especially religious
and magical connotations, and correct tunes were supposed to frighten
away evil spirits and summon beneficent ones, including those of the
504 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

ancestors when these were to receive worship. Musical instruments
were drums and bronze bells (see fig. 9); flutes, single and double;
whistles; and sets of musical stones. Simple stringed instruments
seem also to have been used (Creel, 1936, pp. 330 et seq.).

'
eo oe ee ew ee ee ee edd bee eee we enw ee He =e '

eee eenee eee een = ee eee =

t= -- ------ 5
[a OO SS a a a a oS Se eR ae ee 5
ol

Scale: 2000 feet

Figure 18.—Hypothetical reconstruction of grave mound of Ch‘in Shih Huang Ti.
(See pl. 1.)

Disposal of the dead.—As we have already seen, disposal of the
dead naturally played a part of the first importance among an ancestor-
worshiping people like the ancient Chinese nobles, during all periods.

During Chou times burial, not cremation, was the general rule.
There were, however, exceptions. A few indications exist of a rite
of cremation, sometimes accompanied by chariot burial. Mention is
made of a group in the northwest (perhaps, however, non-Chinese)
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 505

. who burned their dead on pyres. And a custom of cremation, appar-
ently not of Buddhist origin, is still practiced by certain Tibeto-
Burman tribes of western China.

During the Chou period the important dead, covered with red
pigment, were placed in wooden chambers constructed underground.
Goods and particularly bronze vessels were buried with them, as well
as human beings, although not in such numbers as in the preceding
Shang Dynasty. Chariot burials also occurred, as in the west. Burial
mounds, usually though not always truncated pyramids of earth,
often gigantic in size, were then erected over them. (See pl. 1 and
figs. 18, 19, and 20.)

Ficure 19.—Group of ancient grave mounds, northwestern China.

THE BRONZE AGE REACHES WESTERN JAPAN

Apparently about the close of the Chou period or very shortly
thereafter, bronze began to appear in western Japan. It came from
the Asiatic continent by two routes, the one through Kyushu, western-
most of the larger islands of the archipelago, the other from Korea
to the northwestern shores of the main island. The area over which
it diffused itself was roughly that bordering the Japanese Inland
Sea; it did not extend far beyond the eastern extremity of that body
of water.

IRON AGE

IRON APPEARS IN CHINA

The advent of iron in China had no such revolutionary effect on the
development of civilization there as had that of bronze, something
like a thousand years earlier. It had no immediate influence on the
political, social, or economic life of the country, but meant merely
506 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

the gradual substitution of one metal for another as the superiority .
of iron over bronze for certain purposes became slowly apparent.

Tron had been well known in the Near East for something like a
thousand years before jt appeared in China, first perhaps in the
Yangtze Valley. The balance of probability seems to be that the
knowledge of how to smelt and work iron reached China from northern
India. The route it followed was apparently the one traversed by
rice, the domestic fowl, and other culture traits almost certainly of
Indian origin—in other words, the same region through which passes
the highly strategic Burma Road.

At all events we find domestic utensils and agricultural imple-
ments being made of iron around 500 B.C. In both the Yellow River
and the Yangtze basins, however, that metal only very slowly sup-
planted bronze as the material for weapons. A similar phenomenon
also occurred in Homeric Greece, where bronze continued to be
employed for weapons of war long after iron was being used for
domestic utensils.

Superior iron ores and abundant wood for charcoal encouraged pro-
duction of steel in the Yangtze Valley; but in northern China, where
wood was scarcer, coal came to be used in the reduction and manufac-
ture of iron.

Long, straight, steel swords, often double-edged and far superior to
the old short ones of bronze, appeared in China toward the close of the
Chou period. Weapons apparently very similar are shown on the
Assyrian monuments of something like 500 years earlier, and were
probably carried both east and west by the steppe peoples; in the
Occident this type eventually developed into the “Crusader’s sword.”

Swords of this type may, too, very possibly have aided the warlike
northwestern state of Ch‘in in its conquest of all China, late in the
third century B.C. These blades seem to have come into general use
in China (save in the extreme south, where bronze still lingered),
shortly before the commencement of our era.

FALL OF THE CHOUS: FIRST CHINESE EMPIRE

During these conquests, Ch‘in brought to an ignominious end the
very ancient Chou Dynasty, long since lapsed into powerlessness and
insignificance. In its stead, toward the close of the third century
B. C., the reigning king of Ch‘in established a real Chinese Empire.®
This he erected on bureaucratic foundations of which traces survive
even today. As its absolute ruler he assumed the title “Shih Huang
Ti”—‘First Emperor.” (For a view and plan of the enormous grave
mound of this man of genius, see pl. 1, and fig. 18.)

®* From the name Ch‘in almost certainly comes our own for China. Those who dispute
this, on the ground that the latter name appears (in India) before the founding of the

Chinese Empire, forget that the state of Ch'in had previously annexed the eastern terminal
of both the two transcontinental routes linking China and the Occident (see map, fig. 1).
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 507

SPREAD OF IRON TO NEIGHBORING LANDS

Into many adjacent regions, such as southern China, Manchuria,
Korea, and western Japan, iron was introduced from northern China,
during the early centuries of the Christian Era. In certain of these
regions, as we have just seen, bronze had already begun to be used;
but there iron soon overtook and superseded it. In other areas, as for
example eastern Japan, where bronze had not yet been adopted, the
transition was direct from the Stone Age to that of iron, without the
interposition of a Bronze Age at all. This is in fact what has taken
place in most parts of the world.

The seaboard region of northern China was still in the hands of
non-Chinese peoples until late in the first millennium B. C. For
example, the birthplace of Mencius, about the middle of the fourth
century B. C., had less than 200 years earlier (1. e., in the time of
Confucius) still been in the hands of “barbarians.” The assimilation
of the coastal populations of northern China by the Chinese civiliza-
tion seems indeed to have been a cultural rather than a military
conquest.

The inhabitants of extreme southern China, perhaps of the Mon-
Khmer linguistic stock, were yet in the Bronze Age at the beginning
of the Christian Era; but they soon thereafter came under the in-
fluence of the Chinese civilization, already in its Iron Age, pushing
down from the north.

Southern China.—The numerous waterways and the bold, deeply in-
dented coast line of southern China naturally invited the development
of an esentially aquatic mode of life (Bishop, 1934, pp. 316-325;
1938b). Probably even before knowledge of metals had appeared,
large dugout canoes were being made. (See fig. 15.) These, propelled
by paddles alone, were nevertheless capable of long voyages along
the Asiatic coast. Not, however, until the sail had appeared could
penetration of oceanic areas begin.

This southern culture had before the (local) dawn of history spread
as far as southern Korea, western Japan, and the East Indian islands.
Today it survives in purest and least modified form (though it knows
iron) in parts of Borneo and of Indo-China.

Indo-China—The civilization of Indo-China, though resting
basically on a strong aboriginal foundation, was greatly affected by
the more advanced ones of both China and India. These began to
make themselves felt there around the beginning of the Christian
Era, and provided the necessary stimulus for the development of a
characteristic form of culture during the first millennium A. D.

Korea.—Northern Korea, too, was drawn increasingly into the
Chinese cultural orbit. This tendency was accelerated and augmented,
toward the close of the first millennium B. C., by refugees fleeing from
508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

disorders in northern China. Also, the great Han emporer Wu Ti
(see fig. 20), late in the second century B. C., established a Chinese
colony in northern Korea which survived for several hundred years;
while an independent kingdom with a civilization of Bronze Age
type arose about the same time or perhaps a little later in the south-
eastern part of the peninsula. Both colony and kingdom became im-

N
wi
Ss
Oi es
j Y (zeae aoanie sae eioass

N

j
yp 2G OOeG 7
ll

oo Pp]

bal

we mr ee oe ee em em om wm ew oe ew ww owe

Scale: 600 feet

FIcuRE 20.—Plan and elevation of grave mound of Han Wu Ti.

portant secondary centers from which civilizing influences spread over
much of eastern Asia.

Japan.—Toward the close of the Chou period again, a stream of cul-

tural influences from around the mouth of the Yantze River reached
Kyushu, in western Japan. In that country it encountered other
streams from Korea and even from southern Manchuria, and inter-
mingled with them to form the historical J apanese civilization. The
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 509

latter also thus owed its origin and stimulus entirely to the continent
of Asia, especially to China.

The founder of the Japanese imperial line, the “official” Japanese
accounts tell us, was descended from the Sun Goddess, and conquered
the western part of the archipelago.’? At that time and for long
afterward, central and eastern Japan remained in the hands of the
Ainu aborigines, then (from their remains) still in the Neolithic stage
of culture but gradually absorbing more advanced elements of civiliza-
tion from their invaders and ultimate conquerors.

The very brief and partial Bronze Age culture of western Japan
was thus soon superseded by an Iron Age civilization of continental
origin, which by the close of the first millennium A. D. had overspread
the entire archipelago save its extreme northern portion.

The Japanese Early Iron Age (the so-called Dolmen Period) was
characterized by burial in megalithic chambers or dolmens over which
great mounds were erected; by the form of steel sword used ; by fight-
ing on horseback with the bow and arrow; and by many other traits,
most of them Chinese in origin but others pointing in the direction of
central Asia and even of the Occident. (Sansom, 1982.)

SUMMARY

Let us now recapitulate. Forms of man have occupied eastern
Asia from very ancient times—from the early Pleistocene period at
least—for “Peking man,” one of the most primitive human types yet
found, dates from that remote epoch.

Paleolithic (Old Stone Age) man later appeared in northern China,
Mongolia, the extreme south of Asia, and perhaps Japan. He may
also, there is some reason to suspect, have spread to the Philippines
while those islands were still attached to the continent of Asia, and
have survived there for a long time.

Later yet, though still long before the dawn of history, various forms
of Neolithic (New Stone Age) cultures spread all over the Far East,
where they are divisible into two fundamental classes, a northern and
a southern. These both agree however in deriving their subsistence
from planting, eked out in the one case by hunting, in the other by
fishing. They had thus both already passed far beyond the stage of
mere food gathering and had become food producing. Probably to-
ward the second half of the third millennium B. C. there appeared in
northern China, near the eastern end of the “corridor of the steppes,” a
more advanced culture, still Neolithic or New Stone Age in character—
that is, quite without metals—but possessing a painted pottery that

10 The date claimed by the Japanese for the founding of their imperial line, 660 B. C., is

of course absurd. The actual time seems to have been about the commencement of our era,
and reliable and continuous Japanese history does not begin until considerably later still.
510 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

has been likened to similar forms of ware found in southeastern
Europe. Not long afterward, again, probably around 2000 B. C.
there arose in the same general region a Chalcolithic period, with the
first evidence of bronze in China.

A little later still—toward the middle of the second millennium
B. C., for we have now reached the protohistoric era—we find in the
Yellow River basin a highly developed civilization of Bronze Age
type, based on almost the same set of fundamental elements as had
been the far more ancient river valley civilizations of the Near East.

Figure 21.—Map of China, showing the 18 provinces.

This new culture—of its origin we as yet know nothing—slowly dif-
fused itself until toward the middle of the following millennium it
overspread most of northern China.

It then went on to penetrate various marginal areas, notably south-
ern China, Korea, and western Japan. Soon afterward, however, it
yielded place in turn to an Age of Iron (of rather archaic type, it is
true, compared with the one that had already come into being in the
Near East over half a millennium before).

Thus our survey reveals to us one outstanding fact, viz, that as civil-
ization advanced in the Old World, it developed not one but two great
centers of culture diffusion—the Near East on the one hand, China on
the other. The latter country has in fact played a civilizing role in
FAR EASTERN CIVILIZATIONS—BISHOP 511

eastern Asia quite worthy of comparison with the better-known one

assumed
Rome.

in the Occident by Babylonia and Egypt, by Greece and

REFERENCES AND SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY

AsBBoT, C. G., HkpnIGKA, ALES, and BrsHop, C. W.

1938.

ANDERSSON,

1929.

1934.

BisHop, C. W.

1925.

1932a.
1932b.

1982c.

1938a.

1933b.

19338c.

Man from the farthest past. Smithsonian Sci. Ser., vol. 7. New York.

J. G.

Der Weg die Steppen. Bull. Mus. Far Eastern Antiquities, No. 1,
pp. 148-1638. Stockholm.

Children of the Yellow Earth: Studies in prehistoric China. London.

The ritual bullfight. China Journ., vol. 3, No. 12, pp. 630-6387,
December.

China: Aesthetic development. Enc. Britannica, 14th ed., pp. 546-549.

The rise of civilization in China with reference to its geographical
aspects. Geogr. Rev., vol. 22, No. 4, pp. 617-631, October.

The chronology of ancient China. Journ. Amer. Orient. Soc., vol. 52,
No. 3, pp. 282-247, September.

The Neolithic Age in northern China. Antiquity, vol. 7, pp. 389-404,
December.

Rhinoceros and wild ox in ancient China. China Journ., vol. 18, No. 6,
pp. 322-330, June.

The worship of earth in ancient China. Journ. North China Branch

Roy. Asiatic Soe., vol. 64, pp. 22-43. Also printed in Excayation of

a West Han Dynasty Site, pp. 1-20, Shanghai, 1932.

1934. The beginnings of north and south in China. Pacific Affairs, vol. 7,
No. 3, pp. 297-825, September.
1936. <A civilization by osmosis—ancient China. Amer. Scholar, vol. 5, sum-
mer No., pp. 323-326.
1938a. An ancient Chinese capital: Earthworks at old Ch‘ang-an. An-
tiquity, vol. 12, pp. 68-78, March. Reprinted in Ann. Rep. Smith-
sonian Inst. for 1938, pp. 569-578, 1939.
1938b. Long-houses and dragon-boats. Antiquity, vol. 12, pp. 411-424, De-
cember.
Buxton, L. H. DUDLEY.
1928. China, the land and the people. Oxford.
CHaAo, Y. R.
1932. Music, in Zen, Symposium, pp. 82-96.

Curt, CH‘IAO-TING.

1936.

Key economic areas in Chinese history. London.

CREEL, H. G.

1935.

Dragon bones. Asia, March, pp. 176-182.

1936. The birth of China. New York.
1987. Studies in early Chinese culture. Baltimore.
CRESSEY, G. B.
1934. China’s geographic foundations. New York and London.
Hopovus, L.
1927. Folkways in China. London.
Hopson, G. H.
1934. Europe and China: A survey of their relations from the earliest times

to 1800. London.
512 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Hv SHIH.
1932. Religion and philosophy in Chinese history, in Zen, Symposium, pp.
51-58.
JANSE, OLOV.
1930a. Quelques Epeés anciennes trouvées en Chine. Bull. Mus. Far Hast-
ern Antiquities, No. 2, pp. 67-134. Stockholm.
1930b. Antiquités Chinoises d’un Charactére Hallistattien. Ibid., pp. 177-
183.
KARLBECK, ORVAR.
1925. Ancient Chinese bronze weapons. China Journ., vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 127-
183, March.
IXARLGREN, BERNHARD.
1923. Sound and symbol in Chinese. London.
LATOURETTE, K. S.
1934. The Chinese, their history and culture. 2 vols. New York.
LAUFER, BERTHOLD.
1914-1915. Some fundamental ideas of Chinese culture. Journ. Race De-
velop., vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 160-174.
1934. Chinese clay figures. Chicago.
Li Cui.
1928. The formation of the Chinese people: An anthropological inquiry.
Harvard Univ. Press.
1932. Archaeology, in Zen, Symposium, pp. 184-190.
MASPERO, HENRI.
1927. La Chine Antique. Paris.
Pore-HENNESSY, U. B.
1923. Early Chinese jades. London.

Sansom, G. B.

1932. Japan, a short cultural history. London.
Tao, L. K.

1932. Social changes, in Zen, Symposium, pp. 293-304.
Tine, V. K.

1932. How China acquired her civilization, in Zen, Symposium, pp. 9-30.
WILHELM, RICHARD.
1929. A short history of Chinese civilization. New York.
WILLIAMS, E. T.
1927. China, yesterday and today. 8d ed. New York.
WILuIAMs, S. WELLS.
1901. The Middle Kingdom. Rev. ed., 2 vols. New York.
ZEN, SOPHIA R. CHEN (editress).
1932. A symposium of Chinese culture. Rev. ed., Shanghai. (Cited as
“Zen, Symposium.’’)
CO ‘& 01% ‘d)
TIVM LYaYS SHL AO YSq1ING GNV AYIdWa ASSNIHD S3HL AO YSQNNO4G ‘IL SNVNH HIHS NI,HD 4O GNNOW 3AveS

(oe ER et CO ting, tiie on

| ALV 1d doysig—¢p6| ‘q4oday uetuosyzIWiG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Bishop PLATE 2

ak

1. NEOLITHIC PIT DWELLING, BLOCKED OUT FOR EXCAVATION.

2. SIMILAR UNDERGROUND HUT. AFTER CLEARING.
‘edo! Ur su11mn900 Ysnoq4

‘BUIgO JUsI0Ue JO} pajiodal 04184 }IY JOU UIIO} SITY], ‘ga9q04 GSaLvyYsas

“LIG AO HLIM T113HS
S3DFIdMSAHD YATILNYV AO SMFIA OML “2 dO 30V1g AIMOIS ‘1

€ 3Lv1d doysig—¢p6| ‘340dayy ueruosyjtUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Bishop PLATE 4

1. CHINESE WATER WHEELS MADE OF BAMBOO.

2. CHINESE SUSPENSION BRIDGE WITH BAMBOO CABLES.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Bishop PLATE 5

1. JUNKS UNDER SAIL, HANGCHOW BAY, NEAR NINGPO.

2. SCENE ON UPPER YANGTZE RIVER.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Bishop PLATE 6

1. TRAVEL BY LAND.

Loess deposits in distance.

2. TRAVEL BY WATER.
The Yangtze Gorges.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Bishop PLATE 7

1. PILE VILLAGE NEAR YANGTZE RIVER.

2. COUNTRY VILLAGE, NORTHWESTERN CHINA.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Bishop PLATE 8

i

ae

1. TEMPLE OF HEAVEN, PEKING.

2. SUMMER PALACE. NEAR PEKING.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Bishop PLATE 9

5

we

is SEEM ow

1. TEMPLE AT SACRED SPRING, NORTHWESTERN CHINA.

2. TOMB OF CONFUCIUS, JUST NORTH OF HIS BIRTHPLACE.
Ol

3LV1d

“AZNOYG AO SAAINM GNV SLNIOd ADONV7] ASANIHD LNAIONY

doysig—¢p6| ‘40deyy uetuosy IWC
Lt

‘oO °G@ WNINNATIIW LSYIa AO AIGIGIW ‘3SN AWINOWSYsaD HOS S1aSSAA AZNOUYg AS

ANIHD

ALV1d

doystqq—*¢p6| “Woday ueruosy WIS
el

SaLV1d

“ONIM3Ad YVAN
SEAWOL ONIW AHL ‘SNWN10OD NAGOOM ‘Zz

“SOV IdHLYIgG
SIH LY “SNIONANOD 4AO AIdWAL ‘|

6

doysig—¢p6| ‘oda ueruosyzUG
CONTOURS OF CULTURE IN INDONESIA?

By RAYMOND KENNEDY
Yale University

[With 12 plates]

The islands of Indonesia are of exceeding interest to the ethnologist
for a variety of reasons, This is an ancient area of human habitation,
where the history of man runs back to its very beginnings. Java Man
stands at the head of Indonesian genealogy, and he lived hundreds of
thousands of years ago. Since then, countless waves of migrants have
moved into the islands. The ancestors of the primitive Tasmanians
and Australians, the Oceanic Negroes of Melanesia, and the Polyne-
sians of the Pacific all trod the soil of the Indies in long-past ages.
The texture of history is deep here, deeper than almost anywhere else
on earth,

Another remarkable fact about the Indies is that these historical
levels have been caught in action, as it were, and preserved until the
present day. The various tribes of the islands now exhibit in their
cultures virtually the entire range of civilizations which have existed
in the past. They represent a living reconstruction of the cultural
progression that has taken place in the area. The way of life of the
nomadic Kubu of Sumatra and Punan of Borneo is probably a fairly
intact survival of general conditions in the archipelago 20,000 years
ago, and other isolated groups preserve ancient patterns of culture in
the same manner. The Batak and Gayo, now pushed back into the
mountainous interior of Sumatra, show the kind of life prevailing
much more widely in old times; and the Mentaweian and Niassan
peoples of the remote islands off Sumatra’s west coast present a living
picture of an even earlier period. The Minangkabau of Sumatra offer
a good approximation to the culture all the later Malays possessed
when they first entered the Indies. The Balinese civilization of today
is a replica of the life of the medieval Hindu-Javanese, before Moham-
medanism swept over Java in the fifteenth century. Thus the pres-
ent range of cultures in Indonesia is a kind of living museum, giving
a composite view of the development of civilization in the area.

1 Reprinted by permission from The Far Eastern Quarterly, November 1942.
oo
514 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The Indies also stand out as one of the few remaining parts of the
world where actively functioning and relatively intact native cultures
may still be studied. Most of the interior regions have only recently
been opened up to outside access, many large districts still remain
virtually untouched by European influence, and the Dutch colonial
administration has maintained a beneficent, paternalistic attitude to-
ward its subject peoples, allowing and even encouraging them to con-
tinue their traditional ways of life with a minimum of interference.
Probably the greatest factor in preserving the native cultures relatively
intact is the enormous populations of the tribes, which are increasing
steadily. In many if not most other “native” areas of the world the
aboriginal groups have declined markedly in numbers as a result of
white conquest. In Indonesia, force of numbers has given strength
in resisting alien influences; and the result is that the islands offer a
peerless field of research to the ethnologist wishing to study so-called
primitive societies in action. And, as remarked above, the cultures
cover an amazingly wide range: all the way from the simplest on earth
to highly evolved civilizations of long standing.

RACIAL TYPES

The Hindu period of Indonesian history began about 1,500 years
ago; and with it written records start. The ages before this can be
reconstructed only by inference from archeology and legendry. Long
before the dawn of written history the ancestors of most of the Indo-
nesians had entered the islands; probably the last influx of the later
Malays occurred around 2000 B. C. The only additions after that
time were the relatively few Hindus, Arabs, Chinese, and, recently,
Europeans. The earliest racial types in the islands have now either
disappeared, or appear only in very remote tribes. These archaic
strains are Australoid, Oceanic Negroid, Negrito, and Veddoid. The
first two passed through the Indies long ago on their way to their
ultimate homes in Australia and the Melanesian islands. Traces of
them are still discernible in the present population, particularly in
the easternmost islands of the Lesser Sundas, the Flores-Timor zone.
The Negritos, the dwarf Negroid stock, also apparently very ancient
in the Indies, are now pretty well submerged, but in a few places there
are tribes showing Negrito characteristics. Mostly they dwell in the
remoter districts: the swamps of east Sumatra, the mountainous back-
country of the eastern Lesser Sundas, and the deep interior of New
Guinea. The primitive, frail-boned Veddoid stock has also been
forced out into the poorer swamp and jungle country of south Su-
matra, interior Borneo and Celebes, and the eastern islands of In-
donesia.
*1942°
ORAWN OY
LEONARD MAS

Re BtRe?

THAILAND.

: nn ~ oie | Re
on a “
iy 2 GULF aoe “2p Q es
*
9% 2 Saigon pANAY i
° ° OF 8] e my, P A C / F / Cc
ok ig PALAWAN
~ S stAn NEGROS
ieee YAPo*
na
° on SULUY SEA a
“ SOUTH CHINA SEA oo
. 06 PALAOG
Q te Zamboanga G
a PI Laer 7 wasuan
venango oeu a BRIT. a Sondakon Ilo oO
= Sy ~ E Bruni@5 *NORTH ay sae
AS > RQ as Miriff ~Gnunch, BORNEOS ae OF Ge CB sft. OM
s i ne § 2G "SS c TALAUT
4 Medany o + a MEA ELE BES 1s.
a ay ANAMBAS % Padi so %
Boole » ak ors . S* ats «© SOterakan SANGIRY
- 9 J © NATUNA 15. Das a
O\Sa “a af ° a SEA “@ t
oN 3 oN *PSARAWAK, ne 0 a) Sake 6/) MoROTAS
Sibolgas¢ <= = ingapore = aan ™ fe) e
“~ Pe asta “a
= TamBELAN = /* Ayite yet?
NIAS am WS oo SCORIAUIS. a 15. see notte t in ‘ yae 7g a Ais
rs ee na << PO aie > MALMAHERA MAPIA 54
N “a Sy oPontianak PND On ei 4 \ ee o cS ecuaTon
., pe WAIGEO
sala Ben tins *@unoca 1s. 4 ie aon *e Mice oe ola re es . Sos
Padand Ment x a * re) “Sy, Balikkpapan ¢ 99 are: S BATANTAs= 3 —) SCHOUTEN 15.
%, OT s no ers EN Py qBANooAl SALAWATIY bss
> 1S.
Ye, ee ee BANKA “ = ° . re our yMison
7 A 6
4 A ° O° BRD) ar G * CERAM Woha
3 kul on, Palembang eiLLtTON ey 7; ¥ eeieteeeet Fokfany>
enkUleDe rene 7 Seanah
SeueM AT A pes we * oni Namboina saa oF
4 an
SA JAVA SEA BANDA WATUBELA

BANDA SEA

ENGANOY

SALAYAR

FLORES SEA

Ong Surakarta
se hick chor

sd ps

IAN

Thilajap

Dilys SERMATA
Yo qi Ende © = ke VI eoatvoutse)
sy lin L5Feon TIMOR SEA
4 cS sumBA sau og Torres Sér.
° Kupang

Oo c a F = ROT! ee ‘we

Derwing

THE

EAST INDIES

“1942+
ORAWN oY
LEONARD MASON

566766—44 (Face p. 514)

Ficure 1.—The East Indies.
~ a an |
a

Ps Pg eS el
eh ANC

Cae,

SHT | ;

eHtavl TaAg ie

f A '
A oé
inate nninemenien ae ee

® » ay.
>} i

INDONESIA—KEN NEDY 515

The two main racial strains are the proto-Malay and the deutero-
Malay, or, as we shall call them, the earlier and the later Malays.
Both of these racial types are small, brown-skinned, and wavy- or
straight-haired; but the earlier Malays, who came into the islands
from the mainland of Asia before the later stock, are generally more
“Caucasoid” in facial appearance, shorter, more wavy-haired, and nar-
rower-headed. The later Malay type looks much more Mongoloid,
has predominantly coarse and straight hair, and is very broad-headed.
Whereas the earlier stock is now restricted mainly to the interior dis-
tricts of the large western islands and to the remoter eastern parts
of the archipelago, the later Malay strain predominates in the coastal
areas of western Indonesia, and has only recently spread in appreci-
able force to the eastern islands.

The cultural differentiation runs parallel with the physical, in gen-
eral. Thus the tribes of’ earlier Malay type, inhabiting the more
inaccessible regions, are still largely pagan in religion, only partially
influenced by Hindu civilization or Mohammedanism, lack many of
the more advanced techniques of material culture, and preserve ancient
features of social organization. The later Malays, living mostly in
coastal districts, have undergone strong Hinduist acculturation and
are now nearly all Mohammedan in religion, possess a wide repertory
of manufacturing techniques, and have long since adopted centralized
state forms of government.

LANGUAGES

Despite these differences, which are due mainly to the relative loca-
tions of the two racial types, there are innumerable elements of cul-
tural similarity prevailing throughout the islands.

One of these is language. All the peoples of Indonesia, with only
three exceptions, speak languages belonging to the same basic stock,
the Malayo-Polynesian or Austronesian, which also spreads over most
of the Oceanic islands, the Philippines, part of southeastern Asia, and
Madagascar. The three exceptions are the natives of northern Hal-
mahera in the Moluccas, eastern Alor in the Lesser Sundas, and inte-
rior New Guinea. For want of a better term, these languages are
lumped together as “Papuan,” which means merely that they do not
belong to the Austronesian stock but have not yet been properly classi-
fied otherwise. Few of the Indonesians can read and write. Those
who do use either an ancient kind of script, derived from Hindu writ-
ing, or the Arabic alphabet. Recently, the schools established by
the government and the missionaries have spread knowledge of the
Roman alphabet over many districts. Some of the more primitive
tribes, such as the Batak and Redjang of Sumatra, are able to write
516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

in the archaic Hindu-derived script, but this is rapidly giving way
to Arabic and Roman writing.

ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES

The principal economic activity is agriculture. Some groups still
subsist largely by hunting and gathering wild products. These in-
clude the nomadic Kubu tribes of Sumatra, the Punan of Borneo, and
a few of the remoter peoples of the eastern islands. The archipelago
can be divided into three main agricultural zones, each distinguished
by its principal crop. The western rice zone includes all the Greater
Sunda Islands (Sumatra, Borneo, Celebes, and Java), and the west-
ern Lesser Sundas (Bali, Lombok, and Sumbawa). The central maize
area, where corn is the mainstay of subsistence, covers the eastern
Lesser Sundas and most of the southern Moluccas, as well as the Sula
Islands in the northern Moluccas. The eastern sago zone, where the
natives obtain their basic food supply from the meal of the sago palm,
includes some of the southern Moluccas, nearly all of the northern
Moluccas, and runs over into New Guinea. This is the general picture,
to which minor exceptions could be made in a more detailed survey.
Also, these areas are not mutually exclusive; maize is grown in
regions where rice is predominant, and vice versa; while sago eaters
in many instances also plant both rice and maize. Other crops, too,
are cultivated, such as coconuts, yams, taro, and several varieties of
vegetables, but the three main products are rice, maize, and sago.
Wet rice, grown on irrigated fields, was introduced into the islands
later than dry rice, which is planted in dry earth after the fields have
been cleared and burned over. Irrigated rice agriculture has yet to
reach the interior regions of the large western islands, and is almost
totally unknown in the eastern parts of the Indies. Even dry rice has
not spread to the easternmost islands, 1for to some of the remoter dis-
tricts of the Greater Sundas. It appears thus that rice is not a very
ancient product of Indonesia, and that before it was introduced, per-
haps about 2,000 years ago, yams, taro, and millet were the staple
crops. Maize, an American plant, came only recently to the Indies,
of course. The areas where it is now the staple formerly had millet
as the main crop.

Dogs, cats, chickens, pigs, and goats are the oldest domesticated ani-
mals of Indonesia, and are found in nearly every district. Water
buffalo and cattle, however, would appear to be much more recent,
and are still absent in many parts of the Indies. Horses and sheep
are the newest additions among the animals, the former having prob-
ably been introduced by the Hindus and the latter by the Europeans.
Animal husbandry, except for the raising of pigs and chickens, is
relatively unimportant in Indonesian economy, and the native diet
INDONESIA—KEN NEDY 57

includes far more fish than meat. Fishing, indeed, ranks second only
to agriculture as a source of food.

HOUSES

Nearly all the houses of the Indies peoples are rectangular structures
of wood or bamboo, with thatched roofs. In most regions they are
raised up on piles, and this appears to be the more ancient type of con-
struction. In Java and a few other places the natives build their
dwellings directly on the ground, evidently a newer practice. In Bali,
such buildings have clay walls rather than wood or bamboo, but this is
a unique case. The Indonesian pile houses range in size all the way
from the small single-family Malay structures to the enormous Borneo
longhouses, often measuring hundreds of feet in length. There are
isolated instances of divergent house types, such as the simple tempo-
rary shelters of nomadic tribes, the “beehive” circular dwellings found
in parts of Timor and Flores and the little island of Engano off Suma-
tra, the floating raft huts of the Akit of Sumatra, and the round or
oval roofed houses of the Land Dyak in Borneo, the northern Halma-
herans, the Savunese, and the northern Niassans. Some of these, par-
ticularly the “beehive” structures, probably represent very ancient
types which have now disappeared from most of the archipelago.
Stone is almost never used for buildings in the Indies, but sculptured
monuments of impressive size are erected by the Batak of Sumatra,
the people of Nias off the west Sumatra coast, and the Sumbanese.
Less pretentious stonework is done in many other regions, and the
widespread occurrence of old megalithic remains throughout the
archipelago indicates that in the past the use of stone for nonutilitar-
ian, probably mostly religious, purposes was much more prevalent than
it is at present. Under Hindu influence, Indonesian stone workman-
ship attained its supreme height in medieval Java. The Javanese have
now lost this art, but it still flourishes in Bali.

HANDICRAFTS

There are many places in Indonesia where the craft of weaving has
vet to penetrate. There the natives, especially in central Celebes,
make their clothes of bark cloth, which was once the only dress fabric
known in the islands, except for matwork and leaf garments. Weav-
ing arrived relatively late in the Indies and shows two levels of de-
velopment. The older type of weaving, found in the more isolated
districts, is done on a back-bar loom, which has one end of the frame
attached to the weaver’s body. The more complicated looms have fixed
frames. Metalworking evidently predated weaving in the archipel-
ago, and has spread much more widely. Indeed, only the most primi-

566766—44——34
518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

tive Indonesians lack the ability to manufacture articles of metal.
Pottery, though undoubtedly a very ancient craft, is poorly done. It
appears that the ready availability of bamboo and gourd containers in-
hibited the development of clay vessels in the area. Matwork and
basketry and wood carving are universal handicrafts, practiced by
even the lowliest tribes. The highest development of material culture
occurs, however, in metal and woven artifacts, the finest of all Indones-
ian products being the ceremonial krisses and the beautifully batikked
and ikatted (tie-dyed) textiles.

The most primitive peoples wear bark-cloth loin wrappings, al-
though in New Guinea even these scanty coverings are dispensed
with in some districts. The loincloth for men and the short kilt for
women carry over into many tribes where woven fabrics are used,
but the standard costume of the more advanced regions consists of a
sarong and blouse for women, and a sarong or trousers and shirt for
men, all made from either locally woven material or trade cloth. Body
ornaments are most elaborate on intermediate levels of culture—
among the earlier Malay peoples of Borneo, Celebes, and Sumatra, for
instance—and decrease in quantity and variety on either end of the
cultural spectrum, among the most primitive and the most civilized
groups. ‘The most popular decorations are headdresses, ear pendants,
necklaces, and arm and leg rings.

Artificial mutilation of the body, for the purpose of beautification
and sometimes with social and religious implications, reaches an
amazing development in Indonesia. Virtually universal are ear
piercing, often involving extreme distension of the lobes and incision
of the upper part of the ear as well, and filing of the front teeth,
either to points, or horizontally, or with grooves on the outer surface.
Almost as prevalent is mutilation of the male sex organ. The older
practice is supercision, or splitting the upper part of the prepuce
without removing any flesh. Evidently more recent, and largely
confined to Mohammedan regions, is true circumcision, or cutting off
the prepuce entirely. Incision of the female genitals is so closely
coextensive with circumcision that it would appear to be a later, and
perhaps associated, practice. A few tribes in Borneo and Celebes
pierce the penis for the insertion of knobbed rods or similar devices,
the purpose being purely erotic—to augment the sensation of women
in coitus. Tattooing is now confined mainly to the less advanced
places, but formerly was much more widespread in the archipelago.
Borneo, incidentally, is probably the greatest tattooing region in
the world. The foregoing are the principal forms of bodily mutila-
tion in the Indies. Sporadic occurrences of artificial head deforma-
tion, scarification by burning and cutting, body painting and stippling
with resin, and hair bleaching with lime complete the list, except for
nose piercing, which is confined to New Guinea.
INDONESIA—KEN NEDY 519

Spears, swords, and shields are, or were, virtually universal weapons
in the islands. The bow and blowgun also find widespread use; but
the former is more general in eastern Indonesia, the latter in the west-
ern part. This probably means that the blowgun is a more recent
weapon than the bow. Clubs and slings are rare, but appear to have
been more important in ancient times. One mention of returning
boomerangs appears in the literature; they are used as toys in a section
of central Celebes.

Although the more advanced peoples of the archipelago have built
and navigated large sailing ships for centuries, the Indonesian boat
par excellence is the dugout canoe with outriggers. With very few
exceptions, the outriggers extend from both sides of the canoe. The
attachments of the floats to the booms become more complicated
toward the eastern parts of the Indies, and in the Moluccas a wide
variety of outrigger styles can be seen. Transportation of goods
overland, except in areas where animals take the place of human
porters, regularly involves the use of back baskets, with lines going
over the forehead or shoulders, or both, in all the primitive parts of
Indonesia. The balance pole has replaced the back basket in most
of the more advanced regions.

SOCIAL ORGANIZATION

The social organization of the Indonesian peoples shows three
levels of development. First there are the few modern cities, where
the natives are partly Europeanized. Then there are the native
states, still semi-independent in most cases, a form of organization
originally imported in Hindu times about 1,500 years ago. Before
that, the social systems of the Indies had never developed beyond the
tribal or village-community stage, which is the third, and by far the
most important, level even today in most of the islands. The tribes
have little functional significance generally; the basic unit of native
government and social organization is the village community, and
each of these small groups lives almost entirely independent of the
others—politically and economically—even within the same tribal
area, Where life is still nomadic, the same pattern holds, and the
small bands of wandering Kubu and Punan are functionally discrete
units. The prevailing style of government, in both nomadic and
settled tribes, is democratic. Chiefs are chosen by general consent,
even where the office passes down through a single family line, for an
unsuitable successor will be deposed by his people. Moreover, the
village councils, composed of all or nearly all the adult males as a
rule, exercise effective control over the actions of the chiefs. Eco-
nomically, too, the Indonesian communities are basically democratic,
with communal ownership of land and little class distinction on the
520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

basis of wealth. Despotism in government and marked inequality in
property ownership are in nearly all cases traceable to “higher
civilization.”

In most parts of the islands, the only important social unit besides
the community is the family, or rather the extended family, for the
Indonesians lay more emphasis on the remoter degrees of kinship than
do Europeans and Americans. The majority of the tribes reckon re-
lationship on both the maternal and the paternal sides, as we do; but
in certain groups either the female or the male lineage determines a
person’s family membership. Throughout Java, Borneo, and Celebes,
the bilateral type of family prevails; but in most of Sumatra, the
Lesser Sundas, and some of the Moluccas, either matrilineal or patri-
lineal kinship schemes predominate. The kind of relationship sys-
tem that a tribe employs determines the marriage rules. Thus, while
all groups taboo primary incest (marriage with parents or brothers
or sisters), those with the “mother family” extend the prohibition of
marriage to quite distant degrees of relationship on the mother’s side,
but may allow even first-cousin marriage if the parties are connected
by way of their fathers. Exactly opposite rules apply in groups
with the “father family.” In parts of Sumatra and in some islands
of eastern Indonesia, matrilineal and patrilineal systems of kinship
become vastly elaborated by the development of clans. Where this
occurs in a patrilineal tribe, the taboo on marriage applies to all mem-
bers of the father’s clan, no matter how distantly related; while in
matrilineal tribes all persons in the mother’s clan are forbidden as
mates. Generally, also, the mode of reckoning descent governs place
of residence after marriage—i. e., with the wife’s or the husband’s
people—although in many bilateral kinship areas, notably Borneo
and Celebes, even though male relationship is considered as important
as female, a married couple nearly always reside among the wife’s
people.

In eastern Sumbawa, Flores, and the Alor-Solor Islands, totemism,
or belief in the descent of clans from animals or plants, occurs; and
in some districts here the clans are grouped in marriage classes, with
complicated rules of intergroup mating, a pattern strikingly remi-
niscent of certain New Guinea, Melanesian, and Australian social

systems.
NATIVE RELIGION

Indonesian native religion rests basically upon three partly over-
lapping and partly independent sets of concepts, i. e., beliefs con-
cerning magical power, spirits of various kinds, and the ghosts of the
dead. Even where Hinduism, and later Mohammedanism and Christi-
anity, have affected the beliefs and practices of the people, the ancient
INDONESIA—KEN NEDY 521

pagan cults persist and strongly color the more recently adopted
religions. The magical concepts emerge in the head-hunting com-
plex, for hunting of = heads'i is preeminently a religious duty, calculated
to enrich the supply of spiritual force of a community by capturing
heads, and the supernatural power they contain, from some other
group. Many of the rituals of the native tribes have the same pur-
pose, and priests and priestesses are regarded as experts in the tech-
nique of gaining access to and drawing upon the store of magical force
that pervades the universe. Mostly the purpose is beneficent—to heal
the sick, improve crops, and the like—but black magic can be used
against enemies. The spirit beliefs and practices are more specific
than those connected with magic. The rituais are “pointed” at cer-
tain recognized spirits, whose properties and powers are known.
Some of these beings are good, others bad; and the principal purpose
of the spirit cult is to gain the favor of the former in combating the
malevolent designs of the latter. Most of the tribes have ideas con-
cerning the existence of pantheons of high gods, but these deities are
too lofty and remote to exercise much immediate influence over lowly
humans. Therefore the lesser spirits—of the earth, water, air, and
sacred places—occupy a more vital and intimate place in the native
religions.

Probably the most inant cult in Indonesia, as in much of
eastern Asia, has to do with the ghosts of the dead and the ancestors.
The funeral peeonic of the Indies are more elaborate than perhaps
anywhere else in the world, and sacrifices to the departed ghosts, who
are powerful intermediaries between their living relatives and the gods
and spirits, must never be neglected. Fear of and respect for ances-
tors, whose existence in the afterlife is vividly real to the Indonesians,
make for stubborn conservatism, because the ancestors are sure to be
angered by any change in the ways they were used to on earth, and
will withdraw their favors from the living if the old customs are not
preserved.

Despite later infusions of Hinduism, Mohammedanism, and Chris-
tianity, the base of Indonesian religion is still paganism, the tradi-
tional beliefs and practices of the ancestors. “Conversion” usually
means merely taking on new names for old things. Nevertheless cer-
tain areas have been strongly influenced by alien religions. Bali is
unique in preserving the old Hinduist religion, which 600 years ago
was the faith of all Java and most of Sumatra. Mohammedanism,
of varying degrees of “purity,” has since spread over nearly all of
Sumatra, Java, and the coastal lands of Borneo and Celebes. It is
steadily making converts throughout the eastern islands, some of
which—notably Lombok and Sumbawa—are nominally almost com-
pletely Islamized. Christianity has never been able to make headway
522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

in previously Mohammedanized regions; indeed, the areas of influence
of the two religions are mutually exclusive to a marked degree. De-
spite centuries of missionary effort and enormous expenditures in
Mohammedan Java, for instance, there are now only about 200,000
Christians there, and probably not more than half of these are natives.
Christianity has made best progress among formerly pagan tribes:
the Batak of Sumatra, the Toradja and Minahasa of Celebes, and the
Amboinese of the Moluccas.

In general, the contours of culture in Indonesia display a strikingly
regular pattern of stratification. In the far eastern islands and in the
deep interior regions of the larger land masses, the most archaic racial
types and cultures are preserved. In the more accessible inland dis-
tricts of the Greater Sundas and in the westerly islands of the Lesser
Sundas, the racial stock is of the earlier Malay type and the level
of culture is “intermediate.” Finally, in the coastlands of western
Indonesia, one finds the most recent physical types and cultural accre-
tions, which are steadily spreading inland and eastward into the terri-
tories where until today the ancient peoples of the Indies carry on
their age-old traditions in the shadow of impending change.
(qsun yp
“¢ Aq ydeisojoyg) “du Aysop pue posseidep 4yeyMouos B
sey ‘BY pue pra ysnoy) ‘esou ogy “3 ‘9) sj1eaq Telokl Uendeg (neoing Uoljeulojuy SpuvlloyJON Asoqino,))
pue PlOIsON UBISOUBITY JO 9IN}XIUT B SMOYS 9dAQ [BOISAYC Jy ‘oinytod uodurod oy} UOTYSe] 07 pasn si Jopulpéo Tey y “ley
A][OOM PUB SoIN{BIJ PIOIGIN YILM ‘od Aq [RoIsAyd uBlsouRpeyy IY,

“SaYMILLVY SAAILSSA NI
“SSYOTS ‘VHNLNVYV] AO SAILYN °Z “YOW!IL “ONVdNy AO BAILYN ‘1

3LVW1d . Aposuuaw—"c4ee} ‘JIOdaxyy uUPIUOSUITIWIC
‘yeqeg om)

JO oqIjqns O18 97 JO O4slloJoBIeYO st ssaippeey oyI[MoT[Id oy, “ABR *a1N}Xxtu1 (plojosuo yy)
-0j01d Ajfeorseq st odA4 ayy Inq ‘aTqroaqap st sada OY] JO UOTBZI[OSUO TL IU SIS V AB[BI-O10]NAp pus (plosvoneyD) Avyeyy-0j01d MoYs sed4q [eoIskyd oy,
WHLVANNS “THIS HVLVG OUVy °Z “SSAHLOND ONIMYOM NI STYID ASANVAVE ‘1

c 3ALV 1d Apauusay— "€b6I *yuoday ueTUOsy TWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Kennedy PLATE 3

1. BATAK WOMEN AND GIRLS, SUMATRA, SHOWING THE PROTO-MALAY
(CAUCASOID) PHYSICAL TYPE.

fer Ee tant w¢

2. SETI OF CENTRAL CERAM DOING A WAR DANCE.

The physical type is the so-called Alfur, the proto-Malay and Papuan hybrid characteristic of the Moluccas.
(Courtesy Bataviaasch Genootschap.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Kennedy PLATE 4

E

*
.
ie
;

1. NIAS WOMEN DANCING, IN FESTIVE DRESS.

The Niassans, on special occasions, wear elaborate double earrings, headdresses, and armbands.

oe

2. MENTAWEI WOMEN FISHING, SHOWING LEAF CLOTHING.
These people cannot weave, but make their garments of either bark cloth or leaves.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Kennedy

1. DYAK GROUP, WESTERN BORNEO, SHOWING WEAPONS AND WAIST
RINGS OF BRASS AND RATTAN WORN BY WOMEN.

2. BAHAU DYAK GROUP, SHOWING DISTENDED EAR LOBES AND, CENTER REAR,
PANTHER-TOOTH EAR ORNAMENTS WHICH MAY BE WORN ONLY BY SUCCESSFUL
HEAD HUNTERS.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Kennedy PLATE 6

1. MINANGKABAU LONGHOUSE, SUMATRA.

All Minangkabau buildings have graceful saddle-shaped roofs. (Courtesy Netherlands Information
Bureau.)

2. TOBA BATAK VILLAGE, SUMATRA, SHOWING THE SLOPING GABLES
OF THE HOUSES OF THIS SUBTRIBE.

(Photograph by E. E. Muhs.)
PLATE 7

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Kennedy

raf, rina TORE ey LL: ai
i 6 tiie! ciie TERETE
To lm

2, HOUSES IN NIAS WITH MASSIVE TIMBERS, CARVED AND PAINTED
GABLES, AND HOODED ROOFS.

Sculptured stone monuments dedicated to ancestors, in foreground, on paved village plaza. (Courtesy
Netherlands Information Bureau.)
SULOO[IIOY OB SJUSTIIeS popBd01g ATYOI ssoy,L,
“AWNLSOD TIVINOWAYAD NI VYLVYWNS AO NVEVHONVNIW

ee
aN

2
$
fod
‘*
iS
x

a.
ae

ce arog

8 3LV1d Apauuay—'ep6| ‘40day ueIUOsYzIUICG
TUN TOI4J1IM JOAOU SBA YOIGM
sIN 0) Ul pojutd st 1043S0d oy,L

S39V4a YAH NO ONIIddIlLS “YVASDOGVAH SALVYOSV1A AGNV WATIEWA YOANN S.YOMYyVM
NISSYM HLIM ‘SS8371FD ‘NYWOM VFAVYOL ‘2 AHL ONIGNION] “AWNLSOD WINOWSAYAD NI SVIN AO NVW (lL

HOTA 384 40) ADO: ’DaS CADL ayy > SPHOA 19019
OH SPA BO Ging "tea BYs Nk Heya e ipo} Sy

6 3ALV1d Apauuayy—"¢p6| ‘J40day uetuosyzIUISG
PLATE 10

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Kennedy

2. BALINESE GIRLS.
In the center, an ?kat (tie-dyed) sarong; the other sarongs are batik,

JAVANESE COUPLE, THE MAN IN SEMI-

1.

EUROPEAN STYLE CLOTHING.
“S3a8gd07 Y¥V3F AHL AO NOISNALSIG “SLNIOd OL
ONIMOHS ‘OANYHOG “HVAC NVHV “2 Gall4d HLASL HLIM THIS ISAMVLNAW (1

L}| ALVWI1d Apauuayy—"¢p6| ‘Wodey ueiuosyyIUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Kennedy PLATE 12

1. SADANG BURIAL CAVES, CELEBES, CHISELED IN THE FACE OF A CLIFF.

They have wooden doors and carved guardian images. (Courtesy Netherlands Information Bureau.)

oo his Whe hae

fom

2. PALACE OF THE SULTAN OF SIAK, EASTERN SUMATRA.

Siak is one of the scores of native states which the Dutch ruled ‘‘indirectly,”’ retaining the hereditary princes
in office.
THE ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY OF THE MIDDLE EAST

By Arir I. TANNOoUS
Office of Foreign Agricultural Relations, U. S. Department of Agriculture

[With 14 plates]
THE REGION AND THE PEOPLE

Despite the fact that it consists of five political entities—Palestine,
Trans-Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Iraq—the region under considera-
tion is in reality one cultural unit. Its geographic boundaries are
determined by the Mediterranean Sea on the west, forming a coast line
of about 750 kilometers; the Sinai and Arabian deserts and the Persian
Gulf on the south; the Kurdistan Mountains on the east; and the
Taurus Mountains of Turkey on the north. These boundaries enclose
an area of about 770,000 square kilometers (800,000 square miles), of
which not more than 85,000 square kilometers (32,000 square miles) are
under cultivation by village settlements. The rest of the area consists
of arid, sandy deserts and semiarid plateaus over which the nomadic
Bedouins graze their herds.

An interesting variety of topographical and climatic features is en-
countered as one moves inland from the seashore. A narrow coastal
plain, with high soil fertility and an altitude of less than 100 meters
(about 330 feet), stretches from the Egyptian frontier in the south to
the Turkish frontier in the north. In most places the coastal strip
does not exceed 1 or 2 kilometers in width. Parallel with the coast
and rising abruptly from it, extends a rugged mountain range, reach-
ing its maximum height of over 3,000 meters (over 10,000 feet) in the
Lebanon section. To the east of, and parallel with, the Lebanon
Mountains rises the equally rugged but slightly lower Anti-Lebanon
Range. Between the two ranges lies the high and fertile plateau of
Bika’. In contrast with these high mountains is the Jordan valley
depression in Palestine, with an altitude of about 100-800 meters (330-
990 feet) below sea level. In the northeastern corner of the region
stands the third significant mountain range, which is a continuation of
the Taurus and Kurdistan Ranges. The remaining greater portion
of the region consists of extensive semiarid plains and plateaus. The
only two extensive river valleys are those of the Tigris and Euphrates,

523
524 | § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

running across Iraq from north to south. Smaller rivers are the
Orontis in Syria, the Leontis in Lebanon, and the Jordan in Palestine.
Along with this varied topography, a similar variation in climatic
conditions is encountered. Along the coastal plain prevails the Med-
iterranean type of climate—a short and mild winter in which rain is
concentrated, and a long, damp, and warm summer in which no rain
falls. Here rainfall is relatively heavy, especially in the northern °
section where it reaches an average of over 30 inches per year. On the
mountain heights snowfall is heavy during the winter, whereas the
summer is cool, bracing, and dry. In the interior there is a marked
variation in temperature between day and night and between summer
and winter. Here rainfall is scanty. In addition to the above varie-
ties, there is the subtropical climate of the Jordan depression in Pales-
tine and of the Persian Gulf area of Iraq.

Between 9 and 10 million people live within the boundaries of this
region. What strikes attention first is their pattern of ,distribution.
As expected, the fertile coastal plains and river valleys are densely
populated, whereas the extensive semiarid plains and plateaus of the
interior support a sparse population. Coming to the Lebanon Moun-
tains, however, we find a high population density of over 100 per
square kilometer (260 per square mile). This is so despite the fact
that these mountains are extremely rugged and their soil scanty.
Obviously, not only geographical but also cultural factors must be
taken into consideration in accounting for this apparent anomaly.
Religious and political conflicts during the old Turkish regime forced
the Christian minority to congregate and take refuge in the mountain
heights.

A second feature of the population is the existence of a high birth
rate and a high death rate, especially in the villages. Early marriage,
emphasis upon family life as a major value, and the polygynous fea-
ture of the Muslim religion are some of the cultural factors respon-
sible for a birth rate that ranges from 30 to 45 per thousand. This is
more than double the rate for the United States of America. On the
other hand, a death rate of 20 to 28 prevails, which also is much
higher than the rate in the United States. A natural increase in
population, however, has been the net result. With the advent of
modern medical knowledge and sanitation, an acceleration in the rate
of increase may be expected.

With respect to racial composition, the population of the region
shows a marked degree of admixture. It is true that a relatively high
degree of racial purity exists among the Bedouin tribes of the interior.
This purity, however, which is the result of relative isolation and
consequent inbreeding, becomes in general less and less evident as
ene moves away from the center toward the periphery, especially the
ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY—TANNOUS ne

Mediterranean coastal area. Varieties of eye color, pigmentation,
hair texture, and stature can be readily observed. Such a situation
can be expected as a result of the fact that the region under consider-
ation has been, since time immemorial, one of the most strategic meet-
ing places of races, cultures, and nations. A large number of ancient
peoples, Babylonians, Assyrians, Hebrews, Persians, Hittites, Phoe-
nicians, and others, met there, intermixed, and succeeded one an-
other. Then followed the Greeks, Romans, Arabs, Crusaders, and
Turks, each contributing its racial strain to the already existing mix-
ture. What is of primary significance in this connection is the out-
standing fact that racial consciousness is practically nonexistent
among the people. This is primarily a result of the predominant
religion of Islam which accords equality to all Muslims in this life
and the life to come, irrespective of color and lineage. It is well
known that under the influence of their religious message the Arabs
intermarried freely with the various races they conquered.

A fourth aspect of the population is its rural-urban composition.
Here we have a situation that is heavily biased in favor of rural cul-
ture. A genuinely urban way of life is limited to the few main cities
of the region: Baghdad, Basrah, and Mosul in Iraq; Aleppo, Damas-
cus, Antioch, Homs, and Hama in Syria; Beirut, Tripoli, and Sidon
in Lebanon; and Jerusalem, Jafa, and Haifa in Palestine. Conse-
quently, between 65 and 80 percent of the inhabitants of these coun-
tries can be considered rural. A small minority of these are still
in the nomadic stage, whereas the great majority are fel/ahin, agri-
cultural people settled in villages.

Finally, with respect to the cultural composition of the population,
one encounters a situation similar in its diversity of elements to that
of racial composition discussed above. For thousands of years this
part of the world has been a center of dynamic cultural contact. As
nation followed nation on that stage, from the ancient Babylonians,
Assyrians, and Egyptians to the western powers of today, cultures
developed, met, selected and borrowed, invented, and passed on their
heritage to future generations. Thus the past lays a heavy hand
indeed upon the culture of the Middle East. Within this diversity
of cultural origins, the Arabs, who have occupied the region since
the middle of the seventh century A. D., have been able to achieve a
stable integration, giving the prevailing culture a predominantly
Arab orientation. Their religion of Islam is now embraced by about
85 percent of the population. Arabic, the language in which the
Muslims believe that Allah revealed the Qor’an (Koran), is the
mother tongue of each one of these countries. Dialects may differ
from locality to locality, but written Arabic is the same for all.
Other main cultural values and practices have been either modified
526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

or originated by the Arabs and more or less uniformly spread through-
out the region. Among these are emphasis upon family solidarity,
exaltation of individual prowess and daring, group consciousness and
identity rather than individualism, hospitality, and the predominance
of the personal touch in all types of human relationships. The way
in which a cup of coffee is prepared and served and its symbolic
significance are practically the same in the Muslim villages of southern
Palestine and in the Christian villages on the high slopes of Lebanon.
Similarly, everywhere there is heavy dependence upon bread as the
main staple in the diet and the same reverent attitude toward it.

THE VILLAGE COMMUNITY
ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT

Everywhere in the Middle East, whether on the coastal plains or
on the high mountain slopes, on the interior plateaus or in the river
valleys, the village type of rural settlement prevails. Unlike the
North American pattern, practically no isolated farmsteads or rural
neighborhoods exist between the villages. Farmers and animals live
in the village, from which they go out daily to work in the surround-
ing fields and come back in the evening. The origin and evolution
of the village type of settlement in this, the oldest part of the world,
is lost in the remote and obscure past. It is certain that the village
was there long before Biblical times. How long ago and in what
manner it developed, whether directly as such or gradually along a
line of several stages, is a matter that is still open for speculation.
One can reasonably conclude, as did Professor Sanderson, that de-
velopment possibly followed a line of transition from the nomadic
tribe to the subagricultural group, to the semipermanent village, to
the permanent village settlement.! This explanation seems to gain
support from the contemporary existence in the Middle East of the
older stages of settlement. In fact, one can observe the process of
transition actually taking place. In general, it can be readily seen
that as one moves from the coastal areas and river valleys toward
the interior, villages assume less and less of a permanent character,
until pure nomadism is reached. The large Bedouin tribe of Fa’oor,
who used to roam with its herds over a wide area along the borders
of Syria, Palestine, and Trans-Jordan is now in the process of transi-
tion. The Emir of the tribe and his brothers are rapidly developing
into feudal lords. They and their entourage occupy a compound of
modern stone buildings, whereas around the compound one still sees
the old tents of the Arab nomads. Some branches of the tribe have
begun to live in more permanent dwellings, made of reed cane or of

* Sanderson, Dwight, The rural community, chaps. 2 and 3. Ginn and Company, 1932.
ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY—TANNOUS 527

stone. They still follow the seasons with their herds, but in addition
they now cultivate the soil and raise crops. In the Jordan valley of
Palestine, as well as in several places in Syria and Iraq, various stages
of the same process of transition can be observed. Even in Lebanon,
where permanent village settlement has been established since ancient
times, the writer came across modified forms of the original nomadic
and seminomadic stages.

LOCATION

The factors responsible for determining the location of each village
are many and varied. A few of them, however, seem to be more out-
standing and more common than others. An obvious one of these is
the availability of water supply. The significance of this factor can
be better apppreciated when one is reminded of the fact that rainfall
in the region is scanty (not exceeding 10 inches per year in most
places) and that all of it is concentrated during 3 or 4 months of the
fall and winter seasons. In Lebanon, where snow accumulates on
the mountain tops, springs are abundant, and practically every village
has one or more of these running through it or just outside its limits.
The people use such village springs both for human consumption and
for irrigitation. In most of the villages of the interior, where run-
ning springs are scarce, the necessary water is obtained from wells,
which are sunk to varying depths until the underground water table
is struck. In other places cisterns are used, which are filled with rain
water and which supplement other sources. Another way of supple-
menting the water supply is to dig a large and shallow pit just outside
the village proper and make use of the accumulated rain water. In
river valleys, naturally, direct use is made of the river water.

A second factor in the choice of a location is the matter of defense.
Almost invariably, whether on the mountain heights, in the interior
plains, or in the river valleys, one finds that the settlers have chosen
the site that best lent itself to defense. This was essential in early
times in the face of attacks from other villages or from marauding
Bedouins. Hilltops, bluffs, and invincible shoulders of deep ravines
afforded such easily defensible sites. It must be observed that this
factor has lost its significance in the greater part of the region, in view
of the prevailing public security.

Fertility of the soil has been another determining factor. ‘This is
to be expected in view of the fact that the village people are dependent
almost completely upon agriculture for a living. ‘Through the use of
farmyard manure in some places, or the development of a suitable crop
rotation in others, the people did their best to maintain the fertility
of the land as long as possible. Permanent and continuous settlement
on the same land for generations made the application of some conser-
028 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

vation techniques imperative. This has been singularly successful in
the Lebanon Mountains where terracing and manuring have been
extensively used. In some places, especially where manure is used
for fuel, soil depletion could not be avoided.

It must be pointed out that in some cases all these factors of location,
as well as others not mentioned, have been equally operative. On the
other hand, we find a great number of villages in which one or more
of the required conditions had to be neglected in favor of others that
seemed more compelling. Such is the case of the Kura Valley in
northern Lebanon, which offered the settlers an extremely fertile soil,
but no adequate water supply. For a long time before underground
water was discovered in some places, village people had to depend upon
rain water and upon a running stream several miles away. All the
villages on the rugged Lebanon slopes serve as an illustration of the
predominance of the defense factor, which was eagerly sought by
religious minorities.

PHYSICAL STRUCTURE

A compact, nucleated form of structure is the first striking impres-
sion one gets of the Middle Eastern village. It is a conglomeration
of houses standing close to each other, divided by winding alleys and
paths that do not seem to have any regular design. In parts of some
villages the houses are so close together that one can walk or jump
from roof to roof without much difficulty. In other villages the
houses are scattered enough to leave room for small garden plots. To
a casual observer such a mass of dwelling places shows no evidence of
differentiation. Upon investigation, one finds that the people are con-
scious of the existence of certain sections in their village. Each one
of these is called a Hara or a Het’, which is usually the habitat of one
kinship group. In this we see a carry-over from the tribal organiza-
tion and an indication of the significance of family in the early devel-
opment of the community.

Normally, the mosque or the church stands as the physical and cul-
tural center of the settlement. Dwellings are erected on all sides of
this center by the original family groups. As a family multiplies, its
dwelling place also multiplies by a process of “budding.” Under the
influence of a strongly partilocal system, in which the wife comes to
reside with her husband’s people, the newly married couple add one
more room on top or to the side of the groom’s ancestral house where
the rest of the family dwell. For generations this process of budding
has been going on, resulting in the entangled mass of houses described
above. Next to the church or mosque is the Saha, an open space where
people hold social gatherings or present their produce for sale. In
the villages of the interior, where regular biweekly or monthly mar-
kets are held, the Saha is of a fairly large size. Normally, the few
ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY—TANNOUS 529

existing stores are located around this central space. In large vil-
lages, or those that have two religious sects, two centers exist. Such
settlements may be designated as bicentral.

With respect to the structure of dwelling places, the following main
forms may be distinguished. Tents, made mainly of goat hair, are
used exclusively by the nomads. Shacks made of reed cane can be
observed in marshy localities, such as exist in northern Palestine,
northern Syria, and southern Iraq. This type of dwelling is used
mainly by seminomadic tribes who are in the process of settlement.
In the hilly areas of the region in general, and in Lebanon in par-
ticular, stone (mostly limestone) is the most common building mate-
rial. It is cut by expert masons, of whom practically every village
boasts a good number. In most cases stone is used exclusively in
constructing the foundation, the walls, the ceiling, and the roof. A
solid dome-shaped structure is the result, which may have a flat or a
convex roof. Sometimes wooden beams are used for the ceiling and
bricks for the roof. On the plains of the interior, adobe houses are
the most prevalent. A special variety of these are the so-called bee-
hive houses of some villages in northern Syria. The distinctive fea-
ture here is the conical shape of the dome, which helps to mitigate
the effect of the blazing sun. <A typical house of the whole region
consists of a courtyard, which may or may not be surrounded by a wall,
and two or more square rooms, one of which is occupied by the farm
animals during the short cold season. In many cases, when the family
dwelling consists of one room, it is shared by both animals and human
beings. In some cases people occupy the top floor and animals the
first floor. It seems that the idea of a separate barn has never taken
root in that part of the world. Finally, it must be mentioned that in
recent years, especially in the villages of the coastal area, some depar-
ture from the typical structure has been taking place. New detached
houses are being built outside the original conglomeration and away
from the ancestral home, and modern construction materials are
being used.

Agricultural land owned or cultivated by the farmers begins just
outside the village proper and extends in all directions from it. In
some cases there is an established division of the land into zones. The
first of these, adjoining the dwelling places, is used for gardens and an
assortment of fruit trees. Farther out orchards prevail. In between,
or beyond the orchards, are the open fields for the growing of cereals.
On the outskirts, or wherever the land is brushy and least fertile, a
portion is set aside for grazing. In many localities, however, no such
zoning pattern exists. There are villages that use the land exclu-
sively for raising cereals and grazing. Others specialize in raising
fruits, and leave practically no space for vegetable gardens or for
530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

grazing. A more regular and more outstanding feature of the village
territory is its extreme fragmentation. In the mountain settlements
this takes the form of an extensive system of terracing. A terrace
is usually a few feet or a few yards wide and as long as the hillside.
The side of the terrace is supported by a strong stone wall. In the
valleys and on the plains, fragmentation takes the form of a great
number of small plots, separated by a laborious network of hedges,
ditches, or stone fences. The cultural necessity for this seemingly
absurd agricultural practice will be pointed out later.

THE LAND

One of the strongest ties exists between the Arab fellah and his
land. Its significance to him and his attachment to it cannot be ex-
plained in cold economic terms, for land is one of the few main pillars
of village life, involving a deep-rooted complex of behavior and senti-
ment. For countless generations it has been the only source of life
for him and for his ancestors. Year in and year out he has depended
upon it to sustain him, and it did. He calls it the “blessed earth” and
refers to it with reverence. He has worked on it since he was a child,
and so did his ancestors before him. He inherited it from them, as
they, in their turn, inherited the same land. The attachment is so
strong that the fel/ah resorts to migration or to selling his land only
under extreme pressure. One example of this is the great difficulty
which the Egyptian Government has encountered in its attempt to set-
tle some of the fed/ahin on newly reclaimed land, with a view to re-
leving high population pressure. They are offered all sorts of facili-
ties and inducements, yet they are reluctant to leave their ancestral
communities.

Another illustration is afforded by the early emigrants from the
villages of Palestine, Syria, and Lebanon. Under extreme popula-
tion pressure, they began to emigrate to the Americas around 1880-
1890. In practically all cases they intended to save some money as
soon as possible, then return to their original homes. Very few of
them indeed were willing to sell their land when they emigrated. The
first money many of them were able to send home was for the purpose
of rebuying the land they had to sell or releasing it from mortgage.
Some of them, who are now married and established immigrants in
this country, still own land in the old village. It is a bond they do
not like to sever, although they know very well that they will never
go back.?

Another indication of the significance of land is the manner in
which the fel/ah responds to it, as if it were a living organism. In

2Tor an analysis of the influence of emigration upon village life, see my article, “Emigra-

tion, a Force of Social Change in an Arab Village,” Rural Sociology, vol. 7, No. 1, March
1942,
ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY—TANNOUS capil

many cases each plot he owns has a personal history that is handed
down with it. It may be that an important village incident took
place there, or that an ancestor had an intimate connection with the
place. Consequently, one finds that proper names are often given to
various plots or various sections of the village territory. Many of
these names indicate the quality or behavior of the land as experi-
enced by the fel/ahin. In the case of one small village in Lebanon,
the writer was able to record over 30 such names. Here are a few
examples: Mawadeh, meaning loyalty; Al-Hamra, meaning land with
reddish soil; Al-Akra’, meaning the bald land; Juret Muhanna, land
named after Muhanna, an ancestor.

The prevailing system of land tenure among the fellahin of the
Middle East goes back in its origin mainly to the time of the Arab con-
quest. Toward the middle of the seventh century the Arabs ousted the
Romans and occupied the region. Cultivators of the soil who had al-
ready been there were left generally unmolested. Gradually, how-
ever, an elaborate system of land tenure developed, springing mainly
from two foundations, the tribal and the religious organization of the’
Arab conquerors. Several hundred years later the Ottoman Turks
took the rule over from the Arabs. At the same time they adopted in
the main the culture of the latter, including their religion of Islam,
much of their language, and the land system they had developed, into
which some modification was introduced. With this brief statement
of the background, we may now discuss the main categories of land and
types of ownership.’

1. Mulk.A—This is the same as ownership in fee simple. The owner
of such land is free to do with it whatever he wishes. He may plant it
to any kind of crop or leave it uncultivated, erect buildings on it, and
bequeath it as he sees fit. This type may be traced back to two sources.
One of these was the J/ulk that was in existence at the time of the Arab
conquest. Owners of such land were left unmolested, except that they
had to pay a certain tax in kind. The other source was the custom of
Arab rulers, and later the Turkish Sultans, to grant land from the
public domains to tribal chiefs and other local leaders, or to soldiers,
in order to appease them, or in compensation for some service. De-
spite the strong desire of the fedlah for this type of ownership, it covers
only a small percentage of the land in the Middle East.

&, Miri.\—By far the greater portion of land is of this category. It
is state property that has been leased out to cultivators either tempo-
rarily or in perpetuity. In the latter case, it is virtually the property

‘The interested reader is referred to my article, “Land Tenure in the Middle East,”
Foreign Agriculture, U. S. Dep. Agr., August 1943.

“From the Arabic root Malaka, to own fully and absolutely.
® Corrupted from the Arabic word Emiriyah, that which belongs to the Emir or ruler.
532 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

of the farmer, as he can cultivate it as he wishes and bequeath it to his
heirs. He has, however, to abide by certain conditions, the main
among which are the following: (qa) if the land is left uncultivated for
3 consecutive years, it will revert to the state; (6) such reversion also
takes place when no heirs claim the land; (¢) the owner cannot
bequeath such property through a will. Upon death, inheritance
takes place automatically, as prescribed by the Muslim law; (d) also
the owner cannot offer it in dedication for any purpose, as explained
below.

3. Wagf.°—By this term is designated property that has been dedi-
cated for religious or charitable purposes. With the advent of the
religion of Islam, this practice, which already had been ‘in existence,
became highly institutionalized and widely spread. In almost every
village of the Middle East one comes across such dedicated property.
This may be a building, an open field, an orchard or a few trees of
one, offered as a perpetual gift to a church, a mosque, or a patron
saint. A common one, mostly in towns, is the Sadzl, a public fountain
or drinking place. The main goal people have sought through such
dedication has been the invocation of mercy from the Almighty or
His saints upon their sick ones, or upon the souls of their dead. It is
also good religion to dedicate for charity of various kinds. Another
form is dedication for the benefit of one’s heirs. It should be noted
that only Mulk land, as described above, can be dedicated as true
Wagf, which entails absolute and perpetual transfer of ownership.
On the other hand, Méri land can be dedicated only as untrue Wagf,
which involves usufruct and not ownership. True Wagf cannot be
exchanged or sold except when replacing it is the ultimate aim of
such transaction.

4, Masha’.'-—In Lebanon, ownership of land by individual families
is the rule, whereas in the rest of the region a form of communal
ownership is practiced. Most probably this came about as a natural
development of the original tribal organization. It is just one step,
possibly the only one that could be taken, from common ownership
by a nomadic tribe of grazing rights over a certain territory to com-
munal ownership of agricultural land, when that tribe settles down.
In fact, one can still observe this transition taking place in several
localities within the region, where nomadism and settled agriculture
meet. Under the Masha’ system no one owns any specific plot in the
village territory. Instead, each individual farmer or family owns
a certain number of shares, which entitle the owner to cultivate a
certain amount of land for a period varying from 1 to 5 years. At
the end of such period a rotation of cultivators takes place. Usually,
regular inheritance of shares takes place by dividing them among

® From the Arabic root verb Waqafa, to stop or to hold steady and unchanged.
7 From the Arabic root verb Sha’a, to be shared in common.
ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY—TANNOUS 53d

the grown-up children. The right of a female child to such inherit-
ance is recognized, although normally she foregoes that right in favor
of her brothers. In some villages the right of inheritance is not
established. Instead of that, at regular intervals the land is divided
into as many shares as there are males, including infants.

At this point it is essential to dwell briefly on the apparent bias of
the culture in favor of males and against females. An implied ex-
planation for this prejudice may be found in two other cultural prac-
tices. One of these is the custom of patrilocalism, whereby a girl
upon marriage goes to live with her husband’s people and becomes
completely identified with them. In case she should inherit land, un-
desirable complications for both family groups would inevitably
arise. Such complications become accentuated when the girl marries
into another village community. The other practice is the emphasis
of the culture upon marriage. Practically every woman has a chance
of getting married (remembering that polygyny, more than one wife
to one husband, is permitted among the Muslims) and her economic
security is attained through that of her husband’s.

It was mentioned above that in the case of villages where land is
owned directly by individual families in the form of specific plots, ex-
treme fragmentation of holdings takes place. <A certain farmer, for
example, may own some 20 acres, divided into 10 to 15 plots and scat-
tered in all directions from the village proper. Such a situation seems
to be an inevitable result of the prevailing family organization and of
the nucleated type of settlement. Family solidarity is strongly em-
phasized, to the extent that three generations live together, own and
culivate the land as one unit. Upon the death of the grandparents,
the land is equally divided among the married and unmarried sons.
None of them thinks of selling out to the others and emigrating.
This process of subdivision continues generation after generation,
with the size of the plots dwindling. Scattering of holdings is the
outcome of all farmers living in a central place instead of on their
land. The village territory is naturally divided into several sites,
according to fertility and other qualities. From the beginning each
family group is allowed to own a certain portion in each of these
sites. Through occasional purchase and inheritance from the mother’s
side, scattering becomes more and more accentuated.

Finally, in connection with tenure it must be mentioned that ap-
proximately 50 percent of agricultural land is cultivated under one
form of tenancy or another. This should be expected in a region
where the Miri category, land owned by the ruler or the state, has
been predominant. As mentioned above, it was the practice of rulers
to offer large tracts of land to local leaders in compensation for cer-
tain services. Gradually, such leaders became absentee landlords and

566766—44—35
534 | § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

left their land to be cultivated by tenants. Another source of the
system has been the constant transition from nomadism to settled
agriculture. Normally, as the tribe settles down, leadership of the
sheikh is maintained. He assigns certain portions of the land to in-
dividual families, who contribute to him a part of the produce.
Within a generation or two, he assumes the role of a feudal lord
and they sink to the level of tenancy. In Iraq, for example, such a
feudal sheikh may be the virtual owner of some 20 or more villages.

AGRICULTURE AND DIET

Perhaps more than any other occupation, it may be said of
agriculture that it is a way of life. This is especially true of the
Arab village in the Middle East. The strong attachment of the
fellah to the soil and its deep significance to him have been pointed
out above. He is born into the village where everybody is a farmer,
and where farming of the same soil, according to the same techniques,
has taken place for countless generations. His personality is devel-
oped according to a cultural pattern, the major portion of which is
woven around the team of oxen, the plow, the good earth, the year’s
store of wheat for making bread, and scores of other agricultural
items and activities. His diet is derived almost entirely from the soil
he cultivates.

Space does not permit a thorough analysis of this important aspect
of village life. Discussion will be limited to the main crops pro-
duced in the region and the main features of the activities involved
in the production and consumption of these crops. The growing of
cereals predominates in each of the five countries under consideration.
Wheat comes first, followed by barley, maize, dura (grain sorghum),
and rice. Some of the maize and dura and practically all the barley
are used for feeding farm animals, Barley is especially fed to horses,
donkeys, and mules. Possibly this is why the people have a prejudice
against eating it, except in stringent years and in areas where the
other cereals do not grow well. In Arabic literature and in local
sayings there are several references to the lower status of barley.
Wheat is especially desired for making bread, of which the adult
fellah consumes from 1 to 2 pounds daily. He eats it morning, noon,
and evening, a piece of it with every mouthful of the meal. No meal
is considered complete without bread, whereas bread alone is accept-
able. It is literally “the bread of life” to these people. In this connec-
tion, it should be of interest to point out the cooperative and social
character of the baking activity. In many localities, instead of a
family oven constructed in the courtyard, there are established village
bakeries. Families take turns at using these, baking enough bread for
a week or two. On such occasions the housewife is helped by several
ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY—TANNOUS 535

neighbor women. As the 8 or 10 of them sit at opposite sides of a long
table and pound the dough inte large, round, and thin loaves, they
exchange news and gossip about the village affairs. Further, it should
be noted that preparing bread is almost entirely a woman’s activity.
In some places the activity of tending the oven is open to men.

One cereal, which is common in Palestine, Lebanon, and Syria,
deserves special mention. This is burghul, which is made of wheat
by a process of boiling, drying in the sun, removing some of the bran
by sprinkling with water and rubbing with hands, then crushing at
the mill into a coarse and a fine variety. As in the case of bread,
most of the work involved is done cooperatively and is combined with
social visiting and recreation. The coarse variety is used in cooking
various usual cereal dishes, whereas the finer portion is used exclu-
sively in preparing the well-known dish kubbeh. This consists basi-
cally of bwrghul and lean meat pounded together into thick paste in
a large stone mortar. The paste may be eaten raw, with olive oil
or samn (clarified butter), or it may be cooked in a number of ways.

Fruits are rather plentiful, with oranges, grapes, figs, apricots,
melons, dates, and olives leading. 'The activities involved in the pro-
duction and consumption of each one of these constitute a clearly
defined culture complex. As an illustration, the olive complex, which
is widely spread in Lebanon, Syria, and Palestine, will be described.
The olive, a native of the Mediterranean region, is a very hardy ever-
green tree, and lives to be several hundred years old. In some local-
ities olive groves have been in existence longer than village traditions
can reach. With little care, year in and year out, the olive tree gives
its highly valued fruit. Pruning takes place yearly, and the cut-off
branches are used for fuel or as supports for grapevines. The small,
but thick, oblong leaves that drop from the tree are gathered regularly
by women and used for fuel. The fruit begins to ripen in the fall.
From that time until the end of January, village life becomes highly
olive centered. The season is begun cooperatively, in that no one
can start before the elders decide upon the time and the place of pick-
ing. This decision is announced at the church or the mosque, or by
the village crier. At that time in Christian villages the priest usu-
ally goes around and blesses the produce. Picking the fruit is done
mostly by beating it down with long sticks. This is exclusively a
man’s activity. On the other hand, only women and children gather
the fallen fruit and put it in baskets or sacks. Also sorting is done
by women. Each housewife then pickles enough olives to last the
family the whole year. The rest of the crop is taken by the farmer
to one of the three or four presses that exist in the village. Work
at the press is done exclusively by men. The owner is usually paid in
kind, and in the same manner he pays the few workers he employs. A
536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

year’s store of oil is put aside for family use, and the surplus is sold
for cash. With enough oil and cereal to last the year round, the
fellah feels secure.

Regarding the consumption of meat, a few distinctive practices
should be noted. The most conspicuous of these is the effective taboo
the Muslim religion has placed upon pork. The animal itself is repul-
sive to the Muslim, and he would rather go hungry than touch its
meat. Under the influence of the Muslim majority, the Christians in
this region have also refrained from eating pork. A similar Muslim
taboo covers alcoholic beverages. It is interesting to note, however,
that in this case the Christian minority has not been influenced by
the Muslim rule. Another practice is that animals should be slaugh-
tered in a specified manner, by cutting the throat and letting the
blood drain out. No one would touch meat from an animal that has
been killed in a different way. A further observation is that the
people of Lebanon are fond of eating raw meat, especially certain
cuts of it.

Dairy products are consumed mainly in the form of leben (fer-
mented milk), white cheese, and sammn (clarified butter). Milk is
obtained from sheep, goats, cows, buffaloes, and camels.

Coffee is the most important beverage. The nomadic Bedouin, the
fellah, and the city dweller relish it. For several hundred years
they have used it, until it has become the core of a body of traditions.
It is the symbol of hospitality and honoring a guest. Refusing it is
taken as an insult or a sign of enmity.

A final point that should be observed in connection with the subject
of agriculture is the amazing persistence of ancient techniques. One
still encounters the Biblical team of oxen, wooden plow and yoke,
and threshing board, as well as the hand sickle, the clay beehive, and
the primitive chicken coop. In some places, even the threshing board
is omitted, and animals are made to tread over the straw instead.
Side by side with such manifestation of cultural stability, one wit-
nesses drastic changes in some aspects of life. Practically every vil-
lage has been invaded by the automobile and the radio. It is said that
the former has been used by the Bedouin in his raids! In Lebanon the
western type of dress is now more common than the native. It seems
that we have here a vivid illustration of the fact that there is no
necessary carry-over in the process of acculturation from one aspect
of culture to another.

FAMILY ORGANIZATION

The fundamental significance of family life in the culture of the
Arab village cannot be overemphasized. It is equal in this respect
to land and agriculture. We have shown above that the origin of the
ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY—TANNOUS 537

nucleated settlement can be traced probably to the tribal organization,
which is essentially based upon blood ties. When the first boy is
born to a married couple, people cease to call them by their names.
Instead, they are called after the name of their son, Abu-Ahmed and
Um-Ahmed, for example (i. e., the father and mother of Ahmed.)
This is an indication of the emphasis of the culture upon family con-
tinuity through the new generation. Reciprocally, children and
adults are constantly identified with their parents and family groups.
“Whose son is he?”; “To what family does he belong?”; “From what
village does he come?” are the first questions asked about a stranger.
In village proverbs and sayings reference to blood ties and relations is
frequent. Insulting an individual as such may be dismissed without
much ado, whereas violent reaction is certain to result if the insult is
directed at the individual’s family. “May Allah curse your ancestors”
is one of the toughest swearing expressions used. In situations of ser-
ious conflict, members of a family rally together and face the threat
as one solid unit. Such and similar indices serve to show clearly how
predominant is identification with the family group.

Considering the region as a whole, three types of family units can
be distinguished. The first of these is the ordinary biological family,
consisting primarily of the married couple and their children. This
type, which prevails in the north American rural culture, is the least
significant in the Arab village. Beyond fulfilling its biological func-
tion, the unit does not figure much in life’s situations. It should rather
be considered as a stage leading to the development of the larger and
more important unit that will be described presently. It should be
remarked, however, that under the impact of Western culture, espe-
cially its economic system, the biological family is beginning to play a
more dominant role. This is particularly evident in the villages of the
coastal area where direct contact with the West has been taking place
intensively during the last 50 years.

The second and most important unit is the joint family, consisting
of three generations. Taking one of the grandchildren as a point
of departure, the group normally consists of brothers and sisters, first
paternal cousins, married and unmarried paternal uncles, unmarried
paternal aunts, and the paternal grandparents. All these, varying
in number from 10 to 30 people, live close together within the same
compound of dwellings. Socially and economically they function as
one unit. They own the land collectively, cooperate in its cultivation,
and share equally its produce. At the death of the grandfather, the
family splits into as many units as there are sons, each one of whom
becomes the nucleus for the development of a separate entity. Within
this patrilineal and patrilocal system, the girl is considered as an
integral member of the paternal group as long as she stays unmarried.
538 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Upon marriage, she moves to the abode of her husband’s people and
becomes completely identified with them. In case the girl does not
marry at all, which is rather exceptional, arrangements are made for
her to live with one of the brothers when the original unit splits.
Upon divorce, which takes place only among Muslims, the woman
normally returns to live with her people.

A clear division of work between the sexes and differentiation of
status-role can be observed. This differentiation is sharper within
Muslim than it is within Christian families. It can be said that in
general the female’s status-role is subordinate to that of the male’s.
The following are a few indications of this tendency. As was men-
tioned above, parents are named after the first son, but never after
their first daughter. The desire expressed by the parents and their
relatives is always for a male child. “May Allah give you a son”
is the usual saying. One never hears, “May Allah give you a
daughter.” Circumcision or baptism of a boy are occasions for
village celebration, whereas a girl’s baptism is observed quietly. In
some localities women of the household eat only after men have fin-
ished their meal. In such places a certain degree of segregation of the
sexes takes place, and women are generally kept in the background.
However, no veiling of women is practiced in any of the villages,
as is done among the Muslims of towns and cities. In general, it is
men who make all important decisions regarding family affairs.

Regarding the division of work, two generalizations may be made—
that men handle the heavier tasks, and that they take up those tasks
that carry more prestige. Taking care of the children, preparing
meals, getting water from the spring or well, and washing and mend-
ing clothes is done exclusively by women. They also do the lighter
tasks in the fields, such as weeding, gleaning, and fruit picking.
Men do very little at home. In fact, they would be looked down
upon by the community, including their wives, if they should handle
any of the jobs assigned to women. In the fields, they do the heavier
jobs, such as plowing, pruning, harvesting, and threshing.

The influence of the joint family extends also to the marriage
institution. In fact, the latter may be considered as a function of
the former. A boy may know his girl well, and the two may fall
in love, but the final decision in the matter rests with the families
concerned. The parents, the aunts, the uncles, and the grandparents
must have their say. Such an apparent “interference” or “meddling”
is a logical consequence of the fact that the newly married couple
will not establish an independent home, but will live with the rest
of the family unit. In exceptional cases, the boy and girl may rebel
against a negative decision by their families and elope. Reaction
against such deviation varies from locality to locality. It may take
ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY—TANNOUS 539

the form of a mild and temporary ostracism, or it may lead to the
murder of the girl by an infuriated brother or father. Choice of a
mate within the kinship group is preferable to marriage with an
outsider. In this respect, Muslims go as far as to permit marriage
between first cousins, whereas Christians make second or third cousins
the limit, depending upon the sect. Having children, and the more
of them the better, is the primary purpose of marriage, as far as the
joint family is concerned. They constitute an economic asset on the
farm, and through them the prestige of the unit is enhanced and its
continuity assured. In the face of such a situation, the lot of a
barren woman is miserable indeed. Divorce and polygyny do not
occur in Christian communities, whereas both are practiced by the
Muslims, with certain restricting conditions.

A third entity that is based on blood relationship is the kinship
group. This is more comprehensive than both the biological and
the joint family. It consists of all those who claim descent from the
same paternal ancestor. The number of joint families that make up
a kinship group varies from village to village, according to the age
of the community and the occurrence of disruptive factors that may
split the group at a certain stage in its development or retard its
growth. Its influence is felt by the individual in a variety of situa-
tions. From the start, the child learns that he should address every
member of the unit as “cousin” or “uncle” or “aunt” or “grandfather”
or “grandmother.” As mentioned above, it is expected of a young
man to marry within rather than outside the kinship group. In
times of serious conflicts or feuds within the village, kinship loyalty
asserts itself and is binding upon every member.

RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION

It is not a matter of coincidence that three of the five leading
religions of the world originated in the region of the Middle East.
A discussion of the factors that have made such a development pos-
sible is not our present task. What concerns us in this respect is the
fact that man in this part of the world has always been highly
religion-conscious, and that his religious traditions are well estab-
lished and reach as far back as early human history. A continuous
and direct line of descent can be traced from the various religions
of early ancient times to Judaism, then Christianity, and more re-
cently Islam. The earlier forms of religion have ceased to exist,
excepting inasmuch as their practices have been absorbed by the three
that followed them, and which are still living in the region. Of
these, Judaism is the least influential. Its followers, aside from the
recent Zionist settlements in Palestine, are limited to small communi-
ties of a few thousands each in the cities of Beirut, Damascus, Bagh-
54.0 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

dad, and Aleppo. There are no Jewish village communities. By the
end of the Roman rule in the Middle East, Christianity had become
the predominant religion, spreading widely among city and village
people. Toward the middle of the seventh century, conquest of the
territory by the Arabs took place, and their religion of Islam pre-
vailed. Many Christian communities embraced the new religion.
and new Muslim settlements increased. At present, except in the
predominantly Christian Lebanon, Christian villages constitute a
small minority in the various countries of the Middle East.

In the light of this background, a description of the religious
organization of the village community will now be attempted. The
first distinctive feature to be noted is that religion, like agriculture,
is a way of life in this part of the world. It is so old and so deep-
rooted an institution that it has permeated all aspects of community
life and become inseparable from them. A visit to one of the old
Christian monasteries on the Lebanon heights is sufficient to give one
the impression of a religion that does not lend itself readily to the
forces of change. It must also be remembered that the central core
or primary motive in the Arab wave of conquest was their religious
message—a call to all peoples to embrace Islam, the religion of sur-
render unto Allah. Through such surrender, the various aspects of
life took shape and color. Consequently, in the village community
of today everybody is born into its church (Muslim or Christian)
and is expected to remain in it for the rest of his life. He may not
know much about its dogmas or subscribe to their letter, but he con-
forms loyally to the community folkways and mores which have been
inspired mainly by the rules of the church. Every seventh day of
the week (Friday for the Muslims) and during the many religious
festivals of the year, village people stop work and indulge in social
visiting and other recreational activities. Recently in Palestine im-
portant religious festivals have been successfully transformed into
occasions for political demonstration. The Haj (pilgrimage to
Mecca) is a dominating factor in the life of the fellah. He may
never be able to accomplish such a religious trip, but he is always
planning for it. When he succeeds, his departure and his return are
occasions for celebration by the whole community. And when the
elements of nature fail him and his crops are threatened with ruin, he
turns to the village church as a final resort. It has prayers to bring
down rain, to bless the produce, and to ward off the evil eye. Never
would a fellah talk about his children, livestock, land, or produce
without uttering at frequent intervals the name of Allah in a variety
of phrases. No marriage is considered possible unless it is sanctioned
by the regular religious ceremony. Circumcision and baptism, two
ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY—TANNOUS 541

religious rituals, are occasions for social and other recreational activ-
ities. One could go on citing scores of other examples showing the
far-reaching integration of religion with agriculture, family, recrea-
tion, and other aspects of village culture.

Stability is a second prominent feature of the village church. This
may be seen as a natural consequence of the first feature just analyzed.
When religion permeates community life to such an extent as de-
scribed above, change must perforce be extremely slow. Another ex-
planation may be found in the intensity of emotional experience that
goes with various religious practices in the village. Being a product
of the culture under consideration, the writer knows from personal
experience the force of the emotional factor. He was also able to see
it in operation in his study of one of the Arab communities established
in this country. A convincing manifestation of this stability has been
shown in the extreme reluctance of the village people to yield to con-
version. Muslims and Christians, whether living in the same village
or in separate villages, have settled down, in the course of 1,300 years,
to an implicit understanding that those who are born Muslim shall
remain Muslim, and those who are born Christian shall continue to be
so. The idea of proselyting is alien to their minds. The same atti-
tude has been shown toward the energetic attempt at conversion by
Western missionaries during the last hundred years. It is a well-
known fact that not more than 10 to 20 Muslims in the whole region
have been converted.

A third feature is the high degree of autonomy enjoyed by the vil-
lage church. This is another indication of its identification with the
life of the community, rather than with an outside hierarchy. Islam,
in fact, does not have much of an ecclesiastical organization, and the
Muslim village church is very much of a local affair. The people
choose their mam or sheikh, who leads them in prayer and performs
for them certain ceremonies. He is paid a certain unassigned wage,
mostly in kind. The Christian priest is similarly chosen and paid.
He is one of the villagers, well known to them, and they expect him to
be their priest all his life. There is no question of his being called
somewhere else. In addition, he owns land as they do, and does some
farming. After being ordained by the bishop, he is left very much on
his own with his congregation. One condition with which he must
conform is that he should get married before he is ordained ; otherwise
he will have to remain celibate. Most of the village priests are mar-
ried, which is preferred by the community. On the other hand, celi-
bacy is required in all other statuses of the heirarchy, from the monk
to the patriarch; but this heirarchy has very little to do with village

8See the writer’s article, “Acculturation of an Arab-Syrian Community in the Deep
South,” Amer. Sociol. Rev., vol. 8, No. 3, June 1943.
542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

life. In ceremonies, festivals, intervillage relations and legal affairs,
the local church is named after, and identified with, its own village
community.

THE COMMUNITY

So far we have shown how land, agriculture, family, and church
weave a pattern of life for the Arab fellah. To complete the descrip-
tion of the pattern, one more element should be discussed. This is
community life as a whole, which is dependent upon the other ele-
ments, yet goes beyond them. Short of the association and emotional
experience afforded by the totality of the community, the fell/ah’s life
is incomplete. The village is, more or less, his self-sufficient world.
Under the discussion of its physical structure above, we emphasized
its nucleated nature and indicated how clearly it can be identified.
This clarity of the physical boundaries is a true reflection of a complete
form of association within, of which the individual is part, as much as
he is part of his family, church, and agricultural occupation.

The fellah is always conscious of the fact that he is a member of a
certain community, and he knows wherever he goes people expect him
to identify himself as such. A stranger is always “placed” with
respect to his village, family, and church. The influence of the
community extends also to agriculture. This is obvious in the case
where communal ownership of the land prevails, as discussed above.
Even where land is privately owned, rotation of crops, grazing
grounds, dates of harvesting, and appointment of crop guards are all
fixed by the village as a whole. Marriage within the settlement is
preferable to marriage with an outsider; and individuals usually
conform. We have indicated above how the local church is identified
primarily with the community, rather than with the mother church.
In intervillage competition or conflict loyalty to the local community
asserts itself in an unmistakable manner and is expected from every
individual. Practically every village has developed a sort of a repu-
tation, a general character, by which it is well known in the surround-
ing area. This may be the prowess of its youth, its learning, the in-
dustry of its farmers, its loose morals, etc.

Local leadership and government also reflect the authority and in-
terests of the community. Leaders develop gradually and spon-
taneously, by measuring up to certain esteemed qualifications. These
are, ideally, land ownership, old age, good family background, gen-
erosity, good moral character, and intelligence, which they express as
“wisdom.” Naturally, very few individauls ever attain all of these
points, and a compromise has to be made. Usually, there is a formally
organized or informal village council consisting of leaders from the
various kinship groups. This representative body settles disputes
between individuals and decides upon various village affairs. In some
ARAB VILLAGE COMMUNITY—TANNOUS 543

localities, under the influence of the central government municipalities
have been established, members of which are elected by the people.

Under the tremendous impact of Western culture, as is now being
brought about by the exigencies of the present global war, one wonders
how this village-world of the Middle East will fare. Will it succeed
in absorbing the shock and maintain its stability, as it did in the days
of the Greeks, the Romans, the Arabs, and the Turks? Will the
present forces of change—the tractor, the automobile, the radio, the
gun, and Western ideologies—prove too much for it to control and
force it to be uprooted with the rest of humanity? Or will there be a
chance of selective acculturation under the guidance of an intelligent
world organization ?
( ata ite eee aa sisihiey ay
re Bonne dt AF A tk A Tee
uy dts yi hs ‘bib! ties bat ice

oft Hen, Apttn ofl ak

Beet oi lutna!

Bi Lowney Ay ab 4 vy ae im Svbenty

Bort aidal aes ? OY Dani aeittt Ne 10 es
apiiyiiid ae ae, erst, oi |

me

na Rey

si i

“4Sbq O[PPHAL OY} Ul WOMIOA 0} PousIsse st AJTATIOW YoNS
"ANILSS1IVd IWWYLNAD AO ADVTITIA V NI ONIYdS SJHL WOU YSLVM AO YVEF V ONIAYYVD

Me
Pre

ae

Fee eS

snouue | —'¢$6| ‘qaoday ueiuosyzuig

Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 2

1. THE VILAGE WELL OF BISHMIZZEEN, NORTH LEBANON.

Water is hauled by means of a kerosene can and a rope.

2. IN SOME VILLAGES THE PEOPLE DEPEND UPON WATER FROM A
RUNNING STREAM FOR WASHING AND DRINKING.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PEATE CS

gictaee w., é
§ 2

at
ae

THE ANCIENT WATERWHEEL OF THE ORONTIS RIVER VALLEY IN
NORTHERN SYRIA.

The river current turns the wheel and lifts the water to a suitable height, whence it is conducted for
irrigation purposes.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 4

shi eee

1. TYPICAL HOUSE IN THE BIKA’ PLAIN, LEBANON.
Note the heap of dung cakes which are used for fuel.

2. A REED-CANE DWELLING FOR SUMMER USE.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 5

1. THE NUCLEATED STRUCTURE OF A VILLAGE IN CENTRAL SYRIA.

2. THE SAHA, WHERE MARKETS ARE HELD, IN A VILLAGE OF
SOUTHERN PALESTINE.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 6

Be ie. tes 5
ese
=

. al Sn
& i ia, bao ~

THE COURTYARDS OF VILLAGE HOUSES IN SOUTHERN PALESTINE (1)
AND IN THE INTERIOR OF LEBANON (2).
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 7

1. A STONE HOUSE IN THE VILLAGE OF BISHMIZZEEN, TYPICAL OF THE
MOUNTAINOUS SECTION OF LEBANON AND NORTHERN PALESTINE.

2. GENERAL VIEW OF A ‘‘BEEHIVE’’ VILLAGE IN THE
ALLOUITE REGION, NORTH SYRIA.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 8

a rye TT,
iad " ‘ :

1. BAKING BREAD ON THE SAJ (THE HEATED IRON PLATE IN THE
CENTER) IN THE INTERIOR OF LEBANON.

Note the thin loaves.

2. BAKING BREAD IN THE VILLAGE BAKERY IS A HIGHLY
COOPERATIVE AND SOCIAL ACTIVITY.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 9

1. GENERAL VIEW OF OLIVE ORCHARDS IN THE KURA VALLEY, LEBANON.

2. ELABORATE TERRACING IS MAINTAINED IN ORDER TO PREVENT
EXCESSIVE EROSION ON THE MOUNTAINSIDES.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 10

1. A TEAM OF OXEN IS THE MAINSTAY OF A LEBANON FARM.
The farmer holds the goad in one hand and directs the plow with the other.

2. THE ANCIENT THRESHING BOARD IS STILL IN USE.
The under surface is studded with hard stones.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 11

7

ah iG

: ~

1. FREQUENTLY THE COOP IS PERCHED IN A TREE, AND THE
CHICKENS LEARN HOW TO CLIMB TO IT.

2. AN EARTHENWARE JAR SERVING FOR A BEEHIVE |S ANOTHER
OLD AGRICULTURAL PRACTICE.
“ANILSS1IVd NYSHLYON NI YR019 AOVTITA IVOIdDAL V 2% “ANILSATVd NYSHLNOS NI YS0719 3DVTIIA AVIIdAL Vv ‘1

cl 3LV1d snouue J —'¢p6| ‘J40dayy ueruosyzWG
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 13

fal
i f- r
res Cee eS ee en ae i a

1. THE COUNCIL OF ELDERS MEETING WITH GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS IN A DRUZE VILLAGE.

2. ARAB COFFEE AND HOSPITALITY ARE SYNONY MOUS.

Note the mortar in which the roasted beans are pounded.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Tannous PLATE 14

1. THE AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE HAS INVADED THE OUTLYING ARAB VILLAGE,
BRINGING ABOUT FAR-REACHING CHANGES IN ITS WAY OF LIFE.

2. THE RETURNING EMIGRANT HAS BEEN ANOTHER FORCE OF
SOCIAL CHANGE IN VILLAGE CULTURE.

He brings back new ideas, a higher standard of living, and a new outlook on life.
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS FROM MICROBES

By Rosert L. WEINTRAUB

Division of Radiation and Organisms
Smithsonian Institution

[With 5 plates]
RETROSPECT

The treatment of disease with chemical agents is as old as the prac-
tice of medicine itself. Since the beginnings of the healing art, there
has been a constant effort to discover specific remedies for the maladies
that beset the human organism. During the dawn of our present
scientific era, hopes of success in this direction were voiced by some
of the outstanding workers, such as Paracelsus in the sixteenth cen-
tury and Boyle in the seventeenth, but the search for chemical spe-
cifics was of necessity conducted in an entirely empirical manner.
Until the twentieth century only three valuable specific remedies
for infectious diseases had been found: cinchona bark (containing
quinine) for malaria, ipecac (containing emetine) for amebic dysen-
tery, and mercury for syphilis.

The firm establishment of the germ theory of disease, due largely
to Pasteur during the latter half of the nineteenth century, created
a rational basis for the development of chemotherapy. Today various
connotations have become associated with this term. To the earlier
workers it meant the internal disinfection of the body by chemicals
which would destroy the pathogenic parasites without harming the
host—in the words of Paul Ehrlich, the father of chemotherapy: “by
magic bullets which strike only those objects for whose destruction
they have been produced.”

The recognition of the powerful bactericidal action of a number
of chemicals, such as carbolic acid and bichloride of mercury, stimu-
lated expectations of the early accomplishment of inner disinfection.
Despite a great deal of labor, however, this goal was not achieved ; the
disinfectants which appeared so promising in test-tube experiments
were found to be either ineffective in vivo or too toxic toward the
body. It was not until 1910, with the introduction of salvarsan, or
“606,” developed after years of painstaking work by Ehrlich, that

545
546 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

successful chemotherapy by a synthetic compound could be regarded
as accomplished. Hopes were again raised that, having reached this
milestone, further progress would be rapid, but once again the expecta-
tion proved futile. In the ensuing quarter of a century only a hand-
ful of useful chemotherapeutic agents were developed and all these,
like quinine and salvarsan, were limited to the treatment of protozoal
diseases. All experience indicated that the ordinary pathogenic
bacteria could not be attacked by chemotherapy.

Then in 1935 announcement was made of the curative effects on
bacterial infections in mice by the dye prontosil. It was soon shown
that the action of this compound is due entirely to a small portion
of the molecule, sulfanilamide. From this parent substance have
been derived all the sulfonamide compounds so widely used in recent
years. In a period of half a dozen years approximately three
thousand derivatives and related compounds have been tested; four
of these—sulfapyridine, sulfaguanidine, sulfathiazole, and sulfadia-
zine—have been outstanding. The introduction of these drugs has rev-
olutionized many phases of medicine. Dozens of infectious diseases
have responded to sulfonamide therapy, and the prospects for cases
of septicemia, pneumonia, scarlet fever, and meningitis, to mention
only a few, have been dramatically improved. Without doubt
hundreds of thousands of lives have already been saved by the sul-
fonamides.

These drugs are not, however, without their disadvantages. In
many patients they produce symptoms of great discomfort and may
even cause severe toxic effects and tissue damage. Further, it has
been discovered that some strains of pneumococci and other bacteria
are resistant to the action of the sulfonamides, so that a considerable
percentage of infections by these bacteria is not amenable to the
treatment. Even in the case of susceptible organisms, there are other
limitations on the usefulness of the sulfonamide compounds. Their
antibacterial activity is greatly diminished in the presence of large
numbers of bacterial cells, even of dead bacteria, and also by the
presence of pus, blood serum, and various products of tissue destruc-
tion, all of which are very likely to be found in infected wounds.

While progress in the sulfonamide field still continues and further
valuable discoveries may well be anticipated, the successes here have
served to stimulate rather than to deter investigation of other, un-
related, chemotherapeutic agents. A powerful impetus to these
studies has been furnished by the present war with its greatly
increased demand for better antiseptics.

Within the past few years, considerable attention has been given
to a number of substances which are the metabolic products of various
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 547

micro-organisms. As yet, the study of none of these has reached the
final stage, but already very promising preliminary results have been
obtained. As is true of most scientific advances, the ultimate flower-
ing of this field has been preceded by a long preparatory period of
scattered observations whose practical implications were unrecognized
or ignored. During the past three-quarters of a century numerous
examples of antagonistic relationships between various micro-organ-
isms have been noted. In many instances the inhibitory effects have
been shown to be due to the production of toxic materials. In the
following account an attempt will be made to sketch the development
and present status of knowledge of the more potent antibacterial
substances which have been obtained from bacteria and fungi.

AGENTS FROM PSEUDOMONAS AERUGINOSA

In 1877 Pasteur reported that the injection of anthrax bacilli into
susceptible animals frequently failed to elicit the disease when the
inoculum was contaminated with “common bacteria” and suggested
that this observation could “perhaps justify great hopes from a
therapeutic point of view.” A dozen years later two other French
bacteriologists, working independently, announced that by injecting
cultures of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the so-called bacillus of blue
pus, into rabbits infected with anthrax, an appreciable number of the
animals was prevented from dying of this disease.

Pyocyanase.—This discovery aroused a great deal of interest and it
was soon shown, first, that a sterilized culture of Pseudomonas could
be employed in place of the living bacteria, and then that an active
material could be obtained from the culture fluid itself after removal
of the cells. Minute amounts of this product, originally believed to
be an enzyme and designated “pyocyanase” after the old name (Psew-
domonas pyocyanea) of the organism, were capable of causing the
dissolution, or lysis, of billions of cells of staphylococci, pyogenic
streptococci, the bacilli of diphtheria, plague, typhoid, and anthrax,
and the cholera vibrio.

During the early years of the present century, pyocyanase was
employed therapeutically to a considerable extent and was produced
on a commercial scale in Germany. Favorable results were reported
in the treatment of a large number of diseases, including anthrax,
diphtheria, cerebrospinal meningitis, infectious catarrh, wounds and
abscesses, as well as many infections of the eyes, mouth, and skin.
In general the surface infections were treated with greater success
than those of more deep-seated occurrence. Later, however, there
began to accumulate a number of reports of negative and inconsistent
results, and interest in the therapeutic use of pyocyanase waned.
548 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

Studies of the physical and chemical properties of the substance also
resulted in lack of agreement.

The reasons for most of the observed discrepancies are now appar-
ent. In recent years it has been demonstrated that several anti-
bacterial substances, which differ in their mode and specificity of
action, are produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Furthermore, dif-
ferent strains of this organism do not behave alike in their elaboration
of the various compounds and, moreover, for a given strain the pro-
duction of each of the active agents is influenced by a number of
environmental factors. The methods of extraction also are of
importance in determining the composition of the antibacterial
preparations.

Pyocyanic acid.—In 1908 it was found that the bactericidal activity
of pyocyanase, as well as of Pseudomonas aeruginosa cultures, could
be extracted by various organic solvents. That pyocyanase really was
an enzyme had already been questioned by a number of investigators
and this new finding was interpreted as evidence that the active agent
was a fatlike substance. The extracts were demonstrated to possess
the ability to dissolve, or lyse, red blood cells, as well as bacteria.
Several investigators attempted to identify the active compound. In
1933 an active substance which appeared to be a fatty acid was iso-
Jated and named “pyocyanic acid.” This compound has not yet been
identified and its precise chemical structure is unknown. It is quite
potent against certain bacteria; complete inhibition of the growth of
the cholera vibrio is produced by 0.001 percent, of the anthrax bacillus
by 0.005 percent, of staphylococci by 0.02 percent. Somewhat higher
concentrations cause lysis. Pyocyanic acid is a surface-active com-
pound, that is, in aqueous solutions it has the property of accumulating
at the interface between phases, such as at the water-air boundary,
and of reducing the surface tension of the water. This property,
which is characteristic of detergents or cleaning agents such as soap,
seems to be of importance in its bacteriolytic action, inasmuch as a
number of other detergents have been found to produce similar
biological effects.

The purest preparations of pyocyanic acid thus far tested have
been found to be moderately toxic to mice. No attempt has yet been
made to use the substance therapeutically.

Pyocyanine.—One of the most obvious characteristics of Pseudo-
monas aeruginosa is the production of a water-soluble blue pigment.
As early as 1860 this pigment had been isolated from blue pus and
given the name “pyocyanine.” Not until 1929, however, was its chem-
ical nature elucidated and its synthesis accomplished in the labora-
tory; it was the first natural product demonstrated to belong to a class
of organic substances known as phenazonium compounds. There is
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 549

considerable evidence that the pigment may play a role in the meta-
bolic activities of the bacterial cell.

In 1982 it was shown that pyocyanine is fairly strongly bactericidal.
In 6 hours the causal organisms of anthrax and diphtheria are killed
by 0.025 percent ; numerous other species are also susceptible, although
to a lesser degree. The pigment is about twice as toxic for mice as is
pyocyanic acid. Promising results have been obtained in preliminary
trials in which the noses of diphtheria carriers were sprayed with
pyocyanine solution.

a-Hydroxyphenazine——In adition to pyocyanine, Pseudomonas
aeruginosa produces a number of pigments which have been less thor-
oughly studied. One of these, a decomposition product of pyocyanine
known as a-hydroxyphenazine, was shown in 1935 to be bactericidal
toward a large variety of organisms. This compound is not very
stable, so that its activity rapidly decreases with time; in tests of
short duration, however, it has proved to be highly potent. The
growth of the cholera vibrio, for example, is completely inhibited by
a concentration of 0.00013 percent. The pus-forming streptococci and
the pneumonia bacterium are about one-half as sensitive. The toxic-
ity to mice is less than one-fifth that of pyocyanine. Therapeutic
trials have not yet been reported.

The increased knowledge of the multiplicity of antibacterial agents
produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa sheds considerable light on the
contradictory experiences of the older workers with pyocyanase. It
is now clear that different preparations contained these components
in varying extent. Pyocyanine was doubtless present in many of
them. In view of the many favorable results obtained with the old
unstandardized preparations, a reexamination of the possible applica-
tions of the pure components seems desirable. Against staphylococci,
streptococci, the organisms of typhoid and paratyphoid fevers, as well
as other micro-organisms, pyocyanine and a-hydroxyphenazine, have
a much greater growth-inhibiting, or bacteriostatic, potency than the
sulfonamide drugs. The action against several pathogenic fungi alse
compares favorably with that of the common disinfectants. Owing
to the toxicity of the Pseudomonas agents their potential usefulness
would appear to be limited to surface or localized infections. The
high potency against fungi which are responsible for such infections
suggests a possible therapeutic application.

AGENTS FROM BACILLUS BREVIS

The remarkable diversity of the chemical transformations brought
about by the varied bacterial population of the soil led Dubos, at the
Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, to attempt to isolate

566766—4436
550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

therefrom an organism capable of attacking Gram-positive cocci.t
The technic adopted was to add, from time to time, suspensions of
living streptococci and staphylococci to soil in the hope of provoking
the development of a microbial flora able to utilize these cells. In 1989,
after a period of 2 years, he was able to announce the success of the
experiment. There was isolated from the soil a bacterium, identified
as Bacillus brevis, which brought about the lysis of living staphylo-
cocci, streptococci, and pneumococci. A short time later Hoogerheide,
who had been working independently at the Franklin Institute, also
reported the isolation of several strains of soil bacilli which pro-
duced antibacterial substances. Other species, endowed with the same
type of antagonistic activity, have been obtained also from sewage
and from cheese.

Tyrothricin, gramicidin, and tyrocidine——It was soon found that
the lytic properties were exhibited not only by the living Bacillus
brevis, but also by cell-free solutions obtained from old cultures in
which self-digestion, or autolysis, of the bacteria had taken place.
From such solutions there have been obtained several active fractions
which differ in chemical composition and in biological properties.
Apparently these various substances are derived, through the proc-
esses of autolysis and the subsequent manipulations of extraction,
from a single parent substance originally present in the bacterial
cell. On acidification of the culture fluid there is obtained a protein
precipitate from which a protein-free active substance can be ex-
tracted with alcohol and precipitated with salt solution. The material
obtained in this manner has been designated “tyrothricin” after
Tyrothriz, the old generic name of a group of bacteria early recog-
nized as having antagonistic properties. About half a gram of tyro-
thricin can be prepared from a liter of bacterial culture. Tyrothricin
has been further separated into two active components, named “grami-
cidin” and “tyrocidine,” which account for approximately 20 and 50
percent, respectively, of the parent material.

Both gramicidin and tyrocidine have beer isolated in pure crystal-
line state and considerable information concerning their chemical
properties has been obtained. Both compounds are complex poly-

1In the staining technic devised by the Danish bacteriologist Gram, the bacteria are
treated successively with a dye, such as gentian violet, with iodine, and with alcohol.
Those which are decolorized by the alcohol are termed Gram-negative, whereas those which
retain the dye are Gram-positive. Although the Gram stain was introduced as a purely
empirical procedure, it has been found to differentiate bacterial species into two fairly
sharply defined groups which differ also in numerous structural and physiological character-
istics. The reason for the difference in staining properties is not entirely clear but presum-
ably is related to the properties of the cell wall.

Of the common disease-producing cocci, the streptococci, staphylococci, and pneumococci
are Gram-positive, whereas the gonococci and meningococci are Gram-negative. Among the
Gram-positive bacilli are the causal organisms of diphtheria, gas gangrene, tetanus, tuber-
culosis, leprosy, and anthrax ; Gram-negative bacilli include the agents of typhoid and para-
typhoid fevers, bacillary dysentery, bubonic plague, and undulant fever.
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 551

peptides constructed in a fashion somewhat similar to the common
proteins but differing from these in a number of important details.
The precise empirical formulas are not yet known; gramicidin ap-
pears to be approximately C,,HiosNi;O,3;, while tyrocidine may be
CroeHiesN2eOx. or possibly a unit one-half this size.

Although both gramicidin and tyrocidine possess antibacterial
activity, and despite their chemical similarity, their biological proper-
ties are quite different. The action of gramicidin is primarily bac-
teriostatic; the great majority of Gram-positive species tested are
highly susceptible, whereas the Gram-negative bacilli are entirely in-
sensitive. Tyrocidine, on the contrary, exerts a marked bactericidal
effect upon both Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms.

Tyrocidine causes the lysis of a number of bacterial species, whereas
gramicidin has no such effect. It appears likely, however, that the
dissolution is not a direct result of the action of tyrocidine but rather
is a secondary self-digestion brought about by the bacterial enzymes
after the cells have been killed by the bactericidal agent. Gramicidin,
on the other hand, does not occasion the lysis of even the most sus-
ceptible bacteria.

Both agents cause the dissolution of red blood cells, but the
mechanism of the action is quite different for the two substances.
The hemolytic effect of gramicidin becomes apparent only after several
hours, although it may be elicited by very small amounts of the
agent. The action is completely inhibited by the presence of glucose
or certain other carbohydrates. Tyrocidine, contrariwise, produces
immediate hemolysis irrespective of the presence of glucose; its action,
however, is inhibited by blood serum to a much greater degree than
is that of gramicidin. The hemolytic activity of gramicidin and
tyrocidine seems to be influenced by factors which are not yet entirely
appreciated, as conflicting results have been obtained by different
workers.

The mechanism of the action of gramicidin and tyrocidine on cells
has been studied to a greater extent than that of most of the other
natural antimicrobial substances. Tyrocidine acts much like a gen-
eral protoplasmic poison. It induces an immediate and irreversible
cessation of metabolic activity which, in many cases, is followed by
cellular disintegration. Its action in these respects resembles closely
that of certain detergents, as do also its behavior as a protein pre-
cipitant and its surface activity.

While gramicidin has many of the physical and biological proper-
ties of detergents, there is considerable evidence that its antibacterial
activity is not due to these characteristics alone, although its tendency
to concentrate at the bacterial surface well might enhance the action
due to other properties. The effects produced by gramicidin are
552 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

greatly influenced by the composition of the medium. In the presence
of glucose (or some other substrates), phosphate, and potassium, low
concentrations of gramicidin markedly stimulate the respiration of
various cells. Small amounts of certain substances, e. g., the am-
monium ion, prevent this stimulatory effect. Higher concentrations
of gramicidin may cause complete inhibition of respiration. It is
known that the cellular oxidation of carbohydrate is brought about
by means of certain phosphoric acid compounds. Recently there has
been procured evidence that the formation of one of these compounds,
adenosine triphosphoric acid, may be inhibited by gramicidin. This
agent thus does not behave as a gross protoplasmic poison but appears
to exert its bacteriostatic effect through an interference with the
energy-supplying processes of the cell.

The antibacterial activity of both gramicidin and tyrocidine is
reduced by serum and tissue extracts. Tyrocidine is inhibited also by
proteins and peptones. Of a large number of pure substances which
have been tested, only a few, belonging to the class of phospholipides,
have been found to possess the ability of diminishing the gramicidin
potency. A gramicidin-neutralizing fraction rich in phospholipides
can also be obtained from Gram-negative bacilli; whether this ma-
terial plays a role in the nonsusceptibility of Gram-negative organ-
isms to gramicidin has not yet been established.

Both gramicidin and tyrocidine are quite toxic when administered
intravenously or intraperitoneally. This, together with the lowered
effectiveness in the presence of various biological substances, would
appear to preclude the therapeutic application in systemic infections.
For the treatment of many types of localized infections the prospects
are much brighter. A considerable number of clinical trials with
very favorable results have already been reported. In vivo, gramicidin
is a much more active agent than tyrocidine. In practice the mix-
ture of the two—tyrothricin—has been used much more extensively
than gramicidin itself, inasmuch as it appears to possess some ad-
vantages, as well as being much more easily produced. Tyrothricin
is now commercially available.

Among the diseases which have shown favorable response to tyro-
thricin therapy are inflammations of the nose and sinuses, bladder
infections, empyema due to streptococci, postoperative wounds, and
burns. Skin ulcers which had persisted for years, despite various
forms of treatment, have healed after a few weeks, or even days, of
tyrothricin therapy. In general, streptococcal infections are more
amenable than those due to staphylococci or pneumococci. Good re-
sults have been obtained also in the treatment of bovine mastitis, a
streptococcal infection of the cow’s udder.
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 553

The application of tyrothricin after surgical operations on the nose,
sinuses, and mastoid has been reported to prevent postoperative in-
fections and so to reduce fever, swelling, and pain in a number of
instances. There is some indication also that the process of wound
healing may be stimulated by this agent.

On the other hand, it must be pointed out that among even the
susceptible species of bacteria there may exist, or be developed during
the course of treatment, strains which are very resistant to the action
of tyrothricin. Treatment with this material may occasionally fail
also in the presence of a mixed bacterial infection, inasmuch as certain
Gram-negative bacteria appear to counteract the activity against
susceptible Gram-positive forms. A further point of importance is
that the infected area must be accessible to local treatment.

Obviously, gramicidin (tyrothricin) is not a cure-all but, with due
regard for its limitations, it would appear to furnish a valuable addi-
tion to the medical armamentarium.

AGENTS FROM BACILLUS MESENTERICUS

Another spore-bearing bacillus which has long been recognized as
having antagonistic properties is Bacillus mesentericus, the so-called
potato bacillus. In 1904 it was shown that the antibacterial principle
occurs in the culture medium and can diffuse through a collodion mem-
brane. In 19389 the active agent was identified as a mixture of isova-
leric and oleic acids, both of which are well-known chemical com-
pounds found in biological materials. Oleic acid, which is especially
widespread among plants and animals, is the more potent of the two
and also possesses hemolytic properties. The agents are especially
active against diphtheria and pseudodiphtheria bacilli, although other
bacteria are inhibited by higher concentrations.

OTHER AGENTS OF BACTERIAL ORIGIN

A great many instances of bacterial antagonism have been described
and the indications are that a considerable proportion of these is due
to the production of specific inhibitory substances. The information
available is so fragmentary, however, that a detailed discussion of
these agents would not appear to be justified in the present account.
Some of the bacterial species from which cell-free antimicrobial prep-
arations have been obtained are: Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudo-
monas putida, Pseudomonas phosphorescens, Proteus vulgaris, Ser-
ratia marcescens, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus albus, Kleb-
siella pneumoniae, Vibrio comma, Bacillus adhaerens, Bacillus
anthracis, Bacillus mycoides, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus simplex, Ba-
cillus cereus, Escherichia coli, and Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
554 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943
AGENTS FROM ACTINOMYCETES

The actinomycetes comprise a large group of organisms somewhat
intermediate between the true bacteria and the higher fungi. They
are very widespread in nature, occurring in soils, composts, and water
basins; the group includes also several species which cause diseases in
plants and anal.

In 1890 an Italian worker observed that certain actinomycetes were
able to destroy the cell membranes of many bacteria and fungi. In
the ensuing third of a century no further study of this phenomenon
appears to have been undertaken. During the past two decades, how-
ever, investigations in a number of laboratories have provided evidence
that several antimicrobial substances are elaborated by actinomycetes
and that antagonistic properties are widely distributed among various
strains of this group of organisms. To date only a few of these active
substances have been studied to any extent.

Actinomycetin.—In 1924 two French workers who had been study-
ing the lysis of killed staphylococci sought to isolate, from air or
water, micro-organisms which could bring about this process. They
succeeded in obtaining an actinomycete which was capable of causing
the disintegration of a large number of microbial species.

The production of the disintegrating agent, or lysin, occurs in
any medium which permits the growth of the actinomycete and com-
mences at the time of spore formation; prior to this stage no activity
can be demonstrated in either the culture medium or the cells of the
organism. Preparations of the active principle, which has been
designated “actinomycetin,” are protein in nature; however, as they
are further purified, the ratio of protein content to activity decreases.

As previously noted the living actinomycete is capable of lysing
a great variety of living bacteria and molds. With the exception of a
few strains of Streptococcus pyogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, and
Klebsiella pnewmoniae, the micro-organisms are resistant to the cell-
free filtrate of the actinomycete, however. But if the bacteria are
first killed, by whatever means, they become susceptible to the sterile
actinomycete culture filtrate. Actinomycetin preparations which
have been concentrated to the extent of a hundredfold increase in
potency exhibit the same type of action and specificity as the crude
culture filtrate. It thus appears that at least two principles are in-
volved: a lytic factor which can act only upon dead micro-organisms
and a bactericidal factor which exists in the culture medium in a
relatively inactive form, albeit sufficiently active to kill the few
susceptible strains enumerated.

Support for this view has been contributed by the recent discovery
that on extraction of purified actinomycetin with ether there is ob-
tained a fraction bactericidal to a number of Gram-positive bacteria.
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 555

The role of the actinomycete cells is visualized as that of freeing the
bactericidal agent from its hypothetical inactive complex. Evidence
for the tendency of the bactericidal substance to form such com-
plexes is considered to be furnished by the finding that the bacteri-
cidal potency is much less in complex media than in solutions of
inorganic salts.

While information on the chemical nature of the active agent is
still very fragmentary, it is thought by some workers to be a fatty
acid. ‘This is very suggestive of a parallel with the agents of Bacillus
mesentericus and of the pyocyanic acid of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
At least one pigment with antibacterial activity has also been isolated
from another species of actinomycete, although most of the pig-
ments produced by this group of organisms do not appear to have
such activity.

No direct therapeutic use of actinomycetin has been made; it has
been found, however, that the actinomycete-produced lysates of a
number of pathogenic bacteria are very good antigens and much less
toxic than the organisms themselves. Favorable results in a number
of cases of various infections in man have been claimed through the
use of such lysates.

Actinomycins A and B.—¥rom cultures of another actinomycete,
Actinomyces antibioticus, there has been obtained a strongly anti-
bacterial preparation which was termed “actinomycin.” Subse-
quently this material was separated into two components, both of
which exhibited activity. These have been designated “actinomycin
A” and “actinomycin B.” Both substances have been obtained in
crystalline form.

Actinomycin A, which is a bright red pigment, has been studied
chemically to some extent. Its structure is not yet known but it
appears to be a polycyclic nitrogen compound; possible formulas are
CuH;.NsO,, and C;;Hs.N;Oi... The compound has a high degree of
antibacterial activity which, for a given organism, may be bacterio-
static or bactericidal, depending upon the concentration and time of
action. Gram-positive organisms are considerably more susceptible
than the Gram-negative forms. Among the susceptible bacteria are
streptococci and staphylococci, which are inhibited completely by con-
centrations of 0.00001 percent; the gas gangrene bacillus, inhibited by
0.0001 percent; and the tubercle bacillus, inhibited by 0.001 percent.
The mechanism of the killing effect by higher concentrations appears
to be a chemical interaction similar to that of the common antiseptics.

Unfortunately actinomycin A is exceedingly toxic, so that its internal
administration is precluded. Whether it would be useful in surface
application remains to be determined.

Actinomycin B has been studied to only a limited extent. No in-
formation as to its chemical nature is yet available. Some difficulties
556 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

have been encountered in obtaining preparations of uniform anti-
bacterial activity; the substance apparently has comparatively little
bacteriostatic activity but is more highly bactericidal than the A
component. .

Streptothricin.—This antibacterial agent, which is produced by
Actinomyces lavendulae, has the properties of an organic base; up to
the present it has not been prepared in pure condition. In the culture
fluid it seems to be associated with protein. The crude streptothricin
is strongly bacteriostatic toward a considerable variety of Gram-posi-
tive and Gram-negative organisms. For example, Brucella abortus,
the etiological agent of undulant fever, is inhibited completely by 0.001
percent; 0.008 percent is inhibitory for the causal organisms of para-
typhoid fever, of hog cholera, and of infectious abortion in mares.
In higher concentrations streptothricin is also bactericidal.

It has been reported that in guinea pigs experimentally infected with
Brucella abortus, the pathogens can be eliminated or reduced in number
by administration of streptothricin.

Proactinomycin.—This name has been given to an antibacterial sub-
stance extracted from cultures of a species of Proactinomyces. Like
streptothricin, it seems to be an organic base. Its action is primarily
bacteriostatic. The growth of the pneumococcus is inhibited by
0.00007 percent; 0.0002 percent inhibits streptococci, staphylococci,
meningococci, and anthrax bacilli. Proactinomycin is moderately
toxic to mice. White blood corpuscles are unaffected by concentra-
tions well in excess of those required for the inhibition of the micro-
organisms specified above.

Micromonosporin.—This agent, obtained quite recently from a spe-
cies of Micromonospora, has been but little studied. It is bacterio-
static toward a number of Gram-positive bacteria, whereas all the
Gram-negative organisms tested have been found very resistant to
its action.

Lysozyme.—In 1922 Fleming discovered that various tissues and
secretions of the body contain a substance capable of causing the dis-
solution of a variety of bacteria. This agent, named “lysozyme,” is
present also in egg white. A bacteriolytic substance prepared by
Russian investigators from Actinomyces violaceus has been regarded
as possibly identical with lysozyme, although there appear to be dif-
ferences in certain properties of the two agents. The Actinomyces
lysozyme, which is of protein nature, exhibits a selective action against
certain bacterial species but can dissolve both living and dead cells.

AGENTS FROM MOLDS

Penicillin—In 1929 Alexander Fleming, the English bacteriologist
who a few years previously had discovered the lysozyme of tissues, was
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 557

making a study of staphylococci. Culture dishes of the bacteria were
kept in the laboratory for periodic inspection, during which they
were exposed to the air. Fleming noticed that in one dish, which had
become contaminated with a mold (similar to the common blue mil-
dew on jam or citrus fruits), the surrounding Staphylococcus colonies
became transparent and were dissolved. This is the type of observa-
tion of a chance occurrence which is frequently made by scientific in-
vestigators. But it is only by the alert, inquisitive, and trained worker
that further exploitation is made. In the words of Pasteur: “Chance
favors the mind that is prepared.” Fleming transferred the mold to
a liquid nutrient solution and found that there appeared in the fluid
a substance that was markedly inhibitory toward many of the more
common disease-producing bacteria. The mold was later identified
as Penicillium notatum and its bactericidal culture filtrate was des-
ignated “penicillin.” Recently a preparation with very similar
antibacterial properties has been obtained also from Penicillium
chrysogenum.

Fleming clearly realized the potential utility of the active material
as a chemotherapeutic agent, which must have two essential character-
istics: ability to inhibit pathogenic organisms and low toxicity toward
living tissues. Penicillin was found to combine these properties to an
unusual extent. It was not at all toxic to animals but was at least
twice as powerful an inhibitor as carbolic acid toward sensitive organ-
isms, such as the various pus-producing cocci.

Local application of penicillin to septic wounds was tried in a
limited number of cases with generally favorable, although not
miraculous, results. The further investigation of the substance as a
therapeutic agent suffered from a serious handicap—it was very diffi-
cult to prepare in sufficiently large quantity and in purified condition,
owing chiefly to its chemical instability which resulted in loss of anti-
bacterial activity. In the decade following its discovery, no further
progress along this line was made, although it was employed for the
purpose of isolating certain types of bacteria which, on the ordinary
culture media, were overgrown by accompanying species. By this
means it was shown that the so-called influenza bacillus was present in
the mouths of all normal persons examined and hence was probably
not the causal organism of epidemic influenza, as had theretofore been
widely assumed. More recently, penicillin has been used to isolate
the acne bacillus from acne pustules and so to make possible a simple
method for the preparation of autogenous vaccines of the organism.

The discovery and rapid development of the sulfonamide drugs
since 1935 had stimulated renewed interest in chemotherapy, and the
success of gramicidin had directed attention to the antibiotic agents
of microbial origin. In 1940 a research team at Oxford University
558 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

commenced a concerted attack on the penicillin problem from several
directions; the promise of the initial results inspired a large number
of investigators on both sides of the Atlantic to take up the work. In
the United States a number of governmental laboratories are now
participating in this research.

Obviously the widespread utilization of any rare biological product
would be greatly facilitated if the substance could be prepared artifi-
cially. In recent years we have seen numerous instances of the rapid
extension of use which follows the success of the chemist in synthesiz-
ing natural materials; some of the vitamins are outstanding examples.
Further than this there always exists the possibility of improving na-
ture’s product by some modification of the chemical structure of the
molecule. As a matter of fact, it is not the synthesis but the deter-
mination of the structure of the natural product which is the funda-
mental and difficult problem, for once the chemical pattern is known
the synthetic chemist can usually devise one or more ways to duplicate
it by starting with much less rare and expensive materials.

As in the famous recipe for rabbit stew, so the first requirement in
elucidating the structure of a chemical is to obtain a supply of the pure
material. This was the problem which confronted the Oxford work-
ers. A method was worked out for growing the Penicillium on shal-
low layers of liquid in special stoneware bottles for a period of 10 days
after which the fluid was removed for extraction of the penicillin.
All operations must be performed with the most exacting bacteriologi-
cal cleanliness, since certain bacteria, if they gain access to the solu-
tions, cause a marked reduction in the yield of active material. Nor-
mally about 14 gallons of culture solution could be harvested each day,
an amount which contains about one-half gram of penicillin, although
only a part of this can be obtained in purified form, due to the losses
which occur during the many stages of the purification process.

Quite recently there has been worked out, on a laboratory scale, a
continuous-flow method similar to that used for the production of
vinegar. The mold is cultured in a long glass column packed with
wood shavings. Fresh culture medium is slowly dripped in at the top
and the fluid containing the penicillin is constantly drawn off at the
bottom. At the time of writing (summer of 1948), a large number
of pharmaceutical concerns are engaged in production of penicillin;
some of these have already progressed to the pilot-plant stage.

Penicillin has not so far been obtained in absolutely pure form, so
that its chemical constitution cannot as yet be fully determined. For-
tunately it has turned out that certain derivatives may be prepared
from penicillin which, while retaining its full antibacterial activity,
are also permanently stable and may be kept indefinitely.
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 559

The action of penicillin, like that of the various sulfonamide drugs,
s different from that of the older antiseptics, in that these newer
-hemotherapeutic agents act only on certain strains or species of bac-
eria and also in that their action is primarily an inhibition of the bac-
erial development, rather than a killing of the germs. The mode of
.ction of penicillin appears to be an interference with the processes of
ell division while growth may be allowed to proceed, resulting in very
rreatly lengthened rods or swollen spheres.

Among the micro-organisms most susceptible to penicillin in test-tube
‘xperiments are the gonococcus (the causal organism of gonorrhea in
nan), the meningococcus (responsible for about 70 percent of all acute
vases of cerebrospinal meningitis), Staphylococcus aureus (the most
Frequent cause of abscesses, boils, and many surgical suppurations),
he pneumococcus (principal etiological factor in lobar pneumonia),
Streptococcus pyogenes (found in human infections of very varied
sypes), Clostridium tetani and Clostridium welchii (the tetanus and
yas gangrene bacilli, respectively), and the anthrax bacillus. Rela-
tively resistant pathogenic organisms, on the other hand, include the
pacillus of tuberculosis, the vibrio of Asiatic cholera, the organisms
»f undulant fever, and certain types of dysentery bacilli.

The exact potency of penicillin cannot, of course, be ascertained
until the pure compound is available. Nevertheless, the activity of
even the impure material far exceeds that of most other antiseptics.
Thus 1 part of penicillin in 60 million parts of culture fluid com-
pletely inhibits the growth of staphylococci; partial inhibition is
obtained at dilutions of more than 300 million. In comparison with
eramicidin, the antibacterial agent obtained from certain soil bacteria,
penicillin is 20 to 40 times as potent against staphylococci. Addi-
tional advantages of very great importance are the remarkably low
toxicity of penicillin toward animals and its lack of inactivation by
pus, blood serum, or products of tissue break-down. Indeed, it has
been reported even that the bactericidal action of penicillin, in some
cases, is enhanced by blood and serum. It is so innocuous that it can
be introduced directly into the eye in the treatment of
conjunctivitis.

Even the first clinical trials by the Oxford workers, although per-
formed with an impure penicillin preparation of relatively low po-
tency and hampered by lack of material, were attended by dramatic
results. In these studies the scarcity of the therapeutic agent was so
great, indeed, that advantage was taken of its rapid excretion by the
kidneys; penicillin was recovered from the urine of treated patients,
repurified, and reused.

With the increasing availability of penicillin, it has been possible
to confirm the early promise. A successfully treated case of Sta-
560 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

phylococcus aureus infection is illustrated in plate 5. An infection
of this type, complicated by blood poisoning, is almost universally
fatal. The patient, a 4-year-old girl, presumably became infected
after biting the inside of her cheek. Redness and swelling of the
jaw appeared, and within a few days the child’s condition had become
critical. Much of the tissue of the floor of the mouth had been killed,
and the tongue was nearly frozen to the hard palate. She was unable
to sleep, could breathe only with difficulty and had a temperature of
104°. There was evidence of pneumonia in one lung. Penicillin
administration was begun. Within 36 hours the staphylococci had
disappeared from the blood. Within 96 hours the child was again
able to swallow, was breathing easily, and could take a liquid diet by
mouth. By the next day, she was able to eat solid foods, and by the
ninth day the temperature was normal. The total amount of penicil-
lin administered during the 12 days of treatment was only a little
more than 1 gram. In another, somewhat similar, case in which
penicillin therapy was begun at an earlier stage, the damage to the
tissues and the bacterial invasion of the blood stream were prevented.

Many other types of staphylococcus and streptococcus infections
have responded to penicillin. Cases of gonorrheal infections which
were not benefited by sulfonamides have also been cured with dra-
matic rapidity by penicillin treatment. So far, the results of exten-
sive trials have not been reported in detail. In the United States,
clinical studies have been organized by the National Research Council.
Early in 1948, clinical trials were begun by the United States Army.
Among the cases subjected to treatment were many soldiers returned
from the Pacific area with unhealed compound fractures, osteomye-
litis, and wounds with long-established infections. Very promising
results have been obtained and the tests are being greatly extended.
In animal experiments, it has been found that the early administra-
tion of penicillin is a powerful prophylactic against gas gangrene,
one of the most serious complications of battle and air-raid wounds.

For systemic infections, penicillin is usually administered intra-
venously. Inasmuch as it is destroyed by acids, inactivation occurs in
the stomach when the drug is given by mouth. However, oral ad-
ministration is possible, although less efficient, if large amounts are
taken together with sodium bicarbonate to neutralize the gastric
acidity.

Of the chemotherapeutic agents of microbial origin which have
thus far been studied, penicillin is preeminently the most promising.
At the moment, the principal handicap in its application is its limited
availability. The outlook for the future, when the problems of pro-
duction shall have been solved, is very bright indeed.
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 561

Notatin, penatin, penicillin B.—From several laboratories has come
evidence that certain strains of Penicillium notatwm produce, in addi-
tion to penicillin, another antibacterial substance. Various investiga-
tors, working simultaneously but independently, have proposed
different names for their preparations: “notatin,” “penatin,” “peni-
cillin B”; the available evidence, while not entirely conclusive, sug-
gests that the active principle is the same.

It is the most potent natural antibiotic substance so far described.
The growth of Staphylococcus aureus, which is one of the most
susceptible species, is inhibited by concentrations as low as 0.00000002
percent. It is active against a large number of both Gram-negative
and Gram-positive bacteria. The substance is bactericidal, as well
as bacteriostatic, but does not appear to cause lysis.

The available evidence indicates that notatin is a flavoprotein in
which the protein is combined with flavine adenine dinucleotide. It
functions as an enzyme which catalyzes the oxidation of glucose by
oxygen, with the production of gluconic acid and hydrogen peroxide.
Certain other sugars are oxidized also. It is believed that the anti-
bacterial action is due to the hydrogen peroxide formed. Support
for this view is furnished by the fact that the activity is appreciable
only in the presence of oxygen and glucose and in the absence of
catalase, the enzyme which promotes the destruction of hydrogen
peroxide. The activity is reduced in the presence of fresh serum,
owing, presumably, to its content of catalase.

Inasmuch as the active agents have not been freed from impurities,
the toxicity cannot be determined with certainty. Some preparations
have been found to be rather toxic, others much less so. No detailed
information as to the therapeutic applicability of the substance is yet
available, although notatin has been reported as having been found
effective in this respect.

Penicillie acid.—This substance, which is not related to penicillin,
despite the similarity of names, was isolated from Penicillium puber-
ulum in 1911, at which time it was found to have an inhibitory effect
upon the growth of certain bacteria. Interest in the substance was
revived in recent years by the discovery of other antibacterial mold
products. Chemically it has been shown to be y-keto-8-methoxy-6-
methylene-A*-hexenoic acid, a type of structure hitherto unknown
among natural products. Penicillic acid is rather strongly bacterio-
static toward a number of organisms, some of which are resistant to
many of the other antibacterial products of microbial origin. The
toxicity for mice is fairly low. Therapeutic studies have not been
undertaken up to the present time.

Pendcidin.—The name “penicidin” has been given to an antibac-
terial substance obtained from an unnamed species of Penicillium.
562 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The material is soluble in organic solvents, relatively thermostable,
inactivated by alkalies but not by acids. It has not yet been isolated
in pure form and its chemical nature and possible identity with
previously discovered mold agents have not been determined. Eber-
thella typhosa is inhibited by a 0.001 percent concentration of the
partially purified preparation.

Spinulosin and fumigatin.—During a study of the chemical prod-
ucts of various molds, the pigments spinulosin and fumigatin were
isolated some years ago from cultures of Penicillium spinulosum and
Aspergillus fumigatus, respectively. Investigation of the structure
of these substances showed them to be quite closely related, fumi-
gatin being 8-hydroxy-4-methoxy-2,5-toluquinone, while spinulosin
is 6-hydroxyfumigatin. Recently these compounds have been exam-

ined for antibacterial properties and both have been found to be —
moderately active. Spinulosin and fumigatin are less important —

by virtue of their own potencies, however, than because of the infor-
mation concerning the relationship between structure and activity
which has been obtained from their study. This will be discussed
below.

Fumigacin—Although isolated from Aspergillus fumigatus, this
substance is not to be confused with fumigatin. Fumigacin, which
has been obtained in crystalline form but not yet characterized chem-
ically, is said to be active against Gram-positive bacteria but nearly
inactive against Gram-negative species.

Citrinin—This is another substance previously isolated from a
mold, Penicillium citrinum, and on recent reinvestigation found to
possess antibacterial activity, although not to an especially marked
extent. Its structure has been worked out as a complex substituted
quinone; it has not yet been synthesized.

Clavacin.—This substance, obtained from Aspergillus clavatus, is
said to be particularly effective against Gram-negative bacteria, in-
cluding a number of species not affected by penicillin, mandelic acid,
or the sulfonamides. Various strains of the fungus differ greatly in
their production of clavacin. The substance, which is rather un-
stable, has not yet been prepared in pure form, but even the partially
purified product exhibits a considerable measure of activity.

Claviformin.—This material, isolated in crystalline form from the
culture medium of Penicillium claviforme, may have the formula
C,H,O;. It is considerably more potent than citrinin, clavacin, or
fumigacin, although less so than penicillin. However, in view of its

decreased activity in the presence of serum, as well as its fairly high ,

toxicity, its therapeutic application does not appear particularly
promising.
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 563

Gliotoxin.—An antimicrobial substance isolated in crystalline form
from Gliocladium fimbriatwm has been given the name “gliotoxin.”
It has the empirical formula C,;H,,O,N.S, and is the first antibiotic
compound of microbial origin which has been found to contain sulfur.
The chemical structure has not yet been elucidated completely but it
appears to be a condensed 8-ring compound with a unique type of
sulfur bridge. Glotoxin is both bacteriostatic and _ bactericidal
toward Gram-negative as well as Gram-positive organisms, Staphy-
lococci and streptococci are completely inhibited by concentrations
of the order of 0.0001 percent, Gram-negative bacteria by somewhat
higher concentrations. It is toxic for higher animals in doses of 50
to 75 milligrams per kilogram. No therapeutic trials have been
reported.

Aspergillic acid—Some, but not all, strains of Aspergillus flavus
have been found to produce an antibacterial substance which has
been designated “aspergillic acid.” The material has been obtained
in crystalline form in yields as high as 400 milligrams per liter of
culture fluid. The empirical formula of aspergillic acid appears to
be C,.H,.N2O.; its chemical structure has not yet been worked out.
In vitro it is fairly potent against certain Gram-positive cocci;
pneumococci and hemolytic streptococci, for example, are killed by
a concentration of about 0.0002 percent. Gram-negative bacilli are
much more resistant to its action.

The toxicity toward mice is not especially high. The maximal
tolerated dose is about 200 milligrams per kilogram when given orally
and approximately half of this when injected intraperitoneally.
However, neither oral nor intraperitoneal administration has been
found to exert any therapeutic effect on experimental mouse infec-
tions with pneumococci or hemolytic streptococci, although prelimi-
nary experiments have shown some protection in experimental
infections with gonococci and gas gangrene bacilli.

Aspergillin—This name has been given to an antibacterial sub-
stance which has been obtained in partially purified form from a strain
of Aspergillus flavus. What relation this material may have to other
antibacterial agents of microbial origin cannot be determined from
the limited information so far available. Making allowances for the
impure state of the aspergillin tested, its bacteriostatic potency and
toxicity appear to correspond approximately with those of aspergillic
acid.

Puberulie and puberulonic acids.—These substances have been iso-
lated in crystalline form as metabolic products of several species of
Penicillium. The empirical formulas are C;sH,O, and C.H,O,, re-
spectively. The chemical constitution is unknown, but puberulonic
564 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

acid is believed to be a quinonoid compound and puberulic acid the
corresponding quinol.

Both compounds inhibit the growth of a number of Gram-positive
bacteria, puberulic acid being somewhat more effective than puber-
ulonic. Neither shows much activity against Gram-negative species.

Unnamed substances.—Several workers have obtained evidence of
the production of antibacterial substances by other molds. In one
survey of 100 fungal species, 30 were found to exhibit activity, with
the added possibility that some of the negative species might well give
positive results under different cultural conditions or against test
bacteria other than those employed. In view of the existence of
thousands of species of molds, it seems certain that many other anti-
bacterial agents produced by these organisms remain to be discovered.
Some yeasts, too, have been found to produce bacteriolytic substances.

PROSPECT

Of the score or more products of microbial origin which have been
described here, the antibiotic activity of the great majority has been
discovered only within the last 2 or 3 years. Most of them have not
yet been studied sufficiently to determine what therapeutic applica-
tions may eventually be made. It is, therefore, highly encouraging
that some of these agents, particularly penicillin and tyrothricin, al-
ready offer definite promise of practical utility. However, even
though none of the presently known substances should ultimately be
found of use in itself, the value of the rapidly increasing knowl-
edge in this field is very great. This is true for two reasons:
in the first place, the identification of a compound possessing some
of the properties desirable in a chemotherapeutic agent, even though
it may at the same time have other undesirable characteristics, opens
the door for the chemist to manipulate the molecular architecture
so as to enhance the one and suppress the other; secondly, studies of the
mode of action of the available inhibitory agents upon micro-organisms
may suggest the use of other substances, which, while chemically un-
related, will exert similar biological effects.

A wide range of chemical types is represented among the limited
number of antimicrobial agents of which the composition has been
even partially elucidated: proteins (notatin, lysozyme), polypep-
tides (gramicidin, tyrocidine), fatty acids (pyocyanic acid, isovaleric
acid, oleic acid, possibly actinomycetin), organic bases (streptothri-
cin, proactinomycin), quinones (citrinin, fumigatin, spinulosin, pos-
sibly puberulonic acid), heterocyclic compounds (gliotoxin, actino-
mycin A, pyocyanine, a-hydroxyphenazine). Obviously, complete
knowledge of the constitution is necessary before the relationship be-
tween structure and biological properties can be studied.
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 565

So far such studies have been made in only one or two cases but
these have proved very fruitful. It has been mentioned that the
two mold products, fumigatin and spinulosin, are structurally very
similar, differing only in the possession of an additional hydroxyl
group by the latter. Spinulosin was found to have only about one-
tenth the antibacterial potency of fumigatin. This unexpected dis-
covery that the activity was markedly decreased by the introduction
of a hydroxy] group led to a study of a considerable number of sub-
stituted toluquinones and benzoquinones, from which several impor-
tant generalizations concerning the effect of structure on activity
could be drawn. As a valuable byproduct of the investigation, it
_ was found that several of the compounds tested were more potent
than fumigatin itself.

A variety of effects is produced by the different antibacterial agents
of microbial origin. At the one extreme are those like actinomycetin
and lysozyme which cause the disintegration of the bacterial cells.
Others, such as gramicidin, may also produce dissolution but pre-
sumably only through the self-digestion brought about by the enzymes
of the killed cells. Killing without lysis is brought about by a num-
ber of substances: pyocyanine, clavacin, fumigacin, gliotoxin, notatin,
etc. The least drastic action is that of such agents as actinomycin
which are primarily bacteriostatic, preventing growth or reproduction
without killing the cells.

As might be expected, an even greater diversity appears to exist
among the mechanisms by which the antibacterial effects are brought
about. In very few cases has much insight been gained into these
mechanisms, but progress is being made rapidly.

Ehrlich and other early workers in the field of chemotherapy pro-
ceeded largely on the assumption that the most effective agents would
be those which produced the maximum killing of the pathogens
without greatly damaging the cells of the host, a sort of selective
sledge-hammer action. In later years it has become apparent, how-
ever, that actual killing of the parasite by the chemical agent itself
may not be at all necessary. The natural defense mechanisms of
the body in many cases are able to cope with a limited number of
invaders and can effect their elimination if the bacterial multiplica-
tion can be prevented. Prevention of reproduction can be achieved
through interference with some metabolic process of the micro-organ-
ism and, since the biochemical processes of the bacterial cell differ
in numerous respects from those of higher animals, there exists the
possibility that there may be found subtle methods of interference
which will be relatively innocuous to the host.

An outstanding example of such a state of affairs is furnished by
the action of sulfanilamide. One of the essential growth factors,

566766—44——-37
566 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

or vitamins, for various bacteria is p-aminobenzoic acid which must
be available if these organisms are to multiply in the infected animal.
The utilization of this substance is effected through the agency of
certain enzymes of the bacterial cell. Now it has long been known
that compounds structurally similar to those upon which the enzyme
normally acts may, if furnished together with the natural substrate,
compete with it for the enzyme and so prevent or retard the normal
interaction. In just this way the utilization of p-aminobenzoic acid
is prevented by the presence of the chemically related sulfanilamide.
This mechanism was not at all understood at the time of the intro-
duction of sulfanilamide, of course, but it appears now that a similar
principle may obtain in the action of many, though not all, other
antibacterial agents. This has been indicated above in the discussion ©
of gramicidin, one of the few microbial agents of which, to date,
the mode of action is at all understood: In this connection it may
be significant also that a-hydroxyphenazine, one of the antibacterial
substances produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, bears a certain
structural similarity to riboflavin, or vitamin B,.

The inhibitory effect of notatin, on the other hand, appears to be
of a quite different nature, being occasioned by the toxicity of the
hydrogen peroxide which it produces.

An interesting phase of the mechanism of action is the high degree
of specificity for certain micro-organisms exhibited by many of the
agents. In a number of cases this specificity appears to parallel
closely the Gram-staining reaction. Better understanding of the
factors responsible for bacterial differences in this staining technic
may conceivably aid in the further development of other specific
chemical inhibitors.

Tt seems axiomatic now that a practical chemotherapeutic agent
must be inhibitory toward the pathogen, not merely in vitro but
under the conditions existing in the diseased host, and that it should
exert a minimal deleterious effect on the latter. There are, in addi-
tion, a number of subsidiary desiderata, such as convenient mode of
administration, stability in the body and during storage, etc. In the
past these requirements have not always been fully appreciated.
Before the etiology of infectious disease was understood, the search
for chemical specifics was of necessity a trial and error affair. With
the recognition of pathogenic micro-organisms came the idea of
chemical bullets fatal to the parasite but not the host. Knowledge
of the chemical structure of such bullets furnished guiding principles,
according to which better ammunition could be molded. Increased
knowledge of the precise means by which inhibition of bacterial
activities can be effected and of bacterial physiology in general may
be expected to lead to a new phase in the development of chemo-
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC AGENTS—WEINTRAUB 567

herapy. It is in this respect that the microbial products may be of
yreatest value, since even at this early stage of their study many
1ew avenues of exploration have been opened up. Through some of
hese, conversely, will come better understanding of the physiology
ind nutrition of micro-organisms and, in all likelihood, of higher
inimals also.

In passing, mention may be made of another possible application
f these agents, namely, in the control of certain plant diseases. Very
ittle has been done along this line and its practicability cannot yet be
‘orecast. However, the few experiments which have been carried
sut indicate that the treatment of fungus-infested soil or seeds with
ertain bacterial preparations may reduce seed decay and the damping
off of the seedlings.

Finally, attention should be directed to other roles of the antimicro-
yial substances of microbial origin which may possibly be of far
sreater significance than any eventual therapeutic application. It
1as long been realized that countless numbers of pathogenic bacteria,
such as those responsible for pneumonia, diphtheria, plague, dysentery,
cholera, tuberculosis, etc., gain access to the soil via the excreta or
remains of diseased organisms. Yet the soil is not a source of epi-
Jemics of these diseases and, indeed, the pathogenic micro-organisms
cannot be recovered from the soil in signficant numbers. It is hence
sbvious that the survival of such forms in the soil is very limited. The
suggestion was made long ago that other soil-inhabiting microbes, an-
Lagonistic to the pathogens, might be at least partially responsible for
the rapid disappearance of the latter. The results of recent work lend
much support to this view, so that it appears entirely likely that anti-
microbial agents, such as those described here, may be of great impor-
tance in the natural control of infectious disease. Possibly this may
apply to diseases of plants, as well as to those of animals.

Certain of the antibiotic microbial substances may, perhaps, play
an even more intimate role in the natural control of some superficial
infections in man. The skin is a nearly constant habitat of certain
micro-organisms, some of which are known to form antimicrobial pro-
ducts. Whether these actually serve to protect against skin infections
is not known, but there is a little circumstantial evidence indicating
that the normal skin flora may be absent or altered in cases of some
fungus infections. The mouth and intestinal tract, too, harbor a bac-
terial flora which conceivably could be of importance in the control of
certain infections.

It is hoped that this brief and incomplete account of the antibiotic
substances of microbial origin will have served to call attention to a
field of inquiry, as yet merely scratched, whose further cultivation
may well be expected to contribute greatly to the welfare and scientific
advancement of man.
568 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

June 1944.

Notr.—During the year, since the preparation of the foregoing account, many
notable advances have been made. Of greatest immediate interest are those
relating to penicillin. Twenty-one plants for the manufacture of this drug are
being erected in the United States and Canada, at a total cost of nearly $20,000,-
000. During the year production has been increased by more than 10,000 percent,
and the present program calls for a further fivefold increase. Concurrently,
the price has been reduced markedly and will doubtless fall much lower. The
great potency of penicillin is emphasized when it is pointed out that the projected
maximum production of these 21 plants will aggregate only about 9 pounds of
the pure material per day, an amount, however, which is sufficient for the treat-
ment of approximately 10,000 serious cases.

Much of the credit for making possible the production program is due to the
Northern Regional Research Laboratory of the United States Department of
Agriculture which, through selection of better strains of the mold and improvement
of the culture medium, has increased greatly the yields obtained.

Penicillin has been isolated in pure crystalline form. Information as to its
structure and synthesis, however, is at present classified as a military secret.

Considerable additional experience in the clinical use of penicillin has been
gained; it has been found very effective in treatment of pneumococcie pneu-
monia and possibly may prove of value against syphilis.

Space permits brief mention of only two of the many recent developments in
other phases of the field of microbial antibiotic substances.

It has been shown that the products isolated from a number of molds and
designated by various workers as claviformin, clavacin, clavatin, and patulin
are identical and have the formula C;H.O;. This substance has been claimed
to be efficacious in treatment of the common cold.

Among the newly discovered antibiotics, special interest attaches to the find-
ing that an antibacterial substance is produced by the unicellular green alga
Chlorella when grown under autotrophic conditions. This material, named
chiorellin, is active against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative organisms;
it has not yet been obtained in a pure state.
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Weintraub PLATE 1

ETI EGRET RRC? pot” RNY LE Faris
hee that) eS Ki > .

Si etre Nd We
Fane SE ;

our tf Sod ae: S
ACIS RNs REDE Cia EE

1. Photomicrograph of crystals of gramicidin. 225. 2. Photomicrograph of erystals of tyrocidine hydro-
chloride. 320.

(From Dubos and Hotchkiss, Trans. and Stud. Coll. Physicians, Philadelphia, April 1942.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Weintraub PLATE 2

DEMONSTRATION OF THE GROWTH-INHIBITING EFFECT OF ACTINOMYCIN.

The substance, applied in the cross-shaped groove, diffuses some distance into the agar and prevents the
growth of gram-positive bacteria (2= Bacillus mycoides; 4=Sarcina lutea) but not of gram-negative bacteria
(1= Escherichia coli; 3= Azotobacter beijerincki). (Courtesy Waksman and Woodr uff, Journal of Bacteri-
ology, August 1941.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Weintraub PEATEs

Penicillium colony.

Staphylococci under-
going lysis.

Normal staphylococcal
colony.

PHOTOGRAPH OF A CULTURE PLATE SHOWING THE DISSOLUTION OF STAPHYLOCOC-
CUS COLONIES IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF A COLONY OF PENICILLIUM NOTATUM.

(From the publication of Fleming announcing the discovery of penicillin, in British Journal of Experimental
Pathology for 1929.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Weintraub PLATE 4

EFFECT OF PENICILLIN ON GROWTH AND CELL DIVISION CF
STAPHYLOCCOCUS AUREUS.

1, control culture in broth, after 24 hours; 2, 3, 4, cultures in broth containing 0.00009 percent penicillin,
after 3, 5, and 24 hours respectively. Penicillin permits growth of the cells but interferes with their normal
division and separation. (From Smith and Hay, Journal of the Franklin Institute, June 1942.)
Smithsonian Report, 1943.—Weintraub PLATE 5

:
5 ukdeih |

1 and 2, front and side views of patient at onset of penicillin therapy. Extensive facial cellulitis and edema
of both eyes may be noted; patient moribund; 3, appearance of child 96 hours later; 4, appearance of patient
9 days after onset of treatment; 5 and 6, front and side views of patient before dismissal. Complete recovery.
(Courtesy W. E. Herrell, Proc. Staff Meetings Mayo Clinic, March 1943.)
ty
7 aa)
i v -

)
i

=
foal”
SULFONAMIDES IN THE TREATMENT OF WAR WOUNDS
AND BURNS!

By Cuartes L. Fox, Jr., M. D.
Department of Bacteriology, College of Physicians and Surgeons

One of the major problems of global warfare is the immediate
medical care of those injured by the ruthlessness of mechanized war-
fare and aerial bombardment. Our Government has mustered every
possible resource to meet this medical emergency.

It is indeed ironic that the horror of war casualties has stimulated
tremendous progress in medical research. Under the Office of Scien-
tific Research and Development in Washington, specialized commit-
tees, such as the Committee on Medical Research, have contracted
with scientific institutions throughout the nation for specific, vital
war research on problems such as the treatment of shock, the control
of malaria, the use of sulfonamides in wounds and burns, and many
others. New developments are communicated directly to representa-
tives of the armed forces—almost from the test tube to the battlefield.

Let us now focus on the problem of war wounds and burns and see
the progress that has been made. To understand the treatment, at-
tempt to visualize exactly what happens. A man is engaged in com-
bat. Suddenly he is struck by a bullet or shell fragments, or his
clothes may be set on fire, or he may be flung off his ship into water
covered with burning oil. Within a very short time help arrives.

Through first-aid courses you have learned enough to recognize
the immediate problem: treatment for shock and control of bleeding.

Now this is where recent research has made an important contri-
bution. Patients in shock from burns should not be “kept warm”
or have “heat applied” with hot blankets or hot water bottles. Care-
ful studies have shown that room temperature (70°-75°) is best; that
the extremes of heat or cold are definitely harmful.

After shock has been treated, the next problem is to prevent infec-
tion. Gunshot wounds are relatively clean but, since bacteria that
cause serious infection are everywhere about us, most wounds and

1 Address delivered to the Biological Sciences Group, Special Libraries Association, at
their annual conference, 1943. The recent research mentioned is work done under a con-
tract, recommended by the Committee on Medical Research, between the Office of Scientific
Research and Development and Columbia University.

569
570 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

practically all burns are potentially infected. The word potentially
is used because frequently bacteria may be present but no infection
will develop provided the bacteria do not gain the upper hand.

For example, in the Revolutionary and Napoleonic wars, only 1
out of every 25 soldiers was killed in battle but 1 of every 2 soldiers—
50 percent of the army—died of infections in hospitals.

That was before anything was known about bacteria. Then fol-
lowed the great discoveries, by Pasteur, Koch, Welch, and many
others, of the bacteria that cause infectious diseases. Lord Lister
then developed surgical asepsis—which means simply keeping bac-
teria from getting into open wounds.

These great advances were reflected in the medical history of the
last war. To understand the present tremendous progress let us com-
pare some results from the last war with similar cases as described
by Capt. Reynolds Hayden after the Pearl Harbor raid. In World
War I, gunshot wounds of the abdomen resulted in 60 to 80 percent
mortality; at Pearl Harbor the mortality from these cases was less
than 1 percent, and recent reports from the Solomon Islands place
the mortality from these cases at less than 5 percent.

Medical officers from all parts of the world who have been treating
patients under a variety of circumstances have agreed unanimously
that the sulfonamide drugs have been in large measure responsible for
this great improvement. Now what are these drugs and how do they
help accomplish miracles?

It is interesting that the first reports of the amazing chemical that
cured bacterial infections came from Germany in 1935. Domagk,
of the notorious German chemical and dye trust, reported that he had
discovered a red powder which when fed to mice infected with virulent
hemolytic streptococci would save all the treated animals while the
untreated control animals died in one day. Furthermore, to make the
picture confusing, he stated that this red powder had no effect whatso-
ever against the same bacteria in the test tube. This made everyone
very skeptical even though reports of miraculous cures of patients
continued to come out of Germany. Some English and French research
workers wanted to repeat these experiments but the French couldn’t
get any of the red powder from the dye trust. Fortunately, a brilliant
French organic chemist figured out what was in the red powder and
discovered how to make it.

Then the French bacteriologists made an amazing discovery—most
of the big red molecule wasn’t really necessary at all—only a small
part of the molecule, the sulfanilamide part, was needed to save the
infected mice. And equally amazing, whereas the big red molecule of
the Germans had no effect on bacteria in the test tube, the small sulfa-
nilamide part could stop the growth of bacteria in the test tube as
SULFONAMIDES—FOX yal

well as in the body. Since this sulfanilamide part had first been made
in 1908 by Gelmo—who, by the way, had found that this chemical
helped dyes stick to wool—there were no patent restrictions and every
chemical company began making sulfanilamide so that doctors every-
where could try it out.

In the meanwhile research was conducted in many laboratories,
including this, to determine how sulfanilamide worked.

It was soon found that bacteria were not killed by the drug but
that their rate of multiplication was temporarily retarded. This
was called bacteriostasis. In the animal organism, this retardation
aided the white blood cells to gain the upper hand and effectively
dispose of the inhibited bacteria. Furthermore, this bacteriostatic
effect did not begin immediately but only after a lag of several hours
during which time the bacteria in the drug environment grew just as
well as the control bacteria. It is possible that this delay in action
represented the time needed for conversion of the drug itself by oxida-
tion to an active principle.

A recent discovery, however, has led to another explanation. That
is Woods’ observation that para-aminobenzoic acid almost specifically
nullifies the action of sulfanilamide, and that there is a definite quanti-
tative relationship; i. e., one part of PAB can “block” or nullify
5,000 parts of sulfanilamide. This ratio obtains regardless of which
bacterium is used for the test. Woods suggested that PAB is an
essential metabolite for the bacteria and that sulfanilamide because
of its chemical similarity “blocks” the utilization of PAB by bacteria.
Although PAB has been shown to be an essential growth factor for
two nonpathogenic bacteria, it has not yet been shown to participate
in the metabolism of pathogenic bacteria so the mechanism of the
definite antisulfonamide action of PAB remains to be discovered.

It is important to differentiate PAB from the other so-called “inhib-
itors” of sulfanilamide. Pus, peptone, devitalized tissue, and certain
bacterial extracts have been asserted to “inhibit” the action of sulfa-
nilamide, Careful study has shown, however, that in general these
substances improve the growth of bacteria so that the drug has to
grapple with more vigorously growing organisms. These are quite
different from PAB which does not appear to alter the growth of
bacteria, nevertheless definitely inhibits sulfanilamide bacteriostasis.
The practical importance of this distinction will be clarified below.

During this time chemists were attempting to synthesize sulfanil-
amide like compounds which might be more potent and more effective
against a wider variety of bacteria than sulfanilamide itself. Sulfa-
pyridine was the first important improvement and established its
merit by the success attained in the treatment of pneumonia. Soon
afterward, sulfathiazole was synthesized. This substance is free of
572 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

many of the unpleasant and dangerous complications of sulfapyridine
and issomewhat more effective. Sulfadiazine, the latest of this group,
is about as effective as sulfathiazole but is less toxic and is easily tol-
erated by most people. Up to this point the usefulness of these
drugs has been evaluated for systemic diseases like pneumonia, men-
ingitis, or infection of the blood stream with streptococcus. In these
cases sulfonamides are given by mouth and the drug is distributed
through the body. A localized infection in one part of the body like
a limb or the abdomen can be treated by placing the drug directly in
the wound in contact with the infection zone. This provides a high
concentration of drug immediately in the dangerous infection zone
without subjecting the entire body to the treatment.

There are, however, certain practical difficulties. These drugs do
not dissolve well and tend to lump or “cake” when poured into wounds.
In addition, pus and partly devitalized tissues are excellent nourish-
ment for the bacteria and sometimes interfere with the action of the
sulfonamides.

Studies in this laboratory were focused on the local use of these
drugs as a problem of military importance. It soon became apparent
that the order of increasing therapeutic potency—sulfanilamide, sul-
fapyridine, sulfathiazole, and sulfadiazine—was a consequence of a
single physicochemical characteristic: increasing degrees of ionization
of these weak acids. It was of further interest that the more ef-
fective drugs were likewise more effective in overcoming the block-
ing effect of PAB. It was then found that acidity which reduced
the ionization of these drugs likewise reduced their activity against
bacteria. In addition, acidity also reduced the solubility of these
substances.

Measurements at the bedside showed that infected wounds usually
become extremely acidic. This acidity is sufficient to reduce markedly
the antibacterial activity of sulfanilamide and sulfapyridine and to
prevent sulfathiazole or sulfadiazine powder from freely dissolving
in the infection zone. In addition, this acidity tends to destroy the
white blood corpuscles or leucocytes. Since these cells are needed
to dispose of the sulfonamide-treated bacteria, they must be preserved
to help eradicate invading bacteria. Clinical trials have shown that
by using the soluble sodium salts of sulfathiazole or sulfadiazine (in-
stead of the insoluble acids themselves) the interference of wound
acidity can be minimized and wound infections can be controlled.
The chemically “activated” drug is held in solution in the infection
zone; and, with the cooperation of the leucocytes, speedily eradicates
the bacteria.

It is important to realize that this can be accomplished without
harming the tissues. On the other hand, antiseptics such as iodine
SULFONAMIDES—FOX 573

kill bacteria but also destroy tissue cells in the wounds. This is one
of the greatest virtues of the sulfonamides—their selective action
against bacteria without damaging tissue cells.

With this background you might predict that burns would be par-
ticularly suited for local sulfonamide therapy. Insofar as burns rep-
resent destruction of the skin, which is man’s natural barrier against
infection, sulfonamides are valuable in preventing bacteria from
establishing infection in the damaged areas. But destruction of the
skin also presents another serious problem—loss of the mechanical
covering of the underlying tissues. The heat of a burn causes the tis-
sues to become greatly swollen and waterlogged with a plasmalike
fluid. Loss of the skin covering from burns permits the escape of
this fluid and aggravates the shock. Many types of substitute cover-
ings have been proposed but the most satisfactory seems to be a new
pseudo skin formed in the burned region from the damaged skin. To
accomplish this, tannic acid has been used for years to coagulate the
burned skin and produce a hard, stiff, adherent covering known as an
eschar.

Now, tannins are used in the leather industry to “tan” animal
skins and convert them into leather. The late Charles Wilson, a
leather chemist, showed that tannic acid itself caused animal skins
to become swollen and unfit for leather. In contrast, however, he
found that when tannic acid is neutralized to the slightly alkaline
reaction of the tissues, skins can be “tanned” without swelling, and
soft, pliable leather is formed. Similarly, when neutralized tannic
acid is used on burned human skin, very little swelling occurs and a
soft, pliable covering is formed. This effectively prevents loss of the
plasmalike tissue fluids. In addition, pain is alleviated immediately.

This neutralized or slightly alkaline tannic acid works very well
with the sodium salts of the sulfonamides. In the past, tannic acid
itself has been used with the sulfonamides but too frequently infec-
tions have occurred under the hard eschar of coagulated burned skin.
The probable explanation is that the acidity of the tannic acid chem-
ically inactivated the sulfonamide as described above. The neutral-
ized tannic acid, on the other hand, keeps the sulfonamide in solution
in the activated ionized form. The trials in human burns up to
the present have indicated that this combination effectively prevents
infection.

The mixture is prepared in ointment form so that it can be quickly
and easily applied and then covered with a light protective bandage.
Since the soluble sulfonamide is brought into immediate contact with
the zone of potential infection, no additional drug by mouth is neces-
sary. It is not understood how this mixture relieves the pain, but the
fact remains that the pain disappears after applying the ointment.
574 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

After a week the dressing is removed. Most of the ointment is
found to have disappeared but the burn is covered with a soft, pliable
protective eschar. Regeneration of new skin will occur under this
covering provided that infection does not stifle this process.

Treatment in this phase follows a cardinal principle of sulfonamide
therapy—maintaining the concentration of drug in the infection zone
as long as any bacteria may be present. This is accomplished by
placing gauze impregnated with petrolatum, paraffin, and sodium
sulfathiazole on the burned areas.

When the skin is completely destroyed, skin from another part of
the body must be grafted to make up the loss. To insure that the
grafts will grow and not be overrun by spreading infection, addi-
tional sodium salts of the sulfonamides are used in the grafted areas.

This brief report has given you a glimpse of the local uses of sulfon-
amides. They are used first in the fresh wound or burn to prevent
the development of infection; then they are used to keep down infec-
tion while healing occurs or when skin grafts are used to cover the
defect. Recent research has shown that infected wounds become
acidic and that when the acidity is overcome the drugs are “activated”
and in solution in the infection zone. It remains for future research
to discover additional improvements that may further reduce the
present low incidence of infection in wounds and burns.
THE YELLOW FEVER SITUATION IN THE AMERICAS?

By Witsur A. SAWYER
Director, International Health Division, The Rockefeller Foundation

The early history of yellow fever, dominated by records of epi-
demics in cities and outbreaks on ships, was largely characterized by
waves of the disease. ‘There were outstanding epidemic years in which
the disease extended to the seaport cities of Spain, to Philadelphia,
and to New York, or up the Mississippi to Memphis and beyond, and
also years in which there was widespread involvement of Central
America and Mexico. The same changeable epidemic picture has been
observed in West Africa and South America. The disease was never-
theless continuously present for long periods in certain cities, like
Habana and Guayaquil, where the supply of susceptible persons and
an abundance of aegypti mosquitoes (Aedes aegypti) permitted the
disease to appear year after year. The outstanding characteristics
of the historic yellow fever picture were sudden epidemic extensions
of the disease far beyond any known endemic foci, followed by absence
of the disease or relative quiescence.

THE SHIFTING LOCALIZATION OF JUNGLE YELLOW FEVER

Observations during the past few years in several countries of South
America suggest that jungle yellow fever resembles, more closely
than was at first apparent, the old-time urban aegypti-transmitted
disease in its tendency toward wavelike epidemics and shifting local-
ization. The world-wide yellow fever immunity survey, carried out
from 1931 to 1937, by testing human sera from many countries by
means of the mouse-protection test, showed that immunizing infec-
tions had recently occurred in many places previously supposed to be
free of infection (Sawyer, Bauer, and Whitman, 1937; Soper, 1937a)
and the systematic collection and histologic examination of liver speci-
mens in South America showed that fatal cases of yellow fever were
occurring in scattered locations in the newly revealed endemic areas

1 The observations on which this paper is based have been made in large part by members
of the staff of the International Health Division of The Rockefeller Foundation and of the
health authorities of the governments with which the Division is collaborating. The paper
is here reprinted by permission from the Proceedings of the Eighth American Scientific
Congress, vol. 6, 1942.

575
576 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

in South America. The tendency was to consider the disease in these
areas as more or less static although the first observation of proved
jungle yellow fever was made during a sharp epidemic in the Valle do
Chanaan in Brazil (Soper et al., 1933). The very fact that jungle
yellow fever was transmitted only under biological conditions pecu-
liar to a forest environment with its special insects and animals would
seem also to limit the spread as jungle yellow fever. It has, however,
become increasingly clear that jungle yellow fever may sweep as an
epidemic through a wide extent of the favorable environment and then
become urban, aegypti-transmitted yellow fever when it reaches a
community in which that mosquito abounds. That such spread of
yellow fever from jungle to city has not been observed to occur re-
cently needs special comment.

THE ABSENCE OF AEGYPTI-TRANSMITTED EPIDEMICS AND
THE DANGER OF THEIR REAPPEARANCE

A striking and reassuring feature of the present situation in the
Western Hemisphere is the absence of the classical type of yellow
fever outbreak, in which the disease is transmitted by the long-
recognized mosquito vector Aedes aegypti and tends to be localized in
cities and to invade the channels of commerce. For 8 years no reports
of such outbreaks have been confirmed in the Americas. The credit
must rest largely with those who have continued and perfected the
control of Aedes aegypti, so successfully Begun by Gorgas and Oswaldo
Cruz, for the threat of infection from areas of endemic and epidemic
jungle yellow fever in the interior of South America appears to have
been continuous for an undetermined period extending far into the
past. Were it not for the noninfectibility of Rio de Janeiro in 1938,
owing to well-organized aegypti control, we might have seen another
serious epidemic in that city, with spread to other communities and
shipping, for Soper (1938) has reported that four persons infected in
a nearby epidemic of jungle yellow fever were known to have come
into the city without causing any local infections.

That jungle yellow fever is the same disease as urban yellow fever
is well established. That it may be transmitted by Aedes aegypti
has been repeatedly demonstrated in the laboratory (Whitman and
Antunes, 1938), and on one occasion the establishment of yellow fever
of jungle origin in a Brazilian town and its transmission there by
Aedes aegypti were observed (Walcott et al., 1937). Some risk of
urban yellow fever epidemics will remain as long as jungle yellow
fever persists. Inasmuch as the possibility of complete extermination
of the disease now seems remote if not impossible, the health author-
ities are faced with the problem of choosing wisely between the avail-
able methods of confining jungle yellow fever to the areas in which
it is endemic, reducing the human involvement within these areas,
YELLOW FEVER—SAWYER Sy i

and protecting threatened cities and rural populations against
infection.

The greatest disaster which yellow fever could bring would be the
renewed involvement of large urban populations in aegypti-spread
yellow fever, particularly if the cities affected were seaports from
which the disease might easily spread to other seaports as well as to
the surrounding towns. It is therefore a matter of moment that the
methods of preventing urban yellow fever through suppression of
Aedes aegypti have been so perfected by the Brazilian Yellow Fever
Service that any city may easily solve its yellow fever problem without
excessive cost by making itself noninfectible and may maintain this
condition.

METHOD IN USE TO PREVENT ARGYPTI-TRANSMITTED
YELLOW FEVER

The essential improvements of method that have made it possible
to reduce the breeding of Aedes aegypti almost to the point of local
extermination have been described by Soper (1937b). The weekly
inspection of premises for aegypti larvae and the destruction of breed-
ing places are being supplemented by the search for adult mosquitoes
by special squads. If any are found, the breeding foci are sought out
and destroyed. ‘To render the destruction of foci as certain as possible,
petroleum (3 parts fuel oil and 1 part kerosene) is placed on water
found to contain larvae. The oil and the necessary subsequent clean-
ing are much more likely to destroy mosquito eggs than the older
method of merely emptying out the water. Such methods have so
reduced breeding that it has been possible in many cities to lengthen
the period between house inspections and thus to lower the cost of
the service.

These methods make it entirely practicable for cities to acquire and
maintain complete immunity to yellow fever regardless of the degree
of exposure. The nearer to jungle yellow fever the more urgent the
precautions, but it must be kept in mind that the critical distances
have been greatly extended by the increased rapidity of travel,
especially by airplane. Those cities and towns through which yellow
fever would have to pass in order to spread from the jungle areas
or to invade an uninfected country have a special responsibility for
keeping themselves noninfectible.

THE IDENTIFICATION OF YELLOW FEVER

To be completely on their guard against aegypti-transmitted yellow
fever, the health authorities need to be in a position to recognize yel-
low fever immediately if it should appear, particularly if adequate
steps have not already been taken to make their cities noninfectible.
The history of yellow fever contains many instances in which failure
578 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

to suspect yellow fever or disagreement as to the diagnosis have caused
the loss of valuable time. No longer is it sufficient to accept as final
the weighed opinion of the experienced clinician, although a decision
on the basis of symptoms may be all that is possible before the first pre-
cautionary measures have to be taken. For the final decision as to
the nature of a case or outbreak, the laboratory is now giving con-
clusive information even when the cases are clinically mild and lack
nearly all the well-known classical symptoms (Sawyer, 1939). In
such cases blood specimens are drawn aseptically as early as possible
during the acute disease and again 3 weeks after the onset. If the
serum from both specimens is examined by means of the mouse-
protection test in a yellow fever laboratory, and the first specimen
gives no protection against yellow fever virus while the second protects
definitely, the case is one of yellow fever. If neither or both speci-
mens give definite protection, the illness must be some other disease.
Where a more serious investigation is required, the attempt is made to
isolate the virus itself from cases during the first 3 days of illness
by injecting blood serum from the sick person intracerebrally in
amounts of 0.03 cc. into six susceptible mice. Any virus thus isolated
may be studied in detail in the laboratory. Great care must be exer-
cised to prevent infectious blood from coming into contact with the
hands of a nonimmune investigator. These methods establish the
diagnosis beyond dispute whenever the case has been seen early. If
there are fatal cases, it is important to obtain at least a specimen of
liver by autopsy or puncture with the viscerotome and to send it in
10 percent formalin to a pathologist acquainted with the lesions of
yellow fever. The determination of the nature of the disease in the
individual case is, however, only one step in the thorough epidemio-
logic investigation necessary for the adequate study of an outbreak
of yellow fever.

THE PROBABLE ABSENCE OF YELLOW FEVER OUTSIDE
SOUTH AMERICA

When adequate in number, sufficiently representative, and com-
pletely negative, protection tests give the strongest possible evidence
of the absence of yellow fever, whether transmitted by aegypti or
the unknown jungle vectors. The results of protection tests of sera
from North America, Central America, and the West Indies were
published by Sawyer, Bauer, and Whitman early in 1937. The speci-
mens had been collected by many cooperating persons from 1932
through the early part of 1986. When the collection began, jungle
yellow fever had not been discovered or defined, and fewer specimens
were taken in rural or forest environment than would otherwise have
been the case. Moreover, a brief survey with completely negative
YELLOW FEVER-—SAWYER 579

results only in young children could not be accepted as fully conclu-
sive evidence of the absence of yellow fever, and this was the only
evidence available in some countries. The disease had been present
in E] Salvador in the form of a sudden epidemic of unknown origin
as late as 1924 and had been widespread in Central America and
Mexico in 1921, and consequently many adult immunes were discovered.
The results of the survey were in general consistent with the complete
disappearance of yellow fever from the entire region, including North
America, Central America, and the West Indies, but the finding of
three protective sera among those from 321 Mexican children under
10 years of age made it seem probable that unrecognized yellow fever
infection had existed in that country as late as 1925, when the youngest
of the three immune children was born. It was apparent that yellow
fever might still be lingering in Mexico or some one of the Central
American countries or West Indian islands, and it was decided to
watch the situation over a period of years and investigate all suspicious
reports. Canada and the United States seemed definitely free of in-
fection. In the absence of any suspicion of the reintroduction of the
disease, no further investigation of these two countries was made.
In Mexico, the West Indies, and all but two of the countries of Cen-
tral America, there have been neither observations nor rumors sug-
gesting the reappearance of yellow fever. Accordingly, the tenta-
tive opinion that they are free from yellow fever, as published in 1937,
seems to have been strengthened by the lapse of time.

CASES RESEMBLING YELLOW FEVER IN COSTA RICA

Reports of two fatal illnesses in Costa Rica aroused apprehension
lest jungle yellow fever might be present there. The first case origi-
nated early in October 1938 in the town of Parrita at about the mid-
dle of the southwestern coast of that country, and the patient died
in a hospital in the town of Puntarenas. Parrita is in a region being
developed for banana culture by the clearance of virgin jungle, exactly
the kind of situation which would bring jungle yellow fever to light
if it were present.. The symptoms of the patient included pro-
nounced jaundice, high fever, slow pulse, albuminuria, and vomiting
of blood. There was no necropsy.

The second case was in a man 26 years old. It originated in Sierpe,
on the seacoast near the southwestern end of the Pacific slope of Costa
Rica. Here, too, there is a banana development and forest clearance.
This patient had fever, a pulse rate of 120, albuminuria, acute epigas-
tric pain, slight jaundice, and persistent vomiting. There were no
malaria parasites in his blood. The patient died on the fourth day
after admission to hospital at Puntarenas. At autopsy the stomach
was found to contain a dark fluid, and there were hemorrhagic spots
580 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

inthe mucosa. The liver was yellow and friable and the kidneys large
and congested. There were no histological examinations.

No further cases suspicious of yellow fever were reported. It was
decided to make a thorough study of the situation in the forested
hinterland of the Golfo Dulce region on the Pacific slope, inland from
the place in which the second case had occurred.

The investigation was considered especially necessary as the previous
investigation in Costa Rica had been confined largely to urban com-
munities and had not reached the forested regions. In the original
immunity survey of Costa Rica 190 blood specimens were collected by
Dr. D. M. Molloy from 1932 to 1934 in the cities of San José, Alajuela,
Liberia, Puntarenas, and Puerto Limon and sent for examination to
the laboratories of the International Health Division of The Rocke-
feller Foundation in New York. The results were included in the re-
port published by Sawyer, Bauer, and Whitman (1937). There were
no immunes among the 115 persons bled who were under 20 years of
age, while there were 18 among the 75 older persons. Among the coun-
tries of Central America, Costa Rica and Panama stood out in the
published report as the only ones in which immunes were not found
in the age group 15 to 19 years.

Realizing the significance of the reports of suspected yellow fever,
Dr. Pefia Chavarria, then Secretary of Public Health and Welfare for
Costa Rica, and Dr. Henry W. Kumn, of the International Health
Division, made a field investigation in January 1939 and collected 133
blood specimens from three Boruca Indian communities in the region
in which the deaths had occurred. These villages were Potrero
Grande, Boruca, and Palmar. They are located in or near extensive
tracts of virgin forest at elevations of 800 feet, 2,000 feet, and 100 feet,
respectively. Specimens were taken only from persons who had al-
ways lived in the same locality and this restriction prevented obtain-
ing more than 19 specimens from males over 15 years of age. The in-
habitants were principally Indian, although some of the blood donors
were mestizos. Some of the older Indians stated that they had often
seen severe cases of fever, some of which were fatal in a few days and
were characterized by jaundice and black vomit. No evidence of ma-
laria was found in Boruca, but the disease was quite prevalent in Pal-
mar. As in the case of the other investigations here reported, the
specimens were sent to the laboratories of the International Health
Division for examination. No evidence of immunity was obtained in
any of the tests. The results are included in table 1. The locations
in which blood specimens were collected are shown in figure 1.

Although the investigation seemed adequately to rule out the pres-
ence of yellow fever in the region in which the suspect cases had oc-
curred, it was deemed advisable to make similar inquiries in other
representative forested regions of Costa Rica. In the following year
YELLOW FEVER—SAWYER 581

Dr. Henry W. Kumm collected 70 blood specimens from the Guatuso
Indians. They inhabit a forested region about equidistant from the
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans near the northern frontier of Costa
Rict, in the Province of Alajuela. As is seen in table 1 the protection
test results were entirely negative. Dr. Kumm then completed the
study by investigating 10 districts of the Talamanca Valley at the
southeastern end of the Atlantic slope of Costa Rica. The number of
specimens collected was 193 and the results are classified by age groups
in table 1. The persons bled had never been out of the area. They

La
eee we
+
3 *H.

i

COSTA RICA —CENTRAL AMERICA

showing the forested areas and the localities
Where blood specimens for protection tests
against yellow fever virus were obtained.

FOLESLOC CTS CUS ro ee Miia feats a oldie wills (olehele

Localities Whete specimens were
obtained by Du. Molloy in 1932 and 1934..@

Localities studied in 1939 and 1940 for
possible presence of jungle yellow fever...

Ficuke 1.—Localities in Costa Rica where yellow fever immunity surveys were
made in 1932-34 and 1939-40.

were mostly American Indians, although a few were listed as mestizos
and were only partly of Indian blood. The blood from the Tala-
manca Indians was devoid of protective power against yellow fever.

The new evidence, when considered in relation to that which was
previously collected, strongly suggests that yellow fever has not been
present in Costa Rica for at least 20 years and that it had not been
prevalent among the Indians of the forested regions of the interior
during the lives of the present inhabitants. There is a possibility that
these regions were never involved. The conclusion published in 1937
that yellow fever had probably not been present in Costa Rica since
the epidemic of 1910 seems still to hold good.

566766—44——38
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

582

sATJISOd
4uo019g

oooo
oooo

oo
oo

SaTyISOd
JoquinN

:SUBIPUT
BouBUIB[ey, ‘SdUIAOIG ugmIT

€Z |"SUBIPUT OsnyeNny JOJ [BIO],

Ocak coeen OSn}eNry op [evjey uBg
Ortho c as eae 199 [q enbus[eg
Gk eae cae eqiloy, tq onbuseg
Lia ee ByIVsivy Vy] onbusleg
:SUvIp

-uy osnyeny ‘soutAoig vyjentery

OF |"~"SUBIPUT BONIOg OJ [ey}OJ,

Qi 525 So ye ae eae Iew[eg

Phiec = oes a ee eonlog

Clay ees epuBIN O101}0g
:suBIp

-UJ Boniog ‘eoulAOIg seuoleyung

VOIu VLsoo

> EOS | Aqpeoo0'T

0-0 §& 0 0 0- Ot 0

0 0 0 0 8 0 00 @ 00 9

0 20-rer 00 2 0-0. ¥ O50" 1 0

0 0 LF 0 0 Té 00 ¢& 0° OST Qe 0s7,

(181) OFG6T 0 0 O2 0 0 6 Ore0 et 0) Och 0. 302-17
O06 0 0 05 0S. OS0es1

0 0 8 O06 0-30-91 0 OE 0 0 @

OS 02 Fe 0-50"-2 0° 0. Tt 00 ¢ 0 0 F

0 0 9% 00mg 0205-1 0. 0-5 0 -0-F
(wer) 6E6T OS 0S fe OF 0-884 = 02 OUT 0: 0.0855 0 05-98
0=0e 8s 002 Os io 1 0 0° 9 00 33
0 0 OS 0-0: 6 0-029 0= 0's 0 0 ZI
0-20 oF OBO 02.07 6 00-9 0 0 OF
Be ge G2 | Ee B2 G2) Be 82 82) Se 82 821 Ee B2 82

e2i¢ 2 see 2 so o¢ @ > s so ig 2
ge og "2 [38 gg “g| 8 32 “2/58 Se *2| 58 32 Fe
poqoo]]09 arom = ba 4 5 be tad = a) be 4

sueutjoeds iva X I9AO pus svat sivot sivod
sdnois o3¢ sivak GZ VG 07 02 61 9} GT PI 94 OF

[8 10} [BJO],
siouop Jo sdnois o8y

ee Ee ee a i ee ee

DIL DISOD puv DuDUDT WOLF pajzoa]}09 Dias sof 8})Nsa.1 189} WOY4Id}01d yU200qT—"] ATAV,
583

YELLOW FEVER—SAW YER

*PlO SIBOA 6 5 *PlO SIBOA ZT ¢ *PlO SIBOA TI ¢ *p pose P[Iqo ouo SUIpNyoUTy
SS eS eS ee
LE-9E6T y¥ 9 -I6 828| 6 SZ ST 8Y | O-cI € Ge 0: 20. nO Sa) 2 Sle Sra Fa 6 ci oe eee sursued IOJ [BOL
9€61 OO oV Stl OS -¢ 9 OSG 7 0 () (1 0 Sat ae ee oISIT,
9E61 GGG =e GE os r 8 OmORes Oe Olay: 0 OS. Ss 2 ae oe euesieN
9E6I b62 ¢ AT rere, ee EN OPO O=0sSr 0 OSS Se Tpusy) 0V10d
9€61 0°92 ¢ O02 Ze -8 8 col F 0 0 @ OF Os-7. OF Ty 6 lS = Se eee Tpieseg
:SUBIPU] SBIG UBS
9€6T O: 2207298 0 0 0 0 0 FZ 02-0 2o3— as Bsoy ByUBY :1OATY somseyD
9S6I Oc S0- 94 0 0 02 On-OR Gr OO OS 06 0-0-8 3 St 6. ee ee odex
961 UG ae Or, 0 OR Ona Or Os ve T2596 0-0 3S =i == Bey ByUBS 9p [29 [A
LE6I 6° [posal et 0 0 iT 0 0: 0 SE G Sher es 00> 0S 35 = —- APUYOIA PUB BSIAG
:90UIAOIG Uglied
VNYNYd
OF-6E6T 0 0 968 | 0 0 ZOT 0 0 67 0 0 Ss 0 0 LL OO flees BOTY BYSOK) 10J [BIOL
(aidy) OF61 0 0 &6I OF 0 202 OO Te 0 0 12 OP TORSES 0:..0-=0S 12 Se suBIpuy
BOUBULB[BT, 1oj [870.L
0 O & OF Org 0 0 T O05 OP Ores OsS0E he se 3e Se So eed oe UryIon
0 0 2 O7Oss ORO RrS 0 0 O OT BE Opn Q) IF st Aa Sa ee u9i() BOO
0 O Zé 0 0 Tl ORR Omen: OO 29 0 0 F 0-0 ES 6 SSeS ugtt) OV
00 1 0 0 OO et 0 Oa oe ee oe BYJOING
O: (0: at 0 Or Oat 0 0 Oikos aoe qeoaqey 9sor WEY
0 0 22Z OMOSccr OO) te 0.0.9 0-0 -<c ea 0 JES Sl aie a ee Sa es eT
584 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943
FURTHER INVESTIGATIONS IN PANAMA

In the report by Sawyer, Bauer, and Whitman (1937) it was stated
that no protective sera had been obtained in Panama from persons
born after 1905, the date of the last recognized case, but that further
investigation was in progress in the territory south of the Panama
Canal Zone, a region which had not then been studied. Through the
courtesy of Dr. Herbert C. Clark and Dr. Carl M. Johnson, of the
Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, and Col. George R. Callender, of the
Army Research Board, Panama Canal Zone, specimens were subse-
quently obtained from Darién Province, from the San Blas Indians,
and from Santa Rosa on the Chagres River. The results are shown
in table 1. Of the 149 children of Darién Province who were tested,
two gave protective sera and were aged 11 and 12 years. None of the
56 Chagres River specimens from children protected. Of the six San
Blas children tested one, aged 9, gave a protective serum. This serum
was collected in 1936 and the evidence suggests that yellow fever was
present at least as late as 1927. No conclusion as to the present exist-
ence of yellow fever there can be drawn except that it has not yet been
shown to be present, but if yellow fever exists in Central America it
will probably be found in this region of Panama close to South
America. A cooperative program including viscerotomy, protection
tests, and supplementary studies in this region has been arranged
between the government of Panama and the International Health Di-
vision, and ultimately it should be known whether the virus is actually

present.
JUNGLE FEVER IN SOUTH AMERICA

The reports of Soper (1937, 1938) on the studies of jungle yellow
fever in South America leave little to be added here. An important
recent observation was made by Shannon, Whitman, and Franca
(1938), who demonstrated that wild-caught forest-inhabiting mos-
quitoes of Brazil of the species Aedes leucocelaenus and Haemagogus
capricorni contained yellow fever virus and were capable of infecting
rhesus monkeys by biting. The epidemiology of jungle yellow fever
is not yet completely known. The infection is transmitted by some
vector, or perhaps several, peculiar to the uncleared forest, and it
is probable that animals other than man and monkeys are involved
in the transmission cycle. 'The infection may be endemic in the sense
of being continuously or frequently present in an area, as for example
in the vicinity of Muzo, Colombia, or it may be sharply epidemic. In
the latter case, the infection appears at times to invade new territory
and probably to disappear from previously infected areas.

Soper (1938) has described a progressive epidemic, or series of sea-
sonal epidemics, which was first observed in 1934 at Coronel Ponce in
YELLOW FEVER—SAWYER 585

Matto Grosso in the center of Brazil, and which has since then pro-
gressed eastward, then southward, and again eastward in warm-season
outbreaks through the states of Goiaz, Minas Geraes, Sao Paulo, and
Rio de Janeiro. This year the epidemic was manifest in Espirito
Santo, still farther to the east, and cases were found farther to the
south in the states of Parand,Santa Catarina, and Rio Grande do Sul.
It seemed quite probable that in the far south, territory had been in-
vaded which had previously been entirely free of the disease, for
yellow fever had not been reported in Rio Grande do Sul during the
last decade. As the principal epidemic advanced to new territory, the
area involved during the previous years became almost free of cases,
probably largely on account of natural immunization of available
animals and men and partly as the result of preventive vaccination
of a considerable proportion of the population.

In Colombia, where jungle yellow fever is being studied by Dr. H.
H. Smith and his associates in the yellow fever service maintained
cooperatively by the government and the International Health Divi-
sion, a shift of the involved territory has also been observed. Dr.
Smith reports that an epidemic of jungle yellow fever has appeared
recently in areas to the west of the Magdalena River in the states of
Caldas and Antioquia, where cases had not previously been observed.
This outbreak is being studied. At the same time, it is becoming
apparent that jungle yellow fever has largely disappeared from
the region around Villavicencio, where there were epidemic conditions
in 1934 and where a field laboratory has been built to study the
disease. Cases were diagnosed in the general region of Villavicencio
each year from 1934 to 1938, but in spite of careful observations no case
of yellow fever has been found in that area since August 1938. Even
animals with protective sera are being found less frequently in this
region than formerly, and studies with sentinel animals exposed in
the jungle, and protection tests on young wild animals have led to
the belief that active virus is not now present in the area.

THE USE OF VACCINATION IN PREVENTING THE SPREAD
OF YELLOW FEVER

The present yellow fever situation on which control measures must
be based may be briefly summarized. There appears to be no yellow
fever outside South America, unless possibly close to South America
in Panama. There have been no recognized urban outbreaks of
aegypti-transmitted yellow fever in South America for several years.
Jungle yellow fever occurs continuously in endemic form or as wan-
dering epidemics in a vast area involving the greater part of the
Amazon watershed and extending into the interior of Colombia and
the hinterland of other countries.
086 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

The first obvious control measure has already been mentioned.
Cities in South America or elsewhere which are threatened with inva-
sion by yellow fever from the jungle areas should keep themselves
noninfectible by the well-known methods of aegypti control. There
still remains to be considered the more direct control of jungle yellow
fever itself.

Jungle yellow fever is very widely distributed in sparsely inhabited
regions and is seldom revealed except when a considerable number of
susceptible persons are present and become infected. Aedes aegypti
control is inapplicable because that mosquito is not involved. The
suppression of other vectors is at present impracticable because it
is not known what insects play the dominant role in transmission,
and it seems improbable that thorough and widespread insect control
will be possible in the jungle areas. Extermination of the infection
is obviously impossible at present. The prevention of disease in hu-
man beings through widespread vaccination becomes our only prac-
tical means of keeping the people of the region noninfectible.

Large-scale yellow fever vaccination has been applied mostly to
stop an existing epidemic or immunize against an expected one. The
effective use of vaccination on a large scale in Brazil for such pur-
poses has been described by Soper and Smith (1938b). In Colombia,
in the absence of such large sweeping epidemics, much thought is
being given to the immunization of selected communities for the pur-
pose of preventing the possible future spread of nearby jungle yellow
fever through them. At the same time, vaccination is being made
available to the people, usually relatively few in number, under actual
exposure in the jungle areas. Even this is an important measure
to prevent the spread of yellow fever, for it is the nonimmune work-
ing in the jungle who will become infected and bring yellow fever
into the towns and cities. The need is for the intelligent mapping
of the campaign against yellow fever, using both aegypti control in
the cities and vaccination at strategic points, which are obviously our
most effective present safeguards against surprise invasion of our
cities and our commerce by yellow fever.

To use vaccination effectively and on a large scale it is necessary
to have available a vaccine which is both safe and effective. The
vaccine in use in the Americas is known as 17D. Its safety and
efficiency have been up to expectations, as is shown by the report of
Soper and Smith (1938b), but experience has shown that eternal vigi-
lance will be needed to keep this living vaccine at a low level of viru-
lence and free from contaminating viruses and at the same time to
avoid any fall in immunizing power.

Much has been done to improve the vaccine since Sawyer, Kitchen,
and Lloyd (1932) began vaccinating human beings effectively with
YELLOW FEVER—SAWYER 587

yellow fever virus adapted to mice and human immune serum. The
original method could be used only on a small scale on account of
the difficulties of obtaining enough of the immune serum. Through
years of patient research the virulent Asibi strain was so modified
through tissue culture by Lloyd, Theiler, and Ricci (1936) and Theiler
and Smith (1937) that its lowered virulence made possible its use
without serum. At the same time, the use of chick embryo tissues in
place of the brains of living mice in producing the vaccine reduced the
risk of the introduction of unknown pathogenic viruses, thus increas-
ing the element of safety. After the experience of Findlay and Mac-
Callum (1937) and Soper and Smith (1938a) with delayed infections
characterized by jaundice after yellow fever vaccination with tissue
culture material, used in the latter case along with hyperimmune
serum, the possibility of the introduction of an unknown virus into the
vaccine from the blood of apparently healthy human donors became a
matter of concern. As a result, human serum used in the tissue cul-
tures is now being inactivated with heat.2 Any reports of jaundice
or other symptoms following vaccination are being carefully investi-
gated. One such report in 1939 is still under study in Brazil to find
out its possible relationship to the vaccine. With the present pre-
cautions the tissue culture vaccine 17D would seem to have as high a
degree of safety for the vaccinated person as could be expected of a
biological product containing a living virus. That the infection is
not likely to be spread from vaccinated persons to others through the
medium of mosquitoes and finally to revert to a more virulent form
has been shown by the studies of Roubaud and his associates (1937)
and Whitman (1939).

As to the effectiveness of the vaccine made from strain 17D, there
has been much recent evidence. Reports by Smith, Penna, and
Paoliello (1938) and by Soper and Smith (1938b) showed a high
percentage of immunes among vaccinated persons whose blood was
afterward tested by the mouse-protection test. At the end of 1938
and early in 1939, however, the results with certain lots of vaccine
were not so happy, as reported by Soper, Smith, and Penna (1940).
While 90 percent of persons tested after vaccination earlier in 1938
had developed protective antibodies in their blood, and field experience
in the presence of epidemics had suggested that vaccinated groups
were protected against natural infection as early as 1 week after
the inoculation, a considerable number of persons vaccinated at the
time mentioned and later exposed to an anticipated epidemic developed
yellow fever. Among 186,000 persons vaccinated with 15 different
lots of vaccine, there were 56 cases and 14 deaths from 7 days to 14

2 Subsequent to the presentation of this paper there has been further observation of

jaundice after vaccination against yellow fever, and methods have been perfected and
adopted for completely omitting normal human serum in manufacture.
588 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

months after vaccination. Groups vaccinated with certain lots of
vaccine showed absence of demonstrable protective antibodies in from
50 to 80 percent of the cases. Investigation showed that the ineffective
lots of vaccine contained living virus which had undergone over 309
passages in tissue culture, while the virus previously used so success-
fully had been passaged only from 229 to 255 times. It was necessary
to test and revaccinate many persons for their protection. There
seemed to have been a qualitative change in the virus which resulted
in a drop in its antigenicity. Whether this was directly due to an
excessive number of passages is being subjected to experimental test
in Colombia and the International Health Division Laboratories in
New York, as well as in Brazil. The return to lower passage material
has again brought satisfactory results. To prevent the recurrence
of this episode, new lots of vaccine in Brazil are being used first in
vaccinating small groups of persons whose serum must pass a rigid
test for protective antibodies before the lot is sent into the field for use.

In simplest terms, the outstanding features of the yellow fever
situation in the Americas are: (1) absence of definite outbreaks of
urban, aegypii-transmitted yellow fever anywhere; (2) absence of
recognized yellow fever of any transmission type outside of South
America; (3) jungle-transmitted yellow fever, endemic and as migrat-
ing epidemics, in wide areas of the interior of South America;
(4) effective methods for keeping cities noninfectible through aegypti
control; and (5) a safe and effective way to immunize against yellow
fever and prevent its spread from the jungle to infectible cities.

LITERATURE CITED

FInpiLAy, G. M., and MAcCatitum, F. O.

1937. Note on acute hepatitis and yellow fever immunization. Trans. Roy.

Soc. Trop. Med. and Hyg., vol. 31, p. 297.
LioyD, W., THEILER, M., and Ricct, N. I.

1936. Modification of the virulence of yellow fever virus by cultivation in
tissues in vitro. Trans. Roy. Soc. Trop. Med. and Hyg., vol. 29,
p. 481.

RovuBAvD, H., STEFANOPOULO, G. J., and FINDLAY, G. M.
1937. Essais de transmission par les stégomyies du virus amaril de cultures
en tissu embryonnaire. Bull. Soc. Path. Txot., vol. 30, p. 581.
SAWYER, W. A.
1939. Yellow fever. Oxford Medicine, vol. 5, p. 781.
SAwyer, W. A., Bauer, J. H., and WHITMAN, L.

1987. The distribution of yellow fever immunity in North America, Central
America, the West Indies, Europe, Asia, and Australia, with special
reference to the specificity of the protection test. Amer. Journ.
Trop. Med., vol. 17, p. 187.

Sawyer, W. A., KITCHEN, S. F., and Lioyp, W.

1932. Vaccination against yellow fever with immune serum and virus fixed

for mice. Journ. Exp. Med., vol. 55, p. 945.
YELLOW FEVER—SAWYER 589

SHANNON, R. C., WHITMAN, L., and Franca, M.
1938. Yellow fever virus in jungle mosquitoes. Science, vol. 88, p. 110.
SmitH, H. H., Penna, H. A., and PAOLiIeL1o, A.
1938. Yellow fever vaccination with cultured virus (17D) without immune
serum. Amer. Journ. Trop. Med., vol. 18, p. 437.
Soper, F. L.
19387a. The geographical distribution of immunity to yellow fever in man
in South America. Amer. Journ. Trop. Med., vol. 17, p. 457.
1937b. Present-day methods for the study and control of yellow fever.
Amer. Journ. Trop. Med., vol. 17, p. 655.
1938. Yellow fever: The present situation (October, 1938) with special
reference to South America. Trans. Roy. Soc. Trop. Med. and
Hyg., vol. 32, p. 297.
Soprr, F. L., Penns, H., Carposo, H., Serarim, J., Jr., FRopisHer, M., Jr., and
PINHEIRO, J.
1933. Yellow fever without Aédes aegypti. Study of rural epidemic in the
Valle do Chanaan, Espirito Santo, Brazil, 1932. Amer. Journ.
Hyg., vol. 18, p. 555.
Soper, F. L., and Smiru, H. H.
1938a. Yellow fever vaccination with cultivated virus and immune and
hyperimmune serum. Amer. Journ. Trop. Med., vol. 18, p. 111.
1938b. Vaccination with virus 17D in the control of jungle yellow fever in
Brazil. Trans. Third Int. Congr. Trop. Med. and Malaria, vol. 1,
p. 295.
Soprr, F. L., Smiru, H. H., and PENNA, H.
1940. Yellow fever vaccination: field results as measured by the mouse
protection test and epidemiological observations. Proc. Third Int.
Congr. for Microbiol., Sept. 2 to 9, 1939, p. 351.
THEILER, M., and SmiTH, H. H.
1937. The effect of prolonged cultivation in vitro upon the pathogenicity of
yellow fever virus. Journ. Exp. Med., vol. 65, p. 767.
Watcort, A. M., Cruz, H., PAOLIELLO, A., and SERAFIM, J., Jr.
1937. An epidemic of urban yellow fever which originated from a case con-
tracted in the jungle. Amer. Journ. Trop. Med., vol. 17, p. 677.
WHITMAN, L.
1939. Failure of Aédes aegypti to transmit yellow fever cultured virus
(17D). Amer. Journ. Trop. Med., vol. 19, p. 19.
WuHirman, L., and ANTUNES, P. C. A.
19388. The transmission of two strains of jungle yellow fever virus by
Aédes aegypti. Amer. Journ. Trop. Med., vol. 18, p. 185.
MIRO RNG he

tar ih? nea AL iw ta i Darl ‘ iv ict fie nee

Arace cf

¥ nk er Rates

hy: ioe “lp Hi t

he

NG ts i ye or

ui lee © ho _

fy
a ea ty
ve a na

Wait Frfok hres | aN " vi
Wg h a oh ae

Sirs iid ‘hab Nee
a ot titi H Mhes dasco! }
bh he . eyo mi tegnot ne vaitnh is |

if ae

" a

ie wat wg Pega’ sal My Aah

SOME FOOD PROBLEMS IN WARTIME?

By Grorcr R. CowGiLi
Yale University

As a result of the war, communities all over the Nation are finding
their young men in the armed forces serving as representatives in
almost every part of the world. Consider, for example, a group of
men from your own community. One of them may be in an artillery
unit hidden in the jungles bounding the Panama Canal. Another
may be doing guard duty in Iceland. A third “joined the marines”
to see action, and has seen it in the Solomon Islands of the South
Pacific. A fourth received training as a mechanic for servicing air-
planes and eventually found himself in an air squadron suddenly
assigned to duty in North Africa.

Before the war, all these boys were exposed to a reasonably uniform
set of influences, social, climatic, and otherwise. Their habits of eat-
ing are a reflection of family training, racial background, the kinds
of foods readily available in their community, and related factors.
Now that they are in the service, will their diet be quite different from
that to which they have been accustomed? Will it vary according
to the part of the world in which they are serving? These are some
of the questions that will occur to their parents and friends.

The planned feeding of our armed forces today affords a marked
contrast to that of the days of 1914-18. Between 1900 and about 1910
it was considered that any combination of foods that furnished enough
energy, protein, certain mineral nutrients like calcium for the bones,
and iron for the blood would meet the requirements of good nutrition.
Today if a student of this science attempts to list individually all of
the specific factors known to be important for nourishing the body, he
must mention approximately 40 items, the exact number depending
upon whether certain claims for existence of new vitamins are te be
regarded as acceptable or not. We are much closer now than our
predecessors ever were to being able to write a complete list of
factors required. A rough classification of them would be as follows:
(a) food energy, measured in calories; (b) protein; (¢) mineral

1 Reprinted by permission from the Yale Review, Winter, 1943. Copyright, Yale Uni-

versity Press.
591
592 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

nutrients; and (d) vitamins. In addition to knowing that these many
factors are necessary, we also have at hand some information bearing
on the question of how much food the average person needs, and the
factors that may change that requirement. Although at the present
time we do not know all we should like to know about the requirements
of certain dietary essentials, such as vitamins B, and B,, we already
‘have a body of knowledge sufficiently large to warrant interesting
applications not merely to a civilian peace-time population but an ever-
growing armed force as well. All this information has been used in
planning the commissary of our armed forces. In other words, the
modern science of nutrition enables us to deal with this new world-
wide food problem in far more effective fashion than was ever before
possible.

For about 10 years, the Chicago Quartermaster Depot of the United
States Army has maintained what is called the Subsistence Research
Laboratory devoted to the application of this modern knowledge in
the practical solution of army food problems. The older standard
rations have been examined in the light of the new developments and
appropriate changes made. Numerous new rations designed to fit
special situations in the field have been devised. The question
whether the good standard army-post ration in common use in this
country, known to contain ample supplies of vitamins and other
essential factors, would be improved by supplementation with vitamin
tablets has been put to scientific test with soldiers under properly
controlled experimental conditions. The answer to this particular
question proves to be negative. It does not necessarily follow from
this that the provision of an unusual and extra supply of one or more
vitamins to soldiers never serves any useful purpose. As yet too few
of the special work situations of interest have really been investigated
from this point of view. In another study, carried out in a university
laboratory, where men subjected themselves to extreme muscular work
to the point of exhaustion, it was found that their endurance of, and
ease of recovery from, the severe strain was related to their receiving
daily a liberal supply of a natural source of the vitamin B complex
(such as dried yeast) ; daily administration of a supply of vitamin B,
alone was not as effective. In still another study, evidence has been
obtained that two of the most recently discovered members of the
vitamin B complex are of some importance in relation to muscular
fatigue and recovery from vigorous exercise. Numerous investiga-
tions relating to this general problem are being carried on in the
laboratories of the country as part of our research contribution to
winning the war.

Earlier in this article the factors important in nutrition were
classified. The first one to be mentioned was energy. The need for
FOOD PROBLEMS IN WARTIME—COWGILL 593

this factor has long been known. It was the first to receive thorough
scientific investigation. At the risk of seeming to emphasize the
obvious, I must summarize briefly important facts centering around
food energy. Failure to “eat sufficient calories” results in loss of
body weight because the energy cost of living cannot be dodged, and
therefore the body consumes its own tissues in order to secure the
needed energy. Conscious and planned reduction in consumption of
calories as a means of reducing weight is the scientific basis for the
so-called Hollywood diet by which one “eats to get thin.” The amount
of energy required by a normal individual is related to his age, sex,
body size, and amount of muscular exercise, this last named being
most variable and perhaps the most significant of all the factors listed.

The layman frequently asks whether mental effort or “strain” has
an energy cost. In discussing this topic, one must distinguish
between the energy cost of the special activity of brain cells associated
with intense cerebration and the energy demands due to emotional
reactions which involve greater muscular activity. It has proved
impossible to measure the energy cost of the mental effort involved in
studying for an examination, for example; it doubtless exists but is
so small a fraction of the total energy exchange of the body that it
cannot be measured by the methods used hitherto. On the other hand,
emotional reaction or “strain” that brings about greater muscular
activity, more intense application to a task requiring muscular effort
or activity of a different sort, is thereby associated with a greater
energy exchange; in this situation it is obvious that the energy cost
being measured is quite definitely related to greater activity of the
muscles,

Measurements have been made of the energy costs of various occu-
pations, and the results have constituted the basis of numerous tables
published in standard texts. Of course, the energy cost of the soldier’s
life needs investigating, and such studies have in fact been made.
The results of these investigations have been utilized in the formula-
tion of special rations intended for use in special situations.

In these days of modern mechanized warfare, the troops may
move very fast, and it is not always practical for the mess sergeant
and cook to set up the old-style traveling kitchen. A food that is
concentrated, readily digested, nutritionally complete, easily eaten,
and packaged in a way that permits rough handling in the field, is
the ideal aimed at for this warfare. Such a ration has been devised.
It has been tested on the members of the Subsistence Research Labora-
tory and also in the field, in mountainous country and in the desert,
and it has been judged satisfactory. For example, Field Ration K
is a three-meal package of concentrated food furnishing 3,726 calories
and packed in a heat-and-cold-proof box, 6 by 6 by 4 inches. The
594 = ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

breakfast package furnishes enriched biscuits, compressed graham
crackers, veal, a fruit bar, malted milk dextrose tablets, soluble coffee,
sugar, chewing gum, and four cigarettes. The contents of the dinner
package are much the same with the addition of powdered bouillon
but without coffee or fruit bar. For supper the allowance is biscuits,
cheese, chocolate bar, fruit-juice powder, sugar, chewing gum, and
cigarettes. Gum is included because its chewing promotes the flow
of saliva, thus keeping the lining of the mouth moist, and this seems
to reduce the consumption of water. In field trials of the rations,
cigarettes were found to have value in promoting morale.

People frequently ask the professional nutritionist whether armed
forces fighting in various parts of the world have different food re-
quirements according to the climate in which they find themselves, or
to other factors peculiar to their respective regions. Must the soldier
in Iceland be fed differently from his comrade in Morocco ?

The observation that marked differences in food habits characterize
the inhabitants of different parts of the globe may suggest to some
laymen that the nutritive needs of these widely distributed people are
correspondingly different, and, therefore, in the feeding of our armed
forces, differences in requirements seemingly related to regions should
be considered. Students of nutrition agree that such an interpreta-
tion of the fact of variety in food habits is erroneous. The kinds of
foods eaten by any group of people constitute a reflection of economic
factors, such as availability and relative cost, and socioreligious fac-
tors involving established customs, taboos, religious training, and the
like. Naturally, foods that are readily produced in a given area will
predominate in the dietaries of the inhabitants of those areas over
foods that must be imported.

Tf differences in food habits do not mean differences in fundamental
nutritive requirements of different places, it follows that a basic
ration, with perhaps minor modifications, could serve for all troops
regardless of where they are. All soldiers will need enough calories
to meet the energy costs of their respective activities. The soldier
in Iceland will have to face the problem of greater heat loss to the en-
vironment and will solve this very largely through the use of warmer
clothing and heated quarters. The soldier in Libya will dress so as
to facilitate loss of body heat to environment. It is quite possible
that the soldier in Iceland will eat a few more calories daily than his
comrade in Libya depending upon the severity of the cold weather
and the care taken to conserve heat through proper clothing.

The soldier in Libya, and particularly his comrades in the humid
Tropics, will have another problem to face: that due to the greater
sweating caused by the warmer climates. It is known that workmen
in steel mills and other industrial plants whose activities result in
FOOD PROBLEMS IN WARTIME—COWGILL 595

profuse sweating may lose so much salt through the sweat as to de-
velop muscle cramps and pains; the administration of tablets of table
salt has been found to be the remedy here, and has become an estab-
lished practice in industrial medicine. Recently it has been learned
that appreciable.amounts of various water-soluble vitamins may also
be lost from the body by way of sweat. Just how significant this loss
can be, remains to be determined by research directed to this specific
end. For the present any bearing that this fact may have on the
soldier’s need for vitamins can doubtless be met by having the basic
ration contain amounts of these factors that are really liberal and
appreciably greater than the known minima.

Conditions in the Tropics have played an interesting role in deter-
mining some of the specifications of certain emergency rations, such
as, for example, an experimental chocolate bar designed to be carried
in the soldier’s shirt pocket, and to be eaten only as a last resort when
separated from the troop unit. The size of the bar was determined
by the dimensions of the shirt pocket. One specification was that the
bar remain solid at 120° F., so that the bar would not melt in the
pocket under tropical conditions and thus become impossible to eat.
When a committee of scientific advisers sampled numerous bars sub-
mitted in response to the advertised specifications, some of the mem-
bers rated certain bars unfavorably on the ground of poorer taste, and
were surprised to learn from the Quartermaster representative that
a delectable bar was not desired because it was intended to serve as
an emergency ration; if its taste was too good, it would be eaten too
soon and thus be unavailable when the emergency finally occurred.

The selection of foods for aviators is not without its special problems.
One that might be mentioned here is the advisability of avoiding foods
that readily produce gas. When the pilot and his crew rise to high
altitudes, gases expand in corresponding degree; if much gas is present
in the alimentary tract, its expansion can cause considerable discom-
fort.

Because we as a nation have been peace-loving, and have not over
a period of years planned intensively for the waging of offensive
war, the food problems mentioned thus far have received our concen-
trated attention only comparatively recently. The Axis nations, par-
ticularly Germany and Japan, went into the present war with the
soldier relatively well equipped for blitz tactics, jungle fighting, and
the like. The individual Japanese soldier carries a remarkable equip-
ment suited for penetration of the jungle. As far as our knowledge
goes, this equipment includes rice and certain other dry foods valu-
able in supplementing rice with the nutritive factors it lacks.

For some years, Dr. T. Saiki, Director of the Imperial Institute of
Nutrition in Tokyo, concentrated on the problem of finding new but
596 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

cheap food resources with which to feed the Japanese masses who
are extremely poor. Into various sections of the country went young
students and research workers from Saiki’s laboratory to study the
food values of literally everything edible in those areas, including
weeds, numerous insects, and other forms of life hitherto unused as
human food. One result of the knowledge thus gained was that
nutritionally adequate diets for the masses could be secured for a cost
as low as 5 cents a day.

As a result of the war, the shipment of silk to this country was
stopped. Other uses for the silkworm have been found however.
Recently it was learned that the silkworm cocoon contains a significant
amount of vitamin B,. This is now being extracted and used as a food.
There can be no doubt that the information gained through Dr. Saiki’s
activities is now being applied by the Japanese militarists in provid-
ing the soldiers and sailors with the food needed for them to carry on.
Because the Japanese masses have long been accustomed to simple and
cheap fare, it is probably relatively easy for the Japanese soldier to
adjust to his special field rations.

The bulk of a ration cannot be reduced below a certain amount if a
desired number of calories is to be furnished. This point is not
always appreciated by the layman. Food energy is derived from
protein, carbohydrate, and fat, the first two of which yield 4 calories
per gram in contrast to fat which furnishes 9 calories per gram. The
“average man” weighs 154 pounds (70 kilograms) and requires 3,000
calories per day. To secure this number of calories from the most
concentrated source available—fat—333 grams (roughly three-quar-
ters of a pound) are required. However, man develops ketosis when
fat furnishes more than about one-half of the energy. Calories from
carbohydrate are required to prevent this. Therefore the 333 grams
of fat must be diluted with some carbohydrate; still more dilution is
necessary in order to secure needed protein, mineral nutrients, and
vitamins.

This question of bulk has assumed great importance recently. In
natural foods, the various dietary factors may be greatly diluted with
water. Seeds like the cereal grains and legumes, and special products
made from them, like baked goods, are concentrated foods which are
low in water content in contrast to muscle tissue, for example, which
has from 70 to 80 percent water, and a food like canned tomatoes
which contain over 95 percent water. In the early days of its work
in this country, the British Food Commission bought large quantities
of water-rich foods like canned tomatoes for shipment to England.
This meant using a large part of the available space for shipping the
water contained in these foods. As a result of the sinking of so many
ships, it has become necessary to make the best possible use of all avail-
FOOD PROBLEMS IN WARTIME—COWGILL 597

able shipping space. Elimination of the water present in many foods
by commercial dehydration processes has thus assumed tremendous
importance.

The dehydrated-food industry is expanding at a most rapid rate.
This expansion has been so great and is so important that the Govern-
ment has established a school at which interested industrialists may
learn the dehydration processes that have been perfected and how a
given industrial plant may therefore be converted to the dehydration
of one or more foods.

Some idea of what the saving in shipping space can be as a result
of dehydration can be gained from the following: A ship’s ton of
canned boiled potato furnishes only 920 pounds of potato. The same
ship’s ton of dehydrated potato, when reconstituted by the addition
of water, supplies 3,980 pounds of this vegetable. Dehydrated foods
as prepared for shipment take, on an average, only about one-sixth
the cargo space required for shipments in nondehydrated or natural
form. Another fact of particular interest is that many dehydrated
foods, dry skim milk and eggs, for example, can be packed in nonmetal
containers thus saving tin, the supply of which is dangerously low.

Over a period of years, many important foods have proved to be
very difficult to dehydrate satisfactorily; recently, as a result of
intensive experimentation, they have yielded to the laboratory in this
respect, and can now be used not only in economical shipments abroad’
as food for civilian populations but as ingredients of concentrated
rations for the armed forces. Meat is a good example of this. Dried
soup stocks of known nutritive value have also been made from which
tasty soups may be prepared by the mere addition of water. One
food concern recently announced that it had finally succeeded, after
much laboratory experimentation, in drying ham-and-eggs. With
such a product it becomes possible to provide the American soldier
with this traditional reminder of breakfast at home regardless of
where he may happen to be.

In our American approach to the food problem we have not gone
so far in developing entirely new food resources as Saiki has done in
Japan. However, a survey has revealed that there are many valuable
foods in this country not now being used in the quantities that their
nutritive values warrant. A few examples are skim milk powder,
peanut meal, products of the soybean, pig liver, and dried yeast. The
oil of the peanut is squeezed out and used in soap making, and the
manufacture of munitions and other products; the meal residue,
valuable as a source of protein and certain vitamins, could well be
used more as a food by man. It has already proved possible to make
a tasty bread containing as much as 20 percent peanut flour. Skim
milk powder is an especially valuable product that is used to some

566766—44—39
598 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1943

extent as an ingredient in making certain human foods but to a much
greater extent as a component of feed for livestock. Greater use of
it by our housewives would improve significantly the nutrition of our
people. In certain industries devoted to the production of special
substances from animal tissues, such as antianemic principle from
liver and insulin from pancreas, the tissue residues remaining from
such processing have been largely regarded as almost worthless. Re-
cent tests on animals of these materials for their nutritive value have
revealed qualities quite unsuspected and such as to give them high
ratings as foods. The successful introduction into our American
dietaries of these various valuable but at present little-used foods
will doubtless require education of the consumer concerning relative
food values and the role that these unappreciated foods may play in
meeting nutritive needs. Even if such an educational campaign
should prove only moderately successful in the so-called pellagra areas
of the South, for example, this would be significant in combating the
pellagra problem.

Many of these valuable but little-used foods are now being utilized
in special army rations, dried soup stocks, and the like, and are thus
finding their way into the feeding of the armed forces as well as the
war-torn populations reached by the International Red Cross. If
such products prove successful, it is not unreasonable to suppose that
they will find a place in the national dietary after the war in serious
competition with the present established staples. No one can really
say what the future holds in store for us in this field. This much is
certain: the war has precipitated a great deal of valuable research
in the development of new foods.

It is to be expected that we shall do all that is possible to feed our
armed forces scientifically wherever they may be placed in this global
war. On the home front, we have the problem of producing enough of
the various basic food supplies to meet the need not only of the armed
forces but our home population and that of the Allied nations. It does
not suffice merely to produce these foods; when they are to be shipped
around the world, they must be concentrated and otherwise processed
so as to enable such shipment to be made with the minimum required
space. Some foods like skim milk powder and cheese are both highly
concentrated and of high nutritive value, and thus have a superior
rating in relation to this particular situation.

We may, therefore, receive from time to time from our Secretary
of Agriculture and other responsible officials recommendations that
we on the home front eat less of certain foods and more of others, in
order to release particular foods for shipment abroad. Certain foods
are now being rationed for various reasons, and we may expect many
others to be sooner or later. The consumer should welcome this pro-
FOOD PROBLEMS IN WARTIME—COWGILL 599

cedure as an indication of careful planning toward solution of the basic
problem.

It seems obvious that a successful attack on this phase of our general
problem involves the education of every citizen in the principles of
nutrition and dietetics—how to select the good diet, how to think prac-
tically of food energy, protein, minerals, and vitamins in terms of
common foods, classes of foods from which substitutes may be selected
when we are told to conserve some foods, how to “pack a lunch a man
can work on,” and kindred topics. A program for accomplishing this
has been formulated. Through the nutrition division of the Office of
Defense Health and Welfare Services in Washington a national nutri-
tion program has been organized that has in it a place for everybody—
food producer, wholesaler, retailer, consumer, advertiser, and all the
agencies for influencing public opinion. State and local nutrition
committees have been established throughout the nation. Through
these committees and the Red Cross, nutrition classes have been or-
ganized in such a way as to touch nearly every home in the land. Today
every citizen has ample opportunity to learn how, through selection
of food, he can in simple fashion make a very important contribution
and adjustment to this problem of properly utilizing our food resources
in order to win the war.

REFERENCES

Those who wish to read further on this subject will find much of interest in
the following recent publications:
Biack, J. D., and COLLABORATORS.
1943. Nutrition and food supply: the war and after. Ann. Amer. Acad.
Polit. and Soe. Sci., vol. 225, January.
FEDERAL SECURITY AGENCY.
1942. A series of eleven lectures delivered in the U. S. Department of
Agriculture Auditorium, Washington, D. C., March 11-15, 1942.
Publ. of Office of Defense Health and Welfare Services.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE, MONTREAL, CANADA.
1942. Food control in Great Britain. Studies and Reports, ser. B. (eco-
nomic conditions), No. 35, March.
ai

~

Mig + h
1
A ai sl

LG Ty fe eevee et 6a

INDEX

A
Page
Abbot, Charles G., Secretary of the Institution______- vii, xi, 10, 12, 25, 76, 99
Administrative assistant to the Secretary (Harry W. Dorsey) a PEE 2 aes vii
PMEROUNIS Er DIVeRSUate sf ao cls tei ee 2 i ye ele pea Se x
Eki eA Glas; LL Ray eH ICY BS ea te een I A rh Re eat A, YR YE xi, 76
EN THGIERER AS, LaMar I SN rr, ah 8 Ee Ce viii
Arab village community of the Middle East, The (Tannous) -_--_------- 523
Areal and temporal aspects of aboriginal South American culture (Cooper). 429
Priistrone. oy. fh. (ihe sea asia storehouse)... .s2 2-22 matin ae 135
Artists for Victory, TG coo ee eee eee Res al aie i = a een 30
Assistant Secretary of the Institution (Alexander Wetmore) -_---------- vii, 24
Associate Director of the National Museum (John E. Graf)___-_____--_-- vil
SETOD MSI Cal ODSERY AOL. — =e Beker a ot ln 5 Seed oe ees xi, 9, 75
Diyisionot Astrophysical Meseareh 2.20. oe oe ae = 75
Division of Radiation.and Organisms? ..4)2 2-45 2c2—2too-s8h eelee = 75
BrecldsobsernvatOrless 2s en sete bt tenets ol le Eee 9, 75
IBersonme een Satna pene ec ie wel aah ee he Ee BI) dS. ES 76
ART ate ee ne Ratan Panes g le ee Nie os She ede vag A Soe bade 75
Si ietitie ee eee Ve Reae oo Siete ee 2 e  hae xi
Attorney General (Francis Biddle, member of the Institution)_---------- vii
ANT, PATTIES} ANG eI SS i a il aA a Re Lad tees oe = ee BE viii
B

Barkley, Alben W. (regent of the Institution)._-_...----.-------------- vii, 10
A Cael ree cheR ee eee vee eee ye A We Rr aie es viii
Bantscheee ails es seek bee ee ie wel yaad) er Ge Bey ee a eae viii, 4x
Tekngysere LIARS ee ee ee ee een te mt eel ene mie ia 2 ON ND 1x
Peco MIeSSONG olen ee 2 Ae oath SY 1 sche ple Met alg pee: dhe Tih.” ix
Perlis ual ilies sae Miowii ols Rise Ware eee Re) CN ee oe 4: 51
Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, Vice President, National Gallery of Art__ x, 25, 26, 34
Belote, LO AG ES ie OE Oe OE a ee eee meer ry ore LUCE ix
TBST ys Ge el ONE DN © ee eee ee aR AS DT TR Oe re Pear On SORE Preece eet erat ewe? ty} viii
Biddle, Francis, Attorney General (member of the Institution) __-------- vii
Biological effects of solar radiation, Some (O’Brien) __-_-------------=-- 109

Bishop, Carl Whiting (Origin of Far Eastern civilizations: A brief hand-

516121!) pe AS pas SALE Pa ali ip ena We ange Deete Un nopr epee 7 LES 463
TEAS cole SUG USS} RS Shp ay a oh a Ea a he LG le i viii
“Enea COTES Sd Di tae a at le aot ae: Gea Te Cale NPA, RMR NR iC ARCH 6, 35
SOS SON @ IITA TIED concn eee an Nese RNA ke LL der a El BO eC ix
VAIN ere a Se ys ent SAT ES oe OMT LY” Dera A ix
FES TeeosyysT VN peer eee EP Pl a al a ay ian gl ie AL a a Ll viii
Bruce, David K. E., President, National Gallery of Art___----------- x, 25, 8
epeu Mies Uk se a ee ee er eee eee hee se
Baransment, (hrs te eel in rap el bye ta Le 3 Tay Ee FO OR, SEPA RE ge viii
Bush, .\Vannevar. (regent,;of the. Institution)=.2)922 22S. 2 eee vii, 10, 95

C
Cairns, Huntington, Secretary-Treasurer and General Counsel National

STI SA fot Ti ee a IPI EEE et aan nner COs, Se a POMPE AST RUIN. 1. 24 x, 25
Cannon, Clarence (regent of the Institution) .......-.------------- vii, 10, 95
(CLUES CnC TES 5 Sama ook as pa SERN RCSA VO Ee ROO TERE ENE Oy Mra y eNO noNe a ce Tr.) ix
armen Vivre es sue ed ae eo ee Le ey ce eke Se Wa 21 ee 2
@assedra tdwin G32 2)5. a URN ho idee 0 ae ei aa aoe Ea dae x, 55
602 INDEX

Page

Chancellor of the Institution (Harlan F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United
PURPOSES AE SRA 6 ER MC Peat ee 5 pee nt ee ane Bice es Se vii, 10
(Chapin. "Hdward Ao! 2508 260 ie et ee Bae es Ae eee viii
Wisse, Nomen (ata 8 oe el a ee oe, De eee ne viii
Chemotherapeutic agents from microbes (Weintraub) __________________ 545

Chief Justice of the United States (Harlan F. Stone, Chancellor of the
EAS HUG TION) is aps ie Ey eet AL Case, Be hd ribee 2s IAL A eam Se mea a Nab epee nal O 5)
OEY ees S[ eb Ol a (RMR enn IRL RN MEE he gageo ta ae ecnpeaee ead peng pel Oe MN viii
Clark, Bennett Champ (regent of the Institution) _____________________ vii, 10
Clank siteilay he librarian of the Instipitioness = oe ee 2 = VAIS ow
Garksviielam Ga Bhs lene Aw ey ONE sed a SLE SMI a a ey xi
Wise, dobert Sterling... '4-..- = OW LG) ee 1G SNe 797 A ix
Cochran; Doris: Mi Least I, VERE PETS A Oe SA een Ee viii
(Dangerous :reptiles)< 2-242 22ete4we4 eel die eel ee es ee ee Ee 275
Cole; William P., Jr. (regent of the Institution). 222-25. 22525) 2229S 8 10
Cotlins,H.- Bs, Jr sso 243 ose ow nee ee el ne eee eee nee ee Be x) Cron
Commerford): Tig Hi. - TAM 5 FON a) i SONATE AY) URE EE Yur LSE Oey Pane x
Compton, Arthur H. (regent of the Institution)______________________ vii, 10
Congdon, Charles: Bis - +25 2. == 2 22: +. Pi Be Be OL) es Ok 52
@Wonger;-Paul\S. 25 e22h2 saben ss ea bede es pee ba ps ake OE ORE FOR viii
Contours of culture in Indonesia (Kennedy) ________-______________---_ 513
Cook: OE oon eee LA eh STROSS AEE ik OER oO RESEND Rie viii
QNatural-rubber)i2-25 2.642565. ea Mi sn alee oe RY OR SORE 363
Cooper; Gustav: Au. e+. 22 ees se oon ee IS Es) ABO Ib VODs 1 Oa ix, 21

Cooper, John M. (Areal and temporal aspects of aboriginal South Ameri-
can culture) cece ee22e Se eke ie oe Shel 3 See TES SOS Sane 429
Cowgill, George R. (Some food problems in wartime)________------_-_- 591
Cox, Edward E. (regent of the Institution)..._..._._.__._._.__-___-___---_ vii, 10
ross, Whitman = qt ee ele a ey ee ix
Cushman, Joseph: Ave Tat) it RO TOU MOT SUE, MUO) Mee ren ee viii
@ushman; Robert) Avi 2+ s+s222s2rn2 222252224. 42 seen del ese eee Ie viii

D
Dale, Chester, Associate Vice President, National Gallery of Art________- x, 31
Anserous, reptiles: (Cochran) 222 5222+22=secoeocseseee sees elo ees 275
Davis, Harvey N. (regent of the Institution) ____._.__._._________/ 22h eas vii, 10
Davis) eonard) rss =s2cac. Sees ieee oe i oe ee we 50
Deardortl (M.-H 22 sae 22 ae esis ee oe oo a ie oe 52
Deinan, (Ay (Geos ee a ew ek a ee viii
Delano, Frederic A. (regent of the Institution)___.____._....__.-____- vii, 10, 95
Derismore,.,. Kran€es + 1.2 223 n. eo Se ee ek ee i a 8, 53
Desch, C. H. (New metals and new methods)--.-----.---.-----2 L222 213
Director of the National Museum (Alexander Wetmore)________-_____-- vii, 24
Dorsey, Harry W., administrative assistant to the Secretary.___________- vii
Dorsey, Nicholas W., Treasurer of the Institution._____._.______------ Vii, =
ipiticker,, Philipu.+ ss2stesc5useoees sub eel joe Fo 53
E

Biditorial, division, Chief (Webster 2). True) 232220) ee vii, 88
Maas) Tbs Vis ee hh Dh Un a A a ON ad a viii
Eruption of Mauna Loa, Hawaii, The 1942 (Macdonald)____________-_- 199
Pstablishmenty Mess 25 nied). Veo e ee ORs Ie Tas eB ML) Ne eee 9
winnopeorraphic: Boand. oo so0 = 2 tek es fae ry ee a See 3
Mthnolowy, Bureau of Ameritan._.G:J242biew! 24). le pee) eee eas x, 2a
Wallechions tats ila.) 0! oo ge Noelle 2 eer ae yee ee 55
Editorial ‘work and, publications.220) =n 8, 53
Bieldlwork: 22 2fe soos Sie Da" a A Ns a dp are ty ae 7,8
Nilustrations ised ue ey fete i.e enti tee or) Sn ee eee 55
10h] 01 22) -h PRNeN cane t ete mM DP spe ORE Shon earrAgL MIN. Vielen RONEN Sterne OE GN St 8, 54
Miscellaneous... aie iiee) grit to inate yeaa 55
Personnel ies 0 ayy. 1 Ps 5b 2 ee he ae 55
SER PROG eS aN Be a ee Ney a ogg 46
Special researches. 2:2 38) os Se a oa es 53
cL: | ee ean TSR Mee Meee MM PERE Coen eMac Speier re BONN lh Rs
INDEX 6038

Page
Executive Committee of the Board of Regents_________....-_-_-.----- vii, 95
Report w ae 2 he hae ha ol we ces Be So RS COATES 89
Appropristionsovies 202 2c eee ee Te Se Eee 94
PANTO = Beeps sh ere os ao eed bo ee see a scese se PERO 95
Cash balances, receipts, and disbursements OTRO 7 EP AC aes 92
Olacsifieation.of investments) LUE owes eT ee 92
@onsoltdated fun Gian se 2 pec ee GY Oe §1
Breen Gallery: of -ATtiund sit: 0s A Osh omy Nee) COM ENG 91
Giftsvandybequestss 2-52 faci sence 2 VEE RR ae Cae 94
Smuthsonianvendowment fund. += 2252522. Se ee ee ee 89
SSS UTDUD TIN SUTRA Hee Si O35 ee ih ola Sp pk el annie a ee cael 91
F
TRcap clei kols SID). (Gle 92 a Re Ss Re ne eR RS DUE nS PMpe PTY Bud viii
Hederale orks, Atency ee Shoe salle Lilo rey ae WE one eee here Delta fh, Eline DE 26
PEESERTIUOT AMV cop ee er ee A wal ie a a a a x, S5lo2
TD ESRTa ET aUG VEYAN EI D YG) alt LU Se gE RII a SOON RMSE AKL SS aie 39
IVS C CS oe epee [ed 7 rele pl pla Tagan hey Wey Soyo Peyton eA EN arta 11
Finley, David E., Director, National Gallery of Art__....__._.._--_-_- x, 25, 26
Ristori ee Wen eee errs ot ha ee a Bese SeSns wl soar ee ix
TEVRSOVENES NY SOTO UNS SS SR A ep eee RE Oe ix
Oia) CORN IN Coa] EY SSRI RI ae ed ee eI. gn 22
Food problems im wartime, Some: (Cowsgill) _.. 222-2 + 2 Pelee 591
CEL ER NT aN ASMA egal pay ia rea acs Based SB hel aft ts ix, 22
Fox, Charles L. (Sulfonamides in the treatment of war wounds and burns). 569
Freer Cicer OIE SATS pee ko cit ape arti i) rei: errant tL pulled yA x, 7, 41
Nien ance meer “tear se re hh tet ee ew 2 ee renner oe pend 44
“CHRP SiSh Vrr Sic i OF 1G ocala gs le cam ny OS ac st lean anes [ie ta hat Dp aS ease ah A4
CHT havauss, “TeV ella apse Ped lle ai aS ee Sn ae epearbtada a yal aek lage 4 AlN! oil lAy aad 7, 41
(CSSA UE NiO ag in tl a Saab ra La psa ly ae RL 43
Deen ame rN Clr eeu eh ne ye Oe ee Ses Se 4
TL GYOURUITRER ES NN Oe ad an eS ati ee ORY a: en lala eek te Dene 7, 43
EZ ETSS O11) | eam ee Cre SCLC he Re a ec ya ok als SAA Pe i aE 45
ERG TOO rb eee ees te TI ee a Sa 41
Ge 5) ere meni 5B dant Meet es Sabres 0 eels ih bye IES yeh> paerd 2 x
BY Ncea Ty tg Kerem em tea ee ca 2k a aye 7, 43
Bmedmann4bMlerbertes 2 2 eee Se ale Daye ine ies wlth ee viii
(The natural-history background of camouflage)__._.__..._--------- 259
Print OPPEipeieys oh yale eee 22 eh ee ee ceria 50
G
Gass, F. E., Acting Chief Clerk, International Exchange Service____---~-- xi, 64
SEPT OARS ATES, ei Pa ig Be a I mn ae ix
Gazin, A HAS YoY) YS lig Hyg ga AS eg AI TD 2 Ic rca nN ME 1 x
Gilmore, ROTEULE Vie ere cree HN a a ee Sto Sieh Aa he ala ix, 22
Graf, John E., Associate Director of the National Museum___________-- vii
Graham, TYEE CAIN Gis eg ediaa Sec apse Ya 2 ec RO lt reo NeoPa BIEN ix
ree Oiiricn Tee 15 Seo GRS ON Title Ninr ctawen rd ve ca se. wees vili
Guest, Grace Dunham, Assistant Director, Freer Gallery of Art__------- x, 43
H
ETM COM ar NTs beeen eee renee Wem eg pate Ney ew a aes Bianlee eeakd Meek ale x, 8, 48
Harrison, Richard Edes (Maps, strategy, and world politics) _____------- 253
Henderson, gu) a SA are Ni a a lta en RU ye VETS WE rr oe A, ix
Heroy, William B. (Petroleum POMOP sa ehh Bie Cy Ok ah be 161
SeereicOvabm eID Le ele le ee ape 21
Hess, 127 Al ODE Wak DT ye RNS MPR Wis Seger: 35,7 2 ix
Hill, "James H. , property clerk of the Institution bh a Ly ete RY Ban oe vil
Hoover, Syyiiternn PEM TAMA Ged wt tT oa sigbare hylaniy! tyra: eae: xi, 76
Hopkins, TNS YS RNS ES AN LSE SASSER Path OR a ean BPO Se CY viii
yy Se Ge MT Oe Pape is as Pd PN pt iatcty oe ey se ane ey EY. NO ie ela A 2 nemmapelege viii
EVO wellA SiS TazieT sess) py mem he Fai eh Mabe w oe 22 ey ee ee viil
ralitelea SAG tykiey teh IPC bikie rele. Aphid Lh PN) ack = geisha ge RY Migs viii

Hull, Cordell, Secretary of State (member of the Institution) __-_-_-__- vii, 25, 26
604 INDEX

I
Page
fater-Amernean COOperation® 0" 22h. eek ea eee oe a
International Exchange Service-. 2-25-5202 2255) 5s ee ee ae xi, 8, 56
ASTD PUE USL CLOT: etek 6 ot bos teeth oe ee Ee, Se ee es 56
Depositories of Congressional Record: 62s -- i242 22 ened ee ed 60
Foreign depositories of governmental documents____---.---------_- 57
Foreignexchange*apenclies 2.22202 2 = he ee ee 62
Interparliamentary exchange of the official journal_____________=___ 60
Packares sent and received -t 20 ¢ "2 oe et ke oe ee eee 8, 56
PORHOUTIEL: oS ONLY Oe ee ee aie ete oe tart Re re hea 63
1 EHO a eh REE a Ss eh Rl Beeld is ele dee (ASE epee, fname ep EES Hw 56
Pe CSR Ee em ee eek Get AE eS oe a OD PU NU 2 SO ee a xi
J
James, Macgill, Assistant Director, National Gallery of Art__.__________ x, 25
CB IATA OTR AL) OED ih yh chy A ca lee sw SR tS Oe ms he i a ee viii
JohnstenaHarl S22. 0c b, ou le eee eee lie ee eee xi, 76
Jones, Jesse H., Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution) _____ vii
dude Niei Mi toe 2k a ee Te eee Be ea eee tle eee viii
K
Kelloggs Reming tones 2 oo Sales oleh yk Se ee ne ee viii, 20
Kennedy, Raymond (Contours of culture in Indonesia)________________-_ 513
DESY 0) 06) b8i DE 0 WM gta Se Og AN NG A fy Nt Aa Te am TN NA 25
Ketchum, IVETEUSU EEA DS assassin a ee ec ae rh Ee oars ee x
Killip, BiflerwrOut lie AP ait ie Aen a anc Nt ine ie ns ae en) ee viii, 20
Knox, Frank, Secretary of the Navy (member of the © Theteon) Pap erica vii
Kramer, TSEC oe) nS ale Neha (aaa ee ley! an ere Sb a 76
Kress, ISTE EN heroes erin = (res 7ice Sey PCE yo UU re LO X, 20,126
Krieger, 1 UR arcana hci ie ye Aah a ag dP Saco ch Mm Sp vill
L
Beonardy Boner yn 6 ae a i a a iS a Ss viii
Lessons from the Old World to the Americas in land use (Lowdermilk)__.._ 413
The wii TOCOTIC Ke Ws i ae Ny es ee So eee ix
Librarian of the Institution (Geile Fy (Clark) is ee se PUR i ee vii
Barbsreiry fy hy ee re oe 18 ae ly edonkey: Dee Pye fees hepert yey abel ete ey ea Te ey NPAT
PAC CE SSI OTIS cam stem pi ea SAY SPN an a re ey 2 SY na 78
BES EVID CIN WE teves we Us ee ah le Sa es pe att Ua UPA Re le Va 81
COENEN ovens aed pS i Ss RM Sake d MCh LM A alae AML tan bigs Sear S Ahh ls Sy) Nay aL Ey 80
OT ig SUR AR Sica Gl ee gh eck Ny ie Ny es a es pn an pA Cg Eh) 79
Personnels 02 PU Uae He AER Lee PE Ae de gee 80
Reporte 2s SUC Nols a eee eS he Re So a ae SE & ola ll 2 = ne 77
Statistics 4 uJ eu oye we pea oe! WM ie Sa ES le ae ot BN 81
WT WOR e 8 hin 2A CIN ee hah I dar rhs a Na TY
Labrary-of ‘Congresses + And ot Ae ONL fe OME TEE OOO PG: AOR RS eee 57
Rife magazine. 422 .42se¢4 se Feecke sewer be 23s Sed oo eee ee 29, 30
Dink, Anna iMisscs2s22.bs23e)) 2 ten )SeSs sues he sae aon see BES 38
Bodge, Jobry Bis 2 sit) YA ie) OG OOS, DED OPES A SACI ELLE 6, 7, 35, 45
Lowdermilk, Walter Clay (Lessons from the Old World to the Americas in
JEW 00 UEC T= (=) [pine A oa pei Re ERRM N So apa 1 SYRINGES ay RS meer S| Tag ma De re SA 413
M
Mac@urdiy:,, George Grant si a sah ela a ent no ln, be aon a a a vii
Macdonald, Gordon A. (The 1942 Eruption of Mauna Loa, Hawaii) ------ 199
Maloney Jiamiesy@ es ihc 20s 2 A Ne na pal hl hs li lye SN vill
Mann, William M., Director, National Zoological Park._____.-_---- viii, xi, 74
Manning (Catherine dis 2 an. = SOU a es 1 EL ee EE eh ead ix
Maps, strategy, and world politics (Harrison and Strausz-Hupé)-_-_-_------ 253
Marshall William Be.) 2222 sb sete beech lee eases el oe ee ix
Mauersberger, Herbert R. (Progress in new synthetic textile fibers) ------ 151
MaxonsWiiRawaececet neice eee One eee eee bene eae ee le alae viii
McAlister sEd wardtDeae: 22 22 2s2ecaceedsseses enh ees sheos i eee xi
McBride, H. A., Administrator, National Gallery of Art-.___----------- x, 25
INDEX 605

Page
McNary, Charles L. (regent of the Institution)_._.__.____.---_-------- vii, 10
Mears, ‘Eliot G. (The ocean current called ‘‘The Child’’)_______________- 245
Mellon, AL. Wes Boucational and Charitable Trust_._.-2--.. 2. -eeiese2 ue 31
Bere atthe Inatitution.....<--.... Yak: bere qucseyte ba aes eh alee vii
UMMM AUTO Cats 2 a oe ee ee ewer Ble 8, 51
Miller, Gerrit SO Tac 2 oe a ke ce cole eae ae viii
Mitman, CT A a RE ata Ca ce Saas Hele rae GS IRS PES Bose ix
Mongan, Piigapetn es. Se oe oe eck. IMed = ae See ope eee 25
Moore, SHIRE eA os ae eae ts eared Seat anes te 52
BREIL Soe fee 2 ork Te a See ee ee viii
Morgenthau, Henry, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the Insti-
REGO TRY oy 2 RRO VR INR pn Pm neg ea EE POTN ST NN RN vii, 25, 26
Mons, Roland so :(regent.of the Institution) een. 222-2222 2 2 ee vii, 10
IMEOGMISOM WUOSCDO situn oe eee lee 2 vee bee seid! Goa x Sate g ue Lt viii
Morton, CE 1d cena ng i RM oti oie ioc” "> Be EONS TA HY viii
Myers, Ter aPC pl iia es coc aia Ne Say Rader age EC 76
N
Nationalecademy of Design, Council’of2e. 222 22 eee ee 37
Mationaiaeollecnion: of Kine Arise e225 53) oe pre Pare eee x, 6, 35
LNCS CISION NS) sp Sa EI Fa A Pa PON I SP eee oN I 6, 35
HAS [DYSVROY ON AUTH KOON lg Bs a ce ly ae Re Le LO We Cw lel Meal a 35
Carnerine warden Myer funds. 9 252222 sie es a 35
Henry Ward ehanger fundpurchases= = o2o5 2-2 S220). See we a 37
JLAGYEWANS) SY OOSY OLE a a A A a RR A 8 lS ian A ee a Ae Be 36
Loans to other museums and organizations___________------------ 36
CO GHEXETES 21 GET SATE EE a IE PHN os eh Ee 38
RUD ITC A GTO TiS eee ae Serene ners ee Re ah RS Ce poe Dn ie eel eae ee 40
FRELETEM CEPT A Iny see yee ag An Ri oR ea eee 37
JRVETO OAR IS 5 OU SS TS Se Se ee EO eR pee See Rees eS SS 35
SHNbsoOniane Arty O©OMMISsIOM= Ser ssel see sae Tae pees oe aig 6, 35
SSDECIA Me REND LCLOM Seer a eat e rey ance ne a yopee A TN aL Dee ot hak eee eee 6, 39
VATE AVG Incyte TTS ob ig (00 i 6) 9s (eA a a a RA PIR Me pa Sp 3 37
Neon aluGralleny, Ole Ati eeshe mre oe) WaPo ae TE en aw og Sal x, 6, 25
PN COUISTEL OMS Meee en ete mrt Meters te Mr eS to Sper er Pe AA nae ea 6, 27
ACGUISIMONS COMIMILLCes en cee ye ee oa eee 26
AUTEN ACU DROUCCUIONM ae ae artes Nee ee aa, (oR Say eevee ene ee 27
END TOPE IONS eee mir rea pO eased nee es I aes oy ce Cr 26
PAG RETUC ATI CO mere eee ese ple oP ieee ROU ENee aloe kee We ae cod Wes eee 6, 27
PUcitvor private funds of the Gallery. 2-4 22222220 eo eee ee 34
CHUA TOEAIRGePAntMen tats aw ee ek ee 32
Haucational programy ye) oie yp siie Yan Med Temto aft Gees spa eel 33
EXE CIICIVE COMMUTE 22 2 fone lS ye SS Ey ag EV el iy peas 25
IBS DMiONSe wee eee ee es ken Vs tains EP ape el pia 6, 29
Hxpendibunes: and.encumbrances.- 2 2s o eee 26
FD Mancescomm it teeny. ae ee ey Ne Le Sl ea 26
CritsGh paintings and sculpture. 2 2 22 peed see eee 6, 28
Se UmESieiMninTe! 28 - Sote 8 ea ee an eee a Bee ig 6, 27
ATES A Re ee ee A Aes oie ee eno Ree eee eo 33
Moangoteworksiof are by, chejGallenya 8-24-12 es. see eee 29
Foansor works Ofart rehuImedens sek Sp sxpallipe Poe wel on ee OE 29
Loans ot works:ofiart \tothetGallery-s! 2. ssacchisseu. section 228) de 30
Oa CIS Pee eee et ene ic a ow "a 2) Sapa a | a i ae x, 25
Onrcanizaniomnam es vali e ses ue wey nse ned eek a Sn Ny ee 25
ROREALT ES Tee peed ss ate ae eat ea ke SS al ie ee 34
Bhotorraphicudepartimme ntsc = eens ae ee SS ie Slee See ee ee 34
JELUT OV GK eee yr (Oy ate rae & apeul ean ab aetna oh Neen pegct sede a UE gehen aout pny Ng 6, 27
EE VST OC Te type Oe Ne Ope 1 AE Wc Al a's tan ak em Dh Teo i dep Heke LV ee ia 25
Restorationvand separ Of works Of art. 225) ve ooh eases ee 32
pale. Gresehange of works Of artasceehc hep. oN ake er ee 30
EE TTS Gs a a re R= REA ed Soc ott ae Eo AC WA 8 Oe 3 gs era xp
WaroussG@allenva tetivities=: == mati se teh eee ae Sea Mee eee eee Bee 6, 31

Works of art stored in a place of safekeeping_______.._------------ 3
National Geographic-Smithsonian archeological expedition.___ 7, 20, 21, 47, 53
606 INDEX

Page

National... Museum. cee oe SORT Se ONL a vii, 5, 13
ACCOSSIONSY sane ch ae OUI” Diels Pirarey ioe eae Ie yep ne 5, 14
Appropriation... 222 22. . USOT SED a ay de a 13
Changes,in. organization and. staff. 20020202150 eed Ae 23

MOT CLO S ec 9 ag Srscln a  a a a l h I 14
Explorations.and fleld work. 222.00 0D Shue ee ie ele a 6, 19
Miscellaneous 555.2 mucha eae ae ey Der Ae ie ao 22
NMiuseum. In wartime. mes 2 faci Le Bian SL eke et Aa 13
Publications..and. printing. 22020 Ys Le 6, 22
ROOM aloe Ly a a 13
SpeciallexhibitsI Gian win meh eis ee Oe eae acu ste Re ee ea 22
SL 1 Ae aE Se AeA, coe aaN ake eee naa yee RON! Sch neN ene Le) oy | vii
WiSitOTsi os tee os soe HOU AULT Le Done a elere 6, 22
National: University..of Mexieo.4 220.422.2522 2255540 455 Sk ae 51
National Zoologieal Pang 4. Sle ae hdd ot Soe ee xi, 8, 65
MEQUIBILIDNS-Of SPeCIMeNs. 453.0 Soo a a , 67
AinsreaTe CAUTIONS = co Wc Sen VE Lee ae a te eg 67

A OTOP RIA blOM eta Meg Eta ete eel gee ae ty fee ogee ae 65

1 B15. (0 FH: Pane pan ae Py PEO lis WOOL NS Ano etc fama teflon ty 72
Donorsand their giftsn 224 = 4s for UTE eA Pe eee ee 68
Hixchan ges sizS Sm ssl bed aha wedi i os wells 2 ae Sh RE As I I 72
Gilbey. sss 2m tis en eI tee ae Aim We 2! be 8 ee hd on ty a 68
Maintenance anduimprovementss205.024 24 22 ered i nl SU 66
Natural reproduction ses = Bas Onde aia AR EN AUR VE ena 71
Needs pr the: Zoot sont soni sn uaineenre ne AGEL AERA Re hae Se 66
Personnel ©: 2 5 = as) 4ie oi sh a wk me 4 wh © Yi gee A te Ne ee 65
Purchasen: tes 4 = rttAmias oie +a. ble RCFE R UD Aig, OAD A RBEE eee Be Serr Se 72
Removalsrs 2 Ssh vicn ao NO ms heehee Wile Anh wanna mA IRR a tae eS © Sanne eee 73

1803) 010) Ph ee pee ee MR eee ee OPER RIE ee hem eke hkl J 65
Species new to the history of the collection________.____-_-_______ 73

RL EMET, ot 2 ee Nes koh he ae ee A Se A xi
USEMLENT SOF ACCESSION Stn nt ES ao teee lh of ARO RON J Re 74
SUALUISVOR COMBE torn fn a4 jien/hee! wh Iaeh A a! yt ee 8 ome er Oe ee 74
AVEESTC OM SH Ream Mile VST eM. hh lr Ail 4 1) ete cg coy hah bila iondn baton To 8, 66
Natural-history background of camouflage, The (Friedmann) __________- 259
Natural rubber Cook) svsu teres tn smo Sen Ay Bs ele ee a> oo Lh ee ee 363
pon EVETes aM 0 Pig! shields apatite kc ng Wt ne ada Meta My CRS ea SNR lala Sol L 20
New metals:and'new ‘methods (Deseh) we o so 28 Sh 252 2 eee ee 213
NUE Nyc IOeU Tay Ve APE 8 Se dal tren Rs Seay ee Wn eae Shae 5 nk el viii

O
O’Brien, Brian (Some biological effects of solar radiation)___.__.______- 109
Ocean. current.called “The. Child,’ The. (Mears) i242. 223 pa 28 Sali 245
Oceanosraphy. (Stetson) is oo8 eek ee ee ee ee ee 219
Oebser, Paul Hu o4 be S eS e eee Une ee Bee SIGE Eee x, 85
Oitice of Censorshipivii. 0. TL USL ab Lees ba ee eR RS eee 57, 60
Office/of, Strategic: Servicess 222.25 | Se eee ee yey ce 33
Onicials ofthe. Tnstitutionl. oo. Vek a ee vii
Ghiver=awrenee Mula Ue euch ake ee aie iyi ele pce eh hel x
Olmsted wAc ile ou ve ee ee ie I On ee ae Rh rb.cy 5%
Olmsted, Helen A., personnel officer of the Institution______.____.___-_- vii
Origin of Far Eastern civilizations: A brief handbook (Bishop) _-__------ 463
Other wartime activities jo22. 225i es sea See Rae on £
P

LETC oo © RANE Nae ts ei ieee Mean AA loreal alata Aap Hid eo MAS wil) ue Vo! i viii
LEA Mga Ve co A NW & Ae) C=) 0 OS MR DO RA Pa AR YOR A RGR LCC Yt Dy MU UU aR “9 x, 53, 87
Palmer \HCOd Ore) Saeco ee LN eRe Re NATE SCC ga SOs aT side a Una a ix
dean American magi sae oat 2)" we Lich 9 RU eee he ah teats NONE area 39
Mearce, (George yey i EU Te Ar ae cate eeae gn a ase an See ae 22
Pennsylvania) Historical Commission! 2 P22 0y sy AE VN nies eae 12 le eee eine aaa 51
Perkins, Frances, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) ___-__-- vii
APOE. Ne iets Ae ia) oS Ce te cle oe Ah Eh ny a Sn ix
Personnel officer of the Institution (Helen A. Olmsted)____._____-------- Vii

Petroleum geology (Heroy) <2 ote oe Be es eee we BAO Sat ay aR a 161
INDEX 607

Page
BRS OCA S 22. oo 522 2 EE DD X, 25, 26
Erchetto; otepnentseie icy eae JO Su Ly oe CE, Me ES 3 eS 32
TP Tuite iim eva ap leas ohet Ue LSES ae aac reg ae Vecs pare 19 eee Ng Be ee ee ee ix, 20
Plants of China and their usefulness to man, The (Walker)______________ 325
eee tirseme ene peen Aree JeM IE rhis(hs Lk. SLO ae ek _ Se eee eo x
Postmaster General (Frank C. Walkers member of the Institution) ___-___ vii
President of the United States (Franklin D. Roosevelt, Presiding Officer ex
ONO. Munem MS UGION) i=. == asi dese ws aaa eS See ee vii, 10
Presiding Officer ex officio (Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United
GES) Rem emer eat ee Fe ee ote ie Nes 5 Sane RED vii
famCommViaterhouse Gy COvnk 22 NOI oe he el, 34
Progress in new synthetic textile fibers (Mauersberger) --------.-------- 151
Property clerk of the Institution (James H. Hill) ..-.--.-.--.--4-.---- vii
PA PGwE UU dings Administrations s sole sa Lh eee a SEE AUR DE ER 26
PROM ON GM eee ce os Se ee lle we ed, SOT Sy aes ee OG 11, 82
MUlOtMmMents LON, p LUNG Ung te EE ae pL AS WES AS YDS ERS HY
American: Historical Association, Reportss==22-2 52282222 5ee seen ee 87
mMastropuysical Observatory, Annals 222.2444 2ee2 sees ete ek SS 11
Daughters of the American Revolution, Report of the National
OGIO yew Bani s 22 6 So4 oe ees LER EER NEES De ODS SRA 88
SPDT Seen LQ aD 2 ee eA dl eh a al 8 ae a he 12, 82
Pinnolocy,)bureawiofAmericane~= 22. 225-aeeee:= 24.5.2 SO 11, 82
PAUMMAESE PERC OEE hice baie SS ear acl tee ES 2s SS 82, 87
Bullletingigs . eugene See Le ee ae he a A 11, 82, 87
INationalaMiiseuns = syie2 Ses. 2 Vee Gee ee ee ee 11, 82, 85
AnnualiReports= 2282 J.-S souls een ee wen NOR 82, 85
Be Girish ee Ries ra SPE Pty Mes LER ICk SEE LO NRO ea, Me 11, 82, 87
Contributions from the U. 8. National Herbarium________~_- 11, 82, 87
IPTOCECRIT ates! STM OPT CT SA GO SORBATE 11, 82, 85
REDON tse eae ele ee Gell A ee re ee he be ee 82
Sra bo eo rn egret a a as a MO EE ud FEE AE AA oe 11, 82
ATURE DOTESA SAL Se CE eee AAS fe as 11, 82, 84, 85
Miscellancous;@ollectiongu= so 2se- 20 22) see ee 11, 82
Special publications) Ss Aus wee 1 SME Sens ST! Eee 82, 85
Wearsbackoround Studiestis set San 32) eh Sey ae ee 11, 82, 83
R
PESO E 7 EADS ICA Bs ie IE SE HT FR ae AP RIOR ap OER SO eT A Ree x
HERESY TSLLO oss SO) eet a ge te tpte Oh GN cas taycl  0 VAY Meter an RU a I es Na pe ix
1.0 {6 [PARR OREM APPEL ey YO Pe Ce ee CULE aes Eee eS Oa a 8 er ix
Mereiies PhevbOnTd Ob ea ee i a ae 2 ee ave
Mig Perse es ae teh oni piv ben IT) an eprens (Ll). Myf tenncetd LY mys ha Wc SE Pe vii, 10
IPrOcecdinag is ai Sioa ets tldemoeee Ne © Mas Te ep VEY Miviemipeeape Meat Path Nig ngs 10
LEYS ov Veeey 1 GM ay 1s EGAN ap er se PRP Pr mrs MUTI NDR Nie UAE pt SOO viii
Ear "JRL eat Be eg Rem, CLA IAL OOM Tata 0d cy ceMN RY Capt RMR a CoC viii
EVESRE TP Ola cHTy| mT tee apart sername Mai RUN y Cal te)3OMacAe a NG iy I a, ND ix
TRC G(S hs ANT Ty OTB Wig) Be a lo CR cS My TAREE DT a iN J aH ec viii
Las@VOCevEUSLy dante oop) 8 LAM 8 boda BEY at eA IR aera See OO a wm ee x, 8, 49, 50
PESO En ys Tp tp mee soe br HN hey a aN eh a IP Ne viii
Roosevelt, Franklin D., President of the United States (Presiding Officer
exoniciojandumemnber on, the Institution) 2.20.2. 2) eee eee vii
SIS STEVI TUF 0551109) RN, A TO a a me PAN Dine LP ix
Russellf diss Townsend salt ark 2 wel py hE’ eye he Debra Ts yaa! Mek 2 eyet fsa viii
)
Sawyer, Wilbur A. (The yellow fever situation in the Americas) -----_---- 575
Pe regi Ores WN eT setae Ed a dy ed pc Meg aad Weenie). Ue Seabee aT ix
ema FNAL Ole stale 2 oe ices te ee Ee ah eS ee Le a ee viii, 6, 20
Senulty. Leonard Ps - 2 8. Fea ate: i yay cely int dp re ate pl tle ROY hy ees ghee ge viii
NehwartzZ,, Bem AmMinee: Pet Ae Pelee LE wee) ke Meh NOE sb see Eo viii
Belentinie stati leap wet. ete fay eet pe oe Lore Y po ee ie 5 BE Se. os ae viii
Sen ass storehouse, The (Armstrong) fect tecubse 4 -setwuds Jebt de elt: | 135
pearles Harriet! Richardsom tyalatt ahh Ba beth ON mea Ets |e viii
Seeretary of Agriculture (Claude R. Wickard, member of the Institution) -- vii

Secretary of Commerce (Jesse H. Jones, member of the Institution) -__--- vii
608 INDEX

Page
Secretary of the Institution (Charles G. Abbot)____________ vii, x, xi, ‘10,12; 25
Secretary of Labor (Frances Perkins, member of the Institution) ________ vii
Secretary of the Navy (Frank Knox, member of the Institution)_________ Vii
Secretary of State (Cordell Hull, member of the Institution) ______ vii, x, 25, 26
Secretary of the Treasury (Henry Morgenthau, Jr., member of the Insti-
TALEO WM) Sy fae s hey al yea bE AUT ME ope haley alee Oe ila yl 8 obra ly Bad aeipe vii, x, 25, 26
Secretary of War (Henry L. Stimson, member of the Institution) ________ vii
Nerpmra Alfonse se. ko. Ea ns lle ae Reape nm 22
Setzlens Krank Mit. \ se piyS eh tm (dE esl tats ae lll ida Dien eeilg a viii
Synammeliyits TP Srold. so. 8 oe fo eee ele ek eo ee pe ee eee viii
shepard: Domwald Doce oe be cL ee ee a eee ae 25
Shoemaker, ©. Ro. ok fee her a ai i geott 2 e ioe api de ceeae viii
Binclair: Charles Coo. 520 2 a a eal eae ae relicail) head ean x
Smithsonian! Art Commission’. — oo. cot te eucelalerlep aon hiwen 6, 35
Suithsonianjin: wartime; Phe. Se ee 1
soelarradiation:as a power source, (Abbot) . -..2=- = ster wad eee 99
Spencer: William tous oe hae. cease als a eae Dune boride coed 50
rour24 ON 10.0 pus INR" png ns tt pam pRNyEN Ape nTOW Mantes Mp MEER Creeeoe ne Faw, Pe UO Pe ix
Statewepanrtment.0 - Ska cSt ee hei ak Th whale grin ae. bye oe 20, 21, 50, 56
Stearms:, Woster (regent ofthe Institution) .<22-.-222 2.5 22.2.4 ueeeeae vii, 10
mrempgen-sieonbands. wai ele Sk dia eta ee hh
Suermberg, George Ws ole loo Ak oe 2 Lyle DL be Sage ph «| oe eae 22
Sretsan, Henny C, (Oceanography) eh 2 joe eae Sk ee
SievensanJannyAt tia vy yO aaa i oo ia eae ge el viii
Steward sulla (Hens ee oe eee El eee x, 4, 8, 50, 51
StewartwnWales a0 louie Ne yas ee he iL Dal ibaa fed lel ae Vili
Stimson, Henry L., Secretary of War (member of the Institution) _______ vii
Stirling, Matthew W., Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology--_-__- x, 7, 20, 47, 55
Stone, Harlan F., Chief Justice of the United States (Chancellor of the
fLevseest tandem) ier 2h Aor Se we ENA RELIED oh Sates Le Rela os ar inde vii, 10, 25
Siratesic information to war agencies...2. 22222222222 555.22.- se oneal 2
Strausz-Hupé, Robert (Maps, strategy, and world polities)_...__.______- 253
Strong WwalliamsDuncanve 2250 Su oT ei ee ce 3
Sulfonamides in the treatment of war wounds and burns (Fox) ___-_____- 569
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution______- 5
PO WIUINLET COANE Ey, SMO MLS oer EU eee Sle im kia ella Jk Seed ll al x, 7, 48
Sivan OL OG Reid atelier i Vie ae aie A) cal SUS SV ONe 2 kad i aa i vili
T
Tannous, Afif I. (The Arab village community of the Middle East) _____- 523
MBit ey Ales 2 2 Sag a a ee SO ix
Tolman, R. P., Acting Director, National Collection of Fine Arts______-__ ix, x, 40
Treasurer of the Institution (Nicholas W. Dorsey)..._._._-.-__-------- vii
Drembly: GH Sse) us Waa sis Nee 2 os og el oe eS a me
fnueW ebvster.P.. Chief’. editorialdivision 2cuce de) Wie Cee es ee vii, 88
U
1G Ho al Siegel Ieee eee toe eae mane ali dn types Pod mmasatar db dhe coy ert ici we ix
V
Vaughan, Wale ere e es. 7s PARR RES Ge 3S URS A ee ere ix
Vice President of the United States (Henry A. Wallace, member and
TECENtioh Ghe MMSE UL OM) eyes RE ae a LN MET eile en ee vii, 10
W
Walcott, Frederic C. (regent of the Institution) __...._....._-._--------- vii, 10
Walker vilohert, ces rh Se en RR eon ee ee ret viii
(The plants of China and their usefulness to man)_____________---- 325
Walker, Ernest P., Assistant Director, National Zoological Park__-_-_----- xi
Walker, Frank C., Postmaster General (member of the Institution) ___-__- vii
Walker, John, Chief Curator, National Gallery of Art___.__________----- x, 20
Wallace, Henry A., Vice President of the United States (member and
regent ofthe wnstueution) Dae a ye EO eee vii,*10
Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship__...._.....-.-.--------- 21
INDEX 609

Page
Spree ene gS Ode 2 kN kk ee a 2 vee Ak a 38
Peaeomuniicee. smithsonian.- 5. soca ot eel le 2
(a BISTRO ed eee eae one eed Ng 52
Been CHmPVOIeC tS 220 ES 2 cb RS a os A ae 3
emaaare ee as ee a el ee ee 21
EU SEY EMAILS (0 (ap weal ata eee ix
“EV CENDY@IEy: NY opie ot ie a eR Oe oe Oa eC p ene tyeurn orgs SiS, viii, 21
(OSV 515 ae Age Ae ee erie nee pala Doe viii, 19, 47
WIM EPA Os tODEPb Mua = 822 oe eK Je ee he a aE ec ed ee a xi
(Chemotherapeutic agents from microbes) __________________-____-_ 545
ionley, A. G:, Director, Freer Gallery of Arto... 22. --.2-20256 0225. x, 7, 46
Wetmore, Alexander, Assistant Secretary of the Institution and Director
Diner NationaleMiniseum: 2 os jooe es Ao See Le ee vii, viii, 24
ave Onea den MATlese ats. 008 4s Bio eee a Bile Shwe Ce a eels ix
Wickard, Claude R., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution) - vii
Wi kaanere, QkOS eyo) aA DSS a Tea, wee Pe Feet oN Peon Seen ays Be x, 25, 26
Bae oy LATTONN OE = 2. RA oo eee ie eV ie ee a ey te) ae oe eae ix
RR rere eee a Jo ale ala eS ar ee elo Ogee a ee 38
Yi
Parmer rere Lei sed foe dh ss eee Se oh ee a es 2 a 95
Yellow fever situation in the Americas, The (Sawyer)__________________ 575

O
{ti

at Py,

Ah
ey, 10, lle

7 me
wan aed

ney

_—

%
hen
ay “4 be
J ao

a

wh AIIN

3 9088 00944 9729

al > ¥ '
ik 4 a an +
=}
a
‘ ian —

te >

= st a a

atl = : .

p =

4 —~ oo

- _— { Moy : 7 =
a , x

sted ;
+ «
2

+ 2
et ¥rae pp ni P
bs han, 9 <
a wes
. : << SS

=
F
ex
x“
q
5
4
4
F
"
,
—
.
» ”
¥ -
4
“7; ~~’,
“_
‘
“ -
“ ’ —_ -_ -
. 2y .
ve
7 -—
. b. -
aA —_ = ae
— —_ poms _
avaned :
7 mtd -
~ —_ *
= ss j
— s p
‘
¥ ¥; aa — .
; ood
" ony — "
Fiatatag 4d =
os y 4 PS es
~_ ? . S,
¢ 7 ys.
‘ : =
~~ — A Pi ies | s
«el eo | .
po ; ska wes ae
is oe | =
y i ae |
4 2 a .
on = ” i ~ "
. soe -
/ » ed ™
Pe =. —_ ihe
- a ea -
* - ~ - 4 a =
- : " erences — <— ant = mos
Se ER orn tee eee : 2 = Ss

