ne
shi

%

i

ioe 8 ©

;
ceeeaenenny Seren, Coe

yates

1
er SYner ten
y

ge aaihieenceeting

7
|
f
}
t
k
§

t a ead ers

a PT rah
Stat ee

ae vy
a

ANNUAL REPORT
BOARD OF REGENTS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION .

VR ¥e. A SSO

RAw hE.

W AS EIEN G TON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFIOK,
1886.
FORTY-NINTH CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION.

The following resolution was agreed to by the Senate, and concurred in by the
House of Representatives, July 17, 1886:

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring therein), That there be
printed of the last annual reports of the Smithsonian Institution and of the National
Museum, in two octavo volumes, sixteen thousand extra copies of each, of which three
thousand copies shall be for the use of the Senate, six thousand copies for the use of
the House of Representatives, and seven thousand copies for the use of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

II
Po Pe ee
SuCRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution to the end of
June, 1885.

JULY 17, 1886.—Ordered to be printed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., January 15, 1886.
To the Congress of the United States :

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents, to submit
to Congress the annual report of the operations, expenditures, and con-
dition of the Smithsonian Institution to July, 1885.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. JOHN SHERMAN,
President of the Senate, pro tem.
Hon. JoHN G. CARLISLE,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TO THE
END OF JUNE, 1885.

SUBJECTS.

1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of January,
1885.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, and re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1885 (to July 1).

3. Annual reportof the Secretary, giving an account of the operations
and conditidn of the Institution for the year 1885 (to July 1), with the
statistics of collections, exchanges, &c.

4, General appendix, comprising a record of recent progress in the
principal departments of science, and special memoirs, original and.
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.

The report of the Assistant Director and Curators of the National
Museum for the year 1885 (to July 1),*will be published in a separate
volume.

IV

CONTENTS.

Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of the Report -.----..-----------
Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of thé Regents to
Congress== <= <- Bc a ee Pn Sten an ahe, Siete fat ey ae RE Scale (ae areialetics
General subjects of the Annual Report. .-.---.--.---- Sere luisa Cods Mana geonad
ENN bemisOLe LHe Eve NOLL Res see see sna neiae cles cinelaiciee le seine semioneate aioe islain aie ete
PStrotet MISE ratl Ongae ea cers se oiiaa ane sr oeneie oe esis olnne) eae ce een eee ne eeeseee
Membersicxojicro ove: sta blishmenth 2 .-)5 552-120 52-< 05sec eeccesesea sec.
Officers of the Smithsonian Institution.......--.-...-- Gib Siete eee Sots ars
Retentsiotsohe Smibhsontaneinstibubionissseseee= sss s6e he oe cea eec ee
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS ..--.-.-------------
‘REPOR?T OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE for the first six months of 1885--.-----
Condiioniot the-funds July ds 1885 Se eee eee eee oicecin ele aise one
Receipts for Ghersixs mMonbhsiee as ogee actysociac ae Jae esac cic acces comers ene bocin==

Ex pendijULresnOL WHOSixaMON buss sae eee cisee cee sas <i sin eis sineleeaeieeionas
National Museum appropriations by Congress .-.....--..-----.----- -=----

AM PLO PRA vLOUS TORE XCHAN TOs) sa nee ea eee setae em setaae lel sa slate oleraleafeiateyetatetar=
Appropriations for Ethnology .......-----..--. eheielewicie a Aecieieeicemere sieeve

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

MEG MINA ONTAN INS EEUOLION 20 ascites a aioe nooo We sens cnc <a scee amen e new cree
nitrodue ton yee Mos eco se et meas ence ceiet cls Secece ssiee sesecee ssa
ithesBoard ofsRegemtsss. seas aes ene cee ee Bde s sedis shane acteietleae ise

Expiration of terms of Congvessional Regents..-.........-..----.----
Change in the time of printing the Report ----...-......--.----------
HIMAN CES hagas ace aetes eee ciate Maisie dete Bas eee islet saa ae owe letaretemr ere
GCaudionrot the. taud: July 1, Teese eee eet) i so see
Buildings -.--- eee OA EN etna ys Rp sate Sok ne oka lnaicnpesies eeaieiasin

FAT IFIOL Van CETL OMT Ope eae Als qeene ence & Qk ite oe aera Mca ala teo Jeeta eee ener
Brick workshop and temporary workshop -.- -----.---------------------
Masta Wye hatse\rbont | ani obuares Aes oe Se SR es Ae ooo S85 oece
Necessity of new buildings for the National Museum... -.---------------
EX plOrailOnse=  Soene eee Bae aon | eee ees cn k nas ea sis aiciis ee ee OseeKeLacs
Greenland, iapeados ANGE british\ Provinces a2. so eee eee
Alaska, Washington Territory, and west coast of United States. ..----
East coast of the United States and Gulf of Mexico........--....----
No weaMexLGOpani Gd «AriZON ane 45a 2 scetee ae oo ats e esac. 2 alee eee eae scans

Vili

YTV IAA rah ww vor =

ooo MC
VI CONTENTS.

Page.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.—THE SMITHSONIAN INsTITUTION—Continued. is
Publications: = 222.2225 2-26 - oso ole ao sale ee esl ein tenet eee l ola in 10
Distribution of publications--....-..--..----------------------------- 10
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge......---.------------------ 11
Volumes XoXo Vs anid. XOX VeISSUCC eae eterna ete eleteteatetete feeielm 11
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections --....-.-...------------------- 12
Guyot’s Meteorological and Physical Tables..-..----- (Se sane rises 12
Scientific writings of Joseph Henry...........------------------- 14
Bulletins of the National Museum..----..----------------------+----- 14
Proceedings of the National Museum .--... Seger aSsusese- See aes 15
Volume | Vil isSU6d esa. cece eee eee eee ae alee ae eel ert 16
Smithsonian Annual Report tort8es eases ase ae eee ee enters 17
Publications of the Bureau of Ethnology ...-.-.-.-.------------------ 17
International exchanges!) o- o-eea neers elen ieee lene en ee 18
Transportation COMPANIES) se sels ene = ee ee ae eee ieee ele el 19
‘Government exchanges: 2) 222.002 soc. eee ee ae ee eee ee
PADTATY 2 tas. fs tvose tates eee ae aes eee a ee ae ee eee tee ote 21
Additions for the first six months of the year ......---..------------- 21
Co-operative relations of the Smithsonian Institution ..---.-------------- 22
Bureau of. Bducatione.- 22. os22c2ceoe ee eee cence sees cease eee eee 22
The London Diplomatic Review, s22- - 24. oo sees ae ene ote ene 22
Newfoundland postage on exchanges... ~~ -<---. 22-2. one conn eee = 723
Zoological specimens for Museum from menageries .....----.--------- 24
INGCTOLORY 2.2.) 2 22 Scales seep lass a aie ae mere eet oe eee ee ial eee ee 24
Drvbdward Foreman. o-- ose eo secese eee eee eae eee aa aeaaer 24
Miscellaneous 2n's--\--5--~ oon soso ele one woeeee Sere didoun secre. Ree ee 24
Thertynd alii rust Bund eeeeeretes seer ee act eee oe econtosseese 24
UNITED Srarns: NATIONAL MUSHUM-f2-eee eee eee ee eee en eee eee eee meee 26
Arran cement) Ofmalerialeac jose nonce e nee aes ee eee eee eater ener 26
Museum: publications 222. sosc csc ese sae eee ene aclieeeere ee ee ae ceases 27
Meetines'and Jecturesim Museum: Hallliie2 eso cee coe eee eee nee eee 28
Organization of, Museum Departments! = -2e2 sees ese ene aes nee eieaee 29
Department ot Arts/andiindustries!-aose+ seeeee eee eee reese e ee eee eee 29
Department of Ethnology..2 25: - 222... o.2-odeecseceeseeeeeniseneseeee 32
Department,of Antiquitiess.-..2------- es anleeee seen eee eee eee eee 32
Department of Mammals ............- BE ee Se Peso 5 Coss 33
Department of Birds 2¢2 se. soasss noaees cca een ke cc ee eee eee 34
Depariment.-of: Fishes 22.4. oe ese oes cee eee ee eee eee 30
Department of Comparative Anatomy... .......-.- s-<-<-es-seserecie ==" 36
Department of Mollusks. 2: 22)o222), so" eee eee cen eee oe eee eee 36
Departmentof, ‘Insects! 235.0 26 o60 2 eceee eae ee ee eee 37
Department’ of: Marine Invertebrates... - 22-52. -e eee eee eee eee 39
Departments of Invertebrate Fossils. ..............---------- Ee 40
Department of Fossil and Recent Plants ..._....--..-s--c.ceee+-e---- 40
Departments of Minerals, aud of Lithology, &c....--.--------------. 42
Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology...-...------------- 43

BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY

UNITED STATES FisH COMMISSION .

scscpecse Set ece eos peacieda cas cease ae 45
CONTENTS. vil

Page.

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SHCRETARY-.. 22.2 02-25 woo cce ce cnne swoon 47
Reportion exchanges to) June 30, 1885-222. - jo--t- 5. eo awe 47
Correspondence relative to foreign exchanges ..----.----.---.-------- 52
Receipts of packages for distribution --.---..-.|.-5..-.-...----------- 64
ONO) er ota ee is a ola oo a eater aaa a ofa cei imi = as 64
MOMESTI Choe ao sap seete cc ciaee cons 2 Se Re ed eee area sina alas sarees 65
Governments-t2m, od=te ee face so Ae Ce sacs hese oweis s Sense 65
LTaADAMISSLONS Of PACKAT ERE as= ores eeeie eee ae ns) tae = nefsnalee em 66
WOTEION we cjetaeinee ete eee te Su we tee ne AP ehaiete, Leen a 66

WOM OSUIG 2 hoe sere eet eee eee a one a eee SRN ATS, Sea SS 2 ey 67
Government +2 Seiwa eee so Se doar aes aaem aces aesies 68

List of forelon correspond ents aces a= - 2 eee eee eee oie sice = 69
List of institutions in the U. S. receiving Smithsonian publications... 259
Circular relative tosMathematical) brize):-442 ace esbee sa eeeceeiece ese. 331

Acts and Resolutions of Congress relative to Smithsonian Institution, &¢. 335

GENERAL APPENDIX.

if KRECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS, 184 (075 oes ols coceneeeee eorcse 341
Introduction. by Spevcemr  balrGic ere cer an sane = 2 =) ase seein tela 341
ASLTONOMY. Dye Williams VWinlOCk.seceete 22s s= os. Gosia sal eaeieeia sce = 343
List of Astronomical Observatories, by George H. Boehmer.-----...---- 457
Vulcanology and Seismology, by Charles G. Rockwood -......---..----- 471
Volcanic eruptions and earthquakes in Iceland within historic times... 495
Geocrap hye Dy?) eter G OOdnI CMe. ance ese isieee = Sane = sine einen See lale 543
Physics DyiGeorrey Res baAvkele sae ets ene eee car sone soe wean a sia/elale eee 577
Chemistry, Dy HC amano tony boliontessscises sae ee een ate leoel ceases 637
Minera losyzb ye HG ward tse) an ae cease ee eee ec aele a -Ven a= alana eine sa 687
Bibliography of Invertebrate Paleontology, by J. B. Marcou ....-...--- 713
AoOolor yen ye NeOd OLE mallee ome s fae ee a= mea eee ae) olan ole 761
Anthropology, by Otis T. Mason..-.--. PFS IS aS Sexe aia Bele ee ew ye a a 815

Hit MISCHETANT OUS) LAPHRGE see escae ee ss soe elaine lees m=. eiee cian a 871
Eapers:rel ating: tO -Amqhno POLO lyse Sano oe peers tae cin = =) sane elec 71

Observations on Stone-chipping, by George E. Sellers .....----.---.- 871
Copper implements from Bayfield, Wis., by Charles Whittlesey -....- 892

Ancientihemams mM Ohio yas.) Maclean: = 22h. q.sce6 Sac cle ee aee 893
A primitive store-house of the Creek Indians, by Charles C. Jones, jr- 900
Shell heaps and mounds in Florida, by James Shepard.---------.---- 902
Ancient earthworks in China, by Mark Williams .--.---.-----------. 907
Plan for American Ethnological Investigation, by the late Henry R.
Sehbuolcratticn cc see maeee ae esreiee seach ats nc ob < oom aeae 907
Index to the Literature of Uranium, by H. Carrington Bolton.....-.. 915
Price-list of the Publications of the Smithsonian Institution --...-..- 947

ENDER FO PHO VOlUMO sec oat coe eae cease salcemes om Bree Riess Soot es Ae ee
Vill CONTENTS.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Observations on stone chipping— Page.
Fig. 1. A chipping tool...--. .----. ------ .---0- -- +--+ -- 2+ eee eee e222 eee 374
Fig. 2. A larger chipping tool ..-..-----.------------------+---- +--+ ----- 875
Figs. 3,4, and 5. Views of a stone flake ...--. ..---- SDSL AR: RRR Ae 8738
Fig. 6. Block for supporting stone flake...---.--------------------------- 882
Fig. 7. Notched tree for holding chipping lever ......--..---.---.-------- 883
Fig..8) Chipped arrow-head..-- --- 2. ~ sews sseeeseice me (ee eee enema 884
Fig. 9. Smaller chipped arrow-head ......---.-.-..-.-.---.---- ----------- 885
Figs. 10-12. Chipped spear-heads..-..-.--..------------------------------ 885

Copper implements from Bayfield, Wis.—

Fig. 1. Curved spade-like implement of copper.-.-.---------------------- 892
Big: 2: Copper knife-blade 32.20. 22-2. asewe sone teenie eee ie nena ee 892
Fig. 3. Crescent-shaped cutting tool of copper .----------..----- ------ --- 893

Ancient remains in Ohio—

Plan 1. Diagram of annular mounds near Winchester .-.--...---.-------- 893
Plan 2) Mapiof moundsam) Hagley Rowms hips sess ee eae ee eee 895
Plan 3. Map of stone and earthworks in Concord Township.--.--.-------- Soot

Plan 4. Map of annular mounds in Harmony Township..---..------------ 899
PEE SMITHSONIAN INS TiruU TION:

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE “ESTABLISHMENT.”

(January, 1885.)

GROVER CLEVELAND, President of the United States.
JOHN SHERMAN, President of the United States Senate.
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
THOMAS F. BAYARD, Secretary of State.

DANIEL MANNING, Secretary of the Treasury.
WILLIAM C. ENDICOTT, Secretary of War.

WILLIAM C. WHITNEY, Secretary of the Navy.
WILLIAM F. VILAS, Postmaster-General. ‘
LUCIUS Q. C. LAMAR, Secretary of the Interior.
AUGUSTUS H. GARLAND, Attorney-General.

MARTIN V. MONTGOMERY, Commissioner of Patents.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.
(Full list given on the following page. )

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION.

SPENCER I. BAIRD, Secretary,
Director of the Institution, and of the U. S. National Museum.

WILLIAM J. RaEEs, Chief Clerk.

DANIEL LEECH, Corresponding Clerk.
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

r

By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846, (Revised Statutes,
title LXx111, section 5580,) ‘‘The business of the Institution shall be con-
ducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents, named the
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the Vice-
President, the Chief Justice of the United States [and the Governor of
the District of Columbia], three members of the Senate, and three mem-
bers of the House of Representatives, together with six other persons,
other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some
State, but no two of the same State.”

REGENTS FOR THE YEAR 1885.
The Vice-President of the United States :
JOHN SHERMAN (elected President of Senate Dee. 7, 1885).

The Chief Justice of the United States:
MORRISON R. WAITE.

United States Senators:

Term expires.

SAMUEL B. MAXEY (appointed May 19, 1881) .....-.-..----.---- Mar. 3, 1887

JUSTIN S. MORRILL (appointed February 21, 1883).----..--.---- Mar. 3, 1891

SHELBY M. CULLOM (appointed March 23, 1885) .....-----.----- Mar. 3, 1889
Members of the House of Representatives :

OTHO R. SINGLETON (appointed January 7, 1884)..-.....---.-- Dec. 23, 1885

WILLIAM L. WILSON (appointed January 7, 1884) ......:--.--.. Dec. 23, 1885

WILLIAM W. PHELPS (appointed January 7, 1884).......... ...- Dec. 23, 1885
Citizens of Washington :

JAMES C. WELLING (appointed May 13, 1884).....-.....----..-.- May 13, 1890

MONTGOMERY C. MEIGS (appointed Dee. 26, 1885)
Citizens of a State :

oh OS ORs Se Dec. 26, 1891

JOHN MACLEAN, of New Jersey (first appointed in'1868)......-. Dec. 26, 1891
ASA GRAY, of Massachusetts (first appointed in 1874) ........---- Dec. 26, 1891
HENRY COPPEE, of Pennsylvania (first appointed in 1874)... ..-- Dee. 26, 1891

NOAH PORTER, of Connecticut (appointed in 1878)......-...---- Mar. 3, 1890

MORRISON k. WAITE, Chancellor of the Institution and President of the Board of
Regents.

Executive Committee of the Board of Regents

JOHN MACLEAN. JAMES C. WELLING. HENRY CoppPneE.
x

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 21, 1885.

The annual meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution was held this day at half past 10 o’clock A. M.

Present: Hon. G. F. EpMuNDs, Hon. J. S. MoRRILL, Hon. S. B.
MAxky, Hon. O. R. SINGLETON, Hon. W. L. WILSON, Hon. W. W.
PHELPS, Rev. Dr. JOHN MACLEAN, Rev. Dr. NoAH PORTER, Dr.
HENRY CopPppsEs, Dr. JAMES C. WELLING, and the Secretary, Professor
BAIRD.

Excuses for non-attendance were read from Chief-Justice Waite,
Prof. Asa Gray, and Hon. N. P. Hill.

In the absence of the Chancellor, on motion of Mr. Phelps, Dr. Por-
TER was called to the chair.

The journal of the Board was read and approved.

The Secretary stated that the Rev. Dr. NOAH PORTER had been
re-elected a Regent for six years by the joint resolution of Congress,
approved March 3, 1884.

The Secretary presented to the Board the following letter:

Prof. SPENCER F.. BAIRD,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution :

DEAR Sir: The state of my health renders it necessary to tender my
resignation as a member of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution.

In signifying my resignation it is with no ordinary feelings I recall
the years I have been connected with the Board and the distinguished
men with whom it has been my privilege and honor to be associated.
Not only the present members whom I so highly respect and esteem,
but a long list of honored names of former members now deceased, re-
cur to me, the last of which is that of Professor JoSEPH HENRY, and
while JAMES SMITHSON will be known to the world and remembered
as the founder of the Institution, JosEpH HENRy will be regarded as
having been raised up by a signal Providence, the true interpreter of
his will, the able organizer of the Institution, and wise controller of its
finances.

xI
XII JOURNAL OF THE BOARD.

May the Smithsonian Institution, so auspiciously established and ex-
tensively known, continue, under your wise administration, an estab-
lishment distinct and specific, for the “‘increase and diffusion of knowl-

edge among men.”
With great respect, your friend and servant,

PETER PARKER.

2 LAFAYETTE SQUARE,
Washington, D. C., April 7, 1884.

The Secretary informed the Board that Congress had filled the va.
caney occasioned by the resignation of Dr. Parker by the election of
Dr. JAMES C. WELLING, president of Columbian University of Wash-
ington, D. C., for six years from May 13, 1884.

On motion of Dr. Maclean it was—

Resolved, That the Board of Regents has heard with regret of the
resignation of Dr. Peter Parker, and hereby expresses the high appre-
ciation of the valuable and efficient services he has rendered the Insti-
tution for the past seventeen years as a Regent and as Chairman of its
Executive Committee.

The Secretary stated that in accordance with the rules of the Board
during its recess, the remaining members of the Executive Committee
had filled the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of Dr. Parker, by
the appointment of Dr. Welling.

On motion of Dr. Coppée it was—

Resolved, That Dr. Welling be elected to fill the vacancy in the Ex-
ecutive Committee.

The Secretary reported that in accordance with the request of the
Board at its last meeting, Senator Edmunds had prepared a bill rela- |
tive to the provision for an Acting Secretary, which had passed Con-
gress and become a law on the 13th of May, 1884, as follows:

An act to provide for the appointment of an Acting Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
[Public No. 31, Forty-eighth Congress, first session. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Chancellor of the
Smithsonian Institution may, by au instrument in writing filed in the
office of the Secretary thereof, designate and appoint a suitable person
to act as Secretary of the Institution when there shall be a vacaney in
said office, and whenever the Secretary shall be unable from illness,
absence, or other cause to perform the duties of his office; and in such
case the person so appointed may perform all the duties imposed on the
Secretary by law until the vacancy shall be filled or such inability shall
cease. The said Chancellor may change such designation and appoint-
ment from time to time as the Institution may in his judgment require.

Approved, May 13, 1884.

JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. XIII

Under the provisions of this act the Chancellor had taken the fol-
lowing action:
LyME, Conn., July 2, 1884.
By virtue of the authority conferred on me by the act of May 13,
1884, “to provide for the appointment of an Acting Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution,” I hereby designate and appoint Mr. WILLIAM
J. RHEES to act as Secretary of the Institution when there shall be a
vacancy in that office, and whenever the Secretary shall be unable from
illness, absence, or other cause to perform the duties of his office.
M. R. WAITE,
Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution.

Dr. Maclean presented the annual report of the Executive Commit-
tee, which was read.

-On motion of Dr. Coppée it was—

Resolved, That the report of the Executive Committee be accepted,
and that the income for the year 1885 be appropriated for the service
of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be expended
by the Secretary with full discretion as to the items, subject to the
approval of the Executive Committee.

The Secretary presented the following communication he had received
since the last meeting of the Board:

JUNE 2, 1884.
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C.:

Sir: I intend to make a bequest for the advancement of science—
that is, of physical science. For many reasons I would like to make
the bequest in favor of the Smithsonian Institution; but there is one
difficulty which must be cleared up before I can decide. If money were
left by will to the Smithsonian Institution would it defend the will
against the claims of any and all persons who should contest the will
and take legal steps to set it aside? Has it authority by law; has it
funds that it would be authorized to use for the purpose of defending a
will in its favor? As I have no children the will would be less likely
to be contested, but there are others who might attempt to set it aside.
For this reason what I wish above all to be assured of, is that any legacy
that I leave for the purpose named will not be given up without making
a fight of it if needful. Please explain this point.

I wish you to send me a form of words, the very words themselves,
in which a bequest should be made so that there could be no pretense
of setting it aside for vagueness; and that will carry out my intentions,
which I will explain:

The chief part I would desire to bequeath to the Institution would be
for the “increase and diffusion of knowledge among men,” and beside
would wish to have the Institution invest say $300 (is that too insig-
nificant for the purpose?) and use the income thereof for conferring a
gold medal either annually or biennially (which would be the better?)
on the person who had made the most important discovery in physical
Science during the year, or two years, ending, say a year before the
date of ccuferring the medal. lor example, the Regents would have
to decide, say in the month of December, 1883, who made the most
important discovery in physical science during the year, or two years,
ending December 51, 1882. If you have my meaning put it in language
that will make it perfectly clear without multiplying words.
XIV JOURNAL OF THE BOARD.

The medal not for any patented invention, like the electric light, for _
example, but especially and only for such discoveries as Pasteur on in-
fection, fermentation, &c., and G. Darwin’s on tidal action. Regents
to be sole judges as to what is meant by physical science and most im-
portant discoveries therein.

The reason why I would like to have not only suggestions and ex-
planations but the full “TI will and bequest to” is also because I don’t
know whether to say the Regents shall do this or that, or whether to
say a majority or quorum of them shall do it in order to make it both
strictly legal and also practicable; also, whether or not it is necessary
to say how the Regents shall invest the money. J suppose a copy of
that part of Hamilton’s or Huebus’ (Habel?) will would answer for the
part relating to the ‘increase and diffusion,” &c. As for the medal I
believe no fund has been left to institutions for that purpose, and I
should like to have your opinion on it. }

Please return this letter with your answer, which I would like you to
let me have as soon as you can; taking, however, all the time you need
to make it so full and explicit that no further correspondence will be
necessary at this stage. I mean business if your answer is satisfactory.
For the present I desire this affair to be treated as confidential, or if
necessary to mention to other parties, withhold the name.

There is one thing I had rather do than make a bequest in favor of
the Institution, namely, pay over a certain sum, say $2,000 or $2,500,
in trust to the Regents; provided I could receive the income during
life, the Institution to have the sole use and possession of the same
after ny death. Would the Institution be authorized to accept a sum
of money on such terms? :

Respectfully,
* * * *

After full discussion of the subject it was, on motion of Mr. EKdmunds—

Resolved, That the communication be referred to the Executive Com-
mittee with full power to act in relation to it.

The Secretary, Professor Baird, presented his annual report of the
operations of the Institution for the year 1884, which was read in part.

On motion of Dr. Maclean, the Secretary was instructed to transmit
the report to Congress.

On motion of Mr. Edmunds, it was—

Resolved (1), That the fiscal year of the Institution shall hereafter ter-
minate on the 30th day of June in each year.

(2) That the Secretary shall heveafter prepare and cause to be printed
and sent to each member of the Board on or before the first day of De-
cember in each year, his annual report.

(3) That the annual meeting of the Board of Regents shall hereafter
be held on the second Wednesday in January in each year.

The Board then adjourned sine die.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ;

The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution respectfully submits the following report in relation to the
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the Na-
tional Museum and other purposes, and the receipts and expenditures
for the Institution and the Museum since December 31, 1884.

At the last meeting of the Board of Regents (January 21, 1885) it
was ordered that “ the fiscal year of the Institution shall hereafter ter-
minate on the 30th day of June ia each year.”

In accordance with this action it becomes the duty of the Executive
Committee to confine its present report to the financial operations and
condition of the Institution, for the six months ending June 30, 1885:

Condition of the fund July 1, 1885.

The amount of the bequest of James Smithson deposited in the
Treasury of the United States, according to the act of Congress of
August 10, 1846, was $515,169. To this was added, by authority of
Congress, act of February 5, 1867, the residuary legacy of Smithson and
savings from annual income and other sources, $134,831. To this $1,000
was added by a bequest of James Hamilton, $500 by a bequest of Simeon
Habel, and $51,500 as the proceeds of the sale of Virginia bonds owned
by the Institution, making, in all, as the permanent Smithson fund in
the United States Treasury, $703,000.

Statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution,
January 1, 1885, to June 30, 1885.

fasion hand january], Uso. 2 SP eee $25, 380 84
EXPENDITURES.
Building :
Repairs and improvements ........-.. $314 90
Furniture and fixtures ..,..........-. 237 25
eee $552 15

xv
xVvVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Building expenses brought forward ......--.. $552 15 $25,380 84
General expenses:
Meetings of the Board .......-.-.--- $347 25
Postage and telegraph ....-.. -------- 202 28
PS PAMOMER Yn at cies ais ceye eee’ Beene 407 45
General printing, blanks, &c .-...--.- 91 30
Incidentals, gas, &c........---.----.- 408 79
Books, periodicals, binding --.--...---. 779 33
Salaries, Secretary, clerks, and labor.. 9, 180 67
ze 11,417 07
Publications and researches:
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl-
CPO nee sae ee bine aie erate ree ee 2,367 65
Smithsonian miscellaneous collections. 2,631 01
Smithsonian annual report .....-..--- 775 12
EDEplOracions he 2 a aeenct sear een 1,522 18
Dad 61 Of 4? EAS i a Nes a as UA ey a REIN 151 25
—— 7,447 21
Literary and scientific exchanges (in addition to
appropriation by Congress) 22... 2.9.2 5-)5- 2220 3, 307 59
Total expenditures: .2)4202 Sus Ae ee oe eevee rae 22,724 02
Balance, oni hand)... 25. 522-5 ee eee eee eer ee 2,656 82
Interest on the Smithson fund for six months ending June
BO, ASS 22 ti Stoney ee tells, Soo Lae ae a 21, 090 00
Total’ cash on hand’ July 31,1885 92-2 ees ee $23, 746 82

NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHER OBJECTS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS
TO THE CARE OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

The following apprepriations were made at the second session of the
korty-eighth Congress for the National Museum and other objects com-
mitted to the care of the Smithsonian Institution :

For the preservation and exhibition and in-

crease of the collections received from the

surveying and exploring expeditions of the

Government, and other sources, including

salaries or compensation of all necessary

EMUPLOV OSs icicis vee tere eee eee eee eae $95, 000 00
For expenses of heating, lighting, and tele-

phonic and electrical service for the new

Museum building uve e ae eee 9,000 00

—_———_—— $104, 000 00
For care of the Armory building and grounds, and expense

of watching, preservation, and storage of the property
of the National Museum and of the United States Fish
Commission contained therein, including salaries or com-
pensation of all necessary employés ...-. ei atelnois ee tatone te 2,500 00
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

For cases, furniture, and fixtures required for the exhibition
of the collections of the United States National Museum,
and for salaries or compensation of all necessary em-
FON Cote tetee rece eins oo Se US ee eamra teu osha

For expenses of the system of international exchanges
between the United States and foreign countries, under
the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including
salaries or compensation of all necessary employés.....

For finishing and completing the furnishing of the eastern
portion of the Smithsonian Institution building........

For the purpose of continuing ethnological researches
among the American Indians, under the direction of the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, including sal-
aries or compensation of all necessary employés .......

To pay sundry bills for miscellaneous fixtures and for glass
for exhibition cases for the National Museum, being for
the service of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1884 .....

To meet expenses of receiving, packing, transporting to
Washington, and installing, or storing, such new speci-
mens and collections as may be presented to the United
States at the New Orleans Exposition, to be available
for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1885 and 1886......

For cost of restoring the collections sent to the New Or-
leans Exposition to their proper places in the National
Museum, including repair of cases and renewal of glass,
to be available for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1885
and 1886

XVII

$40, 000.00

10, 000 00

5, 600 00

40, 000 00

2,891 42

5, 000 00

2,500 00

Exhibit of the condition of the appropriations by Congress for the Smithsonian Institution,

National Museum, §&e.

Expended
Balances
: January 1to| Balances
Object. January 1, "June 30, (July 1, 1885.
; 1885.
—_
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. |
Fire-proofing, &c., eastern portion of building--| $1,298 22 | $1,298 22 |.........---
International exchange system... -............- SEL: ats Ua Pica aay Ao betsy VY Kes = ee Bee
North American ethnology .-......-.........- 19,525 62 18, 166 70 $1, 358 92
NATIONAL MUSEUM. |
Preservation of collections..................- | 53,399 27 | 48,543 71 4,855 56
UO RVAOULLGIN Pomme w nals oeisis = soicis ceisce- 1,500 50 1, 492 25 8 25
Furniture and fixtures... ..- ajalbaieisisisineialsccicss' 12,636 36 | 10,849 96 1,786 40
Paving sidewalk for Museum..............-..- f OCUN 003 | S2eeecemeeet 1,000 00

H. Mis. 15—-n
XVIII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The committee has examined the vouchers for payments made from
the Smithson income during the six months ending 30th June, 1885, all
of which bear the approval of the Secretary of the Institution, and a
certificate that the materials and services charged were applied to the
purposes of the Institution.

The committee has also examined the accounts of the National Mu-
seum and find that the balances above given correspond with the cer-
tificates of the disbursing officers of the Interior and Treasury Depart-
ments. zs

The quarterly accounts-current, the vouchers, and journals have been
examined and found correct.

Respectfully submitted.
JoHN MACLEAN,
JAMES C. WELLING,
HENRY COPPEE,
Executive Committee.

REFORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD,

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1885.

To the Board of Regents:

GENTLEMEN: In accordance with the resolution of the Board at the
last meeting directing that the fiscal year, instead of extending from
January to December, shall correspond with the Government fiscal year,
and extend from July to the following June, inclusive, the present re-
port will inelude the history of the operations of the Institution for the
first half of 1885 only. The same restrictions in regard to time will
apply to the reports of the National Museum, the Bureau of Ethnology,
and the system of International Exchanges which have been placed by
Congress under the direction of the Institution. As heretofore, there
will also be some account of the operations of the United States Fish
Commission, and those of the Geological Survey, which, although not
controlled in any way by the Institution, are so closely affiliated with it
as to render proper some notice of them.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

INTRODUCTORY.

The general routine work of the Institution continues to be much the
Same as in previous years, and while no specially new features have
been introduced, considerable extension has been made in some depart-
ments, and increased precision and efficiency in all. In the way of
extra duty the principal occasion has been the International Exposition
at New Orleans, where the Institution (by requirement of law) made a
very extensive display.

The new work on the eastern portion of the Smithsonian building has
been entirely finished, and much progress made in renovating the cen-
tral portion.

A considerable number of valuable publications have appeared, and
others are in press.

The work of the Museum continues to increase in magnitude, much
material having been received from the New Orleans Exposition.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

It is with great regret that 1 announce the termination of service on

the Board, of General William T. Sherman, his term having expired and
H. Mis. 15 1

2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

his removal from Washington to Saint Louis, Mo., rendering him ineli-
gible for re-election, the law of organization requiring two members
of the Board to be citizens of the District of Columbia. Dr. Welling,
president of Columbian University, is the only member from this city at
present, he having been elected by Congress at its last session a Regent
for six years, until May 13, 1890.

The term of service of an unusually large number of Regents will
expire during the winter of 1885-1886. As “members at large,” Rev.
Dr. John Maclean, of New Jersey, Prof. Asa Gray, of Massachusetts,
and Dr. Henry Coppée, of Pennsylvania, will cease to be members on
the 19th of December next; and as the Forty-ninth Congress will com-
mence its session in the same month, it will become the duty of the
Speaker to appoint three Regents from the House of Representatives.

The term of Hon.N. P. Hill, of Colorado, as Senatorial Regent, expired
on the 3d of March, 1885, and on March 25, 1885, the Vice-President,
Mr. Hendricks, appointed Hon. Shelby M. Cullom, of Illinois, as Regent
during his term of service as United States Senator. The Vice-Presi-
dent on the same date also re-appointed Hon. J. S. Morrill, of Vermont,
for a new term of six years.

Until the next meeting of the Board of Regents, in J anuary, 1886, the
- vacaney existing in the Executive Committee by the expiration of the
term of General Sherman was filled by the appointment of Dr. Henry
Coppée ad interim, by the remaining members of the committee.

The Board at its last meeting adopted an important resolution, order-
ing that the fiscal year of the Institution shall terminate on the 30th of
June of each year. This changes the practice of the Institution since
its organization, and will occasion some difficulty in arranging tables
of comparison of receipts and expenditures for annual periods. The
reason for the change is that the fiscal year of the Government termi-
nates in June, and as the appropriations made by Congress for the
Museum, the exchange system, ethnological researches, &c., are for this
period, it was thought advisable for the accounts of the Institution to
conform to those of the General Government. The accounts of the In-
stitution have therefore been given in this report only for the six
months terminating on the 30th of June, 1885.

Change in the time of printing the Report.—It was also ordered by the
Board that “the Secretary shall hereafter prepare and cause to be
printed and sent to each member of the Board, on or before the 1st day
of December in each year, his annual report.”

Difficulty has always been experienced in the early printing of the
Annual Report of the Institution. The organic act, August 10, 1846,
provides that “the Board” of Regents “shall submit to Congress, at
each session thereof, a report of the operations, expenditures, and con-
dition of the Institution.* In accordance with this law the Board has
annually submitted to Congress a report of the operations of the Insti-
tution, which has been ordered to be printed and a number of extra

* Revised Statutes, Title LX XIII, Section 5593.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 3

copies granted for its use and distribution. The Public Printer how-
ever has not felt authorized to put any part of the report in type before
the adoption by Congress of a special resolution to print the extra
copies referred to, and as there has frequently been great delay in the
passage of the concurrent resolution, many months have frequently
elapsed between the annual meeting of the Board and the printing of
the report.

The best illustration of this delay is furnished by reference to the
report of the Institution for the year 1883, which, although submitted
to Congress on the 21st of January, 1884, was actually not ordered to
be printed till July, 1884, and not delivered to the members and to the
Institution until August, 1885.

To remedy this evil and to secure prompt publication, the Regents
adopted the resolution referred to above at its last meeting, and by the
efforts of the members of the Board in the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives secured the passage of the following joint resolution by
Congress, No. 18, approved by the President of the United States
March 3, 1885:

“Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the annual reports of
the Smithsonian Institution shall be hereafter printed at the Govern-
ment Printing Office, in the same manner as the annual reports of the
heads of Departments are now printed, for submission in print to the
two Houses of Congress.”

The intent of this act is to instruct the Public Printer to print the
Annual Report of the Regents whenever copy shall be furnished, so
that the whole report may be presented to Congress in printed form at
the commencement of each session.

The statute under which the reports of Departments are printed is
as follows:

“The head of each Department, except the Department of Justice,
shall rurnish to the Congressional Printer copies of the documents
usually accompanying his annual report, on or before the first day of
November in each year, and a copy of his annual report on or before
the third Monday of November in each year.*

“Tt is further provided that of the documents accompanying the an-
nual reports of the Executive Departments one thousand copies shall
be printed and bound for the use of the members of the Senate, and
two thousand copies for the use of themembers of the House of Repre-
sentatives, in addition to the usual number for Congress, 1,900 copies.”t

While the printing of the report is now secured without a special
order at each session of Congress, it will still be necessary to havea
concurrent resolution every year for the printing of extra copies for the
use of the Institution.

FINANCES.

The financial condition of the Institution continues to be satisfactory.

The Smithson fund remains the same as at the date of the last report,

* Revised Statutes, Title IV, section 196.
t Revised Statutes, Title XLV, section 3798.

4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

$703,000, deposited forever in the United States Treasury, from which is
received an annual interest of 6 per cent. This interest is paid on the
1st of January and 1st of July, and the money immediately placed in
the hands of the Treasurer of the United States, who keeps a special
account of it. All payments are made by checks on this officer, signed
by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. A monthly statement
is rendered by the Treasurer of all checks paid and of the balances. This
is compared with the books kept by the accountant of the Institution.
A quarterly examination is made by the Executive Committee of the
Regents of all the financial transactions of the Institution. The mem-
bers of the committee sign a certificate, of which the annexed is a copy:

CERTIFICATE.

WASHINGTON, D. C., , —, 18—.

The undersigned members of the executive committee of the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution have examined the account for for the ——— end-
ing —, 18—, the receipts amounting to dollars, and the expenditures to
dollars, leaving a balance of - dollars, as entered in the journal, pages
— to ——, inclusive; and certify the same to be correct. For each disbursement
there is a voucher approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and cer-
tified by an agent of the Institution that the articles or services charged therein were
required and furnished on account of the objects specified, and that the same were
necessary and the charges reasonable.

The balance above stated corresponds with the certificate of the
of 18—.

Department

Executive Committee.

The change of the fiscal year of the Institution, to terminate on the
30th of June instead of the 31st of December, renders it necessary to
state in this report the receipts and expenditures for six months only,
viz, from January 1 to July 1, 1885:

Oash.on hand January, 1, 1885 \crc.c01scceaeme seen ". $25,380 84
Expenditures :

Building, furniture, and fixtures .......... wee. = 8552 15
General expenses, salaries, supplies, books, &c. 11,417 07
Publications and researches ................0- 7,447 21
Literary and scientific exchanges.............. 3, 307 59

—————_ 22, 724 02

Balance >, <cS cts aseas.< sisio eis tee eee qstpueieenaye 2,656 82
Interest on the Smithson fund for the six months ending

June 30, [SSS ogee ae ate le sinc cases mene oe ee 21,090 00

Lotal‘on hand July: 2, 1886 eee ee eee $23, 746 82

The appropriations made by Congress for the system of Exchanges,
ander the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, have been disbursed
by Maj. T. J. Hobbs, of the Treasury Department; those for ethnological

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

researches by Mr. J. D. McChesney, disbursing officer of the United
States Geological Survey; those for the preservation of Government
collections, furniture, and fixtures, and other objects for the National
Museum, by Mr. George W. Evans, disbursing clerk of the Interior
Department.

The vouchers for all these expenditures are critically examined by
the proper Auditor and the Comptroller of the Treasury, and have been
formally passed by those officials.

Every payment for the Institution and its dependencies is made by
bonded officers of the Government.

BUILDINGS.

The Smithsonian Building.—As stated in previous reports, two appro-
priations were made by Congress for fire-proofing the eastern portion of
the Smithsonian building and increasing its accommodations for doing
the Government work connected with the Museum, the International
Exchanges, &c. The whole has now been completed in a thoroughly
fire-proof manner, with twice the original number of available office
rooms, and with every facility for doing the work mentioned in the best
possible manner.

The rest of the Smithsonian building is in an unsightly and dilapi-
dated condition, and will before long require extensive repairs in the
way of a new ceiling to the second-story room, and the re-arrangement
of cases in the first floor, &e.; an undertaking which, as being strictly
in the interest of the National Museum, will warrant the asking Con-
gress for the necessary appropriation.

The exterior of the central portion of the building was in a very bad
condition, requiring repainting, reglazing, &c., and this work has been
undertaken and practically completed at a moderate expense, greatly
improving its appearance.

National Museum Building.—This building is apparently in excellent
condition, and has required comparatively little in the way of repairs.
An appropriation was made in 1884 for a concrete walk along the south-
ern and eastern sides of the building, and was expended so as to furnish
a much-needed improvement in the facilities of access.

Armory Building.—This building, which has been assigned by law for
the purposes of the Smithsonian Institution and the United States Fish
Commission, is occupied partly for the storage of collections and partly
for the active work of the Commission. It now constitutes what is
known as the central hatching station of the Commission, where the
work of propagation of food fishes is conducted on a very extensive
scale. It is also the depot from which shipments of fish are made from
Washington to all parts of the country, and for this purpose has a
branch track of the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad, by means of which
the cars are brought alongside of the building and receive and deliver
their loads.
6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The Brick Workshop.—This building continues to be used for the same
purposes as in previous years, a part of it being occupied as a stable,
while the greater portion is used for the preparation and mounting of
birds, modelling in plaster and papier-maché, in painting the casts of
specimens, &e. ;

Temporary Workshop.—Reference has been made to a large shed or
annex, built at the expense of the appropriation for the New Orleans
Exposition, and used in the preparation of exhibits for the same, and
also for storage of the articles received therefrom, and their special
preparation for exhibition. It was also intended to receive the collec-
tions as returned until they could be properly assigned to their places
or otherwise disposed of. An appropriation was however made by Con-
gress at its last session to meet the cost of restoring the collections sent
to New Orleans to their original condition, very serious damage having
occurred in consequence of the dampness and other agencies. This
has made it necessary to retain the building for the present. As soon
as arrangements can be made to receive what is now stored therein, it
will be taken down and the ground cleared of what is a serious incum-
brance.

Army Medical Museum Building.—For several years the authorities of
the Army Medical Museum have been endeavoring to secure an appro-
priation for the erection of a fire-proof building for the accommodation
of the library of the Museum and the offices of the Bureau, so as to ob-
viate any possible danger of loss by fire of important archives and ma-
terial. An appropriation of $200,000 was finally made by Congress;
and the Secretary of War, the Architect of the Capitol, and the Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian Institution were authorized to select a site
in the vicinity of the National Museum for the accommodation of the
aforesaid building. The committee met and selected the southeast
corner of the Smithsonian reservation, extending along Seventh street
170 feet and South B street 260 feet. . As the expenditure was contin-
gent upon the adequacy of the appropriation to construct the building
in question, the plans were prepared and submitted for estimate to a
number of bidders, whose offers were as follows :

Bids for construction of Army Medical Museum Building.

|
: Building | Heating
Names of bidders. Where. proper. lapparatus. Total.

Bright, Humphrey & | District of Columbia. ..|$165,827 00 | $14,160 | $179,987 00
10.

MiIvAte MGGO WAN =o o5-/5 |e aeons CO a Shey ee ie SH ee ae 171,540 17 11,000 | 182,540 17

Frank Baldwin...-....|...--- Gon Stee peal eee 170,358 00 | 15,140 | 185,498 00

C. A. Schneider’s Sons |...--- GOs ae eee 172,509 33 15,897 | 188,406 33

Jerk. ieee (infor- |...... Ova ceocteronc eee 176, 600 00 15,000 | 191,600 00
mal,

Angry Getzids Cora: se. oo lee ee C8 Koper ey eee, et 178, 600 00 15,400 | 194,000 00

D. J. McCarty & Co...|...... dort cee ee 185,295 00| 15,300 | 200,595 00

D. C. Weeks & Son-.-..| New York ........--... 217, 337 00 15,700 | 233,037 00

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. fd

It thus appearing that the appropriation was adequate to the demand,
a contract was entered into with Messrs. Bright, Humphrey & Co., and
the work ordered by the Secretary of War to be prosecuted with the
utmost possible diligence.

Necessity of new buildings for the National Museum.—An application
was made to Congress a year or two ago for an appropriation with
which to commence the construction of a second building for museum
purposes, and also to accommodate the offices of the United States Geo-
logical Survey, an establishment which in its close affiliation to the
work of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum would
be appropriately quartered in connection therewith. This application
however was not granted; but the need is now much greater than be-
fore, as there is enough material in the way of valuable specimens of
‘economical interest to fill a second building the size of the present one.
This unexhibited surplus is now stored in several buildings,-some in
Washington and some elsewhere, and consists of important illustra-
tions of the economical geology, metallurgy, and other resources of the
United States. In addition to what has been on hand for some time,
very large collections were presented to the Government at the New
Orleans Exhibition, which embraced a great deal of intrinsic value as
well as of popular and scientific interest. It is earnestly to be hoped
that this requirement will be met by Congress by the speedy appropri-
ation of an amount suitable for the purpose.

For the safety of the general collections of the National Museum a
separate building is also very much needed for the accommodation of
the alcoholic specimens, such as are now provided by most first-class
museums. Although the present building is practically fire-proof, yet
should a fire be started in the vicinity of these specimens it is probable
that much damage would be done by the ignition of the many thou-
sands of gallons of alcohol, and the destruction of the specimens and of
the jars in which they are contained.

EXPLORATIONS.

As the present report, in view of the change of the fiscal year of
the Smithsonian Institution, covers only the period from January 1 to
June 30, 1885, the account of explorations will necessarily be much
shorter than usual, especially as such work frequently does not begin
until midsummer. The completion of the history of 1885 must there-
fore be deferred until the next report. |

Greenland, Labrador, and the British Provinces.—Reference has been
made in a previous report to the return of the Greely expedition and to
the general results accomplished. Specimens illustrating the botany of
the region in the vicinity of Lady Franklin Bay have been sent to the
National Museum by Lieutenant Greely.
8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Mr. Lucien M. Turner has been engaged in preparing his report upon
the natural history and meteorology of the region about Fort Chimo,
Ungava Bay, Northern Labrador, where he spent several years, as stated
in the last report. As he completes his investigations of the various
collections, they are turned over to the National Museum, and represent
very important additions to its treasures. The report will be made to
the U. 8. signal officer.

Important material, especially in geology and paleontology, has been
received from the Geological Survey of Canada.

Alaska.—There has been an unusual amount of activity in the inves.
tigation of the geography and natural history of Alaska, especially the

northern portion. Lieut. George M. Stoney, of the United States —

Navy, with a force of naval officers and men, has been engaged in con-

tinuing the explorations made by him in 1884, and already reported.

upon. The revenue cutter Corwin also again visited the Arctic Ocean,
and parties were sent up the Kowak and other rivers emptying into
Kotzebue Sound. Mr. Charles H. Townsend, an accomplished collector,
accompanied the vessel and made many interesting gatherings in nat-
ural history. Mr. Henry D. Woolfe, agent of the Pacific Steam Whal-
ing Company, stationed at Cape Lisburne, in the Arctic Ocean, has also
collected numerous specimens, including shells and marine invertebrates.
A few of these have been sent in, but the greater part of the collection
has yet to come.

Mr. Jobn J. McLean, signal observer at Sitka, has continued his
transmissions of rare and interesting archeological material, while Mr.
W. J. Fisher, at Kodiak, has forwarded additional series of ethnological
objects, birds, &c. Mr. Johnson, Signal Service observer at Nushagak,
has transmitted some desirable specimens of birds.

Washington Territory and the west coast of the United States.—Mr.
James G. Swan, of Port Townsend, has furnished a number of interest-
ing ethnological specimens, obtained from the Indians of Puget Sound,
and Ensign A. P. Niblack, U.S. N., attached to the United States Coast
Survey steamer Carlile P. Patterson, while proceeding in that vessel from
San Francisco around Cape Horn and thence to Alaska, gathered many
notes upon the natural bistory and ethnology of the country, and trans-
mitted them to the Smithsonian Institution, with quite a number of
specimens.

Hast coast of the United States and Gulf of Mexico.—During the first half
_ of the year 1885 the steamer Albatross, of the United States Fish Com-
mission, continued its important exploration into the fisheries and the
natural history and physical condition of the waters adjacent to the
coast of the United States. The winter and early spring were spent in
the Gulf of Mexico in search of new fishing grounds for valuable fish,
and in June was commenced a similar work on the banks of Newfound-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

land and the other fishing banks still nearer to the coast of New Eng-
land. The result of these explorations, when published, will be found
to be of much practical benefit and will add greatly to our information.

New Mexico and Arizona.—Mr. E. W. Nelson bas continued his work
in connection with the archeology and natural history of Arizona, and
has sent in a large number of boxes of valuable collections.

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, at Fort Wingate, N. Mex., has also supplied
much interesting material.

Dr. F. W. Taylor has sent some rare minerals and fossils from the
vicinity of Lake Valley.

Mexico and Lower California.—Mr. L. H. Aymé, to whom reference
has been made in previous reports, has continued his explorations and
investigations into the natural history and ethnology of Western Mexico,
and has contributed much material to the National Museum.

Professor Dugés, of Guanajato, has also sent in a number of interest-
ing specimens for identification.

Dr. Edward Palmer was sent to make explorations into the ethnology .
of the regions in the vicinity of Chihuahua, and was enabled by the
courtesy of Mr. A. R. Shepherd to acquire many interesting articles in
the neighborhood of Batopilas.

The investigations of Mr. Charles H. Townsend in regard to the oc-
currence of the great seal, known as the sea-elephant, were crowned
with success, some eight or ten specimens having been obtained and
forwarded to the National Museum. Itis confidently asserted that these
represent the last of the race and that we may fairly consider the species
as extinct on our coast.

Central and South America.—Prof. Miles Rock, who was appointed by
the Government of Guatemala as astronomer in the boundary survey
between Guatemala and Mexico, kindly offered his services to make
photographs and collections of any interesting objects he might find,
and has already fulfilled his promise by the transmission of a large
amount of material, including photographs, specimens of birds, and ob-
jects of archeology.

Mr. J. C. Zeledon, of Costa Rica, has also continued the transmissions
begun by him many years ago, and has supplied the National Museum
with an almost complete collection of the vertebrate animals of that
country.

Dr. W. H. Jones, of the United States Navy, was very successful in
archeological research on the coast of Peru and Chili, and the specimens
received from him are among the most highly prized of the articles in
the National Museum. |

Mr. George Kiefer, of Lima, has also made contributions of the same
character.

Europe.—Mr. Thomas Wilson, late consul at Nice, France, has been
busy during the greater part of his official term as consul, first at Nantes
10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and then at Nice, in France, in explorations into the remains of prehis-
toric man, and has presented a very large collection, the unpacking of
which only awaits his return to this country. It is believed that this
collection, filling a large, number of boxes, will prove to be one of the
richest and most complete of its kind ever sent to the United States.

The results of minor researches of more or less productiveness, will
be detailed in the accompanying report of the National Museum.

PUBLICATIONS.

In view of the fact that the Annual Report of the Institution is yearly
presented to a number of readers for: the first time, it seems proper to
repeat frequently the general statement that the publications prepared
by it embrace three different classes. These are:

First, a quarto series of volumes of irregular issue entitled ‘* Smith-
sonian Contributions to Knowledge,” which consist of original memoirs
furnishing additions to scientific information, corresponding somewhat
with the Transactions of learned societies, though generally form-
ing more elaborate treatises than such publications. Asa rale these
contributions to positive knowledge are based on experiments, obser-
vations, or material, carefully undertaken or gathered by the institu-
tion, or they are the results of investigations originated or encouraged
and assisted by its means.

The second class of publications is an octavo series of volumes en-
titled ‘Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,” which also include
the presentation of a large amount of new truths developed by origi-
nal research, but which contain in addition useful summaries, essays on
improvements in classification—in zoology, botany, and other depart-
ments of science, and new and extended tables of physical, chemical,
and other natural constants; all of which possess great value in aiding
the labors of scientific specialists in many directions, and at the same
time are calculated to encourage inquiring minds to prosecute particu-
lar lines of investigation, as well as to afford facilities to such students.

The third class of publications is an octavo series of ‘“‘ Smithsonian
Reports,” presented annually to Congress, which include, in addition to
the usual record and statement of operations for the year, a consider-
able amount of carefully prepared matter on various scientific topics
intended for the general reader. ;

Distribution.—These publications are liberally distributed for the dif-
fusion of knowledge, but from the absolute impossibility of producing
editions large enough to supply all intelligent inquirers who might be
interested in their perusal, the distribution is now confined: 1st, to those
learned societies of the first class which give to the Institution in return
complete sets of their own publications; 2d, to colleges of the first
class furnishing catalogues of their libraries and students, and pub-
lications relative to their organization and history ; 3d, to public libra-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

ries in this country having 25,000 volumes; 4th, they are presented in
some cases to still smaller libraries, especially if no other copies of the
Smithsonian publications are given in the same place, and a large dis-
trict would be otherwise unsupplied. To iystitutions devoted exclu-
sively to the promotion of particular branches of knowledge, such of its
publications are given as relate to their special objects.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge—A work on “ Prehistoric
Fishing in Europe and North America,” by Dr. Charles Rau, men-
tioned in my last report (that for 1884) as being in type and nearly
ready for the press, was printed and published early in the year, and
has since been distributed in ‘accordance with the general practice
adopted.. This work forms a volume of 342 pages (including the index),
with 18 pages of introductory matter, in all 360 pages, and is illus-
trated with 406 figures. Part I, occupying nearly one-third of the
memoir, is devoted to the archeological relics of Europe, giving a con-
cise though comprehensive survey of whatever is supposed to relate to
fishing, under the three epochs of the paleolithic age, the neolithic
age, and the bronzé age. Part II is occupied with the archeological
fishing relics of North America, under the general headings of ‘ Fish-
ing Implements and Utensils,” “‘ Boats and Appurtenances,” “ Prehis-
toric Structures connected with Fishing,” ‘“‘Aboriginal Representations
of Fishes, Aquatic Mammals, &c.,” and, lastly, ‘Artificial Shell-Depos-
its.” This descriptive summary is supplemented by an interesting col-
lection of extracts compiled from various writings of the sixteenth, sev-
enteenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries, in which reference is
made to aboriginal fishing in North America.

During the past year two volumes of the Contributions to Knowledge
have been made up from outstanding memoirs.

Volume XXIV comprises: Article 1, “Results of Meteorological Ob-
servations made at Providence, R. I., extending over a period of forty-
five years, from December, 1831, to December, 1876.” By Prof. Alexis
Caswell, of Brown University, Providence, R. I. Published in 1882
(an account of which was given in the Annual Report for that year).
Article m1, “Tables and Results of the Precipitation in Rain and Snow
in the United States, and at some stations in adjacent parts of North
America and in Central and South America. Collected by the Smith-
sonian Institution, and discussed under the direction of Joseph Herry
and Spencer F. Baird, Secretaries.” By Charles A. Schott. Second
edition published in 1881 (an account of which was given in the An-
nual Report for that year). The whole forms a volume of 311 pages,
illustrated with 8 diagrams in the text, and accompanied by 5 plates
and 5 large folding maps of the United States, showing the curves of
equal precipitation for each of the four seasons and also for the vear.

Volume XXV comprises: Article 1, ‘“‘ Prehistoric Fishing in Europe
and North America.” By Dr. Charles Rau (just previously described).
LE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Article 1, “Archeological Researches in Nicaragua.” By J. F. Brans-
ford, M. D. Published in 1881 (an account of which was given in the
Annual Report for that year). Article 111, ‘On the Contents of a Bone
Cave in the Island of Anguilla, West Indies.” By Edward D. Cope.
Published in 1883 (an account of which was given in the Annual Re-
port for that year). The whole forms a volume of 509 pages, illustrated
with 545 cuts or figures and accompanied by 7 engraved plates.

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.—The ten following numbers com-
prise pamphlet editions of papers published by the Institution, which
being extracted from the Annual Report for 1883, should properly have
appeared during the year 1884; but which, through delay at the Gov-
ernment Printing Office, were not actually issued till the present year.

577. “An Account of the Progress in Meteorology in the year 1883.”
By Prof. Cleveland Abbe. This, with 4 pages of index, comprises 92
pages 8vo.

578. “An Account of the Progress in Physics in the year 1883.” By
Prof. George F. Barker. 8vo. 52 pp.

582. ‘An Account of the Progress in Zoology in the year 1883.” By
Theodore Gill. 8vo. 53 pp.

583. “An Account of the Progress in Anthropology in the year 1883.”
By Prof. Otis T. Mason. 8vo. 48 pp.

585. “Addresses atthe Unveiling of the Joseph Henry Statue at Wash-
ington, D. C., Apri] 19, 1883.” By Chief Justice Waite, Chancellor of
the Smithsonian Institution, and Noah Porter, LL. D., president of Yale
College. Preceded by a sketch of the proceedings on that occasion;
and illustrated with a page wood-cut of the bronze statue as it appears
in the Smithsonian grounds. 8vo. 27 pp.

586. ‘Report of Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, to the Board of Regents, for the year 1883.” 8vo. 86 pp.

587. ‘Report of the Assistant Director of the United States National
Museum, together with the Reports of the Curators, for the year 1883.”
8vo. 200 pp.

588. ‘‘Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology.” By A. W.
Howitt, James Wickersham, W. H. Adams, Augustus A. Foerste, J.
P. MacLean, William J. Taylor, 8. T. Walker, L. A. Kengla, John A.
Ruth, Henry Booth, Henry E. Chase, and Charles C. Nutting. 8vo.
122 pp.

596. ‘“‘Australian Group Relations.” By A. W. Howitt. 8vo. 28pp,

605. “On the Comparative Phonology of four Siouan languages.” By
Rey. J. Owen Dorsey. 8vo. 11 pp.

Among the issues properly belonging to the year 1885, the first and
most important is No. 538 of the Smithsonian series—“ Tables, Meteor-
ological and Physical.” By Dr. Arnold Guyot, of Princeton College.
Fourth edition, revised and enlarged. Edited by William Libbey, jr.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

A quarter of a century has passed since the publication of the third
edition of this valuable and elaborate work. The first. edition of the
Tables was published by the Institution in 1852, comprising 212 pages.
Five years later (in 1857) a second edition was published, with careful
revision by the author, and the various series of tables were so en-
larged as to extend the work to over 600 pages. The third edition was
published in 1859, with still further amendments.

To this volume Dr. Guyot, with untiring industry, has been making
constant additions; and the present issue, projected by him in 1879 (from
various delays occasioned by pressing professional occupations, as well
as by illness and death in his family), was about four years in passing
through the press. Just before completing the last few tables, the esti-
mable and distinguished author departed this life, February 8, 1884, in
the seventy-seventh year of his age. The completion of the work was
intrusted to his able assistant, Prof. William Libbey, jr., who has judi-
ciously executed his duties as the final editor of the work. The tables
are arranged in seven series. The first series (comprising 15 tables),
thermometrical comparisons and conversions; the second series (of 33
tables), hygrometrical computations; the third series (of 27 tables),
barometrical; the fourth series (of 27 tables), hypsometrical; the fifth
series, geographical tables, including 40 of measures of length (for
heights, &e.), 10 of itinerary measures, and 10 of square measures of
geographical surface; the sixth series (of 99 tables) for corrections of
variations of temperature, &c., at different parts of the earth; and the
seventh series comprising 9 miscellaneous tables. The whole forms an
octavo volume (including 25 introductory pages) of 763 pages.

No. 545. “ Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington: Vol.
Il.” From July 1, 1882, to July 1,1884. 8vo. 195 pp.

592. ‘‘ Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington: Vol. VII,
containing the Minutes of the Society and of the Mathematical Section
for the year 1884.” From January 5, 1884, to December. 20, 1884. 8vo.
lix+135 pp., or 194 pp.

594. ‘‘Mental overwork and premature disease among public and pro-
fessional men.” By Charles K. Mills, M.D. Being lecture IX of the
“Toner Lectures”; delivered in Washington, D. C., March 19, 1884.
8 vo. 34 pp.

595. “The Refraction of Sound.” By William B. Taylor. A reprint
from the Smithsonian Report for 1875. 8vo. 12 pp., with 6 figures.

608. ‘Report of Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, to the Board of Regents, for the year 1884.” 8vo. 98 pp.

609. “An Account of the Progress in Astronomy in the year 1884.”
By Prof. Edward 8. Holden. 8vo. 55 pp.

610. ““A Review of the Progress of North American Invertebrate
Paleontology for the year 1884.” <A bibliography of publications on
the subject for the year. By John Belknap Marcou. 8vo. 20 pp.
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

611. “An Account of the Progress in Geography in the year 1884.”
By Commander F. M. Green, U. S. N. 8vo.° 19 pp.

612. “An Account of the Progress in Meteorology in the year 1884.”
By Prof. Cleveland Abbe. 8vo. 176 pp.

613. “An Account of the Progress in Physics in the year 1884.” By
Prof. George F. Barker. 8vo. 57 pp.

614. “An Account of the Progress in Chemistry in the year 1884.”
By Prof. H. Carrington Bolton. 8vo. 52 pp.

615. “An Account of the Progress in Mineralogy in the year 1884.”
By Prof. Edward 8. Dana. 8vo. 19 pp.

616. “An Account of the Progress in Vulcanology and Seismology,
in the years 1883 and 1884.” By Prof. Charles G. Rockwood, jr. 8vo.
21 pp.

617. “ An Account of the Progress in Zoology in the year 1884.” By
Theodore Gill. 8vo. 93 pp.

618. “An Account of the Progress in Anthropology in the year
1884.” By Prof. Otis T. Mason. 8vo. 41 pp.

619. “Antiquities at Pantaleon, Guatemala.” By Lieut. Charles EH.
Vreeland and Dr. J. F. Bransford, U.S. N. 8vo. 12 pp. Illustrated
with 12 figures.

620. ‘‘ Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology.” By M. L.
Leach, Charles M. Smith, and E. T. Wiltheiss. 8vo. 38 pp. Ilus-
trated with 16 figures.

621. “The Guesde Collection of Antiquities in Pointe 4 Pitre, Gua-
daloupe, West Indies.” By Prof. Otis T. Mason. 8vo. 107 pp. Illus-
trated with 221 figures.

The Scientific Writings of Joseph Henry.—Good progress has been
made in the collation and printing of the collected scientific writings of
Professor Henry ; 600 octavo pages, or more than half the entire work,
having now (July 1) been set up in type, corrected, and stereotyped. It —
is estimated that the entire work will comprise 1050 pages; and it is
hoped that the whole will be stereotyped and printed off by the close
of the present year.

Bulletins of the National Museum.—These form a series (as heretofore
explained) designed to supply a prompt publication of original descrip-
tions of specimens received by the National Museum, and of other al-
lied matter. While these are primarily printed under the direction of
the honorable Secretary of the Interior, a supplementary edition is pub-
lished from the stereotype plates by the Institution for the benefit of
its correspondents, and they are included in its ‘‘ Miscellaneous Collec-
tions.”

Bulletin No. 27 comprises “‘ Descriptive Catalogues of the Collections
sent from the United States to the International Fisheries Exhibition,
London, 1883; constituting a Report upon the American Section,” pre-
pared under the direction of G. Brown Goode, United States commis-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

sioner, and a staff of associates. It contains a preliminary catalogue
and synopsis of the collections exhibited by the United States Fish
Commission and by special exhibitors; a concordance of the official
classification for the use of the juries; collection of economic crusta-
ceans, worms, echinoderms, and sponges, by Richard Rathbun ; a cata-
logue of the aquatic and fish-eating birds, by Robert Ridgway; a cata-
logue of the economic mollusca and the apparatus and appliances used
in their capture and preparation for the market, by Lieut. Francis
Winslow, U. 8S. N.; the whale-fishery and its appliances, by James
Temple Brown; a catalogue of the collection of fishes, by Tarleton
H. Bean; a descriptive catalogue of the collection illustrating the
scientific investigation of the sea and fresh waters, by Richard Rath-
bun; a catalogue of the aquatic mammals, by Frederick W. True;
a catalogue of the collection illustrating the fishing vessels and boats
and their equipment, the economic condition of fishermen, anglers’
outfits, &c., by Capt. Joseph W. Collins; a catalogue of the apparatus
for the capture of fish, by R. Edward Earll; a catalogue of fishery
products and of the apparatus used in their preparation, by A. How-
ard Clark; and a catalogue of the fish-cultural exhibit, by R. Edward
Harll; the whole forming (with introductory matter and general index)
an octavo volume of 1333 pages.

Report on the Reptiles and Batrachians of North America.—The Smith-
sonian Institution may claim the credit of having done more than any
_ other organization or any individual in furnishing to the students and
naturalists of the country convenient and effective text-books for the
determination of the natural history of the United States and North
America. In proof of this itis sufficient to point to what has been done
in the way of systematic treatises on mammals, birds, fishes, certain
groups of mollusks, &c.

Although a number of monographs of reptiles have been published
more or less directly under its auspices, such as that of the serpents
and other groups, there is still lacking a compact manual of both the
reptilia and batrachia; and arrangements were accordingly made with
Professor Cope, of Philadelphia, to supply this want. This gentleman is
well known for his professional acquaintance with these groups as studied
by him in the collections in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sci-
ences of Philadelphia, the National Museum of Washington, and else-
where. An agreement was therefore made with him for the preparation
of a much-needed manual on the reptiles and batrachians of North Amer-
ica; a year’s time being allowed, at a suitable compensation, for the final
and critical examination of the collections of the National Museum and
the preparation of the report. In this way the entire field of the ver-
tebrates of North America will have been completely covered.

Proceedings of the National Museum.—This series, somewhat allied to
the series of “ Bulletins,” comprises papers relative to the collections—
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

generally of a less elaborate character, and aiming at a still greater
promptness of issue by having printed single “ signatures” of the peri-
odical so soon as the matter is furnished.

Volume VII of the “ Proceedings of the National Museum” was
completed during the early part of the year, and contains descriptive
‘ papers by Tarleton H. Bean, Charles E. Bendire, F. W. Clarke, W. H.
Dall, Frederick P. Dewey, H. G. Dresel, C. H. Fernald, Charles H.
Gilbert, Theodore Gill, G. Brown Goode, Asa Gray, Romyn Hitchcock,
David 8. Jordan, Seth E. Meek, George P. Merrill, John Murdoch, E.
W. Nelson, Temple Prime, Richard Rathbun, Robert Ridgway, J. T.
Rothrock, John A. Ryder, R. W. Shufeldt, Elisha Slade, Sidney I. Smith,
Rosa Smith, Leonhard Stejneger, Joseph Swain, Cyrus Thomas, and
Frederick W. True; forming an octavo volume of 670 pages, illustrated
with 8 figures and 2 plates. .

The following circulars have been published as appendices to the Pro-
ceedings of the National Museum:

589. Circular No. 22. “ Brief directions for removing and preserv-
ing the skins of mammals.” By William 'T. Hornaday. 8vo. 7pp.

590. Circular No. 23. ‘Instructions for taking paper molds of in-
scriptions in stone, wood, bronze, &c.,” prepared by A. P. Niblack. 8vo.
D pp.

597. .Circular No. 24. ‘‘Plan of a Collection to illustrate the. textile
industries of the United States, to be exhibited at the World’s Indus-
trial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884~85, at New Orleans.”
By Romyn Hitchcock. 8vo.. 16 pp.

598. Circular No. 25. ‘Preliminary plan for a collection of the build-
ing and ornamental stones and rocks of the United States, to be exhib-
ited at the World’s Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of
188485, at New Orleans.” By George P. Merrill. 8vo. 2 pp.

599. Circular No. 26. ‘Plan for a collection of gems and precious
stones to be exhibited at the Cincinnati Industrial Exposition, and the
World’s Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 188485, at
New Orleans. By F. W. Clarke. 8vo. 2 pp.

600. Circular No. 27. “Directions for collecting, preserving, and
transporting tortricids and other small moths.” By C.H. Fernald. 8vo.
3 pp.

601. Circular No. 28. “Directions for mound explorations.” By Cyrus
Thomas. 8vo. 3 pp.

602. Circular No. 29. “ Provisional plan for a collection of mammals
to be exhibited at the World’s Industrial and Cotton Centennial Expo-
sition of 1884~’85, at New Orleans.” By Frederick W. True. 8vo. 27 pp.

603. Circular No. 30. “A list of birds, the eggs of which are wanted
to complete the series in the National Museum, with instructions for
collecting eggs.” By Charles E. Bendire. 8vo. 4 pp.

604. Circular No. 31. “Plan to illustrate the mineral resources of
the United States, and their utilization, at the World’s Industrial and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ws

Cotton Centennial Exposition of 188485, at New Orleans.” By Fred-
erick P. Dewey. Svo. 8 pp.

622. Circular No. 32. ‘Classification of the Materia Medica collec-
tion of the United States National Museum, and catalogue of speci-
mens.” By James M. Flint. ‘“ Revised and extended” by Henry G.
Beyer. 8vo. 39 pp.

626. Circular No. 33. ‘* Notes on the preparation of rough skeletons.”
By Frederick A. Lucas. 8vo. 8 pp., with 12 figures.

The Smithsonian Annual Report.—The third class of publications con-
sists of Annual Reports of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, presented to Congress, and printed by authority of that body.
The Report of 1883 was not issued till 1885. It contains the report of
the Secretary of the Institution for the year, supplemented by the cor-
respondence relative to the transfer of astronomical announcements by
telegraph to Harvard College Observatory; the report on the operations
of the Smithsonian system of international and domestic exchanges ;
and the report of the Assistant Director of the National Museum on
the condition of that department, together with a general Appendix,
embracing a record of scientific progress for the year,—in astronomy, by
Edward S. Holden; geology, by T. Sterry Hunt; geography, by F. M.
Green; meteorology, by Cleveland Abbe; physics, by George F. Barker ;
chemistry, by H. Carrington Bolton; mineralogy, by Edward 8. Dana;
botany, by W. G. Farlow; zoology, by Theodore Gill; and anthro-
pology, by Otis T. Mason; together with miscellaneous papers relative
to anthropology, by A. W. Howitt, James Wickersham, W. H. Adams,
Augustus A. Foerste, J. P. MacLean, William J. Taylor, S. T. Walker,
L. A. Kengla, John A. Ruth, Henry Booth, Henry E. Chase, Charles C.
Nutting, and J. Owen Dorsey. The Report forms an octavo volume of
997 pages (including introductory matter and index), illustrated with
33 figures and sketch-maps and 1 plate.

The “Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, for the year 1884,” forming an 8vo. volume of 943 pages (in-
cluding introductory matter and index), has been most unfortunately
delayed, and is not yet published.

Publications of the Bureau of Ethnology.—To the three preceding classes
of established publications (one of quarto size, and two of ordinary oe-
tavo size), a fourth class, of imperial octavo size, embracing the publi-
cations of the Bureau of Ethnology, under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution, may now properly be added. Of this series two vol-
umes have already appeared.

The “First Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, to the Smith-
sonian Institution,” by J. W. Powell, Director, though published two
years ago, was not noticed in the last report of the Secretary. This
work contains papers by J. W. Powell (in addition to his report proper),

H, Mis. 15 2

18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

by H. C. Yarrow, E. 8. Holden, C.C. Royce, Garrick Mallery, J.C. Pil-
ling, J. O. Dorsey, A. S. Gatschet, and S. R. Riggs. It forms an im-
perial octavo volume of 638 pages (including inno y matter and
index), and is illustrated with 292 figures in the text, 2 maps, and 53
plates, of which four are colored.

The “Second Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, to the Smith-
sonian Institution,” by J. W. Powell, Director, contains papers by J. W.
Powell, Frank H. Cushing, Erminnie A. Smith, Henry W. Henshaw,
Washington Matthews, William H. Holmes, and James Stevenson. It
forms an imperial octavo volume of 514 pages (including introductory
matter and index), and is illustrated with 60 figures in the text, 2 maps,
and 173 plates, of which 12 are colored. The plates contain about 750
separate figures.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

One of the most important factors in the “diffusion of knowledge
among men” is found in the system of international exchange carried
on by the Smithsonian Institution. Originally only intended for the dis-
tribution of its own publications, the Institution by degrees extended
its usefulness and privileges to learned sovieties and individuals of both
hemispheres, and at present this exchange service forms the medium
of scientific intercourse between about 700 home institutions and 4,000
establishments distributed over all parts of the inhabited globe.

The gradual development of this service has resulted in a large in-
crease both in the work to be performed and in the number of employés.
The management of this branch has, since the year 1880, been in charge
of Mr. George H. Boehmer, and to his detailed report, hereto appended,
I refer for more minute information.

Statistics.—The increase in the number of parcels received will best be
illustrated by the following comparison of the first six months a 1885
with the full years of 1882, 1883, and 1884:

Se Six months—
1882. 1883. 1884. 1885.
Receipts. é ‘ Z Ss a : Es 5
SP ee ta cele es aul iit
cs B cs | rs = cs S
3 Ss 3 ° a ° os’ °
mm Ay i Ay Py mn aw ioe

Foreign ex-
changes ..} 19,292 | 83,720 | 16,063 | 78,647 | 18,866 | 78,732 | 10,688 | 60,475
Domestic ex-
changes ..| 7,187 | 30,904 | 8,262 | 49,608} 7,967 | 42,255 3,679 | 14,375
Government 22, 182
exchanges] 31,568 | 28,750 | 37,569 | 27,395 | 38,337 | 32,827 | 29,233

Total...) 58,047 | 143,374 | 63,894 | 155,650 | 65,170 | 153, 814 “43, 600. 97, 032
Se a ee) ee

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

The transmissions of exchanges have been in direct ratio to the
increase in the receipts, being for the first six months of 1885:

(1) Foreign exchanges: 345 boxes, representing a bulk of 2,415 cubic
feet, with a weight of 82,800 pounds, against 276 boxes during the same
period of 1884.

(2) Domestic exchanges: 5,138 packages, this being a little above the
half of the total number sent out during the year 1884.

(3) Government exchanges: 38 boxes, representing a bulk of 266 cubic
feet, with a weight of 10,500 pounds.

Congressional Aid.—The Smithsonian Institution continues to receive
the usual Congressional appropriation of $10,000 to carry out the op-
erations of the exchange service. The Library of Congress is the prin-
cipal beneficiary of the exchanges, large numbers of books and parcels
being annually received for that institution.

Transportation Companies.—A very important contribution toward the
expenses of the exchange service consists in the granting of free freight
on the exchange parcels or boxes by the following transportation com-
panies and firms, for which liberality acknowledgments are hereby grate-
’ fully rendered:

Allan Steamship Company (A. Schumacher & Co., agents), Baltimore.

American Colonization Society, Washington, D. C.

Anchor Steamship Line (Henderson & Brother, agents), New York.

Atlas Steamship Company (Pim, Forwood & Co., agents), New York.

Bailey, H: B., & Co., New York.

Bixby, Thomas E., & Co., Boston, Mass.

Borland, B. R., New York.

Boulton, Bliss & Dallett, New York.

Cameron, R. W., & Co., New York.

Compagnie Générale Transatlantique (L. de Bébian, agent), New York.

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Line (Vernon H. Brown & Co., agents),
New York.

Dennison, Thomas, New York.

Hamburg American Packet Company (Kunhardt & Co., agents), New

York.

Inman Steamship Company, New York.

Merchants’ Line of Steamers, New York.

Monarch Line (Patton, Vickers & Co., agents), New York.

Munoz y Espriella, New York.

Murray, Ferris & Co., New York.

Netherlands-American Steam Navigation Company (H. Cazaux, agent),

New York.

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York.

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, New York.

North German Lloyd (agents, Oelrichs & Co., New York; A. Schu-
macher & Co., Baltimore).
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York.
Panama Railroad Company, New York.
ted Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons, agents), Philadelphia and New

York. .

White Cross Line of Antwerp (Funch, Edye & Co., agents), New York.
Wilson & Asmus, New York.

The concessions of reduced freight on the part of the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company and the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, as
well as by the line of freight steamers between Washington and New
York, have been continued.

The thanks of the Institution are also due to the foreign ministers and
consuls of the various Governments for their assistance in taking charge
of the transmission of boxes to the countries which they respectively
represent.

Government Huchanges.—By enactment of Congress of March 2, 1867,
the Institution was appointed the agent of the United States in an ex-
change of official public documents with foreign Governments. <As pro-
vided for by Congress, 50 copies of all official publications, whether ema-
nating from Congress or any Department or Bureau of the Government,
whether printed at the Congressional Printing Office or elsewhere, must
be delivered to the Library of Congress for distribution by the Smith-
sonian Institution and to such foreign Governments as are willing to
furnish to the Library of Congress a corresponding return from their
publications. The conditions of this exchange having been accepted
by 38 Governments—of which 19 are European—one box (the 23d of the
series since the establishment of this exchange) of United States pub-
lications was sent to each of these Governments in April, 1885.

The returns having for some years fallen considerably short of ex-
pectations, Mr. George H. Boehmer, in charge of the exchange office,
was detailed, at the request of the Librarian of Congress, and with the
sanction of the chairman of the Joint Committee on the Library, to
visit Europe for the purpose of arranging for better and fuller returns
on the part of those Governments exchanging with the United States.
For detailed information of the progress of his mission, success ob-
tained, and suggestions relative to the service, I would refer to the re-
port on the subject contained in the section “Government exchange
division” of his report on the operations of the exchan ge office, hereto
appended.

Mr. Boehmer left on his mission on the 24th of July, 1884, and re-
turned on the 20th of February, 1885, during which time he visited con-
secutively nearly all the European states, obtaining satisfactory re-
sults and securing large and valuable additions for the library, consist-
ing mostly of parliamentary papers and compilations of the laws of the
various Governments.

One of the principal obstacles preventing the establishment of per-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7M |

manently satisfactory measures on the part of the European Govern-
ments, and which can perhaps be obviated by a personal representation
in Europe, is caused by the entirely different understanding of the ex-
change question in those countries, resulting from the exchange conven-
tions of Paris in 1875 and 1880, and Brussels in 1883, and by the absence
of sufficient legislation by them for securing copies of official publica-
tions for exchange purposes.

The governmental bureaus of most of the European states issue their
pubiications through the medium of publishing houses, receiving from
these about 50 per cent. from the sales of the books. Copies for gra-
tuitous distribution, therefore, are not issued, but the books represent
a trade value which is accepted by the exchange Commissions (estab-
lished on the basis adopted at the Paris Convention of 1875), who are
allowed only to exchange value for value.

The publications of the United States, being issued at the public ex-
pense, and not considered as purchased (although they are quoted at
very high prices in the book trade, and especially abroad), it becomes
under these circumstances difficult to obtain in Europe satisfactory
returns. It is therefore suggested by Mr. Boehmer that in future
transactions the market value, as given by the foreign book trade, be
accepted, which would enable our Government to obtain more satisfac-
tory returns. ;

Preliminary arrangements have been effected with the Imperial Gov-
ernment of Austria for a complete exchange of all the official and sci-
entific publications of the two Governments.

The Government of Uruguay has also forwarded to the Smithsonian
Institution, through the United States Department of State, proposi-
tions relative to a full and permanent exchange of official public docu-

ments.
LIBRARY.

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received
by the Smithsonian Institution from January 1 to June 30, 1885:

Volumes :
PiciayO On SAN Ol ee eecle cee eon =-)2 2-5 = 2 688
CPI ORWAEOCD a. i. Woah cides is so ceec eels saws 222
910
Parts of volumes:
WChAVOLOn SMaller: s)s hiss Weis Uesieelaes Me teleyee dake one 15:97:
CN AELONOEC ALP OD 5.1. Se icye win cise sis\sianie oicidieie'e so oe Sewias 2, 238
4, 209
Pamphlets:
MctAVO Of BIUIMNGD 254 s6 co 5 sce tnent ons co's wnntcee 4, 612
RIPATIONOU ANAND OM etre fog ele veiside.s wesw duis as'ae sila oes 256
4, 868
cape Se enone Coe 0 Src area cin'oe rice wes peeeee erie 354

2D, REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
CO-OPERATIVE RELATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Duplicate Collection of Building Stones for the American Museum of Nat-
ural History, New York.—Among the various important subjects of in-
quiry on the part of the census organization of 1880, was one into the
statistics of the quarries in the United States used to furnish building
stones for building and ornamental purposes, and an arrangement was
made by General Walker with Dr. G. W. Hawes, curator of mineralogy
and lithology of the National Museum, to collect the necessary material,
and to prepare a complete report on the subject, this to be done at the
expense of the United States. General Walker also authorized an ar-
rangement by which, on payment of all the costs, Mr. Morris K. Jesup
was to have a duplicate collection, with a view to its presentation to the
American Museum of Natural History. Estimating the cost of acquisi-
tion of the specimens and their preparation, including a microscopical
section of each specimen, at $3.50 each, and the number of specimens
to be treated at one thousand, the sum of $3,500 was placed at the com-
mand of Dr. Hawes for the purpose in question. The work upon this
series was prosecuted with much vigor until interrupted by the death
of Dr. Hawes. During the present year however, the work was re-
newed, and the necessary means being furnished by Mr. Jesup, extra
workmen were employed upon his collection, which will probably be
ready for delivery in the course of the year 1885. By thus duplicat-
ing the collection without expense to the Smithsonian Institution or
the National Museum, the opportunity of study and comparison will be,
of course, greatly extended.

Bureau of Education.—In accordance with the general policy of the

Institution to do nothing with its funds which can equally well be done,

by other means, and to co-operate with other bureaus and departments
of the Government, the Institution turned over to the Commissioner of
Education 3,526 catalogues, announcements and reports of colleges and
educational institutions, together with 401 letters, and 1,978 card-slips,
containing an alphabetical list of the entire series.

The Diplomatic Review.—In March, 1883, the conductors of ‘The
Diplomatic Review” of England sent to the Smithsonian Institation an
offer of the Review to any library that would undertake to bind it.

By some strange mishap the letter containing this very liberal offer
went astray, and no attention was paid to it. In October, 1884, the
offer was renewed by Mr. C. D. Collet, the letter being accompanied by
a list of libraries to which the Review had been sent direct. ‘This letter
was the initiatory step of a correspondence, which will eventually result
in the distribution of several hundred sets of the Diplomatic Review, as
full as the conductors thereof can furnish.

The Diplomatic Review commenced in 1855, and carried on to the end
of 1865, under the title of the Free Press, is a continuation of the first

Bit a lind a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

and second series of the Portfolio, in which, nearly half a century ago,
the late Mr. William Pollard Urquhart began h's series of articles on
the political history of Europe. In the pages of the Diplomatic Review
will be found Russian secret dispatches, together with other rare and
interesting documents on the history of Europe from the time of the
Protocol of April 4, 1826, for the “‘ Pacification of Greece,” to the end of
the Servian war, in 1876. Besides these scarce documents, the Diplo-
matic Review contains many original works of Mr. Urquhart, and a mass
of the transactions of the Foreign Affairs Committees of Workingmen
formed by him at the time of the Crimean war.

Among these papers.the following may be mentioned: Will of Peter
the Great. brought to Paris by the Chevalier d’Eon in 1757; Dangerto
the Political Balance of Europe, by Gustavus III, King of Sweden,
1791; Protocol of a Conference at Constantinople between the British
Ambassador and the Divan on the Connexion of Russia with the Greek
Revolt, 1822; Memoir of Count Bernstorff to the King of Prussia on
the means of annexing the Minor German States, 1831, &e.

On the 18th of April, 1885, in pursuance of the above-mentioned
notice, a printed circular was sent to over 400 of the principal libraries,
educational institutions, and kindred establishments, to the following
effect:

This Institution is informed by the Conductors of The Diplomatic Review of England,
that ‘‘a set of the twenty-five volumes of the Review, stitched and wrapped in seven
books,” will be presented to your library ‘‘on the condition of your binding them, so
that they may be safely preserved for reference.”

The Diplomatic Review extends trom the 13th of October, 1855, to the 3d of Jan-
uary, 1877, and contains rare and interesting documents relative to the history of
Europe from 1826 to 1876. It is proper to notify you that the successive volumes were
printed in different sizes;

Book I is in folio, and comprises two volumes.

Books II, II, and IV. are quarto, comprising sixteen volumes.

Books V, VI, and VI, are octavo, comprising seven volumes, and supplement.

Please notify this Institution whether this offer is accepted by your library; or, if
you have already received a set, whether you desire another on the same terms.

Replies to the above were received as follows: 236 accepted the en-
tire set; 8 desired portions to complete partial sets previously received,
and 43 declined, generally on the ground that the character of the in-
formation contained in the Review did not come within the scope of
the library. Quite a number of libraries have not noticed the cireular
or the offer contained.

A list was prepared, and sent to Mr. C. D. Collet, of those libraries
which accepted, and inasmuch as the sets were all declared to be more
or less incomplete, preference was given to the more important libra-
ries, in order that the volumes might reach the greatest number of
readers.

Newfoundland Postage on Exchanges.—An arrangement has been made
with the postmaster-general of Newfoundland by which all matter re-
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

lating to the exchange system shall be passed through the mails under
frank of the Smithsonian Institution, the chief clerk of which certifies
to the contents of each package.

Zoological Specimens for the Museum, contributed by Menageries.—For a
number of years the Institution has been indebted to the proprietors of
the menageries of the country for the contribution of animals dying
from disease or otherwise while in their charge, the principal establish-
ments in this connection being those of Messrs. Barnum, Bailey, and
Hutchinson; Mr. Adam Forepaugh; the Central Park Menagerie, in
charge of Mr. W. A. Conklin; and the Zoological Gardens at Philadel-
phia, under the direction of Mr. A. E. Brown.

From time to time specimens have been received in this way, and thus
a large number of highly-prized additions have been made. The addi-
tional advantage of having them in the flesh in more or less perfect con-
dition, enables them to be mounted under the best possible auspices.

In order to make some return to the contributors, the Institution
offered to have post-mortem examinations instituted of specimens re-
ceived, and the cause of death or disease reported to the senders. For
this purpose the co-operation of the Army Medical Museum was in-
voked and was cheerfully rendered, and an examination of each subject
received is usually made under the direction of Dr. John S. Billings.

The National Museum reserves the skins and skeletons, while the
Army Medical Museum makes any preparations of the viscera, &c.,
that may be desired by it.

NECROLOGY.

From among those connected with the Institution, I have but one
death to record.

EDWARD FOREMAN, M. D., was born in Baltimore, October 29, 1808.
After reaching manhood, he was for 12 years an assistant professor in
the University of Pennsylvania. In 1848, he was appointed an assist-
ant in the Smithsonian Institution by Professor Henry. He was en-
gaged in organizing the meteorological system established by the In-
stitution, and rendered efficient service in this department; and also
in conducting the correspondence and arranging the details of the
scientific lectures. In 1852 he accepted the position of chief examiner
in the Patent Office, which he retained for eight years. In 1874 he re-
turned to the Smithsonian Institution as an assistant in the ethnologi-
cal division of the National Museum. His death occurred April 14,
1885, at his residence in this city.

MISCELLANEOUS.

The Tyndall Trust Fund.—It will be remembered that when Prof.
John Tyndall of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, at the solicita-
tion of scientific friends in this country, made a visit to it in the latter
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

part of 1872, for the purpose of delivering in a few of our principal cities
courses of lectures on physical science, he very generously presented
the entire net proceeds of his lectures to trustees for the purpose of pro-
moting science in this country. These popular lectures, eloquently pre-
sented and admirably illustrated experimentally, were attended by large
and appreciative audiences in Boston, New Haven, New York, Brook-
lyn, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington.

Professor Tyndall’s trust deed, executed in New York, February 7,
1873, just before his departure for England, was forwarded with a
friendly personal letter of the same date, to Professor Henry of this In-
stitution, and was published in full in the Smithsonian Report of 1872,
pages 104-106. By this grant it was found that he assigned to our peo-
ple the liberal fund of $13,033, in the following gracious terms,—omitting
here all but the more essential passages :

“As an evidence of my good-will toward the people of the United
States, I desire to devote this sum of $13,033 to the advancement of
theoretic science and the promotion of original research, especially in
the department of physics, in the United States.

“To accomplish this object I hereby appoint Prof. Joseph Henry, Sec-
retary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington City, D. C., Dr. E.
L. Youmans, et New York, and General Hector Tyndale, of Philadelphia,
to act as a board of trustees to take charge of the above sum—to care-
fully invest it in permanent securities; and i further direct that the
said board shall, for the present, appropriate the interest of the fund
in supporting or in assisting to support, at such European universities
as they may consider most desirable, two American pupils who may
evince decided talents in physics, and who may express a determina-
tion to devote their lives to this work. My desire would be that each
pupil should spend four years at a German university—three of those
years to be devoted to the acquisition of knowledge, and the fourth to
original investigation.

‘‘ If however in the progress of science in the United States, it should
at any time appear to the said board that the end herein proposed
would be better subserved by granting aid to students, or for some
special researches in this country, the board is authorized to make the
appropriations from the income of the fund for such purposes.

‘‘T further direct that vacancies which may occur in said board, by
death or otherwise, shall be filled by the president of the National
Academy of Sciences.”

Even with the wise and far-seeing provision for discretion of judg-
ment vested in the trustees by the donor, they experienced much
greater difficulty in satisfactorily carrying into effect the enlightened
purpose of the grant than could have been anticipated. One promising
student, in the uncertainty of devoting his life to the career of scientific
research contemplated, very honorably returned to the trustees the sum
advanced to him. Another, after hesitating as to the condition of re-
maining for four years in a German or other European university,
finally declined to avail himself of the opportunity afforded him. It
thus resulted, from the conscientious administration of the trust, and
the earnest desire of the trustees to execute the expressed wishes of
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Professor Tyndall, that but a small portion of the income of the fund
has been expended, and the original sum has been thereby augmented.

On the death of two of the trustees—Professor Henry, at Washing-.

ton, and General H. Tyndale, at Philadelphia,—Dr. F. A. P. Barnard, of
New York, and Prof. Joseph Lovering, of Cambridge, Mass., were duly
appointed as their successors; and how judiciously the trustees have
continued to husband the resources committed to them is sufficiently
evinced by the remarkable fact that the Tyndall fund has now ac-
cumulated, by the constaut addition to it of the unappropriated income,
from the original sum of $13,000, to $32,000.

Under these circumstances the distinguished donor has been induced
to modify the original conditions of the gift, so as to divide the in-
creased principal into three separate funds (of nearly $11,000 each), and
to give the charges thereof, respectively, to Harvard College at Cam-
bridge, Columbia College at New York, and the University of Pennsyl-
vania at Philadelphia, for the perpetual maintenance in each of these
institutions of learning, of a graduate fellowship in the department of
physics. There can be little doubt that this change of the direction
was, under the peculiar circumstances, eminently judicious; and that
the several endowments will constitute brilliant pmzes to aspiring
American students, and will greatly contribute to the noble purpose of
their founder—the stimulation of original research, and the advance-
ment of physical science in the United States.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Arrangement of material.—The regular work of the Museum has been
considerably interrupted during the six months now under consideration
by the participation of the Museum in the World’s Industrial and Cotton
Centennial Exposition at New Orleans. Several members of the staff
were in attendance at this exposition, in custody of the collections of the
Museum there displayed, and in May and June ten curators and me-
chanics were sent to New Orleans to attend to the re-packing and for-
warding of the collections sent by the Smithsonian Institution, as well
as to care for the numerous exhibits transferred to the Museum by for-
eign and domestic exhibitors at the close of the exposition. The extent
of these accessions was very considerable. One hundred and seventy-six
thousand pounds of exhibits were sent to New Orleans. Of this amount
138,624 pounds were sent direct, 19,814 pounds from Cincinnati, and
17,631 pounds from Louisville, at each of which places the Smithsonian
Institution had displayed large exhibits during the summer of 1884
320,744 pounds were returned, including 51,267 pounds received from the
State Department, whose valuable exhibit, gathered by the United States
consuls all over the world, was transferred in bulk to the National Mu-
seum with the understanding that a limited number of loan exhibits
were reserved for return to their owners. Besides this amount, 74,489
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27

pounds were acquired by gifts from Mexico and other sources. In ad-
dition to the collections consigned directly to the Museum from New
Orleans, theimportant collection illustrating the uses of American woods,
gathered for the exhibit of the Agricultural Department by Mr. William
Saunders, has, since its receipt in Washington, been delivered to the
Museum. At the beginning of July a considerable portion of the collec-
tions had already been received, and many of the exhibition halls of the
‘Museum, which before this time had been reduced to an appearance of
order, were becoming filled up with the unopened boxes and cases. Itis
however confidently expected that before the end of the calendar year
the new material will be unpacked and brought under control. A
special appropriation of $7,500 was made by Congress for the packing
and forwarding of the new material, and for repairing and reinstalling
the original collection. The New Orleans Exposition, although its in-
fluence was perhaps less comprehensive than that at Philadelphia in
1876, has nevertheless accomplished a great work in the South and
West, both from commercial and educational standpoints, and in my
judgment the money appropriated for the display of the Smithsonian
Institution (including the United States National Museum and Fish
Commission) has been productive of important results to the country.
There can be no doubt that the National Museum has been the gainer
by the undertaking, although the work of final arrangement has re-
ceived a temporary set-back.

The general work of the Museum has been for the most part of the
same character as that described in my reports for the last three years,
and in tlearly every department the curator states that decided progress
has been made in the development both of the study and the exhibition
series of specimens. The work of case-construction has been steadily
carried forward, and during the coming year the collections will be more
thoroughly classified than has hitherto been possible, by the assignment
of definite space for each department in the exhibition balls. The gal-
leries of the main exhibition hall in the Smithsonian building have been
cleared of the old exhibition cases, which proved to be inadequate to
present needs, and the space is being used temporarily for the overhaul-
ing and arrangement of certain large collections in the departments of
birds, mollusks, marine invertebrates, invertebrate paleontology, and
ethnology. ‘This step has been found absolutely necessary, since the
space in the crowded laboratory rooms was not sufficient to admit of
any general rearrangement.

Museum Publications.—The various publications of the Museum have
been, as hitherto, under the editorial supervision of Dr. Tarleton H.
Bean. The seventh volume of the “Proceedings” was finished in Feb-
ruary, and of the eighth volume, the printing of which was begun in
March, 221 pages were printed prior to the Ist of July. At the present
time four Bulletins are in the hands of the printer, No. 23, ‘ Biblio-
graphy of the Publications of Isaac Lea, LL. D., by Newton Pratt
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Scudder: No. 28, “A manual of American Land Shells,” by W. G. Bin-
ney: No. 29, *‘ Results of Ornithological Explorations in the Comman-
der Islands and in Kamtschatka,” by Leonhard Stejneger, and No. 30,
‘ Bibliography of. Publications relating to the collection of fossil inver-
tebrates in the United States National Museum, including complete
lists of the writings of Fielding B. Meek, Charles A. White, and Charles
D. Walcott,” by John Belknap Marcou.* Circular 32, “Classification
of the Materia Medica Collection of the U. S. National Museum, and
Catalogue of Specimens,” by Dr. James M. Flint, revised and extended
by Dr. Henry G. Beyer; aud Circular 33, “‘ Notes on the preparation of
rough skeletons,” by Frederic A. Lucas, have also been published.

The publication of the special report upon the fisheries of the United
States, in quarto, which, in addition to its descriptive, historical, and
statistical contents, will in reality constitute a monograph of the Amer-
ican portion of the fisheries collection in the Museum, has been going
through the press under the supervision of the Assistant Director and
Mr. A. H. Clark, who are rendering this service to the Fish Commission
as volunteers.

Museum Library.—The accessions to the Museum library, including
books and pamphlets, have been 454. Early in the year Mr. H. W.
Spofford was appointed assistant to Mr. F. W. True, the librarian.

Visitors.—The total number of visitors to the National Museum dur-
ing the first half of 1885 was 107,365, a daily average of 6922.

Meetings in the Lecture Hall.—The lecture hall, as in previous years,
has been used for the meetings of several societies, viz, the National
Academy of Sciences, the American Fisheries Society, the Biological
Society of Washington, the Society of Naturalists of North America,
and the Entomological Society of Washington.

Saturday Lectures.—Twelve Saturday lectures, under the auspices of
the Biological and Anthropological Societies of Washington, were de-
livered in the lecture hall on successive Saturday afternoons, and were
well attended. Many of these lectures had direct reference to the work
of the Museum, and were illustrated by specimens from the cases.

Museum Report.—A special report upon the Museum having been or-
dered by Congress, the reports of the Assistant Director and curators
for the year 1884, together with the accompanying statistics and the
scientific papers based upon the collections in the National Museum,
have been in a measure separated from the regular Smithsonian report,
forming Part II of the same, and being arranged in a separate volume.

In accordance with my custom in previous years, I shall here present
a brief review of what has been accomplished in each department, refer-
ring to the special Museum report for the full discussion of the additions

*These form Parts II and III of ‘‘ Bibliographies of American Naturalists,” and are
shaped in reference to the long contemplated scheme of publishing a complete bibli-
ographical record of all papers relating to the collections in the National Museum.

ct Bi a ctl
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

to the Museum during the first half of 1885, and of the genera) adminis-
trative details of the work of the several executive officers.

Organization of the Scientific Departments.—The organization of cura-
torships in the several scientific departments is as follows: I, arts and in-
dustries, the assistant director, G. Brown Goode, acting as curator, di-
vided into the following sections: (a) materia medica, H. G. Beyer, U.S.
N., honorary curator; (b) textile industries, Romyn Hitchcock, acting
curator; (¢) fisheries, R. Edward Earll, curator; (@) animal preducts, R.
Edward Earll, acting curator; (e) naval architecture, J. W. Collins,
United States Fish Commission, honorary curator; (/) foods, W. C. At-
water, acting curator; (g) historical relics, at present under the charge
‘of A. H. Clark. II, A, ethnology, Otis T. Mason, curator, and II, B,
American prehistoric pottery, William H. Holmes, Bureau of Eth-
nology, Smithsonian Institution, honorary curator. III, antiquities,
Charles Rau, curator. IV, mammals, Frederick W. True, curator. V,
A, birds, Robert Ridgway, curator; and V, B, birds’ eggs, Charles
Bendire, U. 8. A., honorary curator. VI, reptiles and batrachians,
H. C. Yarrow, U. 8. A., honorary curator. VII, fishes, Tarleton H.
Bean, curator. VIII, comparative anatomy, Frederick W. True, hon-
orary curator. IX, mollusks, William H. Dall, honorary curator; X,
insects, C. V. Riley, honorary curator; XI, marine invertebrates, Rich-
ard Rathbun, curator. XII, A, invertebrate fossils, (paleozoic,) C.
D. Walcott, United States Geological Survey, honorary curator; and
XII, B, invertebrate fossils, (meso-cenozoic,) C. A. White, United States
Geological Survey, honorary curator. XIII, A, fossil plants, and XIII,
B, recent plants, Lester F. Ward, United States Geological Survey,
honorary curator. XIV, minerals, F. W. Clarke, United States Geo-
logical Survey, honorary curator. XV, lithology and physical geol-
ogy, George P. Merrill, acting curator. XVI, metallurgy and econo-
mic geology, Fred. P. Dewey, curator. The departments of explora-
tion and field-work, chemistry, experimental physiology, and vivaria
are still unorganized. These twenty-seven departments and sections
are administered by twenty-four curators, honorary curators, and act-
ing curators, of which number at present only nine receive salaries
from the Museum appropriation. Of the remaining fifteen, five are of-
ficers connected with the Geological Survey; one, an officer of the Bureau
of Ethnology; two, officers of the Fish Commission ; two, officers in the
United States Army ; one, an officer in the United States Navy; one,
au Officer in the Agricultural Department; and one, professor of chemis-
try in Wesleyan University ; the remaining two are Museum officers,
but receive no salaries for their work in administering upon thé special
collections under their charge.

Department of Arts and Industries.—In the department of arts and
industries several sections have already been organized ; that of Materia
Medica, under the charge of Dr. H. G. Beyer, U. S. N., who has been de-
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tailed for this service by the Surgeon-General of the Navy, is in excel-
lent condition, and the collection is the most extensive of its kind in
America. The work of labelling has been finished, and during the year
the exhibition series will be extended and rearranged. Dr. Beyer is
prosecuting a chemical investigation of the different species of cinchona
barks in the collection, numbering over one hundred, and has made
some important determinations of the alkaloids of some cinchona barks
from new regions in Guatemala and Costa Rica. He hasalso carried on
investigations upon the physiological actions of atropia, cocaine, and
caffeine, on the circulatory apparatus, the results of which have already
been published in the ‘ American Journal of the Medical Sciences.”
Other experiments on the action of atropine on the heart and of blood
at different temperatures on the same, have been discussed in the Pro-
ceedings of the Museum.

In the section of foods, under the honorary curatorship of Professor
Atwater, some progress has been. made in the work of building up a
collection illustrating the physiological action of foods and the composi-
tion of the human body, similar to the famous collection in the Bethnal
Green Museum,in London. Mr. Hitchcock, who is acting curator of this
collection, has, however, devoted most of his time to the development of
the section of textiles, which is directly under his charge. This section
has been largely increased by donations from abroad, but especially
through collections made by himself while preparing for the Exposition
at New Orleans. The object of these collections is twofold, first, to af-
ford an exhibit of the various textile fibers available for use in this coun-
try and abroad, with specimens of articles made therefrom, such as cloth,
rope, twine, mats, &c.; second, to provide a series of specimens of every
fiber that can be used in the arts, to be used for scientific examination,
tests of tensile strength, and especially to serve as type specimens
for the identification of other fibers by microscopical examination. A
number of collections which have been received are worthy of special
mention. Among these, a particularly fine set of fibers from Brazil,
collected by Dr. J. Carlos Berrinni, of Quissaman, who has devoted un-
usual care and labor to the work. All the textile fibers in the Museum
of the Department of Agriculture were placed in Mr. Hitchcock’s charge
during January, and from this collection some valuable specimens have
been selected and placed on exhibition. Mr. George W. Bond, of Boston,
has selected a large collection of native and foreign wools from samples
belonging to the United States customs department which have been pre-
pared for exhibition; they are not yet on exhibition, as the cases
for their display have not been made. This collection is probably al-
ready the best thing of the kind to be found m any museum, and when all
the wools belonging to the Museum collections are mounted, the display
of this textile will be, if not quite complete, at least very large and valua-
ble. Owing to the restricted floor space in the Museum which has been
assigned to this department, it has been impossible to make the display
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. af

‘of specimens as instructive and attractive as it might be. By far the
greater part of the collection, and some of the most interesting speci-
mens, have been sent to the Exposition at New Orleans, where this de-
partment was well represented. A detailed account however of the
display there made would not be of interest in this report, and the sub-
ject may be passed over with the statement that there were sent to
New Orleans 290 unit boxes to represent the textiles department of
the Museum. The display is said to have been very attractive. Mr.
Hitchcock has also been requested to take charge of the physical ap-
paratus belonging to the Smithsonian Institution which has been trans-
ferred to the National Museum and placed in cases. The arrangement
has been necessarily very unsystematic, owing to the limited space at
his disposal, but in a general way it is classified under three heads,
namely, apparatus for experiments on (1) sound, (2) heat and light,
and (3) electricity. A list of the instruments in this collection (which
is of interest as having been used by Professor Henry) is in course of
preparation. In connection with it may be mentioned the relics of
electrical and chemical apparatus of Dr. Joseph Priestley, which is on
exhibition in the same place.

The collection of historical relics has received but little attention
daring the six months, and no effort is at present being made to increase
its extent. Perhaps no part of the Museum is more attractive to visitors
than that in which the relics of General Washington are displayed, and
itis believed that the section of historical relies will receive from year to
year a constant increment of valuable memorials of the past. The heirs
of General Robert E. Lee have presented a claim for the recovery of
articles of furniture removed from Arlington in 1862, and since then on
exhibition with the Washington relics at the Patent Office and in the
Museum. Most of these appear never to have been the property of
General Washington. They will however be held in the Museum until
official instructions for their delivery have been received.

There has been little activity in connection with the section of fish-
eries, the section of naval architecture, and the collection of musical
instruments, all of which are however in excellent order and have
been considerably extended, though without direct effort.

An illustrated catalogue of the Catlin collection of Indian paintings
has been prepared by Mr. Thomas Donaldson, and will soon be offered
for publication.

Mr. J. E. Watkins, of Camden, N. J., who is one of the leading au-
thorities in the country upon the history of railroads and steam trans-
portation, and who is indorsed by many of the leading railroad men of
the country, was appointed in June honorary curator of the section of
steam transportation. It is intended, as opportunity offers, to gather
in the Museum a collection of objects illustrating the history of Amer-
ican railroads and steamboats, with a view to preserving permanently
the memorials of the growth of this most important interest which has
\

32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

been so closely connected with the material progress of the United
States. Several important specimens have already been received,
notably the “‘John Bull” locomotive engine, which was built in 1831
in England by George and Robert Stephenson for the “Camden and Am-
boy Rail and Tramway Company,” by which this engine was used from
1831 to 1861. This is now stored at the Armory building, but will be
placed on exhibition as soon as proper space can be provided.

Department of Ethnology.—The Curator of this department, Prof. Otis
T. Mason, having gathered the ethnological material belonging to the
Museum during the last half of 1884, commenced in 1885 its methodical
arrangement. The basketry, throwing-sticks, sinew-backed bows, and
the whole series of arrows, have been studied and classified, so as to
illustrate their distribution, tribal characteristics, and evolution. It is
designed to continue this system in the remaining portions of the col-
lection, with the view of better unfolding through the arts of savagery
the origin and development of civilization.

During the past six months the Curator made two official visits to the
New Orleans Exposition, for the purpose of securing for the National
Museum some of the material exhibited by the Departments of the Gen-
eral Government and of foreign countries. By this means the Museum
has obtained a large number of accessions. “Material of especial value
was also received from Rev. O. H. A. Dall, of Calcutta; Rev. Dr. George
W. Samson; Mr. James Stevenson, of the Bureau of Ethnology, and
others, which will be fully described in the Report on the National Mu-
seum. ;

Mr. William H. Holmes, of the Bureau of Ethnology, has continued
the installation of aboriginal pottery, directing his efforts chiefly to la-
belling, cataloguing, and classifying the accessions received in the sum-
mer and fall of 1884. The very extensive collections of Pueblo material
made for the World’s Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition in
New Orleans, arrived too late to be made fully available for exhibition,
but a small representative series of vessels and other objects of clay
was forwarded to New Orleans. The collection of ancient pottery, re-
cently obtained from Chiriqui, Panama, and partly paid for from the
exposition funds, was also represented. The most important accessions
have been from the explorations ot Mr. L. H. Aymé, in Mexico. It is
hoped that a portion, at least, of the pottery court will be opened to
the public by the end of the present calendar year.

Department of Antiquities——Dr. Charles Rau has continued his work
in the department of antiquities, carrying on toward completion the
system of arrangement which he began ten years ago. He reports im-
portant aecessions from the Bureau of Ethnology; from explorations of
Edward Palmer in Arizona; from Oaxaca, Mexico, by L. H. Aymé; from
Costa Rica, by J. C. Zeledon; and from the island of Guadaloupe by L.
Guesde. An exceedingly valuable collection of casts of the antiquities
of Mexico and Yucatan has been deposited in the Museum by Sefior
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. SO

Eufemio Abadiano, of Mexico, by whom they were made. This collec-
tion includes full-size reproductions of several exceedingly important ob-
jects, such as the Mexican Aztec Calendar Stone, the Sacrificial Stone,
the Aztec Goddess of Death (Teoyoamiqui), and the wonderful reclining
figure of Chac-Mool. This collection has been forwarded from New Or-
leans and will soon be on exhibition, and it is hoped that by some means
it may ultimately become the property of the Museum. It will be in-
stalled by the side of the Lorillard collection and other Central Amer-
ican antiquities. These two collections of casts, together with the orig-
inals already in possession of the Museum, will entirely fill one of the
small exhibition galleries and constitute a display of native American
sculpture and architecture which is equalled nowhere else in the world.

Department of Mammals.—At the beginning of the year the work of
the mammal department, incident upon the preparation of a collection
to be exhibited in New Orleans, having been entirely completed, the
regular routine work was resumed. The mammal exhibition hall had
been rendered less attractive than formerly by the removal of numerous
large specimens for the New Orleans Exposition, and a temporary re-
arrangement of the collections was attempted in order to make the
vacancies less conspicuous. During the first quarter of the year thirty-
three mounted specimens were added to the exhibition series, including
several large forms, such as a Siberian sheep, a baboon, &e. A list of
all the mounted mammals was made in February, and soon afterwards
temporary labels were written and distributed among the specimens.
Manuscript for printed labels for the entire’ series was also prepared.

In April the director of the Museum offered a reward for the capture
of a specimen of a spotted dolphin, said to be abundantin the Gulf of
Mexico. A freshspecimen was soon afterwards received through Messrs.
Warren & Stearns, of Pensacola, Fla., and proved to be of remarkable
scientific interest. On the 9th of April three telegrams were received
from life-saving station keepers announcing the stranding of cetaceans,
two having reference to blackfish stranded near Cape Henry, and the
third to a fin-back whale ashore near Truro, Mass. The most interesting
cetacean specimens received during the half-year were a male pygmy
sperm-whale (Kogia) and the skull of an Atlantic right-whale (Balena
cisarctica).

Messrs. Barnum, Bailey, and Hutchinson, Mr. Adam Forepaugh, and
the authorities of the Philadelphia Zoological Gardens (through Mr. A.
EK. Brown), and the Central Park Menagerie (through Mr. W. A. Conk-
lin), have continued to send many interesting animals in the flesh.

In June the chief taxidermist was ordered to New Orleans to super-
intend the packing of the mammals exhibited in that city. During his
stay he negotiated an exchange in behalf of the Museum by which three
valuable species of quadrumana were acquired, including a specimen of

the interesting gibbon, Hylobates concolor. The New Orleans exhibit
H, Mis. 15 3

34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

was not received at the Museum until after the 1st of July. (Fora de-
tailed account of this collection see Museum Report, 1884, p. 129.)

At the beginning of the year an office and a commodious laboratory
in the southwest pavilion of the Museum building were assigned to this
department. The collections are thereby made more accessible than
formerly.

Department of Birds.—Mr. Ridgway, curator of birds, reports that by
direction he prepared for exhibition at the New Orleans World’s Cotton
Exposition a collection of North American game birds, numbering 163
finely mounted specimens, and representing nearly all the species. The
exhibit was at first intended to be much more comprehensive, the original
plan being to exhibit all the known species of North American birds, so
far as they could be secured, together with typical groups to illustrate
the avian fauna of the several zo0-geographical divisions of the earth’s
surface. To this end more than 700 specimens were mounted on special
contract, it being impossible to make up a suitable collection from the
birds already mounted. The collection had been nearly completed on the
original plan when it became necessary, on account of the limited space
available, to make the great reduction which ensued. This collection
was installed by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, assistant curator, who for the
purpose left Washington January 3, and returned on the 16th of the
month. Dr. Stejneger reports that “in regard to completeness, perfec-
tion of mounting and preservation, scientific exactness, and popular in-
structiveness,” this collection “ was superior to any other ornithological
exhibit at the exposition.” The collection filled two double Museum
cases, fitted with two rows of terraced. shelves, the exhibition surface
amounting to a little over 600 square feet. Each specimen was mounted
on a stand of polished black walnut, and provided with a printed label
on which were printed in large, clear type both the scientific and popular
names. The curator also calls attention to the “ American Ornitholo-
gists’ Union,” which was formed at the urgent request of the various
ornithological interests of the country for the main purpose of harmon-
izing existing differences in the nomenclature of North American birds,
and thereby removing the most serious obstacle to the study of ornithol-
ogy. Atthe meeting of organization in New York City a “ committee on
classification and nomenclature” was formed, of which the curator of the
department of birds of the United States National Museum was made a
member ; and this committee, in pursuance of a call from the chairman,
held a meeting in Washington, from the 15th to the 23d of April, inclu-
Sive, in the oflice of this department, the collections of which weré ap-
pealed to in all cases where there was a difference of opinion among mem-
bers of the committee, and many perplexing problems were settled to the
satisfaction of the committee as a whole. The importance to ornithol-
ogy of this meeting, together with one held the previous year in the office
of this department. can searcely be overstated, the whole subject of zo-
ological nomenclature having been exhaustively reviewed and a care-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ay

fully prepared code adopted, in which the satisfactory rules of the exist-
ing codes were adopted and their unwieldy provisions rejected. This
new code has been the guide of the committee in the preparation of a
new list of North American birds, and will, without much doubt, be
adopted by zoologists generally. The curator having been charged by
the above-mentioned committee with the determination of names of
North American birds according to the new code of nomenclature, this
* duty has been carefully performed, and the copy for the new list put in
the hands of the president of the union. At this date the list is being
printed. The naturalists of the United States Fish Commission steamer
Albatross having made an extensive collection of birds on the almost
unknown island of Cozumel, off the coast of Yucatan, it became the
duty of the curator, as a part of his official work, to determine the spe-
cies and describe those which proved new to science. The latter were
no less than nineteen in number, of which the greater part have already
been published, while the remainder are described in a full report upon
the collection now being printed as a part of Volume VIII of the ++ Pro-
ceedings of the National Museum.” ‘The offer of the mounted birds—
which had for some years been on exhibition in the museum of the De-
partment of Agriculture, having been accepted by the National Museum,
the transfer of the specimens to the Smithsonian building was effected
during the month of May. This collection, numbering 712 specimens, con-
sisted largely of common North American birds, the mounting of which
was not up to the standard required for exhibition in the Museum col-
lection. Being however suitable for purely educational purposes, this
surplus stock is at present being made up into sets for distribution to
schools or other public educational establishments which may require
such material. - The remainder of the collection, consisting of a very
good series of the different varieties of the domesticated fowl and a
smaller number of specimens of exotic Phasianide, has been properly
arranged for exhibition in the Museum cases. Mr. Ridgway reports the
accession of 3,681 specimens of birds and 185 specimens of nests and
eggs.

Department of Fishes.—Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, curator of the department
of fishes, reports 297 entries on the catalogue. The most important collec-
tions were made, as usual, by the vessels of the United States Fish Com-
mission. The Albatross collections which are discussed in the Museum
report are very large and important. ‘The curator was aboard this
steamer from the 3d of January to the 20th of February, during her work
off the southern coast, and in the West Indies, Caribbean Sea, and the Gulf
of Mexico, up to the time of her arrival at New Orleans. He was sent out
to make observations upon the living specimens of the deep-sea fishes
and upon the southward range of the east coast food-fishes. During the
week spent at the island of Cozumel he had opportunity, incidentally,
of aiding Mr. Benedict in securing a large series of the birds of that
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

island, while the seining for fishes along the shore yielded 57 species.
At New Orleans a short time was spent in attaching descriptive labels
to casts of fishes in the Exposition.

Department of Comparative Anatomy.—This department is under the
care of Mr. F. W. True, curator of mammals. Early in the year a number
of exhibition cases were set up in the east south range, and in the latter
part of February a provisional arrangement of the exhibition series of
vertebrate skeletons was effected. A month later the entire collection of
bird skeletons was brought from the Smithsonian building and stored in
the range. An arrangement was made with the authorities of the Army
Medical Museum for the exchange of a collection of human skulls for
skeletons and skulls of North American vertebrates, and in April the
first in stallment, consisting of about 500 skulls and 550 skeletons of
North American vertebrates, was transferred to the United States Na-
tional Museum. An agreement was also entered into between the Army
Medical Museum and the National Museum to undertake post-mortem
examination of animals in the flesh received by the Institution, and of
which the donors desired to know the cause of death. <A series of casts
of bones of Dinoceras, presented by Prof. O. C. Marsh, was also placed
on exhibition. The osteological preparator and his assistant were con-
stantly engaged in cleaning skeletons and: mounting them for exhibi-
tion. One of the most interesting of the recently exhibited skeletons is
that of Khytina gigas, obtained in Bering Island by Dr. L. Stejneger for
the Institution. Some progress has been made in the preparation of a
series of specimens illustrative of the modifications of the limbs and
other portions of the skeletons in the different classes of vertebrates.
Iixperiments in special cases for the exhibition of this and other simi-
lar series have proved very successful. But little work has been done
in connection with the reserve series except for the purpose of deter-
mining whether the specimens were in good order.

Department of Mollusks.—This department has been making extra-
ordinary progress under the charge of Mr. William H. Dall, assisted by
Dr. RK. E.C. Stearns. Mr. Dall reports that the department under his
charge has been making steady advance in its administration upon the
mass of accumulations of the last ten years, and, except in regard to the
New Orleans exhibit, has little more to offer than a record of such un-
eventful work which is indispensable for making the collections useful
. for the paleontologist or the conchologist who may desire to consult it.
The most interesting accession was a small lot of Japanese shells con-
tributed by Mr. Uchimura, which contains several great rarities. The
preparation of material for the New Orleans Exposition, which absorbed
several months’ time prior to the beginning of the year, was completed
under the direction of Dr. Stearns, so that the boxes containing the
specimens and the cases required for their display reached. their desti-
nation and were ready for arrangement early in January. About the
middle of the month Dr. Stearns proceeded to New Orleans and re-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

mained there until the installation of this exhibit was completed. The
exhibit in this division of natural history probably surpassed, in extent
and general excellence, any previously made at any great lixhibition.
It was arranged in 21 table-cases, the specimens being placed in inside
trays and labelled. The general system followed was a geographical
one, and presented a characteristic representation of the more con-
spicuous and interesting forms of the various zoological geographical
provinces. The exhibit included several cases of the fresh-water mus-
sels of the Mississippi drainage area, which is remarkable for the great
number and beauty of the shells; also the rare and peculiar forms be-
longing to this group from other parts of the world. The land and pond
snails of the Mississippi basin were each represented by a separate case.
The marine shells of the Atlantic coast of America from the Arctic Sea
to the Caribbean, and the sea-shells of the Pacific coast from Bering Sea
to Panama, were also shown, including the principal species inhabiting
the tidal areas of Puget Sound to tbe north and the Gulf of California
to the south. Other cases contained selected specimens from the Indo-
Pacific region, such as live in the warm waters of tbe great coral areas
of the tropical and semi-tropical seas between the shores of Western
America and Eastern Asia. Four cases were devoted to the edible
mollusca of the United States. Two of these contained clams, cockles,
&c., of the Atlantic seaboard, and two cases were devoted to similar
forms peculiar to the coast of Western North America from Alaska to
San Diego, Cal. The systematic and critical selection of the foregoing
involved a great deal of work and the overhauling of a large quantity
of material, the accumulation of many years. This labor was however
incidentally advantageous to the Museum, as a considerable portion of
the work consisted in the examination and partial preparation of mol-
luscan material, hereafter to be incorporated in the national collection,
and of very. great importance for reference in connection with the study
of fossil forms of the Quaternary or even of the Tertiary age. Unlike
the results to some other departments of the Museum, the Exposition
contributed little or nothing to this section, and indeed the Museum
was the only contributor of an important molluscan exhibit.

Department of Insects.—Prof. C. V. Riley continues to perform the
duties of curator without assistance; but arrangements have been made
for the appointment of a paid assistant curator for the next fiscal year.
Professor Riley reports a number of important accessions, including a
large collection of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera sent from Sikkim by the
Rev. C. H. A. Dall, of Caleutta. A varied collection of insects was se-
cured by the United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross from
the West Indian region, and an important general collection of alco-
holie material was received from Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U.S. A., stationed
at ort Wingate, New Mexico. The most valuable addition to the collee
tion during these six months, from a classificatory standpoint, however,
was the dipterological collection of Mr. Edward Burgess, treasurer of the
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Boston Society of Natural History, which was obtained by purchase ;
while the most valuable, from a popular and economic view, is the ex-
hibit collection prepared for the New Orleans Exposition. This has
been returned with little injury, and is only awaiting space for perma-
nent exhibition in the Museum. It is made up of the following material,
arranged in cases made on the same unit plan as those of the Museum:

(1) Insects injurious to Agriculture.—Arranged according to the partic-
ular plant and the particular part of the plant affected, and containing, as
far as possible, the different states of growth of the insect, its enemies
and parasites, a statement of the remedies or preventives available, and
a reference to the chief articles where full information can be found upon
it. These references are principally to Government and State reports,
to which the farmer will most likely have access.

(2) Insecticide Substances.—In the catalogue of this collection the aim
has been to add, as briefly as possible, a statement of the method of
using: such substances, so that whenever in the first section a particular
substance is recommended for a particular insect, the reader can turn
to this second section for further details.

(3) Insecticide Machinery and Contrivances for Destroying Insects.—In
the catalogue of this section there is also added such information as
will add to the instructive value of the exhibit, and a large proportion
of the more useful contrivances are such as have been designed and
perfected in the work of the entomological division, or of the United
States Entomological Commission during the past five years.

(4) Bee-culture.—This collection is designed to show all the more val--
uable methods and contrivances now in use among the advanced apia-
rians.

(5) Silk-culture.—In this collection the aim has been to make the exhibit
instructive rather than full in detail. The collection includes, in addi-
tion to the foregoing,a number of framed plates, both colored and plain,
which have been prepared in the work of the division; and a number of
Prof. Riley’s enlarged colored diagrams of some of the more important
injurious insects were also used. <A catalogue of this exhibit has been
published under the direction of the Department of Agriculture, giving
a full and detailed statement of its contents.

The routine work of the department has consisted in answering let-
ters and in acknowledging and determining accessions. A good deal
of work has also been done in the proper arrangement and classifying
of material, particularly in the Micro-Lepidopteraand in the Lepidoptera
generally. In this work Professor Riley was assisted by Mr. Albert
Koebele, who was detailed from the Department of Agriculture for the
purpose.

The researches in entomology have been made chiefly in connection
with Prof. Riley’s work for the Department of Agriculture; and some
of the results have been published in the bulletins and publications of
said Department.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

Department of Marine Invertebrates.—Mr. Richard Rathbun, curator,
reports that the most important addition to this department was made
by the United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross in April, on
her return from a three months’ cruise in the Gulf of Mexico, mainly
spent in investigating the grouper and red-snapper fishing grounds off
our southern coast. The collection turned over to the Museum was
much larger and eontained many more novelties than that made by
the Albatross in the same region and the Caribbean Sea the previous
year, and the unassorted materials filled nearly 1,000 packages of all
sizes. Of most interest was a series of several hundred specimens of
sea-lilies, mostly collected off Havana, Cuba, and representing the
various stages of growth of two species of Pentacrinus and of one of
Rhizocrinus. Over 30 species of Echini, or sea-urchins, were also con-
tained in the collection, and other divisions of the Echinodermata, as
well as the Celenterata, Crustacea, and Mollusca, were very fully rep-
resented. The bathymetrical range covered by these explorations ex-
tended from the shore level to a depth of 1,467 fathoms. Prof. A.
E. Verrill, of New Haven, has transferred to the Museum over 1,000
packages of identified specimens resulting from the explorations of
the Fish Commission in former years. Mr. Henry Hemphill continued
his collecting on the Florida coast, begun the previous winter, until
March of this year, and has contributed several cases of specimens
belonging to many groups. The other principal accessions have been
a fine series of the sea-urchins and star-fishes of the west coast of
Mexico from Mr. A. Forrer, numerous specimens of Pacific corals and
echinoderms from Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, and the collection of marine
invertebrates made by Lieut. George M. Stoney, U. 8. N., in Alaska,
in 1884. Much progress has been made in the determination and cat-
aloguing of specimens. Prof. Walter Faxon has completed his studies
of the collection of cray-fishes, which is now the second in the United
States in size and number of species, being exceeded only by that
at the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge. It contains 46
North American species. The collection of echini, which holds the
same relative rank, has also been almost completely identified, and other
groups are being rapidly worked over. In June the west hall of the
Smithsonian building, devoted to the exhibition of marine invertebrates,
was opened to the public, and elthough the collections now displayed
fill only the wall cases surrounding the room, they present a very credit-
able appearance, and all the groups belonging to this department are
represented to a greater or less extent. he dried collections not on
display have been mostly transferred to the northwest gallery of the
main hall, which will also serve as a general work-room for the depart-
ment. Soon after the middle of June the curator and his assistants
left for Wood’s Holl, Mass., to take part in the summer explorations of
the United States Fish Commission.
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Department of Invertebrate Fossils ( Paleozoic). —Mr. Charles D. Wal-
cott, honorary curator of this department, reports that his principal
work has consisted in identifying and labelling a collection of Carbon-
iferous fossils which were in the old Smithsonian collection. This work
is now well advanced, and will soon be completed as far as identifying
the species from the old records can be done. In the laboratory the
time of the curator has been chiefly devoted to ‘the preparation and
study of the Cambrian faunas of North America. This has been done
in connection with his work for the Geological Survey. A large num-
ber of types and a great quantity of specimens of described species
will be added to the Museum collections as a result of this work. A
number of minor accessions have been received from various persons
throughout the country. A large addition was made to the collection
in the latter part of 1884, a full discussion of which was presented in
the report for that year, and another valuable contribution from the
Geological Survey will probably be made in the latter part of the pres-
ent year.

Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Meso-cenozoic).— Dr. Charles A.
White, the honorary curator of this department, states that a number
of important accessions have been received during the first six months
of this year, and that some of them constitute new additions to the col-
lection. Descriptions of these have been published in the various bul-
letins of the United States Geological Survey. The work of preparing
the collections of the Museum has been in progress, and the installation
of types has been commenced. Since the beginning of the year con-
siderable space has been assigned to this department in the gallery of
the Smithsonian Institution, and the work of preparing materials for
exhibition has steadily progressed. The space in the southeast court
of the Museum building is occupied by specimens belonging to this de-
partment which have been turned over by the Geological Survey to
the Museum, and in this court the collections are prepared for instal-
lation.

Departments of Fossil and Recent Plants.—Prof. Lester F. Ward, cura-
tor, reports that the work of his department was exclusively confined
to fossil plants until near the close of the year 1884, and no collections
of recent plants were received until February last, when rooms were
assigned to him for the purpose, and the large Joad collection from
Kew was placed in his charge. With this Professor Ward joined his
own collection, consisting of nearly 5,000 species. The two collections
combined form a nucleus of not less than 14,000 species, including
twice as many herbarium specimens for a future herbarium. He sub-
mits the following suggestion:

‘‘ All botanical collections have for many vears been turned over to
the Department of Agriculture, to be cared for by the botanist of that

Department. When in 1881 I was requested to take charge of the
fossil plants of the National Museum, and consented to do so, I per-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

ceived at once the great inconvenience which this arrangement would
cause to the department of fossil plants. The collections of fossil plants
were largely undetermined, and required to be studied and identified.
Most of them were from recent formations, and represented types of veg-
etation still living, requiring constant comparison with the recent forms
to be seen in herbaria. Even the installation and care of those that were
named necessitated such comparison, and the difficulties of this nature
that were encountered were very great. It was rarely possible to carry
the fossils to the Department of Agriculture, and as it was usually
necessary to search through large families of plants, the temporary
transportation of the botanical specimens was still more impracticable.
I therefore early began to urge the establishment at the Museum of a
permanent collection of the plants still growing in America and other
countries where the analognes of fossil plants were likely to occur.
While I am highly gratified at the progress in this direction already
made, as reported above, it must however be evident that only a begin-
ning has thus far been made, and that the present collection of living
plants is still very inadequate. The Joad collection represents chiefly
the flora of Southern Europe, which is widely different from all Tertiary
floras, and especially so from the Cretaceous and Tertiary floras of North
America. The collections that I have made are exclusively American,
and, so far as they go, are valuable aids to the study of American fossil
plants, but they are, of course, too limited in extent to be trusted in
critical cases. The parts of the world next after those in North Ameri-
ca with which our fossil floras most closely agree, are Eastern Asia, the
East Indies, Australia, and South Africa, and from all these vast re-
gions scarcely any representatives are to be found in the present her-
barium of the National Museum. It is therefore highly desirable, as a
necessary adjunct to the department of fossil plants, and aside from
the still greater desideratum of establishing a truly national herbarium
at the Museum, that all reasonable efforts be made to enlarge and en-
rich the botanical collections.”

The technical botanical work of the department has been intrusted to
Mr. Frank H. Knowlton, who in addition to identifying and installing
the material, has devoted much time to bibliographical research, and to
the development of the sectional library. Very large collections have
been made by Mr. A. L. Schott during the spring and summer months
from the parks and gardens of the city. These collections are designed
primarily to aid in the preparation of a catalogue of the ornamental plants
of Washington, but while serving this purpose, they are at the same time
valuable accessions to the herbarium and highly useful in connection
with the study of fossil plants. In collecting and preserving these speci-
mens Mr. Schott has shown great industry and skill. In addition ta
this work Mr. Schott has undertaken the preparation of a cheek-list of
genera from the ‘Genera Plantarum” of Bentham and Hooker, of which
about half the manuscript was completed at the end of June. The time
of the curator was almost exclusively spent in the study and determina-
tion of fossil plants collected by himself, and over one hundred species,
many of which are new, were identified and will be duly incorporated
in the Museum collections,
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Department of Minerals.—This department has been under the charge
of Prof. F. W. Clarke, assisted by Mr. William S. Yeates. There have
been made during the first half of the year 554 entries, representing
2,137 specimens, all of which are new accessions, except 138 specimens
which were found in the old collections without evidence of having been
previously catalogued. Eighteen sets of minerals have been sent out
as exchanges, comprising about 1,200 specimens, and much valuable
material has been obtained in return. This department was represented
at New Orleans by collections of the minerals from which are obtained
gems and ornamental stones, and also by a collection of cut and polished
stones. These collections attracted the general attention of connois-
seurs and visitors at the Exposition. The minerals were classified after
Dana’s system, and were arranged in seven flat-top table-cases. The
gems were displayed in two cases, the specimens being mounted on
white and black velvet pads. This department did not secure a large
amount of new material from the New Orleans Exposition, most of the
mineral collections on exhibition belonging to private individuals, to
whom the agents were responsible for the safe return of their specimens:
One-half of the southwest court has been assigned to this department
as its exhibition space, and the collections have been removed thither.

Department of Lithology and Physical Geology—The curator, Mr.
George P. Merrill, was on duty at the New Orleans Exposition at the
beginning of the year, but has nevertheless accomplished very satis-
factory results in the work of reinstalling the collections upon the ex-
tended floor-space recently assigned to this department. The opening
of the year found the affairs of this department in a quiescent though
somewhat confused state, owing to the fact that since the preceding
July the entire energies of the working force had been devoted to the
preparation of the exhibit designed for the New Orleans Exposition,
and the regular work of the Museum had consequently fallen behind.
The special exhibit was completed late in December and the extra
hands discharged. This exhibit consisted of (1) a collection of 358
specimens of building and ornamental stones of the United States in
the form of four-inch cubes; (2) a collection of some 12 specimens of
foreign and native marbles in the form of polished slabs; (3) a collec-
tion of 150 specimens of rock-forming minerals; (4) a collection called
a “structural series,” intended to represent all the common forms of
’ rock structure and texture; (5) a collection of 198 specimens of rock
illustrating the geology and lithology of the Comstock lode and Wa-
shoe district, Nevada; and (6) a lithological collection comprising 500
specimens of various rocks; this last together with numbers 3 and 4
forming a part of the regular educational series of the Museum. As
these collections were all fully described in the report of this depart-
ment for 1884, no further reference to them in this place is necessary.
The large quantity of building-stone and other material occupying
the space in the southwest court, was removed and stored temporarily
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

in a shed outside the eastern entrance to the Museum, the court being
thus available for exhibition purposes. By a reassignment of exhibi-
tion space, the exhibition area of this department was made to include
the whole of the west-south range, instead of a portion of this range
and a portion of the court, as heretofore. The new arrangement is
vastly preferable both on account of the better light thus obtained and
of greater convenience in arranging and classifying the exhibit. In May
the force of the department was again increased by the addition of one
aid, one clerk, and three stone-cutters, and the preparation of a collec-
tion of building-stones commenced for the American Museum of Natural
History in New York. This collection will, when complete, comprise not
less than one thousand specimens, and an equal number of thin sections
for microscopical study. This work was still in progress at the end of
June. The number of entries in the department catalogue during the
six months has been 486, comprising some 700 specimens. These will
be fully described in the Museum report for the first half of 1885. Con-
siderable time has been devoted to the preparation of the various ex-
hibition series, particularly those included under lithology, and histori-
eal, dynamical, and structural geology. The last three are as yet far
from completion, and at the present rate of progress, which is neces-
sarily very limited, must so continue for several years. On this point
Mr. Merrill comments as follows:

“J may, perhaps, be pardoned for mentioning here the fact that from
past experience, | am convinced that the only satisfactory way in which
these last-named branches of my department can be built up, is to
allow the curator, or some experienced person, a certain sum of money
to be expended either in the purchase of collections under his direet
supervision, or of especially desirable material. A very considerable
portion of the material now necessary for this purpose is of such a
nature—principally on account of the bulk and weight of the speci-
mens—as to be beyond the scope of the ordinary collector, and in too
little demand to be found in many of the natural-history stores. I
might mention such examples as fault structure, examples of folds,
contortion, false bedding, &c., which can scarcely be obtained by other
than the means suggested.”

Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology.—At the opening of
the year the curator, Mr. F. P. Dewey, was still detained at New Or-
leans, arranging the collection which had been sent from his depart-
ment to the Exposition, and he did not return to Washington till the
middle of January. The design of the special exhibit of this department
was to show, as far as the time and means at his disposal would per-
mit, the prominent occurrences of each metal, the methods of extract:
ing the metals from their ores, and the utilization of the metals. To
these were added a few illustrations of non-metallic ores and their
utilization, including a very extensive and valuable illustration of the
coal industry. Most of the ore material was selected from the Museum
collection, and only a very few new collections were made. These lat-
ter were taken upon a systematic plan representing the mine as a unit
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

rather than to gather a few specimens selected at random, as is usually
done. In following the plan, specimens were taken to represent sections |
across and up and down the vein, and to show an average of the product
of the vein, while to these were added the walls and other interesting
material. In representing the extraction and utilization of the metals,
tbe plan adopted was to begin with the ore as it leaves the mine, and to
follow it through the various steps in all the operations to the production
of the finished article, showing,when possible, every material entering into
each operation, as well as every product of each operation. In the case of
coal, the collections were based largely on the ethnological aspects of the
question, and thus included many specimens aside from those of an eco-
nomic or geological value. Throughout the new collections of the depart-
ment special attention has been paid to gathering as full and completea de-
scription of everything shown as possible, while the pictorial side of the
question has been treated very elaborately and includes some views of the
interior of a coal mine taken by electric light, the first views of the kind
ever produced. These collections form a basis for a full and complete rep-
resentation of the mineral resources of the country, and it is hoped that
they will increase until they shall have attained their highest educa-
tional value. They have been fully described in Museum Circular No.
dl. The regular force of the department having been redticed to a
scientific assistant and a laborer, the work of preparing the collections
in the Museum has been at a comparative stand-still during the first
half of the year. The laboratory of this department has been moved to
the second floor of the southwest pavilion, and the work-room on the
floor of the Museum has been cleaned out and space prepared for ex-
hibition purposes, so that now the entire work of preparing material for
exhibition has been concentrated into one place. The work of investi-
gating the New Orleans material has been carried on as far as practi-
cable, and, with the assistance of Mr. Allen, a number of very valuable
analyses have been made. A large number of accessions have been re-
ceived, among which may be specially mentioned a collection from the
Argo works, presented by Hon. N. P. Hill, a series donated by the
Copper Queen Company, and a series of apatite from many localities,
presented by Pickford & Winkfield, of London, England. In the middle
of May the curator returned to New Orleans to pack up the collection
and to solicit contributions for increasing the value of the permanent
collections. No attempt was made to obtain large, entire collections
without regard to their value to the Museum, requests being made
for material of only two classes, 7. e., that of intrinsic value, and such
as would fill gaps in our permanent collections. This effort was so
successful that much very valuable material was obtained and some
of the most important gaps were filled. Among the former should
be especially noticed the important and interesting collection received
from Mexico, and among the latter the valuable series of iron ores from
the Menominee region in Michigan. After the return of the curator to
REPORT OF THI; SECRETARY. 45

Washington in June, the collection presented to the Museum by the
American Institute of Mining Engineers, and which has for some years
been stored in Philadelphia, under the care of Mr. Thomas Donaldson,
commenced to arrive and claimed his attention during the remainder of
the fiscal year.

BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY.

For continuing the prosecution of ethnological researches among the
North American Indians during the year 1885, under the general super-
vision of the Smithsonian Institution, an appropriation of $40,000 was
made by Congress. The charge of this interesting work—so valuable for
the advancement of anthropological knowledge—still remains under the
efficient direction of Maj. J. W. Powell.

The explorations in this field for the collection of information and
material, being mainly conducted during the summer months, the re-
sults cannot be collated and discussed till late in the fall. And as the
present report is brought down only to the Ist of July, a notice of the
operations of this Bureau for the year 1885 must necessarily be post-
poned until the next annual report.

UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

While this important branch of the public service is in its organiza-
tion entirely independent of the Smithsonian Institution, yet its inti-
mate relations to the latter, not only in the advancement of original
scientific research, but particularly in the valuable contributions made
by it to the stores of the National Museum, have seemed to justify an
annual summary of its general operations. Maj. J. W. Powell continues
to administer in a highly satisfactory manner the responsible duties of
his position as Director of the Survey.

In this department also, as in that last referred to, the field work is
still in progress at the closing of this report. And hence, for the rea-
son assigned, no details of the work and its results can here be given.
The character of the geological operations for the year will be concisely
presented in the report of 1885~86.

THE UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION.

The work of the Commission has been prosecuted on about the same
scale as during the year 1884, the usual attention being paid to the pro-
duction of trout, salmon, whitefish, and other species, and to the gen-
eral investigations into the fisheries of the country.

The steamer Albatross, which was sent to the Gulf of Mexico, partly
to represent the United States Fish Commission at the New Orleans
46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Exposition and partly for the prosecution of research, was very success-
ful in her mission, attracting much attention at the exhibition, and
making many important explorations. .Included in these was a short
visit to Cozumel, an island off the coast of Yucatan, where many new
species of vertebrate animals were secured.

The investigations made at Wood’s Holl will be detailed in the next
report, as the work was begun after June 30, which represents the limit
of the present report.

Respectfully submitted.
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
WASHINGTON, July 1, 1885.
REPORT ON SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES, JANUARY 1 TO
JUNE 30, 1885.

By GrorGE H. BOEHMER.
OFFICE WORK.

On my return from an official mission to Europe as special agent for
the international exchange of official public documents of the United
States Government with foreign powers, to which position I had been
appointed by yourself, and at the request of Mr. Spofford, the Libra-
rian of Congress, on July 22, 1854, I resumed charge of the Exchange
Office on March 1, 1885. One of my first duties was the preparation of
reports to (1) the Smithsonian Institution, as the agent of exchange of
the United States Government, and (2) to the Library of Congress, as
the beneficiary under the Congressional act establishing this system of
exchange. The latter report is a manuscript of 620 pages of (42-line)
foolscap paper, and will in all probability be presented to Congress by
the Librarian of Congress through the Joint Committee on the Library.
The report to the Smithsonian Institution is a manuscript of over 500
pages foolscap, and comprises: (a) Letter of transmittal; (6) historical
sketch of international exchanges; (c) journal; (d) correspondence; (e)
bibliographical list of official and scientific publications made by the
Government departments and scientific and learned societies located in
Berlin, Germany. This list is as complete as could be collected during
the comparatively short sojourn in that city. Of this report only the
letter of transmittal, exhibiting a résumé in a condensed form of the
work performed, success attained, and certain observations made abroad,
will be given in the present statement, under the heading ‘“* Government
Exchange Division.”

Special attention had been given in .all the countries visited to the
collecting of reliable information and material to aid in the correction
of the “list of foreign correspondents.” In this endeavor 1 met with
the most generous assistance on the part of all officials to whom I made
known my wishes, and a full list of the co-operators in this enterprise
will be presented in the new and revised list prepared from the mate-
rial collected and now ready for publication. This new list comprises
over 4,000 titles, while the last one published by the Institution had
only 2,901. ae

The regular office work has received proper attention, and the first
six’ months of the present year close with a record never attained
before.

47
48 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

The Record Division.—The duties of this office have become so numer-
ous, that an additional assistant was this vear allowed. The work of
this division now embraces all the records and card catalogues under
the system adopted on the Ist of January, 1885. Under this system
all exchanges, whether incoming or outgoing, foreign or domestic, after
verifying the correctness of the sending, are entered on a blotter—this
work being done by the assistants in the foreign and domestic exchange
division, respectively ; these blotters are then transcribed by the clerks
of the record division in the day-book, from which the ledger, repre-
sented by a card catalogue, is posted. In addition to these duties, it
devolves on the clerks of this division to prepare the invoices for the
outgoing exchanges, and to credit on the ledger the acknowledgments
sent by recipients of exchanges, and to record and file letters, bills of
lading, &e.

The following statement exhibits the work done in this division dur-
ing the first six months:

Description. Number.
Forelon 'Cards'in 086/22 2235seais secretes ha ee eee ee cisco ee essen Ss eeeae 3, 375
Domestic) cards\in\ Use sae oe se eee eee eae ae eee ee eee ee eee 806
MOMeSsticlentries mad Geese eee ee eee ee eye slates alate tolete ol Stays cravat estste 11, 217
Horeignventries mademssiw. 32 op ak SS Soe aclawieas Cher ince see aaa eee 33, 651
TM VOLCES SWITGHOM x5 - ieee B sere AN aa rey rapes ete ate eget eye tees ean ie A en a 13, 576
Government packasesimeceliyed! 22 oss ceecle ee ones eee oan see eee 51, 600
Miscellaneous packagesimeceived 2222 ta ae. setae ieee oe eae 14, 042
Wuthers entered so tse ys Ley oe eke SN LS ee eer eee ere 433

TTerenin Hxechange Division.—Since January 1, 1885, 39,921 packages
have been received in this division and 383 boxes cote including the
Government exchanges. A comparative statement of boxes sent dur-
ing corresponding periods of former years present the following results :

Boxes. tae 1881. | 1882. | 1883. | 1884. | 1885.

as

INU OR a ce boc ee ais 72 155 168

The year 1884 exhibited an extraordinary inerease in the transmis-
sions, which was largely due to an arrangement for exchanges on the
part of the United States Patent Office with foreign Governments by
which 62 large cases were sent abroad through the Smithsonian Insti-
tution in June of that year. But notwithstanding this unusual send-
ing, the last six inonths show an inercase of 35 boxes over the similar
period of 1884. A detailed list will be presented in the statistics of
exchanges. }

Owing to the large addition in the work required under the present
system of preparing blotters, &e., and in consideration of the regular
increase both in incoming and outgoing exchanges, two (bempordiy)
assistants have been employed,
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. A9

The Domestic Exchange Division.—The work performed in this division
between January 1, 1885, and June 30, 1885, is as follows:

Description. Number.
Mot alipae ke COM CISUNID LOG 5 <. oto) aicieta ans nhs ao) <= 5 te eee enna onan 5, 138
ATTOUMCOMEMUSHW TOLD mers Geacaaicein@ a «= cos. sce ieee mereinine cete= cies 1, 830
AGUTERSESiWHIGLOD tose see oe sito ale cis cls elie aie, 62 bc sis sinemincme ae sinitacisicc os ce 7, 320
IRniriessmageunDlOtlenS 2. a: (-aeses eae 3 oe esac scence maseeeasacl 2 oa 5, 138

While now, as compared with 1884, the number of packages distrib-
uted does not apparently present any marked increase, it must be re-
‘nembered that until the end of August, 1884, all books for the Smith-
sonian Institution, whether received by mail or otherwise, were entered
on the exchange record; but since then the books for the Smithsonian
Institution, coming by mail, were sent direct to the Smithsonian Li-
brary without passing through the exchanges. Thus, while the num-
ber of entries on the exchange records has apparently remained the same,
an increase has in reality taken place, the extent of which is represented
by the number of packages sent direct to the Smithsonian Library.

VISIY TO EUROPE.

The Government Buchange Division.—On the 22d of July, 1884, hav-
ing been appointed as special European agent of the Library of Con-
gress for exchanging the official publications of the United States Gov-
ernment for like publications of foreign Governments, in accordance
with the Congressional acts of March 2, 1867, and July 2, 1868, I ven-
ture to here present, as a concise statement of the business accom-
plished, a reproduction of the letter transmitting the formal report:

‘““Obediently to the instructions received, and provided with letters
of credence (1) from yourself to the correspondents of the Institution
abroad, (2) from Mr. Spofford, on behalf of the Library of Congress to
the officers in charge of Government exchanges in Hurope, and (3)
from the Department of State to the officers of the diplomatic and
consular corps of the United States in Europe, I left on my mission on
the 24th of July, 1884, and successively visited the executive depart-
ments of the following countries: Germany, Prussia, Saxony, Denmark,
Norway, Sweden, Finland, Russia, Austria, Hungary, Roumania, Ba-
varia, Switzerland, Wurtemberg, Belgium, Holland, Hngland, Italy, and
France (several of them repeatedly), obtaining immediate results far
above all expectations, and securing the promise of further valuable
returns. In most of the countries visited even the promise of two com-
plete sets of official publications has been secured, while the Govern-
ment of the United States furnishes only one single copy to each of the
exchanging states. Austria has been added to the list of exchanging
Governments, and Germany and Prussia are also expected to be repre-
sented in a decided majority of their respective publications.

“One of the paragraphs of instruction, specifying the kind of docu-

H. Mis. 15——4
50 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

ments especially desired by the Librarian of Congress, mentions, among

others—

‘‘(a) Complete sets of the laws of each country.

“(b) Journals, &e., of parliamentary bodies.

“(¢) Historical publications.

‘Tn compliance with this paragraph I desire to state that on the part
of all the Governments visited the promise has been cheerfully given
(including even that of Gerinany and Prussia), and a number of them
have already redeemed their promise. Large collections have been re-
ceived from the Governments of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Hungary,

Saxony, Wurtemberg, Bavaria, Holland, Italy, France, and Switzer-,

Jand, while in furnishing collections of laws those of Wurtemberg and
Bavaria stand pre-eminent, the collection from the former extending
from the year 1289 to the present day. This is not a Government pub-
lization, but a private enterprise. The complete work had to be pur-
chased by the Government of Wurtemberg, and is now being presented
to the Government of the United States in appreciation of the many
and valuable documents presented under the Congressional act of Gov-
ernment documents exchange, while the collection from Bavaria com-
prises several hundred volumes. As regards historical publications the
Government of Switzerland stands pre-eminent in her promise to sup-
ply as complete a collection as can be obtained—a library in itself—
of the historical works of that Republic, while the Governments of
Saxony and Italy have already furnished some very valuable works.
Of other official publications a collection of 4,500 volumes of ‘“ Procés-
verbaux des conseils généraux des Départements Frangais,” received
from the French Government, may be named, while the offer of the
English Government of supplying the parliamentary papers from the
year 1817 to the end of 1881 also deserves mention.

“At first I met with great difficulties and vexations in carrying out the
designated plan of operations, mainly owing to the facts that all the
intercourse had been in a very indirect way of correspondence, and
that an agent of exchange had never visited the respective Govern-
ments, among whom some very singular ideas prevailed as to the true
position of the Library of Congress as regards this exchange, as well as
to its relative position to the Government of the United States and the
bodies representing the Government in its various branches, and in
consequence of which some very serious misapprehensions and miscon-
structions as regards the purpose of this exchange had occurred.

‘Another disadvantage which soon became painfully noticeable has
its origin in the entirely different organization and construction of the
exchange service of the European countries as compared with our own
system.

“While the United States Congress makes a liberal provision for the
printing and gratuitous.distribution of all official publications, from the
most inexpensive to the most costly production, in European countries
the respective governmental bureaus and departments relieve them-

oe
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 51

selves of any and all annoyances and cost attending the printing and
publishing of their various issues by giving the manuscript in com-
mission.to some enterprising and reliable publishing house. Thus the
work is at once thrown in the book trade and represents a commercial
value, and copies can only be supplied through the firm holding the
work on commission. The department may receive probably some 50
per cent. of the proceeds of the sales, which income greatly lessens the
cost of preparing the manuscript. The respective departments can
obtain copies only by purchase, and no legislation existing in those
countries like our Congressional act authorizing the exchange of official
documents, the one bureau, having undertaken the collecting and pro-
viding for the exchange with other Governments, has a very difficult
task in obtaining from the other departments the works required for
the purpose. It has no right to demand, but it is always the suppli-
cant for a favor, since such only it can be considered.

‘‘urthermore, the bureaus of exchange established (on the basis
adopted by the Paris convention in 1875) in a number of European
states are greatly restricted in their modus operandi by well-defined
laws, which prescribe distinctly that the official publications obtained
in the manner above described, and purchased from funds exclusively
allowed for the purpose, can be exchanged only for works of the same
(commercial) value. This, however, is a difficult matter in the case of
the United States publications, which represent no commercial value,
although they command very high figures in the book trade. Ibeg leave
here to quote from an English catalogue the prices of some of the more
important United States publications—the figures reduced to American
currency :

Publications. Prices.
Contributions to North American Ethnology, vol. 4....--..----- .----- ------ $11 25
Contributions to North American Ethnology, vol. 5 ...--.-..------.---.----- 10 50
Annual Reports, Bureau of Ethnology...--....--.--------.----- per volume..| 12 50
UessPish Commission Reports, 8 volumes.2-5s- s2-- ---- so secs osname sceee 45 00
Titan. ORR iichs Benes soe es eae ae ees ae ea ae per volume, about..| 5 00
LEST eH FLAC GENE HISE Wh) Let SP BO UES A A eee AS oh 15 75
Commercial Relations of the United States, 1880-1884........-.-.--- per set..| 27 50
LORS ONS LEC ly OnVOLUMES ssa eae eerie ces ecco ac cn ses Sea ienenienes 10 50
ANNUAL aeport mecrevary of War, 1880----5---- 5... ---. --.--. .-- ==. per set.-| 10 50
Mineral Resources of the United States ......-.---.------------ per volume... 7 50
APUBECN ECVE RVELNGM isa eA Se ei iercticia nine wjaieis Sane sa em ainceions doesent, 00
EAI SOP ETD MULOM ees eek ae os iaaa ce etc coe ce meebes ce eb aucce teem wees per set..| 10 50
lag ks Ell siOlg aKO bal eos ae ae aero ee aes o isec/ct Usain sa olga ele enincmctectaiies 18 75
EEA eM SUL VOVS OL VOLUMES, 400 ceric sees cians nae soe ac cine = +s e<uo ww mintcminnietela(= 75 00
Hayden Survey, Annual Reports, 12 volumes. ..-.......-.---------------- ---- 63 00
PmgiensOLvoy, AtlasiOl: ColoradOlscGcs jo. )4- <5 2-666 ~ a5-<)=na eee eee 15 75
King Survey, F ortieth Jeg Gl yee ee ea Se eepesoo np saee peso cr a= per set..} 157 00
NES. Geological Survey (Powell), Annual Reports.-.--.----- ----per volume..; 7 50
Wo 8. Geological Snrvcy, monoptaph v0l.2- 02. ...2.20.0---.\ ace Gee eee: 21 00
U.S. Geological Survey, Monopraph, WOl.draoo 2. 6 22 < esos es emcee armen een], cL OO
UesrGecolocicalisorvey, nionorraph, VOl. 4.22... 2-5. 1-28 Geeecemees once 7 50
LiesaGeolonicall Survey, monograph, VOl. op) 2-5. cxccc «<2 0 cin ewe meieeiclaciniae = « 14 2
Wheeler, Surveys West of the 100th Meridian -....-.---- ioe Sete per set..| 130 00

DORIS unesO iM VSN LOUD saree ein ae alos niae ie ols cx ine eam seg sammie one inanel= 11 25

52 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

‘“‘ Herein, and in the misconceptions above stated, we ‘may find an
explanation of the scant returns the Government of the United States
has received and of the incompleteness of the series furnished; and
though, through the kind and hearty co-operation of our diplomatic and
consular officers, I finally succeeded in placing, for a time at least, the ex-
changes on asound basis, allow me to suggest that the means of securing
for the Government of the United States full returns for the liberal pro-
visions made for the exchange, and of reaping the benefit of the prom-
ises obtained from the European Governments in the execution of my
mission, can only be found in the establishment of a permanent agency
in Europe, a precedent for which we find in the Congressional act of
June 26, 1848, wherein Congress charged the Library Committee with
the nomination of an agent to conduct the operations of the exchange
between France and the United States, which ought to be intrusted to
a person entirely familiar with the business and its requirements, who
is to keep himself always informed as to the quality and quantity of
the publications made by the European Governments, and who should
be capable of judging and selecting from the works thus offered such
as would compensate the Government of the United States in the fullest
measure in an exchange, value for value, the value of the United States
publications being accepted as they are quoted in the book trade, for
the works sent abroad, in compliance with the Congressional acts es-
tablishing this exchange.”

EXTENSION OF THE SYSTEM OF EXCHANGES.

With two Governments preliminary arrangements have been made
for an exchange of official publications, the extent of which however
has not yet been fully decided on. These Governments are those of the
Republic of Uruguay and of the Empire of Austria. The correspondence
relating to these arrangements is here given:

EXCHANGE WITH URUGUAY.

From Department of State, Washington. December 30, 1884, to Prof. S. F.
Baird, Smithsonian Institution.

DEAR Sir: I inelose a copy of a note from the Chargé d’ Affaires ad
interim of Uruguay here, touching:the wish of his Government to form (or
accede to) conventions with other Governments, with a view to provid-
ing for exchanges of publications ; also the printed paper which accom-
panies the same, and which it is desired to have returned, with your
comments on the proposition of the Uruguayan Government.

et Tam aces
FRED’K T, FRELINGHUYSEN.
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 53

Inclosure from legation of Uruguay, New York, December 14, 1884, to
the Secretary of State, Washington.

Sir: I have the honor to address your. excellency for the purpose of
bringing to your notice, by means of the copy herewith inclosed, the
invitation which the Government of the Republie that I represent has
the high honor to address to you, for the purposes stated in the note. It
extends this invitation feeling every confidence in the lofty American
spirit and the good will of the United States Government.

I transcribe to your excellency, in full, the note whereby I am in-
structed to bring to the notice of your Government this invitation; it
reads as follows:

** Montevideo, October 29, 1884.
“Mr. CHARGE D’AFFAIRES:

“T send you a printed copy of the law recently passed by the honor-
able general assembly of the Republic providing for the establishment,
in the national library, of a bureau which is to be called ‘The Central
Bureau of International Exchanges of Publications.’

‘In pursuance of the provisions of article 8 of the reglementary de-
cree of that law, you will be pleased to invite the Governient to which
you are accredited, in the name of the Republic, to conclude a conven-
tion for the exchange of publications on various subjects. Two objects
are had in view by the Government in pursuing this course, viz, to
draw still closer the cordial relations which exist between this Republic
and that of the United States of America, and to encourage, by facilitat-
ing them as far as possible, the knowledge and study of literary, scien-
tific, and other questions among the nations of America, whose advances
in progress and civilization must speedily place them on a footing with
the most progressive nations of Europe. Your superior enlightenment
renders it unnecessary for ne to advance any arguments in order to show
theimportance of the proposed convention, or the advantages which must
accrue from if to the nations adopting it. If, as is to be hoped, the
United States Government agrees to conclude the arrangement in ques-
tion, it may be done on the basis of that which already exists between
this Republie and Chili, or of that concluded by Belgium with various
other nations, which you will find in the inclosed printed documents, if
the United States Government does not consider that certain modifica-
tions are necessary, which the Government of this Republic is prepared
to consider. You ll be pleased to request that Government to send
you a reply in regard to this matter.

‘““ MANUEL HERRERA Y OBER.”

In bringing the foregoing note to your knowledge, and inclosing the
printed copy of the conventions to which it refers, permit me to hope
that the cabinet of which your excellency is so distinguished a mem-
ber will not consider the plan which I hereby have the honor to submit
54 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

as impracticable, since it will tend torender better known in our country
the practical details of the institutions of this, together with its ad-
vances, which so greatly stimulate our own, while the constant perusal
of the publications of our Republic will show the eagerness with which
American countries of Spanish extraction are seeking, iv spite of well-
known obstacles, to secure for themselves a permanent position among
the nations of the modern world. /
CARLOS FARINI.

Central Office of International Exchanges of Publications.

The Senate and House of Representatives of the Republic of Uruguay in
general assembly, &e., resolve:
Article 1. There is established in the national library an office called
‘““The Central Office of International Exchanges of Publications.”
Article 2. The director of the library, through the intermediary of
the office created by the preceding article, will proceed to effect the ex-
change of official publications, and of the literary and scientific works
which are printed in the Republic, in conformity with diplomatic con-
ventions in force, and those which the Executive may conclude with
foreign Governments.
Article 3. The Executive will make the necessary regulations for the
office created by this law.
Article 4. This is made known, &c.
House of Representatives, Montevideo, May 14, 1884.
X. LAVINA, President.
JOSE LuIs MISSAGLIA, Secretary.

House of Representatives of the Republic of Uruguay,
Montevideo, May 15, 1884.
To the Executive of the Republic:

We have the honor to transmit to the Executive of the Republic the law
sanctioned by the honorable Congress in yesterday’s session, establish-
ing in the national library an office called “The Central Office of Inter-
national Exchanges of Publications.”

XAVIER LAVINA.
JOSE LUIS MISSAGLIA.

.

Department of State, Montevideo, May 27, 1884.
Wehave the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication,
and to inform you that there has been forwarded to the direetor of the
library the decree authorizing him to make the necessary regulations.
SANTOS.
CARLOS DE CASTRO.
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 5b
Department of State, Montevideo, July 24, 1884.

DECREE.

In conformity with the provisions of article 3 of the law of May 27,
1884, the Executive of the Republic decrees:

Article 1. After the office of International Exchanges of Publications
referred to in the preceding law has been established and organized,
the director of the national library will, with the view to the better
service of said office, prepare regulations for the same, which he will
in due time submit to the Government for its approval.

Article 2. The above-mentioned functionary will on the 3lst Decem-
ber of each year present to this ministry a report showing the progress,
the needs, and the increase of said office, which document, when pub-
lished, shall be transmitted to all institutions which exchange publica-
tions with the national library.

Article 3. All the departments and their bureaus will transmit to the
office of International Exchanges of Publications 25 copies of all the
documents published by them.

Article 4. The director of the national library will acquire for the
office to which this decree relates, all such publications as will, in his
opinion, tend to contribute to the reputation of the Republic in foreign
parts, with the view that this office may distribute them. ‘The provis-
ions of this artcle, however, shall not interfere with any donations
which may be made to the office of exchanges.

Article 5. All agents of the Republic in foreign countries will aid the
director of the library, whenever he calls on them for such aid; and
if such obligation involves any expenditure, the agents shall, before
taking any action, inform the director of the amount needed, so that he
may either allow the expenditure or refuse it, according to the amount
of funds at his disposal for the purpose.

Article 6. Any conventions which may be concluded in the future
shall be formulated according to the test of the convention concluded
between the chargé @’ affaires of Uruguay in Chili and the Govern-
ment of Chili on the 6th June, 1873, and whenever this is impossi-
ble, according to the project of a convention prepared at Brussels on
the 26th August, 1850.*

Article 7. In view of the fact that any delay in the conclusion of con-
ventions may prove prejudicial to the Republic and the national li- |
brary, the director of that institution will propose to the Department
of State the establishment of an exchange of publications with all those
nations with whom, in his opinion, such an exchange should be estab-
lished, determining at the same time what publications should be
exchanged. Andif the Department of State approves of the propo-

*[The articles of this convention were published in the Smithsonian Report for
1883, pp. 123, 124.]
56 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

sition, it will transmit it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which im
mediately, and without any legislation on the subject, will proceed to
arrange the necessary convention, reporting its action to the Depart-
~ment of State.

Article 8. There shall be forwarded to all the Governments of Amer-
ica, through the intermediary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a circular
giving the provisions of the law in question and of this decree, inviting
them at the same time to enjoy the benefits which will result from such
an exchange for all nations which accept it.

Article 9. The above shall be published and inserted in the code of

laws.
SANTOS.

CARLOS DE CASTRO.
Exchange of publications between Uruguay and Chili.

Met at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the sixth day of June, one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-three, Don Jose ©. Arrieta, chargé
Waffaires of the Republic of Uruguay, and Don Adolfo Ibanez, minister
of foreign affairs of Chili, for the purpose of concluding a convention
for the regular and permanent exchange between the two Republics of
the literary and scientific productions of their citizens, which will
strengthen the bonds of sympathy which unite the two countries, and
agreed upon the following articles:

Article 1. The Government of Uruguay and of Chili will send to each
other, as soon as possible, two copies of all the publications which they
have had printed in accordance with the provisions of the law in their
respective territories, excepting productions of purely private interest
or whose contents do not entitle them to be considered as scientific or
literary publications.

Article 2. The same obligation will be in force even if the publica-
tions in question have not been published in either of the two countries,
but have been published at the expense of either of the two Govern-
ments, or by their aid or subvention.

Article 3. As soon as one of the two Governments has received the
publications sent by the other, it will acknowledge their receipt in the
official journal, giving the place where they have been published and
the place whence they were sent, with the view to bring them to the
notice of those who desire to obtain them.

Articie 4. The provisions of the above three articles will apply to geo-
graphical maps and other works of that character.

Article 5. Kach Government will also procure and send to the other
two copies of works published by citizens of their respective countries
residing abroad; but this obligation will cease as regards the Govern-
ment of Uruguay if a citizen of Uruguay publishes a work in Chili, and
as regards the Government of Chili if a Chilian citizen publishes a
work in Uruguay.
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 57

Article 6. Each of the two Governments will form a collection as com-
plete as possible of all the works published within its territory, or out-
side of it, if the provisions of article 2 apply to them; and will trans-
mit this collection to the other at as early a date as possible. This col-
lection should especially comprise works treating of the history, geog-
raphy, industries, statistics, and legislation of the country.

Article 7. Publications shall be transmitted in the month of January
of every year; in Uruguay through the intermediary of the Chilian
legation, and in Chili through the intermediary of the Uruguayan le-
gation, or direct between the two Governments whenever there are no
legations.

Article 8. The present convention will go into effect this day, and
will continue in force, until either of the two Governments shall desire
its discontinuance, and shall so advise the other.

At the close of this conference the chargé d’affaires of Uruguay and
the Chilian minister of foreign relations have signed this document in

‘duplicate copy, and affixed thereto their respective seals.
[L. S.] J. ARRIETA,
[L. s.| ADOLFO IBANEZ.

.

From the Smithsonian Institution, January 31, 1885, to Hon. F. T. Fre-
linghuysen, Secretary of State.

Str: In acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the 30th of
December last, inclosing a copy of a note from the Chargé d’affaires
of Uruguay in reference to an exchange of publications between that
Government and the Government of the United States, I beg to say
that an answer was necessarily deferred until a translation could be
made of the Spanish document accompanying your communication, the
original of which is herewith returned.

It is not my province to offer suggestions to the Government of Uru-
guay regarding a general system of exchanges with the various Gov-
ernments of the world; but so far as the United States is concerned, I
can say that it will give the Smithsonian Institution much pleasure to
make the necessary arrangements for an interchange of official publica-
tions of the two countries, the Institution sending to Uruguay at least
once a year, and perhaps twice, all the publications of the Government
of the United States, whether printed by order of Congress or any of
the Departments—these, of course, in return for an equally exhaustive
and comprehensive transmission on the part of the Government of Uru-
guay, all the returns received to be placed in the Library of Congress.

The Smithsonian Institution cannot undertake to secure publications
generally of the scientific and literary establishments of the United
States, but it will be happy to do all in its power in this respect. It
is, however, willing to send its own works—the Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and the Annual
58 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

Reports, which embody a large percentage of American scientific litera-
ture.

In return for this special and separate sending it would expect for
its own library copies of any works on scientific subjects published by
the Government of Uruguay.

In reference to the best, or most convenient, method of conducting
an exchange of publications between the two countries in question, I
beg to say that where distant communication by sea is involved, as is
the case in the present instance, we find it most convenient to deliver
all packages, free of freight, to the consul in New York of the country
addressed, and to have the returns transmitted free of cost to the
American consul at the port of shipment.

This course is pursued for the reason that any question of ocean ex-
penses can be more readily settled on delivery of the packages. Al- -
though differing somewhat from that agreed upon at Brussels, this ar-
rangement has been acceded to by all the European correspondents of
the Smithsonian Institution. Of course it would not be impossible to
make deliveries at Montevideo, if that be the proper port of entry, but
there would necessarily be petty charges that even in that case it would
be difficult to arrange for.

I inclose for the information of the chargé d’affaires of Uruguay
some of the publications of the Smithsonian Institution bearing upon
the subject of exchanges, and which possibly may contain some in-
formation that will interest him.

A first transmission can be made by our sending as complete a series
of the documents of the United States Government as can now be sup-
plied. This will consist of publications for a number of years, and will
include several hundred volumes, occupying 13 cases. And we shall
be pleased to receive information as to the exact address for the con-
signment, both in this country and Uruguay.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

SPENCER F. BAIRD.

EXCHANGES WITH AUSTRIA.

From the Department of State, Washington, D. C., February 11, 1885, to
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

Sir: As suggested by dispatch No. 50 of the 21st ultimo, from Vienna,
I inelose a copy of the same and of the list of official works of the
Austro-Hungarian Government for exchange, to which it refers; and Ll
also inclose, for the better understanding of dispatch No. 50, copies of
two previous dispatches cn the exchange of Government publications
with Austria-Hungary.

Iam, &e.,
FRED. T. FRELINGHUYSEN.
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 59
{Inclosed. ]

Mr. Francis to Mr. Frelinghuysen January 21, 1885, No. 50.
Mr. Francis to Mr. Frelinghuysen, October 16, 1884, No. 17.
Mr. Francis to Mr. Frelinghuysen, October 24, 1884, No. 20.

From Hon. John M. Francis, ambassador, United States legation, Vienna,
October 16, 1884, to Hon. Frederick T. Frelinghuysen, Secretary of State,
Washington, D. OC.

Sir: I have the honor to report that Mr. George H. Boehmer, chief
of Exchange Bureau for the Smithsonian Institution and the Congres-
sional Library, having special reference to Government publications,
recently visited Vienna with a view of securing such exchange between
. Austria-Hungary, and the Bureau above named, of which he is chief.

In conformity with your general instruction to diplomatic agents of
the United States abroad, of which Mr. Boehmer was the bearer, I as-
sisted him in procuring interviews with representatives of the Austro-
Hungarian Government, who are authorized to treat upon the object of
his mission, for this purpose securing audience on the 9th instant with
Count Szdgyényi, chief of section of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on
which occasion the subject-matter was fully discussed, and the methods
to be adopted in the proposed exchange freely canvassed.

Count Szogyényi expressed much interest in the matter, and appointed
a meeting for the next day with Mr. Boehmer, to give it further con-
sideration. Mr. Boehmer was subsequently placed in communication
with other departments of the Government to arrange details, and the
result as reported to me by him was in every respect satisfactory. The
publications will now be sent forward regularly from each eapital, the
one to the other, in the exchange of Government publications.

The details of the agreement entered into will be reported by Mr.
Boehmer to the Congressional Librarian.

From Hon. John M. Francis, ambassador, United States legation, Vienna,
October 24, i884, to Hon. Frederick T. Frelinghuysen, Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C. :

Sir: Referring to my No. 17, of the date of October 16th, relative to
the exchange of Government publications between the Government of
the United States and that of Austria-Hungary, I have the honor to
inclose herewith copy of note on this subject to Count Szégyényi, chief
of section of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of the date of October 9, with
copy of inclosure therein, a letter of same date addressed to me by Mr.
George H. Boehmer, chief of Exchange Bureau of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, and delegate of the Library of Congress of the United States.
I also inclose translation of a communication from Count Szégyényi,
dated October 20, in reply to my note as above, showing the progress
thus far made in the matter.
60 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

From Hon. John M. Francis, ambassador, United States legation, Vienna,
October 9, 1884, to his excellency the Count Szégyényt, chief of section
of Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Your EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to inclose herewith a copy of a
communication this day received by me from Mr. George H. Boehmer,
delegate of the Library of Congress of the United States, treating of
the subject of a proposed exchange of official documents between the
Government of the United States and Austria-Hungary.

I beg leave to inform your excellency that I have received instruc-
tions from my Government to aid as far as may be convenient in draw-
ing the attention of His Imperial Majesty’s Government to the subject
matter referred to, with the hope that the exchange of Government
publications as proposed may be favorably regarded by His Majesty’s
Government to the end that the desired object be assured.

I avail myself of this occasion to renew to your excellency the as-
surance of my distinguished consideration.

From George H. Boehmer, Vienna, Austria, October 9, 1884, to his ex-
cellency Mr. John M. Francis, envoy extraordinary and minister pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America, Vienna.

Sir: In the year 1867, the Congress of the United States passed a
law authorizing the exchange, under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, of a certain number of all the United States official docu-
ments for the corresponding publications of other Governments through-
out the world, the returns to be placed in the National (Congressional)
Library.

The object of this law was to procure for the use of the Congress of
the United States a complete series of the publications of other Gov-
ernments.

A circular letter was therefore issued by the Smithsonian Institution,
asking the advice of the various Governments as to the best method of
accomplishing the object.

It was important to ascertain what Governments were willing to
enter into the proposed exchange, and whether any one person or branch
of the Government or public library in each country would undertake
to collect ail the national publications and transmit them to Washing-
ton. Information was-also desired as to the titles and character of the
regular official publications of each country, and their average number
and extent in each year, as well as the names of the different sources
from which they emanate.

On the 30th of October, 1875, a citcular was sent by Professor Henry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, with a letter to the foreign
ministers at Washington,* and among them to the ambassador of His
Majesty the Emperor of Austria.

*[This circular and letter were published in the Smithsonian Report for 1881, pp.
768, 769.)
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 64

In accordance with instructions received in respect to the letter re-
ferred to, the first two boxes of documents were sent to Vienna, and are
now deposited in the Imperial Royal Library. Subsequent transmis-
sions, however, were refused by the imperial legation at Washington
as being too bulky.

It is now desired by the Congress of the United States of America
to resume relations of exchanges with the Empire of Austria, this
being the only Government required to complete the exchange serv-
ice with the United States of all the European monarchies, and in this
connection I beg to remark that the Smithsonian Institution, as the
authorized agent of the Government, has now ready for transmission,
(in addition to the boxes of documents already received into the Impe-
rial Royal Library), eighteen (18) boxes, each of about six cubic feet,
containing several thousand volumes, and to which about two boxes
will be added each year. This entire accumulation would, upon ac-
ceptance of the terms:and conditions of the exchange on the part of
His Imperial Majesty’s Government, be delivered at once and free of
cost to any agent the Imperial Government might be pleased to appoint
at any seaport of the United States, while the returns on the part of
His Imperial Majesty’s Government should be placed, free of cost, in
the hands of Dr. Felix Fliigel, 49 Sidonien Strasse, Leipsic, the agent
of the Smithsonian Institution for Europe. The boxes or parcels thus
sent should be marked, ‘‘ To the Smithsonian Institution, for the Library
of Congress,” and both these establishments be informed of the sending
by letter, together with a list of the documents sent.

In obedience to instructions I have the honor to submit this proposal
of exchange to you, and to request your excellency to lay the same
before the proper authorities of His Imperial Majesty’s Government
and to kindly advise me of any aetion taken or any results derived
from this application.

From his excellency the Count Szdgyényi, chief of section of Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, to Hon. John M. Francis, ambassador, Vienna, Octo-
ber 20, 1884.

Sir: In conformity with the desire expressed in the esteemed note
of the 9th instant, I’. O. No. 8, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made
known to the respective imperial and royal central stations the mis-
sion of Mr. Boehmer, chief of Congressional Bureau of the United
States for International Exchange, who proposed making an agreement
whereby a regular exchange of official publications may be established
between the Governments of Austria-Hungary and the United States.

The Jmperial Royal Ministry of the Interior has already expressed its
approval of such an agreement as far as its department is concerned,
and observes in this connection that it deems it most advisable to con-
fine itself to the regular communication of the reports of the sessions of
the Austrian Parliament and of the official paper known as the Legal
62 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

Advertiser (Reichs Gesetzblatt), which publishes all the general laws
enacted, believing that reports of the sessions of the several provincial
diets and the different provincial laws and regulations would be of but
a secondary interest to the United States Government.

The undersigned will not fail to communicate to the Hon. J. M. Fran-
cis, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the United
States of America, all further information bearing upon this question,
and avails himself of this opportunity to tender a renewed assurance of
his high esteem.

From Hon. John M. Francis, ambassador, United States legation, Vienna,
January 21, 1885, to Hon. Frederick T. Frelinghuysen, Secretary of
State, Washington, D. C.

Sir: [ have the honor to inclose herewith translation of a note from
Baron Pasetti, chief of section Ministry of Foreign Affairs, dated Janu-
ary 16, 1885, in regard to the exchange of Government publications be-
tween the Government of the United States and that of Austria, as fully
set forth in my No. 20 of October 24, 1884.

Baron Paseitti’s note, with accompanying inclosure of a list of official
works from the imperial royal department of public instruction, ex-
plains or suggests the basis of the proposed international exchange,
which has the approval of Mr. Boehmer, agent for the Congressional
Library and Smithsonian Institution, whe recently conferred with the
proper Government officials here on this subject.

Mr. Boehmer now requests that a copy of the inclosed communication
from Baron Pasetti and the accompanying list of official works referred
to be transmitted by the department to the directors of the Smithsonian
Institution. : ;

From Baron Pasetti, minister of foreign affairs, Vienna, January 16,
1885, to Hon. John M. Francis envoy extraordinary and minister pleni-
potentiary of the United States.

Str: On the 20th of October last, under Nos. £422, the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs had the honor of informing Hon. John M. Francis, en-
voy extraordinary’'and minister plenipotentiary of the United States
of America, that the Imperial Royal Ministry of the Interior had con-
sented to an establishment of a regular exchange of official publica-
tions with the United States Government.

In the mean time a note has been received by the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs from the Imperial Royal Ministry of Instruction, wherein the
latter makes known its views on the above question.

The last named ministry says that the exchange of official publica-
tions and of periodicals published by scientific institutes in Austria has
been uniformly pursued for some time. Numerous copies are forwarded
REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 63

annually in every direction, and the volumes sent in return by institutes
abroad are promptly and regularly received. This direct mode of ex-
change between the respective corporations, institutes, &c., facilitates
not only the requirements in the most speedy and simple manner, but
tends also to reduce the expenses of transmission to the lowest possible
rate. The Imperial Royal Ministryof Instruction would nevertheless be
ready to accept the proposal made by the American Government as far °
as its department is concerned on condition that the exchange be not
extended to all publications made, but be confined to such as would
upon investigation be found to be the most acceptable and needed by
both parties, and that the number of copies to be sent would also be
made dependent upon this rule. With this view the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs begs to inclose herewith to the North American envoy a list
compiled by the Ministry of Instruction, giving the publications periodi-
cally appearing under its direction, and requests that it be transmitted,
and that the number and the titles of the copies desired on the part of
America be pointed out.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs addresses itself at the same time to
the other departments interested in the exchange in question, request-
ing them to make known their views on the subject, and to send in simi-
lar lists of periodicals published under their direction.

As far as the publications are concerned which have been offered by
America, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will first inform the different
departments of the receipt of the work published by Mr. Boehmer, en-
titled “ History of the Smithsonian Exchanges,” of which the author
had the kindness of placing several copies at the disposal of the Imperial
Royal Government, in connection with which it must be observed that
the list of official American publications the work contains only reaches
as far back as the year 1881, which will probably make a supplement
necessary.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs begs to observe here that the Ministry
of Instruction regards it as a matter of course that this proposed new
arrangement will in no way affect or alter the exchange of publications
kept up for a number of years heretofore with the Smithsonian Institu-
tion.

Finally, the ministry wishes to say that in case an agreement is made
the publications intended for Austria be forwarded by the American
Government to Vienna, carriage paid, and that the Austrian consign-
meuts be sent, carriage paid, to be delivered either at Leipsic or at
Washington, according to the desire of the American Government.

While the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honor of conveying
this intelligence to the knowledge of the honorable North American
envoy, the undersigned embraces the opportunity to renew the assur-
ance of his profound consideration.
64 REPORT ON EXCHANGES

List of official works published periodically under the direction of the Min-
istry of Worship and Public Instruction.

(1) Record of laws issued by the Ministry of Instruction.
(2) Report of the sessions of the Imperial Academy of Science at
Vienna, viz:
(a) Philosophie historical class.
(b) Mathematic natural-science class.
(3) Memorial of the Imperial Academy of Science at Vienna, viz:
(a) Philosophic historical class.
(b) Mathematic natural-science class.
(4) Almanac of the Imperial Academy of Science at Vienna.
(5) Austrian Statistics, published by the Statistical Central Commis-
sion.
(6) Year Book of the Imperial Royal Institute for Meteorology and
Magnetism.
(7) Annals of the Imperial Observatory at Vienna.
(8) Astronomical Calendar, published by the Imperial Observatory
at Vienna.
(9) Year Book of the Geological Institute.
(10) Results of investigations made by the Geological Institute.
(11) Treatises of the Imperial Geological Institute at Vienna.
(12) Austrian historical sources.
(13) Archives for Austrian history, published by the Imperial Acad-
emy of Science at Vienna.
(14) Communications made by the Imperial Institute for Historical
Researches.
(15) Communications of the Imperial Royal Central Commission for
Preservation of Historical Monuments.
(16) Communications made by the Imperial Royal Museum for Art and
Industry.
(17) Central organ for industrial schools in Austria, published under
the direction of the Ministry of Instruction, together with a supplement.

STATISTICS OF EXCHANGES FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 1885.

I.—RECEIPTS.

1. Hor foreign distribution.

Whence received. Packages.| Weight.

(a) From Government Departments: Number. | Pounds.
Bureau oftithnolosyaress-.eer es see eee eee eens 3 21
Bureau of Navigahlonie sees ese ee eee eee see ee 1 138
Coast and Geodetic Survey Office ......-.-/--..--------- 1 16
Department: of Interior meses. 28 eee nee 935 6, 812
Department, of Jushicemrassss oss.) ee eee eee eee eee 50 24
Department of State, yas Pe ee Ree eee 28 26

Engineer Bureau, U.S.A ..---.. RIES Mer eres cies 5 GL
REPORT ON

EXCHANGES.

1. For foreign distribution—Continued.

65

Packages.

Whence received. Weight
(a) From Government Departments—Continued.
Bighs COMMISSION asec eas ses ieeis~ a= sce see eee eee 144 486
ercolopical Survey Ome... 2-2)... ona ey ener 3, 125 21,792
HQUBEYOR REPreSeNUALINES) 225255 22-26 ss soe eee eisee ene 1 11
PADTATY OF OONPTCRS @ = 8. = aici con's cose: => acesenaesenses 1, 007 4,728
IN AtIOU AMIMUBBUIN eee oe ce a oac es cs ssc coe me naman 157 806
Nantical Almanac Ofice sts. o2. 5.522525. soceemcenaees . 16 69
IN RV el OMSCEVAGOLY 2s 202 fecltacuiesanbes s.<so.cneeeacta wees 6 38
Patent) Omer ncn aan oc aoe anes Ei Le eae 14 3,776
SOU ALO eet cee ae mer oes a tote tae cece = sac ceeeoemeeee 11 20
Iona Omcescaste- sate he eee ce aan tosne ee eee 868 4, 456
purecon-Generavs Olea: ic. ose cos~ a2 ssc -- nine oa Stee ante 3 39
DMreasury, Department) )-cc--s cscs cee. ecm sea secmselscce 20 42
Wane) Spanien lease acetone acs clea serainy oe cela 4 67
Hoy) Sey eet As ee ee Oia ee mS 6, 399 43,310
(0) From the Smithsonian Institution......-.-..--.-..-------- 886 2, 980
CG) PROM scien tific|SOClebhleS jae-s22 2-4 c2 see cee cote desc oaeel 3, 143 12, 434
(OPN TEN RAE EES Tio 0 Ee a hl ee ne 260 1, 751
TRYST ee Oe eed a eek I ID te 10, 688 60, 475
2. For domestic distribution.
From— Boxes. | Parcels.| Weight
Number.| Number.| Pounds.
ArventinerhepubliG.s-vessececcl-o= sce fines ce eee == al 57 250
el pramsee ae eae eects see creas sewer lemme erde cele 6.xi= 3 233 510
Wenmatk Ae-pwees eee shew See Sas comer mois oren cee ellen oe 1 37 43
HTETIV GEG AE 5 eae SRR ER Og yee anal a a ee 8 592 2, 790
(CEnTTETN 7 R355 Nese Bp Se Bena cS Hood aap Ia aerate tnear rae 207) aie 03 5, 850
Great britaimand mreland saescs, soncoe Ueleee ss hes eases as 31 792 4, 003
Wetherlands cesses ces cet nists omcteicleisesieinisinspenioaies 1 85 210
NOD Wa Vee cece eae sees serece eet Soeen beees aces cesses 2 49 257
NOW A DOULN AW AIER Eo sy clnccetcaed o Pcinere ea hacme cubis ce 2 26 47
VOSS hee nee Panes soe cicccadce yan ee eet Mawel ssmi eases 2 105 415
Rotales lee cele Lee SPREE ets Sek orc 71 | 3,679 14, 375
3. For Government exchanges.
For what and whence received. Boxes. | Packages. | Weight.
(a) For Library of Congress, from— Number.| Number. »| Pounds.
TUN GP ALY iss ot sale ness c ccitisavahee seterisjiccs L 3 297
FEEL REN pa ee ett eee ows clareiote ee eyeistetalunis 16 16 4,330
1 Barked ona Key SOR ee Ee et a Meee eaeL 13 1} 2,545
Tn La LTR VGH PRE oe A ie 1 1 300
(6b) For foreign Governments, from—
PU plievPTinbOr sae sce caine ok wis deiseenieene oe ocie le ose.cae 29, 200 14, 750
PRO alee aes eee soe eee ee miclamatelcala atieeaimas 31 29, 233 22, 182

66 REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

RECAPiTULATION. *

For what and whence received. | Packages. | Weight.

Number. Pounds.

i Borforeign distribution: 2. 24.2. 2-bee eee else eee 10, 688 60, 475

2: HOTGOMEStIe CIStLIDUtION 52. = 21.24 asec ae era eee 3, 679 14,375

3.) Hor Government exchanges -. J... ss2es seems ieee eitoe eee 295230 22,182

Motall sa hie so, 2600. soe ae ei cee ea | 43,600 | 97,032
II.—TRANSMISSIONS.

1. Foreign transmissions.

Country. Boxes. | Total.
Africa:
Algeria ...-.- Tanith (Se es OE eters eis ree ele he ere SESE Se Cea een 2
CapeiColony 2 aecoeteetre seer ine ee cate cre etree ere 1
WO VP! Seti aja aoe aceie mete eee ee ee mere eis nee eae einer 1
America: waa 4
COA OPE Ie entre eS tS Se me i Us gga ara aes Ok lh a 4
New Brans wiley soe cee eee, See ae ee Ze SPER BONE AL 2
Newtonnd land: 225s eae ar ry a ye ee ey aa ee me eae 1
M@xiGOnL ae ecniese Pee eR ee Pe AIR HE een iba eee en AE a ce 5
CE TESA Ice) 2 5 be escent He tes Cay PR ees a ee ee ea aye ee 1
San Salvador xc cchcescce oe Cece oes chs sa eA gl Re Se 1
COMP a so cisiecins = Eis emecreccata te ciclk even seater ale toiere toi Seater cess 2
Bayt so toes ee es ae Cee ee i ene eee 1
ATM ALCD) 2c ore forsee BH I ce te ee ee ed ar REE rea ea 1
ol hi ib (a (2 15 CORP RNa ne ue yk eka Naas inde pa BS ale mI ry IS YL A yee ls Ue etal 2
Argentine Confederation: 2-2 2-C-\-22:,..0--2a-eseeeseme ce ecesinsae 3
IBrazily 22 oo See ioe ee BPRS Ste eis Sua A SAN ewe Sk oe 33
Per ss sso se eee NE Be DAY Meat ep ep eee erste RN EL an ai a %
oo 29
Asia:
Philippine lelandses-esesee ee een eee eee eee eae seuss uel see 1
aa 1
‘ Australasia: ,
New Southey Wales ieee ui lok Tei vi ays tip Lien e gale evmput aimee GU aaa SU 3
IN@W Zealander eee hee Nei 2s Te Le ar ee aoe 3
South Australia bee eee EI OPRE PN RA PERSE oC My Pi is xs cURL i |G 1
WiC hOLTA 5 oe Seat ee a te art ee es aN ea 3
; 10
Europe:
Austria Hungary evel eos steeicint aronle ein aceite ee oi paletoe ee miele ae rere aie
Farge oe: mm TE ge hei) A IV Ca OA WRIT Ls eA ae
Tel eam Uc i tempmes,.. spans s /Uh ce cea ed whey a Le As ihe ul eat ear ae a eet omer 11
Denmarxrle: 223.22 2e ain) ee Sea IR RRS EA NR 5
France. 225 2 oe ee et eet i eee Bae Bie ce eo 41
Germany a). Ss ee EER eh RR ae epee 92
Great Britain. 22.0) eee Saer ene alc coe ane ae ee ee eee ioe 78
GTC GO!s foal che eR eC ERIS. Fat gh ECT ERA Ue AES Pra ge 2
bays 2.5 Sei ee ea EOIN ee < AP SN 22
Netherlands: << o322 ee ae erage eer 7
NOD Way, 5s in[c.c ooo Ege to ha ere Pe 5
Porbu tal oi. 2 23 ac Rae ea LIL ey Lh Tee eR Gude eR oe 3
Prussia tia. a. ene eee Sl Ce RN pete Chee tO ke RE SRE 2) a ee
RUSSL A oe oid ch sy ea ea as fe ER a eo 118?
Samoniy soe oe. scan A eS es eee ange oe reaps eR ees | BE nee pe

* Included in Germany.

id REPORT ON EXCHANGES.

1. Foreign transmissions—Continued.

Country. Boxes. | Total.
Europe:
SP alee eee sins ae ete cee sista celae oe als) = = srainic ose ena ee cheatatetena ct 3
Wed O Dine ao etna sae esems eas siclcie s wclas evidioeee temicemnicnteres vf
SWLOZO RIAN geese sas ese Sie) o oss, sere a c.c ms a enie Renee ere nie aoe 9
MeUPIO ype eater ase Sova cease tae faeces berciet eee eo ae 3
WURGOMIDON Deas se San hae sielc cle/aeie e ainiaie a) sare b See ems sce sjese clases) cca
oo 301
Mota esse eee cee ae ecteciccma cos ce cua mtone eee ere eel pees a as 345
* Included in Germany.
_ RECAPITULATION.
Countries. | Boxes.
PATTI G aie ears ot Py Se Satnate clas Steen einh nin Siete oe Bate Seciecetoa cde bac cue me eeeem er 4
ENTE GEE Geis ACA TSO ice et te eee es meta es a elite hy 29
INSEY Sao Se GOSS EST eae a ae Leones ee I eR ny bas a 1
Ampinalasia-cosse asin, coe clenictele as eee he a 10
1D ge) (Nee Se eaeeeSe Pee T eS Bare sofa See 301
Ota eee = aan case ss sale aia eae waa mentee ce wed Sos sh eteeseee ee 345

Transportation Companies.—As in former years the privilege of free
freight has been continued on the part of most of the steamship lines

to Europe.

2. Domestic transmissions.

Five thousand one hundred and nineteen packages were received
during the first six months of 1885, against 10,236 during the 12 months
of 1884, and distributed within the United States as follows:

No. of
Bate, packages.

AN DDAMA So eons ecicceele snes cect 6
Ar Kansas\= 5) oeecesnince oscees 4
Caliiormiagvecesooee ce teuwens 85
WOOT AIO setae eetrescees 6
Pounecticut’..---...-.. ..-<=- 103
WO awalOa ss nuscececS otoe Osse 2
District of Columbia. .......- 2, 097
LORI Asse eae cece cosestoees

ECONO diets eietatseine oa aia oaclor= 2
MUMINOLe ee eee tors Sn cerae 85
CLIT eee oe te eit e 21
HOR Te Se OARS ee ee eee 106
Rimnsaggetee men seer seme se 10
IMGIGU CKVjae nis see ce cdomee see 7
NOUISTAN GY foe ane slo sce se 89
VAIO Meee oe ee cise see 13
WMarvlandieono-s - tot cc eos s Se. 128
IMassachuUs@bts’...-- o-sdsscces 762 |
SUS) NS 28
NEINTIOKOLA ss ots Gaetan Sa cerosules 15

No. of

State. packages.
MISSOURI Aas ses coon ene ee 141
Nebraska s5secna: ee seeeeree 1
New Hampshire ..........:.-- 8
IN@ Wid GLSGYiW22 soe /seesec eee 31
ING WAWOD Ks 3-82.23 9h. ose eee 611
North Carolinas. ssc see eee 1
ONIOR. eee oe eee 82
Onesones2 2234s SaaS e eee 1
Pennsylvania, o.oo scesceeeees 420
Rhode island) 2 552 oaoea noe 31
South.Carolina - 22 seneeeeesee 13
TENnNESS6G)s- eb 2c bose eee 1
Moxage eS ea se eee 3
WiETIN ONG) see ee eee ete 8
Virginia 27 5).5- sce naseeeeees 11
Washington Territory .....-..- 2
Wisconsin... 32.2 Sone ee 122
Wyoming Territory. -.-......--. 2

68 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. :

The additions to the library of the Smithsonian Institution from ex-
changes, are:

Description. Number. | Total.
Volumes :
Octavotor ismaller..s.-.22-.s.cose cee se eee eee eee eerie es 688
Quarto Onlanrveres ec elseels oe fae eet ree eee a eer 222
—_——_— 910
Parts of volumes:
Octavoor smalleris.csy os. ae cose see en teeecleee eee ere ees 1,971
Quarto or larcer. J 555.12 soc ee ee eee eee eee =e 2, 238
——_——} 4,209
Pamphlets:
Octavovor smaller -—... G2 Sst Shae ates ee ics ee ees eerie 4, 612
Quartotor larger 2...) ssassoteetiee he ene see eee eeee ee 256
4, 868
Maps and (charts) .5.- 2.00 os eee =o oie eee ae Sao ees Ser | eee 304
MO tal oso ss eo Soe SS ee ee are Cee ie eee eee eee 10, 341

3. Government transmissions.

The twenty-third box of the series of Government publications to be
exchanged under the Congressional acts of March 2, 1867, and July 25,
1868, was transmitted on the 23d of April for deposit in the establish-
ments designated by the respective Governments for the reception of
Government exchanges.
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

By GEORGE H. BOEHMER.

One of the instructions furnished on occasion of an official visit
to Europe, in July, 1884, on business connected with the exchange
of official public documents of the United States with foreign Gov-
ernments, provided for the collecting of accurate and sufficient data
to be employed in correcting the “List of Foreign Correspondents of
the Smithsonian Institution” in use by the exchange service of that
establishment; and, as a result of the attention given by the compiler
to the instructions received, a new list, corrected and revised to the 1st
of July, 1885, is herewith presented.

The present list has been made as perfect and correct as has been
possible with the assistance of the agents of exchange in the various
countries visited. Among the gentlemen who have extended aid and
facilities for the proper execution of the work, and to whom the warmest
thanks of the compiler are due, the following names deserve special
mention:

M. Alvin, Secretary of the Belgian Commission of International Ex-
changes, Brussels, Belgium.

M. Angeli, Sous-Chef, Italian Commission of International Exchanges,
Rome, Italy. -

M. Ahlstrand, Librarian, Kongelige Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien,
Stockholm, Sweden.

Professor von Baumhauer, Harlem, Netherlands.

M. Bruun, Principal Librarian, Royal Library, Copenhagen, Denmark.

M. Boye-Strém, Director, Royal Statistical Bureau, Christiania, Nor-
way.

Dr. Bodio, Director, Royal Statistical Bureau, Rome, Italy.

Herr Axel Charlot Drolsum, Principal Librarian, Kongelige Norske
' Frederiks Universitet, Christiania, Norway.

Dr. Foerstemann, Principal Librarian, Royal Public Library, Dresden,
Saxony.

Dr. von Gerber, Royal Saxon Minister of State, Dresden, Saxony.

Professor Dr. Hartmann, Director, Royal Wurtemberg Statistical To-
pographical Bureau, Stuttgart, Wurtemberg.

Dr. G. Hellmann, Director, Royal Prussian Meteorological Bureau,

Berlin, Germany.
69
70 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Dr. Heyd, Principal Librarian, Royal Library, Stuttgart, Wurtem-

berg.

M. G. E. Klemming, Principal Librarian, Royal Library, Stockholm,

Sweden.

Dr. Laubmann, Principal Librarian, Royal Library, Munich, Bavaria.

M. Passier, Sous-Chef, French Bureau of International Exchanges,
Paris, France.

M. de Plason, Councillor, Imperial Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Vienna, Austria.

Dr. Potthast, Principal Librarian, Library of the German Parliament,
Berlin, Germany.

M. Richter, Librarian, Royal Public Library, Dresden, Saxony.

M. Rigier, Chancellor of the Swiss Republic, Bern, Switzerland. ~

M. Sidenblah, Director, Statistical Central Bureau, Stockholm, Swe-
den.

M. de Stuers, Councillor, Ipterior Department The Hague, Nether-
lands.

Dr. Volger, Frankfort-on-the-Main, Germany.

William Wesley, Esq., Smithsonian Exchange Agent, London, Eng-
land.

Dr. E. Blenck, Director, Royal Prussian Statistical Bureau, Berlin,
Germany.

A liberal use has also been made of the information contained in the
following publications:

Allgemeines deutsches Vereins-Handbuch. Statistisches Repertorium
der gelehrten Gesellschaften und wissenschaftlich gemeinniitzigen Ver-
eine der Staaten des dermaligen deutschen Reiches, von Hans Adam
Stoehr, G. I. F. D. H.

Annuaire publié par le Bureau des Longitudes, Paris, France.

Annuals and State calendars of all the cantons of Switzerland.

Arskatalog fér Svenska Bokhandeln, 1866-1883.

Calendario General del Regno d’ Italia, pel 1884.

Bibliographie de Belgique, 1875-1884.

Daheim Kalender, 1884.

Das Unterrichtswesen in Ungarn, 1884.

Gotha Almanae, 1884.

Hatch’s Tasmanian Almanac, 1884.

Hof- und Staats-Handbuch der ésterreichisch-ungarischen Monarchie,
1884.

Miller, Dr. Johannes, Die wissenschaftlischen Vereine und Gesell-
schaften Deutschland’s in 19. Jahrhundert, 1884.

Katalog der Bibliothek des deutschen Reichstags.

Nieder-dsterreichischer Amts-Kalender, Wien, 1884.

Pugh’s Queensland Almanac, 1884, 1885.

Sveriges Staats-Kalender, 1884.

Cit sd Hg
{The figure [i] at the end of the title indicates recipients of the Smithsonian Report; [ii], those who re-
ceive the Report and the Miscellaneous Collections ; fiii],those who receive the two preceding und
the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.)

AFRICA.

ALGERIA.
Algiers.
1. “Alger Médical” (Algiers Medical). [i]
. Bibliothéque de la Ville (City Library). [i]
5. Ecole de Médecine et de Pharmacie d’Alger (School of Medi-
cine and Pharmacy of Algiers). [i]
7. Ecole Supérieure des Sciences:—Laboratoire de Physiologie
(High School of Sciences— Physiological Laboratory).
9. Journal de Médecine et de Pharmacie de l’ Algérie (Medical
and Pharmaceutical Journal of Algeria). [i]
11. Observatoire National (National Observatory). [i]
13. Société d’Agriculture d’ Alger (Algiers Agricultural Society). [i]
15. Société Algérienne de Climatologie, Sciences Physiques et
Naturelles (Algerian Society of Climatology, Physical and
Natural Sciences). {i]
ms 17, Société Historique Algérienne (Algerian Historical Society). [i]
ne.
19. Académie d’Hippone—Société de Récherche Scientifique et
d’Acclimatation ( Veterinary Academy—Society for Scien-
tific Research and Acclimation). [i]

Oo

Constantine.
21. Société Archéologique de la Province de Constantine (Archeo-
5 logical Society of the Province of Constantine). [i]
ran.
23. Société de Géographie @’Oran (Geographical Society of Oran).
[To be addressed to care of M. Julian Poinssot, 15 Rue
Royer-Colland, Paris, France.]

l AZORES.
Tle Terceira.

_ 25. Observatoire Météorologique (Meteorological Observatory). [i]

CAPE COLONY.

Cape Town (Cape of Good Hope).
27. Agricultural Society. [i]
29. Folklore Journal.
31. Geological Survey of the Colony.
(2 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.
Cape Town (Cape of Good Hope).—Continued.
33. Meteorological Commission.
35. Royal Observatory. [iii]
37. Sir George Gray’s Library.
39. South African Museum. [i]
41, South African Philosophical Society. [i]
43. South Africa Public Library. [iii]

Somerset East.
45. Gill College. [i]

EGYPT.
Alexandria.
47, Ministére de l’'Intérieur (Interior Department).

. Cairo.

49, The Khédive of Egypt. [i]

51. Bibliothéque Centrale (Central Library). [i]

[Bureau de Statistique—ceased to exist, but the former di-

rector requests continuation of publications. |

53. Institut Egyptien (Institute of Egypt). [iii]

55. Musée de Boulaq (Boulag Museum). — [i]

57. Observatoire Khédivial (Khédival Observatory). [i]

59. Société Egyptienne (Egyptian Society). [i]

61. Société Khédiviale de Géographie (Khédival Géographical
Society). [i]

GUINEA.
Lagos.
63. Wesleyan College.

LIBERIA.
Monrovia.
65. Government Library. _ [iii]
67. Liberia College. [iii]

MADEIRA.
Funchal.
69. Observatoire Météorologique (Meteorological Observatory). [i]

MALTA.
Malta.
71. Public Library. [i]

MAURITIUS.
Pamplemouses.
73. Meteorological and Magnetical Observatory. fi]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

~l
ot)

Port Louis.
75. Library of Port Louis. [i]
77. Meteorological Society of Mauritins. [i]
79. Royal Society of Arts and Sciences. [i]
81. Société d’Acclimatation (Acclimation Society). [i]
83. Société d’Histoire Naturelle (Natural History Society).

E MOZAMBIQUE.
Mozambique.

85. Sociedad de Geogratia (Geographical Society). [i]

ST. HELENA.
St. Helena.

87. Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory. [i]
89. St. Helena Library. |i]
AMERICA (NORTH).
BRITISH AMERIOA.

CANADA.
Belleville (Ontario).

91. Murchison Scientific Society.
93. Ontario Institute for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind.

Cape Rouge (Quebec).
95. Le Naturaliste Canadien (Canadian Naturalist). [ij

Charlottetown (Prince Edward Island).
97. Legislative Library.

Clifton (Ontario).
99. Victoria University.

Guelph (Oniario).
101. Ontario School of Agriculture. [i]

Hamilton (Ontario).
103. Hamilton Association.

Kingston (Ontario).
105. Botanical Society of Canada.
107. Queen’s University.

London (Ontario). a
109. Canadian Entomologist. [i]
111. Entomological Society [formerly in Toronto]. [i]

Montreal (Quebec).
113. Canadian Antiquarian and Numismatic Chronicle.
115. Canadian Naturalist and Geologist.
- 117. Department of Public Instruction. [i]

119. Eeole Normale Jacques Cartier (Jacques Cartier Normal
School). [i]

121. Journal de VInstruction, Publique (Journal of Public In-
struction).

123. Legislative Library of the Province of Quebec. [i]

125. McGill University. [iii] -

127. Natural History Society. [i]

129. Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. [i]

131. Royal Society of Canada. :
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

~l
Cn

Montreal (Quebec) —Continued.
133. Société Historique de Montreal (Historical Society of Mon
treal). |i|
135. St. Laurent College.

Ottawa (Ontario).
137. Academy of Natural Sciences.
139. Department of Agriculture. [i]
141. Field Naturalists’ Club.
143. Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada. [iii]
145. Library of Parliament. _|iii]
147. Literary and Scientific Society. [i]
149. Young Men’s Christian Association.

Port Hope (Ontario).
151. Trinity College School. [i]

Quebec (Quebec).
153. Department of Agriculture.
155. Geographical Society of Quebec. [i]
157. Literary and Historical Society of Quebec. [i]
159. Parliamentary Library.
161. Université Laval (Laval University). [iii|

St. Catherine (Ontario).
163. Fruit Growers’ and Forestry Association [formerly in To-
ronto]. [i]

Toronto (Ontario).
165. Canadian Institute. [iii]
167. Canadian Journal of Science, Literature, and History.
169. Department of Education.
171. Government of Canada. [i]
173. Legislative Library.
175. Magnetic Observatory. [i]
177. Meteorological Office of the Dominion of Canada. fi]
179. Natural History Society of Toronto.
181. Public Library.
183. School of Practical Science.
185. The Canadian Educational Monthly Publishing Company.
187. Toronto Globe.
189. Trinity College.
191. University College. [iii]

MANITOBA.
Fort Garry.

,193. Institute of Prince Rupert’s Land.
76 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Winnipeg.
195. Department of Agriculture, Statistics, and Health.
197. Legislative Library.
199. Manitoba Historical and Scientific Society. [iii]
201. St. John’s College.

’ NEW BRUNSWICK.
Fredericton.

203. Legislative Library.

205. Mechanics’ Institute.

207. Office of Agriculture of the Province of New Brunswick.
209. University of New Brunswick. [iii]

St. John’s.
211. Natural History Society. [i]
213. Observatory.
215. Public Library.
NEWFOUNDLAND.
St. John’s.
217. Geological Survey of Newfoundland. [i]
219. Legislative Library.
221. “ North Star.”
NOVA SCOTIA.
Halifax. ;
223. Botanical Society of Canada.
225. Dalhousie College. [i]
227. Department of Mines. [i]
229. Legislative Library.
231. Nova Scotia Historical Society. [i]
233. Nova Scotia Institute of Natural Sciences. [i]
235. Nova Scotia Medical Society. [i]
237. University of Halifax.

Pictou.
239. Pictou Academy.

Windsor.
241. University of King’s College.

Wolfville.
243. Acadia College.
245. Acadian Science Club.

CENTRAL AMERIOA.

COSTA RICA.
San José.

247. Central Office of Statistics and Meteorology.
249, University of Costa Rica. [iii]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. ry

GUATEMALA.
Guatemala. .
251. Instituto Nacional de Guatemala (National Institute of Guata-
mala). [ili]
253. Meteorological Observatory.
255. Secretaria de Fomento (Department of Interior).

NICARAGUA.
Grenada.
257. Grenada College.

SAN SALVADOR.
San Salvador.
259. Museo Nacional (National Museum).

MEXICO.

_ Chapultepec (Tacubaya).

261. Observatorio Astronomico Nacional (National Astronomical
Observatory). [i]

Guadalajara (Jalisco).
263. Société des Ingénieurs de Jalisco (EHngineers’ Society of Jalisco).
265. Sociedad Médica de Guadalajara (Medical Society of Guadala-
jara). {i)

Guanajuato (Guanajuato).
267. Colegio del Estado (State College). [i]
269. Observatorio Meteorologico del Colegio del Estado (Meteoro-
logical Observatory of the State College).

Mérida ( Yucatan).
271. Sociedad Médica Farmaceutica (Medico-Pharmaceutical So-
ciety). [i]
273. Yucate Register ( Yucatan Register).

“

Mexico.

275. Academia de Medicina (Academy of Medicine). [i]

277. Asociacion Médico Quirurgica “Larrey” (‘Larrey” Medico-
Chirurgical Society). [i]

279. Biblioteca Nacional (National Library).

281. City Council.

283. Direction Général de la Statistique (Bureau of Statistics).

285. El Museo Nacional (National Museum). [i]

287. Escuela de Agricultura (Agriculiwral School). [i]

289. Escuela de Medicina (Medical School). [i]

291. Escuela Nacional de Ingeneiros (National School of Engineers).
| iii]

293. Escuela Nacional Preparatoria (National Preparatory School).
i]
78 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Mexico—Continued.

295. Mexican Government. [i]

297. Ministerio de Fomento, Colonizacion, Industria y Comercio
(Department of Interior, Colonization, Industry, and Com-
merce). [i]

299. Ministerio de Justicia y Instruccion Publica (Department of
Justice and Public Instruction).

301. Ministerio de Trabajo Publica (Department of Public Works).

303. Observatorio Meteorologico Central (Central Meteorological
Observatory). [i]

305. Revista Cientifica Mexicana iercean Scientific Review).

307. Sociedad “Andres del Rio” (Society ‘Andres del Rio”). [i]

309. Sociedad Cientifica “Antonio Alzate” (Scientific Society ‘“An-
tonio Alzate”).

311. Sociedad Filoiatrica y de Beneficencia de los Alumnos de la
Escuela de Medicina (Alumni Beneficial Society of the Med- _
ical College). [i]

313. Sociedad Humboldt (Humboldt Society). [i]

315. Sociedad Médica (Medical Society). [i]

317. Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Estadistica (Mexican Geo-
graphical and Statistical Society). [iii]

319. Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural (Mexican Natural
History Society). [iii]

321. Sociedad Minera Mexicana (Mexican Mineralogical Society).
(i

323. University of Mexico.

Puebla (Puebla).

325. Observatorio Meteorologico del Colegio Catolico eases

cal Observatory of the Catholic College).

San Luis Potosi (San Luis Potosi).
327. Instituto Cientifica y Literaria (Scientific and Literary Insti-
tute). [i]
329. Sociedad Médica (Medical Society). [i]
Toluca.
331. Instituto Literario del Estado de Mexico (Literary Institute of
. the State of Mexico). [i]

WEST INDIES.

; BAHAMAS.
New Providence..

333. Nassau Public Library. [i]

BARBADOES.
Bridgetown.
335. Government Meteorological Office. [i]
Hamilton.
337.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. ‘)

BERMUDAS.
Bermuda Library. [i]

CUBA.

Habana (Havana).

339.

OAL,
343,
345.

347,

349.
dol,
393,
300.

307.

Academia de Ciencias Médicas, Fisicas, y Naturales de la
Habana (Academy of Medical, Physical, and Natural
Sciences of Havana). [i]

Administracion General de Correos dela Isla de Cuba (Post.
Office Department of the Island of Cuba).

Inspeccion General de Telegrafos (Inspector-General of Tele-
graphs). ~ {il

Instituto de Segenada Ensenanza de la Habana (Institute for
Preliminary Education in ‘Sciences and Letters).

Observatorio Magnético y Meteorologico del Real Colegio de
Belen (Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory of the
Royal College of Belen). {i}

Real Observatorio Fisico-Meteorologico de la Habana (Royal
Physico-Meteorological Observatory of Havana). [i]

Real Sociedad Econémica de la Habana (Royal Heonomic
Society of Havana). [iii]

Real Universidad de la Habana (Royal University of Ha-
vana). {il

Revista General de Comunicaciones (General Review of Com-
munications).

Sociedad Antropologica (Anthropological Society). [il

GUADELOUPE.

Point-a-Pitre.

399,

Kingston.

361.
363.

Musée l’Herminier (Herminier Museum). {il
JAMAICA.

Public Museum.
Royal Society of Arts of Jamaica. [iii]

TRINIDAD.

Port of Spain.

365.

Scientific Society of Trinidad. [i]

TURK’S ISLANDS.

Grand Turk.

367.

Public Library of Turk’s and Caicos Islands. [ij
AMERICA (SOUTH).

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.

Buenos Aires.

369.
371.
373.
375.
377.
379.
381.
383.
385.

387.

389.
391.
393.
395.
297.

399.
401.

Cordoba.

403.

405.

407.

409.

" La Plata.
414

80

Asociacion Médica Bonaereuse (Buenos Aires Medical So-
ciety). [i]

Biblioteca Nacional (National Library). [i]

Biblioteca Publica (Public Library). [i]

Instituto Geografico Argentino (Argentine Geographical In-
stitute). [i]

Instituto Historio-Geografico del Rio de la Plata ( Historio-
Geographical Institute of La Plata).

Ministére de l’Intérieur (Department of the Interior).

Ministére des Affaires Etrangeéres (Foreign Office).

Municipal Authority.

Museo Piblico de Buenos Aires (Public Museum of Buenos
Aires). [iii]

Oficina Nacional de Estadistica Comercial de la Republica
Argentina (National Bureau of Commercial Statistics of
the Argentine Republic).

Sociedad Cientifica Argentina (Argentine Scientific Soci-
ety). [i]

Sociedad Entomolégica Argentina (Argentine Entomological
Society). [i]

Sociedad Paleontol6gica de Buenos Aires (Paleontological
Society of Bunso Aires). [i]

Sociedad Rural Argentina (Agricultural Society).  [i|

Sociedad Zoolégica Argentina (Zoological Society). [i]

Statistical Bureau. [i]

Universidad de Buenos Aires (University of Buenos Aires)
[Biblioteca Universitaria]. [i]

Academia Nacional de Ciencias Exactes (National Academy
of Exact Sciences). [i]

Observatorio Nacional Argentino (Argentine National Obser-
vatory). [i]

Oficina Meteorol6gica Argentina (Argentine Meteorvlogical
Bureau). [i]

Periodico Zoolégico (Zoologist).

Oficina General de Estadistica de la Provincia de Buenos
Aires (General Statistical Bureau of the Province of Buenos
Aires).
Chuquisaca.
413.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 81

BOLIVIA.

University. [i]
BRAZIL.

Fortaleza (Ceard).

415.

. Rio Janeiro.
25
419,
431.

423.
425.
427,

429.
431.

433.
435.
437.
439,

441,

443,
445.
447.
449,
451,
453.

455.

457.

San Paulo.

459

Georgetown.
461.
463.
465.
467.

Library.

Emperor of Brazil. [iii]

Annals Brazil de Medicine (Brazilian Annals of Medicine).

“‘ Auxiliador de Industria Nacional”. (Ausiliarg of National
Industry). [il

Biblioteca National (National Library). [ii]

British Library. [i]

Commissao Central Brazileiro de Permutacdes Internacio-

_ naes (Central Brazilian Commission of International Ex-

changes).

Conseil Municipal (Municipal Council).

Escola de Mines de Ouro Preto (Mining Academy of Ouro
Preto).

Gazeta Médica (Medical Gazette).

Government of Brazil. |i]

Imperial Academy of Medicine.

Instituto Historico, Geografico y Ethnografico (Historical,
Geographical, and Ethnographical Institute). [i]

Ministére des Travaux Publiques, du Commerce et de lA gri-
culture (Department of Public Works, Commerce, and Ag-
riculture).

Ministerio dos Negacios Estrangeiros (Foreign Office).

Museu Nacional (National Museum). [i]

Nautical Observatory. [i]

Palestra Scientific Society. |i]

Royal Geographical Society. [i]

Seccion de la Sociedad Geografia de Lisbon (Section of the
Lisbon Geographical Society).

Sociedad Geologica de Rio Janeiro (Geological Society of Rio
Janeiro).

Statistical Bureau.

Morton College.
BRITISH GUIANA.

Geological Survey of British Guiana.
Observatory. [i]

Queen’s College. [i]

Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society. [i]

FE Misi15——=6
82

Santiago.

469.
471.
473.
475.
477.
479.
481.
483.

485.
487.
489.
491.
493.

495.

Valparaiso.
497.

Bogota.

499.
501.
503.
505.

507.
509.

Bi
513.

515.

Medellin.
517
>
Panama.
519
521

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

CHILE.

Academia Militar (Military Academy). fi]

Biblioteca Nacional (National Library). [iii]

Bureau de Statistique (Bureau of Statistics). [i]

El Plano TopogrAfico (Topographic Bureau). [i]

Government of Chile. [i]

Meteorological Office.

Ministére de l’Intérieur (Department of the Interior).

Ministro de Instruccion Publico (Department of Public In-
struction). [i] |

Museo Nacional (National Museum).

Observatorio Nacional (National Observatory). [i]

Oficina Hidrografica de Chile (Hydrographic Office). [i]

Sociedad de Historia Natural (Natural History Society). [i]

Sociedad Medica (Medical Society). [Calle de San Diego,

No. 47.] [i]
Universidad de Chile (Universtiy of Chile). [iii]

Direction de la Statistique du Commerce (Bureau of Com-
mercial Statistics).

COLOMBIA.

Central Commission of Exchange—National Library.

Government of Colombia. [i]

National Library. [iii]

Observatorio Astronomico Nacional (National Astronomical
Observatory).

Observatorio Flammarion (Flammarion Observatory).

Secrétaire des Travaux Publiques et des Postes (Department
of Public Works and Post-Office Department).

Sociedad de Estadistica y Geografia de Colombia (Statistical
and Geographical Society of Colombia).

Sociedad de Medicina y Ciencias Naturales (Society of Medt-
cine and Natural Sciences). —

Sociedad de Naturalistas Colombianos (Society of Colombian
Naturalists). [i]

Université d’ Antioquia (University of Antiochia). |i]

Administrador de la Aduana (Customs Office).
Gazetta Oficial de Panama (Official Gazette of Panama.)
D
Lo

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

; DUTCH GUIANA.
Bahia,
* 623. Belgian Consulate. [i]
Paramaribo.
525. Surinaamsche Koloniaale Bibliotheek (Surinam Colonial
TAbrary). |i]

ECUADOR.

527. Ministere des Finances et des Travaux Publiques (Depart-
ment of Finances and Public Works).

‘529. Observatorio Astronomico del Colegio Nacional (Astronom-
ical Observatory of the National College). {il

PARAGUAY.
Asuncion.
531. Minister of Foreign Relations.
533. United States Consulate. [i]

PERU.
Lima.
535. Académia de Ciencias Naturales( Academy of Natural Sciences).
7. Cuerpo de Ingenieros del Péru (Engineer Corps). [i]
539. Escuela de Ingeniero (Hngineer School). .
541. Facultad de Medicina (Medical Faculty).
543. Minister of the Interior.
545. National Library. [iii]
547. Sociedad Geogratica (Geographical Society).
549. Statistical Bureau. [i]
551. Universidad (University). [i]
URUGUAY.
Montevideo.
553. Bureau de Statistique (Statistical Bureau). [i]
555. Government of Uruguay.
557. Ministere de Finance (Treasury Department). [i]
559, Ministere de la Guerre (War Department). [i]
561. Société de Médicine (Medical Society). [i]
563. United States Consulate. [i]

‘ VENEZUELA.
Caracas.
565. Escuela Médica (Medical School). [i]
567. Gazeta Cientifica (Scientific Gazette). [i]
569. La Union Médica—Organo del Gremio Médico de Venezuela
(Medical Union;—Organ of the Medical Society of Vene-
zuela). .
571. Sociedad de Ciencias Fisicas y Naturales (Society of Physical
and Natural Sciences).
573. Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais (economical Soci-
‘ ety of the Friends of Peace). {iii|
575. Universidad de Caracas ( University of Caracas).
ASIA.

BRITISH BURMAH.
Rangoon.
577. The Chief Engineer of British Burmah.

CHINA.
Canton.

579. Deputy of the Bureau of Foreign Affairs. i]

Hong-Kong.
581. Meteorological Observatory.

Pekin.
583. Imperial Tungwen College. [i]
585. Kung-Pu (Board of Works).

Shanghai.
[Chinese Educational Mission School—does not exist.]
587. Chinese Government Department for the Translation of For-
eign Scientific Books.
589. Chinese Polytechnic Institution and Reading Room.
591. Chinese Scientific and Industrial Magazine.
593. Imperial Chinese Maritime Customs, Engineer’s Office. [i]
[Kwong-Ki-Chiu. (See Deputy of the Bureau of Foreign
Affairs in Canton.)]
595. Literary and Debating Society.
597. Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory of the Imperial
Russian Legation. [i]
599. Royal Asiatic Society (China Branch). [Care of James
Bairn, 1 Haymarket, London, England.] _ [iii]
[Scientific Society—does not exist. |
601. Statistical Department of Inspector-General of Customs.
603. Zi-Ka-Wei Observatory. [i]

INDIA.
Allahabad.

607. Meteorological Reporter to the Government. [il

Benares.
609. Sanscrit College. [i]

84 2
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. rab)

Bombay.

611. Agricultural Department of the Bombay Presidency.
613. Bombay Geographical Society. [iii]

615. Bombay Government. [i]

617. Geological Society. *

619. Government Central Museum. [i]

621. Government College (formerly Bombay University). [i]
623. Government Observatory, Colaba. [i]

625. Literary Society of Bombay.

627. Meteorological Office. [i]

629. Royal Asiatic Society (Bombay Branch). [iii]

631. Sassoon Mechanics’ Institute. [i]
633. Sir Jamsetjee Jeejeebhoy Translation Fund. [i]
635. “The Indian Antiquary.” [i]

Calcutta.
637. Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India. [1]
639. Asiatic Society of Bengal. [iii]
641. Chamber of Commerce. [i]
643. Geological Survey of India. [Packages to be sent to the care
of Triibner & Co., London, England.] _ [iii]
‘645. Imperial Indian Museum. [i]
647. Indian Medical Gazette. [i]
649. Indian Museum.
651. Medical and Physical Society. [i]
653. Meteorological Office. [i]
655. Revenue and Agricultural Department. [i]
657. St. Xavier’s College.
659. Surgeon-General’s Office.
661. Under Secretary to Government of Bengal. [i]
Colombo (Ceylon).
663. Government of Ceylon. [i]
665. Observatory of Mr. Green. [i]
667. Office of the Meteorological System.  [i|
' 669. Royal Asiatic Society (Ceylon Branch). _ [iii]
Dehra-Dun.
671. Great Trigonometrical Survey of India. [i]
Goa.
673. Escola Medico-Cirurgica (Medico-Surgical School). [Packages
to be sent through the Escola Polytechnica, Lisbon, Por-
tugal.| [i]
Jafina (Ceylon).
675. Jaffna College. [i]
Kurrachee.
677. Municipal Library and Museum. [i]
86 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Madras.
679. Archeological Survey of Southern India.
681. East India Company’s Office. [i]
683. Government Central Museum and Library. [i]
685. Literary Society. [iii]
687. Madras Journal of Literature and Science.
689. Madras Observatory. [i]
691. ‘“‘Theosophist.”

Neilgherries.
693. Public Library. [i]

Poonah.
695. Civil Engineering College.

Roorkee.
697. Thomason College of Civil Engineering. _ [iii]

Saharaupus.
698. Government Botanical Garden.

Simla.
699. Revenue and Agricultural Department, Government of India.
701. Surgeon-General of India.
703. United Service Institution of India. [i]

Trevandrum.
705. Observatory of His Highness the Rajah of Travancore. [i]
707. Trevandrum Museum.

; JAPAN.
Tokio.

709. Emperor of Japan. [i]
711. Agricultural Bureau of Japan.
713. Asiatic Society of Japan (formerly in Yokohama). [i]
715. Chi-ga-ku-kio-kuwai (Geographical Society). [i]
717. Chi-shi-tsu-kio-ku (Bureau of Geological Surveying). [Com-
merce and Agricultural Department. ]
719. Department of Law, Science, and Literature in the Tokio
Daigaku.
721. Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und V6lkerkunde Ost-
Asiens (German Society of Natural History and Ethnology
of Eastern Asia). [i]
23. Kiyoiku Hakubutsukwan (Hducational Department).
25. Minister of Foreign Affairs.
7. Mombusho Museum (Hducational Museum of the Imperial Unt-
versity). [Care of Kiyoiku Hakubusukwan.] _ [ili]
729. Observatory of the Tokio Daigaku. [i]
731, Roma-Ji-Kwai (Society for the Translation of Japanese in Ko-
man Letters). 5
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 87

ee once:
733. Seismological Society of Japan.
735. Sci-I-Kwai (Society for the Advancement of Medical Science).
737. Society of Health.

739. Tokio Daigaku (Imperial University).

[Formerly [Kdisei

Gakko]. [iii]

741. Tokio Dzushokwan (Tokio Library).

Yokohama.

743. Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Naturwissenschaft und Heilkunde

745. Imperial College.

(German Society for Natural and Medical Sciences).

[i]

747. Japanese Gazette.

Batavia.

749.

751.

753.

759.
757.

759.

761.

Buitenzorg.

763.

Samarang.
765.

Manila.
767.
769.

a,

Singapore.

7173.
775.
777.

JAVA.

Bataviaasche Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen
(Batavian Academy of Arts and Sciences). [iii]

Geneeskundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch-Indié (Medical
Association of Netherlands-India). [i]

Koninklijke Naturkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch-
Indié (Royal Natural History Society of Netherlands-
India). [iii]

Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory. {|

Nederlandsch-Indische Maatschappij van Nijverheid en Land-
bouw (Industrial and Agricultural Society of Netherlands-
India). [i]

Tidschrift for Indische Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde (Journal
of Indian Philology and Folklore).

Tidschrift for Nederlandsch-Indié (Gazette of Netherlands-
India). [i]

Botanischer Garten ( Botanical Garden).

Indisch Aardrijkskundig Genootschap (Indian Geographical
Society). [il

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

Horto Botanico Manilensis (Botanical Garden of Manila). [i]
Observatorio Meteorologico del Ateneo Municipal (Meteoro-
logical Observatory of the Municipal University). [i]

Royal Economical Society. [iii]

STRAITS SETTLEMENT.

Convict Jail Hospital. [i]
Raffles Library and Museum.
Royal Asiatic Society. |i|

(i]
Sydney.
779.
781.
783.
785.

787.

789.
791.
793.

795.
(97.
199.

801.

803.
805.

807.
809.
811.

Windsor.
813.

Brisbane.

815.

817.

Townsville.
829.

AUSTRALASIA.

AUSTRALIA.
NEW SOUTH WALES.

Agricultural Society of New South Wales. [i]

Australian Museum. [i]

“Australian Practitioner.” [i]

Corporation of the City of Sydney. [i]

Council of Education. _ [i]

Free Public Library. [i]

Geographical Institute. [i]

Geographical Society of Australasia (New South Wales
Branch).

Government of New South Wales. [i|

Government Observatory. [i]

Linnean Society of New South Wales. [i]

Mining Department. [i]

Parliamentary Library.

Royal Society of New South Wales. [iii]
Sydney College Library. [i]

Technical and Working Men’s College.
University of Sydney. [iii]

Private Observatory of John Tebbutt. [i]
QUEENSLAND.

Acclimatization Society. [i]
Colonial Secretary’s Office. [i]

[Government of Queensland. (See Colonial Secretary’s

Office.) ]

. Government Meteorological Observatory. [i]
. Parliamentary Library. [i]

. Queensland Museum of Natural History.

. Registrar-General.

. Royal Society of Queensland.

Geological Survey of Queensland.
&8

et ae

Adelaide.
831.
835.
837.
839.
841.
843.
845.
847.

Hobarton.
849.
851.
853.
855.

857.

859.

Launceston.
861.
863.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 89
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.

Adelaide University. [i]
Astronomical Observatory. [i]
Government Botanic Garden. [i]
Government of South Australia. [i]
Inspector-General of Schools. [i].
Parliamentary Library. [i]

Royal Society of South Australia. [i]
South Australia Institute. [i]

TASMANTA.

Government of Tasmania. [i]

Library of Parliament.

Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory. [i]

Museum of the Royal Society of Tasmania and Herbarium
and Botanical Department.

Royal Society of Tasmania. [Packages sent through G.
W. Wheatley & Co., 165 Leadenhall street, London,
EK. C.] [iii]

Tasmania Public Library. [i]

[| Mechanics’ Institute—closed. |

Launceston Public Library. [i]
Mechanics’ Institute and School of Arts. [i]

VICTORIA.

Collingwood.

865.

Field Naturalists’ Club of Victoria. _ [i]

Emerald Hill. '

867.

Melbourne. |

869.
871.
873.
875.
877.
879.
881.
883.
885.
887.
889.

Mechanics’ Institute. [i]

Australian Medical Journal. [i]

Botanical Garden. [il

Corporation of the City of Melbourne. [i]
Department of Mines and Water Supply. [i]
Kelectic Association of Victoria. [i]

Field Naturalists’ Club.

Geographical Society. [i]

Geological Survey of Victoria. [i]
Government of Victoria. [i]

Melbourne Museum.

Melbourne Observatory. [i]

[Mining Department. (See Department of Mines, &c.)]

=_
90 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

> a

Melbourne—Continued.
891. National Museum of Victoria. [i] |
893. Natural History Society. [i]
895. Parliamentary Library.
897. Public Library, Museum, and National Gallery. [iii]
899. Royal British Branch Mint. [1]
901. Royal Philosophical Society of Victoria. [i]
903. Royal Society of Medicine. [i]
905. Royal Society of Victoria. [i]
907. Southern Science Record.
909. University of Melbourne. [iii]
911. Zoological and Acclimatization Society. [i]

WEST AUSTRALIA.
Perth. {
913. Meteorological Superintendent. [i]

NEW ZEALAND.
Auckland.
915. Auckland Free Public Library. [i]
917. Auckland Institute. [i]
919. Auckland Museum.

Christchurch.
921. Canterbury Acclimatization Society. [i]
923. Canterbury Museum. [i]
925. Geological Survey of the Province of Canterbury. [i]
927. Philosophical Institute of Canterbury. {iJ

Dunedin.
929. Otago Institute. [i]
931. Otago Museum. [i]
933. Otago University.

Hokitika.
935. Westland Institute. [i]

Invercargill.
937. Scotland Institute.

Nelson.
939. Nelson Association for the Promotion of Science and In
dustry. [i]
941. Nelson Institute. [i]

Wellington.
943. Chief Inspector of Weights and Measures. [i]
945. Colonial Botanic Garden. [i]
947. Colonial Laboratory. [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. iL

Wellington—Continued.

949.
951.
953.
- 955.
957.
959.
961.
963.
965.
966.
967.
978.
969.
970.

Honolulu.

971.
972.
973.
974.
975.

976.

Colonial Museum and Geological Survey Department. [i]
Colonial Observatory. [i|

Government of New Zealand. [i]

Government Observatory. [i]

Government Printing Office. :
Meteorological and Weather Department. [i]

New Zealand Geological Survey. _ [i]

New Zealand Institute. _ [ii]

New Zealand Public Library. [i]

Parliamentary Library. [iii]

Patent Office Library. [i]

Wellington Philosophical Society. [i]

Wellington Public Library. [i]

Westland Naturalists’ and Acclimatization Society. _[i]

POLYNESIA.

SANDWICH ISLANDS.

Government Geological Survey.

Hawaiian Gazette.

Hawaiian Govenment Library.

Minister of the Interior.

Oahu College.

[Royal Agricultural Society has turned over its books to
the Hawaiian Government Library. |

Scientific Society.
EUROPE.

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.

Agram [Zagrab] (Croatia).

977.

979.
981.
983.
985.

987.
989.

991.

993.

995.

Gesellschaft fiir siidslavische Alterthtimer (Society for South
Slavic Antiquities). [i]

Handels- und Gewerbe-Kammer fiir Kroatien (Chamber of
Commerce and Board of Trade for Croatia). [i]

Kroatische Archiologische Gesellschaft (Croatian Arche-
ological Society).

Kroatisch-Slavonische Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft (Ag-
ricultural Society). [i]

Landwirthschaftliche Zeitung (Agricultural Journal). [i]

National Museum. [i]

Redaktion der “Gospodarski List” (Editor of the * Gos-
podarski Inst.”) [i]

Siidslavische Akademie der Wissenschaften und Kiinste
(South Slavic Academy of Science and Art). [i]

Trogova¢ko Obrtni¢éka Komora (Statistical Bureau). [i]

Universitat (University). [i]

Bistritz (Austria).

997.

Gewerbeschule (Industrial School). [i]

Bregenz (Austria).

999.

Vorarlberger Museums- Verein ( Vorarlberg Museum Society).
[i]

Briinn (Austria).

1001.

1003.

1005.

K. K. Miahrisch-Schlesische Gesellschaft fiir Ackerbau,
Natur- und Landeskunde (Imperial Royal Moravian-St-
lesian Society of Agriculture, Natural History, and Geog-
raphy). [i]

Mihrisch-Schlesisches Blinden-Erziehungs-Institut (Mora-

vian-Silesian Institute for Educating the Blind). [i]

Naturforschender Verein (Naturalists Society) [iii]

Budapest (Hungary).

1007.
1009.

1011.

Févarosi statisztikai Hivatal (Statistical Bureau). [i]

Geologische Gesellschaft fiir Ungarn (Geological Society of
Hungary). [iii]

Handels-Akademie (Commercial Academy) |i]

92

Se Sm
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 95

Budapest (Hungary)—Continued.

1013.

1015.
1017.

LOL. |

1021.
1025.

1059.

Handels- und Gewerbe-Kammer (Chamber of Commerce and
Trade). |i]

Industrielle Gesellschaft (Industrial Society). [i]

K. K. Egyetem Kathol. Fogymnasium (Imperial Royal Cath-
olic Gymnasium). [i]

. K. Sternwarte (Imperial Royal Observatory).

. Geographisches Institut (Royal Geographical Institute).

. Magyar Természettudomanyi Tarsulat (Royal Hunga-
rian Society of Natural Sciences).  {iii]

versity). [iti]

. Ober-Gymnasium (Loyal Higher Gymnasium). [i]

. Ober-Realschule (Royal Practical School). [i]

. Ungar. Central-Anstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmag-
netismus (Royal Hungarian Central Institute of Meteor-
ology and Terrestrial Magnetism). [i]

K
K
K
. K. Magyar Tudomanyos Egyetem (Royal Hungarian Uni-
K
K
K

. K. Ungar. Geologische Anstalt (Royal Hungarian Geologi-

cal Institute). [i]

5. Lebens-Versicherungs-Gesellschaft ‘*Anker” (‘“Anchor”

Life Insurance Company).

7. Magyar Foldrajzi Tarsasag.

39. Magyar Nemzeti Museum (Hungarian National Museum). [i]
. Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia (Hungarian Academy). [iii]
. Ministerium fiir Agricultur und Industrie (Ministry of Ag-

riculture and Industry).  [i|

. Musée d’Anthropologie de VY Université (Anthropological

Museum of the University).

. Naturforschender Verein (Natural History Society).
. Oesterreich -Ungarische Staats - Eisenbahn - Gesellschaft

(Austro-Hungarian Railroad Society). ['Theresien Ring
30. |

. Pestvaros Statisztikai Hivatal (Statistical Bureau of the

City). [i]

d3. Polytechnische Schule (Polytechnic School).
. Prasidium des K6éniglich Ungarischen Ministeriums (Presi-

dent of the Royal Hungarian Ministry).

. Société de Géographie de Hongrie (Hungarian Genqpaphioal

Society). [i]
Termeszetrajzi Fuzetk.

Czernowitz (Austria).

1061.

1063.

K. K. Universitits-Bibliothek (Imperial Royal University
TAbrary). [iii]

Verein fiir Landeskultur and Landeskunde im Herzog-
thume Bukowina (Society for Agriculture and Geography
of the Duchy of Bukowina). [i]
94 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Fiume (Illyria).
1065. K. K. Marine-Akademie (Imperial Royal Nawal Acad-
emy). [i]
Galacz (Austria).
1067. Commission Européenne de Danube (European Danube
Commission). [i]
Gorz (Illyria).
1069. K. K. Ackerbau-Gesellschaft (Imperial Royal Agricultural.
Society). [i]
Gratz (Styria).
1071. Akademie fiir Handel und Industrie (Academy of Commerce
and Industry). [i]
1073. Historischer Verein fiir Steiermark (Historical Society of
Styria). [i]
1075. K. K. Erstes Staats-Gymnasium (Imperial Royal State Gym-
nasium).  [i)
1077. K. K. Steiermarkischer Gartenbau-Verein (Imperial Royal
Styrian Horticultural Society). [i]
1079. K. K. Steiermiirkische Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft (Im-
perial Royal Styrian Agricultural Society). [i]
1081. K. K. Universitat (Imperial Royal University).  [iii|
1083. Landes-Bibliothek am Steiermirk. Landschaftlichen Joan-
neum (Styrian National Library at the Joanneum). [i]
1085. Mineralogisches Museum des Steiermiarkischen Land-
schaftlichen Joanneums (Styrian ational Mineralogical
Museum of the Joanneum).
1087. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Steiermark (Styrian
Society of Natural Sciences). [il
1089. Steiermiirkischer Industrie- und Gewerbe-Verein (Styrian
Industrial and Polytechnical Society). [i]
1091. Steiermarkische Landes-Ober-Realschule (Styrian Higher
‘“* Real” School). [i]
1093. Verein der Aerzte in Steiermark (Styrian Society of Physi-
cians). {i]
Hermannstadt (Transylvania).
1095. Siebenbiirgischer Verein fiir Naturwissenschaften (Zransyl-
vanian Society of Natural Sciences). [iii]
1097. Verein fiir Siebenbiirgische Landeskunde (Transylvanian
Geographical Society). [i]
Innsbruck (Tyrol).
1099. Ferdinandeum. [iii]
1101. K. K. Nord-Tirolische Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft (Im.
perial Royal Agricultural Society of North Tyrol). |i]
1103. Naturwissenschaftlich-Medicinischer Verein (Society of Nat-
| ural and Medical Sciences).  {i|
1105. Universitiits-Bibliothek (University Library). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 1)

Kaloesa (Hungary).
1107. Sternwarte (Observatory).

“ilagenfurth (Carinthia\.

1109. Geschichts-Verein fiir Kiirnten (Historical Society of Carin-
thia). [i]

1111. Handels- und Gewerbe-Kammer (Chamber of Commerce and
Board of Trade). [i]

1118. Kirntnerischer Gartenbau- Verein (Carinthian Horticultural
Society). ;

1115. Kirntnerischer Industrie- und Gewerbe- Verein (Carinthian
Industrial and Polytechnical Association). [i]

1117. K. K. Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft (Imperial Royal Ag-
ricultural Society). [i]

1119. K. K. Studien-Bibliothek (Imperial Royal Collegiate La-
brary). [i]

1121. Naturhistorisches Landes-Museum in Karnten (Carinthian
National Museum of Natural History). [i]

1123. Section Klagenfurt des Berg- und Hiittenmannischen Ver-
eines fiir Steiermark und Kirnten (Klagenfurt Section of
the Mining and Smelting Society of Styria and Carinthia)

Klausenburg (Transylvania).
1125. Edelyi Museum Egylet (National Museum). [1]
1127. Koniglicher Botanischer Garten (Royal Botanical Garden).
1129. Kéniglich Ungarische Universitat (Royal Hungarian Uni-
versity).
1151. Magyar Novenytani Lapok. [i]

Kloster-neuburg (Austria).
1 1133. Revue Antiphylloxéique (Anti-phylloxera Revier).

Krakau (Galicia).

1135. Akademija Umiejetnoései (Academy of Sciences). [i]

1137. Galizischer Fischerei-Verein (Galician Piscicultural Soci-
ety). [i] ”

1139. K. K. Universitiéts-Sternwarte (Imperial Royal University
Observatory). [i]

1141. Medicinische Geselischaft (Medical Society). [i]

. 1143. Universitet Jagiellonski (Jagiellonski University). [iil

Kremsmiinster (Austria).
1145. Sternwarte (Observatory). (i]

Laibach (Lllyria).
1147. Historischer Verein fiir Krain (Historical Society of Carni-
ola). [i]
1149. Juristische Gesellschaft (Jurists’ Association). [i]
6 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Laibach (Illyria)—Continued.
1151. K. K. Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft (Imperial Royal Agrt-
cultural Society). [i] .
1153. K.K.Studien-Bibliothek (Imperial Royal Collegiate Library).
1155. Landes-Museum (National Museum). [i]
1157. Matica Slovenska (Literary Society). [i]

Lemberg (Galicia).
1159. Franzens-Universitat (Francis University).
1161. Universitiits-Sternwarte (University Observatory). [i]
1163. Zaklad narodowy imienia Ossolinskich (National Insti-
tute). [i]

Leoben (Styria).
1165. K.K. Berg-Akademie (Imperial Royal Mining Academy). | [il
1167. Oesterreichische Zeitschrift fiir das Berg- und Hiittenwesen
(Austrian Mining and Smelting Journal).
Linz (Austria).
1169. Handels- und Gewerbe-Kammer Oberdsterreichs (Upper-
Austrian Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade). [i]
1171. K. K. Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft (Imperial Royal Agrt-
cultural Society). [i]
1173. K. K. offentliche Studien-Bibliothek (Imperial Royal Colle-
giate Library).
1175. Museum Francisco Carolinum (Museum Francisco Carolt-
num). [il

Neutitschein (Austria).
1177. Landwirthschaftlicher Verein (Agricultural Society). [i]
O’Gyalla (Hungary).
1179. Astro-physikalisches Observatorium (Astro-Physical Obser-
vatory). [i]
Olmiitz (Moravia).
1181. K. K. Deutsches Gymnasium (Imperial Royal German Gym-
nasium). [i]
1183. K. K. Ober-Realschule (Imperial Royal High “ Real” School).
(i
1185. K. K. Studien-Bibliothek (Imperial Royal Collegiate Library).
[iii]
Pola (Zilyria).
1187. Hydrographisches Amt (Hydrographic Office). [i]
Prag (Bohemia).
1189. Béhmische chemische Gesellschaft (Bohemian Chemical So-
ciety). [i]
1191. Bihmischer Gewerbe-Verein (Bohemian Polytechnical So-
ciety). [i]

;
j
,
{

H
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 97

Prag (Bohemia)—Continued.

1193. Comité fiir naturwissenschaftliche Landesdurcl forschung.
(Committee for Natural History Explorations). [i]

1195. Deutscher polytechnischer Verein (German Polytechnical
Society). [i]

1197. K. béhmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften (Royal Bo-
hemian Society of Sciences). [ili]

1199. K. bédhmisches Museum (. Bohemian Museum). |iii]

1201. K. K. béhmische Car] Ferdinand Universitat (Imperial Royal

- Bohemian Carl Ferdinand University).

12035. K. K. b6éhmische technische Hochschule (Imperial Royal
Bohemian Polytechnicum).

1205. K. K. deutsche Carl Ferdinand Universitats- Bibliothek (Im-
perial Royal German Carl Ferdinand University Li-
brary).  [iil|

1207. K. K. deutsche technische Hochschule (Imperial Royal Ger-
man Polytechnicum).

1209. K. K. Universitits-Sternwarte (Imperial Royal University
Observatory.) [i]

1211. Medicinische Facultat (Medical Faculty). [i]

1213. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein ‘* Lotos” (Society of Natu-
ral Sciences “* Lotos”). [i]

1215. Pamatky archaeologické a mistopisme.

1217. Presidium des Landes-Kultur-Rathes (President of the
Council for Agriculture). [iii]

1219. Redaktion der technischen Blatter (Technical Journal). [i]

1221. Schaafztichter-Verein fiir Béhmen (Sheep-breeders’ Society
of Bohemia). {i|

1223. Verein fiir die Geschichte der Deutschen in Boéhmen (So-
ciety for the History of the Germans in Bohemia). [i]

1225. Verein zur Ermunterung des Gewerbegeistes in Bohmen
(Society for the Encouragement of Industrial Enterprise
in Bohemia). [i]

Presburg (Hungary).

1227. Handels- und Gewerbe-Kammer (Chamber of Commerce and
Board of Trade). [i]
1229. Verein fiir Naturkunde (Society of Natural Sciences). [i]

Pribram (Bohemia).
1231. K. K. Berg-Direction (Imperial Royal Direction of Mines)
{K. K. Karoli Boromii Silber- und Blei-Hauptwerk]. [i|

Reichenberg (Bohemia).

1233. Verein der Naturfreunde (Society of Naturalists).
15 Es Yih bee
98 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Roveredo (/yrol).
1235. I. R. Accademia di Lettere e Scienze degli Agiati (Im-
perial Royal Academy of Leiters and Sciences). [i]
1237. I. R. Seuola Reale Elisabettina (Imperial Royal Elizabeth
School). [i]

St. Polten (Austria).
1239. Nieder-dsterr. Landes-Ober-Realschule (National High
School of Lower Austria).  [i|

Salzburg (Austria).
1241. K. K. Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft (Imperial Royal Agrt-
cultural Society). [i]
1243. K. K. Studien- Bibliothek (Imperial Royal Collegiate Li-
brary). [i]
1245. Stidtisches Museum Carolino-Augusteum (Municipal Caro-
lino-Augustan Museum).

Schassburg (Austria).
1247. Gymnasium (Gymnasium). [i]
Trent (Tyrol).
1249. Oesterreichischer Alpen- Verein (Austrian Alpine Club). [i]
1251. Societa degli alpinisti Tridentini (Alpine Club of Trent). |i]
1253. R. Istituto Industriale e Professionale (Royal Industrial
and Professional Institute).
Trieste (Illyria).
1255. Ackerbau-Gesellschaft (Agricultural Society). [i]
1257. Astronomisches und meteorologisches Observatorium der
nautischen Akademie (Astronomical and Meteorological
Observatory of the Nautical Academy).
1259. Civico Museo di Storia Naturale Ferdinando. Massimiliano
(Ferdinand Maximilian Museum of Natural History). [i]
1261. Gartenbau-Gesellschaft (Horticultural Society).
1263. K. K. Handels- und nautische Akademie (Imperial Royal
Commercial and Nautical Academy). [i]
1265. “ L’ Ortolano,” Giornale Populare d’ Orticultura, “ The Gar-
dener”—Popular Horticultural journat). [i]
1267. Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali (Adriatic Society of
Natural Sciences). [i]
[Societa Agraria. (See Ackerbau-Gesellschaft.) |
1271. Societa par la Lettura Populare (Society for Popular Lec-
tures). . [i]
1273. Societa Scientifica Letteraria della Minerva (Minerva Sei-
entific Literary Society). [iii]
Wien (Austria).
1276. Seiner Kaiserlich-K6niglichen Majestét Privat-Bibliothek
(Private Library of His Majesty the Emperor). [iii]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 99

Wien (Austria)—Continued.

1277.
1279.

1281.

1283.

1285.
1287.

1289.

1291.

1293.
1295.

1297.

1305.

1307.

1309.

1311.

1313.
1315.

1317.

Afrikanische Gesellschatt (African Society).

Allgemeiner Oesterr. Apotheker- Verein (Austrian Apothe.
caries’ Association). [i]

Allgemeine Wiener medicinische Zeitung (Vienna Medical
Journal). {il

Alterthums-Verein [1 Universitats-Platz, 2] (Archeological
Society).

Anthropologische Gesellschaft (Anthropological Society). [i]

Chemisch-metallurgisches Laboratorium [ Rasumoffskigasse,
3] (Chemico-Metallurgical Laboratory).

Chemisch-physikalische Gesellschaft (Chemico-Physical So-
ciety).

Deutsche Rundschau fiir Geographie und Statistik (German
Review for Geography and Statistics).

Entomologischer Verein (Entomological Society). [i]

Geologisches Institut der Universitit (Geological Institute
of the University).

Handels- und Gewerbe Kammer (Chamber of Commerce and
Board of Trade). [{i|

. Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften | Universitits-

Platz 2] (Imperial Academy of Sciences). [iii]

. K. K. Ackerbau-Ministerium [Rudolph-Platz, 134] (Im-

perial Royal Department of Agriculture). {i]

. K. K. Akademie fiir Bildende Kiinste [Schiller-Platz 3]

(Imperial Royal Academy of Plastic Art).

[K. K. Artillerie- und Ingenieur-Schule (Imperial Royal Ar-
tillery and Engineers’ School). (See K. K. Technische
Militair-A kademie.)]

K. K. Botanisches Hof-Cabinet (Imperial Royal Botanical
Museum).

K. K. Central-Anstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetis-
mus [Hohe Warte bei Doébling, No. 38, Wien] Imperial
Royal Central Institute for Meteorological and Terrestrial
Magnetism).  {i]

K. K. Central-Kommission zur Erforschung und Erhaltung
der Kunst- und historischen Denkmale [Schiller Platz,
4| (Imperial Royal Central Commission for the Explora-
tion and Preservation of Art and Historical Monuments).

K. K. Gartenbau-Gesellschaft (Imperial Royal Horticultural
Society). [i]

K. K. General-Stabs-Schule (Imperial Royal School of Staff).

K. K. Geographische Gesellschaft (Imperial Royal Geograph-
ical Society). iii}

K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt (Imperial Royal Geological
Establishment). [iii]
100

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Wien (Au stria)—Continued.

1319.

K.

Bb) ie

3. K.

A oR AR

K. Gesellschaft der Aerzte (Imperial Royal Society of Phy-
sicians). [i]

K. Handels-Ministerium (Imperial Royal Department of
Commerce). [i]

K. Hochschule fiir Bodencultur [vii. Landesgasse, 17]
(Imperial Royal Agricultural High School).

. K. Hof-Bibliothek (Imperial Royal Library). [iii]
. K. Hof-und Staats-Druckerei (Imperial Royal State

Printing Office). [iii]
K. Kriegs-Ministerium (Imperial Royal War Department).

[i]

. K. Landes- Vertheidigungs-Ministerium (Imperial Royal

Department of National Defense).

. K. Marine-Ober-Kommando (Imperial Royal Naval Office),

[i]

. K. Militiér Geographisches Institut (Imperial Royal Mili.

tary Geographical Institute).

. K. Mineralogisches Hof-Cabinet (Imperial Royal Mineral-

ogical Museum).

. K. Ministerium des Aeussern (Imperial Royal Foreign

Office). [i]

. K. Ministerium fiir Cultus und Unterricht (Imperial

Royal Department of Church and Education). [i]

. K. Ministerium des Innern (Imperial Royal Department

of the Interior). [i]

. K. Naturhistorisches Hof-Museum (Imperial Royal Nat-

ural History Museum). [ii]

. K. Ober-Gymnasium zu den Schotten (Imperial Royal

Schotten Gymnasium). [i]

. K. Oeffentliche Lehranstalt fiir orientalische Sprachen

| Universitits-Platz, 1] (Imperial Royal Tele Institute
of Oriental Languages).

. K. Oesterr. Museum fiir Kunst und Industrie (Imperial

Royal Museum of Art and Industry). [i]

. K. Physikalisch-astronomisches Hof-Cabinet (Imperial

Royal Physical-Astronomical Museum).

. K. Reichs - Landwirthschafts - Gesellschaft (Imperial

Royal Agricultural Society). [i]

. K. Schottenfelder Ober-Realschule (Imperial Royal Schot-

tenfeld High School). [i]

. K. Statistische Central-Kommission (Imperial Royal Sta-

tistical Central Commission). {iii}

. K. Sternwarte (Imperial Royal Observatory). [i]
\. K. Technische Hochschule (Imperial Royal Polytechnicum)..
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 101

Wien (Austria)—Continued.

1365.

1367.
1369.
1371.
1373.

1375.

1397.

1399.

1401.

1403.
1405.

1407.

1409.

1411.

K. K. Technische Militair-Akademie (Imperial Royal Techni-
cal Military Academy) ah K. K. Artillerie- und
Ingenieur-Schule]}.

K. K. Topographische Gesellschaft aaiperial Royal Topo-
graphical Society).

K. K. Universitats-Bibliothek (Imperial Royal University
Tibrary). {iii}

K. K. Zoologisch-Botanische Gesellschaft (Imperial Royal
Zoological Botanical Society). [iil

K. K. Zoologisches Hot-Cabinet (Imperial Royal Zoological
Museum). {i|

Marine-Section des K. K. Reichs. Kriegs-Ministeriums (Naval
Section of the Imperial Royal State, War Department). [i|

77. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein (Society of Natural Sciences).
. Niederésterreichischer Gewerbe-Verein (Polytechnical So-

ciety of Lower Austria). [i]

. Numismatische Gesellschaft (Nwmismatic Society).
. Oesterreichische Geselischaft fiir Meteorologie (Austrian

Society of Meteorology). {i}

. Oesterreichischer Ingenieur- und Architecten- Verein (Aus-

trian Society of Engineers and Architects). [i]

. Orientalische Akademie (Oriental Academy).

. Orientalisches Museum (Oriental Museum). [i]

. Ornithologischer Verein (Ornithological Society). [i]

3. Pharmaceutische Gesellschaft (Pharmaceutical Society).

. Photographische Gesellschaft (Photographical Society). [i]

[Polytechnische Gesellschaft (Polytechnical Society). (See
K. K. Technische Hochschule.) |

Privilegirte Osterreich- ungarische Staats-Hisenbahn-Gesell-
schatt [Schwarzenberg-Platz, 5] (Austro-Hungarian
Railroad Society).

Redaktion: Neue Freie Presse (New Free Press).

[Redaktion: Oesterr.-ungar. Fischerei-Zeitung (Austria-
Hungary Fishing Gazette). Detunct.|

Redaktion: Oesterr.-ungar. Sparkassen-Zeitung (Auwstria-
Hungary Savings Bank Gazette).

Redaktion: Der Gartenfreund (The Garden’s Friend).

Redaktion: Photographische Correspondenz (Photographic
Correspondence).

Redaktion: Numismatische Zeitschrift [formerly Monats-
hefte] (Numismatic Gazette). [i]

Redaktion: Die neuesten Erfindungen im Gebiete der
Landwirthschaft (The latest discoveries in agriculture—
journal).

Redaktion: Ungarische Revue (Hungarian Review). [i]
102

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Wien (Austria)—Continued.

1413.

1415.

1417.

1419.

1421.

1423.

1425.

1427.

1429.

1431.

1433.

1435.

1437.
1439.

1441.
1443.

Redaktion: Wiener Medizinische Wochenschritt (Medical
Weekly).

[Redaktion: Wiener Numismatische Monatshefte ( Vienna
Numismatic Monthly). See Numismatische Zeitschrift. |

Redaktion: Wiener Obst- und Garten-Zeitung (Vienna
Fruset and Horticultural Journal—published by the Impe-
rial Royal Horticultural Society). [i]

Stadt-Verwaltung (City council).

Technologisches Gewerbe-Museum (Polytechnical Museum).

Unterstiitzungs- Verein fiir entlassene Strafgefan gene, sowie
fiir hiilfs- und schuldlose Familien von Verhafteten (So-
ciety to assist released prisoners and their families).

Verein der Geographen an der K. K. Universitat (Society of
Geographers of the Imperial Royal University). |i]

Verein der K. K. autor. und beeideten Civil-Ingenieure und
Architekten (Society of Civil Engineers and Architects).

Verein der Literaturfreunde (Society of the Friends of Lit-
erature).

Verein der Montan und Eisen Industriellen (Society of Iron
Industry).

Verein fiir Psychiatrie und Forensische Psychologie (So-
ciety of Psychiatry and Forensic Psychology).

Verein zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher Kennt-
nisse (Society for the diffusion of the knowledge of Nat-
ural Sciences). [i]

Verein zur Versorgung und Beschiftigung erwachsener
Blinden (Society for the Support and Employment of the
adult Blind). [i]

Wiener Handel’s-Akademie ( Vienna Commercial Academy).

Wiener Thierschutz- Verein (Vienna Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals). [i]

Wissenschaftlicher Club (Scientific Club). [i]

Wissenschaftlicher Verein der Militaér-Aerzte der Wiener
Garnison (Scientific Society of Army Physicians of the
Vienna Garrison).

Zara (Dalmatia).

1445.

Societ’ Economica di Dalmazia (Hconomical Society of Dal-
matia). [i]

BELGIUM.

Anvers (Antwerp).

1447.

Académie d’Archéologie de Belgique Me of Archeol-
ogy of Belgium). [i]

1449. Académie Royale des Beaux Arts (Royal Academy of Fine

Arts). [il
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 103

Anvers (Antwerp)—Continued.

1451.
1453.
1455.
1457.

1459.

Arlon.

Ath.

1475.

Audenarde.

1477.

Bruges.

1479.
1481.

1483.
1485.
1487.

1489.

Administration Communale (City Government).

Bibliothéque Publique de la ville (Public City Library). |i]

Cercle Artistique, Littéraire et Scientifique d’Anvers (Ar-
tastic, Literary, and Scientific Society of Anvers). [i]

Société Belge de Géographie (Belgium Geographical So-
ciety). [i] .

Société Chorale Dramatique et Littéraire—De Vlaamsche
Vrienden—(Choral Dramatic and Literary Society of
Flemish friends).

. Société de Médecine (Medical Society). [i]

. Société de Olytak (Society Olytak).

. Société de Pharmacie (Pharmaceutical Society). [i]

. Société Royale pour l’Encouragement des Beaux Arts

(Royal Society for the Encouragement of Fine Arts). [i]

. Société Royale d’Horticulture et d’Agriculture (Royal So-

ciety of Horticulture and Agriculture). [i]

. Société Royale de Zoologie (Royal Zoological Society). [i]

3. Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). — [i]

Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). [i]
Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). [i]

Administration Communale (City Government). [i]

Archives de Administration Communale (Archives of the
City Government).

Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). [i]

Cercle Artistique et Littéraire (Artistic and Literary Society).

Société d’Horticulture et de la Botanique (Horticultural
and Botanical Society). [i]

Société Médico-Chirurgicale de Bruges (Medico Chirurgical
Society of Bruges). [i]

Bruxelles (Brussels).

1491.

1493.

1495.
1497.

Académie Royale de Médecine (Royal Academy of Medi-
cine). [i]

Académie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux
Arts de Belgique (Royal Academy of Sciences, Letters,
and Fine Arts, of Belgium). [iii]

Archives Médicales (Medical Archives). [i]

Association Internationale pour l’exploration et la civilisa-
tion de l’Atrique Central (International Society for the
exploration and civilization of Central Africa).
104

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Bruxelles (Brussels)—Continued.

1499.
1501.

1503.

1505.
1507.

1509.

Athénée Belge (Belgian Atheneum). [i]

Bibliotheque de la Chambre des Représentants (Library of
the House of Representatives).  {i]

Bibliothéque Royale de Belgique (Royal Library of Bel-
gium). [iii]

Bibliotheque de Université (University Library). [i]

Cercle Artistique et Littéraire (Artistic and Literary So-
ciety).

Commission Administrative du Musée Royal de Industrie
(Administrative Commission of the Royal Museum of
Industries). [i]

. Commission Belge des Echanges Internationaux (Bel-

gian Commission of International Exchanges). [i]

. Commission Centrale de Statistique (Central Commission

of Statistics). [i]

. Commission de Contréle de la Carte Géologique de Bel-

gique (Commission for the Geological Map of Belgium).

7. Commission des Annales des Travaux Publiques (Commis-

sion of Record of Public Works). [i]

. Commission Royale d’Histoire (Royal Commission of His-

tory). fi]

. Gouvernement de la Belgique (Government of Belgium). [i]
23. Institut de Droit International (Institute of International

Laws). [i]

. Institut Cartographique Militaire (Military Cartographical

Institute).

. Institut Géographique de Bruxelles [20 Rue de Paroissiens]

(Geographical Institute of Brussels). [i]

. Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres (Foreign Office).

. Ministére d’Agriculture (Agricultural Department).

. Ministére de ’Intérieur (Interior Department). [i]

. Musée Royal d’Antiquités, d’Armures et d’Artillerie (Royal

Museum of Antiquities, Armor and Ordnance). [i]

. Musée Royal d’Histoire Naturelle de Belgique (Royal Nat-

ural History Museum of Belgium). [ii]

. Observatoire Royal (Royal Observatory). [iii]
. Société Anetomo-Pathologique (Anatomo-Pathological So-

ciety).

. Société d@’ Anthropologie de Bruxelles (Anthropological So-

ciety of Brussels).

. Société [Royale] Belge de Géographie (Royal Belgian Geo:

graphical Society). [i]

7. Société Belge de Médecine Home@opathique (Belgian Society

of Homeopathic Medicine). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 105

Bruxelles (Brussels) —Continued.

1549.
1551.
1553.
1555.
1557.
1559.
1561.
1563.
1565.
1567.

1569.
1571.

1573.
1575.
1577.

1579.
Charleroi.

1581.

1583.

Courtray.
1585.

Furnes.

1587.

Société Belge de Microscopie (Belgian Microscopical Society).
i]

Société Centrale d’Agriculture de Belgique (Central Agri
cultural Society of Belgium). [i]

Société Centrale des Instituteurs Belges (Central Associa-
tion of Belgian Teachers). [{i|

Société d’Histoire et d’Archéologie (Society of History and
Archeology).,

Société des Electriciens de Belgique (Society of Electricians
of Belgium).

Société Entomologique de Belgique (Hntomological Society
of Belgium). [ii]

Société Malacologique de Belgique (Malacological Society
of Belgium). [i]

Société Royale de Numismatique Belge (Royal Numismatic
Society of Belgium). [i]

Société Royale de Pharmacie de Bruxelles (Royal Socie‘y of
Pharmacy of Brussels). [i]

Société Royale de Botanique de Belgique (Botanical Society
of Belgium). [i]

Société Royale de Flore (Royal Society of Flora). [i]

Société Royale Linnéenne de Bruxelles (Royal Linnean So-
ciety of Brussels). [i]

Société Royale Protectrice des Animaux (Royal Society for
the Protection of Animals). [i]

Société Royale des Sciences Médicales et Naturelles (Royal
Society of Medical and Natural Sciences).  {i]

Société Scientifique de Bruxelles (Scientific Society of Brus-
sels). [i]

Société Vésalienne ( Vesalian Society).

Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). [i]

Société Paléontologique et Archéologique de lArrondisse-
ment (Paleontological and Archeological Society of the
District). [i]

Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). [i]

Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). [i]

Gand (Ghent).

1589.

Administration de la Revue et des Archives de Droit Inter-
national et de Législation Comparée (Administration
of the Revisal and Records of International Law and
Comparative Legislation). [i]
106

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Gand (Ghent)—Continued.

1591.

1593.
1595.
1597.
1599.
1601.

1603.

Hasselt.

Huy.

Liege.

1605.
1607.

1609.

1625.

1627.

1629.

1631.

1633.

Maatschappij van Nederlandsche Letterkunde en Ge.
schiedenes (Society of the Literature and History of Neth-
erlands).  [i|

Société d’Histoire Naturelle (Natural History Society). |i]

Société de Médecine (Medical Society). [i]

Société Royale d’Agriculture et de Botanique (Royal Society
of Agriculture and Botany). [i]

Société Royale des Beaux Arts et de Littérature (Royal So-
ciety of Fine Arts and Literature). [i]

Société Het Willems-fonds ( Willems-fund [Philological] So-
ciety). [i]

Université (University). [iii]

Bibliothéque Communale (City Library). [i]
Bibliothéque Publique (Public Iibrary). [i]

Cercle des Sciences et Beaux Arts (Circle of Sciences and
Fine Arts). [i]

. Association des Ingénieurs sortis de ’Ecole de Liége (Asso-

ciation of Engineers of the School of Liége). [i]

. Comité du Cercle Industriel (Committee of the Industrial

Circle). [i]

. Conseil de Salubrité Publique de la Province de Liége

(Board of Public Health of the Province of Liége). [i]

. Ecole des Mines (Mining Academy).
. Fédération des Sociétés d’Horticulture de Belgique (Asso-

ciation of the Horticultural Societies of Belgium). [i]

. Institut Archéologique Liégeois (Arch@ological Institute of

Liege). [i]

. Revue Universelle des Mines, de la Métallurgie, des Tra-

vaux Publics, &c. (Review of Mines, Metallurgy, Pub-
lic Works, de.). [i]

Société Géologique de Belgique (Geological Society of Bel-
gium). [i]

Société libre d’Emulation pour ’Encouragement des Let-
tres et des Beaux Arts (Free Emulative Society for the
Promotion of Letters, Sciences, and Arts). [i]

Société des Sciences Naturelles (Society of Natural Sei-
ences). [i]

Société Liégeoise de Littérature Wallone (Liége Society of
Walloon Literature).  [i]}

Société de Médecine (Medical Society). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 107

Liége—Continued.

1635.

1637.

1639.
1641.

Lokeren.
1643.

Louvain.

1645,

1647.

1649.

1651.

Société Médico-chirurgicale de Liége (Medico-chirurgical
Society of Liége). [i]
Société Royale d’Horticulture (Royal Horticultural Society).
i)
Société Royale des Sciences ( Royal Society of Sciences). [iii]
Université de ’ Etat (State University). [i]

Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). [i]

[Bibliotheque ’ Publique—does not exist. |

‘‘Le Muséon.” Revue Internationale, rue du Vent 8 (‘+ The
Museum ;”—International Review).

Société Littéraire del Université Catholique (Literary Society
of the Catholic University). {i}

Studenten Genootschap der Katholische Hoogeschool
(Students’ Association of the Catholic University).

Université Catholique (Catholic University). [iii]

Melle (near Ghent).

1653.

1655.

Mons.
1657.
1659.
1661.

1663.

1665.
Namur.

1667.

1669.

1671.

1673.

Ostend.
1675.

Institution Littéraire, Scientifique, Commerciale et Indus-
trielle (Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and Industrial
Institution). [i]

Muséum Commercial et Industriel (Commercial and Indus-
trial Museum). [i]

Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). [i]

Cercle Archéologique (Archeological Circle). [i]

Société des Anciens Eléves de l’Ecole des Mines du Hainaut
(Society of the Former Pupils of the School of Mines of
Hainaut). [i]

Société des Bibliophiles Belges (Society of Belgian Biblio-
philists). [i]

Société des Sciences, des Arts et des Letters du Hainaut
(Society of Sciences, Arts, and Letters of Hainaut). [iii]

Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). [i]

Cercle Artistique et Littéraire (Artistic and Literary Circle.)
i]

Société Agricole et Forestiére de la Province de Namur
(Society of Agriculture and Forestry of the Province of
Namur). |i]

Société Archéologique (Archeological Society.) [i]

Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library). ji]
108

St. Nicolas.

1677.
1679.

Termonde.

Tirlemont.

1685.

Tongres.

1687.

Tournay.

1689.
1691.

1695.

Verviers.

1695.
1697.

1699.

Ypres.

Aalborg.

1709.

. Bibliothéque Publique (Public Library).
. Société Historique, Archéologique, et Littéraire de la Ville

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Bibliothaque Publique (Public Library). [i
Cercle Archéologique du Pays de Waas (Archeological
Circle of Waas). [i]

. Bibliothéque Spéciale Termondoise (L#brary). [i]
. Cercle Archéologique de la Ville et de ’Ancien Pays de

Termonde (Archeological Circle of the City and the
Ancient Territory of Termonde). [i] —

Bibliothéque Publique (Public Inbrary). [i]
Société Scientifique et Littéraire du Limbourg (Scientific
and Literary Society of Limburg). |i]

Bibliotheque Publique (Public Library). [i]

Société Historique et Littéraire de Tournay (Historical and
Literary Society of Tournay). [i]

Société Royale d’Horticulture et d’Agriculture (Royal So-
ciety of Horticulture and Agriculture).

Bibliotheque Communale (City Library). |i]

Chambre de Commerce de Verviers (Chamber of Com-
merce of Verviers). {i]

Société Archéologique de Verviers (Archeological Society
of Verviers).

. Société Industrielle et Commerciale (Industrial and Com-

mercial Society).

[i]

. Société Royale d’ Agriculture et de Botanique (Royal Society

of Agriculture and Botany).

[i]

ui]

@Ypres et de VPancienne West-Flandre (Historical,
Archeological, and Literary Society of the City of Ypres
and Old West Flanders). [i]

DENMARK.

Samlinger til Jydsk Historie (Society for the History of Jut-
land).

Kjobenhavn (Copenhagen).

io kee

Botaniske Forening (Botanical Society). [i]

[Botanisk Tidsskrift (Botanical Gazette)—published by the
Botanical Society. }

[Bulletin Météorologique du Nord (Meteorological Bulle-
tin of the North)—published by the Danske Meteorolo-
giske Institut. |
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 109

Kjébenhavn (Copenhagen)—Continued.

ial.

1715.

1717.
1719.

1721.
1723.

Comité du Laboratoire de Carlsberg (Committee of the Carls-
berg Laboratory).

Danske Meteorologiske Institut (Danish Meteorological In-
stitute). [i]

Den Danske Gradmaaling (Danish Geodetic Commission).

Det Store Kongelige Bibliotheket (Grand Royal Library).
[iii]

Fengsels Tidende (Prison Review).

Fiskeri Tidende (Journal of Fisheries) [formerly Nordisk
Tidsskrift for Fiskeri]. [i]

. Foreningen til Fiskeries Fremme i Danmark og Bilande

(Society for the Improvement of the Fisheries of Denmark).

. Geografiske Selskab (Geographical Society. [i]

[Greenlanders Home—now called Department of the Com-
merce of Greenland. |

. Department of the Commerce of Greenland [formerly Green-

landers Home].

. His Majesty the King of Denmark.

[Historisk Tidsskrift—published by the Historisk Selskab.]

. Historisk Selskab (Historical Society).
. Islandiske Littercere Selskab (Icelandic Literary Society). [i]
. Kongelige Danske Selskab for Fedrelandets Historie og

Sprog (Royal Danish Society of the Natural History and
Language). [i]

. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab (foyal Danish

Society of Sciences). [iii]

. Kongelige Geheime Archivet (Royal Court of Records). [i]
. Kongelige Landhuusholdnings Selskab (Royal Agricultural

Society). [i]

. Kongelige Mediciniske Selskab (Royal Medical Society). [i]
. Kongelige Museum for Nordiske Oldskrifters (Royal Mu-

seum of Northern Antiquities). [i]

. Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift Selskab (Royal Society of

Northern Antiquaries). {The scientificagent of the Kon-
gelige Museum for Nordiske Oldskrifters]. [iii]

. Kongelige Statistiske Bureau (Royal Statistical Bureau). |i]
. Kongelige Veterinair og Landbo- Hoiskole (Royal Veterinary

and Agricultural High School). |i]

. Mathematiske Tidsskrift (Mathematical Journal).
. Minister fOr det Indre (Minister of Interior).
. Minister for Kirk og Underigs (Minister of Church and

Public Instruction).

. National Oekonomiske Tidsskrift (J ournal of National Econ-

omy).

. Naturhistoriske Forening (Natural History Society). |i|
110

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Kjobenhavn (Copenhagen)—Continued.

1765.

1773.
1775.

1777.
1779.

1781.

(782.

Odense.

1783.

1785.

Abbeville.

1787.
1789.

Agen.

1791.
1793.

. Polytechniske Lere-Anstalt (Polytechnic School).

. Sékaart Archivet (Hydrographic Office).
. Tidsskrift for Philologi og Pedagogik (Philological and

Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift (Journal of Natural History).
[Nordisk Tidsskrift for Fiskerie.

[i]

(See Fiskerie Tidende). |

[i]

[Samfundet til den Danske Literaturs Fremme (Society for
the Advancement of Danish Literature). Extincet.]

li]

Pedagogical Journal). [i]

[Tidsskrift for populere Fremstillinger af Natur Videns-
kaberne (Journal of Popular Natural Sciences). Dis-
continued. |

Tidsskrift for Veterinwrer (Veterinary Journal). [i]

Universitets Astronomiske Observatoriet ( University Astro-
nomical Observatory)—|[does not publish anything]. [i]

Universitets Bibliotheket (University Library). [i]

Universitets Botaniske Have (Botanical Garden of the Uni-
versity). [i]

Universitets Mineralogiske Museum (Mineralogical Museum
of the University). [i]

Universitets Zoologiske Museum (Zoological Museum of the
University)—[does not publish anything].

[| Veterinzer Selskab (Veterinary Society). Dissolved.]

Danmarks Apotheker Forening (Danish Apothecaries’ Asso-
ciation). [i]
Samlinger til Fyens Historie (Society for the History of Fu-
nen).
FRANCE.

[Association Frangaise pour l Avancement des Sciences
(French Association for the Advancement of Sciences).
(See Paris).|

[Association Scientifique de France (Scientific Association
of France). In La Sorbonne.] [i]

[Congrés Archéologique de France (Archeological Congress
of France). In Tours.] [i]

[Institut des Provinces de France (Institute of the Provinces
of France). Dissolved.]

Société d’ Emulation (Lmulative Society). [i]
Société Linnéenne du Nord de la France (Linnean Society
of the North of France).

Bibliothéque Communale (Public Library).
Société d’Agriculture, Sciences, et Arts d’Agen (Agen So-
ciety of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts). |i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. hig Fk

Aix (Bouches du- Rhone).
1795. Académie des Sciences, Agriculture, Arts, et Belles-Lettres

1797.

1799.

Alais.

1801.

Albi.

1803.

Alencon.

1805.

Allier.

1807.

Amiens.

1809.

1811.

(Academy of Sciences, Agriculture, Arts, and Belles-Let-
tres). [i]

Revue Sextienne [Société des Gens de Lettres] (‘‘ Review
Sextienne” ;—of the Society of Literary Gentlemen).
Société Historique de Provence (Historical Society of Pro-

vence). [i]

Société Scientifique et Littéraire (Scientific and Literary
Society). [i]

Société des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts du Tarn: (Soci-
ety of Sciences, Letters, and Arts, of Tarn).

Société Historique et Archéologique (Historical and Arche-
ological Society).

Société des Sciences Médicales de Gannat (Society of Medi-
cal Sciences of Gannat).

Académie des Sciences, Lettres, et Arts d’Amiens (Academy
of Sciences, Letters, and Arts). [i]

Bibliothéque Communale de la Ville d’Amiens (Public City
TAbrary). [i] ;

[Conférence Littéraire et Scientifique de Picardie (Itterary
and Scientific Conference of Picardy). Ceased to
exist. |

. Société des Antiquaires de Picardie (Society of Antiqua-

rians of Picardy). [i]

. Société d’ Horticulture de Picardie (Horticultural Soci-

ety of Picardy). [li]

. Société Industrielle d’ Amiens (Industrial Society of Amiens).

[i]

. Société Linnéenne du Nord de la France (Linnean Society

of the North of France). [i]

. Académie des Sciences et Belles-Lettres (Academy of Sci-

ences and Belles- Lettres) [formerly Société Académique
de Maine-et-Loire]. [iii]

. Comité Historique et Artistique de Ouest (Historical and

Artistic Committee of the West). [i]

. Société Industrielle et Agricole (Industrial and Agricultural

Society). [i]
112 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Angers—Continued.
1827. Société d’ Etudes Scientifiques (Society of Scientific Stud-
ies). |i]

1829. Société Linnéenne de Maine-et-Loire (Linnean Society of

Maine and Loire). |i}
1831. Société d’Agriculture, Sciences et Arts (Society of Agricul-
ture, Sciences, and Arts). [i]

Angouleéme.
1833. Société @Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Commerce de la
Charente (Charente Society of Agriculture, Sciences, Arts,
and Commerce). [i]
1835. Société Archéologique et Historique de la Charente (Arche-
ological and Historical Society of Charente). [i]
Annecy.
1837. Société Florimontane (florimontane Society). [i]
1839. Revue Savoisienne (Savoy Review).
Apt.
1841. Société Littéraire, Scientifique et Artistique d’Apt (Liter-
ary, Scientific, and Artistic Society of Art). [i]

Argenton-sur-Creuse (/ndre).
1843. Société Pharmaceutique du Département de V Indre ( Phar-
maceutical Society of the Department of Indre). [i]

Arles (Bouches-du-Rhone). |
1845. Commission Arghéologique (Archeological Commission). [i]

Arras.
1847. Académie |des Sciences, Lettres et Arts] d’Arrras (Arras
Academy of Sciences, Letters, and Arts). [i]
1849. Station d@’Agriculture (Agricultural Station).
1851. Commission des Monuments Historiques et des Antiquités
du Département de Pas-de-Calais (Commission of His-

torical Monuments and Antiquities of the Department of

Pas-de-Calais). [i]
1853. Ecole des Ingénieurs (Engineer School).

Auch.
1855. Société Frangaise de Botanique (French Botanical Society).
1857. Société Historique de Gascogne (Historical Society of Gas-
cony). [i]
Aurillac.
1859. Société Académique ( Academie Society). [i]

Autun (Sadne-et-Loire).
1861. Société Eduenne [des Lettres, Sciences et Arts| (Hduenne
Society ;—of Letters, Sciences, and Arts). |i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 113

Auxerre.
1863. Société des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles de ? Yonne
(Society of Historical and Natural Sciences, of Yonne). [i]
1865. Société Médicale de ’ Yonne (Medical Society of Yonne). [i|
1867. Société pour la Propagation de Vl Instruction Populaire
(Society for the Promotion of Public Instruction).

Avallon.
1869. Société d’ Etudes d’Avallon (Availon Society of Studies). [i]

Avesnes.
1871. Société Archéologique de l Arrondissement d’A vesnes (Ar-
cheological Society of the District of Avesnes). [i]
Avignon.
1873. Musée Culvet de la Ville (Culvet City Museum). [i]
1875. Société Archéologique (Archeological Society). [i]

Avranches (Manche).
1877. Société d’Archéologie, Littérature, Sciences et Arts d’A-
vranches (Society of Archaology, Literature, Sciences,
and Arts, of Avranches). [i]

Bagnéres-de-Bigorre (Hautes Pyrénées).
1879. Observatoire du Pie du Midi (Observatory of Pic du Midi).
i)
1881. Société Kkamond (Ramond Society). [i]

Bar-le-Duc.
1883. Société des Lettres, Sciences et Arts [de Bar-le-Duc]
(Society of Letters, Sciences, and Arts, of Bar-le-Duc). [i]
1885. Société du Musée (Society of the Museum) _ [i]

Bastia.
1887. Société des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles de la Corse
(Society of Historical and Natural Sciences, of the Corse).

Bayeux (Calvados).
1889. Société WAgriculture, Sciences, Aris et Belles-Lettres
(Society of Agriculture, Sciences, Arts, and Belles-Lettres).

Bayonne ( Basses-Pyrénées).
1891. Société des Sciences et Arts (Society of Sciences and Arts). [i]

Beaune (Cote-d’Or).
1893. Société d’Archéologie, d’Histoire et de Littérature de
’ Arrondissement de Beaune (Society of Archeology, His-
tory, and Literature of the District of Beaune). [i]

Beauvais.
1895. L’Athénée du Beauvaisis (Athenwum of Beaurais).
H. Mis. 15 3

114 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Beauvais—Continued.

1897. Comité Archéologique, ou Commission Archéologique du
Diccése de Beauvais (Archeological Committee of the
Diocese of Beauvais).

1899. Société Académique d’Archéologie, Sciences et Arts, du
Département ce Oise (Academic Society of Archeology,
Sciences, and Arts of the Department of Oise). [i]

1901. Société d Horticulture et de Botanique de Beauvais (Hor-
ticultural and Botanical Society of Beauvais).

1903. Société Médicale et Pharmaceutique des Arrondissements
de Beauvais et de Clermont (Medical and Pharmaceutical
Society of the Districts of Beaurais and Clermont).

Belfort.

1905. Société Belfortaine d’Hmulation (Belfort Competitive Society).

[i]
Bergues (Nord).

1907. Socié*4 de VPHistoire et des Beaux Arts de la Flandre
maritime (Society of the History and Fine Arts of mari-
time landers). |i]

Besancon.

1909. Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts (Academy
of Sciences, Belles-Lettres, and Arts). |i]

1911. Société d’Emulation du Doubs ( Competitive Society of Doubs).

[i]
1913. Société des Amis des Beaux Arts (Society of Friends of
Fine Arts).

Béziers (Hérault).
1915. Société Archéologique, Scientifique et Littéraire de Béziers
(Archeological, Scientific, and Literary Society of Béziers).

i]
1917. Société @’Etudes des Sciences Naturelies de Béziers ( Béziers

Society for the Study of Natural Sciences). [i]
Blois.

1919. Société des Sciences et Lettres de Loir-et-Cher (Society of

Sciences and Letters, of Loir-et-Cher). [i]
Bordeaux.

1921. Académie Ethnographique de la Gironde (Ethnographic
Academy of Gironde). [i]

1923. Académie des Belles-Lettres, Sciences et Arts (Academy
of Belles-Lettres, Sciences,,and Arts). [iii]

[Association Bastiat. (See Société d’Economie Politique.) |

1925. Bibliothéque de la Ville (City Library). [i]

1927. Chambre de Commerce (Chamber of Commerce). [i]

1929. Commission des Monuments et Documents Historiques
(Commission of Historical Monuments and Documents). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 115

Bordeaux—( ontinued.

1931.

Conseil @’Hygiene Publique et de Salubrité du Départe-
ment de la Gironde (Public Health Council of the De-
partment of Gironde). [i]

. Faculté des Sciences (Faculty of Sciences).

[Institut Confucius de France. Discontinued.]

. Journal de Médecine de Bordeaux (Medical Journal of Bor-

deaux). [i]

. Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle (Natural History Museum). [i]
. Muséum Préhistorique de Bordeaux (Prehistoric Museum of

Bordeaux).  {i]

. Observatoire (Observatory). [i]
. Société d’A griculture dela Gironde (Agricultural Society). [i]
. Société Archéologique de la Gironde (Arch«ological So-

ciety of the Gironde). [i]

. Société des Archives Historiques du Département de la

Gironde (Society of Historical Archives of the Depart-
ment of the Gironde). [i] mt

. Société Bibliographique; Comité de Bexdeaux (Bibliographi-

cal Society; Bordeaux Committee).

. Société des Bibliophiles de Guyenne (Society of Bibliophil-

ists of Guyenne). [i]

. Société @’Economie Politique (Society of Political Economy)

[Association Bastiat].

. Société de Géographie Commerciale (Society of Commercial

Geography). [i]

. Société d Horticulture de la Gironde (Horticultural So-

ciety of the Gironde). [i]

. Société Humanitaire et Scientifique du Sud-Ouest de la

France (Humanitarian and Scientifie Society of the
Southwest of France). [i]

. Société Linnéenne de Bordeaux (Linnean Society of Bor-

deaux). [ili]

. Société de Médecine de Bordeaux (Medical Society of Bor-

deaux). [i]

. Société de Médecine et de Chirurgie de Bordeaux (Medical

-and Surgical Society of Bordeaux). [i]

. Société Médico-Chirurgicale des H6opitaux et Hospices de

Bordeaux (Medico-Surgical Society of Hospitals and
Almshouses of Bordeaux). [i]

. Société de Pharmacie (Pharmaceutical Society). [i]
. Société Philomathique de Bordeaux (Philomathic Society of

Bordeaux).

. Société des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles (Society of

Physical and Natural Sciences). [i]
116

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Boulogne-sur-Mer (Pas-de-Calais).

1975.
LSC

Bourg.

1979:

1981.
1983.

Bourges.

1985.

1987.

1989.

Société Académique (Academic Society). [il

Société d’Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de Boulogne-sur-
Mer (Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts, of
Boulogne-sur-Mer). [i]

Société d’ Emulation, Agriculture, Sciences, Lettres et Arts _

de Ain (Competitive Society of Agriculture, Sciences,
Letters, and Arts, of Ain). [i]
Société de Géographie de l’ Ain (Geographical Society of Ain).
Sociét4 Littéraire, Historique et Archéologique du Dé-
partement de YAin (Literary, Historical, and Archa@o-
logical Society of the Department of Ain). [i]

Société Historique, Littéraire, Artistique et Scientifique
du Département du Cher (Historical, Itterary, Artistic,
and Scientific Society of the Department of Ain) [formerly
Commission Historique du Cher]. [i]

Société d’A griculture du Département de Cher (Agriculiural
Society of the Department of Cher). [i]

Société des Antiquaires du Centre (Central Society of Anti.
quarians).

Brest (Finistére).

1991.
1993.
1995.
1997.

Briey.

Caen.
1999.

2001.

2003.

2005,

Bibliothéque de la Marine Nationale (Idbrary of the Na-
tional Navy). [i]

Observatoire (Observatory).

Société Académique de Brest (Academic Society of Brest). [i]

Société @Agriculture de Brest (Agricultural Society of
Brest). [i|

[Société Archéologique et Historique (Archeological and
Historical Society). Has been transferred to Metz,
Alsace-Lorraine, Germany.|

Académie Nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres
(National Academy of Sciences, Arts, and Belles-Let-
tres). [iil]

Association @ Agriculture et d’ Horticulture des Instituts
de la Zone Campandri-Valcongrain (Agricultural and
Horticultural Association of the Institutes of the Cam.
pandri-Valcongrain). {il

Association Normande pour les Progrés de l Agriculture,
de VIndustrie et des Arts (Normandy Association for the
Advancement of Agriculture, Industry, and Arts). [i]

Musée d’Histoire Naturelle (Natural History Museum). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. wks 7

Caen—Continued.

2007. Société Centrale d’Horticulture (Central Horticultural So-
ciety).

2009. Société @Agriculture et de Commerce de Caen (Society of
Agriculture and Commerce of Caen). [i]

2011. Société des Antiquaires de Normandie (Society of Antiqua-
ries of Normandy).  {iii|

2013. Société des Beaux Arts (Society of Fine Arts). [i]

[Société Francaise d’Archéologie pour la Conservation et
la Description des Monuments Historiques (french So-
ciety of Archeology for the Preservation and Description
of Historical Monuments). (See Tours).|

2015. Société Linnéenne de Normandie (Linnean Society of Nor-
mandy). {iii}

2017. Société de Médecine de Caen et du Calvados (Medical So-
ciety of Caen and Calvados). [i]

2019. Société Philomathique du Calvados (Philomathic Society of
Calvados).

Cahors.

2021. Société des Etudes Littéraires, Scientifiques et Artistiques
du Lot (Society of Literary, Scientific, and Artistic
Studies of Lot).  {i|

Cambrai (Nord).
2023. Société d’Emulation (Competitive Society). [i]

Cannes.
[Société des Sciences Naturelles, des Lettres et des Beaux
Arts de Cannes et de Arrondissement de Grasse (So-
ciety of Natural Sciences, Letters, and Fine Arts of
Cannes and the District of Grasse). Dissolved.]
Carcassonne.

2025. Société des Arts et Sciences (Society of Arts and Setences). [i]
Castres.
2027. Commission des Antiquités de la Ville de Castres et du Dé-
partement du Tarn (Antiquarian Commission of Castres
and of the Department of Tarn). [i]

[Société scientifique et littéraire de Castres réunie a la
Commission des Antiquités de la Ville de Castres (Sei-
entific and Literary Society of Castres, united with the
Antiquarian Commission of the city of Castres).|

Chalons-sur-Marne.
2029. Société d’Agriculture, Commerce, Sciences et Arts du De-
partement de la Marne (Society of Agriculture, Com-
merce, Sciences, and Arts of Marne). [iii]
118 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Chalon-sur-Saone.
[‘‘ Egyptiologie.” Discontinued. |
2031. Société d’Histoire et d’Archéologie de Chalon (Archeo-
logical and Historical Society of Chalon). [i]
2033. Société des Sciences Naturelles de Sadne-et-Loire (Society
of Natural Sciences of Sadne-et-Loire). [i]
Chambéry.
2035. Académie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts de Savoie (Academy
of Sciences, Letters, and Arts of Savoy). [i]
2037. Société d’Histoire Naturelle de Savoie (Natural History So-
ciety of Savoy).
2039. Société Médicale (Medical Society). [i]
2041. Société Savoisienne d’Histoire et @Archéologie (Society of
History and Archeology of Savoy). |i]
Chartres.
2043. Société Archéologique d’Eure-et-Loir (Archeological Society
of Eure-and-Loire).  {i|
2045. Société dHorticulture et de Viticulture d’Eure-et-Loir
(Society of Horticulture and Vine-culture, of Hure-et-
Loir). |i}
Chateaudun.
2047. Société Dunoise [Archéologie, Histoire, Sciences et Arts]
(Dunoise Society). [i]
Chateauroux.
2049. Société d’Agriculture de V?Indre (Agricultural Society of
Indre). [i]
Chateau-Thierry (Aisne).
205i. Société Historique et Archéologique de Chateau-Thierry
(Historical and Archeological Society of Chateau-Thier-
ry). {i}.
Chauny (Aisne).
2053. Société de Pomologie et d’Arboriculture de Chauny (Pomo-
logical and Arboricultural Society of Chauny). [i]
2055. Société Régionale d’ Horticulture dont Chauny est le Centre
(Horticultural Society of the Chauny Region). |i]
Cherbourg (Manche).
2057. Société Académique de Cherbourg (Academic Society of
Cherbourg). iii]
2059. Société Nationale des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg
(National Society of Natural Sciences of Cherbourg). [iii]
Clamecy.
2061. Société Scientifique et Artistique (Scientific and Artistic
Society). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 119

Clermont-Ferrand.
2063. Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts (Academy
of Sciences, Belles-Lettres, and Arts). [i|
2065. Société des Amis des Arts de ’Auvergne (Auvergne So-
ciety of the Friends of Arts). [i]
2067. Université de France—Faculté des Lettres (University of
France—Faculty of Letters).

Clermont (Oise).
2069. Société @Agriculture de Clermont-Oise (Agricultural So-
ciety of Clermont). [i]
2071. Société Horticulture de Clermont-Oise (Horticultural
Society of Clermont). [i]
[Société des Amis des Arts de ’ Auvergne (Auvergne So-
ciety of the Friends of Arts). (See Clermont-Ferrand.)|

Compiégne (Oise).
[Musée Kohmer (Kohmer Museum). Transferred to the Mu-
seum Trocadero, Paris.]
2073. Société Historique de Compiégne (Historical Society of
Compiégne). [i]

Coulommiers (Seine-et-Marne).
2075. Société d’ Horticulture de l’ Arrondissement de Coulommiers
(Horticultural Society of the District of Coulommiers). |i]

Coutances (Janche).
2077. Société Académique du Cotentin (Academic Society of Co-
tentin). [i]

Dax. (Landes).
2079. Société de Borda (Borda Society). [i|
Dijon.
2081. Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres de Dijon
(Academy of Sciences, Arts, and Belles-Letters of Dijon).
[iii]
2083. Bibliotheque de Université (University Library).
2085. Commission des Antiquités [Archéologique] de la Céte-@Or
(Archeological Commission of Odte-d’Or). [il
2087. Journal d’Agriculture de la Céte-@Or (Agricultural Jour-
nal of Cote VOr). [il
2089. Société d Agriculture et d’Industrie Agricole du Départe-
ment de la Cote-W’Or (Society of Agriculture and Farm-
- ingIndustry of Cote-@ Or). [i]
2091. Société d’Horticulture de la C6te-d’Or (Horticultural Society
of Odte-WOr). {il
120 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Donai. (Nord).
2093. Association Vétérinaire des Départements du Nord et du
Pas-de-Calais ( Veterinary Association of the Departments
of the North and Pas-de-Calais). [i]
2095. Bibliothéque Municipale (Municipal Library).
2097. Musée d@’Histoire Naturelle (Natural History Museum). [i]
2099. Société d’Agriculture, des Sciences et Arts, Central du Dé-
partement du Nord (Central Society of Agriculture,
Sciences, and Arts of the Department of the North). [iii]
2101. Union Géographique du Nord de la France (Geographical
Union of the North of France). {i|
Draguignan.
2103. Société d’ Agriculture, de Commerce et de Vindustrie du. Dé-
partement du Var (Society of Agriculture, Commerce and
Industry of the Department of Var). [i]
2105. Société des Etudes Scientifiques et Archéologiques (Society
of Scientific and Archeological Studies). [ij
Dunkerque. (Nord).
2107. Comité Flammand de France (Flemish Committee of France).
4109. Société Dunkerquoise pour Encouragement des Sciences,
des Lettres et des Arts (Dunkirk Society for the Promo-
; tion of Sciences, Letters, and Arts). [i]
Eculiy.
2111. Institut d’Agriculture du Rhone (Agricultural Institute of
the Rhone).

Elbeuf (Seine-Inférieure).
2113. Société d’Enseignement Mutuel des Sciences Naturelles
(Society for Mutual Instruction in Natural Sciences).
2115. Société Industrielle d’Elbeuf (Industrial Society of Elbeu/). {i|

2117. Société @Emulation du Département des Vosges (Competi-
tive Society of the Department of Vosges). |i]
2119. Société de Géographie de VEst (Geographical Society of the
East).
Evreux.
2121. Société Libre d’ Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-
Lettres du Département de ’Eure (free Society of Agri-

culture, Sciences, Arts, and Belles-Lettres of Eure).  {i]
Flers.

2123. Société Industrielle de POrne (Industrial Society of Orne).
Fontenay-le-Comte ( Vendée).
2125. Société d’Horticulture (Horticultural Society). [il
Gannat (A llier).
2127. Société des Sciences Médicales de Gannat (Society of Medt-
cal Sciences of Gannat). — [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDEN'I'S. b bt

Grenoble.
2129. Académie Delphinale (Delphinal Academy). [i]
2131. Société d’Agriculture et d’ Horticulture de Grenoble (Agrt-
cultural and Horticultural Society of Grenoble). {il
2133. Société de Médecine et de Pharmacie de l’Isére (Medical
and Pharmaceutical Society of Isére). |i]
2135. Société de Statistique de VIsere (Society of Statistics of
Isére). [i]
Guéret.
2137. Société des Sciences Naturelles et Archéologiqnes de la
Creuse (Society of Natural and Archeological Sciences
of Creuse). [i]
La Fleche.
2139. Société des Sciences et Arts de la Fléche (Society of Sciences
and Arts of La F leche).

Langres (Haute-Marne).
2141. Société Historique et Archéologique (Historical and Arche-
; ological Society). [i]
Laon. ;
2143. Société Académique de Laon (Academic Society of Laon). [i]
the. Vendée). [i]
La Rochelle.

2145. Académie des Belles-Lettres, Sciences et Arts de La Ro-
chelle (Academy of Belles-Letters, Sciences, and Arts
of La Rochelle).

2147. Société des Amis des Arts (Society of the Friends of Arts).

La Roche-sur-Yon.
2149. Société d’Emulation de la Vendée (Competitive Society of
Laval.

2150. Commission Historique et Archéologique de la Mayenne
(Historical and Archeological Commission of Mayenne).
i]

2151. Musée d’Histoire Naturelle (Natural History Museum).

2153. Société de ’Industrie, Manufacture, Agriculture, Sciences

et Arts de la Mayenne (Mayenne Society of Industries,
Manufactures, Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts). [i]

Le Havre (Seine-Inférieure).
2155. Société de Géographie Commerciale du Havre (Havre So-
ciety of Commercial Geography).
157. Société Géologique de Normandie (Geological Society of
Normandy). [i]
2159. Société Nationale Havraise des Etudes Diverses (Havre
National Society of Various Studies). [i]
2161. Société de Pharmacie du Havre (Pharmaceutical Society of
Havre). {i}

bo
122 LIST OF FOREIGN. CORRESPONDENTS.

Le Havre (Seine-Inférieure)—Continued.
2163. Société des Sciences, Arts, Agriculture, et Horticulture,
du Havre (Havre Society of Sciences, Arts, Agriculture,
and Horticulture). [i]
Le Mans.
2165. Société d’ Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de la Sarthe
(Sociegy of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts of Sarthe).
| [iii]
2167. Société Historique et Archéologique du Maine (Historical
and Archwological Society of Maine). [i]
2169. Société d’Horticulture de la Sarthe (Horticultural Society
of Sarthe).
2171. Société de Médecine du Département de la Sarthe (Medical
Society of the Department of Sarthe). [i]
2173. Société du Matériel Agricole de la Sarthe (Agricultural

Society of Sarthe).
Le Puy.

2175. Société V Agriculture, Sciences Arts, et Commerce (Society
of Agriculture, Sciences, Arts, and Commerce). [i]
Les Vans (Ardéche).
2177. Société Historique et Archéologique du Canton des Vans
(Historical and Archeological Society of the Canton of
Vans). [i]
Lille.
2179. Commission Historique du Département du Nord (Histori-
cal Commission of the Department of the North). {i}
2181. Comité Agricole du Nord (Agricultural Committee of the
North).
2183. Conseil Central @Hygiene et de Salubrité (Central Council
of Hygiene and Public Health).
2185. Faculté de Médecine et de Pharmacie (Faculty of Medicine
‘ and Pharmacy).
2187. Institut Zoologique (Zoological Institute).
2189. Musée d'Histoire Naturelle (Museum of Natural History).
[i]
2191. Société des Architectes du Département du Nord (Society
of Architects of the Department of the North).
2193. Société Centrale de Médecine du Nord de la France (Cen-
tral Medical Society of the North of France). [i]
2195. Société de Geographie (Geographical Society).
7. Société Géologique du Nord (Geological Society of the North).
i]
2129. Société des Sciences, de PAgriculture et des Arts (Society
of Sciences, Agriculture, and Arts). [ili]

2201. Commission Météorologique de la Haute- Vienne (Meteoro-
logical Commission of Haute- Vienne). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 123

Limoges—Continued.
2203. Société Archéologique et Historique du Limousin (Archeo-
logical and Historical Society of Limousin). [i]
2205. Société de Médecine et de Pharmacie de la Haute- Vienne
(Medicai and Pharmaceutical Society of Haute- Vienne).
eT
2207. Société d’Agriculture des Sciences et Arts de la Haute-
Vienne (Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts of
Haute- Vienne). [i]

Lisieux (Calvados).
2209. Société d’Agriculture du Centre de la Normandie (Agri-
cultural Society of Central Normandy). {i}
2211. Société d’Horticulture et de Botanique du Centre de la
Normandie (Horticultural and Botanical Society of Cen-
tral Normandy). |i]

Lons-le-Saulnier.
2213. Société @ Emulation du Jura (Competitive Society of the Jura).
2215. Société Pomologique de France (Pomological Society of
France). [i]

Lorient (Morbihan).
2217. Observatoire (Observatory).
2219. Société de Géographie Bretoune (Bretonne Geographical
Society).
Lyon.
2221. Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Lyon)
(Lyons Academy of Sciences, Belles-Letters,and Arts). [iii]
2223. Association Lyonnaise des Amis des Sciences Naturelles
(Lyons Association of the Friends of Natural Sciences). [i]
2225. Association pour la Propagation de la Foi (Association for
the Propagation of the Faith).
2227. Commission Hydrométrique de Lyon (Hydrometric Com-
mission of Lyons).  {i]
2229. Commission Météorologique du Khone (Meteorological Com-
mission of the Rhone). {il
2231. Musée Guimet (Guimet Museum). [i]
2233. Musée d’Histoire Naturelle de Lyon (Natural History
Museum of Lyons). {il
2235. Observatoire (Observatory). {1|
2237. Société Académique (Architecture de Lyon (Lyons Acad-
emic Society of Architecture). [i]
2239. Société @Agriculture, Histoire Naturelle et Arts Utiles de
Lyon (Lyons Society of Agriculture, Natural History,
and Useful Arts). [iii]
2241. Société d@ Anthropologie de Lyon (Anthropological Society
of Lyons.)
124

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Lyon—Continued.

2243,
2245.
2247.
2249.

Société Botanique de Lyou (Botanical Society of Lyons). [i|

Société @’Eeonomie Politique (Society of Political Economy).

Société d’Education de Lyon (Hducational Society of Lyons).

Société d’Enseignement Professionel du Rhéne (Society of
Mechanical Drawing of the Rhone). [i]

51. Société des Amis des Arts (Society of the Friends of Arts).
. Société d Etudes Scientifiques (Society of Scientific

Studies). [i]

. Société de Géographie (Geographical Society). [i]
. Société a’ Horticulture Pratique du Rhéne (Society of Prac-

tical Horticulture of the Rhéne).

. Société Linnéenne de Lyon (Linnean Society of Lyons).. [iii]
. Société Littéraire, Historique et Archéologique (Literary,

Historical, and Archeological Society). [i]

3. Société Nationale de Médecine de Lyon (National Medical

Society of Lyons). {i}

. Société Pomologique de France (Pomological Society of

France). [i]

. Société des Sciences Industrielles (Society of Industrial

Sciences). [i]

. Société des Sciences Médicales de Lyon (Lyons Society of

Medical Sciences). [i]

. Université (University).

3. Académie des Sciences, Arts, Belles-Lettres et Géographie

(Academy of Sciences, Arts, Belles-Lettres, and Geo-
graphy) {tormerly Académie de Macon—Societé des
Arts, Belles-Lettres et Agriculture]. [i]

Magny-en-Vexin (Seine-et- Oise).

2278.

Société @Agriculture et d’Horticulture (Agricultural and
Horticultural Society).

Maleux. (See Morlaiv.)

Marseilles.

2277.

2281.

2282.

2283.
2285.

Académie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts (Academy of Sci-
ences, Letters, and Aris). [iti]

9. Comité Médicai des Bouches-du-Rhéne (Medical Committee

of Bouches-du-Rhéne). [i]
Ecole des Beaux Arts et Bibliotheque de la Ville (School of
Fine Arts, and City IAbrary). [i]
Eeole de Plein Exercice de Médecine et Pharmacie (School
of the Whole Practice of Medicine and Pharmacy).
Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle (Natural History Museum).
Observatoire (Observatory). |i]

a

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS 125

Marseilles—Continued.

2287. Société d’Agriculture du Département des Bouches-du-
Rhone (Agricultural Society of the Department of Bouche-
du-Rhone). [i]

2289. Société des Amis des Arts (Society of the Friends of Arts).

[Société d’Emulation de la Provence (Competitive Society of
Provence). Discontinued. }

[Société @Etude des Sciences Naturelles (Society for the
Study of Natural Sciences)—now called Société d’Horti-
culture et de Botauique.] ,

2291. Société de Géographie (Geographical Society). [i]

2293. Société d’Horticulture et de Botanique (Society of Horti-
culture and Botany) [formerly Société d@Etude des
Sciences Naturelles]. [i]

2295. Société de Médecine (Medical Society). [i]

2297. Société Médico-Chirurgicale des Héopitaux (Medico-Chirur-
gical Society of the Hospitals). [i]

2299. Société Scientifique Industrielle (Society of Industrial Sci-
ences). [i!

2301. Société de Statistique de Marseille (Statistical Society of
Marseilles). [i]

2303. Société pour la Vulgarisation des Plantes Exotiques (Society
Jor the Domestication of Exotic Plants).

2305. Union des Arts (Art Union). [i]

Mayenne.
2307. Société d’Agriculture de l’Arrondissement de Mayenne
(Agricultural Society of the District of Mayenne). [iii]
2309. Société d’Archéologie, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres de-
la Mayenne (Mayenne Society of Archeology, Sciences,
_ Arts, and Belles-Lettres). [i]

Meaux (Seine-et-Marne).
2311. Société dArchéologie, Sciences, Lettres et Arts du Dé-
partement de Seine-et-Marne (Society of Archeology,
Sciences, Letters, and Arts of the Department of Seine-et-
Marne). {il
2313. Société dW’ Horticulture de ? Arrondissement de Meaux (Hor-
ticultural Society of,the District of Meaux). [i]
Melun.
2315. Société @Archéologie, Sciences, Lettres et Arts de Seine-
et-Marne (Society of Archeology, Sciences, Letters, and
Arts, of Seine-et-Marne). [i]
Mende.
2317. Société d@ Agriculture, Industrie, Sciences et Arts du Dé-
partement de la Lozeére (Society of Agriculture, Indus-
try, Sciences, and Arts of the Department of Lozére). fi]
126 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Mettray (Indre-et-Loire).
2319. Direction de ]x Colonie Pénitentiaire (Direction of the Penal
Colony). {il

Meudon (Seine et- Oise).
2321. Observatoire @Astronomie Physique de Paris (Paris Ob-
servatory of Physical Astronomy). [i]

Mirecourt ( Vosges). ; \
2323. Société Agiicole, Horticole et Viticole de Arrondissement
de Mirecourt (Society of Agriculture, Horticulture, and
Vine-Oulture of the District of Mirecourt). [i]
Montauban.
2325. Société Archeologique ce Tarn-et-Garonne (Archeological
Socicty of Tarn-et-Garonne). [i]
2327. Société des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts du Départé-
ment de Tarn-et-Garonne (Society of Sciences, Belles-
Lettres, and Arts, of Tarn-et-Garonne). [i]

Montbéliard (Doubs).
2329. Société @’Emulation (Competitive Society). [i]

Montbrison (Loire).

2331. La Diana; Société Historique et Archéologique du Forez
(The Diana; Archeological and Historical Society of
Forez). [i]

Montpellier.

2333. Académie de Montpellier—Faculté de Médecine (Medical
Faculty of the Academy of Montpellier).  |iii|

2338. Académie des Sciences et Lettres de Montpellier (Academy
of Sciences and Letters of Montpellier). [iii]

2337. Bibliotheque Universitaire—Section de Médecine ( Univer-
sity Library—Medical Section).

2339. Keole Supérieure de Pharmacie (College of Pharmacy).

2341. Messager Agricole (Agricultural Herald).  [i|

2343. Montpellier Médical (Medical Journal). [i]

2345. Revue des Sciences Naturelles (Review of Natural Sciences).

2347. Société Archéologique de Mentpellier (Archeological Society
of Montpellier).  |iii]

2349. Société Centrale d’Agriculture du Département de lHé-
rault (Central Agwcultural Society of the Department of
Hérault).

2351. Société de Géographie (Geographical Society). [i]

2353. Société ad’ Horticulture et d’Histoire Naturelle de ?Hérault
(Horticultvral and Natural History Society of Herault).
i

2355. ji Fl Languedocienne de Géographie (Languedoc Geo-
graphical Society.) [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 27

Montpellier—Continued.
2357. Société pour Etude des Langues Romanes (Society for the
Study of Lomance Languages).  |i|
2359. Société Séricicole de Montpellier (Silk-Culture Society of
Montpellier). [ij
2361. Université ( University).

Morlaix.
2363. Société des Etudes Scientifiques du Finistére (Finistere
Society of Scientific Study).

Moulins. .

2365. Société d’Emulation du Département de VAllier (Competi:
tive Society of the Department of Allier). [i]

2367. Société d’Horticulture de lAllier (Horticultural Society of
Allier). |if

Moutiers (Savoie).
2369. Académie de la Val de V’Isere (Academy of the Valley of the
Isére). [i]
Nancy.
2371. Académie de Stanislas (Academy of Stanislas). [iii]
2373. Bibliothéque Universitaire—Section de Médecine (Medical
Section, University Library).

375. HKeole Forestiére (School of Forestry).

7. Eeole de Médecine et de Pharmacie (Medical and Pharma-
ceutical School). [il

2379. Faculté de Médecine ( Facultu of Medicine).

2381. Société @Archéologie Lorraine et Musée Historique Lor-
rain (Society of Lorraine Archeology and Lorraine His-
torical Museum).

2385. Société Centrale d’Agriculture (Central Society of Agricul-

ture). [i]
2385. Société de Géographie de Est (Geographical Society of the
East).

2387. Société de Médecine (Medical Society). [i]
2389. Société des Sciences de Nancy (Society of Sciences, of
Nancy). {i]

2391. Ecole de Plein Exercicé de Médecine et Pharmacie (School
of the Whole Practice of Medicine and Pharmacy.)

2393. Observatoire (Observatory).

2395. Société Académique dela Loire Inférieure (Academic Society
of Lower Loire). [i]

2397. Société Archéologique de Nantes et de la Loire Inférieure

(Archeological Society of Nantes and of Lower Loire). [i.]
2399. Société des Beaux Arts (Society of Fine Arts). [i]
128 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Nantes—Continued.
2401. Société des Bibliophiles Bretons (Society of Breton Biblio-
philes). {iJ
2403. Société d’Histoire Naturelle (Society of Natural History).
[i]
Narbonne (Aude).
2405. Commission Archéologique et Littéraire de? Arrondissement
de la Narbonne (Archeological and Literary Commission
of the District of Narbonne). [i]
Nevers.
2407. Société Nivernaise des Lettres, Sciences et Arts (Nevers
Society of Letters, Sciences, and Arts). [i]
Nice. ;
2409. Société Centrale d@Agriculture, d’Horticulture et d’ Accli-
matation (Central Society of Agriculture, Horticulture,
and Acclimation). [i]
2411. Société des Architects des Alpes Maritimes (Society of Arch-
itects, of the Maritime Alps). [i]
2413. Société Nigoise des Sciences Naturelles et Historiques
(Nicene Society of Natural and Historical Sciences).
2415. Société des Lettres, Sciences et Arts des Alpes Maritimes
(Society of Letters, Sciences, and Arts of the Maritime
Alps). [il
Nimes.
2417. Académie de Nimes (Academy of Nimes). [11]
2419. Société d’Etudes des Sciences Naturelles (Society for the
Study of Natural Sciences). [i]
2421. Société d Horticulture et de Botanique du Gard (Horiicul-
tural and Botanical Society of Gard). [i]
Niort.
[Société des Arts, Sciences et Belles-Lettres (Society of
Arts, Sciences, and Belles-Lettres). Discontinued. ]
2423. Société d’Horticulture, d’Arboriculture et de Viticulture
des Deux-Sévres (Society of Horticulture, Arboriculture
and Vine-Culture, of Deux-Sévres). [i]
2425. Société de Statistique, Sciences [Belles-Leitres] et Arts
{du Département| des Deux-Sévres (Society of Statistics,
Sciences, and Aris, of Deux-Sévres.)  {i|
Noyon (Oise). :
2427. Comité Historique et Archéologique de Noyon (Historical
and Archeological Committee of Noyon). [i]
Orléans.
2429. Académie de Sainte-Croix (Academy of the Holy Cross). [i|
2431. Société d Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts
WVOrléans ( Orleans Society of Agriculture, Sciences, Belles.
Lettres, and Arts). {iii}

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 129

Orléans—Continued.
2433. Société Archéologique et Historique de Orléans (Orleans

Paris.

Archeological and Historical Society). [i]

2435. Société d’Horticulture d’Orléans (Orleans Horticultural So-

2443.

2473.

ciety). [il

[‘ Abeille,” Journal d’Entomologie (The Bee, Entomological
Journal). (See “L’Abeille.”) |

. Académie d’Aerostation Météorologique (Academy of Me-

teorologic Aerostation).

. Académie Nationale Agricole, Manufacturiére et Commer-

ciale (National Academy of Agriculture, Manufactures,
and Commerce).

Académie Nationale de Médecine (National Academy of
Medicine). [i]

[Académie des Sciences (Academy of Sciences). (See Insti-
tut de France.)]

. “T?Aéronaute” (Aéronaute, 95 rue Lafayette).
. “Americana” (E. Dufossé, 27 rue Guénégand).
. Administration des Messageries Nationales—rue Notre

Dame des Victoires 28 (National Express Company).
Pp pany

. American Exchange in Europe.
. Annales des Mines (Annals of Mines). [i]
0. Annales de Physique et Chimie (Annals of Physics and

Chemistry). [i]

. Annales des Ponts et Chaussées (Annals of Civil Engineer-

ing). |il
[Administration des Lignes Télégraphiques. (See Ministére
des Postes et Télégraphes.)]

o9. Annales des Sciences Géologiques (Annals of Geological Sci-

ences). |i]

. Annales des Sciences Naturelles (Annals of Natural Sci-

ences). [i]

. Archives Générales de Médecine (General Records of Medi-

cine). [i]

. Archives de Médecine Navale (Naval Medical Records). |i]
- “ Art Dentaire” (Dental Journal).
. Association pour l)Avancement des Sciences (Association for

the Advancement of Sciences). [i]

. Association pour Encouragement des Etudes Greeques en

France (Association for the Promotion of Greek Studies in
France). [i]
[Athénée Oriental (Oriental Atheneum). (See I Athénée).]
Bibliothéque de la Ville (City Library). [Under tbe direc-
tion of the Préfecture de la Seine (No. 2637).] [iii]

HeaMis.15-—=-9
130

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS,

Paris. -Continued.

2475.

Bibliotheque du Dép6t de ’ Etat Major Général (Library of
the General Staff Depot [formerly Dépéot des Cartes et
Plans]. [iii]

77. Bibliotheque Nationale (National Library). [iii]
9. Bibliothéque Municipale du Seiziéme Arrondissement (Pub-

lic Library of the Sixteenth District). [i]

. Bibliothéque Polonaise Historique Littéraire (Library of

Polish Historical Literature). [i]

. “ZL. Bossange” (6 rue de Chabanais). [i]
. Bulletin du Canal Interocéanique (Interoceanic Canal Jour-

nal).

. Bulletin Hebdomadaire ( Weekly Journat).
. Bulletin des Sciences Mathématiques et Astronomiques

(Bulletin of Mathematical and Astronomical Sciences).

. Bulletin dela Société Chimique (Bulletin of the Chemical So-

ciety).

. Bureau Central Météorologique (Central Meteorological Bu-

reau). {i}

. Bureau Francais des Echanges Internationaux—au Minis-

tere de VInstruction Publique et des Beaux Arts
(French Bureau of International Exchanges, in the De-
partment of Public Instruction and Fine Arts). [i]

. Bureau d’Hydrographie (Hydrographic Office).

. Bureau de Statistique (Statistical Bureau).

. Bureau des Longitudes (Bureau of Longitudes). |i]

. Bureau International des Poids et Mésures (International

Bureau of Weights and Measures).

. Club Alpin Frangais (French Alpine Club). [i]

. Collége de France (College of France). [i]

. *Connaissance des Temps” [Bureau des Longitudes]. _ [i]
. “Comptes Rendus” (Quai des Augustins 25).

. Commission de la Carte Géologique de France (Commission

for the Geological Map of France).

. Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers (Conservatory of Arts and

the Trades). [i]

. Corps des Ponts et Chaussées (Corps of Bridge and Road

Engineers) [Civil Engineers].

. “Cosmos” [incorporated in “ Les Mondes” |.
. |Depot des Cartes et Plans de la Marine (Depot of Churts

and Designs of the Navy).

7. Dépét de la Guerre (Arsenal) [au Ministére de Guerre}. [i]

[Ecole ,@’Application d’Etat-Major (Staff School) in the
Ecole Militaire. ]

. Ecole Centrale des Arts et Manufactures (Central School of

Arts and Manufactures). {i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. tot

Paris—Continued.

2521.

2523.

2525.
2527.
2529.

2531.
2533.
2535.

2537.
2539.

2541.
2543.
2545.

2547.
2549.

Ecole de Médecine (Medical School).

Ecole Nationale de Dessins et de Mathématiques pour Vap-
plication des beaux arts 4 V’industrie (National School
of Design and Mathematics).

Ecole des Hautes Etudes (School of advanced studies).

Ecole Nationale des Mines (National School of Mines). [iii]

Ecole Nationale et Spéciale des Langues Orientales Vi-
vantes (National Special School of Living Oriental Lan-
guages). [i]

Ficole Polytechnique (Polytechnic School). {i]

Ecole des Ponts et Chaussées (School of Civil Engineering). [i]

Ecole Spéciale @’ Architecture (Special Architectural School).
[i]

Fcole Supérieure de Guerre (Military School). [i]

‘‘Feuilles des Jeunes Naturalistes” (Journal of Young Nat-
uralists). [i]

Gazette des Hépitaux (Hospital Gazette). [i]

Gazette Hebdomadaire (Semi-weekly Gazette). [i]

Gazette Médicale de Paris (Medica! Gazette of Paris). [i]

[Gervais Journal de Zoologie.” Ceased to exist.]

Institut Agronomique (Agricultural Institute). [i]

Institut de France (Institute of France). {iii]

2549a.. Académie Franeaise.

2549b. Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres.
2549¢. Académie des Sciences. [i]

2549d. Académie des Beaux Arts.

2549e. Académie des Sciences Morales et Politiques.

2551.
2553.

2555.
2557.
2559.
2561.
2563.

2565.

2567.

Institution Ethnographique (Hthnographical Institute). [i]

Jardin des Plantes, Bibliothéque (Library of the Botanical
Garden). [iii]

“ TInvestigateur.”

“Journal Asiatique” (28 rue de Bonaparte).

“Journal d’Agriculture Pratique” (Journal of Practical
Agriculture). [i]

“Journal de Conchyliologie” (Journal of Conchology). [i]

“Journal des Connaissances Médicales Pratiques et de
Pharmacologie” (Journal of Practical Medicine and
Pharmacology). [i]

“ Journal des Chemins de Fer et des Travaux Publics”
(Railroad and Public Works Journal).

[Journal d’Hygiéne” (Journal of Hygiene). ‘(See Société
Francaise d’Hygiéne et Journal d’Hygiéne.)|

“ Journal Général de l’Instruction Publique” (Journal of
Public Instruction).
132

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Paris—Continued.

2569.

2571.

2573.
2575.
2577.

2579.
2581.

2583.

2585.
2587.
2589.
2591.
2593.
2595.
2597.
2599.
2601.
2603.

2605.
2607.
2609.
2611.
2613.
2615.

“ Journal de Médecine et de Chirurgie Pratique” (Journal
of Practical Medicine and Surgery). [i]

‘‘ Journal de Mathématiques (Journal of Mathematics).

[‘‘ Journal de Microscopie.” Extinct.]

“Journal de Physique” (Jowrnal of Physics).

“ Journal des Savants” (Journal of Scientists). [i]

“TL Abeille,” Journal d’Entomology (Lhe Bee, Entomologi-
cal Journal). [i]

“TA thénée Oriental” (Oriental Atheneum). [il

“T/ Année Scientifique et Littéraire” (Scientific and Interary
Annual).

“T’Exploration” (M. Jardin, 6 rue de Cassette).

[“‘ L’Institut, Journal Universelle.” Ceased to exist.]

‘a Chasse Ilustrée” (56 rue Jacob). [i]

“ La Lumiére Electrique.”

‘La Nature” (120 Boulevard St.-Germain). [i]

“Le Batiment.”

‘“‘ Le Muséon,” Revue Internationale.

“ Le Moniteur Scientifique.”

“Le Temps” (10 rue du Faubourg Montmartre).

“Les Mondes.” [‘*Cosmos” has been united with it.] [i]

“T’/Union Médicale” (Medical Union).

“Magasin Pittoresque,” 29 Quai des Grands Augustins
(Picturesque Magazine).

Ministére de Agriculture (Department of Agriculture). [i]

Ministére des Finances (Finance Department).

Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres (Foreign Office). [i]

Ministére de la Guerre (War Department). [iii]

Ministére de l’Intérieur (Interior Department).

Ministére de Instruction Publique et des Beaux Arts
(Department of Public Instruction and the Fine Arts).

[iii]

. Ministére de la Marine et des Colonies (Department of Ma-

rine and the Colonies). [iii]

. Ministére des Postes et Télégraphes (Department of Posts

and Telegraphs). [i]
Ministére des Travaux Publics (Department of Publie
Works). [i]

. Ministére du Commerce (Department of Commerce).
25. Musée d’Ethnographie [Trocadéro] (Trocadero Museum of

Ethnography).

. Musée d’Histoire Naturelle (Natural History Museum). [i]
. Musée du Louvre (Louvre Museum).
. Musée Dupuytren [a Ecole de Médecine] (Dupuytren Mu-

seum).

. Observatoire National (National Observatory). [iii]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 133

Paris—Continued.

2635.

Observatoire Météorologique de Montsouris (Central Me-
teorological Museum of Montsouris). [i]
[Petites Nouvelles Entomologiques. Ceased to exist.]

. Préfecture de la Seine, Second Bureau du Cabinet (Second

Bureau of the Cabinet of the Prefecture of the Seine).

. “Progrés Médical” (Medical Progress).
. Répertoire de Pharmacie (Pharmaceutical Repertory). [il
. Revue d’Anthropologie, [120 Boulevard St.-Germain] (An-

thropological Review). [i]

5. “Revue Américaine ” (American Review).

7. Revue Archéologique (Archeological Review).

. Revue Botanique, [8 place de ?Odéon] (Botanical Review).

- Revue d@’Ethnographie, [26 rue de Lubeck] (Hthnographic

Review).

. Revue de Géographie, [55 rue des Feuillantines] fGcegrane

ical Review).

. Revue Géographique Internationale, [76 rue de la Baa!

(International Geographical Review). [i]

. Revue Horticole, [56 rue Jacob] (Horticultural Review).
. Revue Industrielle (Industrial Review). [i]

|Revue des Cours Littéraires. Discontinued.]
[Revue des Cours Scientifiques. Discontinued.]

. Revue des Deux Mondes. [Discontinued.]

[Revue de Géologie. Discontinued.]

. Revue de Linguistique et de Philologie Comparée (Review

of Linguistics and Comparative Philology).

. Revue de Linguistique (leeview of Linguistics).
. Revue Maritime et Coloniale (Shipping and ice Review),

[i]

[Revue et Magasin de Zoologie. arieponthinenG

. Revue de Philologie (Philological Review).
. Revue Politique et Littéraire, [111 Boulevard St.-Germain]

(Political and Literary Review).

. Revue Scientifique, [111 Boulevard St.-Germain] (Scientific

Review). [i]
[Revue de Sériciculture comparée. Discontinued.]

. Service Géographique au Ministére de la Guerre (Geo-

graphical Bureau— War Department).

do. “Science et Nature,” [19 rue Hautefeuille] (Science and

Nature).

. Société d’Acclimatation, 11 rue de Lille (Acclimatization

Society). [1]
[Société Académique Indo-Chinoise, etc. (See Neuilly.)]

- Société des Agriculteurs de France, [1 rue Lepelletier]

(Association of Agriculturists of France). [i]
134

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Paris—Continued.

[Société d’Agriculture. (See Société Centrale d’Api-
culture). |

Société Américaine de France, [12 rue Eblé] (American
Society of France). [i|

. Société Anatomique, [15 rue de cole de Médecine] (Ana-

tomical Society). [i]

. Société d’Anthropologie, [15 rue de ’Ecole de Médecine]

(Anthropological Society). [i|

. Société Asiatique, [28 rue Bonaparte] (Asiatic Society). [i]
. Société de Biologie, [15 rue de l’Ecole de Médecine] (Bio-

logical Society). |i]

. Société Botanique de France, [84 rue de Grenelle] (Botani-

cal Society of France). [i]

. Société Centrale d’Apiculture et d’Insectologie (Central So-

ciety of Bee-Cuiture and Entomology). [i]

. Société Centrale des Architects, [168 Boulevard St.-Ger-

main] (Central Society of Architects). |i]

. Société Centrale @’ Education et d’Assistance pour les Sourds-

Muets en France, [rue St.-Jacques 254] (Central Society
Jor the Education and Assistance of the Deaf and Dumb
of France). [i]

. Société Centrale Nationale d’Horticulture de Paris (Central

National Society of Horticulture of Paris). [iii]

. Société Centrale de Médecine Vétérinaire, [19 rue de Lille]

(Central Veterinary Society). [i]

. Société Chimique de Paris, [7 rue des Grands Augustins]

(Chemical Society of Paris). [i]

. Société de Chirurgie de France (Surgical Society of France).

[i] |

[Société Cuviérienne. Dissolved.]

. Société de PEcole des Chartes (Society of the School of

Charts). [i]

. Société d’Encouragement pour VIndustrie Nationale (So-

ciety for the Promotion of National Industry). [iii]

. Société Entomologique de France, [ala Mairie du VI° Arron-

dissement]| (Hntomological Society of France). [i]

. Société d’Ethnographie, [47 Avenue Duquesne] (Hthno-

graphical Society). [i]

. Société d’Ethnologie (Hthnological Society). [i]
. Société des Etudes Historiques (Society of Historical Stud-

ies). [iii]

. Société des Etudes Japonaises, Chinoises, Tartares et Indo-

Chinoises (Society for Japanese, Chinese, Tartar, and
Indo-Chinese Studies). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 135

Paris—Continued.
2721. Société Francaise d’Archéologie et de Numismatique, [14

2723.

rue de Verneuil| (French Society of Archeology and Nu-
mismatics).  [i|

Société Francaise d’Hygiéne, [30 rue du Dragon] (French
Society of Hygiene). [i|

. Société Frangaise de Navigation Aérienne, [7 rue des Grands

Augustins] (French Society of Aerial Navigation). |i]

. Société Francaise de Statistique Universelle (French Society

of Universal Statistics). |i]

. Société Franklin, [9 rue Christine] (franklin Society). [i]
. Société de Géographie, [184 Boulevard St.-Germain] (eo-

graphical Society). | ili]

. Société de Géographie Commerciale, [7 rue des Grands

Augustins] (Society of Commercial Geography).
[Société de Géographie-d’Oran. (See Oran, Africa.)]

. Société Géologique de France, [7 rue des Grands Augustins]

(Geological Society of France). [iii]

. Société de VHistoire de France (Society of French His-

tory). fil

. Société de Histoire du Protestantisme Frangais, [17 place

Venddme] (Society of the History of French Protestant-
ism). |i]

. Société des Ingénieurs Civils (Society of Civil Engineers). [i]
. Société de Législation Comparée, [44 rue de Rennes] (Society

of Comparative Legislation).  {i]

. Société de Linguistic de Paris, [63 Boulevard St.-Germain]

(Paris Society of Linguistics). [i]

. Société Médicale Homeeopathique, [31 rue Coquilliére] (Ho-

meopathic Medical Society). [i]

. Société Médicale des Hépitaux de Paris (Medical Society of

the Hospitals of Paris). [i]

. Société Médico-Légale de Paris, [7 rue Monsigny] (Medico-

Legal Society of Paris). [i]

. Société de Médecine Pratique (Society of Practical Medicine).
. Société Météorologique de France, [7 rue des Grands Augus-

tins] (Meteorological Society of France). {i]

. Société Minéralogique de France—a la Sarbonne (Mineral-

ogical Society of France). [i]

- Société Nationale des Antiquaires de France—au Palais du

Louvre (National Society of Antiquaries of France). [iii]

. Société Nationale d’Agriculture de France, [19 rue de Belle-

chasse] (National Agricultural Society of France). [iii]

. Société Nationale de Topographie Pratique (National So-

ciety of Practical Topography).
136

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Paris—Continued.

2777
2779
2781
2783
Pau.
2785
Périgueux.
2787.
2789
Perpignan.
2791.
2793.
Pic-du-Midi.
2795.
Poitiers.

2797.

. Société de Pharmacie (Pharmaceutical Society).
. Société Philologique de Paris (Philological Society of Paris).

. Société Polytechnique (Polytechnic Society).
. Société Protectrice des Animaux, [19 rue de Lille] (Society

. Société de Thérapeutique (Therapeutical Society).
. Société de Topographie (Topographical Society).
. Société de Typographie (Typographical Society).

[Société Nouvelle des Forges et Chantiers de la Médi-
terranée. (See Toulon.)]
[i]

[i]

. Société Philomathique, [7 rue des Grands Augustins] (Philo-

mathic Society).

[i]
[i]

for the Protection of Animals).

[i]

. Société de Statistique de Paris (Statistical Society of Paris).

[iJ
[i]

[i]

. Société Zoologique de France (Zoological Society of France).

[i]

. Société des Sciences, Lettres, et Arts [de Pau] (Society of

Sciences, Letters, and Arts). [i]

Société @Agriculture, Sciences, et Arts de la Dordogne
(Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts, of Dor-
dogne). [i]

. Société Historique et Archéologique du Périgord (Histori-

cal and Archeological Society of Périgord). [i]

Observatoire (Observatory).

Société Agricole, Scientifique, et Littéraire des Pyrénées
Orientales (Agricultural, Scientific, and Literary Soci-
ety of the Eastern Pyrenees). [i]

Observatoire (Observatory).

Société d’Agriculture, Belles-Lettres, Sciences, et Arts
(Society of Agriculture, Belles-Lettres, Sciences, and
Arts). |i]

. Société des Antiquaires de ’Ouest (Society of Antiquaries

of the West). [i]

. Société des Archives Historiques (Society of Historical

Records).  {i|

. Société de Médecine de Poitiers (Medical Society of Poitiers).

[i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 137

Poligny (Jwra).

2805. Société d’A griculture, Sciences, et Arts de Poligny (Society

of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts, of Poligny). {ij
Pontoise.

2807. Société Historique et Archéologique de Pontoise et du
Vexin (Historical and Archeological Society of Pontoise
and Vexin).

Privas. ;

2809. Société des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles de lAr-
déche (Society of Historical and Natural Sciences of
Ardeéche). [i]

Puy-de-Déme.

2811. Observatoire (Observatory).

Quimper.
2813. Société Archéologique du Finistére (Archawological Society
of Finistére).

Rambouillet (Seine-et- Oise).
2815. Société Archéologique (Archeological Society). [i]

Reims (Marne).
2817. Académie Nationale de Reims (National Academy of Reims).
[iii]
2819. Musée d@’ Histoire Naturelle de Reims (Natural History Mu-
seum of Reims). [i]
2821. Société Industrielle de Reims (Industrial Society of Reims).
i]
2823. Société Médicale (Medical Society). [i]
2825. Société des Sciences Naturelles (Society of Natural Sei-
ences). [i]
Rennes.
2827. Bibliothéque de Rennes (Library of Rennes).
2829. Société Archéologique du Département d’ Ille-et-Vilaine
(Archeological Society of the Department of Ille-et-
Vilaine). [i]
[Société des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles, ete. Dis-
solved. |

Riom (Puy-de-Déme).
2831. Société du Musée [de Riom] (Society of the Museum). [i]

Rochefort (Charente-Inférieure).
2833. Observatoire (Observatory).
2835. Société d’Agriculture, des Belies-Lettres, Sciences, et Arts
de Rochefort (Rochefort Society of Agriculture, Belles-
Lettres, Sciences, and Arts). [i]
2837. Société de Géographie (Geographical Society). [i]
138 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Rodez.
2839. Société des Lettres, Sciences, et Arts de Aveyron (Aveyron
Society of Letters, Sciences, and Arts). [i]

Romans (Dréme).
2841. Bulletin d’ Histoire Ecclésiastique et d’Archéologie Reli-
gieuse (Bulletin of Ecclesiastical History and Biblical
Archeology). [i]
Roubaix (Nord).
2843. Société d’Emulation de Roubaix (Competitive Society of
Roubaix). [i]
Rouen.
2845. Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Rouen
(Rouen Academy of Sciences, Belles-Lettres, and Arts).
[iii]
2847. Bibliothéque de la Ville (City Library). [i]
2849. Commission des Antiquités de la Seine-Inférieure (Com-
mission of Antiquities of Lower Seine). [i]
2851. Société des Amis des Sciences Naturelles |de Rouen] (Soci-
ety of the Friends of Natural Sciences). [i]
2853. Société des Bibliophiles Normandes (Society of the Biblio-
philes of Normandy). [i]
2855. Société Centrale d’ Horticulture de Ja Seine-Inférieure
(Central Horticultural Society of Lower Seine). [i]
2857. Société d’Histoire de Normandie (Historical Society of Nor-
mandy). [i]
2859. Société Industrielle de Rouen (Industrial Society of Rouen).
i |
2861. Société Libre d’Emulation du Commerce et de VIndustrie
de la Seine-Inféricure (free Competitive. Society of Com-
merce and Manufactures of Lower Seine). [i]
2863. Société de Médecine (Medical Society). [i]
2865. Société Normande de Géographie (Normandy Geographical
Society). [i]
Royan-les-Bains.
2867. Académie des Muses Saintonges (Saintonge Academy of the
Muses). [i]
2869. Société Linnéenne de la Charente-Inféricure (Linnean So-
ciety of Lower Charente). [i]
[Saint-Brienne. (See Saint-Brieuc.)|

Saint-Brieuc.
2871. Société Archéologique et Historique des Cdtes-du-Nord
(Archeological and Historical Society of Cétes-du-
Nord). [i]
2873. Société @’Emulation des Cétes-du-Nord (Competitive Society
of Cotes-du-Nord). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 139

Saint-Cyr (Seine-et-Oise).

2875. Eeole des Affaires Militaires Spéciales (School of Special

Military Affairs). [i]
Saint-Dié ( Vosges).

2877. Société Philomatique Vosgienne (Philomathic Society of

Vosges). [i]
Saint-Etienne.

2879. Société d’Agriculture, Industrie, Sciences, Arts et Belles-
Lettres du Département de la Loire (Society of Agricul-
ture, Industry, Sciences, Arts, and Belles-Lettres of the
Department of the Loire). [i]

2881. Société de Industrie Minérale (Society of Mineral Indus-
try). [i]

2883. Société de Médecine (Medical Society). [i]

Saint-Germain-en-Laye (Seine-et-Oise).

2885. Société d’Horticulture de Saint-Germain-en-Laye (Horti-

cultural Society of Saint-Germain-en-Laye). [i]
Saint-Jean-d’Angely (Charente-Inférieure).
[Académie des Muses Santones. (See Royan-les-Bains.)]

2887 Société d’Agriculture de Arrondissement de Saint-Jean-
@Angely (Agricultural Society of the District of Saint-
Jean-d’ Angely).

2889. Société Historique et Scientifique (Historical and Scientific
Society). [i]

[Société Linnéenne de la Charente-Inférieure. (See Royan-
les- Bains.) |
Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne (Savoie).

2891. Société d’Historique et d’Archéologie de Maurienne (Histor-

ical and Archeological Society of Maurienne). [i]
* Saint-Lo.

2893. Société d’ Agriculture, d’Archéologie et d’Histoire Natu-
relle de la Manche (La Manche Society of Agriculture,
Archeology, and Natural History). [i]

Saint-Maixent (Deux-Sévres).

2895. Société de Statistique, Sciences et Arts des Deux-Sévres
(Society of Statistics, Sciences, and Arts of Deux-Sévres).
[i]

Saint-Martin-de-Hinx.

2897. Observatoire (Observatory).
Saint-Maur.

2899. Observatoire (Observatory).
140 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Saint-Omer (Pas-de-Calais).
2901. Société des Antiquaires de la Morinie PBR He Society
of Morinie). [i]

Saint-Quentin (Aisne).

2903. Société Académique des Sciences, Arts, Belles-Lettres,
Agriculture et Industrie (Academic Society of Sciences,
Arts, Belles-Lettres, Agriculture, and Industry). [i]

2905. Société d’Horticulture de Saint-Quentin (Horticultural So-
ciety of Saint-Quentin). [i]

2907. Société Industrielle de Saint-Quentin et de Aisne (Indus-
trial Society of Saint-Quentin and of Aisne. [i]

Saintes (Charente-Inférieure).
2909. Commission des Arts et des Monuments Historiques de la
Charente-Inférieure (Commission of Arts and Historical
Monuments of the Lower Charente). [i]
2911. Société des Archives Historiques de la Saintonge et de
PAunis (Society of Historical Records of Saintonge and
of Aunis). [i]
[Société des Arts, Sciences et Belles-Lettres. Dissolved.]

Semur en Auxois (Cote d’Or).
2913. Société des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles de Semur
(Semur Society of Historical and Natural Sciences). [i]
Senlis (Oise).
2915. Comité Archéologique de Senlis (Archeological Committee
of Senlis). {il
2917. Société d’ Horticulture de Arrondissement de Senlis (Hor-
ticultural Society of the District of Senlis). [i]
Sens ( Yonne).
2919. Société Archéologique (Archeological Society). [i]

Soissons (Aisne).
2921. Société Archéologique, Historique et Scientifique de Sois-
sons (Archeological, Historical, and Scientific Society of
Soissons). [i]
[Société des Sciences, Belles-Lettres, et Arts. Dissolved.]

Tarbes.
[Société Académique des Hautes-Pyrénées (Academic So-
ciety of the Unper Pyrenees). Dissolved. ]
Toulon (Var).
2923. Société Académique du Var (Academie Society of Var). [iJ
2925. Société Nouvelle des Forges et Chantiers de la Méditer-
ranée (New Society of Horges and Dockyards of the Med-
iterranean). [i]

Toulouse.

2927.
2929.
2931.

2932.

2933.
2935.
2937.

2939.

2941.

2943.
2945.

2947.

2949.

Tours.

2951.

2953.

2955.

2957.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 141

Académie des Jeux Floraux (Academy of Floral Games). [i]

Acadéinie de Législation (Academy of Legislation). [1]

Académie des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres de
Toulouse (Toulouse Academy of Sciences, Inscriptions,
and Belles-Lettres). [iii]

“Matériaux pour l’Histoire Primitive et Naturelle de
VHomme,” (Materials for the Primitive and Natural
History of Man). [i|

Observatoire (Observatory). [i]

Revue Médicale de Toulon (Medical Review of Toulon).

Société Académique Hispano-Portuguaise (Spanish-Portu-
guese Academic Society). [i]

Société dAgriculture de la Haute-Garonne et de ’Ariége
(Agricultural Society of the Upper Garonne and the
Ariége). [i]

Société Archéologique du Midi de la France (Archeological
Society of the South of France). [i]

Société de Geographie (Geographical Society).

Société d’Histoire Naturelle de Toulouse (araaat History
Society of Toulouse). |i]

Société Nationale de Médecine, Chirurgie et Pharmacie de
Toulouse (National Society of Medicine, Surgery, and
Pharmacy of Toulouse). [i]

Société des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles (Society of
Physical and Natural Sciences). [i]

Congrés Archéologique de France (Archeological Congress
of France).

Société d’Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres
(Society of Agriculture, Sciences, Arts, and SBelles-
Lettres). [iii]

Société Archéologique de Touraine (Archeological Society of
Touraine). [i]

Société Frangaise d’Archéologie pour la Conservation et la
Description des Monuments Historiques (French Arch-
eological Society for the Preservation and Description of
Historical Monuments). [i]

. Société de Géographie (Geographical Society).

. Société Académique d’Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-

Lettres de ?Aube (Academie Society of Agriculture, Sci-
ences, Arts, and Belles-Lettres). {i}

. Société Horticole, Vigneronne et Forestiére de Troye (Hor-

ticultural, Vine-Culture, and Forestry Society of Troyes).
142 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Tulle.
2965. Société des Lettres, Sciences et Arts de la Corréze (Corréze
Society of Letters, Sciences, and Arts).
Valence.
2967. Société Départementale d’A griculture de la Dréme (Depart-
mental Society of Agriculture of the Drome). [i]
2969. Société Départementale d’Archéologie et de Statistique de
la Dréme (Departmental Society of Archeology and Sta-
tistics of the Drome). [i]

Valenciennes (Nord).
2971. Société d’Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de l’Arrondissement
de Valenciennes (Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and
Arts of the District of Valenciennes). [i]
2973. Revue Agricole, Industrielle, Littéraire, et Artistique (Ag-
 ricultural, Industrial, Literary, and Artistic Review).
Vannes.
2975. Société Polymathique du Morbihan (Polymathic Society of
Morbihan). [i]

Vendéme (Loire-et-Cher).
2977. Société Archéologique, Scientifique, et Littéraire du Ven-
démois (Archeological, Scientific. and Literary Society
of Vendome). [i]

Verdun (Meuse).
2979. Société Philomatique (Philomathic Society). [i]

Versailles. .

2981. Commission des Antiquités de Seine-et-Oise (Archeological
Commission of Seine-et- Oise).

2983. Société d’Agriculture et des Arts |de Seine-et-Oise] (Society
of Agriculture and Arts). [i]

2985. Société des Amis des Arts (Society of the Friends of Arts).

2987. Société d’Horticulture du Département de Seine-et-Oise
(Horticultural Society of Seine-et-Oise). [i]

2989. Société des Sciences Morales, des Lettres et des Arts de
Seine-et-Oise (Society of Moral Sciences, Letters,and Arts
of Seine-et- Oise). [i]

2991. Société des Sciences Naturelles et Médicales de Seine-et-
Oise (Society of Natural and Medical Sciences of Seine-
et-Otse). [i]

Vesoul.

2993. Commission Archéologique de la Haute-Saéne (Archeolog-
ical Commission of the Upper Sadne). [i]

2995. Société d’Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de la Haute Saéne
(Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts of the Upper
Saéne). [i]

|

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 143

Vire.
[Société Viroise d’Emulation pour le Développement des

Belles-Lettres, Sciences, Arts et de V’Industrie. Dis-
solved. ]

Vitry-le-Francois (Marne).
2997. Société des Sciences et Arts de Vitry-le-Frangois (Society
of Sciences and Arts of Vitry le Frangois). [i]

GERMANY.

[Allgemeiner Deutscher Apotheker-Verein (General Ger-
man Apothecaries’ Association). (See Halle.)
2999. Blinden Lehrer-Congress (Congress of Teachers of the Blind).
¢ 3001. Verein der Siid-Deutschen Forstwirthe (Association of
South German Forest Culturists). [i]
3003. Versammlung Deutscher Land- und Forstwirthe (Assembly
of German Agriculturists and Forest Culturists). [i]
3005. Versammlung Deutscher Naturforscher und Aerzte (Assem-
bly of German Naturalists and Physicians). [i]

Aachen (Prussia).
3007. Konigliches Polytechnikum (Royal Polytechnicum). [For-
merly Royal Westphalian Polytechnical High
Sehool.] [i]
3009. Stadt-Bibliothek (City Library). [i]

Altenburg (Prussia).

3011. Gesammt-Verein der Deutschen Geschichts- und Alter-
thums-Vereine (Central Union of the German Associa-
tions of History and Archeology). |i]

Altena. ;

3013. Verein fiir Orts- und Heimath-Kunde im Siiderlande (Geo-

graphical Society of Suderland).

Altenberg (Saxe- Weimar).

3015. Geschichts und Alterthumsforschende Gesellschaft des
Osterlandes (Society for Historical and Archeological
Research of Osterland). {i}

3017. Bienenwirthschaftlicher Verein (Society for Bee-Culture).

3019. Naturforschende Gesellschaft des Osterlandes (Natural
History Society of Osterland). [iii]

3021. Pomologische Gesellschaft (Pomological Society). [i]

Altona (Prussia).
5023. Statistisches Bureau der Stadt Altona (Statistical Bureau
of the City of Altona). |i]
3025. Thierschutz-Verein (Society for the Protection of Ani-
mals). [i]
144 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Annaberg (Saxony). .
3027. Annaberg-Buchholzer-Verein fiir Naturkunde (Annaberg-
Buchholz Association of Natural History). [i]

Ansbach (Bavaria).
3029. Historischer Verein in Mittelfranken (Historical Society of
Central Franconia). [i]

Arnsberg (Prussia).
3031. Historischer Verein fiir das Herzogthum Westfalen (His-
torical Society of the Duchy of Westfalen).
3033. Landes-Kultur-Gesellschaft fiir den Regierungsbezirk
Arnsberg (Agricultural Society of the District of Arns-
berg). [i]

Arnstadt (Schwarzburg-Sondershausen).
3035. Fiirstliches Gymnasium (Gymnasium). [i]

Arolsen ( Waldeck). | :

3037. Landes-Director der Fiirstenthiimer Waldeck und Pyrmont
(Government of the Principalities of Waldeck and Pyr-
mont).

3039. Landwirthschaftlicher Verein im Fiirstenthum Waldeck
(Agricultural Society.of the Principality of Waldeck). [i]

Aschaffenburg (Bavaria).
3041. K6nigliche Forst-Akademie (Royal Forestry Academy).

Augsburg (Bavaria).
3043. Deutscher Apotheker-Verein (Society of German Apotheca-
ries). [i]
3045. Historischer Verein von Schwaben und Neuburg (Historical
Society of Suabia and Neuburg). [i]
3047. Landwirthschaftlicher Verein fiir Schwabep und Neuburg
(Agricultural Society of Suabia and Neuburg). [i]
3049. Naturhistorischer Verein (Natural History Society). [i]
3051. Wochenschrift fiir Thierheilkunde und Viehzucht ( Weekly
Journal of Veterinary Medicine and Live-Stock Breed-
ing). {il
Bamberg (Bavaria).
3053. Gewerbe-Verein (Traders’ Union). [i]
3055. K6nigliche Bibliothek (Royal Inbrary). [i]
3057. Historischer Verein zu Bamberg (Historical Society of Bam-
berg).
3059. Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Natural History Society). [iii]

Bautzen (Saxony).
3061. “‘ Maéica Serbska.”

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 145

Bayreuth (Bavaria).

3063.

3065.

Historischer Verein fiir Oberfranken (Historical Society of
Upper Franconia). [i]
Polytechnische Gesellschaft (Polytechnical Society). |i]

Bendorf [bei Koblenz] (Prussia).

3067.

Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Psychiatrie und Gerichtliche
Psychologie (German Society of Psychiatry and Crimi-
nal Psychology). [i]

Berlin (Prussia).

3069.

3071.
3073.
3075.

3077.
3079.
3081.
3083.
3085.
3087.
3089.
3091.
3093.

3095.

3097.

3099.
3101.
3103.
3105.

3107.
3109.

H. Mis. 15

Seine Majestaét der Kaiser von Deutschland, K6nig von
Preussen (His Majesty the Emperor of Germany, King
of Prussia). [iii]

Afrikanische Gesellschaft (African Society). [i]

Akklimatisations- Verein (Acclimatization Society).

Allgmeine Deutsche Ornithologische Gesellschaft (General
German Ornithological Society).

Anatomisch-Zootomische Sammlung der Universitiit (Ana-
tomical-Zootomical Museum of the University).

Archiologische Gesellschaft (Archeological Society).

Architekten- Verein (Architects’ Association). [i]

Berliner Apotheker- Verein (Berlin Druggists’ Association).

Berliner Aquarium (Berlin Aquarium). [i]

Berliner Entomologischer Verein (Berlin Entomological So-
ciety). (See also Deutscher Entomologischer Verein.)

Berliner Frobel-Verein (Berlin Froebel Association).

Berliver Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie und
Urgeschichte (Berlin Society of Anthropology, Ethnol-
ogy, and Primitive History). [i] -

Berliner Gesellschaft fiir das Studium der Neueren Spra-
chen (Berlin Society for the Study of Modern Lan-
guages). {il

Berliner Medizinische Gesellschaft (Berlin Medical So-
ciety). [i]

Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Deutsche Sprache (Berlin Society
of the German Language).

Berliner Militararztliche Gesellschaft (Berlin Society of Mili-
tary Surgeons).

Berliner Verein Homdopatischer Aerzte (Berlin Society of
Homeopathic Physicians).

Berliner Zahnarztlicher Verein (Berlin Dental Association).

Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Deutsche Sprache und Alter-
thumskunde (Berlin Society of German Language and
Antiquity).

Berlinischer Kiinstler-Verein (Berlin Artists’ Association).

Beuth-Schinckel Museum (Beuth-Schinckel Museum).

10

146

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3111.

3115.

3115.

3117.

3119.

3147.

3149.

Botanischer Verein der Provinz Brandenburg (Botanical
Society of the Province of Brandenburg). [i]

Botanisches Institut der Universitat (Botanical Institute of
the University).

Botanisches Museum der Universitit (Botanical Museum of
the University).

Central-Auschuss der Berliner Aerztlichen Bezirks- Vereine
(Central Direction of the District Medical Societies of
Berlin). :

Central-Bureau fiir den Weltverkehr.

{Central-Bureau fiir die Europdische Gradmessung. (See
Koniglich-Preussisches Geodatisches Institut.)]

. Central-Institut fiir Akklimatisation in Deutschland (Cen-

tral Institute of Acclimatization in Germany).

. Central-Komité des Deutschen Vereins vom Rothen Kreuz

(Central Committee of the German Society of the Red
Cross). [i]

. Central-Direction der Monumenta Germanie (Central Di-

rection of the ‘* Monuments of Germany”).

. Central-Verein fiir Handels-Geographie und Forderung der

Interessen Deutschlands im Auslande (Central Sepa:
ation of Commercial Geography, &e.).

. Central-Verein fiir das Wohl der arbeitenden Klassen

(Central Association for the Welfare of the Working
Classes). [i]

. Central- Verband der Kaufleute Deutschlands (Central Union

of the Merchants of Germany).

. Charité Krankenhaus (Charity Hospital). [i] :
. Chemisches Laboratorium der Universitat (Chemical La-

boratory of the University).

. Chirurgische Klinik der Universitat (Chirurgical Clinie of

the University).

. Christlich-Archiiologische Kunst-Sammlung der Universi-

tat (Christian Archeological Museum of the University).

. “Cypria,” Verein der Gefliigelfreunde in Berlin (‘Cypria,”

Society of Poultry-Friends in Berlin).

. Deutscher und Oéesterreichischer Alpen - Verein—Section

Berlin (Berlin Section of the German and Austrian Alpine
Club).

. Deutsche Botanische Gesellschaft (German Botanical So-

ciety).

Deutsche Chemische Gesellschaft (German Chemical Society).
i]

Deutsche Entomologische Gesellschaft (German Entomolo-
gical Society). (See also, Berliner Entomologische Ges-
ellschaft.) [i]

\

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 147

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3151.

Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft (German Geological So-
ciety). [iii]

3153. Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Chirurgie (German Chirurgical

3155.

3157

3159.

3161

3163.

3165.

3167.

3169.

3171.

3173.

3175.

3177.
3179.
3181.
3183.
3185.

3187.

3189.

3191.

Society).

Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Mechanik und Optik (German
Society of Mechanics and Optics).

Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Oeffentliche Gesundheitspflege
(German Society of Public Hygiene).

Deutsche Gesellschaft zur Erforschung Aequatorial Afrika’s
(German Society for the Bxplorationof Equatorial Africa).

Deutsche Gesellschaft .zur Hebung des Flachsbaues (Ger-
man Society for the Culture of Flax).

Deutsche Ornithologische Gesellschaft (German Ornitho-
logical Society). [i]

Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek (Library of the German
Parliament). [i]

Deutsche Shakespeare Gesellschaft (German Shakespeare
Society). [i]

Deutsche Schiller-Gesellschaft (German Schiller Society).

[Deutsche Viehzucht und Herdbuch-Gesellschaft (German
Society of Fancy Stock Breeders). Dissqlved January
1, 1885.]

Deutsche Zoologische Gesellschaft (German Zoological So-
ciety). [i].

Deutscher Akademischer Verein fiir harmonische Lebens-
weise (German Vegetarian Society).

Deutscher Entomologischer Verein (German Entomologists’
Association). (See, also, Deutsche Entomologische
Gesellschaft; and Berliner Entomologischer Verein.)
i)

Deutscher Fischerei- Verein (German Fishery Association). [i]

Deutscher Handels- Verein (German Commercial Association).

Deutscher Juristentag (German Jurists’ Association).

Deutscher Kolonial-Verein (German Colonial Association).

Deutscher Landwirthschaftsrath (German Agricultural
Council).

Deutscher Verein fiir Medizinische Statistik (German So-
ciety of Medical Statistics).

Deutscher Patent-Schutz-Verein (German Association for
the Protection of Patents).

Deutscher Verein fiir Vogelzucht und Akklimatisation
[“ Aegintha”] (Society for the Culture and Acclimatiza-
tion of Birds).

[Deutsches-Gewerbe Museum. (See Kunst-Gewerbe Mu-
seum.)]
148

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Berlin (Prussia)—Continned.

3195.
3196.

3197.
3199.

3201.

3203.
3205.

3207.

3209.

Deutscher Verein zur Férderung von Luftschiffahrt (Ger-
man Society for the Promotion of Aerial Navigation).

Deutsches Schul-Museum (German School Museum).

Elektrotechnischer Verein (Electrotechnical Association).

Entomologischer Verein (Hntomologists’ Association). (See,
also, Berliner Entomologischer Verein, Deutsche En-
tomologische Gesellschaft, and Deutscher Entomolo-
gischer Verein.)

[Europdische Gradmessung. (See K6niglich-Preussisches
Geodiitisches Institut.) ]

Frauen-Klinik der Universitat (Female Clinic of the Uni-
versity).

Freihandels- Verein (Free Trade Association).

Geburtshiilfliche und Gynikologische Klinik der Universi-
tat (Obstetrical and Gynecological Clinic of the Univer-
sity).

[General Direction der Kéniglichen Museum. (See Konig-
liche Preussische Museen.) |

Gesellschaft der Charité Aerzte (Society of the Physicians of
the Charity Hospital).

Gesellschaft der Gartenfreunde Berlins (Berlin Society of

@ °
Friends of Horticulture).

[Gesellschaft fiir das Studium der Neueren Sprachen. (See
Berliner Gesellschaft, &c.)]

. Gesellschaft fiir Deutsche Philologie (Society of German

Philology).

. Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde np shales rile Society). [iii]
. Gesellschaft fiir Geburtshilfe und Gynakologie (Obstetri-

cal and Gynecological Society).

. Gesellschaft fiir Heilkunde (Surgical Society).
. Gesellschaft tiir Mikroskopie (Jlicroscopical Society).
. Gesellschaft fiir Verbreitung von Volksbbildung (Society

for the Promotion of Education among the People). [i]

. Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde (Society of Friends

of Natural History). [i]

. Gymnasiallehrer-und Realschullehrer-Verein (Society of

Teachers of Gymnasium and ‘*‘ Real” Schools).

. “Herold,” Verein fiir Siegel und Wappenkunde (“ Herold,”

Society of Heraldry).

. Geographisch-Statistische Abtheilung des General-Stabs

(Geographic Statistical Divison of the General Staff of the
Army).

. Historische Gesellschaft (Historical Society).
. Historisches Museum [Hohenzollern Museum] fiir die Ge-

schichte des Hauses Hohenzollern (Hohenzollern Mu-
seum).

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 149

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3235.

3237.

3239.
3241.

3243.

Hufelaindische Medizinische Gesellschaft (Hufeland Medi-
cal Society).

Horticultur-Gesellschaft [Dr. Koch] (Horticultural Society).
i]

Juristen-Gesellschaft (Jurists’ Society).

Institut fiir Pathologische Anatomie [Universitat] (Institute
of Pathological Anatomy).

Kaiserliche [Deutsche] Admiralitits-Haupt-Bibliothek (1-
brary of the Imperial Navy). [i] :

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Admiralitiits-Hydrographisches

Amt (Hydrographic Office of the Imperial Navy). [i]

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Auswirtiges Amt (Imperial For-

eign Office).

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Bundes-Amt fiir das Heimath-

wesen (Imperial Home Office).

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Gesundheits-A mt (Imperial Health

Office).

. Kaiserliche [Deutsche] Normal-Aichungs-Kommission (Im-

perial Central Gauging Commission).

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Ober-See-Amt (Imperial Marine

Court).

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Patent-Amt (Imperial Patent Of-

ice). [3]

D9. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Reichs-Amt des Innern (Imperial

Department of Interior).

. Kaiserliche [Deutsche] Reichs-Druekerei (Imperial Print-

ing Office).

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Reichs-Eisenbahn-Amt (Imperial

Railroad Department).

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Reichs-Justiz-Amt (Imperial De-

partment of Justice).

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Reichs-Post-Amt (Imperial Post-

Office Department).
[Kaiserliche | Deutsche] Reichstags-Bibliothek. (See Deut-
sche Reichstags-Bibliothek).|

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Reichs-Schatz-Amt (Imperial

Treasury Department).

. Kaiserliche [Deutsche] Reichs-Schul-Kommission (Jmpe-

rial School Commission).

. Kaiserliches [Deutsches] Statistisches Amt (Imperial Sta-

tistical Bureau). [1]

. Kaiserliche [Deutsche] Technische Kommission fiir See-

schifffahrt (Imperial Technical Commission of the Navy).

. Klinik fiir Chirurgie [Universitat] (Chirurgical Clinic).
150

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3279.

3281.

3283.

3285.

3287.

3313.

3315.

3317.

Klinik fiir Kinderkrankheiten [Universitat] (Clinic for Dis-
eases of Children). ;

Klinik fiir Nerven und Psychische Krankheiten [Univer-
sitat] (Clinic for Nervous and Psychical Diseases).

Klinik fiir Syphilis und Hautkrankheiten [Universitit]
(Clinic for Syphilis and Skin Diseases).

Klinik und Poliklinik fiir Augenkrankheiten [Universitit]

(Clinic for Diseases of the Eye).

ee und Poliklinik fiir Ohrenkrankheiten [Universitit]

(Clinic for Diseases of the Ear).

. Konigliches [Preussisches] Abgeordneten-Haus (Royal

House of Representatives).

. Koénigliche [Preussische] Akademie des Bauwesens (Royal

Architectural Academy). [i]

3. Kénigliche [Preussische] Akademie der Kitinste (Royal

Academy of Arts).

. K6nigliche [Preussische] Akademie der Wissenschaften

(Royal Academy of Sciences). [iii]

7. Kénigliche [Preussische] Artillerie-Priifungs-Kommission

(Royal Commission for Testing of Ordnance).

. K6nigliche [Preussische Oeffentliche] Bibliothek (Royal In-

brary). [iii]

. Konigliche [Preussische] Blinden-Anstalt (Loyal Institution

jor the Blind). {i}

. Koéniglicher [Preussischer] Botanischer Garten (Royal Bo-

tanical Garden).

. Kénigliches [Preussisches] Finanz-Ministerium (Royal

Treasury Department).

7. Kénigliche [Preussische] Friedrichs Wilhelms Universitat

(Royal Frederic William University). [i]

. Koniglicher [Preussischer] General-Stab der Armee (Royal

General Staff of the Army). [i]

. Konigliches [Preussisches] Geodatisches Institut [Central

Bureau fiir die Europaische Gradmessung] (Royal Geo-
detic Institut) [Central Bureau of the European Geo-
detic Commission). [i]

K6nigliche [Preussische] Geologische Landes-Anstalt und
Berg-Akademie (Royal Geological Institution and Min-
ing Academy).  [{iiil

KGnigliches [Preussisches] Gesetz-Sammlungs-Amt (Royal
Office of Records).

[KGnigliche [Preussische] Gewerbe-Akademie. See K@6-
nigliche [Preussische] Technische Hochschule.)]
KGnigliches [Preussisches] Herrenhaus (Upper House of the

Royal | Prussian] Diet).

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 151

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.
3319. K6nigliches [Preussisches] Justiz-Ministerium (Royal De-

3321.

3323.

3325.

3327.

3329.

3331.

3333.

3309.

3337.

3339.

3341.

partment of Justice).

Konigliche [Preussische] Landes-Aufnahme im General-
Stab der Armee (Royal Topographical Survey—Royal
Staff of the Army).

K6nigliches [Preussisches] Kriegs-Ministerium (Royal War
Department). [i]

Konigliche [Preussische] Kriegs-Akademie (Royal Military
Academy). [i]

KOonigliches [Preussisches] Kunst-Gewerbe-Museum (Royal
Museum of Art Industry). |i]

K6nigliches [Preussisches] Landes-Oekonomie:Kollegium
(Royal National Agricultural College).

Konigliche [Preussische] Landes- V ertheidigungs-Kommis-
sion (Loyal Commission for the National Defence).
Konigliche [Preussische] Landwirthschaftliche Hochschule

(Royal Agricultural College). [i]

KOnigliche | Preussische] Mechanisch-Technische Versuchs-
Anstalten (Royal Institution for Mechanical and Tech-
nical Tests).

Konigliches [Preussisches| Meteorologisches Institut (Royal
Meteorological Institute). [i]

Konigliches [Preussisches] Ministerium der Auswirtigen
Angelegenheiten (Royal Foreign Office).

KO6nigliches [Preussisches] Ministerium der Geistlichen-
Unterrichts- und Medicinal-Angelegenheiten (Royal
Department of Worship, Education, and Medicinal
Affairs).

. Konigliches [Preussisches] Ministerium des Innern (Royal

Interior Department). [i]

. Konigliches [Preussisches] Ministerium fiir Handel und

Gewerbe (Ltoyal Department of Commerce and Trade). [i]

. Konigliches [Preussisches] Ministerium fiir Landwirth-

schaft, Domanen und Forsten (Royal Department of
Agriculture, Domains, and Forests). [i]

. Konigliches [Preussisches] Ministerium fiir Oeffentliche

Arbeiten (Royal Department of Public Works).

51. Konigliche [Preussische] Miinze (Royal Mint).
. Konigliche [Preussische] Museen, General-Direction (Di-

rector General of the Royal Museums). [iii]

. Konigliches [Preussisches] Ober-Berg-Amt (Royal Mining

Bureau).

. Konigliche [Preussische] Staats-Archive (Royal National

Archives) [in the Presidency of the Ministry of State].

. KOnigliches [Preussisches] Staats-Ministerium (Royal De-

partment of State).
152

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3361.

3363.

3365.

3367.

3369.

3393.

3395.

3397.

3399.
3401.

KGnigliches [Preussisches] Statistisches Bureau (Royal Sta-
tistical Bureau). [i]

K6nigliche | Preussische] Statistische Central-Kommission
(Royal Statistical Central Commission).

Konigliche [Preussische] Sternwarte (Royal Observatory).
i

KGnigliches [Preussisches] Strafgefiingniss am Plotzensee
(Royal Prison). [i]

K6nigliches [Preussisches] Topographisches Bureau im
Grossen General-Stab (Royal Topographical Bureau,
General Staff of the Army).

. Kénigliche [Preussische] Technische Hochschule (Royal

Polytechnical College). [i]

. K6nigliche [Preussische] Vereinigte Artillerie- und Inge-

nieur-Schule (Royal Artillery and Engineering School).
[i] |

. Kongress Deutscher Landwirthe (Congress of German Agri-

culturists}.

. Kriegsgeschichtliche Abtheilung im Grossen General-Stab

(Division of War Records, General Staff of the Army).

. Landwirthschaftlicher Verein der Provinz Brandenburg

(Agricultural Society of the Province of Brandenburg).

. Literarischer Club (Iaterary Club).
. Magistrat der Hauptstadt (City Government). [i]
. Mirkisches Provinzial Museum (Provincial Museum of

Brandenburg).

. Mathematischer Verein der KG6niglichen Universitat

(Mathematical Association of the Royal University).

. Medizinisch-Chirurgische Akademie fiir das Militair (Mili-

tary Medical Chirurgical Academy).

. Medizinisch-Chirurgisches Friedrich - Wilhelms- Institut

[Pépiniere] (Lrederick William Medico-Chirurgical In-
stitute).

Medizinisch-Chirurgische Gesellschaft (Medico-Chirurgical
Society).

[Medizinische Gesellschaft. (See Berliner Medizinische
Gesellschaft.) |

Medizinische Klinik der Universitit (Medical Clinic of the
University).

Medizinisch-Piidogogischer Verein (Medico-Pedagogical As-
sociation).

Militiirische Gesellschaft (Military Society).

Mineralien-Cabinet der Universitit (Jlineralogical Museum
of the University).

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 153

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3403.
3405.
3407.
3409.
3411.
3413.
3415.
3417.
3419.
3421.
3423.
3425.
3427.
3429.
S4ok.
3433.

3435.
3437.

3439.
3441,

3443.

3445,

3447,

3449,

Nachrichten-Bureau des Grossen General-Stabs (Bureau of

Information of the General Staff of the Army).
National-Gallerie (National Gallery).

Numismatische Gesellschaft (Numismatic Society).

‘“‘Ornis” Gesellschaft fiir Vogel-Kunde und Liebhaberei
(“* Ornis” Ornithological Society).

Pflanzen Physiologisches Institut der Universitat (Institute
of Vegetable Physiology of the University).)

Pharmakologisches Institut der Universitit (Pharmacolog-
ical Institute of the University).

Philologischer Verein (Philological Association).

Philosophische Gesellschaft (Philosophical Society).

Photographischer Verein zu Berlin (Photographical Asso-
ciation of Berlin).

Physikalische Gesellschaft (Physical Society). [i]

Physiologische Gesellschaft (Physiological Society). [i]

Physikalisches Institut der Universitit (Physical Institute
of the University).

Physiologisches Institut der Universitit (Physiological In-
stitute of the University).

Poliklinik der Universitat (Policlinic of the University).

Polytechnische Gesellschaft (Polytechnic Society). [i]

Preussische Haupt-Bibel-Gesellschaft (Prussian Bible So-
ciety). [i]

Rauch Museum (Rauch Museum).

Redaktion : “‘Annalen fiir die Hydrographie” (Annals of
Hydrography).

Redaktion : “Arbeiterfreund” (Friend of the Working Man).

Redaktion: ‘“‘Archiv fiir Kisenbahnwesen” (failroad Arch-
ives).

Redaktion: ‘‘Archiv fiir Post- und Telegraphie” (Archives
Sor Post and Telegraphic Affairs).

Redaktion: “Allgemeine Medizinische Central-Zeitung ”
(General Medical Central Gazette).

Redaktion: “Allgemeine Zeitschrift fiir Psy chiatrie und
Psychiatrisch-Gerichtliche Medizin” (Gazette for Psy-
chiatry and Criminal Psychiatrie Medicine).

Redaktion: “Archéologische Zeitung” (Archeological Ga-
zette).

Redaktion: ‘Archiv fiir die Artillerie- und Ingenieur Offi-
ciere des Deutschen Reichsheeres” (Archives of the
Artillery and Engineer Officers of the German Army).

. Redaktion: “Archiv fiir Gynikologie” (Archives of Gyne-

cology).

. Redaktion: “Archiv fiir Kirchliche Kunst” (Archives of

Ecclesiastical Art).
154 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3455. Redaktion: ‘Archiv fiir Klinische Chirurgie” (Archives
of Clinical Chirurgy).

3457. Redaktion: ‘‘Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte” [13 Briider
Strasse] (Archives of Natural History), [formerly
Troschel Archiv, Bonn]. [i]

3459. Redaktion: “[Virchow] Archiv fiir Pathologische Anato-
mie” (Virchow Archives of Pathological Anatomy). [i]

3461. Redaktion: ‘Archiv fiir Psychiatrie und Nervenkrank-
heiten” (Archives of Psychiatry and Nervous Diseases).

3463. Redaktion: “Archiv fiir Slavische Philologie” (Archives of
Sclavonic Philology). .

3465. Redaktion: ‘Archiv fiir wissenschaftliche und praktische
Thierheilkunde” (Archives of the Science and Practice of
Veterinary Pathology).

3467. Redaktion: “Archiv des Deutschen Landwirthschafts-
raths” (Archives of the German Agricultural Council).

3469. Redaktion: “Archiv fiir Syphilis und Hautkrankheiten”
(Archives of Syphilis and Skin Diseases).

3471. Redaktion: ‘“‘Aus Allen Zeiten und Landen” (From all
Times and Countries).

3473. Redaktion: “Berliner Jahrbuch” (Berlin Annual).

3475. Redaktion: ‘Berliner Blatter fiir Naturgemiésse Lebens-
weise” ( Vegetarian Journal).

3477. Redaktion: ‘Berliner Entomologische Zeitschrift” (Berlin
Entomological Gazette).

3479. Redaktion: “Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift” (Berlin
Clinical Weekly).

3481. Redaktion: “Berliner Miinzblatter” (Berlin Numismatic
Journal).

3483. Redaktion: ‘Botanischer Jahresbericht” (Botanical An-
nual).

3485. Redaktion: ‘‘Central-Blatt fiir die Medizinische Wissen-
schaft” (Central Journal of Medical Sciences).

3487. Redaktion: ‘Central-Blatt fiir W. Stoltze’s Stenographie”
(Central Journal of Stenography).

3489. Redaktion: ‘“‘Chemische Industrie” (Chemical Industry).

3491. Redaktion: ‘“‘ Chemisch-Technisches Wochenblatt (Chemico-
Technical Weekly).

3493. Redaktion: “‘Communal-Blatt fiir die Haupt- und Residenz-
Stadt Berlin” ( Official Jowrnal of the City of Berlin).

3495. Redaktion: ‘‘Der Deutsche Herald” (The German Herald).

3497. Redaktion: ‘* Der Deutsche Schulmann” [Padagogik Jour-
nal]. (The German Pedagogue).

3499. Redaktion: ‘‘Das Rothe Kreuz” (The Red Cross).

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. a

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3501.

3503.

3505.

3507.

3509.

3511.

35138.

3015.

3517.

3519.

3521,

3923.
3525.

3527.

3529.

3591.

3033.

3000.
3537.
3539.
3541.
3543.
3540.

3547.

Redaktion: “Deutsche Blatter fiir Stenographie” (German
Stenographic Journal).

Redaktion: ‘“* Deutsche Entomologische Petteehritel German
Entomological Gazette).

Redaktion: Deutsche Heeres-Zeitung (German Army Ga-
zette).

Redaktion: ‘ Deutsche Juristen-Zeitung” (German Jurists’
Gazette).

Redaktion: ‘Deutsche Allgemeine Polytechnische Zeit-
ung” (German General Polytechnic Gazette).

Redaktion: “Deutsche Konsulats-Zeitung” (German Con-
sular Gazette).

Redaktion: ‘Deutsche Landwirthschaftliche Presse” (Ger-
man Agricultural Journal).

Redaktion: ‘Deutsche Literaten-Zeitung” (German Liter-
ati Gazette).

Redaktion: *‘ Deutsche Medizinische Wochenschrift” (Ger-
man Medical Weekly).

Redaktion: Deutsche Militaérarztliche Zeitung ” (German
Military Surgeons’ Gazette).

Redaktion: “Deutsche Rechtsanwalts-Zeitung” (German
Advocates’ Gazette).

Redaktion: ‘Deutsche Rundschau” (German Review). [i]

Redaktion: “Deutsche Schulzeitung” (German School
Gazette).

Redaktion: ‘‘ Deutsche Thierschutz-Zeitung” (German Ga-
zette for Protection of Animals).

Redaktion: ‘Deutsche Fischerei-Zeitung” (German Fish-
eries Gazette).

Redaktion: ‘‘Deutsches Handels-Archiv” (German Com-
mercial Archives).

Redaktion: ‘‘ Deutsches Reich und Koniglich-Preussischer
Staats-Anzeiger” (Imperial German and Royal Prussian
Official Gazette).

Redaktion: ‘‘Elektrotechnische Zeitschrift” (Hlectrotech-
nical Gazette).

Redaktion: ‘“ Forstwissenschaftliches Central-Blatt” (Cen-
tral Forestry Gazette).

Redaktion: ‘ Fortschritte der Physik” (Progress of Physics).

Redaktion: ‘‘Gefiederte Welt” (Poultry World).

Redaktion: ‘*Gegenwart [Die]” (The Times).

Redaktion: “Gesetz-Sammlung fiir die K6niglich-Preus-
sischen Staaten” (Royal Prussian Law Journal).

Redaktion: ‘*Globus” (Globus Geographical Journal).
156 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3549. Redaktion: “[von] Graefe’s Archiv fiir Ophthalmologie”
(Graefe Archives of Ophthalmology).

3551. Redaktion: “Grunert Archiv fiir die Mathematik” (G@runert
Archives of Mathematics).

3553. Redaktion: ‘‘Hebriische Bibliographie” (Hebrew Bibliog-
raphy).

3555. Redaktion: ‘“ Hermes Zeitschrift fiir Klassische Philologie”
(Hermes Journal of Classical. Philology).

3557. Redaktion: “TIllustrirtes Patent-Blatt” (Iliustrated Patent
Gazette).

3559. Redaktion: “Isis, Zeitschrift fiir alle Naturwissenschaft-
lichen Liebhabereien ” (Isis, Journal of Natural Scien-
tific Subjects).

3561. Redaktion: “ Tlustrirte Roman-Zeitung” (Lllustrated Novel
Journal).

3563. Redaktion: ‘‘ Jahrbuch des Kéniglichen Botanischen Gar-
tens” (Annals of the Royal Botanical Garden).

3565. Redaktion: “Jahrbuch der Koniglichen Kunstsammlun-
gen” (Annals of the Royal Museum).

3567. Redaktion: “ Jahrbuch fiir die Deutsche Armee und Ma-
rine” (Annals of the German Army and Navy). [i]

3569. Redaktion: ‘ Jahrbuch fiir praktische Aerzte” (Annals of
Practical Physicians).

3571. Redaktion: “Jahrbureh fiir Wissenschaftliche Botanik”
(Annals of Scientific Botany). [i]

3573. Redaktion: ‘‘ Jahrbuch tiber den Fortschritt der Klassi-
schen Alterthumswissenschaft” (Annals of the Progress
of Classical Archeology).

3575. Redaktion: ‘“‘ Jahrbuch tiber die Fortschritte der Mathe-
matik” (Annals of the Progress of Mathematics).

3577. Redaktion: ‘“ Jahrbuch iiber die Germanische Philologie”
(Annals of German Philology).

3579. Redaktion: ‘‘Jahresbericht tiber den Fortschritt auf dem
Gebiete der Gesammten Agriculturchemie” (Annals
of the Progress of Agricultural Chemistry).

3581. Redaktion: “ Jahresberichte der Geschichts- Wissenschaft”
(Annals of Historical Science). _

3583. Redaktion: “Jahresberichte der Physiologie” (Annals of
Physiology). {i|

3585. Redaktion: ‘‘ Jahresberichte tiber die Leistungen der Ge-
sammten Medizin” (Annals of the Results of Medicine).
[i].

3587. Redaktion: “Journal fiir die reine und angewandte Ma-
thematik” (Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics).

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 157

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3589.

3591.
3593.

3095.

3597.

3599.

3601.
3603.

3605.
3607.
3609.
3611.
3613.
3615.
3617.
3619.

3621.
3623.

3635.

3637.

Redaktion: “Journal fiir Ornithologie” (Journal of Orni-
thology). [i]
Redaktion: ‘‘ Juristische Wochenschrift” (Jurists’? Weekly).
Redaktion: ‘“ Landwirthschaftliche Jahrbiicher ” [Central-
Blatt fiir Deutschland] (Agricultural Annals). [i]
Redaktion: ‘‘ Magazin fiir die Jiidische Geschichte und
Literatur” (Magazine of Jewish History and Literature).

Redaktion: ‘Magazin fiir die Literatur des In- und Aus-
landes” (Magazine of Domestic and Foreign Iiterature).

Redaktion: ‘“ Magazin fiir Stenographie” (Magazine of Ste-
nography).

Redaktion: ‘ Militér-Wochenblatt” (Military Weekly).

Redaktion: ‘ Monatsschrift fiir Ohrenheilkunde” (Auricu-
lists’ Monthly).

Redaktion: ‘‘ Nachrichten fiir Seefahrer” (Information for
Mariners).

Redaktion: “ Nature Novitates” (News of Nature).

Redaktion: ‘* Der Naturforscher” (The Naturalist). [i]

Redaktion: ‘ Nautisches Jahrbuch” (Nautical Almanac). [i]

Redaktion: ‘Neue Aera” (New Hra).

Redaktion: ‘“ Paidagogische Zeitung” (Pedagogical Gazette).

Redaktion: “ Padagogischer Anzeiger” (Pedagogical Jour-
nal).

Redaktion: ‘“ Pidagogisches Intelligenz-Blatt” (Pedagogi-
cal News).

Redaktion: ‘‘ Patent-Blatt” (Patent Gazette).

Redaktion: ‘* Physiologische Wochenschrift” (Physiological
Weekly).

. Redaktion: ‘ Provinzial-Correspondenz” (Provincial Cor-

respondence).

. Redaktion: ‘ Repertorium der Wissenschaften” (Repertory

of Sciences).

. Redaktion: ‘‘Statistische Correspondenz” (Statistical Cor-

respondence).

. Redaktion: “ Vierteljahrssehrift fiir Gerichtliche Medizin

und Offentliches Sanitéitswesen” (Quarterly Journal of
Criminal Medicine and Public Hygiene). [i]

. Redaktion: ‘ Vierteljahrsschrift fiir Heraldik, Sphragistik

und Genealogie” (Quarterly Journal of Genealogy, &c.).
[Redaktion: “ Virchow Archiv.” (See Archiv fiir Patholo-
gische Anatomie.)]
Redaktion: ‘‘Wiedemann’s Annalen der Physik und Chemie”
(Wiedemann’s Annals of Physics and Chemistry).
Redaktion: ‘ Zeitschrift fiir das Berg- und Hitittenwesen”
(Mining and Smelting Gazette).
158 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.
3639. Redaktion: “Zeitschrift fiir die Gesammten Naturwissen-
schaften” (Gazette of Natural Sciences). [i]
3641. Redaktion: ‘Zeitschrift fiir das Bauwesen” (Architectural
Gazette).
3643. Redaktion: ‘Zeitschrift fiir Deutsches Alterthum und
Deutsche Literatur (Gazette of German Archeology and

Literature).
3645. Redaktion: “ Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologie” (Hthnological Ga-
zette). [i]

3647. Redaktion: “ Zeitschrift fiir Klinische Medizin” (Journal of
Clinical Medicine).

3649. Redaktion: ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Mikroskopie” (Journal of
Microscopy).

3651. Redaktion: ‘“ Zeitschrift fiir Mikroskopie und Fleischschau”
(Journal of Microscopy and Inspection of Meat).

3653. Redaktion: “ Zeitschrift fiir Numismatik” (Gazette of Nu-
mismatics).

3655. Redaktion: ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Preussische Geschichte und
Landeskunde” (Gazette of Prussian History and Geog-
raphy).

3657. Redaktion : ‘“‘ Zeitschrift fiir Preussisches Recht” (Gazette
of Prussian Law).

3659. Redaktion: ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Vergleichende Sprachfor-
schung auf dem Gebiete der Indo Germanischen
Sprachen ” (Gazette of Comparative Linguistics).

3661. Schuledes General-Stabs der K6niglich-Preussischen Armee
(School of the General Staff of the Royal Prussian Army),

3663. Societit fiir Wissenschaftliche Kritik (Society of Scientific
Criticism). . '

3665. Stidtisches Statistisches Bureau (Statistical Bureau of the
City). [i]

3667. Stenographischer Verein (Stenographers’ Association). [i]
3669. Technische Deputation fiir Gewerbe [Ministry of Com-
merce] (Technical Commission for Trade).

3671. Technologisches Institut (Technological Institute).

3673. Thierirztlicher Verein der Mark Brandenburg ( Veterinary
Association of the Province of Brandenburg).

3675. Thierschutz- Verein (Society for the Protection of Animals). [i]

[Universitats-Bibliothek. (See Kéniglich-Preussische Frie-
drichs- Wilhelms- Universitat.) |

3677. Verein Berliner Buchhindler (Berlin Booksellers’ Associa-
tion).

3679. Verein der Aerzte und Wundiirzte (Society of Physicians and
Surgeons).

[Verein der Apotheker. (See Berliner Apotheker-Verein.)|

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 159

Berlin (Prussia)—Continued.

3681

3683

3685.

3687.

3689.

3691.

3693.

3695.
3697.

3699.

Verein der Preussischen Rechts-Anwilte (Prussian Lawyer's
Association). ;

Verein Deutscher Eisenbahn-Verwaltungen (Association of
German Railroad Managers). {i]

Verein Deutscher Ingenieure (German Engineers’ Associa-
tion). [i]

Verein fiir die Geschichte Berlins {Association for the His-
tory of Berlin).

Verein fiir die Deutsche Literatur (Association for German
TInterature).

Verein fiir die Deutsche Statistik (Association for the Statis-
tics of Germany).

Verein fiir Eisenbahnkunde (Association for Railroad Engi-
neering). [i]

Vercin fiir Feuerbestattung (Cremation Society).

Verein fiir die Geschichte der Mark-Brandenburg (Society
Jor the History of the Province of Brandenburg). [i]
Verein fiir Deutsche Volkswirthschatt (Association for Ger-

man Popular Economy).

. Verein fiir Innere Medizin (Association for Internal Medi-

cine).

. Verein fiir Praktische Thieriirzte (Association of Practical

Veterinary Surgeons).

. Verein zur Beférderung des Gartenbaues in den Koniglich-

Preussischen Staaten (Society for the Promotion of Hor-
ticulture in the Royal Prussian States). [iii]

. Verein zur Beférderung des Gewerbefleisses (Association

for the Promotion of Industry). {ij

. Verein zur Foérderung der Handelsfreiheit (Society for the

Promotion of Free Trade).

. Verein zur Férderung der Photographie (Society for the

Promotion of Photography). [i]

. Volkswirthschaftliche Gesellschaft (Society of Popular

Economy).

. Volkswirthschafts-Rath (Council for Popular Economy).
. Wissenschaftlicher Central- Verein (Scientifie Central Asso-

ciation).

. Ziegler- und Kalkbrenner- Verein (Society of Brick and Lime

Kiln Proprietors). [i]

. Zoologischer Garten (Zoological Garden). [i]
23. Zoologisches Museum der Universitat (Zoological Museum

of the University). [i]

Bielefeld (Prussia).

3725.

Historischer Verein fiir die Grafschaft Ravensberg (His-
torical Society of the Earldom of Ravensberg).
160 >

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Blankenburg (Prussia).

| Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein des Harzes. Defunct.
Superseded by Grafliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek, Wer-
nigeroda. |

Blasewitz [bei Dresden] (Saxony).

3727.

Museum Ludwig Salvator (Ludwig Salvator Museum). [i]

Bonn (Prussia).

3729.

3731.

3753.
3750.

Gorres Gesellschaft zur Pflege der Wissenschaft im Katho-
lischen Deutschland (Gérres Society for the Promotion
of Science in Catholic Germany).

K.-Preussisches Ober-Berg-Amt (Royal Prussian Mining

Department).

. Landwirthschaftlicher Central-Verein ftir Rhein-Preussen

(Central Agricultural Society of Rhenish Prussia). [i]

. Mineralogisches Museum und Institut der Universitit

(Mineralogical Museum and Institute of the University).

. Naturhistorischer Verein der Preussischen Rheinlande und

Westfalens (Natural History Society of the Rhenish
Provinces and Westphalia). [iii]

. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein (Society of Natural Sei-

ences). [i]

. Niederrheinische Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Heilkunde

(Nether-Rhenish Society of Natural and Medical Sci-
ences). [i]

. Niederrheinischer Verein fiir ceffentliche Gesundheitspflege

(Nether-Rhenish Association for Public Hygiene).

. Redaktion des Archivs fiir die gesammte Physiologie des

~Menschen und der Thiere (Archives of the Physiology of
Man and Beast). [i]
[Redaktion des Troschel’schen Archiv—now in Berlin. ]

. Societa Philologa ( Philological Society).
. Universitits-Bibliothek (Library of the University). [iii]
. Verband der Aerztlichen Vereine im Rheinland, Nassau,

Westfalen und Lothringen (Association of Medical So-
cieties in the Rhenish Provinces, Nassau, Westphalia, and
Lorraine).
Universitits-Sternwarte (University Observatory). [i]
Verein von Alterthumsfreunden im Rheinlande (Society of
Archeologists of the Rhenish Provinces). [i]

Boothcamp [near Kiel] (Prussia).

3757.

Sternwarte (Observatory). [i]

Brandenburg a. Havel (Prussia).

3759.

Historischer Verein (Historical Society). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDEN'S. 161

Braunsberg (Prussia).
3761. Historischer Verein fiir Ermland (Historical Society of Erm-

land).

3763. Redaktion: ‘Vereinigte Frauendorfer Blatter” (United

Frauendorf Journal [formerly in Frauendorf]}.

Braunschweig (Brunswick).
3764, Archiv fiir Anthropologie (Archives of Anthropology).
3765. Archiv fiir das Studium der Neueren Sprachen und Litera-

3767.

3783.

turen (Archives for the Study of the Modern Languages and
Literature).

Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie und
Urgeschichte (German Society of Anthropology, Eth-
nology, and Primitive History).

. Deutsche Ornithologische Gesellschaft (German Ornitholog-

tical Society). [i]

. Gartenbau-Gesellschaft (Horticultural Society). {i}
. “Globus.”
. Herzogliches Naturhistorisches Museum (Ducal Natural

History Museum). [i]

. Stadt-Bibliothek (City Inbrary). [i]
. Verein fiir Naturwissenschaften (Society of Natural Sciences).

[i]

. Verein fiir Offentliche Gesundheitspflege im Herzogthum

(Society for Public Hygiene).
I’. Vieweg u. Sohn (F. Vieweg & Son). _ |iii]

Bremen (Germany).

3785.
3787.
3789.
3791.
3793.
3795.
3797.

3799.
3801.

3803.

3805,

3807.

Bibliothek des Museums (Library of the Museum). [i]

Bremer Regierung (Bremen Government). [i]

Bureau fiir Bremische Statistik (Bureau of Bremen Statis-
tics). [il

Gartenbau-Verein fiir Bremen (Bremen Horticultural Soci-
ety). [i]

Geographische Gesellschaft (Geographical Society). [i]

Handels-Kammer (Chamber of Commerce). [i]

Historische Gesellschaft des Kiinstler-Vereins (Historical
Society of the Artists’ Union). [i]

Landwirthschafts- Verein (Agricultural Society). [i]

Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein (Society of Natural Sci-
ences). [i]

Nord-Deutcher Lloyd Dampfschift-Gesellschaft (North Ger-
man Lloyd Steamship Company). [i]

Observatorium der Navigations-Schule (Observatory of the
School of Navigation). [i]

Stadt-Bibliothek (City Library). [iii]

H. Mis, 15——11
162 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Breslau (Prussia).

3809. Blinden-Anstalt (Asylum for the Blind). [i]

3811. Botanischer Garten (Botanical Garden).

3813. Breslauer Dichterschule (Breslau School of Poetry).

0815, Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpen-Verein, Section
Breslau (German and Ausirian Alpine Association, Bres-
law Section).

3817. Koniglich-Preussisches Ober-Berg-Amt (Royal Prussian
Mining Bureau). [i]

3819. Landwirthschaftlicher Central-Verein fiir Schlesien (Central
Agricultural Society for Silesia). [i].

3821. Physikalischer Verein (Physical Society).

3823. Physiologisches Institut (Physiological Institute). [i]

3825. Schlesischer Central-Gewerbe-Verein (Silesian Central
Polytechnical Society). [i]

3827. Schlesische Gesellschaft fiir Vaterliindische Kultur (Sile-
sian Society for National Improvement). [i]

3829. Universitits-Bibliothek (University Library). _ [iii]

3831. Universitats-Sternwarte (University Observatory). [i]

3833. Verein fiir Geschichte der Bildenden Kunst (Society of the
History of Plastic Art).

3835. Verein fiir Geschichte und Alterthiimer Schlesiens (Society
of Silesian History and Antiquities).

3837. Verein fiir das Museum Schlesischer Alterthitimer (Society
of the Museum of Silesian Antiquities). [i]

3839. Verein fiir Schlesische Insektenkunde (Society of Silesian
Entomology). — {i]

Bromberg (Prussia).

3841. Landwirthschaftlicher Central-Verein fiir den Netze Dis- |

trict (Agricultural Central Union for the District of
Netze). [i]

Cassel. (See Kassel.)

Celle (Prussia).
3343. Journal fiir die Landwirthschaft (Agricultural Journal).
3845. KGnigliche Landwirthschafts-Gesellschaft (Royal Agricul
tural Society). {i}

Chemnitz (Saxony).

3847, Handwerker- Verein (Mechanics’ Association). [i]

3849, Koniglich-Sichsisches Meteorologisches Institut (Royal
Saxon Meteorological Institute) {formerly in Leipsic]. [i]

3851. Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft (Society of Natural
Sciences). [i]

3853. Oeffentliche Handels - Lehr - Anstalt (Public Commercial
School). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 163

Chemnitz (Savony)—Continued.
3855. Redaktion der Deutschen Industrie-Zeitung (German In-
dustrial Gazette). [i]
3857. Statistisches Bureau (Statistical Bureau). [i]
3859. Technische Staats-Lehr-Anstalt (School of Technology). [i]
3861. Verein fiir Chemnitzer Geschichte (Society for the History of
Chemnitz). [i]
Coblenz. (See Koblenz.)
Colmar (Alsace).
3863. Société d’Histoire Naturelle de Colmar (Colmar Natural
History Society). [i]
Danzig (Prussia).
3865. Central-Verein West-Preussischer Landwirthe (Central As-
sociation of West Prussian Agriculturists). [i]
3867. Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Society of Natural Sciences).
[iii]
3869. Sternwarte [der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft] (Observa-
tory). [i]
3871. West-Preussischer Geschichts- Verein (West Prussian His-
torical Society). .
Darmstadt (Hesse).
3873. Gartenbau-Verein (Horticultural Society). [i]
3875. Grossherzogliche Central-Stelle fiir Gewerbe und Handel
(Grand Ducal Bureau of Industry and Commerce). [i]
3877. Grossherzogliche Central-Stelle fiir die Landes-Statistik
(Grand Ducal Bureau of Statistics). [i]
3879. Grossherzogliche Geologische Anstalt (Grand Ducal Geolog-
ical Bureau).
3881. Grossherzogliche Hof- Bibliothek (Grand Ducal Libi'ary).
[iii]
3883. Grossherzogliche Technische Hochschule (Grand Ducal
Polytechnicum).  {i|
3885. Grossherzoglich-Hessischer Gewerbe- Verein (Grand Ducal
Polytechnical Society). [i]
3887. Grossherzoglich-Hessisches Kataster-Amt (Grand Ducal
Bureau of Land Records). [i]
3889. Grossherzogliches Ministerium des Aeussern (Grand Ducal
Foreign Office).
3891. Grossherzogliches Museum (Grand Ducal Museum). [i]
3893. Historischer Verein fiir das Grossherzogthum Hessen (His-
torical Society of the Grand Duchy of Hesse). [i]
3895. Jahresberichte fiir reine Chemie (Chemical Annals).
3897. Mittelrheinischer Geologischer Verein (Geological Society of
the Middle Rhine). t
3899, Verein fiir Erdkunde und Verwandte Wissenschaften (So-
ciety of Geographical and Kindred Sciences). [i]
164 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Dessau (Anhalt).
3901. Naturhistorischer Verein (Natural History Society). [i]
3903. Verein fiir Anhaltische Geschichte und Alterthumskunde
(Society of the History and Antiquities of Anhalt).

Donaueschingen (Baden).
3905. Verein fiir Geschichte und Naturgeschichte der Baar (So.
ciety of History and Natural History iA the Baar). [i]

Dortmund (Prussia).
3907. Historischer Verein fiir Dortmund und die Grafschaft
Mark (Historical Society of Dortmund and the Earldom
of Mark).

Dresden (Saxony).

3909. Seine Majestiit der Konig von Sachsen (His Majesty the
King of Saxony). [iii]

3911. Afrikanische Gesellschaft (African Society). [i]

3913. Bezirks-Verein zur Fiirsorge fiir die aus Straf- und Be-
strafungs- Anstalten Entlassenen (District Society for
the Care of Discharged Prisoners).

3915. Blatter fiir Gefliigelzucht (Journal of Poultry Culture).

3917. Dresdner Verein zum Schutz der Thiere (Dresden Society
Jor the Protection of Animals).

3919. Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpen-Verein, Section
Dresden (Dresden Section of the German-Austrian Al-
pine Society).

3921. Flora: Gesellschaft fiir Botanik und Gartenbau (Botanical
and Horticultural Society, ‘‘ Flora”). [i]

3923. Gebirgs-Verein fiir die Saichsisch-Bohmische Schweiz (Mon-
tanistic Society of Saxon-Bohemian Switzerland).

3925. General Direktion der KGniglichen Sammlungen fiir Kunst ~
und Wissenschaft (Director-General of the Royal Collec-
tions of Art and Science). [iii] |

3927. Gesellschaft fiir Botanik und Zoologie (Botanical and Zo-
ological Society). [i]

3929. Gesellschaft fiir Natur-und Heilkunde (Society of Natural —
and Medical Sciences). [i]

3931. Gesellschaft fiir Sichsische Kirchengeschichte (Society for —
Ecclesiastical History in Saxony). lf

3933. Gewerbe- Verein (Polytechnical Society). [i] |

3935. Koénigliches Historisches Museum (Royal Historical Mu-
seum). [i] 1

3937. Konigliche Landes-Blinden-Anstalt (Royal Asylum for the-
Blind). [i]

3939. K6nigliches Mineralogisch und Naturhistorisches Museum —
(Royal Mineralogical and Natural Historical Museum). )- [ijg Fi

‘a

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 165

Dresden (Saxony)—Continued.

O94.

3945.

3945.

3947.

3949.

3981.

Konigliches Ministerium des Aeussern (Royal Foreign
Office).

Konigliches Ministerium fiir Cultus und Unterricht (Royal
Department of Worship and Education).

Konigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek (Royal Public In-
brary). [iii]

K6nigliese Oekonomie-Gesellschaft im Kdnigreich Sachsen
(Royal Saxon Agricultural Society). [i]

Koniglicbes Polytechnikum (Royal Polytechnicum). {i}

[KGnigliches Sanitats-Officiers-Corps. (See Konigliche
Sanitits-Direction.) |

. Konigliche Sanitats-Direction (Royal Board of Health). [i]
. Konigliches Statistisches Bureau (Royal Statistical Bu-

reau). [il

. Konigliches Stenographisches Institut (Royal Stenographic

Institute). [i]

o7. Konigliches Topographisches Bureau [Kriegs-Ministerium]

(Royal Topographical Bureau).

. Konigliches Zoologisches und Anthropologisch-Ethno-

graphisches Museum (Royal Zoological and Anthropo-
logic-EKthnographical Museum). [i]

. Landes-Medicinal-Collegium (National Medical Commis-

sion). [i]

. Ministerium des Koniglichen Hauses (Ministry of the Royal

Household). [i]

. Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft “Isis” (*‘ Isis” Society

of Natural Sciences). |i}

. Numismatische Gesellschaft (Numismatic Society).
. Oeffentliche Handels-Lehr-Anstalt der Dresdener Kauf-

mannschaft (Public Commercial School of the Dresden
* Merchants). ‘i]

. Photographische Gesellschaft (Photographical Society). [i]
. Redaktion des Archiv fiir Sichsische Geschichte (Archives

of the History of Saxony).

. Sachsischer Ingenieur und Architecten-Verein (Saxon En-

gineers’ and Architects’ Association). |i]

. Verein fiir Erdkunde (Geographical Society). [i]
. Verein fiir Geschichte und 'Topographie Dresdens und sei-

ner Umgebung (Society for the History and Topography
of Dresden and its Surroundings).

Koniglich-Sachsischer Verein fiir Alterthiimer (Royal Saxon
Antiquarian Society). [i]

Diirkheim (Bavaria).

3983.

‘** Pollichia” Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein der Rheinpfa!z
(‘* Pollichia,” Society of Natural Science of the Rhenish
Palatinate). [i]
166 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Diisseldorf (Prussia).

3985. Diisseldorfer Geschichts- Verein (Diisseldorf Historical So-
ciety).

3987. Niederrheinischer Verein fiir 6ffentliche Gesundheits-
pflege (Nether-Rhenish Society of Public Hygiene).

3989. Rheinisch-Westtilische Gefingniss Gesellschaft (Rhenish-
Westphalian Prison Association).

3991. Sternwarte (Observatory). [i]

3993. Verein zur Wahrung der gemeinsamen wirthschaftlichen
Interessen im Rheinlande und in Westfalen (Society
of Economical Interests in Rhenish Prussia and West-
Salia).

3995. Zweig-Verein des Deutschen Colonial-Vereins in Frank-
furt a. M. (Branch of the German Colonial Society of
Frankfort-on-the-Main).

Eisenach (Saxe- Weimar).
3997. Grossherzogliches Carl-Friedrichs-Gymnasium (G@rand-
Ducal Charles Frederick Gymnasium).
3999. Real-Gymnasium (‘‘Real” Gymnasium). [i]
4001. Thiiringer Wald-Verein (‘ Thuringer Wald” Society).

Eisleben (Prussia).
4003. Verein fiir Geschichte und Alterthitimer der Grafschaft
Mansfeld (Society of the History and Antiquities of the
Earldom of Mansfeld).

Elberfeld (Prussia).
4005. Bergischer Geschichts- Verein (Berg Historical Society). [i]
4007. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein von Elberfeld und Barmen -
(Elberfeld and Barmen Society of Natural Sciences). [i]

Eldena [bei Greifswald] (Prussia).
4009. Gartenbau-Verein fiir Neuvorpommern und Riigen (Horti-
cultural Society of New Pomerania and Rugen). [i]
{Landwirthschafts-Akademie (Agricultural Academy).
Ceased to exist. |

Emden (Prussia).
4011. Gesellschaft fiir Bildende Kiinste und Vaterlandische Alter-
thiimer (Society of Plastic Arts and National Antiqui-
ties). (i)
4013. Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Naturalists’ Society). [iii]
4015. Navigations-Schule (School of Navigation). [i]
4017. Taubstummen-Anstalt (Institute for the Deafand Dumb). [i]

Ems (Prussia).
4019. Redaktion der Balneologischen Zeitung (Balneologicat
Gazette). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 167

Erbach (Jesse).
4021. Odenwald Club (Odenwald Club).

Erfurt (Prussia).
4023. Allgemeiner Aerztlicher Verein von Thiiringen (General
Society of Physicians of Thuringia).
4025, Akademie gemeinniitziger Wissenschaften (Academy of
Useful Sciences). {i}
4027. Gartenbau-Verein (Horticultural Society). [i]
4029. Gewerbe-Verein (Polytechnical Society). [i]
4031. Verein fiir Geschichte und Alterthums-Kunde (Historical
and Archeological Society). [i]
Erlangen (Bavaria).
[Biologisches Central-Blatt. (See Physiologisches Insti-
tut.) |
4033. Physikalisch-Medicinische Societat (Physico-Medical So-
ciety). [i]
4035. Physiologisches Institut (Physiological Institute).
4037. Universitats-Bibliothek (University Library). [iii]
Essen a. d. Ruhr (Prussia).
4039. Feldmesser- Verein (Surveyors’ Society).
4041. Historischer Verein fiir Stadt und Stift Essen (Historical
Society of Essen).
4043. Verein fiir Thierschutz und Gefliigelzucht (Society for the
Protection of Animals and for the Culture of Poultry).
Frankfurt-am-Main.
4045. Allgemeine Deutsche Patent- und Musterschutz-Ausstel-
lung (Universal Patent and Pattern Exhibition). [i]
4047. American Public Library [formerly in Stuttgart]. [i].
4049. Deutsche Malakozoologische Gesellschaft (German Malaco-
zoological Society). |i]
4051. Deutscher Kolonial-Verein (German Colonial Society).
53. Freies Deutsches Hochstift (free German *‘Hochstift”.) — [i]
4055. Gartenbau Gesellschaft ‘ Flora” (Horticultural Society,
“Flora”). [i]

[Gesellschaft fiir Deutschlands altere Geschichtskunde.
(See Central-Direction der Monumenta Germania, in
Berlin.) |

4057. Konigliche Eisenbahn-Direction [Sachsenhausen] (Royal
Railroad Direction).

4059. Juristische Gesellschaft (Jwrists’ Society).

4061. Neue Zoologische Gesellschaft (New Zoological Society). [i]

4063. Physikalischer und Aerztlicher Verein (Physical and Medical
Society) [deposit its books with the Senckenbergische
Bibliothek]. [i]

4065. Rheinisches Museum fiir Philologie (Rhenish Philological
Museum).
168 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Frankfurt-am-Main—Continued.

4067. Senckenbergische Bibliothek (Senckenberg Library).

4069. Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Sencken-
berg Naturalists’ Society) [deposits its books with the
Seckenbergische Bibliothek]. [iii]

[Statistischer Verein (Statistical Association) —same as 4075].

4071. Verein fiir Geschichte und Alterthumskunde (Historical
and Archeological Association). [i]

4073. Statistisches Amt der Stadt Frankfurt (Statistical Bureau
of the City of Frankfort.)

4075. Verein fiir Geographie und Statistiks (Society of Geography
and Statistics) [care of Stadt-Bibliothek]. [i]

4077. Taunus Club (Taunus Club).

4079. Verband Deutscher Touristen-Vereine (Association of Ger-
man Tourists’ Societies).

4081. ‘Zoologischer Garten” [Redaktion] (‘Zoological Gar-
den”). [iJ

Frankfurt-an-der-Oder (Prussia).

4083. Historisch-Statistischer Verein (Historical Statistical Asso-
ciation). [i]

4085. Handels-Kammer (Chamber of Commerce). [{i|

Frauenberg (Prussia).
{Historischer Verein fiir Ermeland. (See Braunsberg.)|

Frauendorf (Bavaria).
[Redaktion der Vereinigten Frauendorfer Blatter (United
Frauendorf Journal). (See Braunsberg.)]

Freiberg (Saxony).

4087. Aerztlicher Verein (Physicians’ Society).

4089. “Anglo-American Club.”

4091. Bergmannischer Verein (Miners’ Association).

4093. Freiberger Alterthums-Verein (Freiberg Archwological So-
ciety).

4095. Koniglich-Sachsische Berg-Akademie (Royal Saxon Mining
Academy). [iii]

Freiburg-im-Breisgau (Baden).

4097. Blinden-Beschiftigungs-Anstalt (Lstablishment for the Em-
ployment of the Blind). [i|

4099. Breisgau-Verein ‘Schau in’s Land” (Breisgau Society
“Schau in’s Land”).

4101. Gesellschaft zur BefOrderung der Geschichts-, Alterthums-
und Volkskunde von Freiburg, dem Breisgau und den
angrenzenden Landsebaften (Society for the Promotion
of the Historical, Antiquarian, and Geographical Knovel-
edge of Freiburg, the Breisgau, and the adjacent Territo-
ries).
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 169

Freiburg-im-Breisgau {Baden)—Continued.

4103. Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der Naturwissenschaften (So-
ciety for the Promotion of Natural Sciences).

4105. Kirchlich-Historischer Verein der Erzdiédcese Freiburg
(Society for Ecclesiastical History of Freiburg).

4107. Naturforschende GeseMschaft (Naturalists? Society). [i]

4109. Redaktion des “Archiv fiir Anthropologie” (Archives of
Anthropology). [i]

4111. Universitats-Bibliothek (University Library). _ [iii]

4113. Verein der Freiburger Aerzte (Society of Freiburg Physi-
cians).

Freising (Bavaria).

4115. Koniglich-Bayerische Landwirthschaftliche Central-Schule
‘““Weihenstephan” (Royal Bavarian Agricultural School
““Weithenstephan”). [i]

Friedberg (Hesse).
_ 4117. Blinden-Anstalt (Asylum for the Blind). [i]

4119. Grossherzogliche Taubstummen-Anstalt (Grand Ducal In-
stitution for the Deaf and Dumb).  {i]

Friedrichshafen ( Wuriemberg).
4121. Verein fiir die Geschichte des Bodensee’s und seiner Umge-
bung (Society for the History of Lake Constance and its
Environs).
Fulda (Prussia).
4123. Rhon Club (Rhdn Club).
4125. Verein fiir Naturkunde (Natural History Society). [i]

Firth (Bavaria).
4127. Gewerbe-Verein (Polytechnical Association). [i]
Gera (feuss). ‘
4129. Fiirstlich-Reussische Landes-Regierung (Government of
Reuss Principality).
4131. Gesellschaft der Freunde der Naturwissenschaften (Society
of the Friends of Natural Sciences). [i]
Giessen (Hesse).
4133. Aerztlicher Verein der Provinz Oberhessen (Physicians’ So-
ciety of the Province of Upper Hesse).
4135. Jahresberichte iiber die Fortschritte der reinen Chemie
(Annual Records of the Progress of pure Chemistry).
4137. Oberhessische Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Heilkunde (Up-
per Hesse Society of Natural and Medical Sciences). [iii]
4139. Oberhessischer Verein fiir Localgeschichte (Upper Hesse
Local Historical Society). [i]
4141. Universitits-Bibliothek (University Library). [iii]
4143. Zoologisches Museum (Zoological Museum). [i]
4145. Zoologisch-Zootomisches Institut der Universitiit (Zoologic-
Zootomical Institute of the University).
170

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Gorlitz (Prussia).

4147.
4149,
4151.
4153.

4155.

Gartenbau-Verein fiir die Ober-Lausitz (Horticultural Soct-
ety of Upper Lusatia). [i]

Gewerbe- Verein (Polytechnical Association). [i] .

Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Naturalists’ Society). iii]

Oberlausitzer Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften (Scientific
Society of Upper Lusatia). iii]

Verein fiir Gefliigelzucht (Society for Poultry Culture). [i]

Gottingen (Prussia).

4157,

4159.

4161.

4163.

4165.

4167.
4169.

4171.
4173.

4175.

4177

4181.

4183.
4185.
4187.
4189.
4191.
4193.
4195.
4197.
4199.

4201.
4203.

Anthropologischer Verein (Anthropological Society). [Has
no library.| [i]

“Beitrige zur Kunde der Indo-Germanischen Sprachen”
(Contributions to the Knowledge of the Indo-Germanic
Languages).

Botanischer Garten (Botanical Garden).

Chemisches Laboratorium der Universitit (Chemical Labo-
ratory of the University).

Biblioteca Mechanico-Technologico (Mechanie- - Technological
Library).

Geognostisches Institut (Geognostical Institute).

Gesellschaft fiir Kirchenrechtswissenschaft (Society for Ee-
clesiastical Laac).

Journal fiir Landwirthschaft (Agricultural Journal). [i]

Konigliche Societiit der Wissenschaften (Royal Society of
Sciences). [Transfer all books to University Library.| [i]

Konigliche Sternwarte (Royal Observatory). [i]

. Landwirthschaftliche Akademie (Agricultural Academy).
4179.

Land wirthschaftlich-Chemisches Laboratorium (Laboratory
of Agricultural Chemistry).

Medicinisch-chirurgisch-ophthalmologisch-geburtshiilfliche
Klinik (Medical, Surgical, Ophthalmological, Obstetrical
Clinic).

Mineralogisches Institut (Mineralogical Institute).

Paleontologisches Institut (Paleontological Institute).

Pharmaceutisches Institut (Pharmaceutical Institute).

“¢Philologischer Anzeiger” (Philological Gazette).

‘¢ Philologus.”

Physikalisches Institut (Physical Institute).

Physiologisches Institut (Physiological Institute).

Universitats- Bibliothek (University Library). [iii]

Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschaftliche Zoologie (Journal of
Scientific Zoology).

Zoologisches Museum (Zoological Museum). [i]

Zoologisch-Zootomisches Institut (Zoologic-Zootomical In-
stitute). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. wal

Gotha (Saxe-Coburg).

4205. Almanach de Gotha (Almanach of Gotha). [i]

4207. Geographische Anstalt [Justus Perthes] (Geographical
Establishment). [iii]

4209. Herzogliche Bibliothek der Friedenstein’schen Sammlun-
gen (Ducal Library of the Friedenstein Collections). [iii]

{Petermann’s Geographische Mittheilungen. (See Geo-

graphische Anstalt.)|

4211. Sternwarte (Observatory). [i]

4213. Thiringer Gartenbau-Verein (Horticultural Society). [i]

Greifenberg-in-Pommern (Prussia).
' 4215. Pommersche Oekonomische Gesellschaft (Agricultural So-
ciety of Pomerania). [i]

Greifswald (Prussia).

4217. Baltischer Central-Verein zur Beforderung der Landwirth-

schaft (Baltic Central Association for the Advancement
of Agriculture). [i]

4219. Geographische Gesellschaft (Geographical Society).

4221. Gesellschaft fiir Pommersche-Geschichte und Alterthums-
kunde [Riigisch-Pommersche Abtheilung] (Society of
Pomeranian History and Archeology). [i]

4223. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein von Neuvorpommern und
Riigen (Society of Natural Sciences of New Pomerania
and Riigen).

4225. Universitats-Bibliothek (University Library). [iii]

Greiz (Reuss).
4227. Fiirstlich-Reuss’sche Landes-Regierung (Government).

Guben (Prussia).
[Lausitzer Gewerbe- Verein (Polytechnical Society).]

Gumbinnen (Prussia).
[Landwirthschaftlicher Central-Verein fiir Lithauen und
Masuren (Central Agricultural Association of Lithuania
and Masuren). (See Insterbarg.)|

Giistrow (Mecklenburg).
4231. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg
[care of Opitz & Co., Giistrow] (Society of Friends of
Natural History in Mecklenburg). [iii]
Halberstadt (Prussia).
[Deutsche Ornithologische Gesellschaft. (See Braunsch-
weig.)|
Hall-am-Kocher [Schiwdbisch Hall] ( Wiirtemberg).
4233. Historischer Verein fiir das Wiirtembergische Franken
(Historical Society of Wiirtemberg Franconia). [i].
1a

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Hp». le-an-der-Saale (Prussia).

4235.

4239,
4941,

4243,

4269.

4271.

4273.
4275.

Deutscher Apotheker-Verein (German Apothecaries’ Ass-
ciation). [i]

. Deutsche Morgenlandische Gesellschaft (German Oriental

Society). [i]

Deutscher Verein zum Schutz der Vogelweit (German So-
ciety for the Protection of Birds).

Geschichtlicher Verein der Provinz Sachsen (Historical
Society of the Province of Saxony).

Kaiserliche Leopoldina Carolina Akademie der Deutschen
Naturforscher (Imperial Leopold-Cqrolus Academy y of
German Naturalists). [iii]

5. Koénigliches Ober Berg Amt (Royal Mining Bureau). [i]
. Konigliche Vereinigte Friedrichs Universitit Halle-Wit-

temberg [Bibliothek] ( University Library). [iii]

. Landwirthschaftlicher Central- Verein fiir die Provinz-Sach-

sen (Central Agricultural Association for the Province
of Saxony). [i]

. Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Naturalists’ Society). [iii]
. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Sachsen und Thiiringen

(Scientific Association of Saxony and Thuringia). |iii]

. Ornitho-ogischer Central- Verein fiir Sachsen und Thiirin-

gem (Central Ornithological Association of Saxony and
Thuringia). [i]

. Politisch-Oekonomisches Seminar (Politic Economical Sem-

inary).

. Redaktion: ‘“ Archiv der Pharmacie” (“‘ Pharmaceutical Ar-

chives”).

. Redaktion: “ Botanische Zeitung” (Botanical Gazette). [i]
. Redaktion: “Die Natur” [Dr. Karl Miiller] (“Nature”). |i]
5. Redaktion: ‘“ Zeitschrift fiir Deutsche Philologie” (“Journal

of German Philology”).

. Redaktion: “ Zeitschrift fiir die gesammten Naturwissen-

schaften” (Journal of Natural Sciences). [Formerly in
Berlin. |

Thiiringisch-Sichsischer [Geschichts- und Alterthums-]
Verein fiir Erforschung des Vaterlindischen Alter-
thums und Erhaltung seiner Denkmale (Thuringo-Sax-
onian [Historical and Archeological] Society for the
Exploration of National Antiquity and the Preservation
of Antiquarian Monuments). [i]

Verein der Aerzte im Regierungsbezirk Merseburg und in
dem Herzogthum Anhalt (Society of Physicians in the
District of Merseburg and the Duchy of Anhalt).

Verein fiir Erdkunde (Geographical Society). [i]

Verein fiir Reformations-Geschichte (Society for the History
of the Reformation).

Bemburg

-_—

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. ie

Germany).
. Anthropologische Gesellschaft (Anthropological Society). [i]
. Bibliothek des Medicinal-Collegiums (Library of the Medical

College).
Blinden-Anstalt (Institution for the Blind). [i]

. Commerz-Bibliothek (Commercial Library). [iii]
- Deutsche Meteorologische Gesellschaft (German Meteoro-

logical Society).

7. Geburtshiilfiiche Gesellschatt (ute a Society).

. Geographische Gesellschaft (Geographical Society). [i]

. Gesellschaft fiir Botanik (Botanical Society).

. Gesellschaft von Freunden der Geographie (Society of

Friends of Geography). [i]

- Handels-Kammer (Chamber of Commerce). [i]

. Johanneum. [i]

. Museum Godeftroy. [i]

. Naturhistorisches Museum [Dr. Pagenstecher] (Natural

History Museum).

3. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein Hamburg-Altona (Ham-

burg-Altona Society of Natural Sciences). [iii]

. Nord-Deutsche Seewarte (North German Naval Observa-

tory). [i]

. Stadt-Bibliothek (City Library). [iii]
. Sternwarte (Observatory). [i]
. Thierschutz- Verein (Society for the Protection of Ani-

mals). [i]

. Verein fiir Hamburgische Geschichte (Society for Ham-

burg’s History). [i]

. Verein fiir Handelsfreiheit (Free Trade Association). [i]
7. Verein fiir Naturwissenschaftliche Unterhaltung (Society

Jor Scientific Discourse). [i]

. Verein fiir Oeffentliche Gesundheitspflege (Society for Pub-

lic Hygiene).

. Verein fiir Niederdeutsche Sprachforschung (Society of Low

German Linguistics).

Hamm (Prussia).

4325.

Konigliches Gymnasium (Royal Gymnasium).

Hanau (Hesse).

4327.

Hanauer Bezirks-Verein fiir Hessische Geschichte und
Landeskunde (Hanau Society for Hessian History and
Geography). {il

4329, Wetterauer Gesellschaft fiir die gesammte Naturkunde

(Wetterau Association for Natural Sciences in Gen-
eral). [i]
174

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Hannover (Prussia).

4331. Architekten- und Ingenieur-Verein (Architects’ and Engi-
neers’ Association). [i]
4333. Central Miinzforscher- Verein (Central Numismatic Associa-
tion).
4335. Geographische Gesellschaft (Geographical Society). [i]
[Gesammt-Verein der Deutschen Geschichts- und Alter-
thums- Vereine (Central Union of the German Histori-
cal and Archeological Societies). |
4337. Gesellschaft fiir Altere Deutsche Geschichtskunde (Society
of Ancient German History).
4339. Gesellschaft fiir Mikroskopie (Microscopical Society). [i]
4341. Gewerbe-Verein fiir die Provinz-Hannover (Polytechnic So-
ciety of the Province of Hannover). {i}
4343. Hahn’sche Buchhandlung (Hahn’s Bookstore). [i]
4345. Historischer Verein fiir Niedersachsen (Historical Society
of Lower Saxony). [i]
4347. Koénigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek (Royal Public Library).
[iii]
4349. Kénigliche Landwirthschafts Gesellschaft (Royal Agricul-
tural Society).
4351. K6nigliche Technische Hochschule (Royal Polytechni-
cum). [i]
4353. ‘Kunst im Gewerbe” (Art in Trade).
4355. Naturhistorische Gesellschaft (Natural History Society). [i]
4357. Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft (Society of Natural
Sciences).
4359. Niedersiichsischer Aerzte-Vereins-Bund (Association of the
Physicians’ Societies of Lower Saxony).
4361. Verein analytischer Chemiker in Deutschland (Society of
Analytical Chemists in Germany).
4363. Verein fiir 6ffentliche Gesundheitspflege (Society of Public
Hygiene).

Heidelberg (Baden).

4365. Landwirthschaftlicher Bezirks-Verein (Agricultural Soci-
ety). [i]

4367. Naturhistorisch-Medicinischer Verein (Society of Natural
and Medical Sciences). [i] ;

4369. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie und Paleonto-
logie [Dr. Rosenbusch] (New Year-book of Mineralogy,
Geology, and Paleontology). [i]

4371. Ophthalmologische Gesellschatt (Ophthalmological Society).

4373. Physiologisches Institut der Universitat (Physiological In-
stitute of the University).

4375. Universitats-Bibliothek (University Inbrary). [iii]

4377. Zoologisch-Anatomisches Institut der Universitat (Zoologico-
Anatomical Institute of the University).
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 175

Heilbronn ( Wiirtemberg).
4379. Historischer Verein (Historical Society).
4381. ‘“ Irrenfreund” (Friend of the Insane).
4383. ‘*‘ Memorabilien.”

Herrnhut (Sazxony).
4385. Herrnhuter Briider-Gemeinschaft (Moravian Society). [i]

Hildesheim (Prussia).
4387. Verein fiir Kunde der Natur und der Kunst im Fiirsten-
thum Hildesheim und in der Stadt Goslar (Society of
Natural Sciences and Arts in the Principality of Hildes-
heim and in the City of Goslar).

Hohenheim ( Wiirtemberg).
4389. KGniglich-Wiirtembergische Land- und Forstwirthschaft-
liche Akademie (Royal Academy of Agriculture and
Forest Culture). [i]

Hohenleuben (Saxony).
4391. Voigtlindischer Alterthumsforschender Verein ( Voigtland-
ish Archeological Society). |i]

Homburg-vor-der-Hohe (Prussia).
4393. Verein fiir Geschichte und Alterthumskunde (Society of
History and Archeology).

Immenstadt (Bavaria).
[Alpen Landwirthschaftliche Versuchs - Station (Hxperi-
mental Agricultural Station).|

Ingolstadt (Bavaria).
4395. Historischer Verein (Historical Society).

Insterburg (Prussia).
4397, Alterthums-Gesellschaft (Historical Society).
4399, Landwirthschaftlicher Central-Verein fiir Lithauen und
Masuren (Central Agricultural Society of Iithuania and
Masuren). {i

Jauer (Prussia).
4401. Oekonomisch-Patriotische Gesellschaft fiir das Fiirsten-
thum Schweidnitz und Jauer (Heonomic-Patriotic Asso-
ciation of the Principality of Schweidnitz and Jauer). [i]

Jena (Saxe - Weimar).
4403. Allgemeiner Deutscher A potheker-Verein (Universal Ger-
man Apothecaries’ Association). [i]
4405, Anatomisches Institut der Universitit (Anatomical Insti-
tute of the University),
KS
176 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Jena (Saxe- Weimar)—Continued.

4407. Geographische Gesellschaft fiir Thiiringen (Geographical
Society of Thuringia).

4409. Grossherzoglich - Siichsisches Mineralogisches Museum
(Grand Ducal Mineralogical Museum).

4411. Jenaische Zeitschrift fiir Medicin und Naturwissenschaften
(Jena Gazette of Medical and Natural Sciences).

4413. Landwirthschaftliche Institut (Agricultural Institute). [i]

4415. Medicinisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft (Society of
Medical and Natural Sciences). {Transfers all books to
the University Library.] [i]

4417, Pharmaceutisch-Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein (Society of
Pharmacy and Natural Sciences). [i]

4419. Redaktion: ‘‘Archiv der Pharmacie” (Archives of Phar-
macy). [il

4421. Redaktion: “Zeitschrift fiir Deutsche Landwirthe” (Jouwr-
nal of German Agriculturists). [i]

4423. Statistisches Bureau der Vereinigten Thiiringischen
Staaten (Statistical Bureau of. the United Thuringian
States). [i]

4425. Thiiringer Fischerei-Verein (Thuringian Fishery Associa-
tion). [i]

4427. Universitiits-Bibliothek (University Library). [i]

4429, Verein fiir Thiiringische Geschichte und Alterthums-
kunde (Society of Thuringian History and Archeol-
ogy). {i

Kahla (Saxe-Altenburg).

4431. Geschichts- und Al]terthumsforschender- Verein zu Kahla
und Roda (Kahla and Roda Society of History and Ar-
cheology).

Kaiserslautern (Bavaria).
4433. Verein pflalzischer Aerzte (Association of Physicians of the
Palatinate).

Karlsruhe (Baden).
4435. Allgemeiner Landes-Verein der Badischen Aerzte (General
Association of the Physicians of Baden).

4437. Badische Geographische Gesellschaft (Baden Geographical
Society).

4439. “‘ Botanischer Jahresbericht ” (Botanical Annual).

4441. Central-Bureau fiir Meteorologie und Hydrographie (Cen-
tral Bureau of Meteorology and Hydrography). |i]

4443. Gewerbe-Verein (Polytechnical Society). [1]

4445, Grossherzoglich-Badisches Conservatorium der Alterthii-
mer (Baden Grand Ducal Conservatory of Antiqut-
ties). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. tae Er

Karlsruhe (Baden)—Continued.

4447,

4449,

4477.

Grossherzoglich-Badisches Ministerium des Aeusseren
(Baden Grand Ducal Foreign Office).

Grossherzoglich-Badisches Ministerium fiir Justiz, Kultus,
und Unterricht (Baden Grand Ducal Department of
Justice, Worship, and Education).

. Grossherzoglich-Badische Polytechnische Schule (Baden

Grand Ducal Polytechnic School). [i]

. Grossherzoglich-Badische Regierung (Baden Grand Ducal

Government). [i]

. Grossherzoglich-Badisches Statistisches Bureau des Han-

dels-Ministeriums (Baden Grand Ducal Statistical Bu-
reau of the Department of Commerce). [i]

. Grossherzoglich - Badisches Topographisches Bureau

(Grand Ducal Topographic Bureau).

. Grossherzogliche Central-Stelle fiir die Landwirthschaft

(Grand Ducal Bureau of Agriculture). [i]

. Grossherzogliches Gymnasium (Grand Ducal Gymnasi-

wm). [il

. Grossherzogliche Hof- und Landes- Bibliothek (Grand

Ducal and National Library). [iii]

. Handels-Kammer (Chamber of Commerce). [i]

{Meteorologische Office. (See Central-Bureau fiir Meteor-
ology, etc.)|

. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein (Society of Natural Sci-

ences). [i]

. Ober Direction der Wasser- und Strassen-Bauten (Depart-

ment of Public Works).

. Sternwarte (Observatory). [i]
. Verein Badischer Thieriirzte (Baden Society of Veterinary

Surgeons).

. Wissenschaftlicher Prediger-Verein der Evangelischen

Geistlichkeit Badens (Scientific Society of Evangelic
Ministers).

“ Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschaftliche Geographie” (Journal
of Scientific Geography).

Kassel (Prussia).

4479,
4481.
4483.

4485.
4487.
4489.

H. Mis, 15

‘“‘ Botanisches Central-Blatt” (Botanical Journal).

Kasseler Geometer- Verein (Surveyors’ Society).

Landwirthschaiftlicher Central- Verein (Central Agricultural
Association). [Transfers all books to the Standische
Landes- Bibliothek. |

** Malacozoologische Blatter” (Malacological Journal). [i]

‘“¢ Paleontographica ” (Paleontographical Journal).

Standische Landes-Bibliothek (National Library). {iii|

12

GST, LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Kassel (Prussia)—Continued.
4491. Verein fiir Hessische Geschichte und Landeskunde (Society
of Hessian History and Geography).  {i]
4493. Verein fiir Naturkunde (Natural History Society). [i]

Kiel (Prussia).

4495. ‘ Astronomische Nachrichten” (Astronomical News).

4497. Deutscher Samariter-Verein (German Samaritan Associa-
tion).

4501. Gesellschaft fiir Schleswig - Holstein. Lauenburgische Ge-
schichte (Society for the History of Sleswick-Holstein-
Lauenburg). [i]

4503. Gesellschaft fiir Kieler Stadtgeschichte (Local Historical
Society).

4505. Konigliche Sternwarte (oyal Observatory). [i]

4507. Ministerial-Kommission zur wissenschaftlichen Untersu-
chung der Deutschen Meere (Ministerial Commission
for the Scientific Exploration of the German Seas). [i]

4509. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Schleswig - Holstein
(Sleswick-Holstein Society of Natural Sciences). [i]

4511. Provinzial Blinden-Anstalt fiir Schleswig-Holstein (Sles-
wick-Holstein Institution for the Blind). [i]

4513. Redaktion: ‘‘Schulzeitung” (School Gazette). [i]

4515. Schleswig-Holsteinscher Landwirthschaftlicher General-
Verein (Sleswick-Holstein Agricultural Association). [i]

4517. Schleswig-Holsteinsches Museum vaterlindischer Alter-
thiimer (Sleswick-Holstein Museum of National Antiqui-
ties). [i]

4519. Universitits-Bibliothek (University Library). [iii]

4521. Zoologisches Institut der Universitat (Zodlogical Institute
of the University). [i]

4523. Verein Schleswig-Holsteinscher Aerzte (Physicians? Asso-
ciation of Sleswick-Holstein).

4525. Verein fiir Geographie und Naturwissenschaften (Associa-
tion of Geography and Natural Sciences).

Klausthal (Prussia).
4527. Berg-Akademie (Mining Academy). [i]
[Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. (See Berg- und Hiitten-
mannischer Verein.) |
4529. Berg- und Hiittenmannischer Verein ‘ Maja” [formerly
Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein] (Mining Society ‘‘Ma-
ja”). [i]

Koblenz (Prussia).
4531. Naturhistorischer Verein (Natural History Society). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 179

Koburg (Save-Coburg- Gotha).
4533. Deutscher Geometer-Verein (German Surveyors’ Society).
4535. Anthropologischer Verein (Anthropological Society).
4537. Kunst- und Gewerbe- Verein (Society for Art and Trade). [i]
[Verein fiir Naturkunde im Herzogthum Sachsen (Society
of Natural Sciences in the Duchy of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha).
(Defunct.)]
4539. Verein fiir Wetterkunde (Meteorological Society).

Koln (Prussia).

4541. Gesellschaft fiir Rheinische Geschichtskunde (Society for

Rhenish History).
[| Historischer Verein fiir den Niederrhein (Historical Society

of the Lower Rhine). (Defunct.)}

4545. Redaktion: ‘‘ Correspondenz-Blatt des Niederrheinischen
Vereins fiir Oeffentliche Gesundheitspflege” (Organ of
the Nether-khenish Society of Public Hygiene). [i]

4547. Redaktion: ** Wochenschrift fiir Astronomie und Meteoro-
logie” (Weekly Journal of Astronomy and Meteorology).

K6nigsberg-in-Preussen (Prussia).

4549, Alterthums-Gesellschaft ‘ Prussia” (Archeological Society
“ Prussia”). :

4551. Fisherei-Verein fiir die Provinz Preussen (Fishery Associ-
ation of the Province of Prussia). [i]

4553. Konigliche [Ostpreussische] Physikalisch-Oekonomische
Gesellschaft (Royal Physico-Economical Society). [iii]

4555. Ostpreussischer Landwirthschaftlicher (Central - Verein
(Central Agricultural Society of East Prussia). [i]

4557. Preussischer Provinzial-Verein fiir den Blinden- Unterricht
(Prussian Provincial Society for the Instruction of the
Blind). [i]

4559. Redaktion: ‘‘ Land- und Forstwirthschaftliche Zeitung”

: (Agricultural and Forestry Gazette).

4561. Universitits-Bibliothek (University Library). [iii]

4563. Universitats-Sternwarte (University Observatory). [1]

4565. Verein fiir die Geschichte von Ost und West Preussen (As-
sociation for the History of East and West Prussia).

Konstanz (Baden).
4567. Miinsterbau-Verein (Cathedral Building Society.)
4569. Wessenbergische Stadt-Bibliothek (Wessenberg City In-
brary). [i]
Kérnik (near Posen, Prussia).
4571. Biblioteca Koérnicka (Kérnick Iibrary). [iii]
Lahr (Baden).
4573. “ Zeitschrift fiir Geographie ” (Geographical Gazette).
180 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Landshut (Bavaria).
4575. Botanischer Verein (Botanical Society). [i]
4577. Historischer Verein fiir Niederbaiern (Historical Society of
Lower Bavaria). [i]

Lauingen (Bavaria).

4579. Verein fiir Naturwissenschaftliche Zwecke (Society of Nat-

ural Sciences). [i]
Leipzig (Saxony}.

4581. Dr. Felix Fliigel [39 Sidonien Strasse] (Agent of the Smith-
sonian Institution). [iii]

4583. Astronomische Gesellschaft (Astronomical Society). [i]

4585. Borsen- Verein der Deutschen Buchhandler (Lxchange Soci-
ety of the German Booksellers). ;

4587. F. A. Brockhaus Verlags-Buchhandlung (f. A. Brockhaus’
Publishing House). [iii]

4589. Central-Museum fiir Volkerkunde (Central Museum of Eth-
nology). [i]

4591. Central-Verein Deutscher Zahnarzte (Central Association
of German Dentists). [i]

4593. Central-Verein fiir Homodopathische Aerzte Deutschland
(Central Society of Homeopathic Physicians).

4595. Deutsche Gesellschaft zur Erforschung vaterlandischer
Sprache und Alterthiimer (Society for the Exploration

_ of the German Language and Archeology).
[Deutsche Morgenlandische Gesellschaft. (To be addressed

in Halle a. d. 8.] |

4597. Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpen-Verein, Section —
Leipzig (Leipsie Section, German and Austrian Alpine
Association). ;

4599. Deutscher Verein zur Erforschung Palestina’s (German
Society for the Exploration of Palestine).

4601. Wilhelm Engelmann Verlags-Buchhandlung ( William En-
gelmann’s Publishing House). [iii]

4603. Fiirstlich Jablonowski’sche Gesellschaft der Wissen-
schaften (Prince of Jablonowski's Society of Sei-
ences). [i]

4605. Geologische Landes- Untersuchung des Konigreichs Sach-
sen (Geological Exploration of the Kingdom of Saxony).
[i

4607. Gesellschaft fiir Geburtshiilfe (Society of Obstetrics).

4609. Handels-Kammer (Chamber of Commerce). [i]

4611. Ko6niglich-Sichsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften
(Royal Saxon Society of Sciences). [iii]

4613. Landwirthsehaftlicher Kreis- Verein (Agricultural Soet-
ety). 21]

(ee)
_—

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 1

Leipzig (Saxony)—Continued.
4615. Landwirthschaftliche Institut der Universitat (Agricult-

ural Institute of the University). [i]

[Leipziger Zweigverein der Gesellschaft fiir Verbreitung
von Volksbildung (Leipsic Branch of the Society for
the Diffusion of the Knowledge among People). (See
Verein fiir Volkswohl.)]

. Medicinische Gesellschaft (Medical Society). [i]

[Meteorologisches Institut. (Transferred te Chemnitz.) |

. Mineralogisches Museum (Mineralogical Museum). [i]
. Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Naturalists’ Society). [i]
. Oeffentliche Handels- Lehr-Anstalt (Public Commercial

School). [i]

. Physiologische Anstalt (Physiological Institute). [i]
. Polytechnische Gesellschaft (Polytechnical Society). [i]
. Redaktion: “ Aerztliches Vereins-Blatt fiir Deutschland ”

(Journal of Medical Societies in Germany). [i]

. Redaktion: “‘ Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie” (Annals

of Chemistry and Pharmacy).

. Redaktion: ‘Archiv der Mathematik und Physik” (Ar-

chives of Mathematics and Physics). [i]

. Redaktion: ‘Archiv fiir Anatomie, Physiolegie und wis-

senschaftliche Medicin” [Veit u. Co.] (Archives of Anat-
omy, Physiology, and Medical Sciences). [i]

. Redaktion: *‘ Archiv fiir Sachsische Geschichte” (Archives

of Saxon History).

. Redaktion: ‘ Aus Allen Welttheilen” (‘From all Parts of

the Globe”).

. Redaktion: “‘ Berg- und Hitittenmannische Zeitung” (Mining

and Smelting Journal).

. Redaktion: “ Deutsche Vierteljahrsschrift ftir Zahnheil-

kunde” (German Quarterly Journal of Dentistry).

. Redaktion: ‘‘ Deutsches Archiv fiir Klinische Medicin”

(German Archives of Clinical Medicine). [i]

. Redaction: ‘‘Gaea, Natur und Leben” (Gea, Nature and

Life).

. Redaktion: ‘Internationale Zeitschrift fiir Allgemeine

Sprachwissenschaft” (International Gazette of Lin-
guistics).

. Redaktion: ‘*‘ Jahrbiicher fiir Wissenschaftliche Botanik”

(Annals of Scientific Botany). |i]

. Redaktion: ‘‘ Kosmos,” Zeitschrift fiir Naturwissenschaft

(Kosmos, Journal of Natural Sciences).

. Redaktion: ‘‘ Magazin fiir die Literatur des Auslands”

(Magazine for the Literature of Foreign Countries). [i]

. Redaktion: “ Morphologisches Jahrbuch” (Morphological

Annual).
182

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Leipzig (Saxony )—Continued.

4661.

4663.

4665.

4667.

4669.

Leisnig.
4703.

Redaktion: ‘‘ Neue Deutsche Gewerbe- Zeitung” (New
German Industrial Gazette).

Redaktion: ‘‘ Neue Jahrbiicher fiir Philologie und Peda-
gogik” (New Annual of Philology and Pedagogy).

Redaktion: ‘‘ Poggendorff’s Beiblitter zu den Annalen
der Physik und Chemie” (Poggendorff’s Supplements to
the Annals of Physics and Chemistry). [i]

[Redaktion: ‘ Polytechnisches Central-Blatt” (Polytechnic
Central Gazette). (Discontinued.)|

Redaktion: ‘“ Repertorium der Technischen, Mathemati-
schen, und Naturwissenschaftlichen Literatur” (Re-
pertory of the Technical, Mathematical, and Natural
Science Literature).

Redaktion: “ Zeitschrift fiir Agyptische Sprach- und Al-
terthumskunde” (Journal of Egyptian Linguistics and
Archeology).

. Redaktion: “ Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie und Mine-

ralogie” (Journal of Crystallography and Mineralogy).

. Redaktion: “ Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie”

(Journal of Scientific Zoology). — [i]

. Stadt-Bibliothek (City Library). [iii]
. Sichsischer Ingenieur- und Architekten- Verein (Society of

Saxon Engineers and Architects).

. Stadtische Real-Schule (City “Real” School). [il

. Stidtisches Gymnasium (City Gymnasium). [i]

. Statistisches Bureau (Statistical Bureau). [i]

. 'Taubstummen-Anstalt (Institute for the Deaf and Dumb). [i]
. Universitits-Bibliothek (University Library). [Does not

want such publications as are sent to the Royal Saxon
Society of Sciences. |

. Universitéts-Sternwarte (University Observatory). [Trans-

fers books to the Royal Saxon Meteorological Institute. |

. Verein der Buchhindler (Booksellers’ Association).

. Verein fiir Anthropologie (Anthropological Society). [i]

. Verein fiir Erdkunde (Geographical Society). |i]

. Verein fiir die Geschichte Leipzig’s (Society for the History

of Leipsic). [i]

. Verein fiir Volkskindergirten (Society of Kindergarten). [i]
. Verein fiir Volkswohl (Society for the Welfare of the People).

[Formerly: Leipziger Zweigverein der Gesellschaft fiir
Verbreitung von Volksbildung.] [i]

. Zoologischer Anzeiger (Zoological Journal). [i]

Geschichts- und Alterthums- Verein (Historical and Arche-
ological Society). [1]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 183

Liegnitz (Prussia).

4705. Landwirthschaftlicher Verein (Agricultural Society). [i]
Lindau (Bavaria).

5 [Verein fiir die Geschichte des Bodensees und seiner Um-

gebung. (See Friedrichshafen.)|
Liibeck.

4707. Geographische Gesellschaft (Geographical Society).

4709. Gesellschaft zur Beforderung gemeinniitziger Thitigkeit
(Society for the Advancement of Useful Industry). |i]

4711. Hansischer Geschichts- Verein (Hanse Historical Society).

4713. Naturhistorisches Museum (Museum of Natural History). [i]

4715. Stadt-Bibliothek (City Library). [i]

4717. Verein fiir Liibeckische Geschichte und Alterthumskunde

(Society of Liibeck History and Archeology). [i]
Liineburg (Prussia).
[Alterthums-Verein. (Dissolved.)|

4719. Museum-Verein (Museum Society). + [i]

4721. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein (Society of Natural Scei-
ences). [i]

Luxembourg.

4723. Institut Luxembourgeois, Section Historique (Institute of
Luxemburg, Historical Division). [i]

4725. Institut Luxembourgeois, Section des Sciences Naturelles
et Mathématiques (Luxemburg Institute, Division of
Natural Sciences and Mathematics). [i]

4727. Société de Botanique du Grand-Duché de Luxembourg
(Botanical Society of the Grand Duchy of Iuxem-
burg). [i]

Magdeburg (Prussia).

4729. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein (Society of Natural Sci-
ences). [i]

4731. Verein fiir die Geschichte und Alterthumskunde des Her-
zogthums und Erzstifts Magdeburg (Magdeburg Society
of History and Archeology).

4733. Verein fiir Landwirthschaftliche Wetterkunde in der Pro-
vinz Sachsen, den Sichsischen Grossherzog-, Herzog-
und Fiirstenthiimern, den MHerzogthiimern Anhalt
und Braunschweig, und der Uckermark (Association
of Agricultural Meteorology, &e.).

4735. Verein fiir Oeffentliche Gesundheitspflege (Association of
Public Hygiene).

Mainz (Hesse).

4737. Grossherzogliche Handels-Kammer (Grand Ducal Chamber
of Commerce). [i]

4739. Verein zur Erforschung der Rheinischen Geschichte und
Alterthiimer (Society for Research in Rhenish History
and Archeology). [i]
184 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Mannheim (Baden).
4741. Grossherzogliches Gymnasium (Grand Ducal Gymnasi-
um). [i]
[Sternwarte (Observatory). (In Karlsruhe.)]
4743. Verein fiir Naturkunde (Society of Natural Scienees). [i]

Marburg (Prussia).

4745. Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der gesammten Naturwis-
senschaften (Society for the Advancement of Natural
Sciences). [iii]

4746. Sternwarte (Observatory).

4747, Universitats-Bibliothek (University Iibrary). [iii]

4749. Verein Kurhessischer Thierirzte (Society of Veterinary Sur-
geons).

Marienburg (Prussia).
4751. Historischer Verein fiir den Regierungs-Bezirk Marien-

werder (Historical Association for the District of

Marienwerder).
4753. Taubstummen-Anstalt (Institution for the Deaf and Dumb).

Meersburg (Laden).
4755. Grossherzoglich - Badische Allgemeine Taubstummen-
Anstalt (Grand Ducal Institute for the Deaf and
Dumb). [i]

Meiningen (Saxe-Meiningen).

4757. Hennebergischer Alterthumsforschender Verein (Henne-
berg Archeological Society). [i]

4759. Herzogliche Schloss-Bibliothek (Ducal Library).

4761. Herzogliches Statistisches Bureau (Ducal Statistical Bu-
reau).

4763. Landwirthschaftlicher Verein (Agricultural Society).

4765. Naturforschender- Verein (Naturalists’ Society).

4767. Stadt-Bibliothek (City Inbrary).

4769. Verein fiir Pomologie und Gartenbau (Pomological and
Horticultural Society). [i]

Meissen (Saxony).
4771. Gesellschaft ‘ Isis” (‘‘Isis” Society). [iii]
4773. Verein fiir die Geschichte der Stadt Meissen (Society for
the History of the City of Meissen).

Metz (Lorraine).
4775. Académie de Metz (Academy of Metz). [iii]
4777. Bibliothéque de Metz (City Library).
4779. Société d’Archéologie et d’ Histoire |formerly at Briey,
France] (Archeological and Historical Society). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 185

Metz (Lorraine)—Continued.
4781. Société d’ Histoire Naturelle de Metz (Natural History So-
ciety of Metz). [i]
4783. Société des Sciences Médicales du Département de la Mo-
selle (Society of Medical Sciences of the Department of
the Moselle). [i]
4785. Verein fiir Erdkunde (Geographical Society). [i]

Molln in Lauenburg (Prussia).
4787. Verein fiir die Geschichte des Herzogthums Lauenburg
(Society for the History of the Duchy of Lauenburg).

Milhausen (Alsace).
4789. Société Industrielle (Industrial Society). [i]

Mincheberg (Prussia).
4791. Verein fiir Heimathskunde (Historical Society).

, Miinchen (Bavaria).

4793. Alterthums- Verein (Archwological Society).

4795. Baierische Gartenbau-Gesellschaft (Bavarian Horticultural
Society). [i]

|Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, &c. (See Miin-

chener Gesellschaft, Sc.) |

4797. Baierische Numismatische Gesellschaft (Bavarian Numis-
matic Society).

4799. Geographische Gesellschaft (Geographical Society). [i]

4801. Haupt-Conservatorium der Armee: Central-Bibliothek des

Heeres (Central Library of the Army). [i]

4803. Historischer Verein fiir Oberbaiern (Historical Society of
Upper Bavaria). |i]

4805. Koniglich-Baierische Akademie der Wissenschaften (Royal
Bavarian Academy of Sciences). [iii]

4807. K6niglich-Baierisches Statistisches Bureau (Royal Bava-
rian Statistical Bureau). {i|

4811. Ko6niglich- Baierische Meteorologische Central- Anstalt
(Royal Bavarian Central Meteorological Bureau). [i]

4813. Koniglich-Baierische Technische Hochschule (Royal Bava-
rian Technical High School).  {i]

4815. Ko6niglicher Botanischer Garten (Royal Botanical Gar-
den). |i|

4817. Koniglicher General-Quartier-Meister-Stab (Royal Quarter-
master-General’s Department). [i]

4819. K6nigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek (Royal and State
Library). {iii]

4821. Konigliches Staats-Herbarium (Royal Herbarium). [i]

4823. Konigliches Staats - Ministerium (Royal Department of
State). |Deposits books with Royal Library. |
186

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Miinchen (Bavaria)—Continued.

4825.
4827.

4829.

4831.

4833.

4835.

4837.

4841.

4843.

4845.

4847.

Konigliche Sternwarte (Royal Observatory). [i]

Konigliche Taubstummen-Anstalt (Royal Institution for the
Deaf and Dumb). {il

K6nigliches Topographisches Bureau (Royal Topographical
Bureau).

Landwirthschaftlicher Verein (Agricultural Society). [i]

[Meteorologisches System. (See KGéniglich-Baierische Me-
teorologische Central-Anstalt.)]

Ministerium des Oeffentlichen Unterrichts (Department of
Public Instruction). |Deposits all donations with the
Royal Library.] [i]

Miinchener Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie,
und Urgeschichte (Munich Society of Anthropology,
Ethnology, and Primitive History). [i]

Polytechnischer Verein (Polytechnic Society). |i]

Redaktion: ‘Das Ausland”. [Formerly in Stuttgart]
i]

Redaktion: “ Baierisches Industrie- und Gewerbe-Blatt”
(Bavarian Industrial Gazette).

Redaktion: “ Zeitschrift fiir Biologie” (Biological Jour-
nal). [i]

Universitats-Bibliothek (University Library). [iii]

Minden (Prussia).

4849,

KGniglich-Preussische Forst-Akademie (Royal Prussian
Forest Academy). [i]

Munster (Prussia).

4851.

4853.

4855.

4857.

4859.

Landwirthschaftlicher Provinzial- Verein fiir Westfalen
und Lippe (Provincial Agricultural Society for West-
phalia and Lippe). [i]

Polytechnischer Verein (Polytechnic Society).

Provinzial-Verein fiir Wissenschaft und Kunst (Provincial
Society of Science and Art). [il]

Sternwarte (Observatory). [i]

Verein fiir die Geschichte und Alterthtimer Westphalens
(Society of Westphalian History and Antiquities). [i]

Neisse (Prussia).

4861.

4863.

4865.

Katholisches Gymnasium (Catholic Gymnasium). [i]
[Philomatische Gesellschaft. (See Wissenschaftliche Ge-
sellschaft.) |
Realschule (‘‘Real” School). [i]
Wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft “‘ Philomatie” (““Philomatie”
Scientific Society).  {i|

|
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 187

Neu Brandenburg (Mecklenburg).
[| Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg.
(See Giistrow.) |

Neustadt (Prussia).
[Pollichia.” (See Diirkheim.)]

Neustadt-Eberswalde (Prussia).
4867. Konigliche Forst-Akademie (Royal Forest Academy).

Nordhausen (Prussia).
4869. Wissenschaftlicher Verein (Scientific Society). [i]

Niirnberg (Bavaria). ;
4871. Baierisches Gewerbe-Museum (Bavarian Polytechnic Mu-
seum). [il
4873. Germanisches Museum (Germanian Museum). [i]
4875. Gewerbe-Verein (Polytechnic Society). [i]
4877. Historischer Verein (Historical Society). [i]
4879. Naturhistorische Gesellschaft (Natural History Society). [iii]

Offenbach (Baden).
4881. Grossherzogliche Handels-Kammer (Grand Ducal Chamber
of Commerce). [i]
4883. Verein fiir Naturkunde (Society of Natural Sciences.) [i]

Oldenburg (Oldenburg).
4885. Gewerbe-und Handels-Verein (Society of Trade and Com-
merce). [i]
4887. Grossherzogliche Bibliothek (Grand Ducal Library). {iii]

Osnabriick (Prussia).
4889. Historischer Verein (Historical Society). [i]
4891. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein (Society of Natural Sci-
ences). [i] i
Passau (Bavaria).
4893. Naturhistorischer Verein (Natural History Society). [i]
4895. Praktische Gartenbau-Gesellschaft in Baiern (Practical
Horticultural Society of Bavaria). [i]
Plauen (Saxony).
4897. Gymnasium und Realschule (Gymnasium and “Real”
School). [i]
4899. Verein fiir Natur-und Heilkunde (Society of Natural and
Medical Sciences). [i]
Posen (Prussia).
4901. Gesellschaft der Freunde der Wissenschaften (Society of
the Friends of Science).
188 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Posen (Prussia) —Continued.

4903. Historische Gesellschaft fiir die Provinz Posen (Historical
Society of the Province of Posen).

4905. Landwirthschaftlicher Provinzial- Verein (Agricultural Dis-
tricts’ Society). [i]

4907. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein (Society of Natural Scei-
ences). [i]

4909. Stadtische Realschule (City “Real” School). [i]

Potsdam (Prussia).

4911. Astro-Physikalisches Observatorium (Astro-Physical Ob-
servatory). [i]

4913. Landwirthschaftlicher Provincial-Verein fiir die Mark
Brandenburg und die Nieder Lausitz (Agricultural So-
ciety for the Province of Brandenburg and Nether Lusa-
tia). [May also be addressed at Prenzlau.] [i]

4915. Verein zur Beférderung des Seidenbaues in der Mark Bran-
denburg und der Nieder Lausitz (Society for the Pro-
motion of the Silk- Worm Culture in the Province of Bran-
denburg and in Nether Lusatia). [Transfer their books
to the Landwirthschaftliche Provincial- Verein. }

‘

Proskau (Prussia).
4917. Landwirthschaftliche Akademie (Agricultural Academy). [i]

Quedlinburg (Prussia).
4919. Allgemeine Berg- und Hiittenminnische Zeitung (Mining
and Smelting Journal).

Rastadt (Baden).
4921. Grossherzogliches Gymnasium (Grand Ducal Gymna-
sium). [i]

Ravensburg ( Wiirtemberg).
4923. Deutscher Pomologen-Verein (German Pomological So-
ciety). fil
Regensburg (Bavaria).
4925. Historischer Verein fiir die Oberpfalz (Historical Society of
the Upper Palatinate). [i]
4927. K6niglich-Baierischer Apotheker-Verein (Royal Bavarian
Apothecaries Association). [i]
4929. Ko6nigliche Baicrische Botanische Gesellschaft (Royal Bava-
rian Botanical Society). [1] |
4931. Konigliche Baierische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften |
(Royal Bavarian Society of Sciences).
4933. Zoologisch-Mineralogischer Verein (Zoological Mineralogi- |
cal Association). [i] |

|
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 189

Reichenbach (Savony).
4935. Voigtliindischer Verein fiir Naturkunde (Vaigtland Society
of Natural Science). [i]
Reutlingen ( Wiirtemberg).
4937. Pomologisches Institut (Pomological Institute). [i]

Roda (Saxe-Altenburg).
4939, Thiiringer Fischerei- Verein (Thuringian Fishery Society). [i]

Rostock (Mecklenburg).
[Mecklenburgischer Patriotischer Verein (Mecklenburg Pa-
 triotic Society).]
4943. Universitiits-Bibliothek (University Library). [iii]

Schwabisch Hall. (See Hall.)

Schwerin (Mecklenburg).

[Grossherzogliche Landes- Vermessungs-Kommission. Dis-
solved. Books transferred to Grossherzogliche Regie-
rungs-Bibliothek. |

4945. Grossherzogliche Regierungs-Bibliothek (Grand Ducal Gov-
ernment Library). [i]

4947. Grossherzogliches Statistisches Bureau (Grand Ducal Sta-
tistical Bureau). [i]

4949, Verein fiir Mecklenburgische Geschichte und Alterthums-
kunde (Society for the History and Archeology of Meck-
lenburg]. [il

" Siegmaringen (Prussia).

4951. Central-Stelle des Vereins zur Beférderung der Land-
wirthschaft und der Gewerbe in Hohenzollern (So-
ciety for the Promotion of Agriculture and the Trades in
Hohenzollern). [i]

Sondershausen (Schwarzburg).
4953. Botanischer Verein fiir das Nordliche Thiiringen (Botanical
Society in Northern Thuringia).
4955. Fiirstliche Realschule (“‘ Real” School). [i]
4957. Fiirstliches Gymnasium (Gymnasium). [i]
4959. Fiirstlich Schwarzburgische Ministerial-Canzlei (Chancelry
of the Ministry).
4961. Verein ziir BefOrderung der Landwirthschaft. (Society for
the Promotion of Agriculture). [i]
Speier (Bavaria).
4963. Historischer Verein fiir Rheinbaiern (Historical Society of
Rhenish Bavaria). [i]
Stade (Prussia).
4965. Verein fiir Geschichte und Alterthiimer (Historical and
Archeological Society). ,i}
190 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Stettin (Prussia).
4967. Entomologischer Verein (Hntomological Society). [iii]
4969. Gesellschaft fiir Pommersche Geschichte und Alterthums-
kunde (Society of Pommeranian History and Arche-
ology). [i]
4971. Redaktion: “Deutsche Fischerei-Zeitung” (German Fish-
erties Gazette).

Strassburg (Alsace).

4973. Bibliotheque Municipale (Municipal Inbrary).  |iii]

4975. Kaiserliche Universitits- und Landes-Bibliothek (Imperial
University and National IAbrary). [iii]

4977. Kommission fiir die -Geologische Landes-Untersuchung
von Elsass-Lothringen (Geological Commission of Al-
sace-Lorraine).

4979. Musée d’Histoire Naturelle (Natural History Museum). [i]

4981. Société pour la Conservation des Monuments historiques
dAlsace (Society for the Preservation of Historical
Monuments of Alsace). [i]

4983. Société des Sciences, Agriculture et Arts de la Basse
Alsace (Society of Sciences, Agriculture, and Arts, of |
Lower Alsace). [iii]

[Société des Sciences NaturellesdeStrasbourg. Dissolved. ]

4985. Sternwarte der Kaiserlichen Universitit (Observatory of the
Imperial University). [i]

4987. Zoologisch-Zootomisches Institut der Universitat (Zootom-
ical Institute of the University).

Strelitz (Mecklenburg).
[Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte (Society of the —
Friends of Natural History). (See Giistrow.)]

Stuttgart ( Wiirtemberg).
4989. Seine Majestit der Konig von Wiirtemberg (His Majesty |
the King of Wiirtemberg). [i] |
[American Public Library. Transferred to Frankfurt |

a. M.]

4991. Anthropologische Gesellschaft (Anthropological Society). [i] |
4993. Central-Leitung des Wohlthitigkeits-Vereins fiir Wiirtem- |
berg (Central Board of the Charitable Society of Wiir- |

temberg). [i]

4995. Gartenbau-Gesellschaft “Flora” (‘“ Flora” Horticultural —
Society.) [i]

4997. Geselischaft fiir die Weinverbesserung in Wiirtemberg
(Society for the Improvement of Wine-culture in Wiir-

temberg). [i]

4999. Gewerbe- Verein (Polytechnic Society). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 191

Stuttgart ( Wiirtemberg)—Continued.

5001.
5003.

5005.

5007.

5009.
5011.

5013.

5015.

5017.
5019.

5021.

5023.

Heilgymnastisches Institut (Movement-cure Institute). [i]

Konigliche Central-Stelle fiir Gewerbe und Handel (Royal
Central Bureau of Trade and Commerce). [i]

KGnigliche Central-Stelle fiir die Landwirthschaft (Royal
Central Bureau of Agriculture). [i]

Konigliches Finanz-Ministerium (Royal Finance Depart-
ment).

K6nigliche Forst-Direction (Koyal Bureau of Forests).

K6nigliches Haus- und Staats-Archiv (Royal and National
Archives). [i|

Konigliches Justiz-Ministerium (Royal Department of Jus-
tice). .

Konigliches Ministerium der Auswirtigen Angelegenheiten
(Royal Foreign Office).

KG6nigliches Ministerium des Innern (Interior Department).

Konigliches Ministerium des Kirchen- und Schulwesens
(Royal Department of Church and Education).

Ko6nigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek (Royal Public Inbrary).
[iii]

Konigliches Polytechnikum (Royal Polytechnic Institute).
i]

[K6nigliches Staats-Archiv. (See Koénigliches Haus- und

5025.
5027.
5029.
5031.

5033.
5035.

5037.

5039.

5041.

5043.

Staats-Archiv.)]

K6nigliches Statistisches Landes Amt (Royal Statistical
Bureau). [il

[Redaktion : “Das Ausland ”—in Miinchen.]

Redaktion: “‘ Kosmos” (Kosmos).

Redaktion : “‘ Polytechnisches Journal” (Polytechnical Jour-
nal).

Redaktion: ‘* Ueber Land und Meer.”

Stuttgarter Aerztlicher Verein (Physicians’ Society). [i]

Verein fiir vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wiirtemberg (So-
ciety of Natural History of Wiirtemberg). [iii]

[Verein zur Férderung der Deutschen Cultur-Mission im
Ausland (Society for the Promotion of German Culture
Abroad). Dissolved.]

Verein zur Fiirsorge entlassener Strafgefangener (Society
Sor Providing for Discharged Prisoners). [i]

Wiirtembergischer Aerztlicher Verein (Physicians’ Society
of Wiirtemberg).

Wiirtembergischer Alterthums-Verein (Archeological So-
ciety of Wiirtemberg). [i]

Wiirtembergischer Gartenbau- Verein (Horticultural Society
of Wiirtemberg). [i]
192 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Stuttgart ( Wiirtemberg)—Continued.
5045. Wiirtembergischer Thierarztlicher Verein (Society of Vet-
erinary Surgeons of Wiirtemberg).
5047. Wiirtembergischer Thierschutz- Verein ( Wiirtemberg Society
Jor the Protection of Animals).

Tharand (Saxony).
[Koniglich-Sachsische Akademie fiir Land und Forstwirthe

(Royal Agricultural and Forest Academy of Saxony.)|

Thorn (Prussia).
5049. Copernicus Verein fiir Wissenschaft und Kunst (Copernicus

Society of Sciences and Arts). [i]
Trier (Prussia).
5051. Gesellschaft fiir ntitzliche Forschungen (Society of Useful
ftesearch). [i]

Tubingen ( Wiirtemberg).

5053. Chemisches Haupt-Laboratorium der Universitit (Chemical
Laboratory of the University).

5055. Konigliche Universitits- Bibliothek (Royal University Li-
brary). [iii] |

5057. Landwirthschaftlicher Verein (Agricultural Society). [i] |

5059. Redaktion: ‘‘ Jahresbericht fiir Ophthalmologie” (Annals |
of Ophthalmology).

5061. Redaktion: “ Zeitschrift fiir die gesammten Staats- Wissen- |
schaften” (Journal of Political Science). : |

Ulm ( Wiirtemberg).
5063. Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellichaft (Society of Natural
Sciences). [i]
5065. Verein fiir Kunst und Alterthum in Oberschwaben (Society
of Art and Archeology in Upper Swabia). [i]

Waren (Mecklenburg).
5067. Von Maltzan’sches Naturhistorisches Museum (Von Malt-

zan Natural History Museum). [i]

Weilburg (Prussia).
5069. Verein Nassauischer Aerzte (Nassau Physicians’ Socie-

ty). [i]
Weimar (Saxe- Weimar).
5071. Geographisches Institut (Geographical Institute). [i]
5073. Verein fiir Blumistik und Gartenbau (Society of Floriculture
and Horticulture). [i] _

Weinsberg ( Wiirtemberg).
5075. Historischer Verein fiir das Wiirtembergische Franken |
(Historical Society of Wurtemberg Franconia). [i]
|

f
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 193

Wernigerode (Prussia).
5077. Grifliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek (Public Inbrary). [iii]
5079. Harz Verein fiir Geschichte und Alterthumskunde (Hartz
Society of History and Archeology). |i]

Wiesbaden (Prussia).

5081. Gewerbe-Verein fiir Nassau (Polytechnic Society of Nas
sau). [il

5083. Verein fiir Nassauische Geschichte und Alterthumskunde
(Society for the History and Archeology of Nassau). [i]

5085. Verein fiir Naturkunde (Society of Natural Sciences). [iii]

5087. Verein Nassauischer Land- und Forstwirthe (Society of
Agriculturists and Foresters of Nassau). [i]

5089. Zeitschrift fiir Analytische Chemie (Journal of Analytical
Chemistry). [i]

Wilhelmshafen (Prussia).
5091. Marine Sternwarte (Naval Observatory). [i]

Worms (Hesse). :

5093. Grossherzogliches Gymnasium (Grand Ducal Gymna-
sium). [i]

5095. Grossherzoglich Hessische Handels-Kammer (Grand Ducal
Chamber of Commerce). [i]

Wirzburg (Bavaria).

5097. Historischer Verein von Unterfranken und Aschaffenburg
(Historical Society of Lower Franconia and Aschaffen-
burg). [i]

5099. Physikalisch-Medizinische Gesellschaft (Physico- Medical
Society). [iii]

5101. Polytechnischer Central-Verein (Central Polytechnic So-
ciety). [i]

5103. Unterfriinkischer Kreis-Fischerei- Verein (fishery Associa-
tion of Lower Franconia).

5105. Universitats-Bibliothek (Library of the University). [iii]

5107. Zoologisch Zootomisches Institut der Universitat (Zootom-
ical Institute of the University).

Zittau (Saxony).
5109. Gewerbe-Verein (Polytechnic Society). [i]
Zweibriiken (Bavaria).
5111. Naturhistorischer Verein (Natural History Society). [i]
Zwickau (Saxony).
5113. Verein fiir Naturkunde (Society of Natural Sciences). [i]
H. Mis, 15——13
194 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.

ENGLAND.
Alnwick.
5115. Berwickshire Naturalists’ Club (care of James Hardy, Old-
cambus, Cockburnspath, N. B.) [il

Ashton-under-Lyne.
5117. Free Library. [i]

Aston ( Warwickshire).
5119. Public Library Department. [i]

Aylesbury.
5121. Buckinghamshire Architectural and Archeological So-
ciety. [i]
Barnsley.
5123. Midland Institute of: Mining, Civil, and Mechanical Engi-
neers. [i]
Bath.
5125. Bath and West of England Society, and Southern Coun-—
ties Association. [i] |
5127. Bath Natural History and Antiquarian Field Club. [i] |
5129. Bath Royal Literary and Philosophical Society. [i] |
5131. Geological Record (care of Taylor & Francis, Publishers,
Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, London, E. C.). [i]
Bedford.
5133. Bedfordshire Architectural and Archeological Society. [i]
5135. Journal of Microscopy and Natural Sciences.

Bidston. |
5137. Liverpool Observatory (care of John Hartnup, Bei i
near Birkenhead). [i]
Birmingham.
5139. Birmingham Free Libraries (J. D. Mullins, Librarian, Rad- _
cliffe Place, Birmingham [Free Reference Library]).
[ili]
5141. Birmingham Natural History and Microscopical Society \
(care of Mason College of Science). [i]
5143. Institute of Scientific Research (67 Broad Street). [i]
5145. Mason College of Science. [iii]
5147. The Midland Naturalist (care of E. W. Badger, Midland L

Counties Herald Office, Birmingham). [i
Blackburn.
5149. Public Library and Museum. [i]

Boston (Lincolnshire).
5151. Workingmen’s College. [i]

Brighton.

5153.
5155.
5157.

Bristol.

5159.
5161.
- 5163.
5165.

5167.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS, 195

Brighton Aquarium.
Brighton and Sussex Natural History Society. [i]
Free Public Library. [i]

Bristol City Library. [i]

Bristol Microscopical Society. [i]

Bristol Museum and Library. [i]

Bristol Naturalists’ Society (care of A. Leipner, 47 Hampton
Park, Clifton, near Bristol. [i]

United States Consulate. [i]

|Institute for the Advancement of Sciences, Literature and
Arts, identical with British Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, London.|

Bury St. Edmunds.

5169.

Suffolk Institute of Archeology and Natural History. [i]

Camborne (Cornzall).

Cambridge.

d171.
5173.

5175.
5177.

5179.
5181.
5183.
5185.
5187.
5189.

5191.

5193.
5195.

5197.
5199.
5201.
5203.

Canterbury.

5205.

[Miners’ Association of Cornwall and Devon (formerly in
Truro). (See Redruth.)]

Balfour Library, New Museum.

Cambridge Antiquarian Society (care of 8.8. Lewis, Libra-
rian of Corpus Christi College). [i]

Cambridge Free Library. [i]

Cambridge Journal of Philology (care of Macmillan & Co.,
Bedford Street, Strand, London, W. C.). [i]

Cambridge Observatory. _ [iii]

Cambridge Philological Society. [i]

Cambridge Philosophical Society. [iii]

Corpus Christi College. [i]

Fitzwilliam Museum. [i]

Journal of Anatomy and Physiology (care of Macmillan &
Co., Bedford Street, Strand, London).

Museum of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy (Downing
Street, Cambridge).

New Archeological Museum of the University. [i]

Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin Messenger of Mathe-
matics. [il

St. John College. [i]

Trinity College. [i]

University Library. [iii]

Woodwardian Museum. [i]

East Kent Natural History Society (care of W. H. Housley,
St. Stephen’s Lodge, Canterbury, formerly in Dover).

[3
196 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Cardiff.
5207. Naturalists’ Society.
5209. University College.

Carlisle.

5211. Cumberland Association for the Advancementof Literature
and Science.

Chatham.
5213. Royal Engineers’ Institute. [i]

Chester.
5215. Chester and Cheshire Architectural and Archeological So-
ciety. [i]
5217. Chester Natural Science Society. [i]
Chesterfield.
5219. Chesterfield and Derbyshire Institute of Mining Engi- —
neers. [i]
Cirencester.
5221. Royal Agricultural College. [i]

Coteswold.
5223. Coteswold Naturalists’ Field Club (care of Mr. Lucy, Glou-
cester). [i]
Coventry.
5225. Coventry and Warwickshire Pharmaceutical Association.

[i]
Crowborough.
5227. Astronomical and Meteorological Observatory. [i]

Croyden.
5229. Croyden Microscopical Club. [i]

Darlington.
5231. Darlington Free Town Library.

Derby.
5233. Derbyshire County Lunatic Asylum. [i]

Devizes.
5235. Wiltshire Archeological and Natural History Society. [i] |

Devonshire.
[Devonshire Association, &c., now in Exeter].
Doncaster.
5237. Yorkshire Institution for the Deaf and Dumb.] [i]
Dover.
[East Kent Natural History Society, now in Canterbury].
Dudley.
5239, Dudley and Midland Geological and Scientific Society and |
Field Club. fi]

Dumbarton.
5241.

Dulwich.

5243.

Durham.

5245.

Eastbourne.
5247.

Epping.

5249.

5259.

Falmouth.

5261.
5263.

. Eton College.

. Devon and Exeter Institution.
. Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science,

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 197

Free Public Library. [i]

Dulwich College Science Society.

Observatory.

[i]
Natural History Society (care of G. F. Chambers, F.R.A.S.,
Royal Astronomical Society, Burlington House, Lon-

don, W.). [i]

The Epping Forest and County of Sussex Naturalists’
Field Club. |i] ;

[i]

. Devon and Exeter Albert Memorial Museum, School of

Science and Art, and Free Library.

[i]

[iii]

Literature, and Art (care of Albert Memorial Mu-
seum).

Teign Naturalists’ Field Club (care of G. W. Ormerod,
Teignmouth, Devon). [i]

The Observatory. [i]

Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society. [iii]

Farnborough Station (Hants).

5265.

Greenwich.

5267.
. Royal Naval College.
. Royal Observatory.

| Hereford.

5277.

| Huddersfield.
5279.

. Bermerside Observatory, Skircoat.
. Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnical Society (formerly

Royal Staff [Military] College. [i]

Astronomer Royal.
[3]
| iii]
[i]
in Leeds). [i]

Woolhope Naturalists’ Field Club (care of Arthur Thomp-
son, 12 St. Nichol’s Street, Hereford). [i]

Yorkshire Archeological and Topographical Associa-

tion. [i]
5283

Ipswich.

5285

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

. Hull Literary and Philosophical Society [Royal Institu-
tion]. [i]
. Subscription Library [Royal Institution]. [i]

. Orwell Park Observatory.

[i]

Isle of Man.

5287
Keighley.

5289.

Kew.

Leeds.

Leicester.
5309
5311
5313

Lewes.
5315

. Conchological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
. [Quarterly] Journal of Conchology.

. Leeds Public Library.

. Natural History and Antiquarian Society.

Keighley Agricultural Society.

. Royal Botanic Gardens. [i]
. Kew Observatory, (Richmond, Surrey).
. Meteorological Office.

[iii]

[i]
[Geological and Polytechnical Society, now in Halifax.]
[i]

. Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society.
[i]

. Yorkshire College of Science. [i]

. Yorkshire Naturalists’ Union. [i]

(NoTr.—All the Leeds packages might be put into one package
and sent care of Taylor Bros., Journal of Conchology
Office, St. Ann Street, top of Albion Street, Leeds.)

[i]
[iJ

[iii]

. Leicester Free Library (Wellington Street).
. Leicester Literary and Philosophical Society.
. Leicester Town Museum. [i]

. Sussex Archeological Society.

[i]

Leyton (Essex).

5317

Liverpool.

5319.
5321.

5323.
5325.

5327.

. Private Observatory of Joseph G. Barclay.

[i]

Anthropological Society (care of William Hitchwan, M. D.,
144 Pythian Street, Low Hill, Liverpool).

Architectural and Archeological Society. [i]

Derby Museum. [i]

Free Public Library, Museum, and Walker Gallery of Art
of the town of Liverpool. [iii]

[Geological Magazine. (See London.)|

Geological Society. {il

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 199

Liverpool—Continued.

5329.

5331.

5333.
5335.

5337.
5339.
5341.

5343.
5345.

5347.

London.

5349.
5351.

5353.

5355.
5357.

5359.

5361.

5363.

5365.

5367.

5369.
5371.

Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire (care of Rupert
Lane, Everton, Liverpool). [i|

Literary and Philosophical Society (care of Royal Institu-
tion, Liverpool). [iii]

Liverpool Art Club. [i]

Liverpool Astronomical Society (care of Rev. T. E. Espin,
Church Road, West Kirby, Birkenhead).

Liverpool Chemists’ Association. [1]

Liverpool Engineers’ Society. [i]

Liverpool Geological Association—Free Public Library
(William Brown Street). [1]

Liverpool Naturalists’ Field Club. [i]

Liverpool Polytechnic Society.  [i|

[Observatory. (See Bidston.) |

Royal Institution. [i]

Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland. [iii]

William Wesley (Agent of the Smithsonian Institution, 28
Essex Street, Strand). [i]

Aborigines Protection Society (5 Tile Street, Chelsea, 8S.
Wiejer ft

“Academy” (27 Chancery Lane). [i]

Aéronautical Society of Great Britain (Maidenstone Hill,
Blackheath, 8. E.). [i]

Agent General for Cape Colony (7 Albert Mansion, Victoria

Street, S. W.). [i]

Agent General for New South Wales (5 Westminster Cham-
bers, Victoria Street, S. W.). [iJ

Agent General for New Zealand (7 Westminster Chambers,
Victoria Street, S. W.). [i]

Agent General for Queensland (Westminister Chambers,
Victoria street, S. W.). [i]

Agent General for Victoria (8 Victoria Chambers, West-
minster, S. W.). [i]

American Exchange in Europe (449 Strand, W. C.). [i]

Annals and Magazine of Natural History (care of Taylor &
Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E. C.). [i]

. Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland (3

Hanover Square, W.). [iii]

. “Antiquary” (care of E. Stock, 62 Paternoster Row, E.

G26 fi]

. Archeological Journal forgan of the Royal Archeological

Institute] (Beford Mansions, Oxford Street, W.). [i]

. Architectural Publication Society (7 Whitehall Yard, 8.

We (il
200

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

London—Continued.

5381

5383.
5385.

5387.
5389.
5391.
5393.
5395.
5397.
5399.
5401.

5403.

5433.
5435.

Art Union of London (Strand, W. C.).  [i|

Arundel Society (24 Old Bond Street, W.). [i]

Astronomical Register (care of Rev. J.C. Jackson, 11 Angel
Court, Throgmorton Street, E. C.). [i]

“Atheneum” (20 Wellington Street, Strand, W.C.). [i]

Athenzum Club (Pall Mall, S. W.). [iu]

Birkbeck Literary and Scientific Institution (Bream’s Build-
ing, Chancery Lane). [i]

Board of Admiralty (Whitehall, S.W.). [iii]

Board of Trade (Whitehall, S.W.). [i]

“ Bookseller” (care of Whittaker & Co., Ave Maria Lane,
Bx Gayie [ad

British Archeological Association (32 Sackville Street,
Piceadilly, W.). [11]

British Association for the Advancement of Science (22 Al-
bemarle Street). [iii]

British Homeopathic Society (care of London Hospital,
Great Ormond Street, Queen’s Square, W. C.). [i]

. British Horological Institute (Norfhampton Square,

BO 35, [a]

. British Journal of Photography. [i]
. British Medical Journal.

[British Meteorological Society. (See Royal Meteorological
Society.) |

. British Museum (Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury,

W.C.). [iii]

. British Museum, Natural History Division (Cromwell

Road, South Kensington, 8. W.).

. British Museum, Zodlogical Departinent.

[British Pharmaceutical Conference. (Has no library.)|

. Camden Society (25 Parliament Street, S.W.). — [i]

. Chemical News, Boy Court, Ludgate Hill, E.C.). [i]

. Chemical Society of London (Burlington House, W.). [iii]
. Chemist and Druggist (44 Cannon Street, E. C.). [i]

. Central Chamber of Agriculture (21 Arundel Street,

Strand).

. Chinese Customs Office (8 Storey’s Gate, S. W.). [i]

[Chronological Institute. (See Horological Institute.)]

. Civil and Mechanical Engineers’ Society (7 Westminster

Chambers, Victoria Street, S.W.). [i]

. City and Guild of London Institute for the Advancement

of Technical Education (Mercer’s Hall, B.C.) [i]
Civil Service Commission (Westminster, S. W.). [i]
Clinical Society (63 Berners Street, Beford Street, W.). [i]

LIST br FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 201

London—Continued.

5437. Cobden Club (care of Mr. Gowing, Cupper Park Road,
Haverstock Hill, N. W.). [i]

5439. Committee on Solar Physics of the Lords of the Commit-
tee of Council on Education.

5441. Commissioners in Lunacy.

5443. ‘‘Contemporary Review” (care of Kegan, Paul & Co., Pa-
ternoster Row).

[Corps of Royal Engineers. (See Chatham.)|

5445. Crown Agents for the Colonies (Colonial Office Building,
Downing Street). [i]

5447. ‘ Daily News” Shipping and Mercantile Gazette (Bouverie
Street, Fleet Street, E‘ C.).

5449. “Diplomatic Review” (7 Coibridge Road, Finsbury
Park). [i]

5451. Duke of Northumberland (2 Grosvenor Place, S. W.). [iii]

5453. Early English Text Society (care of F. J. Furniwall, M. A.,
3 St. George’s Hill, Primrose Hill). [i]

5455. East India Association (20 Great George Street, West-
minster, S. W.). [i]

5457. “ Hlectrical Review” (22 Paternoster Row). [il]

5471.

5473.
5475.
5477.
5479,

5481.

. English and Foreign Hiectrotype Agency.
. English Mechanic and World of Science (31 Tavistock

Street, Covent Garden). [i]

. Entomological Society (11 Chandos Street, Cavendish

Square, W.). [iii]

. “ Entomologist” (care of West & Newman, 58 Hatton Gar-

den, E.C.). [i

. “ Kntomologists’ Monthly Magazine” (care of J. Van Voorst,

1 Paternoster Row, E. C.). [iJ

. Epidemiological Society (11 Chandos Street, Cavendish

Square, W.). [i]

[Ethnological Journal. Journal of the Anthropological
Institute. |

[Ethnological Society. Identical with Anthropological
Institute. ]

‘“Buropean Mail” (care of Allen & Co., Waterloo Place,
Sawa)

“ Wish Trades Gazette” (E. E. Hyde, 191 Fleet Street, E. C.).

Fishery Department, Home Office (Whitehall, S. W.). |i]

“‘ Wishing Gazette” (Fetter Lane, E.C.). [i]

Folk Lore Society (care of G. L. Gomme, 2 Park Villas,
Londsdale Road, Barnes). [i|

“ Fortnightly Review” (care of Chapman & Hall, 12 Hen-
rietta Street, Covent Garden, W.C.). [i]
202

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

London—Continued.

5483.

5485,

5487.

5489.

5491.
5493.

5495.

5497.

5499.

5501.
5503.

5505.
5507.
5509.
5511.
5513.
5515.
5517.

5519.
5521.

Free Public Library (23 Great Smith Street, Westminster,
Sa.) rial

Free Public Library in the office of the Commissioners of |

Patents for Inventions (Southampton Building, Chan-
cery Lane, W. C.). [iii]

Prof. W. H. Flower (Natural History. Division, British Mu-
seum, South Kensington). [i]

‘“¢ Gardeners’ Chronicle.” [i]

[Geographical Magazine, now Journal of Royal Geograph-
ical Society.]

[Geological Association. Identical with Geologists’ Asso-
ciation. |

Geological Department, Home Office. [i]

Geological Magazine (care of Triibner & Co., Ludgate Hill,
Be @)e fi]

[Geological Record. (See Bath.) |

Geological Society of London (Burlington House, W.). [iii]

Geological Survey of Great Britain (Jermyn Street,

Sp Wille al tll
Geologists’ Association (University College, Gower Street,
Wee.) [il

[Great Seal Patent Office. (See Free Public Library in
the office of the Commissioners of Patents of Inven-
tions.) }

Gresham College (91 Gresham Street, E. C.). [i]

“Grevillea” (care of Williams & Norgate, 14 Henrietta
Street, Covent Garden, W. C.). [i]

[Guy’s Hospital Physical Society (9 St. Thomas Street,
Borough, 8. B.). (See Museum of Guy’s Hospital.)]

Hakluyt Society (care of Mr. Clark, 30 Sardinia Street, Lin-
coln’s Inn, W. C.). [i]

Hardwicke’s Science Gossip (care of Chatto & Windus,
Piccadilly, W.). [i]

Harveian Medical Society of London (Stafford Rooms,
Titcheborne Street, Edgeware Road, W.). [i]

“Herald of Peace” (care of Passmore & Alabaster, 4 Pater-
noster Building, E. C.). [i]

Historical Society (10 Chandos Street, Cavendish Square,
W:).

Home Department, Home Office (Whitehall, S. W.). [i]

Howard Association (5 Bishopsgate Street Without, E. C.).

Hudson’s Bay Company’s Library (1 Lime Street, E.C.). [i]

Hunterian Society (care of London Institution, Finsbury
Circus, E.C.). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 203

London—Continued.
5523. Hydrographic Office of the Admiralty (Whitehall,S.W.). [i]

5545.

[Imperial Museum for India and the Colonies. (See Library
of the Secretary of State for India.)|

. Inspector General of Fortifications (Horse Guards, White-

hall, S. W.). [i]

. Institute of Actuaries of Great Britain and Ireland (address

to the care of Statistical Society, 9 Adelphi Terrace,
Strand, W.C.). [iii]

. Institute of Mechanical Engineers [from Birmingham] (10

Victoria Chambers, Victoria Street, S. W.). [i]

. Institution of Civil Engineers (25 Great George Street,

Westminster, 8S. W.). [iii]

. Institution of Hydronomical and Nautical Engineers (care

of Mr. Potter, 31 Poultry, E.©.). [i]

. Institution of Naval Architects (5 Adelphi Terrace, Strand,

W. C.)

. Intelligence Branch, War Office (18 Queen Anne’s Gate,

S. W.). [i]

- Iron and Steel Institute (care of KE. & F. N. Spon, Savoy

Street, Strand). [i]

. “Tron” (161 Fleet Street). [i]
. Journal of the Royal.Geographical Society (formerly Geo-

graphical Magazine).

[Journal of Conchology. (See Leeds).]

[Journal of Philology. (See Cambridge). ]

[Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society. (Identical with
the Royal Agricultural Society.)

[Journal of the Royal Anthropological Society. (Identical
with Royal Anthropological Institute.) |

Journal of Science (3 Boy Court, Ludgate Hill). [i]

[Journal Society of Arts. (The organ of the Society for the
Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Com-
merce.) |

. “ Knowledge” (care of Wyman & Sons, Green Queen Street,

W. C.). [i]

. Land and Water ” (Salisbury Court, Fleet street, E.C.). [i]
. Library Association of the United Kingdom (13 South

Square, Gray’s Inn, W.C.). [il]

. Library of the Committee of Privy Council for Trade (White-

hall, S. W.). [iii]

. Library of Corporation of City of London (Guildhall, E. C.).

[iii]

. Library of the Foreign Office (Whitehall, S. W.). [i]
. Library of the House of Commons (Westminster, S. W.).

[iii]
204

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

London—Continued.

5561.
5563.

5577.
5579.
5581.
5583.
5585.

5587.

5589.

5591.

5593.

5595.

5597.

5599.

5601.

5603.

5605.

5607.

5609.
5611.

5613.

Library of the House of Lords (Westminster, S. W.). [i]

Library of the Secretary of State for India (India Office). [i]

[“ Life Boat.” (This is the organ of the Royal National Life
Boat Institution.)]|

. Lindley Library, Royal Horticultural Society, South Ken-

sington (care of Dr. M. T. Masters, 41 Wellington
Street, Strand, W.C.). [i]

. Linneen Society (Burlington House, W.). [iii]
. Live Stock Journal (La Belle Sauvage Yard, Ludgate Hill,

BG

. Local Government Board (Whitehall, S. W.) [i]
. Londonand Middlesex Archeological Society (4St. Martin’s

Place, Trafalgar Square, W.C.).  [i|

. London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine

(care of Taylor & Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street,
E. C.). [i]

London Hospital. [i]

London Illustrated News (198 Strand, W. C.). [i]

London Institution (Finsbury Circus, E. C.). [iii]

London Library (12 St. James Square, S. W.). [iii]

London Mathematical Society (22 Albemarle Street, W.) [i]

London Mechanics’ Institution. [i]

London Society for Promoting Christianity among the Jews
(16 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, W. C.). [i]

Lords of Her Majesty’s Treasury. [i]

Mark Lane Express (Clement’s Inn Passage).

Medical Press and Circular.

Medical Society of London (11 Chandos Street, Cavendish
Square, W.). |i]

Medical Times (care of J .& A. Churchill, New Burlington,
PSH i) eo

Meteorological Office (116 Victoria Street). [i]

[Meteorological Society. (See Royal Meteorological Soci-
ety.)

“Mind” (Williams & Norgate, 14 Henrietta Street, Covent
Garden, W.C.). [i]

Mineralogical Magazine (care of R. H. Scott, 116 Vittoria
Street, S. W.). [il

Mineralogical Society of Great Britain (care of R. H.
Scott, 116 Victoria Street, 8S. W.). [i]

Mining Journal (26 Fleet street, BE. C.). [i]

Mining World (234-236 Gresham House, Old Broad Street,
Bu) (1

Museum of Guy’s Hospital (9 St. Thomas Street, Borough,
Sa 5) Ba fl

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 205

London—Continued.
5615. Museum of Practical Geology (Jermyn Street, S. W.). [iii]
5617. National Association for the Promotion of Social Science (1
Adams Street, Adelphi, W. C.). [i
5619. ‘‘Nature” (care of Macmillan & Co., Bedford Street, Strand,

NVC uli]
5621. Nautical Almanac Office (Vendom Buildings, Gray’s Inn,
WinG erin

5623. Nineteenth Century (care of Kegan, Paul ‘& Co., Pater-
noster Square, E. C.). [i]
{Numismatic Chronicle. (Organ of Numismatic Society.)|
5625. Numismatic Society (22 Albemarle Street, W.). [i]
5627. “Observatory” (care of Taylor & Francis, Red Lion Court,
Fleet Street, E. C.). [i]
5629. Obstetrical Society of London (53 Berners Street, W.). [i]
5631. Odontological Society of Great Britain (Leicester Square,
WG .)e) i [r]
5633. Paleontographical Society (Burlington House, W.). [i]
[Paleontological Society. (Identical with Paleontograph-
ical Society.) |
5635. Palestine Exploration Fund (1 Adam Street, Adelphi, W.
Oy) i
5637. Pathological Society (53 Berners Street, W.). [i]
[Pharmaceutical Journal and Transactions. (Organ of the
Pharmaceutical Society.)|
5639. Pharmaceutical Society (17 Bloomsbury Square, W. C.).
[i
5641. Philological Society (care of University College, Gower
Street, W.C.). [iii]
5643. Photographic Society (5a Pall Mall East, S. W.). [i]
5645. Physical Society of London (Science Schools, South Ken-
sington). [i]
[Popular Science Review. (Discontinued.)|
5647. Post-Office Library and Literary Association (St. Martin’s
Le Grand, E. C.). [i]
[Public Free Library. (Identical with Free Public Li-
brary.)|
[Quarterly Journal of Science. (Same as Journal of Sci-
ence.) |
[Queensland Government Agency (1 Westminster Cham-
bers, S. W.).] (Same as 5365.)
5649. Quekett Microscopical Club (University College, Gower
Street, W.C.). [i]
5651. Ray Society (Burlington House, W.). [i]
[Record Office, India Office. (See Library of the Secretary
of State for India.)]
206

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

London—Continued.

5653.
5655.

5657.

5659.

5661.

5663.

5665.

5667.
5669.
5671.

5673.

5693.

Reform Club (Pall Mall, 8S. W.). [i]

“ Reliquary” Quarterly Archeological Journal and Review
(Bemrose & Sons, Paternoster Square). [i]

Royal Agricultural Society of England (Hanover Square,
W.).. [iil]

Royal Archeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland
(Oxford Mansions, Oxford Street, W.). [ili]

Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland (Albe-
marle Street, W.). [iii]

Royal Astronomical Society (Burlington House, Picca-
dilly, W.). [iii]

Royal Botanic Society (Inner Circle, Regent’s Park,
NeW 1]

Royal College of Physicians of London (Pall Mall East). [i]

Royal College of Surgeons of England (Lincoln’s Inn
Fields, W. C.). [iii]

Royal Colonial Institute (15 Strand, W.C.). [i]

- [Royal Engineers’ Headquarters Library. (See Chatham.)|

[Royal Engineers’ Institute. (See Chatham.)]

Royal Geographical Society of London (1 Savile Row,
We [iii]

| Royal Geological Society. (Identical with Geological So-
ciety.)| .

. Royal Historical Society (11 Chandos Street, Cavendish

Square). [i]

. Royal Horticultural Society of London (South Kensington,

S. W.). [iii] |

. Royal Humane Society (4 Trafalgar Square). [i]
. Royal Institute of British Architects (9 Conduit Street,

W.). [i]

. Royal Institution of Great Britain (Albemarle Street,

W.). iii]

. Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society (53 Berners Street,

W.). [i]

. Royal Meteorological Society [formerly Meteorological So-

ciety, and later British Meteorological Society]. [i]

. Royal Microscopical Society (King’s College, Strand,

W.C.). iii]
[Royal Military College. (See Farnboro’.) |

. Royal National Life-Boat Institution (14 John Street,

Adelphi). [i]

[Royal School of Mines. (Same as Museum of Practical
Geology.) |

Royal Society of Literature (22 Delahay Street, West-
minster). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 207

London—Continued.

5695.
5697.
5699.
5701,
5703.
5705.
5707.

5709.

5711.

Royal Society of London (Burlington House, W.). [ii]

Royal United Service Institution (Whitehall, S.W.). [i]

Saint Bartholomew’s Hospital (Smithfield, E. C.). [i]

Saint George’s Hospital (Hyde Park, W.). [il]

Saint Thomas’s Hospital (Albert Embankment, 8S. E.). [i]

Salmon Fishery Office (Whitehall, S. W.). [i]

Science and Art Department (South Kensington). _[iii|

[Scientific Club. (Dissolved.)]|

[Science Gossip. (See Hardwicke’s Science Gossip.) |

[ScientificOpinion. (Same as English Mechanic and World

of Science.]

[Scientific Roll. (Irregular.})

Selenographical Society (care of Royal Astronomical So-
ciety, Burlington House, W.). [i]

Symons’ Monthly Meteorological Magazine (62 Camden
Square, N. W.).

[Silk Supply Association. (Discontinued.)]

|Social Science Association. (Same as National Association
for the Promotion of Social Science.)|

. Society of Antiquaries of London (Burlington House, W.)

[iii]

. Society of Apothecaries of London (Water Lane, Black-

friars, B. C.). [i]

. Society of Biblical Archeology (11 Hart Street, Blooms-

bury). [i]

. Society of Cymmarodrin (Lonsdale Chambers, Chancery

Lane).

. Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and

Commerce (John Street, Adelphi, W.C.). — [iii]

. Society for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge (North-

umberland Avenue, 8. W.). [i]

. Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies (care of

Macmillan & Co., Bedford Street, Strand). [i]

. Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts

(19 Delahay Street, Westminster, S. W.). [i]

. Society of Engineers (6 Westminster Chambers, Victoria

Street, S. W). [i]

. Society of Public Analysts (37 Lombard Street, E. C.). [i]
. Society of Telegraph Engineers (4 Broad Sanctuary, West-

minster, S. W.). [i]

. South Kensington Educational Library.
. South Kensington Museum. [i]

[Statistical Society, King’s College. (Identical with Statis-
tical Society of London.)]
208

sIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

London—Continued.

5739.
5741.
5743.
5745.
5747.
5749.

5751.

5789.
5791.

Statistical Society of London (9 Adelphi Terrace, Strand,
W.C.). [iii]

Surrey Archelogical Society (8 Dane’s Inn, Strand, W.
Oe) inl

Syrio-Egyptian Society (9 Conduit Street, W.). [i]

“The Aquarium” (1 Westminster, 8. W.). [i]

“The Economist” (349 Strand, W.C.). [i]

‘The Colliery Guardian and Journal of the Coal and Iron

Trades.” [i]

“The Electrical Review and Telegraphic Journal” [form-
erly the Telegraphic Journal] (22 Paternoster Row,
Be) ai

3. “The Electrician.”

. “ The Engineer ” (163 Strand, W.C.). [i]

. “The Engineering” (35 and 36 Bedford Street, Strand). [i]
. “The Field” (346 Strand, W. C.). [i]

. “The Garden” (37 Southampton Street, Covent Garden, W.

C.). [i]

. “The Ibis” (1 Paternoster Row, E. C.).
. “The Lancet.”

[The Oriental” (Ceased to appear.)|

. “The Statesman’s Yearbook.” [i]
. “The Spectator ” (Wellington Street, Strand, W. C.).  [i|

[The Telegraphic Journal.” (See “The Electrical Review
and Telegraphic Journal.”)]

. “The Times” (Printing House Square, Blackfriars, E.C.). [i]
. Trawling Commission.

. Triibner & Co. (57 and 59 Ludgate Hill, BE. C.). [i]

. University College (Gower Street, W.C.). [i]

. U.S. Dispatch Agency (4 Trafalgar Square, W. C.).

. Victoria Institute [or Philosophical Society of Great Britain]

(8 Adelphi Terrace, W.C.). [i]

. Willughby Society for the Reprinting of Scaree Ornitho-

logical Works (6 Tenterden Street, Hanover Square,
WV) soc all

- Worshipful Company of Clockmakers (Town Clerk’s Office,

Guildhall, E. C.). [i]
[Zoological Department of the British Museum. (See British
Museum.) }

. Zoological Record Association (care of Van Voorst, 1 Pater-

noster Row, E. C.). [i]
Zoological Society of London (1 Hanover Square, W.). [iii]
*‘Zoologist” (care of Van Voorst, 1 Paternoster Row, E. C.).

[i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 209

Lowestoft.
5793. Norfolk and Suffolk Fish Acclimatization Society. |i]
Macclesfield,
5795. Macclesfield Society for Acquiring Useful Knowledge. [i]
Maidstone.
5797. Kent Archeological Society. |i]
Manchester.
5799. Chetham’s Library. [il
5801. Geological Society (56 George Street). [1]
5803. Lancashire Independent College. [i]
5805. Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester (36 George
Street). [ili]
5807. Manchester Field Naturalists’ and Archeologists’ Society. [i]
5809. Manchester Literary Club. [i]
5811. Manchester Public Free Library [formerly ‘and Muse-
um”!. [iii]
5813. Manchester Scientific Students’ Association (97 Bridge
Street). [i]
5815. Numismatic Society. [i]
5817. Uwen’s College. _|iii]
[‘‘ Universal Engineer.” (Discontinued.)|
5819. Vegetarian Society (56 Peter Street).
Marlborough.
5821. Marlborough College Natural History Society. [i]
Newbury.
5823. Newbury District Field Club. [i]

Newcastle (Staffordshire).

5825.

North Staffordshire Naturalists’ Field Club. [i]

Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

5827.
5829.

5831.

5833.
5835.

5837.

0839.

H. Mis. 15

Antiquarian Society. [i]

Durham College of Science [formerly College of Physical
Science]. [i]

Central Exchange, News Room, Art Gallery, and Industrial
Exhibition. [i]

Literary and Philosophical Society. [i]

Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham, and
Neweastle-upon-Tyne (Museum, Neweastle). [iii]
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical En-

gineers. [i]
[North Staffordshire Naturalists’ Field Club. .(See New-
castle, Staffordshire.) ]
[Public Libraries. (See Central Exchange, &c.)]
|Reading-Room. (See Central Exchange, &c.)|
Tyneside Naturalists’ Field Club (Museum, Newcastle). [i]
14

210

Norwich.

5841.
5843.
5845.
5847.

Nottingham.

5849.

5851.
5853.

5855.
5857.

Oldham.
5859.

Oscolt.
5861.
5863.

Oxford.
5865.
5867.
5869.
- D871.
5873.
5875.

5877.
5879.

5881.
5883.
5885.
5887.
5889.

Penzance.

5893.

5895.

5897.

Plymouth.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Norfolk and Norwich Archeological Society.
Norfolk and Norwich Museum. [i]
Norfolk and Norwich Naturalists’ Society. [i]
Norwich Geological Society. [i]

[i]

Free Library and Museum of the Borough of Notting-
ham. [i]

Nottingham Literary and Philosophical Society.

Nottingham Mechanics’ Association (Mechanics’ Hall Li-
brary). [i]

Nottingham School of Art. [i]

United Lunatic Asylum. [i]

Oldham Free Reference Library, Museum, and Art Gal-
lery.

Oscolt College, Erdington, Birmingham.
St. Mary’s College.

Ashmolean Society. [i]

Bodleian Library. [iii]

Library of the Sumerville Hall for Ladies.

Magdalen College. [i]

Museum of Natural History. [i]

Oxford Architectural and Historical Society (17 New Inn

Hall Street).

Oxford, &c., Messenger of Mathematics.

Oxford Free Library. [i] |

[Oxford University Library. (Same as Bodleian Library.)] |

Oxford University Entomological Society. [i]

Oxford University Indian Institute.

Oxford University Observatory. [i]

Radcliffe Library (Museum). [i] j

Radcliffe Observatory. [iii] |

[Savilian Observatory.|
_

[Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science,
Literature, and Arts. (See Exeter.)] :

Natural History and Antiquarian Society.
Penzance Public Library. [i]
Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. [i]

|
|
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 211

Plymouth—Continued.
5899. Plymouth Institution and Devon and Cornwall Natural
History Society. [i]
5901. Plymouth Free Library [formerly Museum]. [i]

Portsmouth. .
5903. Royal Naval College. [i]

Reading.
5905. Public Library and Museum.

Redruth.
5907. The Mining Association and Institute of Cornwall. [i]

Richmond (Surrey).
5909. Free Public Library.

Richmond ( Yorkshire).
5911. Richmond and North Riding Naturalists’ Field Club. [i]

Rugby.
5913. Natural History Society of Rugby School. [i]
5915. Temple Observatory. [i]

Ryde (Isle of Wight).
5917. Philosophical and Scientific Society. [i]

St. Albans.
5919. St. Albans’ Architectural and Archeological Society. [i]

Salford.
5921. Salford Royal Museum and Library. [i]
5923. Town Council of Salford. — [i]
5925. Working Men’s College. [i]

Salisbury.
5927. Blackmore Museum.
Sandhurst.
' [Royal Military College. (See Farnsboro’.)}
[Royal Staff College. (See Farnsboro’.)]
Sheffield.

5929. Firth College. [i]
5931. Literary and Philosophical Society. [i]

Southampton. :
5933. Hartley Institution. — [iii]
5935. Ordnance Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain and
Ireland (1 St. Martin’s Place, London, W. C.). [i]
5937. South of England Literary and Philosophical Society. [i]

px lp LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Southport.
5939. Aquarium. [li]
5941. Free-Public Library. [i]

South Shields.
5943. Public Free Library. [i]

Shrewsbury.
5945. Shropshire Archeological and Natural History Society. [i]

Staines.
5947. Royal India Engineering College. [i]

Stoke-on-Trent.
5949. Free Library and Museum [formerly Athenaeum].

5951. North Staffordshire Institute of Mining: and Mechanical

Engineers. [i]
Taunton. :
5953. Somersetshire Archeological and Natural History So-
ciety. [iJ
Teignmouth.
[Teign Naturalists’ Field Club. (See Exeter.)|
Torquay. |
5955. Natural History Society. [i]
Truro,
[Miners’ Association, &c. (See Camborne.)]
[Mineralogical Magazine. (See London.)|
[Mineralogical Society. (See London.)]
5957. Royal Institution of Cornwall. [i]

Twickenham.
5959. Twickenham Economic Museum. [i]

Warrington.
5961. Warrington Museum. [i]

Warwick.
5963. Warwickshire Natural History and Archeological Soci-
ety. [il
Watford.
5965. Hertfordshire Natural History Society and Field Club
(care of Mr. Hopkinson, 95 New Bond Street, Lon-
don, W.) [i]
Wellington.
[Wellington College. (See Wokingham.)]

Whalley (Lancashire).

. 5967. Stonyhurst College. [i]
5969. Stonyhurst College Observatory. [i]

L
Whitby.
5971

Wigan.
59

=~]

3

LIST QF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 213

. Literary and Philosophical Society Museum.

[i]

. Mining School.

Winchester.

Windsor.

5975

| Winchester and Hampshire Scientific and Literary Soci-
ety. (Dissolved.)|

[Eton College.
. Royal Library.

(See Eton.) ]
[i]

Wokingham.

5977

. Wellington College Natural History Society [formerly in
Wellington (address parcels ‘ Wellington College,
Berkshire, South Eastern Railway). [i]

Wolverhampton.

5979

Woolwich.
5981
5983

Wycombe (Buckinghamshire).
| 5985.

York.

/
\

Armagh.

59389.
5991.

q
|
|

Belfast. —

- Collooney.

5987.

5993.
5995.
5997.
5999.
6001.
6003.
6005.

6007.

. Association of Chemists and Druggists.

. Royal Artillery Institution.
. Royal Military Academy.

[iii]
[iii]

High Wycombe Natural History Society. [i]

[Yorkshire Agricultural Society. |

Yorkshire Philosophical Society. [i]

IRELAND.

[iii]
[iii]

Observatory.
Public Library.

Belfast Institution. [i]

Belfast Naturalists’ Field Club. [i]
Chemico-Agricultural Society of Ulster. [i]
Flax Supply Extension Association. [i]
Natural History and Philosophical Society.
Northeast Agricultural Association. [i]
Queen’s College. [iii]

[iii]
Markree Observatory. [i]

. Chamber of Commerce.
. Christian Schools,
214

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Cork—Continued.

6013.
6015.

6017

Dublin.
6019
6021

6023.

6025.
6027.
6029.
6031.

6033.
6035.
6037.

6039.
6041.
6043.
6045.
6047.
6049.
6051.

6053.
6055.
6057.
6059.
6061.
6063.
6065.
6067.
6069.
6071.

Cuvierian and Archeological Society. [i]
Library of Queen’s College. [iti]
Royal Cork Institution. [i]

Catholic College of Ireland. [iii]

Chemical Society of Dublin. [i]

[“*Copernicus” International Journal of Astronomy. (Dis-
continued.) |

[Deaf and Dumb Institution of Cabra. (Identical with
St. Joseph’s Cabra Institution, the former the female,
the latter the male, institution.)]

[Dublin Geological Society. (See Royal Geological Society
of Ireland, No. 6065.)|

Dublin Library (D’Oliver street).

[Dublin Quarterly Journal of Science. (Discontinued)]

Dublin Society of Natural History. [i]

Dublin University. [ij

Dublin University Biological Association.

Dublin University Philosophical Association.

[Dublin University Zodlogical Botanical Association. (Dis-
solved. }|

Freeman’s Journal.

Geological Survey of Ireland. [i]

Institution of Civil Engineers of Ireland (35 Dawson
street). [1] :

Institution for Deaf and Dumb, Claremont Glasnevin. [i]

Irish Archeological and Celtic Association.

Irish Fisheries Commission.

Irish Medical Association. [i]

Journal of Medical Science.

Library of Trinity College. [iii]

National Library of Ireland, Science and Art Department
(Leinster House, Kildare Street). [i]

Observatory of Trinity College. [i]

Pharmaceutical Society. [i]

Royal Agricultural Society. [i]

Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland.

toyal Dublin Society (Kildare Street). [iii]

Royal Geographical Society.

Royal Geological Society of Ireland. [i]

Royal Irish Academy. _ [iii]

Royal Zodlogical Society of Ireland. [Has no library.]

St. Joseph’s Cabra Institution for the Deaf and Dumb.
[See also Deaf and Dumb Institution of Cabra.] [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 215

Dunsinsk.

6073. Observatory. [i]

6075. ‘‘ Urania,” International Journal of Astronomy. [i]
Ennis.
6077. Public Library.
Galway.
6079. Library of Queen’s College. [iii]
Kilkenny.
6081. Royal Historical and Archeological Association of Ireland
(packages to be addressed to Rev. J. Graves, care of
McGlashan & Gill, 50 Upper Sackville Street, Dub-
lin, per Hayden & Co., Warwick Square, London,
BoC). fl
Londonderry.
6083. Magee College. [iii]
Maynooth.
i 6085. St. Patrick’s College. [iii]
_Parsonstown. .
| 6087. Lord Rosse’s Observatory.
Valencia.
| 6089. Observatory of the London Meteorological Office (address
| 116 Victoria Street, London). [iJ
| SCOTLAND.
_ Aberdeen.
6091. Dun Echt Observatory. [i]
) 6093. Natural History Society. [i]
} 6095. Philosophical Society. - [i]
6097. University. [iii]
Notre.—All packages for Aberdeen can be sent care of Wyllie &
: Sons, Union Street, Aberdeen, per Hamilton & Co., Paternoster
Row, London, E. C.
Alloa |
6099. Society of Natural Science and Archeology. [i]
! Dumfries.
! 6101. Dumfriesshire and Galloway Natural History and Anti-
quarian Society. [i]
_ Dundee.
6103. Association of Watchmakers and Jewellers. [ij
| 6105. Free Library and Museum. [i]
| 6106. University College. [ii]
Edinburgh.
6107. Arizona Copper Company (12 Frederick Street.)
. Ben Nevis Observatory.

216 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Edinburgh—Continued.
6111. Board of Northern Lighthouses. [i]
6113. Botanical Society. [Has no library; gives books to Royal
Botanic Garden of Edinburgh. ]
6115. Caledonian Horticultural Society. [i]
6117. Clarendon Historical Society.
6119. Edinburgh Geological Society. [i]
6121. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal.
6123. Edinburgh Museum.
6125. Edinburgh Watt Institution and School of Arts. _ [i]
6127. Faculty of Advocates. [iii]
6129. Fishery Board for Scotland.
6131. General Board of Lunacy. [i]
6133. Geological Survey of Scotland. _ [i]
6135. Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland. [i]
6137. Horological Society of Edinburgh.
6139. Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh. [i]
6141. Meteorological Society of Scotland. [i]
6143. Museum of Science and Arts. _ [iii]
6145. Pharmaceutical Society (North British Branch). [i]
6147. Royal Botanic Garden of Edinburgh. [i]
6149. Royal College of Physicians. [i]
6151. Royal Institution for the Encouragement of Fine Arts in
Scotland. |i]
6153. Royal Observatory. [iii]
6155. Royal Physical Society. [i]
6157. Royal Scottish Society of Arts. [i]
6159. Royal Society of Edinburgh. | [iii]
6161. Scottish Arboricultural Society. [i]
6163. Scottish Fisheries Improyement Association.
6165. Scottish Geographical Society.
6167. Society of Antiquaries in Scotland.
6169. Society of Writers to H. M. Signet. [i]
6171. University Library. [iii]
6173. University Fleming.
6175. “The Scottish Naturalist.”
6177. “The Scotchman.”
{[Norr.—All packages for Edinburgh to care of Williams & Nor-

gate, 14 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London, W. C.]
Glasgow.

6179. Anderson’s College (204 George Street). [i]

6181. Archeological Society (88 West Regent Street). [i]

6183. Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow [formerly
Glasgow and West of Scotland Medical Association]
(care of James Hadden, 65 Sanchihall Street, Glas-
gow, per Hayden & Co., Warwick Square, London, E,

C.). [iJ

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 207

Glasgow—Continued.

6185.

6187.

6189.

6191.
6193.
6195.
6197.
6199.

Hamilton.
6201.

Kilmarnock.
6203.

Montrose.
6205.

Peebles.
6207.

Perth.
6209.
6211.
6213.

St. Andrews.

6215.

Swansea.
6217.
6219.
6221.

Tenby.

Welshpool.
6223.
6225.

Athens.
6227.
6229.
6231.

Geological Society (76 Henderson Street). [i]

Glasgow University (care of Mr. Maclehose, Glasgow, per
Mr. Billing, Ave Maria Lane, London, E. C.). [iii]

Glasgow Medical Journal (care of James Hadden, 65 San-
chihall Street, Glasgow, per Hayden & Co., Warwick
Square, London, E. C.). [i]

Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders in Scotland. [i]

Mitchell Library (Ingram Street, East). [i]

Natural History Society of Glasgow (207 Bath Street). [i]

Observatory. [i]

Philosophical Society (207 Bath Street). [iii]

[Public Library of the City of Glasgow. (Identical with
Mitchell Library.) |

The Mining Institution of Scotland.
Observatory. [i]

Montrose Natural History and Antiquarian Society. [i]

The Chambers Institution (care of Messrs. W. & R. Cham-
bers, Paternoster Row, London, E. C.). [i]

Murray Royal Institution. [i]
Perthshire Society of Natural Science. [i]
‘Scottish Naturalist.”
University Library. [iii]
WALES.
[Central] Public Library.
Royal Institution of South Wales. [il
South Wales Institute of Engineers. [i]

[Cambrian Archeological Association. (Dissolved.)]

Powy’s Land Club. [i]
Powy’s Land Museum and Library. [i|

GREECE.

Cercle Littéraire “ Byron” (“Byron” Literary Circle).
Government of Greece. [i]
Library of His Majesty the King.

[i
[iii]
218

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Athens—Continued.

6233.
6235,

6247.
6249.

Akureyri.

6253.

Médruvellir.
6255.

Reykjavik.

6257.
6259.
6261.

* 6263.
6265.

6267.
6269.
6271.
6273.
6275.
6277.

Ministére de |’Intérieur.

Musée Botanique de l'Université Nationale (Botanical Mu-
seum of the National University). [i]

[National Library. See United National and University
Library.]

. National Numismatic Museum.

[National University. See United National and University
Library. ]

. Natural History Museum of the National Library. [i|
. Observatory. [i]
. Société Archéologique d’Athénes (Archeological Society of

Athens). [i]

. Société Littéraire “Le Parnasse” (Parnassus Interary So-

ciety). [i]
Société Médicale (Medical Society). [i]
United National and University Library. [iii]

ICELAND.

The Northern Provincial Library. [i]
Technical School. [i]

Divinity School. [i]

Fornleifarfjélag (Icelandic Archeological Society). [i]

Hid Islenzka Bokmentafjélag’ (Literary Society of Ice-
land). [i]

Hinn lgedi skoli i Reykjavik (College of Reykjavik).

Island’s Stiptisbékasafn (Library of the Icelandic Dio-
cese). [iil]

Medical School. [i]

National Library of Iceland. [il]

Natural History Museum of the College.

Pjédvinafjélag (Society of Friends of the People).

Students’ Library. [i]

Scientific Association of Iceland. |i]

Stykkisholmur.

6279.

Arezzo.

6281.

Bergamo.

6283.

The Western Provincial Library. [i]

ITALY.

Accademia Petrarca (Petrarca Academy), [formerly Accad-
emia Valdarnese del Poggio]. [i]

Accademia Carrara di Belle Arti (Carrara Academy of Fine
Arts). [il

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 219

Bergamo--Continued.

285.

6287.
6289.

Bologna.

6303.
6305.
6307.
6309.

6311.
6313.

Brescia.
6315.
6316.

Cagniola.

Carrara.

6317.

Catania.
6319.

Cesena.
6321.

Ateneo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti di Bergamo (Bergamo
Atheneum of Science, Letters, and Arts). |i]

Municipio di Bergamo (City Government). [i]

Societa Industriale Bergamasca (Bergamo Industrial Soci-
ety). [i]

. Accademia delle Scienze dell Istituto di Bologna (Academy

of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna). [iii]

. Archivos per la Zoologia, ’ Anatomia, e la Fisiologia

(Archives of Zoology, Anatomy, and Physiology). [i]

. Gabinetto di Anatomia dell’ Universita (Anatomical Cab-

inet of the University). [i]

. Museo Civico (Public Museum).
. Museo di Geologia dell’ Universita (Geological Museum of

the University). [Wants all packages addressed to G.
Capellini.| [i]

. Osservatorio Astronomico (Astronomical Observatory). [i]
. Reale Deputazione di Storia Patria per le Romagna (Royal

Commission for the National History of the Romagna).
i]
Repertorio Italiano per la Storia Naturale (Index of Natural
History).
Repertorium Italianum di Bianconi (Italian Index of Bi-
ancon).
Scuola Anatomica di Bologna (Anatomical School of Bo-
logna). [i] .
Societa Agraria della Provincia di Bologna (Agrarian So-
ciety of the Province of Bologna). [i]

Societa Medico-Chirurgica (Medico-Chirurgical Society). [i]

Universita di Bologna (University of Bologna). [i]

Ateneo di Brescia (Atheneum of Brescia). [iii]
Reale Istituto Tecnico (Royal Technical Institute). [i]

[Fondazione Scientifica. (See Milan.)]

Accademia Reale di Belle Arti (Royal Academy of Fine
Aris).

Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali (Gioenia Academy
of Natural Sciences). [iii]

Comizio Agrario del Circondario (Agricultural Commit-
tee). [i]
220

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Firenze (Florence).

Porli.

6323.

6357.

6359.

6361.
6363.

6365.

6367.

6369,

Archivio per I Antropologia e la Etnologia (Archives of
Anthropology and Ethnology).

. Biblioteca Marucelliana (Marucelliana Library). [i]

. Biblioteca Nazionale (National Library). [iii]

. Biblioteca Ricardiana (Ricardiana Library). [i]

. Biblioteca di Sua Maesta il Re d@’ Italia (Library of His

Majesty the King of Italy). [i]

. Il Circolo Filologico de Firenze (Philological Circle of Flor-

ence).

. Istituto di Studi Superiori in Firenze (Florence Institute of

Higher Studies). {il

. Istituto Geografico Militare (Military Geographical Insti-

- tute).

. Istituto Topografico Militare (Military Topographical In-

stitute). [i]

. Museo Nazionale d’ Antropologia e di Etnologia (National

Museum of Anthropology and Ethnology). [i]

. Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano (New Italian Botanical

Journal). [i]

. “Opinione” (Opinion).
. Osservatorio Astronomico di Arcetri (Astronomical Observ-

atory). [i]

. Osservatorio del Reale Museo (Observatory of the Royal

Museum). [i]

. Reale Accademia Della Crusca (Royal Academy of Della

Crusca). [i]

3. Reale Accademia Economico-Agraria dei Georgofili (Royal

Economico-Agrarian Academy of Agriculturists). [i]

. Reale Deputazione degli Studi di Storia Patria per le pro-

vincie della Toscana, Umbria, e della Marche (Royal
Commission for the Study of the History of the Provinces
of Tuscany, Umbria, and Marche). {i]

Reale Museo di Fisico e Storia Naturale (Royal Museum of
Physics and Natural History). [iii]

Reale Societa Toscana di Orticoltura (Royal Tuscan Society
of Horticulture).

Royal Italian Geological Commission.

Societa Entomologica Italiana (Italian Entomological Soci-
ety). [i]

Societa Italiana di Antropologia, Etnologia, e Psicologia
comparata (Italian Society of Anthropology, Ethnology,
and Comparative Psychology). [i]

Direzione dell’ “ Industriale Italiano” [Febo Gherardi] (The
Office of Italian Industry). [i]
Giornale Agrario Italiano (Italian Agrarian Journal).

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. pA |

Genova (Genoa).

6371.

6373.

6375.

6377.

6379.

6381.

6383.

6385.

6387.

6389.

6391.

6393.

Jesi.
6395.

Accademia delle Scienze, Lettere ed Arti (Academy of Sci-
ences, Letters, and Arts). [iii]

Accademia Medico-Chirurgica (Medico-Chirurgical Acad-
emy). [i]

Museo Civico di Storia Naturale (Civic Museum of Natural
History). [i]

Osservatorio della Reale Universita (Observatory of the
Royal University). [i]

Reale Accademia delle Scienze Medicale Genova (Royal
Academy of Medical Sciences, of Genoa). [i]

Reale Istituto di Sordo-Muti (Royal Institute for the Deaf
and Dumb). [i]

Reale Istituto Tecnico e di Marina (Royal Technical and
Naval Institute). [i]

Reale Scuola Superiore Navale (Royal Naval College). [i]

[Reale Scuola di Marina (Royal Naval School). See Regia
Accademia Navale di Livorno. |

Reale Universita (Royal University). [iii]

Societa di Lettura e Conversazione Scientifiche (Society of
Lectures and Scientific Conversations). [i]

Societa Ligure di Storia Patria (Ligurian Society of National
History). [i]

Ufficio Idrografico della Regia Marina (Hydrographic Office
of the Royal Navy). [i]

Comizio Agrario (Agricultural Committee). [i]

Livorno (Leghorn).

6396.

Lucca.
6397.

Regia Accademia Navale (Royal Naval Academy). [Suc
ceeds the Naval Schools of Genoa and Naples. [i]

Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti
(Royal Lucca Academy of Science, Letters,and Arts). [iii]

Mantova (Mantua).

6399.

Messina.
6401.
6403.

Milano.
6405.

6407.

6409.

Reale Accademia Virgiliana (Royal Virgilian Academy). [i]

** La Scienza Contemporanea” (Co-temporary Science). [i]
Reale Accademia Carolina (Royal Carolina Academy). [i]

Accademia Fisico-Medico-Statistica di Milano (Physico-
Medico-Statistical Academy of Milan). [i]

Accademia Scientifico-Litteraria (Scientifie Literary Acad-
emy). [i]

Accademia Storico-Archeologica (Archw@ological Academy).
222

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Milano—Continued.

6411.

6413.
6415.

6417.

6419.

6421.

6423.
6425.

6427.
6429.
6431.
6433.
6435.
6437.
6439.
6441.
6443.

6445.
6447.

6449,

6451.

6453.

6455.

6457.

Annali Universali de Medicina e Chirurgia ( Universal ne
nals of Medicine and Surgery).

Biblioteca Ambrosiana (Ambrose Library). [i]

Biblioteca Nazionale di Brera (National Library of
Brera). [iti]

[‘‘ Bolletino Scientifico” (Scientific Bulletin). |

[Collegio degli Avvocati. (See Consiglio dell’ Ordine degli
Avvocati. ]

Collegio degli Ingegneri ed Arehitetti (College of Engineering
and Architecture). [i]

Consiglio dell’ Ordine degli Avvocati in Milano [via Silvio
Pellico No. 8] (Law College).

Direzione dell’ “ Bollettino Scientifico” [Corso Venezia 5].
(Scientific Bulletin). — [i]

Direzione dell “ltalia Agricole” (The Italian Farmer). [i]

Fondazione Scientifica Cagnola (Scientific Institution).

[Branch of the R. Istituto Lombardo.]

Ulrico Hoephi, bookseller. [1]

Municipio di Milano (City Government of Milan). [i]

Museo Civico di Storia Naturale (Civic Museum of Natural
History). [i]

Museo di Storia Naturale dei Fratelli Villa (Natural His-
tory Museum of the Fratelli Villa). [i]

Museo Patrio di Archeologia (Museum of National Archa-
ology).

Ospitale Maggiore di Milano (Grand Hospital of Milan). [i|

R. Accademia di Belle Arti (Royal Academy of Fine Arts). [i]

k. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere (Royal Institute
of Sciences and Letters of Lombardy). [iii]

R. Istituto dei Sordo-Muti (Reyal Institute for the Deaf and
Dumb). [i]

R. Istituto Tecnico-Superiore (Royal Technical College). [i]

R. Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera (Royal Astronomical |

Observatory of Brera).  {i]

R. Scuola Superiore di A gricoltura (Royal Agricultural Col-
lege). [i]

R. Scuola Superiore di Medicina Veterinaria (Royal College
of Veterinary Medicine). [i]

Societa Agraria di Lombardia (Agrarian Society of Lom-
bardy). [i]

Societa Crittogamologica Italiana (Italian Cryptogamicat

Society).
Societé Generale degli Apeboliadi Italiani (Italian Society
of Agriculture).

6463.

6465.

6467.
6469.

Modena.

6470.
6471.
6473.

6475.

6477.
6479.
6481.

6483.

- Modica.
6485.
6487.

Moncalieri.

6489.

Montevarchi.
6491.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS 223

Milano—Continued.
6459.
6461.

Societa Geologica (Geological Society).

Societa d’Incoraggiamento di Arti e Mestieri (Society for
the Encouragement of Arts and the Trades). [i]

Societa Italiana d’ Igiena [via Santi Andrea 18] (Italian
Society of Hygiene). [i]

Societa Italiana di Scienze Naturali (Italian Society of Nat-
ural Sciences). [i] ;

Societa Patriotica (Patriotic Society). [i]

Societa Storica Lombardia (Lombardian Historical Society).

[i]

Comizio Agrario (Agricultural Commission). [i]

Osservatorio (Observatory). [i]

R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti (Royal Academy
of Sciences, Letters, and Arts). [i]

R. Stazione Agraria Sperimentale (Royal Agricultural
Hxperimental Station). [i]

R. Universita (Royal University). [i]

Societa Medico-Chirurgica (Medico-Chirurgical Society). [i]

Societa Meteorologica Italiana (Italian Meteorological So-
ciety). [i] .

Societa di Naturalisti in Modena (Society of Naturalists in
Modena). [i]

Osservatorio Meteorologico (Meteorological Observatory). [i]
R. Istituto Tecnico di Modica (Royal Technical Institute of
Modica). [i]

R. Osservatorio del R. Collegio C. Alberto (Observatory of
the Royal College C. Alberto). [i]

Rh. Accademia Valdarnese del Poggio (Valdarnese Acad-
emy of Poggio). [i]

Napoli (Naples).

6493.

6495.
6497.
6499.

6501.
6503.
6505.
6507.

Accademia degli Aspiranti Naturalisti (Academy of Ama-
 teur Naturalists). [i]

Accademia Pontaniana (Pontaniana Academy). [i]

Accademia delle Scienze (Academy of Sciences).

Associazione Italiana della Croce Rossa (Italian Society of
the Red Cross).

Biblioteca Nazionale (National Library). iii]

Biblioteca Provinziale (Provincial Library). _ |iii]

Club Africana [via Nuova Monteo Civeto 25] (African Club).

Direzione degli “ Annali Clinici” [via Incurabili, o nell’ Ospe-
dale] (Clinical Annals). ji!
224. LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Napoli (Naples)—Continued. |
6509. Direzione ‘“L’ Esplorazione”—Rassegna Geografica (The
Exploration, Geographical Review) |via Roma, gli To-
ledo, 416].
- 6511. Istituto di Belle Arti di Napoli (Neapolitan Institute of Fine
Arts). [iJ
6513. “Tl Morgagni”.
6515. Museo Nazionale di Napoli (National Museum of Naples). [i]
6517. R. Accademia di Archeologia, Lettere e Belle Arti (Royal
Academy of Archeology, Letters, and Fine Arts). [i]
6519. R. Accademia Ercolanese di Archeologia (Royal Herculanean —
Academy of Archeology).  {iii]
6521. R. Accademia Medico-Chirurgica (Royal Medico-Chirurgical
Academy). [i]
6523. R. Accademia delle Scienze e Belle Lettere (Royal Acad-
emy of Sciences and Belles Lettres). [iii]
6525. R. Accademia di Scienze Fisiche e Matematici (Royal
Academy of Physical and Mathematical Sciences). [i]
6527. R. Istituto d’ Incoraggiamento delle Scienze Naturali, Econ-
omiche e Tecnologiche (Royal Institute for the Promotion
of Natural, Economical, and Technical Sciences). [i]
6529. R. Orto Botanico (Royal Botanical Garden). |i]
6531. R. Osservatorio Capo di Monte (Royal Observatory). [i]
6533. R. Osservatorio Meteorologico Vesuviano (Royal Vesuvian
Meteorological Observatory). [i]
6535. R. Scuola Superiore di Medicina Veterinaria (Royal Vetert-
nary College). [i]
6537. R. Universita (Royal University). [i]
6539. Societa Reale di Napoli (Royal Society of Naples). [i]
6541. Stazione Zoologica di Napoli (Zoological Station). [i]

Novara. ;
6543. Biblioteca Civica (City Library). [i]

Padova (Padua).

6545. “Gazzetta Medica Italiana” (Italian Medical Gazette). [i] |

6547. Osservatorio Astronomico dell’ Universita (Astronomical |
Observatory of the University). [i]

6549. R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere, ed Arti di Padova (Royal
Academy of Sciences, Letters, and Arts, of Padua). [iii] |

6551. R. Universita di Padova (Royal University of Padua). [i] |

6553. Societa @’ Incoraggiamento per Vagricoltura e Vindustria |
nella provinica di Padova, e Gabinetto di lettura (So- |
ciety for the Encouragement of Agriculture and Industry |
in Padua). [i] |

6555. Societa Veneto-Trentina di Scienze Naturali (Veneto-Tren-
tina Society of Natural Sciences). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 225

Palermo.

6557. Accademia Palermitana di Scienze e Lettere (Palermian
Academy of Sciences and Letters). [iii]

6559. Biblioteca Nazionale (National Library). [il

6561. ‘Gazzetta Chimica Italiana” (Italian Chemical Gazette).

6563. “Tl Naturaliste Siciliano” (The Sicilian Naturalist).

6565. Orto Botanico (Botanical Garden). [i]

6567. R. Istituto Tecnico (Royal Technical Institute). [i]

6569. R. Osservatorio (Royal Observatory).

6571. Societa d’ Acclimazione e di Agricoltura in Sicilia (Society
of Acclimation and Agriculture in Sicily). [i]

6573. Societa di Scienze Naturali ed Economiche (Society of Nat-
ural and Economical Sciences). [i]

6575. Stazione Chimico-Agraria Sperimentale di Palermo (Chem-
ico-Agricultural Experimental Station of Palermo). [i]

Paroma.

Pistoja.

H. Mis. 15

6577. Bolletino di Paleontologia Italiana (Italian Paleontological
Bulletin).

6579. R. Biblioteca (Royal Library). [i]

6581. R. Orto Botanico (Royal Botanical Garden). [i]

6583. R. Osservatorio Astronomico (Royal Astronomical Observa.
tory). [i]

6585. Universita di Parma (University of Parma). [i]

6587. Museo di Storia Naturale (Natural History Museum).

6589. Accademia Malaspina (Malaspina Academy). [i]
6591. Central Physical Observatory.
6593. R. Universita (Royal University). [i]

Pesaro. ?

6595. Accademia Agraria di Pesaro (Agrarian Academy of Pe-
saro). [i] gabe

6597. Osservatorio Meteorologico e Magnético Valerio (Valerio
Meteorological and Magnetical Observatory). [i]

6599. Direzione del Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano (The New
Italian Botanical Journal). [i]

6601. “Il Nuovo Cimento.”

6603. R. Scuola Normale Superiore (Royal Normal High School). [i]

6605. Societa Malacologica Italiana (Italian Malacological So-
ciety). [i]

6607. Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturali (Tuscan Society of Nat-
ural Sciences). [i]

6609. Universita (University). [iii]

6611. R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti (Royal Academy
of Sciences, Letters, and Arts). [i]

15

Ravenna.

6615.
6617.

Roma.

6621.

6645.

6647.

6649.

6651.

6653.
6655.
6657.

6659.
6661.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

. R. Scuola Superiore @ Agricoltura (Royal Agricultural

College).
Accademia di Belle Arti (Academy of Fine Arts). [i]

Societa Ravennata (Ravenna Society). [i]

Accademia dell’ Arcadia d@’ Archeologia et dei Nuovi Lincei
(Arcadian Academy of Archeology). [i]

. Accademia Pontificia dei Nuovi Lincei (Pontifician Acad-

emy). [iii]

. Accademia Romana di Archeologia (Roman Academy of

Archeology).  {i]

. Biblioteca Vaticana (Vatican Library). [iii]
29. Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele (Victor Emanuel

National Library). [iii]

. British Academy of Fine Arts. [i]

. British and American Archeological Society. _ [i]

. “Bolletino Ampelografico” (Ampelographie Bulletin). [i]

. Commissione Archeologica Communale (Archaeological Com-

mission). [i]

. Comitato @ Artiglieria ed Ingegneri (Committee of Artillery

ond Engineering). [i]

. Corrispondenza Scientifica in Roma (Scientific Correspond- |

ence in Rome). [i]

. Direzzione della ‘Nuova Antologia di Scienze, Lettere ed |

Arti” (The New Anthology of Science, Letters, and
Aris). [i]

Direzzione del “ Giornale del Genio Civile” (Journal of Civil
Engineering). [i]

Direzzione del ‘ Periodico di Numismatica e Sfragistica per

la Storia @’ Italia” (Periodical of Italian Numismatics |

and Engravings). [i]

Direzzione della Statistica Generale del Regno [formerly
Ufficio di Statistica Generale] (Statistical Bureau). |i]

Imperiale Istituto Archeologico Germanico (Imperial Ger-
man Archeological Institute). [i]

[Istituto de Corrispondenza Archeologica. (Now called
Imperiale Istituto Archeologico Germanico.)]

Istituto Scientifico della R. Universita (Scientific Institute |

of the Royal University). [i]
Ministero di Agricoltura, Industria e Commercia (Depart-
ment of Agriculiure, Industry, and Commerce). [iii]
Ministero della Finanze (Department of Finange). [i]
Ministero della Guerra (Department of War). [i]
Ministero dell? Interno (Department of the Interior). — |i]

¥
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 2G

Roma—Contin ued. .

6663.

6665.

6667.
6669.

6671.

6673.
6675.

6677.
6679.

6681.

6683.

6685.
6687.

6688.

6689.
6691.

6693.

6695.

6697.

6698.

6699.

6701.
6703.
6705.

Ministero dell Istruzione Pubblica (Department of Pubdlic
Instruction). [i]

Ministero dei Lavori Pubblici (Department of Public Works).
i]

Ministero della Marina (Department of Marine). [i]

Ministero per gli Affari Esteri (Department of Foreign
Affairs).

Museo Nazionale Prehistorico ed Etnographico (National
Prehistoric and Ethnographic Museum).  {i]

Ospedali (Hospital). [i]

Osservatorio Astronomico del Colegio Romano (Astronomi-
cal Observatory of the Roman College). [i]

R. Accademia dei Lincei (Royal Academy of Lincei). [iii]

R. Istituto Fisico-Patologico di Roma (Roman Institute of
Physico-Pathology). {i}

R. Comitato Geologico @ Italia (Royal Geological Committee
of Italy). [i]

R. Museo Industriale Italiano (Royal Italian Industrial
Museum). [i]

R. Orto Botanico (Royal Botanical Garden). [i]

R. Seuola di Applicazione per gl Ingegneri (Royal School
of Practical Engineering). [i]

R. Societa Didascaélica Italiana. (Royal Didactic Society.)
i

Revista di Filologia Romana (Review of Roman Philology).

Societa degli Spettroscopisti Italiani (Sogiety of Italian
Spectroscopists). [i]

Societa Geographica Italiana (Italian Geographical Society).
[i]

Societa Italiana della Scienze (Italian Society of Sciences)
[iii]

Ufficio Centrale di Meteorologia Italiana (Central Office of
Italian Meteorology). [i]

Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali (Italian Bureau of In-
ternational Exchanges. [3 via del Colegio Romano.
Biblioteca Nazionale, Vittorio Emanuele.] [i]

| Ufficio di Statistica Generale. (See Direzzione, &c.)]

R. Accademia dei Fisiocritici (Royal Academy of Critical
Physiology). [i]

Osservatorio dell?’ Universita (University Observatory). [i]

Universita (University). [i]

Direzzione d’Artiglieria e Torpedini (Director of Artillery

» and Torpedoes). [i]
228 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Torino (Turin).

6707. Accademia Reale di Ree (Royal Academy of Agricul-
ture). [il

6709. Accademia Reale Medico.Chirurgica (Royal Medico-Chirur-
gical Academy). [i]

6711. Accademia Reale delle Scienze (oz yal Academy of Reece
[ili]

6713. Biblioteca Nazionale (National Library). [i]

6715. Circolo Geografico Italiano (Italian Geographical Circle). [i]

6717. Club Alpino (Alpine Club).

6719. Direzzione di “Cosmos” [Guido Cora]. [i] .

6721. Direzzione de ‘“ Revista Filosofia Scientifica” [via della
Scuola 5] (Review of Philosophical Science). [i]

6723. Museo Mineralogico di Torino (Mineralogical Museum of |
Turin). |

6725. R. Accademia Albertina di Belle Arti (Royal Albertina —
Academy of Fine Arts). [i]

6727. R. Accademia di Medicina (Royal Academy of Medicine). [i]

6729. R. Deputazione sovra gli Studi di Storia Patria (Royal

R
R
R
Commission on the Study of Natural History). [i]
6731. R. Museo Industriale Italiano di Torino (Royal Industrial
Museum of Turin). [i]
R. Museo di Storia Naturale (Royal Museum of Ne aural His-
tory). [i]
R. Museo Zoologico di Torino (Royal Zoological Museum of |
Turin). [i] |
Rk. Osservatorio Astronomico dell’ Universita (Royal Astro- |
nomical Observatory of the University) [formerly Osserv- |
atorio dell’ Universita]. [i] q
6739. R. Scuola @’ Applicazione per gli Ingegneri ee School of |
Practical Engineering). [i] \
6741. R. Scuola Superiore di Medicina Veterinaria (aeayiis College
of Veterinary Medicine). [i] .
6743. Scuola di Guerra (School of War). [i]
6745. Scuola del Stato Maggiore (Staff School). [i]
6747. Societa degli Ingegneri e degli Industriale (Society of Engi-
neers and Manufacturers). [i]
6749. Universita (University). [i]

‘i Teviso.
6751. Biblioteca Communale (City Library).
6753. KR. Istituto Tecnico (Royal Technical Institute). [i]

6755. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti (Academy of Sci-
ences, Letters, and Arts).

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 229

Udine—Continued.
6757. Associazione Agraria Friulana (Friulan Agrarian Asso
ciation). [i]
6759. R. Istituto Tecnico (Royal Technical Institute). [i]
6761. Stazione Sperimentale Agraria (Agrarian Experimental Sta-
tion). |i]
Urbino.
6763. Osservatorio Meteorologico (Meteorological Observatory). [i]
Venezia (Venice). |
6765. Associazione Veneta di Utilita Pubblica ( Venetian Associa-
tion of Public Utility).
6767. Ateneo Veneto (Venetian Atheneum). [i]
6769. Biblioteca Marciana (Marciana Library). [iii] ;
6771. Biblioteca Nazionale de San Marco (National Library of
Saint Marc). [il
6773. Istituto Armeno dei Mechitaristi (Mechitaristen College).
[iii]
6775. R. Accademia di Belle Arti (Royal Academy of Fine Arts).
omen
6777. R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti (Venetian
| Institute of Sciences, Letters, and Arts). [iii]
| 6779. Societa Veneto-Trentina di Scienze Naturali (Trentine Vene-
tian Association of Natural Sciences). [i]
Verona.
6781. Accademia d@’ Agricoltura, Commercio ed Arti di Verona
(Academy of Agriculture, Commerce, and Arts of Verona).
[iii] :
6783. Biblioteca Communale (City Library). [i]
\ 6785. Societa Italiana delle Scienze (Italian Society of Sciences).

Vicenza.

6787. Accademia Olimpica di Agricoltura, Scienze, Lettere ed
. Arti (Olympic Academy of Agriculture, Sciences, Let-
ters, and Arts). [i]

7 6789. Biblioteca Pubblica (Public Library). [i]

| NETHERLANDS.

Amsterdam.

6791. Aardrijkskundig Genootschap (Geographical Society). [i]

| 6793. Commission voor de Geologische Kaart van Nederland
| (Commission for the Geological Map of Netherlands).
}

6795. Genootschap ter Bevordering der Natuur-, Genees- en Heel-
kunde (Society for Promoting Natural, Medical, and
Chirurgical Sciences). [i]

6797. Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen (Royal Acad-
emy of Sciences).  [iii|
230 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 4

Amsterdam—Continued. |

[Koninklijke Genootschap van Natauurkundige Weten- |

schappen. (See Genootschap ter Bevordering der |

Natuur-, Genees- en Heelkunde.)]| |

[Koninklijke Instituut. (See Koninklijke Akademie van |
Wetenschappen. )|

6799. Koninklijke Zoologisch Genootschap “ Natura Artis Ma- !

gistra” (Royal Zoological Society). [iii|

6801. “ Handels-Blad” (Journal of Commerce). {

[Landkundige Genootschap. (See Aardrijskundig Genoot- |

schap.)]

6803. Maatschappij: ‘Tot Bevordering der Bouwkunst” (Society |

Sor the Encouragement of Architecture). [iii]

6805. Maatschappij: “Tot Nut van’t Algemeen” (Society for the |

Benefit of all Classes). [i]

6807. Nederlandsche Maatschappij ter Bevordering der Phar- |

macie (Netherlands Association for the Promotion of |

Pharmacy). [i]

6808. Revue Coloniale Internationale (International Colonial Re- |

view). [i] |

6809. Rijks Akademie van Beeldende Kunsten (National Acad- |

emy of Fine Arts). [i]

[Stads Bibliotheek (City Library). (See Universiteits Bib- |

liotheek.)| :

6811. Statistisch Instituut in Nederland (Statistical Bureau). [i] |

6813. Universiteits Bibliotheek [formerly Stads Bibliotheek] _

(University Library). [iii] :

[ Vereeniging voor Statistiek. . (See Statistische Instituut.)] |

6815. Vereeniging voor de Flora van Nederland (Botanical So- |

ciety). |

6817. Vereeniging voor Volksvlijt (Association for Popular In- |

dustry). [i] .

6819. “ Volksvlijt:” Tijdschrift voor Nijverheid, Landbow, Han- |

del en Scheepvaart (Journal of Industry, Agriculture, |

Commerce, and Navigation). {

6821. Wiskundig Genootschap: ‘‘Onvermoeide Arbeid komt |

alles te boven” (Scientifie Society: ‘“‘Untiring Industry \

Overcomes All”). [iii] |

Arnhem (Gelderland).
6823. Natuurkundig Genootschap: “Tot Nut en Vergenoegen” |
(Natural History Soctety: * Utility and Amusement”). |

[i] ,

6825. Openbare Bibliotheek (Public Library). [i]

Bois-le-Duc.
[Société des Arts et Sciences, (See ’S Hertogenbosch.)|
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 231

Breda (Noord Braband).
6827. Koninklijke Militaire Akademie (Royal Military Academy).
[i]

Delft.
; 6829. Polytechnische School (Polytechnic School). [i]

Deventer (Overyssel).
6831. Openbare Bibliotheek (Public Library). [i]

*S Gravenhage | The Hague] (Zuid Holland).
6833. Board of Fisheries.
6835. Bureau voor Statistiek (Statistical Bureau). [i]
6837. Commission Géodésique Néerlandaise (Geodetic Commis-
sion).
6839. Haagsche Genootschap tot Verdediging van den Christlij-
ken Godsdienst (Haagsch Society for the Vindication of
the Christian Religion). [i]
6841. Institut Topographique (Topographical Institute).
6843. Koninklijk Bibliotheek (Royal Library). [iii]
6845. Koninklijk Instituut van Ingenieurs (Royal Institute of En-
gineers). [iii]
| 6847. Koninklijk Instituut voor de Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde
van Nederlandsch Indié (Royal Institute for Philology,
Geography, and Ethnography of Dutch India). iii]
6849. Koninklijk Zoologisch-Botanische Genootschap te ’S Gra-
venhage (Royal Zoological Botanical Society of the
Hague). {il
-6851. Library of the States General.
6853. Ministére de V’Intérieur (Department of the Interior).
[Nederlandsche Entomologische Vereeniging. (See Leiden.) ]
6855. Nederlandsche Regeering (Government of the Netherlands).

[iJ
Groningen.
[Academia Groningana. (See Rijks Universiteit.)]

6857. Genootschap pro excolendo Jure Patrio (Society for the Cul-
tivation of National Jurisprudence). [i]

6859. Instituut voor Doofstommen (Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb). {i]

6861. Natuurkundig Genootschap (Natural History Society). [ij

6863. Rijks Universiteit (National University) [formerly Academia
Groningana]. [iii]

Haarlem (Noord Holland).
6865. Archives Néerlandais (Netherlands Archives). [i]
[Bataviaasch Genootschap (Batavian Society).] [i]
6867. Fondation de P.-Teyler van der Hulst (Zeyler Institu-
tion). . [il
Dan LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Haarlem (Noord Holland)—Continued.
6869. Hollandsche Maatschappij van Wetenschappen (Holland
Society of Sciences). [iii]
[Ministére de l’Intérieur—in ’S Gravenhage].
6871. Nederlandsche Maatschappij ter Bevordering van Nijver-
heid (Society for the Promotion of Industry). [i]
[Openbare Bibliotheek. (See Stads Bibliotheek.)]
6873. Stads Bibliotheek (City Library). [iii] ;

’S Hertogenbosch (Noord Brabant).
6875. Provinciaal Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen
in Noord Braband (Provincial Society of Arts and Sci-
ences in North Brabant). [i]

Hoorn (Noord Holland).
6877. Societas Medico-Physica Hornana (Medico Physical Society
of Hoorn). [i]
[Cercle Agricole et Horticole (Agricultural and Horticult-
ural Society.) |

{[Luxembourg. (See under Germany.)]

Leeuwarden (Friesland). i

6879. Friessch Genootschap voor Geschied-, Oudheid en- Taalk-
unde (Friesland Society of History, Antiquity, and Phil-
ology). [i]

Leiden (Zuid Holland).

6881. Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais (Central Scientific

Bureau) [Haarlemmer Straat 12]. [i]
[Academia Lugduno-Batava. (See Rijks Universiteit.)]

6883. Maatschappij van Nederlandsche Letterkunde (Society of
the Literature of the Netherlands). [i]

6885. ‘* Mnemosyne.”

6887. Nederlandsche Botanische Vereeniging (Netherlands Botan-
ical Society). [i]

6889. Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging (Netherlands Zoo-
logical Society). [i]

6891. Nederlandsche Entomologische Vereeniging (Netherlands |
Entomological Society). [i]

6893. Rijks Ethnographisch Museum (Royal Ethnographical Mu-
seum).* [i] i

6895. Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie (Royal Museum of —
Natural History). [i]

6897. Rijks Museum van Oudheden (Royal Museum of Antiqui-
ties). i]

6899. Rijks Observatorium (Royal Observatory). [i]

6901. Rijks Herbarium (Royal Herbarium). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 20

Oo

Leiden (Zuid Holland)—Continued.

6903.
6905.

6907.
6909.

Maastricht.

6911.

6913.

Rijks Universiteit (Royal University). [iii]

Stolpiaansch Legaat (Stolp’s Legacy). [i]

[Universitas Lugduno-Batava. (See Rijks Universiteit.)]

Tijdschrift voor Entomologie (Hntomological Journal).

Zoologisch Station der Nederlandsche Dierkundige Ver-
eeniging (Netherlands Zoological Garden).

Provinciaal Bureau van Statistiek (Provincial Bureau of
Statistics).

Vereeniging ter Bevordering van Tuin en Landbouw (As-
sociation for the Promotion of Horticulture and Agricul-
ture). [i]

Middelburg (Zealand).

6915.

6917.

Zeeuwsch Genootschap van Wetenschappen (Zealand Soci-
ety of Sciences). [iii]

Provinciaale Bibliotheek van Zeeland (Provincial Library
of Zealand). [i]

Rotterdam (Zuid Holland).

6919.

6921.

6923.

6925.

Bataafsch Genootsclap van Proefonder vindelijke Wijsbe-
geerte (Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy).
[iii]

Inrigting voor Doofstommen Onderwijs (Institute for the
Deaf and Dumb). [i]

Lees Kabinet (Reading Room).

[Nederlandsche Yacht Club (Netherlands Yacht Club).]

Société Néerlandaise de Zoologie (Netherlands Zoological
Society).

Schiedam (Zuid Holland).

6926.

Utrecht.

Natuurkundige Vereeniging “ Martinet” (‘‘Martinet” So-
ciety of Natural Sciences). [i]

[Academia Rheno-Trajectina. (See Rijks Universiteit.) |

. Archiv fiir Hollindische Beitrage zur Natur- und Heil-

kunde (Archives of Holland Contributions to Natural
and Medical Sciences). [i]

. Historisch Genootschap (Historical Society). [iii]
. Koninklijk Nederlandsche Meteorologisch Instituut (Royal

Dutch Meteorological Institute). [i]

. Observatorium (Observatory). [i]
. Physiologisch Laboratorium (Physiological Laboratory). [i]
. Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en We-

tenschappen (Provincial Society of Arts and Sciences).

il
234 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Utrecht—Continued.
6939. Rijks Veeartsenijschool (Royal Veterinary School). [i]
6941. Rijks Universiteit (Royal University). [iii]
[Utrechtsche Hoogesesool. (See Rijks Universiteit.)]

Zwolle (Overijssel). ,
6943. Overijsselsche Vereeniging tot Ontwikkeling van Provin-
ciaale Welvaart (Overyssel Society for the Promotion of
Provincial Welfare). [iii]
6945. Vereening tot Beoefening van Overijsselsch Regt en Ge-
schiedenis (Society for the Cultivation of Overyssel
Jurisprudence and History). [i]
6947. *‘ Vriend van den Landman” (“ Friend of the Agricultur-
ist”), [i]
Wageningen.
6949. Landbouw School (Agricultural School).

NORWAY.
Arendal.

6951. Arendals Skoles offentlige Bibliothek og Museum (Free
Public Library and Museum). [i]
[Arendals Museum. (See Arendals Skoles offentlige Bibli-

othek og Museum.) |
Bergen.
[Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab. (In Christi-

ania.) |
6953. Bergen Museum (Bergen Museum). [iii]
6955. Bergens Offentlige Bibliothek (Bergen Free Library).
6957. Medicinske Revue ({ Monthly] Medical Review).
6959. Observatoriet ([Astronomical and Nautical] Observatory).
i]
6961. Selskabet for de Norske Fiskeries Fremme (Association
for the Promotion of the Norwegian Fisheries). [i]
Christiania.
[Afdeling for Geologiske Underségelse. (See Den Geolog-
iske Underségelse.) |
[Archeological Museum. (See Det Kongelige Norske
Frederiks Universitet.)|
6963. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab (Archives of
Mathematics and Natural Sciences). [i]
6965. Archiv for Nordisk Filologie (Archives of Northern Phi-
lology). {i}
[Association Géodésique Internationale. (See Den Norske jf
Gradmaalings Kommission. )|
6967. Den Geographiske Opmaaling (Royal Coast and Geograph- |
ical Survey). {i|

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 935

Christiania—Continued.

6969. Den Geologiske Underségelse (Royal Geological Sur-
vey). {il

6971. Den Norske Forstforening (The Norwegian Association of
Forestry). [i]

6973. Den Norske Gradmaaling Kommission (The Norwegian Geo-
detic Commission). [i]

6975. Den Norske Historiske Forening (The Norwegian Histor-
ical Association). [i]

6977. Den Norske Ingeniér og Architekt Forening (Society of
Norwegian Engineers and Architects). [i]

6979. Den Norske Turist Forening (Alpine Club of Norway). [i]

[Departementet for det Indre. (See Indre Departementet.)]

6981. Det Kongelige Norske Kirke og Undervisnings Departe-
mentet (Royal Norwegian Department of Worship and
Education). [i]

6983. Det Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet (Royal Nor-
wegian Frederick University). [iii]

6985 Astronomical Observatory. [i]
6987 Collection of Coins and Medals.
6989 Laboratory of Chemistry.
6991 Library of the University.
. 6993 Museum of Anatomy.
6995 Museum of Botany.
6997 Museum of Ethnological Objects and National Eth-
nography.
6999 Museum of Old Northern Antiquities.
7001 Museum of Zoology.

7003. Det Norske Medicinske Selskab (The Norwegian Medical
Society). [i]

7005. Det Meteorologiske Institut (Meteorological Office). [i]

7007. Det Norske Samlag (The Norske Society).

7009. Det Statistiske Centralbureau (Statistical Bureau). [ij

7011. Foreign Office. [i]

7013. Forening for Dialekter og Folketraditioner (Association for
Norwegian Dialect and Folklore).

7015. Forening til Norske Fortidsmindersmerkers Bevaring (As-
sociation for the Preservation of Old Norske Antiquities
and Monuments). |i]

7017. Generalfelttéjmestern (Great Master of the Ordnance).

7019. Indre Departementet (Department of the Interior). [i]

[Institution géographique de Norvége et la section topo-
graphique de Vétat major général (Geographical In-
stitute &c.). (See Den Geografiske Opmaaling.)]

7021. Kongelige Bibliothek (Royal Library). [i]

[Kongelige Selskabet for Norges Vel. (See Selskab for
Norges Vel.)]
236

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Christiania—Continued.

7023.

7025.
7027.

7029.

7031.

7033.

7035.

7037.

7039.
7041.
7043.
7045.
7047.

7049.

7051.

7053.

7055.
7057.

7059.

Kristiania Blinde Institut (Christiania Institution for the
Blind).  {i]

[Mediciniske Selskab. (See Det Narske Medicinske Selskab.)|

Militaere Samfund (Wilitary Society). [i]

“Naturen” (Nature). [i]

Nordhavse Expeditionens Redactions Comite (Public Com-
mittee of the Norwegian North Atlantic Expedition). [i]

[Norges Geografiske Opmaaling. (See Den Geographiske
Opmaaling.)]

[Norske Historiske Forening (Norwegian Historical Society).
(See Den Norske Historiske Forening.)] :

[Norske Meteorologiske Institut. (See Det Meteorologiske
Institut.) |

Norske Oldskrift Selskab (Norwegian Antiquarian So-
ciety). [i]

Norsk Retstidende (Review of Laws and Sentences of the
Supreme Court).

Norske Sagforer Forening (Norwegian Lawyers’ Society). [i]

[Norske Tourist Forening. (See Den Norske Turist
Forening.)]|

Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskabernes (Quarterly Magazine
of Natural Sciences). [i]

[Physiographiske Forening. ,(Dissolved.)]

Polytekniske Forening (Polytechnic Society). |i]

[Parliamentary Library. (See Storthingets Bibliothek.) |

Rigsarkivet (The Royal Archives of Norway). [i]

Rigshospitalet (Royal Infirmary). .

4
y
Bs.
>

Selskabet for Folkeoplysningens Fremme (Society for the

Promotion of Knowledge).

Selskab for Norges Vel (Royal Society for the Promotion of
the Wealth of Norway). [i]

Selskabet for Norges Fiskeries (Norwegian Fishery So-
ciety). [i]

[Satistiske Central Bureau. (See Det Statistiske Central-
bureau.) |

Storthingets Bibliothek (Parliamentary Library). [i]

Theologiske Forening (Theological Society). |i]

Theologisk Tidsskrift (Quarterly Journal of Theology). |i].

Tidskrift for Praktisk Medicin (fortnightly Review of Prac-
tical Medicine). {i}

[Topografiske og Hydrografiske Afdeling. (See Den Geog-
raphiske Opmaaling.)]

[Universitets Observatoriet. (See K. N. Fred. Universitet.) |

Videnskabs Selskabet (Academy of Sciences). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 237

Christiansand.

7061.

Kathedralskolens Offentlige Bibliothek (free Public Library
of the Cathedral School).  {i|

Frederikshald. ¢

7065.

’ Horten.

7065.

Stavanger.

7067.

7069.
7071.

Trondhjem.

7073.

Tromso.

7077.

Coimbra.

7079.
7081.
7083.

7085.

Evora.
7087

Frederikshald Stadsbibliothek (Free Town Library). [i]

Sémilitaere Samfund (Society of Naval Officers).  [i|

Det Norske Missions Selskab (Norwegian Missionary Society
[for the Promotion of Christianity among the Pagan
Tribes of South Africa and Madagascar}). [il

Free Public Library. [i]

Stavanger Museum (Museum of Zoology and Antiquities).

Det Kongelige Norske Videnskabernes Selskab (Royal Nor-
wegian Society of Sciences). [ili]

. Troms6 Kommunale Bibliothek (Lromsé Free Town Li-

brary).
Troms6é Museum (Tromsé Museum). [i]

PORTUGAL.

Effemerides Astronomicas (Astronomical Ephemeris). [i]

Instituto de Coimbra (Institute of Coimbra). [i]

Observatorio Magnetico-Meteorologico da Universidade de
Coimbra (Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory of
the University of Coimbra). [i]

Universidade (University). [i]

Biblioteca Publica (Public Library). [il

Lisbéa (Lisbon).

7089

7091

7093.

7095.

7097
7099

Academia Real des Sciencias (Royal Academy of Sei-
ences). [iii]

Academia des Bellas Artes (Academy of Fine Arts). [i]

Associagao dos Engenheiros Civis Portuguezes (Association
of Portuguese Civil Engineers). [i]

Biblioteca Nacional (National Library). [iii]

Colonial Department of the Navy Department.

Commissao Central Permanente de Geographia (Central
Permanent Commission of Geography). [i]

[Commissao Geologica de Portugal. (See Direccéio Gene-
ral dos Trabalhos Geologicos.)|
238 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Lisbéa (Lisbon)—Continued.
7101. Direcgao General dos Trabalhos Geodesicos (Geodetic
Office). |i]
7103. Direcgéio General dos Trabalhgs Geologicos (Geological -
Bureau). [i] :
7105. Escola da Exercito (Military School). [i] /
7107. Escola Medico-Cirurgica (Medico-Chirurgical School). [i] |
7109. Escola Naval (Naval School). [i]
7111. Escola Polytechnica (Polytechnical School). [i]
7113. Instituto Industrial de Lisbéa (Industrial Institute). [i]
7115. Instituto Real de Agricultura (Royal Institute of Agricul-
ture). [i]
7117. Ministro de Negocios Estrangeiros (Minister of Foreign |
Affairs). [i] }
7119. Museo de Lisboa (Lisbon eer fi] |
7121. Museo Nacional das Colonias (National Musewm of the Colo- |
nies). [i] |
7123. Observatorio Astronomico da Tapada de Alcantara (Astro- |
nomical Observatory of Tapada of Alcantara). [i]
7125. Observatorio Astronomico na Escola Polytechnica (Astro-
nomical Observatory of the Polytechnical School). [i]
7127. Observatorio de Marina (Naval Observatory). [i]
7129. Observatorio Metecrologico do Infante Dom Luiz na Escola
Polytechnica (Infant Dom Luiz Meteorological Observa-
tory of the Polytechnic School). [i]
7131. Real Associagao Central de Agricultura Portugueza (Royal
Central Association of Portuguese Agriculture). [i]
7133. Real Conservatorio de Musica (Royal Conservatory of
Music).
7135. Sociedade de Geografia (Geographical Society). [i]
7137. Sociedade dos Architectos e Archeologos (Society of Archa-
tects and Archeologists). [1]
7139. Sociedade Archeologica de Lisbéa (Archaeological Society of
Tnsbon).
7141. Sociedade Promotora da Industria Falevil (Society for the
Promotion of Manufacturing Industry).  |i|
7143. Sociedade Pharmaceutica Lusitania (Lisbon Pharmaceutical
Society). [i]
7145. Sociedade des Sciencias Medicas de Lisbéa (Lisbon Society
of Medical Sciences).  {i)

nee lS

Oporto.
7147. Academia Polytechnica (Polytechnic Academy). [i]
7149. “Centro Pharmaceutico Portugueze” (‘Pharmaceutical
Centre”). [i]
7151. Escola Medico-Cirurgica (Medico-Chirurgical School) [i]
7153. Instituto Industrial (Industrial Institute). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 239

Oporto—Continued.

7155. Museo de Historia Natural da Camara Municipal do Porto
(Oporto Museum of Natural History). {i]

7157. Sociedade de. Iustruccio do Porto (Educational Society).
[Packages sent through Ramsay Crooks, Esq., 25 South
William Street, New York.| [i]

7159. Sociedade Portugueza de Geografia (Portuguese Geographi-
cal Society).

ROUMANIA.
Bukarest.

7161. Société Roumaine d’Agriculture (houmanian Agricultural
Society). [il
7163. Société Roumaine de Géographie (Rowmanian Geographical
Society).
RUSSIA.
Arkhangel.
7165. Flotskaia Biblioteka (Naval Inbrary).

Barnaul.
7167. Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria (Meteorological Observa-
tory). [i]

~ Derpt (Dorpat).

| 7169. Derptskoie Obshchestvo Iestesto-Ispytalelei (Dorpat Society
of Naturalists). [il

7171. Farmatsevticheskoie Obshchestvo (Pharmaceutical Society).

| i)

/ 7173. Imper. Astronomicheskaia Observatoria [Kaiserliche Uni-
versitats-Sternwarte| (Imperial Astronomical Observa-
tory). [i] .

7175. Imper. Universitet (Imperial University). [iii]

7177. Kaiserliche Livlandische Oekonomische Gesellschaft (Im-
perial Livonian Economical Society). [i]

7179. Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria (Meteorological Observa-
tory). [i]

7181. Statistisches Bureau der Universitit (Statistical Bureau of
the University). [i]

7183. Uchonoie Estonskoie Obshchestvo [Gelehrte Estnische
Gesellschaft] (Esthonian Scientific Society). — [iii]

7185. Veterinarnyi Institut ( Veterinary Institute). [i]

Ekaterinburg.
7187. Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria (Meteorological Observa-
tory). [i]
7189. Société Ouralienne d’Amateurs des Sciences Naturelles.
(Uralian Society of Friends of Natural Science).

240
Helsingfors.

(pleas

7193.

7195.

7197.

7199.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Bureau Central de Statistique de la Finlande (Central Statis- |
tical Bureau of Finland). |
Finnische Akademie der Wissenschaften (Finnish Academy
_ of Sciences.)
Finska Geologiska Undersékningen (Geological Survey of |
Finland). {iJ
Finska Litteratur-Sillskapet (Society of Finnish Literature).

[iJ |

‘Finskoie Uchonoie Obshchestvo [Societas Scientiarum Fen-

nica, Finska Vetenskaps-Societet| (Finnish Scientific — |
Society). [iii]

. Kejserliga Alexanders-Universitet i Finland (Imperial

Alexander University of Finland).
through F. A. Brockhaus, Leipzig.]

[Packages sent

[i]

. Magnitnaia i Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria (Magnetic

and Meteorological Observatory).

[i]

5. Obshchestvo Finlandskih Vrachei [Finska Liakare Salls-

kapet] (Society of Physicians of Finland). |i]

. Sillskapet pro Fauna et Flora Fennica (Society for the Fauna

and Flora of Finland). [i]

Taroslavl ( Yaroslav).

7209.

7211.

Irkutsk.

7213.

Kazan.

7215.

7217.

7219.

7221.
7223.

Kharkof.

7225.

Demidofskii Iuridicheskii Litsei(Demidof Juridical Lyceum).
[i]

Obshchestvo dla izsledovania Iaroslafskoi gubernii v iest-
estvenno-istoricheskom otnoshenii (Society for Invest-
igating the Natural History of the District of Iaroslavl).

[i]

Vostochno-Sibirskii Otdiel Imper. Russkavo Geografiches-
kavo Obshchestva (Hast-Siberian Section of the Imperial
Russian Geographical Society). |i]

Imper. Kazanskii Universitet (Imperial University of Kazan).
[iii]

Imper. Kazanskoie Ekonomicheskoie Obshchestvo (Im-
perial Economical Society of Kazan). [i]

Kazanskoie Obshchestvo Vrachei (Society of inns of
Kazan).

Observatoria (Observatory). [i]

Obshchestvo Iestestvo-Ispytatelei pri Imper. Kazanskom
Universitetie (Society of Naturalists at the i
University of Kazan). |i]

Imper. Kharkofskii Universitet (Imperial University of
Kharkof). [i]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 241

Kharkof—Continued.
7227. Mathematische Geselischaft der Universitat (Mathematical
Society of the University).
7229. Obshchestvo Ispytatelei Prirody pri Imper. Kharkofskom
Universitetie (Society of Naturalists at the Imperial
University of Kharkof). [i]
7231. Veterinarnoie Uchilishche (Veterinary School). [i]

ixiet ;

7233. Imper. Universitet Sviatovo Vladimira (Imperial St. Vla-
dimir University). [i]
7235. Kiefskoie Obshchestvo Iestestvo-Ispytatelei (Kief Society of
Naturalists). [i]
7237. Observatoria (Observatory). [i]
Kronshtat (Cronstadt).
7239. Kompasnaia Observatoria (Compass Observatory). [i]
7241. Kronshtatskaia Morskaia Biblioteka (Naval Library of
Cronstadt). [i]
7243. Morskaia Astronomicheskaia Observatoria (Naval Astro-
nomical Observatory). {il
7245. Obshchestvo Morskih Vrachei (Society of Naval Physicians).
[iJ
Lebedian (District of Tambof).
[Lebedianskoie Obshchestvo Selskovo Hoziaistva (Lebedian
Society of Rural Heonomy). (Closed.)|

Lugan (District of Ekaterinoslav’).
7247. Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria (Meteorological Observa-
tory).
Mitava (Mitau).
7249. Kurlandskoie Obshchestvo Literatury i Iskusstv (Courland
Society of Literature and Art). [iii]

“Moskva (Moscow).

7251. Chertkofskaia Publichnaia Biblioteka (Chertkof Public
Library). [i]

7253. Etnograficheskii Muzei (Hthnographical Museum). [i]

7255. Fiziko-Meditsinskoie Obshchestvo (Physico-Medical Society).

[i]
7257. Imper. Moskofskii Universitet (Imperial University of Mos-
cow). [I]

7259. Imper. Moskofskoie Obshchestvo Iestestvo-Ispytatelei (Im-
perial Moscow Society of Naturalists). [iii]

7261. Imper. Moskofskoie Obshchestvo Selskovo Hoziaistva (Im-
perial Moscow Society of Rural Economy). [i]

4263. Imper. Obshchestvo Istorii i Drevnostei Rossiiskih pri Mos-
kofskom Universitetie (Imperial Society of Russian His-
tory and Antiquities at the University of Moscow). [ij

HH, Mis, 15—-16
242

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Moskva (Moscow)—Continued.

7265.

7267.
7269.

7202:
7273.

7287.
7289.

7291.

7293.

7295.

7297.

7299.

Narva.

7301.

Nerchinsk.

7303.

Imper. Obshchestvo Lubitelei lestestvoznania, Aitropolo-
gii i Etnografii (Imperial Society of Friends of Natural
Science, Anthropology, and Ethnography). [i]

Imper. Zemledielcheskoie Obshchestvo v Moskvie (Imperial —
Agricultural Society of Moscow). [i]

Turidicheskoie Obshehestvo (Juridical Society). [i]

Kommercheskaia Akademia (Commercial Academy). +[i]

Lazarefskii Institut Vostochnyh lazykof (Lazaref Institute
of Oriental Languages). [i]

. Meteorological Observatory of the Agricultural Academy.
. Moskofskaia Synodalnaia Biblioteka (Moscow Synodal La-

brary).

. Moskofskii Publichnyi i Rumiantsefskii Muzei (Doscow

Public and Rumiantsef Museums). [i]

. Moskofskoie Archeologicheskoie Obshchestvo (Moscow

Archeological Society). [i]

. Moskofskoie Matematicheskoie Obshchestvo (Moscow Mathe-

matical Society). [i]

. Muzei Kniazia Sergeia Mihailovicha Galitsyna (Prince Ser-

gius Galitsyn’s Museum). [i]

Observatoria (Observatory). [i]

Obshchestvo Akklimatizatsii Rastenii i Zhivotnyh (Society
of Acclimation of Plants and Animals). [i]

Obshchestvo Drevne-Russkavo Iskusstva pri Moskofskom
Publichnom i Rumiantsefskom Museiah (Society of Old
Russian Art at the Moscow Public and Rumiantsef Mu-
seums). |i,

Obshchestvo Lubitelei Hudozhestv (Society of Friends of the
Fine Arts). [i]

Obshehestvo Lubitelei Rossiiskoi Slovesnosti (Society of
Friends of Russian Literature).  [i|

Petrofskaia Zemledielcheskaia i Lesnaia Akademia (Peter
Academy of Agriculture and Forestry). [i]

[Rumiantsefskaia Biblioteka i Muzei (Rumiantsef Library
and Museum). (See Moskofskii Publichnyi i Rumiant-
sefskii Musei.)|

Russkoie Obshchestvo Lubitelei Sadovodstva (Russian So-
ciety of Friends of Horticulture). [i]

[Slavianskii Komitet (Slavic Committee). (Closed.)]

Narvskoie Arheologicheskoie Obshchestvo (Archwological
Society of Narva). [i]

Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria (Afeteorological Observa-
tory). {iJ

Nezhin.

7305.

Nikolaief.

7307.

Odessa.

7309.

7311.

7313.

7315.

7317.

7319.
7321.

) Omsk.

_ Orenburg.

7320.

Pavlofsk.

7327.

7325.

LIST ‘OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 243

Istoriko-Filologicheskii Institut (Historico-Philological In-
stitute) [formerly Litsei Grafa Bezborodko]. [i]

Observatoria (Observatory). [i]

Gorodskaia Publichnaia Biblioteka (Public City Library). [i]

Imper. Novo-Rossiiskii Universitet (Imperial New-Russian
University).

Imper. Obshchestvo Selskova Hoziaistva Iuzhnoi Rossii
(Imperial Society of Rural Economy of Southern Rus-
sta). [i]

Novo-Rossiiskoie Cbshchestvo Iestestvo-Ispytatelei (Nevw-
Russian Society of Naturalists). [The library of this
society is inseparably connected with the university.]

Odesskoie Obshchestvo Istorii i Drevnostei (Historical and
Antiquarian Society of Odéssa). [i]

[Publichnaia biblioteka (Public Library).
Publichnaia Biblioteka.)]

Société de Médecine d’Odessa (Medical Society of Odessa). |i]

Uchilishche Gluho-Niemyh (Deaf and Dumb Institution). [i]

(See Gorodskaia

Obshchestvo Izsledovatelei Zapadnoi Sibiri (Society of Ex-
plorers of Western Siberia). [i]

Orenburgskii Otdiel Imper. Russkavo Geograficheskavo
Obshchestva (Orenburg Section of the Imperial Russian
Geographical Society). [i]

Library of the Meteorological and Magnetic Station.

 Pulkovo (Poulkova).

7329.

Nikolaiefskaia Glavnaia Observatoria (Nicholas Chief Ob-
servatory). [i]

Revel (Reval).

7331. Estlandskoie Literaturnoie Obshchestvo (Lsthonian Lnter-
ary Society). [i]
Riazan.
_ 7333. Publichnaia Biblioteka (Public Library). [i]
Riga.

7335. Lettisch-Literirische Gesellschaft (Society of Lettie Litera-
’ ture). [i]
7337. Muzei (Museum). [i]
7339. Obshchestvo Iestestvo-Ispytatelei [Naturforscherverein]
(Society of Naturalists). [iii]
244

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Riga—Continued.

7341.

7343.

7345.

Obshchestvo Istorii i Drevnostei Russkih Pribaltiiskih Pro.
vintsii [Gesellschaft fiir Geschichte und Alterthums.
kunde der Ostsee-Provinzen Russlands] (Historical
and Antiquarian Society of the Russian Baltic Prov-

inces). [i]
Obshchestvo Prakticheskih Vrachei (Society of Practical
Physicians). [i]

Technicheskoie Obshchestvo (Technical Society).

[iJ

Sankt-Peterburg (St. Petersburg).

7347.

7349,

7351.

7353.

7355.

7357.

. Geologicheskii Komitet (Geological Committee).
. Gidrograficheskii

. Gornaia Akademia (J/ining Academy).

levo Velichestvo Imperator Vserossiiskii (His Jajesty the
Emperor of Russia). [iii] .

Arheograficheskaia Kommissia pri Ministerstvie Narod-
navo Prosvieshchenia (Archwographical Commission of
the Ministry of Public Education). [i|

Bibliothek der Evangelischen Gemeinden in St. Petersburg
(Library of the Protestant Congregations of St. Peters-
burg).

Cabinet der Physikalischen Geographie der Kaiserlichen
Universitat (Cabinet of Physical Geography of the Impe-
rial University). [i]

Commission pour fixer les mesures et les poids de Empire
de Russie (Commission for establishing measures and
weights in the Russian Empire). a‘

Commission russe des échanges internationaux de la
Bibliothéque Impériale Publique (Russian Commission
of International Exchanges at the Imperial Public
Tnbrary). [il

. Filologicheskoie Obshchestvo pri Sankt-Peterburgskom

Universitetie (Philological Society of the University of

St. Petersburg). [i]

i

Departament Morskovo Ministerstva

(Hydrographical Department of the Ministry of Ma-

rine). [ili]

i]

Gornyi Departament Ministerstva Gosudarstvennyh Imush-
chestv (Mining Department of the Ministry of State
Domains). [i]

Gosudarstvennaia Kommissia Pogashenia Dolgof (Imperial
Commission of Amortizement).

Imper. Akademia Nauk (Imperial Academy of Sciences). [iii]

Imper. Aleksandrofskii Litsei (Imperial Alexander Ly-
ceum). [i]

Imper. Arheologicheskaia Kommissia (Imperial Archeo-
logical Commission). [iii]

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. DAF

Sankt-Peterburg (St. Petersburg)—Continued.
7377. Imper. Farmatsefticheskoie Obshchestvo (Imperial Phar-

‘ maceutical Society). [i]

7379. Imper. Istoriko- Filologicheskii Institut (Imperial Historico-

7381.

7383.

7385.

7387.

7389

7391.

7393.
7395.
7397.
7399.
7401.

7405.

7405.

7407.

7409.
7411.

7413.
7415.

7417.

Philological Institute). [i]

Imper. Mediko-Hirurgicheskaia Akademia (Imperial Med-
ico-Surgical Academy). [i]

Imper. Mihailofskaia Artilleriiskaia Akademia (Imperial
Michael Artillery Academy).  [i|

Imper. Nikolaiefskaia Inzhenernaia Akademia (Imperial
Nicholas Engineering Academy). [i]

Imper. Nikolaiefskaia Voiennaia Akademia (Imperial Nich-
olas Military Academy).

Imper. Publichnaia Biblioteka (Imperial Public Inbrary),
[iii]

Imper. Rossiiskoie Obshchestvo Sadovodstva v Sankt-Pe-
terburgie (Imperial Russian Horticultural Society of St.
Petersburg). {il

Imper. Russkoie Arheologicheskoie Obshchestvo (Imperial
Russian Archeological Society). [i]

Imper. Russkoie Geograficheskoie Obshchestvo (Imperial
Russian Geographical Society). [iti]

Imper. Russkoie Istoricheskoie Obshchestvo (Imperial Rus:
sian Historical Society). [i]

Imper. Russkoieg Tehnicheskoie Obshchestvo (Lmperral Rus-
sian Technical Society). — [i]

Imper. Sankt-Peterburgskaia Akademia Hudozhestv (Im-
perial St. Petersburg Academy of Fine Arts).

Imper. Sankt-Peterburgskii Botanicheskii Sad (Imperial
Botanical Garden of St. Petersburg). [Packages sent
through Wm. Mintor, Wandrahm bBriicke 6, Ham-
burg, Germany.| [i]

Imper. Sankt-Peterburgskii Universitet (Imperial Univer-
sity of St. Petersburg). [i]

Imper. Sankt-Peterburgskoie Mineralogicheskoie Obsh-
chestvo (Imperial Mineralogical Society of St. Peters-
burg). [ili]

Imper. Tebnologicheskii Institut (Imperial Technological
Institute). |i]

Imper. Uchilishche Gluho-Niemyh (Imperial Deaf and Dumb
Institute). [i]

Imper. Uchilishche Pravoviedenia (Imperial Law School).

Imper. Volnoie Ekonomicheskoie Obshchestvo (Imperial
Free Economical Society). [iii]

Institut Korpusa Putei Soobshchenia (Institution of the
Corps of Engineers). [i]
246

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Sankt-Peterburg (St. Petersburg)—Continued.

7419.

7421.

7423.

7425.
7427.

7429.
7431.
7433.
7435.
7437.
7439.
7441.

7443.

7445.

7447.

7449.

7451.

7453.

7455.

7457.

7459.

Institut Slepyh (Institution for the Blind). [i]

[Lesnaia Akademia. (See Sankt-Peterburgskii Lesnoi In-
stitut.)]

Medicinische Wochenschrift (Medical Weekly). [Dr. E.
Moritz.] [i]

Meditsinskii Departament Morskovo Ministerstvo (Medical
Department of the Ministry of Marine). [i]

Ministerstvo Finansof (Ministry of Finance). [i]

Ministerstvo Gosudarstvennyh Imushchestv (Ministry of
State Domains).

Ministerstvo Narodnavo Prosvieshchenia (Ministry of Pub-
lic Education). [i]

Ministerstvo Putei Soobshchenia (Ministry of Ways of
Communication). [i]

Ministerstvo Vnutrennih Diel (Ministry of the Interior).

Morskaia Akademia (Naval Academy). [i]

Morskoie Ministerstvo (Ministry of Marine). [i]

Morskoi Muzei (Naval Museum). [i]

Morskoi Uchonyi Komitet (Scientific Committee of the
Navy). [i]

Muzei Grecheskih i Rimskih Drevnostei (Museum of Greek
and Roman Antiquities). [i]

[Musée Impérial Agronomique. (See Zemledielcheskii
Institut.]

Muzei Imper. Akademii Nauk (Museum of the Imperial
Academy of Sciences). [i]

Muzei Imper. Ermitazha (Museum of the Imperial Hermit-
age). [i]

Muzei Instituta Korpusa Gornyh Inzhenerof (Museum of
the Corps of Mining Engineers). [i]

Nikolaiefskaia Akademia Generalnavo Shtaba (Nicholas
Academy of the General Staff). [i]

Observatoire de ’Université Impériale (Observatory of the
Imperial University). [i]

Observatoria Astronomicheskaia pri Imper. Akademii
Nauk (Astronomical Observatory of the Imperial Acad-
emy of Sciences). [i]

[Obshchestvo Estestvo Ispytateley pro Sankt-Peterburg-
skom Vniversitete. (See Sankt-Peterburgskoie Ob-
shchestvo Iestestvo-Ispytatelei.) |

Obshchestvo Morskih Vrachei (Society of Naval Physi-
cians). [i]

[Pedagogicheskoie Obshchestvo (Pedagogical Society).
(Closed.)}

Russiche Revue (Russian Review). ve

i
rh

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 247

Sankt-Peterburg (Sé. Petersburg)—Continued.

7461.

7463.

7465.

7467.

7485.

7487.

7489.
7491.
7493.

Rasskoie Entomologicheskoie Obshchestvo (Russian Ento-
mological Society). [i]

Russkoie Himicheskoie Obvshchestvo pri Sankt-Peterburgs-
kom Universitetie (Russian Chemical Society of the St.
Petersburg University). [i]

Sankt-Peterburgskaia Gorodskaia Duma (City Council of
St. Petersburg).

Sankt-Peterburgskii Lesnoi Institut (St. Petersburg Insti-
tute of Forestry). °

[Sankt-Peterburgskii Otdiel Slavianskavo Komiteta (St.
Petersburg Section of the Slavic Committee). (Closed.)]

. Sankt-Peterburgskoie Obshchestvo Iestestvo-Ispytatelei

(St. Petersburg Society of Naturalists). [i]

. Sankt-Peterburgskoie Slavianskoie Blagotvoritelnoie Ob-

shchestvo (Slavic Benevolent Society of St. Peters-
burg). [i]

. Selsko- hoziaistvennyi Muzei (Museum of Rural Econ-

omy). [i]

. Shtab Korpusa Gornyh Inzhenerof (Staff of the Corps of

Mining Engineers). [iii]

. Topograficheskoie Buro Voiennavo Ministerstva (Topo-

graphical Bureau of the Ministry of War). [i]

. Tsentralnaia Fizicheskaia Observatoria (Central Physical

Observatory). [iii]

. Tsentralnyi Statisticheskii Komitet Ministerstva Vnutren-

nih Diel (Central Statistical Committee of the Ministry
of the Interior). [i] :

. Uchebnoie Otdielenie Vostochnyh Lasykof Aziatskavo De-

partamenta Ministerstva Inostrannyh Diel (Institute
of Oriental Languages in the Asiatic Department of the
Foreign Office). [i]

Uchonyi Komitet Ministerstva Gosudarstvennyh Imu-
shchestv (Scientific Committee of the Ministry of State
Domains). [i]

Voienno - meditsinskii Zhurnal (Military Medical Jour-
nal). [i]

Voiennoie Ministerstvo (Ministry of War).

Zemledielcheskii Institut (Agronomical Institute). [i]

Zemledielcheskii Musei Ministerstva Gosudarstvennyh
Imushchestv (Agricultural Museum of the Ministry of
State Domains). [i]

Tashkent (in Turkestan).

7495.

Magnitnaia i Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria (Magnetic.
and Meteorological Observatory). [i]
248

Tiflis.

7497.

7499.

7501

7505.

7507.

7509.

Tula.

TO11.
7513.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Imper. Kavkazskoie Meditsinskoie Obshchestvo (Imperial
Caucasian Medical Society). [i]

Kavkazskii Muzei (Caucasian Museum). [i]

Kavkazskii Otdiel Imper. Russkavo Geograficheskavo Ob-
shchestva (Caucasian Section of the Imperial Russian
Geographical Society). [i]

. Kavkazskoie Obshebestvo Selskovo Hoziaistva (Caucasian

Society of Rural Economy). |i]

Magnitnaia i Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria (Magnetic
and Meteorological Observatory) [Physikalisches Ob-
servatorium]. |i]

Publichnaia Biblioteka (Publie Library). [i]

[Tifliser Physikalisches Observatorium (Physical Observa-
tory of Tiflis). (See Magnitnaia i Meteorologicheskaia
Observatoria.) |

Upravlenie Gornoiu Chastiu na Kavkazie i za Kavkazom
(Administration of Caucasian and Trans-caucasian
Mines).

Publichnaia Biblioteka (Public Library). [i]
Statisticheskii Komitet (Statistical Committee).

[i]

Uman (District of Kief).

7515.

Umanskoie Uchilishche Zemledielia i Sadovodstva (Agri-
cultural and Horticultural School of Uman). [i]

Varshava ( Warsav).

7517.

7519.
7521.

7531.

Astronomicheskdia Observatoria (Astronomical Observa-
tory). {il

Gazeta Lékarska (Medical Journal). [i]

Imper. Varshafskii Universitet (Imperial University of
Warsaw). {il

. Mediko-Hirurgicheskaia Akademia (Medico-Surgical Acad-

emy).

[i]

. Obshchestvo Pooshchrenia Hudozhestv v Tsarstvie Pol-

skom (Society for the Encouragement of Fine Aris in
the Kingdom of Poland). [i]

. Towarzystwo Rolnicze Kidlestwa Polskiego (Agricultural

Society of the Kingdom of Poland).

. Imper. Vilenskoie Meditsinskoie Obshchestvo (Imperial

Medical Society of Vilna). [il
[Musei Drevnostei (Museum of Antiquities).
skaia Publichnaia Biblioteka, &c.)]
Sieverozapadnyi Otdiel Imper. Russkavo Geograficheskavo
Obshchestva (Northwestern Section of the Imperial
Russian Geographical Society). [i] p

(See Vilen-

A a Oe a

f
9
t

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 249

Vilna—Continued.

7533.

7535.

Vladimir.

7539.

Belgrade.

7541.

7543.

Barcelona.

7544,

7545.
7547.

7549.

7551.

Bilbao.

7553.
7555.

Burgos.

7557.

Cadiz.
7559.

Cordova.

7563.

Granada.

7565.

Madrid.

7567.

Vilenskaia Arkeograficheskaia Kommissia (Archwograph-
ical Commission of Vilna). [i]

Vilenskaia Astronomicheskaia Observatoria (Astronomical
Observatory of Vilna). [i]

. Vilenskaia Publichnaia Biblioteka i Musei Drevnostei

(Vilna Public Library and Museum of Antiquities). [i]
Imperial School of Marine Jurisprudence. [i]

SERVIA.

Drushtvo srbske Slovessnosti (Society of Servian Litera-
ture). [i]
Praviteljstvena Biblioteka (State Inbrary). [i]

SPAIN.

Academia de Ciencias, Artes, y Oficios para la Mujer (Acad-
emy of Sciences, Arts, and Female Industries).

“Cronica Cientifica” (“Scientific Chronicle”). [i]

Instituto Agricola Catalan de San Isidro (Catalanian Agri-
cultural Institute of San Isidro). [i]

Observatorio Meteorolégico (Meteorological Observatory).

Real Academia de Buenas Letras de Barcelona (Royal
Academy of Belles-Lettres, of Barcelona). [i]

Board of Charity—Library of Charitable Instruction.
Observatorio Meteorolégico (Meteorological Observatory).

Observatorio Meteorolégico (Meteorological Observatory).

Sociedad Heonémica Gaditana de Amigos del Pafs (Gadi-
tana Economical Society). [i]

. Sociedad Protectora de los Animales y las Plantas (Society

for the Protection of Animals and Plants). [i]

Academia Nacional de Ciencias Exactas (National Academy
of Exact Sciences). [i]

Universidad de Granada (University of Granada). [i]

Academia de las tres Nobles Artes de San Fernando (San
Fernando Academy of the Three Noble Arts). [i]
250

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

\

Madrid—Continued.

7569

1573.

7589.
7591.
7593.

7595.
7597.

7599.
7601.
7603.

7605.
7607.

7609.
7611.
7613.

7615.

7617.

Academia Especial de Ingenieros (Special Academy for En-
gineers). [i]

Ateneo Cientifico, Literario y Artistico (Scientific Literary
and Artistic Atheneum).

Biblioteca Nacional (National Library). [iii]

[Colonial Department. (See Ministerio de las Colonias).]

. Comision del Mapa Geoldgico de Espafia (Commission for

the Geological Map of Spain).

. “Correspondencia de Espaiia” (Spanish Correspondence).
. Direccion del “‘ Memorial de Artilleria” (Artillery Notes).
. Escuela de Ingenieros de Caminos, Canales, y Puertos

(School of Civil Engineering).

. Instituto Geografico y Estadistico (Geographical and Sta-

tistical Institute). [i]

. Junta Estadistica (Statistical Society). [i]
. “La Espana Agricola”: Asociacion General de Labradores

(The Spanish Farmer, General Association of Workmen).
i

Ministerio de Fomento—Direccion General de Instruccion
Publica (Department of the Interior—General Office of
Public Instruction). ;

Ministerio de las Colonias (Colonial Department). [i]

Museo Arqueolégico Nacional (National Archeological Mu-
seum). [i]

Observatorio de Madrid (Madrid Observatory). [i]

Real Academia de Ciencias de Madrid (Royal Academy of
Sciences, of Madrid). [iii] ‘

Real Academia de Ciencias Morales y Politicas (Royal
Academy of Moral and Political Sciences). [iii]

Real Academia Espanola Arqueolégica y Geografica (Royal
Spanish Academy of Archeology and Geography). [i]

Real Academia de la Historia (Royal Academy of History).
[iii]

Revista de la Arquitectura (Review of Architecture). [i]

Revista Minera y Metallargica (Mineral and Metallurgical
Review).

Sociedad de Antropologia de Madrid (Anthropological So-
ciety). [i]

Sociedad Central de Arquitectos (Central Society of Archi-
tects). [i]

Sociedad Espafiola de Historia Natural (Spanish Society of
Natural History). [i]

Sociedad Geografica de Madrid (Geographical Society). [i]

|Sociedad de Professores de Ciencias (Association of Pro-
Sessors of Science). |

Universidad de Madrid ( University of Madrid). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 251

Murcia.
7619. Observatorio Meteorolégico (Meteorological Observatory).

Oviedo.
7621. Instituto Provincial de Oviedo (Provincial Institute).

San Fernando.
7623. Instituto y Observatorio de Marina (Naval Institute and
Observatory). [i]
7625. Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando (Royal
Academy of Fine Arts). [i] :

Santiago.
7627. Observatorio Meteorolégico (Meteorological Observatory).

Valencis.
7629. Real Sociedad Econémica (Royal Economic Society). [i]

| _ Viscaya (Biscay).

7631. Instituto Provincial de Viscaya (Provincial Institute of

Biscay).
SWEDEN.
Fahlen.
[Bergschule. (Dissolved. Now Mining School, Stock-
holm.)]
Godtheborg.

7633. Kongliga Vetenskaps och Vitterhets Samhallet (Royal So-
ciety of Sciences and Belles-Lettres). [iii]
[Salleskapet Sma&foglarnas Vanner (Society for the Protec-
tion of Small Birds). (Discontinued.)|
Link6ping.
7635. Ostgota Fornminnes Forening (Last Gothland Antiquarian
Society).
Lund.
7637. Ethnologiska Museum (I/thnological Museum).

7639. Kongliga Fysiografiska Sallskapet (Royal Physiographic So-
ciety). {il
7641. Kongliga Universitetet (Royal University). [iii]
[Nordisk Tidsskrift for Politik Ekonomie, och Litterature
(Discontinued.) |
7643. Universitets Observatoriet (University Observatory). [i]

Stockholm.
1644, Departementet for Fiskeri. [Is a department of the Kon-
gliga Landtbrucks Akademien. (Packages addressed
to care of Fischerei-intendant, Dr. KR. Lundberg.)] [i]
7645. Entomologiske Forening (Entomological Society). [i]
7647. Entomologiske Tidsskrift (Entomological Journal).
252

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Stockholm—Continued.

7649.

7694.

Vesteras.

“ Hira” (Medical Journal).
[Geographical Society. (See Svenska Sillskapet for An-
tropologie och Geografie.)]

. Geologiska Byran (Geological Bureau). [i]
3. Geologiska Foreningen (Geological Society).

[Geological Survey. (See Geologiska Byrdan.)]

. Jernkontoret (Offices of Forges). [i]
. Kongliga Bibliotheket (Royal Library). [iii]
. Kongliga Landtbrucks Akademien (Royal Academy of Ag-

riculture). [i]

. Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien (Royal Swedish

Academy of Sciences). [iii]

. Kongliga Vitterhets Historie och Antiquitets Akademien

(Royal Academy of Belles-Lettres, History, and Antiqui-
ties). [iii]
[“ Land och Folk.” (Discontinued.)]

. Meteorologiska Central Anstalten (Central Meteorological

Institute). [ij

. Mining School [address at Technic High School]. [i]

. Minister of Foreign Affairs.

. Nordisk Mediciniske Arkiv (Northern Medical Archives).

. Observatoriet (Observatory). [i]

75. Statistiska Central Byran (Bureau of Statistics). [i]

. Svenska Akademien (Swedish Academy). [i]

. Svenska Liikare Saliskapet (Swedish Society of Physicians).

[1]

. Svenska Bokforlaggare Forening (Society of Editors). [Care

of Samson & Wallin, Stockholm.]

. Svenska Sillskapet for Antropologi och Geografie (Society

of Anthropology and Geography).

. Kongliga Universitetet (Royal University). [i]
. Kongliga Vetenskaps Societiéten (Royal Society of Sciences).

[iii]

. Prof. P. J. Lindell (Royal University). [i]
. Svenska Fornminnes Forening (Swedish Antiquarian So-

ciety). [il

. Universitets Astronomiska Observatoriet ( University Astro-

nomical Observatory).
Universitets Meteorologiska Observatoriet (University Me-
teorological Observatory). [i]

[Elementar Liiroverkets Biblioteket (Library of the Normal
School). [Dissolved.)]|
Aarau.

Basel.

Bern.

re a 7 tf dn, ~~

ae. Aa aa

7699.
7701.

7703.

7705.

7707.
7709.
LER E
7713.
7715.

TTT.
7719.

ci2k:
7723.
7725.

7727.

1729.

7731.

7733.

7735.
1737.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 253

Vesteras—Continued.
7695.
7697.

Lakare Sallskapet (Physicians’ Society).
Riksbiblictheket (State Library).

SWITZERLAND.

Schweizerischer Forst- Verein (Swiss Foresters’ Union). [i]

Schweizerische Paliontologische Gesellschaft (Swiss Pala-
ontological Society). [i]

Schweizerischer Verein fiir Straf- und Gefaingnisswesen
(Swiss Association for the Management of Prisons). [i]

Aargauische Naturforschende Gesellchaft (Society of Natu-
ralists). [i]
{[Blinden und Taubstummen Institut. (See Laudenhof.)]

Gesellschaft zur Bef6rderung des Guten und Gemeinniitzi-
gen (Society for the Promotion of Morality and Public
Welfare). [i]

Gewerbe-Schule (Polytechnical School). [i]

Historische und Antiquarische Gesellschaft (Historical and
Antiquarian Society). [iii]

Kinder-Spital (Hospital for Children).

Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Naturalists’ Society). [iii]

Universitats-Bibliothek (University Inbrary). [i]

Verein Schweizerischer Gymnasiallehrer (Society of Swiss
Teachers).

Allgemeine Schweizerische Gesellschaft fiir die Gesammten
Naturwissenschaften (Swiss Society of Natural Sciences
in General). [i]

Bibliothéque Fédérale (Federal Iibrary). [i]

Bureau Topographique Fédéral [Etat Major] (Zopographi-
cal Bureau).

Commission de la Carte Géologique de la Suisse (Commis-
sion for the Geological Chart of Switzerland). [Care of
Bibliothéque du Polytechnique a Zurich.]

Eidgenossensche Bundes-Kanzlei (Helvetic Federal Char-
celry). [i]

Hidgenossensches Departement des Innern (Helvetic Interior
Department). [i]

[Eidgenossenscher Inspector der Gotthard Eisenbahn (In-
spector of the Gotthard Railroad). (See No. 7737.)|

Eidgenossensches Statistisches Bureau (Statistical Bureau).
i]

Geographische Gesellschaft (Geographical Society). [i]

Inspectorat technique des Chemins de Fer Suisses (Office
of Inspector of the Swiss Railroads). [i]
254

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

Bern—Continued.

7739.
T7A4L.
77435.
7745.
TTA7.

7749.
7751.

Chur.

Frauenfeld.
ks

Fribourg.
7773.

7775.

Institut Géographique International (International Geo-
graphical Institute). [i]

Ilustrirte Vierteljahrschrift fiir frztliche Polytechnik (Il-
lustrated Quarterly Journal of Medical Polytechnic). |i]

Kantons Schule (Cantonal School). [i]

Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Naturalists? Society). [iii]

Oekonomische Gesellschaft des Kanton Bern (EHconomical
Society of the Canton of Bern). [i]

Schweizerischer Alpen Club (Swiss Alpine Club). [i]

Schweizerische Entomologische Gesellschaft (Swiss Ento-
mological Society). [1]

. Schweizerische Gemeinniitzige Geselischaft (Swiss Society

for Public Welfare). [i]

. Schweizerische Historische Gesellschaft (Swiss Historical

Society). [i]

. Schweizerischer Lehrer-Verein (Swiss Pedagogic Society).

[i]

. Société des Sciences (Society of Sciences). |i]
. Société des Sciences Naturelles (Society of Natural Sci-

ences). [iii]

. Sternwarte (Observatory). [i]
. Tellurisches Observatorium (Tellurian Observatory).
. Universitiits-Bibliothek (University Library). [iii]

. Naturforschende Gesellschaft Graubiindens (Society of

Natural Sciences of Graubiinden). [i]

Thurgauische Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Thurgau Nat-
uralists’ Society). [i]

Société Fribourgeoise des Naturalistes (Fribourg Society of
Naturalists). [i]

Société d’ Histoire du Canton de Fribourg (Historical Soci-
ety of the Canton of Fribourg). [iJ

. Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles (Archives

of Physical and Natural Sciences). [i]

. Association Zoologique du Léman (Zoological Society of

Lake Leman). [i]

. Bibliothéque de la Ville (City Library). [iii]
. “ Bibliotheque Universelle.” [i]
. Institut National Génevois (National Institute of Gene-

va). [i]
|
|
}

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 255

Genéve—Continued.

7787.

7789.
7791.
7793.
7795.
7797.

7799.

7801.
7803.

7805

7807.
7809.

7811.

‘Le Globe” [Organe de la Société de Géographie de Ge-
neve] (The World).

Musée de la ville de Genéve (City Museum). [i]

Musée Zoologique (Zoological Museum). [i]

Observatoire (Observatory). [i]

Société des Arts de Genéve (Geneva Society of Arts). [i]

Société Génevoise d’Utilité Publique aenie Society for
the Public Welfare). [i]

Société d’ Histoire et d’Archéologie de Genéve (Geneva So-
ciety of History and Archeology). [i]

Société de Géographie (Geographical Society). [i]

Société de Lecture (Lecture Society). [i]

Société de Physique et d’Histoire Naturelle (Society of
Physics and Natural History). [iii]

Société Médicale (Medical Society). [i]

Société Orafholpsiane Suisse (Swiss Ornithological Soci-
ety). [i]

Société Suisse de Topographie (Swiss Topographical Soci-

ety). [i]

Laudenhof (bet Aarau).

7813.

Lausanne.

7815.
7817.

7819.

7821.

7823.

Luzern.

7824.
7825.

1827.

_ Neufchatel.

i 7829,
7831.
7833.

Taubstummen - Anstalt (Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb). [i]

Asile des Aveugles de Lausanne (Asylum for the Blind). [i]

Bibliothéque Cantonale Vaudoise (Library of the Canton of
Vaud). |i]

Société d’Agriculture de la Suisse Romande (Agricultural
Society). [i]

Société d’ Histoire de la Suisse Romande (Historical Soci-
ety). [i]

[Société Industrielle d’ Horlogerie. (Dissolved.)]

Société Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles (Society of Nat-
ural Sciences). [i]

Direction der Gothard Hisenbahn (Office of the Directors of
the Gothard Railroad).

Historischer Verein der Fiinf-Oecerter (Historical Soci-
ety). [i] .

Kantons-Schule (Cantonal School). [i]

Le Conseil Municipal (City Council).

Observatoire Cantonal (Cantonal Observatory). [i]

Société des Sciences Naturelles (Society of Natural Sci-
ences). {ili}
256 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

7835. Naturforschende Gesellschaft Graubiindens (Naturalists?
Society).
Porentruy.
7837. Société Jurassienne d’Hmulation (Jurassian Society of
Emulation). {i}
Rapperschwyl.
7839. Musée National Polonais (Historical Museum of Poland). [i]

Rheinfelden.
7841. Naturhistorische Gesellschaft (Natural History Society). [i]

Saint Gall.

[Concordia Institut International et Ecole Supérieure de
Commerce (Concordia International Institute and Com-
mercial College). (See Zurich.) |

7843. Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft (Society of Natural
Sciences). [i]
Schaffhausen.
7845. Mittheilungen der Schweizer Entomologischen Gesell-
schaft (Journal of the Swiss Entomological Society).
7847. Société des Sciences Naturelles (Society of Natural Sci-
ences). [i]

Sion.
7849. Société Murithienne du Valais (Alurithian Society of the Va-
lais). [i]
7851. Société Valaisanne des Sciences Naturelles (Society of
Natural Sciences of the Valais). [i]
Solothurn.
7853. Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Society of Naturalists). [i]
Yverdon.
7855. Institut des Sourds-Muets 4 Yverdon (Institute for the
Deaf and Dumb). [i]
Zurich.

7857. Antiquarische Gesellschaft (Antiquarian Society). [iii]

7859. Concordia Institute [formerly in Saint Gall]. [i].

7861. Count Ladislas Plater (Villa Broelberg). . [i]

7863. Eidgenossensche Polytechnische Schule (federal Polytech-
nie School). [iii]

7865. Karten- Verein (Chart Association). [i]

7867. Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Society of Naturalists). [iii]

7869. Schweizerischer Apotheker- Verein (Swiss Apothecaries’ So-
ciety). [i]

7871. Schweizerische Meteorologische Central-Anstalt (Siiss
Central Meteorological Bureau). [i]

7873. Société de Médecine (Medical Society). [i]
LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS 2504

Zurich—Continued.

7875. Société des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles (Society of
Physical and Natural Sciences). [i]

7877. Sternwarte (Observatory). [Transfer books to the Federal
Polytechnical School. |

7879. Universitats- und Kantons-Bibliothek (University and Can-
tonal Library). [iii] ‘

7881. Verein fiir Landwirthschaft und Gartenbau (Agricultural
and Horticultural Society). [i]

7883. Vierteljahrsschrift fiir Wissenschaftliche Philosophie
(Quarterly Journal of Scientific Philosophy).

7885. Zoologisches Museum (Zoological Museum). [i]

SYRIA.
Beirut.
7887. Syrian Protestant College.
7889. Lee Observatory.

TURKEY.
Constantinople.

7891. His Imperial Majesty the Sultan. [iii]

7893. Administration Sanitaire de ? Empire Ottoman (Board of
Health). [i]

[American Missionary Society. (See No. 7911.)]
[American College. (See Robert College.)]

7897. Anjuman i Danish (Society for the Advancement of Turkish
Literature). [ij

7899. Bureau de Statistique (Statistical Bureau). [i]

7901. Gazette Médicale de VOrient (Medical Gazette of the Ori-
ent). [i]

7903. Hellenic Literary Syllogog (Library). [i]

7905. Hellenic Philological Society of Constantinople. [i]

7907. Imperial Meteorological Observatory. [i]

7909. Jemiyet Ilamiyet Osmoniyet (Ottoman Scientific Soct-

_ ety). [i]

7811. Library of the American Missionary Society. [i]

7913. Robert College. [iii]

7915. Société Impériale de Médecine (Imperial Society of Medi-
cine). [i]

7917. Société Orientale de Constantinople (Oriental Society of
Constantinople). [i]

7919. Société de Pharniacie de Constantinople (Pharmaceutical

Society of Constantinople). [i]

| r Sophia (Bulgaria).
7921. National Library. [i
H. Mis. 15——17

258

7923.
7925.

7927.

7929.

7931.

7933.
7935.

7937.
7939.
7941.
7943.
7945.
7947.
7949.

7951.
7953.
7955.
7957.
7959.
7961.
7963.
7965.
7967.
7969.

LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Association Internationale du Congo [Berlin, 1884] (In-
ternational Congo Conference).

Congress International des Américanistes [Tours, France,
1883] (International Congress of Americanists).

Congrés International des Botanistes, d’Horticulteurs, de
Négociaults et des Fabricants de Produits du Regne
Végétale [Leiden, 1879] (International Congress of
Botanists, Horticulturists, Dealers and Manufacturers
of Vegetable Products).

Congrés International des Sciences Géographiques (Inter-
national Congress of Geographical Sciences).

Congrés International des Sciences Géologiques [Berlin,
1884~’85, London, 1888] (International Congress of Geo-
logical Sciences).

Congrés International de 4a Propriété Artistique [Paris,
1878] (International Artistic Congress).

Congreso Internacional de Americanistas [Madrid, 1881]
(International Congress of Americanists).

International Agricultural and Forestry Congress.

International Benevolent Congress.

International Botanical and Horticultural Congress.

International Committee of Weights and Measures.

International Congress of Commercial Geography.

International Congress of Orientalists.

International Congress of Prehistoric Anthropology and
Archeology.

International Geodesic Association.

International Meteorological Committee [London].

International Meteorological Congress.

International Meter Commission.

International Polar Conference.

International Pomological Congress.

International Sanitary Conference.

International Silk-Culturists’ Congress.

International Statistical Congress.

International Telegraphic Convention.
ie
ag

LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES
TO WHICH SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS ARE
SENT. (1885).

(The figure [i] indicates Smithsonian Reports; [ii] indicates Reports and Miscellaneous Collections ;
[iii] indicates Reports, Miscellaneous Oollections, and Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.]

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS.

The distribution of the publications of the Institution requires care
and judicious selection, the object being to make known to the world
the truths which may result from the expenditure of the Smithson fund.
For this purpose the ‘‘ CONTRIBUTIONS” are so distributed as to be acces-
sible to the greatest number of readers; that is, to large central
libraries.

They are presented on the express condition that they shall be care-
fully preserved, shall be accessible at all times to students and others
who may desire to consult them, and be returned to the Institution in
case the establishments to which they are presented at any time cease
to exist. .

The following are the rules for the distribution of the Smithsonian
publications. To enable institutions as well as individuals, not coming
within their provisions, to procure copies of such as may be desired, they
are sold at a price which is intended merely to cover tbe actual cost of
their publication.

Full sets can no longer be furnished, as some of the volumes are out

_of print.

i RULES FOR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITH-

SONIAN INSTITUTION.

To Labraries.

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution are furnished :

1. To learned societies of the first class, which present complete series
of their publications to the Institution.

2. To colleges of the first class, which furnish catalogues of their
libraries and of their students, and all publications relative to their
organization and history.

3. To public libraries containing 25,000 volumes.

259
‘

260 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

4. Tosmaller public libraries, of permanent character, properly recom-
mended, where a large district would be otherwise unsupplied.

5. Institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particular
branches of knowledge may receive such Smithsonian publications as
relate to their respective objects.

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR PUBLICATIONS.

To the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.: :
Date, —, 188-.
Application is made for the library of , for the publications of
the Smithsonian Institution. All volumes received shall be duly ac-
knowledged, be carefully preserved, be accessible to any person who
may wish to consult them, and be returned to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion in case the establishment at any time ceases to exist. And in case
of any transfer of these volumes, or any change of address by the
library, the Institution is to be duly notified thereof.
1. Name of establishment,
2. Location: Town,
State,
. When established,
. Nature of library,
. Value of buildings and ape ——-.
. Permanent fund,
Annual income,
Number of volumes in library,
. Number of persons having use of books,
Names of officers: President, ;
Secretary,
Librarian, :

Se ae a

—

Respectfully,

I recommend the above application.
——~-—, Member of Congress,
District;

State.

N. B. A neglect to return receipts for publications sent by the Insti-
tution, or to reply to inquiries made by it, will forfeit all claims for
continuance on the list of distribution.
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 261

ALABAMA.

Auburn.

Agricultural and Mechanical College. [ii]
Greensborough.

Southern University. [iii]
Huntsville.

State Normal School (Colored). _ [i]
James.

High School. [i]
Marion.

Howard College. [iii]
Lincoln Normal University. [i]
Mobile.
Library Association. [i] ,
Montgomery.
State Board of Health. [i]
Spring Hill.
Spring Hill College. fii]
Talladega.
Alabama Institution for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind. fi]
Tuscaloosa.
Alabama Insane Hospital. [i]
Geological Survey of Alabama. [i]
University of Alabama. [iii]
Tuskegee.
Alabama Conference Female College. [i]
Alabama High School. [i]
Normal School. [i]

ARKANSAS.
Boonsborough.
Cane Hill College. [i]
Fayetteville.
Arkansas Industrial Caweciey [ii]
Little Rock.

Arkansas School for the Blind. [i]

_ Arkansas State Library. [iii]
Little Rock Public Library (formerly Mercantile ee fi)
Little Rock University. [i]

CALIFORNIA.
Alameda.
Alameda Free Library. [il
Berkeley.

Institution for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind. [i]
University of California. [iii]

Carpenteria.
Carpenteria Science Club. [i]

262 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

College City.
Dierce Christian College. [i]

Marysville.
Marysville City Library. [iii]
Middletown.

Industrial Training School. [i]
; Mills Seminary, Mills College. [i]
Monterey. -
Monterey Library Association. [iii]
Oakland.
BWbell Society Library. [i]
Free Public Library. [i]
Pasadena.
Pasadena Free Library. [i|
Sacramento.
Agassiz Institute. [1]
California State Agricultural Society. — [i]
California State Library. [ili]
Sacramento Free Library. [111
Sacramento Institute. [i]
State Engineer’s Office. [i]
San Diego.
San Diego Lyceum of Sciences. [i]
San Diego Public Library. [i]
San Diego Society of Natural History. — [i]
San Francisco.
Baneroft Library (Pacific Library). [iii]
Bibliothéque dela Ligue Nationale Frangaise. _[ili|
Bohemian Club.  [i|
California Academy of Sciences. [iii]
California State Geological Society (see California State Mining
Bureau).
California State Horticultural Society. [i]
California State Mining Bureau. [i]
Central Pacific Railroad Law Library. [i]
Geographical Society of the Pacific. [i]
Lick Observatory. [1]
Mechanics’ Institute. [iii]
Mercantile Library Association. _ [iii]
Odd Fellows’ Library Association. _ [iii]
Pacific Library (see Bancroft Library).
Saint Ignatius College. [ii]
San Francisco Free Public Library. [iii]
San Francisco Law Library. [i]
State Board of Horticulture. [i]
West’s (Miss) School for Girls. [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 263

San José. :
California State Normal School. [i]
San José Free Public Library. [i]
University of the Pacific. [ii]
San Mateo.
Laurel Hall Seminary. [i]
Santa Barbara.
Morris House Library. [i]
Santa Barbara Free Public Library. [ii]
Santa Barbara Society of Natural History. [i]
Union Club of Santa Barbara. _[i|
Santa Clara.
Santa Clara Cellege. [iii]
Stockton.
County Board of Horticultural Commissioners. [i]
San Joaquin Society of California Pioneers. [i]

COLORADO.
Boulder.
University of Colorado. {i]
Canon City.

Grand Army Collegiate and Military Institute. [ij
Colorado Springs.
Colorado College. [i]
Denver.
Bishop’s Library. [i]
Colorado Scientific Society. [i]
Colorado Seminary (see University of Denver).
Jarvis Hall School for Boys, and Divinity School. [ij
State Library. [iii]
United States Geological Survey, Division of the Rocky Mount-
ains. |i}
University of Denver. [ii]
Wolf Hall School for Girls. [i]
Fort Collins.
Colorado Agricultural College. [i]
Golden.
State School of Mines. [il
Red Cliff.
Eagle County Mining Club. [i]

CONNECTICUT.
Birmingham.
Allis Circulating Library. [i]
Bridgeport.

Bridgeport Public Library and Reading Room. _ [iii]
Bridgeport Scientific Society. [i]

264 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Columbia.

Columbia Free Library. [i]
Goshen.

Goshen Academy. [i]
Greenwich.

Greenwich Free Reading Room and Library Association. [i]
Hartford.
Connecticut Historical Society. [iii]
Connecticut Retreat for the Insane. [i]
Connecticut State Board of Agriculture. [i]
Hartford Library (formerly Young Men’s Institute). [i]
Hartford Theological Seminary. _ [iii]
State Board of Education. [i]
State Library of Connecticut. [iii]
Trinity College. [iii]
Watkinson Library of Reference. [i]
Young Men’s Institute (see Hartford Library).
Mansfield.
Storr’s Agricultural School. [i]
Meriden.
Meriden Scientific Association. [i]
Middletown.
Central School. [i]
Wesleyan University. [iii]
New Britain. ‘
New Britain Scientific Association. [i]
Public High School. _ [i]
State Normal School. [iii]
New Haven.
American Oriental Society. [iii]
Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences (see Yale Pole Re):
Hillhouse High School. [i]
New Haven Colony Historical Society. [i]
New Haven Young Men’s Institute. [iii]
Peabody Museum (see Yale College).
Sheffield Scientific School (see Yale College).
State Board of Health. [i]
Yale College. [iii]
Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. [i
Peabody Museum. [i]
Sheffield Scientific School. [ii]
New London.
New London County Historical Society. [i]
Norwich.
Otis Library. [ii]
Shaker Station. P
Shaker Community for Religious and Charitable Objects. [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 265

Simsbury.

Simsbury Free Library. [i]
Suffield.

Connecticut Literary Institution. [i]
Waterbury.

Silas Bronson Library. _ [iii]
Woodstock.

Woodstock Academy. [i]

DAKOTA.

Brookings.

Dakota Agricultural College. [i]
Ellendale.

Ellendale Library Association. [i]
Lisbon.

Lisbon Library Association. [i]
Pierre.

Presbyterian University of Southern Dakota. [i]
Roscoe.

Roscoe Reading Room. [i]

Vermillion.

University of Dakota. [i]
Webster. ;

Day County Agricultural Society. [i]
Yankton.

Yankton College. [i]

DELAWARE.

Dover.

Delaware State Library. [iii]
Newark.

Delaware State College. [iii]
New Castle.

New Castle Library Company (Public Library). [iii]
Wilmington.

West End Library (Lincoin street, above Delaware avenue). [i]

Western Free Library (Women’s Christian Temperance Union),
Third and Washington streets. [i]

Wilmington Institute. [iii]

: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
Washington.

Agricultural Department, Library of. [iii]
Entomological Division. . [i]

Botanic Garden, Library of. [i]

Bureau of Ethnology (see Smithsonian Institution).

Civil Service Commission, Library of. [i'

266 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. |

Washington—Continued.
Congress, Library of. [ili]
Department of Justice, Library of. [i]
-Executive Mansion, Library of. [i]
Fish Commission, Library of. [i]
House of Representatives, Library of. [i]
Interior Department:

Assistant Attorney-General. [i]

Bureau of Education. [ii]

Library of the Interior Department. [iii]

Scientific Library of Patent Office. [iii]

United States Geological Survey. [iii]
National Museum (see Smithsonian Institution).
Navy Department:

Bureau of Navigation. [i]

Hydrographic Office. [i]

Museum of Hygiene (Bureau of Medicine and Surgery). [i]

Nautical Almanac Office. [iJ

Naval Observatory. _ [iii]

Navy Department Library. [iti]

Surgeon-General, U.S. Navy. [i]

Patent Office (see Interior Department).
Post-Office Department Library. |i|
Smithsonian Institution: [iii]

Bureau of Ethnology. [iii]

United States National Museum. [iii]
State Department Library. [iii]

Consular Bureau. [i]

Treasury Department:

Bureau of Engraving and Printing. [il

Bureau of Statistics. [i]

Director of the Mint. [i]

Life-Saving Service. [i]

Light-House Board. [i]

Marine Hospital Service, Surgeon-General. [i]

Solicitor of the Treasury, Office of. [i]

Treasury Department Library. [ii]

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. [i]
United States Supreme Court, Library of. [i]
War Department:

Army Medical Museum (see Surgeon-General’s Office).

Bureau of Military Justice. [i]

Chief of Engineers, Office of (see Engineer Department,U.S. A.).

Chief Signal Officer, Office of (see Signal Office.)

Engineer Department, U.S. A. (Office Chief of Engineers). [iii]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 267

Washington—Continued. .
Headquarters of the Army of the United States. [i]
Ordnance Department, Office of Chief of Ordnance. [i]
Quartermaster-General’s Office. [ii]

Signal Office Library. _ |ii] .

Subsistence Department, Commissary-General. [i]

Surgeon-General’s Office, Library of. [iii]

War Department Library. _[iii|

Miscellaneous:

Academy of the Visitation. [i]

Agassiz Association. Chap. 109. (No. 1600, 13th st). [i]

Carroll Literary Institute. [i]

Columbia Hospital for Women. [i]

Columbia Institution for the Deaf and Dumb (National Deaf
Mute College). [iii]

Columbian Club. [i]

Columbian University. [iii]

Corcoran Gallery of Art. [i]

Cosmos Club. [i]

District of Columbia Library (Office of the Commissioners of
the District of Columbia). [i]

Georgetown University. [iii]

Government Hospital for the Insane. [i]

Health Department (Office of Health Officer). [i]

Howard University. |ii]

Kit Carson Post, G. A. R. [i]

Louise Home. [i]

Masonic Library. [|

Medical Society of District of Columbia. [i]

National Board of Health. [i]

National College of Pharmacy. [i]

National Deaf Mute College (see Columbia Institution for the
Deaf and Dumb).

Norwood Institute. [i]

Odd Fellows’ Library. [i]

Sailor’s Library, Navy Yard. [i]

Saint John’s Collegiate Institute (formerly Saint Matthews’ In-
stitute). [i]

Soldiers’ Home Library. [i]

Spencerian Business College. _ [i]

Washington High School. [iii]

Washington Light Infantry Corps. [i]

Washington Microscopical Society. [i]

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]

, Young People’s Union of the Memorial Lutheran Church. [i]

268 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

FLORIDA.

De Funiak Springs (Lake de Funiak).
* Florida Chautauqua Library. fi]
Jacksonville.
Public Library. [i]
Wilton.
Santa Rosa Academy Public Library. _[ii|
Pensacola.
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
saint Augustine.
Free Public Library. [i]
Military Post, U.S. A, Library of. [i]
Saint Augustine Institute of Natural Science. [i]
Sanford.
_ Sanford Library and Reading Room. [i]
Tallahassee. :
Florida University. [i]

GEORGIA.
Athens.

Home School for Young Ladies. [i]
University of Georgia. [iii]
Atlanta.
Abyssinian Library Society. [i]
Atlanta Medical College. [i]
Department of Agriculture. [ii]
Department of Education. [i]
Georgia Eclectic Medical College. [i]
State Library. [iii]
Young Mens’ Library Association. [ii]
Augusta.
Medical Department of University of Georgia. |i!
Young Men’s Library Association. [i]

Barnesville.

Gordon Institute Library. [i]
Blackshear.

Blackshear Library Association. |i]
Bowdon.

Bowdon College. -[i]
Brunswick.

Brunswick Library Association. [i]
Butler.

Butler Female College and Male Institute. [i]
Le eee

px

Fe
fi
4

LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Carrollton.
Reese’s High School. [i]
Cave Spring.
Georgia Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. [ii]
Columbus.
Columbus Female College. [il]
Columbus Public Library. [i]
Dahlonega.
North Georgia Agricultural College. [i]
Forsyth.
Monroe Female College. [i]
Hinesville.
Bradwell Institute (see Walthoursville).
Macon.
Georgia State Agricultural Society. [i]
Mercer University. [iii]
Pablic Library and Historical Society. [iii]
Wesleyan Female College. [i]

Milledgeville.

Georgia State Lunatic Asyium. [i]
Monroe.

Young Men’s Library. [i|
Oxford.

; Emory College. _ [iii]

Perry.

Perry Library Association. [i]
Roscoe.

Alexander H. Stephens Seminary. [i
Savannah.

Catholic Library Association. [i]
Georgia [listorical Society. [iii]
Georgia Military Academy. [i]

Talbotton.

Collingsworth Institute. [i]
Walthourville.

Bradwell Institute. [i]
West Point.

Young Men’s Library Association. fil
bo
~
=)

LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

ILLINOIS,

Abingdon.

Hedding College. [i]
Albion.

Albion Library Association. [i]
Aledo.

Mercer County Scientific Association. [i]
Aurora.

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Barry.

Library and Reading Room. [i]
Belvidere.

Ida Public Library. [i]
Bethany.

Young Men’s Christian Association.- [i]
Bloomington.

Bloomington Library Association. _ [ii]

Ulinois Wesleyan University. [iii]

Young Men’s Christian Association. — [i]
Bourbonnais Grove.

Saint Viateur’s College. [i]
Bushnell.

Western Normal College. [i]
Byron.

Byron Library. [i]
Canton.

Canton Union Graded School. fi]
Carbondale.

Southern Illinois Normal University. [ii]
Carrollton.

Carrollton Library Association. [i]
Carthage.

Carthage College. [i]
Champaign.

University of Hlinois (formerly Illinois Industrial University).

[iit]

Charleston.

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Chicago.

Agassiz Association, Chap. F. [i]

Board of Trade of the City of Chicago. [i]

Chicago Academy of Sciences. [iii]
L LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 271

Chicago—Continued.
Chicago Atheneum. [i]
Chicago College of Pharmacy. [i]
Chicago Historical Society. [iii]
Chicago Law Institute. [i]
Chicago Manual Training School. [i]
A Chicago Publie Library. [iii]
Chicago Theological Seminary. [iii]
Dearborn Observatory. [i]
ie North Division High School. [i]
iP Ridgway Ornithological Club, 2340 Wabash avenue. [i]
Saint Ignatius College. [i]
University of Chicago. [iii]
West Division High School. [i]
Western Society of Engineers. [i]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [iii]
Young Men’s Christian Association (Railroad Branch, Kinzie
street). [i]

Cuba.

Cuba Library Association. [i]
Danville.

Danville High School. [ii]

Danville Public Library. [i]

Kast Illinois College. [i]
Decatur.

Decatur High School. [i]

Free Public Library. [i]
Delavan.

Delavan High School. [i]
Dixon.

Northern Illinois Normal School (succeeds Rock River Univer-

sity). [i]

Dover.
, Dover Academy. [i]
: Dunning.
Cook County Hospital for the Insane. [i]
_ Elgin.

Elgin Academy. [i]
Elgin Public Library. [i]
Elgin Scientific Society. [i]
| Illinois Northern Hospital for the Insane. [i]
Elmhurst.
Evangelical (Protestant) Seminary (Mensch Verein). [i]
Englewood.
Cook County Normal School (see Normalville).
212 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Eureka.
Eureka College. _ [ii]
Evanston.
Evanston Free Public Library. [i]
Garrett Biblical Institute. [i]
Northwestern University. [iii]
Ewing.
Ewing College. [i]
Farmer City.
Farmer City Circulating Library. [i]
Fayetteville.
Fayetteville Library Association. [i]
Galesburg.
Knox College. [iii]
Lombard University. [ii]
Godfrey.
Monticello Female Seminary. [i]

Harvard.

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Havana.

Havana Library. [i]
Jacksonville.

Illinois Central Hospital for the Insane. [i]
Illinois College. [iii]
Nlinois Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb. [ii]
Young Men’s Christian Association.  [1|
Jerseyville.
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Joliet.
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Knoxville.
Knoxville Public Library. [i]
Saint Mary’s School. [i]
Lebanon.
McKendree Coliege. [iii]
Lincoln.
Lincoln Library Association. [i]
Lincoln University. [i]
Lombard.
Village Library. [i]
Macomb.
Macomb Free Public Library. [i]
Macomb Normal, Scientific, and Commercial College. [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. Te

Marengo.

Farmers’ Club. [i]
Mattoon.

Mattoon Public School Library. [i]

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Mendota. . :

Mendota Library Association. [i]
Monmouth.

Monmouth College. [i]

Warren County Library and Reading Room Association. [iii]
Morris.

Illinois State Horticultural Society. [i]
Morrison.

Morrison Literary and Scientific Association. [i]
Mount Morris.

Mount Morris College (Cassel Library). [iii]
Normal.

Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History. [iii]

Hlinois State Normal University. [i]
Normalville.

Cook County Normal School. [i]
Olney.

Olney Public Library. [i]

Richland Society of Natural History. [i]
Onarga.

Grand Prairie Seminary. [i]

Onarga Library. [il
Ottawa.

Ottawa Township High School. [ii]
Paris.

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Paxton.

Augustana College and Theological Seminary. (See Rock Island.)
Pekin.

Public Library Association. [i]
Peoria.

Peoria Public Library. [iii]

Peoria Scientific Association. [i]

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]

Young Men’s Christian Association (Railroad Branch). [i]
Petersburg.

Petersburg Public Library. [i]

Pittsfield.
Pittsfield Public Library. [i]
Ft eee tics :
274 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Pontiac.
Pontiac Library Association. [i]
Princeton.
Princeton Academy of Sciences. |i]
Princeton High School. [ii]
Quincy. :
Quincy High School. [i]
Quiney Library. [i]

Rantoul.

Rantoul Literary Society. [i]
Rochelle.

Rochelle Public School Library. [i]
Rockford.

Publie Library of Rockford. _ [iii]
tockford Seminary. [i]
Rock Island. :
Augustana College and Theological Seminary. [i]
Rock Island Public Library. [ii]
Roodhouse.
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i] .
Sandwich.
Sandwich Library. [i]
Sandwich Naturalists Association. [i]
Saybrook.
Ladies’ Library Association. [i]
Springfield.
Geological Survey of Illinois. [i]
Illinois State Board of Agriculture. [i]
Illinois State Board of Health. [i]
Illinois State Historical Society and Natural History Museum. [i]
Illinois State Library. [iii]
Springfield Library Association. [iii]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Sterling.
Public High School. [i]
Sterling Public Library. [i]
Upper Alton.
Shurtleff College. [i]
Urbana.
University of Illinois. (See Champaign.)
Vermillion Grove.
Vermillion Grove Academy. [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES AID

Vermont.
Union School. [i]
Virginia.
Central Illinois Science Association. _ [i|
Walshville.
Farmers’ Library. [i|
Westfield.
Westfield College. [ii]
Wheaton.
Wheaton College. [iii]
White Hall.
White Hall Library Association. [i]
Winchester.

Winchester Public School Library. [i]

INDIANA.
Anderson.

Madison County Historical Society. [il]
Bloomington.

Indiana State University. [iii]
Bourbon.

Bourbon High School. [i]
Brazil. )

Brazil Public Library Association. [i]
Brookville.

Brookville Society of Natural History. [i]
Clayton.

Indiana Horticultural Society. [i]
Crawfordsville.

Wabash College Library. [iii]
Crown Point.

Ball’s Cireulating Library. [i]

Crown Point Public School Library. [ij
Danville.
‘ Central Normal College. [i]
Delphi.

Public School Library. [i]
Evansville.

Evansville Public Library. [iii]
Fort Wayne.

Catholic Library. [i]

Concordia College, Evangelical Lutheran. _ [ii]

Fort Wayne Public School Library. [i]

276 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Frankfort.

Frankfort School Reference Library. [i]
Franklin. |

Franklin College. [i]
Garrett.

Library Association of Baltimoreand Ohio Railroad Employés. [i]
Goshen.
Goshen School City Library. [i]
Normal School. _ [i]
Greencastle.
De Pauw University (formerly Asbury University). [iii]
Mississippi Valley Horticultural Society. [i]
Public School Library. [i]
Greenfield.
Greenfield Society for the Advancement of Science. _ [i]

Greenwood.

Greenwood High School Library. [i]
Hanover.

Hanover College. [ili]
Hartsville.

Hartsville College. [i]
Huntington.

_ Public School Library. [i]

Indianapolis.
Bureau of Statistics of Indiana. [i]
Department of Geology and Natural History. [i]
Indiana Hospital for the Insane. [i]
Indiana Institution for the Education of the Blind. [i]
Indiana Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb. [i]
Indiana State Board of Agriculture. [i]
Indiana State Board of Health. [i]
Indiana State Library. [iii]
Indiana State Medical Society. [i]
Indianapolis Lyceum of Natural History. [i]
Indianapolis Public Library. _ [iii]
Mechanical Engineers’ Library and Reading Room. [i]
Medical College of Indiana. _ [ii]

Irvington.

Butler University. [iii]
Lafayette.

Purdue University. [iii]
La Porte.

Public Library and Natural History Society. [ii]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Laurel.

High School of Laurel. [i]
Lawrenceburg.

Lawrenceburg Public School Library. [i]
Logansport.

High School Library. [i]

Trinity Church Working Men’s Club. [i]
Madison.

Library Association. [i]

Merom.

Union Christian College. _ [ii]
Milltown.

Whisky Run Township Library. [i]
Mishawaka.

Mishawaka High School. [i]
Monticello.

Monticello High School. [il]
Moore’s Hill. .

Moore’s Hill College. [ii]
New Albany.

De Pauw College for Young Women. [i]

New Albany Society of Natural History. [iii]

New Albany Township Library. [i]
New Harmony.

New Harmony Working Men’s Institute. [i]
New Providence.

Borden Institute Historical Society. [i]
Notre Dame.

University of Notre Dame du Lae. [iii]
Paoli.

Working Men’s Institute. [i]
Princeton.

Princeton Library Association. _ [i]
Rensselaer.

Iroquois Library. [i]
Richmond.

Earlham College. [i]

Morrison Library. [i]
Ridgeville.

Ridgeville College. [i]
Rising Sun.

Natural History Club. [i]

277
278 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Saint Meinrad.

Saint Meinrad College. [ii]
South Bend.

City Library. [i]

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i|
Spiceland.

Spiceland Academy (Crescent Library). [i]
Terre Haute.

Indiana State Normal School. _ [ii]

Rose Polytechnic Institute. [iii]
Valparaiso.

Northern Indiana Normal School (private). [i]

Valparaiso High School. [i]
Vincennes.

Public School Library. [i]

Vincennes University. [i]
Warsaw.

Warsaw Public School Library. _ [i]

Winchester.
Winchester High School Lecture and Library Association. [i]

C]

INDIAN TERRITORY. '
Tahlequah.
Cherokee National Female Seminary. [i]
Cherokee National Male Seminary. [i]
Cherokee National Orphan Asylum. [i]

IOWA.
Albion.

Albion Seminary. [il]
Ames.

State Agricultural College.  |ii|
Bloomfield.

Academy of Science. [i]

Southern Iowa Normal School and Commercial Institute. [i]
Boone.

Public School Library. [i]
Burlington.

Burlington University. [iii]

Public Library. [i]
Cedar Falls.

Free Public Library. [i]
Cedar Rapids.

Grand Lodge of Masons of Iowa. [ii]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

College Springs.
Amity College. [i]
Council Bluffs.
Free Public Library. [il
Towa Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. [i]
Davenport.
Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences. [iii]
Griswold College. [iii]
Decorah.
Norwegian Lutheran College. [i]
Des Moines.
Des Moines Academy of Sciences. _ [i]
Des Moines Library. [i]
Drake University. [iJ
Iowa State Library. [iii]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Dexter.
Dexter Normal School. [i|
Dubuque. ;
Iowa Institute of Science and Art. [ii]
Earlham.
Earlham Public School Library. [i]
Fairfield.
Jefferson County Library Association. [ii]
Parsons College. [i]
Fayette.
Upper Iowa University. [i]
Fort Dodge.
Fort Dodge Library Association. [i]

Grinnell.

Iowa College. [iii]
Humboldt.

Humboldt College. [iii]
Independence.

Independence Free Public Library. |i]
Indianola.
Indianola Public Library. [i]
Simpson Centenary College. [ii]
Iowa City.
Grand Lodge of Masons (see Cedar Rapids).
lowa Weather Service. [i]
State Historical Society of Iowa. [iii]
State University of lowa. _[iii|

279
280 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Keokuk.
Keokuk Library Association. [ii]
Manchester.
Manchester High School (Independent School District). [i]
Manchester Reading Room (Ladies). [i]
Monticello.
Ladies’ Library Society. [i|
Monticello High School. — [i]
Mount Pleasant.
Jowa Hospital for the Insane. [i]
fowa Wesleyan University. [iii]
Philomathean Society. [i]
Ladies’ Library Association. [i]
Mount Vernon.
Cornell College. [iii]
Muscatine.
Muscatine Academy of Science. [i]
Muscatine High School. [i]
Osage.
Cedar Valley Seminary. [ii]
Oskaloosa.
Oskaloosa College. [iti]
Penn College. [i
Ottumwa.
Wapello County Natural Science Association.  [i|
River View.
Grant Township Farmers’ Club Library. [i]

Shenandoah.
Western Normal College and Shenandoah Commercial Institute.
[i]
Sutherland.
General (N. B.) Baker Library. [i]
Tabor.
Tabor College. [i]
West Union.

West Union Scientific Association. [i]
Wilton Junction.
Wilton Scientific Club. — [i]

KANSAS.
Atchison.

Kansas Baptist Association. [i]

Saint Benedict’s College. [i]
Baldwin City.

Baker University. [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 281

Black Jack.

Young Men’s Library Association. [i]
Burlington.

Otter Creek Library Association. [i]
Emporia.

State Normal School. [i]
Fort Leavenworth.
Medical Director’s Office of the Department of Missouri. {i]
Girard.
Girard Literary and Library Society. [i]
Holton.
Campbell Normal University. [i]
Lawrence.
Kansas State University. [iii]
Lawrence City Library. [ii]

Leavenworth.
Public Reading Room. [i]
Manhattan.
Kansas State Agricultural College. [iii]
Norton.
North Public School Library. [i]
Olathe.

Kansas Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb. [i]

Otiawa.
Ottawa University. [i]

Paola.

Paola Library. [i]
Salina.

Salina Normal University. [iii]
Topeka.

Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fé Railroad Company. [i]
Kansas State Board of Agriculture. [i]

Kansas State Historical Society. [ii]

Kansas State Library. [iii]

Washburn College. _ [ii]

Wellington.

Wellington Library Association. [i]
Wichita.

Wichita High School. [i]
Winfield.

Winfield Public School Library. [i|
282 ' LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

KENTUCKY.

Bowling Green.

Ogden College. [i]

State Board of Health. [i]
Cynthiana.

Cynthiana Graded School. [i]
Danville.

Centre College of Kentucky. [iii]
Eminence.

Eminence College. [i]
Farmdale.

Kentucky Military Institute. [ii]
Frankfort.

Bureau of Agriculture, Horticulture, and Statistics. [i]

Department of Public Instruction. [i]

Kentucky Geological Survey. [iii]

State Library. [i]
Garnettsville.

Salem College. [i]
Georgetown.

Georgetown College. _ [iii]
Glasgow.

Glasgow Normal School. fi]

Liberty Female College. [i]
Harrodsburg.

Harrodshurg Library Association. [i]

Hopkinsville.
Western Kentucky Lunatic Asylum. [i]
Lexington.
Agricultural and Mechanical College (see State College of Ken-
tucky).

Eastern Lunatic Asylum. [i]

Kentucky University (successor to Transylvania University).
[iii]

State College of Kentucky (formerly Agricultural and Mechan-
ical College). [i]

Louisville.

Grand Lodge of Kentucky (Masonic). [i]

Louisville College of Pharmacy. [i]

Louisville Female High School. [i]

Louisville Library Association. [ii]

Louisville Medical College. _ [i]

Louisville Press Club. [i]
LiST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 283

Louisville—Continued.
Male High School. [i]
Ohio Falls Geological Society. [i]
Polytechnic Society of Kentucky (formerly Public Library of
Kentucky). [ili]
Southern Baptist Theological Seminary (formerly at Greenville,
S.C). [it]
Maysville.
Maysville and Mason County Library, Historical and Scientific
Association. [i]
Morgantown.
Seminary and Normal School. [i]

Owensborough.
Owensborough Public School Library. [i]

Princeton.
Princeton Collegiate Institute. [i]

Richmond.
Central University. [ii]

Russellville.
* Bethel College. [iii]

LOUISIANA.
Baton Rouge.
Louisiana Historical Society. [i]
Louisiana Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. [i]
Louisiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical
College. [iii]
Convent.
Jefferson College. [i]
Grand Coteau.
Saint Charles College. [iii]
Jackson.
Centenary College of Louisiana. [i]
Insane Asylum of the State of Louisiana. [i]
New Orleans.
Board of Health. [i]
City Library. [iii]
Louisiana Historical Society (see Baton Rouge),
New Orleans Produce Exchange. [|
Soulé Commercial College and Literary Institute. [i]
State Library of Louisiana. [iii]
Tulane University (includes Fisk Free Library, New Orleans
Academy of Sciences, and University of Louisiana). [iii]
284 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

MAINE.
Augusta.
Maine Board of Agriculture. [i]
Maine Insane Hospital. [i]
Maine State Library. [iii]
Bangor.
. Bangor Public Library. _ [iii]
Bangor Theological Seminary. [iii]
Penobscot Bar Library Association. [i]
Brunswick.
Bowdoin College. [iii]
Bucksport.
East Maine Conference Seminary. [i|

Cumberland Centre.
Greely Institute. [i]

Deering.
Westbrook Seminary (Frost Library). [i]
Eastport.
Eastport Public Library Association. [i] "

Fort Preble.

Post Library of Fort Preble (see Portland),
Hebron.

Hebron Academy (Hamlin Library). [ii]
Kittery.

Rice Public Library. [i]
Lewiston.

Bates College. [i]

Manufacturers and Mechanics’ Library. _ [ii]

Teachers’ Library (Public School). [i]
Livermore.

Livermore High School. [i]
North Parsonsfield.

Parsonsfield Seminary. [i]
Oldtown.

Oldtown High School. [i]
Orono.

Maine State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts. [iii]
Portland.

Maine Historical Society. [iii]

Portland Public Library. [iii]

Portland Society of Natural History. [iii]

Post Library of Fort Preble. [i]

Saint Luke’s Cathedral Library. [il
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 285

Saco.

York Institute. [ii]
Togus.

National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers. [i]
Warren.

Warren Branch of Agassiz Association. [i]
Waterville.

Agassiz Association. (Chap. 465.) [i]

‘olby University. [iii]
Wiscasset.

Wiscasset Social Library. [i]

MARYLAND.
Agricultural College.
Maryland Agricultural College. [iii]
Annapolis.

Maryland State Library. [iii]
Saint John’s College. [iii]
United States Naval Academy. [iii]
Baltimore.
City Library. [i]
Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City. [iii]
Health Department of the city of Baltimore. [i]
House of Refuge. [i]
Johns Hopkins University. [iii]
Loyola College. [ii]
Maryland Academy of Sciences. [ii]
Maryland Historical Society. [iii]
Maryland Institute for Promotion of Mechanic Arts. _ [iii]
Maryland State Normal School. [ii]
Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of Maryland. [i|
Mercantile Library Association of Baltimore. [iii]
Peabody Institute. [iii]
Saint Mary’s University and Theological Seminary of Saint Sul-
pice. [iii]
State Board of Health.  [i|
Centreville.
Centreville Academy. [i]
Chestertown.
Washington College. [iii]
College of Saint James.
College of Saint James (High School). _fiii]
College Station.
Maryland Agricultural College (see Agricultural College).
Ellicott City.
Patapsco l’emale Institute. [i]
Rock Hill College. [i]
286 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Emmittsburg. _ .
Mount Saint Mary’s College. [ii]
Frederick.
Adam Lodge, f. 0. O. F. fi]
Frederick College. [i]
Maryland School for the Deaf and Dumb. [i] -

Hagerstown.

Thursday Club Library and Reading Room. [i]
McDonogh. .

MeDonogh School. [i]
Westminster.

Western Maryland College. _ [ii]
Webster Literary Society. [il
Williamsport.
Madeiry Lodge (Masonic). [i]
Woodstock.
Woodstock College. _ [iii]

MASSACHUSETTS.
Amherst.
Amberst College. [111]
Lawrence Observatory. [i]
Massachusetts Agricultural College. [ii]

Andover.
Andover Theological Seminary. _ [iii]
Memorial Hall Library. [iJ
Phillips Academy. [i]

Ashburnham.
Cushing Academy. [i]
Beverly.
Public Library. [i]
Billerica.
Bennett Public Library Association.  [i}
Boston.

American Academy of Arts and Sciences. [iii]

American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. _ |iii]
American Congregational Association. [i]

American Gynecological Society. [i]

American Statistical Association. {iii}

Appalachian Mountain Club [i]

Boston Art Club. [i]

Boston Athenzum. [iii]

Boston City Hospital. [i]

Boston College. [ii]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNIYED STATES. 237

Boston—Continued.
Boston Library Society. [iii]
Boston Medical Library Association. [ii]
Boston Public Library. [iii]
Boston Society of Civil Engineers. [i]
Boston Society of Natural History. [iii]
Boston University. [ii]
Boston Zoological Society. [i]
Bureau of Statistics. [i]
City Engineers’ Office. [i]
Girls’ High School. [i]
Health Department (see State Board of Health).
Horace Mann Day School for the Deaf and Dumb. [i]
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy. [i] ,
Massachusetts Historical Society. - [iii]
Massachusetts Horticultural Society. [i]
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. [iii]
* Massachusetts Medical Society. [i]
Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture. [i]
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals. [i|
Naval Library and Institute. [iti]
New England Historic-Genealogical Society. _ [iii]
New England Methodist Historical Society. [i]
Perkins Institution and Massachusetts School for the Blind. [i]
State Board of Health, Lunacy, and Charity. [i]
State Library of Massachusetts. [iii]

Bradford.
Bradford Academy. [i

Bridgewater.
Bridgewater Public Library. [i]
State Normal School. _ [ii]

Brookline.
Brookline Publie Library. _ [il]
Cambridge.
Astronomical Observatory. [i]
Botanic Garden and Herbarium. [i]
Cambridge Entomological Club. _ [i]
Episcopal Theological School of Massachusetts. [i]
Harvard Natural History Society. [i]
Harvard University. [iii]
Lawrence Scientific School. [i]
Museum of Comparative Zoology. [iii]
Peabody Museum of Am. Archeology and Ethnology. _ [iii]
288 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Cambridgeport. _

Cambridge Public Library. [ii]
Centreville.

Centreville Library Association. [i]
Chelsea.

High School. [i]
Cohasset.

Cohasset Free Public Library. [i]
College Hill.

Tufts College. [iii]
Concord.

Concord Free Public Library. [iii]
Danvers.

Peabody Institute and Library. [ii]
Easthampton.

Public Library Association. [i]
Fall River.

Fall River Public Library. [iii]
Florence.

High School. [i]
Gloucester.

Cape Ann Scientific and Literary Association. [i]

Sawyer Free Library. _ [iii]
Greenfield.

Greenfield Natural History Society. [i]
Groton. ;

Lawrence Academy. [i] &
Hardwick.

Ladies’ Free Library Association. |i]
Harvard.

Bromfield School. [i]
Harwich.

Broadbrooks Free Library. |i]
Haverhill.

Haverhill Public Library. [iii]
Hingham Centre.

Hingham Public Library. [iii]
Holbrook.

Holbrook Public Library. [i]
Ipswich.

Ipswieh Public Library. [ii]
Jamaica Plains.

Bussey Institution (Agricultural and Horticultural). [ii]
q Nantucket.

LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Lancaster.

Lancaster Town Library. [iii]
Lawrence.

Lawrence Public Library. [iii]
Leicester.

Leicester Public Library. [i]
Lenox.

Lenox Academy and Agassiz Association. [i]
Leominster.

Public Library. |[i]
Lexington.

Carey Memorial Library. [ii]
Lowell.

Green School. [i|

Lowell City Library. [iii]

Middlesex Mechanics’ Association. _ [iii]
Lynn.

Lynn Free Public Library. [ii]
Malden.

Malden Public Library. [i]
Manchester.

Manchester Public Library. [i]
Milford.

Milford Town Library. [il
Monson.

Monson Academy (Flynt & Packard Library). [i]
Nahant.

Nahant Public Library. [i]

Nantucket Atheneum. iii]

_ New Bedford.

Free Public Library of New Bedford. [iii]
New Bedford High School. [i]
Newburyport.
Newburyport Public Library. _ [iii]
Newton.
Newton Free Library. [ii]
Newton Centre.
Newton Theological Institution. [iii]
Northampton.
Clarke Institution for Deaf-Mutes. _ [i]
Northampton Free Public Library. [iii]
Northampton Lunatic Hospital. [i]
Smith College for Women, _ fii]
H. Mis. 15-19

ve

289
[hoa
290 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Northborough. |

Northborough Free Library. [i]
North Brookfield.

North Brookfield Free Public Library. [i]
North Chelmsford.

North Chelmsford Library Association. [il
Peabody.

Peabody Institute Library. _ [iii]
Pembroke.

Pembroke Free Library Association. _[i|
Pittsfield.

Berkshire Atheneum. [i]
Quincy.

Thomas Crane Public Library. [ii]
Roxbury.

Dudley Association. [i]
Fellows’ Athenzeum (formerly Roxbury Athenzum). _ [iti]
Salem.
American Association for the Advancement of Science (office of
Secretary). [i]
Essex Institute. | iii]
Peabody Academy of Science. [iii]
Salem Atheneum. [ili]
Somerville.
McLean Asylum for the Insane. [i]
South Braintree,
Thayer Public Library. [ij
Southbridge.
Southbridge Public Library. [i]
South Hadley.
Mount Holyoke Female Seminary. [ii]
Observatory. _ [i]
South Natick.
Historical and Natural History and Library Society. [ii]
South Scituate.
James Library. [i]

Springfield.
City Library Association. _ [iii] |
Stockbridge. |
Jackson Library of Stockbridge. [i] |
Taunton.

Old Colony Historical Society. [i]
Public Library. [iii]
Taunton Lunatic Hospital. [i]

LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Tyngsborough.

Tyngsborough Public Library. [i]
Vineyard Haven.

Sailors’ Free Library. [i]
Wakefield.

Beebe Town Library of Wakefield. [i]
Waltham. .

Holmes Club. [i]

Waltham Public Library. [ii]
Wareham.

Wareham High School. [i]

Warren.

Warren Public Library. [i]
Watertown.

Free Public Library. [iii]
Wayland.

Wayland Free Public Library. [i]

’ Wellesley.
Wellesley College. [iii]

West Bridgewater. eye
West Bridgewater Public Library. [i]

West Roxbury.
West Roxbury Free Library. [i]
| Weymouth.
Tufts Library. [i]
Wilbraham.
Wesleyan Academy. [i]
Williamstown.
Williams College. [iii]
Winchester.
_ Winchester Public Library. _ [ii]
Woburn.
Woburn Public Library. [iii]
Worcester.

American Antiquarian Society. [iii],

Free Public Library of the City of Worcester. [iii]

Holy Cross College. _ [iii]

State Normal School. [i]

‘Winslow Street Publie School. [i]

Worcester County Free Institute of Industrial Science. — [ii]
Worcester Lunatic Hospital. [i]

Worcester Lyceum and Natural History Association. [1]
Worcester Society of Antiquity. [i]

292 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

MICHIGAN.
Adrian.

Adrian College. [iii]
Lambda Phi Society. [i]
Adrian Scientific Society. [i]
Agricultural College.
State Agricultural College (see Lansing).
Albion.
Albion College. [iii]
Ann Arbor.
Ann Arbor High School. [i]
Observatory. [i]
University of Michigan. [iii]
Battle Creek.
Battle Creek College. [i] .
Battle Creek Public School Library. [i]
Medical and Surgical Sanitarium. [i]
Coldwater.
Free Public Library. [i
Detroit.
Detroit Medical and Library Association. [i]
Detroit Public High School. [i]
Detroit Scientific Association. [i]
Michigan State Agricultural Society. [i]
Public Library of the City of Detroit. [iii]
Eaton Rapids.
Public Library of the City. [i]
Elm Hall.
Elm Hall Graded School. [i]
Grand Haven.
Union School Library. [i]
Grand Rapids.
Kent Scientific Institute (of Grand Rapids High School). [i]
Public School Library. [ii]
West Michigan Farmers’ Club. [i]
Hillsdale.
Hillsdale College. [iii]
Kalamazoo.
Kalamazoo College. [iii]
Kalamazoo Public School Library. [i]
Ladies’ Library Association. [ii]
Michigan Asylum for the Insane. _ [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Lansing.
Michigan State Library. [iii]
Michigan State Medical Society. [i]
State Agricultural College. [iii]
State Board of Education. [i]
State Board of Health. [i]

Monroe.

Monroe Young Ladies’ Seminary. [i]
Niles.

Niles Public School Library. [i]
Olivet. .

Olivet College. [ii]
Orchard Lake.

Michigan Military Academy. |i]
Port Huron.

Ladies’ Library Association of Port Huron. [ii]
Saint Clair. é

Somerville School for Young Ladies. [i]
South Haven.

South Haven Antiquarian Society. [i]
Spring Arbor.

Spring Arbor Seminary. [i]
Sumner.

Public School Library. [i]
Wayland.

Wayland Horticultural Society. [i]
West Bay City.

Sage Publie Library. [i]
White Pigeon.

White Pigeon Grange (No. 304). {i}
Ypsilanti.

State Normal School. [i]

Ypsilanti Public School Library. [i]

MINNESOTA.

Albert Lea.

Albert Lea College for Young Ladies. [i]
Alexandria.

Alexandria Public Library. [i]
Austin.

Austin Natural History Society. [i]
Cannon River Falls.

Cannon River Falls Society of Natural Sciences. [i]
294 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Claremont. a
Claremont Public School Library. [i] |
Duluth.
Kitchi Gammi Club. [i]
Ladies’ Library Association of Duluth.  [i| :
Young Men’s Christian Association Free Reading Room. _ [ii|
Faribault.
Minnesota Institution for the Education of the Deaf, Dumb, and
Blind. [i]
Saint Mary’s Hall School. [i]
Fort Snelling.
Medical Directors’ Library of Headquarters Department of Da-

kota. [i]
Hamline.
Hamline University (formerly at Saint Paul). [i]
Mankato.

Second State Normal School. [i]
Minneapolis.
Geological and Natural History Survey of Minnesota. [i]
Minneapolis Atheneum. [i]
Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences. [i]
University of Minnesota. | [iii]
Northfield.
Carleton College. [ii] .
Observatory. [i]
‘Red Wing.
Red Wing Norwegian Evangelical Lutheran Seminary. [i]
ted Wing Ornithological Society. [i]
State Board of Health of Minnesota. [i]
Saint Cloud.
State Normal School. _ [ii]

Saint Paul.
Department of Public Instruction. [i]
Chamber of Commerce. [i]
Hamline University (see Hamline).
Macalester College. [i|
Minnesota Historical Society. [iii]
_ Saint Paul Academy of Natural Sciences. [i]
Saint Paul Public Library. [ii]
State Library. [iii]
Saint Peter.
Minnesota Hospital for the Insane. _ [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 995

Stillwater.

Stillwater Library Association. [iii]
Winona.

State Normal School. [i]

MISSISSIPPI.
Agricultural College.

Agricultural and Mechanical College. _ [iii]
- Blue Mountain.

Blue Mountain Female College. [i]
Byhalia.

Waverly Institute. [i]
Clinton.

Mississippi College. [i]

Hermenian Society. [i]

Philomathean Society. [i]
Columbus.

Columbus Public Library. [i]
Female Industrial College. [ii]
Corinth.
Graded High School. [i]
Daleville.
Cooper Institute. [ii]
Holly Springs.
Mississippi State Normal School. [i]
Jackson. =
Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb. [i]
Mississippi State Lunatic Asylum. [i]
State Library (S. I. publications transferred to Agricultural and

Mechanical College).
Natchez.

Natchez Library Association. [i]
Oxford. |
Union Female College. _ [i]
University of Mississippi. [iii]
Port Gibson.
Chamberlain-Hunt Academy. [i]
Rodney.
Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College. [i]
Summit.
Lea Female College. [i]
Washington.
Jefferson College (Academy). [ii]
West Point.
West Point Literary and Library Association. [i]
296 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

MISSOURI.

Ashley.

Watson Seminary. [i]
Avalon.

Avalon College of the United Brethren in Christ. {i}
Carthage.

Carthage Public School Library. [i]
Chillicothe.

Hazleton Public School Library. [i]
Clarksburg.

Hooper Institute. [i]
College Mound.
McGee College (see Pauline Holiness College).
Pauline Holiness College. [i] .
Columbia.
Agricultural and Mechanical College. [il
University of the State of Missouri. [iii]

Edinburgh.

Grand River College. [i]
Fayette.

Central College. [ii]
Fulton.

Missouri Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb. [i]
State Lunatic Asylum. [i]

Glasgow.
Pritchett School Institute. [i]
Morrison Observatory. [i]
Grant City.
Grant City Reform Club. [i]
Jefferson City.
Missouri Historical Society (see Saint Louis).
Missouri State Library. [iii]
Kansas City.
Kansas City Academy of Sciences. [i]
Kansas City Public Library. [ii]
Query Club. [i]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Kirksville.
North Missouri State Normal School. [iii

La Grange.
La Grange College. [i
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 297

Lebanon.

Le Clede Library Association. [i]
Liberty.

William Jewell College. [ii]
Monroe City.

Monroe Institute. [i]

Palmyra.

Saint Paul’sCollege. [i]
Parkville.

Park College. [i|
Rolla.

Missouri School of Mines and Metallurgy (Department of Uni-
versity of Missouri at Columbia). [i]
Phelps County Agricultural, Mechanical, and Horticultural So-
ciety. [i]
Saint Joseph.
College of Physicians and Surgeons. [i]
Saint Joseph’s Commercial College. [i]

Saint Louis.
College for Medical Practitioners. [i]
Law Library Association of Saint Louis. [i]
Missouri Botanical Gardens. [ii]
Missouri Historical Society. [i]
Missouri Medical College. [i]
Observatory of Washington University (see Washington Uni-
versity).
Odd Fellows’ Library. [i]
Oldberg-Wall Laboratory. ° [i]
Polytechnic School (see Washington University).
Saint Louis Academy of Sciences. _ [iii]
Saint Louis Engineer Club. [il]
Saint Louis Mercantile Library. _ [iii]
Saint Louis Public School Library. _ [iii]
Saint Louis University. [iii]
Saint Louis Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Union Literary Association. [i]
Washington University. [iii]
Observatory. [i]
Polytechnic School. [i]

Sedalia.

Sedalia Natural History Society. [i]
Springfield.

Drury College. [iii]
Stanberry.

Northwestern Normal School. fi]
298 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Warrensburg.
Public School Library. [i]
State Normal School. [ii]
Warrenton.
Central Wesleyan College. [i]

MONTANA.
Helena.
Historical Society of Montana. [ii]
Montana Library. [i]

NEBRASKA.

Crete. .

Crete Public Library. [i]

Doane College. [ii]
Exeter.

Unitarian Publie Library Association. [i]
Lincoln

Lincoln Public Library. [i]

School Library. [1]

State Library of Nebraska. [iii]

University of Nebraska (State). [i]
Nebraska City.

Otoe County Horticultural Society. [i]
Neligh.

Gates College. [i]
Omaha.

Creighton College. [il

Nebraska Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. [

oo
net

Peru.

State Normal School. [ii]
Wahoo.

Luther Academy. [i]

NEVADA.
Carson City.

State Library. [i]

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Claremont. |
Fiske Free Library. [i]
Concord.
New Hampshire Asylum for the Insane. _fi|
New Hampshire Board of Agriculture. _[i|
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 299

Concord—Continued.
New Hampshire Historical Society. [iii]
New Hampshire State Library. ° [iii]
Saint Paul’s School. [i]
State Board of Health. [i]
State Superintendent of Public Instruction. fi]

East Rindge.
East Rindge Library. [i]
Exeter.
Exeter Natural History Society. [i]
Great Falls.

Great Falls Manufacturers’ and Village Library. {ij
Hanover. ,

Dartmouth College. [iii]

Shattuck Observatory. _ [i]

New Hampshire College of Agriculture. [ii]
Hopkinton.

Hopkinton Public Library Association. [ij
Keene.

Keene Public Library. [i]
Littleton.

Littleton Graded School. [i]
Manchester.

Manchester City Library. [iii]
Marlborough.

Frost Free Public Library. [i]
Meriden.

Kimball Union Academy. [i]
Nashua.

Nashua Historical Society. [i]
New Hampton.

New Hampton Literary Institution. i]
Peterborough,

Public Library. [i]
Portsmouth.

Portsmouth Atheneum. _[iii]

Portsmouth Free Public Library. _ fii]
Shaker Village.

Society of Shakers. [i]
Somersworth.

Great Falls Manufacturers’ and Village Library (see Great Falls).
300 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

NEW JERSEY.

Atco.

Library and Nataral Science Association. [i]
Beverly.

Trinity Hall School for Young Ladies. {i}
Bloomfield.

North Jersey Botanical Olub. [ij
Burlington.

Burlington Library. _ [iii]
Hoboken.

Stevens Institute of Technology. _ {iii}
Hopewell.

Hopewell Seminary. [i]
Madison.

Drew Theological Seminary. [i]
Matawan.

Matawan Literary Society. [i]
Mont Clair.

Mont Clair Public High School. [i]

North Jersey Botanical Club (see Bloomfield).
Morristown.

Morristown Library and Lyceum. [ii]
Mount Holly.

Burlington County Lyceum of History and Natural Science. [i]
Newark.

Newark Library Association. [iii]

New Jersey Historical Society. [iii]
New Brunswick.

Gardner A. Sage Library of Theological Seminary. {ii}

Geological Survey of New Jersey. [i]

Rutgers College. [ili]

Rutgers Grammar School. [i]
Rutgers Scientific School. [i]

Newton.

Newton Library Association (Dennis Library). {ii}
Ocean Grove.

Ocean Grove Lyceum Library. [il
Paterson.

Passaic County Historical Society. [i]

Paterson Board of Trade. [i]
Pennington.

Pennington Seminary and Female Collegiate Institute. [1]

\
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 301

Plainfield.
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Princeton.
College of New Jersey. [iii]
EK. M. Museum of Geology and Archeology of the College of
New Jersey. [ii]
Halsted Observatory. [i]
John C. Green School of Science. [i]
Observatory of Instruction. [i]
Theological Seminary of the Presbyterian Church. [iii]
Rahway.
Rahway Library Association. [ii]
Trenton.
New Jersey State Lunatic Asylum. [i]
New Jersey State Normal and Model Schools. _ [ii]
State Library of New Jersey. [iii]
Trenton Natural History Society. [i]
Vineland.
Vineland Historical and Antiquarian Society. [i]
Woodbridge.
Barron Library. [il

NEW MEXICO.
Santa Fé.

Bureau of Immigration. [i]
Historical Society of New Mexico. [i]
Territorial Library. [i]

University of New Mexico. [ii]

NEW YORK.
Albany.
Albany College of Pharmacy. [il]
Albany County Penitentiary. [i]
Albany Institute. [i]
Albany Law School. [i]
Albany Medical College. [i]
Dudley Observatory. [i]
New York State Agricultural Society. [iii]
New York State Library. [iii]
New York State Museum of Natural History. [iii]
New York State Normal School. _ [iii]
Public School Library (formerly High School Library). [i]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Albion.
Albion Union School. [i]
Hart’s Library and Reading Room, [i]
302 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Alfred Centre.
Alfred University. [ii]
Observatory. [i]
Allegany.
Saint Bonaventure’s College and Seminary. [i]
Annandale.
Saint Stephen’s College. [ii]
Auburn.
Cayuga County Historical Society. [i]
Seymour Library Association. [ii]
State Asylum for Insane Criminals. _ [i]
Theological Seminary of Auburn. [ii]
Aurora.
Wells’ College for Young Ladies. [i]
Bath.
Bath Library Association. [ii]
Blackwell’s Island (near New York City).
New York City Lunatic Asylum. [i]
Boonville.
Boonville Union School and Academy. [i]
Brockport.
Brockport Natural History Club. [i]
State Normal School. [i]
Brooklyn.
Adelphi Academy. [i]
Brooklyn Entomological Society. [i]
Brooklyn Institute (Youths’ Free Library). [iii]
Brooklyn Library. _ [iii]
Club of Christian Endeavor. [i]
Department of Health. [i]
Long Island Historical Society. [iii]
Packer Collegiate Institute. - [ii]
Buffalo.
Buffalo Historical Society. [i]
Buffalo Practical School. [i]
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. [iii]
Buffalo Turn Verein. [i] ¥
Canisius College. _ [ii]
Grosvenor Library. _ [iii]
Le Conteulx Saint Mary’s Institution for Deaf Mutes, fi]
Young Men’s Association and Library. _ [iii]
Young Men’s Christian Association. ‘ [i]
Canandaigua.
Brigham Hall Hospital. [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 303

Canton.

Saint Lawrence University (Herring Library). [ii]
Clifton Springs.

Foster School. [i]
Clinton.

Hamilton College. [iii]
Litchfield Observatory. [i]
Community.
Oneida Community (Limited). [i]
Corning.
Corning Library. [ii]
Cortland.
State Normal School. {ii}
Elmira.
Elmira Female College. [i]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [ii]

Fairfield.

Fairfield Seminary. [i]
Fayetteville.

Educational Council of Onondaga County. [i]
Flushing.

Sanford Hall Asylum for Insane and Nervous Patients. _ [i]
Fordham.
Saint John’s College (see Tremont).
Fort Edward.
Fort Edward Collegiate Institute. [i]
Fort Hamilton.
Post Library, U.S. A. [i]
Fredonia.
State Normal and Training School. [i]
Geneva.
Hobart College. [iii]
New York Agricultural Experiment Station. fi]
Gloversville.
Levi Parsons Library. [i]
Goshen. e
Goshen Scientific Association. _ [i]
Governor’s Island (New York Harbor).
Free Military Service Institution (see New York City).
Hamilton.
Madison University. [iii] _
Hastings-on-Hudson.
Henry Draper Observatory (see New York City).
304 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Hornellsville.
Hornell Free Academy. [i]
Hornell Library Association. [ii]

Tlion,

Hlion Public Library. [i]
Ithaca.

Cornell University. [iii]
Jamestown.

Jamestown Union School and Collegiate Institute. [i]
Le Roy.

Ingham University. [i]
Lima.

Genesee Wesleyan Seminary (formerly Genesee College). _ [iii]
Lisle.

Lisle Union School and Academy. [i]
Little Valley.

Little Valley Union Free School. [i]
Marathon.

Marathon Academy. [i]
Mexico.

Mexico Academy. [i]
Moriah.

Sherman Academy. [i]
Mountainville.

Houghton Farm Agricultura] Library. [i]

Mount Lebanon.
Society of Shakers. [i]
New Brighton.
Natural Science Association of Staten Island. [i]
Newburgh.
Newburgh Free Library. [iii]
New York City.
Agassiz Association (Manhattan Chapter). [i]
American Bible Society. [i]
American Chemical Society. [i]
American Geographical Society. [iii]
American Institute of the City of New York. [iii]
American Institute of Mining Engineers. [i] _
American Museum of Natural History. [iii]
American Numismatic and Archeological Society. [i]
American Society of Civil Engineers. [i]
Astor Library. [iii]
Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, [iii]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 305

New York City—Continued.

Board of Home Missions of the Presbyterian Church. [i]

Bureau of Vital Statistics. [i]

Central Park Menagerie. [ii]

Century Club. [i]

Chamber of Commerce. _[i]

College of the City of New York. [iii]

College of Pharmacy of the City of New York. fii]

College of St. Francis Xavier. [iii]

Columbia College. [iii]

School of Mines of Columbia College. _ [ii]

Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art. [iii]

Department of Public Charities and Correction. _[i|

Free Circulating Library of the Socialistic Labor Party. [i]

Fulton Market Fishmongers Association. [i]

General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen (see New York
Apprentices Library).

General Theological Seminary of the Protestant Episcopal Church.
[ii

Harlem Library. [i]

Health Department of the City of New York. [Ii]

Henry Draper Observatory (Mrs. Henry Draper, 271 Madison
Avenue, Station L). [i]

House of Refuge (Randall’s Island). _ [i]

Inventor’s Institute (Cooper Union). [i]

Lenox Library. [iii]

Maimonides Library I. O. B. B. [iii]

Maritime Association of the Port of New York (Maritime Ex-
change). [i]

Medico-Legal Society of New York. [i]

Mercantile Library Association. [iii]

Metropolitan Museum of Art (Central Park). [iii]

Military Service Institution of the United States (New York
Harbor). [i]

National Board of Fire Underwriters. [i]

New York Academy of Medicine. [ii]

New York Academy of Sciences. _[iii]

New York Apprentices Library. _ [iii]

New York Board of Education. [i]

New York City Lunatic Asylum (Blackwell’s Island). [i]

New York Free Circulating Library. [il]

New York Genealogical and Biographical Society. [i]

New York Historical Society. _ [iii]

New York Hospital. [i]

New York Hungarian Society. _ [i]

New York Juvenile Asylum. [i]

H. Mis. 15 20

306 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

New York City—Continued.
New York Law Institute. [i]
New York Meteorological Observatory (Central Park). [i]
New York Microscopical Society. [i]
New York Produce Exchange. [i]
New York Society Library. [iii]
New York Trade Schools. [i]
Public School Teachers Association. [i]
Rutger’s Female College. [i]
School of Mines (see Columbia College).
Union Theological Seminary. [iii]
United States Naval Lyceum. [i]
University of the City of New York. [iii]
Xavier Union of the City of New York. [i]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [iii]
North Brookfield.
North Brookfield Union Free School. _ [i]

North Chili.

Chili Seminary. [i]
Nunda.

Nunda Union School. {i}
Onondaga.

Onondaga Academy. [i]
Oswego.

Oswego City Library. _ [ii]
Oswego State Normal and Training School. {ij
Oxford.
Oxford Academy. [i]
Penn Yan.
Penn Yan Academy. [i]
Phelps.
Red House Observatory. [i]
Union and Classical School. [ij
Pike.
Pike Seminary. [i]
Pine Plains.
Seymour Smith Academy. [i]
Port Chester.
Library and Reading Room. [i]
Poughkeepsie.
Hudson River State Hospital. [i]
Poughkeepsie City Library. _ [ii]
Vassar Brothers Institute. [i]
Vassar College. [iii]
f LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. D307
_ Rochester.
Atheneum and Mechanics Association (see Reynolds Library).
Court of Appeals. [i]

Public School Central Library. [i]

Reynolds Library. [iii]

Rochester Society of Natural Sciences. fil

Rochester Theological Seminary. [iii]

University of Rochester. [iii]

Warner Observatory. [i]

Western New York Institution for Deaf-Mutes. {i}

Rome.
Rome Academy. [i]
Round Lake.
_ Chatauqua Library (Alumni Hall). [i]
Schenectady.
Union College. _ [iii)
Schoharie.
Schoharie Academy and Union School. [i
Sing Sing.

Dr. Parson’s Private Home for Nervous Invalids. _ [i]
Sing Sing Prison Library. [i]

Skaneateles.
Skaneateles Library Association. [ij

Springville.
Springville Public Library. [i]
Springville Scientific Association. [i]

Suspension Bridge.
De Veaux College. _{iii]
Niagara University (formerly Seminary of Our Lady of Angels).

i

Syracuse. Hl
Catholic Mutual Benefit Association. [i]
Central Library. [iii]
Onondaga Historical Association. [i]
Syracuse University. [iii]

Zeta Psi Society (Gamma Ohapter). |i]

Tremont (formerly Fordham).
Saint John’s College. [iii]

Troy.
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. [ii]
Rensselaer Society of Civil Engineers (formerly Pi Eta Scientific

Society). fil

Troy Female Seminary. _ [iii]
Troy Young Men’s Association. _ [iii]
William Proudfit Observatory. [i]
308 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Utica.
Oneida Historical Society. [i]
State Lunatic Asylum. [ili]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
West Chester.
Sacred Heart Academy. [i]
West Point.
United States Military Academy. [iii]
Observatory. [i]
White Plains.
West Chester County Historical Society. [i]
Whitestone.
Engineer School of Application of United States Army. [iii]
Willard.
Willard Asylum for the Insane. [i]
Yonkers.
Yonkers Free Reading Room. [il
Yonkers Publie Library. [i]

NORTH CAROLINA.

Chapel Hill.

University of North Carolina. _ [iii]
Davidson College.

Davidson College. _ [iii]
Jonesborough.

High School. [i]

Lenoir.
Davenport Female College. [ii]
Pioneer Library of North Carolina. _ [i]
Mocksville.
Mocksville Male Academy. [i]
Moravian Falls.
Moravian Falls Academy. [i]
Olin.
Olin Male Academy. [I|
Raleigh.
North Carolina Agricultural Experiment Station. [i]
North Carolina Insane Asylum. [i]
North Carolina Institution for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind. fi}
North Carolina State Library. [ili]
Salisbury.
Salisbury Graded School. [i]
Sparta.
Sparta Institute (Alleghanian Literary Society). [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Taylorsville.

Taylorsville Academy. [i]
Trap Hill.

Trap Hill Institute and Library. {i}
Trinity College.

Trinity College. [iii]
Wake Forest.

Wake Forest College. [ii]
Warrenton.

Warrenton Female Collegiate Institute. [ii]
Weaverville.

Weaverville College. [i]
Wilmington.

Historical and Scientific Society. [i]

State Board of Health. [i]

OHIO.
Akron.

Akron Scientific Club. [i]
Buchtel College. [i]
Albany. -
; Wells Library (see Lee).
Ashland.
Ashland College Library. [i]
Ashtabula.
Ashtabula Social Library Association. [i]
Athens.
Ohio University. [iii]
Austinburg.
Grand River Institute. _ [i]
Barnesville.
Barnesville Public and School Library. _ [i]
Bellaire.
Public School Library. [i]
Bellefontaine.
Bellefontaine Public School. [i]
Cadiz.
Public Library. [i]
Caldwell.
Caldwell High School Library. [i]
Canal Dover.
Dover Public School Library and Museum. [il]
Carthage.
Longview Asylum for the [nsane. [i]

9

309
510 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Celina.
Celina Library Association. [i}
Cincinnati,
Cincinnati Hospital.
Cincinnati Museum Association. [i]
Cincinnati Society of Natural History. [iii]
Cincinnati University. [iii]
Observatory. [i]
Cincinnati Wesleyan College. _ [ii]
Cuvier Club of Cincinnati. [i]
Hebrew Union College. [i]
Historical and Philosophical Society of Ohio. _ [iii]
Hughes High School. [i]
Lane Theological Seminary. _ [iii]
Medical College of Ohio. [i]
Mussey Medical and Scientific Library (see Public Library of Cin-
cinnati).
Public Library of Cincinnati. [iii]
Woodward High School. [i]
Young Men’s Mercantile Library Association. [iii]
Zoological Society of Cincinnati. [i]
Cleveland.
Board of Health. [i]
Case Library (formerly Cleveland Library Association). [iii]
Case School of Applied Sciences. _ [ii]
Charity Hospital. [i] ‘
Cleveland Library Association (see Case Library).
Cleveland Medical College (Medical Department Western Reserve
University). [i]
Cleveland Public library. [iii]
Western Reserve and Northern Ohio Historical Society. [i]
Western Reserve University. [iii]
College Hill.
Belmont College (formerly Farmer’s College). [iii]
Columbus.
Bureau of Statistics of Labor. fi]
Columbus Art School and Association. [i]
Columbus Asylum for the Insane. [i]
Ohio Meteorological Bureau. [i]
Ohio State Board of Agriculture. [iii]
Ohio State Library. [iii]
Ohio State University. [ii]
Public Library and Reading Room of the city of Columbus. [ii] ©
Public School Library. {i' i

A

‘
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Dayton.

Public Library. [iii]
Delaware.

Ohio Wesleyan University (Sturges Library). [iii]
Elyria.

Elyria Library. [i]
Fayette.

Fayette Normal, Music, and Business College. [i]
Flushing. .

Flushing Public Library. _ [i]
Fremont.

Birchard Library. _ [ii]
Gambier.

Kenyon College. _ [iii]
Garrettsville.

Garrettsville Union Schools. [ij
Glendale.

Glendale Female College. [i]
Granville.

Denison University. [iii]

_ Hamilton.

High School Library. [i]

Hillsborough.

Hillsborough Female College. [i]
Public Library. [il

Hiram.
Hiram College. [ii]
Hopedale.
Hopedale Normal College. [i]
Lebanon.
Mechanics’ Institute. _ [ii]
National Normal University. [i]
Lee.
Wells Library. [i]
Mansfield.
Mansfield Lyceum Library. [i]
Marietta.
Marietta College. [iii]
Martin’s Ferry.

Martin’s Ferry Library Association. fi]
Medina.
Medina Public School Library. _ [i]

It
ol? LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Morristown.
Public School Library. [i]
Mount Lookout.
Observatory (see Cincinnati).
Mount Union.
Mount Union College. [i]
National Military Home.
National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers. [i]
Newark. .
Licking County Pioneer, Historical, and Antiquarian Society. [i]
Public Library of Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
New Athens.
Franklin College. [i]
New Concord.
Muskingum College. [i]

Norwalk.
Library and Reading Room Association. [ij
Oberlin.
Oberlin College. [iii]
Oxford.
Miami University. [iii]
Painesville.
Lake Erie Female Seminary. _ [ii]
Pataskala.

Pataskala Public School Library. [i]
Pleasant Ridge.
Pleasant Ridge Library. [i
Poland.
Everett Literary Society of Poland Union Seminary. fi]
Portsmouth.
Portsmouth Public Library. [i]
Richmond.
Richmond College. [i]
Ripley.
Women’s Christian Temperance Union. [i]
Saint Clairsville.
Public School Library. [i]
Savannah.
Savannah Academy and Scientific Association. [i]
Scio.
Scio College. [i]
Go

LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 31

Shreve.

Shreve High School Literary Society. [i]
Sidney.

Clinton Club Library. [i]

Springfield.

Public Library. [iii]

Springfield Seminary. [i]

Wittenberg College. [iii]

Philosophian Society. [i]
Steubenville.

Female Seminary. [i]

Odd Fellows’ Library. [i]

Steubenville Public School Library. [i]
Stockton.

_ Stockton Library. , [i]
Tiffin. .

Heidelberg College. _ [iii]

Heidelberg Theological Seminary. [i]
Toledo. .
Public Library of Toledo. [iii]

Urbana.
Central Ohio Scientific Association. [i]
Urbana University. [ii]

Wellsville.

Cleveland and Pittsburgh Railroad Reading Association. _[i|
Westerville.

Otterbein University. [iii] °
Wilberforce.

Wilberforce University. [i]
Wooster.

University of Wooster. _ [iii]

Yellow Springs.
Antioch College. _ [iii]

OREGON.
East Portland.
Oregon Hospital for the Insane. [ij
Eugene City.

University of Oregon. [iii]
Forest Grove. |

Tualatin Academy and Pacific University. _ [iii]
Philomath.

Philomath College. _ [i}
314 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Portland.
Bishop Scott Grammar and Divinity School. [ii]
Library Association of Portland. [iii]

Salem.
Oregon State Library. [iii]

PENNSYLVANIA.

Allegheny.

Allegheny Observatory. [i]

Bayard Taylor Literary Association. [i]

Public School Library. _ [i]

Western Pennsylvania Theological Seminary. [iii]

Western State Penitentiary. [i]

Western University of Pennsylvania. [ii]
Annville.

Lebanon Valley College. [i]
Beatty’s Station.

Saint Vincent’s Abbey and College. [i]
Beaver. :

Beaver College and Musical Institute. [i]
Beaver Falls,

Geneva College. [i]
Bethlehem.

Lehigh University (see South Bethlehem).

Moravian College and Theological Seminary. [i]

Moravian Seminary for Young Ladies. [i]
Blairsville?

Blairsville Ladies’ Seminary. [i]
Blossburg.

Graded Public High School. [i]
Brumfieldville.

Amity Library Association. [i]
Bryn-Mawr.

Bryn-Mawr College. [|
Butler.

Witherspoon Institute. [i]
California.

Southwestern State Normal School. [i]
Carlisle.

Dickinson College. [iii]
Clarion.

Carrier Seminary of Western Pennsylvania. [i]
Clearfield.

Leonard Literary Association and Library. [il
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. mS)

Collegeville.
Ursinus College. [i]
Concordville. ;
Concord Select School (see Ward).
Danville.
State Hospital for the Insane. [i]
Dixmont.
Western Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane. [i]
Easton.
American Institute of Mining Engineers. (Removed to New
York City.)
Easton Library. [ii]
Lafayette College. [iii]
Edinborough.
State Normal School. [iJ
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Elizabethville.
Washington Literary Society. [i]
Erie.
Erie Natural History Society. [i]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Frankford.
Agassiz Association, Frankford Chapter. [i]
Asylum for the Relief of Persons Deprived of their Reason (Phil-
adelphia). [i]
Franklin.
Franklin High School. [i]
Germantown.
Friend’s Free Library and Reading Room. {ii}
Germantown Library Association. [ii]
Workingmen’s Club of Germantown. ° [i]
Gettysburg.
Pennsylvania College. [iii]
Theological Seminary of the General Synod of the Evangelical
Lutheran Church. _ [iii]

Greensburg.

Underwood Library. [i]
Greenville.

Theil College of the Evangelical Lutheran Church. [i]
Harrisburg.

Dauphin County Historical Society. [i]

Geological Survey (see Philadelphia.)

Harrisburg Public School Library Association. |i]
Pennsylvania State Library. [iii]

State Lunatic Hospital. |i]
316 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Hatborough.

Union Library. [il
Haverford.

Haverford College. _ [iii]

Observatory. [i]

Hereford.

Hereford Literary Society. [i]
Honesdale.

Honesdale School Library. _ [ii]
Huntingdon.

Huntingdon Public School Library. [i]

Normal College. [i]
Jefferson.

Monongahela College. [i]
Kirk's Mills.

Fulton Farmers’ Club. [i]
Kutztown.

Keystone State Normal School. [i]
Lancaster.

Franklin and Marshall College. [iii

Géethean Literary Society.  [i)

Linnean Scientific and Historical Society. [i]
Lewisburg.

University at Lewisburg. [iii]
Lincoln University.

Lincoln University (formerly at Oxford). [iii]
Litiz.

Linden Hall Seminary. [ij

Lock Haven.

Central Normal School. [i]
Mansfield.

State Normal School. _ [ii]
Marietta.

Marietta Lyceum of Natural History. [i]

Meadville.
Allegheny College. [iii]

Library, Art and Historical Association (formerly City or Public

Library). [ii]
Meadville Theological School. _ [iii]
Public High School of the City of Meadville. [i]
Mechanicsburg.
Mechanicsburg Library and Literary Society. [i]
Media.
Delaware County Institute of Science. [iii]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Mercersburg. .

Washington Irving Literary Society of Mercersburg College.
_ Millersville.
State Normal School of Second District. [i]

Monongahela City.

Hazzard Institute Library. [i]
Muncy.

Muncy Normal School. _ [i]
Natrona.

Natrona Library. [i]
New Brighton.

Young Men’s Library Association. _ [i]
New Lebanon.

McElwain Institute. [i]
New Wilmington.

Westminster College. [iii]
Norristown.

Norristown High School. [i]

Hospital for the Insane. _[i|

Orwell.
Orwell Library Association. [i]
Overbrook.
Theological Seminary of Saint Charles Borromeo. [iti]
Oxford.
Lincoln University (see Lincoln University). —
Oxford Library. [i]
Philadelphia.
Academy of Natural Sciences. _ [iii]
American Baptist Publication Society. [iii]
American Entomological Seciety. [i]
American Philosophical Society. [iii]
Anglers’ Association of Eastern Pennsylvania. [i]
Apprentices’ Library Company. _ [iii]
Atheneum of Philadelphia. [iii]
Board of Education of the Presbyterian Church. [i]
Board of Health of the City and Port of Philadelphia. [i]
Board of Public Education. [i]
Central High School. [ii]
College of Physicians of Philadelphia. [i]
Eastern State Penitentiary. [i]
Engineers’ Club of Philadelphia. [i]
Franklin Institute. [iii]
Friends’ Central School. [i]
Friends’ Library of Philadelphia.

ro bi

|i]
318 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Philadelphia—Continued.
German Society. [iii]
Girard College for Orphans. [iii]
Girls’ Grammar School for the Second School Section. [i]
Historical Society of Pennsylvania. [iii]
Home for I’. and A. Masons (Masonic Temple). [ii]
La Salle College. [i]
Library Association of Friends of Philadelphia. [iii]
Library Company of Philadelphia. [iii]
Mercantile Library Company of Philadelphia. [iii]
Naval Hospital. [i]
Nebinger Boys’ Grammar School. [il
Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of Philadelphia. [i]
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. [i]
Pennsylvania Board of Public Charities. [i]
Pennsylvania Hospital. [iii] :
Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane. [i|
Pennsylvania Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. [il]
Pennsylvania Institution for the Instruction of the Blind. [i]
Philadelphia Association of Manufacturers of Textile Fabrics. [i]
Philadelphia Board of Trade. [i]
Philadelphia Club. [i]
Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. [iii] ©
Philadelphia Drug Exchange. [i]
Philadelphia Maritime Exchange. [i]
Philadelphia School of Design for Women. [i]
Philadelphia Social Science Association. [i]
Presbyterian Board of Publication. [iii]
Presbyterian Historical Society. [i]
Preston Retreat. [i]
St. Clement’s Workingmen’s Club and Institute. [i]
Second Geological Survey of Renney ania (removed from Har-

risburg). [i]

Southwark Library. [iii]
Teachers’ Institute of the City and County of Philadelphia. ua
Union League Club. [i]
University of Pennsylvania. [iii]
Wagner Free Institute of Science. [i]
West Philadelphia Medical Book Club. [i]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [ii]
Zoological Society of Philadelphia. [i]

Pittsburgh.
German Library Association (Deutscher Leseverein). [i]
Mereantile Library (see Pittsburg Library Association).
Pennsylvania Female College. [ii]
Pittsburgh College of Pharmacy. [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 319

Pittsburgh—Continued.
Pittsburgh Female College. [ii]
Pittsburgh Library Association. [iii]
Reading.
Reading Library. _ [iii]
Reading Society of Natural Sciences. [i]
Saint Paul’s Church Library. [i]
Spencer F. Baird Naturalists’ Association. _ fi]
Rimersburg.
Clarion Collegiate Institute. [i]
Scranton.
Seranton High School. [i]
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Sewickley.
Sewickley Academy. [i]
Sewickley Public Library. [i]
Sheakleyville. ;
Sheakleyville Academy. [i]
South Bethlehem.
Lehigh University. [iii]
. Sayre Observatory. [i]
South Hermitage.
Pequea Presbyterian Church Public Library. [i].
State College.
Pennsylvania State College. [ii]

Swarthmore.

Swarthmore College Library. [iii]
Tarentum.

Odd Fellows’ Library. [i]
Titusville.

Titusville Library Association. [i]
Towanda.

Scientific Society of Susquehanna Institute. [i]
Troy:

Troy Graded and High School Library. [i]
Turtle Creek.

Western Pennsylvania Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. [i]

_ Wallingford.

Wallingford Natural History Society. [i]

Ward.

Ward Academy (formerly Concord Select School). [i]

Warren.
Warren Public Library. [i]
320 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Washington.

Washington and Jefferson College. _ [iii]
Waynesburg.

Waynesburg College. [i]
Wellsborough.

Academic Literary Society. [i]
West Chester.
State Normal School. [iii]

Wilkes-Barre.

Wyoming Historical and Geological Society. [iii]
York.

United Library Association of York. [i]

RHODE ISLAND.

Ashaway.

Ashaway Free Library and Reading Room Association. [i]
Newport.

Naval Institute. [ii]

Newport Natural History Society. [i]

Redwood Library and Athenzum. [iii]
Pascoag.

Pascoag Public Library. [i]
Providence.

Brown University. [iii]

Butler Hospital for the Insane. [i]

Friends’ Boarding School. [ii]

Providence Atheneum. [ili]

Providence Public Library. [ii]

Rhode Island Historical Society. [iii]

Rhode Island Society for the Encouragement of Domestic In-

dustry. [i]

Seagrove Observatory. [i]

State Board of Education. [i]

State Board of Health. [i]

State Normal School. [ii]
Westerly.

Paweatuck Library. [i]

Woonsocket.
Harris Institute Library. [ii]

SOUTH CAROLINA.
Aiken.
Aiken Library and Palmetto Club. [i]
Cedar Spring.
South Carolina Institution for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind. [i]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 3

bo
—r

Charleston.
Charleston Library Society. _ [iii]
College of Charleston. [iii]
Elliot Society of Science and Art (formerly Elliot Society of Nat-
ural History). [i]
Medical College of the State of South Carolina. [iii]
South Carolina Historical Society. [i]
Chester.
Brainerd Institute. [i]
Columbia.
State Board of Education. [i]
State Library. [iii]
Theological Seminary (Presbyterian). [i]
Due West.
Erskine College. [ii]
Greenville.
Furman University. [iii]
Southern Baptist Theological Seminary (removed to Louisville,
Ky.).
Newberry.
Newberry College. [i]
Orangeburg.
Claflin University and College of Agriculture. _ [i]

TENNESSEE.

Bell’s Depot.

Bell’s Public Library. [i]
Bloomington.

Bloomington College. [i]
Blountville.

New Bethel Institute. [i]
Boring.

Sunrise Institute. [i]
Bristol.

Female College. [i]
Chattanooga.

Chattanooga Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Clarksville.
Southwestern Presbyterian University (successor to Stuart Col-
lege). [i]
Cog Hill.
Cane Creek Collegiate Institute. _ [i]

H. Mis. (5 21

S22, LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Columbia.
Columbia Athenzum. [ii]
Female Institute. [i]
Gallatin.
Howard Female College. [i]
Greeneville.
Greeneville and Tusculum College (see Tusculum).
Hiwassee College.
iiwassee College. [ii]
Jackson.
Southwestern Baptist University. [ii]
Knoxville.
East Tennessee University and Agricultural College (see Uni-
versity of Tennessee).
Public Library of Knoxville. _ [i]
Tennessee School for the Deaf and Dumb. [i]
University of Tennessee (formerly East Tennessee University).

[iii]
Lawson.
Camp-ground Institute. [i]
Lebanon.
Cumberland University. _ [iii]
Lewisburg.
Lewisburg Institute. [i]
Maryville.
Maryville College and Theological Seminary. [iii]
McKenzie.
McTyeire Institute (formerly McKenzie College). [i]
McMinnville.
MeMinnville Library Association. [i]
Memphis.
Christian Brothers’ College. _ [ii]
Odd Fellows’ Public Library. [i]
Nashville.
Central Tennessee College [i]
Meharry Medical College. [i]
Montgomery Bell Academy. [i]
Nashville Medical College (medical department of University of
Tennessee). [i]
Tennessee Historical Society. [i]
Tennessee School for the Blind. [ii]
Tennessee State Library. [iii]
University of Nashville. [iii]
Vanderbilt University. [iii]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Piney Flats.

Wayside Academy. [i]
Pulaski.

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Rugby. ‘

Hughes’ Free Public Library. [ii]
Rutledge.

Madison Academy. [i]
Sewanee.

University of the South. [iii]
Tusculum.

Greeneville and Tusculum College. {ii}
Winchester.

Mary Sharpe Oollege. [i]

TEXAS,

Austin.

State Lunatic Asylum. [i]

Texas Deaf and Dumb Asylum. [i]

Texas State Library. [iii]

University of Texas. [iii]
Bonham.

Bonham Library. [i]
Brackettville.

Post Library, Fort Olark. [i]
Brazoria.

Brazoria Academy. [i]
Campbell.

Campbell High School. [i]
Carthage.

Carthage High School. [i]
Center.

Center High School. [i]
College Station.

State Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas.
Comfort.

Comfort Agricultural Association. [i]
Commerce.

Commerce College. _ [i]
Dallas.

Dallas Literary and Library Association. [i]
Fort Clark.
Military Post Library (see Brackettville).

[ii]

23.
324 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN. UNITED STATES.

Galveston.
Free Library. [i]
Galveston Cotton Exchange. [i]
Protestant Orphan Asylum. [i]

Georgetown. :

Southwestern University. [i]
Gilmer.

Lone Star Academy. [il]
Greenville.

Greenville Academy. [i]
Henderson.

Henderson Male and Female College. [i]
Honey Grove.

McKenzie Library of the Honey Grove High School. [i]
Houston.

Texas State Geological and Scientific Association. {i}
Independence.

Baylor University. |i]
Kilgore.

Alexander Institute. [i]
Kingston. 7

Kingston Academy. |i]
Longview.

Longview High School. [i]
Marshall.

Bishop Baptist College. [i]

Masonic Institute. [i]

Wiley University. [i]
Mineola.

Mineola High School. [i]
Mount Calm.

Mount Calm Lyceum. [i]

Omen.

Summer Hill College. [i]
Palestine.

Academy oi Science of Texas. [i]
Rhea’s Mill.

Rhea’s Mill Academy. [i]
Sherman.

Austin College. [i]
Tehuacana.

Trinity University (Tehuacana College). [iJ
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 325

Tvler.
East Texas College. [i]

Waco,
Literary and Scientific Association. [i]
Waco University. [i]

UTAH.

Salt Lake City.

Deseret Museum. [i]

Masonie Library. [i]

Salt Lake Collegiate Institute. [i]

Salt Lake Mining Institute. [i]

Utah Territorial Library. [iii]

University of Deseret. [iii|

VERMONT.
Barnet.
Ladies’ Library. [i]
Brattleborough.
Vermont Asylum for the Insane. [i]
Burlington.

Fletcher Free Library. [iii]
Public School Department. [i]
University of Vermont. [iii]
Vermont Episcopal Institute. [i]

Castleton.

Castleton State Normal School. _ [iii]
Lunenburgh.

Cutting’s Public Library and Museum. [i]
Middlebury.

Middlebury College. [iii]

Sheldon’s Art Museum Archeological and Historical Society. [i]
Montpelier.

State Cabinet of Natural History. [i]

Vermont Historical Society. _ [iii]

Vermont Methodist Seminary and Female College. [i]

Vermont State Library. [iii]

Newbury.

Newbury Seminary and Ladies’ Institute. [i]
Northfield.

Lewis College (formerly Norwich University). [i]
Randolph.

State Normal School. [i]
326 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Saint Johnsbury.
Saint Johnsbury Athenzum. _[iii|
Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Strafford.
Harris Library (Public Library). _ [ii]
Thetford.
Latham Memorial Library. [i]
Thetford Academy. [i]
West Pawlet.
Literary Circle Library. [i]
Windsor.
Windsor Library Association. [i]

VIRGINIA.

Alexandria.

Episcopal High School of Virginia. fi]
Ashland.

Randolph Macon College. [iii]
Blacksburg.

Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College. [ii]
Christiansburg.

Montgomery Female College. [i]
Crozet.

Miller Manual School. [i]
Culpeper.

Piedmont Agricultural Society. [il
Emory.

Emory and Henry College. _ [iii]
Fortress Monroe.

United States Artillery School. [i]
Hampden Sidney.

Hampden Sidney College. [iii]
Hampton.

Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute. [1]
Leesburg.

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Lexington.

Virginia Military Institute. _ [iii]

Washington and Lee University. [iii]

School of Civil and Mining Engineering. [i]

National Soldiers’ Home.

Soldiers’ Home (Southern Branch). [i]
Newmarket.

Polytechnic Institute. _ [ii]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Norfolk.

United States Naval Hospital. [i]

Norfolk Mission College. [i]

Webster Literary and Scientific Institute. [i]
«Norwood.

Norwood High School and College. _ [i]
Petersburg.

Petersburg Benevolent Mechanics’ Association. [i]

Virginia Normal and Collegiate Institute. [i]
Richmond.

Richmond Academy of Medicine. [i]

Richmond College. _ [iii]

Richmond High School. [i]

Virginia Department of Agriculture. [i]

Virginia Historical Society. [iii]

Virginia State Library. [iii]

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
Salem.

Roanoke College. _ [iii]
Snowville.

Snowville Library Association. [i]
Theological Seminary.

Protestant Episcopal Theological Seminary. _ [iii]
Unison.

Unison Public Library. [i]
University of Virginia.

University of Virginia. [iii]

Leander McCormick Observatory. [i]

Williamsburgh.
Eastern Lunatic Asylum. [i]

WASHINGTON TERRITORY.

Anacortes.

Alden Academy. [iJ
Cheney.

Cheney (Benjamin P.) Academy. [i]
Dayton.

Dayton Library Association. [i]
Fort Steilacoom.

Hospital for the Insane. [i]
Olympia.

Territorial Library. |i]
Seattle.

Public School Library (Denning School). [i]

327
528 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Seattle—Continued.
University of Washington Territory. [ii]
Yesler College. [i]
Spokane Falls.
Spokane Library Association. [i]
Tacoma.
Annie Wright Seminary. [i]
Tacoma Chamber of Commerce. [i]
Vancouver.
Vancouver College. [i]
Walla Walla.
Association for the Advancement of Science. [i]
Whitman College and Seminary. [ii]

WEST VIRGINIA.

Bethany College.

Bethany College. [iii]
Charleston.

State Library. [iii]
Flemington.

West Virginia College. [ii]
Huntington.

Huntington Public School Library. [i]

Marshall College (State Normal School). [i]
Huttonsville.

Agricultural and Pomological Society. [i]
Morgantown.

Morgantown Female Seminary. [i]

West Virginia University and Agricultural College. [ili]
Romney.

West Virginia Institute for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind. {i}
Shepherdstown.

Shepherd College. [i]
Weston.

West Virginia Hospital for the Insane. [i]
Wheeling.

State Library (see Charleston).

Wheeling Public Library. [i]

WISCONSIN.
Antigo.
Wisconsin Geographical Society. [i]
Appleton.
Lawrence University (Appleton Library). [iii]
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES. 329

Beaver Dam.
Beaver Dam Public Library. [il]
Wayland University. [i]

Beloit.

Beloit College. _ [iii]
Burlington.

Burlington School Library. [i]
Delavan.

Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb. [i]
De Pere.

Agassiz Association. Chapter B. No. 148. [i]
Evansville.

Evansville Seminary. |i]
Franklin.
College of the Mission of the Northwestern Synod of the Re-
formed Church. [i]

Galesville.
Galesville University. [i]

Janesville.
Wisconsin Institution for the Edueation of the Blind. [i]

Lake Geneva.
Lake Geneva Seminary. [il

Madison.
Madison High School. [i]
State Agricultural Society. [i]
State Historical Society of Wisconsin. _ [iii]
University of Wisconsin. [iii]
Washburn Observatory. {ij
Mendota.
Wisconsin State Hospital for the Insane. _ [i]

Milwaukee.

Milwaukee College (female). [i]

Mortimer Memorial Library. [i]

Milwaukee Public Library (formerly Young Men’s Association
Library). [iii]

Milwaukee Public School Teachers’ Library. [i]

National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers (Northwestern
Branch). [i]

Naturhistorischen Verein. _[i|

Public Museum of the City of Milwaukee. [i]

Wisconsin Natural History Society. [i]

Young Men’s Association Library (see Milwaukee Publie Li-
brary).

Young Men’s Christian Association. [i]
330 LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IN UNITED STATES.

Osceola Mills.
Osceola Graded School (successor to High School). [i]

Platteville.
Wisconsin State Normal School. _ [iii]

Racine.

Racine College. [iii]
Ripon.

Ripon College. fi]
River Falls.

State Normal School. [i]
Shawano.

Shawano City High School. [i]
Sinsinawa.

Saint Clara Academy (female). [i]
Watertown.

Watertown High School. [i]
Waupun.

Waupun Library Association. [i]
Whitewater.

State Normal School. [i]

WYOMING TERRITORY.
Cheyenne.
Territorial Library. [ii]
Wyoming Academy of Art, Science, and Letters. [i]
Laramie City.
Public School Library. [i]
Wyoming Library and Literary Association. [i
CIRCULAR RELATIVE TO A MATHEMATICAL PRIZE.

Prof. SPENCER F. BAIRD,

Sir: I beg to transmit to you the following communication, that will
shortly appear in the journal Acta Mathematica, of which 1 am chief
editor:

‘‘His Majesty Oscar II wishing to give a fresh proof of his interest
in the advancement of mathematical science, an interest already mani-
fested by his graciously encouraging the publication of the journal
Acta Mathematica, which is placed under his august protection, has
resolved to award a prize, on the 21st of January, 1889, the sixtieth
anniversary of his birthday, to an important discovery in the field of
higher mathematical analysis. This prize will consist in a gold medal
of the eighteenth size bearing His Majesty’s image and having a value
of a thousand francs, together with a sum of two thousand five hun-
dred crowns (1 crown equal to about 1 franc 40 centimes).

‘‘His Majesty has been pleased to intrust the task of carrying out
His intentions to a commission of three members, Mr. Carl Weierstrass
in Berlin, Mr. Charles Hermite in Paris, and the chief editor of this
journal, Mr. Gédsta Mittag Leffler in Stockholm. The commissioners
having presented a report of their work to His Majesty, he has gra-
ciously signified his approval of the following final propositions of theirs:

‘‘ Having taken into consideration the questions which from different
points of view equally engage the attention of analysts, and the solu-
tion of which would be of the greatest interest for the progress of
science, the commission respectfully proposes to His Majesty to award
the prize to the best memoir on one of the following subjects:

“1, A system being given of a number whatever of particles attract-
ing one another mutually according to Newton’s law, it is proposed, on
the assumption that there never takes place an impact of two particles,
to expand the co-ordinates of each particle in a series proceeding accord
ing to some known functions of time and converging uniformly for any
space of time.

“It seems that this problem, the solution of which will considerably
enlarge our knowledge with regard to the system of the universe, might
be solved by means of the analytical resources at our present disposi-
tion; this may at least be fairly supposed, because shortly before his
death Lejeune-Dirichlet communicated to a friend of his, a mathema-
tician, that he had discovered a method of integrating the differential
equations of mechanics, and that he had succeeded, by applying this
method, to demonstrate the stability of our planetary system in an ab-

331
gon CIRCULAR RELATIVE TO A MATHEMATICAL PRIZE.

solutely strict manner. Unfortunately we know nothing about this
method, except that the starting point for its discovery seems to have
been the theory of infinitely small oscillations.* It may however be
supposed almost with certainty that this method was not based on long
and complicated calculations, but on the development of a simple fund-
amental idea, which one may reasonably hope to find again by means
of earnest and persevering study.

‘‘ However, in case no one should succeed to solve the proposed prob-
lem within the period of the competition, the prize might be awarded
to a work in which some other problem of mechanics is treated in the
indicated manner and completely solved.

‘©2. Mr. Fuchs has demonstrated in several of his memoirst that
there exist uniform functions of two variables which, by their mode of
generation, are connected with the ultra elliptical functions, but are
more general than these, and which would probably acquire great im-
portance for analysis, if their theory were further developed.

‘It is proposed to obtain, in an explicit form, those functions whose
existence has been proved by Mr. Fuchs, in a sufficiently general case,
so as to allow of an insight into and study of their most essential
properties.

“3. A study of the functions defined by a sufficiently general differ-
ential equation of the first order, the first member of which is a rational
integral function with respect to the variable, the function, and its first
differential coefficient.

‘Mr. Briot and Mr. Bouquet have opened the way for such a study
by their memoir on this subject (Journal de l’école polytechnique, cahier
36, pp. 133-198). But the mathematicians acquainted with the results
attained by these authors know also that their work has not by far ex-
hausted the difficult and important subject which they have first treated.
It seems probable that, if fresh inquiries were to be undertaken in the
same direction, they might lead to theorems of high interest for analysis.

“4, Itis weli known how much light has been thrown on the genera!
theory of algebraic equations by the study of the special functions to
which the division of the circle into equal parts and the division of the

*See p. 35 of the Panegyric on Lejeune-Dirichlet by Kummer, Abhandlungen der
Kk. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin, 1860.

t These memoirs are to be found in—(1) Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der
Wissenschaften zu Gottingen, February, 1889, p.170. (2) Borchardt’s Journal, Bd.
89, p. 251. (A translation of this memoir is to be found in the Bulletin of Mr. Dar-
boux, 2:me série, t.1v.) (3) Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften
zu Gottingen, June, 1880, p. 445 (translated into French in the Bulletin of Mr. Dar-
boux, 2me série, t.Iv). (4) Borchardt’s Journal, Bd. 90, p.71 (also in the Bulletin of
Mr. Darboux, 2me série, t.Iv). (5) Abhandlungen der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschat-
ten zu GOéttingen, 1881 (Bulletin of Mr. Darboux,t. Vv). (6) Sitzungsberichte der K.
Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin, 1883,1,p.507. (7) The memoir of Mr. Fuchs
published in Borchardt’s journal, Bd..76, p. 177, has also some bearings on the memoirs
quoted.
CIRCULAR RELATIVE TO A MATHEMATICAL PRIZE. jaa

argument of the elliptic functions by a whole number lead up. That
remarkable transcendant which is obtained by expressing the module
of an elliptic function by the quotient of the periods leads likewise
to the modulary equations that have been the origin of entirely new
notions and highly important results, as the solution of equations of
the fifth degree. But this transcendant is but the first term, a par-
ticular case and that the simplest one of an infinite series of new
functions introduced into science by Mr. Poincaré under the name of
‘fonctions fuchsiennes’ and successfully applied by him to the integra-
tion of lineary differential equations of any order. These functions,
which accordingly have a réle of manifest importance in analysis, have
not as yet been considered from an algebraical point of view as the
transcendant of the theory of elliptic functions of which they are the
generalization.

“Tt is proposed to fill up this gap and to arrive at new equations
analogous to the modulary equations by studying, though it were only
in a particular case, the formation and properties of the algebraic rela-
tions that connect two ‘fonctions fuchsiennes’ when they have a group
in common.

‘In case none of the memoirs tendered for competition on any of the
subjects proposed above should be deemed worthy of the prize, this
may be adjudged to a memoir sent in for competition that contains a
complete solution of an important question of the theory of functions
other than those proposed by the commission.

‘The memoirs offered for competition should be furnished with an
epigraph, and, besides, with the author’s name and place of residence
in a sealed cover, and directed to the chief editor of the Acta Mathe-
matica before the first of June, 1888.

“The memoir to which His Majesty shall be pleased to award the
prize as well as that or those memoirs which may be considered by the
commission worthy of an honorary mention, will be inserted in the
Acta Mathematica, nor can any of them be previously published.

“The memoirs may be written in any language that the author
chooses, but as the members of the commission belong to three differ-
ent nations the author ought to subjoin a French translation to his
original memoir, in case it is not written in French. If such a trans-
lation is not subjoined, the author must allow the commission to have
one made for their own use. _

‘THE EDITORS OF THE ACTA MATHEMATICA.”

I hope you will take an interest in this communication, and am, sir,
yours, very respectfully,
G. MirraGc LEFFLER,
Member of the Academy of Science, Professor of the Stockholm
University, Chief Editor of the Acta Mathematica.
nya ions com “ita
Weng iRise ince
‘det Avi bate it Ane ‘hivta bai )
Sa ee fi wrshiien yh) devehh. tonto rere conn mmr ys
Wout Payette ae Oe “ta depiealiw: wi a itd Sri
err cc Hei emescn te ern! Wiad | na
“gegen nk incty key nS ham e Nie anintns Higa o para tis nots
ail, seen ON caine iy nahin aioe eatin i rend ae
‘poy BConkaR he - —— .

Peer gus heeper is?
#

ics cine ve chee o ‘em LHe main

Hn an ehh Ty ERIN ATU eG Aaah VT

| Five tay wer Tey MOY eye ‘ak ihre satire nh ‘4

haere ce eal eth teat shinee age ven tara A TO Al:
“uty yyy Ueey wt! » a a ea hha Ma Taha incre

won bor ae uit ‘eyPRE TO a ak veg wiidtterc ete i atl aay
hts pamippig rat i a tient aay ‘inehin’ SE Adie aenter

ry eh hav" ATH HOT rey figs et pevta Say bie

ei 4“ fi roa Ba prada Be tet ek lyin twit We Saas lds HY ie HY a iy

j | veh 2 ect bea Vdiad eA ‘Tenenheferney ai
on 7 rhe eterna nna Ni $2 y | ba Gino tafene a ache MY i f

a : ye eer eh pantey Wi i Crem seus ie eee "yuo ears

r ciate ands As ra a inet he asst id rite aah rece tab ges

wl Wet ‘aha

by brie ua cok ada ‘ ab ee? r rat ee sae aa be vibe “ab pps
ihe fury siiageeny dial al mori he asin vite Wahi f Hien ath ay eat

wero ahenayrs pee

i

f

Hy
va chi

bak | a i int fy ca i vituicty ‘ain sy tis
fini a

‘i Ke PTTL EEE

ma pape |
slic 1

.

vornaie res
Te a Fly! Lie 4

uf tis Gee as

iy
4

he belay :
0 ath ANNE Naty
Say ull {adh i

ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NATIONAL MUSEUM, ETC.

IN CONTINUATION FROM PREVIOUS REPORTS.
NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Furniture and fixtures, National Museum: To pay sundry bills for
miscellaneous fixtures and for glass for exhibition cases for the National
Museum, being for the service of the fiscal year ending June thirtieth,
eighteen hundred and eighty-four, two thousand eight hundred and
ninety-one dollars and forty-two cents.

Preservation of collections, National Museum: To meet expenses of
receiving, packing, transporting to Washington, and installing or stor-
ing such new specimens and collections as may be presented to the
United States at the New Orleans Exposition, to be available for the
fiscal years ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-five and
eighteen hundred and eighty-six, five thousand dollars.

For cost of restoring the collections sent to the New Orleans Expo-
sition to their proper places in the National Museun, including repair
of cases and renewal of glass, to be available for the fiscal years end-
ing June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-five and eighteen hun-
dred and eighty-six, two thousand five hundred dollars.

(Actto supply deficiencies, &. Approved March 3, 1885, chapter 359,
page 463.)

For heating and lighting the National Museum: For expense of heat-
ing, lighting, and telephonic and electrical service for the new Museum
building, nine thousand dollars.

For the preservation of collections of the National Museum: For the
preservation and exhibition and increase of the collections received from
the surveying and exploring expeditions of the Government, and other
sources, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employés,
ninety-five thousand dollars.

For the preservation of collections of the National Museum in the
Armory building: For care of the Armory building and grounds, and
expense of watching, preservation, and storage of the property of the
National Museum and of the United States Fish Commission contained
therein, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employés,
two thousand five hundred dollars. ,

For furniture and fixtures of the National Museum: For cases, furni-

ture, and fixtures required for the exhibition of the collections of the
335
336 ACTS OF CONGRESS.

United States National Museum, and for salaries or compensation of all
necessary employés, forty thousand dollars.
(Sundry civil appropriation act. Approved March 3, 1885, chapter
360, page 501.)
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

International exchanges, Smithsonian Institution: For expenses of
the system of international exchanges between the United States and
foreign countries, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution,
including salaries or compensation of all necessary employés, ten thou-
sand dollars.

North American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution: For the pur-
pose of continuing ethnological researches among the American Indians,
under the direction of the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
including salaries or compensation of all necessary employés, forty
thousand dollars.

Smithsonian Institution Building: For finishing and completing the
furnishing of the eastern portion of the Smithsonian Institution build-
ing, five thousand six hundred dollars.

(Sundry civil appropriation act. Approved March 3, 1885, chapter 360,
page 494.)

NAVAL OBSERVATORY.

For payment to Smithsonian Institution for freight on Observatory
publications sent to foreign countries, three hundred and thirty-six
dollars.

(Legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation act. Approved
March 3, 1885, chapter 343, page 415.)

WAR DEPARTMENT.

For the transportation of reports and maps to foreign countries: For
the transportation of reports and maps to foreign countries, through the
Smithsonian Institute, two hundred dollars.

(Sundry civil appropriation act. Approved March 3, 1885, chapter
360, page 507.)

ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM.

An act providing for the erection of a building to contain the records, library and
museum of the Medical Department, United States Army.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That a brick and metal fire-
proof building, to be used for the safe- keeping of tie records, library, and
museum of the Surgeon-General’s Office of the United States Army, is
hereby authorized to be constructed upon the Government reservation
in the city of Washington, in the vicinity of the National Museum and
the Smithsonian Institution, on a site to be selected by a commission
composed of the Secretary of War, the Architect of the Capitol, and
ACTS OF CONGRESS. 387

the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and in accordance with
plans and specifications submitted by the Surgeon-General of the Army
and approved by said commission, the cost of the building when com-
pleted not to exceed the sum of two hundred thousand dollars, the build-
ing to be erected and the money expended under the direction and
superintendence of the Secretary of War.

Src. 2. That the sum of two hundred thousand dollars is hereby ap-
propriated, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropri-
ated, for the commencement and completion of said building.

(Approved March 2, 1885, Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, second
session, chapter 315, page 339.)

PRINTING.

Joint resolution providing for the printing and distribution of the Descriptive Cata-
logue of Government Publications.

[Public, No. 7, Forty-eighth Congress, second session. |

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That there be printed and half-bound
in leather, with the exception of the reserve sets, which shall be fall-
bound in leather, six thousand six hundred copies of the Descriptive
Catalogue of Government Publications, of which * * * two copies
shall be for the*use of the Smithsonian Institution.

(Approved February 9, 1885. Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, sec-
ond session, pages 516, 517.)

Joint resolution providing for printing the sixth and seventh annual reports of the
Director of the Bureau of Ethnology.

[Public, No. 16, Forty-eighth Congress, second session.]}

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That there be printed at the Govern-
ment Printing Office fifteen thousand five hundred copies each of the
sixth and seventh annual reports of the Director of the Bureau of Eth-
nology, with accompanying papers and illustrations, and uniform with
the preceding volumes of the series; of which three thousand five hun-
dred shall be for the use of the Senate, seven thousand for the use of
the House of Representatives, and five thousand for distribution by the
Bureau of Ethnology.

(Approved March 2, 1885. Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, second
session, page 519.)

Joint resolution to provide for printing the annual reports of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

(Public, No. 19, Forty-eighth Congress, second session. ]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That the annual reports of the Smith-
sonian Institution shall be hereafter printed at the Government Print-

H. Mis. 15

>.
22

338 ACTS OF CONGRESS

ing Office, in the same manner as the annual reports of the heads of
Departments are now printed, for submission in print to the two houses
of Congress.

(Approved March 3, 1885. Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, second
session, page 520.)

Concurrent resolution to print extra copies of the Smithsonian Report for 1884.

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That
the Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum
for the year 1884 be printed, and that there be printed 16,060 extra
copies; of which 3,000 copies shall be for the use of the Senate, 6,060
for the use of the House of Representatives, and 7,000 for the use of the
Smithsonian Institution.

(Concurrent resolution passed by the Senate [S. R. No. 114], January
26, 1885; passed by the House of Representatives February 4, 1885.)
GENERAL APPENDIX

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1885.

339

ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the GENERAL APPENDIX is to furnish summaries of
scientific discovery in particular directions; occasional reports of the
investigations made by collaborators of the Institution; memoirs of a
general character or on special topics, whether original and prepared
expressly for the purpose, or selected from foreign journals and pro-
ceedings; and briefly to present (as fully as space will permit) such
papers not published in the “Smithsonian Contributions” or in the
‘¢Miscellaneous Collections” as may be supposed to be of interest or
value to the numerous correspondents of the Institution.

340
RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS FOR 1885.

INTRODUCTION.

While it has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date in its history, to enrich
the annual report, required of them by law, with scientific memoirs
illustrating the more remarkable and important developments in phys-
ical and biological discovery, as well as showing the general character
of the operations of the Institution, this purpose was not carried out
on any very systematic plan until the year 1880. Believing however
that an annual report or summary of the recent advances made in the
leading departments of scientific inquiry would supply a want very
generally felt, and would be favorably received by all those interested
in the diffusion of knowledge, the Secretary had prepared for the re-
port of 1880, by competent collaborators, a series of abstracts showing
concisely the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astron-
omy, geology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zodlogy, and
anthropology.

The same general programme has been followed in the subsequent
reports, with the inclusion of geography and meteorology in the list of
subjects. The contributors to this record for the present year, and
their several departments or topics, remain substantially the same as
in previous reports, though with some omissions, much to be regretted.

Prof. Edward 8S. Holden had prepared as usual the summary of astro-
nomical progress for 1885, but having accepted the presidency of the
University of California, with the directorship of the Lick Observatory
on Mount Hamilton, in the confusion of moving from his late position
at Madison, Wis., unfortunately mislaid his manuscript. At his re-
quest Mr. William C. Winlock, of the Naval Observatory at Washing-
ton, undertook, on short notice, to supply the deficiency. This he has.
satisfactorily accomplished.

Dr. T. Sterry Hunt, owing to the pressure of his important duties,
has again been prevented from supplying the expected summary of
progress in geology.

Commander Francis M. Green (U.S. N.), having been ordered to sea-
duty on a three-years’ cruise, has also been prevented from furnishing
his accustomed résumé of advances in geographical knowledge. This
chapter has for the present been supplied by Mr. J. King Goodrich.

341
342 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Prof. Cleveland Abbe has, unfortunately, been unable to furnish his
usual survey of the advances made in the department of meteorology,
and the time did not permit an attempt to obtain a substitute in this
important field.

Prof. William G. Farlow’s record of progress in botany, omitted from
the last report, is, from unforeseen circumstances, again omitted from
this.

With every effort to secure prompt attention to all the more impor-
tant details of such a work, various unexpected delays frequently ren-
der it impracticable to obtain all the desired reports in each department
within the time prescribed. In such cases it is designed, if possible, to
bring up deficiencies and supply them in subsequent reports.

The value of this annual record of progress would be much enhanced
by an enlargement of its scope, and the inclusion, not only of such
branches as mathematics, physiology, pathology, and medicine, micros-
copy, &c., but also of the more practical topics of agriculture and hor-
ticultural economy, engineering, mechanics, and technology in general;
but the space required for such larger digest seems scarcely available in
the present channel.

It is hardly necessary to remark that in a summary of the annual
progress of scientific discovery so condensed as the present, the wants
of the specialist in any branch can be but imperfectly supplied; and
very many items and details of great value to him must be entirely
omitted. While the student in a special field of knowledge may occa-
sionally receive hints that will be found of interest, he will naturally
be led to consult for fuller information the original journals and special
periodicals from which these brief notices or abstracts have been com-
piled.

The plan of devoting some 350 pages of the annual report to such a
compilation is not designed to preclude the introduction into the ‘‘ Gen-
eral Appendix,” as heretofore, of special monographs or discussions
that may prove interesting to the scientific student.

SPENCER F. BAIRD:
ASTRONOMY.

By WILLIAM C. WINLOCK,

Assistant Astronomer, United States Naval Observatory.

The following record of the progress of Astronomy during the year
1885 is in continuation of the records of past years, and it is given in
essentially the same form. The annual review of astronomy has pre-
viously been prepared by Prof. Edward 8. Holden, formerly director of
the Washburn Observatory, Madison, Wis.; and the manuscript of the
review for 1885 was entirely prepared by him in October and November
of that year. Very unfortunately all but a small portion of this manu-
script was lost in transferring Professor Holden’s library from Madison
to California, and Professor Holden, unable, on account of pressing of-
ficial duties, to repair the loss, has asked me to make up the deficiency.
This I have attempted to do, but wish to record the circumstances here,
in order that I may plead the brief time available as an excuse for any
shortcomings that may be found.

This record is primarily intended for the large and increasing class of,
those who have. a general rather than a special interest in the progress
of Astronomy, but it may be of use to professional astronomers also, as a
convenient collection of reviews and notes. Abstracts of some of the
most important papers are given, while other papers can appear by title
only. As in previous years free use has been made of reviews, &c., in
all accessible periodicals, particularly of those in The Observatory, Bul-
letin Astronomique, Nature, The Atheneum, and Science, and it is hoped
that where specific reference to the source of information has been im-
practicable, this general acknowledgment will be accepted.

W.-C Ww.
COSMOGONY.

Faye: Sur VOrigine du Monde. Théories cosmogoniques des Anciens et
des Modernes. Paris: Gauthier- Villars, 1884. 8vo.—‘‘ Cosmic hypoth-
eses vary from time to time: they have their history, in which they re-
flect the progress of human intelligence. At first closely connected with
religious ideas, they have little by little lost their sacred character, and
_ have become simple questions of celestial mechanics and general physics.
343
344 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

It cannot be denied, moreover, that they offer a broad field for the dis-
coveries and theories that from time to time transform and, as it were,
renew scienée. The mechanical theory of heat and spectrum analysis
have inaugurated a new era for speculations concerning the origin of
the world and the constitution of the universe, by furnishing to theo-
retical reasoning a basis incomparably more sure than that possessed
at the time of Laplace. It is quite natural, therefore, that scholars
should again turn their attention to the chaos from which the stars
were born, and that, with the aid of. the knowledge gained during the
last century, they should undertake to submit the current cosmical
theories to searching examination.

‘6M. Faye’s book upon this subject will be welcomed, as it comes at a
moment when attention is everywhere beginning to turn to these ob-
scure and sublime questions. A large part of the book is devoted to
the history of cosmogonies, beginning with that of Moses; and every
reader will be pleased that M. Faye has taken pains to give always the
original text, accompanying it by comments and remarks. The book
contains extracts from Genesis, Plato’s Timeus, Aristotle’s Heavens,
Cicero’s De Republica, the poem of Lucrece, Descartes’ World, Newton’s
Principia, Kant’s Allgemeine Natur-Geschichte und Theorie des Himmels
and Beweisgrund zu einer Demonstration des Daseins Gottes, Laplace’s
Exposition du Systéme du Monde, and from M. Hirn’s Analyse élémen-
taire de V Univers. After this historical exposition of ancient and mod-
ern cosmical ideas M. Faye proceeds to consider in his turn the prob-
lem of the formation of the universe and of the solar system.

“M. Faye regards Laplace’s celebrated cosmic hypothesis, which is
still accepted in treatises on astronomy, as quite opposed to science in
its present state; he says that it cannot be reconciled with the retro-
grade motions of the satellites of Uranus and Neptune, nor with the
rapid revolutions of Mars’ satellites, nor with our notions of the rings
of Saturn. M. Faye proposes to replace this hypothesis by another one
more conformable to existing ideas, taking its point of departure in
Descartes’ vortices.” (Bull. Astron., February, 1885.)

' “Prof. G. H. Darwin has contributed to Nature (Vol. 31, p. 506) an
interesting and valuable criticism of M. Faye’s theory of the evolution
of the solar system as explained in his paper in the ‘“‘Annuaire du Bu-
reau des Longitudes for 1885, and also in his work entitled ‘‘Sur l Origine
du Monde.” The best general idea of the line of speculation adopted by
M. Faye may be given by saying that it is a theory of evolution from
meteorites, instead of from the nebulous matter which gives its name
to Laplace’s theory. In the primitive condition, the universe consisted
of matter scattered in chaotic confusion. Currents were generated in
the midst of this chaos under the influence of mutual gravitation; and
in consequence of these movements, shreds of matter became detached
and moved with rapid linear and slow gyratory motion. The solar sys-
tem is taken to have originated from a shred which aggregated into
ASTRONOMY. 345

a spheroidal shape and consisted, at the epoch when we began to watch
it, largely of separate meteorites. It is at first supposed that the sphe-
roidal aggregate consists of matter pretty nearly equally distributed,
and later anucleus is formed. If 7 be the distance of any point from the

center, the force is central and follows the law ar + where, in the

beginning of the evolutionary process, ) is very small, and later a be-
comes small. Initially, then, when the force is simply as the distance,
each meteorite moves in an ellipse about the center, and the periodic
time of all is the same, whatever their eccentricity of orbit. In con-
sequence of collisions, a central nucleus is soon formed; as this in-
creases, the a in our formula for the force diminishes and the b increases,
but orbits which are circular still retain that form, notwithstanding
the progressive change in the law of force. At the same time that the
nucleus is being formed, a series of flat and nearly circular rings arise
around it, those near to the nucleus attaining a definite shape sooner
than the remote ones. It is not adequately explained why the mat-
ter should be sifted, and should arrange itself in rings at definite in-
tervals around the nucleus, still less is any light thrown on the law
of Titius concerning the distances of the planets from the sun. Con-
sidering now the case of the first ring, M. Faye supposes that slight
differences of angular velocity, mutual attraction, and collisions grad-
ually cause the aggregation of all the matter in the ring around some
center in its line. When the nucleus is small, the rings moved as a
rigid whole, and the linear velocity of the outer meteorites was greater
than that of the inner ones; therefore when the planetary aggregate is
formed, it will be found rotating with direct motion about an axis nearly
perpendicular to the plane of its orbit. As we proceed from the first
ring outwards, in each successive case the tendency to direct motion is
weaker, because the increase of the solar nucleus by absorption of me-
teorites has prevented so large an excess of linear velocity of the outer
meteorites over those of the inner ones as in the first case. By degrees,
therefore, we come to planets in which the meteorites move nearly ac-
cording to Kepler’s laws, and here the resulting planet has a retrograde
rotation. Each planetary agglomeration in its turn forms a miniature
solar system, and generates satellites by the same process as that in
which the planets were formed. After having thus sketched M. Faye’s
theory in its main outlines, Professor Darwin points out that no refer-
ence is made to the possible effect of tides in the evolution of the solar
system, a part of the subject which has been so ably worked out by
Professor Darwin himself. He has shown that the hypothesis that tidal
friction has had free play in the past leads to a remarkable quantitative
co-ordination of the several elements of the earth’s rotation and of the
moon’s orbital motion, and points to the genesis of the moon close to
the present surface of the earth. The rapid orbital motion of the inner
satellite of Mars confirms in a remarkable way the truth of the hy-
346 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

pothesis. It also throws light on the cause of the observed distribu-
tion of satellites in the solar system.. It is, in Professor Darwin’s opin-
ion, a factor which cannot be left out of account, and has a bearing
on theories of evolution which cannot be neglected. Professor Darwin’s
paper concludes with a summary of the advantages and disadvantages
of M. Faye’s scheme. The conception of the growth of planetary bodies
by the aggregation of meteorites is a good one, and perhaps more prob-
able than the hypothesis that the whole solar system was gaseous. The
internal annulation of the meteorites is left unexplained, and this com-
pares very unfavorably with Laplace’s system, where the annulation is
the very thing explained. The difference of orbital motion of the inner
and outer meteorites of aring, the development of that difference as time
progresses, and the consequence of direct and retrograde rotation at dif.
ferent distances from the sun, is an excellent idea. But it is necessary
to this idea that the inner planets should have been formed first,* and
we are met directly by the fact that the single surviving ring, that of
Saturn, is nearer to the planet than are the satellites, and we should be
driven to the startling conclusion that Saturn’s ring is the oldest feature
of his system. The actual distribution of satellites in the solar system
is at variance with M. Faye’s theory, for as, according to him, the internal
planets were generated from rings whose motion was such as would give
greater moment of momentum tothe planetary agglomeration than would
the external ones, the number of satellites should be greater the greater
the amount of rotation in the primitive agglomeration of meteorites, and
thus the nearer planets should be richer in satellites than the remote
ones. On the whole, then, there are great difficulties in the acceptance
of M. Faye’s scheme, notwithstanding its excellences; but science is un-
doubtedly the gainer by such suggestive theories.” (Observatory.)

For further discussion of these interesting questions we must refer
the reader to the valuable articles of MM. Radau and Wolf in Volumes
T and II of the Bulletin Astronomique, and to a paper by Prof. Daniel
Kirkwood, read before the American Philosophical Society (November
21, 1884) and published in the April number of the Sidereal Messenger.
We are glad to learn that M. Wolf intends to elaborate his discussion
still further, and that it will be brought out in book form by the pub-
lishing house of Gauthier- Villars.

NEBULZ.

New nebula.—M. Stephan has published in the Astronomische Nach-
richten, No. 2661, positions and descriptions of 100 nebulz discovered
at Marseiiles in the years 1883-85, in addition to the large number pre-
viously detected at that observatory. Not the least notabie character-

*In fact, according to M. Faye, the earth is older than the sun. ‘‘ If it were other-
wise, the whole appearance of the sky would be changed; the stars would rise in the
west and set in the east; the moon would have a retrograde motion like the satellites
of Uranus and Neptune.” (Sur V Origine du Monde, p. 192.)
ASTRONOMY. 347

istic of M. Stephan’s catalogues is the precision of the »laces given in
them. He mentions that on October 1 and 2, 1882, neither the nebula
Dreyer-Schultz 5085 nor h 12 was visible in the position assigned by
the discoverers.

Professor Swift gives in the Astronomische Nachrichten two catalogues
of nebule discovered in 1883~85 with the 16-inch refractor of the War-
ner Observatory. Each catalogue contains 100 nebule and gives approx-
imate positions for 1885-0, with descriptive notes. All of these nebulz
belong to the fainter classes, and the increased difficulties in dealing
with such objects since the appearance of our “ red sunsets” have been
remarked by Professor Swift, as well as by other observers. Professor
Swift has a list of some 150 more nebule, which will require further
study before publication.

- Several shorter lists of nebulz, found by Tempel, Barnard, and others,
generally in the search for comets, will be found in the various astro-
nomical journals.

General catalogue of nebule.— Apropos of Dr. Holetschek’s letter
(Astron. Nachr., No. 2664) concerning the regular publication of sup-
plementary catalogues of new nebule, double stars, red stars, &c., Dr.
Dreyer announces that he is preparing a second supplement to Sir John
Herschel’s Catalogue of Nebule.

Discovery of a new nebula in the Pleiades by photography.—Probably
the most notable achievement in celestial photography during the year
has been the discovery by MM. Paul and Prosper Henry, at the Paris
Observatory, of a new nebula in the group of the Pleiades. It was first
photographed on November 16, 1885, and, though it was again photo-
graphed on December 8 and 9, MM. Henry have as yet been unable to
detect it by direct telescopic observation. The nebula is about 3’ in ex-
tent, and ‘“ trés-intense.” It presents a well-marked spiral form, and
seems partially to surround the star Maia.

Professor Pickering writes, under date of January 21, 1886, to the
editor of the Nachrichten in regard to this interesting discovery, as fol-
lows:

‘«The announcement of this nebula in the A. N., vol. 113, p. 239, re-
called the circumstance that certain irregularities had been noticed in a
photograph of the Pleiades, taken on November 3, 1885, at the observa-
tory of Harvard College, with an exposure of sixty-five minutes. This
photograph was exhibited at the Albany meeting of the National Acad-
emy of Sciences, November 10, where the irregularities above mentioned
received some attention. They were supposed to be due merely to defects
in the photographic process; but upon re-examination it appears that one
of them corresponds so closely to what is described by MM. Paul and
Prosper Henry that there can be no doubt in regard to its origin. It
must represent light photographically perceptible in the vicinity of
the star Maia, as stated by its discoverers. - - - The explanation
348 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

thus afforded of one of the markings on the Cambridge photograph
makes the others of more interest than seemed at first to belong to them.
There are indications of nebulous light about Merope; four short parallel
streaks directly to the south following side are particularly noticeable,
and a faint prolongation of diffuse light may be suspected towards the
south, in agreement with the descriptions usually given of the visible
nebula in that region. There is also a faint narrow streak of light pro-
jecting from Electra on the following side. All the bright stars are
surrounded by concentric bands, obviously due to effects of reflection
from the back of the plate and from the inner surfaces of the lenses.
These bands interfere to some extent with the appearances of nebulous
light above described, and are most conspicuous around Alcyone, as
would be expected from the brightness of that star. No nebulous light
is noticeable about Alcyone, Atlas, Pleione, or Taygeta.”

Professor Struve announces that he has seen the nebula about Maia
very distinctly with the great 30-inch refractor of the Pulkowa Ob-
servatory. We learn also from later reports that the nebula has been
seen and sketched at the Nice Observatory.

Photographic study of the nebula of Orion.—Prof. E. C. Pickering has
made a comparison of the results of photographic and eye observations
of this region, comparing the star magnitudes as given by the photo-
graphs of Dr. Draper and Mr. Common, with the catalogue of Profes-
sor Bond. His results will be found carefally tabulated in the twen-
tieth volume of the Proceedings of the American Academy. One of the
most important applications of the determination of photographic mag-
nitudes is to the measurement of the colors of the stars. The rays af-
fecting the photographic plate have in general a less wave length than
those to which the eye is most sensitive. It therefore follows that a
reddish star, that is, one in which the rays of great wave-length pre
dominate, will appear relatively too faint in the photograph. A bluish
star is Similarly indicated by a large negative residual (on comparison
with eye estimates). These residuals form a convenient measure of the
colors of the stars; and Professor Pickering gives a list of ten red stars,
thus indicated on the plate, varying from 10-7 to 13-9 magnitude, ac-
cording to Bond, and ten blue stars, varying from 12:3 to 15:6 magni-
tude. “The faintest stars visible in the photograph have a photo.
graphic magnitude of about 15-0.”

Variability of « nebula.—* The nebula near the star € Tauri seems to
present an interesting instance of variability of light. This nebula
was observed by Chacornae at Paris on the 19th of October, 1885, sur-
rounding a star of the 11th magnitude, which had repeatedly been ob-
served in 1854, and also at Markree in January, 1850, without any nebu-
losity being noticed. In January, 1856, Chacornae found this very
bright and conspicuous, resembling in its appearance a transparent
cloud, reflecting the light of €¢ Tauri. But in November, 1862, he could
ASTRONOMY. 349

discern no trace of the nebulosity; and D’Arrest also failed to see it
when observing the star with the Copenhagen refractor on the 25th of
January, 1865. Nor has it since been seen until quite recently, when
it was noticed by Mr. K. Tarrant, using a 10-inch ‘With’ reflector, at
Pinner, Middlesex. D’Arrest had noticed a small star of less than the
12th magnitude, a little preceding the 11th magnitude star previously
mentioned, and nearly on the same parallel with it. When the nebula
was first seen by Mr. Tarrant (on the 14th of March, 1885), it was
lengthened in the direction of a circle of declination, and this faint star
was at its following edge. The first known instance of this kind was
that of the nebula near ¢ Tauri, discovered by Mr. Hind in 1852, sus-
pected to be variable from not having been seen before, and afterwards
proved to be so, becoming invisible even with very powerful telescopes,
and subsequently reappearing.” (Atheneum.)

ASTRONOMICAL CONSTANTS, ETC.

A new determination of the nutation constant.—“ Dr. L. de Ball has
employed for this determination the right ascensions of three polar
stars (a and 6 Urse Minoris and 51 Cephei), observed at Pulkowa by
Herr Wagner, part of which have already been employed by Herr Ny-
rén in his researches concerning the constant of aberration.” (Bulletin
Astron., I, p. 202.) Although these observations, which were made be-
tween 1861 and 1872, embrace only a little more than half a complete
period of nutation, their precision is such as to justify Dr. de Ball’s
attempt. He has had at his disposal 934 eye-and-ear observations and
933 chronograph observations. The mean error of an observation is
nearly the same for the two methods. By introducing as unknown
quantities the corrections to the mean right ascensions of the three
stars to the nutation constant (Peters) and to the aberration constant
(Struve), and also the parallaxes of the stars under consideration, Dr.
de Ball has attained the following results:

Correction to the nutation constant 4n-....--....-.. MODE GEE HEGEOO DAEe —0:006 + 0:012

Correction to the aberration constant Ja ...............--..----.--- +0:043 + 0:011
iparallaxcota. Urs MIMOLIsiecr omer: <eesclancoceces ices ccieciceeis +0:015 + 0°015
MRS AR Oliv Oly CO DUOL ete nae. cioe c anicwiacicicig comiicices astcinse, aoe oie cece + 0-027 + 0-019
ParaiaxOr OuUree MINOrs 250. 2655 fa tsseetee ce ce soue oe eee seek +0:034 + 0°017
8 8
R. A. (1865:0) of ~ Urs Minoris (eye and ear)..................- 15 9™ 38-706 + 0:043
R. A. (1865:0) of a Ursa Minoris (chronograph) .--...................- 39-057 - 0:051
R. A. of 51 Cephei (eye and ear). ........-.... Bem cere cea 65 36™ 11-723 + 0-026
Avr rn COMHEH (CHEOHOPTADLN) cont. < Jets esaa ceo eat ete tte ee be cues 12°012 +- 0:027
R.A. of 6 Urs Minoris (eye and ear):......2..-2..20202.0.1 2. 185 15™ 53-084 + 0-020
Be A. of 6: Ursa; Minoris (chronograph) .. 222-4 3-360.5- 222 us.8 se cee 53°363 -- 0:020

“The six values of the correction Jn furnished by the three stars do
not show a very remarkable agreement:

Eye and ear. Chronograph.

EreUMS ew OLS Pee en ee cit Ss Scene eee ci sa cki« ¢ —0’:062 —0"-011

Sih Seapytare hl ae SN las st 2a ie allel i od +0028 -+0/'-003

BRUNE MIN OTIS tote tera oaiania See's we als sqet/acaueiec vice. m ss —0'-016 -+-0'-039
350 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

‘“The individual values of 4a, computed by Dr. de Ball, differ quite
widely in some cases from the values obtained by Herr Nyrén from the
same observations, and it seems impossible to discover the cause of
these differences. It is without doubt necessary to take into considera-
tion the influence which the motion of the solar system might exert upon
the aberration in the case of stars near the pole, as has been shown by
Dr. Seeliger.” (Bull. Astron., July, 1885.)

The secular nutation of the earth’s axis.—‘‘ M. Folie, having deduced a
periodic formula for the secular variations in obliquity and in longitude,
applies the designation ‘secular nutation of the earth’s axis’ to these
variations. Defining the normal equator as a plane, the inclination of
which to the ecliptic of a certain epoch is equal to the mean obliquity
of that epoch, and the intersection of which with this latter plane passes
at each instant through the mean equinox of that instant, he concludes
that, in virtue of the secular nutation of the earth’s axis, the mean pole
describes around the normal pole, considered as fixed, an ellipse the
major axis of which, directed towards the pole of the fixed ecliptic (@. e,
the mean ecliptic of the epoch), is sensible during several centuries.
The period of the secular nutation is about 30,000 years, differing little
from that of the precession on account of the slow motion of the node
of the ecliptic, which is only 8/7 per annum. Assuming a uniform
value of 50” for the secular diminution of the obliquity, M. Folie com-
pares the results obtained from his formula with ancient observations
of the obliquity, and is thus led to announce that the empirical expres-
sion ¢;=0-476+0-000018¢ for the annual diminution (where ¢ is the
number of years from 1850) satisfies very closely the observations from
—250 to +1487. This expression, however, gives a considerably greater
variation to the secular diminution of the obliquity than that which re-
sults from Leverrier’s researches.” (Nature.)

Precession tables.—In the Monthly Notices for December there will be
found tables by Mr. Rambaut for the reduction of Bessel’s precessions
to those of Struve.

Astronomical refraction—M. Loewy has recently communicated to
the Académie des Sciences an account of a method which he considers
to be especially adapted for determining the constant and other ele-
ments of refraction. The principle of the method is this: A glass
prism with silvered faces, forming a double mirror, is placed in front
of the object glass of an equatorial. By means of this arrangement
the images of two stars which are widely separated in the sky can be
brought close together in the focal plane of the telescope ; thus one
star may be at the zenith and the other on the horizon, in which case
the measured distance between the images will be largely affected by
refraction. After an interval of three or four hours, when the stars are
at an equal height above the horizon, and when, therefore, the effect of
ASTRONOMY. 351

refraction is a minimum, the distanee between the images is again
measured. The comparison of these two observations gives the means
of determining the amount of the refraction with great accuracy. Itis
of course necessary for the success of the method that the measures
should be absolutely independent of every possible displacement of the
apparatus in the interval between the observations. This result is ob-
tained by placing the double mirror in such a position that the planes
of reflection for the two stars coincide, as M. Loewy finds that under
these circumstances, whatever small displacements the mirror may un-
dergo, the distance between the images in the field of the telescope,
measured in the plane of reflection, or the projection of this distance on
the trace of the plane of reflection in the field, remains invariable. M.
Lewy claims for this method that, on account of its simplicity and the
ease with which it can be put in practice, it completely solves the prob-
lem to which he appliesit. A few experiments ought to show whether
it is capable of affording results sufficiently accurate to make the method
of practical value. (Observatory.)

STAR CATALOGUES, ETC.

Glasgow catalogue.—‘The Glasgow Catalogue,* recently published
by Mr. Robert Grant, is the subject of a very detailed review by Dr.
Auwers in the Vierteljahrsschrift for 1884. The catalogue depends
upon observations made since 1860 by the Ertel meridian circle, and
comprehends, besides some hundreds of bright stars selected from the
B. A. C., more than 6,000 telescopic stars from Weisse’s first cata-
logue. The stability of the instrument has been satisfactory, although
not comparable with that of the Greenwich circle. The process of re-
duction employed by Mr. Grant is not entirely beyond criticism. Dr.
Auwers has undertaken a minute comparison of this catalogue with
that of the Astronomische Gesellschaft in order to determine the relative
precision of Mr. Grant’s positions. He finds the mean error of these
positions to be + 08:06 and + 0/-9 for the unit of weight (which depends
upon the number of observations). This mean error being 0*%:04 and
0-6 for the best catalogues, Dr. Auwers thinks the relative weight, one-
half, may be attributed to the Glasgow positions.” (Bull. Astron.,
March, 1885.)

Cordoba Zone catalogue.— In a notice in the Observatory tor January,
1885, devoted to Dr. Gould’s zones, Mr. Downing shows the high value
of this great work, which it has required no less than thirteen years to
bring to completion. We already owe to Dr. Gould the Uranometria
Argentina, which the Royal Astronomical Society honored in 1883 with
its gold medal. The publication of a general catalogue is looked for
soon, and this, with the catalogues of the Cape and Melbourne, will
measure the extent of our knowledge of the southern heavens.

* Catalogue of 6,415 stars for the epoch 1870, &c., by Robert Grant. Glasgow,
1883. Ato.
352 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

“The zone observations were commenced in 1872. The total number
of observations is more than 105,000 for 73,160 stars, between —23° and
—80° of declination, the lowest magnitude being the 10th. The Repsold
meridian circle is reversible; the objective has an aperture of 122™™,
and a focal length of 17-463; the divided circle has a diameter of 0™-716,
and the readings were made by means of four microscopes. In the
zone observations it was the rule to observe the transits over three
threads, and to read but one microscope. The right ascensions depend
upon the positions of Dr. Gould’s fundamental stars, published by the
Coast Survey, and nadir observations have been made concurrently with
observations of polar distance. The mean error in right ascension is
0°-062, and in declination 0/97. The observations were made under the
best conditions, and no pains have been spared in determining accurately
the instrumental errors and in verifying the reductions.” (Bull. Astron.,
February, 1885.)

The stereotype plates of this catalogue have been placed in the cus-
tody of the Astronomische Gesellschaft. We make the following ex-
tract from a letter of Dr. Gould’s in regard to the matter: ‘‘The recently
published catalogue, formed from the Cordoba Zones, was printed from
stereotype plates, in order that any errors discovered up to the last
moment might be corrected before the work should be actually printed.
The plan has proved successful, and I believe the catalogue to be more
than usually correct; nevertheless, a considerable number of errors
have been detected since it was printed, and a list of these will soon be
sent to the Astronomische Nachrichten. I have now been charged by
the Argentine Government with the agreeable duty of causing the re-
cently detected errors to be corrected upon the stereotype plates, and
offering these to the Astronomische Gesellschaft, for its acceptance, in
case the gift should not be considered too burdensome. - - ~- Itis
of course understood that the gift of the plates carries with it the fullest
authority for the Astronomische Gesellschaft to use them for printing a
new edition whenever it may see fit.”

Catalogue of 1,001 southern stars.—Volume 3 of the Publications of
the Washburn Observatory contains a catalogue of 1,001 stars between
18° and 29° 39’ of south declination, formed by Rev. Father Hagen
and Professor Holden from a series of 2,161 observations made by Pro-
fessor Tacchini with the Pistor and Martins meridian circle at Palermo
in the years 1867, 1868, 1869. The observations were originally pub-
lished in the Bullettino Meteorologico del Rk. Osservatorio di Palermo
from April, 1867, to July, 1869, where the apparent place and epoch are
given, and Professor Holden says that the existence of this valuable
material became known to him through the admirable Vade-Mecum of
M. Houzeau. Thestars observed are from the 6th to the 9th magnitude,
and the magnitudes appear to have been very carefully noted, while it
is remarked that the positions are excellent. They are reduced to the
year 1850-0, but the mean epoch of observation of each star is appended.
ASTRONOMY. 353

Professor Holden and Father Hagen have also derived the places of
437 southern stars for 1850.0 from Washington transit-circle observations,
and these places have been compared with positions given in the Cape
Catalogue for 1880, the Cordoba Zones, and Yarnall’s Catalogue. The
comparisons are printed in the volume referred to above, and wil) be of
value in deducing the relations of the various systems adopted.

The “anonymous” stars of Yarnall’s Catalogue.*— Prof. HE. Millosevich
has published a useful contribution to exact astronomy in his paper,
Sulle Stelle boreali fino a—1° inclusivo dette ‘Anonymous’ del Catalogo di
Yarnall (Washington, 1878). It appears that between the limits +90°
and—1° declination, Yarnall’s Catalogue contains 732 stars which are
designated as anonymous. Professor Millosevich has carefully gone
through these, comparing them with the DM., or with the catalogues
of Weisse, Riimker, Struve, Lalande, or Oeltzen’s Argelander, and has
succeeded in almost every case (Sometimes by making conjectural cor-
rections to Yarnall’s places) in identifying the star in the Washington
Catalogue. The paper also contains a comparison of the estimates of
magnitude made by the Washington observers and by Argelander in
the case of these anonymous stars. After applying a systematie cor-
rection of +0:5 of a magnitude to Yarnall, Professor Millosevich finds
that there are 53 stars which differ by 0-9 of a magnitude or more in
the two catalogues, and gives a list of these with their places for 1860-0,
as there is a strong presumption that they will prove to be variables.
Taken in conjunetion with Holden’s List of Errata in Yarnall (Astron.
Nachr., No. 2561), Professor Millosevich’s paper is a useful addendum
to the Washington Catalogue for 1860.” (Observatory.)

Professor Frisby, of the Naval Observatory, is now at work upon a
third edition of Yarnall’s Catalogue, in which it is intended to correet all
the errors thus far detected.

Harvard College catalogue of 1,213 stars for 1875.—“‘ This catalogue
contains the results of observations made during the years 1870 to 187
with the meridian circle of the Harvard College Observatory, the stars
observed being chiefly those required for the revision of the Durch-
musterung for the zone between the parallels of declination +50° and
+55°. The star places employed as points of reference were taken
from the list given in Publication xtv of the Astron. Gesellschaft. The
right ascensions and declinations published in the catalogue are de-
rived from a discussion of the results obtained during the whole period
covered by the observations. They are given in their present form for
the purpose of making them immediately available in advance of the
publication of the volume which is to furnish the details of the investi-
gation, viz, volume xv of the Annals. The observations were nearly
all made by Professor Rogers, who has also had charge of their redue-
tion and publication,—a statement which is a suflicient guarantee for

* Annali della Meteorologia Italiana, Part iii (1884).
H. Mis. 15 23

354 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

the accuracy of the observations, and for the thoroughness of the re-
ductions.” (Observatory.)

Cape observations.—Dr. Gill has published, in one volume, the Cape
Meridian Observations 1879~81. During these years the Cape transit
circle was employed in observing, in conjunction with Leyden, a list of
fundamental stars required in the meridian observation of the stars
between declination —1° and —20°, contained in Schénfeld’s extension
of the Durchmusterung. In addition to these, two further lists of stars
were observed, one of which had large Z. D. at the Cape and small Z. D.
at Leyden, the stars of the other list culminating near the zenith of the
Cape and at small altitudes at Leyden. There were also observed dur-
ing these years stars which were employed in the longitude operations
connecting Aden and the Cape. (Observatory.)

Cape catalogue for 1850.—Dr. Gill has also recently published (no date
of publication) acatalogue of 4,810 stars, the results of observations made
at the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, from 1849 to 1852, under
the direction of Sir Thomas Maclear. The right ascensions were ob-
served with Dollond’s transit, which was mounted in 1828, immedi-
ately after the erection of the observatory buildings. The north polar
distance observations were made with the mural circle, which was
mounted in 1829. ‘No proper motions are given in the catalogue, and
none have been applied to the star places. The catalogue therefore
represents the places of the stars at the epoch of observation, but re-
duced to the equinox 1850-0.” For the purpose of determining sys-
tematic errors a comparison is given with the Cape catalogue for 1880,
the separate results being given in a column marked “Cape 1880, minus
Cape 1850.”

Fundamental stars.—At the meeting of the Royal Astronomical So-
ciety on March 13, 1885, ‘“‘Mr. Downing read a paper on the star places
given in the Nautical Almanac. The star places in the Nautical Alma-
nac for 1884 were derived from the Nine- Year Catalogue, while in 1883
and preceding years the Seven-Year Catalogue was employed. Mr.
Downing has deduced the systematic discordances resulting from the
change of catalogues. In considering the R. A.’s he found for 24 stars
discordances greater than 08-05, their mean discordance being 0*-064,
which seems to indicate inaccuracies in the proper motions employed.
If Dr. Auwers’s results for these stars’ proper motions are substituted
for those of Main and Stone, the mean discordance is reduced to 08-042.
It seems, then, desirable to adopt the proper motions that are the re-
sult of Dr. Auwers’s researches. In one of the last volumes of the Ber-
liner Jahrbuch, Dr. Auwers has made a comparative study of the po-
sitions of fundamental stars contained in the principal ephemerides, in
particular the Nautical Almanac. He shows in this articie that a suffi-
ciently accurate allowance for the proper motions has not always been
made.

;

ASTRONOMY. 355

“Mr. Downing read a second paper upon the kh. A.’s of the Cape eata-
logues of 1850 and 1880. He hascompared the R. A.’s of the catalogue
of 1850 with those of the catalogue of 1840, those of the catalogue of
1880 with the Melbourne catalogue for 1870, and with the Cape cata-
logue for 1860. The results of the Cape for 1850 and 1880 have thus
been referred to the mean of three other catalogues (Melbourne, 1870;
Cape, 1840 and 1860). Mr. Downing’s conclusion is that the discord-
ances between the two Cape catalogues for 1850 and 1880 should not be
laid to the account of the latter catalogue. There is an error of 0*%1
at 140° polar distance.” (Bull. Astron., May, 1885.)

New methods of determining the co-ordinates of polars without the
necessity of knowing the instrumental constants.—According to the usual
method the instrumental constants are determined by supposing the
co-ordinates of one or two polars to be known; these co-ordinates are
corrected from time to time by the combination of all the available
pairs of observations separated from each other by twelve hours; these
pairs of observations are, however, rather rare. If the star observed is
situated very near the pole, the circle that it deseribes in its diurnal
motion will be entirely comprised within the field of the telescope, and
evidently observations of the star’s position, separated by four hours,
for example, may take the place of those separated by twelve hours.

M. Lewy gives formule, by whose aid two observations separated
by an interval of four hours may be taken, and certain geometrical con-
ditions indicated by his theory being complied with the whole effect of
the instrumental errors may be eliminated. The co-ordinates of polars
may be thus determined with a high degree of precision and quite in-
dependently of the level, azimuth, and collimation errors, as well as of
the flexure and division errors.. (Bull. Astron., August, 1885.)

Inaccuracies due to the use of the usual formule in the reduction of
polar stars. A method of observing polars at any distance from the meri-
dian.—“It is sometimes convenient to observe circumpolar stars when
off the meridian; the ordinary reduction\may then lead to erroneous
results. M. Loewy introduces a simple corrective term, by employing
which the desired accuracy may be attained ; the computation is facili-
tated by a numerical table annexed to the memoir.” (Bull. Astron., April,
1885.)

Star-charts.—In the Vierteljahrsschrift for 1884 Herr Palisa, in speak-
ing of the publication of Dr. C. H. F. Peters’s celestial charts, enters into
some interesting details concerning the different processes employed in
the construction of charts to be used in searching for minor planets.
He speaks briefly of the very appreciable differences between Dr.
Peters’s estimates of magnitude and those of other observers when the
Stars under consideration are below the tenth magnitude. Thus Dr.
Peters’s eleventh magnitude stars are called twelfth and thirteenth mag-
356 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

nitude by Herr Palisa. Herr Palisa made his estimates with a 12-inch
telescope, Dr. Peters with a 13.5-inch. Herr Palisa adds that, after
having used a 6 inch telescope at Pola for a long time, he found himself
quite unable to estimate magnitudes with his 12-inch for as much as a
year after beginning to use it, the differences of intensity between the
tenth and thirteenth magnitudes seeming much less sensible than with
the 6inch. Dr. Peters’s twenty charts that are already published are
remarkably accurate, according to the careful revision of them made by
Herr Palisa. (Bull. Astron., March, 1885.)

Scintillation of stars.—The instrument employed daily by M. Mon-
tigny consists of a telescope of 0™-077 aperture, which contains, in front
of the focus, a circular piece of glass, capable of being turned more or
less rapidly about an axis parallel to the optical axis of the telescope;
the glass plate, when slightly inclined toward the optical axis, causes
the luminous rays to deviate laterally, and when it is very rapidly re-
volved a luminous circumference appears interrupted by colored ares,
whieh correspond to the changes of color. The number of these ares,
which is determined by means of a micrometer especially adapted for
the purpose, in which are two cross-threads comprising an aliquot part

of the circumference, divided by the number of revolutions made by the °

plate in one second, gives the number of changes per second of the
star’s color. ;

Dufour seems to have been the first tomake a regular series of obser-
vations of the changes of color in stars. Without any especial instru-
ment, simply comparing the stars among themselves (as is often done
for variable stars) Dufour came to the following conclusions:

(1) Red stars scintillate less than white stars.

(2) Excepting near the horizon the scintillation is proportional to
the product obtained by multiplying the thickness of the air traversed
by the luminous ray by the astronomical refraction of the altitude under
consideration.

(3) Aside from the influence of color there are essential differences in
the scintillation of different stars, which seem to depend upon the stars
‘themselves.

The second law is important, as it permits of reducing all observa-
tions to the same zenith distance (the angle of 60° has been adopted).

M. Montigny has confirmed the results of the Swiss investigator by
means of his scintillometer, and has further shown on what the scintil-
lation of stars may depend. According to the work of Secchi, Huggins,
and Miller, the stars are arranged in two great classes: White or blue
stars, like Sirius, whose spectra show, in particular, hydrogen bands;
yellow stars, like the sun, with spectra containing numerous fine lines
(magnesium, sodium, &c.). In grouping his observations M. Montigny
affirms that both for Dufour and himself:

‘‘The stars whose spectra are characterized by dark bands and black
lines scintillate less than stars whose spectra are composed of numer-
«

ASTRONOMY. aa

ous fine lines and much less than those whose spectra present some
principal rays.”

Collecting his observations, M. Montigny has formed a Catalogue de
Scintillation des principales Ltoiles of the northern heavens.

The most original part of M Montigny’s researches concerns the in-
fluence of the state of the atmosphere, of terrestrial magnetism, and
of aurorze upon scintillation. Without entering into details, we would
speak of the fact that the author has taken note of some of the charac-
teristics of the luminous curve of the scintillometer; besides the in-
tensity already defined, he now observes the aspect of the circular area,
which appears sometimes regular (in clear weather), sometimes diffuse,
curved or broken (during a rain) ; he also observes the different colors
seen in the scintillometer, which are quite bright with a clear sky. M.
Montigny’s article closes as follows:

‘‘That which exercises the most marked influence upon scintillation
and most modifies its characteristics is the presence in the atmosphere
of a greater or less quantity of water, whether disseminated in the
form of vapor or falling in the form of rain or snow.”

M. Montigny is of the opinion that the continued study of scintilla-
tion will furnish useful data for weather predictions. (Bull. Astron.,
August, 1885.)

STELLAR PARALLAX.

Heliometer determinations of stellar parallax in the southern hemisphere,
by David Gill and W. L. Elkin (Mem. R. A. S., Vol. 48, Part 1, 194
pages).—The heliometer has an aperture of 4 inches, and is fully de-
scribed in the Dun Echt Publications, vol. 1. The only modification
made by Dr. Gill to this instrument,—which he had already employed
in 1874 at Mauritius, at the time of the opposition of Juno, and in 1877
on his expedifion to Ascension Island at the time of the opposition of
Mars,—was in the rotation of the tube in its cradle.

The plan adopted may be explained in a few words. To refer the star
that is being investigated to neighboring stars situated symmetrically
with reference to the first star, near the major axis of the parallactic
ellipse and differing ttle in magnitude; to reduce the brightness of the
star to be investigated sufficiently for its image to be comparable with
those of the comparison stars, by means of wire screens; finally, to sub-
stitute differential measures for absolute ones, grouping the successive
observations in such a way as to obtain the distances of the principal
star from the two other stars at the same instant, and consequently so
as to obtain the relation of the difference of the distances to their sum
without bringing in the absolute value of the scale.

It seems probable that systematic errors will be thus almost entirely
avoided, especially if several observers combine their results. Let us
consider the operations in detail, taking w Centauri as an example.

There was an unusual difficulty in this case, a Centauri being a double
358 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

star. The screen employed reduced a, to the magnitude 84, and rendered
it impossible to distinguish a,, but at the same time the measures of
distances from stars fainter than 7-5 magnitude could not be so well
made with a 4-inch heliometer. However, the 16 measures forming a
complete observation are always made as follows: Each distance is
measured twice for the sake of eliminating the constant error of the in-
dex, commencing with one of the stars, say a, then passing to /, turn-
ing the tube 180° in its cradle, taking 6 again and then @ to complete
the series. The sum and difference of the distances of a, Centauri from
the first pair of stars chosen by Mr. Gill have the following parallactic

factors:
a+ #, 0-011 R cos (O— 96°:0),
a — f, 1:881 R cos (O—3479:3);

R and @ indicating the radius vector and the sun’s longitude; the max-
ima and minima of the parallax for a—f occur upon March 7 and Sep-
tember 10.

We may pass over all that refers to the various corrections, the errors
of the screw, refraction, the proper motion of a@ Centauri and aberra-
tion ; it will suffice to say that in adopting for the sum of the distances a
mean value derived from all the observations, the distances and their
differences were reduced to a normal scale, and the only question now is
whether these differences are not affected by systematic errors inherent
in the observer. It might be, for example, that the observer would in-
sensibly change his method of proceeding, thus introducing a term pro-
portional to the time, but the personal error might also depend upon the
hour angle if one observed to the east or to the west of the meridian,
and at a greater or less distance from it, and in passing from one posi-
tion to another a discontinuity might occur.* Mr. Gill used a reversing
prism for Mars in 1877 for the sake of eliminating this last cause of
error,t and he regrets not having continued its use, and avoiding thus,
as he says, so much labor. The observations commenced July 5, 1881,
and were continued regularly until April, 1882, when the existence of a
systematic error depending upon the hour angle became evident. After
this the conditions under which the observations were made were care-
fully noted, and it was possible to recall the conditions of the greater .
part of the preceding observations.

There are four series of observations for a Centauri—two by Mr. Gill,
and two by Mr. Elkin—with four pairs of comparison stars. One of the
first facts to be proved is the impossibility of treating the observations
of each series as a whole. Mr Gill’s diagrams prove this, as do also
Mr. Elkin’s numbers (giving his observations equal weights, Mr. Elkin

*It is known that observations of the nadir and measures of the declination of a
star when between two threads are influenced by the position of the observer.

t Dr. Seeliger has also recently recommended the use of such a prism ( Bull. Astron., 1,
p. 450). We believe that one has been employed at the observatory of Leyden for a
long time.
ASTRONOMY. 359

found from his two series the values 0/-65 and 0/755 instead of 0//:75).
It seems best, then, to represent the influence of the systematic error
by a trigonometric series depeuding upon the angle formed by the di-
rection of the measures with the vertical, or more simply to admit for
each position of the eye a constant error, varying slightly with the hour
angle. Mr. Elkin proceeds thus, and his idea seems very rational. It
is possible that Mr. Gill’s second series of observations might be repre-
sented in the same way without introducing any hypothesis concerning
the orbital motion of a Centauri.

After having given an idea of the delicate questions which Mr. Gill
and Mr. Elkin have had to solve, it remains to present the results ob-
tained :

|
|
Star. Observer. Parallax: Probable Mag. of

error. comp. stars.
“i 4

a Centauri .......-------. GillandElkin...| +.0-75 40:01 | 76
SIRIUR eee oe ee soa (use. do Sete aie: + 0°38 0-01 | 75
SUN Gi soe sae ess ss sn 3 2 hea GOs ssces- + 0:22 0:03 it
Wacaille Ione saeco eo. | Gillet cocee ae + 0:28 0:02 | 76
Oni Anes oe ee See sas | sees do: 22. lSises se + 0°166 0-018 | 6-4
Bi®@entauniss ses. scessae ole ase GO Wenn ee be oes — 0-018 0:019 | 7
GL ONCANIS A cee tse eco eo Miri os cee: + 0:06. 0-019 | 74
CAUTIG ANIM se ee cee Senet aisee s COwas seers + 0:14 0:020 | 6:4
WANOPNAW asec siete snics~ alone ¢ CONS eras serena + 0:03 0-030 | 8

}
u

It is known that the observatory at the Cape will possess in two years
from now a 7-inch heliometer, while Mr. Elkin has at his disposal,
at Yale College, the most beautiful heliometer known to-day (6 inches
aperture). It is quite possible that within ten years stellar astronomy
may be enriched by discoveries of the greatest value. (O. Callandreau,
in Bull. Astron., January, 1885.)

Parallax of 40 0? Eridani.—Professor Hall publishes in No. 2682 of
the Astronomische Nachrichten the results of observations made in 1883
and 1884 to determine the annual parallax of the star 40 o? Uridani.
The principal star of this system has a proper motion of 4” a year; and,
at a distance of 82’, there is a double companion, which has the same
proper motion, while nearly between them is a small star which does
not move. Professor Hall finds for the parallax of 40 Eridani, z=
0/-223+0-0208, a result rather smaller than might have been ex-
pected, but one which he considers worthy of considerable confidence.

Parallax of & 2398 (P. M. 2164).—Dr. Lamp, of Kiel, has inves-
tigated* the annual parallax of this double star, the components of
which are 8-2 and 87 magnitude, according to W. Struve, and for the
epoch 1832-17, distance 12/420, and position-angle 134°-37. Later meas-
ures by Madler, Dembowski, and Engelmann show a change of relative

* Astron. Nachr., 2676. icine Fe a

360 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

position, but of such small amount as to defeat any attempt at the de-
termination of an orbit. The stars have a common proper motion of
about —0*-1726 in right ascension and +1/-8955 in declination, and this
peculiarity led to the suspicion of a measurable parallax. The com-
parison stars used by Dr. Lamp were DM. +599, 1913, and 1919, of 9-4
and 7:8 magnitude, respectively, and the mean result obtained is

az = 0/34 £0034
The position for 1885 is R. A. = 18541™5; Decl. = + 59° 27’.

DOUBLE STARS.

The orbit of 61 Cygni.—Prof. C. F. W. Peters, of Kiel, has published in
Nos. 2708-9 of the Astronomische Nachrichten an elaborate determination
of the orbit of the double star 61 Cygni. This, as he remarks, had not
hitherto been satisfactorly accomplished, although very numerous obser.
vations have been made, extending over an interval of more than one
hundred and thirty years, principally on account of the peculiarity that
the apparent path of the companion star is very nearly rectilinear in
direction and uniform in amount, seeming to indicate that the apparent
motion of the double star is common to both components, and that
there is no perceptible motion of one with reference to the other. - - -
The most recent investigation is that of Prof. O. Struve, published in
the twenty-seventh volume of the Memoirs of the Imperial Academy of
St. Petersburg, in 1880, which, founded on the observations (carefully
cleared from systematic errors) made at Dorpat and Pulkowa in the fifty
years from 1828 to 1878, represented them by a circular orbit. This,
however, proceeded, as Professor Peters points out, on the inadmissible
assumption that the angular velocity of the star, with regard to the
center of the circle, was uniform. Before commencing the present in-
vestigation, he reduced all the available observations to a common
epoch (the beginning of 1850). It soon appeared that it was not pos-
sible, on account of the very small curvature of the path, to obtain an
elliptic orbit by the application of the ordinary methods. Professor
Peters therefore determined in the first place the circular orbit which
should best represent the observations, and proceeded afterwards to
deduce an elliptical one. The eccentricity of this ellipse is 0-17, corre-
sponding to an eccentric angle of 10°, and the semi-major axis 29/’-48.
The period of the companion star in the elliptic orbit thus calculated

amounts to 7826 years. If the path be accepted as thus calculated by °

Professor Peters, it becomes possible to determine an approximate
value of the sum of the masses of the components. This he finds to be
0°326 or 0-266, in terms of the sun’s mass according as 0:37 or 0/54 be
taken as the parallax of the star. Asa mean, therefore, the sum of the
masses would be equal to about half the mass of the sun, whilst the

mean distance of the two stars from each other would be about seventy

times that of the earth, or two and one-third times that of Neptune,

ae
ASTRONOMY 361

from the sun. It is not possible as yet to draw any conclusion with re-
gard to the distribution of the whole mass between the components,
or of the position of the center of gravity of the system. Peters has
computed from his elements the following ephemeris:

OCH] ee Saas, see bel 1885-0 1886-0 1887-0 1858-0
ORION Te Sata es S. 1199 44’ 120° 7 1209 Si" 120° 55!
IDISHACON IPSS 20/60 20/708 20°81 20-92

oo Of

Double star measures.—Nos. 2662-65 and 2677-78 of the Astronomische
Nachrichten contain a series of measures of double stars made by Herr
R. Engelmann during the years 1882~84, preceded by a comparison of
the differences between the observer’s positions and distances of a num-
ber of stars, with those measured by Dembowski and Asaph Hall, and
by other particulars bearing upon his own results. For several of the
more interesting binaries the following epochs are given:

oO “ul

WaStOR ese ee bemoans ceva acteie oe ais ee acinar 1882 °88 234 OnE

(ei Oban veya tee ee, Riel ee AEE ae re nas ora Re A a Re em 1884 -28 67:0 0°94

GIMINCOMEN ee oes Seach Se eee ree ie) ed See ete ee woe os 1884 :23 91°4 0-66
ey OSES TESS Pa STS A aR Reg Kole ibe | DAD Gis

IE VAT MINIS =< Uae SSR I Ria AEE Farad pas 2 epee ye Bi 1883 °07 JobYeGu ores
APUCOMBIBELONICES ie ose as See ee eae ce aes ceeds Rees: 1882 -93 192°1 0°56
CRB QOLES eae ees ene De apes ea ne S cl ceiaie it Macatee 1884 -45 266°6 3°65

Another important series of double-star measures will be found in
Astronomische, Nachrichten, 2684-85. They are communicated by M.
Perrotin, of the Nice Observatory, and are in continuation of the obser
vations published in Nos. 2529 and 2559-60.

The series of micrometrical measures of double stars made at the
Temple Observatory, Rugby, is continued in a “ Fourth catalogue,”
published in volume 48 of the Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical So-
ciety.

A cause of systematic errors in measures of double stars.—M. Bigourdan
(Bull. Astron., 1, 439) has recently pointed out a possible cause of system-
atic error in observing position angles. In the case of the Secretan
equatorial of 0™-305 aperture of the Paris Observatory, he finds that
the diffraction-rings surrounding the images of the brighter stars are
discontinuous; so that when the objective is turned through 180° round
its optical axis, as in observing east and west of the meridian, there is
sufficient difference in the relative appearance of the components of a
double star to cause systematic errors in the observed position-angles.
And, in fact, from a series of experiments which M. Bigourdan has car-
ried out with this instrument, he finds that there are considerable dif-
ferences in the position-angles measured under the same conditions by
the same observer, and within a few minutes of each other; so that the
line joining the stars makes much the same angle with the line joining
the eyes (always horizontal) in the two cases, one being east of the pier
and the other west. M. Bigourdan points out that the errors cannot be
eliminated by determination of personal errors from observations of arti-
362 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

ficial stars, since in these latter measures the stars alone are moved,
and not the objective. It would be desirable, then, for observers who
possess telescopes mounted in what is generally known as the “‘German”
manner, and having such a defect as is described by M. Bigourdan, to
have the tube of the telescope made movable round its optical axis,
and to form each measure of position-angle from the mean of six made
in six positions of the objective differing by 60°. As this would be
practically impossible in the case of large instruments, M. Bigourdan
suggests that observers, commencing a series of observations of double
stars witb telescopes of any considerable size, should turn the objective
through 60° at the commencement of each year and re-measure the same
pairs as in the preceding year, and to continue this process until each
pair has been measured in the six positions of the objective. (Observa-
tory, March, 1885.)

Procyon.—In the Vierteljahrsschrift for 1884, Herr Seeliger reviews a
work on Procyon by L. Struve. The work is a discussion of two series
of observations of Procyon made at Pulkowa since 1851, and has ap-
appeared in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg.
It is hard to tell whether these observations confirm Dr. Auwers’ result
(a circular orbit with a radius of 1-00); they appear, on the whole, to
indicate motions of a smaller amplitude.

f Cygni, Albireo—The December number of L’ Astronomie contains
an article on this star in which a singular mistake occurs: § Cygni is
Flamsteed’s 6 Cygni, and M. Flammarion has been misled by this cir-
cumstance into identifying it with Bode’s 6 Cygni, which latter star
Professor Ball observed for annual parallax a year or two back, and
found for it a value of about half a second. The star observed by Pro-
fessor Ball is called 6 (B) Cygni, as being the second of the pair, 6
Cygni being a double star. (Observatory.)

VARIABLE, NEW, OR TEMPORARY STARS.

Gore’s catalogue of suspected variables. *—This catalogue may be re-
garded as complemental to the Catalogue of Known Variable Stars, by
the same author, which was read before the Royal Irish Academy, Jan-
uary 28,1884. It contains a list, including lettered numbers, of 745
stars in which some change of magnitude is suspected. The stars are
tabulated in order of Right Ascension for the epoch 1880-0, and in sep-
arate columns are to be found particulars of the supposed change of
magnitude and the authority on which the supposed change rests. In
the notes and observations, by which the catalogue is followed, are
given particulars of the history of each star, together with observations
by the author of such stars as have received attention from him. The

* A Catalogue of Suspected Variable Stars, with Notes and Observations. By J. FE.
Gore, M. R. I. A., F.R. A. S. A paper read befote the Royal Irish Academy, May 12,
1884,

—————

a
ASTRONOMY. 3635

work is accompanied by a map showing the distribution of known and
suspected variable stars.

A catalogue of this character forms a valuable working catalogue for
the observer’s use. By further observation suspected variation will in
some cases be proved to be real, and the stars claim a place in a cata-
logue of known variables. <A claim of this kind might indeed already
be made in the case of Nos. 234, 455, and 635 of Mr. Gore’s list. It may
just be mentioned in passing that the place of No. 254, U Canis Minoris
is incompletely given in the catalogue. Its more exact place for 1880
is R. A. 7234™ 49°; Decl.,+ 8° 395. There are other cases in which,
though the period is as yet indeterminate, the fact of variation and its
amount may be stated with some confidence. On the other hand, fur-
ther observation may tend to throw a doubt on the suspicion of change
in the case of other stars, and, as our author observes, “‘ these must of
course be removed from future catalogues.” In the notes to No. 287, of
his catalogue, «a Hydrx, Mr. Gore quotes remarks by Sir John Herschel,
Dr. Schmidt, and Dr. Gould to the effect that the supposed variability
of this star may possibly be due to the influence of its ruddy color on the
estimates of its brightness. Is it not possible that the effect of color on
estimates of magnitude as respects different observers, or the same ob-
server at different times, has hardly received so much attention as it de-
serves?

Large as is the number of stars included in Mr. Gore’s catalogue,
further additions might be made to it. Comparing it, for instance,
with the tables of suspected variables, extracted from Mr. Chandler’s
unpublished catalogue, by Professor Pickering, and printed in his
‘‘Recent observations of variable stars” in the Proceedings of the
American Academy, we find some thirty stars which are not included
in Mr. Gore’s list, and it is probable that others might be found in
other quarters also. Indeed, the experience of most variable-star ob-
servers would probably suggest the view that cases of slight but dis-
tinetly recognizable light variation are relatively numerous.

A word in regard to No. 445 in the catalogue may possibly help to
avert the chance of a little confusion in the future. This star was en-

tered as U Bootis in Professor Schénfield’s first catalogue of variable
stars, but was rejected by him in his Zweiter Catalog. There is
another star called U Bootis by Mr. Baxendell, in a paper in the Man-
chester Lit. and Phil. Soc. Proceedings, vol. 21, No. 11, the place of which,
brought up to 1880, is R. A. 142 48" 478; Decl.+18° 10/9. This star
has a period of 175-5 days, with a range of magnitude from about 15-5
at minimum to about 9-2 at maximum.

In conclusion we commend to the attention of all who are interested
in the subject of variable stars a work the preparation of Which must
have entailed on the author a considerable amount of labor both as
compiler and observer. (Nature.)
364 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

New variable in Vulpecula—Mr. Edwin F. Sawyer bas found* that
the star D M. + 27°, 3890 is an interesting variable of the 7 Aquilze
type. From a preliminary reduction of the few observations thus far
obtained a light curve has been formed, indicating strongly that the
period will not vary much from 43 days. The approximate limits of
fluctuation are from 5:5 to 6-7 mag. The star is not in Argelander’s
Uranometria Nova; in Heis it is 60; in Harvard Photometry and the
Durchmusterung 6-1. It is close to the star 32 Vulpecule, which has
been suspected of variability. The position of the new variable for
1885-0 is: BR. A. 205 45™ 194; Decl. + 27° 42/:3.

New variable in Cetus.—Mr. Sawyer also reports a new variable in the
constellation Cetus. The star was first observed on December 16, 1884,
and noted as 7th magnitude. On January 10, 1885, it had decreased
about a magnitude in brightness, and by February 10 it was barely
visible in a field-glass, or it was of about 9-0 magnitude. An observa:
tion on March 5, by Mr. Sawyer and Mr. Chandler, with a 6-inch equa-
torial, made the star of 104 magnitude. The position for 1855-0 is:
R. A, 22 26™ 458; Decl.— 13° 47’, and the star appears to be identical
with S. DM.—139, 479. (Astron Nachr., 2691.)

Variability of D M.—1°,3553.—Dr. Valentiner, director of the Karls-
ruhe Observatory, has detected a slight variation, of about 0:5 magni-
tude, in the brightness of this star.

Variable in Ursa Minor.—Dr. Safarik has carefully observed a star
given in Professor Pickering’s second list of stars with remarkable spec-
tra and there noted as variable; and he has found a mean period of 337
days with the epoch of max. 1883 August 1, epoch of min. 1883 Novem-
ber 26. The star is red, and gives a banded spectrum. Professor Sa-
farik has designated it ‘*R Urs Minoris,” as the first variable known
to him in the constellation Ursa Minor.

Observations of variable stars in 1884.—In the Proc. Amer. Acad., vol.
XX, p. 393, Professor Pickering gives a concise but clear view of the
progress of observations, in Europe as well as in America, of this inter-
esting class of objects during the year 1884. The following observers
have co-operated with Harvard College in this important branch of as-
tronomical research, viz, Backhouse and Knott in England; Dunér,
Hartwig, Safarik, and Wilsing on the continent of Europe; Eadie, Ha-
gen, Parkhurst, and Sawyer in the United States. Professor Pickering
gives alist of about 150 variables which have been observed during the
year, with the number of nights on which each star was observed by the
astronomer whose designation is attached to the number. It is hoped
that observers of variable stars will continue to furnish accounts of their
work during each year as soon as possible after its close. It is desira-
ble that these accounts should be received at the Harvard College Ob-
servatory as early as February 1 of the following year. (Observatory.)
one * Astron. Nach., 2704. + Astron. Nachr., 2660,

ASTRONOMY. 365

The new star in the great nebula of Andromeda.—The astronomical
event that attracted the most widespread attention in the year 1885, or
perhaps.in several years, was the telegraphic announcement, on August
31, by Dr. Hartwig, of the Dorpat Observatory, of his discovery, on the
previous evening, of a new star in the great nebula of Andromeda.

The following account of this “ Nova Andromede” is taken from a
paper *read by Prof. Asaph Hall, at the meeting of the Philosophical
Society of Washington, on February 13, 1886. Further details of the
observations must be deferred to another report.

Dr. Hartwig “had suspected some change in the nebula as early as the
20th of August, but bad weather and a lack of instrumental means for
making the matter certain deferred the announcement until the 51st.
From the various estimates at that time the star was probably a little
brighter than the 7th magnitude, or just below the limit of visibility
to the naked eye. The annonncement, of course, turned a host of ob-
servers to the new star, and many erroneous estimates and statements
were made. Some observers estimated the brightness far too great,
and several, on account of errors in the observations, announced that
the new star was moving with an enormous velocity. It required the
lapse of a few weeks to clear away and correct all this error.

‘After Dr. Hartwig’s announcement it, appeared that several others
had seen the new star, but for some reason, perhaps want of familiarity
with this nebulaand lack of confidence that anew star had really appeared,
they did not make a public announcement. Thus the Baroness Pod-
manicezky, of Eastern Hungary, saw the new star on August 22 or 23
with a 33-inch comet-seeker, and called the attention of a visitor to it,
but they do not seem to have been certain that the object was new. This
lady looked at the nebula on August 13, and did not see the new star.
Mr. H. 8S. Moore, of McKinney, Tex., saw the new star on August 30.
The circumstances indicate that this is a bona fide observation. A really
independent discovery was made by Freiherr von Spiessen, of Winkel,
in Rheingau, who found the new star on August30. - - - Mr. Isaac
W. Ward, of Belfast, Ireland, claims that he saw the newstar on August
19, when it was of the 95 magnitude. Finally, Prof. Ludoric Grelly, of
Rouen, says that he saw the new star on the 17th of August, and showed
_it to several friends and visitors. On the other hand, Mr. Tempel, of
Florence, Italy, who has done much work on nebule, and who is well
acquainted with the great nebula of Andromeda, says that he is con-
fident that there was’no star in the place of the new one which was
easily visible in his telescope on the 15th and 16th of August. This
testimony is important and serves to fix the time of the appearance of the
nova, or at least the time it became an easy object in telescopes, within
very narrow limits. This time must have been between the 16th and
20th of August, 1885. It is probable that the star increased rapidly in
brightness, since‘on August 31 it was of the 7th magnitude. It never,

wy *See, also, Amer. J. Sci., 3 ser., vol. 31, p..299-303,

366 — SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

I think, became much brighter, though statements were made early in
September that it was of the 2d or 3d magnitude and easily visible to
the naked eye. Its diminution of brightness began about August 31,
and has gone on pretty steadily until the present time [February, ©
1886]. - - -

‘‘At first the position of the new star was confounded with that of the
bright point of the nebula, and as this mistake added interest to the dis-
covery it was some time before it could be generally corrected. - - -
The assumption of any intimate physical connection of the new star with
the nebula has been given up by Vogel, of Potsdam, and Hasselberg, of
Pulkowa, who have examined its spectrum. Within the limits of this
nebula there can be counted from fifteen hundred to two thousand tele-
scopic stars, and one of these has proved to belong to the class of tempo-
rary stars, so called, of which we have records of from 20 to 30. What
causes thesestars suddenly to flame out and then to fade gradually away
we do not know, and, so far as I know, there is hardly a plausible theory.

‘‘T firstsaw the new star on September 6, when its magnitude seemed
to me 74, and the star had a decidedly ruddy tinge. This color lasted
but a few weeks, and as the star grew fainter it became of a white
color. My observations have been continued until February 7 of the
present year, and probably the star will be visible in the 26-inch refract-
or after the present moon has passed. It is now very near the limit of
visibility in our telescope, or of nearly the 16th magnitude. The passage
from the 7th magnitude to the 16th corresponds to a very great change
of brightness, since it is the passage from the limit of visibility to the
naked eye to that in a 26-inch telescope. Several hypotheses were pro-
posed to account for this wonderful star, and one that seemed to me quite
ingenious is that of Mr. Monck, of Ireland, who assumed that this star is
one of the swiftly-moving ones that in rushing through the nebula had
been set on fire, like a meteor in our .atmosphere. Led by some such
suggestion, and also by that of Professor Peters that it would be inter-
esting to test the parallax of such a star, on September 29. I began some
measures of the new star by referring it by means of polar co-ordinates
to a known star of the 11th magnitude, distant from it a little less than
2), - - - Jdonot think my measures show any proof of a parallax,
though they indicate, perhaps, a diminution of the distance, and even
this may be sufficiently accounted for by variations in the light and
color of the new star, since such variations would be likely to affect the
measures. - - -

“The great nebula of Andromeda is easily visible to the naked eye,
and doubtless it was known to the astronomers of very ancient times.
Those astronomers watched the heavens with unaided vision much
more carefully than do modern astronomers, and they were far better
acquainted with the constellations. The old astronomers had a theory
that this nebula was variable both in form and brightness. They had
poor means of judging of its form, but it is possible that their esti-
ASTRONOMY. 367

mate of brightness may be more trustworthy, and that our new star may
be an old variable which has appeared before, causing the nebula ap-
parently to vary in brightness.” - - -

The new star near xy’ Orionis.—Mr. J. E. Gore, of Beltra, Ballysadare,
Ireland, discovered on December 13 a reddish star of about the 6th
magnitude, following 7’ (54) Orionis by about a minute and a half of
time, nearly in the same parallel. Drs. Copeland and Becker observed
it at Dun Eeht on the 16th, and found it to be of the 64 magnitude and
of an orange-red color. They remark: ‘“‘ It has avery beautiful banded
spectrum of the third type, seven dark bands being readily distin-
guished with the prism; the bright intervals seem full of bright lines,
especially in the green and blue.” M.C. Wolf has also examined the
spectrum of this remarkable star at the Paris Observatory ; he finds it
to be of a totally different character from those of the stars which un--
derwent such great outbursts of brillianey in the constellations Corona
and Cygnus in the years 1866 and 1876, respectively, and presenting, in
fact, a great similarity to the spectrum of that extraordinarily variable
star known as Mira or o Ceti.

SPECTRA OF STARS.

Stars with spectra of the third type-—‘ Professor Dunér has published
an important catalogue of stars having banded spectra. Following
Professor Vogel’s classification, he prefers to regard the spectra with
bands fading away towards the violet as a subdivision of the same type
as those in which the bands fade away towards the red, rather than,
with Secchi, to make them into a separate class. Dunér’s type LI a,
therefore, corresponds to Secchi’s third type, and his III b to Seechi’s
fourth type. Professor Dunér’s purpose in forming this catalogue is to
supply the means for future observers to detect changes in these spectra,
should any such occur, for, as he points out, these stars are probably in
a very advanced state of development, and we may therefore, perhaps,
hope to discover some day changes in their spectra, which, carefully
studied, may lead to important results as to the nature of suns. They
are the more interesting, also, because variable stars of long period
usually belong to this class.

‘“With this view Professor Dunér has carefully exaiined all the known
objects of this type which are visible in his latitude, and for which the
optical means at his command were sufficient, and he has catalogued
297 stars of type III a—that is, with bandsshading off towards the red—
and 55 of type III b, with bands shading off in the opposite direction.
An important section follows, giving a list of stars which different as
tronomers have regarded as belonging to the third elass, but which
Dunér cannot so classify. Only in a very few instances, however, is
there any good reason to suspect a change in the spectrum. In the
great majority Secchi, whose observations suppiy most of these cases of
368 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

discrepancy, had himself at one time or another registered the star as
being of the second type, ¢.¢., without bands, or else had especially re-
marked on the extreme feebleness of the bands which he thought he
saw. There are, however, three stars observed by D’ Arrest for which
the evidence of change seems stronger, viz, Lal. 24034, DM. + 609,
1461, and DM. + 36°, 2772. Professor Dunér has also failed to find
Schjellerup 249, which is, perhaps, a long period variable, and he draws
special attention to R Andromede, a star the spectrum of which,
though of type III a, presents some very marked peculiarities. Great
care has been taken in the determination of the position of the bands in
the different spectra. It isclear,as many spectroscopists have already
observed, that the bands of type HI @ occupy the same positions in all
the spectra of the type, and the same is true for the bands of type III
b. With regard to the former class, the sharp dark edges on the more
refrangible sides of the bands generally coincide with strong metallic
lines. Thus one of the most prominent bands is terminated by the b
lines of magnesium. The nature of the connection between the bands
and these metallic lines is not at all clear at present, thesymmetrical ar-
rangement of the bands seeming to suggest that they are due to some
one substance rather than to several. Thethree principal bands of the
spectra of the other type Professor Dunér considers to be unmistakably
those of a carbon compound, and to correspond to the bright bands so
familiar in the spectra of comets. The determinations of the wave-
lengths of the bands in spectra of this type are necessarily not quite so
accurate as those of the bands in spectra of type III a, but if Professor
Dunér’s measures are accepted, this most important correspondence
may be considered fully established. But apart from the value of these
measures, Professor Dunér’s catalogue, with the full and clear descrip-
tions he has appended to every star, will be of the utmost service to
future observers of these interesting and beautiful objects.” (Observa-
tory, November, 1885.)

Bright lines in stellar spectra.—“ Mr. O. T. Sherman has continued his
researches on the spectra of 7 Cassiopeix and # Lyre. and announces in
the American Journal of Science for December the discovery of no fewer
than fifteen bright lines in the spectrum of the former star and seventeen
in that of the latter. The lines seen in y Cassiopeiz are as follows: Ha,
A 6356, 6160, D3, A 5840, 5557-5, 5422, 5309-8, 5167-5, 4990, HA, A 4623,
Hy, A 4180, and Ho, bright lines; and A 6280, 5760, 5020, 4920, 4673:5,
and 3993, dark lines. The bright lines agree closely in position with
the principal lines observed by Professor Young in the spectrum of the
chromosphere. Mr. Sherman has also examined a large number of
other stars, and ‘in each case many or few bright lines have been seen,
lines, so far as I know, formerly unsuspected,’ It is clear, if Mr. Sher-
man’s observations can be satisfactorily confirmed, that we have here
a most important discovery; but, looking to the fact that these stars
ASTRONOMY. 369

have probably been frequently observed by experienced spectroscopists
without any bright lines being detected in them, whilst a false appear-
ance of bright lines is readily produced in stellar spectra under certain
circumstances, it would appear hazardous to accept Mr. Sherman’s re-
salt without further evidence.” (Nature, December 17, 1885.)

Periodic variations in the spectrum of 6 Lyre.—Herr von Gothard re-
ported last year (Bull. Astron., 1, p. 211) the appearance of the brilliant
lines, which had not been seen for some time, in the spectra of y Cassi-
‘opeiz and 6 Lyre. During the year he has been able to prove the
periodic variability of the line D3 in the spectrum of 6 Lyre. The period
seems to be very short, and is probably about 7 days. The hydrogen
lines vary also, but their variation is less pronounced. The spectrum of
y Cassiopeiz also offers some indications of analogous variations.

PROPER MOTION OF STARS.

Stars in rapid motion.—The small value of the parallax of 40 0? Eridani
(Science, vi, 358), combined with its large proper motion (4/10), brings
it into prominence as the third or fourth of the stars moving rapidly
across our line of sight. Since a list of these stars seldom appears in
works on popular astronomy, we give below the proper motions 1, the
parallaxes z, and the resulting velocities v, in miles per second across our
line of sight, of the eight stars which head the list in the order of veloci-
ties. The method of deriving the velocities is of course very simple.
if a star’s annual proper motion equals its parallax, it moves across our
line of sight each year a distance equal to the semi-major axis of the
earth’s orbit. (How much it moves to or from us can only be told by
‘the spectroscope.) Therefore, since this motion increases directly as j.,
and inversely as z, we have for the annual motion across the line of
sight—

vt=at
7

or, calling a 92.5 million miles, and ¢ the number of seconds in a year,
we have for the volocity in miles per second—

io 2:93 4
Yd

‘Of course, the proper motions below are much more accurately known
than the parallaxes, and where the latter are small the values of v are
correspondingly uncertain. The authorities for the adopted values of z
are given in the column following them. In the case of 40 o*? Eridani,
‘we have weighted Gill and Hall 2 and 1 respectively, as the former de-
termination was made under much the more favorable conditions, and
rests upon two comparison stars. The latest values of Hall and Ball
for 61 Cygni are practically identical. The probable errors of all the
values of z are generally less than 0/-02.

H. Mis. 15-——24
370 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Parallax.
Star’s name. Le SS v
ae Authority.
Groombridge 1830) 22 22-45-22-- ZOD e NO OOt{ BruDn OW: a-0s 3 eeeceree neces 230
WacamilleiQssencs ne ee wee eee OVPOO WMO ge OSS iG UTES seo ps ee Ae ee Vfl ite
AQo2 RIG antes ease. see eee ASTON Oe eo uimGarlland allies S20 sane pee 65
COEIM ANAS wo etcla oe eee eee 3°10} 0 +14 [Doh eae SpleSseemsotsos Sek sc 65
cot BOY 0 Ney tele pe ae te 2 se AS GSnimiO OD eel Grlleand byline e ose eeeeoeee 62
Halande QI25Si. 2 2 ae eee Ae AON Oi Oy. el OATWOES-. Seen oot ae eee eee 48
GNC yoni Sisto oe cel eee Oeon ONES Halland Ballicc sec ceeee see 32
MalandeQhls5 22-2, Aeeeeeeee TSG) Ue ash lol Watetevelel <e\ qe SP APesepese 42 se 28

The first will be recognized as Newcomb’s ‘‘ runaway star,” so graph-
ically described in his Popular Astronomy; but it will be seen that the
others have velocities which are at least comparable with that of Groom-
bridge 1830, and indicate momenta that represent vast amounts of
energy. The discovery of huge suns like our own rushing through
space with these great velocities isa matter of more than usual interest
just uow, from the fact that Mr. Denning’s claimed discovery of fixed
meteor-radiants has raised the question as to the possible existence of
broad swiftly flying streams of meteorites in interstellar space, moving
with velocities entirely beyond the control of our sun, and so broad
that it takes the solar system some years to pass through them. (An
annual parallax of 1° in a meteor-radiant corresponds to a velocity of
over 1,000 miles per second for the meteor stream.) The idea of such
streams moving with such velocities is a startling one, and, if shown to
be true, gives avery vivid idea of the forces acting, or which have
acted, in stellar space. It seems at first highly improbable that such
can be the case, but with the hard facts of Groombridge 1830 and these
other swiftly flying suns staring us in the face, the idea is worth con-
sidering, at any rate. If these suns are the products of condensation
due to central attraction, so that the luminous energy by which they
reveal themselves to us was once energy of translation, it is no violent
assumption to suppose that some of their constituent parts were once
moving with much greater velocities than that of the present whole.
In fact, the man who should claim as a possibility that space contains
broad belts of small particles moving with velocities which are the result-
ant of all the forces acting on them since primeval chaos, and which have
not yet been gathered into the control of any of the stellar systems among

viuich they are sweeping, would find much to confirm his ideas in these
giant swiftly flyingsuns. The question is certainly of sufficient interest
and importance to eall for a thorough overhauling of the present methods
of determining meteor-radiants, for probably most astronomers would
to-day be disposed to deny in toto the existence of the greater part of
these so-called radiant-points.” (H.M. Paul, Science, November 27, 1885.)

Star with large proper motion in Sculptor.—Dr. Gould has noticed a

case of large proper motion in a star in Sculptor, barely of the 8th mag-
ASTRONOMY. aH 0 |

nitude (RK. A.==23" 58", Decl. = —37° 58’). It appears to have a proper
motion of + 08482 and — 2/-45, or 6-21 in the are of a great circle.
This motion is only less than that of Groombridge 1830 (7/03), and that
of Lacaille 9352 (6-96), which precedes the star in question by 1” and is
upon nearly the same parallel. The star is numbered 1584 in Hour xx1I
of the Cordoba Zone-Catalogue.

Proper motion of Lalande 16616.—Professor Frisby has found* a proper
motion of —0s-00920 + 0*-0013, in right ascension and — 0/3619 + 0/0048
in declination for this star, from observations of Lalande, Argelander,
Robinson, and Washington transit-circle observations in the years 1881
and 1882.

A large proper motion has been detected by Herr Berberich in tlie
star Weisse X 1021; and Professor Porter has called attention to proper
motions in the stars Lalande 20959 and 24423.

Proper motions in the Pleiades.—Professor Pritchard has published in
the forty-eighth volume of the Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical So-
ciety a paper of some 50 pages, “On the relative proper motions of
forty stars in the Pleiades, determined from micrometric and merid-
ional observations.”

Motions of stars in the line of sight. —“ For the past ten years the loyal
Observatory of Greenwich has been assiduously observing the spectra
of more than 50 of the brightest stars, for the purpose of determin
ing the velocity of their motions toward or from the earth in the ‘line
of sight’—the line joining the earth and star. The reports of the
astronomer royal have given the annual results, but no general exhibi-
tion of the present state of the question has been made until lately,
when Mr. Maunder, the. observer, has collected them in an interesting
paper in the Observatory. Mr. Maunder points out, in the first place,
that the conclusions which are drawn are worthy of confidence in spite
of the extremely small displacements of the spectral lines upon which
they depend. The entirely independent researches at Greenwich and
those of Dr. Huggins and Dr. Vogel mutually confirm each other; and,
moreover, if the method is applied to the measurement of the difference
between the velocity of approach of the two limbs (edges) of the sun or
Jupiter, the results are consistent with what we know of the rotation-
times of these two bodies. We can compute exactly how fast one limb
of the sun is approaching us, and how fast the opposite limb is moving
away; and these same quantities can be determined by the spectro:
scopic methods with substantially the same results. Hence the spec-
troscopic determinations of the velocity of a body in the line of sight
may be fairly said to belong to exact astronomy. The directions and
the velocities for some fifty stars have been thus determined at Green-
wich by measures extending over several years. Velocities of thirty
to forty miles per second are not uncommon. A velocity of less than
ten miles corresponds to such a small displacement that its determina-

* Astron Nachr., 2683.
ata SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

tion becomes difficult. The case of Sirius is an interesting one, from
the fact that its motion has changed from a recession of 21 miles per
second in 1875~76 to an approach of 21 miles per second in 1884. The
proof is very clear, the separate years giving:

SPO Se oon. sei cial Nee eee 21 miles per second; recession
AS(7. 2.2.2 22002. acate ea cee seo miles per second; recession
SION A cee Oss 3 15 miles per second ; recession
T SSO. s. (22 cea eee -11 miles per second; recession
SSL. a2 ose lee ee eee - 2 miles per second; recession
1882 ...c 6 Sooke ee eee - 5 miles per second; approach
1883: ¢.siss coe ace eee -19 miles per second; approach
NSS4s = siaepaa eee poess-,---.-21 miles per seconds, approach

‘But the interest of this research is not in accumulating data as to the
motion of individual stars, however important this may be. The real
point is, what hght does this method throw upon the theory that the
sun, with the whole solar system, is moving toward the constellation
Hercules at a rate of some 590,000,000 miles per annum? Attempts
have been previously made to show that the spectroscopic data confirm
the theory, which, indeed, has a fairly firm basis on other grounds.
Mr. Maunder declares that these attempts are premature, and that the
spectroscopic data are as yet insufficient. So far as they go, they rather
indicate a motion toward a Aquaril. ‘Still, if the sun’s speed be
small compared with the average speed of the stars observed, there is
nothing in the observations incompatible with the generally accepted
direction.” Mr. Maunder points out the fact that Greenwich Observa-
tory is the only observatory prosecuting these researches, which demand
a refined spectroscope, a large telescope, and a very clear and quiet
atmosphere—conditions all lacking at the Royal Observatory. He ex-
presses the hope that the observatories of Nice and Melbourne may de-
vote their large telescopes to this work. In America we have several
large refractors admirably suited for the work, and it is to be hoped
that some of them may be exclusively devoted to it.” (Nation, June

11, 1885.)
PHOTOMETRY.

Standards of stellar magnitudes.—The third report of the American
committee on standards of stellar inagnitudes states that the zones fol-
lowing the twenty-four selected equatorial stars have received a second
careful revision with the Princeton 23-inch, which should make them
inelude all stars down to about 16-0 magnitude, and that a revision will
probably be made with the Washington 26-inch. Four of the charts have
been distributed to all observatories having large telescopes, with re-
quests for all visible additions which will furnish comparisons of the pen-
etrating power of different kinds of telescopes. Certain selected stand-
ards in each zone, about 0-5 magnitude apart, have been measured at the
Harvard College Observatory with photometer I, and the two brightest,
if not too faint, with’ the meridian-photometer. A catalogue of these
=. eae

ASTRONOMY. Bi Gis

selected standards in the twenty-four zones, giving the positions and
provisional magnitudes, is published, and also a table of twenty-one
close circumpolars ranging in magnitude from 2:2 to 15:7. (Science,
“Astron. Notes.”)

Harvard Photometry.—M. Th. Wolff, of the Bonn Observatory, reviews at
considerable length (40 pages) the last volume of the Annals of the Harvard
College Observatory, which contains the photometric investigations of Pro-
fessor Pickering and his assistants. M. Wolff has submitted the work
of the American astronomers to a minute examination and has estab-
lished very interesting relations between the results of the Harvard Col-
lege meridian photometer and the results of his own work with a Zoell-
ner photometer. With the latter photometer the observed star is com-
pared with an artificial star, while with the meridian photometer the
observed star is compared with Polaris. The twoimages, one formed by
the ordinary and the other by the extraordinary ray of the respective
stars, meet in a double image prism and are observed across a Nicol
prism. As a check on the work, Polaris was often compared with itself.
The magnitudes obtained vary from 1:4 to 2-7, the mean of 630 deter-
minations being 1:90 instead of 2:0, the magnitude adopted for Polaris.
This discerpancy is inexplicable. The mean of the differences between
Professor Pickering’s catalogue and M. Wolff’s two catalogues is +
0-11 magnitudes, or for the logarithm of the intensity + 0-044. It isa
matter for regret that Professor Pickering did not publish the rela-
tive intensities that were the direct results of observation, but pre-
ferred to give the magnitudes computed by Pogson’s formula, with the
constant 0-4. M. Wolff very justly remarks that this constant, deter-
mined by the observation of telescopic stars, cannot apply to stars of
the first six classes; he finds that to establish an agreement with Ar-
gelander this constant must be reduced to 0:37, or even to 0°33. Pro-
fessor Pickering has endeavored to make his work agree with Arge-
lander’s by adding + 0-27 to all his results; but this reduction has
altered the discrepancies without doing away with them. By reducing
the numbers published by Professor Pickering back to the logarithms of
intensity from which they were derived, and comparing these results
with his own, M. Wolff finds the following mean result :

W — W,=0-84 (P— Py),

which would indicate the existence of an unexpectedly large personal
equation. (Bull. Astron., August, 1835.)

The Oxford Uranometria.*—“ The form of photometer Professor
Pritchard has adopted is now too generally known to require descrip-
tion. It possesses the high merits of simplicity of construction and use

*Astronomical observations made at the University Observatory, Oxford, under
the direction of C. Pritchard, J). D., F. R. S., F. G. S., F. R. A. 8., Savilian Professor
of Astronomy in Oxford.—No. II. Uranometria Nova Oxoniensis. A photometric de-
termination of the magnitudes of all stars visible to the naked eye from the pole to
ten degrees south of the equator, Oxford; At the Clarendon Press,
3TA4. SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

and freedom from liability of derangement. In addition to these qual-
ities, Professor Pritchard has been careful, in his use of it, to free it
from systematic errors arising from the continual use of the same part
of the wedge for the same star. Not only has the coefiicient of absorp-
tion been separately determined for every point of the wedge, but the
system of observation adopted has involved the employ ment of four dif-
ferent apertures of telescope in conjunction with two wedges, and by —
two different observers. Each determination of magnitude, therefore,
is the mean of twenty observations, a set of five observations being taken
with each of what are practically four different instruments. When to
this is added the circumstance that the determinations of magnitude are
differential only, and that therefore three complete sets of extinctions
were made of the standard star Polaris every evening, and that tor the
better determination of the atmospheric absorption and of the magni-
tudes of southern stars a considerable portion of the observations were
made at Cairo, it becomes evident that the work of determining the
magnitudes of nearly 3,000 stars which Professor Pritchard, with his
assistants, Messrs. Plummer and Jenkins, has-here accomplished, is one
of very considerable dimensions indeed.

‘The convenience of Professor Pritchard’s photometer, and the magni-
tude of the work he has undertaken with it, stand beyond dispute; but
the delicacy of the wedge is another question. And here we are met
with the circumstance that the observations seem to show little or no
evidence of any effect due to changes in the sensitiveness of the ob-
server’s eye, to personality, to moonlight, and only to a small extent to
color in the star observed ; and this unexpected and remarkable result
has called forth not a little criticism, for as the construction of this
photometer is not such as to lead us to expect that it would be wholly
free from errors of these kinds, a doubt seems to be thrown upon its
sensitiveness. Professor Pritchard has replied to these criticisms in
the frankest manner, showing that they had not escaped his notice;
but whether he has quite refuted them is a point which we may, how-
ever, well think still sub judice. Probably the wise arrangement by
which an ordinary evening’s work is confined to three hours or less
will largely explain the absence of deviations due to the first-named
cause, and with regard to the third it is most likely that observations on
bright moonlight nights or of stars near the moon have been gener-
ally avoided. The observations of Polaris which Professor Pritchard
has brought forward in this connection scarcely touch the real diffi-
culty. The substantial accuracy of the Oxford star magnitudes is, how-
ever, Shown by the close agreement which they bear to determinations
made at other observatories and by widely different methods, and it is
possible that the future may show that the exceedingly small devia-
tions of the individual observations are a true index of the minuteness
of their errors.” (E,W. Maunder, Observatory.)
:

ASTRONOMY. 375

Photometric observations at Potsdam.—Professor Safarik has made
quite an extended analysis of Dr. Miiller’s Photometric Researches, which
have appeared in the Publications of the Potsdam Observatory (1533).
These researches have been carried on since 1877, their object being the
study of atmospheric extinction and of the relative brightness of the
planets and of a series of variable stars. The instrument employed
by Dr. Miiller is a Zoellner photometer, with an aperture of 0-037 me-
ter. The aperture of the objective may be reduced by diaphragms;
it seems, however, that the effect of the diaphragms does not always
correspond to the expectations based upon the diminution of the aper-
ture. Professor Safarik thinks the cause of this disagreement must be
sought in the employment of a magnifying power that is much too low,
so that the resulting ocular ring is larger than the aperture of the pupil
of the eye. This photometer is not suitable for colorimetric researches.

Dr. Miiller’s observations relative to atmospheric extinction have
consisted in comparing the five following stars, which can be observed
at widely different zenith distances, with Polaris: a Cygni, 7 Urse
Majoris, 6 Persei, a Aurige, and a Tauri. Curves have been traced rep-
resenting the logarithmic intensities as a function of the zenith distance.
These curves show no indication of variability for the six stars in ques-
tion, unless it be in the case of a Tauri. It is a curious fact that the
white stars do not become quite as much fainter in the neighborhood of
the horizon as the red stars do. This is probably due to some physioloz-
ical cause. We give here some of the values finally adopted for reduc-
tion to the zenith (the numbers given are the logarithms) :

LL): Reduction. Zi: Reduction.
10° 0-0004 75° 0-2596
20 0:0037 80 | 0:3908
30 0-0112 82 0-4718
40 0-0244 84 0:5959
50 0-0482 86 0-8164
60 0:0920 87 0:9929
70 0:1798 88 1:2409

Four units in the first decimal place being equivalent to one magni-
tude, we see that for Z. D.=80°, 86°, 88°, the reduction represents 1, 2,
and 3 magnitudes respectively. Dr. Miiller’s curves offer as a whole a
very satisfactory agreement with those of Seidel, in spite of the differ-
ence of climate between Potsdam and Munich, and in spite of the dif-
ferent processes employed in the two observations. Dr. Miiller finds the
mean value 0°8250 for the fraction of a star’s light that comes through
our atmosphere when the star is seen in the zenith; the atmosphere
then absorbs a little more than + ofthelight. The coefficient of extince-
tion should thus be 0:8250 (0-21 magnitude); Seidel found it to be equal
to 0-100 (0-25 magnitude). Professor Safarik speaks in conclusion of
the recent work done by Wolf, and Langley.” (Bull, Astron., Septem-
ber, 1885.)
376 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Photometry of the Pleiades.—A valuable memoir (Mémoires de l Aca-
démie Impériale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg, VIL série, tome xxxtI,
No. 6), by Herr Ed. Lindemann, of Pulkowa, ‘On the magnitudes of Bes-
sel’s stars in the Pleiades,’ has recently reached us. <A special point of
interest lies in the fact that Professors Pickering and Pritchard havelike-
wise determined the brightness of many of these stars with their respect-
ive photometers, each assuming the magnitude of Merope, to which the
other stars of the group are referred, as 4:22. Herr Lindemann has also
adopted the same magnitude for Merope, which he has used as his staud-
ard star. Healsoemployed, as reference stars, Celzno and Anon.32, the
magnitudes of which he had determined to be 5:27 and 6-51, respectively.
The stars, fifty-two in number, were each observed on two separate
nights, only one star of the fifty-three observed by Bessel proving too
faint for Herr Lindemann’s telescope of five inches aperture. Compar-
ing his own results with those of Professors Pickering and Pritchard,
Herr Lindemann finds, on the whole, a very gratifying agreement;
twenty-five stars observed by Professor Pickering showing a mean ex-
cess over the Pulkowa observations of 0-04 of a magnitude, and thirty-
three stars observed by Professor Pritchard giving a mean excess of
0:05. Professor Pritchard’s later observations give a yet smaller differ-
ence, viz, 0-01 of a magnitude. When it is remembered that the three
photometers employed— Herr Lindemann using a Zoellner photometer—
differed entirely in principle, construction, and method of employment,
this close agreement would seem to indicate that each may be relied
upon with very considerable confidence when the differences of stellar
magnitude determined by their means are not very great. The stars
Nos. 1, 4, 21, 31, and 33 would appear to be variable, and possibly two
others likewise. Pogson’s scale has been employed for the conversion
of the logarithm of the light of the star into magnitude.” (Nature, De-
cember 17, 1885.) |

Professor Pickering in the Proceedings of the American Society for Psy-
chical Research has tried to find out from the discussion of a large num-
ber of observations, whether the knowledge of a catalogue magnitude
of a star on the part ofarecorder exerts through the medium of “ thought-
transference” any influence upon the independence of the observer's
estimate. His conclusion is in the negative.

ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY.

Photographic map of the heavens made, with the aid of two objectives,
by Paul and Prosper Henry.— In their first attempts at stellar photo-
graphy the Messrs. Henry had especially in view the discovery of some
rapid means for the construction of their ecliptic charts. As these first
attempts gave excellent results, M. Mouchez had apparatus constructed
that was especially adapted to stellar photography; the mechanical
part is due to Gautier, the optical part being the work of the Messrs.
Henry, This new instrument consists of two telescopes in juxtaposi-
ASTRONOMY. ra |

tion, each having about the same focal length (3-60 meters), and aper-
tures of 0-24 meter and 0:34 meter respectively. The latter telescope,
which serves for the photography, is rendered achromatic for chemical
rays; the other telescope is used as a pointer in keeping the image of
the star at exactly the same point of the photographie plate for the
requisite length of time; the field is about 3°. The Messrs. Henry
have recently succeeded in obtaining, with an exposure of one hour, a
very beautiful proof, which has been presented to the Academy by M.
Mouchez. It represents an expanse of about 5° and shows 2,790 stars
between the 5th and 14th magnitudes. Such a chart as this one, ob-
tained in one hour, would have certainly required a number of months
to prepare by ordinary methods.” (Bull. Astron., June, 1885.)

Photographie charts of regions of the Milky Way, by Paul and Prosper
Henry, of the Paris Observatory.—‘ About 5,000 stars between the
6th and 15th magnitudes can be counted on the plate presented to the
Academy by M. Mouchez. The plate shows an area of 2° 15/ of right
asceusion by 3° of declination, and was obtained by the new photo-
graphic apparatus described in vol. U1, p. 289, of the Bulletin Astro-
nomique. In order to avoid confounding flaws in the plate with stars
three successive exposures of an hour each were made, the telescope
being moved 5” each time, so that each star is represented by three
points forming an equilateral triangle, the sides being 5” in length.

“‘M. Mouchez estimates that 6,000 similar plates would be required to
represent the whole sky, and that these would form 1,500 charts of the
size of the ecliptic charts of the Paris Observatory.” (Bull. Astron.,
August, 1885.)

Photograph of the star cluster of Perseus.—“ During September, 1884,
Dr. Lohse took advantage of exceptionally clear nights to attempt some
star photographs, using the 11-inch refractor belonging to the Potsdam
Observatory. An exposure of 45 minutes generally sufficed for obtain-
ing photographs of stars as faint as 10th to 11th magnitude. The finder
of the telescope was employed as a pointer in correcting the errors due
to the driving clock; but it would have been better to point the telescope
directly by means of an eye-piece inserted in the photographic cham-
ber. Such an arrangement has been invented by Mr. Common. Two
successive positions of the most brilliant star of the group have always
been reproduced for the purpose of fixing upon the plate the position of
the apparent parallel. The sensitive plates were furnished by Wratten
and Wainwright of London. The images were developed by a concen-
trated solution of oxalate of iron, to which was added potassium bro-
mide. The development can be hastened by plunging the plates for
about two minutes into a very weak solution of nitrate of chrysaniline.

Dr. Lohse has succeeded in this way in photographing a certain num-
ber of star clusters, and in particular the cluster 7 Persei, which Dr. H.
C. Vogel studied in 1878. A negative obtained September 24 served
to identify the stars by micrometer measures, and one obtained Sep-
378 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

tember 26 served to determine the magnitudes. The plates showed
57 stars between the 6th and 11th magnitudes. It is certain that the
photographic determination of the relative positions of so many stars
represents a very considerable economy of time, and also guards against
personal errors. As for the errors of the photograph, they can always
be detected by the simultaneous reproduction of a squared reticle. Five
successive exposures of 1™, 4™, 9™, 16™, 25™, respectively, were made for
the purpose of determining the magnitudes, the telescope being each
time moved in declination. Five series of images, each more numerous
than the last, were thus obtained. The photo-chemical effect is known
to be proportional to the intensity of the light and to the time of the
exposure; in cases of equally distinct images, therefore, the brightness
of the stars must be inversely proportional to the time of exposure.
Dr. Lohse has proceeded upon this principle in determining the rela-
tive magnitudes of the stars in the cluster of y Persei, employing Dr.
Vogel’s actinometric data. (It seems that the photographic intensities
of two successive magnitudes are in the ratio of 1: 3, while the ratio of
intensities as seen with the eye is that of 1: 2:5.) Photographic magni-
tudes generally agree well enough with optical magnitudes; still there
are some exceptions: thus a red star called 8:5 by Dr. Vogel is marked
10°5 by Dr. Lohse. It would be interesting to apply the same process
to the actinometric study of variable stars.

We must not neglect to speak here of the fact that MM. Henry have
obtained a very beautiful photograph of the star cluster of Perseus
at the Paris Observatory. They succeeded in locating 509 stars be-
tween the 6th and 13th magnitudes included within 1° of right ascen-
sion and 1°-5 of declination.” (Bull. Astron., March, 1885.)

Stellar photography at Harvard College Observatory.—By the aid of the
Bache fund an important investigation has been undertaken in stellar
photography. It is found that stars as faint as the 6th magnitude, in
any part of the sky, can be readily photographed, even without clock-
work; while near the pole, where the diurnal motion is slower, stars
as faint as the 14th magnitude may be photographed in like manner.
These results have much value as a means of determinin g the relative
positions and brightness of different stars. Charts of regions five de-
grees square can also be photographically prepared and enlarged by
photolithography to the scale of the maps drawn by Chacornac and
Peters. The spectra of stars have all been photographed with much
success. Stars as faint as the 8th magnitude give photographic spec-
tra in the paper prints, from which the lines can be distinctly seen. Mr.
W. H. Pickering has rendered important aid in this investigation. <A
part of his researches upon the possibility of photographing the solar
corona, except during an eclipse, was conducted at the Observatory and
the results published in Science.

The first stellar photographs ever taken were those of a Lyre, by the
elder Bond, at the Harvard Observatory, in 1850, In 1857 his son car-

ee ee
ASTRONOMY. 379

ried similar investigations much further. Aft first, however, they were
unable to obtain clear images of stars of the 2d magnitude, while
now it is possible to print those of the 14th, or, in other words, to
transfer to paper an image produced by an object only a hundred-thou-
‘sandth part as bright as formerly. Professor Pickering’s researches
have been carried on with an instrument that he has devised himself,
in which a Voigtlander portrait lens of 8 inches aperture and 44 inches
focus has been reground and mounted equatorially. It is driven by
clockwork, having a Bond spring-governor, controlled electrically by a
sidereal clock.

We have already referred (under Nebulz) to the fact that Professor
Pickering has found upon one of his plates a trace of the nebulz around
Maia, discovered by the Henrys at Paris.

Stellar photography at the Cape Observatory.— Upwards of one hundred
successful photographs have been obtained towards the completion of a
photographie Durchmusterung of the southern heavens. Each photo-
graph covers a square of 6° on the side, and shows all stars similar in mag-
nitude to those of Argelander’s Durehmusterung. The lens employed
is a “rapid rectilinear lens,” composed of two combinations, having an
aperture of 6 inches and a focal length of about 52 inches. The exposure
of each plate is one hour, and the plates are the most sensitive “‘ Paget
dry plates,” specially made for that purpose. Mr. Finlay, of the Cape
Observatory, stated ata meeting of the Liverpool Astronomical Society, on
October 13, 1885, that a 9-inch lens had been ordered and would soon be
ready. It is proposed to divide the whole southern hemisphere into sixty
squares, each one overlapping another adjoining it. ‘’woplates aretaken
of each picture, so as to avoid any mistake. The work will take from
three to four years, and will comprise 1,000 pictures. Mr. C. Ray Woods
has been put in charge of this work, and he intends to continue at the
Cape the work of photographing the corona, which he lately undertook,
under Dr. Huggins’ direction, in Switzerland.

COMETS.

Theory of comets’ tails: Les syndynames et les synchrones dans les cométes,
25 pp., 1 plate, 4to. Les syndynames et les synchrones de la cométe Pons-
Brooks, 24 pp., 1 plate, 4to.—“‘M. Bredichin, while sharing some of Bes-
sel’s ideas concerning the existence of a repulsive force, has succeeded
in developing a complete theory concerning the tails of comets; a theory
which accounts very satisfactorily for most of the observed phenomena,
M. Bredichin applies the name syndyname to the parabolic curve in which
the particles of the tail that have successively left the nucleus under the
influence of a given repulsive force jy, are disposed at the moment of
observation. The synchrone is the curve in which occur the particles
that have left the nucleus at the same time under the influence of sev-
eral Forces py JS ere
380 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

‘“The synchronic lines are limited and intersected by the syndynames
of the edges of the tail. In the case of the Donati comet, Norton found
these lines to be nearly straight, passing near the nucleus. According
to Bredichin, the synchrones are rather circles of great radius, the ra-
dius for each comet increasing and diminishing with the radius vector.
When the emission of matter is intermittent, the synchronic circles
signalize the maxima by clear bands converging toward the nucleus.
The clear bands are really hollow conoids, more or less flattened in the
direction of the plane of the orbit.

‘¢‘ In the two memoirs before us, which are taken from the Annals of the
Moscow Observatory, M. Bredichin successfully applies his theory to dif-
ferent comets, of which we possess sufficiently accurate drawings, and
especially to the comet of 1744 and to the Pons-Brooks comet (1884).
They also contain a reproduction of the refutation of the criticisms of
M. Marcuse.” (Radau, Bull. Astron., September, 1835.)

Computation of comet orbits.—In the twentieth volume of the Viertel-
jahrsschrift der Astronomischen Gesellschaft (pp. 287-312) will be found
in full Professor Weiss’s exceedingly interesting report on the present
state of the computations of the orbits of comets, presented at the meet-
ing of the Gesellschaft on the 19th of August, 1885. Nature contains
the following report of this communication:

‘‘Of the twelve periodical comets returned at different times to their
perihelion, eight had again been regularly determined by the same c¢al-
culators. Of the remaining four, three were removed from our present
care: Biela’s, which, as was known, had been lost to observation, and the
comets of Halley and Pons-Brooks, whose next perihelion lay too remote
in the future. There was consequently but one periodical comet (Bror-
sen’s) to be taken account of. As tothe remaining non-returning comets,
of the 168 which had appeared in this century, forty-one were to be re-
garded as settled ; twenty-three had their orbits pretty well determined.
In the case of fifty-eight comets a new calculation of the orbit was desir-
able for various reasons, and in all forty-six had yet to be calculated de-
finitely. There was, therefore, a wide field of labor open. Professor
Weiss accordingly sought to commend to the society the establishment
of a common calculation bureau on the settlement of the questions at
issue, while the exact detailed treatment of a particular comet should
in future, as hitherto, be left to the initiative of a single calculator. In
the discussion following this address, Staatsrath Struve argued against
the founding of such a bureau on the ground that the comets were of
too peculiar a nature to accommodate themselves to the methodic treat-
ment of a calculation bureau.”

Holetschck: Uber die Bahneines Kometen, der - - - nicht aus den Son-
nenstrahlen heraustreten kann Wiener Sitzungsberichte, December, 1883,
(88: 1099-1162.)—It will be remembered that at the time of the total
eclipse of May 17, 1882, the French, English, and Italian astronomers who
met at Sohag, Egypt, observed the presence of a comet near the sun;
ASTRONOMY. 381

it was photographed by Tacchini and Schuster, and a drawing made
of its tail by Trépied; but the comet was not seen again. It was this
incident that induced Herr Holetschek to determine the conditions
that must be fulfilled by the orbit of a comet that remains concealed
by the sun’s rays during the time that its absolute brightness (deter-

mined simply by the formula J= i) is sufficient to admit of its dis-
covery.

Herr Holetschek judges from the examples furnished by the comets
of the last ten years that the magnitude of a comet remaining invisible
at its perihelion cannot be greater than from 0-06 to 0:12 for an elon-
gation approaching 15°, certainly not for one of 22-5° (the calculation
was made for these two elongations). In order that it may remain vis-
ible in the two branches of its orbit, its orbit must offer a certain sym-
metry in reference to the earth’s radius vector ; the heliocentric latitude |
of the perihelion must then be sufficiently small, and the comet must be
in conjunction with the sun at the time of its passing its perihelion.

These results, which are not at all rigorous, suffice to show that the
unobserved perihelion transits of comets may not be as infrequent as
would have been supposed. We know of periodic comets whose re- .
turns sometimes elude observation. But there are others which would
have always remained unknown if their transit had occurred at any
other time of the year; such, for example, is the comet of 1821 (q=0.09,
i=106°). The Sohag comet belongs very probably in the same cate-
gory as this last; its perihelion distance must have been very small.
(Radau, Bull. Astron., July, 1885.)

Galle’s supplementary list of recent comets.—Dr. J. G. Galle, the emi-
nent director of the Breslau Observatory, has communicated to the
Nachrichten* (Nos. 2665 and 2666)+ a most valuable summary of the
orbit elements of comets from 1860 to 1864, with a similar list of newly
computed orbits of comets earlier than 1860. Brief notes generally re-
lating to the discovery and period of visibility of the comet, and to the
elements given, accompany each orbit.

Dr. Galle’s paper has been reprinted in Sirius, vol. 18, and a transla-
tion of the portion relating to comets since 1860 has appeared in the
Sidereal Messenger (vols. 4and 5). The present list is supplementary to
the catalogue given in the third edition of ‘‘Olbers’ Methode zur Be.
rechnung der Cometenbahnen,” so that taken in connection with the
latter it forms the most complete catalogue of comets that is now
available. At the end of the year 1884 the number of different comets
of which orbits have been computed was 302. The number of appari-

* Ueberischt iiber die Bahn-Elemente der seit dem Jahre 1860 exschienenen Cometen,
sowie iiber neu berechnete oder verbesserte Bahnen von Cometen der friiheren Zeit,
t See also Astron. Nachr., 2692.
382 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

tions of comets, including the present recorded returns of periodic
comets, is considerably greater :

D’Arrest’s comet has been observed 4 times.
Biela’s comet has been observed 6 times.
Brorsen’s comet has been observed 5 times.
Encke’s comet has been observed 23 times.
Faye’s comet has been observed 6 times.
Halley’s comet has been observed 7 times.
Pons’s comet has been observed 2 times.
Tempel’s (1) comet has been observed 3 times.
Tempel’s (2) comet has been observed 2 times.
Tempel’s (3) comet has been observed 2 times.
Tuttle’s comet has been observed 3 times.
Winnecke’s comet has been observed 4 times.

Accordingly, 67—12=55 repeated apparitions are to be added, bring-
ing up to 357 the total of the observed appearances of comets. In this
summary, of course, no allowance is made for the great uncertainty of
many of the older orbits, or for the fact that in some eases it is doubt-
ful whether the same periodic comet has been seen.

The comets are arranged strictly in the order of their perihelion pas-
sage. Thisis along-established system and one possessing numerous ad-
vantages; furthermore, it has lately been made the rule of the Astronom-
ische Gesellschaft. The uncertainty sometimes existing in the designa-
tion of particular comets during the year of discovery can always be
easily removed, for the time being, by the addition of the name of the
discoverer. Moreover, a strict adherence to this system of numbering
comets in each year has become necessary of late, partly on account of
the great number of comets discovered, and partly on account of the con-
siderable increase of the known periodic comets during the last forty
years. The actually observed returns of these comets must of course be
arranged with the other comets. Since in many cases the periodicity has
first been established at the second apparition, and in a few cases at the
third, the exclusion of periodic comets from the list of apparitions of
each year would frequently cause annoying changes in the designa-
tions of earlier years. In the publications of the past ten years the
periodic comets, particularly, have led to a great many differences in
the designation of comets, an evil which is not merely of a theoretical
nature, but, for those who often have occasion to refer to the literature
of comets, is one which carries with it very real and practical incon-
veniences, frequently necessitating much troublesome comparison of
observations, or of ephemerides, to decide what comet is really referred
to. Especially in years in which a great many comets are seen, if the
names of the discoverers are not given, not only is there great loss of
time, but besides this mistakes easily occur. :

ASTRONOMY. 383

Comets of 1883.*—The great comet of 1882 (1882 II), which excited
so much interest in the latter part of the year 1882, was visible to the
naked eye till February, 1883, and with the telescope was followed, in
the southern hemisphere, to the middle of the year, the last accurate
observation being on May 26, at Cordoba. The comet was seen again
on June 1 at the same place, but was too faint to admit of a satisfactory
determination of its position. It was then at a distance of 5-1 from the
sun and 4-4 from the earth. In addition to this comet, two others were
visible during the year, 1883 I and 1884 I; and a comet discovered on
January 7, 1884, was found to have passed perihelion on December 25,
1883, and is accordingly catalogued with the comets of the latter year.
A comet was also reported as Comet ¢, 1883, on September 11, but it
proved to be a nebula; and asecond comet, with a tail 2° or 3° long,
was reported as seen before sunrise at Tasmania on the mornings of
December 25 and 27, 1883. Nothing more is known of it. Two other
comets have passed perihelion during the year, but, owing to unfavora-
ble circumstances, have not been seen—D’Arrest’s comet on January 18,
1883, and Tempel’s comet of 1873, on November 20.

Comet 1883 I: Discovered February 23, by W. R. Brooks of
= Comet a 1883. Phelps, N. Y., and on the same day, a few hours
= Swift-Brooks Comet. | Jater, by Swift, at Rochester. The comet bad

already passed perihelion (on February 18). Its orbit does not resem-

ble any previously computed, nor does it show any signs of eccentricity.

The spectrum was of the ordinary three-band type.

Comet 1883 11: ; This comet was discovered by Ross, an amateur

= Comet a 1884. | observer, at Elsternwick, near Melbourne, Australia,
= Ross’s Comet. | on January 7, 1884. The spectrum showed faintly
the three hydro-carbon lines. A careful discussion of the orbit has
lately been made by Mr. Bryant. The observations are few and not
very satisfactory, and Mr. Bryant finally based his results on Tebbutt’s
observations alone. Two sets of elements were derived; one gave a
period of eighty-seven years, and the other ninety-four years, but both
orbits satisfy the observations.

Comets of 1884.—Of the five comets visible during the year, four were
periodic—two of these of short period, and observed apparently for the
first time at this return. The first comet discovered during the year
has just been described as Comet 1883 II. The second discovery was
by Barnard on July 16, and the third by Wolf, on September 17. To
these we add Encke’s Comet, 1885 I, detected by Tempel, at Arcetri, on
December 13, and the Pons-Brooks Comet, which passed perihelion on
January 25. To complete the list we should mention a suspected comet
to which some interest is attached: A faint nebulous object was found

* This section is purposely made to include the comets of 1883, 1884, and 1885, in or-
der to complete former records.
384 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

by Spitaler with the 27-inch refractor of the Vienna Observatory, while
searching for Comet 1858 III, on the morning of May 26,1884. A period
of almost unexampled bad weather followed, and on June 17 and 18 the
of nebula was missing. Schulhof seems to think it improbable that this
was the comet. Brorsen’s Comet, which has a period of about five and
one-half years, was due at perihelion in September, 1884, but owing to
its unfavorable situation it seems to have escaped observation.

Comet 1884 I: A faint telescopic comet was discovered by
— Comet b 1883. Brooks on September 1, 1883, and it soon proved

= Pons-Brooks Comet. to bea comet which had been discovered origi-

= Pons Comet 1812. | nally by Pons, at Marseilles, on July 20, 1812—
one ofagroup, of which Halley’s Comet is another member, having aperiod
of about seventy-five years and an aphelion a little beyond the orbit of
Neptune. Schulhof and Bossert’s careful rediscussion of the observa-
tions of 1812 had placed the return to perihelion on September 3, 1884,
whereas perihelion passage was actually found to take place on January
25. <A closer agreement (the error was only 74, of the whole amount)
could hardly have been expected, considering that the older observa-
tions extended over barely two months. The corrected elements make
the period 71:56 Julian years. As the second member of this group to
return to perihelion, this comet had been looked for with considerable
interest, and that interest was subsequently increased, when observa-
tion showed the rapid changes suffered by the head in approaching the
sun, and the curious fluctuations in the brightness of the nucleus. On
the evening of September 22 the comet was described as a faint, round
nebula, with a nucleus of the 12th magnitude. On September 23 the
nucleus had become as bright as the 8th magnitude. This central mass,
according to Schiaparelli, was not a point of light, but had an appre-
ciable diameter, and an irregular outline. It now diminished quite
rapidly in brightness, and was noted as the 9th magnitude on Sep-
tember 29. Another outburst occurred on January 1, 1884, and a care-
ful series of photometric observations was obtained by Dr. Mueller, of
Potsdam. The nucleus became as bright as a star of the 7th mag-
nitude, the change in brightness amounting to more than a magnitude
in about an hour and a half. The comet was visible to the naked eye
from November 20 to March 3, and at its brightest, with a tail 6°
long, it was a fairly conspicuous object in our southwestern sky. The
spectrum on the 24th and 27th of September showed nothing unusual.
On January 1 Vogel found a continuous spectrum of considerable inten-
sity, in which two bright lines were suspected in the yellow. The bands
were fainter in the nucleus than in the parts immediately surround-
ing it. Vogel concludes from his observations that in consequence of
the rapid condensation of the cometary matter into a bright nucleus of
several seconds in diameter, a considerable increase in temperature
must have taken place, by which the most refrangible band in the comet’s

——

gag at —

ne a

a ee
ASTRONOMY. 385

spectrum increased so in intensity that it almost equaled the bright-

ness of the middle band, in the green, and decidedly surpassed the

band in the yellow.

Comet 1884 II: A comet first seen by Barnard, at Nashville,
= Comet b 1884. Tenn., on the night of July 16.. During the whole
= Barnard’s Comet. | period of its visibility (to about November 20) it

remained an inconspicuous object. The changes in brightness, as in

other comets recently observed, was neither uniform nor consistent
with the law of reflected light. The comet was found to move in an

elliptic orbit with a period of about 5-4 years, the elements bearing a

very close resemblance to those of De Vico’s lost comet (1844 I), though

the two do not appear to be identical. The spectrum showed two of
the cometary bands, the middle one and that in the red; the third was
only suspected. This comet perhaps belongs to the fainter class of
those revolving in a short period, and this year was probably observed
under somewhat favorable circumstances. Perihelion was passed on

August 16.

Comet 1884 III: Discovered by Max Wolf, at Heidelberg, on Sep-
= Comet ¢ 1884. | tember 17, and independently, with the spectro-
= Wolf's Comet. | scone, by Copeland, at Dun Echt, on September 22.

The last observation appears to have been by Young, at Princeton, on

April 6, 1885, This comet, like the preceding, was moving in an ellipse

of short period (63 years), and one of the most interesting facts in con-

nection with it was the near approach (about 8,000,000 miles) that it
must have made to Jupiter in May, 1875. It seems not at all improb-
able that from the perturbations experienced at that time, it was brought
into its present orbit. Krueger has pointed out that at the returns (con-
sistent with a period of 63 years) in 1871 and 1878 the comet was unfa-
vorably situated for observation. In 1864 and again in 1891 the situ-
ation is favorable, if we can suppose that it follows the same path as
now. During the whole period of its visibility the comet was an insig-
nificant object physically. The spectrum as observed at Nice was con-
tinuous, with the three cometary bands. Perihelion was passed on No-
vember 17.

Comets of 1885.—During the year 1885 seven comets have been under
observation ; two were discovered by Barnard, two by Brooks, and one
by Fabry, a student at the Paris Observatory. Two of the known pe-
riodic comets, Encke’s and Tuttle’s, were expected to return this year
and both were found. Two other periodic comets, Tempel’s 1867 I,
and Tempel-Swift 1869 III, were also expected, and were carefully
looked for; but they were unfavorably situated, and seem to have
passed unobserved. A suspicious object, thought to have been Tempel’s
comet 1867 II, was observed at Geneva in March, but its identity was
not fully established.

H. Mis. 15.—25
386 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Comet 1885 I: Encke’s comet, at this its twenty-third return, was
=Comet d 1884. | found by Tempel, at Arcetri, on December 13, 1884,
=Encke’s Comet.! elose to the place given by Backlund’s ephemeris—a

faint nebulous mass without any defined nucleus. By the 1st of Febru-

ary a condensation, situated a little eccentrically, as in 1881, was seen,
and by the middie of February the faint trace of a tail was visible.

Perihelion occurred on March 7. The comet showed quite a bright

banded spectrum, while the continuous spectrum of the nucleus was

made out only with considerable difficulty.

Comet 1885 IL: A telegram was received on July 9, at Harvard
= Comet a 1885. College observatory, from Prof. L. Swift, of
=Barnard’s Comet. | Rochester, announcing the discovery of a comet by

Prof. E. KE. Barnard on the evening of July 7, at Vanderbilt University,

Nashville, Tenn. The position given was identical with a nebula, No.

4301, of Herschels General Catalogue, and the announcement dispatches

were delayed until the fact of the non-identity was established. The

comet was seen at Cambridge on the night of July 9. On the 11th
of July, as observed by Chariois, at Nice, it consisted of a nucleus
of the 105 magnitude, surrounded by a faint, irregular nebulosity

about 1/5 in diameter. Professor Young, observing with the 23-

inch refractor at Princeton, describes the comet during July as about

three quarters of a minute of arc in diameter, somewhat elongated,
and much condensed in the center, though without any true stellar
nucleus; no structure of jets or envelopes could be made out. There

was, however, a faint, slightly fan-shaped tail from 2/5 to 4/ long, di-

rected at a position angle of about 35°. Professor Young found the

spectrum almost continuous, the usual cometary bands being visible
only as three slight intensifications of brightness upon the uniform
background. A similar spectrum was observed at Nice. The comet
appears to have been seen as late as September 2. Several sets of ele-
ments have been computed; the peculiarity of the orbit, its great peri-
helion distance, being brought out by all. The perihelion distance, (2:5)
is greater than in the case of any other comet hitherto computed, except-
ing the extraordinary one of 1729, which did not approach the sun within
four times the earth’s mean distance. A conjecture having been ex-
pressed by Faye and Krueger that the orbit might be elliptic, Dr. Lamp
computed elliptic element, and found a period of eighty-seven hundred
years, Heremarks, however, that owing to the uncertainty in the single
observations employed, his results can hardly be considered as decisive,
and the orbit may yet turn out parabolic. The comet passed perihelion
in the early part of August, the several orbits thus far computed ranging

in this element from August 1 to 9.

Comet 1885 III: Discovered by W. R. Brooks, of Phelps, N. Y.,
=Comet ¢ 1885. on August 31, 1885, and also, independently, by
=Brooks’s Comet. | A. A, Gneneie at Ealing, on September 4. Pro-

fessor Pickering, who obtained the first accurate position, Septem-

ASTRONOMY. 387

ber 2, describes the comet as of about the 9th magnitude, with cireular
nebulosity 2’ in diameter, some central condensation, and no tail. It
changed very little from this during the few weeks it was visible.
According to Dr. H. Oppenheim’s orbit, perihelion was passed on
August 10, and the comet steadily decreased in brightness from the
time of discovery. The nearest approach to the earth seems to have’
been about September 25.

Comet 1885 IV: This comet, originally discovered by Méchain in
= Comet 6 1885. 1790, and rediscovered by Tuttle in 1858, was found
= Tuttle’s Comet. | at this return by Perrotin and Charlois at the Nice
= Comet 1790 II. A
— Comet 1858 L. Observatory on August 8, and was observed on each
— Comet 1871 11. | of the following days to August 138, by Charlois.

Owing to the faintness of the comet and its slight
elevation above the eastern horizon at sunrise, observation was possi-
ble for only ten or fifteen minutes. M. Charlois describes the comet
as a white spot, about 2’ in diameter, without any central con-
densation. On August 10, with exceptionally good atmospherie¢ condi-
tions, he thought the nebulosity was elongated in the direction of the
meridian.

Herr Rahts, of Koenigsberg, has taken up the work of Tischler, and
has deduced an orbit from the observations of 1853 and 1871~72, with
perturbations by Mercury, Venus, the Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn,
and Uranus, to July 11, 1885. He obtains a period of revolution of
13-76 years, with perihelion passage on September 11, 1885.

Comet 1885 V: Discovered by Brooks on December 26, 1885, or
=Comet f 1885. | more than three weeks after the two following

_ =Brooks’sComet.| comets. It was also, independently, discovered by

Barnard on the evening of December 27, making the third comet

found by Barnard in 1885, and the second by Brooks. It is described

as circular, aboat 3/ in diameter, equivalent to a star of the 9th mag-
nitude, and with a strong, eccentrically placed condensation. The
provisional elements computed by Chandler and Wendell show that the

comet is growing fainter, having passed perihelion on November 29.

Comet 1886. .. (Fabry): Discovered on December 1, 1885, by M.
= Comet d 1885. Fabry, a student at the Paris Observatory,
= Fabry’s Comet. where he had been engaged for about three

months in a search for new comets, with the equatorial coudé. At the

time of discovery the comet presented the appearance of a faint round
nebulosity (12th magnitude) about 1’ in diameter, with a small, central,
stellar nucleus. On December 9 it was observed to be elongated in the
position angle of 87°. According to a calculation of its orbit made by

M. Lebeuf, perihelion passage occurs on April 5, 1886. The distance

from the Earth decreases till the end of April, when the theoretical

brightness will be nearly 500 times as great as on the date of dis-
covery.

388 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Comet 1886. ..(BARNARD) : This comet, the second discovered by
= Comet ¢ 1885. Barnard during the year, was foundin the
= Banard’s Comet. constellation Taurus on December 3, 1885.

It is described by Tempel, on December 10, as somewhat brighter than
Fabry’s comet, small, about equal to a nebula of class II, with a star-
like center. Elements and ephemeris thus far published show that the
comet is inereasing in brightness, and that it does not reach perihelion
till May, 1886. Dr. Oppenheim’s ephemeris places the maximum bril-
lianey about May 25, nearly 400 times as bright as at discovery; but
its proximity to the sun at this time will detract considerably from its
splendor.

Periodic comets due in 1886.—Of the now somewhat numerous list of
comets of short period, two will be due at perihelion in the ensuing
year: (1) The comet Tempel-Swift, or 1869 ILI, and 1880 IV, which is
likely to return under circumstances that will render observations im-
practicable, so far at least as a judgment can be formed without actual
calculation of the perturbations; (2) Winnecke’s comet, last observed
in 1875, its track in the heavens near the perihelion passage in Decem-
ber, 1880, not allowing of the comet being seen at that return; the per-
turbations may be very sensible during the present revolution ; neglect-
ing their effect, the mean motion determined by Professor Oppolzer for
1880 would bring the comet to perihelion again about August 24:5
- - - The actual orbit of Winnecke’s comet approaches very near
to that of the planet Jupiter in heliocentric longitude 110°, at which
point the comet arrives seven hundred and twenty days, or 1:97 years,
before perihelion passage; the distance between the two orbits is then
less than 0-06 of the earth’s mean distance from the sun.

It is very possible, however, that the comet which may most interest
astronomers in 1886 will be that observed in 1815, and known as Ol-
bers’ comet, which, according to the elaborate calculations of Dr. Gin-
zel, will again arrive at perihelion in December, 1886. The most prob-
able date that can be inferred from the observations of 1815, and the
computation of planetary perturbations in the interval, is December
16, but unfortunately the observations did not suffice to determine the
mean motion in 1815 with precision, and consequently Ginzel found for
the limits of the period of revolution 72:33 and 75°68 years; hence the
comet may reach its perihelion many months earlier or later than the
date given by calculation.

Extensive sweeping ephemerides have been published, and it may
not be too soon to direct attention to a search for the comet at the be-
ginning of the next year, or as soon as the region in which its orbit is
projected at the time can be advantageously examined. (Nature, Octo-
ber 29, 1885.)

METEORS, AND THE ZODIACAL LIGHT.

Meteor shower of November 27, 1885.—On the evening of November 27
there was a remarkable shower of meteors radiating from Andromeda,

ASTRONOMY. 389

and presumably connected with Biela’s comet, very nearly two revo-
lutions of which had elapsed since the previous great appearance of
these bodies in 1872.

In Europe and Asia the star shower was very remarkable wherever
the clouds did not prevent its being seen; in this country it was nearly
over before sunset, yet in the early evening the meteors were numerous
enough to attract very general attention. It would also appear that
showers of meteors were observed from this stream not only on the night
of November 27, but also at some places on nights preceding and fol-
lowing.

An adequate discussion of the observations can only be made after
all the reports are in. ‘Tolerably complete summaries of the accounts
thus far published may be foundin Ciel et Terre, vol. 6, pp. 451, 491, and
Sirius, vol. 19, p. 33.

“Tt will be very interesting to notice in 1898 how far the brillianey
of the display to which we may then look forward will be affected by
the comparatively slightly altered position in its orbit of the principal
aggregation of meteors, which would seem to be a little behind what
would have been the place of the comet.”

The zodiacal light.—In October, 1883, Prof. Arthur Searle presented
to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences a very valuable paper
on the zodiacal light, in which he had collected and reduced on a uni-
form system the evening observations of all the principal observers.
The principal points then brought out were that in all probability the
apparent changes in the latitude of the zodiacal light were due mainly,
if not entirely, to the effect of atmospheric absorption, and that the
method of observation by drawing outlines must be replaced by care-
ful photometric observations if definite knowledge was to be substi-
tuted for the vague information we now possess as to the “ Gegenschein,”
the “zodiacal bands,” &c.; and Professor Searle concluded with the
suggestion that the ordinary meteoric theory would gain greatly in
simplicity by the substitution of meteoric dust scattered generally
throughout the solar system for the meteoric rings that have been
usually imagined. Professor Searle has continued his investigations
in a recent memoir, in which he corrects, for the effect of atmos-
pheric absorption, Jones’s observations of what the latter called the
“ stronger light,” at the elongation 60°, whether made in the morning
or evening. The result of the inquiry is to confirm the view arrived at
previously, that atmospheric absorption largely affects the apparent
position of the zodiacal light, and Professor Searle again lays stress on
the need for photometric observations. Professor Searle concludes
that, after correcting for atmospheric absorption, there seems reason to
think that the zodiacal light has had, during the present half-century,
a more northern latitude near the longitude 180° than near the longi-
tude 0°. He also shows, from a careful study of the distribution of the
390 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

stars in the Durchmusterung, that upon the meteoric theory of the zo-
diacal light it is to be expected that a continuous zodiacal band should
be present; but the question of its actual visibility is complicated by
the slight maxima of stellar density which are situated along those
parts of the ecliptic most readily accessible to observation from stations
in the northern hemisphere. An interesting result is obtained from
an examination of the elements of the 257 asteroids first discovered,
from which it would seem that the belt of sky occupied by the projec-
tions of the orbits of these asteroids “presents certain peculiarities
which correspond to those of the zodiacal light, and suggest the hy-:
pothesis that the light may be partly due to minute objects circulating
in orbits like those of the smaller planets.” (Nature.)

THE SUN.

Tangley’s researches on solar heat.—“The results of the work upon
which Professor Langley bas been engaged for the last several years
have recently been published in a complete form as Volume xv of the
Professional Papers of the United States Signal Service. No work
more thoroughly aggressive, more calculated to further the progress of
science and to render it secure, has been undertaken during late years
than that which Professor Langley has carried out, chiefly by means
of his ingenious and useful instrument, the bolometer. - - - The
first chapter contains the preliminary observations made at Allegheny,
from which Professor Langley deduced the value of the solar constant
as 2°84 calories, a much larger quantity than that generally accepted
hitherto. The observations also showed him that, contrary to the gener-
ally received opinion, absorption occurred in the visible portion of the
spectrum, particularly in the green and blue, and that it diminished as
the extreme infra-red was approached, and convinced him that the labor
and expense involved in repeating the observations at the base and at
the summit of a lofty mountain would be well repaid by the-gain in
our knowledge.

“In July, 1881, therefore, Professor Langley started for Mount Whit-
ney, a lofty eminence in the Sierra Nevada of Southern California,
over 14,000 feet in height, which seemed to combine all the needed re-
quirements. The second chapter gives an interesting account of the
journey to Mount Whitney. Then follow several chapters of results of
observations and descriptions of the instruments used. Amongst these
were a water pyrheliometer after Pouillet’s model, a mercury py rhe-
liometer, two globe actinometers, a ‘solar comparator,’ and the spectro-
bolometer. In Chapter xiv the amount of the atmospheric absorption
is Shown to be about 40 per cent., or double that usually supposed.
Then follow chapters on ‘Sky Radiation,’ ‘Nocturnal Radiation,’ We.
Chapter xxi gives a general summary of the results; and the most
probable value of the ‘solar constant’is given as 3 calories. Three appen-
dices follow, on the reduction of psychrometer observations, the deter-

a Pan,

ASTRONOMY. 391

mination of wave-lengths in the invisible prismatic spectrum, and also
of the influence of convection currents on thermometer bulbs. The
work is illustrated by twenty-one plates, mostly the observation curves
of the different instruments, besides a map of the district of Mount
Whitney, showing the proposed reservation and a view of the mountain
camp.

“The principal results of Professor Langley’s work may perhaps be
briefly summarized as follows: He has shown that the invisible spec-
trum beyond the red extends much further than was imagined or be-
lieved possible; he has detected cold spaces in this spectrum analogous
to the dark absorption bands and lines of the visible spectrum, and
has determined their wave-lengths. He has shown that all the old
formula for the determination of wave-lengths in the prismatie spectrum
failed utterly when carried into the infra-red region. The amount of
absorption exercised by the atmosphere has been proved to have been
greatly under-estimated; it is at least double what has been usually
supvosed, and the value of the ‘solar constant’? has been increased in
consequence. Contrary to the theory hitherto universally held, Pro-
fessor Langley has shown that the infra-red rays do not suffer the most
absorption, but the visible rays, and especially those in the green and
blue, the transmissibility steadily increasing towards the extreme infra-
red. From this it follows that what we call white light is not ‘ the
sum of all radiations,’ but that remainder of rays which has been filtered
down to us, and the sun, could we see it as it is, would appear of a de-
cided bluish tint. Professor Langley’s observations seem also to indi-
cate that at a certain point far in the infra-red, transmissibility through
the atmosphere suddenly ceases, and it would seem to follow that the
earth heat which fails to be radiated away through the atmosphere
must be lower than we have yet examined in any spectrum. The old
idea of a ‘ temperature of space’ is rejected, and reasons are given for
concluding that the heat we receive from celestial bodies, other than
the sun, is practically nil. Finally, Professor Langley concludes that
the temperature of the earth under direct sunshine, even though our
atmosphere were present as now, would probably fall to 200° C. 1f that
atmosphere did not possess the quality of selective absorption. To this
catalogue of results may be added that the volume before us gives
abundant evidence of the attention and care which Professor Langley
has given to free his work from every source of error.” (Observatory,
September, 1885, p. 309.)

We can only refer by title here to a lecture on “Sunlight and the
earth’s atmosphere,” delivered by Professor Langley at the Royal In-
stitute, April 17, 1885, a full report of which has appeared in Nature
(vol. 32, p. 17, 40), and to his interesting and admirably illustrated
astronomical articles on “The New Astronomy,” in the Century for
September, October, and December, 1884, and March, 1885.
392 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Diameters of the sun and moon as observed with the Greenwich transit
circle (W. G. Thackery).—The author considers the values of the diam-
eters of the sun and moon furnished each year by the result of all the
observations, and also the values resulting each year from the work of
the individual observers. The following results were found for the sun,
with which are given the results obtained by Sir G. B. Airy, in a paper
entitled ‘On the Circularity of the Sun” (Monthly Notices, vol. XX11):

, No. of é No. of ‘ F
Period. a ae Hor. Diam. Shy sites Vert. Diam. | Authority.
/ VW / “
kes teND) sea. Soe cose 795 32) 2°65 851 32 2°61 Airy.
1SOU TO VEES 3255 eee eee 2,185 32 2°28 Peale 32 2°62 Thackeray.

The difference in the values of the horizontal diameter is rather sur-
prising when compared to the identity of the values of the vertical di-
ameter; but the personal equation must be taken into account in con-
sidering the observations, the following table showing its importance:

Tabular errors of the sun’s vertical diameter, according to different observers.

Tabular No. of

Observer. error. obsns.
: Us
OD ybal eb rea Mnene oid A) AILS LS SE Nese REE a hel Rea A AR. +228 138
d CLD WTF pi ae LA A ey a eg eM EE aeRO mA WY OLE Sh oe —0°19 269
JC arpenter irs carewe step oe as celta ae eS) SC age faoey aU Sn een +3:°13 191
Criswicke ys Sees ena eA SEk SI Se It Li) Sah ARR: RO Re +1°65 347
Dy a0) eee ue ee LE Re ae SIR ew Dena aren SG ST Eee —1°59 149
Downing .--.... pik eine og BIA th ORNs MAMI ATES AS AA ey ued I te +1°70 203
Thackeray: O25!) eee ae ee eee eee Sees +1°01 141
DiGi wa sh sere, SB ee er LA Se SN as a cae ee een Ba -+0:48 72
OMS re Ses SRE ON EEE Se ee ete eA a ee oo ree 4-0°15 ‘44

The observations extend from 1861 to 1883. The error as found by
one observer often varies with the time. As to the horizontal diameter
found by the transits of the two limbs, the following results have been
given by Mr. Dunkin in Vol. xxxv of the Monthly Notices, p. 91, for
the period 1864 to 1873:

Tabular errors of the horizontal diameter.

Observer. ' ener
Mt
dD} 0h all <b « aPMPR mn SLUMS UAL LIL SUA Nice ROTORS OY at aI EO et gt AY +0. 87
BIS | 2 els Gaye SL We CUE 58 ASA LGM a eA i NPSL ae ta a +-1. 48
TS wi He ai I Ue ae el ea _ CA E a --0. 31
UD 30 s ae RR RCSLT LS UTA wpm RMA ni Cin tc aN GL +1. 05
Js \ Carpenter «caylee ees FN SL Snel a MAIR a Re A as Va Cg +2. 45

—

ASTRONOMY. 393

Mr. Thackeray has also considered the observations of the moon’s
diameter. In this case the personal equation is almost insensible, and
the correction to the Nautical Almanac is unimportant.

One result of the preceding discussion is to show that it would be
proper in reducing incomplete observations of the sun (observations of
one limb only) not to adopt a uniform value for the diameter, but to
employ the observer’s own value. (Bull. Astron., August, 1885.)

List of eclipses—Dr. Theodore von Oppolzer, of Vienna, announces
the early publication of a very extended list of the dates of solar and
lunar eclipses which has been prepared under his direction. There will
be eight thousand of the former and more than five thousand of the latter
class of phenomena, and all included between the years 1207 B. c. and
2161 A.D. In publishing the hours of the day at which the eclipses
will occur, Dr. Oppolzer will adopt the new reckoning of astronomical
time recommended by the International Prime Meridian Conference at
Washington in 1884, thus making this publication the first astronomical
work of importance in which this method of counting the hours of the
day is adopted.

Eclipse of the sun, 1869, August 7.—The report of observations of the
total eclipse of the sun of August 7, 1869, made by parties under the
direction of Prof. J. H. C. Coffin, superintendent of the American Ephe-
meris and Nautical Almanac, has been published during the year, the
delay in the appearance of the volume being due to the illness of Pro-
fessor Coffin. Theresults of the work of Professors Young, Gould, Pick-
ering, Morton, and others have already been known through other chan-
nels, but many valuable details are now given for the first time. Ten
plates accompany the work, among them some excellent engravings
from the photographs at fatale,

Eclipse of the sun, 1885, March 16.—This was He Iss as a partial eclipse
throughout the United States) and as an “annular” eclipse in the north-
western part; the annulusdescribing a path about 75 miles wide, across
Montana, Idaho, and the northwestern part of California.

A circular was sent out by the Superintendent of the Naval Observa-
tory stating that time signals would be sent to observers along this line,
and requesting that observations of the beginning and ending of the
eclipse and of the annular phase should be transmitted to the observa-
tory. Reports were received from sixteen observers, and many of these
reports, together with an account of observations made at the Naval
Observatory, embracing observations of contact, observations made with
the transit instrument and transit circle, and results from photographs
made with the transit of Venus photo-heliograph, are published as Ap-
endix 1 to the Washington observations for 1882.

Observations of contact were made by Professor Peters at Clinton,
and photographs were taken at the Chicago and Lick Observatories.
Mr. Charles H. Rockwell observed the annular phase from Delta, Cal,
394 SCIENTIFIC RECORD~ FOR 1885.

Eclipse of the sun, 1885, September 9.—The track of the line of total
eclipse lay almost wholly in the South Pacific Ocean, the only Jand on
which the total phase was observable being the shores of Cook’s Straits,
New Zealand. The duration of totality was about two minutes at the
point most favorably located. ‘It would appear that no central eclipse
has traversed these islands during the present century; an examina-
tion of the various ephemerides points to the annular eclipse of Decem-
ber 29, 1796, as the last which was there central. An annular, though
nearly total, eclipse will take place near the north extremity of the North
Island on January 3, 1927, while on May 30, 1965, when the sun is
barely risen to an altitude of 5°, he will be totally eclipsed on the east
coast of the North Island, near its north extremity, for about 2™ 20%.”

From the reports we have seen it would appear that many of the
parties which were organized for the purpose of observing the expected
phenomena were seriously interfered with by bad weather. At Taho-
raite, a point well within the belt of totality but some 40 miles north
of the central line, Mr. Graydon succeeded in obtaining five sketches
during totality ; these sketches show five or six long rays (besides a large
number of shorter ones) projecting from the sun’s limb, the longest ray
being some two or three diameters of that body in length. A dark rift
was observed in the corona, and near this rift a red flame was noticed
by some of the bystanders to shoot out just before the end of totality.
Photographs were obtained at Blenheim, at Masterton and at Nelson;
and other observations were made at Wellington, Dryertown, and Pal-
merston. ;

Eclipse of the sun, 1886, August 28-29*.—The eclipse of August 28-29,
1886, will be total only in the torrid zone, and the path of the total
phase will fall mainly in the open Atlantic Ocean, but at Benguela, on
the western coast of South Africa, it will be observable at about 3
o’clock of lecal time in the afternoon. It will be remembered that this
eclipse is of rather more than ordinary interest on account of the long
duration of totality, 4" 41°, near Benguela. Another interesting cireum-
stance has been noticed by Dr. Herz, of Vienna, in the fact that at
totality two stars, 47 p Leonis and 49 Leonis, are close to the sun, the
latter within the corona. It is suggested that by means of measure-
ments upon these two stars, something may be learned in regard to the
refracting power of this peculiar atmosphere of the sun. A bill is now
pending before Congress, appropriating $10,000 to enable the Secretary
of the Navy to fit out an expedition to observe this eclipse.

Transit of Venus.—From Professor Harkness’st report to the president
of the American Transit of Venus Commission, we make the following
extract:

‘“‘ At the date of my last annual report experiments were in progress
to determine whether or not the heliostat mirrors undergo any change

* See, also, Account of Progress of Astronomy, 1883, Smithsonian report, p. 391.
tSee Report of Superintendent U. S. Naval Observatory, 1885, p. 12.

a ea ee oe A

> wh

ee

ASTRONOMY 395:

of curvature when exposed to the sun’s rays. As that question is of
vital importance in the theory of the horizontal photo-heliograph, it
was thought desirable to make the experiments both in the heat of
summer and in the cold of winter. The work was completed on Feb-
ruary 23, 1885.

“Mr. Rogers is now engaged in writing an account both of the proc-
esses employed in preparing and developing the dry collodion emulsion
plates used with the photo-heliographs in observing the transit of Venus
in December, 1882, and of the experiments which were executed to de-
termine the best method of making pyroxyline for that purpose. When-
ever photographs are required which must sustain the test of accurate
measurement, the collodion emulsion process offers advantages so great
that every effort should be put forth to increase its general availability.
Some of our recent experiments incidentally tend in that direction, and
although primarily made to clear up obscure points relating to the tran-
sit of Venus work, it is hoped they will facilitate the application of collo-
dion emulsion in future operations requiring the use of photo-helio-
graphs. In these experiments pyroxyline has been made from flax, jute,
etc., as well as from cotton, which is the form of cellulose commonly
preferred.

“Tt will be remembered that wet bromo-iodide plates, made by the
bath process, were used with the photo-heliographs in observing the
transit of Venus in December, 1874, and the question naturally arises
whether or not the negatives then obtained are strictly comparable with
those made upon dry collodion emulsion during the transit of December,
1882. For the definite settlement of that point recourse was had to
photographs of the solar spectrum. In June, 1881, a set of such photo-
graphs was made upon wet bromo-iodide bath plates of the kind used
in December, 1874, and similar sets are now being made with emulsions
as nearly as possible in the same condition with respect to age, ete., as
those actually employed in observing the transit of December, 1882. In
order to show clearly the progressive action of the solar rays upon the
silver salts, each set begins with the shortest exposure capable of pro-
ducing an easily legible impression, and extends to exposures two or
three hundred times as great. The negatives have not yet been sub-
jected to critical examination, but the general result seems to be that,
while marked differences exist in the action of the spectrum upon the
two classes of plates with the exposures given in the photo-heliographs,
the effective rays are of substantially the same wave-length in both.
The transit plates of 1874 and 1882 are therefore quite comparable in
this respect, and there is no reason to apprehend systematic differences
between them depending upon atmospheric dispersion. The spectrum
photographs have also established the fact that the emulsion plates have
a degree of sensitiveness not very different from that of bath wet plates.”

The reduction of observations for time and latitude made at the vari-
ous United States stations in December, 1882, are now nearly completed
396 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

and to a considerable extent prepared for printing. It is expected that
they will form Part 11 of the Transit of Venus Reports. No progress
has been made in the reduction of the photographs during the current
year, and it is not proposed to take them up again until after all the
manuscript relating to time, latitude, and longitude has been prepared
for the printer.

The work of printing Part 11 of the Transit of Venus Reports has re-
cently been resumed, and will probably be completed at an early date.
This part will form a volume of about five hundred quarto pages, and
will contain the records of all observations made at the United States
stations for observing the transit of 1874, together with the correspond-
ing reductions and discussions, excepting only those relating to the
photographs.

The French photographs of the transit of Venus.—The measurement
of the seven hundred photographs obtained at the various French sta-
tions during the transit of Venus, 1882,is about to be commenced. An
office has been organized for the purpose, the necessary credit has been
granted, arid a measuring instrument belonging to the Meudon Obser-
vatory and lent by M. Janssen, has been supplied. ‘This will be replaced
in January, 1886, by a smaller one by the same makers, MM. Brunner
Fréres. The measurements, it is expected, will be completed in fifteen
months.

Photographic evidence as to the constitution of sun spots.—“ M. Janssen,
remarking on some exquisite photographs of sun spots which he has ob-
tained during the past year, calls attention to the evidence they supply
as to the continuation of the granulation of the general solar surface,
into the spots. A photograph of the great spot of 1885, June 22, for
example, to which he particularly alludes, shows that the bright region
which surrounds the penumbre of large spots has not a different con-
stitution from that of the photosphere in general, since it is made up in
like manner of granular elements, usually of a spherical form. The
marked increase in brightness of such regions the photographs show to
be due to the granulations being more thickly clustered, brighter in
themselves, and arranged ona brighter background. Inthe penumbra
the granulations are still distinguishable, but they are less luminous
and more scattered, leaving dark gaps between the rows of grains, the
familiar striated appearance of the penumbra being due to the arrange-
ment of the granulations in ranks and lines, like beads on a thread.
The grains become in general smaller and duller near the nucleus, where
they seem to dissolve. The same spot presented two very remarkable
bridges, and avery bright isolated mass of luminous matter which
united them. This luminous matter and the bridges were also formed
of granular elements resembling the others. Many other photographs
have revealed a similar structure in penumbre and their surroundings,
so that it is highly probable that ‘the luminous matter which forms the
—~——

——-

a ae ee

Ca Ee |

ASTRONOMY. 397

solar surface has everywhere the same constitution.” (Nature, Feb-
ruary 4, 1886.)

Sun-spot maximum.—The exact epoch of the last sun-spot maximum,
which for some time remained in uncertainty, has been placed by Wolf
at 1883-9, and his result has been confirmed* by the observations of
the past year. The previous maximum was well marked at 1870-6 and
with the 11-year period (more exactly 11-1 years) the next was expected
at 1881-7 or the beginning of 1882; and in fact in April, 1882, a “ false”
maximum did occur, but with the finally established maximum at 1883-9
we have a retardation of about two years. The interval from the pre-
ceding maximum is therefore 13.3 years, and from the preceding mini-
mum of 1879-0, 4:9 years. It is quite remarkable also that the varia-
tions of the magnetic needle have shown a similar anomalous fluctua-
tion.

The Solar Coronat (a lecture delivered at the Royal Institution, by Dr.
Huggins, February 20, 1884).—‘After mentioning the various hypotheses
concerning the nature of the corona (a gaseous atmosphere, fine par-
ticles ejected by the sun and in motion around the sun caused by several
forces, one of them being perhaps the repulsive force observed in the
case of comets, a center of meteoric streams, etc.), Dr. Huggins speaks
of Dr. Hastings’s new theory, according to which the corona is not a
reality but simply a phenomenon caused by diffraction. Without dwell-
ing upon the proof of its reality furnished by photographs made when
there was no eclipse, and consequently no intervention of the moon, Mr.
Huggins finds that the analysis of the spectra of different parts of the
corona and the peculiar structure seen in the photographs taken during
eclipses contradict Dr. Hastings’s theory. If Dr. Hastings’s theory were
correct the corona would of necessity change during the course of the
eclipse and the photographs reveal no change. M. Janssen says: ‘ Les
formes de la couronne ont été absolument fixes pendant toute la durée
de la totalité,’

‘The sun is doubtless surrounded by a gaseous atmosphere of a cer-
tain extent, but there are a number of reasons why the corona should
not be regarded as a prolongation of this atmosphere. A gas even a
hundred or a thousand times lighter than hydrogen at the height of the
corona would, at the sun’s surface, be heavier than metals,—a state of
things which spectroscopic and other observations show cannot be the
true one. The corona does not show either that rapid condensation
towards the sun which an atmosphere would show, especially if we take
into account the effect of perspective in increasing the brightness of
the lower parts of the corona. Moreover, comets have been known to
pass through the upper part of the corona without losing either matter
or velocity.

*Sur le statistique solaire de année 1885. Compt. Rend, 102: 161.
tSee The Observatory, vol. 8, p. 153,
398 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

‘There can be no doubt that the corona shows us matter existing
about the sun in the form of a fog, of which we may form some idea by
imagining the air we breathe very much rarefied but still full of par-
‘ticles rendered visible by a sun’s ray. The matter of the corona sends
us three kinds of light: Solar light dispersed by particles of matter,
either solid or liquid ; light giving a continuous spectrum, showing that
the solid or liquid particles are incandescent, and light giving spectra
of brilliant lines, fainter and varying greatly at different parts of the
corona and at different eclipses, which must be due to the presence of a
luminous gas. This gas existing between the particles does not form a
solar atmosphere in the true sense of the word (such an atmosphere has
already been shown to be impossible), but this gas may be regarded as
carried along by the particles ; it is due perhaps to the heat of the sun.

‘« Comets show characteristics which are not without analogy to those
of the corona; in the case of comets we see reproduced on a small scale
the luminous streams, the rifts and curved rays.* We do not know
the conditions under which these cometary appearances occur, but the
generally accepted hypothesis attributes them to electrical action, and
especially to a repulsive force acting from the sun, and doubtless an
electrical force, which varies with the surface, and not, like gravity,
with the mass. <A force of this nature could easily overcome the force
of gravity, and, as we see in the tails of comets, drive very much rare-
fied matter to immense distances. Sucha repulsive force, if electrical in
its origin, must act between bodies charged with the same kind of elec-
tricity, and according to this theory the material of which the corona is
composed and the surface of the sun must be in the same electrical
state; a certain permanence of the same electrical state would seem to
be required by the phenomena of the tails of comets; but we are quite
in ignorance on this subject.

‘* However this may be, it is quite in conformity with the ideas ex-
pressed above, that the positions of greatest coronal extension should
usually correspond with the spot zones where the solar activity is great-
est. A careful investigation of the structure of the corona leads us to
think also that the forces to which this complicated and variable struct-
ure is due have their seat in the sun. Matter repelled by the sun
would participate in the rotary velocity of the photosphere, and lagging
behind give rise to curved forms. Moreover, the force of the projection
and the subsequent electrical repulsion might very well vary in diree-
tion and not be always strictly radial, and this would help to explain
the character of the corona. The relative permanency of some of the
coronal forms during several weeks does not imply that the matter is
immovable ; flames over the mouths of voleanoes often offer a similar
appearance. If the forces to which the corona is due reside in the
sun, the corona ought, of course, to revolve with it; but if the corona is
produced by causes extraneous to the sun, it may be otherwise.

——————

*See “Comets,” Royal Institution Proceedings, Vol. x, p.1,.
’ y rt
i

ASTRONOMY. | 399

“ We have seen that the corona probably consists of an incandescent
fog, which, at the same time, sends us by reflection the light of the
photosphere. Now we must remember that there is a great difference
in the behavior of a gas and of liquid and solid particles in the imme-
diate vicinity of the sun. A gas need not be greatly beated even when
near the sun by the radiated energy ; when once heated it would rap-
idly lose its heat when above the photosphere; but solid and liquid
particles, whether carried up as such or having become such by con-
densation, would absorb the sun’s heat and at the distance of the corona
would reach a temperature but little inferior to that of the photosphere.
The gas shown by the spectroscope to exist among the incandescent

_mmatter of the corona may therefore have been carried there as gas or

may have been in part distilled from the coronal particles under the
influence of the enormous solar radiations. There would be no discord-
ance between this theory and the fact of the very different heights
at which the brilliant lines in the corona have been observed. Gases
of unequal densities, unequally repelled by a repulsive force varying as
the surface, would be to a certain degree separated, the highest gas
being most influenced by the repulsive force, the heaviest being most
influenced by gravity. The relative proportions at different heights of
the corona of the gases, whose presence is shown by the spectroscope,
vary from time to time and depend in part upon the state of activity of
the photosphere in such a way as to establish a probable connection with
the spectrum of the protuberances. (Captain Abney and Professor
Schuster have recently shown that beside the bright lines already
known, the spectrum of the corona of 1882 gave the group of the ultra-
violet lines of hydrogen, which are characteristic of the photographic
spectra of white stars, and other lines also.) In this view of the corona,
therefore, we find a new example of such relations as those existing be-
tween the phenomena of sun spots and magnetic perturbations or au-
rore.

‘¢ Many questions are left. unconsidered, this among others, whether the
light emitted by the gaseous part of the corona is due directly to the
sun’s heat or to electrical discharges of the nature of the aurora. Fur-
ther, what becomes of the coronal matter on the theory which has been
suggested? Is it permanently carried away from the sun as the matter
of the tails of comets is lost to them? Electric repulsion can continue
only so long as the repelled particles remain in the same electrical state.
If the electrical state changes, the repulsion must cease, and, gravity no
longer counteracted, the particle must fall back to the sun. In Mr.
Wesley’s drawings of the corona, especially in those of the eclipse of
1871, the longer rays or streamers seem not to end but to be lost in the
fainter parts of the drawing; but some of the shorter ones seem to turn
and descend to the sun.*

*Concerning the nature of the corona consult the papers of Norton, Young, and
Langley in the American Journal of Science, The Sun, by Professor Young, and various
essays by Mr. R. A. Proctor.
400 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

“Tt is difficult for us living in dense air to conceive of the state of at-
tenuation probably presentin the outer parts of the corona. Mr.Crookes
has shown by experiment that matter reduced to one-millionth part of
the density of ordinary air is still possessed of a sufficient number of
molecules to display a perfect corona when under the influence of an
electric current. In any case we may hope that our present knowledge
on the subject will be much increased by the daily photographs of the
corona, which are about to be commenced at the Cape by Mr. Ray
Woods under the direction of Dr. Gill.” (Bull. Astron., June, 1885.)

Professor Young on the solar corona.—In an article on ‘* Theories re-
garding the sun’s corona,” in the North American Review, Professor
Young expresses “his complete conviction that the corona is mainly
solar.” He points out that the corona sends us three kinds of light, the
spectroscopic evidence showing that reflected or diffused sunlight is
present, though not the main constituent of the coronal luminosity, the
continuous spectrum indicating the presence of incandescent particles,
solid or liquid, whilst the bright lines show the presence of luminous
gases. These mingled gases form what has been called the “ coronal
atmosphere,” but in it ‘‘there are filaments and streamers and other
forms that are probably not gaseous, but composed of mist and dust;
some of them may be of meteoric origin, and some composed of matter
ejected from the sun, while others perhaps are due to condensation of
vapors.” The analogy of the channels in the tails of comets to the
coronal rifts, and the evidence comets afford to a repulsive force ex-
ercised by the sun, strike Professor Young as they do Dr. Huggins:
“All the luminous phenomena of the corona could be accounted for by
an atmosphere of a density millions of times below that in any vacuum-
tube ever constructed.”

Photographing the corona in full sunshine—Mr. W. H. Pickering, of
the Institute of Technology, Boston, made a series of attempts during
the partial eclipse of March 16, 1885, to obtain a photograph of the
corona. In this he wasquite unsuccessful, for though his plates showed
several corona-like markings, they were clearly not due to the true
corona, as they were found in front of the moon as well as on the sun’s
limb. From this Mr. Pickering was evidently led to conclude that the
results which Dr. Huggins had obtained were probably of a similar
character, and he expressed as much in a letter to Science. Dr. Huggins
in reply pointed out that Mr. Pickering’s. method was faulty and was
calculated to produce such false images. The latter, therefore, some-
what modified his apparatus without, however, altering the two points
which Dr. Huggins considered most erroneous, viz, the use of an object-
glass instead of a reflector, and the placing his drop-slit close in front
of the object-glass instead of in its primary focus. The result has been
that he has obtained photographs free from false corone, but showing
no real ones. At the same time he has made experiments which con-
vince him that to produce a perceptible image of a coronal rift it is

ASTRONOMY. 401

necessary to be able to discriminate between degrees of illumination

which do not differ from each other by more than one-tenth the intrinsic
brilliancy of the full moon. He considers that the eye is more able to
detect small differences of light than a photograph is, and states that
the moon cannot be photographed in full daylight, even though it may
be easily seen. His investigations also lead him to think that even in
the clearest weather the atmospheric illumination is three hundred times
as bright as it should be for it to be possible to obtain any image of the
corona. To these points Dr. Huggins has replied in the Observatory
for November. Dr. Huggins states that he has had no difficulty at all
in photographing the moon in full sunshine, and that the observations
of Professor Langley and others, of Mercury and Venus, which have
been seen as black disks before they reach the sun, proves that the
corona must have a sensible brightness as compared with the atmos-
pheric illumination.

He also points out that Mr. Pickering fails to obtain any trace on his
photographs even of the detects of his own instrument. Dr. Huggins
declines further discussion, preferring to wait the result of the work now
being carriedon by Mr. Ray Woods at the Cape Observatory. Mr. Pick-
ering replies in Science for October 25, admitting the possibility of pho-
tographing the moon in full sunshine, but contending that these very
photographs of the moon supply an additional proof of his opinion that
the light of the atmosphere near the sun is more than three hundred
times too intense for it to be possible to obtain a photograph of the
corona, since the skylight near the sun was fifty times as_ bright as
that near the moon, and coronal photographs to be of any use should
be able to record differences of illumination of only one-tenth the bright-
ness of the full moon.

He explains the visibility of Venus and Mercury as being caused by
the refraction of the sun’s light through their atmospheres, the black
disk being thus surrounded by a narrow luminous ring. (Nature.)

Remarkable solar prominences.*—On the 26th of June, 1885, a remark-
able prominence was noticed upon the eastern limb of the sun by M,
Trouvelot, of the Meudon Observatory. Its measured height was about
10’-5, or about a third of the sun’s diameter, but it probably extended
somewhat further. At a point on the sun’s limb diametrically oppo-
site, another immense prominence was seen nearly equal in height
to the first. A somewhat similar phenomenon—two opposite promi-
nences—had been observed on November 22, 1884.

On August 16, 1885, at 9" 25™, M. Trouvelot observed a brilliant

‘prominence 4/ in height, which by 11" 20™had increased to 9/27”. With

the increase in height, it diminished rapidly in brightness, and at 11" 22™
had completely disappeared.
Peculiar prominences were also remarked by M. Ricco, of the Palermo

H. Mis. 15 26

AQ? SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Rowlana’s photograph of the normal solar spectrum.—This map has been
made by Professor Rowland of the Johns Hopkins University, with one
of his concave gratings of 214 feet radius of curvature and 6 inches di-
ameter, and is now complete from wave-length 3680 to 5790; the portion
above 3680 to the extremity of the ultra-violet, wave-length about 3100,
is nearly ready. Negatives have also been prepared down to and includ-
ign B, and it is possible they may be prepared for publication ; a scale of
wave-lengths has been added. ‘The error in the wave-length at no
part exceeds ;5455 of the whole, and is generally caused by a slight
displacement of the scale, which is easily corrected. The wave-lengths
of more than 200 lines in the spectrum have been accurately determined
to about soasay part, and these can serve as standards to correct any
small error of the scale. - - - The 1474 line is widely double, as
also b, and b,, while H is given so nearly double as to be recognized as
such by all persons familiar with spectrum observation. Above the
green the superiority increases very quickly, so that at H we have 120
lines between H and K, while the original negatives show 150 lines.
The photographs show more at this point than the excellent map of
Lockyer of this region.”

THE PLANETS.

INTRA-MERCURIAL PLANET.—The report* of a committee of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences,.to which was referred the question of the
expediency of fitting out an expedition to the west coast of Africa for
the purpose of observing the total eclipse of the sun on August 28-29,
1886, contains the following remarks in regard to the hypothetical planet
revolving within the orbit of Mercury: ‘ In addition to the observation
of the sun itself, and the lnminous phenomena attending it, it is desir-
able to obtain photographic maps of all the surrounding region to the
distance of at least ten or fifteen degrees from the sun, for the purpose
of finally setting at rest the still mooted question of an intra-mercurial
planet. Itis true that the astronomical world is at present disposed
generally to discredit the existence of such a body, yet the evidence on
the subject up to this time is mainly negative, as it must always con-
tinue to be so long as it depends upon direct vision. In a photographie
map, taken during total eclipse of the sun, of the whole region within
which such a planet must necessarily be confined, the object, if present,
must present itself, and could not fail to be recognized. But for photo-
graphic operations of this class, lenses of wide angle must be specially
prepared, differing essentially in character from those which are em-
ployed to take impressions of the eclipse.”

A search for the “ supposititious Vulean” was again made by Mr. T.
W. Backhouse, of Sunderland, England, in March and April, 1885—the
period during which a transit is possible, according to Leverrier—but

* Senate Ex. Doe. No. 67, Forty-ninth Congress, first session.
ASTRONOMY. ‘ 403

with no positive result. Mr. Backhouse says: “I consider the question
of the existence of Vulcan can only be settled by continued and system-
atic watching for its appearance in transit, as at the time of an eclipse
of the sun it may be too near that luminary to be visible.”

The EARTH: Variability of terrestrial latitudes.—The question of the
variability of terrestrial latitudes was brought anew to the attention of
astroromers by the International Geodetic Conference at Rome in Oc-
tober, 1883. A plan for settling the question by observation was pro-
posed by M. Fergola, an Italian astronomer, which was, essentially,
that a careful series of observations should be made with prime vertical
instrument, by two co-operating observatories differing but little in
latitude though, perhaps, considerably in longitude. The same list of
stars was to be used at each pair of such stations. By repeating these
observations after an interval of fifty years or more, the question of the
variability of latitudes would be subjected to a severe test. Theoret-
ically, periodical changes of latitude may occur, and an examination of
observations made at a number of Northern observatories during the
past seventy-five years—K@6nigsberg, Milan, Naples, Paris, Pulkowa,
and Washington—appears to confirm the existence of such changes.
At Pulkowa, which furnishes the most careful series of observations, a
diminution of the latitude of 0/-23, equivalent to about 23 feet, is indi-
cated between the years 1843 and 1872 ; but in all these cases the var-
jations are small, and we must be extremely cautious in ascribing them
to actual changes of latitude. A recent and very complete discussion
of the latitude of the Greenwich Observatory by Mr. Christie gives no
evidence of a secular change of latitude, and a later determination of
the latitude of the Washington Observatory (in 1883) also furnishes no
proof of a change.

Prof. Asaph Hall, in a paper* read before the Philosophical Society
of Washington, February 28, 1884, has given a discussion of the obser-
vations tabulated by M. Fergola. His conclusion is that ‘“‘ observations
do not prove that latitudes are variable, and the evidence points rather
to other sources of small changes that may depend on the seasons.
Perhaps some of these may arise from the tables of refraction which
are in common use, and which are assumed to fit the whole earth.”

Some preliminary steps have been taken towards putting Fergola’s
plan in operation at the observatories of Lisbon and Washington
(the difference of latitude being 11’ 7’), but we believe no observations
have actually been made yet.

Effect on the earth’s motion produced by small bodies passing near it.—
Professor Newton points outt that the space through which the earth
travels is traversed also by small bodies, or meteoroids. The impact of
these bodies upon the earth, and the consequent increase of the earth’s
mass, have their effect upon the earth’s motions, both of rotation and

*Amer. J. Sci., 3 8. vol. 29, Pp: * 23-27 ; also Observatory 8, p- 113517, i
tAmer. J. Sci., December, 1885, 3 s., vol. 30, p. 410-17,
AOA SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

revolution, and hence upon the lengths of the day and year. Professor
Oppolzer (Astron., Nachr., 2573) has discussed the amount of these actions,
and has computed the density which the meteoroid matter must have in
order to produce the observed and unexplained acceleration of the moon’s
mean motion. Buta body that passes near to the earth has also an
action of like character due to the attraction of gravitation alone, and
Professor Newton proceeds to calculate its amount. The conclusion at
which he arrives is that the effect upon the earth’s motion of the meteors
that come into the earth’s atmosphere exceeds at least one hundred fold
that of the meteors that pass by without impact. (Observatory.)

Determination of longitudes in South America.—According to Science
(vol. Vv, p. 151), Commander Davis has just completed his important
telegraphic determinations of longitude on the western coast of South
America. ‘The great chain connecting Washington with different points
in South America, and then extending through Saint Vincent, Madeira,
Lisbon and Greenwich, is now closed with but an insignificant diserep-
ancy.

The proposed change in the beginning of the astronomical day.—No gen-
eral agreement has been reached by astronomers upon the sixth resolu-
tion of the Washington Meridian Conference, which recommends that
the astronomical and nautical days be arranged everywhere to begin at
mean midnight. The matter was brought up at the Geneva meeting of
the Astronomische Gesellschaft in 1885. (See Vrtljhrschr., 20, p. 227-
31.) Struve, Folie, and Pechiile seemed to be the only members present
in favor of the change, while Newcomb, Weiss, Krueger, Dunér, Auwers,
Tietjen, and Safarik spoke in opposition to it. Mr. Downing, of the
Greenwich Observatory, says (Nature, 32:353), “ - - - and judging
from the individual expressions of opinion that have been published,
I should imagine that here, as at Geneva, the majority of real workers
in our science (with the probable exception of those engaged in solar
work) would be opposed to the proposed change.”

In the United States, official action has been taken by the Secretary of
the Navy, referring the question to the National Academy. The report
(Senate Ex. Doc. No. 67, Forty-ninth Congress, first session) of a com-
mittee of that body consisting of Pres. F. A. P. Barnard, Profs. A. Gra-
ham Bell, J. D. Dana, S. P. Langley, Col. Theodore Lyman, Profs. E. C.
Pickering, and C. A. Young says: ‘‘The committee regard favorably the
proposition of the meridian conference on this subject, and recommend
that the change should be made as soon as sufficient concert of action
can be secured among the leading astronomers and astronomical estab-
lishments of the civilized world—in 1890, if practicable; if not, in 1900.”

It would seem to be incumbent on those astronomers who have ex-
pressed themselves in favor of the proposed change, and of the conse-
quent interruption of astronomical chronology, to justify strongly their
position. It is not quite clear that this has been done, for while many
reasons are given against the change, almost the only argument in its

ASTRONOMY. AO5

favor (besides that of convenience in solar work) is, that there will be

established a certain uniformity of time-reckoning between astronomers

and the world at large.

In addition to the references given above, we should call attention to
the following papers upon this important question :

Baw (R. 8.). Proposed change in the astronomical day. Observatory, 9 : 100.

FLEMING (S.). Universal or cosmic time. Toronto [1885].

FOERSTER (W.). Ueber die von der conferenz zu Washington proponirte Verinderung
des astronomischen Tagesanfanges. Astron. Nach», 111 : 33-8.

LETTER from the Secretary of the Navy transmitting communications concerning the
proposed change in the time for beginning the astronomical day [from the super-
intendent of the Naval Observatory, the superintendent of the Naatical Almanac,
and various American astronomers]. Senate Ex. Doc. No. 78, Forty-eighth Con-
gress, second session.

NEWCOMB (S.). On the proposed change of the astronomical day. Month. Not. Roy.
Astron. Soc., 45: 122.

VON OPPoLzER (Th.) On the proposed change of the astronomical day. J/onth. Not.
Roy. Astron. Soc., 45 : 295-8.

SrrRuVE (O.). Die Beschliisse der Washingtoner Meridianconferenz. St. Petersburg,
1885. 27p. 8vo.

“ Sky-glows: Certain phenomena in meteorological optics that have oe-
curred since the close of the year 1883. Hypothesis concerning the cause
and origin of these phenomena.—The immediate cause of the “red sun-
sets” seems to be the existence at a very great height in the atmosphere
of a cloud, or rather a light mist, composed of very fine particles. This
hypothesis would explain the twilight phenomena when the sun was 189°
or 20° below the horizon. Weneed not suppose these particles to have
had a greater altitude than 60 or 70 kilometers during the first of these
apparitions. |
_ “The red color of these lights corresponds very well with the absorp-
tive power of the atmosphere which physicists observe in the sun’s
radiations at different altitudes and astronomers in the ruddy tint pre-
sented by the moon’s disk in total eclipses ;* the distance traversed
through the atmosphere by the sun’s rays before reaching this cloud
explains sufficiently the intensity of the coloring.

‘The solar corona and the anti-solar aureole could be easily explained
with this hypothesis if the particles held: in suspension in the atmos-
phere are supposed to offer a sensibly constant mean diameter, as the
theoretical conditions for diffraction coronas would then be present.

“The next question is, What is the origin of these particles suspended
in the atmosphere? The reply to this question is quite independent of
the explanation of the phenomena of meteorological optics presented
above. There have been a number of hypotheses on this subject. The
first, seeking an explanation in the ordinary domain of meteorological

* The total eclipse of the moon October 4, 1884, did not show this red color in the
usual degree. This is regarded by some as a proof of the existence of these clouds of
particles, the higher regions of the atmosphere being rendered less transparent by
their presence.

AO6 ? SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

influences, gives as the origin of these particles the formation of very
minute ice crystals like those which appear to constitute the cirrus clouds.
The trouble with this very simple hypotheses is that so many additional
hypotheses are required to sustain it. For some hypothesis must be
made as to the cause of the production of frozen clouds at an unusual
altitude. Some reason must be assigned for their permanence during
months and even years. And the question why optical phenomena,
halos, mock suns, &c., which accompany the ordinary existence of ice
crystals in the atmosphere do not appear permanently must be answered.

“Although it might be possible to find explanations for all these
points of difficulty, it is evident that the proposed hypothesis is simple
in appearance only,.and that it meets with difficulties rather than with
confirmations in the observed facts.

“The second hypothesis attributes to these particles a cosmic origin,
that is to say, the same origin as is assigned to meteors; the earth is
supposed to have passed in its orbital motion through a cloud of small
_ particles, revolving, like herself, about the sun, and to have drawn after
her all the particles within her sphere of attraction. This hypothesis
seems at first thought a very satisfactory one; the twilight lights, at
first so brilliant, have been growing fainter. This accords with the idea
that the particles have come from some external source, and have by
degrees fallen, in the order of their size, to the earth’s surface. The
explanation appears all the more plausible since true rains of dust have
been ebserved in different countries. Nordenskjéld made a chemical
examination of a sample of this dust, collected in Sweden, and found
it to contain iron and nickel, elements that are present in meteorites.
Still, this argument is not decisive, for rains of dust, whose origin is
certainly terrestrial, have often been observed ; as, for example, the dry
fogs, well known in southern Europe, composed of mineral dust brought
by the wind across the Mediterranean from the desert of Sahara. This
dust has been collected at sea by sailors, and also on the coasts, and
has been found to contain silica, feldspar, and mica, elements of the
sands of the African desert.

“ Voleanic ashes have been sometimes found in Norway, coming from
the eruptions of Iceland volcanoes; the microscope shows these to con-
tain fragments of pumice and even crystals of pyroxene. The cosmic
origin of these particles must therefore be sustained by more direct
proofs, if it is to be accepted.

“The third hypothesis connects the diffusion of these clouds of par-
ticles with the frightful cataclysm at Java, when 50,000 persons lost
their lives through the explosion of Krakatoa. Nearly all the arguments
employed by the partisans of the cosmic origin apply with equal force
to this voleanic origin. It explains why the first twilight manifestations
appeared directly after the eruption at Java, nothing of the kind having
heen observed before; it explains, moreover, the progressive march of
the apparition of these lights about the center of explosion. This pro-
ASTRONOMY. 407

gressive march renders the cosmic origin of these particles quite im-
probable, for in case of a cosmic origin there seems to be no reason why
the phenomenon should not appear nearly simultaneously at all points
on the earth’s surface. Those regions on the Indian Ocean forming the
trajectory of a cyclone show in a convincing manner that the ashes of
the Java volcano, caught up by the ordinary winds of that quarter, are
the cause of the extraordinary sunsets in question.

‘‘ The objection may be raised that the height of these particles is
very great in comparison to the height to which the smoke of our Euro-
“pean volcanoes rises; but, after reading M. Verbeck’s report, these
’ objections disappear before the greatness of this volcanic convulsion.
A quantity of matter, whose volume was estimated at 150 cubic kilo-
meters, was seen projected 18 or 20 kilometers above the crater. When
we think that the gaseous matter that escaped at the same time must
represent a volume some hundreds of times as great, we cease to be
astonished at the thought of the diffuse dust reaching an altitude of 70
or 80 kilometers. As to the suspension of these particles in the air, it
at least does not contradict what we know of the laws of the ait’s vis-
cosity, nor of the action of winds, heat, and atmospheric electricity.

‘““A more detailed discussion of the documents published on the sub-
ject of this frightful explosion wowld carry us beyond the scope of this
simple article; enough has been said to show that these optical phe-
nomena, of which our atmosphere has been for some eighteen months
_ and is still the scene, may be referred with great probability if not cer-
tainty to a volcanic origin.” (Cornu, in Bull. Astron., April, 1885.)

THE Moon: Lunar heat.—At the Albany meeting of the National
Academy of Sciences in October, 1885, Professor Langley read a paper
‘On the temperature of the surface of the moon.”

Attempts were made in the last century by several physicists to ob-
tain indications of heat from the moon, but without success. Professor
Forbes, in 1885, employed a lens by which the lunar heat was concen-
trated about 6,000 times, but obtained no certain evidence of heat, be-
ing led only to the negative conclusion, that the warming effect of the
full moon on the surface of the earth would, at any rate, not exceed

sooo Of a degree, Centigrade. The first satisfactory evidence of actual
heat was obtained by Melloni in 1846, who, with a polyzonal burning
lens, one meter in aperture, and by the aid of, the newly invented ther-
mopyle, in the clear air of Vesuvius, after due precaution against in-

-strumental error, succeeded in obtaining decisive indications of heat,
although the amount was all but immeasurably small. Later observers
were also able to do little more than detect.evidence of the existence of
lunar heat, and the first attainments of anything like quantitative
measurement thereof, was reserved for Lord Rosse, whose experiments
are recorded in the proceedings of the Royal Society, commencing in
1869. The paper now before us details the experiments by Professor
Langley, at the Allegheny Observatory, with the instrument invented
AOS SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

about five years ago, and denominated the bolometer. The first of these
were made on the evening of November 12, 1880, chiefly with the view of
testing its sensitiveness, concentrating the lunar rays upon its face by
means of the 13-inch equatorial of the observatory, and a smaller convex
lens near its focus, when an average deflection of forty-two divisions of the
galvanometer scale was obtained. In June, 1883, the bolometer and its
adjuncts, having been much improved in theinterval, measurements of the
lunar heat were resumed with apparatus better adapted to the purpose.
The heat radiated from the lunar surface may consist of three kinds in
different proportions: (1) Heat coming from the interior of the moon,
which will not vary with the phase; (2) heat which falls from the sun on
the moon’s surface, and is at once reflected regularly and irregularly ;
(3) heat which, falling from the sun on the moon’s surface, is absorbed,
raises the temperature of the surface, and is afterwards radiated as heat
of low refrangibility. The general conclusion of Professor Langley’s ob-
servations is thus expressed by himself. ‘‘ While we have found abun-
dant evidence of heat from the moon, every method we have tried, or
that has been tried by others, for determining the character of ‘this
heat appears to us inconclusive; and without questioning that the
moon radiates heat earthward from its soil, we have not yet found any
experimental means of discriminating with such certainty between this
and reflected heat that it is not open to misinterpretation. Whether
we do so or not in the future will probably depend on our ability to
measure by some process which will inform us directly of the wave-
lengths of the heat observed.” Combined with his experiments on solar
radiation, Professor Langley’s investigations seem to point to the prob-
ability of a gaseous envelope to the moon, too small to make its presence
known in ordinary astronomical observations ; and it is well known that
Mr. Neison has advocated this view from other considerations in his
great work on the moon. (Athenwum.)

Eclipse of the moon, 1884, October 4.—In spite of the very unfavorable
atmospheric conditions in Central Europe, nearly forty observatories
participated in the observation of this eclipse and were able to furnish
valuable material, which will be made the subject of a special publica-
tion when the positions of all the occulted stars shall have been deter-
mined with the necessary precision. While awaiting the termination
of this great piece of work, Professor Struve gives a succinct résumé of
the results due to the co-operation of so many workers in the Astro-
nomische Nachrichten, Nos. 2640-46.

Mars: The rotation period of Mars.—'The seventh volume of the An-
nals of the Leyden Observatory contains a very thorough and painstak-
ing investigation by Professor Bakhuyzen of the rotation period of the
planet Mars. In previous determinations one of two courses has usually
been adopted, either to compare drawings of Huygens or Hooke with
the most recent observations attainable, or to discuss some modern
series which seemed to promise to compensate for its restricted range

ASTRONOMY. AY

by its greater accuracy. Professor Bakhuyzen has, however, endeav-
ored to utilize the entire mass of observations at his disposal, so as to
avoid the sources of error to which the other methods are liable, and
he possesses a great advantage over earlier investigators, in having ac-
cess, not only to the numerous observations made in 1877 and 1879, but
also to the great series of more than 200 drawings which Schroeter had
prepared for his projected ‘*‘ Areographischen Beitrige,” and which be-
coming the property of the University of Leyden in 1876, was edited
and published by Professor Bakhuyzen in 1881. Professor Bakhuyzen,
in the reduction of these drawings, has adopted provisionally Sch®upa-
relli’s position for the pole of Mars—R. A. 317° 460, Decl. 53° 25/4,
mean equinox of 1833-0—and Proctor’s rotation period—24" 37™ 22%:74—
and deduces corrections to these elements from a comparison of the re-
sults obtained by reducing the various observations at his command
with them. His first step is, from a discussion of the drawings of Kai-
ser, Lockyer, Lord Rosse, and Dawes, made during the oppositions of
of 1862 and 1864, to obtain the time of transit on January 1, 1863, of
his adopted prime meridian over the Martial meridian, which passes
through the earth’s north pole, choosing as his prime meridian the one
which lies 2° to the east of the center of Miidler’s point a, correspond-
ing almost exactly to Schiaparelli’s Fastigium Aryn, or to Proctor’s
Dawes Forked Bay, he finds the time of transit over the meridian pass-
ing through the north pole of the earth on January 1, 1863, to be 20"
27™ + 4-0", Berlin M. T. The areographic longitude of the center of
the Oculus, the conspicuous circular spot, called by Green the Terby Sea,
and by Schiaparelli Lacus Solis, will be, with this prime meridian, 909-87.
The second section contains the determination of areographic longitudes
of ten of the most conspicuous and easily identified markings on tie
surface of Mars as inferred by means of the above elements from the
drawings of various observers from the time of Hooke and Huygens
up to 1879. For the last-named year only Schiaparelli’s observations
are used, but for 1877 there is an abundant supply, there being availa-
ble, besides the observations of Schiaparelli, the drawings of Lohse,
Green, Dreyer, and Niesten. Beer and Miidler’s drawings attord mate-
rial for 1830, Herschel and Schroeter give a very full series from 1777 to
1803, and Huygens and Hooke supply a few drawings from 1659 to
1683, from which the longitude of Miadler’s /, the Kaiser or Hourglass
Sea, Schiaparelli’s Syrtis Major, can be inferred. These logitudes are
discussed in the third section, and a corrected rotation period is ob-
tained of 24° 37™ 228-66 + 08-0132, a value exceedingly close to the mean
of the best previous determinations, which are as follows:

lie ines
UE pad Relay: Mes Sh ea eae Se , NaS eee PN Se ‘24 37 22°62
GINO TLS Tocca ee et Le OR erat eet Sie's'Sie dae “591
CHM ATS are ete ea oe aes Sian SS Beenie ee D7

POCUOL PLEO ieee sen) schis ines atten scien see Good weiss . 735
410 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

“Proctor’s value is clearly too large, a comparison of the mean longi-
tudes obtained for the Kaiser Sea with his period showing a steady de-
crease for successive oppositions ; the only observations which stand
conspicuously out from the rest being those of Hooke, upon which he
had based his determination. There can be no doubt that Professor
Bakhuyzen’s value is a distinct improvement upon the earlier ones, and
that its uncertainty lies only in the second place of the decimals. A
table for computing the time of transit of the prime meridian over that
meridian of Mars which passes through the earth’s north pole, com-
pletes the memoir.

Professor Bakhuyzen supplies also a short note as to changes on the
surface of Mars. The most conspicuous of all the markings on the
planet’s surface has always been the Kaiser Sea; but the drawings of
Schroeter and Herschel, as Dr. Terby has already pointed out, exhibit
a second marking near it, nearly as conspicuous, and very similar in
shape and size. There can be no doubt that the only modern represent-
ative of this spot is Huggins Inlet, Schiaparelli’s Cyclopum, a narrow
streak, by no means easily observed, and now entirely unlike the Kaiser
Sea in shape. Professor Bakhuyzen also considers that there is suffi-
cient evidence for thinking that Schroeter on several occasions ob-
served Schiaparelli’s Lestrygonum—one of the most difficult objects on
the planet—which could searcely have been the case had it not been
_much more conspicuous than it has been of late years. These changes,
Professor Bakhuyzen thinks, lend a high degree of probability to the
theory that certain districts of Mars are covered by liquid.” (Nature,
November 12, 1885.)

JUPITER: Mr. W. F. Denning has given in Nature (32: 31-34, May
14, 1885) a summary of recent observations of the markings on Jupiter,
with resulting rotation periods, &c. The great red spot has surprised
us by its extended duration.. As early as 1882 it lost such a consider-
able depth of tone that obliteration seemed imminent, but it has lingered
on, until now its existence appears likely to be indefinitely prolonged,
though under visible conditions far less imposing than at an earlier
stage. All that at present remains of this remarkable formation is a
dusky elliptic ring, darkest at the following end, and only well seen
under good definition. Whether this ellipse is identical with similar
appearances delineated by Dawes in 1857, Huggins in 1858, and Gled-
hill in 1869, 1870, and 1871, is involved in doubt, because of the lack of
intermediate observations. We have no definite information as to what
became of the various objects alluded to. It is very possible that they
severally represent an object of considerable permanency.. The changes
such as observed.may have been induced by atmospheric interference.
There is every indication that the dense vaporous envelopes of this
planet are rapidly variable, especially in the zone included by the two
equatorial belts, and that the chief features undergo singular fluctua-
ae ee Se

ASTRONOMY. All

tions, some of which may possibly be of periodical character. The red
spot has now been followed since 1578. During the last three years it
has given a rotation period of 9° 55™ 39-*1, which has been steadily
maintained throughout each opposition, subject to some minor disturb-
ances partly due to errors of observation. The first few years of its ex-
istence it showed an increasing retardation of motion, which lengthened
the period from 9" 55™ 34° to that already quoted, but, contemporarily
with the decay of the spot in 1882, the velocity ceased to slacken, and
the results accumulated during the past few oppositions, prove it to
have been equable in a marked degree. :

With reference to the equatorial white spot some striking phenomena
have been presented during the past winter. Between October 4, 1884,
and January 13, 1885, its motion appears to have increased in an alarm-
ing ratio. The spot continued to rush on far in advance of its computed
places, and all the while exhibited a more brilliant appearance than at
any preceding epoch since the autumn of 1880, when it first came under
systematic observation. The form and appearance of the spot have been
so special as to prevent any confusion in mistaking it for other white
spots in nearly the same latitude. Between October 4 and January 13,
1885, the rotation period was 9° 49™ 518-95, but the great increase in
velocity evidently occurred towards the end of November. Between
November 21, 1884, and January 13, 1885, the period was only $2 49™
388-45, or 34 seconds less than the mean period of 9° 50™ 12%-25 shown
by the same spot during the two preceding years.

‘* Of the new features presented during the last few months the most
striking are:” (1) The appearance of large, bright spots indenting
the north edge of the great northern equatorial belt. (2) The outbreak
of dark, reddish spots, elongated in longitude, upon the narrow belt
which became visible in 1882, immediately outlying the great belt. One
of the most conspicuous of these new spots is about 10,000 miles long.
(3) The fading away of the west shoulder of the depression north of the
red spot.

Professor Young remarked * a peculiar white cloud of oval form par-
tially covering the ‘red spot,” in March, 1885. This veil was almost
concentrie with the spot, leaving visible only a narrow ring of the red
substance not more than 14” to 2” in width. The outline of the
cloud was for the most part sensibly smooth and regular, but at the
preceding end there was a little projection nearly cutting across the red
ring. The white cloud was not brilliant, but was very nearly of the
same tint as the white belt on which the red spot lies.

At the Dearborn Observatory, Chicago, the systematic observation
of the markings on Jupiter has been continued by Professor Hough:
his results are given in fullin his annual report for 1885, which contains
sketches of the planet on November 7, 1884, and February 27, April 26,
and May 15, 1885.

* Observatory, vill: 172.
Ai? SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

SATURN: The density of Saturn’s ring.— M. Poincaré supplies a short
note on the stability of Saturn’s ring in the November number of the
Bulletin Astronomique. WUaplace had shown that the ring could only be
stable if it were divided into several concentric rings revolving at dif-
ferent speeds. M. Tisserand had confirmed this result, and had recog-
nized that a single ring must, in order to exist, possess a much higher
density than the planet, and had calculated the maximum breadth of
each elementary ring in terms of its density and mean radius. M.
Poincaré has carried this investigation a step further, and shown that
if the density of a ring be less than a certain amount, it will, under the
influence of the slightest perturbation, no longer break up into a num-
ber of narrower rings, but into a great number of satellites, and that
if the rings be fluid and turn each as a single piece, the density of the
inner ring must be at least +, and of the outer ring ;'; that of the planet.
For a ring of very small satellites (not for a fluid ring, as M. Poincaré
erroneously states), Maxwell has shown the condition to be that the
density should not exceed 34, part of that of Saturn.

‘¢We do not at present know the actual density of the ring from ob-
servation sufficiently accurately to make therefrom any certain infer-
ence as to its physical condition. Bessel’s determination from the
movement of the peri-saturnium of the orbit of Titan gave the reciprocal
of the mass of the ring as compared with that of Saturn as 118, which
since the volume of the ring—adopting Bond’s value of 40 miles for its
thickness—is about jj, that of the planet, would make its density about
3-4 times greater than the planet’s. Bessel’s value is, however, clearly
too great, as he neglected the influence of the equatorial protuberance
of Saturn on the movement of the apsides. Meyer’s determination of
the secular variation of the line of apsides of Titan, viz dz=1726'5,
gives the reciprocal of the mass of the ring as 26,700, but from all the
six brighter satellites as 1,960; the latter value closely agreeing with
Tisserand’s. It does not, however, seem to have been noticed that even
the smallest value for the mass considerably exceeds the highest per-
missible in accordance with Maxwell’s result, since that would make
the mass of the rings only z57oo5 part of the planet’s, an amount we
cannot hope to detect with our present resources.” (Natwre, January
28, 1886, vol. 33: p. 303.)

Sur la Variabilité des Anneaux de Saturne.-—‘ Observers have as yet
discovered no fact that could lead them to suppose the rings of Saturn to
have as a whole a rotary motion about the planet. Now if such a motion
exists, it is inconceivable that it should have thus far escaped observa-
tion. But if these rings do not revolve about the planet, we cannot
admit that they are solid, liquid, or even gaseous, for it is evident that
such frail structures could not resist the force exercised upon them by
the constantly variable attraction in the direction of the satellites. If
it is true that without rotation the rings could be neither solid, liquid,
nor gaseous, we must seek some explanation that shall satisfy the neces-
ASTRONOMY. 413

sary conditions. The rings must move about the planet without there
being revolution properly so called of the rings; they must be solid
without being rigid. There seems to be no way of satisfying these con-
ditions and at the same time easily explaining all the observed phenom.
ena other than the hypothesis conceived by Cassini Il and recently de-
veloped by Proctor and Clerk-Maxwell, which supposes the rings to be
formed of disconnected material of thousands of little independent bod-
ies, asteroids, circling around the planet in independent and concentric
orbits not exactly in the same plane, and completing their revolutions
in different times. Itis evident that all the combinations necessary for
explaining the observed phenomena would be possible in such a system;
these bodies would explain certain phenomena in proportion as they are
more or less numerous, more or less separated by space, more or less
rare, &c. If we suppose (what is a very probable thing) that these
bodies possess different reflective powers, we can conceive of all sorts
of combinations of light, from the brilliant rings to the dark-gray bands,
In short this hypothesis appears to be entirely sufficient to explain the
rings of Saturn and their variability.” (Trouvelot in Bull. Astron.,
January, 1885.)

The orbit of Tethys“ Herr Karl Bohlin has recently communicated
to the Swedish Academy of Sciences an interesting discussion of the
elements of the orbit of Tethys. The observations discussed are those
of Sir William Herschel, 1789, reduced by Lamont; Lamont, 1336; Sir
J. Herschel, 1835~37 ; the Bonds, 1848~52; Secchi, 1856; Captain Jacob,
185758; Newcomb and Holden, 1874~75, and Meyer, 1880~81. The
elements are calculated for each period of observation, without taking
account of perturbations. Herr Bohlin, then specially treating the
mean longitude of the epoch, and adopting 190°-69812 as the value of
the mean motion, draws up tables of the differences between observa-
tion and calculation, and attemps to represent them by an empirical
formula. The corrected value of the mean motion is 190°.698169, almost
identical with that found previously by M. Baijlaud. Herr Bohlin finds
that the annual motion of the peri-saturnium amounts to 33°. M. Bail-
laud’s results and M. Tisserand’s investigations had given the value as
70°. The eccentricity is found as 0-00805+ 0-00077.” (Nature, January
28, 1886.)

The orbit of Iapetus.—An elaborate paper on the orbit of lapetus, the
cutermost satellite of Saturn, by Prof. Asaph Hall, forms Appendix I, a
quarto pamphlet of 82 pages, recently published, to the Washington
Observations for 1882. Iapetus was discovered on the 25th of October,
1671, by Cassini with a telescope of 17 feet focal length. Titan, the
brightest of the satellites of Saturn, was discovered by Huyghens on the
25th of March, 1655, and Huyghens was deterred, apparently, from fur-
ther search by his belief that the solar system was now complete, this
discovery making the number of satellites equal to the number of planets
A414 - SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

and making six* of each, which was universally admitted to be a_
‘‘ perfect” number. Curious variations in the brightness of the new
satellite were noticed by Cassini, and his observations have been con-
firmed by subsequent observers. The explanation seems to be that op-
posite sides of the satellite have different reflecting powers, and that
the satellite, in revolving around Saturn, keeps the same face always
turned towards the planet. In this latter respect we have an analogous
case in ourmoon. Professor Pickering gives the magnitude of Iapetus,
from photometric measures, 11°82, and the mean diameter 486 miles.

The observations now published were, for the most part, made by Pro-
fessor Hall himself with the 26-inch equatorial of the Naval Observa-
tory, in the years 1875~84; a few were made by Professor Newcomb in
1874. In regard to the examination of the observations for large re-
siduals, Professor Hall remarks: “ In this work no observation has been
rejected. When observations have been honestly made, [ dislike to
enter on the process of culling them. By rejecting the large residuals
the work is made to appear more accurate than it really is, and thus
we fail to get the right estimate of its quality.”

The adopted mean distance of Iapetus from Saturn, determined by two
different methods of observing, (one by differences of right ascension and
declination and the other by angles of position and distances,) which
give very accordant results, is 515-5195 + 0-02645; and the time for
one revolution around the planet seventy-nine days, seven hours, tifty-
six minutes, forty seconds. From this periodic time of the satellite
and its mean distance, the mass of Saturn expressed as a fraction of
the sun’s mass is g737, or about 93:2 times the mass of the earth. Pro-
fessor Hall’s paper concludes with some useful tables of the satellite’s
motion.

Uranus: The satellites of Uranus.—In Appendix I to the Washington
Observations for 1881 Prof. Asaph Hall has published the results of
his investigations of the orbits of Uranus, ‘‘ Oberon” and “ Titania.”
“The satellites of Uranus were amongst the first ovjects observed with
the 26-inch refractor of the Naval Observatory, after it was mounted in
November, 1873. The first series during the oppositions of 1874 and
1875 were discussed by Professor Newcomb, with the view to the de-
termination of the mass of the planet, and the formation of tabies of
the motions of the satellites, which were published in the Washington
Observations for 1873. Remarking that as the earth would be nearly
in the plane of the orbits in the year 1882, and observations made about

* Professor Hall has called my attention to a slight error in Grant’s rendering of
Huyghens’ remark (History of Physical Astronomy, p. 268). The discovery of Titan
made the number of planets and satellites, each equal to six, and six (not twelve, as

Grant puts it) was regarded as a *‘ perfect” number: ‘* - - - utrique illo, quem
be) bf
perfectum dicimus, numero continentur - - - ” Huygenii Opera Varia, vol. 2, p.

530), a perfect number being one that is equal te the sum of ull its divisors including
unity.
PS ae eae

ASTRONOMY. 415

that year would probably afford a good determination of the position
of this plane, Professor Hall commenced a new series in March, 1881,
which was continued through the four oppositions to the end of May,
1884; these observations were made with magnifiers of 606 and 888 ; in
fair conditions of the atmosphere the outer satellites are stated to be
easily observable with the Washington instrument. A comparison of
the measures with Professor Newcomb’s tables showed that these tables
required but small corrections, which were found by equations of con-
ditions in the usual manner. It should be mentioned that the tables
were founded mainly upon Professor Newcomb’s own measures; these
by Professor Hall in the year 1875 and 1876 are included in his recent
discussion. .

“For the position of the nodes and inclination of the orbits of the satel-
lites, Professor Hall finds—

N=165°°'81+-0°-0142¢
I= 75°:30—0°-0014¢

t being the number of years from 1883.0.

“The mean value of the mass of Uranus by the observations of Oberon
IS s54y3, and by those of Titania 5,3,,, or, combining the values with
their respective weights, the final result is 554,,5. This value, though
somewhat smaller than those previously obtained, Professor Hall thinks,
is as good as he could obtain with the filar micrometer of the large re-
fractor, and he does not consider that there would be much gained by a
continuation of the measures. He mentions that during the oppositions
of the planet from 1881 to 1884, which were especially favorable for the
search after new satellites, he made careful examination on several good
nights along the orbit plane of the known satellites without finding any
new ones. The orbits of Oberon and Titania appear to be sensibly cir-
cular.” (Nature.)

NEPTUNE: The satellite of Neptune.—Appendix 11 to the Washington
Observations for 1881 contains Professor Hall’s discussion of the obser-
vations of this satellite, which were made by Professor Holden and him-
self with the 26-inch Washington refractor: the discussion includes also
observations made by Lassell and Marth at Malta in 1863 and 1864. Cor-
rections (which come out quite small) are given for Newcomb’s elements

of the orbit, published in Appendix I to Washington Observations for

1873. Comparing the observations of 1881 to 1884 with those of Lassell
and Marth, the periodic time is found to be 5°876839 mean solar days.
Lassell’s period of the satellite, which has been adopted by Newcomb,
appears to be slightly erroneous. The question of the eccentricity of
the orbit may be more advantageously attacked some ten or twenty
years hence, when the apparent ellipse has become more nearly circular,
and when there will be a better opportunity to determine this element.
416 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

The values of the mass of Neptune from Hall’s measures at different
oppositions, and from those of Lassell and: Marth and of Holden, differ
sensibly. The mean result from Hall’s own observations is zg3553; he
remarks that his distances are generally smaller than those of other
observers, and believes that in order to eliminate the effect of such per-
sonal equation from the determination of the mass of a planet, the only
way will be to increase the number of observers and to take a mean of
the results. On favorable nights examinations of the region about
Neptune were made, but no other satellite was detected.

Photometric observations of Neptune.—A series of observations of the
planet’s magnitude was carried on with the meridian photometer at
Harvard College Observatory from December 16, 1884, to January 21,
1885; the resulting magnitude for mean opposition is 7:63. Professor
Pickering regards it as improbable that there is any variation in the
light of Neptune of a strictly periodic character.

THE TRANS-NEPTUNIAN PLANET.—In the twentieth volume of the
American Journal of Science, page 225 et seq., Prof. D. P. Todd, now of
Amherst College, gave an account of his search, theoretical and prac-
tieal, for the trans-Neptunian planet, made from November, 1877, to
March, 1878, with the 26-inch refractor of the Washington Observatory.
Professor Todd has now published* the full details of his telescopic
work, giving a list of all ‘suspected objects,” and transcribing his note-
book entire.

It was expected that the planet would readily be recognized by the
contrast of its dise and light with the appearance of an average star
of about the thirteenth magnitude, and only approximate positions of
“suspected objects” are given,—generally by means of diagrams repre-
senting the configuration of stars seen in the large telescope and in the
field of the 5-inch finder. It would lighten considerably the labors of
any one who may go over this ground iu the future, if Professor Todd
had summarized his observations in some way, by establishing the
identity or non-identity of nebulous objects which he has noted, as
probably to be found in Herschel’s General Catalogue, and by giving a
list of such objects as he was still, at the end of his work, inclined to
look upon with some suspicion.

Althongh this search was unsuccessful, Professor Todd.regards the
evidence of the existence of “‘the trans-Neptune planet” as well founded,
and he expresses the hope that the search may be continued with the
improved methods of astronomical photography.

THe Mrnor PLANETS.—During the year 1885 the number of minor
planets has been increased by nine, bringing the whole number now
known up to 253. The discoveries of 1885 were as follows: ‘

* Proc, Am. Acad., 1885, 21: p. 228-43. Astron, Nachr., 113; 153-66,
ASTRONOMY. 417

No. Name. Date of discovery. Discoverer. | Observatory.
22S) || WGN oR eB ose co Snieeee February 6-..-..-..- Rossonben- ase. | Madras.

246 ,] ASPOTINa\.. <. 2-554 <5 Mareh\6-- =-/...--. Borrelly: sos. | Marseilles.”
ear | hukrate:.. 2252s. s2s-: Marcu) ta) Sto! R. Luther ...... Diisseldorf.
2434) amelie .- = eee smnce =< DUNES aa aa sacs J; Balisaeeueas. Vienna.

PS) Ital WCC) eee eee ice eb eee August 16 ...-..-- Peters..---.----| Clinton.

250) /betbinare == -4see5 42 4 September 3-.----- J} Ralisayeceseas Vienna.

ole Sophiaisa-e = see sesame October4...--...- Dokicntasseee Do.

252 | Clementina..........-- Octoper tl ss. 5 Perrotin ..-2.- -| Nice.

OD A Peete i ecto anne November 12 .-..- J: Paltsayineeees Vienna.

The increasing difficulties in this branch of astronomical discovery
are forcibly suggested by the fact that four of these bodies were first
taken for planets already known and their non-identity was only estab-
lished by later observations.

Number 253 was discovered while searching for Erigone, and raises
the whole number of those found by Palisa to fifty. Ilse is the forty-
third discovered by Protessor Peters.

Of the minor planets discovered in 1884, number 237 has received the
name of Celestina (erroneously given as Hypatia in last year’s report),
Number 238 that of Hypatia, 239 Adrastea, 243 Ida, and 244 Sita. Up
to February, 1885, there were still 18 which had been observed at only
one opposition, excepting, of course, those discovered during the year
preceding.

Ephemerides of the small planets for 1886 will be found in the Ber-
liner Astronomisches Jahrbuch for 1888. There are approximate places
for every twentieth day, of 247 out of the 253 now known, with accu-
rately caleulated opposition ephemerides for 19 of these. The elements
of these first 247 are also given.

MM. Callandreau and Fabry give in the Bulletin Astronomique a set
of tables which will be found very useful in computing approximate
ephemerides for these small bodies, when the eccentricity of the orbit
does not exceed 0-407 (=sin 24°),

A series of photometric observations of Ceres and Pallas made in
April and May, 1885, at Harvard College Observatory gave Ceres =7:71
magnitude with a probable error from nine observations of 0:05; Pallas
=8-55 magnitude with a probable error of 6-02 from ten observations.
Twenty-two observations of Vesta were made in 1880-82, giving the
result 6°47 as the magnitude of the plant for mean opposition, and the
probable error 0:04. Corresponding magnitudes for a distance of unity
from the sun and from the observer for these three bodies would be 4:27,
5°10, and 3-93, respectively.

Mr. A. N. Skinner, of the United States Naval Observatory, has
kindly furnished the following complete list of the minor planets. The
first list gives the number, name, date of discovery, and the name of
the discoverer: the subscript figure to the name of the discoverer is the
discoverer’s number. The second list is an alphabetical index of the
first 252 minor planets.

H. Mis, 15 27

o ONO oO - WD WH

10

wits Name.

Pallas*cc-)c=---

Juno .

Westas ss <cc<--

Parthenope.- .--.
Victoria

Irene

Melpomene. ---
Fortuna
Massalia..---.-
Lutetia .....--:
Calliope
Thaliaesasesere

Proserpina -...
Euterpe --.---.
Bellona .-.-......
Amphitrite .--.
Urania
Euphrosyne ..-
Pomona. ...----
Polyhymnia --.

@irceteee ee cee

Leucothea -.--..
Atalante..-....
Pides'tseeewase

Leda

Letitia ..- 2.2. |

Harmonia
Daphne.....--.
Ugisysoepsecs see

Ariadne
Nysa
Eugenia

Nemausa
Europa
Calypso....-.---
Alexandra.....
Pandora

Melete.........

Mnemosyne ...

Concordia......
Elpis’ 223 sae.
Wehoc- =. sess cee

SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

The minor planets in the order of discovery.

Date.

Sept. 12
Sept. 14
Sept. 9
Sept. 14

Discoverer.

Piazzi.
Olbers 1.
Harding.
Olbers 2.
Hencke.

Hencke 2.
Hind 1.
Hind 2.

Graham.
De Gasparis 1.

De Gasparise.
Hinds.
De Gasparis 3.

Hind 4.
De Gasparis 4.

De Gasparis 5.
Luther1.
Hinds.

Hinds.

De Gasparis.e.
Goldschmidt.
ind 7.

Hind s.

De Gasparis 7.
Chacornae 1.
Luther e.
Hind oe

Luther 3.
Marth.

Hind io.
Ferguson 1.
Goldschmidt 2.
Chacornae 2.

Chacornac 3.
Luther.
Goldschmidt s.
Luther 5.

Chacornaca.
Chacornae s.
Goldschmidta.
Goldschmidt 5.
Pogson.

Pogson 2.
Goldschmidt 6.
Goldschmidt 7.
Pogson3,
Luther ¢.
Goldschmidt s.
Goldschmidt.
Ferguson 2.

Laurent.
Goldschmidt 10.
Luther ,.
Goldschmidt 13
Searle.

Goldschmidt 32
Luther s.

Luther».
Chacornac 6.
Ferguson 3.
Goldschmidt i3.
Foerster.

No. Name.
63 | Ausonia ..-.-..--
64 | Angelina .....-.
65 | Cybele..-......-
GG Mayas soso 5 ck 25.
Oia wARIAE SS. 2.5156,
GS nebo Se see cc cine
69 | Hesperia .....-
70 | Panopwa...... -
Fn NGODOL: = =. 015.07.
72 | Feronia......--
73 | Clytia ..--.-.--.
44) (Galatea {)s.<.=4
75 | Eurydice -...-..
Ou MMNOA Ss cacao
he) Briggaes ( cnn 10
TS Wiana 222552
79 | Eurynome.....
80 | Sappho......-.
81 | Terpsichore ...
82 | Alcmene.......
83 | Beatrix -.--..-.
84 |EOHOteete. woes
SOA Toy eeekose ese ee
86 | Semele...-..-...
SiS Vivier. oesee
88) Chishbeis--secs
89 | ulin seeles coe
90 | Antiope .-:.-..-
O15) Aapana ee earn
$27 | Omding eesss-c
93 | Minerva.......
027) An roratsj-eoce.
95 | Arethusa ......
96 | Algle -.L..-..2.
ei ClophOresasees
98 | Tanthe ...: ..-:
“OO Dike secs 3e
100 | Heeate:..-......
101 | Helena --...-.-.
102" |) Miriam’. 2...
103) blieray ote Ae. 53
104 | Clymene..----.
105 | Artemis --.----.
1061) "Dione@se 222 -1- =
107 | Camilla.....-..
108 | Heeuba----.-.-
109 | Felicitas....--.
DLO My aoe anal
ADTs At enesaos cet 2
112 | Iphigenia..-....
113 | Amalthea......
114 | Cassandra .....
Tilt Mb aha eae
NIG) Sirona, 2 sis. --
127. SHomiay- =<. <=.
TS ME CiNOn ses on mc
119 | Althwa.-.----..
120 | Lachesis..--.-..
121 | Hermione.--...
122 GT NGOLG a eects -ec(:
123) Bronhild .+-:..
124 | Alceste ..-.-....
125 | Liberatrix ----.
126 | Velleda........
127 | Johanna...-...-
128 | Nemesis ...--.-
129 | Antigone ......
| 180 | Electra ...-...-
UUs aVielancccaeee.'.

Aug. 15
Aug, 22
Sept 7
Sept. 13
Sept. 16
Oct. 10
Nov. 17
1869.

Discoverer.

De Gasparis s.
Tempel.
Tempel.
Tuttle.

Pogson 4.
Luther jo.
Schiaparelli.
Goldschmidt 14.
Luther 11.

C. H. F. Peters:.

Tuttle 2.
Tempel s.
Peterse.
D’ Arrest.
Peters 3.

Luther 12.
Watson 1.

Pogson 5.
‘Tempel 4.
Luther 13.

De Gasparis s.
Luther 14.
Peters 4.

Tietjen.
Pogson c¢.
Peters 5.
Stephan.
Luther is.
Borrelly 1.

Peterse.

Watson 2.
Watson 3.
Luther t¢.

Coggia 1.
Tempel s.
Peters 7.
Borrelly 2.
Watson 4.
Watson 5.
Peterss.
Watson 6.
Watson 7.
Watson s.
Watson 9.
Pogson 7.

Luther 17.
Peters 9.

Borrelly 3.
Peters 1.
Peters n.

Luther is.
Peters 2.
Watson 10.
Peters 13.
Borrelly a.

Luther's.
Watson 11.
Borrelly 5.
Watson 12.
Peters 14.

Peters 15.

Peters ig.
Prosper Henry 1.
Paul Henry i.
Prosper Henry 2.
Watson 13.

Peters 17.
Peters is.
Peters 19.

ASTRONOMY. 419

.

The minor planets in the order of discovery—Continued.

No. Name. Date. Discoverer. No. Name. Date. Discoverer.
1879.
132) | Atthra ..--....- Watson 14. 193 | Ambrosia..--.- Feb. 28 | Coggia 3.
133 | Cyrene .---..-.- : Watson 15. 194 | Prokno -------. Mar. 21 | Peters 3.
134 | Sophrosyne.... : Luther 20. 195 | Eurykleia ...-- Apr. 19 | Palisa 1s.
: 196 | Philomela ..-.. May 14 | Peters 3.
135 | Hertha .......- i Peters 20. 197,|Aretel= 3.5.6 May 21 | Palisaie.
136°) Austrias:—.--5- : Palisa. 198 | Ampella....... June 13 | Borrelly 12.
137 | Melibeea : Palisa 2. 199 | Byblis .-.....-. July, 9 | Peterss;.
138 | Tolosa........- Perrotin 1. 200 | Dynamene.....- July 27 | Peters se.
139 | Juewa......--- : Watson 16. 201 | Penelope .-.---- Aug. 7 | Palisa 1.
140 | Siwa..-...-.... a Palisa s. 202 | Chryseis...-.. - Sept. 11 |} Peters a7.
; 203 | Pompeia......- Sept. 25 | Peters zs.
141 | Lumen .......-. é Paul Henry 2. 204 | Callisto........ Oct. 8 | Palisais.
142 | Polana.....-.-- : Palisa 4. 205 | Martha ........ Oct. 13 | Palisais.
TY BY NG bee REESE . 23 | Palisac. 206 | Hersilia ....... Oct. 13 | Peters 39.
M44) Viability) 4 oss Peters 21. Q0i | peedd aaa sscess Oct. 17 | Paljsa 20.
145 | Adeona..-..--- 3 | Peters 22. 208 | Lacrimosa ..... Oct. 21 | Palisa 21.
146 | Lucina --..-...-.- Borrelly 6. Ai) |) JOG eeeandesca- Oct. 22 | Peters.o.
147 | Protogeneia.... Schulhof. 210 | Isabella..-..... Nov. 12 | Palisa 2e.
14QN  Galliagee-s- = ste 4 Prosper Henry:3.|| 211 | Isolda ......-..- Dec. 10 | Palisa 23.
149 | Medusa.....-.. ppt. Perrotin 2. 1880.
150 | Nuwa...--..--. ie Watson 17. 212 | Medea......... Feb. 6 | Palisa 24.
151 | Abundantia .- : Palisa. 213 | Lilea..-....... Feb. 16 | Peters 41.
152))|) Atala 2 -- <2. - : Paul Henry 3. 214 | Aschera ---...- Feb. 29 | Palisass.
153 | Hilda..---...-- “ Palisa 7. 215s) |Oenoney-- =. s~ Apr. 7 | Knorreez.
154 | Bertha... </.- --.2 5 Prosper Henry 4.|| 216 | Cleopatra-..---- Apr. 10 | Palisa 26.
5d SGyllay ean 5 Palisa gs. 217 | Eudora 30 | Coggia a.
156 | Xanthippe. ---- Nov. 22 | Palisas. 218 | Bianea..-..-..- ; Palisa 27.
157 | Dejanira....-- Dec. 1) Borrelly:z. 219 | Thusnelda spt. 30 | Palisa 2s.
1876
158 | Coronis.---..-.-- Jan. 4 | Knorre1. 220 | Stephania Palisa 29.
159 | Aimilia ........| Jan. 26 | Paul Henry. 0
AGON| Wares se . 20 | Peters 23. ola HOS wea em sel an. Palisa zo.
161 | Athor . 19 | Watson 1s. 222 | Lucia. . ' Palisa 31.
162 | Laurentia..-..- Apr. 21 | Prosper Henry «s.|| 223 | Rosa----.-..-.. : Palisa 32.
163 | Erigone --..-.-.- Apr. 26 | Perrotin 3. 224 | Oceana ar. Palisa 33.
UGA a oha Sse asoesa5— July 12 | Paul Henrys. 225 | Henrietta . Palisa 34.
165 | Loreley.-.-...--- Aug. 9 | Peters 24. 226 | Weringia-...-. July 19 | Palisass.
166 | Rhodope.-..--- Ang. 15 | Peterszs. 227 | Philosophia.-.-..| Aug. 12 | Paul Henry 7.
GY (|) ORS aca eee Aug. 28 | Peters 26. 228 | Agathe=—-..-.. Aug. 19 | Palisa 36.
168 | Sibylla .-...... Sept. 28 | Watson 19. 22) | Adelinda ....-. Aug. 22 | Palisa az.
169 | Zelia ......:.-. Sept. 28 | Prosper Henrye.|! 230 | Athamantis....| Sept. 3 | De Ball.1
| 1877. 231 | Vindobona....- Sept. 10 | Palisaas.
170 | Maria..-.-..-.-- Jan. 10 | Perrotina. 1883.
171 | Ophelia......-- Jan. 13 | Borrellys. 233!) ROSSIaL 2-22 <.-.5)- Jan. 31 | Palisa ss.
172 | Baucis.-...-..-- Feb. 5/ Borrellys. 233 | Asterope -..-.. May 11 | Borrelly 12.
GI) Jb). sncosonseo: Aug. 1 | Borrelly io. 234 | Barbara........ Aug. 12 | Peters az.
174 | Pheedra. ...--.-- Sept. 2 | Watson 20. 235 | Carolina ..-.... Nov. 28 | Palisa ao.
175 | Andromache...| Oct. 1 | Watson 21. 1884.
176 | Idunna ...---.. Oct. 14 | Peters 27. | 236 | Honoria .....-- Apr. 26 | Palisa.
IEPA bid eer re Nov. 5| PaulHenrye. || 237 | Coelestina.....- June 27 | Palisa ae.
178 | Belisana ..-..-.. -| Nov. 6 | Palisa io. 238 | Hypatia -..-..- July 1] Knorreg.
179 | Clytemnestra ..| Nov. 11 | Watson 22. || 239 | Adrastea ...... Aug. 18 | Palisa as.
1878. || 240 | Vanadis ....-.- Aug. 27 | Borrelly 13.
180 | Garumna ....-.- Jan. 29 | Perrotin 5. || 241 | Germania...... Sept. 12 | Luther 21.
181 | Eucharis ...--. Feb. 2 | Cottenot. || 242 | Kriemhild ...-. Sept. 22 | Palisa aa.
IPA) UIE) BESS SSasee: Feb. 7] Palisau. 92483 GE eee ert Sept. 29 | Palisa as.
TES TSGIB ssa Feb. 8} Palisa. QAAW Shale ne. cose Oct. 14 | Palisa ae.
184 | Dejopeja.-..--- Feb. 28 | Palisa is. | 1885.
185 | Eunike .--..--- Mar. 1 | Peterses. HPotomeWODaers se tei. Feb. 6 | Pogsons.
186 | Celuta........- Apr. 6} Prosper Henry7.|| 246 | Asporina ....-. Mar. 6 | Borrelly 14.
187 | Lamberta. ----- Apr. 11 | Coggia2. || 247 | Hukrate .....-.. Mar. 14 | Luther 22.
188 | Menippe..------ June 18 | Peterses. 248) |) Tameis 2. ..2... June 5 Palisa gy.
189) |e hihia.2 <= = Sept. 9 | Peters 30. ZAONRIBG tease ae. 2 Aug. 16 | Peters 4s.
190 | Ismene ...-.... Sept. 22 ; Peters a1. || 250 | Bettina ........ Sept. 3 | Palisa as.
191 | Kolga ......... Sept. 30 | Peterss2. aT OPDIDe. eos... Oct. 4 | Palisaas.
1879. 252 | Clementina....| Oct. 11 | Perrotine.
192 | Nausicaa .....- Feb. 17 | Palisa ia. 253 | ———_——....--- Noy. 12 | Palisa 650.

420 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Alphabetical index of the first 252 minor planets.

Name. No. Name. _ No. Name. No. Name. No.
Abundantia .-....-- 15V i Clothosseceenseeee 97 || Hesperia.........- 6034) | ENiiwWaeseoe serene 150
Adelinds. 22 s..0--.. 229 || Clymene...-....-..- 104 )|| Mestia 2. 2...<...2 46: ||| INysa)---o2seseee 44
Adeona Clytemnestra -.... W797 eld ares eens <icee 153 || Oceana .-.--.-.-.. 224
Adrastea Clytiaeneeee cnet Toul EONOULA OOe coc ne. 236 || Oenone .......---- 215
JAG, deste etoede 3 || Coelestina ........ Pal? || ls Wee) oe aReeea cee 10 || Ophelia ........... 171
PAPUA eee seis ae iaisinle Concordia ........ 58 || Hypatia .......... Pts | LE eS) aac seats be 49
FeOPA) Sacgahs0S nasaee Coronisyeso-ee se Janthees .2se25-52 98''|| ‘Pallas 2207-22265. 2
Aimilia Cybele... --- 222225 Gee ee ee ae 85) |) Pandorarco-ecaes: 55
ABUDTA ewes says seems Cyrene esto eens Tapes eee esten 243 || Panopwa..... ---. 70
Agathe Danaé ...........- IG yee aaa seas 176 || Parthenope ...... lL
JMO) CN Vie eae Daphne-- ==. --.~- 0 Oye ee pee ee 249) Meeithomesencneesee 118
alceste Dejanira NOs aes cean oe ee 173 || Penelope ....-.... 201
Alcmene... 5 Dejopeja Iphigenia Bee ey V2) | ele dira see oe ereel |r:
Alexandra 5 Diana ic ssekeeeese rene ies oss ececlelae 14 |} Philomela .-...... 196
Althea Dido siseeee eee as iris: soto ene 7 || Philosophia ..-..-... 227
Amalthea 3) || WOikecccseeeeecen oe nmasee seen ecaeee ANT | Phocwar sere aoe 25
Ambrosia ‘ Dioneseseeeeeeeee Taahella st sosecece 210) |) Bhthials.-2.-2--=- 189
rAmpellar «-s-cise= ae 198)||, Doris 324.22 eos Sis pees eee 42h olana.--oo-.cnose 142
Amphitrite -....-.. 29 || Dynamene ISMONGei20soae oe 190 || Polyhymnia ...... 33
Andromache. ...--- 175)\| | (ECHOta ene eens Tsolda -occecenee 210) | eOmMOnae eeee nice 32
Angelina -...--..-- 64 il) Hiperia 22 ote esas Sulletriah et stances 183 |! Pompeia .......-.. 203
Antigone Belem 129) || Hlectra 222222 ot Johanna ......--- 197))|| (Prokne!. {2322 22--5 194
AnNtiOpeis.--h ase SOs pisces neces eee ce DUMOWa eee eee etme 139 || Proserpina-.-..--..- 26
ATOLO< cease: sae a AS Yes |VMAL ED ES esee a lia ee eee 89 || Protogeneia. .---.- 147
Arethusas2etess eee Tse el OL0Y pes eae, Roa a iMNOeccceser eee. Haetni| ees Ghe Se ade 16
Arian cose seae 43\)|| Erato. occ cin ~ Kolra. soe ee eo | 191 || Rhodope.--..-.--.- 166
Artemis) 9202-2 25| OSH PErigoneeeeeaantes | Kriemhild es sa OL OA IN USO Cr iaeie ca beaacd 223
ASCheraie.-sa--eeee 214 || Hucharis -2--....- 181 || Lachesis .-.-...... 120n| (PRUSSIA cee eee eens 232
Asporina .....- SOA Galendoratecsccees sce 217 || Lacrimosa .....--. 208 || Sappho ..-.-....-. 80
ASI. sc se seneneaae 67 || Eugenia ..-....... 45 || Letitia ....-...... Ou lecyllaiccscsse oes 155
Asterope .-..-..... DSBs akratel.coscescn: 247 || Lamberta.-......-. 187)|| Semeleveis2-a--262 86
Astra 322 senses Menon ebniceteee sean 185\ || Wameiay 2220). 5.5° 248 || Sibylla............ 168
Attala). ooo eeemeeee 1520 Honomia--Se.ce oe 15 || Laurentia .-...... 162) SILOM eee ee ae = 116
Atalante: 222-5) 555! 36 | Euphrésyne ...... 81 || Leda... -- Liat 96° Sita essa eeset ee 244
Ate: So Fone AA Horops)<ceose sees EPy4 It ys) eee eee eee | G54) Siv@esetscssshace. 140
Athamantis ...... 230 || Eurydice ..-...... 75 || Leucothea........ 35) Sophia... 5. scene 251
A thor 2-2 ee 161 || Burykleia ........ 195 || Liberatrix ........ 125 || Sophrosyne ....... 134
Aurora's Seccacee 94 || Eurynome ...-.... 79)! Wuilepai 2 ease see 213 ;| Stephania..-...... 220
AUsOnIa eee eee G3))|| Huterpe!s---.-..-- OTA Oma eee eee able || Syahab ec Sossoee sce 87
IATisttialees se eee 126A ||PEviar Stee ce ccnee 164 || Loreley........-.. 165 || Terpsichore ....-- 81
Barbara -...-...--.. 234 || Felicitas.......... 1097! Slimciaee see eee eset O22 eae ee seen eteee 23
Baueiss-22o-k- eee 172 || Feronia........... 72) dane in aera sees 1467) -Phemis = 2-2¢ 5222 24
Beatrixc.qceeee cece mason) | ehidest eases 2 a 37) duamenseeeeee bere. 14h || Ebetises-sescceee 17
iBelisanaeesseeeeeee Gn PMlonaveeasesacscse Sil | dantetiapeesese gene Di | mubisbepesecseee een 88
Bellonajese- sen eee Jes PMOLtUN ats ee ee cen ae 19\||| Tiydiaeeeeece cosas
Berthae 2 2.25. eee baa HPSS nos foe cess. 76) || Maigecsses once =
Betting 20-2) sane DOM PEAS Aes e poe ane le iar Td||\ Maria eee cicte-

(Bianca... ose. capes ZS iT GAlAlES Rc oan okt 74 || Martha

‘Branhildes se essee TSG Oates ease as 148 || Massalia

IByDlis's-.asec-secee 199 || Garumna ......... 180 || Medea

Calliope ........-.- Qa NG OL Cee tetera saya ola its 122 || Medusa

Callisto ............| 204 || Germania......... 241 || Melete............

Calypso. --c-—- so" 53 || Harmonia .--....-. 40 || Meliboea -........ 137

Camilla y.2-e seers LOT Hebe sc ose. soc: 6 || Melpomene ....... 18

Carolina .-.....--- 235; ||| Hecate 2----. 25. -- 100 |} Menippe ......... 188

Cassandra. --2.2-. 1147 |p eenbate- ss... 2>- 108:,||| Metis) sea aescec 9

Celuta/sen a. aa eee Sbn| Weed darenesac ese o. 207 || Minerva .-........ 93

Ceres..----- Eee | Helena -2--5--.02- 101 || Miriam --......... 102

Chryseiss--- see aoe 202 || Henrietta......... 225 || Mnemosyne ...--. 57 || 231
Circe Wes eae 345 vora yy eentee tA 103 || Nausicaié -.-.....- 192 || eee SccasS seo: 50
Clementina ........| 252 |] Hermione ........ 1211! ||| Nemansan 22225 51 || Weringia......... 226
Cee Beat fap Sab» 216) ||| Hersilia’..:...:... 206 || Nemesis .......... 128 || Xanthippe.-...... 156
Clio: : 2 Sete S45] |MElenthinleeaeee eens 135 || Niobe............. 71, || Zelia)erene yeaa 169

REPORTS OF OBSERVATORIES.

The following account of the recent activity of astronomical ob-
servatories has been derived from the “ Jahresberichte der Sternwarte
fiir 1884,” in the Vierteljahrsschrift der Astronomischen Gesellschaft, vol-
ume 20 (a condensed translation of this appeared in the Sidereal Mes-
senger, September, 1885), and from the reports of observatories for 1885
that have been published up to the present date (April, 1885): the re-

ASTRONOMY. AP]

ports of English observatories are largely obtained from the Monthly
Notices. Sirius x1x: 14-18, 64-66) contains brief descriptions, Wc., of
Austro-Hungarian observatories.

Armagh.—The building for the new 10. inch Grubb equatorial (10 feet
focal length) was erected in July last. The dome moves on 6 * canted”
wheels and is covered with papier-maché riveted to the iron frame-
work and stitched together with copper wire. The declination circle
can be read from the eye end, and both it and the right ascension circle
can be illuminated by small incandescent lamps worked by a two-cell
bichromate battery.

Bamberg Observatory.—Dr. Hartwig, recently of the Strassburg and
Dorpat observatories, has been appointed director (January, 1886), and
is busy with the preliminary arrangements for erecting the buildings.

Berlin (1884).—The large meridian circle has been dismounted and
has received important mechanical improvements. The observations
on the southern half of the Berlin Zone were temporarily stopped dur-
ing the vear. Dr. Kuestner has begun a series of observations with
the object of determining the constant of aberration by measures of the
difference of zenith distances of pairs of stars in the same R. A. and
equal and opposite Z. D. The work is to be finished in 1885. Dr.
Knorre has made a large number of observations with the 9-6-inch
equatorial for the positions of asteroids, comets, and faint stars. The
planet Hypatia was found by him July 1, 1884. Dr. Battermann is
regularly observing occultations, both immersions and emersions. Dr.
Marcuse has charge of the heliometer, and has made thirty-three de-
terminations of the solar diameter, &c. Vol. v of the Berlin observa-
tions has been published during the year.

German Transit of Venus Commission (1884). The report of Dr.
Auwers on the work of the computing bureau relates first to the obser-
vations. These are of three kinds: (1) Observations before the expe-
ditions, for practice, and for the investigation of special points; (2)
observations at the stations; and (3) observations made after the re-
turn of the parties. A list of the heliometer measures of each observer
comprised in these classes is given separately, and a summary, from
which it appears: that the total number of complete measures with the
four heliometers was:

Before and after the expeditions ......--.........---- 1, 769
At the stations themselves. .......--.--.-..-.---+---- 1, 074
In all; for, thirteen’ ODSCrverse5 sci s= <jcts 5 = 22 ei ss 2, 843

Bermerside, Halifax (Mr. Edward Crossley’s observatory). Phenom-
ena of the satellites of Jupiter and Saturn observed.

Bonn.—2881 zone stars (four hundred fundamental stars) were de-
termined in the A,G. zone. The southern Durchmusterung has required
422 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

the examination of some seven hundred and fifty places in the sky to
solve doubts. In December, 1883, the charting of the stars on the maps
was again begun and finally completed in March, 1885. The catalogue
will contain 133,658 stars between — 2° and — 23°; 692 more are given
north of these limits and 479 south.

Bordeaux.—This observatory, founded in 1871, has just now (Comptes
Kendus, 101: 690, 1885), published its first volume of Annales, con-
taining a minute description of the instruments (a meridian circle of
0-:19™ aperture, two equatorials of 0-22 and 0:39", and three clocks), and,
also, a determination of the longitude of the observatory. An impor-
tant piece of work has been undertaken by the director, M. Rayet, in
the re-observation of the 23,000 stars in Argelander’s southern zones,
between — 15° and —31° of declination. The latitude is given as
+44° 50’ 7:23. ( Science.)

Boswell Observatory, of Doane College, Crete, Nebr., is due to the
liberality of the late Charles Boswell, of West Hartford, Conn. The
observatory possesses a full set of meteorological instruments in addi-
tion to its astronomical equipment, and is a signal-service station, co-
operating with the United States Signal Service at Washington. A
time-ball is dropped daily at noon.

Brussels.—The transit and mural are used to observe moon culminat-
ing stars. <A general catalogue of the stars observed at Brussels in the
years 1857-78, reduced to 1865, will be printed during 1885. M. F.
Folie, administrating inspector of the University of Liege, has been ap-
pointed director. Since the resignation of M. Houzeau, the direction
has been in the hands of a committee of three, MM. Stas, Liagre, and
Mailly.

Buchtel College Observatory, Akron, Ohio.—Approximate latitude, +419
3/3; approximate longitude, 5" 26™ west of Greenwich. The observatory
was erected in the summer of 1885, and the instruments set up about
March 1, 1886. The following instruments are in use:

Transit circle of 3 inches aperture, by Fauth & Co., of Washington.
The circles are 16 inches in diameter, one being coarsely divided on the
edge and serving as a finder, the other being divided on silver to five-
minute spaces and reading by two micrometer-microscopes to single sec-
onds. The telescope is provided with right ascension and declination
micrometers. <A fine level is attached, so that the instrument can be
used as a zenith telescope; reversing apparatus, plain and diagonal
eye-pieces accompany the instrument.

Sidereal clock, by E. Howard & Co., of Boston. This clock is provided
with electrical attachments for operating the chronograph. Chrono-
graph, by Fauth & Co. Mean time clock, by Fauth & Co. This clock
is provided with Gardner’s electrical attachments for operating chrono-
graph, dropping timeball, and correcting a system of controlled clocks.

ASTRONOMY. 423

Equatorial telescope of 44 inches aperture, by Pike & Sons.

Sextant, by Fauth & Co.

The observatory was built as a working observatory for the college
students in astronomy, and it will be chiefly devoted to this purpose.
Besides this, the work for the following year will be, (1) to furnish the
city and surrounding towns with correct time signals; (2) to determine
the latitude and longitude; (3) to observe all occultations of stars that
are visible here.

Cambridge (England) Observatory.—The total number of observations
made with the transit circle during the year was 3,253, including 2,442
observations of zone stars made on one hundred nights. The observa-
tions of clock stars and those of Polaris are completely reduced, and
the mean places for January 1 obtained up to the end of 1884. The true
apparent. places of all other stars observed in 1884 are also obtained,
both in R. A. and N. P. D.

Christiania.—An equatorial of 360™™ aperture and 6-8™ focal length
has been erected by Herr H. G. Olsen. (Strius.)

Cincinnati Observatory.—No. 8 of the publications of this observatory,
vontaining the observations of comets in 1883, has appeared during the
past year (1885). ‘It is noteworthy as presenting a pretty complete
report on the phenomena of Pons’ periodical comet of 1812 at its reap-
pearance. The features of the tail were particularly studied, and the
discussion of the observations, based upon the theory of Dr. Bredichin,
has been found to add confirmation to that theory.” These observations
were made by Mr. H. C. Wilson while in temporary charge. The ob-
servatory is now under the direction of Prof. J. G. Porter.

Constantinople.—It is reported that the Sultan has ordered the erec-
tion of an astronomical and meteorological observatory at Constantinople.»

Cordoba Observatory.—Dr. B. A. Gould returned to the United States
in April, 1885. He has been succeeded as director of the Cordoba Ob-
servatory by his first assistant, Dr. John M. Thome. Dr. Gould has
published as the final definitive position of the Cordoba meridian cir-
cle: Latitude, —31° 25/ 15-46; longitude, 4" 16™ 48*-2 west of Greenwich.

Dearborn Observatory.—Professor Hough’s report for the year ending
May 20, 1885, states that the meridian circle has been used for deter-
mination of time, which is furnished daily to the city of Chicago. A
fall description is given of a printing chronograph. The work with
the great equatorial has been confined mainly to difficuit double stars
and the planet Jupiter. Four sketches of Jupiter accompany the re-
port. The partial eclipse of the sun of March 16 was observed for last
contact, and a number of dry-plate negatives were obtained.

Denmore Observatory (1885).—Mr. W. H. Numsen has erected a small
private observatory near the city of Baltimore, and his 4-inch Cooke
equatorial has been devoted to the study of the physical features of
APA SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

comets, &c. The approximate position of the observatory is, latitude
+39° 21’; longitude 5 6™ 528 west of Greenwich.

Dresden (1884) (private observatory of Baron Engelhardt).—two hun-
dred and forty-two observations of the positions of comets, planets, and
nebulz (198) have been made with the 12-inch equatorial, besides minor
observations.

Dun-Echt Observatory (1885).—Lord Crawford has published Vol. 10,
containing Division 11, of the account of the Mauritius expedition to
observe the transit of Venus, 1884. The Dun-Echt circulars have
proved themselves invaluable during the year.

Dunsink.—The South equatorial has been employed as usual in obser-
vations onstellar parallax. The list of southern stars mentioned informer
reports, observed with the meridian circle, has been supplemented by a
list of proper motion stars.

Diisseldorf (1884).—Professor Luther discovered planet 241, Ger-
mania, during the year on his Berlin chart for 0 hours. Since 1847,
150 planets have been observed 1,233 times at Dusseldorff with the
6-inch telescope.

Ealing (Mr. Common’s observatory).—Experiments in astronomical
photography. Comet 1885 III, independently discovered on Septem-
ber 4.

Edinburgh.—The printing of the Edinburgh Star Catalogue and Ephem-
eris for 1830 to 1890 has been resumed, and it is now completed to
17® right ascension.

Frankfort-on-the-Main (1884) (private observatory of Herr Eppstein).—
The star gauges were continued on sixty-two nights, in 682 places,
2,714 fields, containing 25,875 stars.

Sun-spots are also regularly observed here.

Geneva (1884).—The large equatorial has been provided with aspec-
troscope. Besides the regular observations relating to meteorology
and to chronometers, observations of comets and of the satellites of
Saturn have been made.

Glasgow.—Astronomical observations during 1885 have been neces-
sarily confined to observations of a select list of stars with the transit
circle. The meteorological department has finally been put upon asat-
isfactory footing.

Gotha (1884).—The computations of the zone 20° to 25° of the A. G.
have been prosecuted. The meridian circle is used to observe moon
culminating stars and others of Mayer’s Catalogue, the equatorial for
planet and comet observations.

Greenwich Observatory.—The last report of the astronomer royal is
for the year ending May 20, 1885, and is one of the most interesting that
has appeared for several years. Transit cirele: A reversion prism has
been used inallobservations; a comparison of the results from thereversed
ASTRONOMY. 425

and ordinary observations of clock stars shows sensible differences in
the case of some observers, who, perhaps, have not settled down to a
fixed habit of observing ‘‘ reversed” stars. For determining absolute
personal equations in observations of stars and of limbs of the sun, moon,
or planets, a personal equation apparatus consisting of a vertical plate,
with a circular aperture 6 inches in diameter to represent the sun or
moon and several small pinholes to represent stars, is placed in the
focus of an object-glass of about 7 inches aperture and 50 feet focal length
(which is attached to the dew-cap of the transit circle when horizontal
and pointing north), and is carried smoothly by clock-work. The times
of transit of the artificial objects are observed over the wires of the
transit circle, and are also automatically recorded on the chronograph.

The sun, moon, planets, and fundamental stars have been observed
regularly. The annual catalogue for 1884 contains about 1,370 stars.

The altazimuth has been used in observing the moon from last quarter
to first quarter in each lunation.

For the determination of motions of stars in the line of sight 569 meas-
ures have been made of the displacement of the F line in the spectra of
47 stars, and 72 measures of the b lines in 14 stars. The observations
of the last twelve months confirm the change in the motion of Sirius,
which now appears to be approaching the sun at the rate of about 20
miles a second.

Photographs of the sun were taken on one hundred and seventy-three
days. On only two days was the sun’s disk observed to be free from
spots.

In conclusion, Mr. Christie strongly urges an appropriation for an
object-glass of 28 inches aperture and 28 feet focal length, to be placed
upon the southeast equatorial mounting, in place of the present object-
ive of less than half that aperture. This increased optical power is
especially desired for prosecuting the spectroscopic work.

We understand that the necessary sum has been granted, and that
Mr. Grubb is already at work upon the glass.

Grignon (1884) has made various observations on solar spots, com-
ets, meteors, lunar eclipses, spots on Venus and Mars, &c., for which
observations, and the conclusions drawn from them, reference must be
made to the original report.

Harrow (Lieutenant-Colonel Tupman’s observatory).—The meridian
circle has been employed in determining the latitude and longitude of
the observatory, and in observing right ascensions of the moon. The
approximate latitude found is +51° 34/ 47”, and the approximate long1-
tude, from transporting chronometers, 1™ 19°-9 west of Greenwich. The
equatorial reflector has been chiefly used for observations of comets.

Harvard College Observatory.—Professor Pickering’s report was pre-
sented to the visiting committee December 3, 1885. The death of Mr.
Robert Treat Paine has deprived the observatory of the immediate aid
426 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

and advice of one of its most cordial friends, who had beeu a member
of the visiting committee from the time of its original organization, forty
yearsago. Mr. Paine has perpetuated his services to his favorite science
by the bequest to the observatory of his entire fortune, amounting to
more than a quarter of a million of dollars. Upon the settlement of
the estate, one-half of this sum will become immediately available.

The devotion of the observatory mainly to photometry continues, and
the large equatorial has been occupied in observations of the eclipses of
Jupiter’s satellites, faint stars selected as standards of magnitude, com-
parison stars for variables, and of the temporary star in the nebula of
Andromeda. Mr. Chandler has continued his observations with the
new instrument of his invention called the almucantar, which in his
hands exhibits, Professor Pickering says, a surprising efficiency and
accuracy. The meridian photometer shows a large increase of work
over previous years, the number of separate settings somewhat exceed-
ing 50,000. The list of objects observed has been somewhat extended,
and the accordance of the results continues satisfactory. The height
and velocity of clouds have been the subject of study with Mr. W. M.
Davis, about three hundred series of measures being obtained at a pair
of stations connected by telephone. The measured altitudes varied
from 2,000 to 25,000 feet.. The observatory remains the American center
of telegraphic distribution of important astronomical announcements,
the discovery of nine small planets, five comets, and one new star being
promulgated during the year. By the aid of the Bache fund of the
National Academy of Sciences, an important investigation in stellar
photography has been undertaken. Many photographs of the trails left
by stars have been taken with the camera stationary ; and an equatorial
star no brighter than the sixth magnitude Jeaves its mark in this way,
while stars much fainter near the pole will leave an impression, since
their motion is slow. Stars as faint as the fourteenth magnitude have
thus been photographed without clock-work to move the instrument.
The trails of the faint polar stars are very well defined and minute, and
afford an excellent measure of stellar brightness, besides furnishing the
means of determining the stars’ positions with great accuracy. Also,
the attempt has been made to prepare star charts by photography ; but
the most striking results have been obtained with stellar spectra. By
means of a large prism mounted in front of the lens, photographs of
spectra have been obtained of stars as faint as the eighth magaitude,
in which lines are shown with sufficient distinctness to be clearly seen
in a paper positive. Ass all the stars in a large region are thus obtained
with one exposure, more than a hundred spectra have been secured on
a single plate.

The work done with the meridian circle by Professor Rogers has
largely consisted in the determination of the graduation of the instru-
ment. The work performed for this purpose is equivalent to the read-
ing of a microscope forty thousand times. A second revision of the zone

ASTRONOMY. AON

observations between the declinations +50° and +55° is nearly com-
pleted, and the observation of a catalogue of cireumpolar stars has made
good progress. Many shorter series of observations have also been

made. The reductions are far advanced, and material for several vol-
umes is nearly ready for the press.

An abstract of Mr. Chandler’s investigation of the latitude of the
Havard Observatory in given below:

During the past winter anumber of stars situated between +5° and—5°
of declination were observed with the almucantar (see Bulletin Astrono-
mique 1, p. 37), for the purpose of a new determination of the latitude of
the observatory. The observations of this winter, confirmed by a new
discussion of former determinations, indicate that the latitude of the
dome of the Havard College Observatory, as given in the American
Ephemeris (42° 22’ 48/3), or in the Connaissance des Temps (48/'-1), is
much too large. The more correct value, according to Mr. Chandler,
is 42° 22/ 47/6,

For the latitude in question, there are on hand Professor Peirce’s
determination, based upon a long series of observations by the Messrs.
Bond (184445, prime vertical transits); Dr. Gould’s determination
(1855, zenith telescope) ; a series of observations by Professor Rogers
(1864, prime vertical transits) not yet published; and, finally, two series
obtained by Mr. Chandler in 1883, with a small almucantar and with
a portable transit instrument. We give here the collected results of
these different determinations, which are quite sensibly modified by
reduction to the system of Dr. Auwer’s fundamental catalogue. The
results of 1844, which depend upon five stars only, are much more ac-
cordant with the other results if the observations of # Persei be omitted
in the reduction, @ Persei giving a latitude 1-5 less than the general
mean. Mr. Chandler thinks that this star’s proper motion in declina-
tion as adopted by Dr. Auwers (+001) should be corrected by
(— 0/7-03).

No. of | Reduced to
observa- Latitude. Auwer’s
tions. system.
————
[e} / 4/ Ml
IBGNOG =P OInCe! = seen eae See e tsa Sone coe 168 42 22 48.13 47. 06
Bond-Peirce (excluding 6 Persei)...-..----.--- 128 48.17 47.53
COU Gps er A ee era NS er ave 8s See 308 48.15 47.61
Chandler e188 este sess see an see 6 cao os cece 18 47.63 47.63
1D Yo eS eS oe As ee Ee SS 28 47.59 47.45
GD YO Ostet Bia aie cP aE seals 8 ee 5 Sen Ra ee 8 oe 85 47.57 47.57

Bull. Astron., August, 1885.

Helsingfors.—Dr. Anders Donner was appointed director to succeed
Professor Krueger in 1883. The meridian instrument has been used to
reobserve some 500 stars of the Helsingfors zone, +55° to 4659, Vic-
toria and Sappho, the Moon and moon-culminating stars, &e.
428 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Herény.—Vol. 11 will be published in 1885. Spectrum observations
of 8 Lyre have confirmed the variability of the spectrum of this star.
Many other spectroscopic observations of stars, planets, and comets
have been made.

Hong-Kong.—Uargely devoted to meteorological observations, weather
reports, &c. The new time-ball was dropped daily at 1 P. M., Sundays
and holidays excepted. Observations of the moon and of Jupiter’s sat-
ellites have been obtained.

Karlsruhe (1884).—The principal work of the observatory is the de-
termination of the positions of southern stars to 8th magnitude, inclusive.
In the zone 0° to —4°, 5,000 observations have been made, and the zone
—4° to —7° has been commenced. The single positions have probable
errors of +08-028 and +039. The 6-inch refractor has been re-
mounted.

Kew.—Sketches of sun-spots have been made on one hundred and
seventy-six days, in order to continue Schwabe’s enumeration. The
rating of time-pieces and the examination of sextants, meteorological
instruments, &c., is continued.

Kiel (1884).—The equatorial has been used to observe = 2164 for par-
allax, by Dr. Lamp. New comets were regularly observed. The me-
ridian circle is used to determine the positions of stars between 79° and
82° north. The zone catalogue (55° to 65°) is in preparation.

Leipzig (1884).—A 6-inch heliometer by Repsold is in process of con-
struction and will be delivered at the end of 1886. A universal instru-
ment has been ordered, with which a long series for latitude will be
commenced. Ten thousand five hundred and forty-one observations
(123 zones) of zone stars have been made in the new zone (+-5° to + 109)
and the reductions for the old zone (-+-10° to +159) are in progress.

Leipzig (1884) (private observatory of Dr. Engelmann).—Two thou-
sand six hundred observations of 430 double stars have been made,
mostly of Struve’s doubles. An investigation of the constant errors is
in progress. It appears that the difference in the magnitude of the com-
ponents influenced the constant errors ina marked degree. OttoStruve’s
list of double stars for comparison has been observed ; about 500 meas-
ures have been obtained.

Leyton (Mr. Barclay’s observatory).—Double-star observations and
observations of the phenomena of the satellites of Jupiter and Saturn
are continued.

Lick Observatory.—All the buildings for the observatory prceper are
now completed except the dome for the large equatorial. A suitable
dwelling house has been erected; others wili be required. All the princi-
pal instruments of the observatory but one have been designed, ordered,
constructed, inspected, and are now suitably mounted, so that observa-
tions could be at once begun. This instrumental equipment consists
of a 12-inch Clark equatorial; a Repsold meridian circle of essentially
ASTRONOMY. 429

the same design as the Strasburg instrument, having an object glass
of 6 inches aperture, with collimators of the same size (these three ob-
jectives by Alvan Clark & Sons) ; a 4-inch transit instrument by Fauth;
a 6-inch equatorial; a 4-inch comet-seeker by Clark; a 2-inch Repsold
vertical circle ; a photo-heliograph ; a measuring engine by Stackpole,
reading either rectangular or polar co-ordinates. There are five clocks,
by Dent, Frodsham, Hohwii, and Howard, and four chronometers by
Negus. A system of electrical connections unites all the clocks and
observing rooms. A most wise provision is a workshop with a com-
plete outfit of tools and lathes. An extensive library is in process of
formation and has already necessitated an outlay of about $5,000.

The contract for the object glass of the great refractor, which is to
have an aperture of 36 inches and a focal length of 60 feet, was placed
with the Messrs. Clark nearly five years ago. Two years later they re-
ceived from the glass-maker, M. Feil, of Paris, a disk of flint-glass of the
required perfection, and 38 inches in diameter. After repeated unsuc-
cessful attempts a satisfactory piece of crown-glass was cast in 1885,
and sent to the Clarks, and about October the work of figuring was
begun, and is now being pushed rapidly forward. The Clarks hope to
have the objective finished in the autumn of 1886. It has not yet been
decided, we believe, who is to make the elaborate mounting for the tel-
escope, or the-dome of about 70 feet diameter, which is to cover it.

‘*With regard to the prospective capabilities of the great telescope
when placed in so favorable an atmosphere, it is stated that it is not
unreasonable to suppose that on the best nights the maximum magnify-
ing power (about 3,500) may be advantageously employed. Making
due allowance for the unfavorable effects of the earth’s atmosphere,
the observer might, under these circumstances, expect to see the moon
much the same as he would without the telescope, if it were only 100
miles away. It might be possible then to maké out details of objects,
even although they were no larger than some of the larger edifices on
the earth.”

Prof. Edward 8S. Holden, director of the Washburn Observatory, Madi-
son, was appointed January 1, 1886, to the double position of director
of the Lick Observatory and president of the University of California,
to which latter institution the observatory when completed will be at-
tached. Professor Holden, as consulting astronomer, has virtually had
the direction of the work for some time past, visiting Mount Hamilton
in 1881 and again in 1853 and 1884.

The first volume of the publications of the Lick Onsetratorya is now
in course of preparation, under the direction of the Lick trustees, by Capt.
Richard 8. Floyd and Professor Holden.

Liverpool Observatory.—Time-service and chronometer tests are con-
tinued as in previous years. The late Mr. John Hartnup was succeeded
as director by his son, who bears the same name.
430 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Lund (1884).—Dr. Dunér continues his observations of the spectra
of stars, measures of double stars, and positions of the comets. The
longitude observations of Dr. Dunér and Professor Thiele in 1879, lately
reduced, make the Lund Observatory 2™ 26°38 + 08:04 east of the ob-
servatory of Copenhagen.

McCormick Observatory.—The Leander McCormick Observatory, of the
University of Virginia, was formally opened by public ceremony on the
13th of April, 1885. An address on “The instruments and work of As-
tronomy,” was made by Professor Hall, of the United States Naval Ob-
servatory.

The 66 (25-98 inches) equatorial of the observatory is chiefly em-
ployed at present in observations of nebule. During the progress of
this work something over two hundred new nebule have thus far been de-
tected by Professor Stone and his assistant, Mr. Leavenworth. Draw-
ings of about the same number of nebule (some old and some new)
have also been made. Professor Stone designs making a special study
of the nebula of Orion.

McKim Observatory—The McKim Observatory was opened in Sep-
tember, 1885, as a department of De Pauw University. It is located
in the suburbs of the university town, Greencastle, Ind., in west longi-
tude from Greenwich 86° 374/, north latitude 39° 37’. The building
and the full instrumental experiment which it is designed to have are
the gift of Mr. Robert McKim, of Madison, Ind. This gentleman has
for a number of years had a 6-inch glass mounted near his residence,
so that the observatory he has just presented to De Pauw University
might almost be,called the second McKim Observatory.

The equatorial has a clear aperture of 9:55 inches; the dome is of
iron, and is 17 feet in diameter. Both telescope and dome are by
Warner and Swasey, of Cleveland. For clock errors an almucantar is
to be used. The building and instruments have cost $8,000, and about
$2,000 more will be expended. Dr. T. P. John is the director.

Madras.—From the report for 1883 we learn that 2,453 observations
were made with the meridian circle during the year, making a total of
50,878 Only a few hundred more are required to finish the catalogue
of over 5,000 stars. The publications are badly behindhand.

Melbourne.—Mr. Ellery’s nineteenth annual report states that the
new transit circle of 8 inches aperture was received in May, 1884, and
mounted early in July. It is proposed to send the two specula of the
great reflector, one after the other, to England to be repolished. A
number of stars selected by Auwers was observed with the old transit
circle to assist in the formation of a fundamental catalogue of southern
stars.

Mexico Observatory.—Prof. H. 8. Pritchett, director of the observa-
tory of the Washington University at Saint Louis, kindly communicates
the results of a longitude campaign between his observatory and the Ob-
ASTRONOMY. 431

servatorio Nacional de Mexico, Sr. A. Anguiano, director. A prelimi-
nary discussion gives 35™ 57°.25 as the difference of longitude, or 6" 36™
468.41 west of Greenwich as the resulting longitude of the transit-circle
piers of the Mexican vbservatory. This differs 5°.0 from the old value
determined by moon-culminations. The circuit was 2,583 miles long,
with five repeaters, and the armature time was quite constant, averag-
ing 08.38. The outfit of the Mexican National Observatory includes a
15-inch equatorial by Grubb, and an 8-inch meridian circle and a 6-inch
transit, both by Troughton and Simms. The personnel consists of the
director (Sr. Anguiano) and five assistants. (Science, November 6,
1885.)

Milan (1884).—The 8-inch refractor has been used for measurements of
255 double stars and for observations of comets. The measures of the
ellipticity of Uranus cannot yet be considered free from all objections.
The observations on Mars seem to confirm previous results as to the
duplication of canals, &e. :

The large dome for the 18-inch refactor is nearly completed.

Munich (1884).—The 10-inch equatorial is now remounted and the Rep-
sold micrometer has been studied. It will be principally used to de-
termine the parallaxes of Ll. 28298, 26 Draconis, Gr. 2875, Br. 3077.

The Munich zones contain 34,000 stars, of which 9,800 require reob-
servation. This will be accomplished in zones 6° broad. The old Mun-
ich zones are recomputed and a catalogue (for 1880) is in preparation.

Natal Observatory (1884).—Fifty-nine transits of the moon’s limb and
50 transits of the nearly central crater Murchison A have been obtained
with the transit circle. These observations furnish data for calculating
the variation in the irradiation at the edge of the moon and of the ef-
fect of the known irregularities on the limb. Arkley Observatory,
England, co-operates in this work. An appendix to the report con-
tains observations of comets Pons and Barnard.

Nice.—The observatory and its extensive grounds ocenpy the sum-
mit of a hill known as Mont Gras, some 1,200 feet above sea level and
distant from the Mediterranean about 3 or 4 miles. We notice that it
is arranged on the plan of detached buildings, a plan that has been fol-
lowed in the construction of most large observatories of recent date.
On the southern slope of the hill are the dwelling houses for the ob-
servers, library, computing rooms, &¢c., and higher up are the various
buildings that contain the instruments. A 15-inch equatorial, 6-inch
meridian circle, and 3-inch transit are already in use. The great steel
dome, 72 feet in diameter, is finished and has been found to work sat-
isfactorily. The peculiarity in the construction of this dome—the work
of the celebrated engineer Eiffel, of Paris—is that the greater part
of its weight is taken by a circular float which revolves in an annular
tank filled with a solution of chloride of magnesium in water. This so-
lution has a density of 1:25, and is able to resist a temperature of 40°
432 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

centigrade below zero. Running-wheels are used as guides and to take
such a share of the superimposed weight only as may be necessary to
secure perfect steadiness in rotation. It is evident that by adding to
the water in the tank the weight on the wheels can be either entirely
or partially relieved, and by abstracting from it, any desired pressure
can be placed upon these wheels. The shutter is made in two leaves,
and opens right and left with a rain-tight joint in the center; the open-
ing is about 10 feet. Fora complete description of the dome, with illus-
trations, we must refer to L’ Astronomie, 4 : 206-12; Observatory, 8: 290;
and Nature, 32 : 62, 297.

M. Faye announces that the objective of 30 inches clear aperture has
been finished by the Henry brothers, and has been sent to Gautier, who
has charge of the construction of the great equatorial; it is hoped the
instrument will be mounted in April, 1886.

O’ Gyalla.—Sixteen hundred and ten observations for the spectroscopic
Durchmusterung ot the southern sky have been made. Color observa-
tions with the Zoeliner photometer are also continued, as well as various
other photometric and spectroscopic series.

Oxford University Observatory.—The director’s annual report was read
on June 3, 1885. A subsidiary observatory, for instruction, has been
built. Professor Pritchard has published a memoir on the evidences
of mutual gravitation among the components of the Pleiades. The com-
pletion is announced of the phometric survey * all stars visible to the
naked eye from the pole to —10°.

Paris.—Rear-Admiral Mouchez has issued his report on the work of
this establishment during the year 1884. The completion of the reob-
servation of Lalande’s stars has led to a new disposition of the meridian
instruments, one of which, on the proposal of M. Lewy, is now occupied
with the determination of a number of circumpolar stars on bis new
method; the great meridian circle and the circle of Gambey are still
employed for observations of the minor planets and of comparison stars
for planets, comets, and nebule observed with the equatorials. The
great telescope of 0™-74 is still unmounted, no suitable position being
available in the present state of the grounds of the observatory. M.
Mouchez mentions having received communications from the authorities
in Algeria, referring to the possibility of obtaining from the local budget
the greater part of the sum that would be required to mount the instru-
ment at the observatory of Algiers on the summit of the Boudjaréah,
an exceptionally favorable situation, which might be visited by the as-
tronomers of the Paris Observatory for special observations, but the
council of the latter institution have not availed themselves of the prop-
osition, in the hope that the equatorial may yet be erected at Paris.
Amongst the observations made with the instruments in the west tower
and the Henry equatorial are many of the satellites of Uranus and
Neptune, the companion of Sirius, the belts of Uranus, nebula, and
ASTRONOMY. 433

double stars. MM. Henry have been occupied with astronomical pho-
tography during the year, and, as is well known, with great success;
various clusters of stars have been photographed, and M. Mouchez ap-
pends to his report a reproduction by heliogravure of a plate of the
great clusters in Perseus. A trace of the motion of the minor planet
Pallas was shown after an exposure of thirty-five minutes. The im-
portant results obtained by MM. Henry in photographing very small
stars in those crowded parts of the heavens where the galaxy crosses
the ecliptic have been already referred to. - - - Steady progress
has been made, both with the calculations and printing of the Paris
Catalogue of Stars, and it is expected that the first volume of both series
(star positions as observed, and catalogue) will be completed by the
end of the year. Vol. 18 ofthe Mémoires is finished. The report further
details the personal work of the members of the observatory staff.
Amongst the additions to the museum is a portrait of Pons, presented
by M. Tempel.

The report for the year 1884 is preceded by one which enters spe-
cially into the present condition of a scheme for removing the principal
instruments in the observatory to a site where not only greater steadi-
ness can be secured in their mounting, but where the objections of be-
ing surrounded by a great city will not exist. It appears that the
Academy of Sciences have not, so far, favored this scheme. M.Mouchez
states very clearly his view of the question. (Nature.)

Potsdam.—Researches are in progress on a new determination of the
wave-lengths of a large number (300) of the Fraunhofer lines; on the
influence of temperature on the refraction and dispersion indices of
fixed substances; on the reflective power of various substances; on
the absorption-spectra of such substances as are used in photography,
&e.

Jupiter and Mars were regularly observed and the nebule observa-
tions are concluded.

The photometric measures embraced long series of determinations of
the brightness of the major planets and of seven of the asteroids.
Many variable and red stars were also measured. Determinations of
the brightness of stars by photography have also been made, and a
number of photographs of clusters have been taken.

“The first part of the fourth volume of the publications of this obser-
vatory, which was published in the latter part of last year [1885] con-
tains three papers. The first of these is by Professor Vogel, and con-
tains the observations which he made with the great Vienna reflector
in 1883 for the purpose of testing the performance of the great object-
glass. Professor Vogel’s final verdict is altogether favorable. ‘The
Vienna objective,’ he says, ‘leaves nothing to be desired as regards the
precision of the images,’ and he speaks of using with advantage a power
even of 1,500 upon planetary markings, a statement which is illustrated
by a Sais of part of Saturn’s ring as seen with that mag enityi ing power.

H. Mis, 16-—28
434 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

His principal observations were, however, spectroscopic, Professor
Vogel utilizing the great light-gathering power of the Vienna equatorial
tor a detailed examination of the remarkable spectra shown by several
faint stars, classified by him under Types IL b and IIIb. - - - The
paper also contains a number of observations of nebula, principally
planetary, and is illustrated by four lithographic plates. The second
paper contains meteorological observations made in the years 1881 to
1883, and the third is a very careful investigation by Dr. G. Miiller of the
influence of temperature on the refraction of light through prisms of
various kinds of glass, of Iceland spar and rock crystal.” (Nature.)

Prague (private observatory of Professor Safarik).—Fourteen hun-
dred and eighty-two observations of 92 stars were made in 121 observ-
ing nights.

Pulkowa Observatory.‘ We have received M. Struve’s annual re-
port, presented May 25, 1885, on the work of the observatory during
the year. The great 30-inch refractor had not yet been brought regu-
larly into use; but at the time of writing the report observations with
it were to be commenced immediately. The observations with the 15-
inch equatorial, which for the last forty-five years have been M. O.
Struve’s own special work, are now undertaken by his son, Hermann
Sturve, as he himself has been too much occupied with gther work, as
well as having been incapacitated by a long illness. Micrometrical
measures (98 in all) of the relative positions of Iapetus and Titan,
Titan and Rhea, and Rhea and Dione have been made during the year.
It is hoped that these measures, in combination with those made in
_ former years, will furnish very accurate elements of the orbits of these
satellites. Dr. Hermann Struve has also made observations for determi-
nation of the parallaxes of 10 stars, as well as determinations of the
positions of Encke’s and Wolf’s comets. The relative positions of 116
faint stars, which were occulted by the moon during the tetal eclipse of
October 4, 1884, have also been determined with this instrument. Ob-
servations with the great transit instrument have been continued by
Wagner, with Wittram as his assistant. The observations (2,348 in
number) have chiefly been of the Pulkowa Hauptsterne. With the ver-
tical circle Nyrén has zealously pursued his work of determining the
declinations of the Hauptsterne. Of the 895 observations made
during the year, no fewer than 832 were made in both positions of the
instrument. In addition to these, 103 observations of the sun were ob-
tained. Romberg, observing with the meridian circle, has obtained
1,236 observations.in both elements of different stars taken from, (1), the
Abo Catalogue; (2), the Pulkowa Catalogue of Double Stars; (3), stars
used for comet observations; (4), stars used for determining the scale of
the heliometer. With the 4-inch Repsold heliometer Backlund has ob-
tained thirty-two measures of distances and thirty measures of position-
angles of Jnpiter’s satellites. Lindemann has investigated the varia-

¢
ASTRONOMY. 435

tion of light of V Cygni with the ZélIner photometer (Observatory, No.
104, p. 435), and also has observed some other stars, the variability
of which has been suspected. Hasselberg’s spectroscopic researches
have been limited to the chemical elements, nitrogen and hydrogen,
which, however, are not yet finished. Photographs of the sun have
been regularly taken throughout the year, for which work gelatine
plates have been found specially conveneint. During the year 220
photographs have been obtained on 173 days. Referring to the work
carried on at the Marine Observatory at Nicolajew, M. Struve remarks
that the director has found at Batum an extraordinary deviation of the
plumb-line, amounting to 49’°6 in longitude=37’""1 of a great circle in
the direction of the prime vertical. In latitude the deviation is 16”.
That no volume of Pulkowa observations has been published during
the year is owing chiefly to the long illness and multitudinous occupa-
tions of the director. The following volumes, however, are in active
preparation: Volume vitl, which contains the star catalogue compiled
from the meridian observations, 1839 to 1869; volume x, containing
the continuation of O. Struve’s measures*of double stars; volume xi,
containing the fundamental determinations of R. A. for 1865.0; and
volumes XIII and XIv, containing the fundamental determinations of
declination for the same epoch. The work of the geographical and
geodetical bureau, under Ddllen’s superintendence, has also been carried
on as usual during the year.” (Observatory.) |

Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford.—With the transit circle 3,500 observa-
tions of transits have been made, and 3,440 circle observations. The
volume for 1882 has been printed; that for 1883 is nearly ready for
press ; the observations for 1884 are completely reduced; those for 1885
are nearly reduced to the end of the year.

Rome.—A new observatory is being built under the direction of Father
Ferrari, 8. J., formerly assistant, and successor of Father Secchi, in the
observatory of the Roman College. The observatory is now in posses-
sion of a 4-inch equatorial by Merz, and is to have a 10-inch by the
same maker. (Sid. Mess., 4: 313.)

Rosse (Hart of), Birr Castle, Parsonstown.—Attention has been given
to photometry and the measurement of lunar heat. The driving-clock
of the 6-foot reflector is now run by water power.

San José, Cal.—The recently completed observatory for the Univer-
sity of the Pacific, at San José, has a 6-inch Clark equatorial, and a
Fauth transit instrument. The dome is 12 feet in diameter inside,
covered with galvanized iron, and requires 15 pounds to turn it. The
building and instruments are the gift of Capt. Charles Goodall, of San
Francisco, and Daniel Jacks, of Monterey. The observatory is under
the charge of Prof. J. C. George.

Smith Observatory.—We are very glad to learn that the reported clos-
ing of the Smith Observatory of Beloit College on account of lack of
436 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

funds is incorrect. Mr. Tatlock has been succeeded as director by Mr,
Charles A. Bacon. New arrangements have been made for both me-
teorological and astronomical observations, and special attention will
be given to solar and spectroscopic work.

Stonyhurst College Observatory.—Magnetic and meteorological obser-
vations have been made in 1884, as during the past fifteen years. On
257 days drawings of the sun were made; the entire chromosphere was
measured on 88 days, and spectra of spots were obtained on 36 days.
‘‘The glow encircling the sun during the day has never been entirely
absent, though it varied in intensity from time to time” - - -

Strassburg.*—Dr. W. Schur has published his report of the work
done at the observatory during the last year. The instruments in use
at Strassburg are, (1) the meridian circle; (2) the altazimuth; (3) the
great 18-inch refractor; (4) heliometer, and (5) the 6-inch refractor.
It wouid appear, however, that to work these numerous and excellent
instruments Dr. Schur has only two assistants. The meridian circle
has been chiefly employed in-observing stars for the southern zones of
the Astronomische Gesellschaft, as well as in determining positions of
the sun, moon, and large planets and miscellaneous stars, comet-stars,
&e. Determinations have also been made of the errors of division of
the circle and of the form of the pivots. With the altazimuth, to which
Herr Schur appears to have devoted a considerable amount of time and
attention, observations of the moon have been commenced. The great
refractor has been used for observing comets, and a re-examination of
the micrometer-screw shows the necessity of a correction to the results
which have been already published. With the heliometer a number of
measures of the sun’s diameter have been made; whilst the 6-inch re-
fractor has been employed in making a series-of measures for the deter-
mination of the parallax of #° Aurige. The amount of work performed
by Dr. Schur and his assistants is very creditable to them; but at the
same time we are constrained to remark that it is a misfortune that an
observatory which is so well provided with instruments should not have
a larger observing staff, in order that the various instruments might
be worked adequately and to the best advantage. (Observatory, October,
1885.)

Taschkent.—The main object of the observatory is to co-operate in the
surveys and explorations of Turkestan. Four latitudes and longitudes
were determined in 1884. Comets, asteroids, and solar-spots have been
observed also.

Temple Observatory, kugby.—The spectroscopic measurement of the
motions of stars in the line of sight has been continued, and a new in-
strument with prisms of bisulphide of carbon—intended for this work—
is nearly completed. Double stars measures have been made as in

* Astron. Nachr., No. 2675,
‘

/

ASTRONOMY. 437

former years, and a catalogue of 900 sets of measures has been published
in the Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society.

United States Naval Observatory.—The report of the Superintendent
bears the date of October 5, 1885. Rear-Admiral 8S. R. Franklin, U. 8.
Navy, was detached March 31 and ordered to the command of the
European squadron. From that date to the 1st of June Commander
A. D. Brown acted as Superintendent, when he was relieved by Commo-
dore George EK. Belknap.

The 26-inch equatorial, in charge of Professor Hall, has been em-
ployed on satellites and double stars. The dome, 43 feet in diameter,
is now revolved with great ease by means of a 4 horse-power gas engine.
The observations of the satellite of Neptune and those of the two outer
satellites of Uranus have been discussed and the results published.
The observations of Iapetus have been published since the report
closed.

The transit circle has been employed in the same class of work as in
the preceding years. Since the last report 5,520 observations have been
made. Of these, 90 were of the sun, 70 of the moon, 156 of the major
planets, and 64 ofthe minor planets. ;

The 9-6-inch equatorial: Professor Frisby was placed in charge April
2, 1885. The work of the instrument has been confined to: (1) Obser-
vations of comets, six of which have been systematically observed during
the year. These observations have all been reduced to date, and pub-
lished in various astronomical journals in this country and Europe. (2)
Observations of asteroids, principally of such as could not be observed
with the transit circle on account of their faintness or their position;
thirty-five regular observations of asteroids were made, and twenty-one
approximate positions of other asteroids obtained, so that they could
readily be observed with the transit circle. (3) Occultations of stars by
the moon, whenever practicable. (4) Doubtful observations of stars and
asteroids made with other instruments were looked up and decided,
this being probably one of the most important uses of the equatorial.
A few observations have been made of the variable star in the nebula
of Andromeda, which show that the star is decreasing in brightness.
Assistant Astronomer Winlock has made several observations of
comets, with drawings of their physical peculiarities and changes of
appearance.

The prime vertical instrument: The work of reducing the observa-
tions made in 188384 by Lieut. C. G. Bowman and Ensign H. Taylor,
U.S. Navy, for the determination of the constant of aberration, has
been pursued. In July of last year a communication was received from
the president of the International Geodetic Conference, asking the co-
operation of this Observatory with the Royal Observatory at Lisbon in
the determination of the problem of the change of latitudes, the obser-
vations to be taken with the prime vertical instruments of the two
observatories. Communication was opened and correspondence is still
A38 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

in progress with the director of the observatory at, Lisbon, and prepara-
tidns have been made to undertake the work here very soon after it is
known that it will be begun at Lisbon.

Meridian transit instrument: The work has consisted principally of
daily observations and reductions for clock corrections in connection
with the time service.

Time service: During the past year the demands upon the time sery-
ice have greatly increased. In Washington, the number of clocks of
the Gardner system in the various public offices has increased from 20
to 84. The total number of time-balls now dropped by the Observatory
signal is eight, at the following points: Philadelphia, Baltimore, New
Orleans, at branch hydrographic offices; New York, Western Union
building; Navy Department, Washington; navy-yard Washington ;
Hampton Roads; Savannah. A ninth will soon be added at the tor-
pedo station in Newport.

The branch observatory at Mare Island, which is fitted with a dupli-
cate of the transmitting apparatus of this Observatory, has been con-
nected with the mainland by a cable, and time signals are transmitted
daily along the Pacific coast. A time-ball has been erected on the
island for the benefit of the Vallejo shipping, and is dropped daily at
noon of the one hundred and twentieth meridian. The Hydrographic
Office time-ball at San Francisco is also dropped at the same instant by
signal from the Mare Island Observatory.

Photography: In the programme of work proposed for the current
year it was stated that the work of taking sun photographs daily wonld
be inaugurated as soon as practicable. The work of the Transit of Ve-
nus Commission has up to this time prevented any regular system being
adopted.

During the year the names of 1,408 visitors have been recorded, and
1,137 permits were issued for night visitors, for whose accommodation
the small equatorial is set apart.

The records kept by the several observers and watchmen show that
only about one night in eight is good for observing, while an exception-
ally good night for astronomical work cannot be reckoned upon much
oftener than once a month.

The Commodore renews the recommendations of his predecessors that
the Observatory be removed* to the new site purchased in 1880, and that
a board of visitors be appointed to visit the institution annually.

A special report of Professor Harkness is added, giving the progress
of the work of the Transit of Venus Commission.

Upsala.—The unpublished observations of nebulz and clusters up to
1880 are now prepared for the press. With the Zoellner photometer it
is proposed to determine the magnitudes of the comparison stars used
by Argelander, Schoenfeld, and Oudemanns for variables.

*A committee of the National Academy of Science has, at the request of the Secre-
tary of the Navy, given careful consideration to this question. Their report may be
found in Senate Executive Document No. 67, 49th Congress, 1st session.
ASTRONOMY. 439

Warner Observatory.—The 16-inch refractor has been used for the
past three years mainly in the search for new nebule. A catalogue of
some 200 faint nebulz has been published.

Washburn Observatory.— The third volume of the ‘ Publications of
the Washburn Observatory,’ lately issued, gives the results of the work
of 1884. About 1,800 observations were made with the Repsold meri-
dian-circle upon the Gesellschaft southern fundamental stars and the
Leyden Cape of Good Hope refraction-stars. The instrumental con-
stants are given for each observing day, and an investigation of the
zenith-distance micrometer-screw and of the horizontal flexure of the
instrument. In the cold winter weather of Wisconsin the micrometer-
springs turned out too weak to pull the slides, and had to be replaced with
stiffer ones. The probable error of a single declination is now reduced
to 0-4, a great improvement over that noted in vol. 11.; and a correc-
tion of +0/-30 +0-026 to the constant of the ‘Pulkowa refractions?
seems to be called for by the observations of 1884 to suit the atmosphere
over Madison. Professor Holden expresses his continued satisfaction
with the Repsold meridian-circle, and appears to be making a very
thorough study of it; and in this his example might well be followed
with profit by some of our older established observatories. Two deter-
minations of the latitude by Mr. G. C. Comstock are given—one from
Professor Holden’s and his own observations with the zenith-telescope,
the other from his own with the prime-vertical transit, using both re-
flected and direct observations; the declinations in both cases being
those of Auwers’ system. They come out respectively +43° 4/ 36-97 +
0-07 and +48° 4’ 36/-99-+0/-06, remarkably accordant results. The
fifth part of the volume is a ‘Catalogue of 1,001 southern stars for 1850-0
from observations by Signor P. Tacchini, at Palermo, in the years 1867,
1868, 1869,’ by Rev. Father Hagen, 8. J., and Edward S. Holden. The
original observations had never been reduced to mean place, but being
good ones and in a part of the sky where needed, we have here the
anomaly of European work reduced and published in this country; and
Father Hagen and Professor Holden are to be highly commended for
making it available, while its comparison with Oeltzen’s Argelander
(south) and the Washington zones served to detect many errors in these
catalogues. The sixth part gives the observations of 437 southern
stars made with the Washington transit-circle, and also the position of
the same stars (whenever occurring) from the catalogues of Yarnall,
Gould’s zones, and Stone, all the positions being reduced to 1850.0 by
Father Hagen. This is the first opportunity for easy comparison on a
large scale between these four systems of southern declinations, and
the comparison develops the following important differences of north
polar-distance :—

Washington— Yarnall =-+1/12 (from 220 stars).
Washington—Gould (Z. C.)=+1/-96 (from 215 stars).
Washington—Stone =+1-00 (from 238 stars).
440 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

‘- - - “The volume closes with a count of the Durchmusterung
stars between —2° and +13°, a determination of the constants of some
of the other instruments, meteorological observations for 1884, a sunt-
mary of the same as taken at Madioon continuously from 1853 to 1884,
and is throughout a highly creditable publication.” - - - (Science,
November 20, 1885.)

Willets Point Observatory.—The astronomical observations made dur-
ing 1885 were of the same nature as those described at some length for
the preceding year in the “Account of the Progress in Astronomy in
1884.” The observatory is established for training engineer officers in
the applications of practical astronomy to geodesy. The course of in-
struction, as well as the arrangement of the observatory building and
its equipment (described and illustrated with a plan of the observatory
in General order No. 3, series of 1881, and Printed order No. 3, series of
1882), may well be taken as a model in this branch of astronomy. A
large number of latitude observations made by different observers from
1880 to 1854, and apparently showing a steady decrease in the latitude
of the post, has been submitted to a critical discussion by Miss Alice
Lamb, of the Washburn Observatory. By selecting the best determined
stars, and by rejecting the observations with one of the instruments,
and the work of some observers, whose probable errors are about twice
as large as the probable errors of those whose work is retained, she
concludes that there is strong reason to attribute the systematic change
to errors of observation rather than to a real diminution of the latitude.

Yale College Observatory.—The following is a brief statement of the
work accomplished or in progress under the direction of Dr. W. L.
Elkins, who has charge of the heliometer, the only instrument of that
class, we believe, in operation in this country.

The principal object of research has been the triangulation of the
Pleiades, to which work the instrument was devoted from September,
1884, to March, 1885. It was originally intended to confine the investi-
gation to the stars measured at Koénigsberg; the scheme has been ex-.
tended, however, to include all the stars in the Bonn Durchmusterung,
within certain limits, down to the magnitude 9-2, making sixty-nine stars
in all. The reductions are in a forward state.

Other observations are reported:

Measures of the Moon from neighboring stars, diameters of the Moon,
diameters of Venus, and the outer ring of Saturn, and a series of ob-
servations of Titan referred to its primary, which is being continued by
Mr. A. Hall, jr.

There have been various additions made to the working appliances
of the instrument. The oil-lamps illuminating the scales and circles
have been replaced by half-candle incandescent lamps. The most im-
portant addition is, however, the registering micrometer, which Messrs.
Repsold have made for reading the scales. The principle consists in —
_ ASTRONOMY. 441

impressing on a Morse fillet the figures and divisions of the micrometer
head along with those of a fixed index.

The instrument is now being devoted to systematic investigations in
stellar parallax, and work is progressing, which will furnish, it is hoped,
reliable values of the parallaxes of the ten stars of the 1st magnitude
in the Northern Hemisphere referred to neighboring stars of about the
Sth magnitude.

Zurich.—The sun-spots are assiduously observed here. The maximum
occurred in December, 1883, to January, 1884.

ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS.

Wire-gauze screens as photometers.—‘‘ Of late years the use of wire-
gauze screens, one or more in number, over objectives has come into
use for several purposes. Over one of the halves of a heliometer-objec-
tive they are used to reduce the image of a bright star to approximate
equality with that of a fainter star from the other half, an essential con-
dition for the most accurate superposition of the two images. With a
meridian circle they are used to reduce the brighter stars to an approx-
imate equality with the faintest that can be observed with satisfactory
precision, or to investigate the difference of personal equation for dif-
ferent magnitudes by taking different tallies of transit-wires, with screen
off and on, at the same transit. In the latter case Professor Holden
points out the necessity (Astron. Nachr. 2690) of changing the illumina-
tion of the field with the change of screen, so that each magnitude may
show against its customary degree of color or brilliancy of background.
Such screens may also be used for photometric purposes when once
their coefficients of transmission have been determined. Those having
occasion to use them in this way will do well to consult a paper by Pro-
fessor Langley (Amer. Journ. Se., xxx, 210) on this subject. In this it
is shown that the effective transmission coefficients are decidedly dif-
ferent according as the luminous image is an extended surface or prac-
tically a point like a star. In the latter case there is a central image
surrounded by a system of diffraction images, into which a large part
of the light goes; so much so, that Professor Langley found that a screen
(of which one and two thicknesses transmitted -47 and 21 respectively
of the full light upon a surface) gave only -18 and -02 for one and two
thicknesses, respectively, when measured by the brilliancy of the cen-
tral image of a small pin-hole as a source of light.” (Science.)

The defining power of telescopes.—Quite a warm discussion has been
going on in the columns of the Observatory and Sidereal Messenger on
the relative merits of small and large telescopes for the study of plan-
etary detail. The controversy seems to have arisen from a statement
by Mr. Denning to the effect that ‘apertures of from 6 to 8 inches seem
able to compete with the most powerful instruments ever constructed.”
The true state of the case appears to be given in a note by Professor
442 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Young (Observatory, VIII: 173, May, 1885): ‘On the whole, I find also
true what Mr. Clark told me would be the case on first mounting our
23-inch instrument, that I can almost always see with the 23-inch everything
I can see with the 95-inch, under the same atmospheric conditions, and see
_ it better ;—if the seeing is bad, only a little better,—if good, immensely
better. The only exceptions are in the case of objects which require a
very low power, lower than any that can be obtained with the eye-pieces
of the large telescope.”

The great Pulkowa refractor.—* M. Struve was chiefly occupied during
the year with work incidental to the installation of the great 30-inch
refractor. It was anticipated that by September, 1884, things would
be in such a state that it would be possible to begin to observe with
this gigantic instrument; but, owing to various delays, chiefly connected
with the construction of the dome, it was not until the end of Septem-
ber that the Repsolds could be invited to come to Pulkowa to superin-
tend the work of erecting the telescope; this was accomplished very
successfully by them in about three weeks. And M. Struve expresses
himself as greatly pleased with the ease with which the telescope can
be set, with the equality of the illumination on all its parts from a sin-
gle lamp, with the accuracy with which the driving-clock performs, and
with the facilities for altering the telescope into a powerful spectroscope;
so that this great instrument may be regarded as the successful out-
come of the highest skill of modern art in this department. Further
work on the dome was interrupted by the approach of winter. - -
At present the dome is moved by hand; it is hoped, however, that this
may eventually be done by electricity, and that a motive power will
thus be obtained sufficient to overcome the hindrances to the rotation
of the dome arising from snow and frost. From investigations made
by H. Struve it appears that the position of the polar axis is correct to
a fraction of a minute, that the change in focal length of the instrument
during the winter is but trifling, and that, notwithstanding the great
weight of the object-glass and of the eye-end, the flexure of the tele-
scope is so small as to be practically insensible. M. Struve proposes to
use the great refractor for observing such double-stars as are beyond
the reach of the 15-inch equatorial, and to undertake observations of
certain interesting nebulx, as well as spectroscopic researches on stars
in cases where the great optical power of the instrument will make the
observations of special value.” (Observatory.)

“Science” (v1: 306) publishes a letter from Dr. Otto Struve to Alvan
Clark & Sons, from which we make the following extract: “‘I am asked
by the Government to inform you that, in acknowledgment of the ex-
cellent performances of the great object-glass farnished for Pulkowa
by your firm, His Majesty the Emperor has been graciously pleased to
confer upon you the golden honorary medal of the empire. The value
of this gift is enhanced by the circumstance that this medal is given
ASTRONOMY. 443

very rarely and only for quite extraordinary merits. You nud Repsold
are the first who will receive it from the present Emperor, Alexander
1) Ua

“You will be pleased to hear that with the 30-inch refractor in good
nights all the most difficult double-stars discovered by Burnham with
the Washington refractor can be easily measured.”

Illumination by means of the electric light——In regard to the applica-
tion of electricity to illuminating the microscopes and field of view of
a large fixed instrument, Dr. Gill, of the Cape Observatory, says:
“Blectric illumination by small incandescent lamps has been applied
with complete success to the microscopes and field of the great theodo-
lite with which the azimuth observations are made. The electricity is
supplied to the lamps from a storage battery, which is charged dur-
ing daytime two or three times a week by a small Grove battery. The
success of the experiment has been complete. The whole arrangement
is so simple, clean, and convenient, and the advantages to accuracy of
observation by perfect uniformity of light, freedom from flicker, glare,
and heat can only be fully appreciated after trial.”

Method of supporting a mercury trough for reflection observations. *¥—
““The observation of the nadir has,hitherto been almost impossible at
the Paris Observatory, owing to the disturbance of the mercury caused
by the traffic in the neighboring streets. Lately, however, M. Gautier
has devised a very simple arrangement by which this is obviated. The
new apparatus consists of two cylindrical basins placed one above the
other, the lower one, which contains the supply of mercury, having a
slightly larger diameter than the upper. The bottom of the lower basin
is pierced at its center to admit a screw which projects in a vertical di-
rection into the inside and is fixed in that position. A cylinder, fixed
as an axis to the bottom of the smaller basin, is tapped to fit the pro-
jecting screw, and thus, by turning this basin round its axis, it can be
raised or lowered in the larger vessel so as to obtain a supply of mer-
cury in it (by means of an opening provided for the purpose) sufficient
for observation, whilst the oscillations of the ground, Admiral Mouchez
states in the paper before us, are completely counteracted by the ‘demi-
flottage’ of the second basin.” (Observatory.)

Hougl’s printing chronograph.—At the Ann Arbor meeting of the Ameri-
can Association, Professor Hough read a paper on the printing chrono-
graph that he has invented. He has given a description of the instru-
ment in his report as director of the Dearborn Observatory for 1885. The
instrument is designed to print on a fillet of paper, minutes, seconds, and
hundredths of seconds, indicated by the clock which controls it, at any
instant that an observing key is closed by the observer’s finger. The
impression is made from the surface of three continuously running type
wheels, the swiftest of which revolves once per second. The recent im-

*Bull. Astron., 2:549; also (abstr.), Eng. Mechan., 42: 488.
444 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

provements consist in engraved type on the face of the wheels in place
of the rubber ones used at first, and of the substitution of a direct blow
by an electro-magnet upon the type-wheel fillet, thus making the appa-
ratus much more light and compact than the old form. The mean of
the seconds and hundredths may be taken directly on the fillet without
transference to books. Professor Hough states that the instrument has
proved perfectly reliable.

Flexure of transit instruments.—At the same meeting of the American
Association a paper was presented by Professor Harkness on the gen-
eral subject of the flexure of transit instruments. _ Professor Harkness’s
thorough investigation of this subject has just been published as is AD-
pendix 111 to the ‘‘ Washington Observations” for 1882.

Optical works of Feil & Mantois.—We learn from LD’ Astronomie that
. M. Charles Feil has, after some years’ absence, returned to the active
management of his celebrated manufactory of optical glass in Paris, the
new firm being ‘Feil pere et Mantois.” M. Feil is grandson of M. Gui-
naud, the founder of the house in 1827. The new firm succeeded in ob-
taining a crown disk of the requisite size for the Lick 36-inch glass,
having already furnished to MM. Henry the disk for the 30-inch objec-
tive for the Nice Observatory.

Micrometer.—Mr. Chandler contr butes to volume 11 of the Memoirs
of the American Academy a valuable paper on the ‘“‘Square-bar mi-
crometer.”

MISCELLANEOUS.

Astronomical prizes.—The Lalande prize of the Paris Académie des
Sciences has been decreed to M. Tholion for his great map of the solar
spectrum. This map, which has so far demanded four years of uninter-
rupted work, extends from A to b, and contains 3,200 lines, 900 of which
M. Thollon has been able to identify as of telluric origin. The Damoi-
seau prize is reserved, no memoir having been offered for it. The sub-
ject proposed is the same as in former years—a revision of the theory
of the satellites of Jupiter, a discussion of observations with special
reference to the direct determination of the velocity of light, and
lastly, the construction of particular tables for each satellite. The
Valz prize has been awarded to Dr. Spérer for his researches on sun
spots, his discovery of the striking relationship between the distribu-
tion of the spots in latitude and the epochs of their maxima and minima
receiving special notice. (Natwre.)

The award of the Draper medal, made for the first time, was most
appropriately bestowed on Prof. S. P. Langley, of Allegheny, for his re-
searches and discoveries in solar radiation.

The Warner prizes awarded in 1885 were two, of $200 each, to Mr.
K. E. Barnard, for the discovery of Comet 1885 II, and Comet e 1885,
and two, of $200 each, to Mr. W. R. Brooks, for the discovery of Comets
1885 III, and 1885 V. Mr. Warner has just given four prizes, aggre-

ASTRONOMY. 445

gating $450, for essays on the remarkable “red sunsets” which have been
prevalent during the past few years, and medals have been awarded
to a number of other competitors. The total amount that has been
awarded by Mr. Warner for astronomical prizes since 1880, including a
small amount for the expenses of judges, is $3,750. The Warner comet
prize is continued from March 1, 1886, to March 1, 1887. It is reduced to
$100, but is open to the world.

On the apparent increase of size of the sun, moon, and constellations
when seen at the horizon. (From the Bulletin de VAcadémie royale
de Belgique.)\—“The apparent increase of the diameter of the sun
or moon is ordinarily attributed to the elliptical form of the celes-
tial sphere. According to the author this explanation was given as
early as the eleventh century in the Opticsof Alhazen. But by experi-
ments, comparing in a dark room the distances of two electric sparks
at the height of the eye and near the ceiling, M. Stroobant was led to
the conclusion that any object seen in the zenith appears only eight-
tenths as large as when seen at the horizon. But there is another fac-
tor which should be taken into account, that is, the variable brightness
of the star. The author thinks that a special study should be made of
these very interesting physiological phenomena.” (Bull. Astron., April,
1885.) |

Sammlung populaerer Astronomische Mittheilungen.—The eminent di-
rector of the Berlin Observatory Herr Foerster, has collected in this vol-
ume a Series of scientific notices of a popular character, which have ap-
peared since 1880 in successive volumes of the oflicial calendar (Normal-
Kalender). It contains a clear exposition of the state of our knowledge
of the fixed stars, their distances, and their distribution in space; an
article upon the limits of our perceptions of celestial objects ; some in-
teresting remarks upon the auroras, the zodiacal light, and the recent
comets. In reviewing these notices, we are struck with the multiplicity
and the importance of the problems offered us by modern astronomy,
and are tempted to ask, with Herr Foerster, if the number of those at
work at these problems is not becoming too small for the task.

An index to astronomical literature.—The need of some systematic
index to the current literature of astronomy (to say nothing of the
desired extension of the Royal Society’s catalogue, or the completion
of Houzeau’s work) is more strongly felt year by year ; and the difficulty
is aggravated by the poor and insufficient indexes furnished with most
astronomical publications. General periodical literature is provided for
by Poole’s Index, which is kept up to date by the Co-operative Index
to Periodicals; and a committee of the American Association on index-
ing chemical literature reports each year favorable progress. It seems
highly desirable that some similar co-operation should be organized
among astronomers,
446 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

ASTRONOMICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY, 1885.

Following isa list of the principal books of the year, compiled largely from the
excellent Nature Novitates of R. Friedlander & Sohn, Berlin. Reprints from trans-
actions and periodicals are frequently included. The prices quoted are in German
marks (4 marks equal to $1, very nearly), and are those given by Friedlander.

Acta MaTHrMatTica.—Zeitschrift, hersg. v. G. Mittag-Leffler. Bd.5. Stockholm,
1885. Ato. 12

Same. Bd. 6. i

ADDRESSES at the complimentary dinner to Dr. Benjamin Apthorp Gould. May 6,
1885. J.ynn, 1885. 40p.. 8vo.

Airy (G. B.).—Gravitation; an elementary explanation of the principal perturba-
tions in the solar system. 2ed. London, 1845. 1&6 p. 8vo. 7.80

ALBRECHT (TH.).—Bestimmungen der Liinge des Secundenpendels in Leipzig, Dres-
den u. dem Abrahamschacht bei Freiberg, in den Jahren 1869-71 ausgefiihrt.

Berlin, 1885. 4to. 5
ALMANACI de l’Observatoire royal de Bruxelles. Année 52, 1885. Bruxelles, 1885.
374 p. 16mo. ; 1.50

AMERICAN ACADEMY.—Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Cen-
tennial volume. (Vol. x1, part 2, No. 1.) Cambridge, 1885. 4to.

Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. New series,
vol. 12. (Wholeseries, vol. 20, from May, 1884, to May, 1885.) Boston, 1885. 8vo.

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION.—Proceedings of the, American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science. Philadelphia, 1884. Vol.33. Salem, 1885. 95+736 p. 8vo.

AMERICAN ASTRONOMICAL SocIETY.—Papers. No.1. Brooklyn, 1885. 32 p. 8vo.

AMERICAN EPHEMERIS and Nautical Almanac for the year 1888. 1st ed. Washing-
ton, 1885. 519 p.-+ 4to.

AMERICAN EPHEMERIS.—Astronomical papers, prepared for the use of the American
Ephemeris and Nautical‘Almanac. Vol.u, parts 3,4. Washington, 1885. p.107-
258, with 8 plates. 4to. 7. 50

Cont.: Newcomb and Michelson, Measures of the velocity of light, made 1880-82.

Astronomical papers, prepared for the use of the American Ephemeris and Nau-
tical Almanac. Vol.111, parts 2,3,4. Washington, 1884. p.201-371. 4to. 10

Cont.: Hill, Lunar inequalities due to the ellipticity of the earth. Newcomb,
On the motion of Hyperion. Hill, Lunar inequalities due to the action of
Jupiter.

AMERICAN JOURNAL of Mathematics. Vol.1-v1. (Vol.1very rare.)

AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.—Early proceedings, from 1744 to 1838. Com-
piled by one of the secretaries, with full indexes and phototypic illustrations.
Philadelphia, 1885. 875 p. 8vo. 20

ANALYsT (The), including the proceedings of the ‘‘ Society of Public Analysts.” Ed.
by G. W. Wigner and J. Muter. Vol.10 (12 nos.), London, 1885. Roy. 8vo. 6.50

ANNALEN (Mathematische). In Verbindung m. C. Neumann begriind. d. R. F. A.
Clebsch. Hersg. v. F. Klein u. A. Mayer. Band 25 (4 Hefte). Leipzig, 1885.
8vo. 20

Same. Band 26 (4 Hefte). Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 20

ANNALES du Bureau des Longitudes. Travaux faits 4 l’?Observatoire astronomique
de Montsouris (Section navale) et Mémoires divers. Tome 1. Paris, 1885. 6

+506 p. 4to. : 21
ANNALES Nouvelles des Mathématiques. Réd. p. Gérono et Brisse. Année 1885.
(Série v, tome 4) en 12 nrs. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 15
ANNALS of mathematics, pure and applied. Edited by O. Stone and W. M. Thornton.
University of Virginia. Year2 (6 nrs.), 1885. 4to. 10

Continuation of the ‘‘Analyst,” formerly published by J.C. Hendricks,

ASTRONOMY. 447

ANNUAIRE du Bureau des Longitudes pour l’année 1886. Paris [18867]. 924 p.

4to. Illustr. 1.70
Cont.: Faye, Les 13 Tornados des 29 et 30 Mai, 1879, aux Etats-Unis.

ANUARIO del Observatorio Astronomico nacional de Tacubaya para el afio de 1885.

Mexico, 1884. 12mo. 12
ASTRONOMICAL REGISTER.—Vol. 23. Year 1885 (12 nrs.). London, 1885, 7-+-300 p.
8vo. 12.50

L’ASTRONOMIE. Revue mensuelle d’Astronomie populaire, de Météorologie et de Phy-
sique du Globe, publ. p. C. Flammarion. Année 4, 1885 (12 nrs.). Paris, 1885.

488 p. Imp. 8vo.  Illustr. 12
Arti della R. Accademia dei Lincei, 1883-’84. Memorie della Classe diScienze fisiche,
matematiche e naturali. Vol. 17. Roma, 1884. 60-+619p. 4to. 34

Cont.: Dembowski, Misure micrometriche di Stelle Doppie e Multiple, fatte
negli anni 1852-’78. Vol. ii.

BACKLUND (O.).—Ueber d. Anwendung einer von P. Tschebyschew vorgeschlagenen
Interpolationsmethode. (St. Petersb. Acad.) 1885. 30p. Roy. 8vo. 1
BAKHUYZEN (H. G. van de Sande).—Untersuchungen tiber die Rotationszeit des
Planeten Mars, und iiber Anderungen seiner Flecks. Ann. d. Sternwart.in Lei-

den 7. (1885. ]
BALL (R.S.).—The story of the heavens. London, 1885. 544 p., 16 pl., 90 woodcuts.

8vo. 3.70
BERLIN. Astronomisch-geoditische Arbeiten in den Jahren 1883~84, hersg. v. kgl.
geodiit-Institut.zu Berlin. Berlin, 1885. 4to. © 13.50

Cont.: Bestimmungen der Liingendifferenzen Berlin-Swinemiinde, Kiel-Swine-
miinde, Swinemiinde-Kénigsberg, Kénigsb.-Warschau u. Berlin-Warschan.
BOEDDICKER (O.).—On the changes of the radiation of heat from the moon, during
the total eclipse of 1884, October 4, as measured at the observatory, Birr Castle.
Se. Trans. Roy. Dub. Soc. vol. 3 (2s), p.321-32. 2pl. (1885.)
BOLETIN de la Academia Nacional de Ciencias en Cérdoba (Repiiblica Argentina).
Tomo VI, entrega 4. Buenos Ayres, 1884. p. 351-516, 49-64. p. Roy. 8vo. 4
Cont.: Doering, O., Observat. météorol. faites & Cordoba pend. Va. 1883.
Knopf, O., Determinacién de la latitud de alg. lugares de la Reptbl. Argen-
tina. Peter, B., Informe s. las Observac. del paso de Venus, pract. p. la Co-
misién Astron. Alemana en Bahia Blanca.
Bouton (H.C.).—Catalogue of scientific and technical periodicals 1665-1882, in all
languages. Washington, 1885. 783 p. Roy. 8vo.
5,100 titles of scientific periodicals.
BORDEAUX OBSERVATORY.—Annales de Observatoire de Bordeaux, publ. p. Rayet.
Tome 1. Bordeaux, 1885. Ato. 25
Brown (A. D.) and WINTERHALTER (A. G.).—Annular eclipse of the sun, March 15-
16, 1885. (Wash. Obsns., 1882, App...) Washington, 1855. 34 p., 1 pl. 4to.
BULLETIN ASTRONOMIQUE, dirigé p. Tisserand, G. Bigourdan, O. Callandreau et R.

Radau. Année 2, 1885 (en 12 livrais). Paris, 1885. 611 p. 8vo. 16
BULLETIN des Sciences Mathématiques et Astronomiques, rédig. p. Darboux, Houel et
Tannery. Année 1885 (Série II,tome 9). Paris, 1885. Roy. 8vo. 18

BULLETIN HEBDOMADAIRE de |’Association Scientifique de France, fondé p. Le Ver-
rier, publ. s.la dir. du président de la Société. Année 1885. (Série II, tomes 10

et 11.) Paris, 1885. 8vo. 17
BREDICHIN (TH.).—Ré6vision des valeurs numériques de la force répulsive. Moscou,
1885. 36 p. 8vo. 1.50
Quelques formules de la théorie des Cométes. Moscou, 1884. 14p. 8vo. 1

Sur les tétes des Cométes. Moscou, 1885. 8 p., 2 fig. 8vo. 0.60

Sur la grande Cométe de 1811. Moscou, 1885. 12p.,1 pl.  8vo. 1

Sur les oscillations des jets d’émission dans les Cométes. (Moscou, Bull. d.
Nat., 1885.) 25 p.,1pl. 8vo. 1.50
448 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Cape catalogue of 4,810 stars for 1850. [London, 1884.] 17+215 p. Roy. 8vo.

CARRINGTON (R.C.).—Charts of circumpolar stars. Ten charts, published by the
Meteorological Office. London, 1885. Fol.

CELLERIER (G.).—Concours national de Compensation des Chronométres pour les Tem-
pératures. Méthode de Classement, Calcul des Bulletins et Etude numérique de
Verreur secondaire de Compensation, Genéve, 1885. Avec 12pl. Roy. 4to. 16

CHAMBERS (G, F.).—Hints on the construction and equipment of observatories for

‘ amateurs (ill.). Nature, 33: 56-60 (1885).

CHANDLER (8. C.), jr.—On the square bar micrometer. Mem. Am. Acad., 11: 158-77
(1885).

CHAUVENET (W.).—Spherical and practical astronomy (University edition). With
an appendix on the method of least squares. 5th ed., revised and corrected. 2 vols.
Philadelphia, 1885. 8vo. 34

CuIcaGO ASTRONOMICAL SociETY.—Annual report of the board of directors, to-
gether with the report of the director of the Dearborn Observatory, 1885. Chicago,
1885. 16p.,2pl. 8vo.

CIEL ET TERRE.—Revue populaire d’Astronomie et de Météorologie. Année 1885,

Bruxelles, 1885. 8vo. 8
CLARKE (H. W.).—The Sextant, London, 1885. 44p. 16mo. 2.20
CLERKE (Agnes M.).—Popular history of astronomy during the nineteenth century.

London, 1885. 480 p. 8vo. 13

CoFFIN (J. H. C.).—Reports of observations of the total eclipse of the sun, August 7,
1869, made by parties under the general direction of Prof. J. H.C. Coffin, U.S.N.,
Superintendent of the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac. [Washington,
1885.] 2-++158 p.,10 pl. 4to.

COMPTES RENDUS hebdomadaires des Séances de Académie des Sciences. Année
1885. (Tomes 100 et 101 en 52 nrs.) Paris, 1885. 4to. 29.50

CONFERENCE (International) held at Washington [1884] for the purpose of fixing a
prime meridian and a uniform day. Protocols of the proceedings. Washing-
ton, 1884. 212p. 8vo.

CONFERENCE internationale tenue & Washington pour l’adoption d’un premier méri-
dien unique et dune heure universelle. Octobre, 1884. Procés-verbaux des
Séances. Washington, 1884. 216 p. 8vo.

CONNAISSANCE DES TEMPS pour l’an 1887. Paris, 1885. 5-+-808-++-127 p. 8vo.

CRAWFORD (Lord).—Determinations of longitude and latitude during the Mauritius

Expedition, 1874. Dun Echt, 1885. 124519 p.,2 pl. Roy. 4to. 25
DEMBOWSKI (E.).—Misure micrometriche di Stelle Doppie e Multiple fatte negli Anni
1852~78. Vol.11. Roma, 1885. 4to. 34
Same. Vol.1. 1883. 22
DOBERCK (W.).—Markree Observatory. (From ‘‘The Observatory” 1884.) 8 p.
8vo. 1
Observations and researches made at the Hong-Kong Observatory in the

year 1884. Hong-Kong, 1885. 218 p. fol. 10

Doo.uitTLE (C.L.).—A treatise on practical astronomy, as applied to geodesy and
navigation. New York, 1885. 10-+642p. 8vo.

DuBLIN Society (Royal).—Scientific transactions. Vol. m1, p. 1-6. Dublin, 1884-
785. 300 p.,5 pl. 4to. : 16

Dun Ecut OBSERVATORY, publications. Vol. m1. Mauritius Expedition, 1874.
Division II. Determinations of longitude and latitude. Dun Echt, 1885. 12+
519 p., 2 pl. to. 25

DuNER (N.C.).—Sur les étoiles & spectres de la troisiéme classe. Stockholm, 1885.
137 p.,1 pl. 4to.

DUNSINK OBSERVATORY.—Astronomical observations and researches made at Dunsink,
the observatory of Trinity College, Dublin. Published by R. S. Ball. Part 5.
Dublin, 1884. 244p.,2pi. 4to, 12

ASTRONOMY. 449

Duruis (H.).—Tables de Logarithmes 4 cinq Décimales, d’aprés J. de Lalande.

Paris, 1885. 4+230p. 12mo. 2
Duruis (J.).—Tables de Logarithmes & sept décimales d’aprés Bremiker, Callet, Véga,
&c. Edit. stéréotype. 10. tirage. Paris, 1885. 12+580p. 8vo. 7.50
Eckuarpt (C. L. P.).—Neue Sternkarte. Neu bearb. v. W.Soldan. 6. Aufl. Guies-
sen, 1885. Fol. lithogr. in Carton. 4

Esrin (T. [. E.).—Elementary star atlas; a series of 12 simple star maps with de-
scriptive letter-press. Preface by J. A. Westwood Oliver. London, 1885. Roy.
8vo. 1.70

EUROPAISCHE GRADMESSUNG.—Astronomisch-geoditische Arbeiten fiir die euro-
piiische Gradmessung im K6nigr. Sachsen. Abtheilg. iii. Die astronomischen
Arbeiten. Ausgefiihrt unter Leitung v. C. Bruhns, bearbeit. v. Th. Albrecht.

Heft 2. Berlin, 1885. 4to. 12
Same. Heft1. 1883. 10

Faye (H.).—Sur Origine du Monde. Théories cosmogéniques des Anciens et des
Modernes. Paris, 1884. 260 p., 22 Fig. 8vo. 4.50
FELLOWES (F.).—Astronomy for beginners. New York, 1885. 135 p. 12mo. illus-
trated. 3
FIscHER (A. L.).—Die Sonnenflecken und das Wetter. Heft 4. Beobachtungen seit
1 Juli 1883. Erfurt, 1885. 8vo. 1.60
Same. Heft 1-3. 5
FLAMMARION (C.).—Contemplations scientifiques. (Série i.) 4 6dit. Paris, 1885.
124-456 p. 16mo. 3.50
Les Merveilles célestes. Lectures du Soir. 8 6dit. Paris, 1885. 6-359 p.

avec 87 vign. et 2 cartes. 12mo. 2.20
Forster (A.).—Studien zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des Sonnensystems. Stuttgart,
1885. 8+60p.,5 Fig. 8vo. 2.60
FORSTER (W.).—Populiire Mittheilungen zum astronomischen Theile des kénigl. preus-
sischen Normalkalenders fiir 1886. Berlin, 1885. Svo. 1

FORSTER and LEHMANN (P.).—Die veriinderlichen Tafeln des astronomischen und
chronologischen Theiles des kénig]. preussischen Normalkalenders fiir 1886. Ber-

~

lin, 185. 8vo. 5
FORTSCHRITTE (Die) der Astronomie 1885. (Nr.11.) Red. H.J.Klein. Koln, 1885.
8vo. 1.80

Fritz (H.).—Die Sonne. Ziirich, 1885. 32p..1Tfl. 4to.
GALLE (J. G.).—Uebersicht iiber die Bahn-Elemente der seit dem Jahre 1860 erschie-
nenen Cometen, sowie tiber neu berechnete oder verbesserte Bahnen von Cometen
der friiheren Zeit, Astron. Nachr., 112: 1-26; 113: 55 (1885).
Gauss (F. G.).—Fiinfstellige vollstiindige logarithmische und trigonometrische Tafeln.
23. Aufl. Halle, 1885. 8vo. } 2
GEELMUYDEN (H.).—Undersiégelse af Parallaxen af en Stjerne i den store Bjorn og
nogle Bemerkninger om det dertil anvendte Mikrometer. Christiania, 1885. 19
p., 1 Fig. 8vo. 0.70
GIORNALE di Scienze naturali ed economiche, pubbl. a. Societé di Scienze naturali
ed economiche di Palermo. Vol. 16, 1883-’84. Palermo, 1884. 245-4 203 p
4to. 16
Cont. : Di Stefano, S. altri fossili d. Titanio inferiore di Sicilia. Cardani, S$.
aleune figure ottenute p. elettrolisi. Ricco, Riassunto d. osservazioni astro-
fisiche solari eseguite nell’ Osservatorio di Palermo nel 1382. Zona, Coordi-
nate geografiche e costruzione di una grande meridiana a tempo vero e medio
in Castiglione Etneo,
Gore (J. E.).—A catalogue of eae variable stars, with notes and observations.

Dublin, 1884. 8vo. 2
A catalogue of suspected variable stars, with notes and observations. Dublin
(Proc. R. Ir. Ac.), 1885. 8vo. 8

EH.

450 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

GOULD (B. A.).—Resultados de] Observatorio Nacional Argentino en Cérdoba. Vol. 3.
Observaciones de Zonas d’ano 1873. Buenos Aires, 1884. 510 p. 4to. 25

Resultados del Obsetvatorio Nacional Argentino en Cérdoba. Vol.7,8; Cata-
logo de las Zonas Estelares. Cordoba, 1884. 4to.

GruBB (H.).—On a new form of equatorial telescope. Dublin (Roy. Soc.), 1884.
4to. illustr. 2.50

GruEY.—Lecons d’Astronomie. Besangon, 1885. Volume lithographié de 368 p,
Ato. 16

GYLDEN (H.).—Grunddragen af en enkel method att lésa atskilliga problem i den
analytiska mekaniken. (Stockholm) 1884. 24 p. 8vo. 1.50

HALL (A.).—The orbits of Oberon and Titania. (Wash. Obsns., 1881, App. 1.) Wash-
ington, 1885. 33 p. 4to.

Orbit of the satellite of Neptune. (Wash. Obsns., 1881, App. 1.) Washington,

1885. 27 p. Ato.

The orbit of Iapetus. (Wash. Obsns., 1882, App.I.) Washington, 1885. 82 p.
Ato.

HARVARD COLLEGE OBSERVATORY.—Annals of the Astronomical Observatory of Har-
vard College. Vol. XIv, in 2 parts. Cambridge, 1885. 512 p. Roy. 4to.

Catalogue of 1,213 stars. Cambridge,1884. 7-+ 93 p  4to.

Report (40th annual) of the director, by Edward C. Pickering. Deceiber 3,
1885. Cambridge, 1886. 13 p. 8vo.

HENRICI (J.).—Die Erforschung der Schwere durch Galilei, Huygens, Newton als
arundlage der rationellen Kinematik u. Dynamik historisch-didaktisch darge-
stellt. Leipzig, 1885. 40 p.,6 Fig. 4to. 1.20

VON HEPPERGER (J.).—Ueber die Verschiebung des Vereinigungspunktes der Strahlen
beim Durchgange eines Strahlenbiischels monochromatischen Lichtes durch ein

Prisma mit gerader Durchsicht. Wien, 1885. 27 p.,2 Holzschn. 8vo. 0.50
Ueber Kriimmungsversuche und Dispersion von Prismen. Wien,1885. 40 p.,

8 Holzschn. 8vo. aie 0.80
Herz (N.).—Entwicklung der st6renden Krifte nach Vielfachen der mittleren Anoma-
lien in independenter Form. Wien, 1485. 46 p. 8vo. 0.80

Siebenstellige Logarithmen der trigonometrischen Funktionen fiir jede Zeit-
secunde des Quadranten. Zum astronomischen Gebrauch. Leipzig, 185. 8vo. 4

HILDESHEIMER (L.).—Alphabetisches Verzeichniss der sich in J. Schmidt’s Mond-
charte befindlichen Objecte. Odessa, 1885. 10 p. 8vo.

Hitt (G. W.).—Determination of the inequalities of the moon’s motion, which are
produced by the figure of the earth; a supplement to Delaunay’s Lunar Theory.
Astron. Papers Am. Ephem., 3: 205-344 (part 2, 1884). 8

On certain lunar inequalities due to the action of Jupiter and discovered by
Mr. E. Neison. Astron. Papers Am. Ephem., 3: 377-393 (part 4, 1885).

HOLDEN (E. S.).—An account of the progress of astronomy in the year 1884. (From
the Smithsonian Report for 1884.) Washington, 1885. 55p. 8vo.

Publications of the Washburn Observatory. Vol.111. Madison,1885. 139 p. 8vo.

Report of Eclipse expedition to Caroline Island, May, 1883. Mem. Nat. Acad.
2: 16-146 (1884).

HouzEAU (J. C.).—Passage de Vénus du 6 Déc. 1882. Partie I: Exposé des ré-
sultats des observations faites aux Stations Belges, A aide d’Héliometres a fo-
yers inégaux. Bruxelles, 1884. 35 p. 4to. d

Huaeerns (W.).—On the corona of the sun. (Bakerian lecture.) Proceedings Royal
Society, 39: 108-135. (1885.)

HUYGHENS (Chr.).—Traité de la lumiére avee un discours de la cause de la pesan-
teur. (New edition of this extremely rare and still very valuable book by W.
Burckhardt.) 1885.

INDEX to periodicals (The Co-operative) for 1885. Edited by W. I. Fletcher. Vol.
I. New York, 1886, 6-+ 111 p. 8vo.

ASTRONOMY. A51

Ir1sH ACADEMY (Royal). Proceedings. Vol. Iv, Nr. 1,2. Dublin, 1884. 278422
p. 8vo.

Transactions. Vol. 28 (science), part 14-17. Dublin, 1884.. Roy. 4to. 6.50

IsRAEL-HOLTZWART (K.).—Elemente der theoretischen Astronomie. Abtheilung 1:
Theorie der elliptischen Bewegung und der Bahnbestimmung. Wiesbaden, 1085.

8-+ 184 p. 8vo. 6.40
Same. Abtheilg. 2: Berechnung der Finsternisse. Meteorbahnen. Stellastro-
nomie. Wiesbaden, 1885. 8+ 168 p. 8vo. 5.60

J AHRBUCH (Berliner Astronomisches) fiir 1887, mit Ephemeriden der Planeten 1-237
fiir 1885. Hersg. v. der Sternwarte, unter Leit. v.F. Tietjen. Berlin, 1885. 8 +
480 + 51 p. 8vo. 12

JAHRBUCH (Nautisches), oder Ephemeriden und Tafeln fiir das Jahr 1888 zur Be-
stimmung der Zeit, Linge u. Breite zur See nach astronomischen Beobach-

tungen. Hersg. vom Reichsamt des Innern. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 1.50
JORDAN (W.).—Grundziige der astronomischen Zeit- und Ortsbestimmung. Berlin,
1885. 7-+ 390 p. 8vo. zahlr. Holzschn. 10
JORNAL de Sciencias Mathematicas e Astronomicas, publ. p. F. Gomes Teixeira.
Vol. rv. Coimbra, 1883~84. 192 p. 8vo. 14

Cont. : Da Silva, Formules nouvelles's. les racines des 6quations algebraiques;
Rodrigues, La formula de Lagrange; Pereira, Sobre algunas intergraes in-
definitas. Monteiro, Mémoires de géométrie, etc.

JOURNAL de Mathématiques élémentaires et spéciales. Dirig. p. J. Bourget et Koeh-

ler. Année 1885 (12 nrs.). Paris, 1885. 8vo. 15
JOURNAL de Mathématiques pures et appliquées fondé p. Liouville et rédig. p. Résal.
Année 1885. (Série III, Tome x1, en 12 nrs.) Paris, 1585. 4to. 27

JOURNAL fiir die reine und angewandte Mathematik. Hersg. v. L. Kronecker u. K.
Weierstrass. Berlin, 4. Jahrg. 1885. Band 98u. 99. (8 Hefte.) Jeder Band 12.

JOURNAL of the Liverpool Astronomical Society. Vol. m1. (October, 1884, to Sep-
tember, 1885.) Liverpool, 1585. 8vo.

Kempr (P.).—Meteorologische Beobachtungen in den Jahren 1881 bis 1883 auf dem
Astrophysikalischen Observatorium bei Potsdam. Leipzig, 1885. 147p. 4to. 7

KLEE (F.).—Unser Sonnensystem. 2, mit einem Nachtrag versehene Aufl. Mainz,

1885. 8vo. i hag)
KNOWLEDGE, an illustrated magazine of science, art, and literature. Edit. by R.
A. Proctor. Vol. V, 1885. (52 nrs.) London, 1885. 4to. 11
Kocu (K. R.).—Ueber eine Methode, die Mikrometerschraube zu priifen. (Leipz.,
Ann. d. Phys.) 1883. 2p. 8vo. 0.30

KOWALSKI (M.).—Observations des étoiles de la zone entre 75° et 80° de déclinaison
boréale, exécutées & Observatoire de Université Impériale de Kasan. Tome I.
Kasan, 1885. 10-+ 739 p. 4to.

KRUEGER (A.).—Zonenbeobachtungen der Sterne zwischen 55 u. 65 Grad nordlicher

Declination angestellt an den Sternwarten zu Helsingfors u. Gotha. Band IL:
Enthialt die Zonen 330 bis 722 nebst den mittleren Oertern der Sterne fiir 1875.

Helsingfors, 1885. 32-+400 p. 4to. cart. 20
Same. Band 1: Enthiélt die Zonen 1-338 nebst den mittleren Oertern der
Sterne fiir 1875. 20
LAMONT (J.).—Astronomisch-geoditische Bestimmungen, ausgefiihrt an einigen
Hauptpunkten des bayerischen Dreiecksnetzes. Miinchen, 1885. 8vo. 3

LANGLEY (S. P.).—Researches on solar heat and its absorption by the earth’s atmos-
phere. Report of the Mount Whitney expedition, prepared under the direction
of W. B. Hazen. Washington, 1885. 242p. 4to. (Maps, plates, and wood:
cuts. )
152 _ SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

LANGLEY (S. P.). Experimental determination of wave-lengths in the invisible
prismatic spectrum. Mem. Nat. Acad., 2: 149-162. (1884.)

Observations on invisible heat-spectra and the recognition of hitherto un-
measured wave-lengths, made at the Allegheny Observatory. 4 pl. Am. J. Se.,
31: 1-12. (1886.)

Lerscu (B. M.).—Ueber die symmetrischen Verhiiltnisse des Planeten-Systems. Neue
vollstiindig umgearb. Aufl. zweier 1879-80 erschienenen Abhandlungen. K@6ln,

1885. 59 p. 8vo. 1.60
von Litrrow (C. L.).—Wunder des Himmels. 7. Aufl., bearb. v. E. Weiss. Berlin,
1885. S8vo. Liefg. 34-42. Jede Liefg. 0.50

LORENZONI (G.).—L’Insegnamento di Astronomia e Meteore del prof. L. Riva, ei Docu-
menti relativi alla Fondazione dell’Osservatorio astronomico di Padova. Padova,
1855. 44p. 8vo.

Lynn (W. T.).—Celestial motions; a handy book of astronomy. 3 ed. London, 1885.

80p. 16mo. 1.70
VON MADLER (J. H.).—Der Wunderbau des Weltalls oder populire Astronomie. 8.
Aufl. Strassburg, 1885. Liefg. 5-12. 8vo. Jede Liefg. 1
MAHLER (E).—Astronomische Untersuchung iiber die in der Bibel erwahnte igyp-
tische Finsterniss. Wien, 1885. 15 p. 8vo. 0.50
Die centralen Sonnenfinsternisse des 20. Jahrhunderts. Wien, 1885. 40p.

4to. 2
MARIE (M.).—Histoire des Sciences mathématiques et physiques. Tome vir: De
Newton @ Euler (Suite). Paris, 1885. 272p. Roy. 8vo. 5.50
Same. Tomes I a VI: De Thales & Euler. 35.50

MaxweELu.—The life of J. C. Maxwell, with selections from his correspondence and
occasional writings, by L. Campbell and W. Garnett. New edition, abridged and
revised. London, 1885. 8vo. (Portrait and illustr.) Cloth. 7.80

MAYER (J.).—Sternkarte mit beweglichem Horizont. Apparat zum Studium des Ge-
stirnten Himmels mit zugehériger Astrognosie oder Anleitung zur Kenntniss der
Gestirne. Schaffhausen, 1885. Fol. m.3 Tfin. In Mappe. 4

MELANGES MATHEMATIQUES et Astronomiques tirés du Bulletin de ’Académie Im-
périale des Sciences de St.-Pétersbourg. Tome vi. Livr. 3. St.-Pétersbourg,
1885. Roy. 8vo. ~ 1

Same. Tomevy. Livr.1let2. 1884. 4

Memoirs of the National Academy of Sciences. Vol. u. Washington, 1884. 262 p.
(with plates.) Ato.

Cont.: Report of the eclipse expedition to Caroline Island. Langley, Experi-
mental determination of wave-lengths in the invisible prismatic spectrum.
Brewer, On the subsidence of particles in liquid. Bell, On the formation of
a deaf variety of the human race.

MERRIMAN (M.).—Text-book of the method of least squares. London, 1885. 8vo.

Cloth. ; 9
MITCHELL (O. M.).—The orbs of heaven; or planetary and stellar worlds. New edit.
London, 1885. 300 p. 8vo. Cloth. 2.30

MITTHEILUNGEN (Mathematische u. naturwissenschaftliche) aus den Sitzungsberich-
ten der kénigl. Preuss. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin. Jahrgang 1885.
Berlin. 8vo. Tfin. 8

Mozius (A. F.).—Gesammelte Werke. Auf Veranlassung der kgl. Sichsischen Gesell-
schaft der Wissenschaften hersg. v. R. Baltzer, F. Kleinu. W. Scheibner. (In 4.
Binden.) Bandi: Barycentrischer Calcul, hersg. v. R. Baltzer. Leipzig, 1885.

Lex. 8, m. Bildniss (v. M6bius) u. 132 Holzschn. 16
Band 11 wird enthalten: Analytische Sphirik u. sonstige geometrische Unter-
suchungen.

Band 10 u. tv: Untersuchungen auf d. Gebiete d. Statik u. d. himmlischen
Mechanik.

ASTRONOMY. 453

Moscow OssERVATORY.—Annales de l’Observatoire de Moscou. Publiées par Th.
Bredichin. Vol. x, livraison 2. Moscou, 1884. 164 p.,7pl. 4to. 8
Cont.: Belopolsky, Observat. au Cercle méridien. Essai d’une déterminat. du
rayon appar. du soleil au moyen de la photographie. Observat. photohélio-

graph. en 1883. Joukovsky, Sur la construct. des courbes syndynam. et syn-

chron. Bredichin, Les syndynames et les synchrones de la Cométe Pons-
Brooks. Avec note supplém. Sur la queue du I. type de la Cométe de 1744.
Socoloff, Niherungsformeln der Theorie der Cometenschweife. Ceraski, Ueber

die Berechnung des Lichtverbiiltnisses f. Sterne von auf einander folgenden

Gréssenklassen.
La 1 série des ‘‘ Annales” compléte en 10 volumes. 120
MuniIcu OBSERVATORY.—Annalen der Miinchener Sternwarte. Supplementband 10.
Miinchen, 1885. 8vo. 3

Cont.: Astronomisch-geodiitische Bestimmungen ausgefiihrt an einigen Haupt-
punkten des bayerischen Dreiecksnetzes u. hersg. v. J. v. Lamont.
NACHRICHTEN (Astronomische) begriindet v. H.C.Schumacher. Unter Mitwirkung

der Astronomischen Gesellschaft hersg. v. A. Kriiger. Kiel, 1885. 4to. Band 112.

(24 Nrn.) 15

Band 113. (24 Nos.) 15

NASMYTH (J.) and CARPENTER (J.).—The moon; considered as a planet, a world,

and asatellite. New York, Scribner & Welford, 1885. 16-213 p., 26 pl., illustr.

8vo.

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES.—Memoirs of the National Academy of Sciences.
Vol. u. 1883. Washington, 1884. 262 p.,7 pi. 4to.

Cont.: Report of the eclipse expedition to Caroline Islands, May 1883. Lang-

ley, Experimental determination of wave-lengths in the invisible prismatic

spectrum.
NaTuRE.—A weekly illustrated journal of science. Year 1885. (52 nrs.) London,
1885. 31+-640 p. 4to. 30

NaTURE (La).—Revue illustrée des Sciences et de leur Application aux Arts et a l’In-
dustrie. Réd. p. G. Tissandier. Année 1885. (2 vols. en 52 nrs.) Paris, 1885:
Ato. 20

NEWCOMB (S.).— Development of the perturbative function and its derivatives, in
sines and cosines of multiples of the eccentric anomaly, and in powers of the
eccentricities and inclinations. Astron. Papers Am. Ephem.,3: 1-200 (vol. 3, part
1, 1884). \ 10

Measures of the velocity of light made 1880-82. Michelson (A.), Supple-

mentary measures of the velocities of white and colored light in air, water, and

carbon disulphide. Astron. Papers Am, Ephem., 2: 113-258 (vol. 2, parts 2 and 3,

1885). 7.50

On the motion of Hyperion. Anew case in celestial mechanics. Astron. Papers

Am. Ephem., 3: 347-371 (vol. 3, part 3, 1884).

Catalogue of 1098 standard clock and zodiacal stars. Astron. Papers Am.

Ephem., 1: 147-314 (vol. 1, part 4, 1884.) 15

The essentials of trigonometry, plane and spherical, with 3 and 4 place loga-
rithmic and trigonometric tables. New York, 1885. 12mo. Cloth. 6.30
OBSERVATORY (The).—Monthly journal of practicalastronomy. Year1&®5. (12nrs.)
London, 1885. 9-+444 p. B8vo. 14
OERTEL (K.).—Astronomische Bestimmung der Polhéhen auf den Punkten Ivschen-
berg, Héhensteig u. Kempenwand. Miinchen, 1885. 4to. 2

O’GYALLA OBSERVATORY.—Beobachtungen angestellt am astrophysikalischen Ob-
servatorium in O’Gyalla. hersg. v. N.v.Kenkoly. Band 8. Halle, 1885. 4to.
5 Holzschn. u. 2 lithogr. Tfln. 10
OPPENUEIM (S.).—Ueber die Rotation und Pracession eines fliissigen Sphiroids.
Wien, 1885. 47 p. 8vo. 0.80
Ae ; SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

——— Bahnbestimmung des Kometen VIII, 1881. Wien. 1885. 8vo. 0.50
OPPERT (J.).— Die astronomischen Angaben der Assyrischen Keilinsehriften. Wien,
1885. 13p. 8vo. 0.30
VON OPPOLZER (TH. ).—Ueber die Auflésung des Kepler’schen Problems. Wien, 1835.
59 p. Ato. 3.20
Ueber die Linge des Siriusjahres und der Sothisperiode. Wien, 18e5, 28
p:  8vo. 0.50
PACIFIC SCIENCE MONTHLY. Vol.1., No.1. San Buenaventura (Cal.), 1885. 12 p.
Svo.
PARIS OBSERVATORY.-—Annales de V’Observatoire de Paris, publ. sous Ja direct. de
Mouchez. Observations (1881). Paris, 1881. 8-+-758p. Roy. 4to. 33.50
Mémoires. Tome 18. Paris, 1885. 31llp. Roy. 4to. 23
Perens (C.F. W.).—Die gegenseitige Lage der Sternwarten zu Altona u. Kiel. Ber-
lin, 184. 4to. 1.50
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE and Journal of Science, cond. by R. Kane, W. Thomson,
W. Francis. Year, 1885 (12 nrs.). London. Roy. 8vo. 32

PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY of Washington. Bulletin, vol. vit. Washington, 1885. 47-++
68 p. B8vo.
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS of the Royal Society for1884. Part ii. London, 1885.
Ato, with 28 plates. 37.50
Cout.: Heath, On the dynamies of arigid body in elliptic space. Hartley, Re-
searches on spectrnm photography. II. Poynting, On the transfer of energy
in the electro-magnetic field. Hill, On the motion of fluid, part of which
is moving rotationally and part irrotationally. Rayleigh, On the electro-
chemical equivalent of silver and on the absolute electro-motive force of Clark
cells. Ramsay and Young, Influence of change of condition from the liquid
to the solid state on vapor pressure. Ferrier and Yeo, Record of experiments
on the effects of lesion of different regions of the cerebral hemispheres.
Bower, Ou the comparat. worphology of the leaf in the vascular cryptogams
and gymnosperms. Dixon, Condition of chemical change in gases.
PICKERING (E. C.).—Observations of variable stars in 1884. -Proc. Am. Acad., 20:
393-406. (1885.) Svo.
—— Annals of the Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College. Vol. x1v. Cam-
bridge, 1885. 512p. Roy. 4to.
Report (40th annual) of the director of the Astronomical Observ MEY of Bee
vard College. Cambridge, 1886. 13 p. 8vo.
A photographic study of the Nebula of Orion. Proc. Am. Acad., 20: 407. (1885. )
Proctor (R. A.).—The universe of suns, and other science gleanings. New York,
1885. 401 p. 12mo. Cloth. 11.20
Lo Spettroscopio ele sne Applicazioni. 1. traduz. italiana c. noteed aggiunte
dik. Porro. Milano, 1885. 5-+-178 p. C.71 incis.e carta (di spettri). 16mo. 1.50
PorsDAM OBSERVATORY.—Publicationen des Astrophysikalischen Observatoriums zu
Potsdam. Nr. 15 (Band iv, Stiick 2): Meteorologische Beobachtungen in den
Jabren 1881 bis 1883. Bearbeit.v.P. Kempf. Leipzig, 1885. 447 p. 4to. 7
Publicationen des Astrophysikalischen Observatoriums zu Potsdam. Nr. 16
(Band Iv, Stiick 3): Ueber den Einfluss der Temperatur auf die Brechung des
Lichtes in einigen Glassorten, im Kalkspath u. Bergkrystall, v. G. Miiller. Pots-
dam, 1885. 65 p.  4to. 4
Same. Nr. 1-15, 187885, m. 63 Tfin. ‘ 84
QUARTERLY JOURNAL of pure and applied mathematics. Edited by N. M. Ferrers,
A. Cayley, J. W. L. Glaisher, A. R. Forsyth. No.80. (Vol. xx, pt.4.) London,

1885. P. 289-383, title p., index, 1 plate. 8vo. 5.20
No.81. (Vol. 21, pt.i.) London, June, 1885. p. 1-96, with 1 plate. 5.20
No. 82. (Vol. 21, pt.ii.) Cambridge, 1885. p. 97-192. 5.20

RADCLIFFE OBSERVATORY, Oxford, results of astronomical and meteorological obser-
vations in the year 1881. Vol.39. Oxford, 1884. Roy. 8vo.

ASTRONOMY Hd

——— Results of astronomical and meteorological observations in the year 1882.
Vol. 40. Oxford, 1884. 20-+130+4 p. Roy. vo.
RESPIGHI (L.).—Catalogo delle Declinazioni medie pel 1580, 0 di 1004 Stelle. Roma,

1885. 4to. 3.80
Sulle Osservazioni del Bordo e delle Protuberanze Solari fatte al R. Osserva-

torio del Campidoglio. Nota viii. Roma, 185. 44p. 4to. 6.80.
Roserts (F.C.).—The figure of the earth. New York, 1885. % p. 12mo. 2.50

RoceErs (W. A.).—Catalogue of 1,213 stars observed at the Astronomical Observatory
of Harvard College with the meridian circle 1870-79. Cambridge, Mass., 1834.
7+93 p. Ato.

Roscor (H.E.).—Spectrum analysis. 4th ed., revised and considerably enlarged by
the author and A. Schuster. London, 1885. Roy. 8vo. Cloth. 2A

SCHELLEN (H.).—Spectrum analysis in its application to terrestrial substances, and
the physical constitution of the heavenly bodies. Translated from the 5d enlarged
and revised German edition by J. and C. Lassell. Edited with notes by W. de
W. Abney. London, 1885. With 291 wood cuts and 14 plates (5 colored). vo.

Cloth. 3351)
Scrence.—An illustrated journal, published weekly. Cambridge, Mass. Year 1885
(Vols. Vv, vr) in 52 urs. 4to. Illustr. 26

SEARLE (A.).—The apparent position of the zodiacal light. Mem. dm. Acad., 19: 135-
157 (1885).

Sreccui (A.).—L’Unita delle Forze Fisiche. Saggio di Filosofia Naturale. 4. ediz. (3
italiana), preceduta dalla biografia del A. Secchi, per F. Denza. 2 vol. Milano,
1885. 408-+-387 p. 16mo. 5.50

11 Sole; esposizione delle principali Scoperte moderne sopra la sua Struttura,

la sua Influenza nell’ Universo e le sue Relazioni cogli altri Corpi celesti. Fi-

renze, 1885. 8+439p. 8vo. - 9
SEELIGER (H.).—Die Vertheilung der Sterne auf der nérdlichen Halblanvel nach d.
Bonner Durchmusterung. © (Miinchen), 1885. 29 p. 8vo. 1.20

Servus (A.).—Untersuchungen iiber die Bahn und die Stérungen der Himmelskérper
mit Zugrundelegung des Weber’schen elektrodynamischen Gesetzes. Halle, 1885.
47 p. Ato. 2
SIDEREAL MESSENGER (The).—Conducted by W. W. Payne. Vol. 4. Northfield,
1885. 320 p. 8vo.
Srrius.—Zeitschrift fiir populire Astronomie. Red. H.J. Klein. Bd. 18 (Neue Folge,
Bd.13). Jahrg. 1885. (12 Hefte.) Leipzig, 1885. 44288 p. 8vo. 10
SITZUNGSBERICHTE der kaiserl. Akademie der Wisenschaften. Mathematisch-natur-
wissenschaftliche Classe. Band 90, Heft 3 u.4. Abtheilg. 2. Wien, 1885. p.
387-779. 8vo. 6
Abtheilg.2: Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Mathersatile Physik, Chemie,
Mechanik, Meteorologie u. Astronomie.
Mathematisch-naturwissenschaftliche Classe. Abtheilg. 2: Abhandlungen
aus dem Gebiete der Mathematik, Physik, Chemie, Mechanik, Meteorologie
u. Astronomie. Band 91, Jahrgang 1885. Heft iv.ii: Januaru. Februar. Wien,
1885. P.1-393. 8vo. 5.50
SITZUNGSBERICHTE der mathematisch-physikalischen Classe d. k. bayr. Akademie
der Wissenschaften zu Miinchen, 1884. Heft iv. Miinchen, 1285. p. 1—6, 521—

654,m.3Tfin. 8vo. Jedes Heft. . 1.20
Band 14, 1884, jetzt complet. 4.80
STERN-EPHEMERIDEN fiir das Jahr 1887. Heransg. v. d. Berl. Sternwarte. Berlin,
1825. Svo. 6
SrrRUVE (O.).—Tabule quantitatum Besselianarum pro annis 1885 ad 1889 compnta-
te. Petropoli, 1885. vo. 1.20

THomson (W.).—Tafeln zur Erleichterung der Anwendung der Sumner’schen Me-
thode. Neu berechnet v. M. Bozek u. A. Portner v. Hoflein. Triest, 1885. fol. 2.
A56 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

TYERMAN (T. F.).—The moon’s rotation examined by the Newtonian theory of grav-
itation. Oxford, 1885. 32 p. 8vo. Cloth. 2.20
UNIFICATION des Longitudes par Vadoption d@’un Méridien initial unique et introduc-
tion d’une Heure universelle. Extrait des Comptes rendus de la 7. Conférence
générale de l’Association Géodésique internationale, réunie 4 Rome en Octobre
1883. Berlin, 1884. 4to. 3
UNITED STATES NAVAL OBSERVATORY.—Astronomical and meteorological observatious
made during the year 1881. Washington, 1885. 74 + 202 +21 +4 33-4 27 p. 4to.
VIERTELJAHRSSCHRIFT der Astronomischen Gesellschaft. Hersg. v. E. Schonfeld u.
H. Seeliger. Jahrg. 19. Heft Iv. Leipzig, 1884. p. 237-300, Titel u. Inhalts-

verz. 8vo. 2
Jahrg. 20. Heft1lto4. Leipzig, 1885. 4+ 342 p. 8vo. Jedes Left. 2
VIERTELJAHRSSCHRIFT der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Ziirich. Redig. v. R.
Wolf. Jahrgang 30. Ziirich, 1885. 8vo. 3.60

Cont.: Nr. 1 (p. 1-128): Wolf, Astronom. Mittheilungen. Graberg, Ueber
Masszeichen. Haller, Beitr. z. Kenntniss d. Schweizerischen Milbenfauna, &c.
VocEL (H. W.).—Die Photographie nach farbigen Gegenstinden in den richtigen
Tonverhiiltnissen. Berlin, 1885. 8 + 157 p. 1 Farbendruckbeilage, 2 danach
gefertigten Photographien u. 15 Holzst. 8vo. ; 4
WASHBURN OBSERVATORY.—Publications of the Washburn Observatory of the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin. (E.S. Holden, Director.) Vol. m1. Madison, 1885. 139 p.
dvo.
WEBB (T.W.).—The sun; a familiar description of his phenomena. London, 1885.
Plates and 17 diagrams. 8vo. 1.20
WEIss (E.).—Entwickelungen zum Lagrange’schen Reversionstheorem u. Anwendung
derselben auf die Lésung der Kepler’schen Gleichung. Wien, 1#85. 8vo. 0.60
Entwickelungen zum Lagrange’schen Reversionstheorem u. Anwendung der-
selben auf die Losung der Keppler’schen Gleichung. Wien, 1885. 38 p. 4to. 2
WILLIAMS (W. M.).—The fuel of the sun. London, 1885. 244 p. 8vo. cloth. 7.80
W OcHENSCHRIFT fiir Astronomie, Meteorologie u. Geographie. Redig. v. H. J. Klein.
Jahrg. 1885 (52 Nrn.). Halle, 1885. 8vo. 9
Youne (C. A.).—Theories regarding the sun’s corona. NN. dm. Rev. (1885).
ZEITSCHRIFT fiir Instrumentenkunde. Organ fiir Mittheilungen aus dem gesammien
Gebiete der wissenschaftlichen Technik. Red. v. G. Schwirkus. Zahlr. Origi-

nalabbildgn. Jahrg. 5, 1885 (12 Hefte). Berlin, 1885. 4to. 18
ZEITSCHRIFT fiir mathematischen und naturwissenschaftlichen Unterricht, hersg. v.
J.C. V. Hoffmann. Jahrg. 16, 1885 (6 Hefte). Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 12
ZEITSCHRIFT fiir Mathematik und Physik, hersg. v. O. Schlémilch, E. Kah) u. M.
Cantor. Jahrg. 30, 1885 (6 Hefte). Leipzig, 1885. 8vo. 18

NECROLOGY OF ASTRONOMERS : 1885.

BAEYER (Gen. J. J.), President of the Central Bureau for European Triangulation
and of the Royal Prussian Geodetic Institute; b. November 5, 1794; d. September
10, 1885.

VON BOGUSLAWSKI (GEORG); b. December 7, 1827; d. May 4, 1884.

CLAUSEN (TH.), Director emeritus of the Dorpat Observatory ; d. May 25, 1885.

FOLAIN ( ), Assistant astronomer at the Paris Observatory; b. 1828; d. at
Paris, May 26, 1885.

HARTNUP (JOHN), Superintendent of the Liverpool Observatory; b. January 7,
1806; d. October 20, 1885.

Houwtt (ANDREAS), Chronometer-maker, Amsterdam; d. September 26, 1885,
wt. 82.

SIDEBOTHAM (JOSEPH); b. January 17, 1824; d. May 24, 1885.

WEBB (fev. THOMAS WILLIAM); b. December 14, 1807; d. May 19, 1885.

Wray (WILLIAM), Optician; b. December 6, 1829, d. ———, 1885.

LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES.

By GrorGr H. BoEUMER.

I. AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES.

AKRON, Ohio.

Buchtel College Observatory.
ALBANY, New York.

Dudley Observatory.
ALFRED CENTRE, New York.

Observatory of Alfred University.
ALLEGHENY City, Pennsylvania.

Allegheny Observatory.
AMHERST, Massachusetts.

The Lawrence Observatory of Amherst College.
ANNAPOLIS, Maryland.

United States Naval Academy Observatory.
ANN ARBOR, Michigan.

Detroit Observatory.
BALTIMORE (near), Maryland.

Denmore Observatory.
BARNESVILLE, Ohio.

Olney Observatory.
BATTLE CREEK, Michigan.

High School Observatory.
BELOIT, Wisconsin.

Smith Observatory of Beloit College.
BROOKLYN, New York.

Private Observatory of Mr. W. T. Gregg.

Private Observatory of Mr. James W. Ward.
BUFFALO, New York.

Private Observatory of Mr. Henry Mills.
CAMBRIDGE, Massachusetts.

Private Observatory ot Mr. E, L. Trouvelot.

The Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College.
CAMBRIDGEPORT, Massachusetts.

Private Observatory of Mr. HE. I’. Sawyer.
CHICAGO, Lllinois.

Dearborn Observatory.
457
eee ty ate ad

Ad58 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

CINCINNATI, Ohio.

Cincinnati Observatory (at Mount Lookout).

YLINLON, New York.

Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton College.
COLUMBIA, Missouri.

The Laws Observatory, University of the State of Missouri.
CoLuMBus, Ohio.

Private Observatory of R. W. McFarlane.
CRETE, Nebraska.

Boswell Observatory of Doane College.
DUBUQUE, Jova.

Dubuque Observatory.
EASTON, Pennsylvania.

La Fayette College Observatory.
ELIZABETH, New Jersey.

Observatory of Mr. Charles W. Plyer.
Dur WEst, South Carolina.

Astronomical Observatory of Erskine College.
FORDHAM, New York.

Private Observatory of Mr. Meikleham (removed to RIVERDALE,

New York).

Forr Dope, Lowa.

Private Observatory of Mr. F. Hess.
GEORGETOWN, District of Columbia.

Observatory of Georgetown College.
GLASGOW, Missouri.

Morrison Observatory.
GREENCASTLE, Indiana.

McKim Observatory.
HANOovEn, New Hampshire.

Shattuck Observatory.
Hasrines, New York.

Private Observatory of Mr. Henry Draper.
HAVERFORD COLLEGE, Pennsylvania.

Haverford College Observatory.
Hupson, Ohio.

Hudson Observatory.
Iowa Crtry, Iowa.

Private Observatory of Mr. C. W. Irish.
LANSING, Michigan.

State Agricultural College Observatory.
LINWwoop, Ohio.

Private Observatory of R. H. McClure.
LAWRENCE, Kansas.

Observatory of the Kansas State University.
LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 159

MADISON, Wisconsin.

The Washburn Observatory.
Mount HAmiIuton, California.

Lick Observatory (Lick Astronomical Department of the Univer-

sity of California).

Mount Lookout, Ohio.

Cincinnati Observatory.
MIDDLETOWN, Connecticut.

Observatory of Wesleyan College.
NASHVILLE, Tennessee.

Private Observatory of Mr. E. KE. Barnard.
NEW BRUNSWICK, New Jersey.

Observatory of Rutgers College.
NEw HAVEN, Connecticut. 4

Winchester Observatory of Yale College.
NEW ORLEANS, Louisiana.

Observatory.
NEw Winpsor, Illinois.

Private Observatory of Mr. Edgar L. Larkin.
NEWINGTON, Connecticut.

Private Observatory of Mr. D. W. Edgecomb.
NEw York, Nev York.

Columbia College Observatory.

Private Observatory of Mr. L. M. Rutherfurd.
NORTHFIELD, Minnesota.

Carleton College Astronomical Observatory.
OMAHA, Nebraska.

Creighton College Observatory.
OXFORD, Mississippi.

Observatory of the University of Mississippi.
PHELPS, New York.

Red House Observatory.
PHILADELPHIA, Pennsylvania.

Central High School Observatory.
POUGHKEEPSIE, New York.

Vassar College Observatory.
PRINCETON, New Jersey.

Halstead Observatory.

Observatory of the John C. Green School of Science.
PROVIDENCE, Rhode Island.

Seagrave Observatory.
RIVERDALE, New York.

Private Observatory of Mr. William Meikleham.
ROCHESTER, New York.

Warner Observatory.
460 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Saint Louis, Missouri.

Observatory of Washington University.
San Josh, California. (See Mount Hamilton.)
SoutH BETHLEHEM, Pennsylvania.

Sayre Observatory of Lehigh University.
SoutH HaDuey, Massachusetts.

Observatory of Mount Holyoke Seminary.
SPICELAND, Indiana.

Private Cbservatory of Mr. William Dawson.
TARRYTOWN, New York.

Private Observatory of Mr. Charles Rockwell.
Troy, New York.

Williams Proudfit  bservatory.
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Post-OFFICE, Virginia.

Leander McCormick Observatory.
VEVAY, Indiana.

Private Observatory of Mr. Charles G. Boerner.
WASHINGTON, District of Columbia.

United States Naval Observatory.
WEST Point, New York.

West Point Observatory.
WILLETS Point, New York.

Field Observatory, Engineer School of Application.
WILLIAMSTOWN, Massachusetts.

Williamstown Observatory.
YPSILANTI, Michigan.

State Normal School Observatory.

Il.—FOREIGN OBSERVATORIES.

ABERDEEN, Scotland. (See Dun Echt.)
ADELAIDE, South Australia.

Observatory Branch of Post and Telegraph Department.

ALGIERS, Algeria.
Observatoire National.
ALTONA, Prussia. ;
Sternwarte (transferred to Kiel, Prussia).
ANTWERP, Belgium.
Observatoire.
ARMAGH, /reland.
Observatory.
ASHURST, England.
Observatory.
ATHENS, Greece.
Observatoire.
BAMBERG, Bavaria.
Sternwarte.

i Sa
LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES.

BASEL, Switzerland.

Physikalisches Institut ‘“‘ Bernoullianum.”

BASSES PYRENEES, France.

M. @Abbadie’s Observatoire.

BEDFORD, England.

Observatory.
BENARES, India.
Observatory.

BERGEN, Norway.
Naval Observatory.

_ BERLIN, Prussia.

KOonigliche Universitaéts Sternwarte.

BERN, Switzerland.

Sternwarte.

BILK, Prussia. (See Diisseldorf.)
Tellurisches Observatorium.

BIRR CASTLE, Jreland.

Parsonstown Observatory.

BLENHEIMS PARK (Oxford County), Hngland.
Observatory.

Boeota, United States of Colombia.
Observatorio Astronémico Nacional.
Observatoire Flammarion.

BoLoana, Italy.

Osservatorio Astronomico.

BomBAY, India.

Government Observatory at Colaba.

Bonn, Prussia.

Universitiits Sternwarte.

BOOTHKAMP (near Kiel), Prussia.
Sternwarte des Herrn Kammerherr von Biilow.

BORDEAUX, France.

Observatoire.

BREMEN, Germany.

Observatorium der Navigations Schule.
Sternwarte des Herrn Olbers.

BRESLAU, Prussia.

Konigliche Universitits Sternwarte.

BRUSSELS, Belgium.

Observatoire Royal.

BREST, France.
Observatoire.

BupDAPEST, Hungary.
Polytechnikum.

441

K. Ung. Central Anstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnefismus,
462 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

BUKAREST, Rowmania.

Universitéts Sternwarte.
BusHy HEATH, Hngland.

Observatory.
Capiz, Spain. (See San Fernando.)
JATRO, Egypt.

Observatoire Khédivial.
CAMBRIDGE, England.

Cambridge Observatory.
CAPE Town, Africa.

Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope.
CATANIA, Italy.

Observatory on Mount Etna.
CARLSBURG, Hungary.

Sternwarte.
CHAPULTEPEC, Mexico. (See Tacubaya.)
CHRISTIANIA, Norway.

Universitéts Sternwarte.
CHURI'S, England.

Private Observatory. (Ceased to exist.)

CoimBRA, Portugal.

Observatorio Magnetico-Meteorologico da Universidade de Coim-

bra. ,

COLLOONEY, Ireland. (See Markree.)
COLOGNE, Prussia. (See Koln.)
COLOMBO (CEYLON), Asia.

Private Observatory of Mr. Green.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Turkey.

Observatoire (ordered to be erected, by the Sultan).
COPENHAGEN, Denmark.

Universitets Astronomiske Observatorium.
CORDOBA, Argentine Republic.

Observatorio Nacional Argentino.
Cork, Ireland. .

Observatory of Queen’s College.
Cracow, Austria. (See Krakau, Austria.)

CRONSTADT, Russia. (See Kronshtad, Russia.)
CROWBOROUGH, England.

Private Observatory of Mr. Charles Leeson Prince.
CZERNOWITZ, Austria.

Physikalisches Institut der K. K. Franz Josephs Universitat.
DANZIG, Prussia.

Observatorium der Naturforschenden Gesellschatt.
DERPT (Dorpat), Russia.

Imperatorskaia Astronomicheskaia Observatoria.
LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES.

DRESDEN, Saxony.
K@6nigliches Mathematisch Physikalisches Institut.
Sternwarte des Herrn K. von Engelhardt.
Sternwarte des Herrn Dr. Hugo Guericke.
DRONTHEIM, Norway.
Observatorium.
DUBLIN, [reland.
Dunsink Observatory.
Dun Ecut (Aberdeen), Scotland.
Dun Echt Observatory.
DuRHAM, England.
University Observatory.
DUSSELDORF, Prussia.
Sternwarte (formerly at Bilk, near Diisseldort).
EDINBURGH, Scotland.
Royal Observatory.
Ben Neirs Observatory.
ERLAU, Hungary.
Sternwarte.
ELSFLETH, Germany.
Observatorium der Navigations Schule.
EKATHERINEBOURG, Russia.
Magnetnaia e Meteorologicheskaia Observatoria.
FLORENCE, [taly.

Real Osservatorio Astronomico di Firenze ad Arcetri.

Osservatorio del R. Museo.
Osservatorio Meteorologico del R. Museo,
Usservatorio di San Giovannino (Ximeniano).
FRANKFORT,.a. M., Prussia.
Sternwarte des Herrn Dr. Epstein.
FUNCHAL, Madeira.
Observatory.
GALATZ, Roumania.
Private Sternwarte.
GENEVA, Switzerland.
. Observatoire de Genéve.
GENOA, Italy.
Osservatorio della R. Universita.
GEORGETOWN, British Guiana.
Observatory.
GLASGOW, Scotland.
Observatory.
GOHLIS (near Leipzig), Saxony.
Sternwarte des Herrn August Auerbach.
(rOTHA, Germany.
Sternwarte.

‘63
464 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

GGOTTINGEN, Prussia.
KGnigliche Sternwarte.
GRAZ, Austria.
Physikalisches Institut der k. k. Carl Franzens Universitat.
Universitiits Sternwarte.
GREENWICH, Lngland.
Royal Observatory.
HABANA, Cuba.
Observatorio del R. Collegio de Belen.
HALIFAX, England.
Bermerside Observatory, Skircoat.
HAMBURG, Germany.
Norddeutsche Seewarte.
Sternwarte.
HELSINGFORS, Finland.
Astronomiske Observatoriet.
HERENY, Hungary.
Observatorium.
Hone- Kona, China.
Observatory.
INNSBRUCK, Austria.

Physikalisches Institut der k. k. Leopold Franzens Universitat.

IpswicH, England.
Orwell Park Observatory.

JENA, Germany.
Sternwarte.

Kaocsa, Hungary.
Sternwarte.

KARLSRUHE, Baden.
Grossherzogliche Sternwarte.

KASAN, Russia.
Observatoria.

KENSINGTON, England.
Observatory.

Kew, England.
Observatory.

KHARKOFF, Russia.
Observatoria.

KIEL, Prussia.
KO6nigliche Sternwarte.

KIEFF, Russia.
Observatoria.

KILMARNOCK, Scotland.
Observatory.

KLAUSENBURG, Hungary.
Sternwarte.

——

LSS
“LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES.

KJGOBENHAVN, Denmark. (See Copenhagen, Denmark.)
KOLN. Prussia.
Sternwarte.
KONIGSBERG, Prussia.
Universitéits-Sternwarte.
KRAKAU, Austria.
K. k. Universitéts-Sternwarte.
KREMSMUNSTER, Austria.
Sternwarte der Benediktiner Abtei.
KRONSTADY, Russia.
Morskaia Astronomischeskaia Observatoria.
Compassnaia Observatoria.
LEIDEN. (See Leyden.)
LUIPZIG, Saxony.
Universitéts-Sternwarte.
Sternwarte des Herrn Dr. Rudolf Engelmann.
LEMBERG, Austria.
Sternwarte der Technischen Hochschule.
LEYDEN, Holland.
Rijks-Observatorium.
Leyton, Hngland.
Barclay Observatory (private).
LikeE, Belgium.
National Observatory. (?)
Lispon, Portugal.

Real Observatorio Astronomico de Lisboa (Tapada da Ajuda).

Observatorio da Marinha.

Observatorio Astronomico na Kscola Polytechnica.
LIVERPOOL, Hngland.

Observatory, Birkenhead.
Lonpon, England.

Tulse Hili Observatory. ‘
LOUVAIN, Belgium. ;

Observatoire de M. le Docteur Terby.
LUBECK, Germany.

Sternwarte.
Lucknow, India.

‘}bservatory.
LuND, Sweden.

Lund Observatoriet.
Lyon, France.

Observatoire Astronomique et Météorologique.
MApDRAS, Jndia.

Madras Observatory.
MADRID, Spain.

Observatorio de Madrid.

H. Mis. 15——50

465
466 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

MANILA, Philippine Islands.

Observatorio del Ateneo Municipal.
MANNHEIM, Baden.

Grossherzogliche Sternwarte (transferred to Karlsruhe).
MARBURG, Germany.

Sternwarte.
MARKREE, J/reland.

Markree Observatory.
MARSEILLE, France.

Observatoire.
MELBOURNE, Victoria, Australia.

Melbourne Observatory.
MeEupon, France.

Observatoire @Astronomie Physique.
Mu xico, Mexico.

Observatorio.
MILAN, Jtaly.

R. Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera.
MODENA, [taly.

Osservatorio.
MONCALIERI, Italy.

Osservatorio del R. Collegio Carlo Alberto.
MONTREAL, Canada.

MeGill College Observatory.
MonrvsOURIS (Paris), France.

Observatoire de Montsouris.
Moscow, Russia.

Observatoria.
MUNCHEN (Munich), Bavaria.

Konigliche Sternwarte, Bogenhausen.
MUNSTER, Prussia.

Sternwarxte.
NAPLES (Napoli), Jtaly.

R. Osservatorio, Capo di Monte.
NATAL, S. Africa.

Natal Observatory.
NEUCHATEL, Switzerland.

Observatoire Cantonale.
Nick, France.

Observatoire.
NICOLAEF, Russia.

Nicolaevskaia, Observatoria.
NOTTINGHAM, England.

Private Observatory of Mr. Thomas W. Bush.
ODESSA, Russia.

Sternwarte.
LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. AGT

OFEN, Hungary. (See Budapest, Hungary.)
O’GYALLA, Hungary.

Astro-Physikalisches Observatorium.
OLMUTZ, Austria.

Sternwarte (discontinued).

OxFoRD, England.
Radcliffe Observatory.
Savilian Observatory.

PADOVA (Padua), Italy.

Osservatorio Astronomico dell’? Universita.
VALERMO, Italy.

R. Osservatorio.

PARAMATTA, New South Wales, Australia.

Observatory (transferred to Sydney, New South Wales).
PARIS, France.

Observatoire National.

PARMA, Italy.

R. Osservatorio Astronomico.
PARSONSTOWN, Ireland. (See Birr Castle, Lreland.)
PEKIN, China.

Observatory of the Imperial Russian Embassy.
Pisa, Italy.

Osservatorio.

PLONSK, Russia.

Observatory of Dr. Jederzejewitz.
PoLa, Austria.

Nautisches Observatorium.

Port Louis, Mauritius.

Royal Alfred Observatory.
PortTsMoUTH, England.

Observatory.

POTSDAM, Prussia.

Astro-Physikalisches Observetorium.
PRAG (Prague), Austria.

K. k. Universitéts Sternwarte.
PULKOVO, Russia.

Nicolaevskaia Glavnaia Observatoria.
Puy-LE-DOmE, France.

Observatoire.

QUEBEC, Canada.
Observatory.

Qurro, Heuador.

Observatorio del Colegio Nacional.
RICHMOND (Surrey), England.

Kew Observatory of the Royal Society.
468 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Rio DE JANEIRO, Brazil.
Imperial Nautical Observatory.
RomeE, Italy.
Osservatorio Astronomico del Collegio Romano.
Osservatorio Capitolino.
huesy, Hngland.
Temple Observatory.
RUNGSDORF (near Bonn), Prussia.
Sternwarte.
SAINT CROIX, Antilles.
Observatoire.
Sr. JoHN’s, New Brunswick.
Observatory.
SAtGon, Prench Cochin- China.
Observatoire.
SAN FERNANDO, Spain.
Instituto y Observatorio de Marina de San Fernando.
SANTIAGO, Chile.
Observatorio Nacional.
SCHWERIN, Mecklenburg.
Geodetisches Observatorium.
SENFTENBERG, Bohemia.
Sternwarte des Baron Perish (ceased to exist).
SLtouGcH, England.
Observatory.
SoutH KiLwortaH, Lngland.
Observatory.:
SPEYER, Bavaria.
Sternwarte des Kéniglichen Lyceums (ceased to exist).
Sr. HELENA, St. Helena.
Observatory.
Sr. PETERSBURG, Russia.
Observatoria Akademii Nauk.
Zentralnaia Fisitcheskaia Observatoria.
STARFIELD, Hngland.
Observatory.
STOCKHOLM, Sweden. i
Observatorium.
STONYHURST COLLEGE (near Whuiley), England.
Stonyhurst College Observatory.
STRASSBURG, Germany.
Sternwarte.
Sypney, New South Wales, Australia.
Government Observatory.
TACUBAYA, Mexico. |
Observatorio Astronémico Nacional Mexicano,
LIST OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. AGY

TACHKENT, Russia.
pce Astronomique et Physique de Tachkent.
TIFLIS, Russia.
Observatoria.
Tokio, Japan.
Observatory of the Daigaku.
Torino (Turin), Jtaly.
Regio Osservatorio dell’ Universita.
TOULON, France.
Observatoire de la Marine.
TOULOUSE, France. ‘
Observatoire de Toulouse.
TREVANDRUM, India.
His Highness the Maha Rajah’s Observatory.
TRIESTE, Austria.
Astronomisches und Meteorologisches Observatorium der k. k.
Nautischen und Handels Akademie.
TUNBRIDGE WELLS, Hngland. (See Crowborough, England.)
TWICKENHAM, Hngland.
Observatory of Mr. Hind.
UPPSALA, Sweden.
Universitets Observatoriet.
UrrecH?, Holland.
Observatorium.
VALENCIA, Ireland.
Observatory of the London Meteorological Office.
VARSHAVA (Warsaw), Russia.
Astronomicheskaia Observatoria.
VENICE, Italy.
Observatory of the Naval Institute.
VERONA, Italy. .
Osservatorio.
VIENNA, Austria. (See Wien, Austria.)
VILNA, Russia.
Astronomicheskaia Observatoria,
VIVIERS, France.
Observatoire.
WARSAW, Ktussia. (See Varshava, Russia.)
WELLINGTON, New Zealand.
Government Observatory.
WHALLEY, England. (See Stonyhurst College, England.)
WIEN, Austria.
K. K. Universitats Sternwarte in Wihring.
Sternwarte der Technischen Hochschule.
Sternwarte des Herrn Prof. Dr. Th. von Oppolzer.
Observatorium, Hohe Warte.
ATO SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

WILLIAMSTOWN, Victoria. :
Observatory (transferred to Melbourne).
WILHELMSHAVEN, Prussia.
Kaiserliche Marine Sternwarte. ,
Winpbsor, New South Wales.
Observatory of Mr. John Tebbut.
ZIKAWEI, China.
Observatory.
ZURICH, Switzerland.
Sternwarte des Schweizerischen’ Polytechnikums.

VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY.

By C. G. Rockwoop, JR.,
Professor of Mathematics in the College of New Jersey, Princeton, N. J.

In consequence of the early publication of this summary it has been
impossible to make it as full as the author had intended, especially with
respect to foreign publications. In its preparation the following have
been carefully examined, viz: Science, vols. V, V1; Nature, vols. XXX1,
XXx11; American Journal of Science, (III,) vols. XX1Ix, Xxx; Comptes
Rendus, vols. c, cL; La Nature, 13th year, vois. 1, 11; L’Astronomie, 4th
year; Neu Jahrbuch fiir Mineralcgie, ete., 1885; Transactions Seismo-
logical Society of Japan, vol. ViIl; Proceedings American Association
for Advancement of Science, vol. XXxiiI. In respect to these the bibli-
ography may be regarded as complete, and all important articles are
noticed in the summary. Other periodicals and books have been con-
sulted as opportunity offered, but without a full examination. The
bibliography attached to the present summary also contains some titles
which properly should have been included in that of last year, but which
had not then come to the author’s notice ; and in like manner omissions
in the present list will be supplied, so far as possible, in a future issue.

The subject-matter will be arranged under the following heads :

Vuleanology.

Volcanic phenomena of 1885.
Volcanic phenomena of previous years.
Causes of voleanic action.

Seismology.
Karthquakes of 1885.
Rarthquake lists of 1884.
Karthquake catalogues of previous years.
Study of earthquakes.

Seismometry.

Instruments and their records.
472 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.
VULCANOLOGY.

The voleanic activity during 1885 continued to be of a very moderate
character, as had been the case in 1884, and again the East Indies ap-
pears to have been the scene of its most violent development.

In April, 1885, the state of Krakatoa caused some anxiety, as subter-
ranean sounds were heard in the neighborhood day after day, but no
outbreak occurred. (Nature, xxx1r: 161.)

On April 17 and 18 a violent eruption of Smeru, the largest and most
active volcano in Java, occurred, by which the side of the mountain for
one-third of the way down was described as burst open and emitting
lava and mud. (Nature, XxxiI: 101.)

Several other Javanese volcanoes also manifested signs of Schnee
which was again further reported as recurring in June and July, es-
pecially by another eruption of Smeru on July 8 and 9. Accounts of
these eruptions are meager and vague, but they apparently involved
the destruction of many coffee plantations, and some loss of life. (Ma-
ture, XXXII: 401; La Nature, 11: 102.)

On May 2, 1885, lava began to flow from a rent in the side of the cone
of eruption of Vesuvine: and continued for some days. According to
Johuston Lavis, who visited the spot, this outburst of Java did not in-
dicate any great increase of volcanic activity, but was simply the break-
ing through the cone of a dike which had been in process of slow forma-
tion during several years, being thus a repetition of what happened in
December, 1881. (Nature, xxx: 55, 108.) The lava came near the
station of the mountain railway, but did not damage the road, aithough
its use was interrupted for a time. (La Nature, t: 398.)

On the morning of July 23, 1885, an eruption of Cotopaxi occurred,
with considerable emission of lava, which caused some damage and loss
of life, but it is not yet known how great. (Nature, XXXII: 375, 428.)

Grewingk, the voleano at Bogosloff Island, was seen by Lieutenant
Stoney’s exploring party in the summer of 1885. It was emitting less
smoke than in the pacwices year, but no other important change was
noticed. (Science, V1: 279.)

Advices from Alaska in the summer also report the volcano of Cher-
nabura, or St. Augustin, in Cook’s Inlet, as still pouring out smoke
and steam from innumerable fissures. (Science, V1: 95.)

The New Zealand Herald, of November 3, 1885, contained an account

of a new voleano which has appeared in the Pacific Ocean. It burst,

forth on October 12 or 13, 1885, about fourteen or fifteen miles north-
northwest of the island of Honga Tonga in the Friendly Group. It was
visited on October 14 by a party from Tonga, and was found to have
formed an island two or three miles long and some sixty feet high. As
it was in continuous eruption, of course a close examination was im-
possible, The position of this new voleano is in latitude 20° 21’ south.
longitude 175° 25’ west. (Science, VII: 69.)
VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. AT3

The first part of Verbeek’s Report on the Krakatoa eruption, issued
by the Dutch Kast Indian Government (Batavia, 1884), dealt with the
prior history of the island and the events of the catastroplic itself, leaving
to the second part the scientific results of the investigation. The edi-
tor examined 1,300 reports of eye-witnesses, and has endeavored from
them to construct a chronological statement of the events preceding and
accompanying the eruption. (Nature, xxxI: 279.) The second part
has now been completed, and has fully realized the expectations raised
by the publication of the first part. It contains twenty-five colored draw-
ings and forty-three maps, and reflects the greatest credit not only on the
author, but on the Dutch Indian Government which sent him to study
the causes and effects of this catastrophe, and which so efficiently aided
him in the work. A few of his conclusions may be mentioned here.
Krakatoa lies at the intersection of three fissures in the earth’s crust,
and the earthquake of September 1, 1880, which damaged the light-house
on Java’s First Point, probably affected the Sunda fissure and facilitated
the entrance cof greater quantities of water to the volcanic furnace be-
neath. Here may be found the remote cause of the outburst of 18883.
The geology of Krakatoa is presented by two maps and four sections
showing different stages of its development, the formation of the peak
Rakata by a lateral eruption, the addition of the two parasitic cones of
Danan and Perbvewatan, and finally their destruction by the explosion
of 1883. The first three stages antedate any authentic records. In the
last stage Perbvewatan became aetive in May, 1883, Danan joined it in
June, and in August both these with half of Rakata were destroyed and
are now covered by the sea. Portions of the pumice from the eruption
were carried westward to the coast of Africa. Another portion, after
floating for months in the straits, was, in 1884, driven eastward, and in
1885 was encountered in the Pacific Ocean near the Caroline Islands.
(Nature, XXxI: 288.) The author expected that this might reach the
west coast of America early in 1886. The distance to which the explo-
sions were heard is illustrated by a map, and the curious fact that certain
detonations were heard at distant places. and not noticed at nearer ones
is attributed to the presence of a dense ash cloud surrounding the peak
and checking the transmission of sound through the lower atmosphere.
About seventy pages are devoted to a discussion of the atmospheric wave
which made thecireuit of the globe. With the aid of accurate barograms
from Sydney, N.S. W., and from Batavia he was able to calculate tle
hour of the greatest explosion and origin of the wave as 10 hours 2 min-
utes a. m., Krakatoa time. Forty places are named where the passage
of the air-wave was recorded by barometers. Treating of changes in
the sea bottom, he says the northern part of Krakatoa is now covered
by the sea to a depth of 200 to 300 meters, and within the ring of islands
which are fragments of the old crater-ring an area of 41 square kilom-
eters has subsided. Outside these islands also the sea is deeper than
formerly over an area of 34 square kilometers, so that in all there has
A474 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

been a subsidence of about 75 square kilometers. There has been no
elevation of the sea bottom other than that caused by the fallen mate-
rials ejected from the voleano. After a discussion of the great sea-
waves which caused so much devastation, and the greatest of which
started at 10 hours 2 minutes a. m., the time of the greatest explosion,
a chapter is devoted to other voleanic phenomena taking place during
the Krakatoa eruption, within or beyond the Indian Archipelago, even
to the antipodes, especially other voleanoes in Sumatra and Java and
earthquakes in Australia. In conclusion the author maintains the doc-
trine that part of our globe is still in a molten state, and disputes the
theory that the heat of the voleano is entirely due to chemical action.
(Nature, Xxx: 601.) A review of Verbeek’s work by E. Metzger, is
published in Petermann’s Mittheilungen, 1886, Hft. I.

In a series of articles in La Nature M. Breon gives a very interesting
account of the visit made by M. Corthals and himself to the Strait of
Sunda and Krakatoa in May, 1884, being sent out by the French min-
ister of public instruction. The apparent division of the small island
Dwars-in-den-Weg into four fragments was found to consist simply in
the denudation of the low parts of the island of their verdure by
the great sea-wave, while the higher portions escaped. At the head of
Lampong Bay they found Telok Betong entirely destroyed, and the
place where it stood now occupied by a marsh. Passing up the course
of the small river which empties into this bay, they found the steamer
Barrow stranded across the stream. and surrounded by a luxuriant
growth of tropical vegetation. The island of Sebesie was covered with
ashes to a depth of ten meters, and every one of its 2,000 inhabitants
perished. In one place the visitors came upon the remains of a village
where were found the skeletons of fifty victims of the catastrophe. The
ephemeral islands of Steers and Calmeyer had already disappeared be-
neath the waves; having endured less than a year. Coming to Kra-
katoa its condition is described. The frequent fall of stones down its
sides, simulating renewed volcanic activity, was attributed to the in-
fluence of solar heat causing unequal expansion. The phenomenon
was at its maximum when the mountain was exposed to the direct rays
of the sun, and almost ceased during the night. They landed upon
Krakatoa, and also upon Verlaten and Lang islands, and although nine
months had elapsed, the recent deposits still exhibited an elevated
temperature in places. The account of their visit closes with a résume
of the geological characteristics of Krakatoa. It is illustrated by a
number of views reproduced from photographs. A condensed account
of the above is reproduced in Science (VI: 291).

Professor Forel admits as not impossible that the Krakatoa explosion
was the origin of certain subterranean noises heard on August 28, 1883,
at the island of Caiman Brac, in the Lesser Antilles, situated near. the
antipodes of Krakatoa. Observers compared the noise to that of a dis-
tant cannonade. It agreed tolerably well in time with the Krakatoa
VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. AT5

explosion, and there was no other volcanic eruption to which it could
be attributed, its connection with the known eruptions of Ometepec or
of Cotopaxi or with some otherwise unnoticed submarine eruption being
considered and rejected. (Nature, xxx1: 483; La Nature, 1: 362.)

Mr. Henry Cecil suggests that if the synchronism of these noises at
Caiman Brac and Krakatoa is admitted it does not follow that the noise
was propagated from Krakatoa through the globe. Both may have
originated from a disturbance taking place deep within the earth.
(Nature xxx1: 506.) Similar subterranean detonations were reported
as heard on August 27 and 28 in San Domingo, in San Salvador, and at
Antioquia, in Colombia. (Compt. Rend., c: 1314, 1315.)

Dr. Fr. Schneider, of Soerabaya, has discussed (Jahrb. K. K. Geol.
Reichsanst. Wien, 1885) the volcanic condition of the Sunda Islands and
the Moluccas, and thinks that the importance of the Krakatoa eruption
has been greatly overestimated. Whether in the extent of its earth-
quake circle, the amount of ashes thrown out, or the distance to which
the ashes were thrown, it has been much surpassed by other volcanoes
of Java, notably by the eruption of Temboro in 1815. After discussing
the probable mode of formation of Java by the junction of three islands
once separate, he describes in some detail the position and relations of
the principal Javan volcanoes, especially in relation to the earthquakes
recorded in their several districts.

Prof. J. Kiessling, of Hamburg, and F. A. Forel have both published
-valuable papers ou the reddish corona about the sun. Both writers
conclude that there is no question of the connection of the ring with the
famous sunset glows and of the origin of both of these phenomena in
the dust cloud thrown out from Krakatoa. (Science, V1: 159.)

J. Denza and also A. Boillot, commenting betore the Paris Academy on
the reappearance of the sunglows in the summer of 1885, think they are
not due to Krakatoa dust but to vapor of water. (Compt. Rend., cI:
1032.) ;

In Nature there is figured and described some of the apparatus by
means of which Professor Kiessling produced artificially effects similar
to the cloud glows. It consists essentially of a glass globe through
which a beam of light from a heliostat may be passed and within which
the desired condition of suspended dust or vapor may be produced.
(Nature, xxx1: 439.)

C. E. Dutton deseribes, from personal observation, the appearance
presented in the summer of 1885, by Feather Lake, Plumas County,
California. This was thought to have been the scene of the most recent
volcanic eruption within the limits of the United States, stated by J.
Bb. Trask to have occurred in 1850. The lava emitted forms a field about
three and a quarter miles long by one mile wide, with an average thick-
ness of over 100 feet. ‘The cone of scoriz and lapilli covering the vent
is 600 feet high and of extremely perfect form, showing as yet no rain
' channels even. For a space of four or five hundred yards from it the
~

476 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

trees were all] killed and their fallen and partly decayed trunks are still
lying on the ground. All appearances confirm the date assigned by
Trask, although at that time it was not probably seen by any persons
but the Indians. (Science, v1: 46.)

George Davidson adds to this accounts of smoke seen from a distance
to issue from Mount Baker in 1854, 1858, and 1870, and seeming to in-
dicate eruptions of that mountain, but the locality has not been visited
and no details of them are known. It is not impossible that still other
evidences of recent volcanic activity may be found in those sections of
our country as they come to be more fully explored. (Science, vi: 262.)

In the narrative (vol. i) of the Challenger Expedition the voicano of
Camiguin Island, which burst forth in 1871, is described and a plate
given, which is reproduced in Nature, Xxxi1: 250.

An English Parliamentary blue book (Corea, No. 3, 1885) contains
a description by Mr. Carles, the vice-consul at Seoul, of a vast Java field
in Corea, which is said to exceed even those in Iceland. (Nature, Xxxi:
403.)

In a memoir of 137 pages printed in the Fourth Annual Report of the
United States Geological Survey, Captain Dutton gives a detailed ac-
count of his visit to and examination of the voleanoes of the Sandwich
Islands in 1882, and applies the results to a discussion of the volcanic
problem. Heexamines the various theories suggested by different writers
to account for the production of volcanoes, and considers what new light
is thrown upon each by his observations, but does not pronounce de-
cidedly in favor of any one of the theories stated.

At a meeting of the British Royal Society (April 16, 1885), Prof.
Joseph Prestwich presented an interesting paper ‘On the agency of
water in Volcanic Eruptions” and other related topics. Admitting as
an established fact thet the vapor of water plays an important part in
many voleani¢ eruptions, it still remains an open question whether its
agency is to be regarded as primary or secondary, and how it may have
reached that part of the earth’s crust where its force must be exerted to
produce an eruption. The author reviews the opinions of Daubeny Mal-
let and Poulett Scrope, especially of the latter as the explanation most
generally accepted by geologists. This holds that the outflow of lava
is caused by the expansion of volumes of steam generated in the molten
mass beneath the eruptive orifice. The author questions the possibility
of water penetrating the solid crust of the earth to a sufficient depth to
reach a molten magma within, finding a main difficulty in thermo-dy-
namic considerations connected with the excessive pressure which must
result at comparatively moderate depths and temperatures. But the
most weighty objection to the theory is found in the absence of any dis-
tinct relation between the discharge of lava and that of vapor. There
are numerous instances in the history of Etna, of Santorin, and especi-
ally of Mauna Loa where vast discharges of lava have occurred, not

only without steam explosions, but with almost the quiet ofa water spring.

HSS =
VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. ATT

On the other hand, paroxysmal eruptions often begin with a violent
burst, followed by a series of explosions, with but little extrusion of lava,
wud sometimes with absolutely none at all, only scorize being emitted,
as at Cosaguina and Krakatoa. The author would account for the pres-
ence of great quantities of water in some eruptions by the admission of
the surface waters, or sometimes of sea water, to the volcanic duct dur-
ing the eruption itself, and gives diagrams of the altered water levels
about a volcano during an eruption to show the possibility of such ad-
missions. Concluding, then, that water plays only a secondary part in
originating voleanic phenomena, he is inclined to recur to the old hy-
pothesis of a comparatively thin, flexible earth-crust resting upon a
molten substratum; but instead of adopting anew the theory of a fluid
interior to the earth, which physical reasoning has shown to be untenable,
he thinks the phenomena are best accounted for by the supposition of a
thin crust, resting on a viscid layer also of no great thickness, and wrap-
ping round a solid nucleus. He concludes that the viscid magma thus —
compressed between two solid layers by the secular contraction of the
globe is extruded where it may find or make an opening. And while
the extravasation of lava is due to these causes, the presence of vapor
is due only to the surface and underground waters with which the lava
comes in contact as it rises through the volcanic duct. (Nature, XxXxt:
592.)

Similar opinions as to the part played by water in volcanic outbursts,
and the source from which the water is derived, were expressed before
the Geological Society by H. J. Johnston-Lavis. (Nature, Xxxxi1: 69.)

The discussion of the theoretical form of volcanic cones, begun by Pro-
fessor Milne in 1878 and 1879 (Geol. Mag.), is renewed and carried on by
George F’. Becker. (Am. Jour. Sct., XXX: 283.) Milne had regarded the
problem as being that of the form assumed by loose materials, cinders,
ashes, etc., and concludes that it would be that generated by the revolu-
tion of a logarithmic curve round its asymptote. But Becker regards the
mountain as essentially a continuous mass, and deduces the equation of
the curve, which by its revolution will generate the finite unloaded column

x x

. sy . a . 9 c —Eéec r °
of “ least variable resistance,” for which he finds YF ‘This
c 2

isa special case of the equation 7» — A e+ Be Which he has elsewhere
shown to characterize the arrangement of sheets of rock in a complex
fault, and which belongs also to several other physical phenomena. On
comparing graphically this theoretical curve with actual outlines drawn
from photographs of voleanic cones, as with Fusiyama and Kumagatake
in Japan, and Hood and Popocatapetl in America, the similarity of the
several outlines is at once evident.

Velain’s book ‘Les Voleans” is briefly reviewed by Captain Duttou,
stating the contents of the several chapters, with comments thereon.
(Science, vi: 255.)
478 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

On February 16, 1885, the French Academy of Sciences appointed a
committee to consider communications regarding voleanic and seismic
phenomena. The members of this committee are MM. Daubrée, Jamin,
Hébert, Fouqué, and A. Gaudry. (Compt. Rend., c: 438.)

SEISMOLOGY.

The earthquake of January 2, 1885, in Maryland and West Virginia
was studied by Professor Rockwood, and the results were published in
Science (v: 129), with a map of the area affected. It was most severe in
the southern part of Frederick County, Maryland, and affected an area
of about 2,500 square miles, whose center was somewhat south of Lees-
burg, Va.

On May 13, 1885, and following days, a destructive earthquake oe.
curred in Cashmere, and the series of shocks was renewed at intervals
for at least a month thereafter. Many villages were destroyed, with
the formation of crevasses and landslides, and the loss of life reached
3,081 persons, besides 25,000 sheep and goats and 5,000 cattle. The
number of dwellings destroyed was estimated dt 75,000. The Indian
Government sent a geological surveyor to report on the scientific
aspects of this catastrophe. (Nature, Xxxi1: 207.)

The earthquake which has attracted the most attention during the
past year occurred in the provinces of Granada an:! Malaga in Southern
Spain. It was made the subject of special investigation by commis-
sions appointed by the Spanish Government and by the French Acad-
emy of Sciences. The first and most violent shock occurred on the
evening of December 25, 1884, but the shocks were repeated at frequent
intervals through the remaining days of December, and through Janu-
ary, 1885, and even in March and April they were still felt occasionally.
The connection of this earthquake with the disturbed geological charac-
ter of the Peninsula was discussed in various places by J. Macpherson,
A. F. Nogués, and others, and most interesting results were reached,
but thev cannot be stated with sufficient brevity for insertion here.
(See Comptes Rendus, La Nature, Nature, de.)

‘The commission appointed by the Spanish Government, as above
mentioned, made a preliminary report of their labors and conclusions up
to March 7, 1885. (Bibliography, No. 21.) It forms a pamphlet of 107
pages octavo, accompanied by two reproductions of photographs of the
destruction caused by the shock. It deals quite fully with the matter
in hand, and states conclusions which, though often only negative, are
yet of interest. Beginning with a statement of the theories proposed
by various writers to account tor earthquakes, it proceeds to give a de-
scription of the orography and hydrography of the two provinces of
Granada and Malaga, and then devotes twenty-one pages to the geology
of the same district, describing in detail the rock formation, with the
location and direction of its principal fault-lines. The area affected by
the earthquake is described as bounded toward the north by Madrid

rl
s
ial
)
Y
A
th

——

ar

Pe ee ee ee

~
VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 479

and Segovia, toward the west by Caceres and Huelva, toward the east
by Valencia and Murcia, and on the south by the Mediterranean; but
the tremor of the earth was also indicated by instruments even so far
distant as Rome and Brussels and Wilhelmshaven. (Natwre, xxx: 491.)
Examination of the direction of the cracks in the ground and in build-
ings, as well as of the curves of intensity estimated according to the
Rossi-Forel seale, leads to the conclusion that the focus is to be found
in the valley of Zaffaraya, where the greatest damage was caused. The
latter half of the report is occupied with the physical, magnetic, barom-
etric, and other phenomena attending the earthquake. The number of
buildings injured in the two provinces is stated at 17,178, of which 4,399
are classed as totally destroyed. The injured persons numbered 745
dead, and 1,485 wounded. In discussing the cause of this earthquake
the commission accepts the Italian theories, attributing earthquakes to
the tension of the vapor of water in the subjacent strata. The valley
of Zaffaraya, indicated above as the probable focus, is a locality where
much water gathers and easily penetrates beneath the surface, and to
the vapor of high tension produced from the water here collected in
deep lying strata are attributed the forces which gave rise to the present
earthquake. The commission consisted of M. F. de Castro, J. P. Lasala,
Daniel de Cortazar, and J. Gonzalo y Tarin.

On March 2, M. Fouqué gave to the French Academy a preliminary
report on the exploration which the committee under his charge had
made of the phenomena of the Spanish earthquakes. The committee
consisted of MM. Fouqué, Lévy, Bertrand, Barrois, Offret, Kilian,
and Bergeron, and was accompanied by M. Breon. This first commu-
nication speaks only of their journey, the facilities afforded by the Span-
ish authorities, and certain phenomena observed, reserving the diseus-
sion of theoretical questions to another time. (Compt. Rend., Cc: 598.)

The full reports of the French committee may be found in Comptes
Kendus Tome c, and besides a general consideration of the phenomena
and their cause, they include two specia! reports on the geology of the
district by members detailed for that purpose. In the general con-
clusions reached they agree with the Spanish commission, and fix the
centrum in an elliptical area surrounding Zaffaraya; but in regard to
the cause of the disturbance M. Fouqué rejects the theory which at-
tributes it to the local tension of water vapor, and would refer it rather
to the general volcanic forces within the globe.

The Meteorologische Zeitschrift tor February, 1885, contained a notice
by Dr. Escbenhagen on the effect which was apparently produced by
the Andalusian earthquakes on the magnetic apparatus at Wilhelms-
haven. The effect seems to have been not at all of a magnetic charae-
ter, but purely mechanical, the delicately suspended magnets acting as
the pendulum of a seismoscope. Attempts to draw from the observed
times some inference as to the rate of propagation of the disturbance
480 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

were deprived of value by the uncertainty of time at the origin in An-
dalusia. (Nature, Xxx: 491.)

C. W.C. Fuchs, in his twentieth annual report (Min. u. Petrog. Mittheil.,
1885) notes the dearth of volcanic phenomena in 1884, there being noth-
ing worthy of mention except the slight activity of Vesuvius and Etna,
and of St. Augustin in Alaska, which are all disposed of in a single
page, and then describes the earthquakes of the year. His report men-
tions 123 shocks, distributed in time as follows: winter, 57 (December,
19; January, 28; February, 10); spring, 24 (March 13; April, 7; May, 4);
summer, 21 (June, 5; July, 9; August, 7); autumn, 21 (September, 8;
October, 1; November, !2). On fourteen days two or more places were
affected, and twelve localities were shaken on two or more dates. This
report mentions only four American earthquakes (March 25, August 10,
September 18, 20), Professor Rockwood’s report for the year not having
been received by Dr. Fuchs before this was printed. Those earthquakes
deserving individual mention are: March 24, 1884, in Upper and Cen-

tral Slavonia, where, in cena’ and other places, numerous buildings
suffered injury; April 22,in England; May 13, in Crevassa, where a
church and other buildings were destroyed; May 19, on the Persian
Gulf, in which 200 persons fell victims by the overthrow of their houses ;
August 10, in the “astern United States; and the Spanish earthquakes
in December. In regard to the earthquakes in Spain, Dr. Fuchs dis-
cusses at some length their relation to the geological structure of the
Peninsula, concluding that the centrum was not a point, but a line par-
allel to the Sierras Tejeda and Almijara. He differs from those writers
who call these earthquakes the most important in Europe, thinking that
of the earthquakes which have occurred during the last ten years, those
of Belluno, 1873, of Agram, 1880, and of Chios, 1881, are of equal im-
portance. An appendix mentions Verbeek’s book on Krakatoa, and
adds to his own previous reports 170 earthquake dates, 80 for 1882, 90
for 1883. These, however, do not indicate so many hitherto unreported
earthquakes, as many of them refer to continuous series of light shak-

ings, and others give additional details regarding earthquakes already »

mentioned in his reports for those years.

In his Fourteenth Notes on American Earthquakes (Am. Jour. Sci.,
XXIx : 425), Professor Rockwood has collected the records of earthquakes
for 1884. The list contains 54 items, classified geographically as follows:
Canadian Provinces, 5; New England, 9; Atlantic States, 5; Missis-
sippi Valley,7; Pacific Coast, 21; West Indies,2; Central America and
Colombia, 3; Peru, 2; ese 1. By seasons they were: winter, 12
(eetnnen aR A ; February, 2); spring, 15(Mareh, 8; April, 7;
May, 90); summer, 8 plane 4: July, 0; August, 4); autumn, 19 (Septem-
ber, 4; October, 5; November, 10); spring and summer together, 23;
autumn and winter together,31. Most of the shocks were light. The only
ones of destructive importance were: November 5 and 6, on the Isthmus
of Panama and in Colombia, when the damages were estimated from

ir,
VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 481

$250,000 to $400,000, and the church of San Pedro at Cali was wrecked ;
November 22, at Lima, Peru, where many houses were injured, and August
10, in the Eastern and Middle States, when walls were cracked and chim-
neys overthrown. Two earthquakes of the year were made the subject
of special study, and maps of the regions affected are given, showing the
isoseismals, so far as material for drawing them was at hand. In the
earthquake of August 10 the area of greater intensity is nearly ellip-
tical, extending from Hartford, Conn., to West Chester, Pa., and the
conclusion reached is that this earthquake was due to some rupture of
the strata underlying the immediate vicinity of New York City. On
September 19 an earthquake occurred in Ohio and Indiana, affecting
an approximately circular area with a diameter of about 400 miles.
The isoseismals are much more regular in this earthquake than in that
of August 10, and its cause is referred to the geological anticlinal
known as the Cincinnati arch, which crosses the western part of Ohio
from south to north.

M. ©. Detaille has also published (L’ Astronomie, 1885, p. 183) a list of
earthquakes felt in 1884. It gives 165 dates, and is especially rich for
South American regions, including very careful reports from Valparaiso.
It gives reports of 32 shocks at Valparaiso, none of which are contained
in Rockwood’s nor in Fuchs’ lists. In regard to the earthquakes of
North America it is much less complete and often inaccurate.

The catalogue of earthquakes recorded by the Palmieri seismograph
at the Imperial Meteorological Observatory in Tokio is contained in
vol. vit of the Transactions of the Seismological Society of Japan.
It includes 109 shocks (Nos. 498-606) on dates between July 28, 1883,
and April 25, 1885. For most of them the force and direction is given
in Palmieri’s scale, with the duration, but without other information.

The following was compiled from the records of the Meteorological
Observatory in Tokio. It gives the total number of earthquakes re-
corded in the several months during the ten years ending December
10, 1884, as follows: January, 53; February, 50; March, 73; April, 43;
May, 51; June, 40; July, 36; August, 27; September, 15; October, 47;
November, 51; December, 60. The average per month for the ten years
is 45; that for the six winter months (October to March) is 56, and that
for the six summer months is 35, or about 40 per cent. less, which gives
some support to the notion that earthquakes are more frequent in winter
than in summer. (Nature, XXXI: 322.)

The system of seismic observation established in Italy under the di-
rection of M. E.de Rossi includes twenty-eight stations already in op-
eration and reporting to the Central Geodynamic Observatory at Rome.
All are provided with delicate instruments, and study not only the sen-
sible earthquakes, but also, and more particularly, those minute move-
ments of the ground which are only recorded by the seismograph.
These movements are already distinguished into two classes: (1) those
characterized by a very rapid vibration; (2) those exhibiting a very

H. Mis. 15——31
482 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

slow wave-like motion. (Compt. Rend., c: 758.) The work of this obser-
vatory is also described in La Nature (1: 363), and illustrated by speci-
mens of the daily maps issued by the observatory. 'The maps given are
those illustrating the phenomena of the earthquake which occurred near
Modena on February 26, 1885.

The work of the Swiss Seismological Commission, from its appoint-
ment in 1879, is summarized by W. M. Davis in Science (Vv: 196). Among
other things there will be found here the statement of the scale of
intensity adopted by the Italian and Swiss observers, and commonly
known as the Rossi-Forel scale. In forming a number to represent
the “value” of an earthquake, it is necessary to combine with the
intensity-scale number others to represent: the area affected and the
number of accessory shocks. For Switzerland the areas are grouped
by diameters of 5, 50, 100, and 150 kilometers, and the weak, medium,
and strong shocks are reckoned separately (n, n’, n’’); then the adopted
value is V= (intensity scale x area scale) + n+ 2n’+3n’. Professor
Davis thinks this formula would be improved by squaring the intensity
number to offset the much greater intervals between the upper numbers
of that scale. (Science, V: 197.)

The third report of the Swiss Seismological Commission, by Forel,
covers the years 1882 and 1883. It gives a detailed list of the earth-
quakes observed during the two years, with the accessory shocks. The
intensity of each earthquake is marked according to the Rossi-Forel
scale, and its “value” computed by the formula mentioned above. These
numbers are tabulated and compared with the mean,of the two years
1880 and 1881, and with the separate numbers for those years. From
the results the author infers that there was a maximum of seismic
activity in Switzerland in 1881, which a comparison of the monthly
values shows to have been in November of that year3 and that in 1882
and 1883 the activity was notably diminished. This was especially so
in the latter year, in which no earthquake “value” reached even the
average value for 1831, and the mean ‘“ value” for 1883 scarcely exceeded
one-third of the mean value for 1881. (Arch. des Sci., Phys., et Nat., X11:
377.)

M. Montessus, in transmitting to the French Academy his work on
Central American Earthquakes, published in San Salvador, states that
he entered upon the work and collected a large amount of material
with the purpose of formulating, if possible, the rules by which the in-
habitants, apparently from meteorological considerations, announce in
advance the occurrence of an earthquake. He was, however, soon con-
vinced that the connection between earthquakes and meteorological
phenomena, if any, isnot yet sufficiently understood to base predictions
upon it, although a hope is expressed that the further study of material
collected may give some results. (Compt. Rend., 0: 1312.)

Commenting upon the not infrequent observation that earthquake
shocks are felt more severely at the surface of the earth than in mines,

{
j
VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. A483

J. Le Conte suggests that a reason for it may be found in a principle
of wave motion published by Airy in 1849. A normal sea wave strik-
ing against a wall will be reflected, but if a “broken-headed” wave or
breaker strike such a wall the normal part only will be reflected, while
the broken part, if it strikes perpendicularly, will be destroyed, or if it
strike at: a small angle, will then run.along as a strong wave clinging
to the surface of the wall. He regards the surface of the earth as a

reflector for earthquake waves, and notes that the waves themselves

are pre-eminently broken waves, and hence ought to follow the above
law. (Science, VI: 540.)

A fourteen-page’ note on the Hast Anglian earthquake of April 22,
1884, with two maps, occupied nearly the whole of Symon’s Meteorologi-
cal Magazine for May, 1884. <A full report on the same earthquake by
R. Meldola and William White, illustrated by numerous photographs,
was read before the Essex Field Club in March 1885 (Nature, XXxI:
395). It forms a book of 225 pages and deals very fully with the cir-
cumstances of the earthquake. It is divided into eight sections, of
which the first is historical, giving a catalogue of sixty previous British
earthquakes from A. D. 103 to 1881; the second describes the method
of securing information, and the third and fourth are devoted to the

_ phenomena of the shock. In summarizing this portion it is stated that

“the main axis of disturbance extends on each side of a line about five
miles in length, having a direction northeast and southwest from

~ Wivenhoe to Pelton.” In other portions of the report the geological

relations are considered, the effect of the shock on the underground
waters, and the correspondence in direction of the seismic axis with fault-
lines and with the coast-line of Essex. In speculating on the cause of
the earthquake the authors only venture to suggest ‘a sudden rupture

-of deep-seated rocks under a state of strain”; and add—* the precise for-

mation in which this rupture occurred cannot even be conjectured.”
(Nature, XXxIm: 265.)

Dr. H. J. Johnston-Lavis announced the approaching publication, by
subscription, of a ‘* Monograph of the Earthquakes of Ischia,” a memoir
dealing with the seismic disturbances in that island within historic
times, with special observations on those of 1881 and 1884.. (Nature,
XXXI: 563.)

Before the Seismological Society of Japan, Professor Koto read a
paper on “ Movements of the Earth’s Crust,” observed in Japan, con-
cluding that the south and east coasts are gradually rising, while the
north and west coasts are subsiding. This phenomenon is no doubt
connected with the greater seismic activity along the eastern sea-

/ board, shown by the fact that almost all of the earthquakes felt at

Tokio come from the east and southeast. At the same meeting, K.
Sekiya, who is in charge of the Seismological Observatory of the Uni-
versity of Tokio, described in detail the earthquake of October 15, 1854,
which affected an area of 24,728 square miles, and noted its similarity
to that of February 22, 1880, both originating on the east side of the
484 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Bay of Yedo, and both affecting the same area. (Nature, Xxx1: 515.)
Commenting upon this same earthquake, Prof. J. A. Ewing, of Dundee,
notes that the instrumental record shows an actual motion of the ground
of 4.3 centimeters, an amount which is in most striking contrast with
the 5 to 7 millimeters that previous experience in Japan had led him to
regard as the extreme amount of displacement in ordinary Yedo earth-
quakes. (Nature, xxx1:581.)

Early in 1885 Professor Ewing received a grant of £100 from the
Government grant committee with which to institute observations of
earth movements at Ben Nevis. He proposes to set up apparatus with
which to look for earth tremors, and also for slow changes of level of
the ground. (Nature, xxx: 298.)

The French Academy of Sciences has proposed as the subject for the
Vaillant prize the following: “To study the influence which may be
exerted on earthquakes by the geological state of a country, by the ac-
tion of water or of other physical causes.” The memoirs competing
for this prize are to be delivered before June 1, 1886. (Compt. Rend., cr:
1413.)

A second conference of persons interested in seismology was called by
the Director of the United States Geological Survey, and met in Wash-

ington on November 25, 1885. The conference was presided over by .

Captain Dutton, of the Geological Survey, and included Mr. Hayden, of
the Survey, Professors Paul, of the Naval Observatory, Mendenhall and
Marvin, of the Signal Service, Davis, of Cambridge, and Rockwood, of
Princeton. It was agreed that the most important advance in the study
of seismic phenomena was to be reached through a distribution of seis-
moscopes, with sufficiently accurate clocks, over certain areas in the
United States which have been shown to be most subject to such dis-
turbances. At the same time the organization of a large corps of non-
instrumental observers was thought desirable. The work of bibliogra-
phy was reported to be in a good state of progress, and several seismo-
scopic instruments were exhibited. (Science, VI: 491.)

SEISMOMETRY.

Ina long paper printed in the eighth volume of the Transactions
of the Seismological Society of Japan, Professor Milne has gathered a
detailed description of. ten series of experiments carried on at different
times from 1881 to 1884, for the purpose of investigating phenomena con-
nected with earth vibrations. The experiments were all performed in
or near the city of Tokio, and consisted in originating artificial earth
vibrations, usually by dropping a heavy weight or exploding dynamite,
and then studying the circumstances of their propagation by means
of the various seismographs devised by himself or Professor Ewing

or Professor Gray. Some of these experiments have been already de-

scribed elsewhere by the author (Lond. Phil. Mag.). The paper is closed
by a statement in six pages of fifty-seven general results, among which
are these: The first effect upon a seismograph with a single index is an

VULCANOLOGY: AND SEISMOLOGY. 485

impulse in a normal direction, and similarly a bracket seismograph ar-
ranged to indicate normal motion begins its indications before a similar
instrument indicating transverse motion, implying that the normal
wave travels more rapidly than the transverse. Near to the origin the
normal motion is first outwards, then inwards, and the motion inwards
is greater and more rapid than the motion outwards; while at a dis-
tance from the origin the first motion may be inwards, and the two
phases are practically of equal amplitude. Roughly speaking, the am-
plitude of normal motion is inversely as the distance from the origin.
The laws of transverse motion are practically the same as those of nor-
mal motion, but less pronounced. Near to the origin the amplitude of
the transverse motion is less, but the period greater than that of the
normal moticn. The velocity of transmission varies from 200 to 600 feet,
which is much less than the velocities obtained by Mallet and Abbot.
On October 10, 1885, Flood Rock in Hell Gate was blown up by dyna-
mite. The preparations for this event had been going on for ten years,
and involved the excavation of galleries beneath the rock and the storing
therein of nearly 300,000 pounds of explosives. It was expected that
such an explosion would cause vibrations of the earth similar to an earth-
quake, and as the day for its occurrence approached preparations for
studying the propagation of this vibration were made both by the offi-
cers of the Engineers, under whose direction the work was done, and by
volunteers from the Seismological Conference in Washington, who went
to New York for the purpose, and established their instruments at such
points in the neighborhood as were found available. Directors of astro-
nomical observatories near New York were also requested by them to
co-operate by watching for the arrival of the earth wave. (Science, VI:
315.) Unfortunately the firing of the mine was slightly delayed, and
did not take place until about fourteen minutes after the hour announced.
This delay interfered seriously with the observations of the volunteer
observers, a considerable number of whom gave up the watch before the
explosion occurred, either supposing that the vibration had failed to
reach them or being deceived by some local tremor. It was, however,
caught at Princeton, N. J., and at Harvard College. The observations
obtained by the volunteers were quite discordant, but indicate a much
higher velocity than was obtained by Mallet, or by General Abbot from
the Hallett’s Point explosion in 1876. General Abbot had arranged a
series of observers to Patchogue, L. I., in one direction, and to West

- Point in another, who were in telegraphic communication with the firing

ig

pointat Astoria. (Science, VI: 431.) His results, although also discord-
ant, give velocities much higher than those deduced from natural earth-
quakes. (Science, VII: 25.)

An instrument for the automatic registration of earth-tremors and
earth-tips is described by John Milne (Nature, xxx11: 259). Its essen-

- tial parts are a pendulum one meter long, suspended from a tripod about

5 feet high, and acting upon the short upper arm of a light balanced
486 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

lever, whose long arm tcuches a strip of paper covered with a film of
iodized starch. ‘his paper is carried by clock-work beneath the point,
and every five minutes the clock sends a galvanic current through the
pointer and leaves a dot upon the starch film. On examining the rec-
ords thus made he finds (1) sometimes for days the pointers are station-
ary; (2) sometimes they are in a state of tremor, which may continue
for ten or twelve hours, and the sparks mark the paper at many points
in a band several millimeters wide; (3) sometimes the pointer will slowly
wander from the straight line and then return, but the author is not yet
certain whether this last is due to a slow earth-tip or to local causes.
The delicate instrumental observations proposed ‘to be made in the
Takashima mine were found impracticable, and it was then proposed to
remove the instruments elsewhere.

K. Sekiya has described a form of Ewing’s duplex pendulum seis-
mometer, which it is stated can be made at a cost of only about $6, and
which gives indications agreeing very well with those obtained from the
more elaborate instrument. (Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan, Vit: 83.)

Dr. F. Du Bois has translated from a paper received from F. Faura,
of Manila, a description of the Ceechi seismograph’ constructed for the
observatory there. The apparatus is attached to the perpendicular face
of a marble slab, and consists of a clock, a vertical pendulum, several
weights suspended by springs, and a moving sheet of smoked paper.
The whole is so arranged by a combination of levers and strings that
any motion, either horizontal or vertical, will start the clock and wil!
put in motion the smoked paper, on which the vertical pendulum re-
‘cords its vibrations, as does also a spring-suspended weight. ‘The
arrangement is complicated, needs a number of delicate adjustments,
must necessarily be expensive, and finally must be entirely reset through-
out after every shock. (Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan, vir: 90.)

A novel seismograph is described by M. Cordenons in La Nature 1:
237. It is intended to record the vertical and horizontal shocks,
their duration, and the time of the initial shock. It consists of two
horizontal pendulums to mark vertica] motions, and four inverted pen-
dulums, each of which last is free to fall only in one direction, the four
motions being directed along the four sides of a square, so that only
that one will fall which is in the direction of the earth’s motion. The
fall of any one of the pendulums suffices by a system of cords to release
a clock pendulum previously fastened out of the perpendicular, and so
to start the clock. When once the arrival of an earthquake shock has
been signaled by the motion of some pendulum, no further record is
possible until the instrument is reset. It is therefore a seismoscope
rather than a seismograph.

W. Werner has given to German readers a good account of the re-
cent appliances for the instrumental observation of earthquakes, the
material for which is mostly drawn from Ewing’s memoir on Earthquake
Measurement. (Zeitschr. fiir Instrumentenkunde, V: 217, 308.)

——

=_™

ee

VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY, 487

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF VULCANOLOGY, ETC. 1885.

BOOKS AND SEPARATE REPRINTS.

(1) Grorce F. Becker.—The Geometrical Form of Voleanic Cones and the Elastic
Limit ofLava. 8vo. llpp. 2diagrams. [Am. Jour. Science (1885), III: xxx:
283-293. ]

(2) A. Boscovirz.—Les voleans. 8vo. 12+-492pp. 100 woodcuts. Paris, 1884.

(3) D. CARBONE-GRIO.—I terremoti di Calabria e di Sicilia nel secolo xvi. Ricerche

e studi. 8vo. Napoli, 1834.

(4) F. A. ForeL.—Les tremblements de terre é6tudiés par la Commission sismologique
suisse pendant les années 1882 et 1883. Sme rapport. 1 plate. [Archiv. des
sci. phys. et nat., Genéve (1885), x11: 377—396. ]

(5) F. A. Forre,.—La formule des seiches. 8vo. 12 pp. [Archiv. des sci. phys. et
nat., Genéve, 1885. ]

(6) C. W. C. Fucus.—Die vulkanischen Ereignisse desJahres 1884. 20. Jahresbericht.
[ Min. u. Petrog. Mittheil. (1885), vir: 146-179.]

(7) SieGMuUND GUNTHER.—Lehrbuch der Geophysik und physikalischen Geographie.
Bd. I. 8vo. 10+418 pp. Stuttgart, 1884.

(8) Hésert.—Sur les tremblements de terre du midi de VEspagne. [Compt. Rend.
(1885), c: 24-27.] Abstract. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), 1: 39-49. ]

(9) J. Kresstinc.—Die Dimmerungserscheinungen im Jahre 1883 und ihre physika-
lische Erklarung. 8vo. 53 pp. 5 woodcuts. Hamburg, 1885.

(10) P. LazerRGES.—Du réle de Veau dans Vunivers. Tremblements de terre. 8vo.
Opuscule autogr. 1885. Paris (?).

(11) G. pr Lisa.—Vuleanologia. 4to. i3pp. Palermo, 1885.

(12) J. MacPHERSON.—Los terremotos de Andalucia. Madrid, 1885.

(13) R. MeLpDOLA AND W. WHITE.—Report on the East Anglian Earthquake of April
22,1884. 225pp. Maps, illustr. London, 1885. Review [ Nature (1886), xxx:
265-266. ]

(14) DoMINGO DE ORUETE Y DUARTE.—Informe sobre los terremotos occurridos en el
sud de Espafia en diciembre de 1884 y enero de 1885. 8vo. 52 pp. map, 22
photos. Malaga, 1885.

(15) C. G. Rockwoop, Jr.—Notes on American Earthquakes, No. 14. 2maps. [Am.
Jour. Sci. (1885), IIL: xx1x : 425-437.—Notice, Nature (1885), xxx11: 300.]

(16) C. G. Rockwoop, Jr.—An account of the progress in vuleanology andseismology
in the years 1885 and 1884. 8vo. 2lpp. From Smithsonian Report. Wash-
ington, 1885,

(17) M. S. DE Ross1.—Bolletino decadico pubblicato per cura del Osservatorio centrale
del Real Collegio Carlo Alberto in Moncalieri. Anno x11, 1883-’84; anno xIv,
1884~’85. [Mentioned Am. Meteorol. Jour., 1: 330.]

(18) Cu. VeLarn.—Les cataclysmes volcaniques de 1883. Ischia, Krakatau, Alaska.
Conférence faite 4 la Sorbonne. 8vo. Paris, 1885.

(19) R. D. M. VERBEEK.—Krakatau. Erste gedeelte. Uitgegeven op last van Zyne
Eixcellentie den Gouverneur Generaal van Nederlandsch-Indie. 8vo. v1-+100
pp. Batavia, 1884. French translation. 8vo. 104pp. Batavia, 1885.

(20) R. D. M. VERBEEK.—Krakatau. Tweede gedeelte. 8vo. xxx1x-+-pp. 101-546. 25
colored drawings, 43 maps and figures. Batavia, 1885. [Reviewed. Nature

: (1885), xxx11: 601-604; Petermann’s Mittheil. (1886), xxx1r: 10-24. ]

(21) Terremotos de Andalucia. Informe de la comision nombrada para su estudio
dando cuenta del estado de los Trabajos en 7 de marzo de 1885. 8vo. 8-+-105 pp.
2 photos. Madrid, 1885. [Abstract, Science (1885), vi: 393-394; Reprint, Bol.
del Minist. de Fom. de la Rep. Mex. (1885), tom. x: Nos. 56-71. ]

(22) Transactions of the Seismological Society of Japan. vol. vu. 8vo. 108 pp. 5
plates. Tokio, 1385.

488 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

PERIODICALS.

(23) A. D’ABBADIE.—Sur les séismes. [Compt. Rend. (1885), cr: 629-631.—Noticed, La
Nature (1885), 11: 287. ]

(24) VIRLET D’AOUST.—Sur un tremblement de terre partiel de la surface seule du sol,
dans le département du Nord. [Compt. Rend. (1885), cr: 189-190. ]

(25) ViRLET pD’AOUST.—Nouveau tremblement de terre partiel aux environs de Douai.
[Compt. Rend. (1885), cr: 487.]

(26) VirLET D’AousT.—Les tremblements de terre partiels dans le département du
Nord. 24 juin et 5 aoftt 1885. [La Nature (1885), m: 210-211.]

(27) VIRLET D’AOUST.—Examen des causes diverses qui déterminent les tremblements
de terre. [Bullet. de la Soc. géol. de France (1885), x11: 231, 443.] Reviewed
by H. Behrens. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1886), 1: 43-44. ]

(28) R. J. BALDERSTON.—Submarine Disturbance. Dec. 22, 1884. [Nature (1885),
XXXII, 576.]

(29) C. Barrois.—Sur les derniers tremblements de terre de ’Andalousie. [Annales
de la Soc. géol. du Nord (1885), x11: 324. ]

(30) C. Barrots eT A. OFFRET.—Sur la constitution géologique de la Sierra Nevada,
des Alpujarras et de Ja Sierra de Almijara. (Rapport.) [Compt. Rend. (1885),
c: 1060-1064. ]

(31) A. BATTANDIER.—Les volcans et les mesures magnétiques. [L’Astronomie (1885),
4¢ ann., 232.]

(32) H. BEHRENS.—Review of Verbeek’s “‘ Krakatoa. Erster Theil.” [Neu. Jahrb. f.
Mineralogie, etc. (1885), 1: 52-60.)

(33) M. BERTRAND et W. Kiz1an.—Sur les terrains secondaires et tertiaires de An-
dalousie (provinces de Grenada et de Malaga). (Rapport.) [Compt. Rend.
(1885), c: 1057-1060. ]

(34) A. BorLtor.—Observations des lueurs crépusculaires. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c1:
1032-1033. ]

(35) A. Boscow1Tz.—Les tremblements de terre en Espagne. 2 illust. [Cosmos, 34°
ann., No. 2, pp. 45-50. ]

(36) F. pre BoTELLA Y DE HorneEs.—Observations sur les tremblements de terre
de VAndalousie du 25 décembre 1884, et semaines suivantes. [Compt. Rend.
(1885), c: 196-197.—Noticed, La Nature (1885), 1: 127.]

(37) F. pe BOTELLA Y DE HORNES.—Los terremotos de Malaga y Granada. [Bol.
de la Soc. geogréf. de Madrid, xviit: 65. Bol. del Minist. de Fotn. de la Rep.
Mex. (1885), tom. x, Nos. 75-79. Reviewed by Penck. Neu. Jahrb. f. Mine-
ralogie, ete. (1885), 1: 286-287. ]

(38) R. Brion.—Exploration de Vile Krakatau & V’occasion de l’explosion du 27 aofit
1883. 9 illustr. [La Nature (1885), 1: 282-286, 323-326, 371-374. }

(39) M. Watton Brown.—On the observation of earth-shakes or tremors in order to
foretell the issue of sudden outbursts of fire-damp. [Proc. Nerth of Eng. Inst.
Min. and Mech. Engineers (1884), xxl: —.]

(40) R. CanavaL.—Beitriige zur Kenntniss der ostalpinen Erdbeben des Jahres 1882.
[ Jahrb. d. naturhist. Landsmuseums von Kirnthen (1885), Hft. xvu, p. 1.]

(41) J. E. CLark.—Professor Kiessling’s investigations into the origin of the late
sunset glows. [Nature (1885), xxxII: 637-638. ]

(42) F. CorpDENONS.—Nouveau sismographe. lplate. [La Nature (1885), 1: 237-238. ]

(43) W. H. DaLy.—Further notes on Bogosloff Island. [Science (1885), v: 32-33.]

(44) GrorGE Davipson.—Recent volcanic activityin the United States; eruptions
of Mount Baker. [Science (1885), v1: 262. ]

(45) W. M. Davis.—The work of the Swiss Earthquake Commission. [Science (1885),
Vv: 196-198. ]

(46) W. M. Davis.—The reddish-brown ring round the sun. [Science (1885), v
455-456. ]

|
.
)
|
fi
.

VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 489

(47) Cu. Davison.—On a Possible Cause of the Disturbance of Magnetic Compass-
Needles during Earthquakes. [Geol. Mag. (1885), D. III. vol. m: 210.]

(48) J. Denza.—La lumiére erépusculaire. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c: 1581-1583. ]

(49) C. DETAILLE.—Statistique des tremblements de terre. 1 map. [L’Astronomie
(1885), 4e ann., 183-191.]

(50) J. S. DirteER.—Lava from the new voleano on Bogosloff Island. [Science (1885),
Vv: 66-67.]

(51) DomeyKo.—Observations recueillies sur les tremblements de terre, pendant
quarante-six ans de séjour au Chili. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c: 193-195.—No-
ticed, La Nature (1885), 1: 127. Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), 11: 43. ]

(52) F. DroveT.—Tremblement de terre en Algérie. [La Nature (1885), 14° ann.,1: 46.]

(53) F. Du Bors.—Further notes on the earthquakes of Ischia. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of

Japan (1885), vir: 95-99. ]

(54) C. E. Durron.—Hawaiian volcanoes (illustr.). [4t® Ann. Rep. U.S. Geol. Sur-
vey, pp. 8i-219.] Abstract. [Science (1886), vir: 158-160. ]

(55) C.E. Durron.—The latest voleanic eruption in the United States. [Science
(1885), vi: 46-47. ]

(56) C.E. Durron.—The theory of volcanoes. [Science (1885), v1: 255-256.]

(57) C. E. Durron.—The Volcanoes and Lava fields of New Mexico. [Bull. Philos.
Soc. Washington (1885), viz: 76.]

(58) J. A. Ewine.—A recent Japanese earthquake. 1 fig. [Nature (1885), xxxr:
981-582. Science (1885), v: 483-484. ]

(59) J. A. EwrnG.—On the measurement of movements of the earth, with reference
to proposed earthquake observations on Ben Nevis. Abstract of paper before
Brit. Assoc., Aberdeen meeting. [Nature (1885), xxx1: 68-69. ]

(60) F. Faura (trans. by F. Du Bois).—The Cecchi seismograph, a new model con-
structed for the observatory at Manila. 2plates. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan
(1885), vi11: 90-94. ]

(61) C. FLAMMARION.—Les tremblements de terre de Espagne. 2 maps. 5 figs.
[L’Astronomie (1885), 4° ann., 60-69, 81-99. ]

(62) C. FLAMMARION.—Les tremblements de terre. Explication et théorie. 9 figs.
L’Astronomie (1885), 4° ann., 121-138. ]

(63) F. A. FoREL.—Tremblement de terre du 13 avril 1885 observé en Suisse. [La
Nature (1885), 1: 334.—Trans. Nature (1885), xxx1: 610.]

(64) F, A. ForEL.—L’éruption de Krakatoa entendue jusqu’aux antipodes. [La Na-
ture (1885), 1: 362-363. ]

(65) F. A. ForEL.—Le cataclysme de Krakatoa entendu aux antipodes. [L’Astrono-
mie (1885), 4° ann., 383-385. ]

(66) F, A. ForeL.—Brnuits souterrains entendus le 26 aofit 1883 dans Vilot de Cai-
man-Brac, Mer de Caraibes. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c : 755-758.—Trans. Na-
ture (1885), xxx1 : 483-484.] Reviewed by Behrens. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Minera-
logie, etc. (1886), 1: 46.]

(67) F. A. Forr,.—Tremblement de terreen Suisse. 20 juin 1885. [La Nature (1885),
11:90; Trans. Nature (1885), xxx: 295.]

(68) F. ForrL.—Tremble-terre du 26 septembre 1885, [La Nature (1885), 1: 318-319.—
Nature (1885), xxxir: 574.]

(69) F. Fouqu&.—Premiéres explorations de la mission chargée de l’étude des récents
tremblements de terre de ’Espagne. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c : 598-601.]

(70) F. Fouqué.—Explorations de la mission chargée de l’étude des tremblements de
terre de ’Andalousie. (Rapport.) [Compt. Rend. (1885), c: 1049-1054. ]

(71) F. Fouqut.—Relations entre les phénoménes présentés par les tremblements de
terre de l’Andalousie et la constitution géologique de la région qui en a été le
siége. (Rapport.) [Compt. Rend. (1885), c: 1113-1120. ]

(72) F. Fouqué.—Propagation de la secousse de trembleme2nt de terre du 25 décembre
1884. Rectifications. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c: 1436.] Review of Nos. 69-72
by H. Behrens. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1886), 1: 44-45.)
490) SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

(73) F. Fouqut.— The causes of earthquakes. [Science (1885), v : 198-199. }

(74) W. GaLLoway.—Earthquakes and fire damp (review of, No. 39). [Nature,
XXXII: 312-313. ]

(75) A. GeRMAIN.—Sur quelques-unes des particularités observées dans les récents _
tremblements de terre de ’Espagne. 1 fig. [Compt. Rend., c: 191-193.]. Ab- i
stract. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), 11: 41.] 4

(76) O. GUMAELIUS.—Samling af underrittelser om jordstétar i Sverige. [Geolog.
Foren i Stockholm Férh. (1885), vir: 500-501. ]

(77) H. J. JOHNSTON-LAVIS.—Vesuvius and Monte Somma, [Geol. Mag. (1885), D.
ITI, vol. 1: 302.]

(78) H. J. JoHNSTON-LAvis.—The new outbreak of lava from Vesuvius. [Nature
(1885), xxxiI: 55.] ;

(79) H. J. Jounston-Lavis.—The physical conditions involved in the injection, ex-
trusion, and cooling of igneous matter. (Geolog. Soc., April 29, 1885.) [Na-
ture (1885), xxx11: 69.]

(80) H. J. JounsTon-Lavis.—Vesuvius. [Nature (1885), xxx1r: 108. ]

(81) H. J. Jounston-Lavis.—Krakatao. [Nature (1885), xxx: 6.]

(82) JuLIEN.—La théorie des voleans et le plateau central; historique, théories ac-
tuelles, vues nouvelles. [Club Alpin frangais (1883), 10° an., 358-391. ]

(83) F. Laur.—Influence des baisses barométriques sur les tremblements de terre et
les phénoménes éruptifs. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c: 289-292.] Abstract. [Neu.
Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), 1: 39.]

(84) G. A. LEBouR.—On some recent earthquakes on the Downham coast and their
probable causes. (Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sei., 1885.) [Nature (1885), xxx: 559.]

(85) Jos. Le Contr.—Earthquake shocks more violent on the surface than ip mines.
[Science (1885), vr: 540. ]

(86) Livy ET BERGERON.—Sur la constitution géologique dela Serrania de Ronda.
(Rapport.) [Compt. Rend. (1885), c: 1054-1057. ]

(87) T.C. Lewis.—Artificial earthquakes. [Nature (1885), xxxir: 295. ]

(88) ALex. LiENAS.—Bruits souterrains entendus 4 Vile de Saint-Domingue, le 28
aoft 1283. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c: 1315.]

(89) J. MacpHERson.—Sur les tremblements de terre de  Audalousie du 25 décembre
1884, et semaines suivantes. (With comments by Daubrée.) [Compt. Rend.
(1885), c: 136-138.—Notice. La Nature (1885), 1: 111. Neu. Jahrb. f. Minera-
logie, ete. (1885), 1: 40-41. ]

(90) J. MACPHERSON.—Tremblements de terre en Espagne. [Compt. Rend. (1885),
Cc: 397-399.—Revue Scientif. (1885), Xxxv: 299-304.] Abstract. [Neu. Jahrb.
f. Mineralogie, etc. (1685), 11: 42.]

(91) W. McFaritanp.—Flood Rock explosion. [Science (1885), v1: 431.]

(92) T. C. MENDENHALL.—The explosion at Flood Rock. [Science (1885), v1: 326-
328. | ;

(93) G. MERCALLI.—Le case che si sfasciano ed i terremoti. [Rassegna nazionale,
Firenze, anno VI, vol. xx1, fasc. 16, p. 12.]

(94) G. MercaLyi.—Sulla natura del terremoto ischiano de 28 Juglio, 1883. [Rendi-
conti del R. Istituto Lombardo (1884), ser. 11, vol. XVII, fase. XIX. ]

(95) G. MERCALLI.—Notizie sullo stato attuale dei vulcani attiviitaliani. [Atti della
Soc. ital. disc. nat. (1885), xxvir: ——.]

(96) G. MeRcALLI.—II1 terremoto sentito in Lombardia nel 12 settembre, 1884. [Atti
della Soc. ital. di se. nat. (1885), xxviII: 7.]

(97) G. P. MERRILL.—Volcanic dust from Southwestern Nebraska. [Science (1885),
Vi: 335.]

(98) E. MeTzGER.—Der Ausbruch von Krakatau im Jahre 1883. 1 plate (review of
No. 20). [Petermanns Mittheil. (1886), xxxir: 10-24.]

(99) S. Meunrer.—Ponce provenant du Krakatau. [La Nature (1885), 11: 79-80.]

(100) JoHN MitNnu.—Seismic experiments. 3 plates and many figs. [Trans. Seis.
Soc. of Japan (1885), vu: 1-82.—Abstract, Nature (1885), xxxi1: 114-115.}

VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 491

(101) Jonn Mitne.—On the observation of earth-tips and earth-tremors. 6 figs.
[Nature (1885), XXxII: 259-262. ]

(102) Jonn Miwne.—Fifth report of the committee appointed for the purpose of inves-
tigating the earthquake phenomena of Japan. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1885.
[Nature (1885), xxx1I: 526-528. ]

(103) Joun Mitne.—An earthquake invention. [Nature (1885), xxx: 573-574. ]

(104) pk Montessus.—Sur les tremblements de terre et les éruptions voleaniques
dans ’Amérique centrale. [Compt. Rend. (1885), c: 1312-1315. Review by
Behrens. Neu. Jabrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1886), 1: 46.]

(105) pe Monrrssus.—Les voleans de Amérique centrale. [Rev. Scientif. (1885),
Xxxv: 804.)

(106) Partie Nrate.—The Krakatoa eruption. [The Leisure Hour (1885) ?—?, 379-
381, 486-488, 554-557; extract in Am. Jour. Sci. (1885) III: xxx: 396.]

(107) G. NEUMAYER.—Ueber die durch den Ausbruch des Vulkans Krakatau am 26.
bis 27. August 1883 hervorgerufenen atmosphiirischen Erscheinungen. [Mit-
theil. Geogr. Gesellsch. Hamburg, 1884, p. 309. ] ;

(108) A. F. NoGuks.—Le tremblement de terre de ’Andalousie. [La Nature (1885), 1:
90-91. ]

(109) A. F. NoGguzs.—Les tremblements de terre du 25 décembre 1884 en Andalousie ;
2maps. [La Nature (1885), 1: 107-110. ]

(110) A. F. Nogu&s.—Les tremblements de terre de décembre 1884—janvier 1885,
en Andalousie. 2 plates. [La Nature (1885), 1: 150-155, 303.—Abstract, Na-
ture (1885), xxx: 417.]

(111) A. F. Noaguks.—Phénoménes géologiques produits par les tremblements de
terre de Andalousie du 25 décembre 1884 au 16 janvier 1885 (with com-
ments by Hébert). [Compt Rend. (1885), c: 2538-257.—Cosmos, 34° an., No. 2,
p- 50.—Notice, La Nature (1885), 1: 142-143. Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc.
(1885) 11: 41-42. ]

(112) G. NorDENsTROM.—Preliminirt meddelande om jordbiifningarna i Spanien i

December, 1884. [Geol. Féren i Stockholm Forh. (1885), vir: 600-605. ]

(113) ORNSTELIN.—Ueber die gegenwiartig Erdbebenperiode in ostlichen Mittelmeer.

[Ausland (1885), p. 521.]

(114) DoMINGO DE ORUETA.—Los terremotos de Andalucia. [Bol. de la Soc. geograf.
de Madrid, xv111: 57. Bol. del Minist. de Fom. de la Rep. Mex. (1885), Tom.
x: No. 73. -Reviewed by Penck. Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1885), 1:
286-287. |

(115) RicharpD OwEN.—American earthquakes. [Pacific Sci. Monthly. March, 1885,

p. 1-4.)

(116) Richard OwrENn.—British earthquakes and their seismic relations. Diagram.
[Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci. (1884), xxxm1: 438-443.—Abstract, Am. Meteorol.
Jour. (1884), 1: 317-321. ]

(117) H. M. Paut.—Seismological notes. [Science (1885), v: 199-201.]

(118) H. M. PauLt.—Timing the Flood Rock explosion. [Science (1885), vr: 325, 431-
432.]

(119) J. W. Pikxe.—The genesis and conservation of voleanic energy. [Proc. Am. As-
soc. Adv. Sci. (1884), xxxm1: 432-438.]

(120) JEAN PLATANIA.—Les tremblements de terre de Nicolosi (Sicile). [a Nature
(1885), 11: 350. ]

(121) Jos—EpH PRESTWICH.—On the agency of water in voleanic eruptions, with some

* observations on the thickness of the earth’s crust from a geological point of
view, and on the primary cause of voleanic action. (Royal Soc.) [Abstract,
Nature (1885), xxx1: 592-594. ]

(122) R. A. Proctor.—How earthquakes are caused. [Harper’s Mag. (1885), Lxx1:

i 139-146. ]
492 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1888.

(123) E. Renov.—Sur une secousse de tremblement de terre ressentie 4 Orléans.
[Compt. Rend. (1885), cr: 584. ]

(124) C. G. Rockwoop, Jr.—Systematie earthquake observations. [Am. Jour. Sci.
(1885), III, xxrx: 79-80. ]

(125) C. G. Rockwoop, Jr.—Voleanic phenomena of 1883. [Am. Jour. Sci. (1885),
Jil, xxrx: 80-81. ]

(126) C. G. Rockwoop, Jr.—The earthquakes in Spain. [Am. Jour. Sei. (1885), II,
XXIX: 282-284. ]

(127) C. G. Rockxwoop, Jr.—Notice of Pt. ii, Vol. vu, Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan.
[Am. Jour. Sci. (1885), III, xx1x: 346.]

(128) C. G. Rockwoop, Jr.—Earthquake of January 2, 1885. Map. [Science (1885),
v: 129-130.—Notice with map, La Nature (1885), 1: 211.]

(129) C. G. Rockwoop, Jr.—The Spanish earthquakes. 2 maps, 3 woodcuts. [Sci-
ence (1885),v: 191-195. ]

(120) Fr. SCHAFARSIK.—Statistik der Erdbeben in Ungarnim Jahre 1884. Taf. m1.
[Félat. K6zl. (1885), p. 202.]

(131) Fr. ScHNEWER.—Ueber den vulkanischen Zustand der Sunda-Inseln und der
Molukken im Jahre 1884. 5 figs. [Jahrb. der k. k. Geol. Reichsanst. Wien
(1885), xxxv: 1-26.]

(132) K. Sexrya.—Note on Ewing’s duplex pendulum seismometer, with records ob-
tained by it. 1 plate. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap. (1885), vir: 83-85. ]

(133) C. Prazzr SMirH AND D. A. STEVENSON.—An earthquake invention. [Nature
(1885), xxxan: 213, 625; xxx: 7.]

(134) J. P. VAN DER Srox.—Uitbarstingen van vulkanen en aardbevingen in den O.
I. Archipel waargenomen gedurende het jaar 1882. [Naturk. Tijdschrift voor
Nederlandsch-Indie. (1883), xxi: 143-149. ]

(135) G.M. Srone.—The ruddy glow around the sun. [Science (1885), v: 415. ]

(136) G. J. Symons.—The great English earthquake, April 22, 1884. 2 maps. [Sy-
mons’ Meteorol. Mag. (1884), x1x: 49-62. ]

(137) T. TARAMELLI ce G. MERCALLI.—Relazione sulle osservazioni fatte durante un
viaggio nella regione della Spagna coplite dagli ultimi terremoti. [Rendi- _
conti della R. Accad. dei Lincei (1885), pp. 450-460. ]

(138) W. B. Taytor.—On the crumpling of the earth’s crust. [Am. Jour. Sci.
(1885), ITI, xxx: 249-266. ]

(139) Tuo. THORODDSEN.—Eine Lavawiiste im Innern Islands. [Petermanns Mit-
theil. (1885), xxx1: 285-294, 327-339. ]

(140) G. TissanprER.—Le tremblement de terre d’Ischia du 28 juillet 1883. 1 map.
(Rapport de la Commission.) [La Nature (1885),1: 91-92. ]

(141) G. TissAnpDIER.—Les tremblements-de terre de l’Andalousie, les grandes cre-
vasses de Periana et de Guévéjar. 2 plates. [La Nature (1885), 1: 225-226. ]

(142) G. TissanDIER.—L’étude des tremblements de terre en Italie. 6 maps. [La
Nature (1885), 1: 363-364.]

(143) *‘R. T.” (RaFAEL Roig y ToRRES?).—Los temblores de tierra en Espaiia.
[ Crénica Cientifica (1885), afio vir: 49-53. ]

(144) TREMESCHINI.—Propagation des tremblements de terre. [L’Astronomie (1885),
4 ann., 429-430. ]

(145) R. D. M. VERBEEK.—Over de tydsbepaling der grootste explosie van Krakatanu.
(Vers). en Mededeeling d. k. Akad. te Amsterdam. Afd. Natuurk. 1884, 3de
Reeks. Deel1: 45-57.) Reviewed by H. Behrens. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Minera-
logie, etc. (1885), 1: 437-438. ]

(146) W. WERNER.—Seismologische Mittheilungen. ([Zeitschr. fir Instrumenten-
kunde (1885), v: 217-227, 308-312. ]

(147) C. A. Youne.—Flood Rock explosion observed at Princeton, N. J. [Science
(1885), VI: 335-336. ]

VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. A935
PRINTED WITHOUT AUTHOR’S NAME.

(148) A cloud-glow apparatus. (Kiesslings.) [Nature (1885), Xxx1: 439-440. ]

(149) Catalogue of earthquakes. [Nature (1885), xxx1: 351, 352. ]

(150) Catalogue of earthquakes, July, 1883, to February, 1885, at the Imperial Me-
teorological Observatory at Tokio. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan (1885), vin:
100-108. ]

(151) Eruption du volean Smeroe dans Vilede Java. [La Nature (1885), m: 102-103.]

(152) Légers tremblements de terre. [L’Astronomie (1885), 4° ann., 232. ]

(153) L’éruption du Vésuve (May, 1885). [La Nature (1885),1: 398; 11: 43. 1 illus. ]

(154) Les tremblements de terre étudiés par la commission sismologique suisse pen-
dant ’année 1881. [Archiv. des sci. phys. et. nat., Genéve (1884), x1: 147. ]

(155) Les tremblements de terre orogéniques étudiés en Suisse. [L’Astronomie
(1884), 11: 13—?]

(156) Les tremblements de terre du 27 novembre et du 28 décembre 1884. 1 illus.
[La Nature (1885), r: 77-78.—Notice, Science (1885), v: 204.]

(157) Le tremblement de terre du 27 novembre 1884. [L’Astronomie (1825), 4° ann.,

31-33. ]

(158) Observaciones Seismicas (Spain, December, 1884, to March, 1585). [Bol. del
Minist. de Fom. de la Rep. Mex. (1885), Tom. x: No. 71.]

(159) Recent earthquakes (Cashmere, England, Switzerland). [Nature (1885), xxxi1:
74-176. ]

(160) The ascent of Popocatapetl. [Science (1885), vi: 390-392. |

(161) The earthquakes in Spain. lmap. (Nature (1885), xxxr: 199-200; 237-238. ]

(162) The Flood Rock explosion felt at Harvard College. [Science (1885), vi: 353-
304].

(163) The results of the Krakatoa eruption. 3illus, (Abstract of No. 38.) [Science
(1885) , vi: 291-293. ]

(164) The Sierra Nevada of Spain. The scene of the recent earthquakes. [Science
(1885), v: 195-196. ]

(165) Un tremblement de terre 4 Mendoza, République Argentine, 30 mars 1885.
[La Nature (1885), 11; 51.]

(166) Vibrations du sol produites par les trains des chemins de fer. [La Nature
(1885), 1: 74.)
ra ath

ee ae

VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS AND EARTHQUAKES IN ICELAND
WITHIN HISTORIC TIMES.*

Translated by GEORGE H. BOEHMER.

Very little account is taken in the Icelandic sagas of nature and its
phenomena, yet already at an early day the volcanoes of Iceland have
been mentioned. The “speculum regale,” written in Norway in 1230-
1250, dwells on voleanoes and hot springs in Iceland, and advances some
superstitious ideas as to their origin. ‘The Icelandic Annals” quote
volcanic eruptions and violent earthquakes, but without entering into
details; and a large amount of information on this subject exists only
in manuscript.

The first mention by foreign authors of the volcanoes of Iceland are
found in the ‘‘ Topographia Hibernie,” by Giraldus Cambrensis (1187),
and in “Chronicon de Lanercost” (1275), while the earliest descriptions
of the island were given in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. In
these the most absurd ideas regarding Iceland and other northern coun-
tries are advanced, and unlimited fancies and superstitions are displayed
as regards the Hecla. At about the middle of the sixteenth century
the brothers Johannes Magnus and Claus Magnus wrote about Iceland,
and at about the year 1600 Georg Peerson.and Blefkenius published some
volumes on the same island, in which they distinguish themselves by
their ridiculous accounts and illusions. They were reported by the
Icelandic scientist, Arngrimr J6nsson (1568-1648), who, in several works,
endeavored to give the foreigners a correct idea of the country. But
it is only since the middle of the eighteenth century, and only by the
efforts of Thormodhr Torfason (+1719) and Arni Magnusson (-+-1750)
that the north has commenced to take an interest in the language and
the history of Iceland. Ole Worm was the first, in Denmark, to write
something on the remarkable nature of that country. Nevertheless the
knowledge of it was but very imperfect until the middle of the eighteenth
century. In1746,Johan Anderson, burgomaster of Hamburg, published
a volume on Iceland, in which he corrected many inaccurate ideas, and
which was followed by the publication, in 1752, of Niels Horrebow’s ex-
cellent work ‘“ Tilforladelige Efterretninger om Island.” But no work
has ever served a better purpose than the ‘ Reise igjennem Island,”
Soro, 1772, by Eggert Olafsson and Bijarni Palsson; it has been trans-

* Translation of the résumé of ‘* Oversigt over de islandske Vulkaners Historie af
Th. Thoroddsen, Laerer ved Realskolen paa Médhruyellir, Island.”
495

——————
A96 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR i885.

lated into French and German, and notwithstanding its antiquity, it is
still the best source of knowledge of this country. At the close of the
last century the island was visited by several naturalists, among whom
we mention N. Mohr and Sveinn Palsson, of whom the latter has left
some still unpublished works on the volcanoes and glaciers of Iceland.

The geology of Iceland was not thoroughly studied until the com-
mencement of the nineteenth century. Among those who devoted
themselves to this subject we must mention G. S. Mackenzie (1810), C.
Krug von Nidda (1833),and Kugéne Robert, who, in 1835-36, was a mem-
ber of de Gaimard’s expedition. Steenstrup, Hallgrimsson, and Schythe
visited Iceland in 1839~40, during which period Steenstrup investigated
the fossil plants of the miocene period, which later were described by
Oswald Heer in his “ Flora fossilis arctica.” Bjorn Gunnilaugsson also
contributed considerably to the knowledge of the country by construct-
ing, during the years 1831-1843, a map of the island. In 1846, the year
following the last eruption of Hecla, the island was visited by three
celebrated scientists, R. Bunsen, Des Cloizeaux, and Sartorius v. Walters-
hausen, and during their sojourn they achieved considerable scientific
results. Th. Kjerulf visited the island in 1850 and G. G. Winkler in
1858. The geologist, F. Zirkel, who explored the island in 1860, fur-
nished very valuable contributions to the knowledge of the rocks of Ice-
land. The “ Reise nach Island,” by Preyer and Zirkel, is one of the best
descriptions known. Paijkull (1867) constructed the first geological
map of Iceland, and F. Jonstrup, during his two visits in 1871 and 1876,
studied several voleanoes and sulphur and coal beds.

Halidér Jakobsson (1734-1810) was the first to occupy himself with
the history of the Icelandic volcanoes, but his work has not been of
much utility, on account of the frequent inaccuracies in the location of
voleanoes and the dates of their eruptions. G. Garlieb was engaged
in similar studies, but his work, too, contains many inaccuracies. Eu-
géne Robert, Sabine Baring-Gould, and Zirkel have partly fallen into the
same mistakes as the preceding authors. The information having
mostly been obtained in. an indirect way, it is not to be wondered at
that the results are faulty. The Icelandic poet and naturalist, Jonas
Hallgrimsson, was the first to give a true account of the history of the
Icelandic voleanoes, but his memoir only exists in manuscript. Many
Icelanders have given accounts of various volcanic eruptions during the
past century, but the greater part of these observations are still unpub-
lished, and are preserved in libraries or otherwise. As regards the
eruptions of the nineteenth century, J. G. Schythe has given an excel-
lent account of that of Heela in 1845, and F. Jonstrup has described
the volcanoes of Dyngjufjall, Sveinagja, and Myvatn.

Notwithstanding the many celebrated scientists who have visited
Iceland, its geology is at present but little known, but this finds an
explanation in the extent of the country, in the many difficulties which
present themselves to the traveler, and the limited time at their com-
mand,

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. A497
LOCATION OF THE ACTIVE VOLCANOES.

The interior of Iceland forms a plateau of about 630 meters in height,
which, towards the north, northwest, and east, is cut up into a large
number of fjords and valleys; it slopes gently towards the north-
northeast (with a mean inclination of 0° 23/ 52” between Vatnajékull
apd the promontory of Tjérnes); and toward the southwest (with an
inclination of 0° 13’ 1” between the plateau of Sprengisandr and the
mouth of the Thjérs4); while the steepest slopes are on the east and
northwest sides, where they form abrupt cliffs facing the sea. The
most elevated portions are covered with glaciers, which occupy a
superficial surface of 14,000 square kilometers; the currents of lava
covering 7,400, of which 3,400 result from the OddAdahraun. Two
chains of volcanic mountains, the Reykjanes and the Snaefellsnes, ex-
tend on both sides of the Gulf of Faxe easterly across the plateau.
The formation of the east and northwest portions of the island is
mostly trap, while that of the central portion is soft gravel, with banks
of palagonite, a formation in which the volcanic phenomena seem to
be prevalent. Volcanic eruptions appear to be confined to two locali-
ties, one in the south of the island, running southwest to northeast,
and the other in the north, running from south to north. Eruptions
of trachyte have occurred in the eastern portion of the island. Glacial
and alluvial deposits cover large spaces. There are a large number
of extinct volcanoes; but we shall confine ourselves to those which
have been active within historic times.

We may distinguish eight groups of active volcanoes in Iceland:

(1) Group of Snaefellsnes (Eldborz).

(2) Group of the Hecla (Hecla, Randhukambar).

(3) Group of Reykjanes (Thurrarhraun, Trélladyngja, Eldeyjar).

(4) Group of Katla (Katla, Eyjafjallajékull*).

(5) Group of Varmdrdalr.

(6) Group of the volcanoes south of the Vatnajékull (Oraefajékull,
Skeidhararjékull, Grimsvatn, Sidhujékull).

(7) Group of the volcanoes of Odédahraun (Kverkfjall, D¥ngjufjall,
Sveinagja).

(8) Group of the volcanoes of eave (KXvafla, Leirhnikr, Hrossa-
dalr, Bjarnarflag, Dalfjall).

(1) Group of Snaefellsnes.—The only active voleano in this group is
the Eldborg (64° 47’ Lat. N., 34° 54’ Long. W. of Copenhagen), which
at about the year 950 threw out from a crater of 200 meters in diameter
and 53 meters depth a current of lava 11,300 meters long by 3,770 meters
wide.

(2) Group of the Hecla.—The Hecla (63° 59’ N, Lat. and 32° 19/ Long.

* Jékull is the Icelandic word for glacier. Eyjafjallajékull, for instance, signifies
the glacier of Eyjafjall, but at the same time serves to designate the volcano or
mountain of that name.

H. Mis. 15-——32
AQS SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

W. of Copenhagen) is the most celebrated of the Icelandic volcanoes.
It has been studied by Schythe and Kjerulf. It is located on a chain
of 23,000 meters in length, rises in three or four terraces to a height of
1,556 meters, and is surrounded by large lava beds of 680 square kilo-
meters in extent. A little below the summit are craters which, in 1845,
were formed in a crevice running southwest to northeast. Parallel
with the Hecla emerge from the lava five ridges of soft gravel stone,
all running, partly disconnected, from southwest to northeast; in the
midst the Hecla rises on a base of 630 meters. The largest streams of
lava are found on the east slope of the Hecla, on which side the base
also is more elevated than on the west side. Several series of craters
appear around the Hecla, and at the foot of the chains of soft gravel
stone. At TorfajOkull, to the east of the Hecla, the remarkable trachyte
lava current of Hrafntinnuhraun* is met with. The Hecla has hed
eighteen eruptions within historic times.

The Randhukambar (64° 12/ N. Lat., 32° 25’ Long. W. of Copenhagen)
is a volcano extending, like the Hecla, in a direction southwest to north-
east. Only one eruption (in 1343) is known to have occurred, whereby
a formerly very fertile valley became covered with ashes and pumice
stone.

(3) Group of Reykjanes.—The peninsula of Reykjanes should be con-
sidered a continuation of the Hecla. It is composed of stratified
masses; gravel, alternating with trap-rock, forming plateaus of about
125 meters in height, completely covered with lava, from which rise, in
a direction from southwest to northeast, a series of volcanoes and cones
of scoria, reaching to a height of 630 meters, containing several hot
springs and solfatares. Here, in N. Lat. 64° and W. Long. 33° 55’, one
meets with the lava stream of Thurrdrhraun, dating from the year 1000.
It started from two craters situated in the northwest portion of the
Hellisheidhi and extended to a distance of 15 kilometers. In its south-
east portion, 4 kilometers long, it has an inclination of only 1° 50’, but
it then descends with an inclination of 24° to 30°, and from a height
of 140 meters into the plain of Olfus. Nearly in the middle of the
peninsula, in 63° 56’ N. Lat. and 34° 14’ Long. W. of Copenhagen,
there rises to the northwest of the solfatare of Krisnvik the volcano
of Trélladyngja. The Icelandic annals mention six eruptions of the
Trélladyngja, which have been eredited to the voleano of ‘Odadha-
hraun of the same group, but which, according to the investigations of
Jonas Hallgrimsson, appear to be those of the Reykjanes. On the
southwest point of Reykjanes are several hot springs, and in the same
direction, about 114 kilometers from the coast, a series of volcanic
islands, known under the name of Fugles Kjaer or Eldegar, in the
neighborhood of which several submarine eruptions have occurred.

(4) Group of Katla.—Upon the grand glaciers of Myrdalsjékull (1,320
square kilometers), separating the district of Skaptafell (Skaptafells-

* Hraun designates in Icelandic a current of lava,

«
f
i

i

“ean Sg a re eg ER SS

See OE an Se ee ee a ee

So oe aS:
VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 499

syssel) from that of Rangaérvalla, are located two centers of eruption,
the Eyjafjallajokull and the Katla. The neighborhood of this group
consists of sandy deserts and bowlders, which have their origin in the
glacial movement and in voleanic eruptions. The configuration cf
several districts have in this manner been entirely changed within his-
toric times. The combined power of the glacial movement and of the
voleanoes is plainly seen in many instances. At one place where for-
merly quite a considerable fjord existed, there is at present a desert, and
several small mountains which formerly rose from the coast are at
present quite a distance away from the sea. The Eyjalfjallajokull
(63° 37’ N. Lat. and W. Long. 32° 16’ 18”), to the west, is a truncated
cone of 1,706 meters in height. The principal crater, has tumbled in
and is filled up with ice. The eruption of 1821 took place from a crevice
of about 50 meters, on the northwest slope of the mountain. The Katla
(63° 37’ N. Lat., 31° 35’ W. Long. is a deep crater, situated in the east-
ern portion of the Myrdalsjoékull, and ordinarily filled with ice. It has
several times been attempted to closely examine this voleano, but always
in vain.

From the Katla, descending to the base of the glacier, extend two
valleys, the one in a southeasterly direction, towards the Myrdalssandr,
beyond the isolated mountain Hafrsey, the other one in a southwesterly
direction, towards the Sélheimasandr. The greater part of the water-
courses issuing from the glaciers at the time of the eruptions descend
through the valley to the southeast; still some few find their way
through the southwesterly valley. The eruptions which in the annals
have been ascribed to the Myrdalsjokull, Midhdalsjékull, Hefdhajékull,
Selheimajékull, and Katla, should all be credited to the Katla, since
all these names have been given to the same voleano. Several districts
and a large number of farms have been destroyed by the eruptions of
the Katla. Neither the Katla nor the other ice-covered volcanoes 1n the
south of Iceland have ever emitted any lava. This, next to the Hecla,
is the most active voleano, twelve or thirteen eruptions having been
recorded within historic times.

(5) Group of Varmdrdalr.—The most violent eruptions ever recorded
in Iceland within historic times occurred in 1783, to the northeast ot
the glacier of Myrdalr, in the neighborhood of the sources of the
Skapté. These eruptions issued from a large number of craters, situ-
ated to the southwest, north, and east of Mont Laki (649 2’ N. Lat.), and
throughout a valley named Varmiardalr, and not’ from the Skaptarjo-
kull, as mentioned in most geological manuals, although it is not implied
that on other occasions eruptions have not taken place from craters in
that region of glaciers. The craters which occupy our attention in the
present case are but imperfectly known. Magnitis Stephensen (1784) and
Sveinn Pallson (1794) examined several of them superficially. Those of
the valley of Varmardalr extend throughout a length of about 15 kilom-
eters. The currents of lava which were formed are the most extensive
500 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR i885.

ever produced in the world in any single eruption within historic times.
They cover a track of 3974 square kilometers, and in several places are
from 157 to 188 meters thick. The lava spread towards the south in
two branches, the westerly one, 83 kilometers long, into the bed of
the Skapté, and the easterly one, 38 kilometers long, into that of the
Hoerfésflj6t. According to Lyell its volume is considerably larger
than that of Mont Blanc;, its mean inclination, according to Elie de
Beaumont, is 0° 30’; but in the absence of exact measurements these
figures can be relied on only approximately.

(6) Group of volcanoes south of the Vatnajokull_—On the south side of
the Vatnajékull, in an unknown desert, are several volcanoes, but none
of them have as yet been examined, and even their exact location is not
known, with the exception of the highest mountain in Iceland, the
Orefajokull, or Hnappafellsjékull (64° 0’ 48” N. Lat. and 29° 20/ 16”
Long. west of Copenhagen), which rises like a promontory on the south
brink of the Vatnajékull to a height of 1,960 meters. Formerly human
habitations extended to the foot of the glacier, but these regions have
been completely devastated by the eruption of 1349. Palsson ascended
the Orefajékull in 1793. From all sides extend large glaciers down to
the low lands. To the west of the Orefajékull is the glacier of Skei-
dhardrjokull, and still farther to the west that of Sidhujokull; between
these is the lake of Grimsvdtn. The annals mention several eruptions
in this region, but exact data are wanting.

(7) Group of volcanoes of Odddhahraun.—To the north of the Vatna-
jokull is the grand lava current of Odddhahraun, covering a surface of
5,400 square kilometers, and on which a considerable number of craters
and voleanoes are located, the greater part of which are still unexplored.
The height of the Odédahraun, above the sea, at the foot of the Vatnajé-
kull, is 942 meters, but on the inner side only 471 meters. To the north
of the Vatnajékull, in W. Long. 29° 30’, is the voleano Kverkfjall, from
which eruptions took place in 1717 and 1873, and likely quite frequently
within historic times. To the northwest of the Kverkfjall rises, at an
elevation of 1,400 meters above the sea level, the volcanic group of
Dyngjufjall, explored by F. Jonstrup in 1876. These mountains encircle
the valley of Askja, which has a surface of about 57 square kilometers,
and an altitude of 1,100 to 1,200 meters. The ground is covered with
lava beds having, in the east, towards the opening of the valley, an in-
clination of 1° 26’. In the southeast angle of Askja an abyss of 230
meters depth has formed, in the middle of which is found a circular
lake of 1,200 meters in diameter, with a water temperature, in 1876, of
22° ©. On the sides of this pit are craters which erupted in 1875.

To the north of the Dyngjufjall mountains, to the west of Jékulsa i
Axarfirdhi, in a flat and sterile plain, named Myvatnséraefi, in which
there are some ancient craters, an eruption took place in 1575 in the
crevice of Sveinagjd, in the midst of a grassy plain, whereby a current of
lava was created, 23,000 meters long and 1,900 meters wide, the volume
VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 5OL

of which, according to F. Jonstrup, represents 310,000,000 of cubic
meters. Thea craters are divided into three groups, of which the south-
erly is 475 meters, and the northerly 422 meters above sea level. The
higheat crater extended in 1876 to 34 meters above the plain.

(8) Group of the volcanoes of Myvatn.—The surroundings of the lake
Myvatn constitute avery remarkable volcanic region; itis nearly entirely
covered with lava beds strewn over with craters, which give it the ap-
pearance of a lunar landscape. To the east of the farm of Reykjaklidh
stretches out a long chain which terminates in the voleano of Leirhnikr,
in the neighborhood of which the grand eruptions of 1724-1730 took
place. Into the same period fall other eruptions, issuing from the
Krafla, to the east of the Leirhnikr, from the Hrossadalr, the Bjarnar-
flag, and from another crater in the vicinity of the Reykjahlidharsel, on
the east slope of the chain of Dalfjall, craters all within a short dis-
tance from each other and in a right line south of the Leirhnikr.
Several extensive solfatares occur in the vicinity, especially at Nama-
fjall. The annals mention besides, still without indicating the locality,
several eruptions, the greater part of which undoubtedly have taken
place in the unknown regions which surround the Vatnajékull.

The various lists indicate quite a number of volcanic eruptions in
sections, in which, according to the annals, such phenomena have not
occurred within historic times. Likewise one might discard the fol-
lowing localities as places of eruption: Asmundarntipr, Théreyjarntpr,
Hofsjokull, Balvjékull, Theistareykir, Fremri-Namar, Hverfjall, Sand-
fellsj6kull, Mosfell, Herdhubreidh, Skaptarjékull, Breidhamerkrjékull,
Thorsmork, and Torfajékull. It is true, there are craters in some of
these localities, but there is not one historical proof of their eruptions.
The foreign publications repeat many errors relative to the situations
of the volcanoes of Iceland, caused by the imperfect knowledge which
their authors possessed of the topography of this country.

CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS AND EARTHQUAKES
IN ICELAND.

900 (approximately). Eruption of the Katla. The entire region from
the Eyjara and the Hélms4 to the river Kalm, north of the Alptaver,
and the district of Dynskégahverfi were completely devastated. At
about the same time the sandy plain of Sdélheima appears to have been
subjected to the action of water and ice, whereby the course now called
Jokuls4 4 Sélheimasamli seems to have been formed. Several lists
multiply this eruption, dating them in 894 and 934, but there is no cer-
tainty as to the correctness of these dates.

950 (approximately). Eruption of the Lldborg and formation of the
lava current of Borgarhraun. The farm of Hripr formerly stood on
the site of the present crater.

1000. Eruption on the Hellisheidhi and formation of lava stream of
Thurrérhraun,
502 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

1013. Earthquake, causing the loss of eleven lives.

1104. First eruption of the Heela.

1151. First eruption of the Trélladyngja. Several buildings were
destroyed by shocks of earthquake.

1157. Second eruption of the Hecla, on the 19th of January, and earth: .

quake shocks, causing the death of several persons.

1167. Earthquake at Grimsnes, with a loss of nineteen lives.

1182. Earthquake. Eleven people killed.

1188. Second eruption of the Trélladyngja.

1206. Third eruption of the Hecla, December 4, lasting until the fol-
lowing spring.

1211. Submarine eruption near Hldeyjar, southwest of Reykjanes.
Several new islands formed and others disappeared. In the south of
Iceland an earthquake, whereby eighteen people lost their lives.

1222. Fourth eruption of Hecla.

1225. Eruption in some unknown locality. The winter of this year
is called ‘“‘ the winter of sand.”

1226. Second submarine eruption to the southwest of Reykjanes.

1231. Third submarine eruption to the southwest of Reykjanes.

1238. Fourth submarine eruption to the southwest of Reykjanes.

1240. Fifth submarine eruption to the southwest of Reykjanes. Ac-
cording to Gisli Oddsson half of the peninsula was destroyed.

1245. Second eruption of the Katla. Torrents of water were thrown
upon the plains of Sdlheima and the fields were covered with cinders
to a thickness of 16 centimeters.

1260. Violent earthquake shocks in the north of Iceland.

1262. Third eruption of the Katla. The volcano hurled out a mass
of water, ice, and stones,* which, it is said, raised the Solheimasandr
38 meters. (?)

1294. Fifth eruption of the Heela, accompanied by violent earth-
quakes and formation of crevices. The water in the wells assumed a
milky white color and the Rang4é changed its course. The rivers were
covered with dross, which the currents carried as far as the Faroe
Islands. Several hot springs disappeared on this occasion, LS others
were formed.

1300. Sixth eruption of the Hecla, on the 10th of July. This was one
of the most violent actions of this volcano. The cinders thrown out
were carried by the prevailing southwest winds to the north of the
island, where they caused great destruction, which was followed by a
famine. For two days complete darkness prevailed, and the Hecla
underwent considerable changes. On the 30th December an earth-
quake destroyed the farm of Skardh. Five hundred people, mostly in
the north of the island, died of the consequences of this eruption.

* These torrents of water, ice, stones, gravel, and sand, produced by the voleanic
eruptions in Iceland, are called “ Jékellob,”

|
VULCANISM, EYC., IN ICELAND. 503

1408. Earthquakes in the south of Iceland, destroying eighteen farms
and killing six people.

1311. Fourth eruption of the Katla, on the 25th of January, com-
pletely ravaging the district of Lageyjarhverfi. Earthquake shocks on
the 10th and 11th of January destroyed fifty-one farms.

1332. Eruption in the vicinity of the district of Sidha on the 2d of
December. The exact spot has not been located.

1339. Earthquake on the 22d of May, in the south of the island, de-
stroying a number of farms above Skeidh, F106i, ree
and between the Thj6rs4 and the Eystri Bane In the mountains of
Hengil a hot spring appears, with a circumference of 75 meters.

1340. Third eruption of the Trélladyngja.

1341. Seventh eruption of the Hecla, on the 19th of May, accompanied
by an enormous fall of cinders, which devastated several districts in the
surrounding country, while at the same time an earthquake destroyed
several farms. In the same year an eruption of the Oraefajékull is
mentioned.

1343 (approximately). Eruption of the Randhukambar. In the adjoin-
ing valley of Thjérsardalr eleven farms were completely destroyed.
Of some of them the ruins are still in existence.

1349. Second eruption of the Oraefajikull, which devastated five
fertile districts (Herreder). After the ice covering the mountains
began to melt, the torrents thus formed swept away forty farms and
two churches, and those which bent their course towards the sea carried
such a quantity of sand and gravel that a beach had formed after the
eruption at a place where before the water had a depth of 56 meters.
Some lists give the dates of this eruption in the years 1550 and 1362,
respectively.

1360. Fourth eruption of the Trélladyngja. Pumice stone was car-
ried westward, towards the sea, as far as Myrar, and the eruption was
plainly visible at Snaefellsnes.

1370. Earthquake, causing the tumbling down of twelve farm-houses
in Oltus.

1389~90. Eighth eruption of the Hecla. The principal eruption took
place from two new craters which opened below the farm of Skardh.
It lasted to the middle of the year 1590 and destroyed two farms. The
same year saw the fifth eruption of the Trdlladyngja and one of the
Sidhjokull.

1391. Earthquakes at Grimsnes, F16i, and Olfus which were felt to the
northwest as far as Holtavordhuheidhi. Fourteen farms were seriously
damaged and three houses caved in.

1416. Fifth eruption of the Katla, with a considerable fall of ashes.

1422. Sixth submarine explosion southward of Reykjanes. A new
island was formed, which later on disappeared again.

1436. Ninth eruption of the Hecla, resulting in the destruction of
eighteen farms during one morning.
504 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

1477. Eruption in an uninhabited region; in the north of the island’
a heavy fall of ashes followed by a famine.

1510. Tenth eruption of the Hecla, on the 25th of July. Large masses
of lava were thrown to a distance of several miles, killing several peo-
ple. In the same year the sixth eruption of Trélladyngja is recorded.
These eruptions were followed by dangerous epidemics, to which many
people fell victims.

1546. Earthquake at Olfus, in the commencement of June. Several
farms were more or less injured.

1552. Earthquake on the 2d of February.

1554. Towards the end of May the eleventh eruption of Hecla, or
rather of the mountain chain forming its northeastern continuance. The:
eruption lasted six hours, and the shocks of earthquake were so fre-
quent that the people quitted their houses and took up their abodes im
tents.

1578. On the 1st of November the twelfth eruption of Hecla, which,,
although feeble, was accompanied by violent shocks of earthquakes,
which destroyed several farms at Olfus.

1580. Sixth eruption of the Katla, on the 11th of August. Destruction
of several farm-houses, but no loss of life. The current of water, ice,
sand, and rocks (Jékelléb) thrown out by the volcano took a southeast-
erly course.

1581. On the 30th of May, earthquake at Rangdarvellir, demanding
several victims.

1583. Seventh submarine explosion scuthwest of Reykjanes.

1584. Violent earthquake.

1597. Thirteenth eruption of Hecla, commencing on the 3d of Janu-
uary and lasting until March, while vapor was emitted until July.
Eighteen columns of fire rose above the mountain, the cinders scat-
tered over more than half the country, in the west as far as Borgarf-
jordhr, to the east as far as Lon, and to the north as far as Bardharvalr,
and during twelve hours the detonations were audible at the extreme
north of Iceland. The eruption was accompanied by earthquakes,,
which destroyed several farm-houses at Olfus. A large hot spring (the
Little Geyser) south of the farm of Reykir disappeared, but another one;
opened on the north side.

1598. On the 10th of November, the third eruption of Oraefajokull:
and eruption at Grimsvatn (?). A northeast wind carried the ashes as.
far as the Eyjafjordhr.

1612. Eruption of the Hyjafjallajokull on October 12.

1613. Violent earthquakes in the south of Iceland; destruction of
many farm-buildings.

1618. Earthquake at Thingeyjarsysla, continuing from autumn until
Christmas. One shock broke down four buildings and produced a num-
ber of large crevices.

1619. Fourteenth eruption of Hecla towards the end of July. The
VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 505

asbes carried northward by a southwesterly wind produced an intense
darkness.

1624. Earthquake at Fléi in November; two farm buildings were
destroyed and a large number damaged.

1625. Seventh eruption of Katla, from the 2d to the 14th of Septem-
ber. The “Jékell6b” inundated the plain of Alptaver and surrounded
the Thykkvabaejarklaustr and neighboring farms. The ashes were car-
ried as far as Bergen, Norway. At Skaptarhunga they collected knee-
deep. Two districts were ruined.

' 1630. Earthquake to the east of Thjérsa in winter; six lives lost.

1632. Earthquake in the fall.

1633. Earthquake in the south, above Olfus.

1636. Fifteenth eruption of Hecla, lasting from the 8th of May until
the following winter. Thirteen craters were formed. The ashes were
carried to the southeast.

1638. Eruption in an unknown locality in the east of Iceland. The
water-courses in that section carried to the sea large pieces of pumice-
stone.

1643. Earthquake near Christmas.

1657. Earthquake, overthrowing several farm buildings at Flj6pehlidh.

1658. Earthquake on Easter day.

1660. Eighth eruption of Katla, lasting from the 3d to the 12th
November. The powerful ‘ Jokell6b” carried to the sea enormous
masses of ice, rocks, and gravel to such an extent that the large sand
plains at the foot of the Katla were completely inundated and resembled
astormy sea. The presbytery and the church of Hofdhabrekka were
torn away by the waters, the farm of Hofdhi completely demolished,
and four other farm buildings damaged to a considerable degree. Fish-
ing grounds of 38 meters depth were filled up by the eruption and

_ formed a dry beach.

1661. Earthquake in summer.

1668. Violent earthquakes in winter.

1671. Earthquakes at Grémsnes and Olfus; several buildings fell in.

1681. Eruption of the Skeidhardrjokull.

1685. Eruption in the vicinity of lake Grimsvtan.

1693. Sixteenth eruption of Hecla from four craters; very violent,
and lasting from the 13th of February until August. It was accom-
panied by shaking of the earth, which was even noticeable on the sea.
The voleano emitted blocks of lava of the size of houses; the ashes
spread all over the island and were transported as far as Norway and
Scotland, while the pumice-stone was carried by the streams and cur-
rents as far as the Faroe Islands.

1706. Very violent earthquakes in the south, on the Ist and 20th of
April, above Olfus and at Fléi, where twenty-four large farms and a
number of smaller buildings were overthrown. The trembling, with
diminishing force, was felt beyond the Hecla, at Snaefellsnes,
506 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885

1716. Eruption in the vicinity of lake Grimsvatn.

1717. Eruption of the Kverkfjall on the 17th of September. A large
portion of the country, to the north and east, was covered with ashes,
and the Jékuls4i Axarfirdhi carried to the sea large quantities of
pumice-stone.

1721. Ninth eruption of Katla, commencing on the 11th of May with
a great ‘“Jdékelléb.” The blocks of ice carried down to the sea, and fill-
ing it to a depth of from 130 to 150 meters, formed a barrier to a dis-
tance of three nautical miles from the shore. A turf-covered ridge of
rock of about 24,000 square meters was cut away on being struck with
this giant force. A rocky pinnacle of 38 meters in height was also
carried away, and the large cavern of Skipabellir completely filled up
with gravel. The wind carried the ashes to the west; and at Saurbaer,
upon the Hvalfjardbarstrond, 150 kilometers distant, the darkness was
so intense as to prevent, at broad noon, the distinguishing of letters in
a book. The sailors of Reykjanes, 188 kilometers from the Katla, were
barely able to find the entrance of the harbor at the beginning of the
eruption. It lasted during the summer and fall.

172430. During this period several eruptions took place in the
vicinity of lake Myvatn.

1724, Eruption of the Krafla, 17th of May. The crater of Viti, on the
west slope of the mountains, emitted an enormous qnantity of ashes,
and to the east of lake Myvatn it formed a bank 1 meter deep. The
shocks were felt throughout the entire country; houses were over-
thrown, and the contour of the country changed by the formation of
elevations and depressions.

1725. January 11, eruption of Leirhnikr, with much shaking of the
earth, and on April 19 eruption of Bjarnarflag. The earthquakes,
increasing in force, attained their maximum intensity on the Sth of
September. In the same year an eruption of Skeidhardrjokull took
place.

1727. Eruption of Oracfajékull, lasting from the 3d of August, 1727,
until the 25th of May, 1728. Powerful ‘Jékell6b” devastated the
entire country below the mountains, and carried out into the sea a large
number of horses and other animals. The Skeidhardrjékull was, at the
same time, much agitated. On the 21st of August another eruption
took place from the Leirhnikr, throwing out a current of lava, which
took a northerly direction.

1718. Eruption of the Leirhnikr, at 2.a.m. of the 18th of April, with
a flow of lava, which almost reached lake Myvatn. Four hours later
a new crater opened to the south of Leirhnikr, in the Hrossadalr, and
at about the same moment the Bjarnarflag erupted. Two days later a
crater, situated on the east slope of the Dalfjall, near the Reykjahlt-
dharsel, emitted a large current of lava. On the 18th December another
eruption of the Leirhnikr. In the same year several volcanic phe-
nomena were observed in the lava beds of Heela.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. «BOT

1729. The Leirhnikr again became active on the 30th of January,
and eruptions took place during the entire year. The lava advanced
to the lake Myvatn and demolished the presbytery of Reykjalidh,
together with three other buildings. One current em))tied itself into
the lake and a terrible combat took place between the elements.

1732. Earthquakes at Rangdrvellir and at Eystrihreppr, on the 7th of
September, by which forty farm buildings were more or less damaged
and eleven or twelve nearly overthrown. These shocks coniinued dur-
ing two weeks.

1734. Earthquake shocks at Flt and other localities in Arnessyssel,
by which thirty farm buildings were overthrown, sixty to seventy
damaged, and seven or eight people killed.

1749, Earthquakes at Olfus and Borgarfjérdhr; the flow of the hot
spring of Skrifla diminished and the farm-house of Hjalli, at Olfus, to-
gether with the church, sank 1.25 meters below the surface.

1752. Earthquake in Arnessyssel; 12 farms in Olfus damaged, and
one church overthrown.

1753. Eruption in the vicinity of Sédhwokfll. A “Jékelléb” pro-
duced in the river Djipaé, which flows in a gorge towards the presby-
tery of Kalfafell, a rise of 60 meters; an inundation followed which
devastated the entire surrounding country. The waters of the Skapta
and of the Hverfisflj6t rose proportionately. The ashes were carried
beyond Skaptartunga.

1754. Volcanic phenomena of three hours’ duration in the lava beds
west of the Hecla.

1755. Sixteenth eruption of Katla, preceded in the north by violent
shocks of earthquake, overthrowing 13 farm-houses situated mostly
in the neighborhood of Htsavik, and lasting from the 10th to the 16th
September. The eruption commenced on the 17th October and lasted
until August, 1756. The ‘‘ Jékell6b” and the ashes, which were carried
as far as Leira, in the Borgarfjordhr, to the west, and to Djipivogr to
the east, occasioned great damages. A large part of Skaptafellssyssel
was covered with a layer of ashes 15 to 20 centimeters in thickness,
and fifty farms had to be abandoned. In consequence of this eruption
two ridges were formed on the Myralssandr, 23,000 meters long, 40
meters high, and composed of ice, pumice stone, mud, and ashes.

1766. Seventeenth eruption of Hecla, commencing on the 5Sth of
April, as ordinarily with heavy earthquake shocks, perceptible south-
westward as far as Reykjanes. The ashes drifted northwest and
caused darkness in the north of Iceland; the layer of ashes formed was
60 centimeters thick in the vicinity of the volcano, and 30 centimeters
at 225 kilometers distant, but fortunately it fell mostly in uninhabited
districts. Pieces of pumice stone of 2 meters circumference were
thrown a distance of 15 kilometers, a piece of lava of 1,750 grains a
distance of 23 kilometers, and another piece of 3,750 grains weight,
508 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. _

struck the frozen ground at Naefrholt with such force that it could only
be removed with the aid of a lever. Masses of pumice stone caused
the Ytri-Ranga to overflow its banks, and the Thj6rsa and other rivers
carried enormous quantities of it out into the sea. A current of lava,
7,500 meters long, spread out towards south-southwest. On the 21st
of April the ashes measured 5,000 meters in height and ‘still rising.
This eruption did not end until the next autumn.

1774. Eruption in an unknown section in the vicinity of the Skei-
dhardrjokull.

1783. Eighth submarine explosion southwest of Reykjanes in May.
An island formed with a crater which emitted such quantities of pum-
ice stone that the sea was covered with it to a distance of 150 to 225
kilometers. This island, which received the name Ny6o (new), scon
again disappeared.

In the same year. grand eruptions took place in the vicinity of the
source of the river Skaptad. On the first of June a trembling of the earth
was noticed throughout Skaptafellssyssel which lasted until 8 a. m.
At 9 A. M. a violent eruption was noticed at Sidha in a direction north.
At the same time the Skapta, then 130 meters wide, commenced to
diminish rapidly, and on the 11th June it had dried up entirely. Un
the 12th a current of lava precipitated itself like a roaring sea into the
bed of the river, 160 to 190 meters deep, and after filling it up com.
pletely, overran its banks, spread in various places and encircled
several farms, but was suddenly arrested by a deep pit existing in the
bed of the Skapté between the farms of Skaptardalr and the A, and

which it would have to fill and bridge over before being able to pursue
its course. The emissions of lava continued without interruption, and
in the direction of Ulfarsdalr and Varmardalr twenty-two columns of
fire and ashes could be counted. From the 14th to the 22d June the
lava currents overflowed each other in the plains south of the Skapta,
destroying several farms and fusing the old lava, at the same time
obstructing or dislocating several water courses. Pumice stones and
dross were thrown a distance of 113 kilometers westerly to Rangar-
vallasyssel. On the 30th of June a current of lava turned west, towards
the Kudhafljot, one of the largest rivers of Iceland, which arrested it
in its course, the current of lava being unable to surmount this power-
ful barrier. The east branch of this current emptied itself into the
Skapta, bridged over on the 17th of July a deep pit below the cascade
of Stapafoss, and stopped on the 20th of July at 1,900 meters from
Kirkjubaejarklaustr, where it filled a channel of 130 meters in width
and 40 meters in depth. The volcanoes continued their eruptions with
diminishing force during the months of July, August, and September,
and even in the middle of January of the next year one could still
observe from Skaptartunga feeble eruptions behind the mountains. On
the 29th of July, 1783, new eruptions were again observed farther to

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 509

the east, in the district of Fljotshverfi; this region became covered
with ashes, and the waters of the Hverfisflj6t, after reaching the boil-
ing point, evaporated completely under the action of a current of lava
which filled the bed of the river and expanded towards the south, thereby
destroying several farms. These eruptions continued until the month of
January, 1784. At the same time the volcano in the vicinity of Skeidh-
ardjokull evinced signs of activity, and an eruption took place on the
8th of April, 1784, giving birth to a terrible “ Jékelléb.”

These violent eruptions tended to largely change the configuration
of the surrounding country. Several water-courses disappeared, others
had their course obstructed, and now formed in the lava bed innumera.-
ble small lakes, which in the mean time also disappeared, the Skapta
and the Hverfisfljét digging out new beds. And on the other hand no
eruptions had ever had such disastrous consequences for Iceland. The
lava consumed entirely 9 farms, ruined about 29 others, and rendered
two parishes uninhabitable for two years. The ashes extended in large
masses over the greater portion of Iceland and were carried to the
Faroe Islands and beyond. The prairies were devastated, and a large
number of animals died of hunger and disease. The year following was
still more sorrowful, the inhabitants dying by the hundreds of hunger.
It has been estimated that of the 48,884 individuals composing the
inhabitants of Iceland, 9,238 died in consequence of these eruptions.
Of animals, the loss by death during the years 1783~84 was: 11,461
head of cattle, 190,448 sheep, and 28,013 horses. Iceland was unable
to recover from these terrible misfortunes until the middle of the pres-
ent century.

1784. From the 4th to the 16th of August violent earthquake shocks
in Arnessyssel and Rangdrvallasyssel. Inthe former 69 farms were com-
pletely destroyed, and 372 more and 11 churches badly damaged. In
the latter 94 farm-buildings were shaken down. In some localities hot
springs disappeared and reappeared, and near the geyser 35 new springs
formed.

1789. Violent earthquake at Arnessyssel. The lava beds of Thing
vellir underwent some changes, and the entire section of land between
the crevice of Almannagjé and Hrafnagjaé settled 60 centimeters. Hot
springs sprouted up on the Hellisheidhi and in other localities (for in-
stance at Reykir). Several farms in the southeast of Iceland tumbled
down.

1808. Earthquakes in various places of Iceland, accompanied by a
change of the hot springs.

1810. Earthquake to the west of Hecla October 24.

1815. Earthquake shocks in the north part of the island during the
month of June.

1818, Feeble earthquake shocks in the southern part of the island.

1821, Second eruption of the Hyfafjallajokull, commencing on the 19th
510 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

December and continuing, though feebly, until the Ist of January, 1823.
It produced a “J6kellOb,” which, taking a westerly course, occasioned
considerable damages.

1823. The eleventh eruption of Katla lasted from the 26th of June to
the 23d of July, but was not as violent as the previous ones of the same
volcano. A “JOkell6b” carried to the east a large quantity of sand
and gravel. In the beginning of February of the same year some vol-
canic phenomena were observed in the vicinity of the sources of the
Skapta, possibly within the voleano of 1783.

1826. Earthquake shocks in the north of Iceland during the month
of June.

1829. Earthquake shocks in the south of Iceland on the 21st and 22d
of February; nine farms were destroyed.

1830. Ninth submarine explosion southwest of Reykjanes, at 4 kilom-
eters southwest of Eldeyjarbodi and at 60 kilometers southwest of the
point of Reykjanes. The explosions continued from the 13th of March
until the month of May.

1838. Earthquake in the north and south of Iceland, in the north be-
tween Skjalfandi and Hanafl6i, with change of location of hot springs.

1839. Earthquake at Reykjavik, on the 28th of July.

1845. Eighteenth eruption of Hecla, which, commencing on the 2d of
September, lasted for seven months. <A large quantity of ashes spread
over the surrounding country, and a portion was carried by the wind
as far as the Shetland islands. The column of ashes, on the 5th of
February, 1846, rose, according to Gunnlaugsson, 4,370 meters above
the summit of Hecla. The current of lava emitted had a length of
11,300 meters, a width of 2,806 meters, and was from 15 to 35 meters
thick. J.G. Schythe estimates its bulk as 446,000,000 of cubic meters.

1855. Feeble earthquake shocks in the north of Iceland.

1860. Twelfth eruption of Katla. On the 8th of May, between 6 aa
8 A. M., an earthquake occurred, followed by a “‘Jokellob,” descending
from the Katla towards the southeast. On the 11th Snotner “ Jokellob”
from the Sélheimasandr towards the southwest. The eruption ceased
on the 27th of May. The ‘“‘J6kell6b” carried such large masses of sand
and gravel that a former fishing ground of 30 meters’ depth was com-
pletely filled up after the eruption. The ashes were transported towards
the north into uninhabited regions and did but little damage. On Sep-
tember 20, at 7 P. M., an earthquake in the south, moving southwest to
northeast. In the night from the 30th to the 31st December one noticed
at Reykjavik a movement in the same direction.

1862. Eruptions in the uninhabited regions north of the Vatnajokull,
but its exact location not known.

1863. Earthquake at Reykjavik, in the night of the 20th to the 21st
of April.

1864. Earthquake at Reykjavik, on the 16th of February.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. ails

1867. Eruptions in the inhabited regions north of the Vatnajékull,
from the 29th of August to the 5th September. Fall of ashes south of
the Vatnajékull, at Oraefi, and at Sudhrsveit. At the same time
“ JOkelléb” at Skeidhardrjokull.

1868. Towards New Year some volcanic phenomena at Mandreyjar,
in the north of Iceland, were observed at sea in the neighborhood of
Tjérnes; and at the same time an earthquake took place at Hisavik.
In January, feeble shocks in the north; on the 1st to the 3d November
earthquake shocks in the south.

1872. Severe earthquake in the north, at Hivsavtk, on the 17th of
April. Several buildings were overthrown and others damaged. The
shocks were not discontinued until the end of May. In December of
the same year some feeble shocks were observed in the north.

1873. Eruption of the Kverkfjall(?) January 8 to 13. Considerable
fall of ashes in the south and east of the island.

1875. Alternate eruptions of the Dyngjufjall and the Sveinagjd. To-
wards the end of 1874 some earthquakes were noticed in the northeast
of the island, and on the 3d of January a column of smoke was observed
to rise above the Dyngjufjall, but this eruption did not cause any
damage. According to the researches of F. Jonstrup it issued from
craters situated in the southwest corner of the Askja, 94 meters below
the lava field of Askja, and 138 meters above the lake. These craters
emitted an enormous quantity of vapor even during the summer of
1876. During the first eruption large blocks of tuft and basalt, some
of a bulk of 31 cubic meters, were thrown to a height of 30 meters,
and one of them emitted blocks of gravel, cemented with ice, of a bulk
of 6 cubic meters.

On the 18th of February occurred an eruption of the Sveinagjd, in
the Myvatnsoraefi (desert of Myvatn), and the formation of several
craters; on March 10, an eruption of 14 to 16 new craters, emitting
torrents of lava; and on the 29th of the same month a violent eruption
of the Dyngjufjall. The entire eastern portion of Iceland became
covered with ashes and pumice stone, the bulk of the latter having
been estimated at 400 millions of cubic meters. Portions of the ashes
were transported to Norway, and even at Stockholm and its vicinity
a shower of the ashes fell on the evening of the 29th of March. This
eruption issued from the most southerly crater of the valley of Askja,
to the northeast of the pit mentioned before. The ground all around
was, in 1876, covered with pumice stones, the larger portion of them
having a diameter of 15 to 20 centimeters, and many of 50 to 100 cubic
decimeters in bulk. At one place where they were of a thickness of
60 to 100 centimeters they had entirely hidden a bed of snow of 8
meters’ thickness, formed during the winter of 1874~75. On the 4th
of April several eruptions were observed on the Myvatns6raefi, and on
the 15th of August the last one occurred, none of them causing much
512 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

damage. The lava produced was basaltic and very uneven. Some
craters emitted bombs with a close surface and a cellular mold. In
July, 1876, a temperature of from 130° to 200°, and even 300° C., was
observed in the cracks of the lava. In the grass-covered spots which
the lava overflowed, crystals of chlorhydrate of ammonia have separ-
ated. The eruption of Dyngjufjall, of the 29th of March, had some
very severe consequences for the fertile regions of the east of Iceland.
Hundreds of farms had to be abandoned, but one also rapidly re-
covered from the evil effects by removing the light layers of ashes and
pumice stone, and the damage will not be as serious as was feared.
This eruption, from the fact that its products were purely trachytic,
stands isolated and unique in Iceland in modern times.

1879. On the 27th of February an eruption in one of the chains run-
ning northeast from the Hecla. It lasted to the month of May, with-
out doing much harm, the lava not reaching the inhabited regions.

1879. Tenth submarine explosion southwest of Reykjanes, on the 30th
and 31st of May.

The following eruptions mentioned in several old lists are charged to
the wrong volcanoes: Hecla, 1004, 1029, 1113, 1374, 1583, 1625, 1727.
Katla, 1717, 1727. Trélladjyngja, 1475. Herdhubreidh, 1341, 1510.
Sidhujokull, 1728. Oraefajikull, 1332, 1336, 1720. Breidhamerkrjokull,
1362. Hofsjékull et Baldjékull, 1716. Hverfjall (or Sandfell), 1748, 1752.
Raudhukambar, 1311. Thérsmirk, 1310, 1350. Mosfell, 1340. Breidhi-
fiordr (near Snaefellsnes), 1219, 1345.  Thingvallahraun, 1587. As to
Helgafell, on the island of Westmanna, no positive data exist regard-
ing eruptions within historic times.

Within historic times eruptions have taken place at about 20 differ-
ent places in Iceland. Generally speaking the volcanoes are small and
only one eruption is on record. Among the large volcanoes, Hecla oc-
cupies the first place with 21 eruptions; next comes the Katla with
12 or 13, then the Eldeyjar, near Reykjanes, with 10, the Trolladyngja
with 6 eruptions. The largest current of lava was produced in 1783.
The ice-covered volcanoes in the south of Iceland never emit currents
of lava, but only ashes; they are above all to be dreaded on account of
the “Jékell6b” which they produce when the eruption breaks up the
covering of ice. The largest number of eruptions have taken place in
the fourteenth century (13), and in the eighteenth century (14). In
studying the list of eruptions it will be observed that in each period
they are concentrated in one certain section and that, in their succes-
sion, they rarely made large jumps. The earthquakes are in direct
connection with the eruptions, they occurring nearly all in Olfus,
Grimsnes, Flé6i, and at Fjélshlidh, in the vicinity of the Hecla, or at
Thingeyjarsysla, the hearth of the voleanoes of the north.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 513
All the eruptions mentioned in the annals, and regarding which reli-
able dates exist, are given in the following list:

Volcanic eruptions in Iceland within historic times.

|

ge
: a
Z si fF [ac iene
3 | =“
é| 3 F E i | xj 8) a ese] | 4 ity Nor ery

oh ecle be S\2| (Sl|e\8|@) 2 sslai3lai [gale

ea eo s\a tye Vig tl (on eS ee gfe te =f das Sigifla
S/BISIE] 4 lelelalalzlal| 2 | 2 lsdlZ|Blal4ial2| ele
aio} a oils = o | 3 . | "be & | &
elSlelfi 3 |e |S Slaelslal Sie lase)e Sle lel sleis\ 3
BRA) A |e aR MP leo] me | Oo MiAljwaliMi/yAl|Hiasa

|

950 1211/1151/1000 1114 1343 1612 900 1783'1889|1598] 1681) 141) 1225/1717 1875|1875|1724 1725|1728|1725|1728
~ «(1226 1188|....| 1157}. . . 1821/1245 1823|1753|1685| 1725, 1349, 1332 1867]....|- _...(1727]....|1728)....
~21)1281/1840]----| 1206). ..|....|1262/....|....{1716| 1727) 1598) 1341/1873] .. |... hres] ist iaery 2:
ESD Er Wh OO Were a PRR sri PO EN I Rea | ee D sip Nee Ia |
+2. .(1940)/1389|----| 1294). Hi (fala ps ak aa is |G Mal (1) en a DA raed | Ce
a 7 ee ae 1300 EU TE CE ae Et Wa nT | We ets (FE) 98 Fe fae
BPS 1) OR ina he Fe ea EG G5 mel ai MM | Wa i Fe Seal WE 0 8 a
AG ee lagiorasl ates ree MeN FI 1) ae ae) (Re ne LC aad Mia eas AEC GT 5 Fa Mec
=, (IBRD aB aces rer lik Ni) Sy ry Ph ft 3 | en A RR aa SE | 2 2 |= 5
STeeeTOE ore Fi i) ln egebed tr |e ned (5 A Sa Na Hi Boag
7 aa foi ful | 1554)..-.|.._.| rico as Pee! Feel a AR DR a We Dee PSS Pe FYE 727 cea
ED (Sera fet ae rr WA ez ll V7} RO Pa Ga Pa RMA ie (A EE) J (PV [3.8 84 | SO
Ban bee BaP 1597|eeee lease Ee SE eS 1 a) | 8 al Pe tae eee arora emt EY ose
See ae 5 FHS) flee We Pc NP | ee a Pe Ra Ww Ye
Hea el a bea FI a7i a Se (Rage (Oe a Fe al Vn WA Ml oad BB se! or
Eas ck en ae FU Cre) oe Mea la alee ga | rm Da VRE) 2 P= |
Carl Bee ae ae STi Peel Se ate 9 a oer | I a a Pai (in) Vd G2 [BSS
eealter ayy ales: rgd aa ky haa as Dar se Pe lei LN Mai a | 82 3
Yoel aay She ba 1766 roe ET eee oe LEC lees ACE RH a MR PRS et C=)
ol (ear aaa a ter 1845 sl esc Ee Ea ee (MES HS a (aa | RR NV eS Ia 213 FP
5) See EN ae TEE Smee seal |eclPizetc| Eg ae ya (RAI OR RU IR RR > [0

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE VOLCANOES, EARTHQUAKES, AND GEYSERS OF
ICELAND.

Compiled by GEORGE H. BOEHMER.

Mr. Thoroddsen, in his paper on ‘‘de islandske Vulkaners Historie,” furnishes quite
an extensive bibliographical list of volednoes and earthquakes of Iceland; a similar
list, on the geysers of Iceland, is given by Dr. A. C. Peale in his report on the Yellow-
stone National Park (in Part 1. of Dr. Hayden’s XII Annual Report — for 1878 — of
the U.S. Geological and Geographical Surveys of the Territories.) To these lists have
been added such titles of works on these subjects, as well as on geographical and
physical descriptions of Iceland, and such accounts of travels, as could be procured
from the following-named publications:

Skyrslur og Reikningar hins Islenzka B6kmentafélags, 1854-1884.

Literatur iiber die Polar-Regionen der Erde, von Dr. Josef Chavanne, Dr. Alvis
Karpf, und Franz, Ritter von Le Monnier, published by the I. R. Geographical Society
of Vienna, Austria.

Catalogue of the United States Library of Congress.

Catalogue of the Public Library, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Catalogue of the Peabody Institute, Baltimore, Md.

Catalogue of the Library of the College of New Jersey.

Catalogue of the Free Public Library, Worcester, Mass.

Catalogue of the Fall River Public Library.

Catalogue of the Saint Louis Mercantile Library.

Catalogue of the United States Interior Department Library.

“Atlantic Monthly.”

“Popular Science Monthly,” 1872-1882.

“Princeton Review,” 1852-1868.

‘‘Nature,” London, England.

“‘North American Review,” 1878-1880.

H. Mis. 15 33

514 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

‘«Scribner’s Monthly,” vol. 1-20.

‘‘Harper’s Monthly Magazine,” vols. 1-60.

Valuable information has been received from Dr. Stejneger of the U.S. National
Museum, from Dr. Hans H. Reusch, of Christiania, Norway, and from Mr. A. Thorstein-
son, of Reykjavik, Iceland. Thanks are due Mr. Solberg of the U. S. Library of Con-
gress for valuable advice and corrections.

The material thus collected has been alphabetically arranged under the four fol-
_ lowing heads:

1. Manuscripts. 3. Articles from journals, transactions, &c.
2. Printed books. 4. Maps and charts.

1. MANUSCRIPTS.

Alpium Myrdalinarum Vesuvius, que ab incolis vocatur Kétlugj4; i det store Kgl.
Bibl. Thotts Samling, No. 957. fol. Ogsaa i Collect. Finn. Magn. in Mus. Britann.,
No. 159, med. Tilfdielser af Jon Jakobsson og J6n Espolin.

AUSTMANN (JON). Kétluhlaup 1823. Indberetning til Biskop Steingrimur Jénssou ;
1 J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to.

Bejarstadhakver, i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 8vo. Heri findes, Jén Steingrims-
sons Skrifter om Katlas Udbrud og om Udbruddet 1783. Isl.

Beskrivelse over Hekkenfjeld paa Island, som er samlet mestendels efter Ditmer Blef-
kenius, tilligemed Relation om Eruptioner af Bjergene Krafla og Kétlugja, i det
store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Samling, No. 1673. 4to.

Brynjolfi Suenonii historica de rebus islandicis relatio ab Ottonem Kragium 16453; i
det store Kgl. Bibl. Gammel Kgl. Saml. No. 2856. 4to. Omtaler Katlas, Udbrud
1625. 8. 22-23.

EINARUS (OLAuUS). Epistolaad Theodorum Bjérnonis; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl.
Sam]. No. 271. 8vo.

ERLENDSSON (ODDR) 4 thifu. Dagskr4é um Heklugosidh 1845-46, og afteidhingur
thess; i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 8vo. Heraf findes oversatte Uddrag i det
store Kel. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml. 1671. b. 4to.

Extract udaf Sysselmand J6n Bendixens Relation, dat. Rédeskride, d. 16 April 1755;
i det store Kgl. Bibl. Thotts Saml., No. 1740. 4to. (Om Jordskjelene ved Ha-
savik 1755.) °

De physicis Islandiw revolutionibus. Collect. Finn. Magn. i Bibl. Bodlei. Oxford,
No. 129. 4to.

Eaacers (C. U.D.). Fortszttelse af ‘‘Physikalische und statistische Beschreibung von
Island, aus authentischen Quellen und nach den neueten Nachrichten.” Kopen-
hagen, 1786. 8vo. (Kun. 1. Theil., 1. Abth. er udkommen.) I Reykjavik lesde
Skolens Bibliothek.

EyJ6LFsson (OppDR). Descriptio conflagrationis montis Heclz anno 1693 ; i det store
Kel. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml. No. 1674. 4to.

Finnsson (HANNES). Fortsettelse af hans Efferretninger om Tildragelserne ved Bjer-
get Hekla 1766; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Gammel Kgl. Saml. No. 2861, og i Ny Kgl.
Saml. 1671. 4to.

GupHMUNDSSON (JON). Sannferdhug undhirrétling um Kétlugjaérhlaup og thess ver-
kanir 1755. Dat 19. Febr. 1756; i Jé6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to.

HAKONARSONAR (MAGNUSAR) b6k, i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 76 Sider. 4to. Heri:
J6n Steingrimssons Skrift om Katla, Jén Sigurdhssons Beretning om Katlas Ud-
brud 1755; Sveinn Pdlsson: Om Katla Udbrud 1823, og Magntis Hakonarson om
Katlas Udbrud 1860. Isl.

HALFDANSSON (EINAR). Af joclinom, er Orefin liopo 1727. En Afskrift og Omarbei-
delse af Halfdanssons Original ved Jén Olafsson fra Grunnavifk ; i Jén Sigurdhssons
Samling. 4to, I dansk Oversettolse ved Jén Marteinsson i det store Kgl. Bibl.
Thotts Samling, No. 1790. 4to.

HALLDORSSON (DADHTI) i STEINSHOLT{. Um Heklugos 1693, i Jon Sigurdhssons Manu-
skriptsaml. 4to.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. ile

HaruipOérsson (SVEINN). Um bei, sem skadhast hafa af jardhskjdlftum 14 og 16
August 1784; i Islands Stiftsbibliotheks Haandskriftsamling, No. 20. fol.

HALuGRimsson (J6NAS). Eldgos 4 Islandi; i det islandske literwre Selskab Arkiv i
Kbhavn., No. 11. fol. Dette Manuskript et Udkastet til samme Forfatters ‘‘De
islandske Vulkaner,” der findes i Prof. Japetus Steenstrups Hie, og hvor af der
igjen findes Afskrift i Jon Sigurdbssons Samling.

Hildharb6k, i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to. Heri: (1) J6n Steingrimssons Skrift om
Katla; (2) den Sammes Afhandling om Udbruddet 1783; (3) De stérste Udbrud
paa Island; (4) Svein Palsson om Heklas Udbrud; (5) Liste over islandske Vulkan-
udbrud af Halldér Jakobsson. Isl.

HOLM (SAEMUNDR). Tegning og Beskrivelse over nogle ildsprudende Bjerge paa
Island; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml., No. 1094. fol.

Horgsdalskver, i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 8vo. 292 pp. Heri: Jén Steingrimssons
Afhandling om Udbruddet 1783, Liste over islandske Udbrud af Halldér Jakobs-
son, Heklas Udbrud af Sveinn Palsson, og J6n Steingrimssons Skrift om Katlas
Udbrud. Isl.

Islands maerkvaerdigste Kilder i Jé6n Sigurdhssons Manuskriptsamling. 4to.

JAKOBSSON (JON). Chronologia Heclae. Collet. Finn. Magn.in Mus. Britann. No.
216.

JONSSON (Ernar) fré Asi. En kort Relatio historico-physica om den forfederlige
Ild- og Klippe-Spruden, som Hecle-Bjerget. begyndte sidstl. 5. April, dat Asi, 16
Sept. 1766. Autogr. i Jon Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to.

Kort Efterretning om Ildsprudninger i Island i Aarene 1821-’22~’23; i det store Kgl.
Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml., No. 1671. 4to.

Lysingar 4 eldgosum 4 Islandi (skrevet cirea 1844); i det isl. lit. Selskabs Arkiv i
Kbhavn., No. 47.  8vo. }

Magntisar Hakonarsonar b6k, i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 76 Sider. 4to. Heri:
J6n Steingrimssons Skrift om Katla, J6én Sigurdhssons Beretning om Katlas
Udbrud 1755; Svein Pélsson; Om Katlas Udbrud 1823, og Magni Hakonarson
om Katlas Udbrud 1860. Isl.

MaGntsson (THORSTEINN). Um K6tluhlaup 1625, i Jén Sigurdhssons Manuskript-
samling. 8vo. Ogsaa i Utgardha-Loki sammesteds. S, 23-35. Udfdrligere end
den trykte Relation.

Neue Zeitung von Sens, was sich in Island zugetragen habe 1580 und 1581; i det store
Kgl. Bibl. Gammel Kgl. Saml. No. 2432. 4to.

Nogle Breve og Beretninger om Eruptionerne paa Island i Aarene 1766 og 1767; i det
store Kgl, Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml. 1671. 4to.

OppssoNn (GisL1). De mirabilibus Islandiz s. historie naturalis Islandie tentamen,
scriptum 1638. Collect. Finn. Magn. in Bibi. Bodlei. Oxford. No.84. 4to.
Officielle Indberetninger om Udbruddet af Eyjafjallajékull 182122; i Jén Sigurdhs-

sons Samling. fol.

Officielle Indberetninger til Rentekammeret om Udbrud ved Skaptdér jékull 1823, af
Sveinn Palsson, Pall Palsson og v. Moltke, i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. fol.

Om den Skade, Hekkenfjeld paa Island gjorde 1693, fordansket af Chr. Taebring; i
det store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kgl. Saml., No. 209. 8vo.

PALSSON (SVEINN). Forség til en physik, geographisk og historisk Beskrivelse af de
islandske Ishjerge. I det store Kgl. Bibliothek i Kjébenhavn, Ny Kgl. Saml.,
No.1094. b-c. fol. Heraf findes en Afskrift i J6n Sigurdhssons Manuskript-
samling.

Zilleg til Beskrivelserne over den Vulkan, det brendte i Skaptafellssyssel Aar

1783. Samlet ved en Reise i Egnen i Aarene 1793-94. Med et Kort. I det isl.

lit. Selsk, Arkiv i Kbhavn., No. 23. fol.

K6tlugjargos 1823, seerskilt i J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to. Heraf findes

flere Afskrifter f. Ex, i Utgardha-Loki, 8. 60-94, og i Magniisar Hékonarsonar

bék. 8, 39-70,

516 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Questiones physica de Islandia, nonnulas circa eas observationes insuper continentes.
In margine responsa quedam et annotationes continentur. Sunt, ut videtur,
circa annum 1750 conscripts, auctorum anonymorum.et jam ignotorum. Collect.
Finn. Magn. in Mus. Britann. No. 158. 4to.

RESEN (P.). Descriptio Islandiw. Paa det store Kgl, Bibl., fol., fire Afskrifter i Ny Kgl.
Saml. No. 1087, 1088 og 1089, fol.,og Thotts Saml. No.952. fol.

Relation fra Island Anno 1756, skreven af Pastor Gisli Bjarnarson til Melar til Hr. J6n
Therkelsen ; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Kalls Saml. No.270. fol.

Relation fra Island 1768; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Ny Kg].Saml. No. 1672. Ato.

SAEMUNDSSON (JON). Descriptio edhr réttara appendix yfir Myvatns sveitar jardh-
brune; i det store Kgl. Bibl. Gammel Kgl. Saml. No. 2860. 4to.

SALOMONSSON (JON). Hlaupidh tr Myrdalsjékli 1660; i det isl. lit. Selsk. Arkiv i
Kbhvn. 8vo. No.37. S. 296-303; ligeledes i Utgardha-Loki, S. 35-42, hvori der
ogsaa findes en Beretning om det samme Udbrud af Sysselmand Sigurdhr Ste-
phansson, 8. 40-43, 46.

SELSUNDSBOK. Udrit um jardhelda og jékulhlaup i Vestr-Skaptafellssyslu, skrésett
af J6n i Steingrimssyni, i Jén Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to.

SIGHVATSSON (Errikr). Dagbék um Kodtlugos 1823; den skal findes, men jeg har
aldrig set den.

SIGURDHSSON (JON). K6tluhlaup 1755; dat. den 19 Dec. 1755 med Tilféielser af Praes-
ten J6n Steingrimsson, dat. 5 Januar 1756; i detisl. lit. Selsk. Arkiv iKbhvn. No.
47. 8vo. §.137-150. Heraf findes flere Afskrifter. En dansk Oversettelse findes
i det store Kgl. Bibl. Kalls Samling. No. 270. fol.

Brev om Udbruddet 1783; dat. 5 Dec. 1783. I J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to.

STEINGRIMSSON (JON) og SIGURDHSSON (JON). Um Skaptdreldinn 1783; i det isl. lit.
Selsk. Arkiv i Kbhvn. No.149. 4to (et Brudstykke). Af Jé6n Steingrimssons
Skrift findes mange fuldstendige Afskrifter og Omarbeidelser.

Brey til Presten Bjarni Jonsson, dat. 21. Aug. 1783 ; i Jén Sigurdhssons Samling.

Ato.

Angrvaka, kvedhi um eldinn 1783~84; i det isl. lit. Selsk. ArkiviKbhvyn. No.

136. 8vo.

Kinféld fraésaga um jardheldshlaupidh i Skaptafellssyslu dridh 1783; dat. 24.,
August 1753; i Jén Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to.

Succinta relatio de monte in Islandia australi (1727) ignivomo Orefajékull dicto, auc-
tore Einare Halfdanis filio, pastore in Prestbakka et districtu Sidha. Islandice
et Latine. Secundam auctoris autographum, manu Jon Martini. Collect. mss.
Finn. Magn. in Mus. Britann. No. 342.

THORDHARSON (THORLAKR). De incendio Hecle 1693; i det isl. lit. Selsk. Arkiv i Rey-
kjavik. 4to. 1B. No. 104.

THORLEIFSSON (THORDHR) 0g GUNNARSSON (ERLENDR). Um hlaupidh tr Myrdalskjé-
kli 1721; i det isl. lit. Selsk. Arkiv i Kbhvn. No.37. 8vo. 8. 304-308. Ogsaa i
Utgardha-Loki, 8. 43-46. o. fl.st.

THORSTEINSSON (BENEDICT). Brev til Admiral Raben, Stiftsbefalings-mand over
Island, om Udbruddene ved Myvain 1724 og af Katla 1721; iJén Sigurdhssons
Saml. 4to.

THORVARDHSSON (ARNI) Preest til Thingvellir. De montis Heclew incendio, quod
presenti anno 1693 extortum est, et in hune usque diem continuatum, brevissima
eaque verissima relatio. Dat. Thingvellir, 29 Juli 1693. Originalen i det Deich-
manske Bibliotheks Haandskriftsamling i Christiania, No. 103. 4to. En Afskrift
ved Sigwart Petersen i Jon Sigurdhssons Samling. 4to.

Um Heklugosidh 3 Jantiar 1597. Efter ed Brev fra Biskop Oddr Einarsson til Presten
Bédhvar Jénsson, i det isl. Selsk. Arkiv i Kbhvn. No.37. 8vo. pp. 294-296.

Utgardha-Loki i Islandi edhr safn af fslenzkum jardheldaritum samantynt af Einari
Eirfkssyni, 1823. 200 Sider. 4to. I J6n Sigurdhssons Samling. Heri bl.a Jén
Steingrimssons Skrift om Katla, Sveinn Pélsson: Om Hekla [1712] og om Katlas
Udbrud 1823, 0g Isleifr Einarsson og Jén Helgason [1793]; Om dde Gaarde i
Osterskaptafellssyssel.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. _ 517

2. Books.

ALLAN (ROBERT). On the condition of the Haukadalr Geysers of Iceland, July, 1855.
Report of the British Association for the Advancement of Sciences, 1855. Lon-
don, 1856. pp. 75-78.

ANNALAR BJéRNS 4 Skardhs4é, sive Annales Bjérnonis de Skardsa, 1-11. Hrappsey,
1775. Ato.

ANALYSE DES WASSERS DES GROSSEN GEYSERS auf Island. Zeitschrift der Gesell-
schaft fiir Erdkunde, Berlin. Neue Folge, 1, 1856, pp. 457-459.

M.F.W. Analyse de la rélation d’un voyage fait en Islande, dans l’été de l’an 1810,
par M. Mackenzie. Annales des Voyages, Paris. Malte-Brun. Xvi, 1812, pp.
273-314.

ANDERSON (JOHAN). Beschryving van Ysland, Groenland en de Straat Davis. Tot
nut der wetenschappen en den koophandel. Vertrykt med Platen en een nieuwe
naauwkeurige Landkaart der Ontdekkingen, waarvan in det werk gesproken
ward. Uit het hoogduitsch vertaalt door J.D.J. 286 pp. Te Amsterdam, Steven
van Esveldt, 1750. Mit der kaart van Groenland, Ysland en de Straat Davis;
Amsterdam, 1756. 2vols. 4to.

Efterretninger om Island, Grénland og Straat-Davis, med en telgift som

ridere efterretning om Island. Cum tabb.aeneis; Kjébenhayn, 1748. 8vo.

Histoire naturelle du Groenland, du détroit de Davis et d’autres pays situés

au Nord. Trad. de V’allemand par Godefroi Sellins, Paris, 1720-30; 1743; Ham-

burg, 1746; Paris, Seb. Cramoisy, 1750, 2 vols.; Amsterdam, 1751; Paris, Michael

Lambet, 1753, 2 vols.; Paris, Jorry, 1754, 2 vols. 12mo.

Naturhistorische Nachrichten von Island, Grénland und der Strasse Davis, zum

Nutzen der Wissenschaften und der Handlung. Mit 4 Kupfern und einer Land-

karte. Nebst einem Vorbericht von den Lebensumstinden des Verfassers. Ham-

burg, G. Chr. Grund, 1746, 8vo; Frankfurt a. M. und Leipzig, 1747, 8vo; Hafniz,

1748, 8vo.

The natural history of Iceland. Containing a particular and accurate account
of the different soils, burning mountains, minerals, vegetables, metals, stones,
beasts, birds, and fishes, interspersed with an account of the island. Translated
from the Danish original of N. Horrebow. With one map in folio. London,
Linde, 1758.

[ANon.] Yacht Voyage to Iceland. London, 1854. 12mo.

D’ANVILLE (JEAN BAPTISTE BOURGUIGNON). Mémoire sur la navigation de Pytheas
& Thule, et observations géographiques sur l’Islande. Mémoires de Académie
des Inscriptions, XXXvVII, p. 436.

ARDT (JOHANN). Wtlagdur a Islandsku af Siva Thorlife Arnasyne. 4 bok. Kaup-
mannah6fn, 1731. 8vo.

ARNGR{MSSON (B.). Um Gardyrkjunarnaudsyn og nytsemi fyrir Island. Kaupman-
nahofn, 1820.

ARNI (THORSTEINSSON). Hr. Ananiassens Rejseberetninger p& Island. Arthur Fed-
dersen’s Fiskerietidende fér 1884, No. 52, 53.

ArPI (ROLF). Ritdémur um: 1. Kalund. Bidrag til en hist.—top. beskriv. af Isl.
2. Gudhrus. Alpingisstadhur. Nord. Tidskr. for Vetenskap och Konst, 1881, pp.
360-371.

Ritd6mur um Schweitzers ‘Island, Land und Leute. Berlin und Leipzig,

1885.” Nordisk Revy, um, 1884, No. 14, pp. 441-444.

Svar pa Dr. Ph. Schweitzer’s Genmiile. Nordisk Revy, 11, No. 15, 1884~85, pp.
473-475.

AUSBRUCH DES HEKLA. Ausland, xvitl, 1845, p. 1276.

AVERTISSEMENT om Anderson’s tractat om Island. Kjébenhavn, 1748. 8vo.

BALDA-YOKEL IN ISLAND. Pfennig-Magazin, Leipzig, vu, 1839, p. 133.

BARING GOULD (S.). See GouLp (Sabine Baring).

BARRETT (W.F.). Geysers. Brown (R.), Science for All. Series I.

518 SCIENTIFIC RECQRD FOR 1885.

BARROW (JOHN, jr.). Ein Besuch auf der Insel Island iiber Tronyem, im Sommer 1834.
Stuttgart und Tiibingen, 1836. 8vo. Wiedemann (Leipzig), Reise und Linder-
beschreibungen. Lief. 8.

A visit to Iceland by the way of Tronyem, in the ‘‘Flower of Yarrow” yacht,
in the summer of 1834, With maps. London, Murray, 1835.

BARTHOLINI (ERASMUS). Accounts of experiments made on a crystal-like body sent
from Iceland. Philosophical Transactions, 1670. y

Experimenta Crystali Islandici disdiaclasti 1665. Hafniw, 1669-1670. 4to.

BAUMGARTNER (A.). Skizzen einer Nordlandsfahrt. I timaritinu ‘‘Stimmen aus
Maria Laach” byrjar i 6 hepti 1884 og er ekki lokidh enn 8. 6. 85.

BEDEMAR (VARGAS). Om vulcanske Produkter fra Island. Kbhvn., 1817. 8vo.

BEMERKUNGEN iiber Island. Annalen der Erdkunde, m1, 1831, p. 428.

BEMERKUNGEN iiber die Lage und Beschaffenheit von Thule. Bertusch, Neue allge-
meine geographische Ephemeris, x1, 1822, pp. 407-426.

BESONDERE GESCHICHTE von Island. Voyages and Travels. Allgemeine Historie,
XD

BICKELL (C.). Zusammensetzung einiger Quellenproducte von Island. Liebig’s
Annalen, 70 Band. Heidelberg, 1849. pp. 290-294.

Bis6RNUS GUNNLAUGI Fixius. De mensura et delineatione Islandia interioris. In
Monast. Videyensi, 1834.

BiORN DE SkARDSA. Annales Bidrnonis de Skardsa Island cum interpretatione latina
notis et indice. 2 vols. Hrappseyx in Islandiw. E. Hoff, 1774-1775. 4to.

BIORNON (PAUL DE). Account of Iceland. From the Latin. Philosophical Trans-
actions, 1675, pp. 11, 187.

BIORNONIUS (PAULUS). Account given to some philosophical inquiries concerning
Iceland. Philosophical Transactions, 1674, p. 238.

BJORNSSON (JOHANN). Skyrslaum Heklugosidh. 1845-1846. Ny Félagsrit, v1, 183-202,
vu, 234-241; vii, 185-186.

BLACK (JOSEPH). Analysis of the waters of some hot springs in Iceland. Philosoph.
Transact., 111. part, 1794, pp. 11, 95.

BLAKE (C. CARTER). Sulphur in Iceland. London, 1874. (Medh uppdretti af Geysi
og litlum uppdretti Islands.)

BLEFKENIUS (DITHMAR). Islandia sive populorum et mirabilium que in ea insula
reperiunteor accuratior descriptio, cui de Gronlandia sub finem quedam adjecta.
71 p. Lugdunum Batavorum, Henrici ab Hestens, 1607. 8vo. Leyden, 1609;
Frankfurt u. Leipzig, 1727. 302 pp. 8vo.

BLEFKENIUS (D.). Scheepstogt na Ysland en Greenland in 1563. Waar in d’ontdek-
king des landen, godsdiensten en zeden der Menschen. Nu erst vertaald. Leyden,
P.v. d. Aa, 1706. Pieter van der Aa Lvit Bd. der Naaukeurige versameling der
reysen na Oosten. Leeuwarden, 1716. 8vo.

Tooneel der noordsche Landen met een korte en klare beschryvingh van
Ysland en Greenlandt. Amsterdam, N. V. Ravesteyn, 1652.

BONSTETTEN (K. V.v.). Skandinavien und die Alpen. Mit einem Anhange iiber
Island. Aus dem Franzésischen. Kiel, Akademische Buchhandlung, Maak, 1825.
8vo. 1827. Franz. Uebers. Genéve et Paris, 1826. 8vo.

BREON (R.). Rapport sur une mission en Islande. Arch. Miss. Scientif. 1882. 3 sér.,
Vill, pp. 101-109.

BROWNE (J. Ross). A Californian in Iceland. Harper’s Magazine, vol. 26, pp. 145-162,
289-311, 448-467.

The land of Thor. New York, 1867.

Brown (R.). Heights and positions of the principal mountains and hills in Iceland.
Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society of London, x11, No.2, 1868, pp.
137-138.

BRYCE (JAMES). Impressions of Iceland. Cornhill Magazine, vol. x1x, pp. 553-570.
London, 1874. (Contains a reference to the geysers.) .

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 519

BRYSON (AL.). Notes of a trip to Iceland in 1862. Reprinted from the Scottish
Guardian for March and April, 1864. 60 pp. London, Simpkin, 1864. 12mo.
BUNSEN (R.). Bemerkungen zu einigen Einwiirfen gegen mehrere Ansichten iiber
die chemisch-geologischen Erscheinungen Islands. W6hler und Liebig’s Annalen.

Heidelberg, 1848, pp. 70-85.

Beitriige zur Kenntniss des Isliindischen Tuffgebirges. Liebig’s Annalen,

vol. LXI, 1847, pp. 265-279; vol. Lxv, 1848, pp. 70-85.

Auszug aus einem Schreiben von J. J. Berzelius, November 3, 1846.

Physikalische Beobachtungen iiber die hauptsiichlichsten Geiser Islands.

Poggendorft’s Annalen, &c., vol. LXXII, 1847, pp. 159-170.

Ueber den innern Zusammenhang der pseudo-vulkanischen Erscheinungen

Islands. Wéohler und Liebig’s Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie, 62 Band,

Heidelberg, 1847, pp. 1-59. Annales de Chimie et de Physique, vol. XxxxvII, 1853,

pp. 215-300.

Ueber die Processe der vulkanischen Gesteinsbildung Islands. Poggendorff’s

Annalen, Band 83, 1851, pp. 197-272.

Expedition nach Island. Monatsberichte der Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde.

Berlin. Neue Folge, Iv, 1847, pp. 280-285.

BUNSEN (R.) ET DESCLOIZEAUX (A.). Notes sur les températures des geysers d’Islande,
4 différentes profondeurs, observées par MM. Descloizeaux et Bunsen, au moi de
Juillet 1846. (Communiquées par M. Dufrenoy.) Comptes Rendus, vol. xxi,
1846, pp. 934-937.

BUNSEN (ROBERT WILHELM EBERHARD). On the intimate connection existing be-
tween the pseudo-voleanic phenomena of Iceland. [Translated by Dr. G. E. Day. ]
Graham (T.). Chemical reports and memoirs. 8vo. London, for the Cavendish
Society, 1848, pp. 323-370, 1 pl.

On the processes which have taken place during the formation of the voleanic
rocks of Iceland. ‘‘Scientific Memoirs, Natural Philosophy. Ed. by J. Tyndall
and W. Francis.” Vol.1. 8vo. London, Taylor & Francis, 1853, part 1, pp. 33-98.

BurToN (RicHarpD F.). Ausflug nach Island im Jahre 1872. Mittheilungen der

geographischen Gesellschaft in Wien, XVI, 1873, pp. 213-225; 263-267.

Island. Globus, Braunschweig, xxvul, 1875, p.175; Nature, London, vol. XII,

1875, p. 510.

— Ultima Thule, or asummer in Iceland. With histor. introduction, maps, and

illustrations. 2 vols. London, Nimmo, 1875; Edinburgh, 1875.

Reisen im Innern von Island. Aus allen Welttheilen, tv, No. 2, 1872-1873, p. 62.

BurTON (R. FRANCIS). The volcanic eruptions of Iceland in 1674 and 1875. Royal
Society of Edinburgh. Proceedings, vol. 9. 12mo. Edinburgh, Neill & Co.,
1878, p. 44-58, 2 colored maps.

CAMPBELL (J. FRANCIS). Frost and fire, natural engines, tool-marks and chips, with
sketches taken at home and abroad by a traveler. 2 v., 1 pl., 2 maps, 118 ills.
8vo. Edinburgh, Edmonston & Douglas, 1865. (Contains Observations on
Iceland, v.1, pp. 413-443).

CHAMBERS (ROBERT). Tracings of Iceland and the Farée Islands. London, 1856;
Edinburgh, 1856; Chambers’ Magazine, vol. 1v, London, 1856.

CHEVALET (E.). Voyage en Islande. Tours, 1884. 8vo. 143 pp.

CxiaRK (J. W.) Journal of a yacht voyage to the Farée Islands and Iceland. With
amap. London, Macmillan, 1860.

Coes (J.). Summer traveling in Iceland; being the narrative of two journeys across
the island by unfrequented routes. London, 1882. 8vo. 229 pp.

CoLOMB (CHRISTOPHE). L’Islande visitée. Bulletin de la Société de Géographie.
Paris. 1 série, Iv, p. 78.

DaMmouR(A.). Analyses de quelques eaux thermales siliciféres d’Islande. Paris, Société
de Géologie, Bulletin rv, 1846-47, pp. 542-550; Annales des Mines, X1, 1846, pp.
333-338. :

520 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Damour (A.). Notes sur la composition de l’eau de plusieurs sources siliciféres de
VIslande. Annales de Chimie et Physique, xrx, 1847, pp. 470-484; Frorieps
Notizen, Iv, 1847, coll. 225-230; Comptes Rendus, xxiv, 1847, pp. 182-184.
Sur lincrustation siliceuse des geysers et sur divers hydrates de silice naturels.
Paris, Société de Géologie, Bulletin v, 184748, pp. 157-163.
Das MUTHMASSLICHE ALTER der Geyserréhre. Ausland, XxXXIv, 1861, p. 144.
DAUBENY (CHARLES GILES BRIDLE). A description of active and extinct volcanoes,
with remarks on their origin, their chemical phenomena, and the character of
their products. London, 1826.

——— A description of active and extinct volcanoes and of thermal springs. 2d ed.
London, 1848. 8vo. (Volcanoes of Iceland, pp. 300-315.)

Depit. Rapport contenant des observations physiques et géologiques faites pendant
sa mission en Islande. Arch. des missions scientif., 1, 1850, p. 587.

DER Bau der Gebirge auf Island. Ausland, xxxv1, 1863, p. 1035.

DER GROSSE Geyser auf Island. Pfennig-Magazin, Leipzig, 1, 1834, p. 233.

Der HEKLA und seine Umgebung. Ausland, xxvi, 1854, pp. 784, 812.

DER JUNGSTE AUSBRUCH des Hekla. Fortschritte der Geographie und Naturge-
schichte. Weimar, 1847, 11, pp. 122-123.

DER VULKAN Asya auf Island. Ausland, xL1x, 1876, p. 680.

DESCLOIZEAUX (A.). Physical and geological observations on the principal geysers of
Iceland. London, Edinburgh, and Glasgow Philosophical Magazine, vol. xxx, pp.
391-409. London, R. & J. E. Taylor, No. 203, June, 1847, pp. 391-409.

Observations physiques et géologiques sur les principaux geysers d’Islande.

Annales de Chimie et de Physique, Paris, vol. x1x, April, 1847.

Eruption de l’Hecla. Journal de l’Oise, Oct. 24, 1846.

Note sur la hauteur de |’Hecla, et sur l’éruption qui a eu lieu en Septembre
1845. Comptes rendus hebdomadaires des séances de Académie des sciences de
Paris. Tome xxii, Juil.-Décbr., 1846, pp. 771-773.

DESCLOIZEAUX (A.) et BUNSEN (R.).. Notes sur les températures des geysers d’Islande
a différentes profondeurs. Comptes rendus hebdomadaires des séances de |’Aca-
démie des sciences de Paris, 1846, Tome xxi, pp. 934-937.

DIE GEOGRAPHISCHE VERBREITUNG der thitigen Vulkane (auf Island). Globus,
Braunschweig, XxI, 1872, p. 321.

Diz JUNGSTEN VULKANISCHEN ERUPTIONEN auf Island. Gaea, x1, 1875, pp. 501-505.

Die VULKAN AUSBRUCHE auf Island. Lotos, Prag, xxv, 1875, pp. 95-96.

DIE VULKANISCHE THATIGKEIT auf Island. Globus, Braunschweig, xxvim, 1875,
p. 16.

DILLON (ARTHUR). A winter in Iceland and Lapland. 2 vols. London, Colburn, 1840,
8vo; 1850.

DONNELLY (IGNATIUS). Atlantis: The Antediluvian world. New York, 1882 (Iceland,
pp. 35 and 46).

DUFFERIN, LORD (F.F. Blackwood). Letters from High Latitudes; being some ac-
count of a voyage in the schooner-yacht ‘‘ Foam” to Iceland, Jan Mayen, and
Spitzbergen, in 1856. With maps and engravings, 410 pp. London, Murray, 1857,
8vo; London, Murray, 1858; Boston, 1859, 16mo; 1867; 1873.

Briefe aus hohen Breitengraden. Bericht iiber eine Reise auf dem Yacht-

schooner ‘‘Foam” nach Iceland, Jan Mayen und Spitzbergen, im Jahre 1856.

XVII und 330 pp., 1 Tafel, 3 Karten. Braunschweig, Vieweg und Sohn, 1860, 8vo.

Voyage to Iceland, Jan Mayen, and Spitzbergen.. Quarterly Review, October,
1857.

EARTHQUAKES, Lands of the. Harper’s Monthly Magazine, xxxvumil, p. 466.

EBEL (WILH.). Geographische Naturkunde, oder Grundziige einer allgemeinen Natur-
geschichte der 3 Reiche. 1.Abth. Plan der geogr. Naturkunde. 11. Abth. Geogr.
Naturkunde von Island, xvi und 446 pp., mit 14ill. Karten und Tafeln. Kénigs-
berg, 1850. 8vo.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 521

EDMUND (CuH.) [Choiecki]. Voyage dans les mers du Nord, a bord de la corvette
‘‘La Reine Hortense.” Notices scientifiques communiquées par MM. les mem-
bres de ’expédition. Avec une carte de voyage, une carte géologique de l’Islande
et dessins de Ch. Girardet, d’aprés les aquarelles de Ch. Graud et d’Abrantés. 632
pp. et Relation nautique 146 pp. Paris, Lévy fréres, 1857, 4to; Best and Hotelin,
Paris, 1862.

Efterretning om Ilds Udbrydelsen i Vester-Skaptafells-Syssel i Island, som skal
opleses i alle Kirker i Kj6benhavyn paa forste Séndag after Nytaar 1784. Kbhvn,
1784. 8vo.

EGGERS (CHRISTIAN ULRICH DETLEV, FREIHERR VON). Beschreibung von Island.
1776. Biisching, Nachrichten, &c., Berlin, xv, 1778, p. 4.

Physikalische und statistische Beschreibung von Island. Kopenhagen, 1786,
8°; Flensburg, 1787; Altona, Hammerich. (Kun 1 Theil, 1 Abth. en udkommen;
en Fortsettelse i Manuskript findes i Reykjavik lerde Skoles Bibliothek. )

EIN AUSFLUG auf Island. Globus, Braunschweig, xv1, 1869, pp. 370, 385.

ErNarson (H.). Om Ilds Udbrud in Island. Archiv for Sévesen, 1828, 0, pp. 385-
387.

EINE Faurt nach Reikiavik auf Island. Globus, Braunschweig, xv, 1869, pp. 97-104.

Einfaldir Pankar um akuvyrkjn. Kaupmannsh6fn, 1771. 8vo.

EKKARD (F.). Islands Natur- und Volkskunde, nebst der wesentlichsten Oerter-
kunde. 2 Hefte m. Kpfr.u. Karten. Kopenhagen, Bonnier, 181215. 12mo.

Eldgos tr Kétlugja. Islendingr, 1, pp. 38-39; 45-47; 61-62; 67.

ERICHSEN (JON). Introitus ad Olai Olavii Iter Islandicum. Hafniz,1780. 4to.

Udtog af Povel Vidalins Afhandling om Islands Opkomst samt nogle andres af
samme Inhold, anvendt paa nerverende Tider; med fig. Sorée, 1768. 8vo.

ERSLEV, (Ep.). Geologisk-geografisk Underségelse af Island. Geografisk Tidskrift,
v, 1881, p. 156.

ERSTE AUTHENTISCHE NACHRICHTEN von der neu-entstandenen Insel bei Island.
Kiel’sches Magazin fiir die Geschichte, Staatskunde, u. s. w., von Vict. Heinze,
1, 1783.

ERUPTION of the Skaptar Jékull. Nature, London, vu, 1873, p. 410.

Eruption du volcan Rotlugia en Islande. Nouv. Annales des Voyages, VI. sér., VI.
année, Juillet 1860, pp. 120-121.

Esp6Lin (JON). Islands Arbekr i séguformi, 1-12 deild. Kaupmannshéfn, 1821-
1855. 4to.

EXCERPTA e gevgraphicis scriptis veterum Islandorum. Havniae, 1837. 4to.

EXPEDITION scientifique en Islande. Bulletin de la Société de Géographie, Paris, 1.
sér., XIII, p. 306.

EXTRAITS des monuments géographiques des anciens Islandais. Copenhague, 1852.
8vo.

FaBrRIicius (DAVID). De Islandia et Grénlandia. Rostock, 1616. 12mo.

FEDDERSEN (ARTHUR). Ritdémér i ‘‘ Morgenbladet,” 20 April, 1885, 4 b6k Schweit-
zers, K. Keilhack og Tromholts om Island. _

FINNAEUS (JOHANNES) [H. FINSEN]. Efterretninger om Tidagelserne ved Bjerget
Hekla udi Island i April og félgende Maaneder 1766. Kjébenhavn, 1767. 8vo.

FINNSSYNI (HANNESI). Um brennusteins ném og Kaupverslun a Islandi i tid Fridriks
Annars Dana Kongs. Kitberg. Islenzka Lerdoms lista félags, Iv, p. 1.

FoRBES (CHARLES §.). Iceland, its volcanoes, geysers, and glaciers. With a map
and illustr. London, 1860. London, Murray, 1861.

FORCHHAMMER (GEORG). Over nogle nye Mineralier paa Island og den maade paa
hvilken de have dannet Sig isaer ved de paa denne. Oe stedsa herskende volk-
aniske Kraefter (udtog). Skand. Naturf. Férhandl., m1, 1842, pp. 501-504.

Untersuchungen iiber verschiedene islindische und franzésische Mineralien,

nebst allgemeinen Betrachtungen iiber die chemisch-geognostischen Verhiltnisse

Islands und der Faréer. Erdmann’s Journal der Prakt. Chemie, xxx, 1843, pp.

385-400.

522 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

FORCHHAMMER (GEORG). Om Heklas Udbrud 1845. Oversigt over Videnskabernes
Selskabs Férhandl., 1845, No. 7.

FORMATION d@’un nouveau volcan en Islande. Nouv. Annales des Voyages, 1862,
Aofit, pp. 246-247. '

ForsHat (P.). Icones rerum naturaliam quas in itinere Islandi depingi curavit.
Havniz, Moller, 1776. 4to.

FULDKOMMEN. Relation om det forskrekkelige Vandfald og Exundation af det Bjerg
K6tlugja i Osten paa Island, som skeede 1721. Kbhvn., 1726. 4to. (2 Blade.)

GAINARD (PAUL). Voyage de la Commission scientifique du Nord. Premiére partie.
Voyage en Islande et Greenlande, pendant les années 1835~36. Sur la corvette
‘La Recherche.” 4 vols., 8vo. 1 vol., 4to. Paris.

GARLIEB (C.). Island riicksichtlich seiner Vulkane, heissen Quellen, Gesundbrunnen,
Schwefelminen und Braunkohlen, nebst Literatur dariiber. Freyberg,1819. 8vo.

GENTH (F. A.). Untersuchung der Eruptionsprodukte des Hecla. Wohler und Lie-
big’s Annalen fiir Chemie und Pharmacie, 56 Band, Heidelberg, 1848, pp. 13-28.

GEYSERS OF ICELAND. Harper’s Magazine, xxv, p. 755; XVI, pp. 145. 457; xxx VIII,
p- 469.

GLIEMANN (TH.). Geographische Beschreibung von Island. Altona, Hammerich,
1824, 8vo; Bertuch, Neue allg. geogr. Ephem., x11, 1824, pp. 452-457.

La description géographique de l’Islande. Copenhague, 1824. 8vo. Bulletin
de la Société de Géographie, Paris, 111, Voyages, p. 33. Nouv. Annales des Voy-
ages, XXV, 1825, pp. 81-102.

GOULD (SABINE BARING). Iceland, its scenes and sagas. With a map and many illus-
trations. 500 pp. London, Smyth & Elder, 1863. 8vo.

Graau (CAPTAIN). Iceland, Greenland, and the Farée Islands. New York, Harper,
1844,

GRAMMATICUS (SAXO). Preface to History of Denmark.

GRONDAL (BENEDIKT). Um nétttru Islands. Kmhéfn, 1874. 8vo.

GRUBER (J. D.). Beschreibung von Island. Mit col. Kupfern. Leipzig, Schiegg,
1804. 4to. Cnobloch, 1805.

GRUBER (J.G.). Island und die Wunder der Natur und Menschenwelt in dem Nord-
pol. Mit Kupfr. und Karten. Hamburg, Vollmer, 1860.

GRUNDTVIG (Sy. og J. Sigurdsson). Islenzk fornkveéi. 1 Heft., 220 pp. Kjében-
havn, 1854. Nord. Oldskr., xrx.

GuISEN (N.L, gR., VAN). A holiday in Iceland. London, 1879.

GUDHMUNDSSON (B.). Eldsuppkoma fyrir Reykjanesi. Hilbrigdh istidhindi, Juni,
No. 6, Reykjavik, 1879. 8vo. p.48. Oversat in Nature, Vol. xx, 2 Oct., 1879.

GuUDHMUNDSSON (JON). Relation fra Island om hvad der har tildragek sig i Aaret
‘1755, med et Isbjerg, kaldet Kétlugja eller Myrdalsjékull. Kbhvn., 1757. 4to.
(4 Blade.)

GUILLEMIN (AMEDEE). Le Monde Physique, Paris, 1885, Vol. v, Livre 11, Chapts. 1,
Ill, Iv (les geysers ou volcans d’ean) [illustrations of eruption of the Great Geyser
of Iceland and of the crater of the Hecla].

Hatierimsson (TomAs). Um eldgosidh vidh Heklu, 27 febr. 1878. (Fréttir fra
Islandi, 1877. Reykjavik, 1878, pp. 43-50.)

HaRNIsCcH (Dr. WILH.). Des Sir Georg Stuart Mackenzie Reise durch Island, und des
John Ross Reise zur Ausforschung des Baffins Busen und seiner Durchfahrt nord-
westlich von Grénland. Mit 2 Karten. W.Harnish; Die wichtigsten neueren
Land- und Seereisen. Leipzig, Fleischer, 1821. 8vo

HartTwiG (GEORGE). The polar world. Man and nature in the polar regions. Ilus-
trated. New York, 1869.

Heapiey (P. C.). The island of fire; or, a thousand years of the old Northmen’s
home; 874-1875.

HrarE (S.). Dagbog paa en Opdagelsesreise til Lands til Ishavet, oversat af J.
Werfel. Kjébenhavn, 1862. 8vo.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 523

HELLAND (AmuND). Stérrelsen of Islands Jékler. Geografisk Tidskrift, vi, p. 25.

Vulkanerne af 1783 paa Island. Meddeleser fra den naturhistorisk Forening

i Kristiania. Udgive vid G. A. Gerldberg, O. Johann-Olsen og R. Fridtz. Krist-

iania, 1885. Forlagt af Alb. Cammermeyer, pp. 67-74.

Om Islands Jékler og om Jékelelvenes Vandmaengdr og Stamgehalt. Archiv

for Mathematik og Naturvidensk. B. vu, pp. 200-232.

Islaendingen Sveinn Pdlssons beskrivelse af islandske vulkaner. Middelt af

Den Norske Turistforenings Arbog for 1882, pp. 19-79; 1884, pp. 27-56.

Hoidemaalinger fra Island. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidensk. Bd.
VII, pp. 233-239.

——— Om vulkaner i og under jokler paa Island og om Jékullaup. Tidskrift udgivet
af den Letterstidske Forening, 1883.

Om Island. Nyt Tidskrift. Kristiania, 1882, og 1883. Bd. 1-11, pp. 53-67,

167-173, 348-360; Bd. Iv, pp. 44-58, 257-267.

Studier over Islands petrografi og geologi. Archiv for Mathematik og Natur-

vidensk. Bd. 9p, p. 69-154.

Islands Beskrivelse af Thorvaldir Thoroddsen. Efter ‘“ Lysing Islands” oversat

af Amund Helland.

Om Islands Geologi. Geografisk Tidskrift, udgivet af Bestyrelsen for det Kon-
gelige Danske Geografiske Selskab. Bd. 6, 1882, pp. 71-83, 103-111.

HELMs (H.). Island und die Islinder. 2 Bde. Leipzig, Fitsch, 1869. 8vo.

HENDERSON (EBENEZER). Iceland, or the journal of a residence in that island, during
the years 1814 and 1815. With an introduction and appendix. Illustrated with
a map and engravings. 2vols. Edinburgh, 1818, 1819. Boston, Perkins & Mar-
vin, 1831. 12mo.

Voyage en Islande, 1814, 1815. Eyriés, v1.

Island, oder Tagebuch seines Aufenthalts daselbst in den Jahren 1814 und
1815. 2 Bde. 1820-21. A.d.Engl.v.C.F.Franceson. Mit 1 Karte,2 Th. Berlin,
1820-21. Magazin von merkw. neuen Reisebeschr. Berlin, Forster, XxXIV, XXXV.
Band.

HISTORICAL (AN) AND DESCRIPTIVE ACCOUNT of Iceland, Greenland, and the Farée
Islands; with illustrations of their natural history. Maps by Wright, and en-
gravings by Jackson and Bruce. Edinburgh, Simpkin, 1840. 12mo.

HJALTALIN (J6n). Recent eruption of the Kétlugja Volcano, Iceland. Perthshire
Advertiser or Strathmore Journal for 26 August, 1860.

HyaTain (Dr.). Ueber einen vulkanischen Ausbruch auf Island. Ausland, x11,
1868, p. 120.

Extract of a letter to J. W. Evans, Esq. Great volcanic eruption in Iceland in
August, 1867. Proceedings of the R. Geographical Society of London, xu, No.1.
1868, p. 58.

HysaLTa.{n (J.A.). An Icelander’s Notes on Iceland. Illustrated Travels, ed. by Bates.
Part xx, 1870, pp. 252-256; xx1, pp. 264-270; xxu1, pp. 302-306.

HJALTAL{N (J.). Docent Paijkull’s: En Sommer i Island. 36 pp. Reykjavik (Co-
penhagen, Philipsen), 1868. 8vo.

Horr (K.E.A. VON). Geschichte der durch Ueberlieferung nachgewiesenen natiir-
lichen Verinderungen der Erdoberfliche, I-v. Gotha, 1821-41. 8vo.

HOLLAND (E.T.). Tour in Iceland in the summer 1861. (Kennedy, E. Th., Peaks,
passes and glaciers. A second series of excursions and explorations by members
of the Alpine Club. 2 vols. London, Longman, 1862.)

HOLM (SAEMUNDI MaGNnussYNI), Um melinn eda villukornit i skaptasfellssyslu.
Ritbesz. Islenzka Leerdomslistafélags, m1, p. 139.

—— Om Jordbranden paa Island i aaret 1783. Kjébenhavn, 1754. 8vo.

Vom Erdbrande auf Island im Jahre 1783. Ausdem Dinischen. Mit 2 Land-

karten. Kopenhagen, 1784. 8vo. Biisching, Nachrichten, Berlin, x11, 1734, p. 303.

,

524 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

HOOKER (Sir WILLIAM JACKSON). Journal of a tour in Iceland in the summer of 1809.
Yarmouth, 1811. 8vo. Second edition, London, 1813; also a new edition, 1842.
Der Besuch bei den siedenden Quellen von Geyser in Island. Hormayrs Archiv,

1815, No. 46.

Voyage en Islande, 1809. Eyriés, vir.

HorrREBowW (Nicouaus). Tilforladelige Efterretninger om Island. Mit Karte.
Kjobenhavn, 1750, 1752. 8vo.

Natural history of Iceland, interspersed with an account of the island, by

Anderson. Translated from the Danish original. With amap. London, 1758.

folio.

Nouvelle description physique, civile et politique de l’Islande, avec des obser-
vations critiques sur histoire naturelle de cette ile, donnée par M. Anderson et
trad. de allem. par M. D. S. (Rousselot de Surgy et Merlin). 2 vols. avec une
carte. Paris, Charpentier, 1764. 12mo.

HORREBOW (NIELS). De Tegenwoordige Staat of omstandige Beschrijving van
Ysland. Mit het Deensch in’t Nederl. vertaalt. Amsterdam, 1754. 4to.

Zuverlissige Nachrichten von Island. As d. Dianischen. Kopenhagen und

Leipzig. Pelt, 1753,1754. 8vo.

Beschrijving van Islandia Zutphen. 1756. 8vo.

ICELAND and its explorers. Edinburgh Review, 1876, No. 291, pp. 222-250.

ICELAND. Popular Science Monthly, xvii, pp. 710.

ICELAND, Greenland, and the Farée Islands. Harper, 1841.

Inberetning om den af Prof. Johnstrup foretagne Underségelsesreise paa Island i Som-
mern 1876. Med 2 Kort og 2 Tegninger. Serskilt Aftryk af Rigsdagstiden-
den for 29 ordentlige Samling 1876-1877. Tilleg B. Sp. 899-926. Kmh6fn, 1877.

IsLAND. Ein Natur-und Volksbild. Ausland, xxvu, 1854, pp. 1167, 1191, 1215.

IsLAND. Journal f. d. neuesten Land- und Seereisen, LXxxuI, 1836, p. 89.

IsLanD Okenit. Jahrbuch der geologischen Reichsanstalt. Wien, v, 1854, p. 190; x,
Art. 12.

IsLANDE. Une visite au Vatna Jékull et au Myrda Jékull. L’Explorateur, 1, 1875,
p. 631.

Islands Geysirterritorium i vore Dage. Af Sophus Tromholt. (Aftrykt, en Del
forkostet, med Forfs Tilladelse af hans Bog ‘‘ Breve fra Ultima Thule”). Na-
turen, 9 Aarg., No. 8-9, Aug.—-Sept., 1885, p. 125.

Islands heisse Quellen. Tedeschi, das Interessanteste aus der Linderkunde, 11, 1828,
p. 130.

Islands jiingste vulkanische Phinomene. Ausland, 1879, No. 13, pp. 243-247.

ISLENZKIR ANNALAR; sive annales islendiciab anno Christi 803 ad annum 1430, adente
Orsted &c. Hafniw, 1847. to.

A. Flateyjarannall til 1394. Paa Pergament i det store Kgl. Bibliothek.

B. Hanksannall til 1313. Pgm.i Arni Magnussons Haandskriftsaml. No. 415. 4to.

C. Konungsannall (annales regii) til 1306 +1307-28 (to forsk Haender); idet store Kgl. BbL
Gammel Kgl. Saml. No. 2087. 4to; en Papirafskrift fra A. M. efter sldere Membran
naaer til 1341.

D. Sk4élholtsannd4ll hinn forni til 1356. A.M. 420. c. 4to. Pgm.

E. Légmannsannall eller annall Einar Haflidhasonar (+1393) til 1392. A.M. 420. 4to (Autogr.
undtagen de sidste Aar); heraf er Skdélholtsann4ll hinn nyi en Forsettelse til 1430. <A.
M. 420. 4to.

F. Hélaanndll forni til 1396 paa Papir. A.M. 410. 4to.

G. Papirhaandskrift. A.M.410. 4to. Der grunder sig paa Skalholtsannall forni og Skalholts-
annall nyi; naaer til 1430. -

H. og M. Oddaannall, 2 Fragmenter, paa Papir, 1176-1427+742-1369. A.M. 429. 4to.

I. Hélaanndll nyi. Paa Papir. A.M. 412. 4to. Naaer til 1394.

K. Resensannall til 1295. Afskrift paa PapiriA. M. 424. 4to. Den meget gamle Original
breendte, 1728.

L. Légmannsannall nyi til 1427. Papir. A.M.417. 4to.

N. Et Brudstykke af en Anndl fra 1328-1372. PapiriA.M. 423 4to

VULCANISM, ETC, IN ICELAND. 525

frrmieu (THORN#). Lucubrationes academicw de montium incendiis. Lipsisw, 1671.
8vo. (Cap. v, pag 98. De montibus igniv Islandiz. )

JACOBAEUS (HaLtTorus). Fuldstendige Efterretninger om de udi Island ildsprudende
Bierge. Kjébenhayn, 1757. 8vo.

JAKOBSSON (HALLDOR) [Jacobaeus]. Fuldstendige Efterretninger om de udi Island
ildsprudende Bierge. Kbhvn., 1759. 8vo.

JANSON (K.). Fraa Island. Med 4 Bilete. Christiania. 8°. Forlagt av det Norske
Samlaget ; Trykt hjaa K. J. Jensen, 1874.

JARDIN (Ed.). Voyage géologique autour de l’Islande, fait en 1866 sur la frégate ‘ Le
Pandore.” 2pl., 39 pp. Paris, Baillidre, 1874. 8vo.

JOHNSTRUP (FR.). Ueber den vulkanischen Ausbruch auf Island im Jahre 1875;
mit einleitenden literarischen und geographischen Bemerkungen, sowie mit einigen
Karten, Skizzen und Abbildungen. Det Danske Geografiske Selskabs Tidskrift,
1877, Nos. 3 and 4. Petermann’s Geogr. Mittheil., 1877, p. 316.

Om de i Aaret 1875 forefaldne vulkanske Udbrud paa Island, tilligemed nogle

indledende geografiske Bemerkinger. [Volcanic eruptions in Iceland in 1875. ]

Det Danske Geografiske Selskabs Tidskrift. Bd. 1, pp. 50-66. (Map, not geol-

ogical and views of craters at Askia.). Geolog. Record, 1877, p. 75.

Indberetning om den i Sommeren 1876 foretagne Underségelsesreise paa
Island. Tilleg til Rigsdagstidenden for 1876-1877, Kjébenhavn, p. 14, 4 pl.,
views and maps. Geolog. Record, 1877, p. 76.

J6NSSON (ARNGRIMER). Anatome Blefkeniana, qua Dithmari Blefkenii viscera, magis
precipura, in libello de Islandia, anno 1607 edito, convulsa, per manifestam
extenterationem retexuntur. Holum, 1612. 8vo. 2d edition, Hamburgi, 1613.
4to. 87 pp., 1618.

Kitunp (P. E. Krist1an). Bidrag til en historisk-topografisk beskrievelse af Island
Nordlendings Fjerding. Kbhvn., 1879. Med 4 lithogr. Kort. 192+-2 pp. 8vo.
(Doktordispttazia. )

Bidrag til en historisk-topografisk beskrievelse af Island. Kbhvn.,1877. 1.

Sydog Vest-Fjerdingerne. Med9lith. Kort. x11-+638pp. 8vo. 1. Ostfjardingen.

Med 5 lith. Kort og et Tresnit. 236 pp. 8vo. Udgivet af Kommissionen for det

Arnamagneanske Legat.

Islands Fortidslevninger. Kbhvn., 1882. Aarb. f. nord. Oldk. og Historie,
pp. 57-124.

KEILHACK (Dr. KONRAD). Reisebilder aus Island.

Islands Natur und fhre Einfliisse auf die Bevélkerung. Deutsche Geogr. Blitter,
1x, 1886, pp. 1-30. Mit einer Karte und ein Gvologisches Ubersichstskiirtchen des
Heklagebietes.

KENNEDY (E.SH.) Peaks, passes, and glaciers. London, Longman, 1862,

KENNGOTT (Dr. A.). Ueber einen Obsidian vom Hekla auf Island. Verhandl. der
Geologischen Reichsanstalt, Wien, Vv, 1870, p.287. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Minera-
logie, 1870, p. 529. ;

Fluolith aus Island, eine Abanderung des Pechsteines. Sitzungsberichte der

mathematisch naturwissenschattlichen Classe der Akademie der Wissenschaften in

Wien, XII, pp. 485-492.

Levyn aus Island. Vierteljahrsschrift der naturforschenden {Gesellschaft in
Ziirich, xvi, 3 Heft, 1871, pp. 262-263.

KERGUELEN (TREMARECDE). Beschreibung seiner Reise nach der Nordsee, die er in
den Jahren 1767 und 1768 an den Kiisten von Island, Grénland, Faréer, Shetland,
der Orkney und Norwegen gethan. Aus dem Franzés. Mit 2 Karten and 1 Kup-
fer. Leipzig, W. Vogel, 1772. 8vo.

Relation @un voyage dans la mer du nord aux cétes d’Islande, du Greenland,

etc., fait en 1767 et 1768. Paris, de Prault, 1771; Amsterdam et Leipzig, 1772.

Nachricht von einigen Merkwiirdigkeiten Islands. Berlin. Sammlungen, v1,

pp. 147-162.

526 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Ker (DAvip). Into the far north; or, a glance at Hecla and the geysers. Hodder
(Edwin, editor). All the world over. 12mo. New York and London, 1877, v. 1,
pp. 21-28, 101-116, 186-192, 285-292, with 3 plates.

KETELSEN (MAGNus). Islands Maaneds Tidenuer. Oct. 1873—Oct. 1876. Hrappseyz,
1777.

KING (ARTHUR). Voyage to Iceland, 1517. Hakluyt,1.

KinG (MALGo). Voyage to Iceland, 1580. Hakluyt, 1.

KJERULF (TH.). Islands Vulcanlinjer [volcanic lines in Iceland]. Nyt Magazin for
Naturvidenskaberne, Christiania, Bd. xx1, 1 Heft, pp. 147-166. Zeitschrift der
Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft, Berlin, Band xxvii, Heft 2, pp. 203-216.
Geological Record, 1875, p.75; 1876, p. 81.

Istiden. [The glacial period.] Vidensk. Verh. Kbhvn., Bd. 11, No. 17, pp.

203-274. Geolog. Record, 1876, p. 81.

Bidrag til Islands geognostiske Fremstilling. Nyt Magazin for Naturviden-
skaberne, VII, 1853, pp. 1-70.

Notis om Askeregnen, 1875. Morgenbladet, Kristiania, April, 1875.

Om Islands trachytiske Dannelser. Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne,
Vill, 1855, pp. 72-116.

Koss (F. TH.). Ansichten von Island. Heft 1. Kopenhagen, 1835. Fol. max.

KNEELAND (SAMUEL). An American in Iceland. An account of its scenery, people,
and history, with a description of the millennial celebration in August, 1874, with
notes on Orkney, Shetland, and the Farde Islands, and the great eruption of 1875.
Boston, Lockwood, 1876. Geological Record, 1876, p. 169.

KONIG (JOHANN GERHARD). Ueber einige Merkwiirdigkeiten Islands. Besch. d.
Berliner Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, 1, p. 536.

Kort BERATLELSE om berget Kraffa pa Island, samt andre diirnist indtil griinsande
berg hvilka nyligen begyndt att utspruta eld och brinna. Stockholm,1724. 4to.

KrRuG VON Nippa (B.C.). On the mineral springs of Iceland. Jameson’s Philo.
Journal, vol. xxiI, pp. 99-220; Karsten’s Archiv, Ix, p. 247.

Geognostische Darstellung der Insel Island. Karsten’s Archiv, fiir Mineral.,
Geologie, &c., vul, 1834, pp. 421-525.

LANGKAREL (B.). Die Far-Or, Island und Grénland. Die Natur, 1883, rx, No 120.

LAPEYROUSE (S. DE). Deux mois en Islande. L’Explorateur, 1, 1875, pp. 245, 247.

La PREYERE (J. DE). Account of Iceland. fol. London, 1732.

LAWRENCE (EUGENE). Lands of the earthquake. MHarper’s Monthly Magazine,
XXXVIII, p. 466.

LECLERCQ (E.), La Terre de Glace. Paris, 1882.

Les VOLcANS de I’Islande. Nouv. Annales des Voyages, Sept. 1862, pp. 361-365.

LETTRES écrites des régions polaires, par Lord Dufferin. Paris, 1860. [See, also, Lord
Dufferin. ]

LE ULTIME explorazione nell’ Islandia. Roma. Bollet., Anno x, ser. ii, x11, 1876,
pp. 312-321.

Linpsay (W. LANDER). On the eruption in May, 1860, of the Kétlugja Volcano, Ice-
land. Edinburgh New Philosoph. Journal, January, 1861, pp.6-55. Same, 1
chart, 8vo, Edinburg, Neill & Co., 1861.

Contributions to the natural history of Iceland, Greenland, &c., prepared for
the use of the Arctic expedition, 1875.

Lock (CHARLES G. WANFORD). The home of the Eddas. (With a chapter on the
Sprengisandr, by Dr. C. C. Neuve Forster.) London, 1879, 350 pp. 8vo.

LONGMAN (W.). Suggestions for the exploration of Iceland. London, Longman,
1861.

Loptsson (MarKUs). Rit um jardhelda 4 Islandi. Reykjavik, 1880. 8vo.

LOTLINI. Voyage in Iceland of the Scientific committee of the North. Geology.

LOWENORN (Capt. VON). Ueber die in der Nihe von Island entstandene vulkanische
Insel. Allg. geogr. Ephem., 111, 1799, p. 553.

Vulkanische Insel bei Island. Allg. geogr. Ephem., 111, 1799, p. 523.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 527

MACKENZIE (Sir GEORGE STEWART, Bart.). Travels in Iceland during the summer
of the year 1810; containing a dissertation on the History and the Literature of
the Island, a Journal of the Author’s Excursions, a view of the State of Education,
Literature, Government, Laws, Religion, and Commerce; with zoological and
mineralogical Observations, and an Appendix, containing original and illustrative
papers. With two maps and 15 plates. London, 1811, 4to; Edinburgh, 1811,
1812, 1842. People’s Edition, London, Chambers, 1842. 8vo.

Travels in the island of Iceland during the summer of the year 1810. Neue

allgem. geogr. Ephem., XVII, p. 198.

Reise durch die Insel Island im Jahre 1810. Journal fiir die neuesten Land- .
und Seereisen, Berlin, xx, 1815, p. 310; xxi, pp. 164,197. Bertuch, Bibliothek
der neuesten Reisebeschreibungen, 1 Band der 2 Hilfte der 1 Centurie. Weimary
1815. 8vo.

MACKINLAY (Davip). Notes of a tour in Iceland in 1859. Proceedings of the Philos.
Soc. of Glasgow, Iv, 1859, pp. 259-262 ; v, 1860-1861, pp. 10-16.

MapDsEN (C. L.). Den nordatlantiske Telegraf over Fzeréerne, Island og Grénland.
Geograf. Tidskrift, 1384, vi, No. 5, pp. 87-95.

Et Par Ord om Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, 1880, pp. 61-63.

MaGNwUsson (THORSTEINN). Sandferdig og kort islandiske Relation om det for-
ferdelige og gruelige Jordskelff, som shedde for Osten paa Island, hoss Tycke-
bey Kloster, forgangen Septembris med Torden og Liunet. Ildens Nedfald aff
Lufften, med stort Mérck, Aske, fuhrige og gloende Steene, u.s.v. Paa Dansk
ved Nicol. Helduader. Kbhvn.,1627. 4to.

Magor (R.H.). Voyages and map of the Zeni. Proceed. R. Geogr. Soc., 1883, v,
No. 12, pp. 725-728.

MALLET (R.). On the conversion of Geyser throats in Iceland into Volcanic vents.
Phil. Mag., vol. m1, pp. 108,109. Geological Record, 1877, p. 175.

Mat (rasmus). Diss. gradualis de Refractionibus Crystalli Islandici, sub pre-
sidio Samuelis Duraci. c¢. fig. Upsalew, 1761. 4to. ;

MARMIER (XAVIER). Histoire de l’Islande, depuis sa découverte, jusqu’& nos jours.
Avec 30 vignettes. Paris, Arthur Bertrand, 1818. 8vo.

Le Geyser et ’Hecla. Nouv. Annales des Voyages, Paris, 11, sér. xi, 1836,

pp. 370, 371.

Voyages en Islande et Groenlande, exécutés pendant les années 1835 et 1836

sur la corvette ‘‘ La Recherche.” 7 vols. 8vo, avec 2 atlas in fol. et 1 atlas in 8vo.

Paris, Arthur Bertrand, 1838.

Lettres sur l’Islande. Paris, Bonnaire, 1837, 8vo; dell’Oie Garner fréres,
1839; 1844. A. Bertrand, Paris, 1855, 12mo. (Trad.de Achille Mauri). Milano,
1841. Nouv. Annales des Voyages, Paris, 11 sér., xv, 1837, pp. 239-347.

MATHIESEN (H. von). Ueber die Entstehung des Monte Nuovo und die neueste Hekla
Eruption. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, &c., 1846, pp. 586-595.

Ueber die Hekla Eruption, 1845. Neues Jahrb. fiir Mineralogie, &c., 1847,

pp. 44-47.

MAURER (K.). Island von seiner ersten Entdeckung bis zum Untergang des Frei-
staats. 490 pp. Miinchen, 1874. 8vo.

Ritdémur um Kalund. Bidrag til en histor.-topogr. Beskrivelse af Island,

1-1 Band. Literaturblatt fiir germ. und romanische Philologie, Iv, pp. 1-5,

Aarg,. 1883.

Ueber Kalunds topografisk-hist. beskrivelse afIsland. ‘‘Germaniz,” 1879.

MELSTED (PALL). Fréttir fré Heklu. Nyt Félagserit, v1, pp. 202-210.

MENGE (JOHAN). Notice of a mineralogical journal through south, north, and east
Iceland. Edinburgh Philos. Journal, 1, Jan.—-April, 1820, pp. 156-167.

528 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

MENGE (JOHAN). Fragment sur une excursion enterprise au Geyser et au Strock Vol-
cano d’eau de l’Islande. Ann. Gén. Sci. Phys., 1, 1819, pp. 205-207. Oken Isis,
1820 (Litz ang), col. 513-516.

Descrizione della Sorgente calde delle Geysers en Island. Trans. fr. ‘‘Morgen-

blatt,” 1819. Brugnatelli Giornale, 11, 1820, pp. 191-194.

Description des sources chaudes, dites Geysers en Islande. Journal des Voy-
ages, V1, 1820, pp. 14-20.

MEQUET (E.). Voyage en Islande et au Groenlande en 1835 et 1836 sur la corvette
“La Recherche”, Paris, 1852.

. METCALFE (Rey. FREDERIK). The Oxonian in Iceland; or notes of travels in that
island in the summer of 1860. 450 pp. with map and illust. London, Longman,
1861, 8vo; London, Hotten, 1857, 12mo.

MeyYN (L.). Zur Chronologie der Paroxysmen des Hekla. Zeitsch. d. Deutsch.
Geolog. Gesell., Berlin, vi Band, 1861, pp. 291-299.

MILEs (PLING). Nordurfari, or rambles in Iceland. London, Longman, and New
York, 1854.

Eine Nordfahrt. Streifziige in Island. Aus d. Engl. von W. E. Drugulin
Leipzig, 1855. 8vo. Conversations- und Reisebibliothek, Leipzig, Lorck, v1
Band, 1855.

Moun (H.). Askeregnen den 29 de 30 Marts 1875. Naturen, 1877, pp. 152-153. For-
handlinger i Videnskabs Selskabet i Kristiania, 1877, Kristiania, 1878, No. 10, pp.
1-12 (med Kort). ~ ;

Monur (A.). Forsgg til en islandsk Naturhistorie. Kbhvn, 1786. 8vo. 413 pp.

MULLER (J. H.J.). Ueber Bunsen’s Geysertheorie. Poggendorff’s Annalen, Band 79,
pp. 350-353, 562-567.

NEUESTES aus ISLAND. Petermann’s Geogr. Mitth., vim, 1862, p. 228.

NACHRICHTEN AUS ISLAND. Ausland, xx, 1847, p. 368.

NACHRICHT von dem Feuerausbruch im westlichen Staptefells-Syssel in Island, so
wie auf kéniglichen Befehl am ersten Sonntage nach Neujahr 1784 in allen
Kirchen zu Kopenhagen soll verlesen werden. Kopenhagen, 1784. 8vo.

NIcHOL (J.). Iceland, Greenland, and the Farée Islands. New York, 1841.

NORDENSKIOLD (A. E.). Studien und Forschungen veranlasst durch meine Reise im
hohen Norden. Leipzig, Brockhaus, 1885.

Om Bréderna Zenos Resor.og de ildsta Kartor 6fver Norden. Stockholm,
1883. 8vo.

NorMAN (C.). Den nyevulkanske O vedIsland. Dagbladet, Kopenhagen,7 Decbr.,
1€84.

NOUGARET (JULES). Rapport. Le surtarbrandur d’Islande, les anciennes foréts et
le reboisement de cette ile, par M. Edelestan Jardin. Bulletin de la Société de
Géographie, Paris, sér. V, V1, 1868, pp. 185-191.

NouGaretr (N.). Voyage dans l’intérieurde l’Islande. Le Tour du Monde, 1868. 2.
sem. pp. 113-160.

NOUVELLE DESCRIPTION de V’Islande. 2 vols. Paris, 1874. 12mo.

ODDSEN (G.). Almenn Landaskipunarfredi utgetin at tilhlutun hins Islendska
Bokmenta Félags. 1-2 B.m.K. Kaupmannahéfn, 1821-27. 8vo.

OHLSEN. Om vandspringende Geiser og StrokiIsland. K.D. Vidensk. Selsk. Skrif-
ter, 1805, Iv, pp. 233-246. Gilberts Annalen, vol. xLmI. —

OLAFSSON (EGGERT) ; see also Olafsen (Eggert), Olafssyni (Olafi), Olavius (Eggerhardus),
Olavius (Olaus).

OLAFSEN (EGGERT) [Eggertus Olavius]. Disquisitio antiquario physica de Ortu et
progressu superstitionis circa ignem Islandiw subterraneum vulgo infernalem.
Hafnie,1751. 4to.

OLAFSEN (EGGERT) [Eggertus Olavii]. Ennarrationes historia de Islandi# natura
et constitutione, formats et transformate per eruptiones ignis. ParticulaI. De
Islandia antiquam cepta est habitari. Hafniw, 1749. 8vo.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 529

OLAFSSON (EGGERT), und des BIORNE POVELSONS Reise durch Island, veranstaltet von
der K. Soc. d. Wissenschaften in Kopenhagen, und beschrieben yon Eggert Olaf-
sen. Aus dem Diinischen itibersetzt. Mit 51 Kupfer und 1 Charte iiber Island.
Kopenhagen und Leipzig, hey Heinicke und Faber, 177475. 4to. 1,328 pp.; 11, 224
pp. mit Karte; Nyt Carte over: Island orfattel ved Erichsen og Schénning, 1771.
Gest. v. J. Haas 1772, 1: 1,200,000. Mit den Ansichten: Hage Tafel, Sneefell, Dran-
gar und Hornstrand beym Nordcap ; Den Brélende Héi paa Hveravalle; Geyser;
Mit dem Grundriss von Surthellir. Dresden, Schubothe, 1787. 2 vols. 4to.

OLAFSEN ET POVELSEN. Voyage en Islande fait par ordre de 8. M. Danoise. Traduit
du Danois par Gauthier de Lapeyrouse pour les 3 premiers, par Biornered pour
les 2derniers volumes. 5 vols. Paris,1801. &vo, avec; atlasde60 pl. 4to. Paris
et Strasbourg, freres Levrault, 1802, 4to. 5 vols. et 1 atlas. 1, 444 pl.; 11,434
pp.; 11, 400 pp.; 1v, 451 pp.; Vv, 419 pp. mit der Karte: Nouvelle Carte d’Islande
daprés celle des prof. Erichsen et Schoenning, 1: 1,200,000, und den Ansichten: Cap
Drangar ; ’Hveravalle; le Geyser; Hécla. Versailles, Jacob, 1802. 4to.

OLA¥SEN (EG.) 0g POVELSEN (BJARNI). Reise igjennem Island. 2 dele med 51 Kob-
berstokkerédgen Kart, 1772. 4to.

OLAFFSEN und POVELSEN. Reise durch Island, 1773. Biisching, Nachrichten, Berlin,
11, 1774, pp. 188-191.
OLAFSSON (EGGERT) and PALSSON(BJARNI). Travels in Iceland. London, 1805.

OLAFSSON (EGGERT) and PALSSON (BJARNI). Travels in Iceland, performed by or-
der of his Danish Majesty. Containing observations on the manners and customs
of the inhabitants, a description of the lakes, rivers, glaciers, hot springs, and
volcanoes; of the various kinds of earths, stones, fossils, and petrifactions, as
well as of the animals, insects, fishes, &c. Translated from the Danish [and
abridged by F. W.B.]. 4 pl, 1map. 8vo. London, 1805. <A collection of mod-
ern and contemporary voyages and travels. v.2. 8vo. London, for R. Phillips,
1206.
OLAVI (EGGERTHUS fillius). Nockrar Huglidingar frammselter i Liédum, som nef-
nast Binadar Batilkur, i thrin kvede um dalegt Buskaper Liif Islendiga. Hrapp-
seyae, 1783. 8vo.

OxLavul ekonomiske Reise igjennem de nordwestlige, nordlige og nordostlige Kanter
af Island. Med Karte 1-2 D. Kjébenhavn, 1780, 4to; 1783.

OLAvit [OLAFSON] (OLAVUS). Fdacina Skiringar greinir um Smior og Ostabunar &
Islandi. Hafniw, 1780. 8vo.

OLAVIUS (EGGERHARDUS). Islandus Aefe Eggerts Olafsonar vice Logmans i Island.
Hrappsey, 1784. 8vo.

OLAVius (OLAUS). Oekonomische Reise durch Island in den nordwestlichen und
nordéstlichen Gegenden. Aus dem Dinischen von J. Jasperson. Mit 17 Kpfr.
und 1 Karte. Dresden und Leipzig, 1787; Leipzig, Hinrichs, 1805.

Oekonomische Reise durch Island. 276 pp. Busching, Nachrichten, Berlin,
XV, 1778, p. 275.

OswaLp (E. J.). By fell and fjord; or scenes and studies in Iceland.

PALSSON (BJARNI). (See OLAFSSON (EGGERT).)

PALSSON (SVEINN). Udtog af en Dagbog holden paa Reise i Island. Naturhistorik
Selskab Skrifter for 1792.

PAusson et HsatTatin: Eruption en Islande, 1867. L’Institut, 1. Sect. sciences ma-
thém., phys. et natur., Paris, 1867, 8vo, No. 1768-1773, xxXxvV, p. 376.

PAIJKULL (C. W.). Bidrag til kiinnedomen om Islands bergsbygrad. K.S. Vetensk.
Akad. Handlinger, vir, No. 1. Stockholm, 1867, 4to.

Istiden i Norden. Féreliisningar hallnai Stockholm, 1866. Stockholm, 1867.

8vo.

H. Mis. 15

o4

530 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

PAIJKULL (C. W.). En sommar pai Island. Reseskildring. Med 30 illustr. i triisnitt
4 lithograf. och en karta 6fver Island. Stockholm, Bonnier, 1866, 8vo; 1867. Med
35 illustr. i trisnitt 4 lithographier i farvetryk og et graveret Kort over Island, 1:
1,280,000, 348 pp., Kjébenhavn, O. H. Delbanco, 1867. 8vo. Mit den Ansichten:
Hekla, Reykjavik, en Gruusmark, Dyrhélorey eller Portland Nip stadhr Reynis-
dréngar; Vulkanen Herdhubreidh; Vulkankrater ved Lierhnikr; Almannagja;
Briard Geysir; mit der Karte: Geysirs Kildessystem ; Strokkr und Hekla.

A summer in Iceland. Translated by Rev. M. R. Barnard. London, 1868.

PATERSON (W.G. Sp.). The new volcanic island of Iceland. Nature, 13 Novbr., 1884,
pp. 37-38.

PAULINI (CHR. FR.). De Hecla observationes physics. Hamburgi, 1676. 4to.
PAULSEN (SVEND). Udtog af hans reise til og i Island pa Iden Julii til 7de Septb.
1791. Kjébenhavn, Skdnv., Nat. Selsk. u, 1792, p. 22 [pte. 22], pp. 122-146.
PAULY (FRIEDR.) Topographie von Dinemark einschliesslich Islands und der Faroer.

Altona, 1828; Dessau. 8vo.

PFEIFFER (IDA). A Journey to Iceland and Travels in Sweden and Norway. From
the German by Charlotte Fenimore Cooper. New York, 1852, 12mo; London,
Bentley, 1552; London, Ward & Lock, 1856. 8vo.

PHIPSON (T. L.). Earthquakes. (In his family lectures.)

PIERCE (B. M.). A report on the resources of Iceland and Greenland. 72 pp. with 1
map. Washington, U. 8. State Department, 1868, 8vo; Washington, 1871.

PETERMANN’S Neue Karte der Diinischen Monarchie. 3, Island, 1: 6,000,000. Peter-
mann’s Geogr. Mittheilungen, vui1, 1862, p. 227.

Pius (J. 8.). Reise ingtagelser i Ingials, Hools og Troder sogne i Island, i aarene
1798 og 1799. Kjébenhavn, 1800. 8vo.

POESTION (F. C.). Das Island und seine Bewohner. Nach den neuesten Quellen.
Mit einer Karte. Wien, 1885.

PonTon. (M.). Earthquakes and volcanoes.

PREYER (W.) und ZIRKEL (F.). Reise nach Island im Sommer 1860, vir und 499 pp.
Mit wissenschaftlichen Anhingen, Holzschnitten und einer lithogr. Karte.
Leipzig, Brockhaus, 1862. 8vo.

PEYRERE. Account of Iceland. Churchill, m1.

PRINCE NAPOLEON’S Journey to the North. Bentley’s Miscellany, November, 1857.

PROJECTIRTE dinische Forschungsreisen nach Island und Grénland. Petermann’s
Geographische Mittheilungen, xx11, 1876, p. 272.

Rak (JOHN, Dr.). Exploration of the Farées and Iceland. Proceedings of the R.
Geogr. Soc. of London, v, No. 2, 1861, pp. 80-90.

RAFn (C. CHARLES). Notice sur lancienne géographie de l’Islande et du Greenland.
Bulletin de la Soc. de Géogr., Paris, 111, sér. 11, 1844, No. 9, pp. 188-194.

RAMMELSBERG (C.). Island, besonders in Bezug auf seine Vulkane und heissen Quel-
len. L. Frorieps Fortschritte der Geographie und Naturgeschichte, Weimar,
1847, 11, pp. 241-253.

Ueber die mineralogischen Gemengtheile der Laven, insbesondere der islandi-
schen, im Vergleich mit den filteren Gebirgsarten und den Meteorsteinen. Zeit-
schrift der Deutschen Geolog. Ges., Berlin, 1, 1849, pp. 232-244.

Ratu (G. voM). Icelandic Volcanoes. Neues Jahrbuch f. Mineral., Heft 1, pp. 52,
53. Geolog. Record, 1878, p: 102.

Ash-rain in Scandinavia, and Eruption in Iceland. Verh. nat. Ver. preuss.
Rheinlande, Jahrg. xxx11, Sitz., pp. 1387-144, 154-161. Geolog. Record, 1878, p.
149.

REIKIAVIE. Pfennig-Magazin, Leipzig, vu, 1839, p. 28.

REISE Beskrivelse til Island af en curieus Liebhaber. Kbhyn., 1717. 8vo.

REISE nach Island und Spitzbergen. Ausland, xxx, 1357, p. 763.

REISEN in Island. Minerva, 1814,1, p. 358; 11, pp. 40, 245, 400.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 531

Rimy (Cu.). L’Islande. (Reykjavik—Les Geysers—L’Hecla—Les mines de soufre de
Krisuvic—Le Baers islandais—Le poney et le chien d’Islande). Revue Scien-
tifique, 14 Octob., 1882, pp. 485-496.

Revuscu (Hans H.). Den stévfyldte Sne. Naturen, 1881, p. 112.

~z~— Denye Vulkaner paalIsland. Naturen, 1877, pp.145-152. (Bearbeidet efter:
Indberetning om den af Professor Johnstriip foretagne Underségelsesreise paa
Island i Sommeren 1876. Kbhvn., 1877.)

RicuHe en soufre natif (Island). Bulletin de la Soc. de Géogr., Paris, 1, sér. iv, p. 179.

RICHTER (GEORG ADOLF). Land und Leute von Island. Mit den Ansichten: Aus-
sicht auf der Héhe von Almannagia, der Krater des Hekla, Kirche und Umgebung
von Reykjahlidar, die Berge von Hjaltadal, der Dyrafjord. Aus allen Weltthei-
len, Leipzig, v1, 1875, pp. 106-114, 139-143, 252, 253.

ROBERT (EUGENE). In Voyage of ‘‘La Recherche.” Gainard’s Expédition datentif:,
Paris, 1840.

Géologie et Minéralogie. Voyage de la Commission scientifique, &c.

Rockwoop (Prof. C. G.). Notices of Recent American Earthquakes, No. 6. Amer.
Journal of Sciences and Arts, 3d series, vol. XII, p. 25, for 1876.

RoOQUETTE (M.DE LA). Notice sur V’Islande. Bulletin de la Soc. de Géogr. de Paris,
Ill, sér. X, 1848, pp. 185-216.

ROSENBERG (C.). Et Par Reisebilleder fra Island. Kbhvn., 1875.

RvussEL (Micu.). Iceland, Greenland, and Farée Islands. London, Nelson, 1862. 8vo.

SAEMUNDSEN (JOEN). Sandferdig Relation om det udi Island brendende field. Haf-
niw, 1726. Ato.

Relatio historico de monte Islandizw (an. 1724 d. 17 Maji et seq.) ignivomo,
Krabla dicto, necnon de aliis vicimis minoribus montibus, de terre motu toni-
truis et ejectione cinerum. Hafnie, 1726. 4to.

SAEMUNDSSON (JON). Om det udi Island brendende Fjeld Kraffa. Kbhvn.,1730. 4to.

SARTORIUS VON WALTERSHAUSEN. (See WALTERSHAUSEN. )

SCHWEITZER (PuH.). Bemerkungen zu Herrn Arpi’s Kritik iiber Schweitzer: Island.
Leipzig, 1885. Nordisk Revy, m1, 1884~’85, No. 15, pp. 470-473.

Island. Land und Leute, Geschichte, Literatur und Sprache. Leipzig und
Berlin, 1885.

ScHyTHE (J.C.). Udvikling af Qualluft i nogle varme kilder i Island. Kroger’s
Naturhistorisk Tidskrift, u1, Kbhvn., 1840-41, pp. 329-330.

Hekla ogdens sidste Udbrud, 2 Sep., 1845. Med 10 pl., 1 Kart. Kbhvn., 1847,
8vo.

SEWALL (WILLIAM G.). ‘‘Iceland.” MHarper’s Mag., xv, p. 754.

SHEPHERD (C. W.). The Northwest Peninsula of Iceland; being the journal of a tour
in Iceland in the spring and summer of 1862. 173 pp. miti Karte. London, Long-
man, 1867. Globus, Braunschweig, xx, 1871, pp. 129-134.

SIGURDHSSON (PALL). Um 6rnefni i Rangérpingi. (Safn til sdgu Islands. 11.)

SKYRSLUR um landshagi 4 Islandi. Kbhvn., 1865.

SMAASKIZZER fra en Islandsreise i Sommeren 1867, af Benedicte; Ny Raekke. 250 pp.
Kopenhagen, Hést, 1870. 8vo.

SmitTH (R. ANGUS). To Iceland in a Yacht. (Not published. Privately printed by Ed-
monston & Douglas. (Edinburgh, May, 1873. 8vo.)

SNORRONIS (JOHN) [Snorresen]. Tractatus historico physicus de Agricultura Islan-
dorum piscis temporibus cum successu usitata postea exoleta et jam restaurata.
Hafniz, 1757. 8vo.

SécuTinG: Islands Vulkane. Nach den neuesten Untersuchungen Ch, I. Forbes’ bear-
beitet. Zeitsch. f. allgem. Erdkunde, Mai 1861, pp. 321-545.

STANLEY (Siz JOHN THoMas). An account of the Hot Springs, near Rykium, in Ice-
land (1791). Edinburgh Royal Society Trans., 11, 1794, pp. 127-137,

An account of the Hot Springs, near Hankadal, in Iceland, in 1792. Edin-

burgh Royal Soc. Trans., m1, 1794, pp. 138-153.

Account of the Hot Springs in Iceland, with an analysis of their waters. 1789.

532 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

STKLENSTRUP (Prof. Dr. JAPETUS). Zeniernes Reiser i Norden. (Sj4 flokkin a, vi.)
STEPHENSEN (Maants). Island i det attende Aarhundrede. Kbhvn., 1808. 8vo.
Eptirmeli étjandu aldar. Vidhey, 1806. 8vo.

Kort Beskrivelse over den nye Vulcans Ildsprudning i Vesterkaptafells.-Syssel

paa Island i Aaret 1783. Kbhvn., 1785. 8vo.

Ransékn Islands gyldandi laga um legordsmél. Vidhey, 1821. 8vo.

Skemtelig Vinagledi I. B. med Promemoria til allra myrkra manna ‘og liés-
shatara 4 Islandi. Leiraérgérdum, 1797. 8vo.

Storm (G.). Minder fra en Islands ferd; mit Illustr. Christiania, Cappeln, 1875. 8vo.

STRANCH (AiGIpIUs). Dissertatio chronographico-historica de ‘‘Islandia.” Theodori
Thorlaci, Wittenberge, 1664. 4to; 1670, 1690, Jena; 1690. Ato.

STREYE (D.). Beskrivelse over den6é Islandia. Kbhvn., 1859.

SULPHUR MINES IN ICELAND. Nature, London, x, 1874, p. 271.

SYMINGTON (ANDREW JAMES). Pen and pencil sketches of Farée and Iceland, with
an appendix containing translations from the Icelandic. 320 pp. London, Long-
man, 1862. 8vo.

TAYLOR (BAYARD). Egypt and Iceland, 1874. London, Low, 1874; New York,
Putnam, 1874. 12mo.

TERRELL (O.). Brefom Island. Ofversigt af K. Sv. Vet. Akad. Forh., x1v, 1857, pp.
325-332.

THEORGILSIS (ARIUS). De Islandia; Notis Andr. Bussei. Holmiz, 1733. 4to.

THERM ISLANDICI LOGARNESENSES. Th. Bartolini Acta Medica, 1671-72, p. 282.

THIENEMANN (FR. AuG. LuDW.) und GUNTHERS (G. B.). Reise im Norden von Eu-
ropa, vorztiglich in Island, in den Jahren 1820-21. 1. Theil: Naturhistorischer
Theil, 2. Bd. 8vo. Atlas in 4to. 2. Theil: Historischer Theil. 1. Bd. Leipzig,
Reclam, 1824~27. 8vo.

THORLAEUS [THORLACIUS] (THEODORI F.). Dissertatio historico-physico de ultima
incendio montis Hecla. Hafnize, 1694. 4to.

THORLACIUS (THEODORUS). Dissertatio chronographico-historico de Islandia. Wit-
teberge, 1666. 4to.

THORODDSEN (TH.). Oversigt over de islandske Vulkaners Historie. Kjébenhavn,
1882.

Ed Beség ved Myvatn paa Island. Dansk Geographisk Selsk. Tidskrift, 1878.

Bad. 11, pp. 116-120.

An account of volcanic eruptions and earthquakes which have taken place

in Iceland within historical times. Geological Magazine, London, 1880, vol. v1,

pp. 458-467.

Apercu des éruptions de voleans et des tremblements de terre qui ont eu lieu

en Islande pendant les temps historiques. 8vo., 22 pp.

Die vulkanischen Eruptionen und Erdbeben auf Island wiéhrend der ge-

schichtlichen Zeit. Gaea, xtx, 1883, pp. 464-470.

De vulkaniske Udbrud paa Island i Aaret 1783 med en Tavle. Geografisk

Tidskrift, 1879.

Héide maalinger paa Island af Bjdrn Gunlaugsson. Geografisk Tidskrift, 1879,

pp. 126-127.

Om de udebvede Strokninger paa Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, 1882,.pp.

24-28.

En Udflugt i det sydvestlige Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, 1882, pp. 135-139.

Videnskabelig Underségelse af-de vuikanske Udbrud i Island, Aar 1875.

Budstikken, Minneapolis, Minnesota, U. 8. America, 1877, Nos. 26 and 28.

En Underségelse 1882 i det dstlige Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, v1, pp. 95-

112, 129-140.

Vulkansk Udbrud paa Island. Geografisk Tidskrift, vu, p. 25.

Geographische Forschungen in Island. Petermann’s Geographische Mitthei-

lungen, 1884, xxx, p. 114.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 533

THORODDSEN (Th.). Eine Untersuchung auf dem 6stlichen Island im Jahre 1882.
Die Natur, 34 Jahrg., Halle, 1885, pp. 6-7, 18-20, 31-32, 43-44, 54-56, 67-68, 75-78,
126-128, 139-141, 150-152, 159-162.

Vulkanerne paa Reykjanes. Geol. Féren. Férhandl., Stockholm, vu, pp. 148-

187.

Geological exploration in Iceland. Nature, 1884, xxx, No. 770, 780, et seq.

Untersuchungen in Odadahraun, 1884, Petermann’s Mitth., 1885.

—— Lysing Islands. Oversat af Amund Helland, Kristiania, 1883.

Die Erforschung des Innern von Island. Globus, Bd. 47, pp. 185-188. Peter-

mann’s Geogr. Mitth., 1885, with a corrected map.

Explorations of Iceland, described in: Geografisk Tidskrift, 1884; Petermann’s

geogr. Mitth., 1884, pp. 422-426, 1885, Globus, Bd. 47, pp. 185-188; Nature

(Halle), xxx, pp. 780, 781; xxx1, 791; xxxIv, 1885.

De vulkans Udbrud paa Island i Aaret 1783. Geografisk Tidskrift, m1, 1879,
4°, pp. 67-80.

THORSTEINIUS (BENEDICTUS). De eruptione ignis in monte Krafla et vicines prx-
fecturis an. 1724 et seq. Hafnie, 1726 (Dinisch. Efterretning om den Jord-
brand).

THORSTEINIUS (MaGNts). Relatio circa eruptionem ignis et magnam aquarum
undam qu de monte Mirdahls Jékelen profluebat, edita per Nicolaun Helvaderum,
Hafniz, 1627.

THORSTEINSSON (BENEDIKT). Efterretninger om den Jordbrund, som 1724 og fol-
gende Aar i Bjerget Krafla og deromkring har grasseret. Kbhvn., 1726. De 2
sidste Skrifter existere rimeligois ikke mere, i det mindste findes de ikke paa
noget af de offentlige Bibliotheker i Norden. Destaaanmeldte i Loerde Tidender
for 1726, pp. 87-89.

Trrow. Nachrichten iiber Island. Bertuch, Neue allg. geograph. Ephem., xu, 1823,

pp. 341, 342.

ToRKILLI (JONAS) [JON ToRKILSON]. Additamentum de Islandia. Tilgift som vi-
dere Efterretning om Island. Angehangt an Jo Andersont de Islandia Rela-
tionem. Hafniz, 1748. 8vo.

TRAVEL by Umbra (Charles Cavendish Clifford) in Iceland and Italy. Edinburgh,
Edmonston & Douglas, 1865.

TRAVELS IN ICELAND. London, 1805. 8vo.

TRIBOLET (M. F. DE). Notes sur les roches et minéraux, recueillis en Islande et aux

_ fles Fiiréder par M. le prof. Th. de Rougemont. Bull. Soc. Sci. Nat. Neuchatel,
t. XI, cat. 1, pp. 7-12 [1877]; Geolog. Record, 1878, p. 157.

TRoit (UNO Von). Bref rérande en resa til Island, 1772. Upsala, 1777. 8vo. Med

en taflar.

Letters on Iceland, made during a voyage undertaken in the year 1772, by

Joseph Banks, Esq., F. R. S., assisted by Dr. Solander, F.R.S., &e. London

and Dublin, 1780. [Also translated into French by Dr. Lindholm, Paris. ]

Letters regarding a voyage in Iceland in 1772. Upsala and Leipzig, 1779:

(Gives a complete list of writers on Iceland from 1561 to 1776.)

—— Letters on Iceland during a voyage in 1772, with letters of Ihre and Bach on

the Edda, &c., and Bergmann’s Observations on the Lava. London, Richard-

son, 1780. 8vo. 2d e‘it., 1780; 3d edit., 1783. 8vo. The whole revised and
corrected by E. Mendes da Costa. With amap. Dublin, 1780. 8vo.

Letters on Iceland. Pinkerton, I. :

Briefe welche eine im Jahre 1772 nach Island angestellte Reise betreffen. Aus

dem Schwedischen von J.G.Pt.Méller. Mit Kpfr. Upsala, Schwederus, 1779.

8vo. Leipzig, 1779.

Reise durch Island. Mit 1 Karte von Island und2Kpfr. 2Aufl., 1785. Biblio-
thek der neuesten Reisebeschreibungen. Schneider, 1.

—— Brieven betreff eene reize na Ysland. Leyden, 1784.

534 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Troi (UNO von). Lettres sur l’Islande. Trad. du Suédois par Lindholm. Avec
cartes et fig. Paris, Didot jeune, 1781. 8vo.

TROMHOLT (Sopuus). Breve fra Ultima Thule. Indtryk fra et Ophold paa Island.
344 pp. 8vo.

Islands Geysirterritorium i vore Dage. (Aftrykt, en Del forkortet, med Forps
Tilladelse af hans Bog ‘‘ Breve fra Ultima Thule.”) Naturen, 9 Aarg., No. 8-9,
Aug.—Sep., 1885, p. 125.

TYNDALL (JOHN). Ueber einige vulkanische Erscheinungen in Island. Ausland,
XXVI, 1853, p. 839.

On some of the Eruptive Phenomena of Iceland. Proceed. Roy. Inst. of Gr.
Brit., June 3, 1853, vol 1.

Uproa af Paulsen’s Dagbog holden paa hans reise til og i Island fra 2 Juli til 7 Sept.,
1791; 1 Mai, 1792. Skrifter af Naturhist. Selskabet, u, Hefte1, p. 222; Heft 2,
p. 122; m1, Hefte 1, p. 157.

UEBER ISLAND. Ausland, xxxv, 1862, pp. 405-491.

UEBER ISLAND und den Hecla. Journal fiir die neuesten Land-und Seereisen, LX,
1829, pp. 69-76.

UsFaLvy (CH. E. DE). Le pays de Thulé. 16 pp. Paris, Leclerc, 1874. 8vo.

ULTIMA THULE, or a summer in Iceland. By Richard F. Burton. London, 1875,
8vo. 2vols. Also: Edinburgh, 1875.

VAN GUISEN (N. L., jr.), A Holiday in Iceland, &c. London, 1879.

VATNA JOKULL. Nature, London, vol. x, 1874, p. 34.

VARGAS (BEDEMER). Om vulkaniske Produkter paa Island. Kjébenhavn, 1817. 8vo.

VERKRUZEN (T. A.). Dredging excursion to Iceland in June and July, 1872. An-
nals and Magazine of Natural History for November, 1872.

VERMESSUNG von Island. Bertuch, Neue allg. geogr. Ephem., v, 1819, pp. 361-362.

VIDALIN (POVEL). Om Islands Opkomst, samt nogle andre af same Inhold, anvendt
paa nerverende Tider. Med Kobbere. Sorée, 1768. 8vo.

Visit to Iceland in the summer of 1857. Colburn’s New Monthly Magazine, March,
1858.

VOLCANIC OUTBREAKS in Iceland. Popular Science Monthly, vu, p. 630.

VOLCANIC PHENOMENA in Iceland, Nature (London), vol. xv, 1875, pp. 75,76, 194,
298, 446.

VouLcaANoEs of Iceland. Popular Science Monthly, u, p.95. Nature, x1, p.514; =
pp. 105-106.

VULKANISCHE ASCHE in Skandinavien und vulkanischer Ausbruch auf Island. Gaea,
XI, 1875, pp. 377-380.

VULKANISCHE AUSBRUCHE auf Island und in Sitidamerika. Mittheil. d. Wiener
Geogr. Ges., XVI, 1873, p. 234-235.

VULKANISCHE VERWUSTUNGEN (Aschenregen) auf Island. Aus allen Welttheilen,
Leipzig, v1, 1875, p. 318.

VoyaGE en Islande et au Grenlande, exécuté pendant les années 1835-36, sur la cor-
vette ‘‘La Recherche,” commandée par Tréhouart, dans le but de découvrir les
traces de ‘‘ La Lilloise,” Publié par ordre du roi sous la direction de P. Gainard.
6 vols., ornés de vignettes. Accompagnés de 3 atlas, contenant ensemble 250
planches, dont 70 environ colonées. Histoire du voyage, p. G.Gainard. Phy-
sique, p. V. Lottin. Minéralogie, p. H. Robert. Histoire de l’Islande, p. X.
Marmier, Paris, 1838-1842. Paris,7 vols., 8vo, 2 atlas in fol.,1 album, 8vo, 1838-
1851. °

VOYAGE en Islande et au Mont Hécla en 1827. Journal de Voyages, xxvii, 1828, pp.
174-199,

WALKER (ROBERT). Note of temperature measurements in the Great Geysers of
Iceland, Aug., 1874. Proc. R. Soc. Edinb., vol. v1, p. 514.

WALLER (S.E.). Six weeks in the saddle. A eaiieeal journey in Iceland. London,
1874. 12mo.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 535

WALTERSHAUSEN (SARTORIUS VON). Geologischer Atlas von Island mit Erliuterun-
. gen. 2.Bd.,7and60 pp. Gottingen, 1853, Gr. Fol. und 4to.

Ueber die vulkanischen Gesteine in Sicilien und Island und ihre submarine
Umbildung. xvi and 532 pp. Gottingen, Dietrich, 1853. 8vo.

—— Physikalisch-geographische Skizze von Island, mit besonderer Riicksicht auf
vulkanische Erscheinungen. (Abgedruckt aus den G6ttinger Studien, 142 pp.
Gottingen, Vandenhoek u. Ruprecht, 1847. 8vo.)

The glaciers of Iceland. New Philos. Journal, Edinburg, 1848, April-October.

WALLUT (R.). Observations sur le magnétisme terrestre en Islande. Revue mari-
time, Mai, 1884, Lx xx1, No. 272, pp. 387-400.

Watts (WILLIAM LorpD). Across the Vatna Jékull; or scenes in Iceland. Being a
description of hitherto unknown regions. London,1876. 8vyo.

Journey across the Vatna Jékull in the summer of 1875. Proceed. R. Geogr.

Soc. London, xx, 1875, pp. 21-32.

Travels in Iceland. Nature, x11, 1875, p. 453.

Snioland ; or Iceland, its Jékulls and Fjalls. London, 1875. 8vo.

On the Volcanic Geology of Iceland. Proceed. Geolog. Assoe., vol. Iv, No.

4, pp. 214-220.

Iceland, its scenery and volcanic rocks. Journ. Soc. Arts, vol. xxrv, No.

1210, pp. 169-175. Geol. Record, 1876, p. 121.

On Iceland; its physical aspects, characteristics, &c. 23d An. Rep. Brighton

Nat. Hist. Soc.. pp. 78-91.

On the Vatna Jékull. ‘‘Fraser’s Magazine,” v. 90. n.s., v.10. 8vo. Lon-

don, Longmans, Green & Co., No. 60, Dec., 1874, pp. 693-705.

In ‘Littell’s Living Age,” v. 124, 5th series, v.9. 8vo. Boston, Littell &
Gay, No. 1597, Jan. 16, 1875, pp. 175-184.

WICHMAN (H.). Th. Thoroddsen’s Reise durch Ostisland, 1882. Petermann’s Geogr.
Mitth., xxx, 1884.

WINELER (G.G.). Island, der Bau seiner Gebirge und dessen geologische Bedeutung.
303 pp. Mit 42in den Text gedr. Holzschnitten. Nach eigenen Untersuchungen
dargestellt. Miinchen, Gummi, 1863. 8vo.

Island, seine Bewobner, Landesbildung und vulkanische Natur. 320pp. Mit

Holzschnitten und 1 Karte von Island. Braunschweig, Westermann, 1861. 8vo.

Geysir und Strokkur, die islandischen Springquellen. Westermann’s Monats-

hefte, October 1870.

Ueber Island. Ausland, xxxtv, 1861, p. 1057.

Der Siiden und Norden Islands. Westermann’s Jahrbuch, rx, 1861, pp. 219-222.

Eine Reise nach Island. Die Siidkiiste von Island mit Abbildungen. Wester-
mann’s Illustr. Deutsche Monatshefte, v1, 1859, pp. 502-509.

WONDERS OF CREATION [Anon.]. A descriptive account of volcanoes and their phe-
nomena. 1879.

Yacht voyage to Iceland in 1853. A. Hall, London, 1854. 12mo.

ZEILAU (LIEUTENANT). Fox Expedition. 1860.

ZENI (Nic. and ANT.). Discoveries on Island. 1380. (Purchas m1.)

ZENO (Nic. e ANT.) Dello scoprimento della Isola Eslanda. Ramusio, 11.

ZIRKEL (FERD.). Obsidian vom Hrafntinnuhryggr inIsland. Sitzungsber. d. math.
naturw. Cl. d. Ak. d. Wiss. i. Wien, xu, 1. Abth., pp. 267-268.

Basaltglas von Reykir in Island. Sitzungsber. d. math. naturw. Cl.d. Ak. d.

Wiss. in Wien, xxi, 1. Abth., pp. 259-260.

Mandelstein aus der Gegend zwischen Reykjavik und Seljadalr m Island.

Sitz. d. mathw. naturw. Cl. d. Wiss. in Wien, xiu, 1. Abth., pp. 250-251.

Trachyt vom Hofe Fagranes im Oxnadalr, Nord Island. Sitzungsb. d. math,

naturw. Cl. d. Ak. d. Wiss. in Wien, xLvit, 1. Abth., pp. 237-238.

Quarzfiihrender Trachyt von der Baula in Island. Sitzungsb. d. math.

naturw. Cl. d. Ak. d. Wiss. in Wien, xLu, 1. Abth., pp. 243-244.

536 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

ZIRKEL (FRED.). Lava vom Almenfngr-hraun zwischen Reykjavik und Krisuvik,
Island. Sitzungsb. d. math. naturw. Cl. d. Ak. d. Wiss. in Wien, xLu, 1. Abth.,
pp. 252-254.

Pechstein von der Baula in Island. Sitzber. d. math. naturw. Cl. d. Ak. d.
Wiss. in Wien, XLvil, 1. Abth., pp. 257-259.

—— De geognostie Islandiw constitutione observationes. [Inaugural Disserta-
tion.] Bonne, 1861. 8vo.

Vulkanische Asche die vom 29. auf den 30. Miirz 1875 in Norwegen fiel. Neues

Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, 1875, p. 399. Om det samme C. W. Giimbel. Aus-

land, 1875, pp. 466-469; og A. E. Nordenski6éld: Distant transport of volcanic dust.

Woodward’s Geolog. Magaz., 1876, pp. 292-297.

3. ARTICLES IN JOURNALS, ETC.

Aarbog. Den Norske Turisten Forening, 1882, pp. 19-79; 1884, pp. 27-56.
Aarbog for nord. Oldk. og Historie, 1882, pp. 57-124 (Kbhyn.).
Académie des Inscriptions. Mémoires, xxxvi1; Mém., p. 436.
Académie des Sciences. Comptes rendus hebdomadaires des séances. Tom. XXIII,
pp. 771-773 ; 934-937; xxIv pp. 182-184.
Acta Medica (Bartolini), 1671-1672, p. 282.
Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien. Sitzungsber. d. math. naturw. Cl., XII, pp.
485-492; xi11 1. Abth., pp. 243-244; 252-254; 267-268; 250-251; 259-260; xLvu,
1 Abth., pp. 237-238; 257-259.
Allg. geogr. Ephemeriden, 111, 1799, pp. 523; 553.
Amer. Journal of Sciences and Arts, 3d series, vol. x11, 1876, p. 25.
Annalen der Erdkunde, m1, 1831, p. 428.
Annals and Magazine of Natural History (London) November, 1872.
Annales de Chimie et Physique, Paris, x1x, 1847, p. 470-484; xxxvu, 1853, pp. 215-300.
Annales des Mines (Paris), x1, 1846, pp. 333-338.
Annales des Voyages, Paris (Malte-Brun), xvii, 1812, pp. 273-314.
Annales Gén. Sci. Phys., 11, 1819, pp. 205-207.
Antiquarisk Tidskrift, 186163, pp. 331-341.
Archiv des Missions scientif., 1, 1850, p. 587; 1882, pp. 101-L09.
Archiv for Mathemat. og Naturvidensk. (Christiania). Band 7, pp. 200-232, 233-239;
Band 9, pp. 69-154.
Aus allen Welttheilen (Leipzig), 1v, No. 2, 1872-1873, p. 62; vi, 1875, pp. 106-114,
139-143, 252-253, 318.
Ausland, Xvi, 1845, p. 1276; xx, 1847, p. 368; xxvi, 1853, p. 8389; xxviI, 1854, pp.
784, 812, 1167, 1191, 1215; xxx, 1857, p. 763; xxxIv, 1861, pp. 144, 1057; xxxv,
1862, pp. 465, 491; xxxvi, 1863, p. 1035; x11, 1868, p. 120; xiv, 1875, pp.
466-469; xxx, 1876, p. 680; Lu, 1879, pp. 243-247.
Bartolini (Th.). Acta medica, 167172, p. 282.
Bentley’s Miscellany, November, 1857.
Bergens Tidende, July 4, 1873.
Berlin. Deutsche geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, 1, 1849, pp. 232-244; v1, 1854,
pp. 291-299; xxv, Heft 2, pp. 203-216.
Berlin. GesellschaftfiirErdkunde. Monatsberichte. Neue Folge, rv, 1847, pp. 280-285.
Berlin. Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde. Zeitschrift. Neue Folge, 1, 1856, pp. 457-459.
Berliner Gesellschaft naturforschender Freunde. Beschiaftigungen, H, p. 536.
Berlingske Tidende, Aug. 4, 1873.
Bertuch. Neue allgem. geogr. Ephemeris, x, 1819, pp. 361-362; x1, 1822, pp. 407-426;
XII, 1823, pp. 341-342; x11, 1894, pp. 452-457; xXvir, 1828, p. 198.
Beschiftigungen der Berliner Gesellschaft naturf. Freunde, 1, p. 536.
Bibliothek der neuesten Reisebeschreibungen (Schneider), 1, Bertuch, 1 Bd., 2 Hilfte
der 1. Centurie.
Brighton (England) Natural History Society, 28th Annual Report, pp. 78-91.
British Association for the Advancement of Sciences, Report 1855, pp. 75-78.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 537

Brugnatelli Giornale, 111, 1820, pp. 191-194.
Budstikken (Minneapolis, U. 8. A.), 1877, Nos. 26 and 28.
Bulletin de la Soc. de Géographie, Paris, 11, Voyages, p. 33; I. sér., iv, pp. 78, 179;
I. sér., xiii, p. 306; 11. sér., 11, No. 9, pp. 188-194; m1. sér., x, pp. 185-216; v.
sér., vi, pp. 185-191.

Biisching. Nachrichten, Berlin, 0, 1774, pp. 188-191; xu, 1784, p. 303; xv, 1788,
pp. 4, 275.

Chambers’ Magazine, vol. Iv.

Colburn’s New Monthly Mag., March, 1858.

Conversations- und Reisebibliothek. (Leipzig, Lorck), v1. Bd., 1855.

Copenhagen. Naturhistor. Selskab. Skrifter, 1792.

Copenhagen. Vidensk. Selskab. Oversigt over Forhandlinger, 1845, No. 7.

Copenhagen. Vidensk. Selskab., Skrifter, 1805, Iv, 1, pp. 233-246.

Cornhill Magazine. London, 1847, vol. x1x, pp. 553-570.

Dagbladet (Kopenhagen), 7 Decbr., 1884.

Dagen, March 25, 1822; April 18, 1823.

Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft, Berlin. Zeitschrift. 1, 1849, pp. 232-244; vi. 1854,
pp. 291-299; xxvii, Heft 2, pp. 203-216.

Die Natur. 1883, rx, No. 120.

Die wichtigsten Land- und Seereisen. (Leipzig, Fleischer), 1821.

Edinburgh Cabinet Library. vol. 28.

Edinburgh New Philosophical Magazine. 1848, April-October; 1861, January, pp.
6-55.

Edinburgh Philosophical Journal. 1820, 11, January-April, pp. 156-167.

Edinburgh Review. 1876, No. 291, pp. 222-250.

Edinburgh Royal Society Proceedings. vol. vin, p. 514.

Edinburgh, Royal Society, Transactions, 11, 1794, pp. 127-137, 138-153.

Erdmann’s Journal der Praktischen Chemie, xxx, 1843, pp. 385-400.

Fiskeritidende for 1884, pp. 52, 53.

Forhandlinger, Copenhagen Videnskab. Selsk., 1845, No. 7.

Forhandlinger, Kristiania Vidensk. Selsk., 1877, No. 10, pp. 1-12.

Fortschritte der Geographie und Naturgeschichte (Weimar), 1847, 11, pp. 122-123, 241-
253. |

Froriep Notizen, rv, 1847, coll. 225-230.

Gaea, XI (1875), pp. 377-380, 501-505; x1x (1883), pp. 464—470.

Geografisk Tidskrift (Copenhagen), 1877, pp. 50-66; 1878, pp. 116-120; 1879, pp. 67-
80, 126-127; 1820, pp. 61-63; 1881, p. 156; 1882, pp. 24-28, 71-83, 103-111, 135-139;
1883, pp. 25, 95-112, 129-140; 1884, pp. 25, 87-95.

Geographische Mittheilungen (Petermann), 1857, p. 8; 1861, p. 447; 1862, pp. 227,
228; 1866, p. 470; 1870, p. 389; 1871, p. 77; 1876, pp. 272; 1884, pp. 111, 422-426.

Geographische Mittheilungen (Petermann), Ergiinzungsblatt, v1, No. 26, pp. 5, 89;
xv, No. 69, p. 87.

Geographische Monatsberichte (Petermann), 1877, p. 316; 1878. p.79; 1879, p. 436.

Geographische Gesellschaft, Wien. Mittheilungen, xvi, 1873, pp. 213-223, 234-235,
, 263-267.

Geological Association (London) Proceedings, vol. 1v, No. 4, pp. 214-220.

Geological Magazine (London), 1880, vol. vu, pp. 458-467.

Geological Record (London), 1875, pp. 81, 121, 122,169; 1876, p. 75; 1877, pp. 75, 76,
175, 361.

Geologische Reichsanstalt, Wien, Jabrbuch, v, 1854, p.190; x, Anhang 12.

Germaniz, 1879.

Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde (Berlin). Monatsberichte. Neue Folge, rv, 1847, pp. 280-
235.

Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde (Berlin). Zeitschrift. Neue Folge, 1, 1856, pp. 457-459,

Glasgow Philos. Soc. Proceedings, Iv, 1859, pp. 259-262; v, 1860~61, pp. 10-16;
xu, 1868, No. 2, pp. 137-138; xx, 1875, pp. 21-32.
538 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Gilbert’s Annalen, vol. X11. ;

Globus (Braunschweig), xv, pp. 97-104; xvi, pp. 370-385; xx, pp. 129-134; xx1, p.
321; xxvul, pp. 16,175; xLvu, pp. 185-188.

G6ttinger Studien. Abth. 1, 1847, p. 323.

Handlingar, Kong. Svenska Vetensk. Akademien, vi1, 1 Helfte, No. 1, 1867, pp. 1-50.

Harper’s Monthly Magazine, xv, pp. 754, 755; xxvi, pp. 145-162, 289-311, 448-467 ;.
XXXVI, pp. 466, 469.

Hormayr’s Archiv, 1815, No. 46.

Illustrated Travels (ed. by Bates), xx, pp. 252-256; xxi, pp. 264-270; xxu, pp. 302-
306.

Isafold, v, pp. 30-31.

Islendéngr i, pp. 38-39, 45-47, 61-62, 67, 157; 111, pp. 56-57, 64, 190.

Islenzka Bokmentafélags Skyrslur og Reikningar, 1874, pp. 18-22; 1875, pp. 19-24;
1876, pp. 17-22; 1877, pp. 22-28; 1878, pp. 23-28; 1879, pp. 22-31; 1880, pp. 30-
35; 1881, pp. 21-26; 1882, pp. 21-29, 1883, pp. 21-31.

Islenzka Lerdoms lista felags, Ritbesz., 11, pp. 139,231; m1, p. 28; Iv, p.1; Vv, pp.1,
66; vi, pp.20,97; vu, pp. 1,194; vi, pp. 26,193; rx, p. 144: x, p. 61; x1, pp.
107,193; xu, pp. 1,132; xm, pp. 1,85, 229; xiv, p. 227.

Jameson’s Philosophical Journal, vol. xxu1, pp. 99-220.

Jahrbuch der geologischen Reichsanstait, Wien, v, 1354, p. 190, x, Anhang 12.

Journal de l’Oise (France), Octob. 24, 1846.

Journal des Voyages, V1, 1820, pp. 14-20; xxxvim1, 1828, pp. 174-199.

Journal fiir die neuesten Land-und Seereisen, xx, 1815, p. 310; xxi, pp. 164,197; Lx,
1829, pp. 69-76; Lxxx11I, 1836, p. 89.

Journal, London Society of Arts, vol. xx1v, No. 1210, pp. 169-175.

Karsten’s Archives, vil, 1834, pp. 421-525; 1x, p. 247.

Kiel’sches Magazin fiir die Geschichte, &c. (Vict. Heinze), I, p. 783.

Kjobenhavsposten, 1846, Nos. 111-116.

K. D. Videnskab. Selsk. (Copenhagen), Skrifter, Deel. 4, 1805, p. 233.

Klaustrpostrinn, 1818, p.64; 1822, pp. 2-5, 32, 133-136, 152, 168, 202 ; 1823, pp. 30-31, 84,
111, 12S-130, 144-146.

Kristiania (Norway) Morgenbladet, April, 1875.

Kristiania (Norway) Vidensk. Selskab. Forhandlinger, 1877, No. 10, pp. 1-12.

K. 8. Vetenskaps Akademien (Stockholm), Handlingar vu, 1 Hialfte, No. 1, 1876, pp.
1-50.

K.S. Vetenskaps Akademien (Stockholm), Ofversigt. Forhandl., x1v, 1857, pp. 325-332.

L’Explorateur (Paris), 0, 1875, pp. 245-247, 631.

Liebig’s Annalen, LX1, 1847, pp. 265-279 ; Lx11, 1847, pp. 1-57 ; Lxv, 1848, pp. 70-85; Lxx,
1849, pp. 290-294.

L’Institut, Paris, 1, Sect. sci. math., phys. et nat., 1867, No. 1768-1773, xxxv, pp. 376.

Literaturblatt fiir germ. u. romanische Philologie, Iv, I, pp. 1-5 (1883).

Living Age. No. 885.

London, Edinburgh, and Glasgow Philosoph. Mag., xxx, pp. 391-409.

London Geolog. Assoc. Proceedings, vol. rv, No. 4, pp. 214-220.

London Royal Geographical Society, Proceedings, v, No. 2, 1861, pp. 80-90, 725-728 ;
x11, No. 1, 1868, p. 58.

London Society of Arts, Journal, vol. xxtv, No. 1210, pp. 169-175.

Lotos (Prag), xxv, 1875, pp. 95-96.

Magazin der merkw. neuen Reisebeschreibungen (Foerster), XxxIv und Xxxv.

Meddelelser paa den Naturhistoriske Forening i Kristiania, 1885, pp. 67-74.

Mémoires de l Académie des Inscriptions, xxx v1, p. 436.

Minerva, 1814, 1, p. 358; m1, pp. 40, 245, 400.

Mittheilungen der Wiener Geographischen Gesellschaft, xvi, 1873, pp. 213-223, 234—
235, 263-267.

Monatsberichte der Berliner Geselischaft fiir Erdkunde. Neue Folge, Iv, 1847, pp. 280~

285.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 539

Morgenbladet (Kristiania), April, 1875.

Naaukeurige Versameling der reysen na Oosten (Leeuwarden), Bd. Lvu, 1716.

Nature (London), Iv, 1871, p. 202; vu, 1873, pp. 245, 470; x, 1874, pp. 34, 271, 279; xU,
1875, pp. 75, 76, 194, 446, 453, 510; XVI, 1877, pp. 105-106 ; xx, 1879, Oct.2; 1884, pp.
37-38, Nov. 13.

Naturen, 1877, pp. 145-152, 152-153; 1881, pp. 47, 112.

Naturfor. Gesellschaft, Ziirich, Vierteljahrschrift, xv1, 3 Heft, 1871, pp. 262-263.

Naturhist. Forening (etdinia), Medelelser, 1885, pp. 67-74.

Naturhist. Selskab (Copenhagen), Skrifter, 11, Hefte 1, p. 222; Hefte 2, p. 122; 111, Hefte
1, p. 157.

Naturhistorisk Tidskrift, Copenhagen, 111, 1840-41, pp. 329-330.

Neue allg. geogr. Ephemeriden (Bertuch), v, 1819, pp. 361-362; x1, 1822, pp. 407-426;
XII, 1823, pp. 341-342 ; xu, 1824, pp. 452-457; xvu1, p. 198.

Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, 1846, pp. 586-595 ; 1870, p.529; 1875, p. 399.

New Philosophical Journal, Edinburgh, 1848, April-October; 1861, January, pp. 6-55.

Nordhanfari, V1, pp. 69, 74; XI, p.52; x, p.11; xIv, pp- 12, 26, 33, 44, 58, 59, 81, 82, 106-
108,111; xv, pp. 23, 67-68.

Nordisk Revy, 11, 1884, No. 14, pp. 441-444 ; No. 15, pp. 470-473, 473-475.

Nordisk Tidskrift for Vetenskap och Konst (Kristiania), 1881, pp. 360-371.

Nordhri, 111, p. 31.

Nordisk Tidskrift for Vetens!:ap, Konst, och Industrie, utgifven af Lettersfedska
Foreningen, 1883.

Norske Turisten Forening Aarbog, 1882, pp. 19-79; (Kristiania), 1884, pp. 27-56.

Nouvelles Annales des Voyages (Paris), 1825, pp. 81-102; 1836, pp. 370-371; 1837, pp.
239-347; 1860 (July), pp. 120-121; 1862 (August), pp. 246-247; (September),361-365.

Ny Félagsrit, v1, 185-202, 202-210; vu, 234-241 ; vu, 185-186.

Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne (Kristiania), viii, 1855, pp. 72-116; xx1,1 Heft,
pp. 147-166.

Nyt Tidskrift (Kristiania), 1882, Bd. 1, p. 58-67, 158-173, 348-360 ; 1883, Bd. 11, pp. 44-58,
257-267.

Ofversigt af S. K. Vetensk. Akad. (Stockholm), Forhandl., x1v, 1857, pp. 325-332.

Oken Isis, 1820, 513-516.

Oversigt over Copenhagen Videnskab. Selskab Forhandlinger, 1845, No.7

Paris, Société de Géologie, Bulletins, rv, 1846-47, pp. 542-550; v, 1847-48, pp. 157-163.

Paris, Société de Géographie, Bulletins, 11, Voyages, p. 33; Iv, 1846-47 pp. 542-550;
v, 1847-48, pp. 157-163; 1. Sér., Iv, pp. 78, 179; 1.Sér., xu, p.306; m1. Sér., 1,
No. 9, pp. 188-194 ; 111. Sér., x, pp. 185-216; v. Sér., v1, pp. 185-191.

Petermann’s Geographische Mittheilungen, 1857, p.8; 1861, p. 447; 1862, pp. 227-228;
1866, p. 470; 1870, p. 389; 1871, p.77; 1876, p. 272; 1884, pp. 111, 422-426.
Ergiinzungsblatt, v1, No. 26, p.5, 89; xv, No. 69, p. 87.

Petermann’s Geographische Monatsberichte, 1877, p.316; 1878, p.79; 1879, p. 436.

Perthshire Advertiser, or Strathmore Journal, August 26, 1860.

Pfennig-Magazin, Leipzig, 1, 1834, p. 233; vil, 1839, pp. 28, 133.

Philosoph. Journal, Esau Wu, J auaayaiert 1820, pp. nee tor:

Philosoph. Magazine, vol. 11, pp. 108, 109.

Philosoph. Society of Glasgow, Proceedings, Iv, 1859, pp. 259-262; v, 1860-61, pp.
10-16; x11, 1868, No. 2, pp. 137-138; xx, 1875, pp. 21-32.

Philosophical Transactions, 1670; 1674, pp. 11, 187,238; 1794, pp. 11, 95.

Poggendorff’s Annalen, LXxttI, 1847, pp. 159-170; Lxxrx, 1850, pp. 310-353; 562-567,
LXXXIlI, 1851, pp. 197-272.

Popular Science Monthly, u, p. 95; vu, p. 630; xvu, p. 710.

Proceedings, London Geological Association, Vol. rv, No. 4, pp. 214-220.

Proceedings, Philosophical Society of Glasgow, Iv, 1859, pp. 259-262; v, 1860-61, pp.
10-16; x11, 1868, No. 2, pp. 137-1388; xx, 1875, pp. 21-32.

Bepeeeding’, Royal Geographical peaisty of isons 1861, pp. 80-90; 1868, p. 585 1883,
pp. 725-728.
540 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Proceedings, Royal Institute of Great Britain, June 3, 1853, pp. 329-335.
Proceedings, Royal Society of Edingburgh, Vol. vit, p. 514.
Quarterly Review (London), October, 1357.
Reise und Liinderbeschreibungen (Wiedemann), Lief. 8.
Revue Maritime, May, 1884, Lxxx1, No. 272, pp. 387-400.
Revue Scientifique, 14 Oct., 1882, pp. 485-496.
Rigsdagstidenden. Tilleg B, Sp. 899-926, Kmhéfn, 1877.
Ritbesz. Islonzka Lerdoms-lista félags, I, p.1; 0, p. 139; Iv, p. 1; V, p.66; VI, pp.
20, 97; vu, pp. 1, 194; vim, pp. 26, 193; 1x, p. 144; XI, pp. 107, 193; XII, pp. |
1, 132; xur, pp. 85,\229; xiv, p. 227.

Roma, Bolletino, Anno X, ser. li, x11, 1876, pp. 312-321.

Royal Geographical Society (London), Proceedings, 1861, pp. 80-90; 1868, p. 58;
1883, pp. 725-728.

Royal Institution of Great Britain, Proceedings, June 3, 1853, pp. 329-335.

Royal Society of Edinburg, Proceedings, vol. vu, p. 514; Transactions, U1, 1794, pp.
127-137, 138-153.

Science for all (R. Brown), i series. ,

Sitzungsberichte der math. naturw. Cl. der Akademie d. Wiss., Wien, XII, pp. 485-
492; xu, 1. Abth., pp. 243-244, 250-251, 252-254, 259-260, 267-268; xLvII, 1.
Abth., pp. 237-238, 257-259.

Skadinav. Naturf. Férhandlinger, 11, 1842, pp. 501-504.

Skyrslur og Reikningar hins Islenzka Békmentafélags, 1874, pp. 18-22; 1875, pp. 19-
24; 1876, pp. 17-22; 1877, pp. 22-28; 1878, pp. 23-28; 1879, pp. 22-31; 1880,
pp. 30-35; 1881, pp. 21-26; 1882, pp. 21-29; 1883, pp. 21-31.

Skrifter, Copenhagen Naturhistoriske Selskab, 11, Hefte 1, p. 222; Heft 2, p. 122; m1,
Hefte 1, p. 157.

Skrifter, K. D. Videnskab. Selskab (Copenhagen), 1805, pp. 233-246 (Deel 4).

Société de Géographie, Paris, Bulletins, u1, Voyages, p. 33; 1. Sér., xm, p. 306; 1. Sér.,
IV, pp. 78, 179; 1. Sér., 11, No. 9, pp. 188-194; m1. Sér., x, pp. 185-216; v. Sér.,
VI, pp. 185-191.

Société de Géologie, Paris, Bulletin, rv, 1846-47, pp. 542-550; v, 1847~48, pp. 157-163.

Society of Arts, London, Journal, vol. xxiv, No. 1210, pp. 169-175.

Statstidenden, 29, March, 1822.

Thj6dhélfr, x1, pp. 99-100; xvi, p. 57; XXIII, pp. 162-163, 187; xIx, pp. 1-2,9; xxv,
pp. 45-46, 53, 61-62; xxvu, pp. 112-113.

Tidskrift udgivet af den Letterstidske Forening, 1883.

Tilleg til Rigsdagstidenden. Kopenhagen, 1876-1877.

Transactions, Royal Society of Edinburg, 11, 1794, pp. 127-187, 138-153.

Verhandlungen der Geologischen Reichs-Anstalt, Wien, v, 1870, p. 287.

Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen, Skrifter, 1805, Iv, I, pp. 233-246 ; Oversigt over
Forhandlinger, 1845, No.7.

Videnskabs Selskab i Kristiania, Forhandlinger, 1877, No. 10, pp. 1-12.

Vierteljahrschrift d.naturforsch. Gesellschaft, Ziirich, xv1,3. Heft, 1871, pp. 262-263.

Westermann’s Illustrirte Monatshefte, v1, 1859, pp. 502-509.

Westermann’s Jahrbuch, rx, 1861, pp. 219-222.

Wien, Akademie d. Wissensch. (Math. Naturw. Classe), Sitzungsber., XII, pp. 485-
492; x~u, 1. Abth., pp. 243-244, 252-254, 267-268, 250-251, 259-260; xiv, 1.
Abth., pp. 237-238, 257-259.

Wien, Geographische Gesellschaft, Mittheilungen, XvI, 1873, pp. 212-228, 263-267.

Wien, Geologische Reichsanstalt, Jahrbuch, v, 1854, p. 190; x, Anhang 12.

Wohler und Liebig, Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie, 1847, pp. 1-59; 1848, pp.
13-28, 70-85 (see also Liebig’s Annalen).

Woodward’s Geological-Magazine, 1876, pp. 292-297.

Zeitschrift, Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft (Berlin), 1, 1849, pp. 232-244 ; v1, 1854,
pp. 291-299; xxvii, Heft 2, pp. 203-209.

Zeitschrift fiir allgemeine Erdkunde, Mai 1861, pp. 321-345.

VULCANISM, ETC., IN ICELAND. 541

Zeitschrift der Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde. Berlin. Neue Folge, 1, 1856, pp. 457-459.
Ziirich, Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Vierteljahrsschrift, xv1, 3. Heft, 1871, pp.

262-263.
4. MAPS AND CHARTS.

Carte Réduite des cétes d’Islande publiée au Dépét général de la marine @’apras les
cartes rédigées par le Contre Amiral de Loweneern, directeur du Dépé6t Royal des
cartes marines de Danemark. 1: 300,000, 6 feuilles, 1822, 1833.

Cnopr. Insulx Islandiw delineatio, prout hec solenni mensurandi negatio sub aus-
piciis potentissimi Regis Daniz facto etc, a.1734 demum. Militarem ad finem
deducto debetur, divise in quatuor partes, Islandice Fidrdung, quarum quevis
in suas minores regiunculas, Islandica Sislu, Danice Syssel dictas subdividitur 1:
1,200,000. Norimberge, Homan Heredes, 1761.

GUNNLAUGSSON (BJORN). UppdrdattrIslands, gjérdr ad fyrirségn Olafs Nikolas Olsens,
er stydjast vid prihyrningamdl og strandamilingar pir, sem hid kontngliga

Rentukammer hefir latid gjéra og reiknad hfir Hans Jak. Scheel; gefinn Gt af enn

Islenzka békmentafélagi. 1: 480,000. Kpfrst. u. color. 4 B). u. 1 Bl. Text.
Reykjavik og Kaupmannahdéfn, 1844. Leipzig, T. O. Weigel, spiitere Ausgabe,
1849. Imp. fol.

Uppdrattr Islands (carte d’Islande) gjérdr ad fyrirségn Olafs Nikolas Olsens
(exécutée sous la direction de M. O. N. Olsen) Gefinn at af enu Islenzka b6ékmen-
tafélagi. (Publiée par la Société littéraire d’Islande.) 1:960,000. Kfrst. u.
color. Reykjavik og Kaupmannahéfn, 1844. Leipzig, T. O. Weigel, spiitere
Ausgabe, 1849. Imp. fol.

Iceland. Map of the Geyser. Scale 25.344 inches=1 mile. Surveyed and drawn
by J. C. Ardagh. 17 Aug., 1867.

Iceland Island. Danish survey, 1845; corrections to 1869.

Island. Kaart over Pollen i Skuttils fjord, 1865. 1: 10,000.

Island, med omgivende Dybder, 1871. Eng. Zoll=20 Geogr. Meilen.

Island und die Far-Oer-Inseln. Kpfrst. u. color. Weimar, L. J. Compt., 1820 Roy.
fol.

Islande, céte nord-ouest. Croqnis du mouillage d’Hogdal, dans le Dyre Fjord, West
et de sediéres, Nr. 1897. Paris, Dép6t de la marine, 1862.

Islande, cdte occidentale. Plan de la partie de la céte sud du Brede Bust. Véron,
de l’Aulnois, Pillet, Maisse et de Libran. Nr. 1881. Paris, Dépé6t de la marine,
1862.

Islande. Plan de Sukutuls Fjord et du Port de Pollen. Croquis du mouillage de Bil-
dal dans Arnar Fjord. Paris, Dépdt de la marine, 1868.

Islande, Spitzbergen, Isle de J. Mayen. Amsterdam, J. v. Keulen, 1689, color.

Islandia Tabula, Fernando Bertelé exc., 1566.

Kaart over Island. Efter C. N. Olsens og B. Gunnlaugssons, Uppdrattr Islands
(1849), Kopenhagen, Forlagsbureauet, 1866.

Korter over den islandske Kyst, udgivne af Samme, 1788, 1822.

MACKENZIE (G.J.). Siidwestkiiste Islands, nach den besten Angaben u. Beobachtun-
gen, nach Mercator’s Projection entworfen. Kfrst.u.color. Weimar, L. J.
Compt., 1814, gr. fol.

Nyt Carte over Island forfattet ved Professor Erichsen og Professor Schéning, 1771.

Nyt Carte over island, von Erichsen und Olavius. 1780. 1: 1,200,000.

PETERMANN. Eine neue Karte der Diinischen Monarchie. 3. Island. 1: 6,000,000.
Petermann’s Geogr, Mitth., viii, 1862, p. 227.

REINECKE (J. CHR. MATTH.). Doppelkarte von Island. Kpfrt. Weimar, L. J. Compt.,
1801, gr. 4to.

Island, nach Murdochischer Projection und den besten astronom. Ortsbe-
stimmungen von Verdun de la Crenne, Pingré u. Bordy. Kupf.u. color. Weimar,
1800, Landes Industrie Comptoir, 1804. Imp. fol.

Voxende Kaart over Island og Fewréerne 1826. Rettet til 1859.

GEOGRAPHY.
%
By J. Kina GoopRIOoH.

GENERAL NOTES.

The attention of the geographical world has been drawn away from
the poles and centered upon the equatorial regions during the short
period which has elapsed since the last report of the progress in geog-
raphy was written. As a summary of the work done, the address of
the Marquis of Lorne, president of the Royal Geographical Society of
Great Britain, at the opening of the session of 1885~86, may be very
properly alluded to at this point and commended as a careful and satis-
factory epitome of what is of most interest.

While lacking much of the harrowing element that was so distress-
ingly conspicuous in the records of the “ Jeannette” and Greely Arctic
expeditions, and which appealed so strongly to our sympathy, the cur-
rent record is by no means wanting in evidences of danger and disaster.

The Aberdeen meeting of the Geography Section of the British Asso-
ciation commenced on the 9th of September. The leading feature of
this year’s meeting was the prominence given to Indian subjects. Out
of a total of thirty-four papers read, as many as eleven referred to the
geography of India and the regions immediately adjoining it. Geo-
graphical education attracted much attention, and the report of Mr.
Keltie upon this subject elicited prolonged discussion. Theimportance
of this branch of education is becoming more marked every day; com-
munications on the subject have frequently appeared in the leading
journals, which devote columns specially to geography. In order to
test the condition of education in Denmark, the Government decided at
the beginning of the year to havea test examination among the recruits
of the army and navy, on the Belgian principle. The result of this ex-
amination appears to have been very discreditable to education in Den-
mark, and particularly to that in geography. One of the examiners,
the Rev. J. L. Bang, of Langaa, has given some particulars of the re-
sults, from which we quote: “The regiment selected was the Life Guards,
the crack regiment of the Danish army, the recruits (282 in number)
being drawn from every part of the country. Questions such as how
many ells (the Danish measure) go to a mile, and the size of an acre of

543
544 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

land, were answered by a very few only. But as regards geography the
answers were far worse. In answer to the question, ‘What is the cap-
ital of Sweden?’ Paris, Trondhjem, St. Petersburg, Amsterdam, Lon-
don, Madrid, Copenhagen, and even Constantinople were given.” It is
by no means certain that a similar examination in this country would
develop results very much more satisfactory.

Dr. Richard Lehmann, professor of geography in Munster University,
has issued the first partof a work, which will extend to about 400 pages,
on apparatus and methods m geographical teaching. Dr. Lehmann has
given much attention to the subject of geographical education, and has
himself, as teacher and Privatdocent in Halle, had great experience in
teaching the subject, so that his work when completed is sure to prove
of real service.

An exhibition of maps, atlases, reliefs, globes, and other apparatus
used in geographical education, collected from the principal establish-
ments and institutions in England and on the continent of Europe, was
opened in London on the 9th of December, 1885, by the president of the
Royal Geographical Society, the Marquis of Lorne, and will continue
to the 31st of January, 1886. The programme includes lectures and
discussions, and the attendance and interest confirm the judgment of the
promoters of the scheme.

The geographical subject proposed this year by the French Academy
of Inscriptions for the Prix Bordin is ‘A critical examination of the
geography of Strabo.” According tothe terms laid down by the Acad-
emy, competitors are (1) to give the history of the text of the work; (2)
to characterize the language of Strabo with reference to that of con-
temporary Greek writers, such as Diodorus Siculus, and Dionysius of
Halicarnassus; (3) to distinguish the information collected by direct ob-
servation of places and that drawn by him from his predecessors ; (4)
to express definite conclusions on his critical method in using various
documents. The papers should be in the hands of the secretary of
the institute not later than December 31, 1886.

It was stated in the early part of the year that the King of the Bel-
gians was conferring with M. Martinie, president of the French Geo-
graphical Society, on the subject of the formation of an International
Geographical Society. Though nothing definite seems to have come of
this conference, it is to be hoped that such a society will be formed.
One of the best arguments in its favor is that through its instrumen-
tality combined action could be had on the system of orthography for
native names of places. Taking into consideration the present want of
such a system, and the consequent confusion and variety that exist in
the mode of spelling in English maps, the council of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society has adopted the following rules for such geographical
names as are not (in the countries to which they belong) written in the
Roman character. The rules are identical with those adopted for the

GEOGRAPHY. 5A5

Admiralty charts, and will henceforth be used in all publications of the
society.

1. No change will be made in the orthography of foreign names in
countries which use Roman letters: thus Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch,
&e., names will be spelt as by the respective nations.

2. Neither will any change be made in the spelling of such names in
languages which are not written in Roman character as have become
by long usage familiar to English readers; thus Calcutta, Cutch, Cele-
bes, Mecca, &e., will be retained in their present form.

3. The true sound of the word as locally pronounced will be taken as
the basis of the spelling.

4, An approximation, however, to the sound is alone aimed at. A
system which would attempt to represent the more delicate inflections
of sound and accent would be so complicated as only to defeat itself.
Those who desire a more accurate pronunciation of the written name
must learn it on the spot by a study of local accent and peculiarities.

5. The broad features of the system are that vowels are pronounced
as in Italian, and consonants as in English.

6. One accent only is used, the acute, to denote the syllable on which
stress is laid. This is very important, as the sounds of many names are
entirely altered by the misplacement of this stress.

7. Every letter is pronounced. When two vowels come together each
one is sounded, though the result when spoken quickly is sometimes
searcely to be distinguished from a single sound, as in ai, au, ei.

8. [Kast] Indian names are accepted as spelt in Hunter’s Gazetteer.

On the 11th of September occurred the centenary of the foundation
of the well-known geographical establishment of Justus Perthes, of Gotha.
The committee of the Geography Section of the British Association,
which was in session at Aberdeen at the time, sent a telegram of hearty
congratulation and good wishes for the future to the head of the estab-
lishment. All the professors of geography at the German universities
united in presenting to the firm a beautifully illuminated address, ex-
pressing their sense of the services rendered to geography by the firm
during its long career. A handsome quarto volume has also been issued
from Gotha for private circulation, giving a very interesting sketch of the
progress of the establishment under its various heads, brief biographies of
the famous cartographers connected with it, and notes on the various
great works in geography which it has produced. The work contains nu-
merous portraits both of the partners and cartographers of the past. The
founder of the firm was Johann Georg Justus Perthes, who was born at
Rudolstadt, September 11, 1749, his father being physician to the Prince
of Rudolstadt. When the firm was first established in Gotha in 1785,
its publications were of a general character. In 1809 the great Hand-
Atlas iiber alle bekannte Liinder des Erdbodens, by Professor Heusin-
ger, of Dresden, was published, with twenty-four maps in copper plate.
Under the second chief of the firm, Wilhelm Perthes, 1816~53, the

H. Mis, 15——35
5AG SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR ~=1885.

Gotha establishment rapidly assumed the special geographical and ecar-
tographical character it has ever since possessed. Under him the first
part of the celebrated hand atlas of Adolf Stieler was published in 1817,
which since then has continued to be issued in an unbroken series of
editions. To Wilhelm succeeded in 1853 Bernhard Perthes, who, how-
ever, was cut off in 1857, leaving a posthumous son, the present head
of the Gotha establishment. The successive chiefs gathered round them
in successive years all the best geographical talent in Germany, includ-
ing such names as those of Stieler, Berghaus, Sydow, Spruner, Bret.
schneider, Petermann, Behm, Wagner, Supan, Hassenstein. Through
the Geographische Mittheilungen established by Petermann, the Go-
tha establishment has gradually become the receptacle for geographical
information from all parts of the earth, information which is being con-
stantly put on record and given to the world in the form of those ac-
curate and beautiful maps with which all geographers are familiar. It
is to be hoped that long continued prosperity is in store for a house
which has done such admirable service in the past to geographical sci-
ence.

The recent colonial acquisitions by the various European nations has
called forth a number of excellent papers on the subject. Among the
best is that of Colonel Sir Charles H. Nugent, K. C. B., which was
published in a recent issue of the Journal of the Royal United Service
Institution. According to the latest statistics, England has 65 square
miles of colony to the square mile of her own area; Holland, 54;
Portugal, 20; Denmark, 6°30; France, 1:90; and Spain, 0°86 square
miles. The area of the British colonies is nearly 8,000,000 square miles,
rather less than the area of the Russian Empire, including Siberia and
Central Asia; but if the area of the native feudatory states in India
be added, amounting to 509,284 square miles, over which England exer-
cises as great control as Russia does over much of the territory under
its sway, together with that’ of the United Kingdom itself, 120,757
Square miles, then the area of the British Empire exceeds that of the
Russian Empire; and it covers within a fraction of one-sixth of the
whole land area of the globe. The recently absorbed territory of the
ex-King Thebaw is not included in this epitome.

Two new prizes have been added to those which the Geographical
Society of Paris is now in a position to award. One is that of M. J. B.
Morot, who bequeathed a sum of 2,000 francs, the interest of which is to
be given annually to the French navigator or traveller who should in
the course of the year have approached nearest to the North Pole; and
the other that of M. Felix Fournier, who left 50,000 frances to found an
annual prize “ with the object of rewarding the best geographical work,
either maps or books, published during the year.” While the former
will hardly be considered a special incentive to braving the hardships
of Arctic travel, the latter will undoubtedly stimulate to extra effort.

The war ministers of France, Germany, and Italy have recently been

GEOGRAPHY. 5AT

attentively examining geographical maps in relief, constructed on a
system of which M. de Mendouca, a Portuguese councilor of state, presi-
dent of the Banco Lusitano, possesses the patent and is the promulgator.
These relief maps are stated to combine the advantages generally ad-
mitted to be possessed by relief maps and the convenience and accuracy
of maps on flat surfaces. This new method rapidly produces by a chem-
: ical and mechanical process plane maps with the curves and. altitudes
in relief, so represented as to correspond absolutely with the elevations
established by accurate observations. These maps are drawn on com-
paratively thin paper; can be rolled. up and placed in the narrowest
case, so that they are very light and portable, and are not injured by
water.

The editor of Science, under date of December 4, 1885, called attention
to a curious instance of persistency of error in map-making. Many
years ago an army expedition traversed the White River region of Colo-
rado, going from-Hort Bridger, Wyoming, to old Fort Massachusetts,
Colorado. In this neighborhood are “bad lands,” eroded into curious
forms, which naturally suggest a ruined city; the commander of the
expedition gave the locality the name of Goblin City, which name ap-
peared on hismap. The map-makers, in their haste to fill up the blanks
in this unsettled region, jumped to the conclusion that this was a veri-
table settlement, and gave it a place on their maps—a place which it
has ever since retained. Not only have the commercial map-makers,
almost without exception, fallen into this error, but such authorities as
the United States Engineer Office and General Land Office have adopted
it. The name has however been gradually changed from Goblin to
Goldin, and thence to Golden City; while more than one enterprising
map-maker—reasoning probably that a city cannot exist without means
of communicating with other settlements, has constructed on paper a
road down the White River to it. It is scarcely necessary to add that
there is not and never was a city in this neighborhood. Continuing his
very apposite comments on careless map-making, the same editor, in a
more recent issue, is inclined to think that if demand begets supply,
there must be a very limited demand for good maps in this country.
And any geographer who has had occasion to use trade maps of com-
paratively new regions must frequently have been sadly embarrassed
by the apparent carelessness in compiling them.

Heinrich Entz and August Mer have recently independently studied
the voyage of Hanno, the Carthaginian. Both agree that its termina-
tion was at the island of Fernando Po, in the Bight of Biafra, called by
Hanno the Isle of Gorillas. The colony of Thymaterion is identified by
them, as by most authors, with the town of Mazaghan, and the promon-
tory of Soloé with Cape Cantin. The river Lixus is regarded by Mer
as the Senegal, for weighty reasons, though Entz and others have
favored the Wadi Draa, much farther south Hanno’s island of Cerné
was probably Goree, and his Western Horn (or Bay) was the Bight of
5A8 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Benin. Much weight attaches to the opinion of M. Mer, whois a retired
naval officer of forty years’ experience, including three years of cruis-
ing between the equator and Gibraltar, on the west coast of Africa.

A catalogue of the printed maps, plans, and charts in the British
Museum has been prepared by Professor Douglas, and will be issued
in two large volumes.

AFRICA.

F. S. Arnot has sent to the Royal Geographical Society a sketch map
of his route from Shoshong to Bihé. He followed the Zambesi from
his point of crossing, a little above Victoria Falls, to Lialui, from which
he proceeded west-northwest to the great plateau on which Bihé is
situated.

The route from Benguela to the mission village of Bihé has been ap-
proximately surveyed by the Rev. William E. Fay. The sketch maps
cover an area 60 miles wide, extending over four degrees of longitude.
The first human habitations met with are at the eastern foot of the
coast range.

According to J. M. Cook, who has recently returned from Dongola,
it appears that the cataracts of the Nile are not correctly placed upon
the map. The so-called third cataract at Hannek is no cataract at all,
only avery small rapid. Between the second and so-called third cataract
four or five cataracts occur, and these explain the delay in the concen-
tration of the British troops at Dongola. From Sarras to Sakarmatta
(74 miles) the rise was 450 feet.

The map of Africa, on a scale of 27 geographical miles to the inch, in
course of publication by the French Dépot de la Guerre, will consist of
sixty sheets. Twenty-four of these have been published, 18 of West and
Central Africa, 6 of South Africa and Cape Colony. Sheet number 9
shows the Canaries and the sterile country called by Dr. Barth ‘ Tiris
el Ferar,” or the country of deep wells. Sheet No. 10 gives the western
half of the Sahara, and shows the routes of travellers, with many notes
on the inhabitants, nature of the country, and position of the oases and
wells; and Sheet No. 11 has a portion of the Ahaggar region, of which
little is really known, and the better-known Terab oasis.

M. Giraud has finally been compelled to desist from his attempted
explorations. His men deserted him, retaining the French flag and
Chassep6t rifles, and turned highwaymen on their way back to Zanzi-
bar, where they were cast into prison by the French consul.

The results of Dr. von Wilhelm Joest’s circumnavigation of Africa
are of ethnographic rather than geographic interest, since he scarcely left
the coast at all, and when he did penetrate into the interior it was in
such well-known places as the Orange Free State and Zululand. Still,
what he did was well done, and several advantageous map corrections -
can be made from his notes.

A work of interest to the philologist, geographer, and anthropologist
is that of Abbé Pierre Bouche on the Slave Coast and Dahomey.

GEOGRAPHY. 549

The African travellers Juncken and Casati have arrived at Lado, an
Egyptian military station on the Bahr-el-Jebel. They were exploring
the Nyam-Nyam district, between the tributaries of the Nile and the
Upper Congo, and as nothing had been heard of them for a long time,
it was feared the Mahdi had cut off their retreat.

Mr. Henry E. O’Neill has taken great pains to ascertain the longitude
of Blantyre, and his results have been accepted by the Royal Geographi-
eal Society. After careful computation, and making choice of such ob-
servations as from their nature were best calculated to eliminate pos-
sible errors of observation, the longitude of Blantyre has been fixed at
35° 3/ 34” east of Greenwich, thus differing 7/ 24” from the previously
accepted position, which was 34° 56/ 30” east. Blantyre is now reck-
oned as a secondary meridian. Mr. O’Neill on his journey from Quilli-
mane to Blantyre availed himself of the opportunity afforded by an en-
forced delay on the banks of the Zambesi to study the action of that river.
He is led to spectlate on the probable change in the physical and po-
litical geography of that part of Africa which will result from a continu-
ation of the wearing away of the banks of the Zambesi; for if a perma-
nent connection be established between the Zambesi and Quaqua, and a
large proportion of the volume of water now carried to the sea by the
Kongone River and other smaller branches to the southward enters the
Quillimane River, the effect will undoubtedly be to block the southerly
channels by the precipitation nearer shore of the earth particles carried
down by the river. And on the other hand the Quillimane River would
be deepened by the greater “ scouring” force of the larger volume of
water carried down by it. The connection mentioned is now made in-
termittently over the low flat country between the Zambesi and Qua-
qua at high water. Mr. O'Neill draws attention to the neglected port
of Nakala, in Fernao Veloso Bay, north of Mozambique. It has numer-
ous good anchorages, and offers magnificent conditions for the founding
of a colony. Nakala is a deep inlet forming a southern prolongation of
Fernao Veloso Bay.

M. Coillard, accompanied by M. Middleton, has accomplished his
journey up the valley of the Zambesi to visit Akufuna, the King of the
Ba-rotse, and has been received with great kindness. The authority of
the King is not very great; his minister Mataga appears to be master of
everything, but he has had several rebellions to put down.

In the July portion of Petermann’s Mittheilungen, Professor Ratzel
seeks to show how misleading it is to color the map of Africa with def-
inite political boundaries. His paper is accompanied by a double map
of Africa. In one part the continent is colored according to the pre-
vailing occupation, in the second according to the people who form

, “States.

For the purpose of gaining information for France as to what was
occurring in the vicinity of her Algerine possessions, M. Charles de
Foucauld accomplished a most remarkable journey of exploration in
550 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Morocco during 1883 and 1884. Having renounced his future prospects
in the military career, he disguised himself in the costume of a Jew, in
spite of the antipathy of the natives to persons of that religion. This
particular disguise enabled him to conceal his barometer and sextant
and make his observations under the long veil with which the Jew
covers himself during prayer. Deprived of all comforts, without
servants, without an animal upon which to ride, without tent or
bed, and almost without baggage, he travelled and worked during
eleven months among these people who had more than once before
unmasked similar attempts and inflicted upon the unfortunate in-
dividual the punishment which the crime appeared to them to de-
serve, viz, death. To the 7,600 miles of road marked out with
but few determinations of latitude and still fewer points of longi-
tude, which cartographers had at their disposal in 1883, M. de Fou-
cauid added 1,400 miles of new ground besides revising and perfecting
in the course of his journey the work of his predecessors. His travels
occupied from the 20th of June, 1883, to the 23d of May, 1884. He
traversed the great Atlas range at severai new points, of which he had
determined the altitude, besides having journeyed for i185 miles along
the base of the range, rectifying and simplifying by fresh information
the orography of the country. Thanks to him, we now know that from
31 miles on the north and 103 miles on the south this commanding
range is flanked by parallel lines of elevation, which, as far as our maps
were concerned, is quite a revelation. We learn from M. de Foucauld
that there is in the north a chain of mountains about 185 miles in length,
which bears the names of Djebel-Ait-Seri and Djebel-Beni-Uaghain. In
the south there is, first of all, the Little Atlas (the Anti-Atlas on the
map of Lenz), and still farther south the strange outline of the Djebel-
Bani range, the name of which we know from the Rabbi Mardochée,
and which Lenz crossed, but without identifying it. This journey, ex-
tending over five days to the south of Meknas, was accomplished by M.
de Foucauld in the midst of warlike peoples and marauding tribes.
In the month of December, 1883, the traveller touched the Uadi Dhrda’a
to the south of Tattas. “This river,” he says, “the bed of which is
nearly 24 miles in breadth, is absolutely dry, except during the melting
of the snow and the seasons of continuous rain.” Later on he again
saw the river farther to the northeast, in the district of Mezquita,
“where this same river, broad and with uninterrupted stream, flows
through plantations of date palms.” The itinerary of M. de Foucauld
places that part of the course of the Uédi Dhrda’a, as indicated on Dr.
Rohlf’s map, quite one degree farther west. This important correc-
tion should be utilized to revise the itinerary of the German traveller.
Finally, the accurate information obtained literally revolutionizes our
previous geographical and political knowledge of Morocco.

The death of King Mtesa is confirmed, but it is believed that his son

GEOGRAPHY. 551
1

will prove more friendly to civilization than the father. Miramba is also
dead.

Dr. A. Fischer’s brochure, Mehr Licht im dunkeln Weltteil, reviewed
in the November issue of the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical
Society, contains a large amount of statistical information, through
the midst of which much valuable geographical knowledge is inter-
woven.

Lieut. Victor Giraud, of the French navy, has given us (see Proceed-
ings Royal Geographical Society, September) a delineation of Lake Bang-
weolo, which differs widely from that first published by Dr. Livingston,
as a comparison of his sketch with the society’s map of Eastern Equa-
torial Africa will show. Weare indebted to the same officer for having
traced the Luapula from where it issues from the lake, as far as Moero
Mkata. Equally interesting is the information brought home by Herr
Reichard from the copper country of Katanga and the Kingdom of Msiri,
regions hitherto known to us only from the vague re ports of Portuguese
traders or natives. Lieutenant Giraud left Daro-es-Satam on the 19th
of December, 1882. Crossing in succession U-zaramo, Khutu, U-sagara,
U-hehe, U-bena, and the Livingston Mountains, by routes differing in
many places from those followed by his predecessors, he reached the north-
ern extremity of Lake Nyassa, and thence ascended to Kiwanda on the ~
‘“Stevenson road.” He then turned off toward the southwest and trav-
elling over a wide plain, entered U-emba, the country of B-emba, whose
chief is Kitim Kuru, by far the most powerful ruler whom the explorer
metwith. Onreaching Zapana, Lieutenant Giraud sent his caravan on to
Kazembe’s town, whilst proceeding himself to the shores of Lake Bang-
weolo. The lake, according to this explorer, consists of a sheet of open
water in the north, apparently nowhere more than 20 feet in depth, and
of a vastswamp. Kisi, the most elevated island, only rises to a height
of 80 feet. The Luapula leaves the lake at Kawende Point. The river
there is about 300 feet wide and 15 feet deep, its course being well de-
fined between walls of gigantic rushes. After about a fortnight spent
on the river and in forcing his way through a lagoon at the back of it,
Lieutenant Giraud’s progress was stopped by an “army” sent against
him by Mere-Mere, chief of Ba-ussi. He was compelled to surrender; but
after remaining a prisoner for some time he succeeded in escaping, made
his way through the country of the hostile Wa-Kisinga, and following
the Luapula for some distance, he at length rejoined his caravan in
Kazembe’s town. Eventually he reached Iende on the Taganyika.

’ Dr. Béhm and Herr Reichard left the Belgian station of Mpala, on
‘the Tanganyika, on the 1st of September, 18835. and on September 27
they reached the Luapula, where that river is 500 feet wide, but not
navigable, owing torapids. They crossed into the kingdom of a power-
ful chief, named Msiri, who subjected them to vexatious annoyances,
and prevented their progress until at last Dr. Béhm died on Mareh 27,
1884, after ten days’ suffering. Soon afterward Herr Reichard was per-
552 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

mitted to start for Katanga, which he reached on May 27, and visited
the two copper mines, which he found to be exceedingly rich. His at-
tempt to trace the Lufira to its source was frustrated by the hostile
attitude of the Wa-ramba, and he was compelled to turn back on June
2, when within a few days only of his goal. Owing to the hostile atti-
tude of Msiri, and the annoyance consequent thereon, the valuable col-
lections made by Dr. B6hm had to be abandoned. On November 6,
1884, the Luapula was crossed once more, and after another long march
through a hostile country the hospitable station of Mpala was reached
again on November 30, 1884. According to Herr Reichard the Lualaba
is the real head-stream of the Congo. Where he saw that river, a short
distance above the Upembe Lake, it is 1,000 to 1,500 feet wide, and the
natives assert that it can be navigated as far as Manymma. The Lua-
pula, on the other hand, has a width of only 500 feet, and forms numer-
ous rapids in its course through the Mitumba Mountains. The Lutfira,
where crossed, was only 150 to 200 feet wide. It forms two waterfalls,
one in the salt plain of Muacha, and another, Juo, at the head of the
gorge through the Viano Mountains. The Juo falls are 80 feet high,
the breadth of the river being 330 feet.

The two Portuguese explorers, Captain Capello and Commander Ivens,
who started last year upon an expedition across Africa, eventually
reached Cape Town after a most adventurous journey. They subse-
quently left for Mossamedes, and returned to Europe via the Congo.
They reached Lisbon on the 17th of September, where they were re-
ceived by the King, and welcomed by an enthusiastic demonstration of
their countrymen. They have traversed a region which no European
had ever set foot in. Leaving Mossamedes in March, 1884, with an es-
cort of one hundred and twenty men recruited along the coast between
that place and St. Paul de Loando, they reached Quillimane, upon the
eastern coast, to the south of Mozambique, in May, 1885, after having
discovered the watershed whence the rivers of Central Africa flow north
and east towards the sea. They travelled over 4,500 miles of territory,
3,000 miles of which were previously unexplored, and they are said to
have discovered the sources of the Lualaba, an affluent of the Congo
(which has been so frequently referred to in recent geographical discus-
sions), as well as those of the Luapula and Chambeze, the upper waters
of the Congo. They also visited the copper region of the Yaranganga
district, situated between the Lualaba and the Luapula Rivers. Messrs.
Capello and Ivens found the tse-tse fly very abundant; sixteen of the
party died from their bites, without counting cattle and hunting dogs.
They lost, all told, sixty-two men in fifteen months, and were almost
exhausted when they reached Feté. (See Proceedings of Royal Geo-
graphical Society, December, 1885.)

Mr. J. T. Last left England on the 2d of September, on his way to ,

Zanzibar, where he will equip his party for the expedition in which he is
engaged under the auspices of the Royal Geographical Society. He will

GEOGRAPHY. 553

proceed to the confluence ot the Rovuma and Lujendi Rivers, fix the
longitude of the junction, and will then establish himself awhiie in the
Namuli Hills. After a study of that region, Mr. Last will enter the
valley of the Likuga, follow it to the coast, and then follow the coast
to Quillimane or Angoche.

In a report to the British foreign office, by Mr. TeeGate Goodrich,
Her Britannic Majesty’s acting consul for the Nyasse district, dated Ban-
dawé, Lake Nyassa, June 1, 1885, he describes a recent visit to the
country on the west of the lake. He refers principally to the territory
of Muazi, which was visited by Livingston. During his stay at Kasungo,
Muazi’s town, 130 miles SSW. of Bandawé, the chief died and was
succeeded by hisnephew Katamé. Mr. Goodrich was well received there,
the natives having that respect forthe English which is always to be found
where Livingston has been the only previous white visitor. The chief
object of the visit was to inquire into and endeavor to wean the chiefs
from encouraging the slave trade. The country he passed through be-
tween Bandawé and Kasungo he found entirely uninhabited, though
abounding in game of all kinds. Kasungo is situated in the center of a
large treeless plain, 2,258 feet above the level of Lake Nyassa, the houses
being built around a curious conical-shaped hill 900 feet above the plain.
The chiefs interviewed were anxious to see English traders settled in
the country. Muazi’s country is known as the Marumba country, and
tae people are Wanyasse. Here a very large stock of ivory is to be
bought—according to Mr. Goodrich, Katamé offered to sell him a hun-
dred tusks. The soil (he states) is good, and adapted for wheat grow-
ing; cattle thrive admirably, and the tse-tse fly does not exist in the
district. The plain around the base of Mount Kasungo is 4,000 feet
above the sea, which altitude should insure a climate suited to Euro-
peans. The natives appear to be simple and peace-loving.

Dr. Hannington, Bishop of Equatorial Africa, started with Mr. Taylor
early in June to explore a route, different from that tollowed by Mr.
Joseph Thomson, via Chagga and the Massai country to the eastern
shores of Victoria Nyanza. He is of the opinion that if this route be
once opened all the caravans for Mombasa to the interior would adopt
it, and there would be a great saving of time and distance. The bishop
has attached himself to a Swahali caravan. He hopes to touch Lake
Naivasha and emerge at Sendega in Lower Kavirondo. When last heard
from he was working his way through the unknown region between
Kilima-njaro and Victoria Nyanza, and hoped to be at Rubaga by the
end of the year. Since then an unconfirmed rumor has been received
to the effect that he had been taken a prisoner by the King of the Mo-
banza, (7?) who threatened to put him to death. If successful, the bishop
will accomplish a work of great geographic as well as humanitarian
‘value. Sir John Kirk was consulted, and approved of the scheme.

Dr. Oscar Lenz’s work on Timbuktu appeared early in the year. Since
then the Imperial Geographical Society of Vienna has received good
554 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

news from the doctor’s present African exploring expedition, which had
passed through Monrovia, the capital of Liberia, and gone on to the
Cameroons, the ultimate object being to explore the watershed between
the Nile and Conge from the west.

M. Leon Guiral has sent to the Geographical Society at Paris a de- '
scription of the west coast of Africa, about the mouths of the San Benito
or Kyo and the Dote, 73 miles farther south. The Eyo is a mile in width
at its mouth. Banks of rocks bar the entrance, but the left arm is
navigable for vessels drawing two meters of water. The banks are
marshy. M. Guiral ascended it about 30 kilometers to Iniger, where
there are falls. It has several tributaries, some of them navigable for
canoes. The Dote is a river of little importance, with marshy banks,
and is about a meter deep and 40 meters wide along the lower part of its
course. It can be ascended in a canoe for about 21 miles. The com-
merce of the district concentrates in the village on the right bank from
which it takes its name. (See Proceedings of Royal Geographical So-
ciety, December, 1885.)

In the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society for February,
1885, is a long and learned article upon “ European Territorial Claims
on the Coast of the Red Sea and its Southern Approaches,” by Sir R.
W. Rawson, than whom, perhaps, no one is better fitted to discuss this
subject, which is of great historical as well as geographical importance.

Mr. E. H. Richards, an American missionary, has journeyed from In-
hambane to the Limpopo, through a region which is at present a blank
on our maps. The Bombom River forms the western boundary of the
Portuguese provinee, and drains a large area of western Inhambane, as
well as the eastern slope of the Makwakwa Ridge to the west. The
country west of this ridge is semi-deserted, in consequence of the raids
of Umzila’s soldiers. From the Makwakwa Ridge to the Limpopo is
level land. The Ama-gwaza, or people of Umzila, inhabit or control the
country from the Zambesi to the Limpopo, and with the exception of
the Portuguese possessions of Chiluan and Inhambane, from the sea in
the east to the Matabele country on the west. Inasecond journey Mr.
Richards, besides visiting a large and hitherto untravelled area, was
successful in reaching Baleni. He left Delagoa Bay on foot, attended
only by a Zulu convert and three porters. The Komati River, 200 yards
wide, 30 feet deep, was crossed in a “dugout” canoe, and its course fol-
lowed for several days; the river was then left and a series of thirteen
lakes passed. Though there was no connecting stream at that season,
the natives call this string of lakes the Liputa River, but there are often
hills and bushy districts between the lakes. Emerging from the bush
close to the Limpopo River, they found themselves at Baleni. Herds
of cattle were visible in every direction and clusters of small huts were
very numerous. Manjobo or Manjova, the ruling chief, has several
kraals on the west and oneon the east side of the river, which here runs
through a low flat plain of indurated alluvium as hard as marble. The
GEOGRAPHY. 555

river banks are about two yards high, the stream being about 15 feet
deep and 200 yards wide. Manjobo’s kraal on the east side is called
Emkontweni, ‘“‘ the place where the spear is stuck in the ground.” The
kraal of the Chobbas, or Machappas, is on the Limpopo, about 12 miles
north of the Shangan River, which enters the former from the eastward,
and is otherwise known as the Luize or Mitti River. From a hill just
eastward of the Shangan, the plain of Baleni could be seen extending
NW. and SE. as far as the eye could reach, and about 25 miles in width.
In the rainy season the plain is an immense pool or lake, and all the
kraals are deserted for several months. The Shangan is salt, but good
water can be had by digging. The people call themselves Ama Shan-
gani, and all adults speak more or less Zulu, which is the language of
the ‘‘court.”. Thence to Inhambane, took nine days through a most
populous country. Bingwana, a kraal of about 5,000 inhabitants, is ©
about four days from Inhambane, on the river of the same name, a deep
but narrow stream abounding in sea-cows. The route was considerably
south of the one taken in 1884.

The Dutch exploring expedition into Portuguese West Africa has been
so unfortunate as to lose its leader, young Mr. D. D. Veth, who died
from disease on May 19, 1885, in camp on the banks of the Kala-Kanga
River, between Benguella and Humpata.

In the October number of Petermann’s Mittheilungen, is the first part
of an account of the journey of the Austrian explorers, Drs. Paulitschke
and von Hardegger, to Harar, by the former. It is accompanied by a
map of the districts traversed. The concluding papers appear in the
December number, in which will also be found an account and map of
Menge’s second journey in Somali-land.

A fresh expedition in Somali-land has been undertaken by F. L. and
W. D. James, who write from Berbera that they intend to traverse the
Habr Gerhajis’ country to Lebiholii, whence five days over the desert
will bring them to Ogaden.

The chief geographical societies in Germany have resolved to erect
a monument to the late Dr. Nachtigal, who died April 24, on board the
German gunboat “ Mowe”, off the west coast of Africa, on Cape Palmas,
where he lies buried. It is intended to have it so large that it will serve
as a landmark to seamen.

The work done by Lieutenant Wissmann, in his exploration of the
Kassai River, the great southern tributary of the Congo, is second in
importance only to the discovery of the Congo itself. It will seriously
modify the conjectural geography of that portion of Africa. He found
the river to be of immense volume, and navigable from its junction with
the Lulua. He found the Sankuru and the Lubilash to be one river
which instead of flowing northward to the Congo, turns westward and
joins the Kassai. As it approaches the Congo the Kassai receives the
great Koango, and enters the main river by the Kwamouth, after re-
ceiving the water of Lake Leopold. Thus the river which on Stanley’s
556 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

last map joins the Congo west of Stanley Falls, cannot be the Lubilash,
and moreover must be of no greatlength. This discovery of Lieutenant
Wissmann, along with that of the Mobangi by Mr. Grenfell, greatly in-
creases the navigable waterway of the Congo system.

Besides much good detail work done by the Rev. G. Grenfell on the
Congo, he with Rev. T. J. Comber, has recently explored the Mobangi,
which enters the right bank of the Congo, forming a great delta, be-
tween 26’ and 42/ south latitude, nearly opposite Equator Station, and
is probably its greatest tributary. Mr. Grenfell ascended the Mobangi
on a mean course of north by east from the equator to 4° 30/ north lati-
tude, and left it still an open waterway. At 4° 23/ north, just below
the second rapids, he found it 673 yards wide; at no point lower was
it lessin width. Its mean depth is 25 feet, and its current not more than
80 to 100 feet per minute. From Mr. Grenfell’s notes it would seem that
this river is navigable the whole way from the Congo to 4° 30/ north, a
distance of probably 400 to 450 miles, taking account of the bends.
His opinion and that of his Congo colleagues seems to be that the Mo-
bangi is probably the lower part of the Welle, a river whose course is
one of the unsolved problems of African geography; but this opinion
‘is searcely sustained by the knowledge we now have of the region.
Arguing from analogy, we should conclude that the source of the Mo-
bangi does not lie east of 20° east longitude, and applying the meas-
urements to Stanley’s map, the watershed falls just, on the line thereon
suggested. The distance in a direct line from the ultimate point reached
by Mr. Grenfell to the last-known point on the Welle is 540 miles,
and to the source of the Welle some 900 miles. It appears then to be
practically impossible for this river (of less than the third of a.mile in
width), to carry off the water of the Welle Basin; and Mr. Stanley’s
suggestion, that the Bujere (wrongly called the Aruwimi) is the outlet
of the Welle is rather strengthened than otherwise by this latest, and
certainly not least important, contribution to our knowledge of the
mighty Congo.

The Portuguese possess a tract of land on the northern bank of the
Congo, extending from Cape Lembo, south of Kabinda Bay, to Massabé,
and extending inland 30 or 40 miles so as to contain Kabinda, Molembo,
Landana, and Massabé.

The whole of the valley of the Kwilu, where the International Associa-
tion had eighteen stations, is ceded to France. M. de Brazza, recently
returned from Africa, reports most satisfactorily from the French Posses-
sions on the Congo; his reports are so late as October 13, 1885.

The limits of the new ‘+ Kingdom of the Congo,” as recognized by the
Berlin Conference, appear to be as follows: On the Atlantic seaboard,
from Banana point to Gabé (5° 45’ south latitude), then by one parallel
of Gabé to the meridian of Ponta da Lenha, by this meridian north to
the Chiloango, thence to the source of that river, thence to the Mtomba-
Mataca falls of the Congo, leaving to the French the station of Mboco,

GEOGRAPHY. 557

but reserving Mucumbi and Manyanga, thence along the Congo to its
confluence with the Bamba beyond the equator, where the boundary
running northwest remains to be determined. The southern frontier
follows the Congo from Banana to a point a little above Nokki, the south
bank belonging to Portugal, thence on the parallel of Nokki to the
Koango, along this river to about 9° south latitude, and thence in a
diagonal line across the continent to Lake Bangweolo. Eastward the
boundary coincides with the west coasts of Lakes Bangweolo, Tangan-
yika, Muta-Nzighe, and Albert Nyanza. Within these limits the new
state will have an approximate area of 1,000,000 square miles, and a
population of probably 40,000,000, mostly of Bantu speech and Negro
or Negroid stock.

The council of the Royal Geographical Society, at its meeting of June
22, unanimously passed a vote of congratulation to the King of the
Belgians on the success which has attended his work of exploration and
civilization in tropical Africa. The resolution was as follows: “That,
the thanks of the council be conveyed to King Leopold II, the King of
the Belgians, for the interest taken by His Majesty in the exploration of
Africa, and respectful congratulations on the signal success which has
attended the schemes promoted by His Majesty’s wisdom and munifi-
cence.” In acknowledging this communication officially, His Majesty
expressed his great satisfaction at knowing that his efforts to introduce
civilization into the heart of Africa are appreciated by such high and
competent authority.

Bulletin No. 3, 1885, of the Royal Geographical Society of Belgium,
contains a paper by the secretary on the Congo question, describing
the explorations made in the basin between 1485 and 1877, the founda-
tion of the International Association, the creation of the Free State, and
finally a description of the basin.

Volume vit, No. 2, of the Geographische Blitter, published by the
Bremen Geographical Society, contains a similar paper by Dr. Oppel,
dealing with the scientific and economical importance of this district.
The paper is divided into two main sections: (1) The discovery and in-
vestigation of the Congo (a) between 1484 and 1872, (b) the systematic
exploration since 1872; (2) the extent and boundaries, geology, &c., of
the Congo region. While surprisingly alike in oneal features, these
two papers are by no means coincident, since both show independent
thought and preparation, and indeed treat the same subject from quite
different standpoints.

Science for August 23, 1885, contains an exeellunt map of the Congo
Basin, reproduced by permission of Harper & Brothers.

Among the recent scientific missions ordered by the French minister
of public instruction is that under Lieutenant Palat, to explore the
route from Senegal to Algeria by Medina, Timbuctoo, Mabrouk, and
the Touat.

Spain has recently acquired considerable territory in Africa, com-
558 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

prising the west coast of the Sahara between Cape Bogodor (20° 9/ north)
and Cape Blanco (20° 45/ north), both included; and in the Gulf of
Guinea, the coast line from the Muni River, which forms the northern
boundary of the French possessions on the Gaboon, to the Rio Compo
(0° 43/ to 2° 41’ north). Six stations have already been established on
the Sahara coast, and all points giving access to shipping will be per-
manently occupied. Old treaties with the chiefs on the Rio Benito
have been renewed, with a view to prevent the threatened advance of
the French in that direction.

The conductor of the Cartographic Institute, Hamburg, Herr L.
Friedrichsen, writes thus concerning the limits of the German posses-
sions in West Africa: “‘The Mahin district, on the Gulf of Benin, be-
tween Lagos and the mouth of the Niger, settled by the Hamburg firm
of G. L. Gaiser, has not yet been placed under German protection. The
coast from Jaboo to Old Calabar will, in my opinion, be in future re-
garded as under British protection, but has not hitherto been officialiy
placed under any European power. The frontier of the German Cam-
eroon begins with the Ethiopian cataract on the Great River, lying from
there in a southwesterly direction to the sources of the Rio del Rey,
following the right bank of this river to the coast, then the coast line
in a southeasterly direction to the river Behuwe, excluding the town and
neighborhood of Victoria as British, as well as the island of Malimba.
The latter, as well as the whole coast from the river Behuwe to Gumbe-
gumbe, is not described by me in the commissions of foreign officials as
without a ruler, but as atract on which the actual raising of the German
flag is yet the subject of diplomatic treaty.. The German protectorate
in Southwest Africa begins with 18° south latitude, not with Cape Frio.”

Dr. Ballay, in an address on the new possessions of France in Africa,
sums up by saying that while the Ogowé can never be rendered navi-
gable, it can at least be made useful for bateaux. Its basin is naturally
fertile and rich in resources. On the other hand, the country extend-
ing from this basin to the Congo is generally sterile. There is little to
hope for from this region, but itis the beginning of the practicable
route for reaching the trade of the upper region, which has inhabitants
of intelligence and thrift. The protectorate of France now extends
along the whole north coast of the Gulf of Tadjura as far as Bahr-Aseal,
and M. Caspari states that the relations of France with the Danakils
are cordial. Obock is at least a safe and easily accessible harbor, and
the abundance of water renders possible the cultivation of vegetables.

The fifth expedition of the Belgian International African Association,
which started with a view of connecting by a chain of stations the east
coast with the interior basin, has returned, the expense proving too
great to render the project profitable. The efforts of the association at
present will probably be confined to the Congo watershed.

Some Swedish merchants have purchased in the Massanja country,
in the Cameroons, some 20 square miles of land, on which the Swed-

GEOGRAPHY. 559

ish flag was hoisted with proper honors some months ago. They state
that had they been so empowered by the Swedish Government, on land-
ing two years ago, they could have taken possession of the country from
Boto, near Victoria, to Rio del Rey, one of the richest tracts of land on
the west coast of Africa. At present they trade at their own risk.

The Swedish Society of Anthropology and Geography has commis-
sioned Baron Schwerin, professor of geography at the University of
Lund, to proceed to the Congo on a scientific expedition, the chief ob-
jects being to make geographical, meteorological, botanical, and zoolog-
ical studies in the new state, and to collect ethnographical objects.
Barons Nordenskjéld and Dickson have lent the expedition a number of
valuable instruments.

The Bulletin of the Italian Geographical Society for September con-
tains extracts from the unpublished journals of Pellegrino Matteucci,
the African traveller. These have been edited by Della Vedova, and
are illustrated by a map showing the itinerary, and also the routes of
Nachtigal and Rohlfs. Matteucci’s journey, one of the most remarkable
on record, extending from the Red Sea at Suakim to Lake Chad, and
thence to the Niger and the Gulf of Guinea, has hardly attracted the
attention it deserves, chiefly perhaps on account of the early death of
this promising and brilliant explorer.

The roll of geographical journals is increased by one. The Floren-
tine section of the Italian African Society has been authorized by the
central council and treasurer to issue a bulletin. It is intended to be
partly eclectic, presenting geographical and especially African news to
its readers, and to be particularly the official record of the proceedings
of the section.

ASIA.

At the June meeting of the Geographical Society of Paris, Baron
Benoist-Méchin described a recent journey in the Merv oasis. This was
a continuation of previous communications to the society of the great
journey made by the baron and some companions from Peking, through
Kirin to Ninguto, and thence along the Tiumen to Vladivostock. The
journey the whole way was along the Corean frontier. From Vladivo-
stock the travellers proceeded to Tomsk, thence to Samarkand, through
Karshi to Bokhara, to the Amou-Darya at Charjni, down that river to
Petro-Alexandrovsk, thence to Khiva, and lastly across the Kara-Kum
to Mero, Sarakho, and Meshed. The detailed narrative (with maps) is
given in the bulletin of the society. At the same meeting M. de Saint-
Pol-Lias presented a map of the upper course of the Red River, pre-
pared by the Anamites. Another map of importance is that of the
navigable water-ways of Southern India-China, prepared by M. Rueff,
who has established a company for navigating those waters.

Herr Glaser, the Arabian traveller, has returned to Arabia to resume
his explorations. This second journey is to be mainly geographical,
560 SCIENTIFIG RECORD FOR 1885.

but archeology will also receive attention. Besides visits to Marib and
Nejdran, Herr Glaser contemplates a long journey through the interior
from Hadramant to Omaun, and a second across South Arabia.

In Science, July 3, 1885, is an excellent epitome of an article on
“‘ Routes into the interior of Western China,” which originally appeared
in Science et Nature. The two Chinese rivers (Sikiang, or Canton River,
and Song Ka) must for the present be considered as impracticable for
commercial purposes, not precisely on account of the natural obstacles
to be overcome, but because for a long time the Celestial Empire will be
more or less impenetrable and dangerous for Europeans: and, on the
other hand, the course of the Me-Kong is too long and too hilly. The
routes which traverse the bed of the Brahmapootra and the valley of the
Irrawaddi present almost insuperable difficulties. The route of the
Salmen is most attractive, but it should not be forgotten that besides
its length it must cross two water sheds, one of which at least is very
difficult, and must ascend the Me-Kong for a very long distance. The
route by the Red River remains: this is not particularly accessible; but
to establish communication with Yunnan and Szchuen some obstacles
must be surmounted, and this is the course which offers fewest of them.

Mr. Holt 8S. Hallett has finished his reconnaissance for railway routes
in India-China, and the narrative of his journey, while not furnishing
anything absolutely new, serves to enlarge our knowledge of the .geog-
raphy of that interesting region.

The chief paper in the May issue of the Proceedings of the Royal
Geographical Society is upon the disputed question of the sources of
the Irrawaddi. As no one has yet followed the Sanpo from Thibet
downward, it is still unproved whether it enters the Irrawaddi or the
Brahmapootra. Mr. Robert Gordon opposes the commonly received idea
by advocating the Irrawaddi view, and gives six substantial reasons for
his belief. General J. T. Walker, differing from Mr. Gordon, attacked
the weakest point in his paper, that in which he thinks that the Zayul
Chu may prove to be an affluent of the Irrawaddi.

Colonel Woodthorpe has just completed a journey through the Sing-
pho, or Sanpo country. He penetrated into the land of the Borkhamp-
tis, on the Northern Irrawaddi, where no traveller is believed to have
been since Lieutenant Wilcox’s tour in 1828. The Irrawaddi is un-
navigable at Pedan.

A writer who has just travelled widely through Tonquin and Southern
China describes in a recent number of the République Frangaise the
route from Lao-Kai, on the Red River, to Meng-tsze in Yunnan. Pre-
mising that the river from the mouth to Lao-Kai on the Tonquin border
is tolerably well known, he refers to the various routes for getting into
Southwestern China, but is far from enthusiastic about any of them,
although he thinks that France in Tonquin has as much chance of get-
ting the China trade as any of her rivals in the south. The writer then
describes the route along the river from Lao-Kai to Manhao, the head

GEOGRAPHY. 561

of the Red River navigation. From this point the road to the plateau
of Yunnan is said to be mountainous and difficult m the extreme. The
article is of special value at this time, when the commercial geography
of Southeastern Asia promises so much of importance.

The journeys of Dr. Neis in Central Taos (more than 3,000 miles)
have resulted in a vast amount of information regarding the commercial
routes of the western basin of the Me-Kong, the anthropology and eth-

‘nology of the Laos and the Khas, and the social, commercial, and politi-
cal condition of the regions visited.

In a recent consular report from Siam, Mr. Archer gives an account
of his journey into the province of Kabin, which lies on the eastern
side of the Siamese delta, at the foot of the mountains separating the
Mimam Valley from the Me-Kong. He gives somevery interesting notes
on the little-known Laos.

The Government of India has conferred the title of Raj Bahadoor
and a grant in perpetuity of a rent-free village in Oude on Pundit Ki-
shen Singh Milwal, an employé of the survey department, who is well

_ known to all geographers for his explorations in Thibet, which have
been published over the initials “A. K.”

Colonels Lockhart and Woodthorpe have been sent with a party to
Gilghit, and it is intended that full surveys of the region lying to the
northwest of Kashmir shall be executed. Several passes of no great
difficulty lead toward the Russian possessions, which here approach
British India closely. This mission is expected to largely inerease our.
knowledge of the country toward the upper waters of the Oxus. Dan-
ileff, in examining this river, has found what he reports to be the point
of its ancient bifurcation into the Amu Daria and the Uzboi.

Sir Henry Rawlinson has added considerable to our knowledge of the
Badghis district, in Northern Afghanistan, north of the watershed of
the Herat Valley. The September issue of the Proceedings of the
Royal Geographical Society contains a map of the territory about the
Hari-Rud and Murghab Rivers, including the Badghis—the district
the possession of which is now in dispute between Russia on the one
hand, and Afghanistan and England on the other. The American
Naturalist for December, 1885, contains an interesting account of this
section, and a concise history of the Carolines.

Upto July, 1885, the Afghan Frontier Commission had worked through
districts already explored more or less in recent times, either by the
Russians or others. Since then comparatively new ground has been
broken, from which much of great geographical interest may be con-
fidently expected. One very important matter has been accomplished,
2. €., the exact determination by Captain Gore of the longitude of the
great dome at Mashhad, longitude 59° 35/ 52”. 3, latitude 36° 17’ 42”,
The result shows an apparent error of only eleven seconds in longitude
at the end of a long line of more than 1,000 miles of survey from India.
Captain Talbst has started to carry on triangulation to the head of

H. Mis. 15 36

562 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Hari-Rud, with permission to proceed as far as Daulatyar. A native
surveyor has started southward across the many apparently parallel
ranges (quite unlike anything shown at present on our maps) between
the Upper Hari-Rud and Gaur, or Zarni. Another native surveyor has
started for the Upper Murghab and Ferozkohi country to survey the
direct routes to Mannana from Obeh, across the Band-i-Turkestan.

Lieut. Col. H. C. B. Tanner, 8. C., deputy-superintendent of the survey
of India, in charge of Darjeeling and Nepaul boundary surveys, makes
some exceedingly interesting communications on the Himalayan snow
peaks.

An account of M. Potanin’s journey from Peking to Lang-tcheou, in
1884, was given in the Russian Jzvestia. The country between the Yel-
low River and Boro-balgasun is covered with sand, rarely moving sand,
but barkhans fortified by a growth of shiapyk, a species of Artemesia,
with bushes of cavagana in the cavities between. Water is plentiful.
The dry grounds betwéen the sands are covered with steppe vegeta-
tion, and sarrazin, millet, and hemp are grown there. The Orthous in-
habit this region. Boro-balgasun was once a town, but now contains only :
a few huts within its ruined walls. At Edjin-Khoro, on the Tchamb-
Kak River, are two tents, in which the bones of Zenghis Khan are said
to be preserved. After leaving Boro-balgasun, the expedition visited
the salt lake Baga-Shikye and passed over an almost uninhabited re-
gion, with ruins of Mussulman villages, destroyed when the last insur-
rection was put down. Lin-tcheou, on the Hoang-ho, is surrounded by
fruit gardens, and for 50 miles south of it numerous villages extend
along a canal which runs parallel to the Hoang-ho. This richness is of
recent origin, for the whole region bears traces of the desolation wrought
by the Chinese after the suppression of the insurrection of which the
town of Tsin-tsipou was the center. South of this town M. Potanin left
the Hoang-ho and crossed the series of flat ridges, which rise from 6,000
to 7,000 feet above the sea, and are covered with loess to a thickness of
200 to 300 feet. The sandstone ‘of these hills contains some beds of
salt. The loess covers the whole country from Ping-yang-sia to Lang-
tcheou, which is a great city, picturesquely built on the right bank of .
the Hoang-ho, at the foot of a mountain. The population is of Turkish
origin, and although it has assumed Chinese customs, it keeps its Mus-
sulman religion. The latest news from this expedition was dated San-
chuan, January 25, 1885. It had gone up the Hoang-ho and event-
ually reached the confluence of the Tchitai with the Yellow River. M.
Berezovsky had left the expedition and taken another route, via Hoy-
syan. He proposes to join MM. Potanin and Skasi on their way to the
south.

Colonel Prejevalsky has discovered three peaks, each over 20,000 feet
high, in the middle range of the Kuen-lun. He has given them the
names of Muscovite, Columbus, and Enigmatical. The most elevated
point of the first named is Mount Kremlin ; of the second Mount Djinri;

GEOGRAPHY, 563

and of the third, the crown of Monomachus. The plateau skirting the
middle Kuen-lun has an average height of 4,000 feet. It appears from
a telegram from Colonel Prejevalsky, dated Osh, August 31, that this in-
trepid explorer has again failed to penetrate into Thibet over the Keria
Mountains, in consequence of the strenuous opposition of the Chinese,
who barricaded all the available highways with stones and destroyed the
bridges. The Znvalide Russe publishes the following telegram from Col-
onel Prejevalsky from Pishpet, but dated Karakol 2d (new style 14th)
November: “Our voyage has ended happily and with most encouraging
scientific results.” (See Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society
for December, 1885.)

Dr. Zélandt has finished his work on the Kirgiz, which will soon be
published by the West Siberian section of the Imperial Geographical
Society.

A parliamentary blue book (Corea No. 3, 1885), lately published, con-
tains the report of a journey made by Mr. Carles the vice-consul at Séul,
from that place to Phyéng Kang, where some gold mines exist. The
review of this in Nature, August 27, shows that it contains much of
geographical interest.

Mr. Gardner, British consul at Newchwang, China, publishes with his
annual trade report this year (China, No. 6, 1885) a, most interesting ac-
count of his consular district, which embraces the whole of Manchuria.
The report corrects some of the errors existing on our maps, which are
far from accurate.

It is to be hoped that the many rumors of prospective activity in
railway building in China may be found to be well grounded. The
necessary surveys would be of incalculable service in correcting the
maps of the various provinces. These maps are mainly the work of the
early Jesuits, and though remarkable, when one considers the material
with which they worked, are still far from what they ought to be.

Port Hamilton, of which England took possession at the time when
hostilities with Russia were imminent, consists of a group of small is-
lands about 45 miles northeast of Quelpaert and about 30 miles off the
Corean coast, in the Brougham Channel, separating the peninsula from
Japan. The position of the group is 34° 1’ 23” north latitude and 127°
17’ 30” east longitude. England has since given up her claims.

Sibiriakoff, the wealthy Russian merchant, well known as the friend
and patron of Nordenskjéld, has himself made an interesting journey
during the summer of 1884. The details of it have only recently been
made public, as news travels slowly in those regions. He ascended the
Petchora to Oraneto, then crossed the Ural to the Sigva, or Whitefish
River, which joins the Sosva, an affluent of the Obi. The traveller
reached Shikurik September 21, and Tobolsk October 18. It is demon-
strated by this journey that a trade route by which goods can be car-
ried in summer is practically open in this direction, a matter of great
commercial importance to Siberia,
564 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

An exploration to cover a period of five years is being organized by
Yadrintseff, under the auspices of the Russian Geographical Society.
Its purpose is the investigation of the ethnology and social economy of
Siberia; particular attention will be given to opportunities for extend-
ing and correcting geographical knowledge.

The trans-Siberian railway has already finished its first section of 135
kilometers between Ekaterinburg and Kameshoff, and its early comple-
tion to Tuimen is confidently expected. At each step in its advance-
ment the geographical advantages to be derived from this commercial
enterprise will be more marked.

Preparations are being made for the expedition under Dr. Bunge and
Baron von Toll, which will start next spring for Ustyansk, for the ex-
ploration of the New Siberian Islands, which since Anjow’s journeys in
1821~'23 have only been visited by the unfortunate Jeannette people
for a few hours on their route to the mouth of the Lena.

The geographical effects of the Krakatoa eruption, while of great im-
portance, are of too local a nature to be properly considered under
‘progress in geography.”

Great Britain has annexed the territory of the ex-King Thebaw to her
India possessions.

In the province of Adana, Asia Minor, not far from Tarsus, at a few
hours’ travel from the sea, among the mountains, has recently been dis-
covered a ruined town hitherto entirely unknown. The ruins lie near
the route from Sélef-ké to Karaman, by Mohara. Sarcophagi, almost
intact, and resembling those of Lycia, exist there and would seem
worthy of study.

Russian geographical exploration of the Caucasus has begun. MM.
Djin and Dimick have traveled among its glaciers, climb ed its passes,
and given an account of their travels in Petermann’s Mittheilungen.
Ushpa is estimated at 16,500 feet high, and Tetuuld at 15,500 feet or
thereabouts.

It is stated that an accurate survey of the island of Yezo and the
neighboring islands (especially the Kuriles) is to be made by the Jap-
anese naval department. It is anticipated that the work will occupy
four years.

The Zeitschrift of the Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde in Berlin (Vol. xx,
No. 3) is almost wholly filled with an account by Herr Schmidt of the
travels of the friar Rubruk, between 1253 and 1255, into the heart of
Central Asia and to the borders of China.

EUROPE.

The lectures given under the auspices of the Geographical Society of
Paris, in the spring of 1884, were so successful that they were resumed
this year. The names of some of the lecturers give us an idea of the
importance attached to the subject of geography in Europe: Janssen, de
Lapparent, Bouquet dela Grye, Dr. Hamy, Himly, Levassear, Louis

GEOGRAPHY. 565

Simonin, Michel. It would be of the greatest benefit to this country if —
a society co-ordinate with the Geographical Society of Paris, having its
headquarters at Washington, could arrange for a course of lectures by
some of the confreres in this country of the above-named gentlemen.

Under the title of O’Hxplorador (the Explorer), a Portuguese journal
commenced its appearance with the first of the year at Lisbon. It ap-
pears twice a month, and will chronicle the advance of science in all its
branches, but especially that of geography and travel.

In March appeared the first number of the Scottish Geographical Mag-
azine, the organ of the new Scottish Geographical Society. It aims at
being much more than the organ of the society, however.

At the March meeting of the Geographical Society of Paris, Mr.
Charles Rabot described the results of the mission with which he was
charged by the minister of public instruction to explore Northern Fin-
land and Russian Lapland. He explained especially the valleys of the
Pasvig and Talom, as well as Lake Enara. It has hitherto always been
believed that the highest mountain in Sweden was Sulitjelma, on the
Norwegian frontier, in latitude 67° 16’ north, and belonging as much to
Norway as to Sweden, the height of which is a little more than 6,000
feet. In 1884 the topographical surveyor of the province of Norrland
found that another mountain, viz, Sarjektjakko, 6,760 feet in’ Swedish
Lapland, was higher than Sulitjelma; but now it has been discovered
that neither is this mountain the highest inSweden. Bucht Svenonius
and Mr. Rabot state that the honor belongs to Kebnekaisse, latitude
68°, also in that province, the height of which has been ascertained to
be 6,940 feet above the level of the sea. In the same neighborhood is
Kaskasatjokko, 6,800 feet. The observations of Mr. Rabot in the
mountainous area of Store Baergefjeld, in Nordland, Arctic Norway,
represented on the best charts as occupied by an immense continuous
glacier field, show that it has been wholly misunderstood. There is no
primary glacier, but merely seven secondary glaciers, isolated in ravines,
and hardly passing beyond the stage of névé. Rabot afterward made
explorations in the Kola peninsula of Russian Finland, determining the
existence of three distinct chains of mountains between the Polar and
White Seas, which reach a height of more than 3,000 feet. The country
has hitherto been charted as a sort of plain, broken merely by lakes and
low hills. The area between the ranges is level, and trees of good size
and form reach latitude 68° 50’; beyond they extend some distance,
but do not exceed 12 or 15 feet in height.

In the “‘ Elementir lirooarken” (classical schools) of Sweden, geog-
raphy has hitherto been classed as an appendix to history, and at the
“Lektor” (candidate) examinations in history and geography, questions
are only asked about the former. At the congress of teachers held in
Stockholm last year, a resolution was adopted to the effect that geog-
raphy ought to form a separate study of the school education.

A somewhat amusing quarrel has arisen between the parishes of
566 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Kjelvik and Maasé (Norway) about a point of considerable geographical
interest, viz, the proprietorship of the North Cape. It is caused by
the establishment on the celebrated promontory of a restaurant, the
taxes of which are claimed by both parishes. The cape has always
been considered to form the boundary between the two, without it be-
ing stipulated to which it actually belonged.

The well-known rocky islet Munken (the Monk), which lies 33 miles
south of Sumb6, and formerly rose to a height of 70 feet above the sea,
has completely subsided. A considerable portion of it had crumbled
away last year, but it is now no higher than the low surrounding rocks,
so that even in tolerably fine weather the sea breaks over and covers it.
The shoal water about the islet causes such dangerous currents that
the seamen of olden times believed there was a MalstroOm there, and it
is therefore very unfortunate that this rock, which served as a sea-mark,
will no longer warn navigators of their approach to danger.

From recent observations it would appear that during the last thirty
years or so the rising of the shores around the Baltic and Gulf of Both-
nia has gone on with greater rapidity than during the previous period
of observation. The increased rate of emergence in recent times is
clearly shown on the rock known as Stora Reppen, not far from Pitea,
Sweden. Thatrock in 1851 had emerged 94 centimeters above its former —
level since the commencement of the observations; while in August,
1884, it had risen 50 centimeters more. The general results compared
with previous observations—that is for a period of one hundred and
thirty-four years—prove that since 1750 the head of the Gulf of Bothnia
has risen 2.10 meters, or 1.70 meters per century. This rate of emergence
declines progressively toward the south. It is not more than 30 centime-
ters at Naze, and it is zero at Bornholm. The mean rise of the Swedish
coast is thus 1.60 meters per century.

A very useful and complete atlas of Russia has been prepared ns J.
Poddubnyi, and published by A. Deubner, St. Petersburg, under the
title of a ‘Russian school atlas,” at the small price of one ruble, or 80
cents.

The project of connecting the Volga and the Don, which dates back
to 1568, when Selim, the son of Solyman the Magnificent, besieging As-
trakhan, attempted to join the two rivers in order to transport materials
of war, has been revived. M. Léon Dru, a French engineer, having sur-
veyed a line in October, 1885, was convinced that the project is practi-
cable, and experimental borings have already commenced.

The attention of geographers and men of science ought to be called
to several numbers of the Archiv fiir die naturwissenschaftliche Landes-
durchforschung von Bohmen, which have recently been issued (Prague,
Franz Rzuonatz). The numbers of most interest to geographers pure
and simple are those forming the first division of the third volume, and
containing a list of the heights in Bohemia, trigonometrically determined
by the Imperial Institute of Military Geography in the years 1877-79.

GEOGRAPHY. 567

The first steamer coming directly from the open sea arrived at Co-
logne on March 18, 1885. It was called the Industry, and was of 513
tons burden.

The Austrian Government, with the consent of the Porte, has under-
taken to make a geographical survey of the Albanian coast, with a view
to preparing new, maps. Two Austrian gunboats have accordingly left
Corfu with officials of the chart department on board. They were joined
by the Turkish officers, under whose superintendence the survey will
be made. We may expect some definite results in the course of the next
six months.

The Hungarian Society of Geography is engaged in organizing a Mag-
yar expedition for the exploration of the region around the Urals; es-
pecially the Baskir country, where Urals-Altaii peoples are disappear-
ing.

The Military Geographical Institute of Italy has published a memoir
on the mensuration of the area of the Kingdom of Italy, with a new
approximate estimate of the same. The figures are as follows, in square
kilometers :

PL esMeHINsal aOteliaghyies sss sae son aes oa comets bee ee cee clocieae des 236, 402° 1720
The islets legally connected with its shores.........-------+.-2-------- 368° 8649
SIGH GSS eb UGA SES Sao OS Se Hee ate ree eee ee sees) 2D 46132555
UH OR SICTIAM IS LOUS Reece teenth ne orator ens Coen oe meno eh eaten t Bars 278: 8147
Sandi awemers eee ee eae sels crane aes ares cee MOS BEES Eee 23, 799° 5607
PPhelsardinianuale tales seater sects cee nate tere ae enue Sel eteada 277° 6027

Total® eos SBS Eee COSI EIE CODECS osmicod Come ae en eee 286, 588° 3000

This equals 110,652 square miles, and is about 10,000 square kilome-
ters less than previous official figures, and 2,000 less than General Steb-
nitski’s estimate.

Thoroddson’s work in Iceland in 1884 seems to have been much fuller
and more precise than the notes hitherto published would indicate.
From the narrative published in Globus, it appears that in a journey of
ten weeks over the Odadahraun desert and the adjacent mountains,
about one-half was passed in an uninhabited region, much of which
was completely unknown. He forced his way along the northern base
of Vatna Jékull, the journey being frequently hazardous and always
laborious. Many corrections of heights were made; and it seems that
Jékulsa, which has been taken as the longest Icelandic river, is ex-
ceeded by Thidrsa, which is some 120 miles in length. An ascent of
the unvisited Dyngja Voleano was made. It proved to have a double
crater, the inner one being 600 feet or more in depth.

NORTH AMERICA.

The work of the several departments of Governments having to do
_with geodesy, geography, and hydrography has made satisfactory prog-
ress. In no one of them however has there been any special develop-
568 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

ment of more than usual importance, while the routine work thereof— —
as well as that of the several State surveys, will be published in the
respective reports. The topographic work of the United States Geo-
logical Survey during the past six months has been mainly in the office;
the geographical map of the United States is rapidly approaching com-
pletion. |

Prof. Asaph Hall, in Science, July 3, corrects the statement con-
tained in the current edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica, that there
is no land in Connecticut “above a thousand feet in elevation,” and”
shows that there are certainly half a dozen points which exceed this
limit, and at least two that run over two thousand feet.

The Arctic steamer “ Alert” returned to Halifax on October 18, from
Hudson’s Bay, with the observation party which hasspent fifteen months
there testing the practicability of that route for navigation from the
Canadian Northeast to Europe. They show the average temperature
to be not so low as the average winter temperature in the Northwest.
The lowest monthly average was 30° below zero. The ice observations
show that Hudson Straits and Bay are navigable for properly built
and equipped vessels for from three to four months, from July to Oc-
tober.

G. W. Taser (Science, April 24) deserines the Saskatchewan country,
or that portion of the prairies which extends north of the northern
boundary, as containing an approximate area of 300,000 square miles,
and as Jess than 2,000 feet above the sea level, and thus lower than the
corresponding portion of the continent farther south. Many interest-
ing details will be found in this article.

So far as heard from, explorations in Alaska appear to consist of
the journeys of Lieut. H. T. Allen and his companions; Lieutenant
Cantwell; Assistant Engineer Samuel B. McLeneganand Seaman Nelson
of the dlOoewis Henry D. Woolfe; Lieutenant Stoney; and Doctor
Everette.

Lieutenant Allen was sent by General Miles last year. He ascended
the Copper or Atna River and explored its northern and western branch
to its souree, a distance of some 200 or 300 miles. He found ‘the river
rapid, with many cataracts, and having in some places a fall of 7 feet to
the mile. Its width is variable, sometimes several miles, including large
islands, at others but a few hundred feet. There are many glaciers
near it, and the active Wrangel volcano rises almost from the river.
A portage was made across this range to the sources of the Tananah,
where there are a number of extensive lakes. This river was reached
about 125 miles above the point to which it had been explored, and it
and the Yukon were followed to the sea.

Lieutenant Cantwell has succeeded in getting to the source of the:
Kowak River, which consists of four large lakes, of which the most im- |
portant is in latitude 67°, longitude 153° west. It is supposed to be 520
miles from the mouth of the river,

GEOGRAPHY. 569

Assistant Engineer Samuel B. MeLenegan, accompanied only by
Seaman Nelson of the “Corwin,” ascended the Noatak, also called the
Nunatah or Inland River, which has been known for thirty years, but
vever explored. Its enters Hotham Inlet westward from the Kowak
and about 30 miles north of the Arctic circle. The source of the branch
ascended was found te be a small lake surrounded by srow-banks, and
supposed to be 400 miles from the mouth. The voyage was extremely
creditable to those who took part in it, though it is greatly to be re-
gretted that exact observations could not have been made, and is
uoteworthy, as the party reached the highest latitude yet attained by
white men in the interior of Alaska. The report and charts, which are
being prepared by the Department, will doubtless fill a good part of the
existing blank on the maps of this area.

Mr. Henry D. Woolfe, who has been stationed at Cape Lisburne during
the past year, has travelled along the coast from that point to Hotham
Inlet, and ascended the Noiitak about 30 miles. Between the Corwin
Lagoon and Cape Krusenstern a river falls into the sea, which he was
informed is connected with the Noiitak, running behind the hills which
lie back of Shesholik village. Mr. Woolfe is preparing a map showing
all the native settlements and even single huts temporarily occupied
along the coast between Cape Krusenstern and Point Barrow.

Lientenant Stoney’s work, so far as it has gone, seems to be successful.
He sent down a mail by the “Corwin”, which arrived in San Francisco
October 12. At that time he was near the head of Hotham Inlet and
prepared to go into winter quarters. Details will not be published for
a year yet.

Doctor Everette has collected a large amount of geographical data
and made sketches along the Yukon, which will serve to enlarge our
knowledge of Alaska and correct our maps.

M. Violet d’Aouest’s note, read at the August meeting of the Geo-
eraphical Society of Paris, on the aerial formation of soil will be found
of great interest to geographers; a concise résumé is given in the Pro-
ceedings of the Royal Geographical Society for September. .

The Danish exploring expedition to the east coast of Greenland under
Lieutenants Holm and Garde, which returned to Copenhagen in October
after a three years’ absence, has fulfilled all expectations, having reached
latitude 66° 08! north, the northernmost point (on East Greenland) ever
attained by Europeans. Lieutenant Holm is stated to have made some
very valuable geographical and ethnological discoveries, having spent
last winter among East Greenlanders never before visited by Euro-
peans. He has named the stretch of coast explored, King Christian
LX’s Land. He considers it is now settled beyond a doubt that no early
Seandinavian remains occur on the east coast.

Mr. Gamel, the owner of the vessel which has been put at Lieutenant
Hovgaard’s disposal for explorations in the Kara Sea in the summer of
1885, intends (provided his enterprise be seconded by the Government)
570 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

to send his steamer “Dijmphna” next summer on an expedition to the
east coast of Greenland under an officer of the Danish royal navy, to
explore and lay down the coast line between 66° 08’ (the farthest north-
ward point attained by Lieutenant Holm’s expedition) and 70°.

SOUTH AMERICA.

Professor Seelstrang, of the University of Cordoba, has been ap-
pointed by the Argentine Government to superintend the publication
of an atlas of the Republic, and a considerable sum has been appropri-
ated for the work. It is to consist of 27 parts, and 4 of these are already
in hand.

The Dutch scientific expedition in March and April last, to examine
the upper course of the Surinam River, was quite successful. At Ber-
gendal they took the height of the neighboring Blue Mountain, which
they ascended and from which they had a view of the various mountain
chains of Surinam. -

M. Alcenar Ciraripe read a paper on geographical neology and neog-
raphy before the Geographical Society of Rio de Janeiro, in which he
asks if there shall be a geographic neology for Brazil; a correction of
orthography; and if so, how these can be brought about. The questions
were referred to a commission, whose report has not yet been received.

The Bolletino of the Italian Geographical Society for July prints two

un-edited letters of early Italian adventurers in South America, recently
brought to light in the archives of Florence and Modena. The longer
and more important, dated December 24, 1534, is addressed from Valen-
zuela (Venezuela) by a certain Tomaso Fiaschi to his brother in Flor-
ence. '
Details of Mr. im Thurm’s journey to Mount Roraima, British Guiana,
are given by Mr. H. I. Perkins, who accompanied Mr. im Thurm, in the
August number of the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society,
and an illustrated article in Nature; April 30, 1885; vol. Xxx1, pp.
607-10.

The Argentine expeditions into Patagonia have raised the agronomic
credit of that country, which has long been supposed arid and sterile.
The report of General Villejas, and that of Colonel Roa, who has tray-
elled more than 500 leagues in Patagonia, affirm that the region near
the base of the mountains is rich, not only in metals and minerals, but
in fertile valleys which nestle between spurs of the range. With steam
transportation between the mountains and the coast, it is affirmed that
rapid growth of population might be expected and that prosperous com-
munities might be established.

A party commanded by Feilberg, and sent out by the Argentine Gov-
ernment to explore the Pilcomayo, found that a trade route via that
river to Bolivia is not feasible. Below the rapids, 60 leagues above the
mouth, the Pilcomayo receives an affluent not marked on any chart,
but with as much water as the Pilcomayo or perhaps more.

GEOGRAPHY. 571

As a good example of what comprehensive geographical observation
ought to be, we refer to Dr. W. Sievers’s account of his travels in Vene-
zuela, which appeared in the Mittheilungen of the Hamburg Geograph-
ical Society for 1884. He gives some interesting details of the effects
still to be traced of the great earthquake which shook the north coast
of South America on March 26, 1812, and describes a journey he
made from Caracas to Puerto Cabello in November and December, 1554.
Dr. Sievers was a pupil of Professors Richtofen and Wagner, and was
trained as a geographer with a view to geographical explorations.

Mr. BE. H. Glaisher’s journey on the Berbice River and Wieroonie
Creek will add materially to our knowledge of the interior of British
Guiana, which has been almost a terra incognita.

M. Coudrean has—as the result of one of his six journeys in Guiana—
brought back materials for two new maps, the one of the region between
the Oyapock, Yari, Amazons, and Atlantic, the other of Southern Gui-
ana between the Branco and Paru.

M. J. Chaffaujon’s explorations on the Orinoco have already corrected
many errors in the charts of its course. M. Thouar has gone on a new
expedition to complete his work on the same river.

OCEANICA.

The first annual meeting of the Victoria branch of the Geographical
Society of Australia was a most flattering success. The contributions
were numerous, and many of them by distinguished authors.

Mr. B. Greenebaum, United States consul at Samoa, reports that a new
island has been thrown up out of the sea about 40 miles off the Tonga
Islands, bearing towards the Fiji Islands, and in the track of California
vessels. It is 2 miles long and 250 feet high, and is in latitude 20° 28/
south and longitude 175° 21’ west. Mr. Shipley, consul at Auckland,
New Zealand, confirms the above in a report to the State Department,
and gives interesting particulars. He thinks the island is at least 2 or
3 miles long and 60 feet high, in latitude 20° 21’ south, longitude 175°
28/ west.

The death is announced from Sydney of Thomas Boyd, the first man
to cross the Murray River and the last surviving member of Hume and
Hovell’s exploring party.

An excellent description and résumé of the history of the Caroline
and Pelew Islands was published in Nature, September 10, 1885.

The April issue of the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society
contains an account of a recent exploring expedition into the King
country of the North Island, New Zealand. This country, containing
some 10,000 square miles, is the Maori stronghold, and after the war of
1863-64 white men were forbidden to enter, under pain of death. It
had thus never been surveyed prior to Mr. Kerry-Nicholl’s expedition, in
1883. In the course of 600 miles of travel twenty-five rivers, not pre-

viously shown upon the maps, and two small lakes were found; the
572 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR - 1885.

source of the four principal rivers of the colony, the Whanganui, Wai-
kato, Whangaehu, and Manganui-a-te-Ao, were traced; the hydrog-
raphy of Lake Tanpo in relation to the four distinct watersheds flow-
ing into it was examined; the voleano of Mount Tongariro (9,300 feet)
and Mount Ruapehu (9,000 feet), the highest peaks of the North Island,
were ascended.

A Dutch expedition to New Guinea is being organized. The Govern-
ment has promised a grant not exceeding 10,000 florins a year, and con-
sequently the expedition is to be confined to geographical investiga-
tions. It will probably go to Dorech or to Onin.

Dr. Otto Finsch reports as some of the results of his Hoth in German
New Guinea that he traversed the north coast for a distance of 1,000
English miles, from Hast Cape to 141° east longitude (Greenwich). Sev-
eral good harbors were discovered, and continuous meteorological and
sounding observations made. A large river was discovered, which the
doctor named after the Empress Augusta; its course was followed for
30 English miles into the interior. There is evidence of the existence
of many other rivers. The German Emperor has ordained that the
harbor shall henceforth be known as “Friedrich Wilhelm’s Hafen,” and
the bay near it ‘‘ Prince Heinrich’s Hafen”; the large navigable river
east of Cape de la Torre as the “‘ Kaiserin none Fluss”; while Beaupré,
situated in the middle of the peninsula, will now be called “ Varzin.”
‘Neu Mecklenburg” will be substituted for New Ireland; ‘Neu Lauen-
burg” for the Duke of York group, and “‘ Neu Pommern” for New Brit-
ain, the largest island of the Bismarck Archipelago.

Dr. P. L. Sclater suggests “ Torresia” as an appropriate name for
British New Guinea. ;

The Geographical Society of Australia has completed arrangements
for the exploration of New Guinea, and a fully-equipped expedition
has started under the leadership of Capt. Henry Charles Everill. The
rumored massacre of the entire party is discredited by the British resi-
dent on Thursday Island.

Mr. H. O. Forbes is now engaged in the same field. Hehas accepted
a contribution of £500 from the above-named society, with the condi-
tion that he gives it a full report of his journey, and second sets of col-
lections. After various mishaps the expedition arrived safely at Port
Moresby (see Proceedings Royal Geographical Society December), in
company with Sir Peter Scratchley, early in. September, and made
immediate arrangements to start for the interior in company with the
Rev. Mr. Chalmers. Mr. Forbes is going to attempt to reach the summit
of Mount Owen Stanley, 13,205 feet high, and hitherto untrodden by
the foot of man.

The Geographical Society of Hamburg has published a memorandum
showing the territorial extent of the recent German annexations in the
Pacific Ocean. Reduced to English measurements, the German esti-
mates are as follows: Kaiser Wilhemsland (German New Guinea),

GEOGRAPHY. 573

34,508 square miles; Neu Mecklenburg (New Ireland), 3,398-8 square
miles ; Neu Pommern (New Britain), 9,348:8 square miles; the Bismarck
Archipelago, 15,261:6 square miles; in all about 65,512 English geo-
graphical square miles. The same authority estimates the area of New
Guinea taken under British protection as 65,517-76 square miles, or
about the same as the total of German annexations in the Pacific, and
in each case the area acquired is rather more than twice that of Ire-
land.
ARCTIC REGIONS.

In a communication to the New York Tribune last February, Lieu-
tenant Greely advocates the route by Franz Josef Land to the Pole, and
gives his reasons for so doing at some length, confirming the opinion
previously expressed by Chief Engineer Melville. Captain Sorensen—
who speaks from large experience and after close observation of the ice
drift in that vicinity, suggests that Spitzbergen and Franz Josef Land
form parts of a vast archipelago, and not two wholly distinct territories,
as has hitherto been believed.

When the “Corwin” returned from Bering Sea to San Francisco in
June for some repairs, she reported the ice unusually far south in April
and May in that sea. The same state of affairs existed in the Atlan-
tic. The captains of several Norwegian steamers dispatched to Green-
land for seal-hunting, report that in consequence of the enormous ice
masses on the east and south coasts no seals had been killed by any
vessel. The state of the ice this summer seems to have been just the
reverse of that of last year, when the coast was unusually free from
ice. If the recently promulgated theory that this is an evidence of mild
weather in the polar regions is at all correct, it is unfortunate that no
expedition is in the field to take advantage of it. 7

Four Arctic expeditions are said to be projected for next year: two
organized in Portugal, one in Holland, and one in Denmark. They all
propose to visit the islands of the glacial ocean which belong to Russia;
but the Danish expedition will specially explore the Kara Sea and the
northern coast of Siberia, to define if possible the unknown region
which is supposed to lie to the northeast of Novaya Zemlya.

In the latter half of 1883, Dr. F. Boase visited the German polar sta-
tion in Cumberland Sound, and made several excursions in the neigh-
boring region and along the coast. The results are briefly told by him
in a paper in numbers 5 and 6 of the Verhandlungen of the Berlin Geo-
graphical Society for this year (accompanied by map), in which many
important corrections are made in the existing admiralty charts of these
coasts.

At the meeting of the Naval Institute, which was held in Annapolis
October 9, Lieut. J. W. Danenhower, of the “ Jeannette” expedition, pre-
sented an essay on the advisability of further Arctic explorations, and
expressed himself as opposed to further work north of the 85th paral-
5TA SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 2

lel. The paper was supplemented by others received from Chief Engi-
neer Melville, U.S. N., Sir George Nares, and Lieutenant Greely, and ver-
bally discussed by Dr. Emil Bessels, of the “‘ Polaris” expedition, and Mr.
Clements R. Markham, of the Royal Geographical Society, who presided
at the meeting. Letters in favor of further Arctic exploration were read
from Prof. J. E. Nourse, U. 8S. N., and Dr. H. Rink, formerly governor of
the Danish colonies in Greenland. The general tenor of the discus-
sion, both oral and written, was that scientific exploration of the Arctic
regions will go on.

Mr. C. R. Markham, in his article “Polar Regions,” of the current
edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica, permits himself to make the
following remarkable misstatement: “Lieutenant Lockwood made a
journey along the north coast of Greenland, and reached a small island
in 33° 24’ [north latitude] and 44° 5’ [west of Greenwich]. Dr. Pavy
and another went a short distance beyond the winter quarters of the
“Alert,” and a trip was made into the interior of Grinnell Land. But
all this region had been explored and exhaustively examined by the English
expedition in 187576.” ‘The italics are ours.

Dr. Leonard Stejneger’s illustrated article on the Commander Islands
in Heft 3, Band v1, of the Deutsche geographische Blitter is of special
value, in thatit settles definitely the doubt that has existed asto the death
of Bering. The writer visited and described the ruins of the hut on
Bering Island in which Bering and his companions wintered 141 years
previously, and where the celebrated traveller himself died and was ~
buried. The relics found by Dr. Stejneger are of great, if melancholy, in
terest.

HYDROGRAPHY.

The U.S.8. “Alert” has been engaged for some time in surveying the
coasts of Corea. The returns have not yet been charted by the Depart-
ment.

The last report from the U.S.S. “Ranger’s” work on the west coast of
Central America embraces 100 miles of coast between San Juan del Sur
and the Gulf of Dulce; this connects the former surveys with the Eng-
lish detail work from Panama northward.

The new chart of the harbor of Payta is an excellent specimen of the
standard which Commander John R. Bartlett has established for the
future work of the Hydrographic Bureauof the Navy Department. The
reduction of the photographic view of the anchorage will be of the great-
est service to mariners. The old Spanish charts of Porto Rico and other
West India islands have been verified, and as fast as possible this veri-
fication will be extended to all the harbors of the West Indies. A chart
of the Arctic Ocean, constructed on the ordinary conical projection, en-
ables one to study those regions with the utmost facility.

Returns have just been received from the summer’s work of the Coast
Survey steamer ‘Carlile P. Patterson” in Southern Alaska. An im-

‘ GEOGRAPHY. 575

mense extent of territory has been covered and in a most thorough man-
ner, the ground being comparatively virgin, as the rough work by the
Russians scarcely served as reconnaissance. The surveys off the coast of
Maine and the general routine work during the six months covered by
this report have not developed anything of special importance.

The Deutsche Seewarte as issued a chart of the ice in the Atlantic
Ocean this spring, which penetrated very far south and east, in conse-
quence of continuous northerly and northwesterly winds. Several ice-
bergs appear to have been found in the Gulf Stream. It seems from
experience that toward theend of June the ice recedes northward, while
between the banks and the east coast of Newfoundland it remains long-
est, even after it has disappeared south and southeast of thé banks.

Among the most. important additions to our hydrographical knowl-
edge are the following: Survey of Little Bahama Bank and sonthern
shore of Newfoundland ; main Strait of Magellan; additions to ports
and coasts of Southeast Africa ; in the Red Sea the intricate approaches
to Suakim have been well laid down; Penang harbor has been resur-
veyed and the positions of the islands lying to the northwest, and form-
ing the eastern boundary of the ordinary route of vessels to Malacca
. Strait, have been accurately determined; the unknown western shores

of Corea, south of the approach to Soul, for two degrees of latitude,
have been explored, and the main features of that island-studded shore
laid down, new rivers and harbors have been entered, notably the large
river Gun-san-gang, at the entrance to which stands the considerable
town of Makfo; the southern approach to Haitan Strait on the Chinese
coast has been recharted; in the Solomon Islands the Bougainville
Strait has been charted; many additions have been made to the charts
of various groups of Pacific Islands; the survey of the coast of India by
officers of the British navy and India marine, has been actively pro-
eressing, surveys of Rangoon, Cheduba, and other ports in the Bay of
Bengal, as well as harbors on the west coast of Hindustan have been
made; a resurvey of the great Canadian lakes has been commenced in
‘Georgian Bay.

The Italian corvette ‘“Vettor Pisani” commanded by G. Columbo, re-
cently completed a three years’ circumnavigation of the globe, with suit-
able outfit and instructions for scientific hydrography. The regions
visited included both coasts of South America, from Pernambuco on the
east, south to Magellan Straits, and north to Panama, the Galapagos
and Hawaiian Islands, the China, Indian, and Red Seas, and so home.
The results of the voyage are very satisfactory, many deep-sea sound-
ings having been taken, numerous charts corrected or resurveyed, and

‘ general hydrographic information gathered.

One of the most interesting features of the Aberdeen meeting of the
British Association was the lecture given by Mr. John Murray, director
of the “Challenger” publications, on the results of deep-sea research,
especially as considered from the hydrographer’s standpoint,
576 SCIENTIFIC REORY FOR 1885.

The Proceedings of the Royal Ges asoiical Society for September
contain the following: ‘‘ We received in the course of the past month
two communications relating to the picking up of bottles with inclosed
memoranda cast overboard by enterprising ship captains’ with a view
to testing the direction of what may be called the secondary currents
of the Atlantic. One of the communications is from the German con-
sul at Fayal in the Azores, and is to the effect that one day, about the
beginning of July last, a bottle was picked up ‘near the coast of the
island of Pico,’ Renee 38° 26/, west longitude 28° 35’, the contained
papers stating that it had been fen overboard from i: Hamburg
steamship ‘‘ Bohemia” on August 23, 1884, in north latitude 42° 4’, west
longitude 52° 12’. The inference to be drawn from this case is that the
southerly current thrown off by the Gulf Stream in this part of the At-
lantic is one of extreme slowness. The other communication is from
Herr H. Wolff, of Grand Popo, West Africa. Writing on the 30th day
of May last, he informs us that a negro in his employ found on the beach
near Grand Popo a bottle, the inclosed- papers of which state it was
thrown overboard from the ship “‘ Patriarch” (from Newcastle, N.S. W.,
bound for London) on the 11th December, 1884, in north latitude 2° 46’,
west longitude 22° 3’. This point is near the southern edge of the
Guinea current, which thus appears to have taken five months to carry
the bottle some 1,200 geographical miles from west to east.”

PHYSICS.

By GEORGE F. BARKER, M. D.,
Professor of Physics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,

GENERAL.

The lectures on Molecular Dynamics, given by Prof. Sir William
Thomson at the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, in October, 1884,
mark an epoch in the higher physical instruction ot this country. They
were devoted to a discussion of the wave theory of light, considering
(1) the propagation of a disturbance through an elastic medium, (2) the
character of molecular vibration, and (3) the influence of molecules on
the propagation of waves. The lectures dealt largely with the diffi-
culties of the wave theory, the first enumerated being the difficulty
of explaining the dependence of velocity of propagation on period of
vibration, the second the properties of the ether, the third certain
phenomena of reflection and refraction, and the fourth those of double
refraction. As to the first difficulty, he devoted a very considerable
space to Helmholtz’s theory, which ascribes dispersion to a compound
structure of material molecules according to which they have a natural
period of vibration, suggesting an ingenious mechanical (Helmholtz-
Thomson) spring and shell molecule to represent it. As to the ether,
he has no difficulty in reconciling its almost perfect rigidity with almost
perfeet mobility, since the question is merely one of time. The xther
may be highly elastic for vibrations executed in the 100 or 1,600 million
millionth of a second, but highly mobile to bodies going through it at
the rate of 20 miles a second. As to the manner in which the molecule
imparts its motion to the ether, he says: “The kind of thing that the
luminous vibrator consists in seems to me to be a sudden initiation of
a set of vibrations and a sequence of vibrations from that initiation
which will naturally become of smaller and smaller amplitude. Why
a sudden start? Because I believe that the light of the natural flame
or of the arc light, or of any other known source of light, must be the
result of sudden shocks from a number of vibrators. Take the light
obtained by striking two quartz pebbles together. You have all seen
that. There is one of the very simplest sources of light. What sort
of a thing can the light be that proceeds from striking two quartz peb-

~

“vad

Ee Misi fp 37
578 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

bles together? Under what circumstances can we conceive a group of
waves of light to begin gradually and to end gradually? You know
what takes place in the excitation of a fiddle string or of a tuning fork
by a bow. ‘The vibrations gradually get up from zero to a maximum,
and then, when you take the bow off, gradually subside. I cannot see
anything like that in the source of light. On the contrary, it seems to
me to be all shocks—a sudden beginning and gradual subsidence.” But
it is the double refraction difficulty which is most serious. When the
medium is displaced during wave propagation in a doubly refracting
crystal, the return force must depend on the direction of vibration, and
not on the plane of distortion, as theory indicates. Rankine’s suggestion
of a cavity in the luminiferous ether having a massless, rigid lining, and
containing a massive, heavy molecule with fluid round it, seemed to solve
the difficulty. But the form of wave surface deduced from such a hy-
pothesis does not agree with I'resnel’s, as Rayleigh has shown. ‘It ap-
pears, then,” says Professor Forbes, in his excellent résumé of the lectures,
‘“‘that after all the labor which has been expended upon the wave theory
of light it fails absolutely, and as it seems hopelessly, in two points of
primary importance. One is the extinction of the ray polarized by re-
flection; the other is double refraction. In other matters we have
difficulties, but we can see a possible means of escape. Here there
seems to be none.” (Nature, March, April, 1585, xxx1, 461, 508, 601.)

At the Aberdeen meeting of the British Association, Stoney showed
that the mass of a molecule of hydrogen must be a quantity of the same
order as a decigram divided by 10”, 7. e., a twenty-fourth decigrammet,
which is the same as a twenty-fifth grammet. Hence tle mass of the
chemical atom of hydrogen may be taken to be half of the twenty-fifth
of the grammet. This value is based on the conclusion reached by
several physicists that the number of molecules in a cubic millimeter of
a gas at ordinary temperature and pressure is somewhere about a unit
eighteen (10°); from which it can be shown that the number of mole-
‘cules per liter must be about a unit twenty-four (10%). From this, to-
gether with the weight of a liter of hydrogen, the above value for the
mass of a molecule of hydrogen has been deduced. (Nature, November,
1885, XXXIII, 21.) |

In a paper on the identity of energy, Lodge has drawn some interest-
ing conclusions from an important memoir by Poynting, presented to
the Royal Society. In this memoir the author introduces “ the idea of
continuity in the existence of energy; so that whenever energy is trans-
ferred from one place to another at a distance it is not to be regarded
as destroyed at one place and recreated at another, but is to be re-
garded as transferred, just as so much matter would have to be trans-
ferred; and accordingly we may seek for it in the intervening space
and may study the paths by whichit travels.” Lodge regards this new
form of the doctrine of conservation of energy as much simpler and
more satisfactory than the old one; and he proves it rigidly and in-

PHYSICS. o19

stantaneously from Newton’s law of motion (usually stated as three), on
the one hand, and a denialof action at a distance on the other, thus: “If
A does work on B it exerts force on it through a certain distance; but
(Newton’s law) B exerts an equal opposite force and (being in contact)
through exactly the same distance; hence B does an equal opposite
amount of work or gains the energy which A loses. ‘The stress between
A and B is the means of transferring energy from A to B, directly mo-
tion takes place in the sense AB. And the energy cannot jwmp from
A to B; itis transferred across their point of contact, and by hypothesis,
their ‘contact’ is absolute; there is no intervening gap, microscopic,
molecular, or otherwise. The energy may be watched at every instant.
Its existence is continuous; it possesses identity.” Obviously A and B
cannot be ‘“‘ pieces of matter” in the ordinary sense, since then they
cannot be in contact. If A and M be contiguous material molecules,
energy may be transferred from A to M, but not directly ; A cannot act
on M, cannot do work on it, because of the intervening gap. <A can
transfer its energy to B, B to C, C to D, and so on, handing on the en-
ergy to L, which is in contact with, and can act on, M, doing work on it
and giving up to it the energy lost by A. A, B, C, &c., are supposed
to be successive portions of the perfectly continuous space-filling me-
dium—ther. The distinction between potential and kinetic energy is
then discussed, and the conclusion stated: (1) Energy cannot be trans-
ferred without. being transformed ; nor conversely can it be transformed
without being transferred; and (2) it always transforms itself from
kinetic to potential or vice versa. “When A does work on 5b, energy
is transferred from A to B; if the energy lost by A is kinetic, that
gained by B is potential; if, on the other hand, A loses potential then
B gains kinetic energy.” Hence “the common mode of treating a fall-
ing weight, saying that its energy gradually transforms itself from
potential to kinetic, but remains in the stone all the time, is, strictly
speaking, nonsense. The fact is the stone never had any potential en-
ergy; no rigid body can have any; the gravitation medium had it, how-
ever, and kept on transferring it to the stone all the time it was descend-
ing.” Change of form is therefore necessar¥ and universal whenever
energy is transferred, i. e., whenever any kind of activity is exhibited
by any known kind of material existence. (Phil. Mag., June, 1885, V,.
XIx, 482.)

Groshans has announced a new law connecting the boiling points and
densities of substances with their atomic composition, which law he calls
“The law of Density-numbers.” These density numbers form a new
class of constants, and are attributes of the elements; they are whole
numbers, and each element possesses only one, though two or more
elements may possess the same number. They increase with the atomic
weights, but are not proportional to them. From the values thus far
obtained, the author suggests the hypothesis that carbon, oxygen, and
hydrogen are simple bodies, the other elements being compounds of
580 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

other simple substances, the number of atoms of which is shown by the
density number of each element. He enunciates the law in the follow-
ing simple form: ‘ The densities of substances are proportional to the
density numbers.” Of course it is necessary that the substances com-
pared should be under similar conditions; and then the ratio of the
sum of the density numbers to the density is constant. Thus for a
series of hydrated crystalline salts of the formula RCI, (HO), this
ratio varies from 19:85 to 20:00. Various other applications of the law
are given. (Phil. Mag., July, August, 1885, V, xx, 15, 191.)

Lodge, in his lecture on Dust, at the Montreal meeting of the British
Association, defined it to be all foreign matter, of whatever kind, sus-
pended in the air. Its function in causing the blue color of the sky and
the diffusion of sunlight was discussed. If the atmosphere were purely
gaseous, holding no minute foreign bodies in suspension, the sun would
glare down directly with blinding intensity, and objects not in its direct
rays would be in almost complete shadow. The sun would be set in a
black firmament, and it would be easy to see the stars at noonday.
But so far from this, the sun’s rays, on reaching our atmosphere, are par-
tially intercepted, diffused, and scattered by myriads of most minute
particles, so minute as to be even smaller than the light waves them-
selves, which act therefore more powerfully on the smallest of these
waves than on the largest. The light thus scattered has a preponder-
ance of small waves, owing to the minute size of the scattering parti-
cles, and hence it affects our sight organ with the sensation of blue.
The function of dust in causing vapor condensation was then considered,
and the theory of Aitken illustrated by experiment. Five methods of
removing dust from the air were mentioned: (1) Filtration through cot-
ton wool, either alone or mixed with glycerin; (2) settling, especially
in hydrogen; (3) condensing vapor in the air several times; (4) calcin-
ing the air, or keeping a hot body in it for some time; and (5) discharg-
ing electricity intoitfrom a point. He points out that the action of a hot
body in keeping the dust away from itself is due to molecular bombard-
ment; Tait, Dewar, and Reyvolds having shown that a Crookes bom-
bardment is effective at ordinary pressures, provided the bodies bom-
barded are small. Dust particles, being very small, are driven by
molecular impact away from hot bodies toward cold ones. Hence we
observe that articles in a room warmed by radiation, and therefore
warmer than the air of the room, are not likely to become as dusty as
those in a room warmed by hot air, where the air is warmer than the
articles. The rapid deposition of dust by electrification was shown by
discharging the current of a Voss machine from a point into an atmos-
phere containing magnesium smoke. Thus, possibly, the air is cleared
by thunder storms, and thus fog might possibly be dissipated at sea.
(Nature, January, 1885, XxXxI, 265.)

Genocchi has published a historical note on the pendulum experiment
for determining the earth’s rotation. Poleni, in 1669, in noticing a me-

PHYSICS. 581

moir of Huygens, says that, in consequence of the earth’s rotation, a
pendulum could not remain in the same plane during two consecutive
oscillations. De Sivry, in 1782, in his translation of Pliny, observes
that the pendulum might be used in place of a compass, ‘ the vessel in
turning about not altering by this motion the direction of vibration
once given to the pendulum.” In 1837 Poisson, while admitting the
deflecting influence of the earth’s rotation upon a projectile, denied the
possibility of any deviation whatever for the pendulum ; and in order
to sustain his opinion, he attempted to prove mathematically that the
component perpendicular to the oscillatory plane was too small to cause
any sensible deviation of the pendulum from its plane, or to have any
appreciable influence on its motion. This opinion was refuted by Binet
and Plana in 1851. Poncelet, in 1860, showed that the phenomenon
was much more complicated than had been generally supposed; and
finally, W. Dumas and Serret gave the complete theory of the experi-
ment. (J. Phys., March, 1885, II, rv, 147.)

In constructing the reversible pendulum of Bohnenberger, Weber has
proposed to place the knife edges in such a way that any given varia-
tion of their distance may have the least possible influence upon the
duration of oscillation. With a cylindrical rod he finds that this con-

dition is realized when ¢= J 3°02045 @ and when the knife edges are
g

placed symmetrically at a distance from the center « = 0-37835 a; arep-
resenting the moment of inertia of the pendulum around its center of
gravity. The value of a may be calculated geometrically and the length
of the simple synchronous pendulum / in the formula /=3-02045 a be
deduced from a determination of the time ¢, without having any meas-
urements of length to make other than those of the geometric dimen-
sions of the rod. (Wied. Ann., xx11, 439; J. Phys., November, 1885, II,
Iv, 510.)

Oppolzer has obtained, by means of a Repsold reversion pendulum,
the provisional value 0-993825 meter for the length of a seconds pendu-
lum in Vienna, lat. 48° 13/ 57’, altitude 236 meters. (Ber. Ak. Wien.,
1884, p. 2; J. Phys., April, 1885, II, rv, 184).

Sakai and Yamaguchi have determined the gravitation constant in
C. G. S. units at Kagoshima and at Naha, in the Loo Choo Islands, using
the method employed by Mendenhall in Tokio. The value at Kagoshi-
ma was 979°561 + 0:0057, and at Naha 979-165 + 0:0055. (Am. J. S¢i.,
May, 1885, III, xx1x, 404.)

Bartoli has speculated on the mean density of a body containing all
the known elements in a solid state, either uncombined, or, if partly
combined, each retaining the density belonging to it in the solid state.
He makes three suppositions: (1) The masses of all the substances
equal; (2) the masses such that the corresponding volumes shall be
equal, and (3) the masses in the ratio of the atomic weights. In this
way he arrives at the mean densities 2-698, 7-027, and 5-776, this last
582 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

value, as he points out, coming very near that got by Cavendish for the
mean density of the earth, which was 5:67. (Nature, October, 1885,
XXXII, 635.)

Wilsing has revived the use of the pendulum for determining the
earth’s mean density, and has shown that the necessary sensitiveness
may be secured by adjusting so that the center of gravity comes close
under the axis of oscillation. In his experimental apparatus fixed leaden
balls, each weighing 300 grams, were placed at the ends of a prismatic
rod of thin sheet iron, the steel knife edge being in the middle of the
rod and resting on agate planes. After adjustment to equilibrium, the
attracting masses were brought near the leaden spheres and the deflection
read by means of a mirror and scale. Krom the value thus obtained the
ratio of the deflecting attraction to the constant of gravitation can be
deduced. By reversing the direction of the deflecting force the total
deviation is doubled. An improved apparatus, in process of construc-
tion, will, it is expected, give accurate results. (Ber. Ak. Berl., January,
1885; Phil. Mag., March, 1885, V, xx, 219; Am. J. Sci., May, 1885, III,
XXIx, 402.)

K6nig and Richarz have suggested an imnrovement of Von Jolly’s
method for determining the earth’s mean density. A cubical block of
lead, about 2 meters in the edge and weighing 100,000 kilograms, is so
placed that the center of its upper horizontal surface is exactly beneath
the middle knife edges of an extremely delicate balance. Beneath the
center of each scale-pan the block is bored vertically through, and two
other scale-pans are suspended below the block by means of rods pass-
ing through these openings. A weight in one of the upper pans is bal-
anced by weights in the opposite lower pan. The former is acted on by
the earth’s attraction plus that of the block, the latter by the difference
of the two. Hence, the weights in the lower pan are greater than those
in the upper by twice the attraction of the block. A second weighing
is then made, the other two pans being now used. The difference of
the two weighings gives four times the attraction of the block. (Ber.
Ak. Berl., December, 1884; Phil. Mag., February, 1885, V, x1x, 148;
Nature, January, March, 1885, xxx1, 260, 408, 484.)

MECHANICS.
1. Of Solids.

In a paper read at the Aberdeen meeting of the British Association,
Osborne Reynolds discussed a new and very fundamental property of
granular masses composed of rigid particles in contact, which property
hecalls Dilatancy. Itis exhibited in any arrangement of particles where
change of bulk is dependent upon change of shape. In fluids change
of shape and volume are independent, but in solids they are sometimes
not separable. With granular masses change of shape always produces
change of volume, and if change of volume is prevented any change of

PHYSICS. 583

form is impossible. Thus a sack of corn is flexible on end, but becomes
hard when placed on its side, and its shape will not alter. But if the
sack be made of rubber, since the boundary of the granular mass is
now extensible, it remains perfectly flexible in all positions. However,
if it be possible with an extensible envelope to impose a maximum vol-
ume upon the contents, effects similar to those obtained with the inex-
tensible boundary may be expected. This can be done, for example,
by placing No. 6 shot in a rubber bag and adding a certain amount
of water. If the quantity of water be such that the spaces between
the granules when in close arrangement are all filled by it, while
with a wide arrangement the amount is not enough, a point will be
reached in passing from the first to the second arrangement such that
any further change of shape and consequently of volume would produce
avacuum. When thisstageisreached the whole mass becomes perfectly
hard. When the foot presses upon wet sand, that portion of it imme-
diately surrounding the foot becomes momentarily dry. The sand being
completely filled with water, the pressure of the foot causes dilatation,
and so more water is required. ‘This is drawn in from the surrounding
sand leaving it dry until a sufficient supply has been drawn up from
below. On raising the foot the sand contracts again and the excess of
water escapes again wetting the sand under and around the foot. The
author conceived that the property of dilatancy placed a hitherto un-
known mechanical contrivance at the command of those who would ex-
plain the fundamental arrangement of the universe; and he proceeded —
to explain how bodies in such a medium would, in virtue of the dilation
caused in the medium, attract each other at a distance with a force de-
pending on the distance which might well! correspond with gravitation.
Further, owing to the existence of a region close to the body in which
the density varies several times from maximum to minimum, the mutual
force might undergo a change from attraction to repulsion. and this
more than once, as the bodies approach a condition which seems to
account for cohesion and observed molecular force far better than any
previous hypothesis. (Phil. Mag., December, 1885, V, xx, 469; Nature,
October, 1885, xxx11, 535.)

Von Helmholtz has suggested an improved method of measuring the
modulus of elasticity of solids. Ordinarily the bar is firmly supported at
its ends and the flexure produced by loading it in the middle is measured
with the cathetometer. Under these circumstances, however, a consid-
erable error is introduced by the compression at the points of support.
To eliminate this Von Helmholtz uses two perpendicular mirrors at the
ends of the bar, their reflecting surfaces being directed inwards. A
scale is placed opposite one end of the bar and a reading telescope op-
posite the other. The image of the scale is seen in the one mirror as
reflected in the opposite one. As the bar is loaded and becomes flexed
the image is displaced to an amount proportional to the angular changes
of the mirrors. The amount of flexure for different loads is a simple
584 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

matter of observation therefore, and is independent of the effect of the
pressure on the supporting edges. K6nig proposes the use of the anal-
ogous method of Kirchhoff for determining Poisson’s constants; only,
instead of using two horizontal mirrors and two telescopes, two parallel
mirrors inclined at an angle of 45° should be used at the two ends of
the bar, with one telescope. Im this way the moduli of elasticity and
of torsion may be measured and the constants in question calculated.
(Nature, August, 1885, xxx11, 360.)

Frederick Siemens has improved greatly the processes for tempering
glass, and consequently the product obtained. The scientific principle
underlying these consists simply in keeping the whole body of the glass
at a uniform temperature during the operations of heating and cooling.
The De la Bastie process is wrong in principle, since it leaves the glass
in a state of tension; while the glass treated by the new process is al-
most entirely free from internal stress. Three distinct processes are
made use of; in the first, called press-hardening, the very best quality
of glass is used. It is cut into the proposed shapes, softened in the
furnace, and cooled between metal plates, the degree of hardening de-
pending upon the temperature to which the glass is heated and the
rate at which it is cooled. It may be cooled so rapidly that a diamond
will not seratch it, a result obtained in the case of sheet and plate glass
for the most part, either plain or decorated ; increasing its strength
eightfold. For sheets of ordinary thickness, the heating occupies a
minute and the cooling half a minute, and this without injury to the
glass. The second process, called semi-hardening, is applied to articles
not adapted tothe press. These are heated up to the verge of softening
and then placed in an iron casing having projecting ribs to give the
necessary support, the whole being cooled in the open air.- The strength
of the glass is increased about three times. The glass made in the third
process is called hard-cast glass, and is used for grindstones, sleepers,
car-rails, and floor plates. It is made in a continuous melting furnace
and run into molds made of imperfectly conducting materials, such as
mixtures of porcelain, glass pots, heavy spar, magnetic iron, &c., pul-
verized and then molded as in casting iron. After the glass is run into
the mold the whole is heated up and rapidly cooled. To show its homo-
geneity a tuning fork was made of it which gave a clear musical note.
(Nature, March, 1885, xxx, 413.)

Sherman has called attention to the relation obtained by Weber be-
tween the residual elasticity of glass and its chemical composition, the
former value being deduced from the observed depression of the column
after heating. Plotting the results obtained, the ordinates represent-
jng depression in tenths of a degree and the abscissas the ratio of pot-
ash to soda, Sherman notes the fact that while the greater portion of
the observations may be represented by a smooth curve, yet several of
the points lie farther from the curve than can be accounted for by errors
of observation; the composition of the glass being identically the same

PHYSICS. DSS

for some of these points and for some lying in the curve. Except in
one case, the departures are less than the maximum differences afforded
by the depressions observed on a single thermometer. In this case, the
only one where the depression is diminished, the lime, soda, and potash
exist in the glass in nearly equal amounts. (Am. J. Sci., May, 1885,
ITI, xx1x, 385.)

Bartoli has sought to show the non-permeability of glass to gases by
means of a polarization test. A glass trough divided vertically in the
middle was filled with a solution of sodium sulphate. On opposite
sides of this partition were fastened thin gold electrodes, a second elec-
trode, also, of gold, being in each cell. The two electrodes of one of these
cells were connected with a delicate galvanometer, those of the other
with a strong battery. But no effect was produced upon the galvanom-
eter. Since any trace of either oxygen or hydrogen by passing through
the glass would have polarized one of the galvanometer electrodes and
prodaced a current, the author concludes that the glass is not permea-
ble to gases. (Il Nuovo Cimento, III, xvi, 78; J. Phys., December, 1885,
II, Iv, 556.)

Trowbridge and McRae have determined by several methods the co-
efficient of elasticity of ice. Bars prepared by freezing water in metallic
tubes were vibrated transversely and made to record their vibrations
simultaneously with those of a tuning fork of known pitch. The values
of E in two experiments were 66 x 10° and 55 x 10° absolute units.
Bars of ice were cut from a pond, supported at the ends, weighted, and
the deflection measured by a cathetometer. The values in the four
series of observations were 57 x 10°, 65 x 10°, 71 x 10°, 96 x 10°,
the mean being 72 x 10°. By the method of longitudinal vibrations,
the pitch of the note being 0.3 of a semi-tone of C sharp, the modulus
for a bar of ice 138 centimeters long was found to be 86 x 10° absolute
units. The calculated velocity of sound in ice is therefore 2,900 meters
per second, or about nine times the velocity in air. (Am.J. Sci., May,
1885, III, xx1rx, 349.)

Trotter has communicated to the Royal Society the results of some
experiments made at the Grindelwald glacier to ascertain whether di-
rect evidence of shearing could be obtained in ice under the action of
forces produced by the action of gravity. Bars of ice were passed
through holes in three parallel blocks of wood nearly in contact, the
two outer ones being hung to a frame, while a weight was hung to the
middle one. Ina final experiment a shear of about 0.075°™ was observed
after the action during seventeen days of a shearing force of rather more
than 200 grams per square centimeter. He therefore thinks that ‘ there
is little doubt that, under conditions closely resembling those in the in-
terior of a glacier, and under the influences of forces comparable with
those which gravity is capable of exerting in a glacier, hand specimens
of ice shear in the same manner as a truly viscous solid would do.”
(Nature, February, 1885, xxxt, 328.)
586 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Morgan has made a series of experiments on the viscosity of ice, which,
taken in connection with results obtained by other experimenters, are
of great interest. In the first a cylinder of ice 3 inches in diameter
was supported on a board, and over it a wire was hung loaded with a
total weight of 5 pounds. The whole was placed in the snow chamber of
a refrigerating apparatus for six and a half hours at a temperature never
above—12°. No dent was observable on the surface of the cylinder.
The second experiment was similar, the weight being increased to 10
pounds and the time to eight hours, but the result was the same. In
the third, the weight was 14 pounds and the time seventeen and a half
hours, but no indentation was observable. In the fourth experiment a
bar of ice 24 inches wide and 14 thick was supported on bearers 134
inches apart, from Monday noon to Saturday noon without perceptible
flexure. In the fifth the bar was weighted in the middle for the same
time with 7 pounds, but with the same result. In the sixth, 18 pounds
weight acting for the same time gave no perceptible deflection. In the
seventh a similar though thinner bar, varying from ‘625 to °875 of an
inch in thickness, was weighted for four days with 7 pounds and for
two days with 7 pounds additional. No bending could be detected by
measurement. The author cites experiments at other temperatures, and
concludes that the viscosity of ice is considerable at temperatures at
and above the melting point, is much less below but near this point,
is very slight between —3.5° and —12°, and is nil below —12°. (Nature,
May, 1885, Xxx11, 16.)

Fromme has observed that the purely mechanical interpretation of
the change of properties which steel undergoes by hardening, in which
the pressure which the external layer suddenly cooled exerts on the
internal portions, plays a prominent part, leads to consequences con-
cerning the density of a tempered mass of steel which are not always
in accord with experiment. It must be admitted that this mechanical
action produces so close an approximation of the molecules that a con-
secutive chemical action results, 7. e., the combination of the iron and ~
the carbon. In this way it is not difficult to see that slow cooling,
effected under a considerable pressure, can produce the physical effects
of hardening, as the experiments of Clemandot and Lan have shown.
(Wied. Ann., Xx11, 371; J. Phys., December, 1885, II, Iv, 583.)

2. Of Liquids.

In conjunction with Vicentini, Pagliani has determined the coefficient
of compressibility of water at various temperatures. At 0° it is
0-0000503 ; at 10°, 0:0000470; at 20°, 0:0000445; at 30°, 0-0000425; at
40°, 0-0000409; at 50°, 0-0000397 ; at 60°, 0-:0000389; at 70°, 0-0000390;
at 80°, 0:0000396 ; at 90°, 0:0000402 ; and at 100°, 0-0000410. The same
author, working with Palazzo, finds the compressibility of ethyl alcohol
to be represented by the empirical formula py=y, (14 © 9003177t+

PHYSICS. 587

0-0000550#?). With respect to mixtures, the authors find (1) that the
addition of small quantities of alcohol lowers the compressibility-coeffi-
cient of water; (2) that this diminution continues to increase until the
alcohol constitutes 23 per cent.; (3) that for mixtures containing less
than 19 per cent. of alcohol, the coefficient diminishes as the tempera-
ture rises from zero upward, there veing for each mixture a tempera-
ture where it is a minimum; and (4) that the temperature of minimum
compressibility is always lower for these mixtures than for water.
There appears to be no relation between the temperature of maximum
density and minimum compressibility of these mixtures. (J. Phys.,
August, 1885, II, Iv, 371.)

Terquem has translated from Vitruvius an account of the process by
which Archimedes determined the composition of the crown of Hiero,
which differs from that ordinarily received. After the discovery in the
bath, he caused to be made two masses equal in weight to that of the
crown, the one of gold the other of silver. Then having filled com-
pletely with water a vessel of known capacity he plunged into it the
mass of silver. A quantity of water equal to the volume of the silver
overflowed. Removing the metal, he poured water into the vessel until
it was again full, measuring the quantity of water thus used. In this
manner he ascertained the volume of water corresponding to a known
weight of silver. This experiment was then repeated with the mass of
gold, the volume of which was found proportionally less. On immers-
ing the crown in the same vessel, he observed that a greater volume of
water overflowed than was displaced by the mass of gold of the same
weight; and from the quantity which overflowed in the former case over
that in the latter he calculated the amount of silver which the crown
contained. Hence it would appear that Archimedes did not make use
of the upward pressure of liquids in this experiment, as is generally as-
sumed, but employed a process analogous in principle if not identical
with that of the specific gravity bottle. (J. Phys., August, 1885, II, rv,
384.)

Schiff has devised a simple form of apparatus for determining the
specific density of liquids at high temperatures based on the principle
of the weight thermometer. The bottle used, which has a capacity of
8 or 10° °, has a recuryed neck over which is a helmet ground air tight.
It is filled with the liquid and weighed, then submitted to the required
temperature and the excess of liquid allowed to overflow into the helmet.
A second weighing after cooling gives the weight of the liquid remain-
ing and hence of the overflow, from which the density of the liquid at
the given temperature is calculated. (Ber. Berl. Chem. Ges., June, 1885,
XVIII, 1538; Am. J. Sci., November, 1885, III, xxx, 380.)

The phenomena of capillarity have received very considerable atten-
tion. Worthington has reviewed the method proposed by Quincke for
determining surface tensions from the dimensions of flat drops and bub-
bles, and has shown that the higher results given by this method over
588 “SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

those given by capillary tubes are due in the main to two erroneous as-
sumptions, which may cause an error of even 10 per cent. He gives a
table of the corrected values for ten liquids. (Phil. Mag., July, 1885,
V, xx, 51.) In a paper on the theory of pendent drops the same author
shows that the value of the surface tension of a liquid may be deduced
from the measurement of the value of the inclination of the tangent of
the curved surface of a pendent drop to the axis, measured at a single
Jevel, that level being so chosen that the tangent is there vertical.
(Phil. Mag., January, 1885, V, x1x, 46; J. Phys., October, 1885, II, rv,
466.)

Worthington has devised a capillary multiplier, which consists simply
of a rectangular strip of platinum foil of known length rolled into a
cylindrical coil, the successive convolutions being kept separate at a dis-
tance of about 2™™ by means of a strip of glass beads in the upper por-
tion of the coil. The lower edges of the convolutions are in the same
plane, and, as when in use, the coil hangs from one end of a balance
beam, this plane is horizontal. By immersing the lower edge in any
liquid and measuring by weights in the opposite scale-pan the pull on
the coil the surface tension may be calculated. (Phil. Mag., January,
1885, V, xix, 43; J. Phys., October, 1885, I, 1v, 467.)

Rother has measured the capillary constant of several saline solutions,
and also of various mixtures of these solutions. (Wied. Ann., xx1, 576;
J. Phys., November, 1885, II, 1v, 520.) The paper of Reinold and Riicker
on the influence of an electric current in modifying the rate of thinning
of a liquid film has appeared in full. (Phil. Mag., February, 1885, V,
xix, 94.) Riticker has delivered a lecture on liquid films before the
Royal Institution, giving a résumé of the investigations on this subject
made by himself in conjunction with Reinold. (Nature, July, 1885,
xXxxu, 210.)

Warburg and Sachs have studied the influence of increasing density
on the viscosity of liquids, and have calculated the coefficient of friction
from the compressibility. This coefficient increases for carbon dioxide,
ether, and benzene, and diminishes for water. This latter fact was es-
tablished by Réntgen in 1881. (Wied. Ann., xxi, 510, 518; J. Phys.,
November, 1885, II, tv, 519.)

Newall has investigated the phenomena of colliding water-jets and
has obtained some curious results. If two horizontal jets of water,
issuing from similar glass nozzles and fed from two glass bottles, be
made to collide at a small angle the jets, if tolerably clean and dust-
free water be used, rebound from one another, but may be made to
unite by connecting the terminals of a battery with the water in the
two bottles. The surface of separation between the colliding jets is ver-
tical and shows the colors of thin plates with remarkable brilliancy, due
undoubtedly to a thin film of air, as Rayleigh has shown the two to be
electrically insulated from one another. The author investigated the ~
effect of a gradual increase of electromotive force upon these colors,

PHYSICS. 589

and found that they remained constant until coalescence was produced,
and then disappeared suddenly; thus eliminating conclusively the hy-
pothesis that the action of electricity in promoting union may be ascribed
to the additional pressure called into play by electrical attraction of the
opposed water surfaces acting as plates of a condenser. (Phil. Mag.,
July, 1885, V, xx, 31.)

3. Of Gases.

An interesting discussion on the kinetic theory of gases took place in
the mathematical and physical section of the British Association at the
Aberdeen meeting in September. The discussion was opened by Crum
Brown, who stated the difficulties of the theory under two heads: First
the difficulties connected with the doctrine that energy communicated
from without to a gas is equally shared among the whole of the degrees
of freedom of the molecules ; and, second, the difficulties connected with
the doctrine that energy of each kind is distributed among the mole-
cules according to some form of the law of probability. Under the first
head he called attention to the fact that the ratio of the specific heat of
mercury vapor at constant pressure to that at constant volume is 5:3,
which gives on the dynamical theory but three degrees of freedom to the
molecules, and these must be the three translational freedoms. If to
prevent rotation the molecules be regarded as perfectly smooth, rigid,
and spherical, the radiation producing the spectrum cannot be accounted
for. In diatomic gases the ratio is 7:5, giving three translatory and
two rotational freedoms. But here again the vibration of the atoms
is not accounted for, either as parts of the molecule or individually.
Boltzmann’s theorem asserts that the energy of a molecule is equally
distributed among the different degrees of freedom. Hence, if in addi-
tion to the six degrees of freedom of a rigid body in space the mole-
cules have twenty or thirty others, it would seem that the dynamical
theory must be abandoned, as there would not be sufficient energy for
translational motion. The second class of difficulties arises when it is
supposed that the energy is distributed among the molecules according
to some form of the law of probability. For then in a mixture of gases
there would always be some molecules in a condition favorable for com-
bination. Moreover, there should be no such sharp temperature and
pressure-limits for combination, such as exist between phosphorus and
oxygen, for example. And further, oxygen and hydrogen may be kept
for a long time at a temperature near that of combination without any
union taking place. Liveing maintained that the difficulties encountered
arose from the assumptions of Boltzmann’s theorem, which is not a neces-
sary part of the kinetic theory. It is quite possible that mereury vapor
has no sensible vibrational energy at the temperatures at which its spe-
cific heat has been measured. The more perfect gases have at ordinary
temperatures much less vibrational than translational energy; so that
they may have only one or at most two modes of vibration, Sir William
590 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Thomson had never seen any reason at all for believing in Boltzmaun’s
theorem. J.J. Thomson said that he thought the reason that the value
of the specific heats of a gas, as found by experiment, did not agree
with the value given by Boltzmann’s theorem was because Boltzmann’s
theorem was not true. Hicks stated that to him one of the greatest
objections to this theorem was the difficulty in believing that the mean
energy of any vibration whatever of an atom was susceptible of unlim-
ited increase. Osborne Reynolds remarked that the kinetic theory is
supposed to be true only in so far as the assumptions on which it is
based represent the actual conditions. In any gas the mean energies of
translation in which there is most rapid communication and no appre-
ciable resistance will be much greater than the mean energies of vibra-
tion to which there is all the resistance consequent on the radiation and
in all probability bat little communication. (Nature, August, October,
18585, XXXII, 352, 533.)

De Romilly has modified the form of vacuum jet which he suggested
in 1881, and to which he gave the name of pneole. In its original form a
jet of water or of mercury was thrown upward from a circular orifice into
a second and similar one placed above it, carrying the surrounding air
withit. Since the interior parts of the solid column contributed nothing
to the effect, the periphery alone being useful, the author has placed
a solid cylinder within the jet so as to make the opening annular. The
liquid is thrown up by centrifugal action. A mercury apparatus of this
description, turned by hand, made a barometric vacuum ina globe of
600° & capacity in about six minutes. (J. Phys., August, 1885, LI, 1v,
366.)

Wilde has made a series of experiments on the velocity with which
air rashes into a vacuum. Theory assumes that air rushes into a vac-
uum with the velocity which a heavy body would acquire by falling
from the top of a homogeneous atmosphere, 7. é., a velocity of 1,352
feet a second. The apparatus consisted of two strong cast-iron cylin-
ders, the smaller having a capacity of 573 cubic inches and the larger
of 8,459 cubic inches. To the smaller a compression pump and pressure
gauge were attached, to the larger an exhausting pump and a vacuum
gauge. The air was discharged from the smaller cylinder into the
large one through a disk of tinned iron 0:75 inch in diameter, and 0-01
inch thick, pierced in the center with a circular hole 0-02 inch in diam-
eter. The vacuum was 0-6 inch mercury, and the pressure varied from
10 to 1385 pounds per square inch. The maximum velocity observed
was 1,225 feet per second, and this only at the commencement, the
values in general being considerably less than theory indicates, though
at forty atmospheres the theoretical velocity would be reached. Experi-
ments made on the discharge of the compressed air into the atmosphere
showed that the times of eacli discharge from 120 pounds to 15 pounds
effective pressure are identical with the times of discharge from 135
pounds to 30 pounds absolute pressure into a vacuum, Hence the au-

PHYSICS. 591

thor formulates the general proposition that the atmosphere acts as a
vacuum, and offers no resistance to the discharge of air of all pressures
above two absolute atmospheres. (Phil. Mag., December, 1885, V, Xx,
531.)

Hoffmann has determined the law of the flow of air through a capil-
lary tube too short for it to obey Poiseuille’s law. He concludes (1)
that the principal cause of the failure of this law under these circum-
stances is to be sought for in the perturbations produced at the two
orifices, particularly at the entering one; and (2) that if the times of
flow of any mass of air whatever be taken as ordinates, and the lengths
of the tubes (of constant diameter) through which the air flows as ab-
scissas, very flat curves are obtained which ascend rapidly and are in-
termediate between a straight line anda hyperbola. (Wied. Ann., XXI,
470; J. Phys., November, 1885, II, rv, 512.)

Hausemann has experimented to determine the law of the diffusion
of gases through a porous partition, the gases used being oxygen and
hydrogen. The diffusiometer was constructed so as to allow the diffu-
sion to take place under considerably higher pressures, for a single gas,
than had been hitherto used. From the data obtained the calculation
of the diffusion-coefficient for the two gases was made without diffi-
culty. Experiment furnished perfectly concordant numbers, but the
calculation of the coefficient of reciprocal diffusion by means.of these
coefficients did not succeed. Values were found for this coefficient of
interdiffusion which decreased with the time and the upper limit of
which is considerably smaller than the coefficient measured directly by
Loschmidt. Hence Stefan’s theory is not confirmed; it implies the
hypothesis that diffusion is effected in the vacuities of porous bodies
according to the same law as in open space. But it is evident that the
porous partition exerts a special action which has not been taken into
consideration by Stefan. (Wied. Ann., xxt, 545; J. Phys., November,
1885, II, rv, 518.)

Amagat has repeated his experiments on the compressibility of air
and of nitrogen with reference to the use of these gases in manometers,
extending the range of pressure, which in the earlier series was never
less than 20 to 30 atmospheres, down to that of 1 atmosphere. These
experiments were made in one the towers of the church at Fouviéres,
where a clear height of 63 meters was available. The method was es-
sentially the same as that used in the Verpilleux shaft, though with
some improvements. The results agreed perfectly with previous deter-
minations, the values for nitrogen not varying in general by one
thousandth of the total pressure. But the discrepancies with Cailletet’s
figures still exist, amounting between 40 and 60 meters to more than 2
meters of mercury. A table is given of the product pv for nitrogen and
air at the temperature of 16° and at pressures varying from 0-76 to 65
meters of mercury. Within these limits either of these gases may be
used for filling manometers. Between 85 and 430 atmospheres nitrogen
592 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

is preferable; while above 430 atmospheres hydrogen is preferable,
the curve of pv being a straight line for this gas. (C.R., Xorx, 1017;
Phil. Mag., February, 1885, V, xix, 150.)

Bottomley has communicated to the Royal Society a preliminary note
on the condensation of gases at the surface of glass. A quantity of
non-tubular spun glass was placed in a glass tube which was then ex-
hausted with a Sprengel pump till the exhaustion, as shown by the Mac-
Leod gauge, was three ten-millionths of an atmosphere. At the end of
an hour the vacuum remained sensibly the same, the temperature of the
room being about 14°. While the mercury was flowing through for the
third time the tube containing the glass was heated with a Bunsen
flame. The hammering produced by the falling mercury at once ceased
and the MacLeod gauge showed a considerable increase of pressure. The
action of the pump was continued, and the temperature raised as high
as the tube would bear in order to remove all the adhering gas. The
collecting tube was then removed and the gas contained in it analyzed.
The quantity was only 0-45¢* and it consisted of carbon dioxide 8-24
per cent., oxygen 22-76 per cent., and nitrogen 69 per cent. ‘The fibers
of the spun glass were measured and found to be fairly uniform and 7:06
hundredths of a millimeter in average diameter. By comparative
weighing the number of fibers in the tube was found to be 6,370. Their
average length was 10-25. Hence their total surface was 1,448%- °™,
Ina second experiment 15,500 glass fibers were used, having a total
surface of 3,5278 «™, The gas given off measured 0:41°° of which 78:6
per cent. was carbon dioxide, the remainder being oxygen (10:5 per
cent.) and nitrogen (89-5 per cent.). This large amount of carbon di-
oxide is difficult to account for unless it was taken up by the glass at
the time it was spun. (Nature, March, 1885, XxxI, 423.)

Kayser, in a note to the Physical Society of Berlin, calls attention to
Bunsen’s paper explaining the discrepancies between his own results
and those of Kayser regarding the absorption of carbon dioxide by glass
surfaces. Bunsen has now shown that the glass threads, even after dry
air had been passed over them for a long time, still retained a layer of
water which was thinner the higher the temperature, but was not entirely
dissipated until the temperature reached 500°. Hence the absorption
observed by Bunsen, and which appeared to continue indefinitely, would
seem to have been an absorption by this layer of water, whereas in
Kayser’s experiments, in which the glass threads had been freed from all
adhering matters by boiling oil, the carbon dioxide had been absorbed
by the smooth glass itself. (Natwre, May, 1885, xxxu1, 72.)

ACOUSTICS.

Neyreneuf has determined the velocity of sound in steam by a method
based upon certain observations of Weber and Savart. A longitudi-,
nally vibrating reed is attached to the end of a cylindrical draw-tube
18™™ in diameter through which the air passes to throw it into vibra-

PHYSICS. 593

tion. The reed speaks or is silent for certain definite variations in the
length of the draw-tube; the sum of the two consecutive intervals cor-
responding to sound and silence being equal to the wave length of the
sound given by the reed. Any change in the velocity of the air current
modifies both the intervals, but their sum remains absolutely the same.
With a draw-tube which may be extended through 3 meters, a series of
closely concordant measurements of the lengthening and shortening
may be rapidly made, whose mean value is closely approximate. Since
Biot has shown that the proper sound of a reed is independent of the
nature of the gas acting upon it, it suffices simply to sound this reed
with different gases in order to compare directly the velocities of sound
in them, which are proportional to their wave lengths. The relative
values obtained were, for air 27-5 to 32; carbon dioxide, 22°5 to 25; illumi-
nating gas, 42, and hydrogen 113. The mean of nine closely concordant
experiments gave 40-48 for the wave length in steam at 100°, the caleu-
lated value being 41-089. (J. Phys., December, 1885, II, Iv, 550.)

Mercadier has continued his studies on the laws of vibration of circu-
lar plates. He concludes (1) that it is not possible in practice to con-
struct disks of iron or steel of a thickness less than one millimeter which
shall give sounds calculated in advance from their dimensions; and
(2) that the mathematical theory of circular vibrating plates is not af-
fected by this, since the differences between the calculated and the exper-
imental results are explained by circumstances difficult to introduce
into formulas. In all cases the more the thickness increases the closer
is the accord between theory and experiment. Hence, in verifying the
theory anew, it will be necessary to experiment on disks of small radius
and of sufficient thickness. (J. Phys., December, 1885, Il, Iv, 541.)

Semmolz has observed that if the conductors of an influence machine
are connected by means of two wires 5 meters long with two binding
screws on opposite sides of a brass plate 1 millimeter in thickness,
resting on an ebonite funnel, and the path of the current is broken so
that sparks strike across, the plate begins to sound. A Geissler tube
or a lead wire may be interposed in the break without destroying the
effect, or a wire containing the break may be led to earth from one of
the binding screws. The sound is louder if the upper end of this wire
is held at ashort distance from the connecting post, so that sparks pass.
The wires from the machine may even be connected with a second metal
plate parallel to and at a distance from the other one, the sound being
strengthened by connecting this plate to earth, and slightly by interpos-
inga glass plate. If the wires be connected with the insulated wire of a
sonometer, instead of the brass plate, no sound is heard unless an ebon-
ite ear-trumpet is placed on the resonant box. (Beiblidtter Phys., Ux,
671; Phil. Mag., December, 1885, V, xx, 548.)

Le Conte Stevens has suggested an improvement in the method of pro-
jecting acoustic curves optically. He uses the well-known method of
Lissajous, but instead of throwing the beam reflected from the mirror

H. dlis. lo 3d

594 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

of the second fork directly on the screen, he receives it on an oscillating
- or revolving mirror, which sends it to the screen. If either fork vibrate
alone, the curve is the simple sinusoid corresponding to its rate; while
if both are put in vibration the compound curve characteristic of the
interval is obtained. If the ratios are exact, the form of the curve de-
pends on the difference of phase and is constant. If they are notexact,
interference takes place and the beats are seen to have their optical ex-
pression. (Am. J. Sci., March, 1885, III, xxrx, 234.)

Felici has suggested the following arrangement for showing Lissajous
figures by means of vibrating strings. A piano wire, something more
than a meter long, is strung horizontally in such a way that the tension
can be varied at will. Upon itis fixed vertically by means of a little
cement a card in which a narrow horizontal slit has been cut. Behind
this wire a second similar wire is placed vertically exactly opposite the
center of the slit in the card. The tension of both cords is so regulated
that their vibration ratios are simple. On vibrating them both simul-
taneously in parallel vertical planes, so that the two vibrations are per-
pendicular to one another, and on throwing a beam of light through the
point of intersection, the image on a screen formed by means of a lens
shows the characteristic Lissajous curve in black within a bright rect-
angle. (11 Nuovo Cimento, xv1, 160; J. Phys., December, 1885, II, Iv,
557.)

In order to facilitate the determination of the number of beats given
by a vibrating body with a fork of known pitch, Israileff has constructed
a pendulum the vibrations of which can be regulated to coincide with
the beats observed. For this purpose he displaces a weight micromet-
rically along the rod of the pendulum, prolonged for this purpose above
the axis of suspension. An empirical graduation permits direct read-
ing of the number of vibrations to be added to or subtracted from the
number of the vibrations made by the fork in order to obtain those
of the sounding body. In Russia the bells in church towers are fixed
and are struck by their tongues acting as hammers. To produce an
agreeable effect, the bells must be so tuned that they yield exactly
the harmonics of the same fundamental tone. It is for this purpose
that the above device was constructed. Isralieff has himself made the
tuning forks for comparison. The set begins at 440 vibrations and con-
tinues to 880, increasing regularly by 8 vibrations, tuned with great
care. To lower the tone the central portions of the bell are turned off
on a lathe, and to raise the tone, the peripheral portions, until the
proper tone is reached. (J. Soc. Phys.-Chim. Russe, XV1, 1; J. Phys.,
December 1885, II, rv, 588.)

In 1879 Mayer devised a method of measuring with great accuracy
the vibration periods of tuning forks, the details of which have only now
been published. It consists, first, in making the tuning fork, to which
an exceedingly fine light style is attached, describe its own vibrations
on a revolving cylinder covered with smoked paper; and, second, in de-

PHYSICS. 595

termining the exact number of vibrations made per second by means of
a spark produced between the tuning-fork style and the metal cylinder
whenever contact is established in an electrical circuit by means of a sec-
onds pendulum. This pendulum is provided with a triangular platinum
poiut, which as it vibrates cuts a small and rigid mercury globule on an
adjustable iron cup. The pendulum and mercury globule are in the
primary circuit of an inductorium, the fork and cylinder in the second-
ary circuit. It is essential that the discharge should not be multiple,
but should consist of only a single spark, a result secured by varying the
strength of the current in the primary circuit and the size of the con-
denserinthe secondary. The author used this method not only to deter-
mine the absolute pitch of tuning forks, but also to determine the abso-
lute constancy of the pitch with decreasing amplitude, and, in conjunc-
tion with the method of beats, to study the effect of temperature on
pitch. He concludes that a Koenig fork gains or loses 3;4¢; part of
a vibratory period by a change of temperature of 1° F. The effect of
the serape of the style on the vibration of the fork was also measured
and found to be —-026 vibration. The results of his determinations of
the pitch of five European forks of various standards are given ip the
memoir, and also some resu!ts of the use of the above method as a chro-
noscope. (Mem. Nat. Acad. Sci., 1885, 111, 45.)

Ellis has given an account of the method of Mayer, and has compared
the results obtained by it with those of other methods, especially those
of Scheibler, of MacLeod, and of Koenig. The five forks sent to Mayer
had been measured by himself with Scheibler’s tonometer, and also by
MacLeod. The results agreed within 0.1 vibration. Although Mayer
gives his results to three decimal places, Ellis thinks that the number
of varying circumstances is so great that ‘“‘ at most two places of deci-
mals (perhaps only one) out of the three of Mayer’s means can be trusted.”
Hence he doubts whether Mayer’s process is superior to Scheibler’s, al-
though he concedes that it is fully equal to it. As a chronoscope, he
regards it as extremely valuable, since if the time of vibration be deter-
mined to >35 of a vibration, and the fork makes 400 vibrations per sec-
ond, the measurement would be correct to z5455 part of a second. As
to the effect of temperature, MacLeod finds the coeflicient to be spt 95,
Koenig ;strs, and himself 73435; while Mayer, as above stated, ob-
tained the value 334,47. (Nature, November, 1885, xxxiI1, 54.)

Soret has advocated the A of 432 vibrations as the standard of mu-
sical pitch. Objection seems to be raised to this suggestion, long ago
made in Belgium and rejected by a commission, who adopted in March,
1885, the French A of 435 vibrations. The arguments in favor of 432
are almost entirely arithmetical. But even if practicable to make a
fork exact in the arithmetical series at the start, the charm of the arith-
metic vanishes with a slight change in temperature. Up to 1813 all
Europe had used a pitch within a comma either way of Handel’s fork
A 422-5, Then the Russian Emperor gave a set of new instruments to

596 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18835.

a Vienna regiment and the pitch began torise. In 1826 the London
Philharmonic Society adopted A 433. In 1859 France adopted A 435.
The English concert pitch is now based on A 454:7, the army pitch being
based on A 452. (J. Phys., November, 1885, II, 1v, 506; Nature, May,
1885, XXXII, 9.)

Ellis has presented a paper to the Society of Arts on the musical
scales of various nations, chiefly those of ancient Greece, Arabia, India,
Java, China, and Japan, giving the results of his endeavors to discover
the system by which they tuned. He concludes that there is not any-
thing among them approaching to a single “natural” musical scale.
On the contrary, the systems, where systems can be said to exist, are
very diverse and often very capricious, and are always very imperfectly
carried out. This arises, probably, from harmony proper being un-
known, though ensemble playing is common. In the latter case unisons
are the rule, the effect being produced by diversity of quality of tone;
but certain effects are produced by admitting octaves, and rarely fourths
and fifths, but no more. Also a kind of polyphony may be remarked,
some instruments, especially those with tones of very short duration,
being allowed to discant while the others go on with the air. The in-
vestigation must go on for years, however, before the matter can be
fully decided. (Nature, March, 1885, xxx1, 488.)

Neesen has reported to the Physical Society of Berlin the results he
had obtained in his experiments on sounding air columns, with the ob-
ject of determining the relation of Kundt’s dust figures to the tone-pitch.
By means of an electric tuning fork, whose tone-pitch could be variously
modified by varying weights, the air was maintained in permanent vi-
bration in a glass tube closed at the bottom by a membrane. Many
measurements of the intervals separating the sand ribs were made, but
no relation between these values and the tone-pitch could be established.
He found, moreover, that the long-known wandering of the ribs in a
permanently sounding tube stood in no demonstrable relation to the
vibrations of the air, being in the same tube directed in one way in one
place and another way at another place. The cause of the wandering
of the ribs could not be ascertained. As to their origin, observations
had been made at those spots in the tube where the wanderings of the
ribs issued in contrary directions, and where, consequently, there was
comparative rest. A very interesting phenomenon was observed on
taking the measurements of pressure in the sounding tube. A narrow
glass tube, open on both sides, with an oil index, the movements of
which were observed, acted as a manometer. No displacement of the
index was ever noticed, but out of the interior end of the manometrical
tube there appeared to issue a current of air impelling the cork sand a
long way. The strength of the apparent air current might be measured
by little mills, and when small radiometers with paper wings were in-
troduced into the sounding tube they fell into very lively rotation. If,
instead of full paper wings, the radiometers had small conical paper

PHYSICS. 597

tubes, directed all alike, they rotated just as fast in just the same man-
ner as the others. When, however, one approached a node, the rota-
tion became slower, ceased, assumed the contrary direction in order
after further progress, to pause again, and next pass into the former
lively rotation. (Nature, November, 1885, xxxiiI, 95.)

Elsass has suggested an improved form of monochord in which the
vibrations of the string are produced by means of a siren. A small
disk is fixed somewhat eccentrically upon the axis of an ordinary siren,
and to the uprights carrying the wheelwork is attached, by means of
two screws, a support for a little bent lever, the conically-pointed axis
of which rests in two steel screws passing through the support. This
lever is capable of motion in a vertical plane, and presses with its
shorter and vertical arm against the eccentric disk while the longer and
horizontal arm carries the end of a stretched thread at right angles to
the axis of thelever. When the siren is at rest the tension of the thread
retains the lever in position, and when it is sounding, and the eccentric
disk gives it a slight periodic motion, this tension brings it back. At
its other extremity the thread passes over a friction pulley, adjustable
in height, and is stretched suitably by weights placed in an attached
scale pan. When properly regulated and the siren put in motion, the
vibrations of the thread may easily be followed by the eye; but as the
velocity increases, the friction of the disk against the lever produces a
noise; this suddenly ceases and the thread is seen to be in stationary
vibration of the fundamental form. The amplitude is considerable,
being often of three fingers’ breadth for threads of a meter in length.
Moreover, the thread acts as a regulator for the siren, and it is easy to
maintain its pitch constant. Since the thread may be made to assume
different forms of vibration with a constant tension by varying the
speed of the siren, it differs from Melde’s apparatus, where the rate of
vibration is constant and the tension varies. The author shows how it
may be used to illustrate Mersenne’s laws. (Phil. Mag., January, 1885,
V, XIx, 48.)

HEAT.

1. Production of Heat.—Thermometry.

Mallard and Le Chatelier have given a résumé of their later re-
searches undertaken under the auspices of the Fire-damp Commission,
in order to determine, for a number a gaseous mixtures, the tempera-
ture of inflammation, the speed of propagation of this inflammation, and
the temperature given by the combustion in close vessels. They find
that inflammation of gaseous mixtures may be propagated in two dis-
tinct ways: either with a slow and uniform speed corresponding to the
deflagration of explosive solids, or with a speed extremely great cor-
responding to the explosion of the same bodies. The only difference
which exists between solid and gaseous explosives is that in the former
598 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18835.

the manner in which the inflammation is produced regulates generally
the mode of combustion, flame producing deflagration and shock de-
termining explosion; while for gaseous bodies deflagration changes
spontaneously into explosion, at least for certain mixtures where the
propagation is very rapid. There is, moreover, for gases a mode of
vibratory propagation very variable and very irregular, which is, in a
certain sense, intermediate between deflagration and explosion. These
phenomena the authors explain by supposing that the slow deflagration
corresponds to the propagation of the temperature of inflammation by
conduction; while on the other hand the explosive wave is produced at
the instant when the pressure produced by the ignited layer upon the
following one is sufficient to raise this latter to the point of inflamma-
tion. From this moment the inflammation is itself propagated with the
speed of transmission of this pressure, 7%. ¢., with the speed of sound,
accelerated, of course, by the high temperature produced. The prog-
ress of the slow wave was studied by means of photography. A glass
tube containing the gaseous mixture—generally a highly photogenic
mixture of carbon disulphide and oxygen, or nitrogen dioxide—was
placed near a revolving cylinder and parallel to its axis. As the flame
progressed along the tube it developed a curve on the sensitive paper
with which the cylinder was covered, the abscissas of which gave the
place of the flame and the ordinates the time required for it to reach
this point. The displacement of the flame along the tube is perfectly
uniform and constant for the same mixture, being for one volume car-
bon disulphide vapor and three of nitrogen dioxide 1:25 meters per
second. The temperatures of combustion are given in tabular form.
(J. Phys.. February, 1885, IT, tv, 59.)

In their researches on the speed of the explosive wave in gases, Ber-
thelot and Vieille have shown that this wave is propagated with a speed
approximately equal to the mean speed of translation of the molecules
of the gaseous products of combustion, upon the hypothesis that all
the heat involved in the reaction is found for the first instant in the
compounds formed. Thus, for electrolytic gas, the mean of several de-
terminations gave a speed of 2,810 meters per second, the mean speed
of molecular translation for the vapor formed being 2,831 meters. But
this law did not appear to hold for mixtures of carbon monoxide with
oxygen or with nitrogen monoxide. Dixon has now pointed out the
fact that water-vapor is necessary to the combustion of carbon mon-
oxide, and has shown that as the proportion of vapor augments the
speed of inftammation increases also. From experiments made in a
Jead tube 55 meters long and 13 millimeters in diameter, he found the
speed of the explosive wave to be 2,817 meters at 10° C., confirming
the above results. With carbon monoxide and oxygen nearly dry, the
explosive wave was not established until the flame had traversed a dis-
tance of 700 millimeters from the firing point. The speed observed was
rather over 1,500 meters per second. After the explosion a fine layer

PHYSICS. 599

of carbon as found to cover the inside of the tube, showing that the
enormous temperature reached in the explosion had decomposed the
carbon monoxide into its constituent elements. (Proc. Brit. Assoc. 1884,
688; J. Phys., October, 1885, II, Iv, 472.)

Sherman has investigated the fact that when a thermometer is heated
above a certain point the mercury column is permanently displaced
with regard to the scale. This point of temperature varies with the
glass of which the bulb is made and also with the previous use of the
thermometer. Therange, in his experience, is between 110° and 2559,
the former for German and American soda-lime glass, the latter for Eng-
lish flint and French crystal. By much use or long heating the dis-
placement frequently reaches 10° and may amount to 26°. The author
now finds that if the thermometer be exposed to a high temperature for
some hours the displacement of the zero point becomes less and less
with each successive treatment, so that the curve representing the ele-
vation becomes more nearly parallel with the axis of abscissas, which
represents the hours of heating. Moreover, the thermometer after treat-
ment no longer shows this rise in zero point on heating and is found to
repeat its readings accurately when exposed to similar conditions.
Hence the author concludes that after such treatment the thermometer
is as serviceable as a measurer of temperatures ranging from 0° to 3009
as the accustomed standard is for the range 0° to 100°. These changes
are accompanied by a change in the expansion-coefficient of the glass,
due perhaps toa partial separation of the crystalline from the amor-
phous constituents of the bulb glass. (Am. J. Sci., July, 1885, III, xxx,
42.)

Wroblewski has compared the indications of a hydrogen thermometer
with those of a thermo-electric junction. The former indicates below
—193° temperatures lower than the latter, thus showing a greater con-
traction at this temperature than the laws of Boyle and Charles require.
Moreover the departure increases as the temperature diminishes. The
hydrogen thermometer gives —207° for the temperature of solidification
of carbon monoxide and — 214° for that of nitrogen, while the thermo-
electric junction gives — 199° and —203°. The thermo-electric curve is
remarkably regular, and hence it follows that the thermo-electric junc-
tion is amore reliable indicator of temperature than the air thermometer
at these low points. When oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon monoxide
are evaporated in a vacuum the temperature falls only a few degrees
below —200°. (C. &., April, 1885, c, 979; Am. J. Sci., June, 1885, III,
XXIXx, 495.)

Mendenhall has described a differential-resistance thermometer for
the ready determination of temperature at a distant point. It consists
essentially of a thermometer of large size the stem of which has an
internal diameter of about a millimeter, and the bulb of which is so
large that a difference of 1° gives a displacement of 5™™ in the column.
Running down through the stem is a platinum wire, about :08™™" in diam-
600 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

eter, terminating in the bulb, which has a somewhat heavier wire sealed
into it. The resistance between the upper and lower ends of the ther-
mometer will depend largely on the length of the exposed platinum wire,
and this upon the temperature; so that as the temperature rises the re-
sistance in circuit is diminished by an amount equal to the difference be-
tween that of the platinum wire which disappears and that of the mercury
which takes its place less the increase in the resistance of the wire and
mercury due to increase of temperature. From the equation represent-
ing this change in resistance as a function of the temperature a curve
is constructed from which the temperature corresponding to any given
resistance may easily be read. The resistance is measured on a Wheat-
stone’s bridge, the telephone being conveniently substituted for the
galvanometer for ordinary work. (Am. J. Sci., August, 1885, III, xxx,
114.)

Angstrém’s geothermometer consists of an ordinary instrument whose
bulb is placed in an iron vessel containing mercury sunk to the required
depth. The stem is open above and in it hangs a metallic wire moved
at the surface of the ground by means of a rack and pinion. So soon
as the wire touches the mercury an electric circuit is closed, and this,
by means of an electro-magnet, arrests the pinion. The stem carries a
graduated scale previously calibrated, so that a simple inspection gives
the temperature at once. No correction for temperature is necessary,
since the parts are compensated. (J. Phys., January, 1885, II, Iv, 46.)

Whipple has communicated to the London Physical Society a de-
scription of the process followed at Kew for testing thermometers at or
near the melting point of mercury. About 20 pounds of mercury are
poured into a wooden bowl and frozen by carbon dioxide-snow and
ether. The mercury is stirred with a wooden stirrer and the snow is
added till the experimenter feels, by the resistance to stirring, that the
mercury is freezing. By continuing the stirring for some time the
mercury becoms a granular instead of a solid mass. The thermometers
are then inserted together with a standard and compared. About one
hundred mercury or forty spirit thermometers can be thus examined in
half an hour, using about 200 gallons of carbon dioxide gas compressed
to form the snow. The bowl, ether, and mercury are cooled first to
—10° by an ordinary freezing mixture. The average correction at the
melting point of mercury is now less than 1° F. When the process
was introduced, in 1872, it amounted to 5°, but has steadily decreased.
(Nature, November, 1885, xxx1i1, 93.)

2. Expansion and Change of State.

Madan, doubting the statement generally made that stretched india-
rubber forms an exception to the general law of expansion by heat, has
called attention to Russner’s investigations on this subject made in 1882.
He finds (1) that india-rubber always has a definite and positive coeffi

PHYSICS, GOL

cient of expansion, the value of which at 10° was found to be 0:000657
and at 30° 0:000670; (2) that india-rubber in a stretched state expands
to the same extent as when not stretched, no point of minimum den-
sity existing ; (3) that the apparently anomalous behavior of stretched
rubber is a ease entirely analogous to that of anisotropic crystals
which expand differently in different directions; Iceland spar, as Mit-
scherlich showed, contracting by heat in a direction perpendicular to
the principal axis, though its volume as a whole increases. Moreover,
when stretched, ordinary rubber becomes anisotropic dnd gives color
between two crossed Nicol prisms, the direction of the strain lying at
45° with the plane of polarization. (Nature, October, 1885, xxx, 625.)

In a subsequent note, Tomlinson agrees with Schmulewitsch that
the effect of heating a stretched piece of rubber is to lengthen it if the
tension is small, and to shorten it if the tension is large; so that for a
certain tension there will be neither elongation nor contraction. More-
over, Tomlinson concludes from his experiments that the critical tension
will be lower the higher the temperature. (Vierteljahrschr. Nat. Ges.
Ziirich, Xt, 202; Nature, November, 1885, xxx1i, 7.)

Gernez has continued his researches upon the changes in the erystal-
line form of sulphur produced by heat. He finds that while the octo-
hedric form may be preserved at all temperatures below its fusing point,
yet that at 97-69 and above if touched with a fragment of prismatic
sulphur, it is transformed into the prismatic variety. To this state of
unstable equilibrium he gives the name crystalline surheating. On the
other hand, the change of prismatic into octohedral sulphur with de-
creasing temperatures, shows a retardation analogous to that above
mentioned, to which the author, following Mallard, gives the name crys-
talline surfusion. The conditions affecting these uncertain states he has
now investigated, and has concluded: Ist, that the speed of devitrifi-
cation is not greater as the temperature is lower, there being always
an intermediate temperature of maximum rapidity of change; 2d, that
the crystalline form is not always sufficient of itself to identify the va-
riety, since considerable differences exist in pieces having the same
form; 3d, that the action of heat upon liquid sulphur at a constant tem-
perature produces a change which increases with time and continues
even after solidification ; 4th, that liquid sulphur heated from a given
temperature and then cooled again to the same temperature undergoes
a modification manifested by change of properties, which continue even
after solidification ; 5th, that octohedral sulphur, melted, solidified in the
prismatic form, and then changed to the octohedral form, has not re-
covered its primitive properties, and does not even after many months
exposure to the ordinary temperature. (J. Phys., August, 1885, LI, rv,
349 )

Raoult has continued his investigations on the action of dissolved
substances in lowering the freezing point of solutions. His results show,
Ist, that if in the solution of an alkali salt containing one equivalent of
602 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

the salt in 100°*: of water, the monad metal be replaced by an equivalent
quantity of a dyad or polyad metal, the depression of the freezing point
is diminished by a quantity sensibly constant and equal to 10:5; and,
2d, with regard to acids, that if in the solution of a salt of a strong
monobasic acid, containing one equivalent of the acid in 100° of
water, the monobasic acid be replaced by an equivalent quantity of a
strong dibasic acid a diminution of the depression of the freezing point
is observed which is nearly constant and approaches 14. From the
partial depression values given in the paper, the molecular depression
produced by any salt may be calculated from its molecular weight.
(Ann. Chim. Phys., VI, Iv, 401; Am. J. Sci., May, 1885, III, xx1rx, 399.)

Bouty has suggested the hypothesis that the molecular latent heats
of all bodies measured at their normal temperatures of ebullition are
proportional to the squares of these temperatures. This assumes (1)
that the normal density of saturated vapors corresponds to half their
molecular weights; and (2) that Dalton’s law is rigorously true. To
test the question he gives a table of values obtained from seventeen or-
ganic bodies, chiefly aleohols and ethers, in which the quotient of the
molecular latent heat by the square of the absolute ebullition tempera-
ture is nearly constant. For water the value is 00694; for the alcohols,
0-0730; for aldehyde, 0-0695; for the haloid ethyl ethers, 0:0691; and
for compound ethers, 0:0735. (J. Phys., January, 1885, II, rv, 26.)

On theoretical grounds J. Thomson had reached the conclusion that
the maximum elastic force of a vapor in contact with its liquid is greater
than the maximum elastic force of a vapor in contact with the corre-
sponding solid, contrary to the opinion of Regnault, who held them to
be the same. Ramsay and Young have now verified experimentally
this conclusion of Thomson’s. Their experiments were made partly in
barometer tubes, partly in an apparatus specially constructed for the
purpose. They plotted the curves representing the variation of the
elastic force with the temperature for camphor, benzene, glacial acetic
acid, and water, and noticed that the curves where these bodies were
in the solid state did not coincide with those where they were liquids,
the deviation being in the direction predicted by Thomson. The au-
thors regard the result as general, and applicable in all cases. (Proc.
Roy. Soc., Xxxvi, 499; J. Phys., February, 1885, II, rv, 91.)

Miiller-Erzbach hassuggested anew method for determining the elastie¢
force of the vapor of water in hydrated saits, which consists in determin-
ing simultaneously the loss of weight which two identical tubes suffer.
one of which contains water the other the hydrated salt, in an atmos-
phere dried by means of sulphuric acid. The ratio of loss of weight
the author regards as rigorously equal to the ratio of the elastic forces
of the vapor of water in the two tubes. In this way he finds that the
evaporation from hydrated salts in completely dry air gives constant
dissociation tensions. From the variations of these tensions, the exist-
ence of three hydrates of sodium phosphate is inferred, corresponding,

PHYSICS. 603

respectively, to two, seven, and twelve molecules of water; of two hy-
drates of sodium borate, with five and ten molecules of water; of two
hydrates of sodium carbonate, with one and ten molecules; while in
sodium sulphate all the combined water constitutes only a single hy-
drate. (Wied. Ann., xxi, 607; J. Phys., November, 1885, II, rv, 521.)

Klobukow has contrived two new forms of apparatus for measuring
vapor densities, the one for substances of low the other for substances
of high boiling point. The latter, which is the more novel, has the form
of an areometer of constant volume, containing a cavity for the vapor,
the volume being deduced from the weight required to restore the
level. The areometer is floated in mercury, the temperature of which
is raised so as to volatilize the substance used. (Wied. Ann., XXII, 493;
J. Phys., April, 1885, II, rv, 177, 179.)

In consequence of the very considerable loss in preparing solid car-
bon dioxide, Cailletet proposes the use of a hollow cylinder closed at bot-
tom, and having a cover attached by a bayonet catch, through which
cover an inclined tube passes to within a few millimeters of the bottom
of the cylinder. Through the middle of the base a larger tube passes
which serves for a handle and also for the escape of the gas. It rises
nearly to the top of the box and is perforated with holes. The whole
apparatus is made of vulcanite. Experiments show that 65 grams of
snow are obtainable from 200 grams of the liquid carbon dioxide blown
in through the inclined tube. (J. Phys., March, 1885, I, 1v, 122.)

Cailletet has succeeded in obtaining by the use of liquid ethylene a
temperature sufficiently low to liquefy oxygen completely. The com-
plete apparatus, constructed by Ducretet, is so well arranged that the
production of liquid oxygen is an easy lecture-room experiment. The
steel cylinder containing the liquid ethylene is supported with its axis
vertical, its mouth being downward. To this a copper worm 3™™ or 4™™
in diameter is attached, closed at the lower end by a screw plug. On
cooling this worm to—70° in a bath of methyl chloride, the ethylene
within it has only a feeble tension and flows out without much loss when
the screw plug is opened. The liquid ethylene is received in a narrow
tube of thin glass placed within a larger vessel containing dry air. It
is necessary now only to accelerate its evaporation by passing through
it a rapid current of air or hydrogen, also cooled in the methy! chloride
bath, in order to see the oxygen compressed in a glass tube immersed
in the ethylene condense into a clear colorless liquid having a sharply-
defined meniscus. A hydrogen thermometer showed the temperature
of the ethylene to be—1239. (C. R.,0, 1033; J. Phys., July, 1885, II, tv,
293; Nature, October, 1885, xxxu1, 584; Am. J. Sci., July, 1885, III,
Mee, 1d)

Olszewski has measured the density and the expansion coefficient of
liquid oxygen. A small reservoir of glass 1-4 & * in capacity was filled
with liquid oxygen, cooled to —139° by the evaporation of liquid ethyl-
ene and maintained at a pressure of 40 atmospheres. The oxygen was
then allowed to resume the gaseous state and from the volume of this
604 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

latter its weight was caleulated. The density thus obtained was 0-8787
at — 139-139. The expansion coefficient was 0-01706. Moreover the
author finds that liquefied chlorine congeals at —102° and that hydrogen
chloride is solid at —115-7° and fuses again at —112:3°. Hydrogen
arsenide freezes at —118-9° and melts at —113-5°. Silicon fluoride
is solid at —102°. Ethyl ether freezes at —129°. Methyl alcohol has
the consistence of oil at —102° and of butter at —115°; it then passes
gradually into the solid state, which is reached at —134°. (Ber. Ak.
Wien, 1884, 72; J. Phys., April, 1885, II, tv, 184.)

Wroblewski has described in detail the apparatus which he uses for
the liquefaction of gases and has given the results of his comparisons of
the hydrogen thermometer with the thermo-electric couple. The criti-
cal temperatures for nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and oxygen he finds to be
—145°, —141°, and —118°, respectively; and the critical pressures
33°6, 35, and 50 atmospheres. The boiling points under a pressure of
740™™, are —193°, —190°, and —181°5° The lowest temperatures which
he has observed are — 200-49 for oxygen under a pressure of 2°™, —206°
for nitrogen at 42°, and for carbon monoxide —201-6° at 4°". Both
nitrogen and carbon monoxide solidify at these temperatures. (Ber.
Ak. Wien, March, 1885; J. Phys., July, 1885, II, rv, 316.)

In hygrometry several papers have appeared. Hazen has studied the
psychrometer and has compared its indications with those of the con-
densing hygrometer. (Am. J. Sci., December, 1885, III, xxx, 435.) ,

Bourbouze has suggested two new modifications of the hygrometer.
One of these is based on the production of the colored rings seen round
a source of light when viewed through a glass plate on which vapor
begins to condense. A small rectangular tube has holes on opposite
faces closed by very thin glass plates. A very sensitive thermometer
is used, dipping only very slightly into the liquid. On causing a cur-
rent of air over the liquid surface, either by aspiration or otherwise,
the whole is cooled and dew is deposited on the glass. By placing the
apparatus between the eye and a luminous point these concentric rings
are readily observed and the temperature noted. The other instrument
is similar but has a metallic envelope, the temperature of which is de-
termined by the thermometer. (J. Phys., September, 1885, II, tv, 425;
Phil. Mag., August, 1885, V, xx, 220.)

Sire has also suggested two new types of condensing hygrometers,
in both of which the deposit of dew is observed on a cylindrical or
plane brilliant surface. The reservoir in the first type is a cylindrical
tube of thin polished metal, the ends of which are insulated in the in-
terior by two pieces of ebonite, so that the volatile liquid is in contact
with the metal only over a middle zone a centimeter broad. In the
second the reservoir is entirely of ebonite, traversed laterally by a cir- |
cular aperture closed by a thin metal disk, polished on the inside. The
surfaces are metallic palladium. (Phil. Mag., November, 1885, V, xx,
468.)

PHYSICS. 605
3. Conduction and Radiation.— Specific Heat.

Stenger has measured the conductibility of tourmaline by the method
of Weber, employing for this purpose plates whose homogeneity had
been thoroughly established. He was unable to discover the least
trace of unilateral conductivity and therefore supposes that the con-
trary results obtained by, Thompson and Lodge arose from the non-
homogeneity of the tourmaline they used. In consequence the author
does not consider as established their theory of the pyroelectricity of
tourmaline, based upon such conductivity. (Wied. Ann., xxit, 522;
J. Phys., November, 1885, II, tv, 522.)

From the electromagnetic theory of light Maxwell deduced the prop-
osition that a beam of light or heat falling normally on a surface exerts
upon it a pressure equal to the energy which exists in unit of volume of
the ether in consequence of its light-motion. Boltzmann, combining
with this a relation deduced by him from the second law of thermody-
namics, has obtained the law of Stefan, that the radiation from a heated
body is proportional to the fourth power of the absoiute temperature.
(Wied. Ann., XXII, 291; J. Phys., November, 1885, IT, Iv, 526).

Schneebeli has called attention to a paper by Svanberg, published in
1851, in which is a description of an apparatus based on the same princi-
ple as the bolometer of Langley. With this apparatus he has measured
the coefficient of absorption of glass, and finds for it a value which varies
inversely as the temperature, being 2:4 at 100°, 1:47 at 250°, and 0:42 at
1,000°. He has also verified the law of Stefan between 400° and 1,0009,
and has shown that the ratio of the luminous to the total radiation of a
Swan lamp increases rapidly with the temperature; but that the ratio
of this radiation to the square of the current-strength remains constant,
as Joule’s law requires. (Wied. Ann., xxu1, 430; J. Phys., November,
1885, II, 1v, 527.)

Bottomley, on the contrary, has obtained experimental results entirely
disagreeing with Stefan’s law. <A current of known strength is passed
through a platinum wire, the temperature of which is deduced from its
increase in resistance. When the temperature has become constant, the
heat generated by the current must be equal to that radiated from the
surface of the wire plus that lost at the ends of the wire by conduction.
The wire was placed in a high vacuum, one twenty-millionth of an at-
mosphere, made in a glass tube 6™™ in internal diameter. The wire
itself was 0-4™™ diameter and about half a meter long, and was sealed
into the ends of the tube, the exhaustion being effected through a lateral
tube. The temperature of the room at the time of the experiment was
15°. In four experiments, the absolute temperature of the wire being
298, 383, 798, and 823, the ratio of the energy radiated was found to be
1, 6-1, 71.9, and 90-2; whereas by the law of Stefan the values should
have been 1, 16, 438°8, and 499-8, (Nature, November, 1885, Xxx,
85.)
606 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

The emissive power of a surface increases markedly when it is depol-
ished. This fact Christiansen accounted for on the theory that such a
surface sent out not only the heat emitted directly but also the heat
emitted and then reflected. To test this theory he constructed a cube
one face of which was plane, another corrugated, the corrugations hav-
ing sharp angles and the sides inclined 90° to each other, a third sim-
ilarly corrugated but with the inclination 45°, and a fourth containing a
large number of conical cavities. All these surfaces were equally pol-
ished and their emissive powers normal to the faces of the cube were
1, 2:05, 2-66, and 8-7, respectively. The apparent emissive power of the
conical cavities is approximately the same as that of a surface equal to
the sum of their bases covered with lampblack. (Wied. Ann., xx1, 364;
J. Phys., November, 1885, II, tv, 528.)

Réntgen appears to have settled the disputed question of the absorp-
tion of heat by the vapor of water by the following neat experiment:
A thick tube of brass, gilded, is closed at one end by a plate of rock
salt. If now it be exposed to a source of heat, the heating will depend

(1) upon the heat transmitted by the walls of the tube and (2) upon the | |

heat absorbed by the gas. Place the interior of the tube in commu-
nication with a Marey’s manometric capsule, the style of which rests on
the surface of a recording cylinder. Under the above circumstances it
will record an increase of pressure which will be permanent if the heat-
ing is due to the first cause and transient if due to the second. The
second effect is observed when the tube contains air saturated at zero
and then heated to 26°, the increase of pressure due to the heating of
the gas being 2:18"™. A much less increase was observed with air con-
taining carbon dioxide in the normal proportion of the atmosphere.
The source of heat in these cases was a Bunsen burner. (Wied. Ann.,
xxi11, 1,259; J. Phys., April, 1885, II, rv, 181, 529.)

Clark has devised a radiant energy recorder depending on the evap-
oration of water in vacuo. The instrument is essentially a Wollaston
cryophorus in which the vertical tube and lower bulb are replaced by a
simple glass tube graduated in cubic centimeters. The bulb containing
the water to be evaporated is blackened by holding it in the smoke of
burning camphor and is then exposed to the sun, the rest of the appa-
ratus being silvered or properly protected by sheets of bright tin. At
sunset the water which has distilled over can be read off on the graduated
tube and expressed in heat-units. (Nature, July, 1885, xxx1I, 233.)

According to Lommel’s theory of fluorescence there should be an ab-
sorption band in the spectrum of esculin in the vicinity of the line A.
Wesendonck has examined this part of the spectrum by means of phos-
phorographs and has been unable to recognize any such band in that
region. (Wied. Ann., XXIII, 548; J. Phys., November, 1885, I, Iv, 533.)

Velten has measured the specific heat of water at ordinary tempera-
tures, using (1) the method of mixtures and (2) an ice calorimeter.
The results are quite complex but the formula which appears to the

PHYSICS. 607

author to represent best the results is of the form k,=1+ at+6?+/f#, in
which a= —0-0007312756, $4 = + 0-0000079327, and 47 = —0-00000002679,
k, being the true specific heat at ¢. This indicates that the specific heat of
water has a minimum value at 43.5° anda maximum at 104.59. ( Wied.
Ann., XXI, 31; J. Phys., November, 1885, II, Iv, 521.)

Berthelot and Vieille, in their studies on the heat relations of the ex-
plosion of gaseous mixtures, have been able from the data obtained
to calculate the specific heat of the elementary gases, of water and of
carbon dioxide at high temperatures. Thus, for the simple gases N2,
H,, and Oy, as well as the compound gas CO, which is closely related to
them, the specific heat at 2,800° is 6-7; at 3,200°, 7:9; at 4, 000°, 8-4;
and at 4,400°, 9-3. It will be observed that it increases rapidly with the
temperature, being doubled, nearly, between 0° and 4,500°. The mean
specific heat of water between 0° and 2,180° is 15°57, and between 0° and
3,240°, 18-12. Hence the mean specific heat between 130° and 230° is
more than doubled at 2,000° and tripled at 4,000°. For carbon dioxide
the mean value between 0° and 2,900° is 20:5, and for cyanogen, between
0° and 4,300°, 22:5. The specific heat of the former gas more than
triples and the elementary specific heat quadruples between 0° and
4,300°. (Ann. Chim. Phys., January, 1885, VI, 1V, 66,74; Am. J. Sci.,
April, 1885, III, xx1x, 331.)

Bartoli has described a simple form of apparatus for lecture demon-
stration to show the equivalence of heat and work. Two small globes,
one containing mercury, the other benzene, are connected by a narrow
tube, from which rises perpendicularly a thermometer tube, graduated.
On placing the mercury globe vertically above the other, the mercury
flows through the tube into the lower globe, the energy of its fall being
converted into heat, which expands the benzene by an amount easily
read off on the fine tube. The calibration of this tube may be effected
by passing a known current through a wire of known resistance sealed
in one of the balloons, and calculating the heat evolved. (Il Nuovo Ci-
mento, XV, 18; J. Phys., December, 1885, II, 1v, 558.)

Webster has experimented to determine the mechanical equivalent
of heat by observing the thermal effect produced by the electric cur-
rent on a thin ribbon of steel, the temperature being measured from the
change in resistance. The final value obtained was 4:14 x 10° ergs per
gram-degree. (Proc. Am. Acad., May, 1885; Phil. Mag., August, 1885,

Mex, 217.)
: LIGHT.

1. Production and Velocity.

The following is the conclusion reached by De Volson Wood after an
extended discussion of the properties of the luminiferous «ther as de-
duced from the best obtainable data: ‘‘ We conclude then that a medium
whose density is such that a volume of it equal to about twenty volumes

of the earth would weigh 1 pound, and whose tension is such that the
608 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

pressure on a square mile would be about 1 pound, and whose specific
heat is such that it would require as much heat to raise the temperature
of 1 pound of it 1° F. as it would to raise about 2,300,000,000 tons of
water the same amount, will satisfy the requirements of nature in being
able to transmit a wave of light or heat 186,300 miles per second and
transmit 133 foot-pounds of heat energy from the sun to the earth each
second per square foot of surface normally exposed, and also be every-
where practically non-resisting and sensibly uniform in temperature,
density, and elasticity. This medium we call the luminiferous ether.”
(Phil. Mag., November, 1885, V, xx, 389.)

Fitzgerald has described some mechanical models to illustrate certain
properties of the ether. The elements consist of pairs of wheels so
geared together that when one rotates it’ causes the other to rotate in
the same direction. For a one-dimensional model a band suffices to con-
nect them. By fixing a number of wheels with their axes parallel and
at right angles to a plane and connecting each wheel with its neighbors
by elastic bands we shall have such a model which represents a non-
conducting region of the ether. A perfectly conducting region is one
in which there are no bands, and a partially conducting region would
be represented by the bands slipping more or less. By means of such
a model the author discusses electrostatic, electrokinetic, and luminif-
erous phenomena, preliminary to a description of the tridimensional
model, which is the object of his paper. (Phil. Mag., June, 1885, V,
XIX, 438.)

Trowbridge has experimented to produce, by means of an electric cur-
rent, a standard of light which shall be always the same under the same
conditions. His first experiments were made with platinum, a strip of
foil 5°" long, 5™™ wide, and 0:02™™ thick being placed in the shunt cir-
cuit of a small Gramme machine, and inclosed in a Ritchie photometer
box for comparison with a standard candle, the current being measured
with a tangent galvanometer, and the difference of potential at the ends
of the strip with a quadrant electrometer. With a variation of electro-
motive force of 2:6 to 3-8 volts and of resistance from 0-44 to 0-47 ohm,
the current varied from 6 to 8 amperes, and the light from a very dull
red up to the color of a candle. Next a thermal junction was inclosed
in an Edison incandescent lamp to see if the heat radiation was pro-
portional to the incandescence, but the thermo-electric force developed
was too feeble. A loop of fine platinum wire was then inserted between
the terminals of the carbon in an Edison lamp and made one side of a
Wheatstone bridge, a similar wire forming a second side, thus constitut-
ing a bolometer. With an increase of resistance of the inside loop of
0-2 ohm, there was an increase of light from 3 to 7-5 candles. Though
sensitive, this arrangement does not enable rays of different refrangi-
bility to be distinguished. Experiments were then made to determine
the practicability of using a thermopile to measure the amount of ra-
diation from an incandescent strip of platinnm at a fixed distance, and

PHYSICS. 609

thus determine the total energy radiated, the light energy being simul-
taneously determined by comparison with a standard candle. The heat
indications were found to be far more sensitive than those of the photom-
eter. Hence he suggests as a standard of light an incandescent strip
which radiates a definite amount of energy, this energy being measured
at a fixed distance which will best agree numerically with the absolute
system. (Am. J. Sci., August, 1885, IT, xxx, 128.)

Frederick Siemens has devised an important improvement in gas
lighting, based on the adoption of the well-known regenerative principle.
In his opinion rooms should be lighted by means of indirect rays or
diffused light only, the source of light itself not being directly visible.
His lamp consists of four approximately spherical and concentric hoods
of sheet-iron or other suitable material so arranged that the products of
combustion travel downward between the second and third and upward
between the third and fourth or outer one, while the air to be heated for
feeding the flame passes upward between the first and second and
through the first, filling this hood with very hot air. The products of
combustion pass through an opening in the top of the outer hood intoa
chimney. ‘The coneave surface of the first or lower hood acts as a reflec-
tor, and in its focus are placed one or more fish-tail burners of the usual
type. The gas is therefore burned in a highly heated air, the temper-
ature of which increases with that of the gas flames, the brillianey of the
light increasing in the same ratio. Tests with this lamp showed that
the same burners burning the same amount of gas in the two cases gave
an average of 2.875 candles per cubic foot of gas consumed when re-
moved from the hoods and 7:74 candles per cubie foot when burned in
their proper place in the lamp. (Nature, July, 1885, xxxi1, 247.)

Wolf has proposed another modification in the well-known Foucault’s
apparatus for the velocity of light. His apparatus consists of two mir-
rors, one fixed, having a diameter of 0-2 meter, the other movable 5 centi-
meters in diameter. Both are concave and spherical and have the same
radius of curvature. 5 meters. The source of light is a narrow aperture
cut in the silver in the center of the large mirror. The pencil emanating
from it and entirely covering the rotating mirror is reflected by the
latter and returns to form on the surface of the fixed mirror a movable
image of the aperture and of the same size. This is reflected back to
the revolving mirror, and by this the Foucault image is formed. [If
now the mirror be rotated with sufficient speed there will be formed on
the fixed mirror a series of equal luminous lines separated by equal
intervals, which will continue to increase their distance from each other
as the speed rises. These are Foucault images formed by multiple re-
flections, and the higher the image which can be measured the higher the
multiple of the Foucault deviation. The author is in hopes of meas-
uring the twentieth image, which would give a displacement of 35™™,
(@. &., February, 1885, o, 303; Nature, April, 1885, xxx1, 517.)
Michelson has published a note objecting to Wolf’s assumption that

H. Mis, 15-39
610 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

the image in his experiments was ill defined, and criticising in several #
particulars the new method. (Nature, May, 1885, xxxu1, 6.) :

Some years ago Cornu experimentally established the fact that in-
quartz the mean speed of propagation of the inverse circular waves along —
the optic axis is sensibly equal to the velocity of the ordinary wave ;
perpendicular to this axis. Exner has now shown that a more general —
law can be deduced from the formulas given by Cauchy and Von Lang ©
to represent the properties of quartz, as follows: For any direction ©
- whatever the arithmetical mean of the two velocities of propagation is —
equal to the arithmetical mean of the velocities which would correspond |
to this same direction if the medium did not possess rotatory power. —
Von Lang’s recent measures confirm this law completely. (Wied. Ann.,
XXV, 141; J. Phys., October, 1885, If, rv, 468.)

Langley has determined photometrically the amount of light trans-
mitted by wire gauze screens, such as are sometimes used to diminish —
the apparant brightness of stars in making meridian observations. He —
found that one screen transmitted 0.395, two screens 0-144, and three —
screens 0:052 of the incident light. In fact, however, the three screens —
as used with the telescope allowed a transmission of only 0-0014. On
investigation this result was found to be due to diffraction. Hence the ©
author concludes, first, that the transmission as measured by the pho- —
tometer box was equal to the ratio of the sum of the areas of the aper- —
tures of the screen to its total area and, therefore, could be considered to —
be the true transmission of the screen; second, that the much smaller —
transmission of the screen when used in front of the object glass of a
telescope to diminish the apparent brightness of a star is satisfactorily :
accounted for by the loss of light caused by diffraction under these cir- —
cumstances; and, third, that screens used for this purpose should have
their constants determined by special experiments of the nature of those ©
now described and that their photometric use should then be limited
to the reduction of the light of bodies possessing a small angular mag- —
nitude. (Am. J. Sci., September, 1885, iI, xxx, 210.)

Fol and Sarasin have investigated the depth to which light pene- —
trates the Mediterranean Sea. By means of photographic plates they
bave proved that in the middle of a sunny day in March the rays of the ©
sun do not penetrate below 400 meters from the surface. At380 meters —
shortly before 11 A. M., the impression on the plate was less than that —
which would have been left on exposure to the air on a clear night —
without a moon. In the lake of Geneva the extreme winter limit is 200
meters; but they find as much light at 380 meters in the Mediterranean —
as at 192 meters in the lake. The light penetrates 20 to 30 meters
deeper in the lake in March thanin September. (Phil. Mag., January, —
1885, V, x1x, 70; Nature, June, 1885, xxx, 132.)

<<

2. Reflection and Refraction.

Amagat has deseribed an instrument for measuring angles which re- —
sembles the sextant, but which has the axis of the telescope perpendic-

PHYSICS. 611

ular to the fixed mirror and the movable mirror so arranged that its axis
_ of rotation coincides with one of its edges and cuts the optical axis. The
secondary mirror, instead of being fixed,.is movable about an axis par-
- allel to the plane of the graduation and perpendicular to the optic axis.
_ Under these conditions the image twice reflected from any given point
will be displaced in a plane perpendicular to that of the circle when
_ the secondary mirror turns about its axis. If the telescope be sup-
pressed and a simple vertical slit be placed between the eye and the axis
__ of rotation of the movable mirror, and if the mirror be silvered all over,
an object can be seen above or below it, and it can be made to coincide
with the image of another object twice reflected and thus their angular
distance determined, projected on the horizon. (C. &., April, 1885, ¢,
1120; Phil. Mag., June, 1885, V, xrx, 516.)

Kriiss has investigated the influence of temperature on the refraction
of prisms in order to determine its comparative importance in spectrum
measurements. His measurements were made by means of a microm-
eter which moved the observing telescope in connection with an eye-
piece micrometer carried by it. Three prisms were measured at dif-
ferent temperatures. From the results it appears that all spectrum
lines shift by rise of temperature. In glass prisms this shifting is to-
ward the violet ; in quartz prisms toward the red. in the triple glass
prism a change of temperature of about 5° suffices to alter the measure-
ment of wave-length by an amount equal to the distance between the
D lines. Moreover this shifting increases with the refrangibility of the
region examined. (Ber. Berl. Chem. Ges., December, 1884, XVII, 2732 ;
Am. J. Sci., March, 1885, III, xx1x, 251.)

Christiansen’s original experiment consists in immersing glass powder
in a mixture of carbon disulphide and benzene in such proportions that
for one part of the spectrum the indices of the solid and of the fiuid are
the same. (Wied. Ann., xxi, 298.) Rayleigh has improved this experi-
ment by using a flat-sided bottle to contain the preparation, and by hav-
ing the same kind of glass for the bottle and for the powder. The sides
of the bottle are worked flat, like plate glass. Ordinary flint does not
seem to work as well as plate glass, though optical flint answers well. It
is more important that the powder should be homogeneous in itself than
that it should correspond very accurately with the glass of the bottle.
Properly arranged rays lying within a very narrow range of refrangi-
bility traverse the mixture freely, but the neighboring rays are scattered
laterally much as in passing ground glass. Two complementary colors
are therefore exhibited, one by direct the other by oblique light. In
order to see these to advantage there should not be too much diffused
jllumination, otherwise the directly transmitted monochromatic light is
liable to be greatly diluted. (Phil. Mag., October, 1885, V, Xx, 358.)

Some years ago Rayleigh examined the effect upon definition of small
_ disturbances in the wave surfaces from their proper forms, and con-
“¢luded that the aberration of a plano-convex lens focusing parallel rays

612 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

of homogeneous light is unimportant so long as the fourth power of the ©
angular semi-aperture does not exceed the ratio of the wave length to
the focal distance; a condition satisfied by a lens of 3 feet focus pro-
vided that the aperture be less than 2 inches. He has now discussed
the accuracy of focus necessary for sensibly perfect definition, and has
reached the result that a displacement from the true focus will not —
impair definition, provided it is less than the product of the wave len gth
by the square of the ratio of the focal length to the semi-aperture.
Hence the linear accuracy required is the same whatever the absolute
aperture of the object glass may be, provided that the ratio of aperture —
to focal length be preserved. Experimental results confirmed closely
this theoretical conclusion. (Phil. Mag., October, 1885, V, Xx, 304.)
D’Ocagne has shown that if the two sides of a square and the diag-
onal be divided into the same number of equal parts, and a straight
line be drawn from the point on one side corresponding numerically to
one of the conjugate focal distances through the number of the division
on the diagonal representing the principal focal length, this line will
cut the other side at a point representing numerically the other conju-
gate focal distance. Conversely any right line whatever drawn through
a point on the diagonal corresponding numerically to the principal
focus of a lens ents the sides at points representing its conjugate foci —
as it moves about this point as a center. In practice a rod may be —
pivoted at the given center. (J. Phys., December, 1885, 11, Iv, 555.)
Rayleigh has described a monochromatic telescope which is a modi-
fication of Maxwell’s color box. In this well-known instrument light
passes through a slit in the focus of a collimating lens and traverses in
suecessicn this lens, a prism, and another lens, by which it is brought toa
focus upou a plane surface in which is a movable slit, the eye placed be-
hind this slit receiving light approximately monochromatic. If now, in —
addition, a lens be placed just behind the first slit so as to bring some
distant object inte focus at a convenient distance from the eye this
object will be seen by the light that would enter the eye in the simple
color box. 'The instrument is to be used to compare lights of different
colors for practical purposes. (Phil. Mag., June, 1885, V, x1x, 446.)
Maleolm kas adjusted his binocular glass to eyes of different focal
lengths by arranging one of the eye-pieces so that it can be moved
through a small range in or out by turning a milled bead. An index —
arrangement is attached by which a given setting may always be repro-
duced. The unaltered tube is brought to the most perfect focus pos-
sible in the ordinary way, using only one eye. Then the other tube is
used with the other eye and focused accurately with its own adjustment,
the other remaining unchanged. (Phil. Mag., June, 1885, V, Xx, 461.)

3. Dispersion and Color.

Wiillner, in 1883, showed that the index of any transparent substance —
could be very exactly represented in terms of wave length by a formula
given by him, Since that time he has compared the experimental re-

PHYSICS. 6135

sults obtained by Mascart and Esselbach with quartz in the ultra violet,
and by Moxton and Langley for flint in the ultra red, and finds the for-
mula very exactly verified in all cases. In the case of quartz the discrep-
ancy reaches the third decimal place of the index only for the extreme
red (A =21-4 x 10-5.) In the case of flint the divergence becomes
sensible only for the line O and for the extreme red (A = 28 x 10>”).
For the line O the value observed, 1-6266, lies between 1°6242 and 1:6277,
calculated from Mascart’s and Esselbach’s wave lengths. (Wied. Ann.,
xxi11, 306; J. Phys., July, 1885, II, rv, 324.)

Clemenshaw exhibited to the London Physical Society some experi-
ments in projecting the spectra of the metals without the aid of the
electric light. A small quantity of a solution of the salt to be experi-
mented on is put into a bottle in which hydrogen is being evolved by
the action of dilute sulphuric acid on zinc. The bottle has three necks,
through one of which an acid funnel is passed, a second carries the jet,
and through the third hydrogen or coal gas isfed into the apparatus, the
flame being thus regulated. The jet, which is from one-eighth to three-
sixteenth inch in diameter, is surrounded by a larger tube, through
which oxygen passes to the flame; the result being a brilliant light
giving the spectrum of the substance, which is carried over mechanic-
ally by the evolved hydrogen. The spectra of sodium, lithium, and
strontium were shown upon the screen and the absorption of the so-
dium light by a Bunsen flame containing sodium was clearly seen. (Phil.
Mag., May, 1885, V, x1x, 365; Nature, February, 1885, xxx1, 329.)

Koenig presented in May to the Physical Society of Berlin the plan
of anew spectro-photometer then in course of construction. It consisted
of a tube containing a lens and a diaphragm turned toward the source
of light, and having two slits lying the one above the other, a prism for
decomposing the two incident beams, and a second collimating tube
with a disk closing the end, on which appeared the two spectra slightly
separated. Before the lens of the observing telescope was placed a twin
prism, the two halves, with refracting edges of 1° to 2°, being cemented
together. By this twin prism each spectrum was decomposed into two
spectra, and the dimensions of the twin prism were so determined that
on the disk of the collimator one spectrum was situated above the other
below, while in the middle the second spectrum from the upper slit
coincided with the second spectrum of the lower slit. In the disk of the
observing telescope a small opening is made cutting off a small piece
of determinate wave length from the double spectrum, so that on look-
ing through it the field of vision is seen divided by a line (the refract-
ing edges of the twin prism) into two halves, both of the same coloring.
Before each of the two slits of the slit collimator a Nicol prism was placed
in such a position that light polarized in a vertical plane entered one
and in a horizontal plane the other. The middle compound spectrum
consisted therefore of a vertically and a horizontally polarized spectrum,
and in the field of view the two like-colored halves were also polarized
- 614 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

in perpendicular planes. If now the field is viewed through a Nicol
prism, then according to the position of its principal section would the
one half at one time and the other half at another time be invisible.
So that if the two entering beams of light have different intensities |
their spectra may be equalized in brightness by rotating the Nicol; and_
from the degree of rotation the relative intensities be inferred. (Nature, —
June, 1885, Xxx1I, 191.) &
Balmer, in calculating the wave lengths of the hydrogen lines as given
by Angstrém, has found a relation between these lines expressed by the —
formula h=—™ 0, when © has the value 3,645°6 millionths of a
millimeter. In place of m let there be put in turn the numbers 3, 4, 5, 6;
and the values for Angstrém’s wave lengths of the four visible hydrogen ~
lines are obtained. If for m, the values 7, 8, &c., up to 16 are used,
values for hydrogen lines are obtained which correspond very well with ’
the wave lengths of the lines which Dr. Huggins had found in the ultra- ~
violet spectrum of the white stars and had recognized as the invisible
hydrogen lines. This relation between the hydrogen lines had now re-—
ceived an increased significance from an investigation by Cornu, in.
which he had found a perfectly determinate proportionality between the
lines of the ultra-violet spectrum of aluminum and of thallium, and the
ultra-violet hydrogen lines. Like the hydrogen lines, the pairs of lines
of the two metals referred to advanced much nearer to one another and
became much paler the more one approached the more refrangible ~
end of the spectrum; and if any line of the aluminum or the thallium ~
spectrum was made to coincide with the corresponding line of the hydro-
gen spectrum then did all the remaining lines coincide. This relation —
obtained both for the first and for the second components of the pairs —
of lines in the metallic spectra. (Nature, July, 1885, xxx1I, 312.) .
Crookes has communicated to the Royal Society a paper on radiant —
matter spectroscopy, in which he gives the results of further re-—
searches on the prismatic analysis of the light emitted by the cerium ~
group of earths when made to phosphoresce by the impact of radiant —
matter in high vacua. With regard to the double orange band observed
in 1881, he details at length the extraordinary difficulties overcome in ~
localizing it. ‘(After six months’ work I obtained the earth didymia in —
a state which most chemists would call absolutely pure, for it contained —
probably not more than 1 part of impurity in 500,000 parts of didymia. —
But this 1 part in 500,000 profoundly altered the character of didymia —
from a radiant matter spectroscopic point of view, and the presence of ,
this very minute quantity of interfering impurity entailed another six —
months’ extra labor to eliminate these traces and to ascertain the re- —
action of didymia pure and simple.” Gradually the matter was nar- —
rowed down and the orange band was finally traced to samarium. Pure ~
samarium sulphate alone gives a very feeble phosphorescent spectrum. —
Bui when the samaria is mixed with lime the spectrum is, if anything, ‘

a
PHYSICS. OL5

more beautiful than that of yttrium. The bands are not so numerous,
but the contrasts are sharper. Examined with a somewhat broad slit,
the spectrum is seen to consist of three bright bands, red, orange, and
ereen, nearly equidistant, the orange being the brightest. With a nar-
row slit the orange and green bands are seen to be double, and on closer
examination faint wings are seen like shadows to the orange and green
bands. But lime is not the only body which brings out the phospho-
- rescent spectrum. The author divides the samaria spectra, as modified
by other metals, into three groups. The first comprises the spectra
given when glucinum, magnesium, zine, cadmium, lanthanum, bismuth,
or antimony is mixed with the samarium. It consists simply of three
colored bands, red, orange, and green. The second type of spectrum
gives a single red and orange band and a double green band, and is
produced when barium, strontium, thorium, or lead is mixed with the
samarium. The third type is given when calcium is mixed with the

samarium. Here the red and green are single and the orange double.

Aluminum would also fall into this class were it not that the broad, ill-
defined, green band is also doubled. On mixing samaria and yttria no
trace of the yttria spectrum was observable up to 57 per cent. of this
earth. When it reached 65 per cent. a marked change took place.
With 44 of samaria and 56 of yttria the pure samarium spectrum is
given. With 42 samaria and 58 yttria some bands characteristic of each
earth are seen; while 39'samaria and 61 yttria gives almost a pure
yttrium spectrum, the sharp orange line, however, running across them
all. Experiments made to test the delicacy of this method showed that
when 1 part of samarium is mixed with 100,000 parts of calcium the
green and red bands have almost disappeared, but the double orange
band is still very prominent. With 1 to 500,000 and 1 to 1,000,000 the
spectrum is the same though fainter. With 1 to 2,500,000 the bands of
samarium have entirely gone and its presence is recognized only by the
darkening in the yellow portion of what otherwise would be a con-
tinuous spectrum. (Nature, July, 1885, xxxti, 283.)

Barker has published an account of the experiments made by Henry
Draper on the use of carbon disulphide in prisms for optical purposes.
The extraordinary mobility of this liquid and its extreme sensitiveness
to heat cause striz in its mass, which interfere with and practically de-
stroy its definition. Since Dr. Draper’s experiments showed it to be the
only substance by which the necessary dispersion could be readily ob-
tained for photographing metallic spectra, he was exceedingly desirous
of improving its definition. The desired object he found was readily ob-
tained by simple agitation. A wire was passed through the stopper of
the bottle (Thollon) prism, upon the lower end of which was a small pro-
peller just dipping into the liquid. By means of a pulley on the upper end
of the shaft, and a little electric motor, this propeller could be revolved
rapidly so as to keep the liquid actively agitated. The effect was sur-
prising. The sodium lines, with the propeller at rest, were fluffy and

616 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

ill defined, united together and nebulous. But in a few seconds after
starting at the lines became clear and remarkably sharp, continuing so_
as Jong as the motion continued. But now the effect of temperature be- _
came apparent in the shifting of the lines toward the red if the prism —
was rising and toward the blue if falling in temperature. For a change {
of about 9° the shifting was something over 3:5 inches. To overcome —
this shifting the prism was inclosed in an even-temperature box, and —
by means of a simple but ingenious thermostat the temperature was
regulated so that in seven hours it varied by an amount sufficient to —
shift the sodium lines by only the distance between them. (Am. J.
Sci., April, 1885, III, xx1rx, 269.)

Langley has at the optical homers of rock salt worked
into prisms by Clark and by Brashear with such exquisite surfaces
that they give a spectrum showing the Fraunhofer lines with all the
Sharpness of flint glass. Indeed, a rock-sait prism made by the latter
shows the nickel line between the Ds. Experiments with a train of such
prisms were made to determine not only the indices for different lines
in the visible and invisible spectrum, but also the apparent transmis-
sion of rock-salt plates for different parts of the spectrum. Heat spec-
tra were formed from radiating sources below the temperatrre of melt- —
ing ice, and it was found that most of the rays, even from these sources,
passed freely through the prism. With the smallest deviations, corre-
sponding to wave lengths exceeding probably 100,000 of Angstrém’s
scale, a slight absorption began to be noticed. A table is given of the
refractive indices of a prism of angle 59° 57’ 54” for the spectrum lines
from M in the ultra violet to in the ultra red; or from wave length.
0:3727 to 1:32. The values in the visible spectrum are given to six
places, those in the ultra red to four. For the line M, the refractive
jndex is 157486; for G, 156133; for D, 154418; for A, 153670; and
for O, 15268. In all, seventeen indices were measured. (Am. J. Sei.,
December, 1885, III, xxx, 477.)

Lommel has suggested the use of phosphorescent substances, such
as Balmain’s luminous paint or a greenish-blue variety of phosphores-
cent calcium sulphide, for the purpose of rendering visible the focus of
ultra-red rays in the well-known experiment of Tyndall on calorescence.
If such a powder be made slightly phosphorescent by exposure. to or-
dinary daylight the less refrangible rays increase it to a bright lumi-
nosity. In place of a solution of iodine iv carbon disulphide as the
absorbing solution, Lommel recommends a solution of nigrosin in alco-
hol or chloroform, preferably the latter. (Wied. Ann., 1885, xXv1, 157;
Phil. Mag., December, 1885, V, xx, 547.)

Lommel has shown that if a conical beam of solar light be allowed
to fall on a cube of Iceland spar, either directly or after passing a co-
balt-blue glass, the cube emits a beautiful brick-red light. This light
is not polarized and its composition does not depend upon the state of
polarization of the incident beam. It is comprised between 35 and 605

PHYSICS. 617

of Bunsen’s scale (between C and D 4 BE), its maximum being near 44.
The exciting rays are almost exclusively visibie rays, the most efficient

being those between E and b. Hence Iceland spar presents a maxi-
mum of absorption at this point. (Wied. Ann., xxI, 422; J. Phys., No-
vember, 1885, IT, tv, 535.)

Abney has described some lecture experiments on color mixtures,
employing for this purpose a modification of Maxwell’s color box. The
spectrum, instead of being formed on a screen, is received upon a convex
lens, which forms an image of the face of the prism on a screen. If all
the light from the prism falls upon the lens this image is cotorless. But
by interposing a screen with a slit in the spectrum close to the lens, so
as only to allow light of a given color to fall on the lens, the image ap-
pears colored with that light. By using two or more slits mixtures of
different lights in any required proportion may be obtained. (Nature,
July, 1885, XXXII, 263.)

4. Interference and Polarization.

Lummer has called attention to the fact that if a coneave mirror, sil-
vered over its whole surface excepting a small place the size of the
pupil, be made to reflect the light of a lamp burning alcohol saturated
with salt, normally upon a plate of plane glass with parallel faces, the
eye placed at the opening when adjusted for distant objects will see
the plate covered with a great number of concentric rings whose centers
are at the foot of the normal from the center of the pupil on the plate.
If a telescope adjusted for parallel rays be substituted for the naked
eye, the incidence corresponding to each of these rings may be meas-
ured. This phenomena ‘has been observed by Haidinger and studied
by Mascart, who has given a formula giving the difference of path of
the two interfering rays as a function of the incident angle. The author
suggests this method to detect want of parallelism in glass, the rings
being then irregular. (Wied. Ann., xxi, 49; J. Phys., February, 1885,
i Tv, 90.)

Moreland has described a mechanical model which he uses to illustrate
the phenomena of interference. Two blocks cut in sine curves are at-
tached to two points by strings fastened to their ends. At a point ex-
actly perpendicular to the center of a line joining these two points the
waves are in the same phase and reinforce each other. By moving both
blocks. either way a position is reached where they are in opposite
phases and interfére. (Am. J. Sci., January, 1885, III, xx1x,.5.)

Stokes has communicated to the Royal Society the results of an ex-
tended investigation of the brilliantly colored iridescent crystals of po-
tassium chlorate sometimes obtained in the process of manufacture.
He regards it as conclusively proved that the seat of the color is ina
very thin twin stratum, and he entertains little or no doubt that the
color depends in some way on the different orientation of the planes of
polarization in the two components of a twin and on the difference of
618 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

retardation of the two polarized pencils which traverse the thin stratum. }
Anything beyond this is at present only a matter of speculation Only —
two directions are indicated in which to look for a possible explanation; —
and these will form the subject of farther investigation. (Nature, April, ‘:
June, July, 1885, xxx, 565; xxx, 102, 224.) 4

From the researches of Tollens, Landolt, Schmitz, and others it is —
well known that cane sugar and many ‘other substances have a specific —
rotatory power which varies continuously when the proportion of inactive —
liquid is increased. For sugar, however, the diminution is very feeble —
as the concentration increases, even more feeble than for glucose. With —
dilute solutions containing 1 to 5 per cent. of sugar, Hesse had found
[a], = 68° about, a number rather higher than is obtained with more
concentrated solutions. Tollens, operating upon dilute solutions with
a polarimeter of great sensitiveness, has completely confirmed his earlier
conclusions, and finds that whatever be the concentration the formula ©
[a]p = 66:386 + 0:015035p — 0:0003986p?, where p is the weight of sugar —
in 100 of solution, always represents the variations of rotatory power. It —
has been confirmed on solutions containing from 1 to 67 per cent. of
sugar. (Ber. Berl. Chem. Ges., Xvi, 1751.)

Madan has described a modification of Foucault’s and of Ahrens’s
polarizing prisms. Ahrens’s prism is made of three wedges of Iceland
spar cemented together by Canada balsam. The optic axis in the two
outer wedges is parallel to the refracting edge, while in the middle
wedge it is perpendicular to the refracting edge and lies in a plane bi-
secting the refracting angle. By using three prisms the middle one
may be given a very large angle, and yet the deviation of the rays may
be so far corrected that on emergence they make equal angles with the
central line. Nearly in contact with one of the terminal faces of the
prism a prism of dense glass is placed of such an angle that it just cor-
rects the deviation of one of the rays, and also achromatizes it, while
it increases the deviation of the other ray to such an extent that it may
be practically disregarded, an eye even when very close to the prism
perceiving only the direct beam. (Phil. Mag., January, 1885, V, xx, 69.)
Madan finds that the ordinary ray falls on the second surface of the
middie prism of this combination at an angle greater than the critical 4
angle and is therefore totally reflected if an air film be placed between
this surface and the following one. Moreover, he finds that the devia- —
tion and the dispersion can be almost entirely corrected by making the |
third prism of crown glass combined with a prism of very dense flint —
glass of smaller angle. Its field is 28°. (Nature, February, 1885, xxx1,
371.)

kaa as Sa

ekzeceg

SSS Ss

os

Pot ee

a es

ELECTRICITY.
1. Magnetism. \

Werner Siemens has published a theory of magnetism and has de- i
tailed the experiments upon which it is based. In the first place, the t
Amperian theory must be extended by supposing that not only mag- —
PHYSICS. 619

netic substances but all bodies, as well as empty space, are filled with cir-
cular currents of very small dimensions and that magnetic substances
differ from non-magnetic substances only inasmuch asthenumber of cir-
. cular currents present in the unit volume is much greater in the first
case than in the second. All magnetic phenomena may then be referred
to the property of the electric current of exerting a directive force upon
the molecular solenoids which fill all space, but which are present in
greater numbers in the so-called magnetic bodies, which place their axes
at right angles to its direction and tend to bring them into closer con-
centric attraction circles. The magnitude of this rotation of the axes,
depends, on the one hand, on the magnitude of the directive or mag-
netizing force, and, on the other hand, on the number of the molecular
circuits pre-existing in the unit volume, for which condition the term
“magnetic conductivity” may be employed, or that of ‘magnetic resist-
ance” for its reciprocal value. Since a magnetizing force, acting upon
the molecular magnets only, exerts a perceptible influence on the rota-
tion apart from each other of the paired elementary magnets when all
the neighbors in the magnetic circuit follow the motion and so are able
to produce a closed system of equilibrium capable of mutual attraction,
it follows that the rotation directly produced by the magnetizing force
must be very small in comparison with the mutual strengthening of the
rotation in the closed magnetic circuit. The magnetic moment pro-
duced must thus be essentially the product of the mutual strengthening
of rotation of which the magnetizing force is the cause. (Wied. Ann.,
XxIv,93; Phil. Mag., April, 1885, V, x1x, 237; J. Phys., September, 1885,
II, rv, 426.)

Bosanquet has published a series of magnetic measurements made to
test his theory of magnetism. His formulas suppose that each molecule
has one and only one axis of transmission (like a bead with a hole in it).
The axis is capable of transmitting a certain number of lines of force
and no more, and the molecular permeability is proportional to the
defect of saturation. (If the hole in the bead be packed with thin
wires the aperture remaining is represented by. the number of wires
that remain to be gotin.) Regarding magnetism as a motion or dis-
placement, whether dynamic or static, we may thus speak of the molee-
ular permeability as a coefficient of freedom within the molecule. The
reciprocal of the coefficient of the forces which tend to prevent the ro-
tation of the molecule as a whole may be spoken of as a coefiicient of
freedom without the molecule. The product of these two coefiicients
by a constant is a characteristic of a given approximate state of a given
piece of metal. As between the hard steel and the iron the product of
the coefficients of freedom is proportional to the maximum permeability.
In soft steel the molecular forces are chiefly extra-molecular, the free-
dom intra-molecular; in hard steel the reverse is true. In soft iron
the average intra-molecular freedom is much greater than in hard steel,
the extra-molecular freedom about the same. In soft steel the extra-
620 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

molecular freedom is much diminished, the intra-molecular freedom is
moderate or high. His figures show a maximum permeability for cast
iron of 170 to 250, for malleable cast iron of 700 to 800, of wrought iron

of 1,800 to 2,500, and of charcoal iron of 2,900 to 3,000. Hence the infer- .

ence that ordinary cast iron is wholly unfit for use in dynamo machines.
Malleable cast iron is an improvement, but is still very far inferior to
wrought iron. (Phil. Mag., January, February, May, October, 1885, V,
XIXx, 57, 73, 333, xx, 318.)

Lippmann has suggested a simple method by which the magnetic po-
tential of a system of coils may be obtained without calculation. The
three coils, a, 6, and y, are so placed at the summits of an equilateral
triangle that their axes may form the three sides of an equilateral tri-
angle, ABC. The variation of magnetic potential due to this system,
and taken from B to C, is exactly equal to the product 47ni, 4 being
the current strength and » the number of turns in each coil. In order
to demonstrate this it is sufficient to remark that if the integral of the
magnetic actions exerted by the coil a considered by itself be taken
along the contour of the triangle ABC, this integral is exactly equal
to 47ni, because the contour of the triangle is a closed line. On the
other hand, the action exerted by a on the side CA may be replaced by

the action of 7 on the side BC, or the action of a on the side CA may |!

be replaced by the action of 6 upon the side BC, so that finally the
action of the system of the three coils on the side BC is equal to the
sum of the actions exerted by a on the three sides of ABO, 7. e., to
4zni, as above. (J. Phys., October, 1885, II, Iv, 448.)

Ewing has communicated to the Royal Society the results of an ex-
tended investigation into magnetic susceptibility, and the influence
upon it of various conditions, such as vibration, permanent strain, tem-
perature, and the like; the experiments having been made in the labor-
atory of the University of Tokio. (Nature, January, 1885, xxxt, 304.)

Bakmetieff has studied the conditions of the production of heat by

alternate magnetizations in a straight wire of iron, measuring the heat.

by means of a thermo-junction, so that the greater heating in the middle
portions of the straight magnet and the equality of heating in all parts
of the annular magnet could be readily observed. The proportionality
of the heating to the square of the temporary magnetism was not con-
firmed ; on the contrary, the author advances another law, 7. ¢., that the
elevation of temperature of the iron by intermittent magnetization is
proportional to the product of the magnetizing force and the magnetic
moment. The greatest elevation of temperature observed corresponds
to a magnetizing force more than sufficient to saturate the iron; hence
the author concludes that it is the increase in the motion of the molec-
ular magnets during magnetization which is most important in the

production of heat. (J. Soc. Phys. Chim. Russe, XV1, 81, 257; J. Phys.,-

December, 1885, II, Iv, 593.)

PHYSICS. 621

Fossati has shown that the common impression that the strength of
a horse-shoe steel magnet is increased by hanging it up and gradually
increasing the weights hung on its keeper is entirely an error, the in-
crease in portative force being the same whether the magnet be weighted
or not. This increase is in all cases much less than is supposed ; and
its variation is accompanied by a corresponding variation in distribu-
tion. (Il Nuovo Cimento., XV, 158, 232 ; J. Phys., December, 1885, I, rv,
565.)

. Barus and Strouhal have published, as the fourteenth Bulletin of the

-U. S. Geological Survey, an extended memoir on the physical charac-
teristics of the iron carburets; more particularly on the galvanic, ther-
mo-electric, and magnetic properties of wrought iron, steel, and cast
iron in different states of hardness, together with a physical diagram for
the classification of iron carburets. With reference to steel, the authors
say: ‘“ The difference between the logarithms of the respective values of
thermo-electric hardness for the same carburation passes through a
pronounced maximum defining a carbide, the mechanical properties of
which are those of a type stee] and may be fully given thus: Let each
member of the whole series of iron carburets be subjected successively
to the following operations: I, A process of very slow cooling from a given
temperature in red heat ; II,a process of most rapid cooling possible from
the same temperature. Ifnow the carburets be examined with reference
to the hardness produced in the two istances there will be found among
them a certain unique member whose properties are such that while
process I has more nearly identified it with pure soft iron, process iT will
have moved it farther away from this initial carburet than is simulta-
neuosly the case with any other iron-carbon product; a unique member,
in other words, which is capable of occurring in the greatest number of
states of hardness relative to the soft state possible. To the said prod-
uct the term ‘steel’ is to be applied.”

Perkins has made an investigation on the variation of the magnetic
permeability of nickel at different temperatures and has plotted the re-
sults obtained. The curves show that at the first all the magnetism is
temporary. The permeability rises to a maximum at about the same
placeas that of total magnetization, then falls lessrapidly and approaches
the total, though it is evident that it can never reach it, since the perma-
nent magnetism cannot be less for a high magnetizing force than for a
lower at any given temperature. (Am. J. Sci., September, 1885, II,
Xxx, 218.)

Hurion has examined and confirmed the statement of Righi that the
electric resistance of bismuth increases when this metal is subjected to
the action of an electro-magnet. From his experiments he concludes
that the variation in the resistance of bismuth under these circumstances
arises in great part from the mechanical action exerted by the magnetic
field on the metal. Howeyer, it seems that the variation of the resist-
622 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

ance is a little more rapid than this mechanical action. (J. Phys., April,
1885, II, rv, 171.)

Toépler has suggested the use of the balance in measuring the quan-
tity MH in determining the horizontal component of the earth’s mag-
netism. For this purpose a magnetized bar is fixed perpendicularly to
the brass beam of a balance in place of the ordinary pointer. Weights
are placed in the scale pans in order to make the axis of the magnet
vertical when the plane of oscillation is in the magnetic meridian. The
balance is then turned through 180° and again the axis is adjusted to
verticality by shifting the weights. MH is then equal to $ (Q:—Q,) 1;
in which / is the length of that arm of the beam to which the weights
Q, and Q, have been added. The author details the precautions neces-
sary to insure accuracy, and claims 755 a8 the limit of precision of the
method. (Wied. Ann., Xx1, 158; J. Phys., December, 1885, II, rv, 587.)

Gray has described the methods in use in the laboratory of the Univer-
sity, Glasgow, for determining the value of the earth’s horizontal com-
ponent. Experiments to determine the effect of length and hardness
on the induction coefficient of the deflector magnets show that the
length of the magnets should be at least forty times their diameter and
that they should be made as bard as possible. The results are given
ina table. (Phil. Mag., December, 1885, V, xx, 434.)

2. Hlectrie Generators.

The paper on the seat of the electro-motive forces in the voltaic cell
with which Lodge opened the discussion of this subject at the Montreal
meeting of the British Association bas appeared in full, and is a most
valuable and impartial résumé of the history of this important subject,
and an able argument in favor of the views that the apparent difference
of potential of copper and zine is in fact the sum of a copper-air and a
zine-air contact difference. (Proc. British Assoc. for 1884, 464; Proc.
Soc. Teleg. Eng. and Hlec., x1v, 186; Phil. Mag., Mareh, April, May,
June, October, 1885, V, x1x, 153, 254, 340, 487; xx, 372.)

Koosen has constructed a form of battery based on the depolarizing
action of bromine. It consists of a glass jar having a narrow prolonga-
tion at its lower portion to contain the bromine, above which is a porous
plate supporting a porous cup containing a rod of amalgamated zinc.
A platinum wire traversing the porous plate makes communication
with the bromine. The upper portion of tbe jar is filled with dilute
sulphuric acid, on which rests a thin layer of petroleum to prevent the
escape of the bromine vapors into the atmosphere. The electro-motive
force of the combination is 1-9 volts and becomes somewhat higher if
the platinum is replaced by carbon. The internal resistance is consid-
erable, but the battery is very constant. (Wied. Ann., XxIII, 348; J.
Phys., August, 1885, I, Iv, 373.)

Von Helmholtz has constructed a modified form of Daniell cell, which
cousists of a deep glass goblet, in the bottom of which is a copper spiral

Pees,

=
=

GEER ROI EIT
Sain e
PHYSICS. 623

connected with a platinum wire insulated in a glass tube and reaching
| to the surface. The spiral is covered with copper sulphate solution,
which can be replaced by fresh solution poured in through a funnel
reaching to the bottom. On this solution lies a solution of zine sulphate
| in which the zine cylinder is placed. A siphon whose outer leg is
| directed from below upwards dips into the liquids as far as the bound-
| ing plane, so that on pouring in fresh copper solution only the colorless
supernatant zinc solution flows off. The upper solution is by this means
kept free of copper, although after awhile some copper was found to be
precipitated upon the zine cylinder, not sufficient, however, to impair
_ the constancy of the cell. (Nature, January, 1885, x1x, 308; Am. J. Scz.,
| March, 1885, III, xx1x, 257.)

| Hayes and Trowbridge have investigated by a photographic method
| the irregularities which occur in the action of galvanic batteries, and
| have sought to ascertain the cause thereof. Since batteries in which
_ there is no porous partition do not show irregularities, while those con-
' taining porous cups all give more or less marked variations, the authors
believe that these irregularities are due, first, to a clogging of the
_ pores of the partition by some product of the action, and, secoad, to
electrical osmose; the undulations being due to the former cause, and the
| fluctuations, which are superposed upon the undulations, to the latter.
A cup of very dense earthenware gives both undulations and fluctuations,
| while one which was very porous gave fluctuations without undulations.
Since, as Wiedemann has shown, a porous cup increases the amount of
/ metal transported to the negative pole and diminishes the quantity of
acid at the positive pole, a battery containing a small, thick cup and
giving a strong current will possess a maximum force tending to drive
the liquid and base from the positive pole and to cause a corresponding
_ decrease in the current strength. Hence the partition should be made
| of as large surface dimensions as possible, and should be made of very

porous material. (Am. J. Sci., Juity, 1885, Ii, xxx, 34.)

| It follows, as a consequence of the law of the conservation of energy,
_ as has been shown by Von Helmholtz and Thomson, that the electro-mo-
tive force of non-polarizing batteries is proportional to the energy of
_ the reactions developed in them by the passage of the current and may
_ be calculated from these reactions. To make this proposition incontest-
_ able itis necessary that the total chemical energy of the battery should
be converted necessarily into electric energy. The theoretical discus-
sion of this question has been recently made by Von Helmholtz, and
_ Czapski has undertaken to investigate experimentally the following re-
! sults drawn from Von Helmholtz’s conclusions: The batteries which do
not transform all the chemical energy into electrical energy are those
the electro-motive force of which decreases as the temperature rises,
and those which produce an electrical energy in excess of their calorific
_ energy are those in whicn the electro-motive force increases with the
temperature, Ozapski’s results confirm in general this theory of Von
624 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Helmholtz. (Wied. Ann., xxt, 209; J. Phys., December 1885, II, rv,
- 578.)

Bidwell has constructed a voltaic cell having a solid electrolyte. He
exhibited to the London Physical Society a cell consisting of plates of sil- |
ver and copper, between which was contained a mixture of one part of cop- i
per sulphide and five of sulphur. The electro-motive force was 0:07 volt

and the internal resistance 6,537 ohms, and the current readily deflected

the needle of a reflecting galvanometer so as to throw the light off the ©
scale. A second cell was made with a copper plate on which copper sul- —
phide had been pressed and asilver plate resting on silver sulphide on the

surface of the copper sulphide. The silver plate was brushed over with a

dilute solution of sulphur in carbon disulphide and then heated till the ©

free sulphur was driven off. On putting the cell together it produced a
current of 6,800 micro-amperes through an external resistance of 0-2 ohin.
The copper and silver plates were each 24 by 2 inches, and the thickness of
the two layers of sulphide 0.05 inch. The electro-motive force of the cell
is 0-053 volt, and its internal resistance is therefore about 7 ohms.
(Nature, August, 1885, xxxiI, 345; Phil. Mag., October, 1885, V, xx,
328.)

The interesting subject of the behavior of selenium to light as regards ©

its electric resistance has been examined by several investigators. Wer-
ner Siemens has described the electro-motive action of certain selenium
cells sent to him by Fritts, who first observed in them the fact that,

when placed in circuit with a galvanometer, an electric current flowing —
from the gold leaf to the base plate was generated by the action of

light. Siemens confirms this observation and regards it as of the great-
est scientific importance. Since obscure thermal rays are without effect,

the action cannot be a thermo-electric one. Moreover, the electro-motive —

force developed is proportional to the intensity of the light. He con-
cludes, therefore, that ‘“‘ here we meet for the first time with an instance

of the direct conversion of the energy of light into electrical energy.”

(Ber. Ak. Berl., February, 1885; Phil. Mag., April, 1885, V, x1x, 315;
Am. J. Sci., June, 1885, III, xx1x, 495.)

Bidwell has investigated very carefully the phenomena of selenium
cells and is disposed to regard the change of resistance by the action
of light as a phenomenon of electrolysis. Since the selenium in the
cells has always undergone a prolonged heating in contact with the me-
tallic terminals, selenides of these metals may exist within the selenium,
forming a kind of network, thus affording the conducting material
throughout the mass. A cell constructed of silver wires and sulphur
containing some silver sulphide was sensitive, its resistance being re-

duced to one-third by burning a piece of Inagnesium wire near it. In —
the electrolysis of silver sulphide, however, sulphur itself would be de- —

posited on the metallic plate, and the resistance would be enormously
increased, unless under the action of light this sulphur united with the
silver. Moreover, he finds the specific resistance of selenium to be 2,500

PHYSICS. 625

-megohms, a value very much higher than that in the cells, thus sug-
gesting the formation of selenides which act as conducting bodies.
(Phil. Mag., August, 1885, V, xx, 178; Nature, June, July, 1885, xxxu,
167, 215; Am. J. Sct., October, 1885, III, xxx, 313.)

The Clamond thermo-battery has been improved in the details of its
construction and its efficiency increased. A model made up of one hun-
dred and twenty pairs gave an electro-motive force of 8 volts and had
an internal resistance of only 3-2 ohms. Another battery, containing
sixty pairs, gave an electro-motive force of 3°6 volts and an internal re-
sistance of only 0-65 ohm. Both batteries consumed about the same
amount of gas, about 180 liters per hour. (Am. J. Sci., June, 1885, III,
XXIX, 495.)

Kayser has given to the Berlin Physical Society an account of the
measurements he has made on an improved form of Noe thermo-elec-
tric generator, differing from the old one in the fact that the bars of the
bismuth alloy are now connected by strips of an alloy offering greater
resistance to heat than did the wires formerly used. The resistance at
the ordinary temperature was 0-9 Siemens unit and rose as the gas con-
‘sumption increased to about 1:2 8. U. when this consumption was 60% ¢.
per hour. The curve of electro-motive force formed a straight line.
As to the cost of generating electricity in this way, a current of one
ampere for au hour cost about one pfennig, whereas with the Bunsen
Cell the cost is about three times as great. (Nature, January, 1885, XXX1,
308.)

Von Waltenhofen has observed that if an electric current from any
source whatever be passed through an ordinary thermo-electric ele-
ment, and then the element be put on a closed circuit, a current will be
obtained contrary in direction to the exciting current. This inverse
current results of course from the difference of temperature produced
by the current at the junctions in virtue of the Peltier effect. If, how-
ever, the ordinary thermo-electric element be replaced by a dissymetric
thermopile, like the Noe battery, it will be observed that, according to
the direction of the current sent into it, the intensity of the secondary
‘eurrent will vary, but its direction will remain the same. It is therefore
independent of the direction of the charging current. (Wied. Ann., XXI,
360; J. Phys., December, 1885, I, rv, 572.)

3. Electrical Units and Measurements.

Jamieson has presented a paper to the Society of Telegraph Engineers
and Electricians upon electrical definitions, nomenclature, and notation,
calling attention to the very considerable confusion of the electrical
vocabulary in consequence of the rapid progress of electrical science, a
Variety of terms being used to express the same idea on the one hand
and on the other the same term being used in many different senses.
He suggests how these names should be restricted, and gives a set of
symbols for them by which they should always be represented in for-

H. Mis. 15 40

626 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

mulas. The society was asked to appoint a committee to take this sub- |
ject into consideration and to act with a similar committee already ap- i
pointed by the Société Internationale des Electriciens. (Proc. Soc. Teleg.
Eng. and Elec., X1v, 297; Nature. June, 1885, xxxtt, 184.)

The British Association committee on electrical standards reported ‘
at the Aberdeen meeting, through the secretary, that they had had con-
structed a series of coils to serve as standards in terms of the legal —
(Paris) ohm, assuming this ohm to be 1:0112 B. A. unit. These stand- ©
ards, ten in number, had been carefully compared with each other, by —
the methods already described in reports of the committee, and also |
with mercury tube resistances prepared by Benoit, of Paris. The legal —
ohm standards as constructed by the committee exceed those constructed ©
in Paris by 0-00049 legal ohm. Standards of electro-motive force and of ©
capacity should also be issued by the committee, in theiropinion. (Na-_
ture, October, 1885, XXXII, 528.)

Klemencic has determined the ratio between the electro-static and |
the electro-magnetic systems of units by the following method: The
current of a battery of 9 to 15 Daniell cells is made to charge a condenser
which is then discharged through the wire of a galvanometer. The pev- —
manent deviation which results from these continuous discharges is —
noted, as well as the are of impulsion of the galvanometer under the in-
fluence of the direct current from the battery. The capacity of the con-
denser is then calculated in electro-magnetic measure. The value in
electro-static measure is deduced from the theory of Kirchhoff. In other —
experiments the battery charges the condenser, and at the same time
acts upon a differential galvanometer through one of its coils placed in !
shunt circuit. The discharge of the condenser traverses the second
wire and the resistances are so regulated that there is no deviation. |
The author gives as the value of the constant v of Maxwell, 3-0188 x
10° em. sec. (Ber. Ak. Wien., 1884, 88; J. Phys., April, 1885, II, rv, 183.) _

Fletcher has determined the value of the B. A. unit of resistance in~
terms of the mechanical equivalent of heat, and has obtained the value—
0:9904 earth quadrants per second. The method consisted in simul- |
taneous thermal and electrical observations of the energy expended
by an electrical current in a coil of wire immersed in a calorimeter.
(Am. J. Sei., July, 1885, 111, xxx, 22.

Himstedt has published the results of his determination of the ohm
made by a method suggested by him in 1884. The constant deviations
of a magnetic needle in the same galvanometer, produced in the one
case by means of induction currents passing in the same direction
through the galvanometer at the rate of n per second, and in the other
by means cf a constant current whose strength is a known fraction ot
the inducing current, are carefully observed, and from the data thus
obtained the resistance can be calculated. The lowest value obtained
for the resistance of the Siemens unit was 0-94323 and the highest
0:94380 ohm, the mean being 0-94356 ohm. Hence 1 ohm is equiva-—
;
PHYSICS. 627

lent to the resistance of a mercury column having a section of 1 square
millimeter and a length of 105-98 centimeters at 0° centigrade. (Phil.
| Mag., November, 1885, V, xx, 417.)

Wild gives from his measurements the number 0:94315 ohm for the
_yalue of 1 Siemens unit, and therefore gives 106-027 centimeters as the
length of the mercury column representing the ohm at 0°. (Am. J. Sci.,
February, 1885, III, xx1rx, 168.)

Because of the importance of having as little heating as possible in
_ all instruments for electric measurement, the question has arisen whether
the coils of such instruments should be made of German-silver wire or
_ of copper wire or partly of both, and how the diameters of the wire should
vary in different parts of the coil. Ayrton and Perry have investigated
_ the conditions that make this heating error a minimum with cylindrical
coils of given internal and external radii, and have reached the conelu-
sion that the wire should be of copper and that the increase of cross-
| section proceeding from the center should be x=, r°*.. Other points in
‘connection with these instruments were discussed. (Nature, July, 1885,
XXXII, 215.)

Fleming has constructed a standard Daniell cell, consisting of a U tube,
in the two limbs of which are the two solutions of copper sulphate and
| zine sulphate of the same specific gravity. Electrodes made of freshly
_ electro-deposited copper and pure zine that has been twice distilled dip
into the two limbs. The electro-motive force of this cell is 1.102 volts,
and the variation wita temperature is practically nil. The variouscon-
ditions affecting the electro-motive force of this cell were carefully studied.
| (Phil. Mag., August, 1885, V, xx, 126; Nature, July, 1885, xxxu1, 263.)

Hesehus has designed an amperemeter founded on the phenomenon
of Peltier. A thermo-electric battery of 12 iron-German silver elements,
in the form of wires 2°3™ in diameter. is so arranged that the opposite
_ junctions are contained in two vessels which form the reservoirs of a
differential airthermometer. A current passed through the battery heats
the even junctions and cools the uneven ones, or vice versa; and this
- causes a change of level in the thermometer proportional to the inten-
sity of the current, eliminating the heating of the conductors. One
- division on the scale of his apparatus corresponds to 0°66 ampere. (J.
| Soc. Phys. Chim. Russe, Xvi, 452; J. Phys., December, 1885, II, tv, 587.)

Rosenthal has devised a galvanometer of great range and great sensi-
tiveness, the needle of which is a horseshoe magnet suspended by a
long fiber attached to its neutral point. The poles of the magnet are
provided with horizontal pole pieces which are quadrantal ares of a
_ circle the center of which lies in the axis of suspension of the horseshoe.
| These pole pieces can play within the axis of two galvanometer bobbins
placed on opposite sides of the vertical suspension plane when this
| plane coincides with the magnetic meridian. When an electric current
passes through the coils these pole pieces are respectively drawn in or
repelled by the two bobbins. In this way the poles of the magnet can

628 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

be brought very near the center of the coils. Without the exterior —
magnet, 0-1™™ deflection at a scale distance of 2-7 meters corresponds —
to 54 x 10-'° ampere; with this magnet, to 12 x 10~'° ampere. With
a German-silver and iron couple a difference of 10° between the junc. —
tions gave a deflection of 120™™ through 1,000 ohms. (Wied. Ann.,
XXII, 677; Am. J. Sct., February, 1885, I11, xx1x, 167.)

Anthony has devised a large tangent galvanometer for the laboratory —
of Cornell University as a standard instrument for the measurement of
heavy currents and for the direct calibration of commercial measuring ~
apparatus. It has four circles, two of which are 2 meters in diameter
and two are 16 meters, mounted on the plan of Von Helmholtz at dis-
tances apart equal to their radii, and made of rods of copper 0-75 inch
in diameter. The needle is suspended by a silk fiber and is inclosed ina
mass of copper, which serves as an effectual damper and enables readings
to be made very rapidly. A special arrangement of mirrors and tele- —
scopes permits the reading of the deflections in angular measure on a
circle 50 inches in diameter to within 0-3 of a minute of are. The cop- —
per conductors are mounted on a brass framework accurately turned
and adjusted and the dimensions are all known within one five-thou- —
sandth part. Forthe measurement of currents there are two circles, each
1-5 meters in diameter and each having two conductors, together com- —
prising seventy-two turns of No. 12 copper wire. (Hlectrician and Hilec-
trical Engineer, October, 1885, tv, 372; Nature, October, 1885, XXXII, 634.)

Mather has suggested the calibration of a galvanometer by a constant —
current as follows: A current is passed through its coils, and the instru-
ment is turned through any angle and the deflection 6 noted. The
current is broken, and the needle swings back into the meridian, pass-
ing through an angle 6. This operation is repeated with the same cur-
rent, the galvanometer being in various positions; and a curve is drawn
showing the relation between sin 6 — sin 0 and the corresponding values —
of 6. When now the instrument is used in its normal position it is —
obvious that a current producing a deflection @ of the needle is propor- ;
tional to the value of sin @~ sin 6 corresponding to 6 obtained in the —
calibration experiment; and this value can be read off directly from the —
curve. (Nature, December, 1885, xxxuit, 166.) i

Trowbridge, while in general preferring the electro-dynamometer in t
the form devised by him to his cosine galvanometer (described in 1871) —
for the measurement of strong currents, yet has suggested a method of —
using the latter instrument which removes most of the objections. The |
galvanometer is so mounted that its compass is at the center of a large ©
circle of wire the plane of which is vertical and in the plane of the —
needle. When the strong current is passed through the large vertical q 1
coil the arrangement acts as a tangent galvanometer. The movable coi] —
of the cosine galvanometer is then connected with a Daniell cell of —
known electro-motive force, and in the same circuit a resistance is placed —

¥

so large that the battery resistance may be neglected, and, having joined —

Sa TN

bx PERS

SSS

see ASE No Se IO EN

—-

PRE OS et i ORI

pe¥

PHYSICS. §29

the poles in such manner that the deflection produced by the coil of
the cosine galvanometer shall be opposite to that produced by the eur-
rent in the large outer coil, the coil of the cosine galvanometer is in-
clined until the compass needle is brought again to zero. In this way
“the strength of the dynamo current is obtained in terms simply of the eur-
- rent from the standard Daniell cell, and the method is independent of the
strength of the earth’s magnetism and of the special field in which the
_ instrument is placed. (Am. J. Sci., March, 1885, Ili, xx1x, 236; Phil.
Mag., May, 1885, V, x1x, 396.)

 Cailletet and Bouty have determined the conductivity of the metals
at very low temperatures, in baths of methyl chloride, either alone or
/ mixed with carbon dioxide snow, and of liquid ethylene, the temperatures
| being determined by means of the hydrogen thermometer. They con-
_ clude: (1) That from 0° to —100° the formula 7, = 7, (1+ @t), in which
r, and r; represent the resistance at 0° and + 7°, ¢ the temperature, and
a the increase-coefficient, represents the variation of resistance for the
| pure metals with sufficient exactness; (2) that if a be determined by
| the use of a metallic spiral, the temperatures from 0° to — 100° may be
_ measured by the variation of resistance of this spiral with an error of
| less than 19; (3) that for each metal a@ has a special value, which is in gen-
_ eral somewhat above that of the expansion-coeflicient of a gas. Hence
the application of the formula above given leads to a zero value for the
resistance at a temperature somewhat above —273°. It follows, there-
' fore, that at exceedingly low temperatures the variation of resistance be-
comes less rapid. The temperatures calculated from the above formula
| consequently are, for these low temperatures, too near zero. (J. Phys.,
| July, 1885, II, tv, 297.)

_ Bartoli has examined twenty-three varieties of carbon with reference
_ to their electric resistance. He concludes that to be a conductor the
_ carbon should not contain more than 1-2 per cent. of hydrogen, and should
have been submitted to a temperature not below a red heat. He finds
that an intimate mixture of twenty parts of paraffin and one of graphite,
_ by fusion, however, conducts so well that plates of it may be employed
as electrodes; and yet elementary analysis would show 14:3 per cent.
of hydrogen. He believes, therefore, that the conductivity of carbons
is due exclusively to the presence in them of finely divided graphite
intimately mixed throughout their mass. (Ll Nuovo Cimento, xv, 203;
_d. Phys., December, 1885, I, rv, 563.)

4, Electric Spark and Electric Light.

Edlund has contributed further experimental evidence of the position
_tInaintained by him, that an absolute vacuum is a good conductor and
that the inerease of resistance experienced in the ordinary tubes as the
exhaustion proceeds is due to the development of a progressively in-
creasing counter electro-motive force at the electrodes, a point which he
has now rendered probable. A glass tube, 30°" long and 16™™ in diam-
63 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

eter, provided with two platinum wire electrodes, the ends being 3™™
apart, and with two bands of tin foil, was connected to the mercury
pump while the terminals of an induction coil were connected alter-—
nately with the electrodes and with the tin-foil bands. . When the press- —
ure in the tube was above 36™™" no discharge could be observed be- —
tween the tin-foil coatings, though that between the platinum wires be-
came very brilliant. At about 1™™ a luminosity between the armatures —
was observable, which increased to 0:004™" when it was intense, the
spark between the electrodes being feeble. At 0:00036™™ the electrode |
spark appeared only occasionally, while the armature discharge was
constant and very bright. The two discharges give exactly opposite —
results, that between the electrodes diminishing with the exhaustion —
and that between the armatures increasing with it. The author can —
explain this and other similar experiments only by the supposition —
that the resistance of the vacuum itself diminishes as the rarefaction
increases and that there is developed simultaneously at the electrode a_
condition which hinders the passage of the electricity into the air from
the metal. (Phil. Mag., February, 1885, V, xix, 125; J. Phys., June, ~
1885, II, 1v, 273.) y

Goldstein has made the following remarkable experiment on the prop- ;
agation of electricity through a vacuum. A Geissler tube has for its”
negative electrode either a platinum loop or a carbon filament from a_
Swan lamp. By means of a battery these loops are raised to incan- ;
descence, and then the discharge of an induction coil is sent into the

of the positive electrode is without influence. (Ber. Ak. Wien, 1884, -
58; J. Phys., April, 1885, II, rv, 182.) %
This result appears entirely analogous with certain phenomena ob-—
served by Edison in the spring of 1884 in his incandescent lamps. Insert-
ing a platinum electrode in the lamp, between the- sides of the carbon
loop, he noticed that when the lamp was brought up to incandescence
a galvanometer connected on the one side to this platinum plate and on —
the other to the positive conductor, showed a deflection increasing with
the degree of incandescence. The carbon filament was, in this case, an-
incandescent electrode as above, and the electro-motive force of the
machine, about 110 volts, was under these conditions sufficient to cause
a discharge through the vacuum. (Science, October, 1884, Iv, 374; Na-
ture, April, 1885, XXX1, 545.) ;
Lehmann concludes that the apparent difference of properties ©
positive and negative electrification in vacuum tubes is due entirely to
secondary actions dependent upon the state of charge which the ai
takes in consequence of its friction against the electrodes. This ele
PHYSICS. 631

trification thus produced is always positive, and therefore the discharge
is favored at the cathode and rendered more difficult at the anode.
Indeed, the latter is, in a certain sense, prolonged by the layer of gas,
positively electrified, which surrounds it, and which produces the dark
-space around this electrode. In this space the discharge is convective
and continuous, becoming luminous and discontinuous oniy beyond it
at a variable distance depending upon the pressure of the gas and
upon its temperature. (Wied. Ann., xx, 305; J. Phys., December,
1885, II, rv, 570.)

Naceari and Guglielmo have continued their investigations on the
heating of the electrodes produced by the induction spark in rarefied
air. They had previously shown that for pressures of air above 10™™
the negative electrode heated more than the positive in the ratio of 1
to between 2 and 4. For lower pressures they now show that this ratio
increases slowly up to a pressure of 5"™™, more rapidly from 5 to 1-2, and
very rapidly up to a pressure of 0-27™", when it reaches a maximum
value of 28. It then decreases, and for the lowest pressures obtainable
is reversed and becomes less than 1. (J. Phys., December, 1885, I, rv,
561.)

Ayrton and Perry have communicated to the Physical Society of
London a paper on the most economical potential difference to employ
with Edison incandescent lamps. They point out the fact that it is not
sufficient to know that when a lamp is giving out a certain number of
candles it absorbs so much power per candle, and when giving out a
much larger number of candles it absorbs so much less power per can.
die. What must be known in addition is the life of the lamp at each
of these two candle-powers before we can decide upon the most economi-
cal temperature for it; since if the efficiency is low at low temperatures,
the life is great, and at high temperatures the larger efficiency will be
balanced somewhat by its short life. From a curve given by calcula-
tion, and assuming the cost of the lamp 5s., the number of hours of burn-
ing per year 560, and the cost of one electric horse-power for this time
as £5, the authors show that the minimum cost per candle per year is
11d., and is obtained with a potential value of 101-4 volts, the cost ris-
ing to ls. per year if the potential falls to 98-7 or rises to 104 volts.
(Phil. Mag., April, 1885, V, x1x, 304; Nature, March, 1885, xxx1, 490.)

Fleming has made extended investigations into the phenomena of
incandescent lamps with special reference to their efficiency. From
statistics concerning the life, resistance, efficiency, and potential differ-
ence of such lamps he has constructed empirical equations showing the
mutual relations of these variables. A curve showing the relation of
any one of these to any other is called a characteristic curve for that
lamp. His results confirmed the law tormulated by Ayrton and Perry,
that for a certain class of lamps (7. e. the Edison) the potential difference,
minus a constant, varies as she cube root of the efficiency, the latter
quantity being measured in candles per horse-power. The constant
632 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

which in the lamps examined is about 28:7, is nearly the potential dif- ‘
ference at which the lamps begin to emit light. Hence the law may be f
stated as follows: The effective potential difference varies as the cube —
root of the efficiency. (Phil. Mag., May, 1885, V, ax, 368; Nature, ©
April, 1885, xxxt, 522.) %

Fleming has further studied the phenomenon of molecular shadows —
in Edison incandescent lamps. In his earlier experiments he suggested —
the similarity of the phenomenon in question to those observed in high —
vacua by Crookes, the surface of the glass being coated with a deposit —
of carbon, with the exception of a clear line marking the intersection of —
the glass with the plane of the loop, and being in fact a shadow of the —
loop, apparently caused by the emission of matter from the terminals.
The author has now succeeded in producing this phenomenon at will by —
passing a very strong current momentarily through a lamp, and has —
produced similar deposits of various metals used as electrodes. These }
deposits show colors by transmitted light, and, as a general resuli, he r
concludes that red metals, such a gold and copper, appear ereen by
transmitted light, whereas white metals, like silver and platinum, ap- ©
pear brown. This result is obviously of the same character as that ob- | f
tained by Wright.—Am. J. Sci., 1877, III, xm, 49; x1v, 169. (Phil.
Mag., August, 1885, V, xx, 141; Naiare J uly, 1885, xxx1I, 263 ; Am. i,
J. Sci., October, 1885, Ill, XXX, 314, ) i

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF PHYSICS, 1885.

Practical Physics. R. T. Glazebrook and W. N. Shaw. 16mo. pp., xxii, 487. Lon- —
don and New York, 1885. 4
Lessons in Elementary Practical Physics. Balfour Stewart and W. W.H.Gee. Vol. —
I. General Physical Processes. 16mo. pp. xvi, 298. London, 1885. (Macmil- ¥
lan.) ®
Properties of Matter. P.G.Tait. 16mo. pp. viii, 320. Edinburgh, 1885. (Black.) —
Ma.hematical and Physical Papers. Prof. Sir Wm. Thomson. Vol. II. Svo. Cam- —
bridge University Press, 1884.
Outlines of Natural Philosophy. J.D. Everett. 12mo. London, 1885. (Blackie.)
Corso di fisica applicata. G. Grassi. 8vo. pp. 500. Napoli, 1884. (Pellerano.)
Elementi di fisica e meccauica applicata alla nautica. Meteorologia e geografia fisica _

del mare. E. M. Russo. 2 vols. 8vo. pp. 624,591. Napoli, 1884. (Pellerano.)

Physical Arithmetic. A. Macfarlane. &vo. pp. 354. London, 1885. (Maemillan.)

Grundziige der Molecular-Physik und der mathematischen Chemie. W.C. Wittwer. —
8vo. pp. vii, 198. Stuttgart, 1885.

Ueber den Begriif der Kraft mit Beriicksichtigung des Gesetzes von der Erhaltung der :
Kraft. E. Dreher. 8vo. Berlin, 1885. x

Histoire des sciences mathématiques et physiques. M. Marie. 8vo. pp. 264. Paris, |
1885. (Gauthier- Villars. ) 4

Syllabus of a Hundred Physical Measurements. H. Whiting. 12mo. Cambridge,
1885. (Wheeler.) Bi

Problémes de physique avec leurs solutions développées. A. F. Chevallier et A.
Muentz. 2ded. 8vo. pp. viii, 205. Paris, 1885.

PHYSICS. 633

Physikalische Technik speciell Anleitung zur Selbstanfertigung physikalischer Ap-
parate. O. Lehmann. 8vo. pp. xii, 419. Leipzig, 1885.

Elementary Mechanics. O. J. Lodge. 12mo. pp. 208. Edinburgh, 1885. (Cham-
bers. )

Cours de mécanique et machines professé 4 Ecole polytechnique. Tome I. Ciné-
matique, dynamique du point matériel, statique. Bresse. 8vo. pp. xxii, 539.
Paris, 1884. (Gauthier-Villars. )

Treatise on dynamics. W.H. Besant. 8vo. pp. 320. London, 1885.

An elementary treatise on dynamics, containing applications to thermodynamics ;
with numerous examples. B. Williamson and F. A. Tarleton. 8vo. pp. 460.
London, 18835. (Longmans. )

Aufgaben zur Theorie elastischer Kérper. J.J. Weyrauch. 8vo. pp. x, 3850, Leip-
zig, 1885. (Teubner.)

Sammlung von Problemen der analytischen Mechanik. F,Krafit. Band1l. 8vo. pp.
650. Stuttgart, 1885.

Die Entstehung der Sprache durch Nachahmung des Schalles. Th. Curti. 8vo. pp.
72. Stuttgart, 1885.

Die Schall- und Ton-Stirke und das Schallleitungsvermégen der Korper. K. von
Vierordt. 8vo. pp.xxii, 274. Tiibingen, 1885. (Laupp.)

On a method of precisely measuring the vibratory periods of tuning forks and the
determinations of the laws of the vibrations of forks; with special reference of
these facts and laws to the action of a simple chronoscope. A.M. Mayer. 4to.
pp. 17. Washington, 1885. (Mem. Nat. Acad. Sciences, III.)

The sensations of tone as a physiological basis for the theory of music. H.L. F. von
Helmholtz. 2d Eng.ed. Trans. by A.J. Ellis. 4to. pp.xx, 576. London, 1885.
(Longmans. ) ;

Recherches expérimentales et analytiques sur les machines & vapeur. Du degré
exactitude des données d’observation d’un essai de machine & vapeur. Réponse
iM. A.Hirn. G.Leloutre. 8vo. pp.24. Paris, 1885. (Tignol.)

Termodinamica. C.Cattaneo. 16mo. pp. ix, 195. Milano, 1884.

Etude sur la thermo-dynamique appliquée 4 la production de la force motrice et du
froid. Ch.Tellier. 8vo. pp. vii, 549. Paris, 1884.

Siedetemperatur und Druck in ihren Wechselbeziehungen. G. W. A. Kahlbaum.
8vo. pp. viii, 153. Leipzig, 1885. (Barth.)

Om stralande virmes diffusion par plana ytor. K. Angstrém. 8vo. pp. 55. Upsala,
1885.

' Recherches expérimentales et analytiques sur les machines & vapeur du Woolf. G.
Leloutre. 8vo. pp. 58. Paris, 1885. (Tignol.)

On Light. Second course. On Light as a means of investigation. G. G. Stokes.
16mo. pp. viii, 107. London, 1885.

Spectrum Analysis. H. Schellen. (Translated from the third German edition by
Jane and Caroline Lassell. Edited with notes by Captain Abney, R. E.) 8vo.
London, 1885.

Ueber den Beleuchtungswerth der Lampglocken. H. L. Cohn. 8vo. pp. viii, 74.
Wiesbaden, 1885. (Bergmann.)

Vorlesungen iiber theoretische Optik, gehalten an der Universitit Konigsberg. F.
Neumann. Herausgegeben von E. Dorn. 8vo. pp. viii, 310. Leipzig, 1885.
(Teubner. )

La grammaire de la couleur. E. Guichard. 3 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1885.

Traité de la lumitre. Huyghens. Edited by W. Burchhardt. 8vo. pp. iv, 134.
Lipsiz, 1885. (Gressner & Schramm.)

Theoretische Optik gegriindet auf das Bessel-Sellmeier’sche Princip. E. Ketteler.
8vo. pp. xiv, 652. Braunschweig, 1835. (Vieweg.)

A Manual of Telegraphy. W. Williams. 8vo. pp. xxii, 327. London, 1885. (Long-
mans. )
634 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Les accumulateurs électriques et la mécanique de l’électrolyse. A. Bandsept. 8vo. i
Paris, 1884. 7

Le téléphone, son histoire, sa description, ses usages. L. Figuier. 12mo. Paris, —
1884. b 4

Die. Mehrfach-Telegraphie auf einem Drahte. Mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung auf _ '
den Stand der Gegenwart. A.H.Granfeld. 8vo, pp. xiv, 258. Wien, 1884. ij

Transmission électrique du travail mécanique. Détermination des éléments de la _
transmission. A. Hilliaret. 8vo. pp.77. Paris, 1884. ¥ |

Die Abhingigkeit des von einer Influenzmaschine erster Art gelieferten Stromes von _
der Feuchtigkeit. R. Kruger. 8vo. Gédttingen, 1884. i

Systeme de télégraphie et de téléphone simultanées, par les mémes fils, of F. v. Rys- —
selberghe. Ch.Mourlon. 8vo. pp.35. Bruxelles, 1884.

Die Motoren der elektrischen Maschinen mit Bezug auf Theorie, Construction und
Betrieb. Th. Schwartze. 8vo. Wien, 1834.

Electrolyse, renseignements pratiques sur le nickelage, le cuivrage, la dorure, l’argen- —
ture, ’affinage des métaux et le traitement des minerais au moyen de V’électricité.
H. Fontaine. 8vo. pp. xvi, 296. Paris, 1884. (Baudry.) e

Traité pratique d’électricité industrielle. E. Cadiat et L. Dubost. 8vo. pp. iv,
196. Paris, 1884. (Baudry.)

Lampes électriques universelles Trouvé. C.Chassevent. 8vo. pp.16. Paris, 1884. _
(Baudry.) ,

Manual de telefonia. Galante y Villaranda. 8vo. pp. 224. Madrid, 1884.

Les accumulateurs électriques étudiés an point de vue industriel. Emile Reynier.
8vo. Paris, 1885. (Michelet. ) %

La lumiére électrique dans les appartements. G. Fournier. 16mo. pp. 36. Paris, —
1884. (Tignol.) ; q

Magneto and dynamo-electric machines, with a description of electric accumulators; _

from the German of Glaser de Cew. F. Krohn. Edited by Paget Higgs. 8vo. ¢

pp. 302. London, 1885.

Les télégraphes. I. Télégraphie optique. Télégraphie acoustique. Télégraphie pneu-
matique. Poste aux pigeons. A.L. Ternant. 12mo. Paris, 1885.

Die Electricitit im Dienste der Menschheit. A.v. Urbanitzky. 8vo. Wien, 1884.

Nonveaux procédés de régulation des galvanométres. L. de Gerando. 8vo. pp.23.
Paris, 1885. (Baudry.)

La physique moderne. L’électricité dans la maison. E. Hospitalier. 8vo. pp. viii,
311. Paris, 1885. (Masson. )

Le misure assolute meccaniche elettrostatiche ed elettromagnetiche, con applicazioni —
a varii problemi. A. Serpieri. 8vo. pp. x, 90. Milano, 1884. (Hoepli.)

L’année électrique, ou Exposé annuel des travaux scientifiques, des inventions et des
principales applications de Vélectricité 4 Vindustrie et aux arts. P. Delahaye.
Année, I. 12mo. Paris, 1885.

Théorie du potentiel et ses applications & V’électrostatique etau magnétisme. Partie I.
Théorie au potentiel. E. Mathieu. 4to. pp. 179. Paris, 1885.

Practical guide for compensation of compasses without bearings. Lieut. Collet.
Translated by W. Bottomley. With preface by Sir William Thomson. 8vo.
pp. 72. London, 1885. ie

Den danske elektriske lysmaskine og buelampe. V.Edsberg. 8vo. pp.104. Kjoben- —
havn, 1884. (Gyldendal.)

Applications industrielles de l’électricité. H.Ponthiére. 8vo. pp. 205. Paris, 1885.
(Gauthier- Villars. )

La Navigazione elettrica. S.Raineri. 16mo. pp. viii,158. Roma, 1884. (Loescher.)

Ueber elektrische Beleuchtung. F. Lux. 8vo. Mainz, 1885. Bi

Recherches théoriques et pratiques sur les accumulateurs électriques. R, Tamine. b
8vo. pp. vi, 333. Mons, 1885. (Manceaux.)

PHYSICS. 635

| Recherches expérimentales sur la résistance lectrique des substances isolantes. G.

Foussereau. 4to. pp.119. Paris, 1885. (Gauthier-Villavrs. )

| The magnetism of steel and iron ships. T. A. Lyons. 8vo. pp.125. Washington,

1884. (Navy Department.)

| Traité pratique d’électricité appliquée a exploitation deschemins de fer. G. Dumont.
12moe. pp.372. Paris,1885. (Besnard.)

Sur Vorigine de l’électricité atmosphérique, du tonnerre et de Vaurore boréale. 1.
Edlund. Svo. Stockholm, 1885. (Nilsson.) ;

Das Gliihlicht, sein Wesen und sein Erfordnisse. E.de Fodor. 8vo. pp.260. Wien,
1885.

Les lampes électriques et leurs accessoires. P.Urbanitzky. Edition frangaise par
G. Fournier. 12mo. Paris, 1885.

Magnetic and electrical laws. E.H.Harding. 18mo. pp.32. London, 1885. (Col-
lins. )

Domestic electricity for amateurs. E. Hospitalier. Translated from the French by
C.J.Wharton. 8vo. pp.230. London, 1885. (Spon.)

Easy lessons in Electricity. T. Kirwan. 8vo. pp. 102. Boston, 1885.

On the seat of the Electromotive forces in the Voltaic cell. O. J. Lodge. 8vo. pp.
96. London, 1885. (Taylor.)

Lecons élémentaires de télégraphie électrique. L. Michaut et M. Gillet. 18mo. pp.
vii, 206. Paris,1885. (Gauthier-Villars. )

Ursprung der Gewitter-Electricitit und der gew6hnlichen Electricitiit der Atmosphire.
L.Sohncker. 8vo. pp.v,74. Jena, 1885.

Wrinkles in electric lighting. V. Stephen. Svo. pp. 46. London, 1885. (Spon.)

Mathematical theory of electricity and magnetism. H.W. Watson and 8. H. Bur-
bury. Vol. I. Electrostatics. 8vo. pp. 274. London, 1885. (Froude.)

The electrical and magnetic properties of the iron carburets. C. Barus and V. Stron-
hal. 8vo. pp. 235. Washington, 1885. (Bulletin No. 14 of the U. 8. Geological

a Survey.)

Construction des étalons prototypes de résistance électrique du ministere des postes et
des télégraphes. J. R. Benoit. 4to. pp. 80. Paris, 1885. (Gauthier-Villars. )

Instruction a étude de Vélectricité statique. E. Bichat et R. Blondlot. 8vo. pp.
x, 141. Paris, 1885. (Gauthier-Villars. )

Lehrbuch der Electricitiit und des Magnetismus. KE. Mascart & J. Joubert. Autori-
sirte deutsche Uebersetzung von Dr. L. Levy. Bandi. 8vo. pp. xx,592. Ber-
lin, 1885. (Springer. )

Téléphonie et télégraphie simultanées. F. Van Rysselberghe. Précédé de notions
préliminaires sur Vinduction électrique, le téléphone et le microphone, par E.
Buels. 12mo. pp. xii,226. Bruxelles, 1885. (Hayez.)

Handbuch der Electrotechnik. E. Kittler. Band 1, Hiilfte 1. Svo. pp. 296. Stutt-
gart, 1885. (Enke.)

Kleines Handwéorterbuch enthaltend das wichtigste aus der Lehre der Electricitit.
W. Biscan. 16mo. pp.96. Wien, 1884. (Hartleben.)

Ein empfindliches Galvanometer mit messbarem Reductionsfactor. R. W. Wilson.
12mo. pp. 12. Leipzig, 1885.

NECROLOGY OF PHYSICISTS, 1885.

SILLIMAN, BENJAMIN, Professor of Chemistry in Yale College. Author of a text-
book on Physics. Died at New Haven, Conn., January 138, 1885, aged 68 years.

RoseErti, FRANCISCO, Professor of Physics in the University of Padua, Well known
for his researches on electro-statics and the temperature of the electric arc. Died in
Padua, April 20, 1885, at the age of 52 years.

JENKIN, FLEEMING, Professor of Engineering in the University of Edinburgh, Dis-
tinguished as an electrician, especially in connection with the Atlantic cable. His

636 SCIENTIFIC. RECORD FOR 1885.

last work was the system of electrical transport called telepherage. Died in Edin-
burgh, June 12, 1885, at the age of 52.

Tresca, Henri, Professor of Industrial Mechanies and afterward Director of the
Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers, Paris. Elected a member of the French Academy
in 1872. Eminent for his researches on the Flow of Metals and other mechanical sub-
jects. Died in Paris, June 21, 1885, aged 71 years.

EKLUND. A. W., Professor of Physics at the University of Lund, Sweden. Died at
Lund, July, 1885, at the age of 90 years.

MANGIN, Colonel, of the French army. Inventor of the electric light projector
known by his name. Died in Paris, of apoplexy, in November, 1885, aged 45 years. _

CARPENTER, WILLIAM B., the eminent physiologist. Noted in physics for his work
on the microscope. Died in London, November 10, 1885, aged 73 years.

ANDREWS, THOMAS, Professor of Chemistry in Queen’s College, Belfast, until 1879.
Well known for his researches on the Continuity of the Gaseous and Liquid states.
Died in Belfast, November 26, 1885, aged 72 years.

CHEMISTRY.

By H. CARRINGTON BoLton, PH. D.,

Professor of Chemistry, Trinity College, Hartford.

GENERAL AND PHYSICAL.

Present Aspects of the Theory of Chemical Action.—In his presidential
address to the chemical section of the British Association for the Ad-
| vancement of Science, at the Aberdeen meeting, Prof. Henry KE. Arm-
strong considered, among other things, the present aspects of the theory
of chemical action. He said: Chemical action may be defined as being
/ any action of which the consequence is an alteration in molecular con-
stitution or composition; the action may concern molecules which are
_ of only one kind—eases of mere decomposition, of isomeric change, and
of polymerization; or it may take place between dissimilar molecules
—cases of combination and of interchange. Hitherto it appears to
have been commonly assumed and almost universally taught by chemists
that action takes place directly between A and B, producing AB, or
between AB and CD, producing AC and BD, for example. This, at al]
events, is the impression which the average student gains. Our text
books do not, in fact, as a rule deign to notice observations of such
fundamental importance as those of De La Kive ov the behavior of
nearly pure zine with dilute sulphuric acid, or the later ones of Faraday
(Lxp. Researches, Series vu, 1834, 863 et seq.) on the insolubility of
amalgamated zine in this acid. Belief in the equation Zn+H,SO,—
H,+ ZuSO,, hence, becomes a part of the chemist’s creed, and it is
generally interpreted to mean that zine will dissolve in sulphuric acid
forming zine sulphate, not, as should be the case, that when zine dis-
solves in sulphuric¢ acid it produces zine sulphate, We.

In studying the chemistry of carbon compounds we become ac-
quainted with a large number of instances in which a more or less minute
quantity of a substance is capable of inducing change in the body or
bodies with which it is associated without apparently itself being altered.
The polymerization of a number of cyanogen compounds and of alde-
hydes, the *‘ condensation” of ketonic compounds and the hydrolysis of
carbohydrates are cases in point, but so little has been done to ascertain

637
638 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

the nature of the influence of the contact-substance, or catalyst, as 1
would term it, the main object in view being the study of the product
of the reaction, that the importance of the catalyst is not duly appre-
ciated. Recent discoveries, however—more particularly Mr. H. B.
Dixon’s invaluable investigation on conditions of chemical change in
gases, and the experiments of Mr. Cowper with chlorine and various
metals, and of Mr. Baker on the combustion of carbon and phosphorus—
must have given a rude shock, from which it can never recover, to the
belief in the assumed simplicity of chemical change. The inference
which I think may be fairly drawn from Mr. Baker’s observations—
that pure carbon and phosphorus are incombustible in pure oxygen—is
indeed startling, and his experiments must do much to favor that ‘more
minute study of the simpler chemical phenomena” so pertinently ad-
vocated by Lord Rayleigh. (See Presidential Address to the B. A. A.
S., at the meeting of 1884.)

But if it be a logical conclusion from the cases now known to us, that
chemical action is not possible between any two substances other than
elementary atoms, and that the presence of a third is necessary, what
is the funetion of the third body, the catalyst, and what must be its
character with reference to one or both of the two primary agents? In
the discussion which took place at the chemical society after the read-
ing of Mr. Baker’s paper, I ventured to define chemical action as _re-
versed electrolysis, stating that in any case in which chemical action was
to take place, it was essential that the system operated upon should
contain a material of the nature of an electrolyte (Chem. Soc. Proc., 1885,
p- 40). In short, I believe that the conditions which obtain in any vol-
taic element are those which must be fulfilled in every case of chemical
action. There is nothing new in this; in fact it was stated by Faraday
in 1848 (Exp. Researches, series VII, § 858 and § 859); and had due heed
been given to Faraday’s teaching, we should scarcely now be so ignorant
of the conditions of chemical change. (Chem. News, Lit, 135.)

Suggestions as to the Cause of the Periodic Law and the Nature of the
Chemical Elements. (By Prof. Thomas Carnelley.)—The truth of the pe-
-riodie law of the chemical elements is now generally allowed by most
chemists. Nevertheless, but little has been done towards attaining a
reasonable explanation of the law. This prompts the author to offer a
few suggestions on this subject. Even long before the discovery of the
periodic law many chemists had pointed out certain numerical relation-
ships existing between the atomic weights of bodies belonging to a given
group, and had, hence, supposed that the elements belonging to the sev-
eral natural groups were not primary, but were made up of two or more
simpler elements. These conclusions, however, were more or less frag-
mentary and referred only to particular groups of elements. In the
light of the periodic law the author has made a general extension of the
fragmentary conclusions of Dumas, and has brought that law into jux-

CHEMISTRY. 639

taposition with an extended generalization of the analogy of the ele-
ments with the hydrocarbon radicals. A careful consideration of the
relations between certain physical properties and the atomic weights of
the elements leads almost irresistibly to the conclusion that the ele-
ments are analogous to the hydrocarbon radicals in both form and fune-
tion. This is a conclusion which if true would further lead us to infer
that the elements are not elements in the strict sense of the term, but
are built up of (at least) two primary elements, A (=carbon at. wt. 12)
and B (ther, at. wt.—2), which by their combination produce a series
of compounds (viz, our present elements) analogous to the hydrocarbon
radicals. If this theory be true the periodic law follows as a matter of
course, and we should therefore be able to represent the elements by
some such general formula as An B 2n+(2— 2), analogous to that for the
hydrocarbon radicals C,, H,,.,;._.) in which n=the series and x the group
to which the element or hydrocarbon radical belongs. Assuming the
truth of the theory here advanced, it is interesting to observe that
whereas the hydrocarbons are compounds of hydrogen and carbon, the
chemical elements would be composed of earbon with ether, the two
sets of bodies being generated in an exactly analogous manner from
their respective elements. There would, hence, be three primitive ele-
ments, viz, carbon, hydrogen, and ether. Finally, this theory would re-
move the chief objections which have been urged against the periodic
law, whilst the existence of elements of identical atomic weights and
isomeric with one another would be possible. May not Ni and Co, Ru
and Rh, Os and Ir, and some of the rare earth metals be isomers in this
sense? (Report B. A. A. 8. in Nature, xxxu, 539.)

Relations between the Atomic Weights and the Physiological Functions of
the Elements (by Fausto Sestini).—A study of the following table con-
taining the elements entering into the formation of the organic matter
of plants, shows that no element having an atomic weight higher than 56
takes a direct part in producing organic bodies:

Indispensable. Useful.

C=P4 N=14; O16; \ Gg
oir: S=32 )
B15 Me 240s)
Ca=40; Fe=56 §
Among the remaining elements of the first four groups of the periodic
system which occur in the ashes of certain plants are Al=27'3 in
lycopodium and equisetum, Li=7 in tobacco and vines, FI=19 in
many higher plants, Cu=63, Zn=65, and Br (also I) in alge. The
elements following copper up to uranium act like poison upon plants
and animals. The soluble compounds of most of the elements having
higher atomic weights than 56 coagulate albumen, exert a very injurious
influence on animals, and act to a certain extent as antiseptics. (@aze.
chim. italiana, XV, 107.)

Electro-negative

Electro-positive { Na=23; Mn=55.
640 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

On the Unit used in Calculating the Atomic Weights (by Lothar Meyer
and Karl Seubert).—The controversy arising immediately after the pro-
posal of Daiton’s atomic theory, as to the unit upon which the numerical
values of the atomic weight should be based has for half a century
divided chemists into two schools. While Dalton and, later, Leopold
Gmelin, from theoretical and philosophical considerations, chose the
smallest atomic weight, that of hydrogen, as the measure of all the rest,
Wollaston and Berzelius chose that of oxygen, partly because they did
not place so high a value on theoretical views, and partly on the purely
practical ground that many elements can be compared directly with
oxygen, whereas they can be only indirectly compared with hydrogen.
When the Dalton unit, the hydrogen atom, gradually obtained the
upper hand, the old controversy appeared to have been laid aside, and
consequently it was to be hoped that the recent more exact investiga-
tions of the laws which govern the numerical values of the atomic
weights would be directed from the same point of view. This hope,
however, has unfortunately not been fulfilled, as the old Wollaston-
Berzelius unit has lately again come into use in a different—and as we
believe—more dangerous form.

As is well known, J. 8. Stas has from his own observation as well as
those of others deduced as the most highly probable result that the
atomic weight of oxygen is not quite sixteen times as great as that of
hydrogen, but on the contrary is about 74; of its value less than 16 H.
That is when H=1,O=15:96. Many chemists, however, content them-
selves with numerical values founded on the more simple ratio of
H: O=1: 16, regarding the difference of ;3; as of very little practical
consideration. And the hope that the old controversy over the choice
of the unit would disappear upon a recalculation of the atomic weights
has unfortunately not been fulfilled. The desire to do away with the
unit O=100 is universal; all chemists prefer referring atomic weights
to hydrogen, but they do not agree as to the way in which this is to be
done. Some refer all atomic weights to O=16, when H=1-0023, and
others to H=1. In consequence of these different views all the other
atomic weights fluctuate to the extent of about 4 per cent. of their
value, a very undesirable state of affairs, leading to confusion and per-
plexity. The authors maintain that the real cause prompting the
adoption of O=16 is a secret fondness for Prout’s hypothesis.

The authors admit that the error introduced by making O=16 is much
smaller than the unavoidable errors of observation so far as inorganic
compounds are concerned, but they show that in the analysis of organic
compeunds it is quite otherwise. From atable showing the percentages
of hydrogen and carbon in the paraffins containing 30 and 31 carbon
atoms and their derived alcohols and acids, it is evident that the vari-
ations in the caleulated percentages of carbon dioxide reach the tenths
of a per cent., a difference often greater than that obtained from two
adjacent hydrocarbons in a homologous series.

a

CHEMISTRY. 641

With the aid of a second table, in which calculations are made on
the two suppositions that O=16, and O=15-96, the authors show that
according to the former a given analysis would lead to the formula
C.;Hs., but according to the latter the formula would be Cy;Hs.. Of
course in such @ case no one would determine the formula by analysis
alone. In conclusion, the authors say: ‘‘ We are all convinced that the
relation under consideration (and thereby every other atomic weight re-
ferred to H=1) is not accurate to the thousandth part of its value.
Let us accept it without artificial interpretations and wait till the future
for its further proof and confirmation by experimental methods.” (Ber.
d. chem. Ges., XVIII, 1089, and Am. Chem. J., VII, 96.)

Prout’s Hypothesis and the Atomic Weight of Silver (by Lothar Meyer
and K. Seubert).—The calculation of the atomic weights of many of the
elements depends, as is well known, upon that of silver, so that the
sharpest possible determination of this is desirable in order to obtain
accurate results, without which a discussion of Prout’s hypothesis, as
far as this is concerned with facts, is unprofitable. For this reason J.
S. Stas, in his masterly investigations, used the utmost care in determin-
ing the stoichiometrical relations between silver and oxygen. Dumas,
in 1878, showed that oxygen was contained in pure silver which had
been fused with borax and saltpeter. The authors have studied the in-
fluence which the slight percentage of oxygen may have exerted on
Stas’ silver determinations, and conclude that the latter were not ap-
preciably influenced by the occluded oxygen. The authors maintain
that the most accurate determinations of atomic weights of the elements
all contradict Prout’s hypothesis in its characteristic original concep-
tion; it must therefore be looked upon as having been disproved by
experiment. (Ber. d. chem. Ges. XVIII, 1098, and Am. Chem. J., V1, 104.)

Re-determinations of Atomic Weights.

Element. Sern: | Authority. | Reference.
|

WerlumMtss SI) Fcc ieeceee dee 140-1" || Croukes-.-- 22... Chem. News, Ll, 302.
Hanthanum...- soscs% woes - HS8'S) |PtoGOemacss = case Do.
warbon, LO—=1G6l\tccosseee ses oe 12:0 | van der Plaats...| Comptes rendus, ©, 52.
Phosphorus [O=16]..-.....--. SOM ore Oneeelas sleet Do.
Sed POSER sek occ SR HIS OF ae OT Do.
Mine [O==1Gi) ssc sesso ee ee GOUT se dO be eer cee ee Do.
MANU ssa 0 bse sce eeeees 48°01 | T. E. Thorpe ....| Chem. News, LI, 46.
IGM). \Gosss. soso sd ses eee 208°16 | R. Schneider ....| J. prakt. Chem., xxx.
Re iNGInUM acs) ot 22S ert oO: Sl Hampid cone. a2: Chem. News, LI, 121.
DAM ANIM 5 << pio cies eee 150:02" |’ Cleve ors -sos. = Chem. News, LI, 145.
DidymiuM His. ss Sees ee LAD SE TE Obes eres coe Chem. News, LI, 227.
eran POI] ic. 2. cece 140-22 | Brauner. ........ J. Chem. Soc., 1885, 879.

H. Mis. 15——41
642 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Physical Conditions Dependent upon Temperature.—The experiments of
French and of Russian chemists in liquefaction of gases, and the ex-
traordinary temperatures obtained, excite so much interest that we here
transcribe a somewhat extended table of temperatures with attendant
phenomena. The table was compiled by Mr. J. J. Coleman, and pre-
sented by him to the Philosophical Society of Glasgow, March 18, 1885,
in connection with his paper on the “Liquefaction of*Gases, and other
Effects of Extreme Cold.” (See Chem. News, Lt, 174.)

Fahr. | Cent. | Physical conditions dependent on temperature. | Atmospheres.

+698 | +370 | Critical point of water .-..........-.-.---------- 195°5
311 155°4| Critical point of sulphuric anhydride...--...----. 73:9
285 141 | Critical potmt ofichlorine- -2---.22-+.-25-- ese 83°9
266 130 || Critical point of ammonia. ..-2-.\-.5--.<--5-5 5-1 115
212 100-2| Critical point of sulphuretted hydrogen... ...-.---- 92
98 3d) Critical pomtovacetylenes-caees\ccecceseecte= lace 68
95 35°4| Critical point of nitrous oxide...........---.---- 75
89 31°9| Critical point of carbon dioxide ....-....---..--. 77
50 10°41} Critical point) ofiethylene)s:25222)--s--4eceesceee ol

Fahr. | Cent. | Physical conditions dependent on temperature. Authority.

+ 32 0 | Nitrous oxide boils at 32 atmospheres pressure --.| Faraday.
+ 32 0 | Carbon dioxide boils at 36 atmospheres pressure. - Do.

+ 14} — 10 | Sulphur dioxide boils .........--..--...-...----- Do.

+ 15 | — 10°5)..---- ee Ne ac as Soca ain cee Saaeoo mee Bunsen.

+ 10 | — 23 | Methyl chloride boils........-..........-.-....-- Regnault.
— 10 | — 23 | Carbon dioxide boils at 19.38 atmospheres pressure.| Faraday.
— 20} — 29 | Sulphur dioxide boils in current dry air... -.----- Pictet.

— 20 | — 29 | Carbon dioxide and oxygen, air and nitrogen | Cailletet. .

compressed to 300 atmospheres in glass tubes
and expanded suddenly show liquefaction.
— 26 | — 32 | Alcohol containing 52 per cent. water freezes ....| Pictet.

== 1200 abo 0) FC MLOTINOMIOIS) cs. oe ofa b ee eee ee ete ene Reguault.

= 9Q))|) =n) So dll PATRI OVI t | DOUG os sc's oleses “eter eein eee cleeereina se Bunsen.

— 31 | — 35 | Commercial paraffin oil (sp. gr. 0.810) freezes....| Coleman.

— 40 | — 40 | Nitrous oxide boils at 8.71 atmospheres pressure..| Faraday.

— 40 | — 40 | Carbon dioxide boils at 11. atmospheres pressure. - Do.

— 40 | — 40 | Ethylene boils at 13.5 atmospheres pressure ...--- Do.

— 53 | — 47 | Holland gin and French brandy freeze ..--..--.- Coleman.

— 60 | — 51 | Nitrous oxide boils at 5 atmospheres pressure ....| Faraday.

— 60 | — 51 | Carbondioxide boils at6.75 atmospheres pressure. - Do.

— 60 | — 5i | Ethylene boils at 9 atmospheres pressure ....-.--- Do.

— 62 | — 52 | American petroleum (sp. gr. .790) freezes ........ Coleman.

—- 62 | — 52 | Extra-strong whisky and rum freeze -...-...--.- Do.

— 62 | — 52 | Alcohol containing 40 per cent. water freezes .-.. Do.

— 80 | — 61°8| Sulphydric acid boils -.----. ----.....--..-..--.- Regnault.

— 80 | — 62 | Nitrous oxide boils at 3 atmospheres pressure ....| Faraday.

— 80 | — 62 | Carbon dioxide boils at3.75 atmospheres pressure. - Do.

— 80 | — 62 | Ethylene boils at 6.5 atmospheres pressure- .-.--- Do.

— 99 | — 73 | Critical point of marsh gas, 56 atmospheres pres- | Wroblewski.
sure.

—103 | — 75 | Liquefied ammonia freezes -.......---..----.----

—103 | — 75 | Alcohol containing 20 per cent. water freezes ....| Coleman.

—-108;|/——'78 | Carbonidioxide! boils: Seve saeaeee oes. so eemieeee Faraday and

Regnault.
—112 | — 80 | Solid sulphurous anhydride melts.:.-.......--.--- Mitchell.

——123) | —-86)-"| Nitrousioxide: boils. 22 see aanise se oon ree Faraday.

q . CHEMISTRY. 643
]
‘ SSS
r Fahr. | Cent. Physical conditions dependent on temperature. Authority.
. —123 | — 86 | Marsh gas boils at 40 atmospheres pressure -.- - ---- Wroblewski.
. —128 | — 87:9 Liquid - nitrous oxide boils....-.-. .. ..----| Regnault.
—144 |} — 98 | Marsh gas boils at 25 atmospheres pressure .....-| Wroblewski.
| 152'| 102 .| Amyl/aleohol, an oily liquid. ..--.....-.-.-ssues<- Olzewski.
. ——153) | ——102 Silicon fluoride, aowhite mass’. 2.0. Se Ree Do.
| —152 | —102 | Arsenetted hydrogen liquid -...........-.-.....- Do.
ts —— LO) | EL VOrOCHLOriG acid DOS eoscinccias-- 9-6 Coe nee Do.
| —152 | —102 | Chlorine in orange crystals ..-.....----..----.--- Do.
Ooh — LOD. I MED nVLONOMDOUS Hee cc not aicienpse crelenyocls cae cee eslcie ees Wroblewski.
—154 | —103 |...--. (LOM: See mecca sacs semen alaniz c/s b ous set aren Olzewski.
—166 | —110 | Solid carbon dioxide and ether in vacuo..--..--.. Faraday.
—171 | —113 | Critical point of oxygen, 50 atmospheres pressure..| Wroblewski.
—171 | —113 | Marsh gas boils at 16 atmospheres pressure ...--- Do.
—175 | —115 | Solid carbon dioxide in vacuo, 25™™ pressure. .-.. Dewar.
on — 105) a beyarochloric acid aiSOlG. > sss. sa. -ce eee] ace Olzewski.
—177 | —116 | Carbon disulphide a solid -.-.,-....--..----....-
—180 | —118 | Arsenetted hydrogen in white crystals..---....-- Do.
—193 | —125 | Nitrous oxide boils in vacuo. ............-....--- Dewar.
200K e—— 1207 MM ther SOlUEs ieee sce seco oececisaelaciel= sicecee Olzewski.
—202 | —130 | Absolute alcohol a solid.--.....--.........-.....
OOH fs a Am VIA eobolia SOG --e -cs)mcisc erence ese =o nee = Do.
——218| —139) | Hthylene boils in vacuo: ..-..--.-. 2... 25-2525 secs Do.
—219 | —139°5} Critical-point of carbon monoxide, 35.5 at press- Do.
ure.
—220 | —140 | Critical point of air, pressure 39.0 atmospheres. .. Do.
—220 | —140 | Calculated temperature of carbon dioxide snow in | Pictet.
vacuo.

—220 | —140 | Hydrogen compressed to 650 atmospheres and Do.
pressure released produces momentary liquefac-
tion and solidification.

—220 | —140 | Oxygen compressed to 320 atmospheres and press- Do.
ure released produces momentary liquefaction.

—231 | —146 | Critical point of nitrogen, 35 atmospheres pressure.| Olzewski.
O35 0150) | Minylene Dolls in VACUO-sas= sees ce ene che ee cee Do.

—238 | —150 | Carbon dioxide boils at 20 atmospheres pressure. . Do.

—242 | —152 | Atmospheric air boils at 20 atmospheres pressure... Do.

Agile t5o" jeMarsh, ras )bolls\:<. o.oo: soaccieeesiss<-cle see's/-o2 ee Wroblewski.
e200") 1184 9) Oxy ren bolls 2 ssl. cot Selsein ce cis-acis esse lsc ae Do.

Sieh —— 1 Ned AUT DOUS So ceme = acces) ssecclebomisceesisinces'se cis es Olzewski.
—312 | —191°2)..-.-- doesceeee scons Sesame ates a acest rae: Wroblewski.
sip) | —193..| Carbon monoxide boils... 20222 jncce coc 2 sawlces Do.

ol, p— 19451) Nitrozens bolls 2-2. 2222 sasenee sees es cee cenieeeses Olzewski.
—336 | —205 | Air boils in vacuo. - DSc cacao wc satecs Do.
—348 | —211 | Carbon monoxide ROlid Wied soto a ae sence Do.

—351 | —213 | Nitrogen boils in vacuo ...---. Do.

(?) (?) Hydrogen at 100 to 200 atmospheres liquefies to | Wroblewski and
colorless drops (in glass tubes 0.2™™ diameter Olzewski.
surrounded by oxygen boiling in vacuo).

—355 | —215 | Calculated boiling point of hydrogen. .-.--......--. E. J. Mills.
AGO) =-—27a | CADSOLULOZELO ssc. c 2 -.20 soles etiosin sel acne ccs

Compare note on solid nitrogen under the head “ Inorganic.”

Anomalies in the Boiling Points of the Chloroaceto-nitrils and their
Derivatives (by Hermann Bauer).—As a rule the replacement of hydro-
gen by chlorine or by oxygen lowers the volatility of organic compounds
not inconsiderably, but in certain cases an opposite effect results. Such
an abnormal effect is especially noticed in cyanogen compounds, the vola-
tility of which is usually increased by the introduction into the molecule
of negative radicals, and this occurs even when the molecular weight is

eh PP OS

644 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

greatly increased. Chlorocyanogen and dicyanogen, for example, are
more volatile than hydrocyanic acid:

H—ON boils at +269

CI—CN boils at +159

NC—ON boils at —21°

and cyanethy] boils at 96°, higher than cyanacetyl, which boils at 93° O.
The chloronitrils exbibit similar peculiarities. These and similar facts
prompted the author to examine the influence on the boiling point
of introducing atomic groups in the place of the chlorine in those bodies
in which the chlorine itself produces no change or marked change in the
volatility. To this end the author prepared the four nitrils named
below; their formula, and boiling points compared with trichloraceto-
nitril, are given in the table:

Name, Formula. Bie) Difter-

eI ence.

Trichloracesonltril so4eee ee hee cee CCl;,—CN 84 A
Dichlormethoxylacetonitril ......-.- CH,O—CCI,—CN 148 ne
Dichlorethoxylacetonitril .......--- C,H;O—CCl,—CN 161 ue
Dichlorpropoxylacetonitril -......-- C3H,0—CC],—CN 182 ‘

Dichlormonoisobutoxylacetonitril ..C,H,O—CCl,—CN 196

Whence it appears that the replacement of chlorine by methoxyl
raises the boiling point 64°, and beyond this the boiling point increases
with each addition of the carbon group in about the same ratio as in
homologous compounds of like character.

In the compounds cited below, an unusual elevation of the boiling
point occurs when oxymethy! enters.

Name. Formula. B. P. Name. ; Formula. B. P.

Cl Carbonicmethyl- ( OCH3 ; =
Phosgene.......--- (oe) ; a negseulb sae CO} ocHy| 9
Chlorocarbonic- Cl 5

methyl ether. co ; OCHs §) a ’
@hloroform'2-- =-23- CHCl; | 61 Orthoformicme-| CH (OCHs)3 | 102°
| thyl ether.

Cyanchloride ..-.-.- 15.5 Cyanomethy] ether. NCOCH; 43-45
Trichloracetonitril -

etonitril.

NCC) |
NC—CCl; | 84 Petonita NC—CCl1,OCH; 148

|
|
{

troduced into the compound.

Name. Formula. Beep:

fe)
Dichlorpropoxylacetonitril .........-.---. CCl,(OC;H,;)CN 183
Monochlordipropoxylacetonitril.......-. - CCl(OC3H;),CN 200
Tripropoxylacetoniwnil]s =... |... ic see C(OC;H,);CN 218

Dichlorisobutoxylacetonitril ..... Sieatese CC},(OC,Hs)CN 195

CHEMISTRY. 645

In other cases a notable elevation of boiling point ensues when ¢hlo-
rine is replaced by ethoxy].

Name. Formula. Bee
12)

POSS ONG ie eee EN tiaras 0 24 a CO—Cl, + 8
Chlorocarbonicethyl ether ................ CO—CIO—C,H; 94
Carbonicdiethyl ether. , ..2...--.....--. . CO—(OC,HS), 126
Clore fonmis & Ns; \5.)s<ci0e Be ats tiara. 95 oh a8 CHCl, 61
Orthoformieethyl.ether =... 25. 0.22 esses CH —(OC,Hs)3 146
Carpontetrachloride <:.sc4 25 sae Seved ess CCl, (a
Orthocarbonicethyl ether............----. C—(OC,Hs), 159
MriGhlaneunans ej cices Sais oes eee Swit CH;CCl, TA: 5
Orthoaceticethylether -.- J. 2025.22.55: CH;C —(OC,Hs)3 142
Cyanovem chloride: (32256 sio25 0.0 nl eon NC—Cl 15° 5
Isocyanicethyl] ether .......... eer Bas NC—OC,H; 60
iPracyanoren chloride: 2! 2% 5) 0 cesses 25 N;3C;Cl, 190
Esocyanuricethyl ether... 9: 2.6.2 5- le. -. 5 N3C;— (OC,Hs)3 276
pRLICHLOTACELONIEFI I. 42 h4 sjoiahctevs =, 22% ee ee NC—CCl, 84
Dichlorethoxylacetonitwil....< 2)... 2.2. NC—CCl,0C,H; 161

In the following, however, we have an exception to the rule:

Name. Formula. Bae.

fe)
Monochlordiethoxylacetonitril............ NC—CCl(OC,H;), 161
Mriethoxylacetonitril <.5 0.) 2 22.0.2 .2 5055 NC—C(OC,H;); 161

It is evident that an exchange of chlorine methoxyl in many cases
produces no change in the boiling point, and in some instances chlorine
is equivalent to the ethoxyl group. This is true of the bodies prepared
by the author; when once the atom of chlorine is replaced by ethoxyl
the exchange of a second atom does not further influence the boiling
point. (Liebig’s Annalen, CCXXI1x, 163.)

Radiant.Matter- Spectroscopy ; Samarium.—Mr. William Crookes has
continued his remarkable researches in the entirely original field of
radiant-matter-spectroscopy. The results obtained as respects yttrium
were noticed in our report for 1883. In a paper read before the Royal
Society June 18, 1885, Mr. Crookes details the results of a study of the
beautiful spectrum characterized by a strong red and a double orange
band, and which proves to be peculiar to samarium.

This double orange band spectrum was first observed by him in 1881,
and his laborious researches have been uninterruptedly pursued since
that date; the extreme sensitiveness of the new method of testing acted
as a drawback rather than a help, except that the persistency of the
phenomena observed increased confidence in its reliability. To the in-
experienced eye one part of the “orange band” substance in ten thou-
sand gives as good an indication as one part in ten, and by far the
646 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

greater part of the chemical work undertaken in the hunt for the spec-
trum-forming element was performed upon material which later knowl-.
edge showed did not contain sufficient to respond to any known chem-
ical test. Except in few instances, as water analysis and the detection
of poisons, chemistry takes little account of traces, and when an anal-
ysis adds up to 99:99 the odd 0-01 per cent. is conveniently put down
to “impurities,” ‘‘loss,” or “errors of analysis.” When however the
99-99 per cent. constitutes the impurity and this exiguous error 0-01 is
the precious material to be extracted, and when, moreover, its chemistry
is absolutely unknown, the difficulties of the problem become enor-
mously enhanced. The author was therefore obliged to build up a new
chemistry, and after six months’ work he obtained the earth didymia in
a state which most chemists would call absolutely pure, for it probably
contained not more than one part of impurity in 500,000 of didymia.
But this one part in half a million, profoundly affected the character of
didymia from a radiant-matter-spectroscopie point of view, and the per-
sistence of this very minute quantity of interfering impurity entailed
another six months’ extra labor to eliminate these final traces, and to
ascertain the real reaction of didymia pure and simple. The earth form-
erly called didymia proved to be a mixture of didymria and samaria.
During the long process of purification the 1,000 grams dwindled away
bit by bit until less than one-half a gram remained of the pure material.
Didymia thus purified shows no trace of the orange double band, which
is characteristic of samarium, an element discovered in 1879 by Lecoq
de-Boisbaudran.

The earths ceria, lanthania, didymia, and samaria possess in their
purest state the following characters: Ceric oxide is almost pure white;
in strong solution it has no absorption spectrum. ‘The atomic weight
of the metal was taken and found to be 141-1. Ceria gives no orange
band spectrum in the radiant-matter tube. Lanthana is snow white,
and the metal was found to have an atomic weight of 138:3. It gives
no orange band spectrum when absolutely free from samaria. Samaria
is white, with the faintest possible tinge of yellow; its absorption spec-
trum is much more feeble than the spectrum of didymium. Pure
Samaric sulphate by itself gives a very feeble phosphorescent spectrum.
When however the samaria is mixed with lime before examination in
the radiant-matter tube, the spectrum is very beautiful, consisting es-
sentially of three bright bands—red, orange, and green—these being
nearly equidistant, and the orange being the brightest. With a nar-
rower Slit the orange and green bands are seen to be double, with
faint wings.

The spectrum of samaria becomes highly modified by mixing with
the earth other metallic oxides. Mr. Crookes divides these modified
spectra into three groups; for particulars of each, with diagrams of
each type, we refer to the original paper. In a mixture of samaria and ~
yttria the former possesses a remarkable power of obliterating the spec-

CHEMISTRY. 647

trum of the latter; this holds even in a mixture of 43 parts samaria
and 57 parts yttria. The delicacy of the spectrum test for samarium
is extraordinary; a mixture of 1 part of samarium with 1,000,000 parts
of calcium still exhibits a feeble spectrum of samarium; in a mixture of
1 to 2,500,000 parts the spectrum of samarium is nearly imperceptible.
A striking feature in the spectra of various mixtures of samaria and
yttria is a brilliant and sharp orange line 2693. So long as this bright
; ‘2
line is a component of the spectrum the other bands manifest decidedly
less intensity, and many of them are suppressed. The profound modi-
fication in the spectra of samaria and yttria developed by their mixture
is undoubtedly without precedent in spectrum analysis. Mr. Crookes
remarks in conclusion that the many anomalies unearthed in these re-
searches teach that inferences drawn from spectrum analysis per se are
liable to grave doubt, tinless at every step the spectroscopist goes hand
in hand with the chemist. Spectroscopy may give valuable indications,
but chemistry must after all be the court of final appeal. (Chem. News,
LI, 301.)

A New Kind of Metallic Spectra; Possible New Hlements.—At the
meeting of the French Academy of Sciences on June 8, 1885, M. Lecoq
de Boisbaudran requested that a sealed packet which he had deposited
June 30, 1884, might be opened. The packet was opened by the per-
manent secretary during the meeting and contained a note of which
the following is a condensation. When the electric spectrum of a solu-
tion with a metallic base is produced, it is customary to make the outside
platinum wire (whence the induction spark strikes) positive, the liquid
- consequently forming the negative pole. If the direction of the current
be reversed, the metallic rays, due to the free metal or to one of its com-
pounds, are scarcely visible or quite invisible, at all events so long as
the exterior platinum wire now forming the negative pole is not coated
withadeposit. In examining the rare earths belonging to the didymium
and yttrium family, the writer observed with many of the preparations
the formation of spectrum bands, nebulous but sometimes tolerably
brilliant, having their origin in a thin layer of a beautiful green color,
which was seen to appear at the surface of the liquid (a solution of a
chloride) when it was rendered positive. The principal bands are six
in number, situated as follows: 16204, 15853, 1573, A5432, A487, A476$;
some of these are nebulous and broad. That at 5432 is probably not
due to any known element, unless it proves to be due to holmium. That
at 573 is also probably due to a new element. The latter yet unisolated
body the author designates provisionally by Za, and the former by Z/.

M. Lecog de Boisbaudran regards his “‘ reversion spectrum” as phys-
ieally analogous to the phosphorescent spectra obtained by Mr. Crookes
at the positive pole in his high vacuum tubes containing certain com-
pounds of yttria. [See our Report for 1883. |

648 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

To this note in the sealed packet the French chemist added the fol-
lowing: ‘I have not yet finished the very long work undertaken in the
hope of determining the nature of the above-described phosphorescent
spectrum. This spectrum is now recognized as identical with that as-
cribed to pure ‘yttria by Mr. Crookes, and which this savant obtained
under experimental conditions very different from mine. Nevertheless,
my latest observations lead to the conclusion that yttria is not the
cause of the spectrum bands cbserved. In my fractionations the phos-
phorescence spectrum regularly gets weaker as I advance towards the
yttria end. With almost pure yttria the phosphorescence bands show
themselves faintly or not at all, while they are brilliant with the earths
which do not give, by the direct spark, the rays of yttrium to an ap-
preciable extent. The prodigious sensitiveness of Mr. Crookes’ reac-
tion, which detects a millionth part of his purified yttria, makes very
singular this divergence which I am obliged to point out between the
conclusions of the eminent English chemist and myself.” - - - “fE
should acknowledge here that Mr. Crookes was the first to see the
phosphorescence spectrum of samarium.” (Comptes rendus, ©, 1437,
and Chem. News, Lil, 4.)

Quantitative Determination of Lithium by the Spectroscope.—L. Bell has
found the following method gives good results: A standard solution was
made from lithium carbonate converted to the chloride, containing
0265s" of Li,O per cubic centimeter. Of this 10° were taken, diluted
till the spectral line was just on the point of vanishing and the vol-
ume noted. Then the solution to be estimated was diluted to the same
point and its volume compared with that of the standard, when a sim-
ple proportion gave the amount of Li,O present. A very small loop of
platinum wire should be used and applied to the same part of the Bun-
sen flame. The method is applicable to the analysis of lithium miner-
als, and examples are given. The method is useful also in case of
thallium and such other elements as give distinct lines in the spectro-
scope. (Am. Chem. J., VII, 35.)

Action of Light on Iodoform in Solution.—E. Fabini has observed that
a solution of iodoform in benzine becomes bright red when exposed to di-
rect sunlight for ten to twenty minutes, whereas in the dark it remains
colorless. If a solution prepared in the dark is suddenly exposed to
the rays of the sun it immediately turns to a splendid red color, and
iodine is precipitated. Further experiments with solutions of iodoform
in ether and in oils shows it to be very sensitive to light, being thereby
reduced. (Pharmaceutische Post.)

On the Action of Light in Chemical Reactions (by D. Amato).—The
author, in studying the action of light and of heat in chemical re-
actions, has obtained results of great interest; he shows that many of
the decompositions and combinations attributed to the action of light.

Ek ——<<x« SU

CHIMISTRY. 649

exclusively are in reality due to light and heat, or to the latter agent
only. The decomposition of liquid phosphine is generally attributed
to light, but the author shows that it can be exposed to direct sunlight
at 10° without a trace of decomposition. Heat alone without light is
inactive.

A mixture of chlorine and hydrogen can be exposed with impunity
to sunlight if cooled to —12° C.; a temperature of 29° is not able to
effect combination of the gases without sunlight. Chloride of silver
requires both heat and light for its decomposition, and Fehling’s solu-
tion is not changed by light alone; if organic dust be excluded the
solution will keep indefinitely when exposed to full sunlight. (Gazetta
chimica italiana, X1V, 57.)

INORGANIC.

Manufacture of Oxygen and of Ammonia from the Atmosphere.—The
well-known process of extracting oxygen from the atmosphere by
means of baryta has never been a commercial success, because after
a while the baryta becomes inactive, owing probably to its absorption
of carbonic acid from the air. At the “ Inventions Exhibition,” held
during the summer months in London, the brothers Brin exhibited an
Hnprovement on the old process which promises to be very valuable.
The air is freed from carbonic acid and water by caustic soda and then
passed over barium oxide, heated to a temperature not above 600° C.,
in iron retorts. The temperature is regulated by a pyrometer, which
controls also the supply of gas to the furnace. Under these conditions
the oxygen of the air is absorbed by the baryta, barium peroxide being
formed. The nitregen which appears to be very pure is collected
separately for use in the production of ammonia. On heating the
peroxide of barium to full redness pure oxygen is given off. At this
stage of the process powerful pumps are set in operation and make a
partial vacuum in the retorts. The operations are continuous, and so
long as the baryta is kept anhydrous and free from carbonic acid the
same quantity will apparently last an indefinite time. The most inter-
esting and perhaps the most useful part of the invention of the Brin
Brothers is the production of ammonia by a very direct process. The
nitrogen obtained as above and moistened by passing through water,
is passed over a mixture of baryta, with charcoal heated to about 3009
C. Carbonate of ammonia is thus obtained, the water being decom-
posed under the conditions named, its hydrogen combining with the
nitrogen and its oxygen with the carbon. The ammonium compound is
formed in considerable amount. (Nature, Xxxu, 354.)

Solid Nitrogen; Lowest Known Temperatures.—K. Olszewski in &
previous memoir describes apparatus for obtaining very low tempera-
tures by means of oxygen and of air evaporating in a vacuum. In a
subsequent series of experiments the author has further introduced into
650 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

his apparatus a second tube of very thin glass, and thus isolates the
liquefied gases by a double gaseous stratum. The pressure and the
temperature being greatly lowered he has been able to solidify nitro-
gen, carbon monoxide, formene, and nitrogen dioxide, and to determine
at the same time the temperatures of solidification.. Nitrogen solidifies
at —214° under a pressure of 60 atmospheres; carbon monoxide at —
207° under 100™ pressure; formene at —185°-8 under 80™™ pressure;
and nitrogen dioxide at —167° under 138™™ pressure. The latter forms
a colorless liquid. By reducing the pressure of solid nitrogen down to
4™m of mercury he has succeeded in obtaining the lowest temperature
known, —225° C. (—373° F.). Comptes rendus, Cc: 350 and 940.

Separation of Liquefied Air into Two Distinct Liquids (by S. Wrob-
- lewski).—The laws of the liquefaction of air are not those of the liquefac-
tion of a simple gas. If at first sight air presents itself in such a man-
ner that it is permissible to speak of the critical point of air, this de-
pends merely on the slight difference which exists between the curves

of tension of watery vapor, of oxygen and of nitrogen. The author —

obtained air as two distinct liquids separated by a perfectly visible me-
niseus, as follows: After having liquefied at —142° a quantity of air in
the tube of his apparatus, he allows such a quantity of gaseous air to
euter the tube that the pressure of the gas is equal to 40 atmospheres and
its optical density equal to tbat of the liquid. The meniscus of the liquid
disappears entirely. He then slowly diminishes the pressure, and at
the moment when the gauge shows a pressure of 37-6 atmospheres a new
meniscus appears at a point of the tube much higher than that occupied
by the meniscus that has disappeared. A few moments afterward the
old meniscus returns to the point where it disappeared, and at this mo-
ment two liquids are distinctly recognized and remain separate for some
seconds. ‘The lower liquid contains 21.28 vols. per cent. of oxygen, and
the upper 17:3 to 18:7 per cent. - (Comptes rendus, C1, No. 13.)

Solutions of Ozone and the Chemical Action of Liquid Oxygen.—At the
Aberdeen meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of
Science, Professor Dewar gave a description of the apparatus and
method employed by him in the liquefaction of such gases as oxygen,
&e., and after discussing the conditions required for the successful con-
version into the liquid of the gases formerly called permanent, he gave
an account of some experiments with liquid oxygen. At —130° liquid
oxygen loses the active characters possessed by this element in the
gaseous state; it is without action on phosphorus, sodium, potassium,
solid sulphuretted hydrogen, and solid hydriodic acid. At very low
temperatures other substances are similarly without action on each
other; thus liquid ethylene and solid bromine may be brought in contact
without any action taking place, whereas gaseous ethylene and liquid
bromine unite directly at the ordinary temperatures.

CHEMISTRY. 651

Hautefeuille and Chapuis, by subjecting a mixture of carbonic anhy-
dride and ozone to great pressure, obtained a blue liquid, the color of
which is due to ozone. If ozonized air be passed into carbon disulphide
at —100° the liquid assumes a blue color, which disappears if the tem-
perature be allowed to rise, and at a certain point a decomposition, re-
sulting in the production of sulphur, takes place. The best solvent
for ozone is a mixture of silicon tetrafluoride and Russian petroleum.
These solutions of ozone are without action on metallic mereury and
silver. (Nature, Xxxt1, 540.)

Combustion in Dried Gases (by H. Brereton Baker).—It will be remem-
bered that, in 1880, Mr. H. B. Dixon demonstrated that carbon mo-
noxide and oxygen, if perfectly pure and absolutely dry, do not unite
when subjected to the electric spark, but that the introduction of a lit-
tle moisture causes an explosion. Led by these experiments, Mr. Baker
has investigated the question whether moisture is necessary for the com-
bustion of carbon and of phosphorus in oxygen. The purified mate-
rials were sealed up in bent hard-glass tubes with oxygen and phos-
phorie anhydride. At intervals of one, two, four, up to sixteen weeks
the contents of the tubes were heated and the character of the combus-
tion compared with that of the same elements in moist oxygen. The re-
sults showed that the burning of carbon is much retarded by drying
the oxygen to the extent possible with the arrangement adopted by the
author. (Chem. News, LI, 150.)

On the Function of Water in the Combustion of Carbon Monoxide (by
Moritz Traube).—As stated in the preceding section, Mr. Dixon proved
that a mixture of perfectly dry carbon monoxide and oxygen is not ex-
ploded by the passage of electrie sparks, and that the presence of a
minute quantity of water suffices to determine the combination of the
gases. Dixon supposed that the action of the water could be repre-
sented thus:

(2) 2H,-+ 0O,=2H,0.

Moritz Traube confirms Dixon’s experiments and goes further. He
shows that a flame of carbon monoxide is extinguished when introduced
into a perfectly dry atmosphere or into dry oxygen. On the other
hand, he finds that carbon monoxide does not decompose water in com-
plete absence of air or oyxgen ; and secondly, that when moist carbon
monoxide and oxygen are exploded together, hydrogen peroxide is an
invariable product. Consequently, Dixon’s equations do not correctly
represent the action, and Traube suggests the following:

(1) CO+2H,0+0,=CO(OH),+H,0,
.(2) CO+H,0,=CO(OB),
When hydrogen is burned in moist oxygen, hydrogen peroxide always
forms. Whether a perfectly dry mixture of hydrogen and oxygen
652 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

could or could not be exploded by electric sparks cannot be regarded
as settled; the author thinks that such a mixture would prove to be
non-explosible. He regards the mutual action of hydrogen, oxygen,
and water as in all respects comparable with that of carbon monoxide,
oxygen, and water, or with that of zine, oxygen, and water. The changes
which occur in the explosion of moist hydrogen and oxygen are thus
formulated :

(1) H.42H,0+0,=2H,0+ H,O,

(2) H,O.+ H,=2H,O0

The second reaction has been experimentally demonstrated by the
author. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., XVI, 1890.)

Indications of the Existence of an Allotropic Modification of Nitrogen
and Synthesis of Ammonia.—Under this title George Stillingfleet John-
son has published a pamphlet of theoretical and practical interest. He
reviews the experiments of Donkin, Berthelot, Déhérain, and Maquenne,
P. and A. Thénard, and H. St. Clair Deville, showing the production of
ammonia and of its salts by the action of the silent discharge, or of
electric sparks upon mixtures of atmospherie nitrogen and oxygen, of
watery vapor and nitrogen gas, and of hydrogen, nitrogen, and hydro-
ehloric acid. Mr. Johnson then repeats some of his earlier experiments
on the synthesis of ammonia, and after carefully eliminating sources of
error obtains results which lead him to infer that the gas evolved from
hot solutions of ammonium nitrite contains an allotropic or active form
of nitrogen, which differs from ordinary nitrogen in possessing the prop-
erty of forming ammonia by direct synthesis with hydrogen in presence
of heated spongy platinum, and which is converted into ordinary in-
active nitrogen by the action of heat, precisely as ozone is converted
into ordinary oxygen by the same agency.

In experimenting with atmospheric nitrogen the author failed to ob-
tain ammonia by passing the nitrogen, recently heated and mixed with
hydrogen through red-hot tubes in the presence of platinum sponge.
But he did obtain ammonia from atmospheric nitrogen which had not
been heated.

One of the most important experiments is thus described: Into an
ordinary eudiometer tube full of mercury, pure nitrogen gas, obtained
by any method, is introduced and measured. Next admit three times
its volume of pure hydrogen gas and introduce into the gaseous mixt-
ure a fragment of wood charcoal previously ignited in hydrogen gas,
or better, in a mixture of three volumes of hydrogen with one volume
of nitrogen gas. Now pass the spark continuously through the wires
of the eudiometer. About 4 to 6 ¢. ¢. of the mixture are combined and
absorbed by the charcoal per hour, until finally the whole of the gas
may be made to disappear; after which, if the charcoal be removed, it
will be found impregnated with ammonia. (Chem. News, LIt, 34.)

CHEMISTRY. 653

Reduction of Carbon Dioxide to Carbon Monoxide by means of Charcoal
(by Alexander Naumann and Carl Pistor).—Water-gas, formed by pass.
ing steam over incandescent charcoal, contains, besides hydrogen and
carbon monoxide, varying quantities of carbon dioxide, which is a hin-
drance to the economic uses of the water-gas. In the following research
the authors examined the chemical reactions which take place under va-
rying temperatures, and with different quantities of charcoal. The tem-
peratures were determined by inserting in the heated tube (combustion
tubing 82 centimeters long) substances having well-established melting
points, such as lead chloride (501°), silver pyrophosphate (5859), silver
(954°), &e.

Experiments determine that the lowest temperature at which the re-
duction of carbon dioxide to monoxide by charcoal begins lies between
530° and 585°, say 550°, provided the gas be passed not too rapidly
and the charcoal layer be 66 centimeters long.

With a charcoal layer only 10 centimeters long a much higher temper-
ature is necessary, between 634° and 7039 C. The amount of carbon
dioxide reduced increases with the rise of temperature. For the table
giving results of eleven experiments under varying conditions, we refer
to the original article. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., XVIII, 1647.)

Preparation of Cyanogen in the Wet Way (by G. Jacquemin).—The
usual process, by the action of a concentrated solution of cupric sul-
phate on a saturated solution of potassium cyanide is incomplete, only
half the cyanogen being evolved. In the process of the author all the
eyanogen of the potassium cyanide is obtained and the gas is pure.

Two parts of cupric sulphate dissolved in four parts of water are
placed in a retort or in a flask, on a water-bath, and, by means of a
stoppered funnel, a concentrated solution of one part of pure potassium
cyanide is gradually introduced. The reaction begins violently at ordi-

nary temperatures and when the evolution slackens the temperature of *

the water-bath is elevated to quicken it. Ten grams of chemically pure
KCN give 850 ¢. ¢. of pure cyanogen. Commercial KCN gives the same
result, but the gas sometimes contains traces of CO).

There are two processes for withdrawing the cyanogen of the copper
eyavide. 1. Decant the liquid remaining in the retort or flask, wash
by decantation, and add a slight excess of ferric chloride of 30° B., or
higher. The action commences in the cold and a slight elevation of the
temperature produces an abundant evolution of cyanogen. The ferric
chloride passes to the state of ferrous chloride in transferring the cop-
per cyanide to chloride, which sets free the cyanogen and forms cuprous
chloride which turns to cupric chloride at the expense of the excess of
persalt of iron. 2. Add to the washed copper cyanide some manga-
nese peroxide and acetic acid. Heat slightly. Acetates of copper and
manganese are formed and cyanogen is evolved. When the operation
654 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

is ended the evolution tube is replaced by a receiver, sulphuric acid is
added, and the mixture of the two acetates is distilled to collect the
acetic acid, which is used again. (C.K. M. from Comptes rend., c, 1005.)

On Potassium Chromocyanide and Hydrochromocyanie Acid (by H.
Moissan).—Potassium chromocyanide is obtained in several ways: By
the action of potassium cyanide on chromous acetate; by calcining a
mixture of potassium carbonate, dried blood, and finely-pulverized
chromium; by the action of potassium cyanide on chromous chloride in
an apparatus filled with carbon dioxide, and by the action of potassium
cyanide on chromous carbonate.

Potassium chromocyanide forms fine crystals of a light yellow color,
which occur several centimeters in length; it is very soluble in water,
insoluble in alcohol at 94°, ether and chloroform. Its specific gravity
equals 1-71. Thesalt isanhydrous. It is permanent in the air at ordi-
nary temperatures. In solution it does not give as a rule precipitates
with acid salts of the metals. With ferrous salts it yields a red precip-
itate; with zinc and lead salts, a white precipitate ; with silver, bis-
muth, and barium salts, a yellow precipitate. Its physiological action
is similar to that of ferrocyanide of potassium. It has the composition
K,CrCy3.

If dilute sulphuric acid be added to a concentrated solution of the
salt, a white crystalline precipitate forms. This is the hydrochromo-
cyanic acid, a very unstable body, decomposed in watery solution by
acids. (Ann. chim. phys. [6], Iv, 136.)

Notes on Nitrogen Trioxide and on Nitric Oxide.—Professor Ramsay, in
a paper read before the chemical section of the British Association for
the Advancement of Science, argued against thé existence of gaseous
nitrogen trioxide. He pointed out that the only criterion of the exist-
ence of this gas is the vapor density; NO, and NO mix without change
in volume, and, therefore, no combination takes place. The vapor den-
sity of the first portion of the gas obtained by distilling liquid N.Os,
corresponds to that which a mixture of N,0,, NO., and NO should have.

At the same place Professor Dewar made remarks on the molecular |
weight of nitric oxide. A comparison of the curve of liquefaction of
nitric oxide with that of methane shows the pressure to increase more
rapidly with the temperature in the case of nitric oxide than in other
gases, a fact that appears to indicate that at low temperatures the
molecule of nitric oxide is of greater complexity and probably exists as
N,O,. (Nature, xxx, 538 and 540.)

Reactions between Nitric Oxide and Oxygen under Varying Conditions
(by G. Lunge).—The experiments described lead the author to the fol-
lowing conclusions: 1. In the dry state, nitric acid with an excess of
oxygen combines to form N,O, exclusively, or nearly so. 2. Dry nitric
oxide and oxygen, with an excess of the former, yield a great deal of
|

CHEMISTRY. 655

N,O; along with N,O,, both in a state of gas. 3. In the presence of
water nitric oxide with an excess of oxygen is altogether converted
jnto HNO;. 4. If nitric oxide and oxygen meet in the presence of con-
centrated sulphuric acid there is neither N,O, nor HNO; formed, even
with the greatest excess of oxygen, but the reaction is—

2H,SO,+2NO0+0=280,(0H)(ONO)+H,0 ;

that is, nitrosyl sulphate and water.

This last reaction has an important bearing on the theory of the
manufacture of sulphuric acid. The author maintains that it is not, as
generally assumed, the nitric oxide, NO, but the nitrogen trioxide, N,Os;,
which acts as the carrier of oxygen in the vitriol-chamber process. (J.
Chem. Soc., London, July, 1885, p. 465.)

On the Reaction between Mercurous Nitrate and Nitric Oxide, and between
Mercurous Nitrate and Nitrites (by Dr. Edward Divers and Tamemasa
Haga).—It has been known for, perhaps, half a century that mercurous
nitrate yields metallic mercury when treated with a solution 6f alkaline
nitrite, and this reaction has always been regarded as one of oxidation
of the nitrate by reduction of the mercury salt. The authors show this
is incorrect. When, with exclusion of air, pure nitric oxide is passed
into a solution of mercurous nitrate in dilute nitric acid, a precipitation .
of metallic mercury slowly takes place and hydroxyamine is formed in
quantity, but no ammonia. Prolonged contact of the gas gives rise to
beautiful long yellow prisms, while the hydroxyamine disappears from
the mother liquor. This new yellow salt will be more fally described
by the authors at a later date. The first stage of the reaction is thus
formulated by these chemists:

(HgNO,),+2NO=2(NO)NO,+2Hg,

nitric oxide precipitating mercury from its salt. The nitrosyl nitrate,
here assumed to form, will at once decompose with water and mercurous
nitrate into hydroxyammonium nitrate and mercuric nitrate, thus:

4(HgNO3;).+8HNO;+ 2(NO)NO;=8Hg(NO;).+2(HONH;)NO3.
An after reaction between mercuric nitrate and the nitric oxide follows,
and the hydroxyamine is decomposed. (Chem. News, LU, 8.)

The Sulphur Compounds of Calcium (by V. H. Veley).—The main points
in this paper are thus summarized by the author:

1. By the action of hydrogen sulphide on solid calcium hydroxide
there is formed a calcium monosulphide, in accordance with the equa-
tion:

Ca(OH).+ H,.S=CaS+2H,0.

2. By the action of hydrogen sulphide on calcium hydroxide in aque-
ous solution there is formed calcium hydrosulphide, in accordance with
the equation :

Ca(OH),+-2H,S+4+2Aqg=Ca(SH),4+20H2+7Aq.
656 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

3. Calcium hydroxy-hydrosulphide, CaSH,OU, absorbs earbon disul-
phide, with formation of unstable basic calcium thiocarbonates, decom-
posed slowly by hydrogen sulphide and readily by carbonic anhydride.
(J. Chem. Soc. Lond., July, 1885, p. 478.)

Decomposition of Didymium ; Praseodymium and Neodymiuim.—Dr. C.
A. von Welsbach read a paper before the Vienna Academy of Sciences
on June 18, in which he describes an alleged decomposition of the
elementary substance known as didymium. This decomposition was
effected by means of the double ammonium or sodium nitrates in pres-
ence of lanthanum. In spite of the different behavior of the constitu-
ent bodies many hundred fractional crystallizations were necessary for
their separation. The two new elements in solution are distinguished
by intense absorption bands, and share between them the absorption
bands of the peculiar spectrum hitherto ascribed to didymium. The
colors of the compounds differ; the salts of that element which ap-
proaches nearest to lanthanum are of a leek green; the salts of the
other element are rose or amethyst red. The latter body forms the
bulk of didymium.

Both colors are almost complementary, but the amethyst red is by
far the more intense, so that a small quantity of the salts of this ele-
ment causes the green color of the others to disappear. The atomic
weights of the two new elements are according to preliminary deter-
minations very different, and vary considerably from the value hereto-
fore ascribed to didymium. For the first element the author proposes
the name praseodymium (Pr), and for the second neodymium (Ne). The
two elements, so far as has been observed, yield each only one series of
salts derived from the sesquioxide. Praseodymium peroxide evolves
chlorine on treatment with hydrochloric acid. (Chemiker Ztg, and Chem.
News, Lit, 49.)

Researches on the Complex Inorganic Acids (by Dr. Wolcott Gibbs).—
Another and weighty instalment of his laborious researches was pre-
sented by Dr. Gibbs to the American Academy of Arts and: Sciences
early in June. Among other things, he shows that vanadic pentoxide
unites with phosphoric or arsenic pentoxides in various proportions to
form well-defined complex acids. Compounds of vanadic pentoxide,
vanadie dioxide, and phosphoric or arsenic pentoxide may be formed
possessing properties analogous to the corresponding compounds of
tungsten and molybdenum. Compounds exist which contain pyro-
phosphoric and metaphosphoric acids in the place of orthophosphoric
acid. Complex acids exist which contain two different modifications of
phosphoric acid, as, for instance, metaphosphoriec and orthophosphoric
acids or oxides. The salts of a majority of these complex acids crys-
tallize in well-defined forms. In a summary Dr. Gibbs catalogues the
formula of not fewer than 72 new salts discovered and analyzed in the
course of his prolonged investigations. (Proceedings Am. Acad. Arts
and Sciences, X1Xx, 50.)

|

|
)
}

;
:

:

CHEMISTRY. 657

Sodium Orthovanadates and their Analogues (by Harry Baker).—
Doubts expressed by Mendelejeff and by Rammelsberg as to the strict
analogies between phosphorus, arsenic, and vanadium prompted the
author to prepare and examine closely the sodium salts of tribasie
orthovanadic acid. Trisodium phosphate and trisodium arsenate crys-
tallize in hexagonal prisms with 12 molecules of water, and Roscoe de-
scribes the corresponding vanadate as acicular crystals with 16 mole-
cules of water. The author finds, however, that a vanadate having 12
molecules of water (Na;VO,12H,O), and crystallizing also in hexa-
gonal prisms, can be obtained without difficulty.

Besides the latter, there exist two salts containing 10 molecules of
water, one of which crystallizes in the isomeric and the other in the
hexagonal systems. A third salt, crystallizing in rhombic tables, was
obtained by the author, but owing to the great difficulties experienced
in separating it from its mother liquid the water estimation was not
satisfactory ; it probably has the formula Na,VO,8H,O. Phosphates
and arsenates analogous to the three salts last named are not yet known.
Sodium-vanadio-sodium-fluoride, 2Na,VO,.NaF1.19H,O, is also described
by the author and its contents in water accurately determined as given.

In conclusion, the author finds the analogies between vanadium, ar-
senic, and phosphorus strongly contirmed by the results of his investi-
gation. (Liebig’s Annalen, CCXXIX, 286.)

Recovery of Gold and Silver from Metallic Iron (by Dr. J. C. Booth).—
In the course of an interesting article on the “ Smelting Furnace of
the U.S. Mint.” the author gives his experience as to the best plan
for recovering metallic gold and silver from the iron grate-bars, tools,
&c. Formerly the iron was alternately heated and hammered until the
precious metals scaled off. This operation took the labor of one dozen
men during three or more days of ten hours each, for the gold
clings with great tenacity to the iron; nor was the method without
loss. At present all the iron residues from the furnaces, even includ-
ing the grate bars, are melted, and while quietly melted the heavier gold
and siiver settle out of the iron. When the mass is cold the precious
metal is knocked off the bottom by a hammer as a single tough ring,
with searcely a trace of iron in it, while the iron above has never
yielded a trace of gold or silver to the assayer. (Jour. Am. Chem. Soc.,
Vil, 159.)

An Electrical Furnace for Reducing Kefractory Ores (by EK. A. and A.
H. Cowles).—These gentlemen, together with Prof. C. F. Mabery, have
devised an electrical furnace on the incandescent principle. A column
of fragments of well-calecined charcoal is embedded horizontally in finely-
pulverized charcoal and covered by a layer of the same material coarsely
broken, the whole being arranged in a box of fire-brick covered with

By Mis,:15 42

658 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

pertorated tile, and opened at the ends to admit two carbon electrodes
an inch aud a half in diameter. Through these is passed the current
from a dynamo of 30 horse-power. By this arrangement such a temper-
ture is obtained that not only platinum-iridium may be fused, but the
most refractory oxides, such as alumina, silica, &c., are reduced to their
elements with formation of carbon monoxide.

The apparatus is especially used in the manufacture of aluminum
bronze and of silicium bronze for commercial purposes.

The application of electricity to smelting is not so novel as commonly
supposed. In 1853-54, G. A. Pichon used an electric furnace in which
ores of iron, mixed with one-hundredth of coke or charcoal, -is fed be-
tween the poles of a series (two or more tiers) of large electrodes; fusion
takes place and the metal and slag fall into a heated receiver below.
(Practical Mechanics’ Journal, V1, 257). In 1882, C. W. Siemens invented
an electric furnace in which electrodes are arranged vertically one above
another, the negative passing through the lid of the crucible into the
metal to be melted, the other through the bottom of the crucible. The
length of the are is controlled automatically by the electro-motive force
between the electrodes. This furnace was, however, for melting and
not for smelting. (Chem. News, 1882, 163.)

The furnace of Messrs. Cowles and Mabery yields good results ona
larger scale than those of others.

ORGANIC.

A Plea for the Empiric Naming of Organic Compounds (by Professor
Odling).—Verbal translations of the structural formule assigned to or-
ganic compounds possess certain advantages as names for the several
compounds. Thus, they are applicable to all organic compounds of
which the structural formule are made out; they are the only sort of
names applicable to complex isomeric compounds; and their use can-
not be dispensed with wholly in the case of even less complex com-
pounds. Notwithstanding these advantages structural names consti-
tute unsuitable names for gener.:] use, more especially as applied to
fundamental hydrocarbons, alcohols, and acids. They are objectionable
for this use by reason of their length, complexity, and want of ready
indicativeness, by the circumstance of their being based on concep
tions of chemical constitution of a kind pointed out by experience as
eminently liable to change, and by the further circumstance of their
representing a one-sided, and so far an untruthful, notion of the bodies
designated. Structural names expressing other than a distorted view
of the constitution of all but a few of the most simple of organic bodies
are impracticable by reason of their length and complexity. Hence, tu
avoid the distortion inseparable from the use of any single structural
hame for an organic body the only expedient is the assignment to each

CHEMISTRY. 659

body, in proportion to its complexity, of an indetinite number of struct-
ural names—a proceeding almost tantamount to not assigning it any
particular name at all. Although from their number and complexity
organic bodies can only be designated by names which do in some
measure deseribe and characterize them, the primary purpose of a
name is undoubtedly to designate and not to describe. Accordingly,
with a view to the prompt mental association of object with name, brief
empiric names based on the origin and properties of bodies are, where-
ever practicable, to be preferred to structural names. Isomeric bodies
may, to a large extent, be distinguished by means of significant letters
or syllables prefixed to the name common to the different isomers. But
the suggested use of the particular letters a, 6. vy, each in a special
sense, also a general resort to the particles “hydro,” ‘‘oxi,” and ‘“hy-
droxi,” as name components, and more especially the innovation of
substituting the word “hydroxide” for the long-established word ‘‘hy-
drate,” are practices open to grave objection. (Report of British Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science, in Nature, Xxxi1, 538.)

Ethyl-urethane, a new Hypnotic.—Carbamate of ethyl, or ethyl-ure-
thane, CH,.C,H;.NO,, has been found to have the properties of a hyp-
notic. This compound is prepared by the action of aqueous ammonia
on ethyl carbonate, or on ethylehloro-carbonate, and forms large trans
parent colorless crystals, which melt below 100° C., and distill ac 180°
without alteration. It is soluble alcohol, ether, and water, to which if
communicates a taste suggestive of saltpeter.

Experiments with ethyl carbamate were first made on animals by
Schmiedelberg; recently von Jaksch has given the drug to man in
doses of about 15 grains in over 100 cases. He finds it acts chiefly on
the brain, having no appreciable influence over the peripheral nerves.
It seems to be, therefore, a pure hypnotic. It causes a quiet and seem.
ingly normal sleep, leaving no unpleasant secondary effects. (Deutsche
Medicinal-Ztg., September 14, 1885.)

Ethyl Compounds of Hypochlorous Acid (by Traugott Sandmeyer).—
[Ethyl hypochlorite, ClOC,H;, is easily obtained as follows: Chlorine
gas is passed into a solution of sodium hydroxide (1 part) in water (10
parts), cooled by ice, until absorption no longer takes place. This fur-
nishes free hypochlorous acid and sodium chloride.

NaOH+2Cl=NaCl+ClOH.

This is immediately placed in a separating funnel and mixed with one
part of alcohol; the liquid becomes turbid and an oily layer separates.
This oil is drawn off, washed, and dried in contact with calcium chloride.
This ethyl hypochlorite forms a yellow, mobile, very volatile liquid
of strong odor, and attacking the respiratory organs. It burns with a
660 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

greenish flame; it can be distilled at 36° C. (Bar=752 mm.) without
decomposition, but if a few drops are overheated in a test-tube it ex- .
plodes violently. The liquid is very sensitive to sunlight, boiling vigor-
ously a few minutes after exposure, and exploding. This action is not
accomplished by the heat rays. Even in diffuse light, ethyl hypochlo-
rite can be preserved only a few hours, eventually decomposing without
explosion.

it acts very energetically on ammonia, phenol, aniline, and other or-
ganic bodies. Mixed with bromhydrie acid it sets bromine free, and al-
cohol forms. The body was analyzed indirectly by determining the
amount of iodine a given weight set free, the iodine being estimated
volumetrically by sodium hyposulphite.

The author plans further researches on analogous bodies. (Ber. d. d.
chem. Ges., XVII, 1767.)

On the Decomposition of the Terpenes by Heat (by William A. Tilden).—
The author shows that experiments stated lead to the conclusion that
the terpenes do not belong to the aromatic series, and are not formed
on the benzene type. M. Berthelot, commenting on Tilden’s paper, re-
marks he regards it of importance in confirming views which he
(Berthelot) had announced fifteen years before. (Ann. chim. phys. [6],
v, 120.)

On Derivatives of Hexvaoxybenzene and their Relation to Croconic and
Rhodizonic Acid (by R. Nietzki and Th. Benckiser).—Starting with nitran-
ilic acid, the authors have obtained a series of interesting bodies; a
partial reduction of nitranilic avid yielded nitro-amido-tetraoxy benzene,
and a more complete reduction gave diamido-tetraoxybenzene ; the lat-
ter decomposes under certain conditions, forming a body having the
formula CgH;.O,,, which by reduction with tin and hydrochloric acid
yielded the iong-sought hexaoxybenzene C,(OH)s. This body proved
to be identical with the trihydrocarboxylic acid cbtained by Lerch from
the action of potassium on carbon monoxide. On boiling the substance
C¢H,6QO14, with water, it decomposed, with evolution of carbon dioxide,
and yielded a solution which, neutralized with potash, gave on concen-
tration orange yellow acicular crystals of potassium croconate C;K,O;,
first prepared in 1825 by Gmelia from the black residues of the manu-
facture of potassium according to the method of W6ohler and Brunner.
From these facts it appears that Liebig, in his researches on the action
of potassium on carbon monoxide, actually accomplished the direct syn-
thesis of benzene derivatives from purely inorganic substances in the
simplest manner.

This synthesis was successfully repeated by the authors, who oj-
tained, besides potassium croconate, the rhodizonate long before discov-
ered by Berzelius, Wéhler, and Heller. The latter salt was also ob-
tained direct from dioxydichinoy]-sodium, thus establishing the identity

CHEMISTRY. 661
of rhodizonic acid, carboxylic acid, and dioxydichinoyl. When CO com-

bines with K it forms OK. and six of these groups combine to form —
|

Hexaoxybenzene-potassium.

Partial oxidation of this substance yields—

Rhodizonate of potassium or potassium dioxydichinoyl.
(Ber. d. chem. Ges., XVIII, 499 and 1833.)

Organo-Silicium Compounds in the Aromatic Series (by A. Polis).—.
Foilowing the method devised by A. Michaelis in the preparation of the
aromatic phosphines, arsines, and stibines, the author has made sev-
eral silicium compounds in the aromatic series. Siliciumtetraphenyi,
Si (CgH5)4, is obtained by the action of one molecule of siliciumtetra-
chloride on four molecules of chlorbenzene in the presence of sodium
and of absolute ether. The purified product forms a colorless crystal-
line powder, melting at 228°, little soluble in ether and in alcohol,
easily soluble in ebloroform and hot benzene. Heated with access of
air, it burns, giving out flocks of silicic anhydride.

By similar processes the author obtained para-siliciumtetratolyl,
Si (CsH,CH3) ,, also melting at 228°;. siliciumtetrabenzyl, Si (CH2CsHs),,
which melts at 127.59. Both of these bodies form colorless crystals
having properties similar to siliciumtetraphenyl. (Ber. d. d. chem. Ges.,
XVI, 1540.)

Silicates of the Phenols (by J. Hertkorn).—Pure crystalline phenol
(boiling at 182-183°) was gently melted and treated with chloride of
silicium, the former being in excess; the temperature of the mixture
was gradually raised to 220° to 225°; hydrochloric-acid gas was evolved,
and ceased after several hours. The simple liquid thus obtained was
‘distilled, and the fraction, boiling at 420°, yielded, on cooliug, long col-
orless prisms. The purified crystals, carefully dried, melted at 47° to
48°, Analysis showed the body to have the composition (C,H;),SiO,,
tetrapheny] silicate, and was formed as shown in the equation:

40,H;0H + SiC], —4HC!1+ (C,H;5),Si0,
662 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Tetraphenyl silicate dissolves easily in absolute alcohol, ether, ben-
zene, toluene, xylene, chloroform, carbondisulphide, acetic acid, and
formic acid without decomposition, but water precipitates a white gelat-
inouws mass, and phenol dissolves out in the supernatant watery liquid.
Since, however, the addition of an excess of alcohol or of ether causes
the whole to go into solution, it is obvious that the precipitate consists
of an acid phenyl silicate and not of silicic acid itself. With an excess
of boiling water tetrapheny] silicate is completely decomposed into phe-
nol and silicie acid.

W hen tetraphenylsilicate is heated with absolute alcohol, phenol and
tetrethyl silicate are formed for the most part, but the latter ester yields
in the presence of traces of moisture diethylsilicate, and probably hex-
ethylsilicate.

In a similar manner, the author prepared silicates of the three iso-
meric kresols; the ortho compound distilled at 4359-4389; the meta at
445° to 446°, and the para at 442° to 445°. The author likewise ob-
tained meta and ortho tetraxylenyle silicate, (CsH 9)SiO,, as well as tie
silicates of six similar bodies of the aromatic series. (Ber d. d. chem.
Ges., XVII, 1679.) F

Some Derivatives of Levulinic Acid (by Ludwig Wolff).—In distilling
levulinie acid a portion is decomposed and an oily substance obtained.
This proves to contain two isomeric neutral bodies having the formula
C;H,O,, and behaving like lactones; one is a-angelicalactone, boiling at
167°, and the other, #-angelicalactone, boiling at 2089-2099 C. The
former has the constitution—

CH3;—C=CH—CHy,

| |
O co

and the latter is probably—
CH,=C—CH.—CHy,

Ce
(Liebig’s Annalen, CCXXIXx, 249.)

Action of Phosphorus Pentachloride on Salicylic Acid (by Richard
Anschiitz).—By the action of one equivalent of phosphorus pentachlo-
ride on one equivalent of dry salicylic acid the author obtained a color.
less highly retracting liquid, boiling at 165° under 11™ mercury,
which gave on analysis the composition C;H,4Cl,PO;. This orthochlo-
rocarbonylphenyl-orthophosphoricdichloride Las the coustitution—

CoH (OPOCL
and proves to be identical with the ‘‘trichlorophosphate de salicyle,”
previously described by Couper. The specilic gravity of this body ts
1.554. Mixed with a small quantity of water this chloride dissolves
with a rise of temperature, and from this solution pure salicylic acid
crystallizes on cooling. Treated with a large quantity of water salicylic

~~»

CHEMISTRY. O65

acid is not set free at once, but after several days ferric chloride gives

-areaction. The author proposes to continue his researches. (Liebig’s

Annalen, CCXXVIII, 308.)

The Anilides of Orthophosphoric Acid (by A. Michaelis and H. von
Soden).—By the action of oxychloride of phosphorus on aniline, ortho-
phosphoric anilide, PO(NHC,H;) 3, is obtained in sinall erystals, solu-
ble in boiling alcohol and melting at 208°C. On treating this with
bromine it yields orthophosphorichexabromanilide, PO(NHC,H;Br»)s,
also a crystallized body melting at 252° to 25390.

Dianilidoorthophosphorie acid, PO. OH(NHO;H;)., is obtained by
treating the corresponding chloride with soda lye; it forms a white
powder insoluble in cold water, and decomposed by het water into ani-
line and phosphoric acid. This decomposition is more quickly effected
by acids. The acid melts at 196° to 197°, becoming brown. Its silver
salt forms a white precipitate, soluble in nitric acid and in ammonia.
(Liebig’s Annalen, CCXXIX, 334.)

Chemical Constitution of Isatin (by H. Kolbe).—Isatin oxidized by
chromic acid yields isatoic acid. This, heated with water, yields car-
bon dioxide and orthoamidobenzoic acid. With hydrochloric acid the
chloride is formed. Sulphuric and nitrie acids act similarly. Dis-
solved in alcohol and acted upon by hydrochloric-acid gas, ethyl ortho-
amidobenzoic hydrochloride is formed, which is decomposed by water.
Isatoic aciti with bases in the cold evolved carbon dioxide, so salts could
not be formed. Ammonia solution gives ammonium carbonate and
orthoamidobenzamide. Anilin acts similarly. Concentrated nitric acid
gives nitroisatoic acid, which is more stable than nitric acid. This
heated with hydrochloric acid or water gives a strong acid resembling
metanitroorthoamidobenzoic. Reduction of the nitro-acid with tin and
hydrochloric acid gives the hydrochloride of a-diamido-benzoic acid.
Sulphuric acid gives the sulphate. Treatment of isatoie acid with ni-
trous acid gives a-nitrosalicylic acid. The author concludes that the
formula C,H,NCO—COH gives the best explanation of the above facts.
(Ff. P. V., frem Journal f. prakt. Chem., Xxx, 467.)

The Constitution of Thiophene (by L. Gattermann, A. Kaiser, and
Victor Meyer).—In 1883 Victor Meyer proposed the following constitu-
tional formula tor thiophene:

Eas
C—C
Vl \ :
HC CH
S

In the present article the authors refute some objections urged
against this formula and present new reasons for maintaining it. (Ber.
d. chem. Ges., XVIII, 3005).
G64 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

On the Synthetical Formation of Closed Carbon-chains. Part I—Deriva-
tives of Trimethylene (by W.H. Perkins, jr.)— Organic chemistry is.
generally divided into two distinct sections, namely, the fatty series and
the aromatic series. The members of the first series are derivatives of
methane, the simplest hydrocarbon, and are characterized by their open
or chain form, as, for example, in the case of normal hexane:

CHs
Hi,

CH,
|
CH3
Aromatic compounds are, on the contrary, derivatives of a much more

complicated basis, namely, of benzene, C.llg, which, as was first shown
by Kekulé in 1865, has the constitution :

H

that is, contains a ring consisting of 6 carbon-atoms joined in such a
way as to form a regular hexagon.

These two series differ in the most marked way from one another, the
members of the aromatic series being particularly characterized by their
extreme stability.

In considering the differences between these two series, the author
says itis a matter of surprise that no intermediate series should be
known, the members of which should possess partly the character of
fatty and partly that of aromatic compounds. It is quite reasonable to
suppose that rings should exist having 3, 4,5, 7 carbon-atoms as well as
6 carbon-atoms, though the few experiments made to test this supposi-
tion have up to this time failed to throw much light upon the subject.
Victor Meyer has discussed the improbability of the existence of a
3-carbon-atom ring :

Hy;
C
LON

. H,C—CH,

which would be isomeric with propylene, CH;.CH.CH,; but Reboul, by
acting on trimethylene bromide with sodium, obtained a gas which he
supposed to be ordinary propylene, and Freund has indicated certain
reactions of this gas which the author (Perkins) shows are evidences of
its being true trimethylene.

OMEMISTRY. 665

No attempts appear to.have been nade to synthesize the analogons .

4-carbon ring:
=C—C=
fae)

though acenaphthene, a body in the aromatic series, without doubt
contains such a ring. FJuorene is a hydrocarbon containing a 5-carbon
ring, and several known bodies of the fatty series are closely allied to
the hypothetical 4 and 5 carbon rings. These are furfuran, pyrrholine,
succinimide, and parabanic acid. The author adopts the following
scheme of nomenclature for the 3, 4, 5, and 6 carbon rings:

Di- : | |
Tri- Tetra- | Penta- Hexa-
= AECL Nemeneloeay | methylene. methylene. | methylene. methylene.
fren oe Des free
He He
| (@; C
Hy /\ /\
= CH; CH; 5 H.C — CH; 1G OH; 1) BEC CH,
I uN le wel ve |
CH, i H,C—CHz, H,C — CHe H,.C— CHe H.C bu,
V
| C
He
|

He also proposes to distinguish the possible isomers by numbering
the carbon-atoms in the ring as suggested by Baeyer (Ber. d. chem. Ges.,
Xvil, 960). The author describes fully the methods of preparation and
the properties of a number of trimethyvlene derivatives, and promises
at an early date to do the same for some tetramethylene derivatives.

The following table contains a list of the trimethylene bodies with
their chief characters:

| Melting | Boiling
Formula. | Name. |, Melting li ‘point
point
| TON Gest esey:
H;
Cc
UN arimethylenepree esas. -o sees OAS asc oon coe
H,C—CH, |
CH.COOH
= ae Trimethylenecarboxylic acid ..| 18-19° | 182—184°
H,C—CH, ,
intra ea Trimethylenedicarboxylic acid) 140-1419 |__......-.
H,C—CH, | ht): |
Reo Trimethylenedicarboxylie acid | 137° | cHeSeieees
H,C—CH.COOH Gao: |

666 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

| Melting | ae

Formula. Name. ate
POM” e7a0mmy

COOH.C.COOH

rimet nV; enetricar IOXVIIE ache tot Soa jpeas eE <2
- Trimethylenetricarboxylic acid 184° |
H,C—CH.COOH Cheb): i |
veer Trimethylenetricarboxylic acid | 145-1509 |._.-.....-
COOH.HC—CH.COOH Oe

eae Oc Trimethylenetetracarboxylic 95—=100C8 Bes aes as
COOH.HC—CH.COOH pel re 9): |

ACHE Linge us

CH;.CO.CH~ | | Acetyltrimethylene ........... Liquid ..) 112-1139
~CH, |
4 | | :

CH Liquid .. 289-239,5°

C.U.CO.CH |
™ CH,

Benzoyltrimethylene ....-...-.- |

waar FCs | Acetyltrimethylenecarboxylic | Liquid .. ........-.
gO Cl. acid.

ee yg Benzoyltrimethylenecarboxylic | 148-1499 .......---
H.C—CH: aeid ie! : 1). |

CH CoC Or Acetylmethyltrimethvlenecar- | Liquid - Peay 2G

H.C CHCH, boxyvlic acid (1:2: 1).
poyeiee |
Cs3H;.-CNOH | Benzoyltrimethyleneoxime ---. BGS Neen ae
~CHe
_COOH feogies |
CH.Br.CHe.CH y-Bromethylmalonie acid .-----) 116-117° [eeee eens
COOH | |

CsH;.CO. CH). CHy.CHp.Br. | @-Bromopropyl phenyl ketone.; — 37-39° oe

C,H;.C Hz COOH | |
Out Dibenzylmalonic acid ....-._--.-. UTC =17 200 ee eee
CsH;.CH2— ™~COOH

/

Ethereal salts of many of these bodies were also prepared and studied.

By heating hydroxylamine and hydrochloric acid with benzoyltrime-
thylene, in a sealed tube, a complicated reaction sets in, yielding a deep-
blue solution with an intense brick-red fluorescence. This solution
proved to contain two distinct bases; that soluble in ether was found
to have the constitution C39H.,N,O,. Lt is easily soluble in acetone, ani-
line, and nitrobenzene, more sparingly in alcohol, ether, and in benzene,
If the brownish-red alcoholic solution be treated with zine dust and
ammonia, it is reduced and becomes colorless; on agitating with air it
is reoxidized. The salts of this base are easily obtained, and form deep-
blue solutions with a most magnificent brick-red fluorescence. The hy-
¥
4
ay
;
»
{
os
-
7
,

CHEMISTRY. 667

drochloride in a solid state outwardly resembles indigo in every respect,
and its solution shows the same absorption spectrum as indigo. The
internal constitution of this complicated molecule has not been ascer-
tained.

The salts of trimethylenedicarboxylic acid (1: 1) with ammonium, sil-
ver, copper, barium, and lead, form well-defined crystallized bodies. (J.
Chem. Soc. London, 1885, 80.)

Syntheses of Derivatives of Urea (by Robert Behrend).—By the action
of one molecule of acetic ether on one molecule of urea in alcoholic so-
lution, the author obtained f-uramidocrotouic ether in accordance with

the equation:
CgH O03 a CON,H, = C;Hy303N,+ H,0.

This body forms silky needles, melting at 165° to 166° ©, insoluble in
water, and crystallizing easily from alcohol. With alcoholic soda
solution the salt C;H;N,O,;Na forms with separation of alcohol. This
sodium salt, treated with acids (even carbonic acid is active), yields the
body O;H,N.O,, for which the author proposes the name methyluracil, a
name, however, not intended to indicate constitution. Methyluracil
erystallizes from hot water in colorless needles; it is soluble in alcohol and
insoluble in ether. It is decomposed on heating to 270°—280°, becom.
ing blackened and not melting. It dissolves easily in soda’and potassa
solutions, forming salts identical with those of uramidocrotonic ether.
Theoretical considerations, which we cannot here detail, lead the author
to adopt provisionally the following constitutional formula for methy-
luracil :

CH:
|
NH—C
7 i
CO CH
\ |
N = C—O

Bromine acts on methyluracil in the cold and yields brommethyl-
uracil C;H;BrN,O,, a body crystallizing in microscopic prisms. Bromine
converts this into a di-brom-compound. Strong nitric acid converts
methyluracil into a nitro-compound, C;H;N3;0., which, by loss of car-
bonie acid, yields C,H;N,;O, nitro uracil. The latter is reduced by tin
and hydrochloric acid to, C,A;N;0,, amido-uracil; and this in turn by
oxidation yields oxy-uracil, C,H,N.O3, an isomer of barbituric acid.
Amido-uracil unites with eyanic acid, forming hydroxyxanthin, on which
body the author continues his researches. (Liebig’s Annalen. COXXIX, 1.)

Synthesis of Cocaine, the New Anesthetic (by W. Merck)—At the chem-
ical manufactory of E. Merck, in Darmstadt, a quantity of a lye product
was obtained in the extraction of cocaine, which was sent for examina-
tion to W. Merck, in Kiel. It formed a colorless, crystallizable body,
668 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

having a slight acid reaction, melting at 188-5° to 189°, and yielding
by decomposition benzoic acid and eegonine. Merck recognized it as
benzoyl eegonin, or ecognine in which one hydrogen atom is replaced
by benzoyl, CgH,,NO;—C,;H;O. By heating this substance with potas-
sium hydroxide and methyliodide cocaine was obtained :
Benzoyl-ecgonine. Cocaine.
©,¢6H,NO,+ CH3;I+KOH = C,,H.,NO,+ H,0+4 KI.

The artificial product was found to have all the properties of the
natural.

Almost simultaneously with this result of Merck, the synthesis was
accomplished by Scraup, who employed a mixture of benzoyl ecgonine,
sodiummethylate, and methyliodide. Scraup’s method yielded, how-
ever, only about 4 per cent. of the theoretical amount, while Merck
obtained 80 per cent. of the theoretical yield. Subsequently Merck
succeeded in transforming ecgonine itself directly into cocaine by heat-
ing a mixture of methyliodide, benzoic anhydride, and anhydrous ecgo-
nine:

209H5;NO3-+-(C;H;0),.0+2CH;1=C,;H,, NO,H14 CyH|;NO3HI+
C,H;0,CH3.

By introducing the radical ethyl a homologue of cocaine was ob-
tained which the author calls cocithyline. Merck is continuing his
researches. (Berichte d. chem. Ges., XVI, 1594, 2264, and 2952.)

The Fat or Wax obtained from Cinchona—Researches on Bark.—O.
ilesse obtains from the Cuprea barks cupreol, a compound which in
all points resembles quebrachol. This body crystallizes from alcohol
in colorless satiny leaflets, which quickly become dull in dry air. It is
readily soluble in chloroform, ether, and hot alcohol; less readily in
petroleum ether, and cold alcohol, and in water, ammonia, and potash-
lye not at all. It melts at 140°, and at higher temperatures it vola-
tilizes, unchanged in a eurrent of hydrogen or carbonic acid. The solu-
tion in chloroform, when shaken with sulphuric acid of 1°76 spirit
grains, turns a blood red, as do the the chloroform solutions of quebra-
chol, cholesterin, or phytosterin. Cinchol occurs in all true cinchona
barks, but not in cuprea bark. From alcohol it crystallizes partly in
long, almost acicular leaflets, partiy in broad leaves, and always with 1
molecule of water. It loses a part of its water at 20° to 25°, and the
rest at 100°, or in the desiccator. Anhydrous cinchol melts at 139° and
in other respects has the properties of cupreol. The author describes
the acetyl and propionyl derivations of cupreol. The china bark
contains, therefore, three isomeric bodies, having the formula CyH,,0,
cupreol, cinchol, and quebrachol; all three belong to the cholesterins.
(Liebig’s Annalen, COXXVIII, 288.)

Relation between Antiseptic Power and Chemical Constitution (by Dr.
J. hk. Duggan.)—The author has made some suggestive experiments on

” CHEMISTRY. 669

this relation to pave the way for further investigations. The following
table is a list of the substances whose restraining influence has been
determined with approximate accuracy, and of {he amounts required in
parts per 10,000 of the solution:

Oxybenzoic acids, C>H,(COOH)(OF).

Parts in 10,000.

IG Vale CLO (ty) ie Soran esc e. Ae ee es es NCR |
CPR EZ OLR AC IO (Nosed) eet Ae aA ats Oh os oe oy aici ain mn Mm ee oie Soe 6
feat OV MOUZOLC ACN ke) Aaah Serle dsb yl oe!) om oe i ee eee sO

Phenols, CgH;(OH),.

Phenol, C;H;(OH) SOIC ICE OS 3 Et be a, ONG Gana Bene eC ee eI LOT Sk SPL 20
_ Pyroeatechin CRE (OEDs (lis 2 a ae ede ye 28 oe Be een eee 20
Resorcin Cg¢H,(OH), (1:3) .-.-- SOE Aree item nie apee aR DRO NS Ale steye HS 25
Fiviroquimone © pri (OEn si (l yee ees 2s 2 lab. te ae eo eis eae)
pyrocallol Cel (OE) so. 2b oie as 5 cysvein omraei -'a/=/ Med ars bend 00 2 15
Alcohols, RCH,(OHB).
Methyl-alecoholi@ Ea( OE). 3 soba oy atare sbi cicie By eelhoa ae .. 300
LDV Nal AACE ef Cv OUR St E10 31S TN pope SCR es PUN tt ees Ses ce 500
TOD aleonoli C2 Eb (OVE) MORAN ie ofe c= Sim) Stopes, x2 race! om lob g Neyo 200

The germicide power of formic, acetic, and propionic acids was also
tested and found to be nearly in an inverse ratio to their acidity. For
the peculiar order of the alcohols given in the above table the author
can suggest no explanation. (Am. Chem. Journ., VU, 62.)

Occurrence of Citric Acid in Seeds of Leguminous Plants (by H. Ritt-
hausen).—The existence of citric acid, together with malic and oxalie
acids, in the seed of the yellow lupine (Lup. luteus) has already been
shown. The author finds it also in the seed of Vicia sativa (vetch),
V. faba (hog’s bean), various varieties of peas, and in the white garden
bean (Phaseolus). The powdered seeds are digested with water acidi-
fied with hydrochloric acid, the solution filtered, neutralized with an
alkaline hydrate. and precipitated with lead acetate. This is suspended
in water, treated with sulphuretted hydrogen, and the citric acid gotten
in the usual way from the acid liquid. The white bean contains very
little citric acid, and peas contain less than the other legumes men.
tioned. (Jour. f. prakt. Chem., XX1xX, 357.)

Percentages of Alcohol in Ciders and of Acetic Acid in Vinegars (by W.
French Smith).—This investigation was made to determine the maxi-
mum and minimum percentages of alcohol and acetic acid which genuine
apple juice would produce.. The expressed juice of selected apples
was allowed to ferment slowly for two months in a cellar at an average
temperature of 149°C, The determinations of alcohol were then made
670 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

by the ordinary method of distillation and specific gravity. Selected
“ August Sweets” gave 9:40 per cent. alcohol; the same variety of
average quality gave 6-05 per cent.; and imperfectly ripe apples of
same variety gave 4:80 per cent. ‘‘ Greening” apples picked from the
trees gave 4 per cent. alcohol. The average of eight experiments gave
5 per cent. by weight. ‘Ten months later the acidity and solid residue in
the samples was determined; the former varied between 10:1 per cent.
and 4:40 per cent., and the latter between 2:70 per cent. and 3°64. The
actual amounts of acetic acid found are lower than the alcoholic per-
centages in the original ciders demand, owing to imperfect acetification.

This investigation shows that a good cider should contain about 5
per cent. alcohol, and a fair sample ought not to fall below 4 per cent.;
a good cider vinegar ought to contain from 5:5 of acetic acid to 7 per
cent. (Journ. Aim. Chem. Soc., Vit, No. 4.)

NOTES.

During the year 1884, 281,000 pounds of bromine were produced in
the United States, 7,000,000 pounds of borax, and 1,800 troy ounces of
of aluminium. (ALBERT WILLIAMS, Jr. Report on Mineral Resources
of the United States.)

During the year 1883 there were manufactured in Germany 148,450
tons of hydrochloric acid and 115,500 tons of carbonate of soda; half of
the latter was made by Solvay’s process. During the same year there
were manufactured in Hngland 940,638 tons of sulphuric acid (calcu-
lated as H,SO,) ; 429,040 tons of soda ash (calculated as Na,CO;); and
141,868 tons of bleaching powder. Dr. Luxge thinks the Leblane pro-
cess and ammonia process for manufacturing soda will flourish side by
side, and the latter will not displace the former unless hydrochloric
acid can be made at the same time. (Chemische Industrie, Vil, 78 and
213.)

Professor Mart. Websky has continued his researches on the supposed
new element, idunium, contained in the lead vanadate of Cordoba
(Argentine Republic), but has been unable to establish the identity of
the metal as a new species. (Sitzungsh K. Al-ad., Wiss. Berlin, February
9, 1885, page 95.)

The rare metal gallium has been prepared by Dr. L. shrlich by an in-
dustrial process. From 80 kilos of zine blende he obtained 0-9 grams
gallium. The melting point of the metal is 30:59 C. The luster of gal-
lium globules is greater than thatof mercury. (Chemiker-Zeitung.)

Greville Williams finds that zinc dust occludes hydrogen. A given
sample of commercial zine dust contained 39 times its volame of hydro-
gen. The experimenter thinks the absorbed gas was originally derived
from water and shows the bearing of this on the conclusions arrived at
in the case of the Lenarto meteorite. (Journal of Gas- Lighting.)

The decomposition of potassium chlorate by heat has been studied
anew by Dr. F. L. Teed. He finds that the equation commonly em-

Pe

CHEMISTRY. 671

ployed [2KC1O,= KC1O,+ KCl+ 02] does not truly represent the facts,
and proposes the following: 10KClO,=6KCIO,+4KC1+30,. Theauthor
confirms the statement that when MnO, is heated with the KCIQO,; no
perchlorate is formed. The phenomena noted appear to indicate that the
molecular weight of the salt is much higher than is required by the for-
mula KCIO;. (J. Chem. Soc. Lond.)

New reasons for considering liquid or solid sulphur trioxide as 8,0¢
rather than SO; are afforded by the results of experiments reported by
Dr. E. Divers and T. Shimidzu upon the reactions of pyrosulphuric aeid
with silver, mercury, and copper. When freed carefully from moisture,
sulphur trioxide is without action on these metals, unless a little sul-
phuric acid be present. The reaction with silver is as follows:

(SO,)SU,4+ 2Ag=Ag,SO,4S0,.
(Chem. News.)

By heating in sealed tubes glucose with strong ammonia and subse-
quent treatment with solvents C. Tauret obtained two new alkaloids,
which he calls, respectively, a-glucosine and /-glucosine. These form
volatile colorless liquids, with a peculiar strong odor, the first boiling
at 136° and the second at 160°. In acid solution they are precipitated
by the usual reagents for alkaloids; with hydrochloric acid they form
hydrochlorates. (Bull. soc. chim., XLIV, 102.)

Professor Carnelley and James Schlerschmann have investigated the
influence of strain on chemical action. Working with copper wires free
and under strain, exposed to the action of ammonium chloride, they
come to the conclusion that strain exerts no perceptible influence upon
chemical action under the conditions described. (Chem. News, Lu, 6.)

The causes of the decrepitations in samples of so-called explosive
pyrites have been studied by B. Blount and formulated as follows: (1)
The decrepitations are due to the presence of CO,, together with more
or less H,O. (2) The CO, is confined at high pressures probably suffi-
cient to liquefy it. (3) The usual temperature at which the pyrites be-
gins to decrepitate is 30° to 36° C. (Chem. News, Li, 7.)

The removal of micro-organisms from water forms the subject of a
valuable paper by Dr. Perey F. Frankland, in the Chemical News, LI,
27, et seq.

Chlorochromice acid is prepared, according to H. Moissan, by bringing
together gaseous hydrochloric acid and pure chromic anhydride per-
fectly free from sulphuric acid. On warming red fumes appear, which
condense into chlorochromie acid; but a portion is decomposed by the
water formed at the same time. Dry chlorine does not attack chromic
anhydride. Gaseous hydrobromic and hydriodic acid do not form analo-
gous chromium compounds. (Bull. de ?Assoc. des Bléves de M. Frémy, 2.)

Cocaine, the established anesthetic, according to G. Calmels and E.
Gossin, is “ methylicbenzometholethyltetrahydropyridine carbonate.”
(Comptes rendus, Cc, No. 17.) See Professor Odling’s Plea for Empiric
Names, in this report, under the head “Organic.”
672 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

s

Researches on the influence of silicon upon the properties of cast
iron, by Thomas Turner, show that, contrary to the generally accepted
views on this subject, a suitable addition of silicon to cast iron im-
proves the tensile strength of the metal. An addition, however, of more
than 2.5 per cent. causes deterioration. (Chem. News, UII, 5.)

Eleven months’ experience with toughened glass beakers made
under De La Bastie’s patents leads R. J. Friswell to the conclusion that
‘“‘ toughened glass is a complete failure in the laboratory.” (Chem. News,
LU, 5.)

The adulteration of beer is discussed in a paper by Prof. H. B. Corn-
wall presented to the American Public Health Association. The aver-
age contents in alcohol of twelve beers was 4.197 per cent., and of ex-
tract, 6:26 per cent. Milwaukee beer contains as high as 5:35 per cent.
of alcohol.

The apparatus and process for liquefying oxygen gas, employed by
Cailletet, are figured and described in the Jowrnal de physique, and in
Nature (XXxit, 584), to which we refer for details.

Chlorine monoxide has been studied anew by K. Garzarolli-Thurn-
lackh and G, Schacherl. It forms a dark brown liquid, having a yel-
lowish-brown vapor; its density is 3°0072 at 10-6° C. and 726°4™", and
its boiling point is 5° C. at 737-°9™™. Exposed to sunlight it does not
decompose as commonly stated, and if organic material be excluded
it does not explode in passing from the lhquid to the gaseous state.
(Liebig’s Annalen, CCXXX, 273.

By distilling plants in a fresh state with water, M. Maquenne has ob-
tained small quantities of methylic alcohol, but he has not ascertained
whether this body exists ready formed in the plants or is procuced dar-
ing the distillation. (Comptes rendus, C1, 1067.)

Vacciniin, a bitter principle occurring in the cowberry, discovered
by Edo Claassen in 1870, has been found by the same chemist to be
identical with arbutin, extracted from Arbutus uva ursi, Lin—(Am. J.
Pharm., 1885.)

Under the title “* The Sugar Chemistry of the United States” Prof.
Harvey W. Wiley, chief chemist to the Department of Agriculture,
has issued a valuable compend, in four parts, relating respectively to
cane, beet, sorghum, and maple sugars. The analyses of maple sugar
are numerous, and we learn that ‘‘ there is no method of detecting the
adulteration of maple sugar with other sucroses. The temptation to
this adulteration is great because maple sugar commands nearly double
the price of other sugars. Neither chemistry nor optics will help to a
decision as to adulteration.” A patented extract of hickory bark is
used to give the characteristic favor of maple sugar to glucose or cane
sirups.

The second annual meeting of the Association of Official Agricultu-
ral Chemists was held September 1 and 2 at Washington, D.C. In
the absence of Professor Johnson the chair was taken by the vice-

CHEMISTRY. 673

president, Prof. H. C. White. The ‘ Proceedings,” published by the
Department of Agriculture as Bulletin No. 7, of the Division of Chem-
istry, will be found invaluable to all analytical chemists.

The chemical section of the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science met in August at Ann Arbor. The chairman of the
section, Prof. William Ripley Nichols, addressed the members on
“Chemistry in the Service of Public Health.” The address will be
found in the “ Proceedings” of the association, vol. XXxIv.

The Institute of Chemistry (England) has undergone a, transforma-
tion. Originally founded in October, 1877, with a membership of 150,
it grew to embrace over 400 fellows. O» the 30th of June, 1885, it
ceased to have an official existence, buv meanwhile, on the 15th of
June, 1885, another organization was perfected under the title ‘“ Insti-
tute of Chemistry of Great Britain and Ireland,” and the officers of the
original society became officers of the new one. The new institute has
secured a royal charter and has public duties and privileges accorded
_ it, becoming a professional body officially known to Government. Dr.
Odling, the president, gave his address November 6, 1885. (See Chem-
ical News, Lit, 243.) Dr. Odling’s address is severely criticised by an
anonymous writer in Nature (XXXII, 73), who protests strongly against
the commercial aspect of the views enunciated. He says: “The spirit
[of the address] is an alien spirit, repugnant to students of pure science
in this country.”

A biography of the late Dr. Robert Angus Smith was read at the
annual general meeting of the Manchester Literary and Philosophical
Society held April 21, by Dr. E. Schunck. It will be found in Chem.
News, Li, 293.

Prof. Edward Divers, of the Imperial College of Engineering, Tokio,
met with a serious accident which threatened the loss of an eye. In at-
tempting to remove the stopper of a bottle containing phosphorus tri-
chloride he gently warmed the neck, when the bottle exploded violently,
and projected glass into one eye. Dr. Divers supposes moisture had
entered the bottle and formed hydrochloric acid, thus producing gas
under tension.

On Monday, August 1, 1885, Prof. Michel Eugene Chevreul entered
upon his one hundredth year. Apart from the fact that among men
whose lives have been devoted to active scientific research no one has
before attained so great an age, Chevreul stands conspicuous for the vast
amount of work he has done, and for the great practical effect his work
has had on the industries of the world. His researches on ‘les corps
gras,” begun in 1813, continued until 1825, when they appeared in a
volume dedicated to Vauquelin, his teacher. His researches on color
oceupy the whole of volume xxxuI of the Vémoirs of the Institut. It
has often been remarked, it is difficult to realize that the Chevreul of
“corps gras” fame and the Chevreul who wrote on colors are one and
the same man. (Condensed from Nature, xxxtt, 425.)

H. Mis. 15 45

674 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF CHEMISTRY: 1885.

Agenda du chimiste, 4 usage des ingénieurs, physiciens, chimistes, fabricants de
produits chimiques, etc. Paris, 1885. 12mo.

ALBRECHT, Karu.—Ueber einige Pyrogallussiure und Phloroglucinderivate und die
Beziehungen derselben zu Daphnetin und Aesculetin. Berlin, 1884.

ALLEN, A. H.—Commercial Organic Analysis. Second edition revised and enlarged.
London, 1885. 8vo.

AMATO, DOMENICO.—Del éarbonio quale base del mondo organico. Prelezione. Ca-
tania, 1885.

Anastasi, AUG.—Nicolas Leblane, sa vie et ses travaux, et V’histoire de la soude arti-
ficielle. Paris, 1884.

ANGENOT, O.—Legons sur le pétrole et ses dérivés. Anvers, 1885. 8vo.

Annales de chimie. Tables de la 5éme série (187483), dressées par Gayon. Paris,
1885. 8vo.

ANTRICK, OTTO.— Ueber einige Verbindungen von Diacetonamin mit Aldehyden. (Er-
langen). Wiirzburg, 1884. :

ARATA, PEDRO N.—Relacion de las trabajos practicados por Ja officina quimica mu-
nicipal de la ciudad de Buenos Aires, 1884. Buenos Aires, 1885

ARNOLD, C.—Repetitorium der Chemie. Mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der fiir die
Medizin wichtigen Verbindungen, sowie der Pharmacopw@a germanica, namentlich
zum Gebrauche fiir Mediziner und Pharmazeuten. Hamburg, 1885. 8vo.

AuUWERS, KaruL.—Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Pseudocumenols und des Psendo-
cunidins. Berlin, 1885.

Banitz, C.—Lehrbuch der Chemie und Mineralogie in populirer Darstellung. Theil
II. Mineralogie. 3. Aufl. Berlin, 1885. 8vo.

BARTLEY, Extas H.—A Text-book of Medical Chemistry for medical and pharmaceu-
tical students and practitioners. New York, 1885. 12mo.

BarTou, A. e E. Srraccrati.—Le proprieti fisiche degli idrecarburi Cp Hen+: dei
petroli. Roma, 1885. Ato. :

BavuERr, A.—Beitriige zur Chemie der Ceritmetalle. Freiburg, 1584. &vo.

BAvER, R. W.—Ueber den aus Agar-Agar entstehenden Zucker ; tiber eine neue Saure
aus der Arabinose, nebst dem Versuch einer Classification der gallertbildenden
Kohlenhydrate nach den aus ihnen entstehenden Zuckerarien. Jena, 185. 8vo,

BAUMANN, A.—Tafeln zur Gasometrie. Zum Gebrauche in chemischen und physi-
kalischen Laboratorien, sowie an hygienischen Instituten. Mtinchen, 1885. 8vo.

BAUMHAUER, H.- Leitfaden der Chemie. Theil I. Anorganische Chemie. Freiburg,

1884. 8vo.
BECK, PauL.—Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Umbelliferons. (Erlangen). Berlin, 1884.
Bvo.

BEHREND, ROBERT.—Versuche zur Synthese von Kérpern der Harnsiurereihe. Leip-
zig, 1885. 8vo.

BEHRMANN, A. UND A. W. Hormann.—Umwandlung der Citronensaure in Pyridine-
Verbindungen. Berlin, 1884. Svo.

Benoit, E.—Dnu manganése; étude de chimie analytique au point de vue de la phar-
macie et de Vindustrie, contenant un procédé de préparation du peroxyde de
manganése & l’état de pureté et une méthode nouvelle de dosage du manganese

.& état métallique dans les minérais. Paris, 1825. 8vo.

BERNARD, J.—Repetitorium der Chemie. Theil I. Chemie der Kohlenstoftverbin-
dungen. (Organische Chemie.) Nach dem neuesten Standpunkte der Wissen-
schaft bearbeitet von J. Spennrath. Aachen, 1885. &vo.

BERNTHSEN, A.—Studien in der Methylenblaugruppe. Heidelberg, 1885. 8vo.

BEUTE, F.—Anleitung zur ersten Ausfiihrung chemischer Arbeiten in landwirth-
schaftlichen Lehranstalten, Uelzen, 1885, evo.

PO ee ee Ee SO I ee ee eee ee

a

CHEMISTRY. 675

BIECHELE, M.—Die chemischen Gleichungen der wichtigsten anorganischen und
organischen Stoffe. Mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der deutschen und dster-
reichischen Pharmacopée, sowie der massanalytischen .Untersuchungen der
Arzneistoffe. Nach den neuesten chemischen Anschauungen bearbeitet. Eich-
statt, 1885. 8vo.

Bias, C.—Analyse pyrognostique par la méthode de Bunsen, suivi de la détermination
méthodique des minéraux, d’aprés la division dichotomique de Laurent et suivi
d’un plan nouveau. Louvain, 1885. 12mo.

Bias, C.—Traité élémentaire de chimie analytique. Tomel. Analyse qualitative
par la voie séche, ou analyse au chalumeau. Louvain, 1885. 8vo.

Bouton, H. CaRRINGTON.—A Catalogue of Chemical Periodicals. Annals New York
Academy Sciences. London, 1885. 8vo.

Botton, H. CaRRINGTON.—The Students’? Guide in Quantitative Analysis. Intended
as an aid to the study of Fresenius’ system. [Second edition.] New York, 1835.
8vo.

BoRNEMANN, E.—Ueber die Etard’sche Reaction zur Darstellung aromatischer Alde-
hyde, und einiger Abkémmlinge des Metatoluylaldebydes. Freiburg, 1884.

BouANntT, E.—Aide mémoire de chimie. Paris, 1885. i2mo.

Bovuant, E.—Cours dechimie. Paris, 1885.

BouRGOIN, E.—Carbonyles, quinones, aldéhydes 4 fonction mixte. Paris, 1880. xvo.

Bowman, J. E.—Introduction to practical Chemistry; including Analysis. Edited
by C. E. Bowman. Eighth edition. London, 1885. 12mo.

BRANNT, W. T.—Practical Treatise on the Raw Materials and the Distillation and
Rectification of Aleohol; also the preparation of alcoholic liquors, liqueurs, cord-
ials, and bitters. Edited chiefly from the German ot Stammer, Elsner, and Schu.
bert. Philadelphia, 1885. 12mo.

BRESLAUER, Dr.—Chemische Untersuchung der Luft ftir hygienische Zwecke. Ber-
lin, 1885. 8vo.

BRiIeGER, L.— Weitere Untersuchungen tiber Ptomaine. Berlin, 1685. 8vo.

BrRuNTON, T. LANTER.—A Text-book of Pharmacology, Therapeutics, and Materia
Medica. Adapted to the United States Pharmacopeia, by F. A. Williams. &vo.
Philadelphia, 1885.

CampPpaRI, G.—Studii sperimentali sulla distillazione secca dei legni resinosi per la
produzione del catrame, della fabbricazione di olii di resina illuminanti, e sopra
una nuova lampada per Ja combustione degli olii di resina molto carburati.
Parma, 1884. 8vo.

CARNELLEY, T.—Physico-chemical Constants. Melting and Boiling-Point Tables.
Vol. I. London, 1885. roy. 4to.

CARPENTER, W. lb.—Treatise on the Manufacture of Soap and Candles, Lubricants
and Glycerin. London, 1885. 8vo.

CrcH, KarEL.—Puv6d chmelaistvi a pivovarstvi. Praha, 1884.

CHASTAING, M.—Chimie des alcaloides naturels. Paris, 1384. 8vo.

Chemiker (Der) und Drogist.—Haupt-Organ fiir Chemiker, Drogisten, Gewerbtrei-
bende, etc. Herausgegeben von H. Kriitzer. Leipzig, 1885-86. 4to.

Chemisch-technische Mattheilungen der neuesten Zeit. Begriindct von L. Elsner, fort-
gesetzt von W. Knapp. 3. Folge. Bd. VI. 1884-85. Halle, i885. 8vo.

Chemisch-technisches Repertorium. Uebersichtlich geordnete Mittheilung der neu-
esten Erfindungen, Fortschritte und Verbesserungen aut dem Gebiete der tech-
nischen und industriellen Chemie mit Hinweis auf Maschinen, Apparate und
Literatur. Herausgegeben von Emil Jacobsen. 1854. Berlin, 1885. 8vo.

CHITTENDEN, R. H.—Studies from the Laboratory of Physiological Chemistry, Shef-
field Scientific School of Yale College. For the year 1884-85. New Haven, 1885.
dvo.

CHRISTENSEN, O. T.—Ueber die Darstellung der den rethen und den gelben Blutlan-
gensalz analogen Chrom- uné Manganverbindungen. 1885. 8yo.
676 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885. 7

CIAMICIAN, G. e M. DENNSTEDT.—Studi sui composti della serie del pirrolo. Parte
VIII. Sull azione di alcuni annidri di organiche sul pirrolo. Roma, 1885. 4to.

CLASSEN, A.—Handbneh der analytischen Chemie. 3. verbesserte und vermehrte
Auflage. Theil I. Qualitative Analyse. Stuttgart, 1885. 8vo.

CLASSEN, A.—Quantitative chemische Analyse durch Elektrolyse. Nach eigenen
Methoden. 2. giinzlich umgearbeitete und vermehrte Auflage. Berlin, 1885. 8vo.

CLowEs, F.—Treatise on Practical Chemistry and Qualitative Inorganic Analysis.
Fourth edition. London, 1885. 8vo.

Couson, A.—Recherches sur les substitutions dans les méthylbenzines. Paris, 1885.
4to. 5d pp.

Cook, J. P.—The New Chemistry. Eighth edition, remodeled and enlarged. Lon-
don, 1~84. 8vo.

CouNCLER, C.—Bericht iiber die Verhandlungen der Commission zur Feststellung
einer einheitlichen Methode der Gerbstoffbestimmung, geftihrt am 10. Novem-
ber 1883 zu Berlin. Redaction und Hinleitung tiber die bisherigen Verfahren der
quantitativen Bestimmung des Gerbstoffs. Nebst einer kritischen Originalunter-
suchung tiber die L6wenthal’sche Methode von J. v. Schréder. Cassel, 1885. 8vo.

CZYRNIANSKI, Emti.—Chemisch-physische Theorie, aus der Anziehung und Rotation
der Uratome abgeleitet. Krakau, 1885. 8vo.

JauBépyns, “Avaéracios K.—Xnurun avadvois rob tv “Avédp@ taumarinod
vdatos. “Ev ’ASHrais, 188. ;

DaMMER, O.—Illustrirtes Lexikon der Verfalschungen und Verunreinigungen der
Nahrungs- und Genusmittel, der Kolonialwaaren, Droguen, gewerblichen Pro-
dukte, Dokumente, ete. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo.

DEVENTER, ©. M. van.—Schetzen uit de geschiedenis der scheikunde. Dordrecht,
1884. 8vo.

Dixon, H. B.—Conditions of chemical change in-Gases: Hydrogen, Carbonic Oxide,
and Oxygen. London (Royal Society), 1885. 4to. 68 pp.

Documents sur les falsifications des matiéres alimentaires et sur les travaux du
laboratoire municipal. Deuxiéme rapport. Paris, 1885.

DuBREUIL.—La porcelaine. Paris, 1885. j

DuRAND-CLAYE, C. L.—Chimie appliquée a4 l’art de Vingénieyr. Paris, 13885. 8vo.

EBert, H.—Zur Constitution des Succinylobernsteinsiiuredthers. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo.

EprErR, J. M.—Ueber das Verhalten der Haloidverbindungen des Silbers gegen das
Sonnenspectrum und die Steigernng der Empfindlichkeit derselben gegen ein-
zelne Theile des Spectrums durch Farbstoffe und andere Substanzen. Wien, 1885.
8vo.

EGGER, E.—Zweite Rechenschaftsbericht des chemischen Untersuchungsamts ftir

die Provinz Rheinhessen, nebst Beitriige zur einer Hydrologie ftir die Provinz
Rheinhessen. Mainz, 1885. 8vo.

Evsers, A.—Ueber einige Verbindungen von Hydrazinen mit Keton- und Aldehyd-
siuren. Erlangen, 1884. 8vo.

ELstnGHorstT, G.—Ueber halogensubstituirte Hydrazine. Erlangen, 1884. 8vo.

ELSNER, }°.—Die Praxis des Nahrungsmiittel-Chemikers. 3. Auflage. Hamburg, 1885.
8vo.

Encyclopédie chimique publié sous la direction de Frémy. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

‘Tome II. Métalloides. Section 3. Bore, Silicium, Silicates, par Joly et Curie.

Tome Il. Métalloides. Complément. Partie 1. Charbon de bois; noir de
fumée; combustibles minéraux, par Urbain et St. Meunier.

Vol. IJ. Métaux. Cahier 1. Propriétés générales des métaux et des sels.
Principes de classification, par G. Rousseau.

Vol. Ill. Métaux. Cahier 6. Zinc, Cadmium, Thallium, par P. Sabatier.

Vol. IV. Analyse chimique. ‘Tableaux d@’analyse qualitative, par L. Prunier.

Vol. IV. Analyse chimique. Analyse des gaz, par J. Ogier.

Vol. V. Applications de chimie inorganique, la porcelaine, par Dubreuil.

CHEMISTRY. 677

Encyclopédie chimique publié sous la direction de Frémy—Continued.

Vol. V. Applications de chimie inorganique, Partie 2. Métallurgie. Cahier
7. Métallurgie de lV’argent, par C. Roswag.

Vol. VI. Chimie organique. Fasc. 2. Alcools ct phénols, par Prunier.

Vol. VII. Chimie organique. Aldéhydes. Fasc. 2. Carbonyles, quinones,
aldéhydes & fonetion mixte, par EK. Bourgoin.

Vol. VIII. Chimie organique. Fasc. 6. Alcali organiques. Section 2. Alca-
loides naturels, par Chastaing.

Vol. X. Applications de chimie organique. Chimie agricole. Nutrition de
la plante, par Dehérain.

Vol. X. Applications de chimie organique. Contribution a l’étude de la chimie
agricole, par Th. Schloesing. _

ENGEL, WALFRIED.—Ueber die Amidoverbindungen methylirter Benzole und tiber ein
neues Cumidin. Berlin, 1885.

ERDMANN, H.—Ueber die Umwandlung der Lactonsiiuren in Lactone durch Schwefel-
siure und iiber eine neue Reaction des Isocaprolactons; ein Beitrag zur Geschi-
chte der Lactone. Halle, 1865. 8vo.

ERLENMEYER, E.—Lehrbuch der organischen Chemie. Band Il._ Lief. 1. Redigirt
von O. Hecht. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo.

EXNER, F.—Ueber eine neue Methode zur Bestimmung der Grosse der Molekiile.
Wien, 1885. 8vo.

FEICHTINGER, G.—Chemische Technologie der Mértelmaterialen. Braunschweig,
1885. 8vo. :

FiscHER, B.—Lehrbuch der Chemie fiir Pharmaceuten. Mit besonderer Beriicksich-
tigung der Vorbereitung zum Gehiilfen-Examen. 1. Hilfte. Mit 20 in den Text
gedruckten Holzschnitten. Stuttgart, 1885. 8vo.

FIscHER, O.—Ueber Flavanilin. [Miinchen.] 1885. 8vo.

FoELsinG, A.—Ueber einige Aetherester der Glycolsiure und Salicylsaiure. I.
Einwirkung von Bromwasserstoffsiure. JI. Einwirkung von Ammoniak. Frei-
burg, 1884. 8vo.

FONVIELLE, W. DE.—Le Monde des atomes. Paris, 1885. 16mo.

FONTAINE, H.—Electrolysis, a practical treatise on nickeling, coppering, gilding, sil-
vering, the refining of metals and treatment of ores by electricity. Translated
from the French by J. A. Berly. New York, 1885. 8vo.

Fortschritte (Die) der Chemie. No. 6. 1288485. Herausgegeben von H. J. Klein.
Koln, 1885. 8vo.

FRANKEL, NAHEMI NORBERT.—Zur Kenntniss des Thiodiphenylamins. Ziirich, 1385.

FRANKLAND, E. AND F. R. Japp.—Inorganic Chemistry. London, i885. 8vo.

FREESE, C.—Beziehungen zwischen den physikalischen Eigenschaften, und der Zu-
sammensetzung chemischer Verbindungen. Brieg, 1884. 4to.

FREMERY, M.—Ueber Arsenwolframsiiure und ihre Salze. Freiburg, 1884. &vo.

FREMY, EY A. TERREIL.-—Le guide du chimiste. Répertoire de documents théoriques
et pratiques 4 l’usage des laboratoires de chimie pure et de chimie industrielle.
Paris, 1885. 8vo.

FRESENIUS, C. R.—Anleitung zur qualitativen chemischen Analyse. 15. verbesserte
Auflage. Abtheil1. Braunschweig, 1585. ovo.

I RESENIUS, R.—Traité @analyse chimique qualitative; des manipulations et opéra-
tions chimiques, des réactifs et de leur action sur les corps les plus répandus,
ete. 7. édit. frangaise traduit (sur la 14éme allemande) par L. Gautier. Paris,
1885. 8vo.

FRESENIUS, R.—Quantitative Analysis. Translated by Ch. E. Groves. Vol. II, part
1. London, 1885. 8vo.

FRESENIUS, R.—Tratado de andlisis quimica cualitativa. Vert. y adicion p. V. Peset.
Valencia, 1884. Ato.
678 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

FROEHLICH, EMANUEL.—Ueber die Benzoylirung aromatischer Phtalimide, insbeson-
dere des Phtalpseudocumids. Berlin, 1885. vo.

YRUALING, R., und J. ScHULZ.—Anleitung zur Untersuchung der fiir die Zucker-In-
dustrie in Betracht kommenden Rohmaterialien, Producte, Nebenproducte und
Hiilfssubstanzen. Zum Gebrauche zunichst fiir die Laboratorien der Zucker-
fabriken, fiir Chemiker, Fabrikanten, Landwirthe und Steuerbeamte, sowie
fiir landwirthSchaftliche und Gewerbeschulen. Mit in den Text eingedruckten
Holzstichen. 3. vermehrte und verbesserte Auflage. Braunschweig, 1885. 8vo.

FRUTIGER, G.— Cours élémentaire de chimie inorganhique d’aprés les théories mo-
dernes. Genéve, 1885. 8vo.

urs, Ernsv.—Ueber einige neue Abkémmlinge des Benzidins und Diphenols. Her-
lin, 18&5.

GATTERMANN, Lupwic.—Ueber einige Derivate des m-Nitro-p-toluidins. Gottingen,
1885.

GEBHARDT, WILLIBAD.—Ueber substituirte Amide der Kohlensiure und Thiokohlen-
siure. Berlin, 1885. ;

GEPPERT, J.—Die Gasanalyse und ihre physiologische Anwendung nach verbesserten
Methoden. Berlin, 1885. 8vo.

GEIGY, RuDOLF.—Ueber einige Derivate des Pyridins. Miinchen, 1885. 8vo.

GrYMET.—Traité pratique de photographie. Eléments complets, perfectionnements
et méthodes nouvelles. Procédé au gélatinobromure. 3. édition revue et aug-
mentée. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

GILKINET, A.—Traité de chimie pharmaceutique. Liége, 1885. 8vo.

GIRARD, J. DE.—Phosphines dérivées des aldéhydes. Paris, 1884. 4to.

GoRuUP- BESANEZ.—-Lehrbuch der Chemie. Band I. Anorganische Chemie. 7. Auflage
neu bearbeitet von A. Rau. Braunschweig, 1885. 8vo. :

GRAETZEL, R.—Zur Kenntniss des Bibromcymols. Nachweis der Stellung der Broma-
tome. Freiburg, 1884. 8vo.

GRAHAM, OTTO.—Ausfiihrliches Lehrbuch der Chemie. 3. giinzl. umgearbeite Auflage.
Bane 1. Physikalische und theoretische Chemie. Abtheilung1. Physikalische
Lehren von A. Winkelmann. Braunschweig, 1885. 8vo.

GUARESCHI, J.—Enciclopedia di chimica scientilica e industriale colle applicazioni
all agricoltura ed: industrie agronomiche, alla metailurgia, alla merciologia, ece.
Torino, 1885. .

GubheENn, A.—Mémoire sur la théorie chimique de la production du gas Wéclairage.
Mémoire tr. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

Hacer, H.—Chemische Reactionen zum Nachweise des Terpentindls in den iitheri-
schen Oelen, in Balsamen, etc. Fiir Chemiker, Apotheker; Drogisten und Fabri-
kanten ditherischer Ocle. Berlin, 1885. 8vo.

HAGER, HERMANN.—Ueber die Einwirkung von Chlorameisensiureither auf Para-
nitranilin. Gottingen, 1884.

HaGEr’s Untersuchungen. Kin Handbuch ‘der Untersuchungen, Priifung und Wert-
bestimmung aller Handelswaaren, Gifte, Lebensmittel, Geheimmittel, ete. 2.
umgearbeitete Auflage herausgegeben von H. Hager und E. Holdermann. Leipzig,
1885. 8vo.

Hanpbs, 'T.—Numerical Exercises in Chemistry; Inorganic. 650 examples. London,
1835. 8vo.

Hanps, T.—The same, ‘‘ with answers.”

Handwérterbuch der Chemie. Herausgegeben von H. von Fehling und C. Hell.
Liefg. 48, 49, und 58. Braunschweig, 1885. 8vo. xf
HANLE, O.—Ueber die Einwirkung von Jod auf die Silbersalze der rechts- und links-

polarisirenden Weinsiiuren. Freiburg, 1884. 8vo.

Happ, J. B.—Ueber Chinolin-para-sulfonsiure und ihre Derivate. Freiberg, 1885. Svo.

Haracovurt, C.—Notions de chimie. 4dme é6dit. Paris, 1885. &vo.

ee

CHEMISTRY. 679

HavusHOFER, K.—Microscopische Reactionen. Eine Anleitung zur Erkennung ver-
schiedener Elemente und Verbindungen unter dem Microscop; als Supplement
zu den Methoden der qualitativen Analyse. Braunschweig, 1825. 8vo.

HavusHoFER, K.—Beitriige zur mikroscopisch-chemischen Analyse. (Nachweis des
Wolframs; iiber die mikroscopischen Krystallformen einiger Oxalate; tiber einen
kleinen Filtrirapparat.) [Miinchen], 1885. 8vo.

HEFELMANN, RupoLr.—I. Ueber die Entschwefelung einiger Thioharnstofie mitteist
Quecksilbercyanid. II. Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Sulfobenzids. Berlin, 1885.

HeINTzE, O.—Krystallographische Untersuchungen einiger organischen Verbindun-
gen. Rawitsch, 1885. 8vo.

Hess, WILHELM.—Ueber das $-Lacton der Isopropylnitrophenylmilchsaure. Miin-
chen, 1884. 8vo.

HintTzE, C.—Ueber die Bedeutung krystallographischer Forschung fiir die Chemie.
Habilitationsrede. Bonn, 1885. 8vo.

Hocu, R.—Die Einwirkung von Phosphorpentachlorid auf Phthalsiinre-Anhydrid.
Freiburg, 1884. 8vo.

Hormann, A. W.—Zur Erinnerung an Jean Baptiste André Dumas. [With Dumas’
portrait.] Berlin, 1885. 8vo.

HorMann, A. W.—Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Coniin-Gruppe. 2 Theile. Berlin,
1885.

HOLLSTEIN, R.—Kurze Geschichte der Lehre von Isomorphismus und Polymorphismus.
Liidenscheid, 1885. 4to.

HorBACZEWSKI, J.—Ueber kiinstliche Harnsaure und Me thylharnsiiure. Wien, 1885
8vo.

Horstmann, A.—Theoretische Chemie -einschliesslich der Thermochemie. Braun-
schweig, 1885. 8vo.

How1r1z, H.—Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Alkylaniline, sowie tiber die Einwirkung
yon Natrium und Natrium-Propylbromid auf para-Bromdimethylanilin in athe-
rischer Lésung. Freiburg, 1884. 8vo.

Hug, F.—Le pétrole, son histoire, ses origines, son exploitation dans tous les pays
du monde. Paris, 1885. 12mo.

Hueues, §.—Gas-Works, their Construction and Arrangement. New edition re-
written and much enlarged by W. Richards. Seventh edition with important
additions. London, 1885. 12mo.

HuMMEL, |). J.—The Dyeing of Textile Fabrics. London, Paris, New York, and Mel-
bourne, 1885. 12mo.

ISAMBERT.—Précis de chimie. Paris, 1885. 12mo.

IsTRATI, C.—Sur les éthylbenzines chlorées et sur quelques observations relatives
aux points d’ébullition dans la série grasse aromatique. Paris, 1885.

Jahresbericht tiber die Leistungen der chemischen Technologie mit besonderer Beriick-
sichtigung der Gewerbestatistik fiir das Jahr 1884. Jahrgang J-XXV bearbeitet
von R.v. Wagner. Fortgesetzt vongl’. Fischer. XXX, oder Neue Folge XV. Jahr-
gang. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo.

Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der Pharmakotherapie. Herausgegeben von E.
R. Kobert. Band I, fiir das Jahr 1884. Strassburg, 1885. 8vo.

Jahresbericht tiber die Fortschritte der Chemie und verwandter Theile anderer
Wissenschaften. Herausgegeben von F. Fittica. Fiir 1883 Heft IV (Schluss).
Giessen, 1885. &vo.

JOHN, O.—Ueber die blausauren Salze organischer Basen. Freiburg, 1884. 8vo.

Joug et CurRIE.—La chimie du bore, du silicium et des silicates. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

June, OTro.—Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Daphnetins. Berlin, 1885.

JUNGFLEISCH, E.—Manipulations de chimie. Guide pour les travaux practiques de
chimie. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

JiPTNER VON JONSTOREF, H.—Praktisches Handbuch fiir Eisenhittten-Chemiker.
Wien, 1885. 8vo.
680 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR -1885.

KaHN, Mynrtit.—Ueber die Einwirkung von Normalbutylaldehyd auf Anilin bei
Gegenwart von rauchender Salzsiure. Miinchen, 1885. 8vo.

Kaiser, ADOLF.— Ueber Mononitroderivate der p- und m-Acetamidobenzoésaure, sowie
deren Reductionsproducte (Anhydrosauren). Alfeld, 1885.

KatbDER, E.—Producte der Einwirkung von Fiinffach-Chlorphosphor auf Succinyl-
verbindungen und Weinsidure. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo.

Kayser, R.—Chemisches Hilfsbuch fiir die Metall-Gewerbe. Wiirzburg, 1885. 8vo.

KEKULPE, A. et O. WALLACH.—Tableaux servant & analyse chimique. Traduit par
J. Krutwig. 2éme édition. Bonn, 1885. 8vo.

KELLER, PAUL.—Ueber einige Derivate des Kyanmethins. Leipzig, 1885.

KEnT, W. H.—Untersuchungen tiber Milchzucker und Galactose. Gottingen, 1885.
8vo.

KirscyH, E.—Beitriige zur Kenntniss des Bibromcymols (Stellung der Bromatome).
Freiburg, 1884. 8vo.

KLEEMAN, S.—Ueber zwei Synthesen der Methylaethylalphaamidoessigsiure. Er-
langen, 1884. 8vo.

KLEIn, J.—Ueber das Tetraphenylithan und itiber die Einwirkung des Chloralumi-
niums auf phenylhaltige Derivate chlorirte und bromirte Aethane. Freiburg,
1884. 8vo.

KLotTz, CarL.—Ueber Dichlortoluole und Dichlorbenzoé siiuren. Stiittgart, 1885.

KLuBUKOW, NIKOLAUS VON.— Ueber zwei neue Verfahren zur Bestimmang der Dampf-
dichte. Leipzig, 1885.

Knorr, Lupwic.—Ueber die Bildung von Kohlenstoff-Stickstofi-Ringen durch die
Einwirking von Amin- und Hydrazinbasen auf Acetessigester und seine Derivate.
Erlangen, 1885.

Knyriu, Max.—Beitrige zur Kenntniss der a-Naphtol-$-monosulfosiure. Freiburg
i. B., 1885.

KORSCHELT, O., and H. YosH1pa.—The chemistry of Japanese lacquer. {London?], |
1885.

KREYSLER, ED. — Ueber einige Phenolester der Phosphorsiiure. Reactionsverhaltnisse
der neutralen Phosphorsiureester einiger Phenole. Ziirich, 1885.

KrUGER, PauL.—Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Abkémmlinge des Hydroxylamins.
Berlin, 1885.

KRuUTWIG, J.—Exercises d’analyse chimique quantitative. Bonn, 1885. 8vo.

KUBIERSCHKY, KONRAD.—Ueber die Thiophosphorsiuren. Rostock, 1884.

KUHN, BERNHARD.— Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Cyansiureither. Berlin, 1885.

KUHNE, W.—Albumosen und Peptone. Heidelberg, 1885. 8vo.

KULISCH, PAUL.—Ueber die Einwirkung des Phosphorwasserstofis auf Metallsalzlé-
sungen. Berlin, 1885.

LAMPERT, FRIEDR.—Ueber einige Derivate des Trichlor-p, amidophenols. Rostock,
1885.

LANDOLT, H.—Ueber die Zeitdauer der Reacion zwischen Jodsiure und schwefliger
Sdure. Berlin, 1885. S8vo.

LANGER, C., und V. MEYER.—Pyrochemische Untersuchungen. Braunschweig, 1885.
8vo.

LEBLANC, R.—Manipulations de chimie. Legons pratiques. 4. édit. Paris, 1885. 12mo.

LrEeDs, ALBERT R.—The Literature of Ozone and Peroxide of Hydrogen. Memoir II,
including: 1. Historical-critical Résumé of the Progress of Discovery since 1879.
2. Index to the Literature of Ozone (1579-83). 3. Index to the Literature of
Peroxide of Hydrogen (1879-83). [New York], 1884. 8vo. 6

LESCHHORN, JACoB.—Ueber Phenylglycerinsiiure und einige Derivate derselben.
Wiirzburg, 1884. 8vo.

LEviIn, L.—Lehrbuech der Toxicologie. Berlin, 1385. 8vo.

LirscHt'tz, J.—Ueber die Einwirkung der concentrirten Schwefelsiure auf Nitro-
anthrachinone. Freiburg, 1885. 8vo.

a

CHEMISTRY. 681

Live1nG, G. D.—Chemical Equilibrium the Result of Dissipation of Energy. London
and Cambridge, 1885. 8vo.

Loutsr, E.—Synthése d’hydrocarbures, d’acétones, d’acides d’alcool, @éthers, de qui-
nones dans la série aromatique. Paris, 1884. 4to.

Léw, WiLHELM.—Ueber Terephtaldehyd. (Erlangen.) Miinchen, 1885. 8vo.

LupBarscu, O.—Die chemische Priifung des komprimierten Pyroxylins. Ein Beitrag
zar Analyse der Sprengkorper. Berlin, 1885. 4to.

LUCKENBACH, G.—Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Imidoither und Amidine. Freiburg,

1884. 8vo.
Lupwic, E.—Medicinische Chemie. Wien, 1885. 8vo.

LUHMANN, E.—Die Kohlensiure. Eine ausfiihrliche Darstellung der Eigenschaften
des Vorkommens, der Herstellung und technischen Verwendung dieser Substanz.
Wien, 1885. Svo. [Chemisch-technische Bibhothek, Band 124. ]

LuNGE, G.—Traité de la distillation du goudron de ’houille et du traitement de eau
ammoniacale. Traduit par L. Gautier. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

Lustig, S.—Zur Kenntniss des Carvacrols (Oxycymols) und seiner Derivate. Bres-
lau, 1885. 8vo.

MacGowan, G.—Ueber Abkémmlinge der Methylsulfonsiure insbesondere des Tri-
chlormethylsulfonchlorids. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo.

Mares, I’.—Beobachtungen tiber die Ausscheidung des indigschwefelsauren Natrons.
Wien, i885. 8vo.

MARQUISAU.—Des goudrons de houille et leurs dérivés des goudrons de pétrole
Paris, 1885. 8vo.

Marvin, Cu.—The Petroleum Industry of Southern Russia and the Caspian Region.
London, 1884. roy 4to.

Masineé, E.—Elemente der pharmaceutischen Chemie. St. Petersburg, 1885. 8vo.

MEHNER, H.—Die Fabrikation chemischer Diingemittel in Leipzig. Leipzig, 1885.
8vo.

METZGER. S.—Pyridin, Chinolin und deren Derivate. Gekrénte Preisschrift der philo-
sophischen Fakultaét der Universitat Wiirzburg. Braunschweig, 1835. 8vo.
MEYER, E. voN.—Zur Frage nach der chemischeu Constitution des Anthrachinons.

Leipzig, 1824. 8vo.

MICHAEL, R.—Ueber Carbonsiuren synthetisch erhaltener Pyridinbasen. Leipzig,
1885. 8vo.

MIERZINSKI, 8.—Die Fabrikation des Aluminiums und der Alkalimetaile. Wien,
1885. 8vo.

Mittheilungen aus der amtlichen Lebensmittel Untersuchungs-Anstalt und chemischen
Versuchsstation zu Wiesbaden, iiber die geschaftliche und wissenschaftliche Thi-
tigkeit in dem Betriebsjahre 1883-84. Herausgegeben von Dr. Schmitt. Berlin,
1885. 8vo.

MONSELISE, M.—L’ ambra primaticcia o sorgo zuccherino del Minnesota. Seconda
edizione. Mantova, 1884.

Mokrcu, J. O.—Handbuch der Chémigraphie und Photochemigraphie. Nach eigenen
Erfahrungen bearbeitet. Diisseldorf, 1886.

MoutTIER, J.—La thermodynamique. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

MULLER, ADOLF.—Ueber einige Isonitrososiiuren. Ziirich, 1885.

Munoz DE Luna, R. T.—Tratado de quimica general y descriptiva. 5. edic. correg. y
aument. »Madrid, 1885. 4to.”

Musalio, G.—Nozioni elementari di analisi chimica qualitativa delle sostanze minerali.
Caserta, 1884. 8vo.

Nixsson, L. F., och O. PETTERSSON.—Bestiimning of chlorberylliumgasens egentlige
vigt. Stockholm, 1884. 8vo.

NORDMANN, Epuarp.—Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Siure-Nitrite. Berlin, 1885.

OaieER, J.—Analyse chimique des gaz. Paris, 1884. 8vo.
\

. 682 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

OsTWALD, W.—In Sachen der modernen Chemie. Offener Brief an Herrn Albrecht
Ran. Riga, 1844.

PauM, R.—Grundriss der qualitativen und quantitativen chemischen Analyse nebst
einer General-Tabelle der wichtigsten Planzen-Alkaloide und einer Spectraltatel.
Leipzig, 1885. 3vo.

PawLow, O —Ueber Tetrinsiiure und deren Homologe. [St. Petersburg], 1884. svo.

PEINE, GEORG.—Ueber einige Detivate des Zimmtaldehyds. Berlin, 1885. 8vo.

Prerer, ARNOLD.--Zur Kenntniss der Thiophengruppe. Ziirich, 1885.

PFEIFFER, ., und W. vON BEETZ.—Ueber die electrische Leitungsfahigkeit des abso-
luten Alcohols. Miinchen, 1885. 8vo.

PISANI, F.—Traité pratique d’analyse chimique qualitative et quantitative. 2. édit.

augmentée dun traité d’analyse au chalumeau. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

Procter, H. R.—A Text-book of Tanning. A treatise on the conversion of skins
into leather, both practical and theoretical. London, 1885.

PRUNIER, L.—Tableaux d’analyse qualitative. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

QUESNEVILLE, M. Geo.—Newue Methoden zur Bestimmung der Bestandtheile der Milch
und ihrer Verfilschungen. Deutsch von Vict. Griessmayer. Neuburg, a. D.,
1885. 8vo.

RAMMELSBERG, C. F.—Leitfaden fiir die qualitative chemische Analyse. 7. Aufl.
Berlin, 1885. 8vo.

Recueil des travaux chimiques des Pays-Bas. Par W. A. van Dorp, A. P. N. Fran-
chimont, S. Hoogewerft, E. Mulder et A. C. Oudemans, jr. Tome III. Leide,
1885. 8vo.

REDDIE, C.—Ueber das Verhalten des Anhydroacetometaparatoluylendiamins gegen
Brom und gegen Salpetersiiure. Géttingen, 1885. 8vo.

RicHaARZ, F.—Die Bildung von Ozon, Wasserstoffsuperoxyd und Ueberschwefelsiure
bei die Electrolyse verdiinnter Schwefelsiiure. Berlin, 1884. 8vo.

RicuHTer, M. M.—Tabellen der Koblenstoffverbindungen nach deren empirischer Zu-
sammensetzung geordnet. Berlin, 1885. 8vo.

RICHTER, M.—Ueber die normalen Propylnaphthaline und die bis heute bekannten
Naphthalinderivate. Freiburg, 1884. Svo.

RICHTER, V. VON.—Chemie der Kohlenstoffverbindungen, oder organische Chemie.
4. Aufl. Bonn, 1885.

RICHTER, V. VON.—Trattato di chimicainorganica. Tradottoe corredato di note e di
un appendice dal’ A. Piccini. Torino, 1885. 8vo.

Riess, K.—Ueber einige Abkémmlinge des Kyanathins. Leipzig, 1885. &vo.

Rrprer, W.—Practical Chemistry. With notes and questions on theoretical chem-
istry. Second edition. London, 1885. 8vo.

Riviere, A. et C.—Traité de manipulations de chimie. Paris, 1885. 2 vols. 12mo.

RoMeEN, C.—Bleicherei, Firberei und Appretur der Baumwoll und Leinen-Waaren.
Berlin, 1885. 8vo.

RorTuHE, C.—Ueber die Entdeckung von Elementen. Wien, 1884. &vo.

RvupoLr, E.—Die gesammte Indigo-Kiipenblau Fiirberei, Reservage- und Aetz-Druck-
erei (Blandruck) auf Baumwolle und Leinen. Aus den Jahrgiingen 1875-1825
der Farberei-Muster-Zeitung gesammelt. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo.

Rourtz, O.—Anleitung zur Priifung von Trinkwasser und Wasser zu technischen
Zwecken. 2. Auflage. Neuwied. 1885. Svo.

SABATIER, P.—La chimie du zine, du cadmium, et du thallium. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

Sacus, F., le Docre, et A. RAEYMAECKERS.—Revue universelle des progrés de la
fabrication du sucre pour lV’année 188384. Vol. I. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

SEELIG, E.—Zur Kenntniss der gechlorten Toluole und ihrer Derivate. Freiburg,
1885. 8vo.

SEIDAL, A.—Studien tiber die Darstellung, Zusammensetzung und Eigenschaften des
Sennits [Cathartomannits]. Dorpat, 1884. 8vo.

CHEMISTRY. 683

Skandinaviens kemisk-tekniske Centralblad for Danmark, Sverige, Norge og Finland.
Kjébenhavn. Aarg. IV, 1885. 8vo.

ScHAEDLER, C.—Die Technologie der Fette und Oele der Fossilien (Mineraléle), sowie
der Harzéle und Schmiermittel. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo.

SCHAEDLER, C.—Kurzer Abriss der Chemie der Kohlenwasserstoffe. Zugleich ein
Repetitorium fiir Studirende und practische Chemiker, Techniker, Apotheker
u. s. w. Leipzig, 1885. 8vo.

ScHAEFER, TH.—Ueber die Bedeutung der Alchemie. Bremen, 1885. 4to.

Scnirr, F.-—Degli equivalenti capillari dei corpi semplici. Roma, 1825. 4to.

ScCHILLER-WECHSLAR, Max.—Ueber die Synthese einer Anilidobrenzweinsiiure (@-

e Methyl-a-anilidobernsteinsaure) und deren Derivate. Berlin, 1885.

ScHILLING, E.—Ueber Cafteinmethylhydroxyd, ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Caffeins.
Freiburg, 1884. 8vo.

SCHLICHTING, M.—Chemische Versuche einfachster Art. 8. Aufl. bearbeitet von A.
Wilke. Kiel, 1885. 8vo.

SCHLOESING, TH.—Contribution & l’étude de la chimie agricole. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

ScumipT, E.—Anleitung zur qualitativen Analyse. 2. Aufl. Halle, 1885. 8vo.

Scumipt, O.—Zur Kenntniss der Naphthol-$-disulfonsiiure und ihrer Derivate. Frei-
burg, 1884. 8vo.

ScHORLEMMER, C.—Origine et développement de la chimie organique. Traduit de
Vanglais par A. Claparéde. Paris, 1885. 12mo.

SCHOTTLANDER, P.—Ueber das Salpetersiiure-Goldnitrat und einige neue Derivate
derselben. Wiirzburg, 1884. 8vo.

SCHRADER, L.—Ueber Isopropylderivate des Pyridins und Reductionsproducte des-
selben. Kiel, 1885. 8vo.

SCHROEDER, G. und J. voN.—Wandtafeln fiir den Unterricht in der allgemeinen
Chemie und chemischen Technologie. Lieferung 2. Kassel, 1885. fol.

ScHUCHNER, G.—Ueber die Einwirkung von Chromoxyehlorid auf Cymol und Ortho-
nitrotoluol. Breslau, 1885. 8vo.

SCHUTZENBERGER, P.—Traité de chimie générale comprenant les principales appli-
cations de la chimie aux sciences biologiques et aux arts industriels. 2. édition.
Tome II. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 631 pp.

SCHWEITZER, H.—Chlorkresole und ihre Oxidationsproducte mittelst Chromsiiure.
Freiburg, 1884. 8vo.

SCHWEITZER, W.—Ueber einige Derivate des Alphanaphthylamines. Freiburg,

1884. 8vo.
Simon, 8S. E.—Ueber Monoxyanthrachinon und einige seiner Derivate. Freiburg,
1884. 8vo.

Simon, W.—Manual of Chemistry. London, 1885. 8vo.

SmytTuies, J. K.—Problems of the Motions of Atoms. London, 1885. 4to. |

SoODEN, HuGo von.—Ueber Triphenyiphosphin und einige Derivate desselben. Leip-
zig: Reudnitz, 1885.

SPELSBERG, EDUARD.—Weitere Untersuchungen itiber a-Aethyliden-Valerolacton.
Wiirzburg, 1884.

SPRING et WINSSINGER.—De l’action du chiore sur les combinaisons sulfoniques et
sur les oxysulfates organiques. Liége, 1884. 8vo.

STADLER, OrTo.—Zur Kenntniss der Mercaptane. Nitrirung desThiophens. Ziirich,
1885.

STAMMER, KARL.—Chemical Problems, translated from the second German edition by
W.S. Hoskinson. Philadelphia, 1885.

STEGELITZ, P.—Ueber die Reductionsproducte des Chinolin-Aethylbromids. Frei-
burg, 1854. 8vo.

STEIGER, A. vON.— Ueber die Entdeckung und Darstellung des Salvadorin, eines neuen
Glykosids. Bern, 1885. 8vo.
684 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR i885.

STOCKBRIDGE, H. E.—Ueber die analytischen Bestimmungen des Zuckers der Riibe
mittelst dilterer und eines neu construirten Apparates. Gottingen, 1885. 8vo.

STOHMANN, F.—Handbuch der Zuckerfabrikation. 2. umgearbeitete Auflage. Berlin,
1885. 8vo.

SréuR, K.—Ueber die Hydroparafumarsiure. Kiel, 1885. 8vo.

Srorcu, V.—Mikroskopiske og kemiske Underségelser over Smoérdannelsen vei
Kjerningen samt Smérrets fysike og kemiske Sammensetning. Kjdébenhavan,
1855. + 8vo.

STRECKER, A., AND J. WISLICENUS.—Organic Chemistry. Translated and edited
with extensive additions by W. R. Hodgkinson and A. J. Greenaway. 2d edition.
London, 1885. 8vo. 803 pp. d

Supplemento annuale alla enciclopedia di chimica scientitice ed industriale diretto da
Icilio Gnareschi. Anno primo. ‘Forino (December), 1884.

TaPPEINER, H.—Anleitung zu chemisch-diagnostischen Untersuchungen am Kranken-
bette. Miinchen, 1885. 16mo.

Technisches Centralblatt. Bd. III. Halle, 1885. 4to.

Technisch-chemisches Jahrbuch, 1883-1884. Ein Bericht tiber die Fortschritte anf
dem Gebiete der chemischen Technologie von Mitte 1683 bis Mitte 1584. Her-
ausgegeben von K. Biedermann. VI. Jahrgang. Berlin, 1885, 8vo.

Tuas, R.—Sur le spectre du fer, obtenu a lV’aide de Vare électrique. Upsal, 1885.
4to. ‘

THOMSON, T.—Lerebog i uorganisk Chemi. 5. Udg. Kjgbenhavn, 1885. 8vo.

TILLMAN, SAMUEL E.—Principles of Chemical Philosophy. [West Point, N. Y.]
(1885.] 12mo.

TRIMBLE, HENRY.—Practical and Analytical Chemistry, being a complete course in
chemical analysis. Philadelphia, 1885. 8vo.

Troost, L.—Précis de chimie. 15° édit. Paris, 1855. 12mo.

URBAIN 6t St. MEUNIER.—La chimie du charbon de bois, du noir de fumée et des
combustibles minéraux. Paris, 1885. Syo.

URECcH, FRIEDRICH.—Itinerarium durch die theoretische Entwicklungsgeschichie der
Lehre von der chemischen Reactionsgeschwindigkeit. Berlin, 1885.

Voge, A.—Zur Chininpriifung. [Miinchen], 1885. 8vo.

Vorer, R.—Ueber die durch Oxydation von $-Collidin erhaltene symmetrische Pyri-
dintricarbonsiure. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo.

Vori® C. von.—Nekrologe auf J. G. von Jolly, J. B. Dumas, A. Wurtz, H. Kolbe, R.
A. Smith und anderer. Miinchen, 1885. 8vo.

Voz, O.—Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Naphthol--monosulfonsiure. Freiburg, 1885.
Bvo.

WaGner, A.—Lehrbuch der unorganischen Chemie. Miinchen, 1885. 8vo.

Warsure, E.—Ueber die Elektrolyse des festen Glases. Freiburg, 1884. 8vo.

Watt, A.—The Art of Soap-making; a practical handbook of the manufacture of
hard and soft soaps. 2dedition. London, 1885. 8vo.

WELLINGTON, CH.—Ueber die Einwirkung des Formaldehyds auf verschiedene orga-
nische Amine, sowie die Darstellung einiger sauren aromatischen Sulphate. Gdot-
tingen, 1885. 8vo.

WELTz, E.—Ueber einige Abkémmlinge der Chlor-nitrobenzole. Freiburg, 1884,

Bvo.

WENZLIK, C.—Ueber einige Derivate des Naphthochinons. Freiburg, 1385. 5vo.

WILLIAMS, W. M.—The Chemistry of Cookery. London, 1885. 8vo. é

Wittwer, W. C.—Grundziige der Molecular-Physik und der mathematischen Chemie.
Stuttgart, 1885. svo.

WILBRAND, F.—Grundziige der Chemie nach induktiver Methode. Hildesheim, 1885.
8vo.

WinG, J. F.—Ueber Butyrylanhydrometabromisodiamidotoluol. Géttingen, L855. Bvo.

CHEMISTRY. 685

WINKLER, C.—Handbook of Technical Gas Analysis. Containing concise instructions
for carrying out gas analytical methods of proved utility. Translated, with ad-
ditions, by G. Lunge. London, 1885. 8vo.

WISLICENUS, WILHELM.— Ueber die pie ung von Cyankalium auf Phtalide. Wiirz-
burg, 1885.

WisskER, Lieut. JoHN P.—History of Chemistry. Course of sciences applied to mili-
tary art. U.S. Artillery School, Fort Monroe, Va., 1885. square 8vo.

Wo.trr, H.—Die Beizen, ihre Darstellung, Priifung und Anwendung. Wien, 1885.
8vo.

Wo.trr, L.—Applied Medical Chemistry. A manual for students and practitioners of
medicine. Philadelphia. 8vo.

W oORMLEY, TH. G.—Micro-Chemistry of Poisons, including their physiological, patho-
logical, and legal relations. With an appendix on the detection and microscopic
discrimination of the blood. New edition, revised and enlarged. Philadelphia,
1885. 8vo.

WROBLEWSKI, SIGISMOND DE.—Comment lair a été liquéfié; réponse a l’article de M.
J. Jamin. Paris, 1885.

WROBLEWSKI, SIGISMOND VON.—Ueber den Gebrauch des siedenden Sauerstofts, Koh-
lenoxyds sowie der atmospharischen Luft als Kiltemittel. Wien, 1885. 8vo.

Wu.r, Paun.—Beitriige zur Kenntniss der fractionirten Destillation. Berlin, 1885.

Wurtz, A.—Introduction & ’étude de la chimie. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

WuRTzZ.—FRIEDEL.—Notice sur la vie et les travaux de Charles Adolphe Wurtz.
Paris, 1885. 8vo.

ZANGERLE, M.—Kemian alkeet. Porvoosa, 1885.

NECROLOGY OF CHEMISTS: 1885.

THOMAS ANDREWS, born December 19, 1813, at Belfast; died November, 1885. He held
the vice-presidency of Queen’s College in Belfast, and was professor of chemistry
in the same institution. His original researches, chiefly in physical chemistry,
were numerous and valuable.

Epw. H. voN BAUMHAUER, died January 18, 1885, at Leyden. He was born Septem-
ber 18, 1820, and for many years was professor of chemistry and pharmacy at
Amsterdam. He held also the office of perpetual secretary of the Netherland
Society of Sciences at Harlem.

E. 0. BRown, died December 5, 1885. He was one of the chemists in the Royal
Arsenal, Woolwich, under Sir F. Abel. His knowledge of the chemistry of ex-
plosives is said to have been unsurpassed.

ARTHUR CALM, died in January, 1885. He was instructor in chemistry at the Uni-
versity of Ziirich.

JOHN CHRISTOPHER DRAPER, born March 31, 1835; died December 20, 1885. He held
chairs of chemistry and of natural history in New York colleges, and published
several text-books on physiology and chemistry. His original researches were
chiefly in the domain of medical chemistry.

HERMANN VON FEHLING, vice-president of the German Chemical Society, died July
1, 1885. He was born June 9, 1812, in Liibeck. In both research and literary
work Fehling has left an enviable record.

F'REDERIC FIELD, one of the original members of the London Chemical Society, died
April 3, 1885. He was authority on South American mineralogy, mining, and
metailurgy, having resided in Chili for many years. His memoirs on difterent
branches of chemistry are fifty-five in number.

ALBERT F'11Z, of Strassburg, died May 11, 1885. He was one of the pioneers in in-
vestigating the changes in organic bodies effected by microscopic plants.
GO&6 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

WALTER FLIGHT, born January 21, 1841; died November 4, 1885. Dr. Flight was for
many years assistant in the mineralogical department of the British Museum.
He published many valuable papers on the chemical composition of meteorites,
and of the occluded gases contained in them. Fora fuller biography, see Nature,
XXXII, 85.

PHILIPP GREIFF, weimber of the German Chemical Society, died September 17, 1885.

Otto Mrenptvs, of Ziegelhausen, died March 21, 1885. He was the author of the well-
known ‘“ Mendius’ Reaction,” for converting nitrites into primary amines.

HERMANN ROMER, born October 31, 1848, at Mahlen, in Silesia; died in Berlin, Jan-
uary 27, 1885. He was instructor in the Technical School at Berlin.

BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, born December 4, 1816; died January 14, 1885. He was one of
the founders of the Sheffield Scientific School, and professor of chemistry in the
Yale Medical School. For a full biography, see American Journal of Science.

ALFRED TRIBE, died November 26 at the age of forty-six. His researches in conjunc-
tion with Dr. Gladstoné have been numerous and important.

WALTER WELDON, born October 31, 1832; died September 21, 1885, at his residence
in Surrey. He was a most successful technical chemist, the author of the well-
known ‘‘ Weldon process” for regenerating the MnO, used in the preparation of
chlorine. For fuller notice, see Chem. News, Lu, 176.

GEORGE W1TzZ, of Rouen, died June 17, 1885, aged 48 years. He made important con-
tributions to the chemistry of cellulose.

Gustav WUNDER, director of the Technische Staats-Lehranstalien in Chemnitz, died
September 20, 1885. He was a member of the German Chemical Society.
—

MINERALOGY.

By Prot. EpwArpD S. Dana,
Yale College, New Haven, Conn.

GENERAL WORKS ON MINERALOGY.

The list of mineralogical works published in 1885 ineludes a new
xdition of Naumann’s Hlemente der Mineralogie.* This is the twelfth
edition of the work, and, like the tenth, issued in 1877, and the eleventh,
in 1581, has been edited by Professor Zirkel, of Leipzig. It includes the
numerous additions of the past four years, and since then the whole
inatter has been thoroughly worked over. While not aiming at exhaust-
ive completeness, it yet gives much more than any other treatise in
the German language, and is a decided advance upon previous editions
of the work. The Lehrbuch der Mineralogie of Tschermak, the first edi-
tion of which was noticed in the report for 1883, has appeared in a sec-
ond edition, with some minor additions and corrections. Increased
acquaintance with the work brings a higher appreciation of its excel-
lence, more especially as regards its treatment of subjects in physical
mineralogy. The veteran Russian mineralogist, N. v. Kokscharow, con-
tinues his labors with unremitting activity. The product of the past
year is an additional portion of the ninth volume of the Materialien zur
Mineralogie Russlands, covering pages 81 to 272, and giving a general
description of the species turquois, and supplementary chapters on
topaz, vesuvianite, nephelite, orthoclase (sanidine) and linarite.

A new edition of Groth’s Physikalische Krystallographie has been pub-
lished, with a very large amount of new matter, increasing the size of
the volume nearly one-half. The additions are largely iu the chapters
devoted-to the methods and instruments employed in the study of the
physical characters of minerals, which are treated with a fullness that
leaves nothing to be desired. The work is comprehepsive throughout
and only to be compared with Mallard’s Traité de Cristallographie, noticed
in the report for 1884, which, however, occupies a somewhat different
field. Rosenbuseb has completed a new edition of hisinvaluable Mikro-
shopische Physiographie der petrographisch wichtigen Mineralicn, largely
Increased in size and improved in every way. The work is unrivalled

* lor full titles of works mentioned, see the Bibliography at the close of the chapter,

~

H87
688 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

in its special sphere, and is essential not only to the petrographer but
also to the general mineralogist, being the production of an author who
is thoroughly informed of the work done by others, and at the same time
has himself made extensive contributions in the same direction. Under
the title of The Determination of Rock-forming Minerals, has been issued
a translation, by E. G. Smith, of Beloit College, of Hussak’s work (re-
port for 1884), which is thus placed in convenient form for English-read-
ing students. Hirschwald’s catalogue of the mineral collection of the
Berlin University is an addition to topographical mineralogy. Hatle
has prepared a summary of the mineral occurrences of Styria. In the
department of meteorites the catalogue of the near'y unrivalled collee-
tion in Vienna by Brezina is interesting not only as a catalogue, but for
the discussion of the classification of meteorites and of various points
in regard to their structure and origin.

A second report on the Mineral Resources of the United States for the
calendar years 1883, 1884, has been issued by the U. S. Geological Sur-
vey, under the same editorship as the first volume—Albert Williams,
jr- This volume is much larger than its predecessor and is made up
almost entirely of new matter. After a general summary by the editor,
a series of chapters, prepared for the most part by different specialists,
are devoted to each subject, many of them treated with great fullness.
Thus, to the subject of coal and coke two hundred pages are given;
chapters on petroleum and natural gas follow; then extended papers
on iron, gold and silver, copper, lead, zinc, mercury, and the other metals,
these last covering pages 246 to 661. The remainder of the volume is
given to a variety of subjects, as building materials, abrasive materials,
precious stones, fertilizers, mineral paints, glass materials; also salt,
graphite, pyrites, andsoon. The whole volume contains a vast amount
of material of value and interest to a great variety of readers in prac-
tical life.

A fifth Annual Report of the Mineralogy of California has been issued
by the State mineralogist, H.G. Hanks. It is largely devoted to an
account of the exhibit of California and other States at the recent Ex-
position in New Orleans. The bulletins of the U. 8. Geological Survey
recently issued are some of them devoted to mineralogical subjects,
more particularly No. 20, containing contributions to the mineralogy of
the Rocky Mountains, by W. Cross and W. F. Hillebrand. . This is
largely a reprint of papers (on zeolites, cryolite, &c.) previously pub-
lished, but contains also some additions and emendations of the original
matter. Another bulletin contains a description of the secondary en-
largement of mineral fragments (amphibole, quartz, &c.) in certain
rocks, by R. D. Irving and C. R. Vanhise.

CRYSTALLOGRAPHY AND PHYSICAL MINERALOGY.

A crystallographic memoir of more than usual comprehensiveness is
that of Ernst Rethwisch* on the ruby silvers (Rothgiiltigerz) ; it is in

“For references, see the list of papers on mineral species at the close of this chapter.
MINERALOGY. 689

fact exhaustive in its treatmeut of the subject, though not original in
matter for the most part. It opens with a catalogue of papers and books
treating of the species pyrargyrite and proustite—extending from 1657
to the present time—and then goes on to give a statement of the results
reached, chemical and crystallographic. The list of planes observed
on the two species is one hundred and eight, with three doubtful ones.
To this long list the author considerately makes no new additions. He
discusses critically, however, the results of earlier observers, as Haiiy,
Mohs, Lévy, and Sella—of whom, for example, Sella added forty-nine new
forms—and for convenience of reference gives a series of lists arranged ac-
cording to zones, according to the numerical value of the indices, by com-
binations, and soon. He details also a series of measurements made
upon four varieties, allof which were analyzed, and which included a pure
proustite (containing no-antimony), a pure pyrargyrite (with no arsenic),
and also two varieties of the latter mineral, with 2-62 and 3-01 per cent.
arsenic, respectively. It appears from these that the fundamental rhom-
bohedron becomes a little more acute as the amount of arsenic increases.
The values of tle vertical axis in the different cases are 0:3034 (proustite),
0:7890, 0:7893, 0:7865 (pure pyrargyrite). A long list of calculated angles
completes the memoir. The first part of a somewhat similar monograph
has been issued by Sansoni, of Pavia. This is devoted to the calcite of
Andreasberg, but when completed the memoir is to cover the whole
species. The author has attacked the subject with great vigor, notwith-
standing its difficulty and the large amount of the literature devoted to
it. His observations are largely original, based upon a collection of
twenty-five hundred specimens, loaned from many museums. ‘The
number of crystals measured is stated to be seven hundred and twenty-
two. Hight types of forms are described and illustrated by a series of
figures. The number of planes included is one hundred and thirty-one,
occurring in three hundred and fifty-nine combinations.

An interesting contribution to the morphology of the species rhodonite
has been made by G. Flink. The specimens examined were from Pajs-
berg and Langban, in Sweden, and included a large number of crystals
showing considerable variety in habit and occurring planes. The num-
ber of the latter identified is twenty-nine, of which nineteen are new.
The author follows the suggestion first made in Dana’s System of Min-
eralogy, and later developed by Groth, and adopts the position which
brings the crystals into correspondence with the related monoclinic
pyroxene. This relation he discusses at length, and shows that the
similarity in forms and angles and cleavage between the triclinic
rhodonite and monoclinic pyroxene is very close, to be compared with
that between the monoclinic and triclinic feldspars, The axial relations
are:

ESERrR OE. Uae a B ¥
FUnOPONIteae ec ce ae aleceeee ip aiepns © 1°0727 : 1 : 0°62104 76° 42’ CLG: 81° 39’
EVIOXOUG sa coat oes che sot eeot esc 1:0903 : 1 : 0°5893 90 74 il 90

H. Mis. 15

690 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

The author also discusses at length the optical constants of the spe-
cies. Two plates of figures show the various habits of the crystals.
Some of the tabular forms are strikingly like the crystals recently ob-
tained in some abtindance at Franklin Furnace, New Jersey (variety
fowlerite).

Penfield has described crystals of tiemannite from Utah and also
erystals of metacinnabarite from California. The former mineral, the
pure selenide of mercury, has hitherto been known only in massive form.
Itis now shown to erystallize in tetrahedral crystals, similar to sphalerite
in habit and in twinning. Metacinnabarite, the black amorphous sul-
phide of mercury described by G. E. Moore, is also shown to erystallize
in similar tetrahedral forms, the crystals, however, being less distinet
and perfect than those of tiemannite. These two species thus take
their proper places in mineralogical classification. It does not appear,
however, that the dimorphous forms of the sulphides of zine and mer-
eury, wurtzite and cinnabar, bear any close relation to each other.
Penfield’s determinations give the crystallized tiemannite a specific
eravity of 8-19, much higher than that before accepted for the species;
also that of metacinnabarite 7:81, while the intermediate compound
onofrite—the sulpho-selenide of mercury—from Utah lies between them
with a specific gravity of 8-04.

Crystals of azurite from the Clifton mines in Arizona have been
measured by O. W. Huntington. They are shown to be highly modi-
fied, though not adding to the already large list of the species (this
list ineludes fifty-one or fifty-two pianes). The measured angles also
correspond closely to those of the Chessy crystals. The work on the
descloizite crystals of New Mexico by vom Rath, according to whom
they are to be taken as orthorhombic, is referred to on a later page.

The apparent cleavage of titanite parallel to the hemipyramid 7 (2 P
of the usually accepted form), conspicuous on the crystals from Northern
New York, has been shown by G. H. Williams to be only a structural
‘“‘ parting,” due to the interposition of twin lamelle. It thus has the
same explanation as the frequently observed “cleavage,” parallel to the
basal plane of pyroxene, and similarly in other cases. The same author
has described erystals of amphibole from Saint Lawrence County, New
York, which were interesting in showing several new planes in the
prismatic zone. Penfield has figured and examined optically some
curious composite crystals of analcite from the Lake Superior copper
region, remarkable for their symmetrical arrangement. The quartz
crystals of North Carolina, hardly second to those of the Alps in inter-
est and complexity of crystalline form, have received the attention they
deserve at the hands of vom Rath. His memoir upon them is accom-
panied by numerous figures showing the various types of forms.

Additional observations on the crystalline form of the beautiful new
borate, colemanite (see the report for 1884), have been published by
Jackson, Hiortdahl and Arzruni. Palla has studied crystals of géthite
MINERALOGY. 691

from Cornwall, and attempted to show that the measurements can
be explained only by the assumption of the presence of ‘ vicinal”
planes with very complex indices, or else of a monoclinic form with an
obliquity of 36’. The correctness of such conclusions may fairly be
questioned. The phlogopite of Templeton, Canada, which is black to
brown in color and shows the well known asterism, has been studied
by Lacroix. His results goto prove that the inclusions to which the
asterism has been long recognized as due are in this case minute acicu-
lar crystals of rutile, which cross each other at angles of 90°, 120°, and
150°. Doelter has added to our knowledge of the relation between the
optical properties and chemical composition of the various kinds of py-
roxene, a subject the interest of which has already been recognized.

The optical behavior and micro-structure of corundum forms the sub-
ject of an interesting paper by Lasaulx, which goes far to settle the
disputed question as to its true crystalline form. He concludes that
corundum is truly optically uniaxial and hence is to be referred to the
rhombohedral, not the monoclinic, system, and that the anomalous op-
tical characters which have suggested the latter conclusion are con-
nected with disturbances due to the growth and structure of the crystals.
The optical irregularities are further associated with structure planes
parallel to the rhombohedron, the base and the second hexagonal prism:
the lamellar structure in these directions conditions the cleavage or
“parting” often observed parallel to one or more of these forms. This
parting, he concludes, is not caused by twinning lamell, as has been
assumed, but the latter determined by the presence of the structure
planes, both appearing simultaneously. The optical irregularities are
caused in part by tension in certain of the crystal, in part as a con-
sequence of the interposed twin-lamelle.

Rinne has made a study of the rare silicate milarite from an optical
point of view, and reached the conclusion thatit is to be taken as belong-
ing in fact to the hexagonal system, although secondary causes have
given it the optical structure which has led to its being classed.as an
orthorhombic species with hexagonal pseudo-symmetry. An analogous
conclusion is reached by the same author in regard to apophyllite.
Stadtlinder has contributed the results of an optical study of sections
ofapophyllite crystals from Stempel, near Marburg, extending our knowl-
edge of the optical anomalies and showing that, as has been proved be-
fore, they must be referred to secondary causes.

The often-discussed subject of the true form of leucite crystals (see
report for 1884) has received an interesting contribution from Rosen.
busch. Afterreviewing the results reached by others, especially by Klein,
he goes on to detail the results of some experiments by himself on the
effect of a high temperature upon the twin structure of the crystals. A
section of an implanted crystal of leucite from Vesuvius, showing distinet
twinning lamella, was held in the platinum-pointed pincers before a
microscope in such a position that a strong reflected light brought out
G92 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

clearly the twinning lamella as contrasted with the rest of the surface,
and then strongly heated. Various sections were taken, but in every
case when the heating commenced the surface under examination
showed a peculiar movement, leading as the temperature rose to a
change in the number, position, and dimensions of the twinning lamelle.
Finally, when the heat was sufficiently increased all these lamelle and
all breaks in the surface disappeared, and the entire surface reflected the
light evenly. With a fall of the temperature, however, the irregular-
ities in structure re-appeared, but not so as to reproduce exactly the
original section; that is, the position and number of the twinning lamella
were changed, although the law of twinning remained constant. The
significance of such experiments, especially in connection with the dis-
appearance of the optical anomalies with a high temperature, is obvious.

Brauns has followed up a line of investigation earlier undertaken
by him (report for 1883) in regard to the double refraction in crystals,
which are isomorphous mixtures of salts normally isometric and isotropic,
and has developed some interesting facts of this kind. He recognizes
the double refraction in such mixtures (as of different alums) as second-
ary, but regards the final cause as yet undciermined, only suggesting
that the different volumes of the molecules and different powers of re-

fraction may play animportant part in the matter. The minerals of the |

spinelor magnetite group have been made the object of aseries of etching
experiments by Becke, the aim of which was to add to our Knowledge
of the connection between etching figures and crystalline structure. The
same author had earlier studied the same subject in connection with
sphalerite and galena. The minerals now experimented upon were
magnetite, franklinite, spinel, and linnzite. The etching figures on
boracite and eryolite have been anew studied by Baumhauer.

The following are some of the more important papers* on general
physical mineralogy which cannot be briefly summarized, and hence
are alluded to only: Miigge on change of position of crystalline planes,
brought about by secondary twinning; Liebisch on the total reflection
jn doubly-refracting crystals; Voigt on the values obtained for the
constants of elasticity of rock salt and fluor spar, and also on the ex-
planation of the pleochroic phenomena of crystals; Beckenkamp on the
methods of experiment in the determination of the constants of elas-
ticity ; Wulff on the effect of different kinds of movement upon crys-
tallization; Blasins on the expansion of crystals with heat, and the
same author on the decomposition figures of crystals; Schrauf on the
double refraction of calcite; Curie on the formation of crystals and the
capillary constants of their different faces; Dufet on the variation of re-
fractive indices with heat; Danker on the experimental verification of
the laws of total reflection deduced from Fresnel’s laws of double refrac-
tion; Riecke on the pyro-electricity of tourmaline.

*For full titles, see the bibliography at the close of the chapter.

a ee

al

MINERALOGY. 693
CHEMICAL MINERALOGY.

Some interesting contributions have been made to the important part
of chemical mineralogy dealing with the artificial formation of minerals.
An extended paper by Doelter, of Graz, describes the formation of a
number of sulphides, as galena, cinnabar, chalcocite, bornite, covellite,
chalcopyrite, and pyrite, and also the sulphantimonites, miargyrite,
jamesonite, and bournonite. The special object of the investigation was
to accomplish the end aimed at under conditions and by methods as
similar as possible to those that nature may be supposed to have em-
ployed; in other words, to avoid for the most part very high tempera-
tures and the use of reagents that can hardly have entered into na-
ture’s processes. for example, it was shown that pyrite may be pro-
duced without essential elevation of temperature, by the action of water
containing hydrogen sulphide upon hematite (Fe,O;), as also upon siderite
(FeCO;) and magnetite (Fe;0,). Similarly the experiments with galena
lead to the conclusion that it could be produced in nature by hydrogen
sulphide acting upon solutions of lead carbonate and lead chloride.
Cubes of galena were formed in a tube containing lead chloride, hydro-
gen sulphide, and bicarbonate of soda, kept for five months at the ordi-
nary temperature of the laboratory. Cinnabar was obtained in minute
brilliant red crystals by digesting mereury in a sealed tube contain-
ing hydrogen sulphide for six days at a temperature of 70° to 90° C.
Covellite (CuS) was produced from malachite in a sealed tube contain-
ing a hydrogen sulphide solution at 80° to 90°. Further, the same re-
sult was obtained by treating cupric oxide (CuO) with the gas (H,S)
in a glass tube at about 200°; ata higher temperature 250° to 400° chal-
cocite (Cu,S) was formed. The other experiments were of a similar
nature.

Wells and Penfield, in connection with their investigation of the new
mineral, gerhardtite (see a later page), were led to study the formation
and characters of an artificial basic cupric nitrate, having the same
composition with it, viz, 4CuO, N.O;, ;H,0. The normal nitrate was
heated with metallic copper in a sealed tube to about 150° C. for a day or
more, the result being the formation of crystals of the compound named.
These were tabular in habit, monoclinic in erystallization, but in di-
mensions, as, too, in optical properties, remarkably near the ortho-
rhombic gerhardtite. The axial ratios, for example, are:

Goerbardiitesse! cercatice Gut be scids was cleciaaee %: b : 6=0-9218 : 1 : 1:1562, B—90°
ATHIGIAl COMPONNG) —- 0.5 ao- eno weeces onan &: b : 6=0:9178 : 1 : 14102, B—=85° 27

Moreover, the cleavage corresponds, as also the plane of the optic
axes ; the dispersion, double refraction, and pleochroism also are simi-
lar. The same artificial compound, first correctly established by Ger-
hardt, was also made by Wells by adding sodium acetate to a hot di-
lute solution of cupric nitrate, boiling, then washing the precipitate in
cold water; it consisted of minute crystals, having the same composition
as that given.
694 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

De Schulten describes the formation of a hydrous phosphate of iron
Fe,P,0,+4Aq. in rose-colored crystals, corresponding to the mineral
strengite; strengite, however, is orthorhombic in crystallization, while
these crystals were monoclinic. The same author has formed a magne-
sium hydrate (the mineral brucite) in six-sided tabular, or short pris-
inatic crystals, optically uniaxial; also a similarly crystallized cadmium
hydrate. Vater describes crystals of hematite, formed in the fire flues
in the chemical manufactory in Schénebeck, near Madgeburg. Their
formation is explained by the presence of pyrite and sodium chloride
in the coal employed; from these iron chloride for:ns, which, in the cooled
parts of the flues, is decomposed by the escaping water vapor with the
result named. The crystals attain a magnitude of 2 millimeters.

The natural alteration of minerals is another chapter of chemical
mineralogy which has received some attention. I’. W. Clarke and J.S
Diller have studied the changes of the topaz of Stoneham, Me. Their
investigations cover both the chemical and microscopical sides, the sec-
tions under the microscope showing the progress of the alteration and
the analyses what the results are. A series of analyses trace the
changes from the unaltered topaz to the final product, massive or folia-
ted potash mica (damourite). The fluorine lost by the topaz is believed
by the authors to have led to the formation of the fluorite, herderite,
triplite, and apatite of the locality. Cathrein has studied the changes
undergone by the garnets of the amphibole schists of the Tyrolean Alps.
The alterations described are very various, leading to the formation of
scapolite, of epidote, oligoclase, hornblende, saussurite, and chlorite.
Another interesting case of pseudomorphism is that of turquois after
apatite. The specimens were from Taylor’s ranch on the Choweilla
River, in Fresno County, California, and they are described by G. E.
Moore and V. von Zepharovich. The crystalline form of the original
mineral is distinct, a hexagonal prism, but the substance consists of a
greepish-blue or bluish-green aggregate of minute spherulites with
radiated and concentric fibrous structure. An analysis showed it to be
a hydrous phosphate of alumina, with a little iron, and about 8 per cent.
cupric oxide, corresponding approximately to an analysis by Church of
a turquois from Nichabur. Still another case of pseudomorphism im-
portant especially in its geological relations is that of the thinolite, the
crystalline calcareous tufa of Lake Lahontan, in Northwestern Nevada.
This occurs, as is well known, on an immense scale, and the question of
its origin is a vital one in the explanation of the geological changes of
the region. It was referred to gay-lussite by Clarence King, but the
writer shows from a crystallographic study of the forms remaining that
it does not correspond to any known mineral, having a form which can
be approximately referred to an acute tetragonal pyramid. The simi-
larity of this to the pseudomorphs of lead carbonate after phosgenite
(chloro-carbonate of lead) has suggested the hypothesis that the origi-
nal mineral may have been an isomorphous chloro-carbonate of calcium.

MINERALOGY. 695

It is also shown that the well-known but enigmatical ‘‘ barley corn”
pseudomorphs after calcite from Sangerhausen very probably had the
same origin.

Still another case of pseudomorphism recently studied in detail is
that of the rare mineral leucite, which is shown by Sauer to occur in
an altered form extensively in the leucitophyr of the Saxon Lrzgebirge.
It is not found in a fresh state, but changed on the one hand to anal-
cite -and on the other to orthoclase and muscovite. Pseudomorphs of
orthoclase from Magnet Cove, Arkansas, having the form of the familiar
tetragonal trisoctahedron of garnet and leucite (2-2), have been referred
to leucite by G. F. Kunz, but the subject requires further study before
this suggestion can be accepted.

Of memoirs on the chemical composition of minerals, that by Ram-
melsberg on the scapolites deserves mention first. It follows the paper
of Tschermak on the same subject, and while not removing all the diffi-
culties from this most complex subject, it has at least the advantage
that it does not deal so much with hypotheses as with facts. So far as
can be explained in brief, his conclusion is that the various members
of the scapolite group are to be regarded as combinations of the normal
or meta silicates (bisilicates) Na,SiO;, CaSiO;, AlSi,O0,; of the ortho-
silicates (unisilicates) Na,SiOQ,y, Ca,SiO,, AlpSiz;0.,, and of the subsili-
cates Na,Si,O;, CaSizO;, Al,SigO,;. Friedl discusses the composition of

~ staurolite, giving new analyses of some pure varieties, with special refer-

ence to the oxidation of the iron. The formula adopted is that of a basic
silicate with an oxygen ratio of 2:1, viz, (Mg, Fe)s Alg(AlO);, (OH),
(SiO,);. The rare Vesuvian mineral nocerine has been analyzed by
Lederer with the result of proving, as shown by Fischer,that it is an
oxy-fluoride of calcium and magnesium, with also aluminum, sodium,
and potassium, but, perhaps, not as essential constituents.

Dr. Genth’s last paper, entitled Contributions to Mineralogy, contains
analyses of a number of interesting minerals, as joseite, galenobismutite,
argentobismutite (Silberwismuthglanz), cosalite, schirmerite, beegerite,
polybasite, vanadinite, annabergite, &c. Koenig has given new analy-
ses of cosalite, alaskaite, and beegerite from Colorado. H. F. and H. A,
Kellar have published an analysis of a variety of kobellite from Colo-
rado, interesting in containing 5 to 6 per cent. of silver, but no antimony.
Analyses of several common American minerals are given by E. F. Smith,
Knerr, and others in recent numbers of the American Chemical Journal.
Claassen discusses in the same journal some vanadium-bearing mague-
tites. Other chemical results are noted in the paragraphs immediately
following.

NEW MINERAL LOCALITIES IN THE UNITED STATES AND ELSEWHERE.

Perhaps the most interesting discovery of the year is that of the rare
mineral, descloizite, in New Mexico, with also iodyrite, vanadinite, and
endlichite, The locality is in Lake Valley, Donna Anna County, and
696 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

the new occurrences are described chemically by Genth and erystallo-
graphically by vom Rath. The descioizite occurs in minute brilliant
orange-red crystals; also in reddish chestnut-brown crystals up to 2™™
in size and associated with psilomelane and pyrolusite; and finally in
blackish-brown to black crystals, which are sometimes 6™™ in size. The
specimens analyzed conformed to the accepted formula of the species.
The crystals are varied in habit, chiefly pyramidal; they are in some cases
quite highly modified and orthorhombic in crystallization. The results
of vom Rath thus differ from those of Websky, who made the species
monoclinic. The question is one of interest, since the form of several of
the minerals belonging in this libethenite-olivenite group is somewhat
doubtful. It will probably be found that they are ali orthorhombic.
Descriptions are also given with analyses of the vanadinite and endli-
chite (see in the list of new minerals), and finally of the iodyrite.

The mineral arsenopyrite or mispickel is now being mined in large
quantity at Deloro, Hastings County, Ontario. During the past year
crystallized specimens have been obtained from there showing the eru-
ciform twins observed from other localities (e. g., the Binnenthal in Switz-
erland). The “fossil forest” of Arizona has also been developed re-
cently as a source of agatized wood; beautiful polished specimens for
table tops and other ornaments are now obtained from that source. A
paper on the locality is given by G. F. Kunz, in a recent number of the
Popular Science Monthly. Of more scientific interest is the discovery
of zinc spinel, gahnite, at the pyrite mine in Rowe, Mass. Fine green
octahedral crystals have been described and analyzed by A. G. Dana;
associated with it, besides the pyrite, are epidote and rutile. G.F. Kunz
has described in some detail the occurrence of native antimony in York
County, New Brunswick, and of various copper minerals in Arizona.
W. P. Blake mentions the fact that erythrite is found at Lovelock’s Sta-
tion, Union Pacific Railroad, in Nevada; also at the Kelsey mine, Comp-
ton, in Los Angeles County, California. W.E. Hidden describes phena-
cite from Florissant, El Paso County, Colorado; xenotime from the
same locality; also a mineral assumed to be fayalite from Cheyenne
Mountain, in the same State. The occurrence of minute crystals of fay-
alite in the obsidian of the Yellowstone Park is described by W. P. Id-
dings, as already noted. The same author, with Whitman Cross, shows
that the otherwise rare mineral, allanite, is widely distributed as an ac-
cessory microscopic constituent of many rocks. The work of Penfield
on crystals of tiemannite from Utah and metacinnabarite from Cali-
fornia has already been spoken of, as also that of O. W. Huntington
on crystals of azurite from Arizona. The bulletin of Cross and Hille-
brand, already alluded to, contains many points in regard to the min-
erals of Colorado.

Of new foreign occurrences the following may be briefly alluded to:
Fairfieldite, at Rabenstein, Bavaria, identical with the imperfectly de-
scribed leucomanganite; nephrite, near the orient al stone in character, at,

MINERALOGY. 697%

Jordansmiihl, Silesia; monazite in crystals in Cornwall; also the redis-
covery of the very rare mineral connellite, also in Cornwall. The long:
known localities in Deuphiny, of antimony, octahedrite, axinite, epidote,
turnerite (monazite), &c., have been recently described by Groth, giving
interesting facts in regard to the relations of the different species.

NEW MINERALS.

Avalite.*—This is announced by 8. M. Losanitsch as a new chromium
silicate, but, as will be seen, the investigation is too incomplete to es-
tablish its position as a new species very firmly. It is found at the
mercury mines of Mount Avala, near Belgrade, Servia, associated with
mercury, cinnabar, calomel, and so on. The material obtained for ex-
amination consisted of a green earthy mass, very impure, but from
which, by repeated decantation and boiling with aqua regia, the clay,
cinnabar, oxide of iron, &c., were separated, leaving only sand and
chromite mixed with the mineral. This, partially purified, as described,
was seen under the microscope to consist of thin crystalline plates of
an emerald-green color. They were not attacked by acids, but were de-
composed by hydrofluoric acid and also by fusion with an alkali carbo-
nate; upon ignition it turned brown. Three analyses were made, of
which that made upon the purest material is as follows

Si02 CrO, AlkOs Fex0,; KxO0 MgO H20 (bygr.) Ign.
56°13 14°59 14°37 1:10 3:54 0-43 2:39 5°38 chromite 1°68= 99°61

Considering the nature of the material the attempt to calculate a for-
mula is obviously of little use.

Cappelenite—A preliminary announcement only of this mineral is
given by W.C. Brégger. It is found in thick prismatic crystals, be-
longing to the hexagonal system, with a vertical axis equal to 0.4301.
The planes observed, prismatic, and basal with two pyramids, were well
polished. The color was brown, without distinct pleochroism, and the
luster on the fracture surfaces greasy; the double refraction rather
strong and the axis negative; specific gravity, 4407. An analysis by
P. T. Cleve gave the following results:

SiOz BOs Y203 Laz(Di2z) Oz Ce20, ThO2 BaO CaO Na2d K20 Ign.
14°16 [17:13] 52°55 2°97 1:23 0°79 815 0°61 0°39 0°21 1°81=100

It was found in a small vein in augite-syenite, on Lille Aré, in the
Langesunds fjord, Norway, a locality which has afforded a large number
of rare minerals of unusual compositien ; cappelenite is not less remark-
able in these respects, and a fuller description will be awaited with in-
terest.

Elpasolite.—This name is given by Cross and Hillebrand to a fluoride
of aluminum and potassium, found sparingly in small cavities in the
massive nee of Colorado (report for 1854). It was observed in

* For Neca see the list of mineral species pilosa

=
698 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

some rather obscure isometric erystals, but generally in a compact ir-
regular mass, nearly colorless and isotropic. An impertect analysis
gave the following results :

F Al Ca Mg K Na

4698 11:32 0°72 0:22 28°94  9:90==98°08

The alkalies were determined approximately only, and hence no at-
tempt is made to calculate a formula, but it is suggested that it may be
regarded as a cryolite, in which two-thirds of the sodium are replaced
by potassium. Further investigation is to be desired. The name is
from the county El Paso, which embraces the greater part of the Pike’s
Peak region.

Endlichite.— Among the specimens from the newly-described locality
of deseloizite, in Lake Valley, New Mexico, was a vandiferous mimetite
to which Dr. Genth has given the name Hndlichite (after Dr. F. M. End-
lich). Like the related isomorphous species, mimetite, vanadinite, and
pyromorphite, it oceurs in hexagonal prismatic crystals. These are mod-
ified by pyramidal planes, both being strongly striated. The crystals are
also sometimes hollow. An analysis was first made (1) of crystals of a
yellowish-white or pale straw-yellow color, the largest 3™™ long and 0:5
to 1-5™™ thick. A second analysis was later made (II) of the same min-
eral, occurring in groups of crystals having a columnar structure. The
color varied from white to yellowish-white, straw yellow, and at the ex-
tremities sometimes changing to deep orange red. The largest groups
were 10™™ in length. The analyses were as follows: The material upon
which the first was made consisted largely of impurity (76.4 per cent.
quartz, &c.).

; As:0s V20; PbO Cl

1st Sse ce ee Set ssh cnastosss pao sSS shes anes 10°73 7°94 79°15 2°18=100
If (sp. grav. =—6.864).-...--..--.--.0----------- 13°52 10°98 73°48 2°45 CaO 0°34, P2O, tr.=100°77

The calculated formula is Pb;Cl (AsO,); + Pb;Cl (VO,);, which re- f

quires: As,O; 11:86, V2.0; 9:60, PbO 68°99, Pb 7.11, C] 2-44=100.
Gerhardtite—A new copper mineral, unique in that it is the only
nitrate thus far known in nature, except the soluble nitrates of sodium,
magnesium, &¢.; it is described by H. L. Wells and 8. L. Penfield.
Only a single specimen has as yet been identified; this was from the
United Verde copper mines, Jerome, Ariz., and consisted of pure mas-
sive cuprite, inclosing in a crack the crystals of gerhardtite and a few
acicular crystals of malachite. The crystals belong to the orthorhombic
svstem;, they are pyramidal in habit, consisting of a zone of nine pyra-
mids in oscillatory combination with the basal plane predominating, and
the prism and a macrodome subordinate. There is a perfee™ basal
cleavage and also a second cleavage parallel the macropinacoid. The
mineral is very soft (hardness=2) and cleavage plates can be readily

bent, then separating in the direction of the second cleavage. The ~

specific gravity is 3-426, The color is dark green and the streak light

4

Oe ee

—-

OS Oe Et EE IE

=e 28
MINERALOGY. 699

green; transparent. The optic axes lie in a plane parallel to the brachy-
pinacoid, and the bisectrix is negative and normal to the basal plane;
the axial angle is large, 80° for green rays, measured in a solution of
mercuric iodide in potassium iodide (n= 1-722). The pleochroism is
distinct. An analysis yielded the following results:

N205 CuO H20
22°76 66°38 11°26 = 100°40

The formula calculated, viz, 4CuO, N.O;, 3H,O, requires N.O; 22-52,
CuO 66-22, H,O 11:56 = 100, agreeing closely with the results.of analy-
sis. The mineral is named after the chemist who first determined the
true composition of the corresponding artificial compound. This arti-
ficial salt, as noted on a previous page, has also been made by Wells
and Penfield and shown to crystallize in the monoclinic system; the form,
however, is rather closely related to that of the orthorhombic gerhard-
tite.

Graphitoid.—This name has been given by Sauer to a substance which
he regards as amorphous carbon. It occurs extensively in the mica
schists and phyllites of the Saxon Erzgebirge. It forms loose incrusta-
tions on the surfaces of the schist, shows no crystalline structure, and

burns with comparative rapidity in a Bunsen burner. An analysis of

the combustible substance gave—carbon, 99:76; hydrogen, 0:-24=100;
showing that it is essentially pure carbon. Besides occurring as an in-
crustation it also impregnates the rock mass, forming fine bands of mi-
nute particles passing in parallel directions through the irregular quartz
grains. The author recognizes the fact that true graphite is also a
common constituent of many archzean rocks, but suggests that with it
the graphitoid may also be present. A related form of amorphous car-
bon was described a few years ago by von Inostranzeff, also from phyl-
lite.

Hanksite.—A new anhydrous sulphato-carbonate of sodium, described
by W. E. Hidden, obtained from San Bernardino County, California,
where it occurs with thenardite, borax, &c. It is named after Mr.
Henry G. Hanks, State mineralogist of California. Hanksite crystallizes
in the hexagonal system, the crystals being short hexagonal prisms
with one or two pyramids and the basal plane; they sometimes form
confused groups of tabular six-sided crystals. Optically it is uniaxial,
negative. The hardness is 3—3:5, and the specific gravity 2-562. The
color is white, inclining to yellow; the crystals nearly transparent,
though sometimes inclosing impurities. An analysis by J. B. Mackin.
tosh gave the results under I, below; another analysis by 8. L. Penfield,
made two years since upon a large crystal from California (exact locality
unknown), is given under IT.

SOs CO, Cl Na20
IO sec See Ae soo sae oeeeee 45°89 5°42 2°36 46°34 — 100°01

BU wast rdtrwe= vecsncaescs 43°59 5°42 2°18 40°86 K 2°83, insol. 4:41, ign. 1°32 =: 100°06
700 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

The chloride of sodium (or potassium) shown in the analyses is prob-
ably present as impurity. Excluding this the composition becomes:
4Na,SO,-+ Na,.CO;, which requires Na,SO, 84-27, NasCC; 15°73 = 100.

Hydrogiobertite (Idrogiobertite).—As the name indicates (from ‘udwp,
water, and giobertite, a synonym of magnesite), this is a new hydrous
carbonate of magnesium ; it is from Vesuvius, and is described by Eu-
genio Scacchi. The mineral was found in the interior of a mass of
augitophyre, in the neighborhood of Pollena. It appears in spherical
forms from 2 to 15 millimeters in diameter. These havea compact tex-

ture and alight gray color. The specific gravity varies from 2:149— -

2-174. Small crystals of magnetite are imbedded in the spheres, both in
the surface and in the mass. Two analyses were made, with the follow-
ing results :

C02 MgO 0

25°16 44°91 29°93—100

25°29 44:28 + 30°43=100

Both analyses have been calculated to 100, after deducting the small
amount of impurity present (magnetite, &c.). They correspond closely
to the formula Mg,CO,-+ 3aq, which requires: CO, 24:72, MgO 44-94,
H,0 30:34=100. The nearest related minerals are hydro-magnesite
(Mg,C;0,.+ 4aq) and the doubtful lancasterite.

Liwenite (or Lovenite).—This new mineral, also announced by W. C.
Broégger, is like cappelenite (above), from an island in the Langesunds
fjord, Norway. It is found in prismatic crystals belonging to the
monoclinic system. The axial ratio deduced is, a:b:¢: =1:0811:1:
0°8133, and the obliquity @ = 71° 244’; the form, consequently, is some-
what related to that of pyroxene. The cleavage is perfect parallel to
the orthopinacoid. The optic axes lie in the plane of symmetry, the
acute bisectrix being inclined forward about 205° to the vertical axis.
The color is chestnut-brown to yellowish, with marked pleocbroism.
The specific gravity is 3°51. An analysis by P. T. Cleve gave:

SiOz ZrO2 Fe203 (2) MnO CaO Na2O ign.
33°71 31°65 5°64 5:06 11°00 11°32 1°08 = 99°41

Itis somewhat related in composition to the hexagonal catapleiite,
but contains less silica.

Pinnoite.—Described by H. Staute as anew magnesium borate. It is
probably to be regarded only as a decomposition product of boracite.
It occurs at Stassfurt intimately associated with white earthy boracite.
It has an even fracture with a glistening surface, and sometimes shows
traces of a fibrous structure ; magnified slightly it appears fine-granular
to compact, with occasional crystalline planes. The color is sulphur-
yellow to straw-yellow, sometimes pistache-green; also at times it has a
grayish or reddish tinge. The hardness is 3 to 4; the specific gravity
2:27. The mean of several analyses by Staute and Stromeyer gave:

BO; MgO HO Fe Cl
[42°50] 24°45 32°85 0-15 0-18

MINERALOGY. 701

Other analyses of different samples gave concordant results, all agree-
ing with the formula MgB,O,+ 3H.O, which requires: B,O3 42:69, MgO
24-39, HO 32-92.

Polyarsenite-Sarkinite.—-These are two minerals described independ-
ently by different authors, from different localities, and yet very closely
related, if not identical. Polyarsenite, named by Igelstrém in allusion
tp its large amount of arsenic, is from the Sjé mines in the Grythyt-
tan parish, Sweden. It has a yellowish-red color, is transparent, but
shows no crystalline form and no cleavage; an optical examination by
Bertrand shows that it is biaxial, with an angle of 83° and a negative
bisectrix; specific gravity 4-085. Itis found in granular form, associated
with a little barite, and also hematostibiite in veins in calcite embedded
in tepbroite. An analysis by Séderbaum is given below.

Sarkinite, named by A. Sjégren from cdpz:vos (bloody, fat), with a
double allusion to its blood-red color and greasy luster, is from the iron-
manganese mines of Pajsberg, Sweden. Its hardness is 4 to 5, and
specific gravity 4:14. Two cleavages were observed, but no crystals
were found, and the system is thus in doubt; optically, however, it is
biaxial. An analysis was made by C. H. Lundstrém, and for the sake
of comparison it is placed beside that of polyarsenite.

A205 Sb:0; P20; MnO FeO CaO MgO H20
Polyarsenite (3) - 39°05 1°20 .... 50°18 tr. 2°88 0°75 3:15 CQ23°51=100°72
Sarkinite.......- 41°60 .... 0°21 51°60 0°13 1°40 0°98 3°06 insol. 0°38, PhO 0°25, CO2 0°76 = 100°37

For the former Cleve calculates 4MnO, As,O; + HO, which requires:
As,O; 43:23, MnO 53:38, H,O 3:39 = 100.

Uintahite-—This name has been given by W. P. Blake to a peculiar
variety of asphaltum which occurs in considerable quantities in the
Uintah Mountains. It is obtained in masses several inches in diameter ;
it breaks with a conchoidal fracture, is brittle and easily reduced to
powder in a mortar. The hardness is 2 to 2:5, and the specific gravity
1:065 to 1:070. The color is black and the surface brilliant and lustrous.
It fuses easily in the flame of a candle and burns with a brilliant flame,
resembling sealing-wax, and like this it gives a clean, sharp impression
with a seal. It gives off upon distillation a small quantity of a clear
white dense oil and a little vapor. It is soluble in heavy lubricating
petroleum, while the lighter products of the petroleum do not affect it.
It is soluble also in warm oil of turpentine, but not in ordinary alcohol,
and in ether only when powdered. In melted wax it dissolves, forming
on cooling a hard black mixture resembling “burnt wax.” It is sug-
gested that it may prove to be useful in various ways in the arts. A
more complete chemical examination is needed to establish its true
character.
Oe SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Brief references to papers upon mineral species: 1885.

ALABANDIT’. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 32.
ALASKAITE. Ouray County, Colo., analysis, G. A. Koenig, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad.
ONES Ll.
ALBITS. Finland, containing P, O;, G. Lindstrém, Geol. For. Forh., vu, 681.
ALLAKTITE. Full description, Hj. Sjogren, Zs. Kr., x, 114.
Optical examination, Krenner, Zs. Kr., x, 83.
ALLANITE. An accessory constituent of Hoe rocks, J. P. Iddings and W. Cross, Am.
din SOayaerers, Usk
Nelson County, Va., analysis, Memminger, Am. Ch. J., VII, 1i7; analysis of de-
composition product (Kaolinite), Valentine, ib., 178.
Var. orthite, crystals from Thuringia, Luedecke, ‘Ze. NGO. evn
AMPHIBOLE. Crystals described from Riveau Grand (Mont Doré), Oebbeke, Bull.
Soe. Min., vii, 46.
Saint Lawrence County, N. Y., crystals with (170) (150), G. H. Williams, Jahrb.
Min., 1885, 11, 175.
Twin crystals in rocks, Fr. Beeke, Min. petr. Mitth., vu, 98.
Analysis of a fibrous bisilicate from Nelson County, Va., Patterson, Am. Ch. J.,
vil, 180.
Enlargement of fragments in rocks, C. R. Van Hise, Am. J. Sc., xxx, 231.
Fusion experiments, Becker, Zs. geol. Ges., xxxvul, 10.
ANATASE. See OCTAHEDRITE.
ANALCITE. Composite crystals from Lake Superior Copper Region, 8. L. Penfield,
Am. J. SG: Xxex, 112:
From Stempel near Marburg, optical examination, Stadtlinder, Jahrb. Min., 18°5,
11, 97.
Study of anomalous deuble refraction, A. Ben-Saude, Comm. Soce. Trab. Geol.,
Portugal, 1, 15. Pseudomorph after leucite, Sauer, Zs. geol. Ges., XXXVII,
453.
ANHYDRITE. Crystals from Stassfurt, H. Vater, Zs. Kr., x, 390.
ANTIMONY. Occurrence native in York County, New Brunswick, G. F. Kunz, Am. J.
Sc., XXX, 275.
ANKERITE. Antwerp, N. Y., analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., October 2
ANNABERGITE. Silver Cliff, Colorado, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2.
Apatite. Altered to kallaite (turquois), G. E. Moore and V. von Zepharovich, Zs.
Kore ox, 240:
Zwiesel, Bavaria, variety containing 3 p. e. MnO, Sandberger, Jahrb. Min., 1885,
Felis
APOPHYLLITE. Etching figures, Rinne, Jahrb. Min., 1885, 11, 19.

Chester County, Pa., analysis, Knerr and Schenfeld, Am. Ch. J., vi, 413. -
ARFVEDSONITE. Relation to crocidolite discussed, Kenngott, Jahrb. Min., 1885, 1, 163.
ARGENTOBISMUTITE. Lake City, Colorado, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad.,

Oct. 2.
ARSENOPYRITE. Alabama, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2

Dauphiny, analysis, Groth, Ber. Ak. Miinchen, Nov. 7, p. 383.

AURICHALCITE. Laurium, Greece, analysis, Jannettaz, Buli. Soc. Min., vuir, 43.

Occurrence in Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad. Sce., p. 278, Oct. 5
AVALITE. New silicate of aluminum and chromium, Losanitsch, Jahrb. Min., 1885, 01,

409 ref. (Ber. deutsch. chem. Ges., Xvi, 1774.)
AXINITE. Occurrence in Dauphiny, Boa Ee Ak. Miinchen, Novy. 7, p. 389.
AZURITE. Clifton, Arizona, crystals described, O. W. Huntington, Proc. Amer. Acad.
Se., June 10, 1885. Occurrence in Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad. Se., Oct.

5, p. 276.

raheem

FD ee ae en ee ee eT eA

—

ee

ee

x

7)
if
"

MINERALOGY. T03

Banritre. Crystals from Romanéche, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., vin, 59.
Mittelagger, cryst. description, C. Busz, Zs. Kv., x, 32.
BARYTOCALCITE. Relation in form to calcite, &c., Mallard, Bull. Soe. Min., vim, 44.
BEEGERITE. Lake City, Colo., analysis, G. A. Keenig, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., xxu,
212.
Treasury Vault mine, Summit County, Colorado, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soe.
Philad., Oct. 2.
Beryxt. Amelia County, Va., analysis, Baker, Am. Ch. J. vil, 17.

Urals, crystals with vicinal planes, &c., F. J. Wiik, Finsk. Vet. Soc., XVII.
BISMUTITE. Found at Middletown, Conn., W. N. Rice, Ain. J. Se., XXrx, 263.
BoRACITE. Crystalline system considered, Baumhauer, Zs. Ky., x, 451.
BoRNITE. From Chloride, New Mexico, microscopically examined, Baumliauer, Zs.

Kary ex, 447:

Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 36.
BoURNONITE. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 38.
BOWLINGITE. Partial microscopic examination, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., vu, 97.
BRAvUNITE. Jacobsberg, Sweden, analysis, Igelstr6m, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 421.
BrocHantTiTx. Artificial, analyzed, Atanasesco, Bull. Soc. Chim., xiv, 14.
BruciTe. Artificially produced, A. de Schulten, C. R., cr, 72.

From the Ural, analysis by Rosenblad, Loésch, Geol. For. Férh., vit, 733.

Pennsylvania, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc., Phila., Oct. 2.

BUTYRELLITE. Chemical composition examined, Macadam, Min. Mag., v1, 175.

CALAMINE. Pulaski Co., Va., analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Phila., Oct. 2.
CaLciTE. Description of crystals from Andreasberg, Sansoni, Zs. Kr., x, 545.
Lilaec-colored twin-erystals, Solly, Min. Mag., vi, 120.
Crystals from the Arlberg tunnel, H. v. Foullon, Jahrb. geol. Reichs., xxxv,
91; from Leoben, &c. Verh. geol. Reichs., No. 5, p. 149.
Double refraction discussed and measured, A. Schrauf, Zs. Icr., xt, 5d.
Var. manganocalcite, analysis, from Wester Silfberg, Sweden, Weibull, Min. petr.
Mitth., vu, 110.
Fusibility of calcium carbonate, A. Becker, Min. petr. Mitth., viz, 122; A. Wich-
mann, ibid. 256.
CAPPELENITE. New mineral from Langesundsfjord, Norway, Brégger, Geol. For.
Forh., vit, 599.
CASSITERITE. Complex group of crystals, Cesaro, Bull. Soc. Min., vu, 107.
Occurrence in granite, M. von Miklucho-Maclay, Jahrb. Min., 1885, 1, 88.
CERUSSITE. Crystals, Pelsécz-Ard6, Hungary, Schmidt, Zs. Kr., x, 204.
Occurrence in Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad. Sc., p. 278, Oct. 5.
CHABAZITE. Var. phacolite, loss of water over CaCl, and H.SO,, Bodewig, Zs. Kr.,
x 210:
CHALCOCITE. Formation artificiaily, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 34.
CHaALcoPyRitE. Analysis of a related mineral from Sunnerskog, G. Lindstrém, Geol.
For. Férh., vu, 678.
Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs, Kr., x1, 35.
CHONDROARSENITE. Optical examination, Bertrand, Bull. Soe. Min., vit, 374.
CHRYSOBERYL. Found at Stoneham and elsewhere in Maine, N. H. Perry, Am. J.
Se., XXIx, 263.
CHRYSOCOLLA. Occurrence in Arizona, G. I. Kunz, N.Y. Acad. Se., Oct. 5, p. 276.
CHRYSOLITE. ‘Twin crystals in rocks, Kalkowsky, Zs. Kr., x, 17.
Nodules in basalt, Becker, Zs. Geol. Ges., Xxxvu, 10.
CINNABAR. J ormation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 33.
CopaLritE. Crystallographic and thermoelectric characters, Curie, Bull. Soc. Min.,
“Vit, 127.
TOA SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

CoLEMANITE. Crystallographic description, A. W. Jackson, Bull. Cal. Acad. Sc., No.

2; Hiortdahl, Zs. Kr., x, 25; also Arzruni, ib., p. 272.
Description, erystallographic, vom Rath, and chemical, Bodewig, Zs. Kr., x, 179.
Essentially identical in composition with priceite and pandermite, Kenngott,

Jahrb. Min., 1885, I, 241.

COLOMBITE. Crystal from Craveggia, Italy, Zs. Kr., x,85; Rend. Acc. Linc., IV, 1, 8.

CONNELLITE. Recently found in Cornwall, Semmons, Min. Mag., v1, 160; Miers, ib.,
167; Trechmann, ib., 171.

CoruNDoPHILITE. Analysis of related mineral from Albemarle County, Va., M.
Bird, Am. Ch, J., vu1, 181.

CoRUNDUM. Optical behavior and micro-structure, A. von Lasaulx, Zs. Kr., x, 346;
asteriated variety, Baret, Bull. Soc. Min., vil, 438.

COSALITE. Ouray County, Colo., analysis, G. A. Koenig, Am. Phil. Soc. Phila., xxu,
211; F. A. Genth, ib., Oct. 2.

COVELLITE. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 34.

CROCYDOLITE. Composition discussed, relation to arfvedsonite, Kenngott, Jahrb.
Min., 1885, m1, 163.

CRYOLITE. Etching experiments, Baumhauer, Zs. Kr., x1, 133.

CUPRITE. Found near Philadelphia, H. C. Lewis, Proc. Acad. Nat. Se. Philad., 1203
occurrence in Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad. Sce., p. 279, Oct. 5.

DAMOURITE. Stoneham, Me., analysis, F. W. Clarke, Am. J. Sc., xxrx, 379.
DaTOLITE. Casarza, Liguria, crystals described, Liidecke, Zs. gesammt. Nat., LVII1.
Crystals from the Hirschkopf near Manebach, Liidecke, Zs. Kr., x, 196.
Analysis, Molinari, Bull. Com. Geol. d’Italia, v1, 189.
Variety botryolite, optical properties, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., vu, 433.
DELVAUXITE. Pseudomorph after gypsum, Visé, Belgium, G. Cesaro, Ann. Soc.
Geol. Belg., xm, 192.
DEscLoiziTE. New Mexico, cryst. and chem. examination, EF. A. Genth and G. vom
Rath, Zs. Kr., x, 464: Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., April 17.
DESTINEZITE. Analysis, and shown to be homeomorphous with gypsum, G. Cesaro,
Ann. Soe. Geol. Belg., xm, 173.
DiamMonpD. Brazil, minerals of diamond washings, O. A. Derby, Am. J. Se., xxix, 70.
Occurrence in South Africa described in detail, A. Moulle, Ann. Min., VIII, vu,
193.
Composite crystals from South Africa, Jannettaz, Bull. Soc. Min., vin, 42.
Observations on hardness of ‘‘ bort,” G. F. Kunz, Am. J. Se., Xxx, 81.
DIADELPHITE. Full description, Hj. Sjogren, Zs. Kr., x, 130.
DIOPSIDE. See PYROXENE.
DREELITE. Relation to barite, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., vu, 435.

ENARGITE. From Butte, Montana, Semmons, Min. Mag., v1, 49, 124.
ENDLICHITE. An arsenio-vanadate of lead, New Mexico, F. A. Genth and G. vom
Rath, Zs. Kr., x, 462; Am. Phil. Soc., Phil., April 17.
ENSTATITE. Twin crystals (bronzite) in rocks, Fr. Becke, Min. petr. Mitth., vu, 93.
EPIDOTE. Rowe, Mass., analysis, A.G. Dana, Am. J. Sc., XXIx, 455.
Pargas, Finland, analysis, F. J. Wiik, Finsk. Vet. Soc., XXvII; occurrence in
Dauphiny, Groth, Ber. Ak. Miinchen, Nov. 7, p. 389.
ERYTHRITE. Found near Philadelphia, H. C. Lewis, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad.,
1885, p. 120; occurrence in Nevada and California, W. P. Blake, Am. J. Sc., XXx,

163.

FAIRFIELDITE. Found at Rabenstein, Bavaria (Leucomanganite), Sandberger, Jahrb.
Min., 1885, 1, 185.

FaYALiTH. Crystals described from the Yellowstene Park, also analysis, J. P. Id- —

dings and S. L. Penfield, Am. J. Se., xxx, 58. ‘
Probable occurrence in Colorado, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Se., Xxrx, 250.

i
i
4

a_i
MINERALOGY. 705

FICHTELITE. In crystals in a peat bed at Salzendeich, M. Schuster, Min. petr. Mitth.
Vil, &8.
FLUORITE. Variation of refractive indices with heat, Dufet, Bull. Soe. Min., vit, 257.
Experiments on Elasticity, Voigt, Jahrb. Min., Beil.-Bd., 1v, 236.
On Vesuvian lava, E. Scacchi, Rend. Ace. Sc. Napoli, December.
FRANKLINITE. Etching figures, I’. Becke, Min. petr. Mitth., vir, 224.

GAHNITE. J'rom Rowe, Mass., analysis. A. G. Dana, Am. J. Se., Xxx, 455.

GALENITE. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 33, 41.

GALENOBISMUTITE. Containing selenium, from Sweden, Weibull, Geol. For. Férh.,
vil, 659; F. A. Genth, Am. Phil. Soc., Philad., Oct. 2.

GARNET. Various results of alteration, Cathrein, Zs. Kr., x, 433.

GEARKSUTITE. Ivigtut, Greenland, analysis (Lindstrém), Nordenskiéld, Geol. For.
Forh., vu, 684.

GENTHITE. Found near Philadelphia, H. C. Lewis, Proc. Acad. Nat. Se. Philad., p. 120.

GERHARDTITE. New basic cupric nitrate, from Arizona, H. L. Wells and S. L. Pen-
field, Am: J. Sc., xxx, 50.

GLAUCONITE. Chester County, Pennsylvania, analysis, Knerr and Scheenfeld, Am.
Chi J-.pvaerAle.

GOTHITE. Vicinal planes on crystals, from Cornwall, Palla, Zs. Kr., x1, 23.

From Chizeuil and Romanéche, Lacroix, Bull. Soe. Min., vim, 41.

GRAPHITOID. Amorphous carbon from the schists of the Erzgebirge, Sauer, Zs. geol.
Ges., XXXvil, 441.

GypsuM. Crystallographic note, Cesaro, Bull. Soc. Min., vr, 317.

HaxiteE. Experiments on elasticity, Voigt, Jahrb. Min., Beil.—Bd., rv, 232.
HanKsITE. New sulphato-carbonate of sodium from California, W. E. Hidden, Am.
JesC., Sx Loa N. VAGad. SC:,. IE) 235;
Crystal described and analyzed, E. S. Dana and §. L. Penfield, Am. J. Sc.,
xxx, 136.
HARMOTOME. Scotland, twin crystals, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., vi, 94.
Twin crystals from Andreasberg, Kloos, Jahrb. Min., 1885, 11, 212.
HARRINGTONITE. Not a homogeneous mineral, but consisting of a gelatinous paste
inclosing crystals and fragments of several species, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min.,
viii, 96.
HAUERITE. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 32.
Hemarisrite. Full description, Hj. Sjégren, Zs. Kr., x, 126.
HEMATOSTIBUTE. New mineral from Sweden, Igelstrém, Bull. Soc. Min., vu, 143.
Hematite. Artificial crystals, H. Vater, Zs. Kr., x, 391.
Earthy variety artificially produced, Meunier, C. R., cr, 889.
HERDERITE. Composition discussed, Des Cloizeaux and Jamour, Bull. Soe. Min.,
vin, 3. ;
HEULANDITE. Lancaster County, Pa., analysis, Knerr and Schoenfeld, Am. Ch. J.,
vi, 413.
HISINGERITE (Manganhisingerite). From Wester Silfberg, Sweden, analysis, Wei-
bull, Min., petr. Mitth., vu, 113.
HORNBLENDE. See AMPHIBOLE.
HULLITE. Examined microscopically, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., virt, 432.
HyYDROCERUSSITE. Occurrence in Scotland, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., vin, 35.
HYDROGIOBERTITE. New hydrated carbonate of magnesium, E. Scacchi, Rend. Acc.
Se. Napoli, December.
HYPERSTHENE. Crystals of rhombic pyroxene from Mdlnds, Transylvania, Schmidt,
Zs Kr, x, 210:

Ick. Elasticity measured, K. R. Koch, Wied. Ann., xxv, 438.

IDROGIOBERTITE. See HYDROGIOBERTITE.
H. Mis. 15 45

TO6 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

IGELSTROMITE (Eisenknebelite). From Wester Silfberg. Sweden, analysis, Weibull,
Min. petr. Mitth, vi, 112.
IoDYRITE. Crystals from New Mexico, F. A. Genth and G. vom Rath, Zs. Kr., x,
473; Am. Phil. Soc., Philad., April 17.
Dimorphism of silver iodide, Mallard and Chatelier, J. Phys., II, rv, 305.
Jouire. Occurrence as a constituent of rocks, Hussak, Jahrb. Min., 1885, 11, 81.

JAMESONITE. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 40.
Josreitr. Brazil, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc., Philad., Oct. 2.

KIRWANITE. Examined microscopically, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., vii, 428.
KNEBELITE. Dannemora, Sweden, analysis, etc., Weibull, Oefv. Ak. Stockh, x_n,
No. 2,3. See also IGELSTROMITE.
KOBELLITE. Analysis of variety from Colorado containing no antimony and 5 to
6 per cent. silver, H. F. and H. A. Kellar, Journ. Am. Chem. Soc., vu, 194. ,
LAVENITE. NeW mineral from Langesundsfjord, Norway, Brégger, Geol. For. Forh.,
Vil, 598.
‘Leap. Artificial crystallized silicate, E. S. Dana and S. L. Penfield, Am. J. Se.,
xxx, 38.
Levucire. Effect of heat upon position of twinning lamellz, Rosenbusch, Jahrb.
Min., 1885, 11, 59. See also KLEIN, ibid., p. 234.
Altered to orthoelase Vesuvius, E. Scacchi, Rend. Acc. Sc. Napoli, December.
Pseudomorphs in the leucitophyr of the Erzgebirge, Sauer, Zs. geol. Ges., XXXVI,
448.
Pseudomorphs (?) from Magnet Cove, Ark., G. F. Kunz, Amer. Assoc. Adv. Se. 1885.
LINARITE. Comparison of measurements by himself and by V. Jeremejew, von Koks-
charow, Min. Russland, 1x, 268.
LINNZITE. Etching figures, F. Becke, Min. petr. Mitth., vir, 225.

MAGNETITE. Etching figures, F. Becke, Min. petr. Mitth., vir, 200.
Containing traces of vanadium, E. Claassen, Am. J. Se., xx1x, 349; Am. Ch. J.,
vil, 349.

‘From Sweden, containing manganese, M. Weibull, Min. petr. Mitth., vis, 109.
MALACHITE. Occurrence in Arizona, G. F. Kunz, N. Y. Acad. Se., Oct. 5, p. 275.
Marcasite. Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 31.

MarTITE. Occurrence near Rittersgriin, Saxony, Schaleh, Jahrb. Min., Beil.-Bd.,
Iv, 189.

MELLITE. Specific heat, Bartoli and Stracciati, Bull. Com. Geol. d’Italia, v1.

MENACCANITE. Analysis of titanic iron sand from Brazil, J. B. Mackintosh, Am.
J. Sc., Xxx, 342.
Carter’s Mine, N. C., analysis, Keller, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad.,Oct. 2.
Lancaster County, Pa., analysis, Knerr and Brunner, Am. Ch. J., vi, 413.
Mercury. Found native in Louisiana, E. Wilkinson, Am. J. Se., XX1x, 280.
METACINNABARITE. From California in tetrahedral crystals like sphalerite, also anal-
ysis, S. L. Penfield, Am. J. Sc., xxrx, 452.

MIARGYRITEs Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 39.

Mica. Varieties from Branchville, Conn., analyzed, Rammelsberg, Jahrb. Min., 1885,
I, 220:

MICROLITE. Transparent crystal from Virginia, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Se. xxx, 82.

Optically isotrope, Hintze, Zs. Kr., x, 86.

MILaRITE. Optical examination, Rinne, Jahrb. Min., 1885, n, 1.
MOoNAZITE. Crystals from Cornwali examined, Miers, Min. Mag., v1, 64.

Found at Middletown, Conn., W. N. Rice, Am. J. Sc., Xx1x, 263.

Sands from Brazil, Gorceix, Bull. Soc. Min., v1, 32.

MuscoviTe. Wakefield, Canada, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc., Philad., Oct. 2.

MINERALOGY. TOT

NATROLITE. From Stempel, near Marburg, crystallographic examination, Stadtlinder,
Jahrb. Min., 1885, 11, 113.

NEPAULITE. India, shown to be tetrahedrite, F. R. Mallet, Records Geol, Sury. India,
XVII, 235.

NEPHELITE. Results of accurate measurements, v. Kokscharow, Min. Russlands, rx,
247.

NEPHRITE. Jordansmiihl, Silesia, occurrence and composition, Traube, Jahrb. Min.
Beil.-Bd., 111, 412; ib., 1885, 11, 91; see also Kenngott, ib., 1, 239.
Tasmania, analysis, Bodewig, Zs. Kr., x, 86.

NOCERINE. Chemical investigation, E. Fischer, Zs. Kr., x, 270.

OCTAHEDRITE, Binnenthal, Switzerland, crystal examined, Cesaro, Bull. Soc. Min.,
vill, 396.
Crystal from near Oberhof, Thuringia, Luedecke, Zs. Kr., x, 200.
Occurrence in Dauphiny, Groth, Ber. Ak. Miinchen, Nov. 7, p. 396.
OLIGOCLASE. Optical examination, Des Cloizeaux and Pisani, Bull. Soc. Min.,
VIII, 6.
OLIVINE. See CHRYSOLITE.
ORTHITE. See ALLANITE. .
OrTHOCLASE. Var. Adular, crystals with new planes, Cathrein, Zs. Kr., x1, 113.
Composite crystal, Zs. Kr., x, 489.
Var. Sanidine, comparison of measurements by himself and by Striiver, v. Koks-
charow, Min. Russlands, 1x, 252.
Crystals in druses in basalt, Zepharovich, Zs. Kr., x, 601; Ber. Ak. Wien, xct, 158.
Twin crystals from Four-la-Brouque, Puy de Déme, Gonnard, Bull. Soc. Min., vu,
307.
Chester County, Pennsylvania, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2.
Pseudomorph after leucite, Vesuvius, Scacchi Rend. Acc. Sc. Napoli, December;
from the Erzgebirge, Zs. Geol. Ges., XXXVII, 456.

PARISITE. Note on a large crystal, G. de Grandmaison, Min. Mag., v1, 123.
PrCTOLITE. Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, analysis, Knerr and E. F. Smith, Am.
Ch. J., vi, 411.
PEROFSKITE. From the Wiesenthal, Erzgebirge, Sauer, Zs. geol. Ges., XXXVII, 445.
PHENACITE. Crystals from El Paso County, Colorado, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Sc.,
Xxx, 249:
PREHNITE. Occurrence in the Erzgebirge, Schalch, Jahrb. Min., Beil.-Bd., Iv, 179.
PHILLIPSITE. From Stempel, near Marburg, crystallographic description, Stadtlinder,
Jahrb. Min., 1885, 11, 122.
PHLOGOPITE. Templeton, Canada, inclusions studied, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., vu, 99.
PInNOITE. New borate from Stassfurt, Stante, Ber. d. chem. Ges., XVII, 1584, 1884.
PLUMBOCALCITE. Examination of crystals from Scotland, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min.,
. VIII, 35.
POLYARSENITE. New arseniate of manganese from Sweden, Igelstrém, Bull. Soc.
Min., vill, 369; the same examined optically, Bertrand, ib., p. 374.
POLYBASITE. Terrible Lode, Clear Creek County, Colorado, analysis, Genth, Am.
Phil. Soc., Philad., Oct. 2.
PRICEITE. See COLEMANITE.
PROUSTITE. Cryst. monograph, Rethwisch, Jahrb. Min., Beil.-Bd., Iv, 31.
PYRARGYRITE. Cryst. monograph, Rethwisch, Jahrb. Min., Beil.-Bd., Iv., 31.
Pyrite. Crystallographic and thermo-electric characters, Curie, Bull. Soc. Min.,
vin, 127.
Crystals from Dauphiny, Groth, Ber. Ak. Miinchen Novy. 7, p. 378.
Formation artificially, Doelter, Zs. Kr., x1, 30.
708 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

PYROXENE. Var. diopside, Nordmark, Sweden, erystallographie and optical exam-

ination, Flink, Oefv. Ak. Stockh., xxi1, No. 2, 29.

Crystal of diopside from Zermatt, Streng, Jahrb. Min., 1885, 1, 238.

Twin crystals in rocks, Fr. Becke, Min. petr. Mitth., vu, 98. :

Relation between optical characters and chemical composition, Doelter, Jahrb.
Min., 1885, 1, 43.

Minute crystals in tachylyte, Kroustchoff, Bull. Soc. Min., vit, 85.

Augites from the Kaiserstuhlgebirge, analyses, A. Knop, Zs. Kr., x, 58.

Var. diallage in gabbro, analyses, ete., Svedmark, Geol. Fér. Férh., vi, 811.

Fusion experiments, Becker, Zs. Geol. Ges., xxxvit, 10.

QUARTZ. Remarkable crystals from North Carolina, G. vom Rath, Zs. Kr., x, 156, 475.
Composite crystals from Albermarle County, Va., W. G. Brown, Am. J. Se., xxx,
191; O. W. Huntington, Proc. Amer. Acad. Se., June 10, 1885.
Effect of pressure on rotatory power, Jannettaz, Bull. Soc. Min., vi, 168.
Variation of refractive indices with heat, Dufet, ib., 171.

RHODONITE (Eisenrhodonite) from Wester Silfberg, Sweden, analysis, Weibull. Min.
petr. Mitth., vu, 117.
Crystals described from Pajsberg and Langban, Sweden, G. Flink, Oefv. Ak,
Stockholm, xxi, 6, 159, June 10.
RIPIDOLITE. Var clinochlore, Mussa Alp, composition, Jannasch, Jahrb. Min., 1, 92.
RutiLe. Binnenthal, crystallographic examination, Rinne, Jahrb. Min., 1885, 11, 20.
Occurrence in granite, M. von Miklucho-Maclay, Jahrb. Min., 1885, 1, 88.

SAFFLORITE. Analysis, and relation to smaltite, L. W. McCay, Am. J. Se., Xx1x,
369, 496.

SARKINITE. New manganese arseniate from Pajsberg, A. Sjégren, Geol. For. Forh.,
Vil. 724.

ScaPoLiTeE. Composition of group discussed, Rammelsberg, Ber. Ak. Berlin, Xxx,
589.

SCOLEZITE. Pyroelectricity described, C. Friedel and A. de Gramont, Bull. Soc. Min.,
VIII, 75.

SERPENTINE. Var. chrysotile, Shipton, Canada, analysis, E. G. Smith, Am. J. Sc.,
XxIx, 32; do. Terreil, Bull. Soc. Chim., xx111, 217.

Penn., Keller, Am. Phil. Soc., Philad., Oct. 2.

SILFBERGITE. From Wester Silfberg, Sweden, analysis, Weibull, Min. petr. Mitth.,
vil, 115.

SitveR. Found native in New Jersey, N. H. Darton, Am. J. Sc., xxx, 80.

SPINEL. Etching figures, F. Becke, Min. petr. Mitth., vir, 224.

SPoDIOSITE. Relation to wagnerite, A. Sjogren. Geol. For. Forh., vir, 666.

SPODUMENE. Black Hills, Dakota, occurrence of large crystals, W. P. Blake, Am.
Ji. Ses, xr 71

STAUROLITE. Analysis, discussion of composition, W. Friedl, Zs. Kr., x, 366.

STEPHANITE. Description of a crystal from Mexico, G. vom Rath, Zs. Kr., x, 173.

STILBITE. Berks County, Pennsylvania, analysis, Davidson; do,, Hoskinson and
Brunner, Am. Ch. J., vi, 414.

STILPNOMELANE. Antwerp, New York, analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2.

STRONTIANITE. Strontian, Argyllshire, Scotland, analysis, Macadam, Min. Mag., v1,
173.

STRENGITE. Artificially produced, A. de Schulten, C. R., June 15.

STRUVITE. Crystals from Homburg, Kalkowsky, Zs. Kr., x1, 1.

SVANBERGITE. Occurrence at Horrsjéberg, Sweden, Igelstrém, Bull. Soc. Min., v1,
424,

SYNADELPHITE. Full description, Hj. Sjégren, Zs. Kr., x, 143.

MINERALOGY. 709

TETRADYMITE. Composition discussed, F. A. Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2.
TETRAHEDRITE. Crystals from Colorado, Liweh, Zs. Kr., x, 488.
Lake City, Colo., analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2.
TIEMANNITE. From Utah, in tetrahedral crystals (like sphalerite), also analysis, 8. L.
Penfield, Am. J. Sc., xx1x, 449.
TIN, NATIVE. From New South Wales, with platinum, ete., F. A. Genth, Am. Phil.
Soc. Philad., Oct. 2.
TITANITE. From Lewis County, New York, apparent cleavage due to twinning, G.
H. Williams, Am. J. Se., xxrx, 486.
Occurrence (and analysis) with other minerals in the District of Columbia, G. P.
Merrill, Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 351, 1885.
Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, analysis, Knerr and E. F. Smith, Am. Ch. J., v1,
412.
Statesville, N. C., analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2.
Topaz. Crystal from Alabaschka in the Ural, Griinhut, Zs. Kr., x, 263.
Discussion of paper by Griinhut (Zs. Kv., rx, 113), with additional lists of angles,
v. Kokscharow, Min. Russlands, rx, 97.
Urals, crystals with vicinal planes, etc., F. J. Wiik, Oefv. Fiusk. Vet. Soc., xxv.
Pyro-electricity, Friedel and Curie, Bull. Soc. Min., vim, 16.
Stoneham, Me., examination, also of alteration products, F. W. Clarke and J. S.
Diller, Am. J. Se., xx1x, 378; analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc. Philad., Oct. 2.
TOURMALINE. Investigation of Pyro-electricity, Riecke, Nachr. k. Ges. Wiss. Gottin-
gen, Dec. 30, p. 405.
TRIDYMITE. Crystals from Krakatau, G. vom Rath, Zs. Kr., x, 174.
TURQUOIS. General description, von Kokscharow, Min. Russlands, rx, 83.
Pseudomorph after apatite, G. EX. Moore and V. von Zepharovich, Zs. Kr., x, 240.

UINTAHITE. A variety of asphaltum from the Uintah Mountains, Utah, W. P. Blake,
Eng. & Mining J., Dec. 26.
URANINITE. Found in Black Hills, Dakota, L. W. Stillwell, Am. J.Se., xxx, 82.

VANADINITE. Crystalsfrom New Mexico, analyzed and described, F. A. Genth and G.
vom Rath, Zs. Kr., x, 460; Am. Phil. Soc. Phila., April 17.
Wanlockhead, Scotland, Analysis, Genth, Am. Phil. Soc., Phila., Oct. 2.
VESUVIANITE. Discussion of measurements by himself, Zepharovich, and others, with
lists of calculated angles, N. Kokscharow, Miss Russlands, 1x, 150,

Wab. From Wester Silfberg, Sweden, analysis, Weibull, Min. petr. Mitth., vi.

XENOTIME. Crystals from El] Paso County, Colorado, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Sc., xxX1x,
249,

ZEOLITES. Discussion of the optical properties, pyrognostics, &c., of the various
species of the group with a view to developing the methods of distinguishing
between.them, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Minn., vim, 321.

Zircon. Crystal with $P from Burgess, Canada, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Se, Xxx, 250.

Chemical examination, Linnemann, Ch. News, Lr, 220, 233, 240.

EXPLANATIONS OF ABBREVIATIONS EMPLOYED.

Am. Ch. J.—American Chemical Journal, Baltimore.

Ann. Ch. Phys.—Annales de Chimie et de Physique, Paris.

Am. J. Sc.—American Journal of Science, New Haven.

Ann. Min.—Annales des Mines, Paris.

Am. Phil. Soc. Philad.—American Philosophical Society of Philadelphia. Proceedings.

Ber, Ak. Berlin.—Sitzungsberichte der kais. preuss. Akademie der Wissenschaften,
Berlin.
710 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Ber. Ak. Miinchen.—Sitzungsberichte der kais. bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaf-
ten, Munich.

Ber. Ak. Wien.—Sitzungsberichte der kais. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Vienna.

Ber. d. chem. Ges.—Berichte der deutschen chemischen Gesellschaft, Berlin.

Boll. Com. Geol.—Bolletino Comitato Geologico @ Italia, Rome.

Bull. Cal. Acad. Sc.—Bulletin of the California Academy of Science.

Bull. Soc. Ch.—Bulletin de la Société chimique, Paris.

Bull. Soc. Min.—Bulletin de la Société minéralogique de France, Paris.

Ch. News.—Chemical News, London.

C. R.—Comptes Rendus de l’Acadéwmie des Sciences, Paris.

Eng. Min. J.—Engineering and Mining Journal, New York.

Geol. Fér. Firh.—Geologiska Forening i Stockholm Foérhandlingar.

Jahrb. geol. Reichs. —Jahrbuch des k. k. geologischen Reichsanstalt, Vienna.

Jahrb. Min.—Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, etc.

Journ. Am. Ch. Soc.—Journal of the American Chemical Society, New York.

J. Phys.—Journal de Physique, Paris.

Min. Mag.—Mineralogical Magazine and Journal of the Mineralogical Society of
Great Britain.

Min. petr. Miith.—Mineralogische und petrographische Mittheilungen gesammelt von
G. Tschermak, Vienna.

N. Y. Acad. Sci.—New York Academy of Sciences.

Oefv. Ak. Stockh.—Oetversigt af k. Vet. Akad. Férhandlingar, Stockholm.

Wied. Ann.—Annalen der Physik und der Chemie, Wiedemann, Leipzig.

Zs. geol. Ges.— Zeitschrift der deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft, Berlin.

Zs. gesammt. Wiss.—Zeitschrift fiir die gesammten Wissenschaften, Halle.

Zs. Kr.—Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie, etc.

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MINERALOGY—1885.
I.—Mineralogical Works.

BrREZINA, A. Die Meteoritensammlung des k. k. mineralogischen Hofkabinetes in
Wien am 1. Mai 1885. pp. 151-276, with 3 plates (Jahrb. geol. Reichsanstalt, vol.
XXXV).

GrotH, Paut. Physikalische Krystallographie und Einleitung in die krystallo-
eraphische Kenntniss der wichtigeren Substanzen. 2te Auflage. 710 pp. 8vo.
Leipzig, 1885.

Hanks, H. G. Fifth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 235 pp.,
Svo. Sacramento.

Hate. Die Minerale des Herzogthums Steiermark, Graz.

HavusHOFER, K. Mikroskopische Reactionen. Eine Anleitung zur Erkennung ver-
schiedener Elemente und Verbindungen unter dem Mikroskop als Supplement zu
den Methoden der qualitativen Analyse. Braunschweig.

HiIRSCHWALD, J. Das mineralogische Museum der kg]. technischen Hochschule Ber-
lin. 243 pp. 8vo. Berlin.

Hussak-SMiITH. The Determination of Rock-forming Minerals, by E. Hussak; trans-
lated by E.G. Smith. 233 pp. 8vo. New York.

KoxscHarow, N. von. Mineralogie Russlands. Vol. 1x, pp. 81-272.

NAUMANN-ZIRKEL. Elemente der Mineralogie begriindet von Carl Friedrich Nau-
mann. Zwélfte vollstiindig neu bearbeitete uml erginzte Auflage von Ferdinand
Zirkel. 782 pp. 8vo. Leipzig.

MINERALOGY. ORL

RoseNbBuscuH, H. Mikroskopische Physiographie der Mineralien und Gesteine. Ein
Hiilfsbuch bei mikroskopischen Gesteinsstudien. I. Band. Die petrographisch
wichtigen Mineralien. Zweite giinzlich umgearbeitete Auflage. Stuttgart.

TSCHERMAK, G. Lehrbuch der Mineralogie. 2te Auflage. 597 pp. 8vo. Vienna,

1885.

II.—Memoirs of a general character, chiefly physical.

Becker, F. Aetzversuche an Mineralien der Magnetitgruppe. Min. petr. Mitth., vi,
200.
BECKENKAMP, H. Zur Bestimmug der Elasticitiitsconstanten von Krystallen. Zs.
Ky, X, 41.
Brecker, A. Ueber die Schmelzbarheit des kohlensauren Kalkes. Min. petr. Mitth.,
Vil, 122, 256.
BERTRAND, E. Nouvelles dispositions du microscope permettant de mesurer l’écarte-
ment des axes optiques et les indices de réfraction. Bull. Soc. Min., vir, 377.
Sur la mesure des indices de réfraction des éléments microscopiques des roches.
Ibid., p. 426.
Buasius, E. Zersetzungsfiguren an Krystallen. Zs. Kr., x, 221.
Die Ausdehnung der Krystalle durch die Wiirme. Zs. Kr., x1, 140.
Brauns, R. Einige Beobachtungen und Bemerkungen zur Beurtheilung optisch
anomaler Krystalle. Jahrb. Min., I, 96.
Cross and HILLEBRAND. Contributions to the Mineralogy of the Rocky Mountains,
by Whitman Cross and W. F. Hillebrand, 113 pp., 8vo., with 1 plate. (Bulletin
of the U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 20.)
Curi£,P. Sur la formation des cristaux et sur les constantes capillaires de leurs faces.
Bull. Soc. Min., vu, 145.
Dana, E. 8. A Crystallographic Study of the Thinolite of Lake Lahontan, 28 pp.,
8vo, with 3 plates. (Bulletin of the U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 12.)
DANKER, J. Experimentelle Priifung der aus den Fresnel’schen Gesetzen der Dop-
pelbreehung abgeleitelen Gesetze der Totalreflexion. Jahrb. Min., Beil. Bd.
IV, pp. 241-290.
DOELTER, C. Ueber die Abhingigkeit der optischen Eigenschaften von der chem-
ischen Zusammensetzung beim Pyroxen. Jahrb. Min., 1, 43.
Duret, H. Recherches expérimentales sur la variation des indices de réfraction sous
Vinfluence de la chaleur. Bull. Soc. Min., vu, 176.
Sur la loi de Gladstone et la variation de V’indice moléculaire. Jbid., vis, 406.
IRVING AND VANHISE. Secondary enlargement of mineral fragments in certain
rocks, 56 pp., 8vo, with 6 plates. (Bulletin of the U. 8. Geol. Survey, No. 8.)
Lacrorx, A. Sur le diagnostic des zéolithes en Vabsence de formes cristallines dé-
terminables. Bull. Soc. Min., vim, 321.
LEHMANN, O. Mikrokrystallographische Untersuchungen, x, 321.
LiepiscH, H. Ueber die Totalreflexion an doppeltbrechenden Krystallen. Jahrb.
Min., 11, 181.
MALLARD, E. Sur la théorie des macles. Bull. Soc. Min., vir, 452.
Miacr, O. Zur Kenntniss der durch secundire Zwillingsbildung bewirkten Flichen-
Verschiebungen. Jahrb. Min., uy, 44.
REICKE, E. Ueber die Pyro-élektricitit des Turmalins. Nachr. k. Ges. Wiss. Got-
tingen, Dec. 30, 1885, p. 405.
ScHravuF, A. Ueber die Azimuthdifferenz doppeltbrechender Strahlen. Beobach-
tungen am Calcit. Zs. Kr., x1, 5.
VoicTt, W. Erklarung der Farbenerscheinung pleochroitscher Krystalle. Jahrb.
Min., 1, 119.
Neue Bestimmungen der Elasticititsconstanten fiir Steinsalz und Flusspath.
Ibid., Beil.-Bd. rv, 228.
(ly SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Wessky, M. Ueber die Ein- und Mehrdeutigkeit der Fundamental-Bogen-Com-
plexe fiir die Elemente monoklinischer Krystall-Gattungen. Jahrb. Min., 1, 79.
Wutrr, L. Wachsen der Krystalle nur durch Juxtaposition neuer Molekeln. Zs. Kr.,
X, 374,
Krystallisation in Bewegung. Zs. Kr., x1, 120.
Wyrrousorr, G. Quelques considérations sur |’isomerie et le polymorphisme. Bull.
Soc. Min., vil, 398.

NECROLOGY OF MINERALOGISTS: 1885.

E. E. Scamim.—Born May 22, 1815, at Hildburghausen; died at Jena February, 1885;
for many years professor at Jena. His work was largely in geology, but he made
many contributions to mineralogy, chiefly of a chemical nature.

BENJAMIN SILLIMAN.—Born December 4, 1816; died January 14, 1885; professor of
chemistry in Yale College, New Haven, Conn. He was an editor of the American
Journal of Science for nearly fifty years; author of works on chemistry and physics
and of many papers upon American minerals, especially the minerals of the West-
ern States and Territories

RECORD OF NORTH AMERICAN INVERTEBRATE PALAON-
TOLOGY.

By JoHN BELKNAP MARCOU.

INTRODUCTORY NOTE.

The same general plan has been followed as last year, although the
scope of the work has been somewhat enlarged so as to include also re-
views and bibliographic notices of palzontologic works; mere mentions
of works by title have not been referred to. I have experienced some
difficulty in getting hold of all the recent publications in time for inser-
tion in this record, and there are doubtless some omissions. I shall be
much obliged if those who notice them will call my attention to them
so that they may be inserted next year. I wish to thank all those who
have kindly aided me in collecting this material, and especially Mr. H.
M. Ami, of the Canadian Survey, and Mr. C. E. Beecher, of the New
York State Museum at Albany.

ALpRIcH, T. H.—Notes on the Tertiary of Alabama and Mississippi
with descriptions of new species. Jour. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist.,
vol. VIII, pp. 145-153, pls. ii, ili (pars). July, 1885. Cincinnati.
Describes and illustrates a number of new species from the Eocene ;

mostly from the Red Bluff formation of the Vicksburg group. Solecwr-

tus vicksburgensis, Murex (Pteronotus) angelus, Pleurotoma (Surcula) longi-
forma, P. Heilprini, P. anita, Turbinella (Caricella) reticulata, Cassis

(Semicassis) shubutensis, Strombus (Canarium) Smithii, Scaphander primus,

Triton (Simpulum) conradianus, Buccinum vicksburgensis, Conus (Conor-

bis) alatoideus, Fasciolaria jacksonensis, Turritella bellifera, Cerithium

Langdoni, Triforis americanus, Fusus pearlensis, Scalaria Whitfiel?i,

Cassidaria brevidentata, C. dubia.

ALDRICH, T. H.—Notes on Tertiary Fossils, rare, or little known. Jour.
Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vitl, pp. 153-155, pl. iii (pars). July,
1885. Cincinnati.

These illustrated notes on Eocene shells are given with the hope of
correcting some errors, shedding light upon obscure forms and record-
ing the European species mentioned. The autbor intends to continue
them witb notes on synonomy.
714 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

ALDRICH, T. H.—Observations upon the Tertiary of Alabama. Amer.
Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XXX, pp. 300-308. October, 1885. New
Haven.

The results of a personal examination of the Tertiary of Alabama
are given so far as is necessary to reply to Dr. Meyer’s papers; his
quotations and views are also criticised and corrected. (See Meyer,
Otto.)

Ami, H. M.—List of Fossils from Ottawa and Vicinity. Ottawa Field
Raenealie Club Trans., No. 5, vol. 11, No. i, pp. 54-62. 1884. Ottawa.
Gives lists of fossils from the following formations: Cambro-Silurian

system, Chazy formation, Bird’s Eye and Black River formation, Tren-

ton formation, Utica formation,—Post-Tertiary, Leda clay, and Saxi-
cava sand, alluvium (shell marl deposit).

Amt, H. M.—Additional Notes on the Geology and Paleontology of Ot-
tawa and Vicinity. Ottawa Field Naturalists’ Club Trans., No. 6, vol.
11, No. ii, pp. 251-259. 1885. Ottawa.

ANOoN.—The Oldest Air-breathers. Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol. XXvI, pp.
395-400, figs. 1-5, and pp. 397, 399, and 400. July, 1885. New York.

An account of the oldest fossil insects; the facts and illustrations are
borrowed from the French and English scientific journals.

ANON.—Proceedings of the section of Geology and Geography. Science,
vol. v1, No. 136, p. 220. 1885. Cambridge.

Science’s report of the proceedings of the meeting of the A. A. A.S.
at Ann Arbor.

Three discoveries of fossils were announced. Prof. N. H. Winchell
brought from the pipe-stone quarry of Minnesota a contorted trilobite of
the Paradoxides type and slabs of sandstone covered with round phos-
phatic brachiopods referred provisionally to Lingula. Prof. W. B.
Dwight reported the discovery of a unique Potsdam locality one mile
northwest of Vassar College and in the Wappinger limestone belt.
Prof. J. D. Dana exhibited Silurian fossils taken at Canaan, N. Y., from
the sparry limestone of Emmons, a member of his original Taconic sys-
tem as first defined by him in 1842. Prof. James Hall said that the
existence of Silurian fossils in these rocks was claimed and admitted
forty years ago, and Prof. N. H. Winchell argued that Emmons’s later
use of the title “‘ Taconic,” in which he applied it to certain rocks in
New York, now known to be pre-Silurian, entitled the name toa place
in stratigraphic nomenclature.

BAIN, FRANCIS, and DAWSON, J. W. (Sir).—Notes on the Geology and
Fossil Flora of Prince Edward Island. Canadian Ree. Sci., vol. 1
(1884~’85), pp. 154-161, figs. 1 and 2, on pp. 160 and 161. 1885.
Montreal.

i a

ee ee

oe

= Sie
N. A. INVERTEBRATE PAL ONTOLOGY. (15

Communicated to the Royal Society of Canada at its meeting in Ot-
tawa, May, 1885. Sir William Dawson describes the new species Wal-
chia imbricatula from the Trias; Sir William concludes that Mr. Bain’s
lower series is distinctly permo-Carboniferous ; that its extent is con-
siderably greater than was supposed in 1871; that there is a well char-
acterized overlying Trias, and that the intermediate series, whether
Permian or Lower Triassic, is of somewhat difficult local definition; but
that its fossils, so far as they go, lean to the Permian side.

BEECHER, C. E.—List of Species of Fossils from an Exposure of the Utica
slate and associated rocks within the limits of the city of Albany.
Thirty-sixth Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 78. 1884. Al-
bany.

BILLINGS, W. R.—Two new species of Crinoids. Ottawa Field Natural-
ists’ Club Trans., No. 6, vol. 11, No. ii, pp. 248-250, pl. i. 1885. Ot-
tawa.

Describes and figures Archaeocrinus desideratus and Euspirocrinus
obconicus from the Trenton.

BILLiInes, W. R.—Report of the Palzontological Branch. Ottawa Field
Vaturalists’ Club Trans., No. 6, vol. 11, No. ii, pp. 259-262. 1885. Ot-
tawa.

A large number of additiovs, hitherto not recorded, are mentioned
from the Cambro-Silurian rocks about Ottawa.

BRITTON, N. L.—Cretaceous Plants from Staten Island. Trans. N. Y.
Acad. Sci., vol. V, 1885-’86, pp. 28-29. November, 1885. New York.
Notes the discovery by Messrs. H. Hollick, W. T. Davis, and himself

of fossil leaves in the Cretaceous clays at Kreischerville, Staten Island.

The specimens were obtained from a stratum of lignitic clay about 18

inches in thickness, and included angiosperms and conifers.

Britton, N. L., and HOLLIcK, ARTHUR.—Leaf-bearing Sandstones on
Staten Island, New York. Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. 11, 1883-84,
pp. 30,51. 1885. New York. _

Dr. Britton considers the sandstones of Cretaceous age, although the
fossils are insufficient for proper determination. Similar fossiliferous
sandstones occur on the beaches about Glen Cove, Long Island, and
vicinity.

BRONGNIART, CHARLES.—Les Insectes Fossiles des Terrains Primaires,
Coup dceil rapide sur la faune* entomologique des terrains paléo-
zoiques. Bulletin de la Société des Amis des Sciences Naturelles de
Rouen, 3° série, Vingt et uniéme année, 1° semestre, 1885, pp. 50-
68, pls. i-iii. 1885. Rouen.

American as well as European forms are discussed in this review of
Paleozoic insects. Some new forms are named, but they are all from

_Commentry.
716 SCIENTIFIC RECORD VOR 1885.

BRONGNIART, CHARLES.—The Fossil Inscets of the Primary Rocks: A
Rapid Survey of the Entomological Fauna of the Paleozoic Period.
Geol. Mag., New Series, Decade 111, vol. 11, pp. 481-491, pl. xii. Novem-
ber, 1885. London.

Translated and read before the Manchester Geological Society, Octo-
ber 6, 1885, by Mark Stirrup, I’. G.S., Hon. Sec. Revised and reprinted
by permission of the author and translator, with a plate from the Bul-
letin de la Société des Amis des Sciences Naturelles de Rouen (année,
1885, 1° semestre). The article contains discussions of the American as
well as of the European forms.

CALL, R. E.—On the Quaternary and recent Mollusea of the Great
Basin, with descriptions of new forms. Introduced by a sketeh of
the Quaternary Lakes of the Great Basin, by G. K. Gilbert. Bull.
U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 11, pp. 1-66, pls. i-vi. 1885. Washington.

Gives a systematic catalogue of the recent and Quaternary shells
of the Great Basin, a discussion of their environment and geographic
and chronologic distribution, and concludes (1) that the recent, and the
fossil mollusea are predominantly limnaeid, a biologie expression of cli-
mate; (2) that the fossil fauna is more variable than the recent; in the
Lahontan area being characteristically limnaeid (represented by Pom-
pholyx effusa), andin the Bonneville area rissoid (represented by Amni-
cola porata and A. cincinnatiensis); (3) that increase in salinity finds a
biologic expression in depauperation, in lessened abundance, and in
extinction when the waters become briny ; (4) that the oscillations of
the lakes are coupled with varying abundance, and with varying size of
" shells as a biologic expression of climate.

Limnophysa bonnevillensis, from the Bonneville Lake beds, is the only
new fossil species described.

CARPENTER, P. H.—Further Remacks upon the Morphology of the
Blastoidea. Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 5th ser., vol.
XV, pp. 277-300, fig., p. 293. April, 1885. London.

An answer to and a criticism of Mr. G. Hambach’s article entitled
‘Contribution to the Anatomy of the Genus Pentremites, with Descrip-
tions of New Species.” Trans. Saint Louis Acad. Sci., vol. Iv, No. i,
1881, pp. 145-160, pls. A and B.

CLARKE, J. M.—A Brief Outline of the Geological Succession in Ontario
County, New York, to accompany a map. Rep. State Geologist for
1884, pp. 9-22. 1885. Albany.

Gives lists of fossils occurring in the different Devonian formations.

CLARKE, J. M.—On the Higher Devonian Faunas of Ontario County.

New York. Bull. U.S. Geol. Survey, No, 16, pp. 1-86, pls. i-ili, 1885,
Washington.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. lie

Twenty-six new species of invertebrates are described in this paper,
which is divided under the following heads, viz:

(1) Bibliography of the formations here discussed, viz, the Genesee,
the Naples, the Portage, and the High Point Chemung rocks of New
York.

(2) The Petrographic and Palzontologie Characters of the Genesee
Beds.

(3) Review of the Fauna and Flora of the Genesee Shales. Here the
following new species are described: Goniatites nodifer, Beyrichia Da-
gon, Goniatites astarte, Orthoceras Stebos, O. Mephisto, O. Asmodeus,
Platyostoma Belial, Loxonema (2) Moloch, Modiomorpha (?) Chemos, Spiri-
Sera Belphegor, S. Pluto, Leiorynchus (2) Hecate.

(4) The Petrographic and Palzontologic Characters of the Naples
Beds.

(5) Review of the Fauna and Flora of the Naples Beds. Here the
following new species are described: Ceratiocaris simplex, C. Beecheri,
Eehinocaris Whitfieldi, Goniatites Lutheri, Orthoceras aciculoides, O. On-
tario, O. filosum, Bellerophon incisus, Trochus (Paleotrochus) precursor, -
Platyostoma (?) minutissimum, Loxonema Noe, Hyolithes Napolis, Lingula
triquetra, Aulopora annectens.

(6) The Petrographic and Paleontologic Characters of the Portage
Beds.

(7) A List of the Fossils occurring in the Genesee, Naples, and Portage
Beds of Ontario County, with the names of species heretofore identified
from the horizons elsewhere in the State of New York, but not as yet
known within this district. From these tables he concludes that the
Naples shales have no such paleontologie relation to the rocks of the
Chemung period as to justify the union of them with these rocks; that
their fauna and flora is more closely allied to those of the Hamilton
shales, and that therefore these beds are to be regarded either as con-
stituting the uppermost member of the Hamilton period or, together
with the Genesee shales, representing a distinct geological epoch. The
more probable conclusion is that these two groups of strata represent
the epoch of the lower Upper-Devonian in Western New York.

(8) Fauna of Chemung Beds at High Point. Itis unfortunate that
six of the new species described are not illustrated in any manner.

CLAYPOLE, E. W.—On the Vertical Range of certain Fossil Species in
Pennsylvania and New York. Amer. Nat., vol. XIx, pp. 644-654.
July, 1885. Philadelphia.

(1) Remarks on certain criticisms by Prof. James Hall, of Albany, in
the preface to volume G7 of the Pennsylvania reports, on the palzonto-
logical portion ef the work in the volume. Mr. Olaypole states that
there is no doubt that in Perry County spirifers, unbroken and with both
valves in contact, are found about 1,000 feet above red sandstone beds
holding the scales of Holoptychius or Bothriolepis or both. (2) The au-
thor states that Spirifera disjuncta, S. mesocostalis, S. mesostrialis, though
evidently characterizing, probably, in some places, by their abundance,
718 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

certain zones, are not by any means limited to these zones, but invade
each other’s territory to an undefined extent; and that Spirifera levis
occurs in Middle Pennsylvania higher than the Portage group in the
Chemung proper, and in company with S. mesocostalis (2) (3) The author
doubts whether there is any distinct character by which Orthis tulliensis
can be separated from O.impressa, and he states on Professor Williams’s
authority that there is in New York an Orthis which cannot be distin-
guished from (QO. tulliensis, occurring not at 200 feet only, but at a yet
greater height (less than 500 feet) above the Genesee shale. (4) The
author states that there is no doubt that Halysites catenulatus occurs
in the Lower Helderberg limestone at the place mentioned by Prof. I.
C. White, and that there is no doubt as to the stratigraphical position
of the bed in which it occurs. (5) The author concludes that all at-
tempts to confine the range of species within certain arbitrary limits
are attempts that are not likely to succeed, and that the artificial sys-
tems of paleontology which have been constructed by the faithful, earn-
est, and devoted labors of the students of the science are but tempo-
rary.

CooPER, J. C.—On Fossil and Subfossil Land Shells of the United

States, with Noteson Living Species. California Academy of Sciences, |

pp. 2385-255. October 13, 1885. [San Francisco.]

Calls attention to the lack of post-tertiary changes that have occurred
in the species of the Atlantic slope and to the striking changes in those
of the Pacific slope, even in recent times and presumably ever since
the Tertiary epochs. He mentions the occurrence of similar changes
on the islands and some parts of the main-land of Western Europe and
Africa, and says: ‘In searching for a common cause of variations af-
fecting the west slopes of both continents similarly, we arrive at the
conclusion that it is change of climate, produced by Tertiary and recent
geological action, and are obliged to admit that such action is still go-
ing on.” The absence of such action to any marked extent on the At-
lantic slope of the United States he considers the cause of the lack of
any changes in the land shells there.

DAL, W. H.—Miocene Deposits in Florida. Science, vol. v1, No. 130,

p. 82. July, 1885. Cambridge.

Notes the discovery of Ecphora quadricostata at Tampa, by Dr. R.
E. C. Stearns, and says that it is probable that there is a large area in
Florida corresponding in age to what has been called Miocene in Vir-
ginia and the Carolinas.

DALL, W. H.—Notes on some Floridan Land and Fresh Water Shells,
with a Revision of the Auriculacea of the Eastern United States.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. vit, pp. 255, 289, pls. xvii, xviii. July 1,
1885. Washington.

{n this paper Mr. Dall mentions some forms that are found fossil as
well as recent.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAONTOLOGY. 719

DAL, W. H.—List of Marine Mollusca comprising the Quaternary Fos-
sils and recent forms from American localities between Cape Hat-
teras and Cape Roque, including the Bermudas. Bull. U. 8S. Geol. Sur-
vey, No. 24, pp. 1-336. 1885. Washington.

A bibliography of the works consulted in making up this list is also
given.

DAMES, W.—E. W. Claypole: On the Occurrence of the Genus Dalma-
nites in the Lower Carboniferous Rocks of Ohio. Geol. Mag., 1884,
pp. 303-307 und Holzsehnitte. Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885,
Band 1, p. 102. Stuttgart. (Abstract.)

DAMES, W.—Ch. D. Walcott: Appendages of the Trilobite. Science,
vol. 11, No. 57, 1884, pp. 279-281. Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal.,
1885, Band I, p. 102. Stuttgart. (Abstract.)

DAMES, W.—R. Jones and J. W. Kirby: On some Carboniferous Ento-
mostraca from Nova Scotia. Geol. Mag., 1884, pp. 356-362, t. XII.
Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band 1, pp. 106, 107. Stutt-
gart. (Abstract.)

DAMES, W.—Rupert Jones and H. Woodward: Notes on Phyllopodi-
form Crustaceans, referable to the Genus Eechinocaris, from the Pa-
leozoic Rocks. Geol. Mag., 1884, pp. 393-396, t. x1m. Neu. Jahrb.
fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band 1, p. 110. Stuttgart. (Abstract.)

DAMEs, W.—C. H. E. Beecher: Ceratiocaridx from the Chemung and
Waverly Groups at Warren, Pa. Report of Progress PPP, Second
Geol. Survey of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, 1884, pp. 1-22, & Lu. 2..
Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band 1, pp. 110, 111. Stutt-
gart. (Abstract.)

Dames, W.—J. Mickleborough: Locomotary Appendages of Trilobites.
Geol. Mag., 1884, p. 80-84. Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885,
Band 1, p. 477. Stuttgart. (Notice of.)

[Dana, J. D.]|.—Why are there no Fossils in the Strata preceding the
Cambrian? Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. Xxx, p. 78. July, 1885. New
Haven.

Criticises Mr. Charles Morris’s view that the earliest animals, like the
youngest stage of animal life generally, had no hard parts to preserve,
and that the sudden appearance of tribes was simply the appearance
of species having hard or stony secretions. One difficulty in the way
of the theory is presented by the existence of limestone formations of
great extent in the Archean which most geologists suppose to be of or-
ganic origin, and the existence also of phosphate of lime in large quan-
tities which also is material of possible organic origin. (See Morris,
Charles.) |
720 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

[DANA, J. D.|.—Cambrian or Primordial Rocks in the Eastern Part of
British Columbia. Amer. Jour. Scei., 3d ser., vol. XxX, p. 79. July,
1885. New Haven.

Notes Mr. Winwood’s description in the Geol. Mag. for May of a
Primordial fauna from near Stephen, on the Canadian Pacific Railway.
(See Winwood, H. H.)

[DANA, J. D.].—Spiraxis major and Sp. Randalli of Newberry; large
screw-like fossils from the Chemung group of Northern Pennsylvania
and Southern New York. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. Xxx, p. 244.
September, 1885. New Haven.

Notes Dr. Newberry’s description of these forms, and the fact that he
gives no decided opinion as to their biological relations. (See New-
berry, J. 8.)

Dana, J. D.—Lower Silurian Fossils at Canaan, N. Y. Science, vol.
v1, No. 139, p. 283. October, 1885. Cambridge.

States that Prof. James Hall did not mean the beds at Canaan by
the term ‘“ these limestones” used in the Science report of his remarks
on Professor Dana’s paper at the meeting of the A. A. A. 8. at Ann
Arbor, but referred to his knowledge of fossils at Hoosic, 40 miles
north of Canaan, in a limestone which he regarded as of the same age
with that of Canaan.

[Dana, J. D.].—New American Limuloid Species from the Carboniferous.
Amer. Jour. Scet., 3d ser., vol. xxx, p. 401. November, 1885. New
Haven.

Notice of Prof. A. 8. Packard’s article in the American Naturalist for

March, 1885.

DarRTON, N. H.—Preliminary Notice of Fossils in the Hudson River
Slates of the Southern Part of Orange County, New York, and else-
where. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XXX, pp. 452-454. December,
1885. New Haven.

Gives lists of the few fossils found near Sugar Loaf Village, at Rock

Tavern and near Walden.

Dawson, G. M.—Bowlder Clays. On the microscopic structure of cer-
tain bowlder clays and the organisms contained in them. Bull. Chi-
' cago Acad. Sci., vol. 1, No. vi, pp. 59-69, figs. 1-3 on p. 62. 1885. Chi-
cago.
The author mentions the occurrence of various organisms in certain
bowlder clays at different localities, and figures certain supposed Anne-
lid jaws from bowlder clays of Chicago and vicinity.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. “ad

DAWSON, J. W. (Sir).—On Rhizocarps in the Paleozoic Period. Cana-
dian Rec. Sci., vol. 1 (1884-’85), pp. 19-27, fig. 23. 1884. Montreal.
This paper was read before the A. A. A. 8., August 16, 1883, at Min-

neapolis.

The author describes two species of Sporangites from Brazil, discusses
their occurrence in various parts of North America, and concludes that
the facts he enumerates do not furnish any positive proof that the abun-
dant Sporangites of the Erian period were the fructification of Rhizo-
carps, but they establish a certain probability of this, and invite to
further researches.

Dawson, J. W. (Sir).—Notes on Eozoén Canadense. Canadian Ree. Sci.,
vol. I (188485), pp. 58, 59. 1884. Montreal.

Abstract of a paper read before the British Association in 1883, at
Southport.

The author stated that the Eozodn, in its ordinary condition as min-
eralized by serpentine, presents the simplest kind of mineralization of
a calcareous fossil; that in which the original calcite walls still exist,
with no change except a crystallization of the calcite, common in the
fossils of newer formations, and with the cavities filled with a hydrous
silicate, which was evidently in process of deposition on the sea-bot-
tom’on which Eozo6én is supposed to have lived.

Dawson, J. W. (Sir).—The Mesozoic Floras of the Rocky Mountain
Region of Canada. Canadian Rec. Sci., vol. 1 (1884-85), pp. 141-143.
1885. Montreal.

Abstract of a paper read before the Royal Society of Canada, May,

1885. (See other abstracts and reviews of the same paper.)

Dawson, J. W. (Sir).—Ancient Insects and Scorpions. Canadian Kee.

Sci., vol. I (1884~85), pp. 207, 208. 1885. Montreal.

A notice of the discovery of insects in the Silurian, that the Spanish
Protoblattina suggests the existence of Silurian forests producing some
kind of succulent and nutritious vegetable food, while it also furnishes
an explanation of the possible means of sustenance of the carnivorous
scorpions. :

Dawson, J. W. (Sir).—A Modern Type of Plant in the Cretaceous.
Science, vol. V, No. 125, p. 514, fig. on p.514. June, 1885. Cambridge.

Describes and figures Brasenice antiqua, from the Upper Cretaceous
of the South Saskatchewan River. The specimens come from the Belly
River series of the Canadian survey near Medicine Hat. These beds
are Upper Cretaceous, and hold fossils some of which resemble those of
the Laramie group; others those of the Pierre group. The author
himself assisted at the disinterment of a Dinosaur of the genus Dic-
lonius from beds overlying those in which the leaves occur.

H. Mis. 15 46

of hye SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Dawson, J. W. (Sir).—A Jurasso-Cretaceous Flora in the Rocky Mount-
ains. Science, vol. v, No. 125, pp. 531, 532. June, 1885. Cambridge.

Notes the discovery of this fauna by Dr. G. M. Dawson, in the Rocky
Mountains, on the branches of the Old Man River, Martin Creek, Coal
Creek, and one other locality far to the northwest on the Suskwa River.
Sir William proposes for the beds containing it the name of Kootanie
group. They can be traced for a distance of 140 miles north and south
in the troughs of the paleozoic formations of the mountains. The plants
found are conifers, cycads, and ferns, the cycads being especially
abundant. Some are identical with species described by Heer from
the Jurassic of Siberia, while others occur in the Lower Cretaceous of
Greenland. No dicotyledonous leaves have been found in these beds.

DAWSON, J. W. (Sir).—The Cretaceous Floras of Canada. Nature, vol.
XXXIII, pp. 32-34. 1885. London and New York.

From the advance sheets of a memoir to appear in the Transactions
of the Royal Society of Canada. The author first discusses the geologi-
cal relations of the floras, and gives, on page 33, a table showing the
‘“successive floras and subfloras of the Cretaceous in Canada (in de-
scending order”). This table ranges from the Upper Laramie or Porcu-
‘pine Hill series, containing the Platanus beds of Souris River, Calgary,
down to the Neocomien (?) Kootanie series of the Rocky Mountains, con-
taining cycads, pines, and ferns. The author then dicusses the physical
conditions and climate indicated by the Cretaceous floras.

Dawson, J. W. (Sir).—Sir William Dawson on the Mesozoic Floras of
the Rocky Mountain Region of Canada. Amer. Nat., vol. XIX, pp.
699, 700. July, 1885. Philadelphia.

An abstract of a paper read before the Royal Society of Canada, May,
1885. The paper refers more particularly to a remarkable Jurasso-Cre-
taceous flora recently discovered by Dr. G. M. Dawson in the Rocky
Mountains, and to intermediate groups of plants between this and the
Middle Cretaceous, serving to extend greatly our knowledge of the
Lower Cretaceous flora, and to render more complete the series of plants
between this and the Laramie. (See Dawson, Sir William.)

Dawson, J. W. (Sir).—On the Mesozoic Floras of the Rocky Mountain
Region of Canada. Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada (vol. 111), section iv,
1885, pp. 1-22, pls. i-iv. 1885. Montreal.

Considers the flora of the Laramie group to be that of the newest
Cretaceous. Describes a new flora of Jurasso-Cretaceous age found by
Dr. G. M. Dawson, which undoubtedly represents the flora of the lowest
Cretaceous, which has not hitherto been recognized in Western America,
and proposes to name it the Kootanie series. The following new forms
are described: Dicksonia sp., Asplenium Martinianum, Zamites Montana,
Z., sp., Sphenozamites sp., Salisburia (Gingko) nana, Taonurus incertus ;
from the intermediate series, Sterculia vetustula; from the Mill Creek

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALZ ONTOLOGY. 723

or upper series, Dicksonia Munda, Asplenium albertum, Williamsonia re-

centior, Platanus affinis var. ampla, Oinnamonium Canadense, Aralia ro-
tundata, A. Westoni, Paliurus montanus, P. ovalis, Juglandites cretacea ;
from the Belly River and Laramie group, Brasenice antiqua, Populus
latidentata, Acer Saskatchewense, Abietites Tyrrellii, Platanus (Araliopsis)
Burpeana, Viburnum oxycoccoides, V. Calgarianum, Salisburia sp.

FONTAINE, WILLIAM M.—Contributions to the Knowledge of the Older
Mesozoic Flora of Virginia. Annals and Magazine of Natural History,
5th series, vol. XVI, pp. 517-519. December, 1885. London.

Notice and abstract of Professor Fontaine’s monograph of the U.S.

Geol. Surv., vol. VI.

FONTAINE, WILLIAM M.—Contributions to the Knowledge of the Older
Mesozoic Flora of Virginia. Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol. xxvuit,p.129. No-
vember, 1885. New York.

A notice and very brief abstract of Professor Fontaine’s monograph
of the U.S. Geol. Surv., vol. VI.

ForpD, 8S. W.—Note on the Age of the Slaty and Arenaceous Rocks in the
Vicinity of Schenectady, Schenectady County, New York. Amer.
Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XXIX, pp. 397, 398. May, 1885. New Haven.
The author refers these beds to the age of the Utica group on palzon-

tologic grounds. They have formerly been considered as belonging to

the epoch of the Lorraine shales. He finds Lingula curta a Utica spe-
cies, and other fossils.

Forp, 8. W.—(Note on the Age of the Slaty and Arenaceous Rocks in
the Vicinity of Schenectady, Schenectady County, New York.) Na-
ture, vol. XXXII, p. 116. 1885. London and New York.

Notice and abstract of Mr. Ford’s paper in the Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d

ser., vol. XXIX, pp. 397, 398.

GARDNER, J. S.—iThe Cretaceous and Tertiary Floras of the United
States, by Leo Lesquereux (U. S. Survey of the Territories under
F. V. Hayden, vol. vit). Nature, vol. xxx11l, pp. 196,197. 1885.
London and New York.

A brief review of Professor Lesquereux’s important work.

GEYLER, H. T.—Lester F. Ward: On Mesozoic Dicotyledons. Ann. and
Magaz. of Nat. History, 1884, vol. x11, No. 77, pp. 383-395. Neu.
Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band 11, pp. 219, 220. Stuttgart.
(Abstract.)

GuRLEY, W. F. E.—New Carboniferous Fossils. Bulletin No. 2, pp.
1-12. February 25, 1884. (Danville, Ill.)

Describes a number of fossils from his own collection, no illustrations
accompanying the descriptions. The following genera and species are
724 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18835.

established: Troostocrinus Wachsmuthi; the new genus Cucumulites,
with the following types: C. tuberculatus and C. tricarinatus ; the new
genus Cidarospongia, with the type C. Ella; the new genus Ptychostylus,
with the types P. heterocostalis and P. subtumidus. The above new
genera are all placed in the Protista. Discina Keokuk, Lepetopsis Par-
rishi, Bellerophon Ourayensis, B. incomptus, B. nodocostatus, B. tenuilin-
eatus, B. rugopleurus.

HALL, JAMES.—Note on the Intimate Relations of the Chemung Group
and Waverly Sandstone in Northwestern Pennsylvania and Southwest-
ern New York. Proc. A. A. A. S., vol. XXXIII, part ii, pp. 416-419.
1885. Salem.

(Abstract.) Gives a list of the Waverly genera of fossils. Without
any apparent want of conformity the Waverly follows the Chemung, but
at the point in the section marked “Place of the Catskill” there is a hia-
tus which, in Eastern New York and Pennsylvania, is marked by the
presence of measures having a thickness of from 3,000 to 5,000 feet.
Therefore we have a right to conclude that there has been a long inter-
val in time between the final deposition of the barren Chemung shales
and the fossiliferous Waverly sandstone, or that the deposition of the
estuary Catskill sediments has been going on simultaneously with the
open sea deposits of the Waverly formation.

HALL, JAMES.—Note on the Eurypteride of the Devonian and Car-
boniferous Formations of Pennsylvania; with a supplementary note
on the Stylonurus excelsior. Proc. A. A. A. S8., vol. XXXIII, part Ii,
pp. 420-422. 1885. Salem.

The geologic range of the genus, so far as at present known, is from
the Clinton group, where we have an unpublished species (Hurypterus
prominens)—to the Coal Measures. Gives a tabular view of the geologi-
eal distribution of the family Eurypterdz in the United States. Gives
a note on the size and occurrence of Stylonurus excelsior, Hall.

HALL, JAMES.—Note on the Eurypteride of the Devonian and Carbon-
iferous Formations of Pennsylvania. 2d Geol. Surv. Pennsylvania,
Rep. of Progress P. P. P., pp. 23-39, pls. ili—viii, figs. 2-4, on pp. 25,
27, and 34. 1884. Harrisburg.

Discusses the Eurypteride, gives a tabular view of the geological
distribution of the family in the United States, and describes Hurypterus
Beecheri from the Chemung, #. stylus from the Alleghany River series,
and names and figures, but does not mention in the text, H. potens, pl.
iv, figs. 9 and 10.

HALL, JAMES.—Classification of the Lamellibranchiata. Rep. State Ge-
ologist for 1881, pp. 8-15, pls. i-xi. 1884. Albany.
The plates are intended to represent the characteristic generic forms
and to convey in a measure some idea of the variety of forms embraced
in each genus of Devonian Lamellibranchiata.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALZ ONTOLOGY. 125

HALL, JAMES.—Discussion upon the Manner of Growth, Variation of
Form, and Characters of the Genus Fenestella, and its Relations to He-
mitrypa, Polypora, Retepora, Cryptopora, &c. Rep. State Geologist
for 1882, pp. 5-16, figs. 1-36 on pp. 9,10, 12,13,15. 4to. 1883. Albany.
Redefines the genus Fenestella, and includes in 1t Retepora, Phyllop-

ora, Leptopora, Reteporina, Fenestrellina, Hemitrypa. For continuation

of article, see Rep. State Geologist for 1884, pp. 35-45. 1885. Albany.

HALL, JAMES.—Fossil Corals and Bryozoans of the Lower Helderberg
Group and Fossil Bryozoans of the Upper Helderberg Group. ep.
State Geologist for 1882, p. 17, pls. i-xxxiii. 4to. 1883. Albany.
These plates are photolithographed and published with their expla-

nations in advance of vol. v1, Paleontology of New York.

HALL, JAMES.—Brachiopoda: Plates and Explanations. Rep. State Ge-
ologist for 1882, pls. xxxiv-LxI. 4to. 1883. Albany.

These plates are photolithographed and published with their expla-
nations in advance of vol. Iv, part 1i, Paleontology of New York.

HALL, JAMES.—Description of the Bryozoans of the Hamilton Group.
(Fenestellide excepted.) Rep. State Geologist for 1883, pp. 5-61.
1884. Albany.

The following new species are described: Callopora bipunctata, Thal-
lostigma multaculeata, Lichenalia cultellata, Stictopora crenulata; then
Stictopora is described as a subgenus on p. 48; S. (s. g.?) dichotoma n.
sp., is described under it.

Most of the species'and genera in this article were more briefly de-
scribed in the Trans. Albany Institute, vol. x, pp. 179-197. 1885. Albany.

HALL, JAMES.—Notice of the Machinery and Methods of Cutting Speci-
mens of Rocks and Fossils at the New York State Museum of Natural
History. 35th Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pp. 121-124, pls.
i, li, and xvi. 1884. Albany.

Plates i and ii contain figures of the machinery used, and plate xvi
contains figures and translucent sections of fossil corals made by the
method explained. The illustration of Tetradium Ontario is marked as
a new species.

HALL, JAMES.—Preliminary Notice of the Lamellibranchiate Shells of
the Upper Helderberg, Hamilton, and Chemung Groups. Prepara-
tory for the Paleontology of New York, parti. 35th Rep. New York
State Mus. Nat. Hist., pp. 215-406f. 1884. Albany.

A separate issue of this paper was also published with five plates on
generic illustrations taken from the Report of the State Geologist for

1882.

Published in advance of Paleontology of New York, vol. v, part i,
Noticed last year.
726 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

HALL, JAMES.—Description of Fossil Corals from the Niagara and Upper
Helderberg Groups. 35th Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pp.
407-464, pls. xxiii-xxx. 1884. Albany.

The following new species are from the Niagara group: Streptelasma ?
(Zaphrentis ?) exstans, S.? (Z.?) limitare, Ptychophyllum floriforme, P.
fuleratum, Chonophyllum vadum, C. capax, Hallia scitula, H. divisa, H.
divergens, H. pluma, Anisophyllum unilargum, A. trifurcatum, A. ? bila-
mellatum, Zaphrentis rigida, Z. cristulatum, Z. pressula, Z. latisinus, Z.
subvada, Amplerus uniforme, A. junctum, Cyathaxonia columellata, C.
Herzeri, Cyathophyllum intertrium, C. bullulatum, Heliophyllum gemmi-
ferum, H. pravum, H. dentilineatum, H. mitellum, H. puteatum, Cysti-
phyllum granilineatum, Calceola pusilla, Cyathospongia excrescens. Cya-
thospongia is a new genus and is described as one of the Petrospongia.

The following new species are from the Upper Helderberg group:
Streptelasma lamellatum, S. tenue, S. dissimile, S. inflatum, S. simplea, S.
laterarium, S. ampliatum, S. conspicuum, S. fossula, S. crateriforme, S.
involutum, S. equidistans, S: mammiferum, S. papillatum, S. coarctatum,
Ptychophyllum versiforme, P. striatum, Aulachophyllum convergens, A.
prateriforme, A. pinnatum, A. princeps, A. cruciforme, A. preciptum, A.
reflecum, A. tripinnatum, A. trisculactum, A. poculum, A. bilaterale, Za-
phrentis inequalis, Z. complanata, Z. cyathiformis, Z. ponderosa, Z. tabu-
lata, Z. corrugata, Z. subcompressa, Z. Colletti, Z. planima, Z. fusiformis,
Z. ovalis, Z. spissa, Z. torta, Z. fastigata, Z. trisutura, Z. profunda, Z.
nitila, Z frequentata, Z. duplicata, Z. sentosa, Z. calcariformis, Z. con-
stricta, Z. annulata, Z. Knappi, Z. foliata, Z. inclinata, Z. irregularis, Z.
concara, Z. Herzeri, Z. curvata, Z. gravis, Z. transversa, Z. elegans, Z.
convoluta, Z. contorta, Z. venusta, Hlasmophyllum (new genus), type L. at-
tenuatum, Cyathophyllum (Hlasmophyllum) intervesiculum, C. exfoliatum,
0. canaliculatum, C. impositum, C. depressum, C. arctifossa, C. vesicula-
tum, U. bullatum, C. coherens, C. septatum, C. perfossulatum, OC. concen-
tricum, C. scalenum, C. perplicatum, C. robustum, Blothrophyllum multi-
calicatum, B. papulosum, B. sinuosum, B. promissum, Heliophyllum alter-
natum, H. incrassatum, H. acuminatum, H. venatum, H. imbricatum, H.
verticale, H. invaginatum, H. equale, H. fasciculatum, H. annulatum,
H. compactum, H. dentatum, H. fecundun, H. gemmatum, H. latericres-
cens, H. pocillatum, H. distans, H. lineolatum, H. equum, H. scyphulus,
H. tenuimurale, H. Nettebrothi, H. sordidum, H. denticulatum, H. cam-
paniforme, H. fissuratum, H. cancellatum, Dyphyphyllum adnatum, D. cyl-
indraceum, D. apertum, D. breve, D. tumidulum, Cystiphyllum bipartifum,
C. bifurcatum, C. muricatum, C. quadrangulare, C. tenwiradius, C.namum,
C’. latiradius, C. supraplanum, C. crateriforme, C. pustulatum, CO. infundi-
bulum, C. obliquum, C. scalatum, C. striatura, Coleophyllum new genus,
types CO. Romingeri and C. pyriforme.

Only Upper Helderberg species are illustrated, and the illustrations
of these stop at Zaphrentis Herzeri in the above list.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALA ONTOLOGY. C24

HALL, JAMES.—Illustrations of the Microscopic Structure of Brachio-
poda. 35th Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pl. xxii. 1884.
Albany.

These illustrations are presented to show the principal varieties of
structure of the strophomenoid Brachiopoda. They represent a portion
of the work which is being done for the elucidation of shell structure
preparatory for the volume of Paleontology on the Revision of the Bra-
chiopoda. The specimens are prepared and photographed, and the ac-
companying figures were drawn on stone from photographie prints.

HALL, JAMES.—Bryozoa (Fenestellid) of the Hamilton Group. 36th
Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pp. 57-72. 1884. Albany.
The following new species are described : Fenestella multiplex, F. lat-

itruncata, F. fistulata, F. aspectus, F. angustata, F. marcida, F. planira-

mosa, F. cinetuta, F. perundulata, F. assita, F. inflexa, F. perforata, F.

scalaris, F. exornata, F. quadrangula, F. emaciata, F. curvata, F. brevi-

linea, F. subtortilis, and F. strata.

HALL, J AMES.—On the Structure of the Shellin the Genus Orthis. 36th
Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pp. 73-75, pls. iii, iv. 1884.
bany.

With his present knowledge the author makes three groups of Orthis,
according to their shell structure, the non-punctate, the distinctly punc-
tate, with distinct rows of puncte coming out along the summit of the
radii, and the highly punctate. Excellent figures of shell sections are
given.

HALL, JAMES.—Description of a New Species of Stylonurus from the
Catskill Group. 36th Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pp. 76,
77, pl. v. 1884. Albany. (Describes Stylonurus excelsior.)

| HALL, JAMES].—Description of a New Genus from Greenfield, Saratoga

County, New York. 36th Rep. New York State Mus. Nat. Hist., pl.

vi. 1884. Albany.

Describes the new genus Cryptozoon, with C. proliferum as its type.
The generic and specific description are on the page of the explanation
of the plate. There is no name connected with it, but the author is pre-
sumably James Hall.

HALL, JAMES.—On the Mode of Growth and Relations of the Fenestel-
lide. Rep. State Geologist for 1884, pp. 35-45, pls. i, ii; figs. a-i, p.
39; 1-2, p. 40; A-H, p. 41; A, p. 42; 1-10, pp. 43-45. 1885. Al-
bany.

Continued from page 14 of the Report of the State Geologist for 1882.

Assembly document No. 178, 1883.

The author proposes the following subgenera: Fenestropora, Ptylo-
porina, Ptyloporella, Unitrypa, Isotrypa. Gives at length his reasons
728 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

for not recognizing the generic value of Carinopora and Cryptopora
Nicholson. A considerable number of figures have been prepared, but
not yet lithographed, to illustrate this paper on the Fenestellide. These
will appear in a future report.

| HALL, JAMES].—On the Relations of the Genera Stictopora, Ptilodictya,
Acrogenia, and Allied Forms in the Paleozoic Rocks of New York.
Rep. State Geologist for 1884, p. 46; figs. 1-3, p. 46. 1885. Albany.
To be printed with the next report of the State Geologist. Figures

1, 2, and 3 are typical forms of Stictopora, Ptilodictya, and Acrogenia.

[HALL, JAMES].—Note (on some Paleozoic Pectenoid Shells). Rep.
State Geologist for 1884, pp. 47, 48; figs. 1-6, p. 46. 1885. Albany.
These wood-cuts were prepared for the report of the State Geologist

for 1882. They were not completed in time for insertion in that report

and are introduced in this place with their explanations. Figs. 1 and

2, Aviculopecten; figs. 3 and 4, Pterinea flabella; fig. e, Actmopteria de-

eae: and fig. 6 Seen ee exacutus.

HEILPRIN, ANGELO.—Town Geology. The Lesson of the Philadelphia
Rocks. Studies of Nature along the Highways and among the By-
ways of a Metropolitan Town, pp. 1-142, pls. i-vil. 1885. Phil-
adelphia.

Chapter x is on the fossils of the marl, or life in the Cretaceous pe-

riod, containing popular descriptions of the groups; plates iv and v

contain figures of the Cretaceous invertebrate fauna.

HEILPRIN, ANGELO.—-The Classification and Paleontology of the U.S.
Tertiary Deposits. Science, vol. v, No. 124, pp. 475, 476. June, 1885.
Cambridge.

A protest against the acceptance of Dr. Otto Meyer’s views in his

*‘ Genealogy of the Species of the Older Tertiary Formations,” and a warn-
ing to paleontologists not to accept his numerous new species.

HEILPRIN, ANGELO.—The Classification and Paleontology of the U. 8
Tertiary Deposits. Science, vol. v1, No. 130, pp. 83, 84. July, 1885.
Cambridge.

Contains further criticisms of Dr. Otto Meyer’s paper, and reiterates
his warning to geologists and paleontologists against the acceptation of
his views.

HILGARD, E. W.—The Classification and Paleontology of the U.S. Ter-
tiary Deposits. Science, vol. v1, No. 128, p. 44. July, 1885. Cam.
bridge.

Note on Dr. Jtto Meyer’s paper in the Amer. Jour. Scei., and on Mr.

A. Heilprin’s notice of it in Science. The author enters a caveat on

both sides of the question, sympathizes with Dr. Meyer’s views in re-

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALZ ONTOLOGY. 729

spect to the transition of so-called species from one of the stages to
another, but emphatically agrees with Heilprin as to the impossibility
of subverting the accumulative stratigraphic evidence, to the effect that
the relative superposition of the several principal stages—the Buhr-
stone, Claiborne, Jackson, and Vicksburg groups—cannot be otherwise
than ‘as heretofore ascertained in hundreds of localities by others as
well as by himself.

HILGARD, E. W.—The Old Tertiary of the Southwest. Amer. Jour. Sci.,
3d ser., vol. Xxx, pp. 266-269. October, 1885. New Haven.

Criticises Dr. Otto Meyer’s views as expressed in the June and July
numbers of this journal. Does not attach much importance to Plagi-
ostoma dumosum as a significant fossil. Considers Arca Mississippiensis
as the most characteristic Vicksburg fossil. For the Jackson age the
most constant fossil is the Zeuglodon and also Venericardia planicosta,
which has nowhere been found associated with the characteristic Vicks-
burg fauna. Through this widely diffused and universally recognized
shell, as well as through the almost equally constant Gastridium vetus-
tum and Calyptrophorus velatus as common fossils, the Jackson fauna
connects strikingly with the Claiborne and Buhrstone beds, and the
author has found this Venericardia in the latter in almost immediate
contact with the Upper Cretaceous rocks of North Mississippi. Upon
Dr. Meyer’s assumption, the Vicksburg beds, void of both of the above
types, would actually be intercalated between this oldest post-Creta-
ceous fauna and the Claiborne and Jackson beds. However, his as-
sumption is abundantly and conclusively disproved by the most direct
stratigraphical evidence.

HINDE, G. J.—Description of a New Species of Crinoids with Articulating
Spines. Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 5th ser., vol. Xv,
pp. 157-173, pl. vi, and fig. p. 163. March, 1885. London.
Describes the new genus Hystricrinus=Arthroacantha, Williams, in-

valid, and the new species Hystricrinus Carpenteri from the Middle De-

vonian at Arkona, Ontario, Canada. The peculiarity of the species
consists in movable spines.

HINDE, G. J.—Notice of Hystricrinus Carpenteri, a Crinoid with Artic-
ulating Spines. Amer. Nat., vol. Xtx, p. 706. July, 1885. Philadel-
phia.

This specimen, from caleareous shales of the Middle Devonian at Ar-
kona, Ontario, was described by Mr. G. J. Hinde in the Ann. and Mag.
Nat. Hist., March, 1885. The genus is identical with Arthrocanthus
(Williams), a name preoccupied among the Kotatoria.

HYAtTT, ALPHEUS.—Structure of the Siphon in the Endoceratide.
Proc. A. A. A. S., vol. XXXIII, part ii, pp. 490,491. 1885. Salem.

Abstract. Describes the structure of the siphon of Hndoceras and
730 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

refers to that of Actinoceras, and adds a third type of syphon in a new
genus which he calls Choanitoceras, the syphon of which is not ascer-
tained, the remains being exclusively those of the hard, unyielding en-
dosiphon and sheaths. ;

Hyatt, ALPHEUS.—Structure and Affinities of Beatricea. Proc. A. A.
A. S., vol. XXXII, part ii, p. 492. 1885. Salem.

Abstract. This remarkable fossil has a cellular structure similar to
the Foramenifera, and possesses stolons, uniting these cells with each
other.

Hyatt, ALPHEUS.—[Letter relative to the Pteropods of the Saint John
Group.| Bull. Nat. Hist. Soc. New Brunswick, No. Iv, p. 102. 1885.
Saint John, New Brunswick.

States that a certain form is a Hyalothis, allied to H. undulatus Bar-
rande. The aspect of a syphon is due to the compression of the sharper
against the flatter side and the form of the sutures, which favors this
impression. These fossils with their distinct septa are remarkably similar
to certain forms of Nautiloidea, but there is no syphon. They, how-
ever, confirm Von Jhernig’s and the author’s opinion that the Orthocera-
tites and Pteropods have had a common, but as yet undiscovered, an-
cestor in ancient times.

Hyarr, ALPHEUS.—[Letter relative to the Pteropods of the Saint John
Group ] Canadian Rec. Sci., vol. 1 (188485), p. 141. 1885. Mon-
treal.

This letter also appeared in the Bull. Nat. Hist. Soc. New Brunswick,
No. Iv, p. 102. 1885. Saint John, New Brunswick.

Hyatt, ALPHEUS.—Larval Theory of the Origin of Cellular Tissues.
Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xxu1, March 5, 1884, pp. i-iv and
45-163. (1885. Boston.)

The hypothesis of the common but independent origin of types is also
supported by all collateral evidences. The results of paleontologic re-
search have carried back the origin of distinct types farther and farther
every year. Itis now established that there was an excessively sud-
den appearance of vast numbers of forms in the Cambriam or perhaps
earlier, as claimed by Prof. J. Marcou. The author has applied ‘this
specific statement as a generalization to the history of smaller groups
of fossils in several branches of the animal kingdom, and in many for-
mations, and has found that the sudden appearance of the smaller
groups occurs according to the same law. The early geologic history
of animal life, like the early stages of development in the embryo, was
a more highly concentrated and accellerated process in evolution than
that which occurred at any subsequent period of the earth’s history.
The great mass of life as shown by the fossils has been progressive,
and the progress was similar to that of the individual from a more gen-

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALZH ONTOLOGY. 731

eralized to more and more specialized conditions and structures. The
primitive stocks, like the primitive Metazoa, the Porifera, were certainly
much more variable and unstable than the later and more complicated
forms, which are mote stable and less susceptible of change. Thus,
when radical changes become necessary in order to sustain the life of
the spécies of a group, they die out as did the Ammonites, or decay as
did the Nautiloids, and exhibit most clearly the stability they have ac-
quired as progressive forms in their inability to meet the requirements
of different modern conditions.

JAMES, J. F.—Fucoids of the Cincinnati Group. Jour. Cincinnati Soe.
Nat. Hist., vol. Vu, pp. 151-166, pls. vii, viii. January, 1885. Cin-
cinnati.

Describes the new species Cruziana Carleyi, and finishes reviewing
the already described fossil alge of the group. The author concludes
that there is not a single one entitled to remain in the class. They are
referred to three different sources: first, inorganic causes; second, to
trails and burrows; third, and last, to the Hydrozoa.

JAMES, J. F.—Are there any Fossil Alge? Amer. Nat., vol. X1x, pp.
165-167. February, 1885. Philadelphia.
The author seems to consider that there are no fossil alge, and that

it is unreasonable to expect to find any.

J4MES, J. F.—Remarks on a supposed Fossil Fungus from the Coal
Measures. Jour. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vil, pp. 157-159.
October, 1885. Cincinnati.

The author holds that Rhizomorpha sigillarie Lesquereux is not a
fungus, but the burrow left under the bark by the grub of some one of
the species of insects flourishing at the time of the deposition of the
coal, and refers to the burrows made by species of Scolytus under the
bark of species of hickory as possessing the same characteristics and
appearances as the fossil.

JAMES, J. I’.—Remarks on some Markings on the Rocks of the Cinein-
nati Group, described under the names of Ormathicuus and Walcot-
tia. Jour. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vu1, pp. 160-162. Octo-
ber, 1885. Cincinnati.

The author considers that Ormathicuus Miller is not the track made
by a Gasteropod, but was really made by a crinoid stem. The autbor
thinks this is shown conclusively by a specimen found near Cincinnati
by Mr. U. P. James containing a part of the crinoid stem which he con-
siders made the mark. The genus Walcottia Miller and Dyer, two of
whose species are considered as crinoid-stem impressions, and the third
as probably a burrow, is “ consigned to the limbo of the improbable.”
(32 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

JAMES, J. F.—Remarks on the Genera Lepidolites, Anomaloides, Ischa-
dites, and Receptaculites from the CincinnatiGroup. Jour. Cincinnati
Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vi11, pp. 163-166. October, 1885. Cincinnati.

The author considers Lepidolites (Ulrich) a synonym of Ischadites
Murchison, and Anomaloides Ulrich a synonym of Receptaculites Defrance.

JULIEN, A. A.—A study of Eozodn Canadense, Filed Observations.
Proc. A. A. A. S., vol. XXXII, part ii, pp. 415, 416. 1885. Salem.
Abstract. A description was given of the lithologic characteristics of

the rocks inclosing and associated with Hozoén Canadense at various

localities. The inclosure of pyroxene (or malachite) within the serpen-
tine was described at a new locality for Eozo6n, Seillant’s apatite mine
near Cote Saint Pierre.

KARSCH, FRANZ.—Samuel H. Scudder. The Species of Mylacris, a
Carboniferous Genus of Cockroaches. Mem. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol.
1, No. ix, 1884, pp. 299-309, pl. xxvii, fig. 5-11. Boston. Neu.
Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band 11, pp. 178, 179. Stuttgart.
(Abstract.)

KARSCH, FRANZ.—Samuel H. Scudder: A New and Unusually Perfect
Carboniferous Cockroach from Mazon Creek, Illinois. Proc. Bost. Soc,
Nat. Hist., vol. XX1, pt. iv, 1882, pp. 391-396. (1883. Boston.) Neu.
Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band 11, p. 178. Stuttgart.
(Abstract.)

Karscu, FrRANz.—Samuel H. Scudder: Older Fossil Insects West of the
Mississippi. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xxi, pt. i, 1882, pp. 58-
60. (1883. Boston.) Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band
1, pp. 177,178. Stuttgart. (Abstract.)

KarscuH, Franz.—Samuel H. Scudder: Notes on some of the Tertiary
Neuroptera of Florrisant and Colorado, and Green River, Wyoming
Territory. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. XX1 pt. iv, 1882, pp. 407-409.
(1883. Boston.) Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band 11,
pp. 176,177. Stuttgart. (Abstract.)

KARSCH, FRANZ.—Samuel H. Scudder: Two New and Diverse Types of
Carboniferous Myriopods. Mem. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. 111, No. ix,
pp. 283-297. 1884. Boston. Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal.,
1885, Band 11, pp. 175, 176. Stuttgart. (Abstract.)

KarcsH, FRANZ.—Samuel H. Seudder: Archipolypoda, a subordinate
type of spined Myriopods from the Carboniferous formation. Mem.
Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. 1, No. v, pp. 143-182, pl. x—xili. 1882.
Boston. Neu. Jahrb. fur. Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band Ir, pp. 174,
175. Stuttgart. (Abstract.)

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALZ ONTOLOGY. 13a

Karscu, FRANZ.—Samuel H. Scudder: A Contribution to our knowl-
edge of paleozoic Arachnida. Proceed. of the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences, vol. xx (N.S. x11), 1884, pp. 18-22. Neu. Jahrb.
Sur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band-u, pp. 172, 173. Stuttgart.
(Abstract.)

Kunz, G. F.—On the Agatized Woods and the Malachite, Azurite, &c.,
from Arizona. Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. V, 1885-86, pp. 9-12.
October, 1885. New York.

Describes the silicified forest in Arizona known as Chalcedony Park,
situated 8 miles south of Corriza, Apache County, Arizona. Remarks
that the wood structure has been perfectly preserved even to the forms
of the minute cells.

LESQUEREUX, LEO.—Contributions to the Fossil Flora of the Western
Territories, part 111. The Cretaceous and Tertiary Floras. Rep. U.
S. Geol. Surv. Territories, F. V. Hayden, U. S. Geologist in charge.
vol. VIII, pp. i-vi and 1-283, pls. i-lix. 4to. 1883. Washington.

This important work was not published till February, 1885, although
it bears the imprint 1883. It is divided into four parts, as follows, viz:

I. The flora of the Dakota group:

(1) General remarks. Concludes that the first appearance and ap-
parent simultaneous multiplication of the dicotyledonous plants remains
a fact inconceivable to reason.

(2) Description and enumeration of species of the American Dakota
group formation. The following new species are described: Equisetum
nodosum, Podozamites oblongus, P. preléngus, P. emarginatus, P. cauda-
tus, Torreya oblanceolata, Thuites crassus, Myrica Sternbergii, Quercus
dakotensis, (. morrisoniana, Ficus Beckwithii, F. ? angustata, F. magno-
liefolia, F. Glasceena, Lomatia Saporteana, var. longifolia, Laurus ? mo-
desta, Sassafras (Araliopsis) dissectum, S. (A) platanoides, Aralia sub-
emarginata, A. tenuinervis, A. radiata, Cissites salisburiefolius, Hama-
melites tenuinervis, H. quercifolius, H. (?) cordatus, Magnolia sp. Lirio-
phyllum obcordatum, Carpites liriophylli ?, Anona cretacea, Menispermites
acutilobus, M. grandis, Sterculia lugubris, S. aperta, Sapindus Morrisoni,
Rhamnus prunifolius, Leguminosites cultriformis, Aspidiophyllum denta-
tum, A. platifolium, Carpolithes species. ?

(3) Table of distribution of the plants of the Cretaceous Cenomanian
formation.

(4) Relationship of the flora of the Dakota group. The author con-
cludes that the marked analogy in the components of the floras author-
izes the conclusion of equivalency of the age of the Dakota group with
that of the Quader sandstone of Germany, which is as positively de-
termined as Cenomanian by its animal fossils as the Dakota group is
recognized as Middle Cretaceous by the invertebrate remains which
abound in the strata of the Fort Benton group immediately overlying it.
734 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

II. Flora of the Laramie group:

(1) States that the flora has a relation, remarkably well defined, with
that of Sezanne. Says that the age of the Laramie group of Hayden is
not yet definitely determined. The flora, like the invertebrate fauna, is
on the whole of a peculiar character, uniformily distributed over the
whole extent of the formation, and free from any types or characters
relating it to the Cretaceous flora. As the Laramie group has never
been subjected to submersion in the deep sea, the few remains of Dino.
saurians found in it are derived from low marine lagoons penetrating
into the land, and cannot impress the formation with the Cretaceous
character.

(2) Table of distribution of the species of the Laramie group.

(3) Description of species added to the flora of the Laramie group.
The following new species are described: Osmunda major, Oreodowites
plicatus, Aralia pungens, Anona robusta, Zizyphus Beckwithti, Khamnus
deformatus.

III. The flora of the Green River group:

(1) Geological distribution of the measures.

(2) Enumeration and description of the species of fossil plants known
from the Green River group. The following new species are described:
Chara ? glomerata, Fontinalis pristina, Isoetes brevifolius, Sphenopteris
Guyottii, Adiantites gracillimus, Pinus Florissanti, Widdringtonia lingue-
folia, Cyperites Haydenii, Potamogeton ? verticillatus, Najadopsis rugulosa,
Lemna penicillata, Flabellaria Florissanti, Palmocarpon ? globosum,
Myrica obscura, M. rigida, M. callicomefolia, M. fallax, M. Scottii, M.
diversifolia, M. Alkalina, Betula Florissanti, B. truncata, Alnus cordata,
Ostrya betuloides, Carpinus attenuata, C. fraterna, Quercus Osbornii,
Q. pyrifolia, Q. castaneopsis, Salix amygdalafolia, 8. Libbeyi, Ulnus Hil-
lic, U. Brownellii, Celtis McCoshii, Ficus tenuinervis, F. alkalina, San-
talum Americanum, Banksites lincatus, Lomatia hakeefolia, L. spinosa,
L. terminalis, L. tripartita, L. acutiloba, L. abbreviata, L. interrupta,
Pimelea delicatula, Olea premissa, Fraxvinus Heerii, F. mespilifolia, F.
abbreviata, F. ? myricefolia, F. Ungeri, &. Libbeyt, Apocynophyllum
Scudderi, Porana Speirii, P. tenuis, Myrsine latifolia, Bumelia Floris-
santi, Macreightia crassa, Andromeda delicatula, A. rhomboidalis, Aralia
dissecta, Hedera marginata, Weinmannia integrifolia, W. obtusifolia,
Sterculia rigida, Tilia populifolia, Acer indivisum, Sapindus inflexus, S.
lancifolius, Evonymus flexifolius, Celastrus Lacwi, C. fraxinifolius, C.
elegans, Ilex pseudo-stenophylla, I. microphyila, I. maculata, I. querci-
folia,I. grandifolia, I. knightiefolia, Rhamnus olecefolius, Juglans Floris-
santi, Rhus fraterna, R. coriarioides, R. cassioides, R. Hilliw, R. subrhom-
boidalis, R. vexans, R. trifolioides, Zanthoxylon spireafolium, Ailanthus
longe-petiolata, Amelanchier typica, Orategus acerifolia, Rosa Hille,
Amygdalus gracilis, Cytisus modestus, C. Florissantianus, Cercis parvt-

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALHONTOLOGY. 735

folia, Podogonium acuminatum, Leguminosites serrulatus, L. species, An-
tholithes ameenus, A. improbus, Carpites gemmaceus, CO. Milioides.

(3) General remarks. Table of distribution of the plants of the Green
River and White River groups.

(4) Relationship of the local groups indicated by correlation of spe-
cies. The plants which have heretofore been referred by the author to
the Green River group represent two different horizons: Green River
Station, Randolph Company, and Alkali Station for one, Florissant,
White River, and Elko forasecond. The materials obtained at the first
are too scant to afford any indication of their reference to any particular
stage of the Tertiary ; they may represent a lower group than that of
the Florissant, but what is said of the relationship of these plants an-
thorizes a contrary conclusion. Considers the flora of Florissant prob-
ably synchronous with that of the Oligocene of France.

IV. Miocene flora:

(1) Description of Miocene species from specimens obtained in the
so-called Bad Lands of Dakota. The following are new species: Asple-
nium tenerum, Hquisetum glubosum, Quercus Dentoni, Ficus artocarpoides,
Tetranthera precursoria, Cinchonidium ovale, Viburnum dakotense, V.
Dentoni, Aralia acerifolia, Acer gracilescens, Rhus Winchellii, Prunus
dakotensis, Cercis truncata.

(2) Description of Miocene species of California and Oregou. The
following species are new : Betula parce-dentata, Alnus corrallina, A. car-
pinoides, Quercus Brewert, Ulnus pseudo-americana, Ficus asiminefolia,
Laurus grandis, L. salicifolia, L. californica, Grewia auriculata, Ailan-
thus ovata, Myrtus oregonensis, Colutea boweniana.

(3) Contributions to the Miocene flora of Alaska. The following spe-
cies are new: Thuites (Chamecyparis) Alaskensis, Comptonia cuspidata,
C. premissa, Betula Alaskana, Alnus corylifolia, Quercus Dallii.

(4) Species of plants from the chalk bluffs of California.

(5) Table of distribution of the North American Miocene fossil plants.

(6) Remarks on the species of Miocene plants. The author concludes
that as the fossil floras of Carbon and the Bad Lands are related by
ten identical species, and those of the Bad Lands and Alaska by thir-
teen, these three groups apparently represent the same stage of the
North American Miocene. The flora of Carbon has only four species
identified in that of Alaska, but their lesser degree of affinity may be
ascribed to difference in latitude.

LESQUEREUX, LEO.—Contributions to the Fossil Flora of the Western
Territories, part 1. Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol. xxvu1, p. 560. August,
1885. New York.

Notice and brief abstract of Professor Lesquereux’s vol. vii of Rep.

Geol. Surv. Terr., under F, V. Hayden. 4to series.
736 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Mackay, A. H.—Organiec Siliceous Remains in the Lake Deposits of
Nova Scotia. Canadian Ree. Sci., vol. t (188485), pp. 236-244.
Montreal.

Divides the deposits as follows: First, earthy muds; second, black
or brownish slimy muds; third, whitish siliceous muds, consisting
nearly entirely of the cell-walls of the diatomacex and the spicules of
fresh-water sponges, which are found to be present in classes first and
second also, although in less comparative abundance. Gives a list of

one hundred and four species of diatomacex identified from the sili- —

ceous material; also gives a list of the species of living sponges whose
spicules abound in the deposits.

Marcou, JuLrEsS.—The Taconic System and its Position in Stratigraphic
Geology. roc. American Academy of Arts and Sciences, new series,
vol. XII, pp. 174-256. 1885. Cambridge.

Many lists of fossils are given. The ‘Taconic System” comprehends
all the strata in which the Primordial faunz are found. These faune
are three in number. The Infra-Primordial, including the most ancient
fossils of Newfoundland, among which as yet no trilobite has been found
with certainty. The Primordial fauna, properly so-called, that of Bo.
hemia and Scandinavia, and which is represented in America by the
Paradoxides and Olenelilus beds. The Supra-Primordial tauna, found
at Hof, in Bavaria, at Vestfosen, near Christiania, in Norway, and else-
where in Europe. On Lake Champlain it includes certain colonies of
the second fauna of Barrande, and is terminated by the “‘ Potsdam sand-
stone,” including the “Saratoga limestone,” with Primordial fossils dis-
covered by Walcott.

Marcou, J. B.— Progress of North American Invertebrate Palzon-
tology for 1884. Amer. Nat., vol. x1x, pp. 353-360. April, 1885.
Philadelphia.

A brief sketch of the paleontologic work done in 1884. A more ex-
tended review is published in the report of the Smithsonian Institution

for 1884.

Marcovu, J. B.—A Review of the Progress of North American Inverte-
brate Palaontology for 18384, Smithsonian Report for 1884, No. 610,
pp. 1-20. (1885. Washington.)

An attempt has been made to give a brief idea of the contents of
each work, the new genera and the species described, and the general
conclusions of the authors.

Marcou, J. B.—(Progress of North American Invertebrate Palon-
tology for 1884.) Nature, vol. Xxx, p. 116. 1885. London and
New York,
Notice of Mr. Marcou’s paper in the American Naturalist.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALA ONTOLOGY. Toe

Marcovu, J. B.—(Identification of Fossils and Strata of the Great Sioux
Reservation.) The Lignites of the Great Sioux Reservation, a Report
on the Region between the Grand and Moreau Rivers, Dakota, by
Bailey Willis. Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No, 21, p. 11. 1885. Wash-
ington.

A stratigraphic list of the fossils collected by Mr. Willis.

Marcov, J. B.—A List of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic Types in the Col-
lections of the U.S. National Museum. Proc. U. S. National Museum,
vol. VIII, pp. 290-344. 1885. Washington.

MA'TTHEW, G. F.—ltecent Discoveries in the Saint John Group. Cana-
dian Rec. Sci., vol. I (183485), pp. 136-141. Montreal.

This article also appeared in the Bull. Nat. Hist. Soc. New Brunswick,
No. Iv, pp. 97-102. 1885. Saint John, New Brunswick.

MATTHEW, G. F.—A New Genus of Cambrian Pteropods. Canadian
Ree. Sci., vol. 1 (1884-85) pp. 149-152, figs. 1-3 on p. 152. Mon-
treal.

Describes from the Saint John group, the new genus Camerotheca,
with the new species C. gracilis as the type. He refers to this genus
Hyolithes danianus (Bull. No. 10 U. S. Geol. Survey). In a note the
author states that, after seeing the specific description of Eichwald’s
typical species H. acutus, he considers it necessary to place Camerotheca
as a subgenus of Hyolithes.

MAI THEW, G. I’.—An Outline of Recent Discoveries in the Saint John
Group. With a Letter of Prof. Alpheus Hyatt relative to the Ptero-
pods. Bull. Nat. Hist. Soc. New Brunswick, No. tv, pp. 97-102. 1885.
Saint John, New Brunswick.

Gives a general sketch of the Saint John group and its fauna. Con-
siders it to more nearly represent the Solva group than the -Menevian.

(See Hyatt, Alpheus.)

MATTHEW, G. F.—Un the Probable Occurrence of the Great Welsh
Paradoxides, P. Davidis, in America. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol.
XXX, pp. 72,73. July, 1885. New Haven.

The author states that he has received from Mr. J. P. Howley, direc-
tor of the Geological Survey of Newfoundland, fragments which appear

to belong to the species Paradoxides Davidis. They occur in a hard

black silico-caleareous shale at Highland’s Cove, Trinity Bay, New-
foundland, in company with species of Agnostus, A. punctuosus Ang., A.
levigatus Dalm., A. Acadicus Hartt (var. declivis Matthew). These fos-
sils indicate a new horizon in the Paradoxides beds of America some-
what above that of Braintree, or the known horizons of Newfoundland
and New Brunswick. [It may also occur in the Cambrian slate of
Saint John, New Brunswick. |
H. Mis. 15 47

738 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

MATTHEW, G. F.—(On the Probable Occurrence of the Great Welsh
Paradoxides (P. davidis) in America. Nature, vol. XXXII, p. 358.
1885. London and New York.

Notice and abstract of Mr. Matthew’s paper in the Amer. Jour. Sci.

MATTHEW, G. F.—Note on the Genus Stenotheca. Geol. Mag., new
series, Decade III, vol. 11, pp. 425, 426. September, 1885. London.
Remarks on species from the Saint John group of Nova Scotia. The

author mentions five species as occurring in the Saint John group, and

makes some remarks on their affinities and habitat.

MATTHEW, G. F'.—Notice of a New Genus of Pteropods from the Saint
John Group (Cambrian). Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XXX, pp. 293,
294, figs. 1-3 on p. 294. October, 1885. New Haven.

Describes the new genus Diplotheca acadica Hartt, sp. var. crassa, D.

Hyattiana, and D. Hyattiana var. caudata.

MATTHEW, G. I’.—Illustrations of the Fauna of the Saint John Group
continued. On the Conocoryphea, with further remarks on Paradox-
ides. Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada, vol. 11, section iv, 1884, pp. 99-124,
pl. i. (1885. Montreal.)

The author gives further descriptions of Paradoxides acadicus, fig. i,
of the young of the species; also describes Paradoxides lamellatus Hartt,
figs. 3 and 4. On fig. 5 the author reproduces a pygidium incorrectly
figured in connection with his former paper. (See fig. 15, pl. x, vol. I,
Trans. Roy. Soc. of Canada.) The author suggests that the name Para-
doxides Micmac be applied to the species fig. 8, pl. x, vol. 1, Trans. Roy.
Soc. of Canada. This is probably the specimen figured in “Acadian
Geology.” The author divides Conocoryphea into two groups: Ctenoce-
phalus Corda and Oonocoryphea Corda; gives a detailed description of
Ctenocephalus Matthewi Hartt sp. (figs. 6-21, pp. 103-111) and its devel-
opmeut and growth. The same thing is done for Conocoryphe Baileyi
Hartt sp. (figs. 22-27, pp. 111-114), and Conocoryphe elegans Hartt. sp.
(figs. 28-34, pp. 115-119). The author also describes the new species
Conocoryphe Walcotti (figs. 36 and 36), pp. 119,120). Makes general
comparisons and conclusions on pp. 120-123.

[MILNE, EDwARDs H.]|.—Structure des Trilobites. Ann. des Sci. Nat.,
Sixiéme Sér., vol. x11, Art. 3, p. 33, pls. i-iii. 1881. Paris.

A review of C. D. Walcott’s Organization of Trilobites. (Not seen.)

MorRRIS, CHARLES.—The Primary Conditions of Fossilization. Proce.
Acad. Nat., Sci. Philad., vol.—, pp. 97-101. July, 1885. Philadelphia.
An interesting paper containing some slight discrepancies and with

some of the premises of which many people will disagree. The author —

reaches the conclusion that ‘ fossilization of animal forms was not pos- —
sible until, after a long period of evolution, the power of secreting hard ~

N, A. INVERTEBRATE PALZ ONTOLOGY. 739

external coverings was gained. The author says that there can be no
question that the trilobite had foes stronger than himself, against whom
he found defense only in his chitinous armor,’ but he says nothing of
the necessity of weapons of attack in these supposed foes.

- MoRRIsS, CHARLES.—Attack and Defense as Agents in Animal Evolu-

tion. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philad., vol. —, pp. 385-392. December,

1885, Philadelphia.

Early fossilization is due to the preservation of the dermal skeletons
of animals of considerably advanced organization, and those were proba-
bly preceded during a long era by soft-bodied forms of low organization.

’ Yet, after the advent of armored animals, it is probable that the seas

were still tenanted by numerous soft-bodied forms, mainly swimmers,
the progenitors of the many naked ocean swimmers which still exist.
Later the tendency is no longer to assume armor, but to throw it off
and return toward the unprotected condition. Finally, in the human
species, even the covering of hairsis nearly lost, and in external condition
the highest form of animal life approaches the lowest. The armored
cephalopods have gradually disappeared till only the Nautilus remains.
The unarmored forms have rapidly increased until they abundantly
people the modern seas. The changes described have taken place under
the influence of one of the most active agents in evolution, that of the
reciprocal influence of attack and defense on animal structure. Thus
we seem to perceive four successive ideas emerging into prominence in
the development of the animal kingdom. In the primeval epoch it is
probable that only soft-bodied animals existed, and the weapons of as-
sault were the tentacle, the thread cell, the sucking disk, and the like
unindurated weapons. At a later period armor became generally
adopted tor defense, and the tooth became the most efficient weapon of

_ attack, till later armor was discarded, and flight or concealment be-

came the main method of escape, and swift pursuit the principle of at
tack, while claws were added to teeth as assailing weapons. Finally,
mentality came into play, intelligence became the most efficient agent
both in attack and defense, and a special development of the mind be-
gan.

The article is so condensed as to render it difficult to give a brief sy-
nopsis of it.

MEYER, OrTTo.—The Genealogy and the Age of the Species in the South-
ern Old-Tertiary. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XX1x, pp. 457-468;
vol. XXX, pp. 60-72, and 421-435, figs. a-c,on p. 70. June, July, and
December, 1885. New Haven.

The author considers that the succession is just the contrary from
what has ordinarily been supposed, the Vicksburg being the oldest,
and the Claiborne the most recent formation. The article is divided
into three parts.
T40 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Part I. The genealogical relations of the species. In the first part
the author characterizes and partly describes the following new species:
Discoflustrellaria Jacksonensis, Limopsis radiatus, Astarte sulcata, var.
Jacksonensis, A. (Micromeris) parva Lea, var. Vicksburgensis, Venericar-
dia diversidentata, V. parva Lea, var. Jacksonensis, V. inflatior, V. in-
flatior var. Jacksonensis, Cytherea Jacksonensis, Tellina Vicksburgensis
Conrad, var. robusta, Periploma Claibornensis Lea, var. parva, Mactra
inornata, Corbula Willistoni, Dentalium subcompressum, D. Leai, D.
Danai, Cadulus Jacksonensis, C. Vicksburgensis, Teinostoma subrotunda,
T. angularis, T. Verrilli, Natica decipiens, Distortrix Jacksonensis, Fusus
Bettgeri, Turbinella humilior, Fulgur filius, Marginella incurva Lea, var.
Jacksonensis, Oliva media, Pleurotoma exculpata, Conus protracta, C.
Jacksonensis, Acton annectens. Gives a table showing the successional
relations of the Vicksburg, Jackson, and Claiborne species.

Part I. The age of the Vicksburg and the Jackson beds. This part
is mostly made up of bibliographical extracts and the author’s inter-
pretation of former writers’ works; he describes the new species Scal-
pellum Eocenense from stratum b of the Claibornian. The author’s views
the relative ages of the formations have already been cited above.

Part III. Reply to criticisms. The author defends his views against
the criticisms of E. W. Hilgard, E. A. Smith, and T. H. Aldrich, in the
October number of the Amer. Jour. Sci.

MEYER, OTTo.—(The Genealogy and Age of the Species in the Southern
Old Tertiaries.) Nature, vol. XxxiI, p. 358. 1885. London and New
York.

Notice of Dr. Meyer’s paper in the Amer. Jour. Sci., parts i and ii.

MEYER, OTTo.—The Classification and Paleontology of the U. 8S. Ter-
tiary Deposits. Science, vol. v, No. 125, p. 516. June, 1885. Cam-
. bridge.
Mr. Meyer refers people interested in his article to the second part of —
it in the July number of the American Journal.

MEYER, OTTO.—The Classification and Paleontology of the U.S. Ter-
tiary Deposits. Science, vol. V1, No. 133, pp. 143,144. August, 1885.
Cambridge.

An answer to Mr. Angelo Heilprin’s criticism on his work, published
in Science, July 31, 1885.

NEUMAYR, M.—J. E. Whiteaves: On the Fossils of Coal-Bearing De-
posits of the Queen Charlotte Island, collected by Dr. G. H. Dawson
in 1878. Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada. Mesozoic
Fossils, vol. 1, part 3. 1884. Montreal. On the Lower Cretaceous
Rocks of British Columbia, Transactions of the Royal Society of Canada,
Sect. iv, 1882, S. 81. Neu. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band ©
ii, pp. 115-117. Stuttgart. (Abstract.)

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAONTOLOGY. TAl1

NEWBERRY, J.S.—Description of some Peculiar Screw-like Fossils from
the Chemung Rocks. Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. 111, June, 1885, No.
7, pp. 217-220, pl. xviii. New York.

Describes the new genus Spiraxis and two species under it, S. major
and S. Randalli, from the Chemung group in Northern Pennsylvania
and Southern New York. No definite opinion is given as to the affini-
ties of the genus.

NEWBERRY, J. S.—Some Peculiar Screw-like Casts from the Sand-
stones of the Chemung Group of New York and Pennsylvania.
Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. 11, 1883-84, pp. 33,34. *1885. New York.
The new genus Spiraxis and species S. major and S. Randalli fully

described and figured in the Annals, vol. 11, No.7. The present de-

scriptions were read December 3, 1883.

NEWBERRY, J.S.—(Some Peculiar Screw-like Fossils from the Chemung
Rocks of Northern Pennsylvania and Southern New York.) Pop. Sei.
Monthly, vol. xxvu, p. 719. September, 1885. New York.

A notice and abstract of Professor Newberry’s article inthe Annals
of the New York Academy of Sciences.

NIcHOLSoN, H. A., and ETHERIDGE, ROBERT, Jr.—On the Synonymy,
Structure, and Geological Distribution of Solenoptera compacta, Bill-
ings sp. Geol. Mag., new series, Decade LI], vol. 11, pp. 529-535, pl.
xili. December, 1885. London.
Describes and discusses the relations, occurrence, and vacieties of the

fossil mentioned, originally described from the Black River limestone

under the Stromatopora compacta Billings.

NicHo.xson, H. A., and Foorp, A. H.—On the Genus Fistulipora Mc-
Coy, with descriptions of several species. Annals and Magazine of
Natural History, 5th series, vol. Xv1, pp. 496-517, pls. xv—xviil, figs.
1-6, pp. 497, 501, 507, 513, and 514. December, 1885. London.
Describes Fistulipora utriculus Rominger, from the Hamilton group

at Arkona, Ontario, Canada, and F’. eriensis Rominger, from the Ham-

ilton group at Canandaigua, Ontario County, New York.

PACKARD, A. 8.—Types of Carboniferous Xiphosura new to North
America. Amer. Nat., vol. Xtx, pp. 291-294. March, 1885. Phila-
delphia.

From the Carboniferous beds of Pittston, Pa., the author describes a
new species, Hupropis longispina. From Mazon Creek, Morris, IIl., he
describes a new species of Belinurus and one of Cyclus, two genera new
to this continent, and a new genus, Dipeltis, which he places among the
Cyclide for the present; the specific names are Belinurus lacwi, Cyclus
americanus, Dipeltis diplodiscus. Fuller descriptions, with illustrations
and measurements, will be published subsequently.
742 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR. 1885.

PACKARD, A. 8.—The Synecarida, a Group of Carboniferous Crustacea.
Amer. Nat., vol. x1x, pp. 700-703. July 1, 1885. Philadelphia.

Presents the conclusions of a paper read at the last meeting of the
National Academy of Sciences. The author considers the Syncarida as
a suborder, standing near or at the base of the Thoracostraca, not far
from the Siomapoda and Schizopoda, and with appendages closely homo-
logous with those of these two groups. In their lack of a carapace and
in the well formed dorsal arch of the seven thoracic segments, we are
obliged to consider them as an annectant group, pointing to the exist-
ence of some extinct group which may have still more closely connected
the sessile-eyed and stalk-eyed Crustacea.

[ PACKARD, A. S.]|—On the Gampsonychide, an Undescribed Family of
Fossil Schizopod Crustacea. Amer. Nat., vol. XIx, pp. 790-793. Au-
gust, 1885. Philadelphia.

Abstract of a paper read at the April meeting of the National Acad-
emy of Sciences. The study of about a dozen specimens of Palwocaris
typus Meek and Worthen, has led the author to compare the genus with
Gampsonyx, and the result has led to the formation of a family or higher
group for the two genera, which should properly stand at the base of
the Schizopoda, while also serving to bridge over the chasm existing
beween the thoracostracous suborders Syncarida and Schizopoda. This
group may be called Gampsonychide. The principal character which

_separates this group from all other schizopods is the entire absence of a
carapace. When we compare the Gampsonychide with the Syncaride

(Acanthotelson) we see that both groups have the same number of body

segments and that both lack a carapace; and thus while the Gampsony-

chide are the ancestors of living schizopods, the group as a whole proba-
bly descended from Acanthotelson, which is thus a truly synthetic form,
standing in an ancestral relation to all the Thoracostraca, while it also
suggests that the sessile-eyed and stalk-eyed Crustacea may have had
a common parentage.

PACKARD, A. S.—On the Anthracoridz, a Family of Carboniferous
Macrurous Decapod Crustacea, allied to the Eryonidze. Amer. Nat.,
vol. XIx, pp. 880, 881. September, 1885. Philadelphia.

Abstract of an article read before the National Academy of Sciences
in April, 1885. The author has had opportunity of studying specimens
of Anthrapalemon gracilis Meek and Worthen. The newly observed
characters are the carapace with its rostrum, showing that the Ameri-
can species in these respects closely resembles the European ones fig-
ured by Salter, the founder of the genus. Moreover, specimens show
the entire thoracic legs, while the antennz of both pairs were almost
entirely shown. The fact that the first pair of thoracic feet were scarcely
larger than the succeeding pairs shows that Anthrapalemon cannot be
placed in the Hryonide, but shouid form the type of a distinct group
of family rank, none of the existing Macrura having such small anterior

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALA ONTOLOGY. 143

legs. At the same time the Carboniferous Anthracarid@ were probably
the forerunners or ancestors of the Mesozoic and later Hryonide. From
the nature of the differentiation of the telson in the Galathcidw the
author is inclined to believe, from what he has observed from the speci-
mens before him, that the telson of Anthrapalemon is subdivided in
nearly the same manner. If so, the genus cannot be referred to the
Eryonide, and should therefore be regarded as the type of a distinct
family, which he calls Anthracaride, and briefly characterizes.

PEACH, B. N.—Ancient Air-breathers. Nature, vol. XXXI, pp. 295-298,
figs. 1 and 2 on pp. 296 and 297. 1885. London and New York.

A general review of Paleozoic scorpions; cites the genus Hoscorpius
Meek and Worthen. States that Professor Lindstrom shows that Pa-
leophoneus nuncius was a land animal and a true air-breather. Con-
siders that Gyrichnites, of the Lower Devonian of Gaspé, may have been
animals which supplied food to the ancient scorpions.

PEACH, B. N.—(Notice of.) (A Compendium to our Knowledge of the
Ancient Scorpions, Nature, January 29, 1885.) Amer. Nat., vol. XIX,
p. 706. July, 1885. Philadelphia.

Cites Meek and Worthen’s description of Hoscorpius in 1866.

PERRY, J. H.—Note on a Fossil Coal Plant found at the Graphite De-
posit in Mica Schist, at Worcester, Mass. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser.,
vol. XXIX, pp. 157, 158. February, 1885. New Haven.

Reports finding two specimens of Lepidodendron referred to Lepido-
dendron (Sagenaria) acuminatum Goeppert, by Prof. L. Lesquereux, who
says that they are the first specimens seen by him from America. Prof.
C. H. Hitchcock considered the mica schist of Huronian age.

POHLMAN, JULIUS, and WHITFIELD, R. P.—An American Silurian
Scorpion. Science, vol. v1, No. 135, pp. 183, 184, fig. on p. 183. Sep-
tember, 1885. Cambridge.

Mr. Pohlman states that the scorpion described by Professor Whit-
field on pages 87 and 88 of Science, vol. V1, is undoubtedly a young spec-
imen of Husarcus scorpionis (Grote and Pitt; Bulletin of the Buffalo
Society of Natural Sciences, vol. 111, pp. 1, 2), so named by an error,
and which will be redescribed as Hurypterus scorpionis in the forthcom-
ing vol. v of the society’s bulletin. He gives a figure of the youngest
specimen in his possession.

In a note Professor Whitfield gives his reasons for not believing the
fossil described by him to be the young of that or any other Eurypteroid.

RoGERS, W. B.—A Reprint of Geological Reports and other Papers on
the Geology of the Virginias, by the late William B. Rogers, pp.
{-xv, and 1-832, with six plates of fossils and maps in pockets. 1884,
New York.

Contains, amongst the other papers, a reprint of ‘‘ On the Age of the
TA4 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Coal Rocks of Eastern Virginia,” from Transactions of the Association
of American Geologists and Naturalists, 184042. Contains descrip-
tions of plants with one plate. Also a reprint of ‘‘ Contributions to the
Geology of the Tertiary Formations of Virginia,” by W. B. Rogers and
H. D. Rogers, from the Transactions of the American Philosophical
Society, Philadelphia, 1835 and 1837. Contains descriptions of Miocene
and Kocene fossils, with five plates.

[RocERs, W. B.].—Geology of the Virginias. Science, vol. v1, No. 126,
pp. 17,18. July, 1885. Cambridge.

A review of ‘ Reprint of Geological Reports and other Papers on the
Geology of the Virginias,” by the late William B. Rogers. 1884. New
York.

SCUDDER, S. H.—The Geological History of Myriopods and Arachnids.
Highth annual address of the retiring president of the Cambridge
Entomological Club. Psyche, vol. —, pp. 245-250. January-March,
1885. Cambridge.

A summary of our knowledge of the geologic history of the two
groups. The author also gives two tables of the geological distribution
of Myriopods and of Arachnids. (See Scudder, 8. H., in the Amer. Nat.,
vol. XIX, p. 1210, December, 1885.)

SCUDDER, 8S. H.—Description of an Articulate of Doubtful Relationship
from the Tertiary Beds of Florissant, Colo., Memoirs of the National
Academy of Sciences, vol. 111, pp. 1-6, figs. 1-3 on p. 3 (read at Wash-
ington, April 20, 1882), published 1885.

The form is called Planocephalus* aselloides. Three figures of it are
given on page 3; its relations are carefully discussed, and the author
concludes that its place is‘'among the Thysanura, between the Cinura
and the Symphyla; that it is of equivalent value to them, and for this
new group proposes the name of Ballostoma.

SCUDDER, S. H.—New Genera and Species of Fossil Cockroaches from
the Older American Rocks. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., vol. —, pp.
34-39. April, 1885. Philadelphia.

Describes the new genus Promylacris,} and the species P. ovale, and
the new genus Paromylacrist and the species P. rotundum. These
two genera of Mylacride are from the Carboniferous deposits of Mazon
Creek, Illinois. Of the’ Blattinarie he describes the following new
genera and species from the Triassic beds of Fairplay, Colo.: Spilo-

* Planocephalus n. g. from zAavaw, xe@paan. t po, wviaxpts.
t wapos, uvaAanpis. § OmzAds, Blattina.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAONTOLOGY. (45

equa, P. Meieri, Poroblattina,* P. arcuata, P. Lakesti, and Oryctoblattina
occidua trom the Carboniferous of Mazon Creek, Ilinois.

ScuppER, S. H.—New Genera and Species of Fossil Cockroaches. An-
nals and Magazine of Natural History, 5th ser., vol. XV, pp. 408-4.4.
May, 1885. London.

Reprinted from the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. —, March

10, 1885, pp. 54-39.

ScuDDER, S. H.—Notes on Mesozoic Cockroaches. Proce. Acad. Nat. Sct.

Philad., vol. —, pp. 105-115. July, 1885. Philadelphia.

These notes are divided into three parts. The first is on Pterinoblat-
tina,t a remarkable type of Paleoblattina ; Blattapluma Giet is the
type of the new genus, and the following new species are described
under it: P. penna, P. intermizxta; Blattina chrysea E. Geinitz, Recania
hospes Germ., and R. gigas Weyenb., are also referred to it. The second
part is on “Triassic Blattaria from Colorado.” In it two new genera
and several species are deseribed: Neorthroblattina,t N. albolineata, N.
Lakesii, N. rotundata, N. attenuata, Scutinoblattina,§ S. Brongniarti, S.
intermedia, S. recta. The third part is ‘*On the genera hitherto pro-
posed for Mesozoic Blattarie.” This is a brief revisionof these genera.

ScuDDER, S. H.—Notes on Mesozoic Cockroaches. Annals and Maga-
zine of Natural History, 5th series, vol. XVI, pp. 54-64. July, 1885.
London.

A reprint, from the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., 1885, pp. 105-
115.

ScuDDER, S. H.—The Relations of the Paleozoic Insects. Amer. Nat.,
vol. XIx, pp. 876-878. September, 1885. Philadelphia.

Abstract of a paper read by Mr. 8S. H. Seudder at the April, 18385,
meeting of the National Academy of Sciences. The author states that
while we may recognize in the Paleozoic rocks insects which were plainly
precursors of existing Heterometabola, we may yet not call these Orthop-
tera, Neuroptera, &c., since ordinal features were not differentiated; but
all Paleozoic insects belonged to a single order which, enlarging its
. scope, as outlined by Goldenberg, we may call Palwodictyoptera ; in other
words, the Paleozoic insect was a generalized Hexapod, or more par-
ticularly a generalized Heterometabolon. Ordinal differentiation had
not begun in Paleozoic times.

We find, then, that the entire change from the generalized hexapod
to the ordinarily specialized hexapod was made in the interval between
the close of the Palzeozoic period and the middle, we may say, of the
Mesozoic. These significant changes were ushered in with the dawn of
the Mesozoic period, and the Triassic rocks became naturally (together

* wopos, Blattina. taréptivos. t véos, opvos. § OxuvT1v 0S.
TAG SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

with the Silurian) the most important, the expectant ground of the stu-
dent of paleontology.

It would then appear that the geological history of winged insects, so
far as we know from present indications, may be summed up in a very
few words. Appearing in the Silurian period, insects continued through-
out Paleozoic times as a generalized form of Heterometabola, which, for
convenience, we have called Palwodictyoptera, and which had the front
wings as well as the hind wings membranous.

Un the advent of Mesozoic times a great differentiation took place,
and before its middle all the orders, both of Heterometabola and Metabola,
were fully developed in all their essential features as they exist to-day;
the more highly organized Metabola at first in feeble numbers, but to-day,
and even in Tertiary times, as the prevailing types. The Metabola have
from the first retained the membranous character of the front wings,
while in most of the Heterometabola, which were more closely and di-
rectly connected with Paleozoic types, the front wings were, even in
Mesozoic times, more or less completely differentiated from the hind
wings as a sort of protection covering to the latter, and these became
the principal organs of flight.

ScuppDER, 8S. H.—(A Contribution to the Geological History of Myrio-
pods and Arachnids, in Psyche). Amer. Nat., vol. XIx, pp. 1210, 1211.
December, 1885. Philadelphia.

An abstract of Mr. Seudder’s article in Psyche.

The great Archipolypoda resemble the Diplopoda in having two pairs
of legs on every segment; while in the Protosygnatha only a single pair
of legs is borne by each segment, and the group thus resembles the
Chilopoda. For a brief period after leaving the egg, modern diplopods
and pauropods have a shorter body than in after life, and the first three
segments bear but a single pair of legs. In adult life these first three
segments stiil bear but a single pair of limbs, while all the other seg-
ments, both those which exist in the larval state and those which de-
velop afterwards, bear two pairs. The Chilopoda have these same
anterior pairs of limbs early and permanently developed as organs of
manducation, while all other segments have but a single pair. Palzon-
tologic evidence is in favor of the view that the dorsal scutes of Diplo-
poda are compound. The archipolypodous type is the oldest, and there
is evideuce that some of the Carboniferous forms were amphibious. The
group culminated in the Carboniferous, and does not appear to occur
later than the Dyas, while, with one doubtful exception, no true diplo-
pod is known to be older than the Oligocene. According to S. H. Seud-
der, between twenty and thirty species of pre-Tertiary Arachnida are
now known, and the earlier forms, chiefly of Carboniferous age, belong
either to the Scorpionides or to the Anthracomarti, a group which is
not known later than Palxozoic times, the only Mesozoic arachnids yet
known being true spiders.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAONTOLOGY. T47

SEELY, H. M.—A new Genus of Chazy Sponges, Strephochetus. Amer.
Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XXX, pp. 355-357, figs. 1-3 on p, 356. Novem-
ber, 1885. New Haven.

Describes the new genus Strephochetus,* of which 8. oscellatus is de-
scribed as the type. It occurs in connection with well recognized Chazy
forms, and especially with Maclurea magna. It is found in place in the
town of Addison, Bridport, &c., in Addison County, Vermont.

SuitH, E. A.—Remarks on a Paper of Dr. Otto Meyer on “ Species in
the Southern Old Tertiary.” Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XXX, pp.
270-275. October, 1885. New Haven.

Criticises Dr. Otto Meyer’s views, corrects his quotations of Sir
Charles Lyell, and offers two kinds of evidence of the superposition of
the white limestone above the Claiborne sands, (a) evidence from direct
superposition, (b) from geographical position.

STEINMANN, GusTAV.—A. H. Ford: On Three new Species of Monticu-
liporoid Corals. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 5, vol. XIII, pp. 338-342,
and xu, 1884. New. Jahrb. fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band II, p.
205. Stuttgart. (Abstract.)

Unie V.—A. Hyatt: Fossil Cephalopoda in the Museum of Compara-
tive Zoology. Proceedings of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, vol. Xxxi1, August, 1883. 8vo. Neu. Jahrb.
fur Min. Geol. & Pal., 1885, Band 1, pp. 324-829. Stuttgart. (Ab-
tract.)

WACHSMUTH, C., and BARRIS, W. H.—Descriptions of new Crinoids
and Blasteids from the Hamilton Group of Iowa and Michigan, pp.
1-25, pls. i, ii, figs. 1-3 on pp. 9 and 18.

This is a collection of several articles. The first is taken from the
Proceedings Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences, vol. Iv, p. 76, as
are also the two plates, and probably the articles also; but I have no
means at present of ascertaining that fact. The various articles are as
follows:

(1) On a new Genus and Species of Blastoids, with Observations
upon the Structure of the Basal Plates in Codaster and Pentremites.
By Charles Wachsmuth. [This article, which appeared in the Geolog-
ical Report of Illinois, vol. vu, p. 346, has been revised by the author. ]

(2) Descriptions of some new Blastoids from the Hamilton Group.
By W. H. Barris. [This article also appeared in the Geological Report
of Illinois, vol Vil, p. 357.|

(3) Description of a new Crinoid from the Hamilton Group of Michi-
gan. By Charles Wachsmuth. Describes Megistocrinus concavus as a
new species.

(4) Descriptions of some new Crinoids from the Hamilton Group.

*orpt@pa, I twine; dyerdc, canal.
7A8 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

By W. H. Barris. (Presented before the arvenpanh Austen of Sei-
ences, 1883.) Describes the new variety Megistocrinus nodosus, var.
multide-coratus and Dolatocrinus triadactylus.

(5) Stereocrinus Barris. (Revised.) By W. H. Barris.

WACHSMUTH, CHARLES, and SPRINGER, FRANK.—Revision of the Pa-
leocrinoidea. Part iii. Discussion of the Classification and Rela-
tions of the Brachiate Crinoids, and Conclusion of the Generic De-
scriptions. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., vol. —, pp. 225-364, pls.
iv-ix. December, 1885. Philadelphia.

An author’s edition with a distinct pagination has also been pub-
lished. This contains only the first section of*part iii. The second
section, containing the Articulata and Inadunata, has been referred by
the Philadelphia Academy to their Proceedings of 1886. The authors
givean elaborate discussion of thestructure of the Palwocrinoidea, which
they divide into three groups. The name “ Camarata” is proposed for
all Paleocrinoidea, in which the lower arm plates are incorporated into
the calyx by interradial plates, and in which all the component parts.
of the test, dorsally and ventrally, are solidly connected by suture.
Under the name “ Articulata” they include those families in which the
plates of the test are united by loose ligaments or muscles, and in which
they are somewhat movable. The name “ Inadunata” is proposed for
all Palwocrinoidea in which the arms are free above the first radials
and which have five single interradials located ventrally. The pre-
liminary discussion is subdivided under the following heads:

(1) The plates of the abactinal system. A. The basals and underba-
sals. B. The radial and arm plates. ©. The interradial, interaxillary,
and interbrachial plates. From the observations under this head the
authors draw the following conclusions, viz: (1) Interradials are rep-
resented in all groups of the Palwocrinoidea. They were developed in
the larva, attained at once large proportions, and persisted through life
or were resorbed on approaching maturity. (2) They extend invari-
ably to the proximals, or even cover them completely. (3) They are
more extravagantly developed in the earlier groups, not always in num-
ber, but by extending over comparatively larger space. (4) In all
groups in which the arms are free from the first radials they are repre-
sented by only five single plates, and these are located ventrally.
Groups with two or more radials have two at least, and the number
increases in proportion to the increase of the radials, by means of which
the lower series attain gradually a dorsal ee D. The anal
plates and anal tube.

(2) The plates of the actinal system. A. The summit plates. The
authors think that the orals, if these are developed in Palwocrinoidea,
which they think is the case, can only be represented by the central
plate. A resorption of the summit plates may have taken place in the

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. TAI

later Inadunata ; throughout the Camarata they persisted through life.
B. The ventral perisome.

(3) The relations of the Palwocrinoidea to the Neocrinoidea. Give a
definition of the two groups.

(4) Classification. The following classification is adopted, viz:

PHYLUM ECHINODERMATA.

Class Pelmatozoa.

Subclass I. Anthodiata. Subclass II. Crinoidea (Brachiata).
Order I. Cystidea, &e. Order III. Palaocrinoidea.
Order II. Blastoidea. Order IV. Neocrinoidea.

Definitions of the class Pelmatozoa and subclass Crinoidea are given.

(5) The subdivisions of the Palawocrinoidea. These have already been
mentioned.

The suborder Camarata is divided into ten families, which are de
fined; they are as follows: (A) Reteocrinide, (B) Rhodocrinide, (C)
Glyptasteride, (D) Melocrinide, (KE) Actinocrinida, (F) Platycrinida,
(G) Hexacrinida, (H) Acrocrinide, (1) Barrandeocrinida, (J) Euca-
lyptocrinide. Under the first family, Reteocrinida, the new genus Can-
istrocrinus* is described. Under the second family, Rhodocrinide, the
new genus Rhaphanocrinust is described. Under the third family, Glyp-
tasterida@, the new genus Ptychocrinust is described.

The work contains descriptions of the genera that were not consid-
ered in parts i and ii, and the results of the authors’ further studies in
their bearing on the genera heretofore discussed. The figures have
been very well drawn by M. Orestes St. John.

WALCOTT, CHARLES D.—Paleontology of the Eureka District. Pop.
Sci. Monthly, vol. Xxvil, p. 134. November, 1885. New York.
Notice and very brief abstract of Mr. Walcott’s Monograph, U. S.

Geol. Survey, vol. VII.

WALCOTT, CHARLES D.—Description of the [Deer Creek, Arizona]
Coal-field. (Letter from the Secretary of the Interior, transmitting,
in compliance with law, letter of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
with report upon the coal on the White Mountain Reservation in Ari-
zona. Senate Ex. Doc., No. 20, Forty-eighth Congress, second session,
Appendix I, pp. 5-7. 1885. Washington.)

Gives a list of the fossils collected from the Carboniferous and De-
vonian limestones. Refers the coal-beds to the Cretaceous, and gives
the genera of plants found in them, as identified by Mr. L. F. Ward.

* Kav16 rpor, a willow basket ; xpzvor, a lily.
tPa@pavos, aradish; xpzvor, a lily.
t rvé, a fold; xptvor, a lily.
750 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

WaALcorr, CHARLES D.—Paleontologic Notes. Amer. Journ. Sci., 3d
ser., Vol. XXIX, pp. 114-117, pl. on p.116. February, 1885. New Haven.

In this paper Mr. Walcott publishes a list of the species he found in .

the Hartt collection from the Saint John group of New Brunswick, at Cor-
nell University. He proposes and defines a new genus of the Obolida,
Linnarssonia n. g., Walcott, 1885. Illustrations accompany the de-
scription of this new genus; figs. 1 and 2 are given as those of Obolella
chromatica, and credited to Mr. Billings. The artist, in preparing the
figures, copied, by mistake, those of Obolella crassa Ford.

WALcoTT, CHARLES D.—Paleozoic Notes; new Genus of Cambrian

Trilobites, Mesonacis. Amer, Journ. Sci., vol. XXTX, pp. 328-330, figs.

1 and 2 on p. 329. April, 1885. New Haven.

Describes the new genus Mesonacis from the Middle Cambrian, at
Parker’s quarry, Georgia, Vt., and substitutes the uame Bailiella for the
subgenus Salteria, proposed by him in Bull. No. 10, U. 8S. Geol. Survey.
1884. Washington.

Waxcorr, CHARLES D.—Description of Mesonacis, a new Genus of
Cambrian Trilobite. Amer. Nat., vol. x1x, p. 707. July, 1885. Phila-
delphia.

(Notice. See Walcott, Charles D. Amer. Jour. Sci., April, 1885.)

WaLcortt, CHARLES D.—Paleozoic Notes ; new Genus of Cambrian Tri-
lobites, Mesonacis. Nature, vol. Xxxtl, p. 68. 1885. London and
New York.

Notice of Mr. Waleott’s paper in the Amer. Journ. Sci.

WaALcorr, CHARLES D.—Note on some Paleozoic Pterpods. Amer.
Journ. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XXX, pp. 17-21, figs. 1-6 on p.20. July, 1885.
New Haven.

Describes the new genus Matthevia, of which M. variabilis is described
as the type from Cambrian limestone resting on Potsdam sandstone,
1 mile northwest of Saratoga Springs, N. Y. Records some additional
characters of Hyolithes (Camarotheca) Emmonsi Ford.

The characters of Matthevia diifer so much from all described forms
of Pteropoda that the author proposes the new family Matthevide to re-
ceive it.

WaLcorr, CHARLES D.—Note on some Paleozoic Pteropods. Nature,
vol. XXXII, p. 358. 1885. London and New York.

Notice and abstract of Mr. Walcott’s paper in the Amer. Journ. Sct.
Warp, L. F.—The Fossil Flora of the Globe. The Botanical Gazette,

vol. 1X, pp. 169-174. November, 1884. Indianapolis.

Abstract prepared by the author of a paper read before the Amer.
Assoc. Adv. Sci. 1884, Philadelphia.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAONTOLOGY. (Gul

Historical view, pp. 169,170; Geological view, pp. 170,171; Botani-
cal view, pp. 171-174, and a table showing the ‘‘ Number of Species of
each of the Principal Types of Vegetation that have been found Fossil
in each Geological Formation ; also, the number existing at the present
time, as nearly as it is possible to ascertain, together with the percent-
age that each type forms of the total flora of each formation,” pp. 172,
173.

WarRD, L. F.—A Glance at the History of our Knowledge of Fossil
Plants. Science, vol. v, pp. 93-95. January, 1885. Cambridge.

Warp, L. F.—Chronology of the Fossil Flora. Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol.
XXxvI, p. 574. February, 1885. New York.
A brief abstract of Mr. Ward’s review of what is known of the fossil
flora of the globe before the Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci.

WARD, L. '.— Historical View of the Fossil Flora of the Globe. Proc.
Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., vol. XXXII, part ii, pp. 493-495. 1885. Salem.
Abstract. Says that the first attempt to place vegetable palzontol-

ogy on the footing of a systematic science was made by the Rev. Henry

Steinhaver, of Bethlehem, Pa., in a paper read before the Amer. Phil.

Soe., and published in its ‘‘ Proceedings” for the year 1818.

WaAkD, L. F.—Geological View of the Fossil Flora of the Globe. Proc.
Amer. Assoc. Adv. Set., vol. XXXII, part ii, pp. 495, 496. 1885. Salem.

(Abstract. Gives the number of species occurring in the different
formations.)

Warp, L. F.—Botanical View of the Fossil Flora of the Globe. Proce.
Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., vol. XXXII, partii, pp. 496, 497. 1885. Salem.

Abstract. Gives an account of the first appearance of types of the age
of the maximum relative predominance of each type, and of the proba-
ble true period of origin and of maximum absolute development of each
type.

Warp, L. F.—Evolution in the Vegetable Kingdom. Amer. Nat., vol.
XIX, pp. 637-644 and pp. 745-753. July and August, 1885. Philadel-
phia.

An inquiry as to what vegetable palzontology has to present in favor
of evolution in plants. The subject is considered under three somewhat
distinct points of view, the historical, the geological, and the botanical.
Gives a diagram (p. 749) representing graphically the development of
plant life through the successive geologic ages. Gives a diagram show-
ing the progress of each of the leading types of plant life in the differ-
ent geologic ages (p. 752).

Warp, L. F.—Evolution in the Vegetable Kingdom, Nature, vol.
XXxIT, p. 568. 1885. London and New York.

' Notice of Mr. Ward’s paper in the American Naturalist.
152 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

WARD, L. F.—Fontaine’s Older Mesozoic Flora of Virginia. Science,
vol. v, No. 113, pp. 280, 281. April, 1885. Cambridge.

A review of ‘Contributions to the Knowledge of the Older Mes-
ozoic Flora of Virginia, by William Morris Fontaine. Washington,
1883. 12-144 pp., 54 pls. Monographs of the U. S. Geological Survey,
No. vi.” The reviewer, while differing slightly from Mr. Fontaine’s
analysis of the facts, agrees with him in correlating the Richmond
coal-fields with the Rhetic of Europe. The reviewer further states
that the ‘‘seven Jurassic species are mostly from the Lias, or Lower
Oolite, which, while not negativing the Rhetic character of the Vir-
ginia beds, does seem, when coupled with the rest of the evidence,
to negative their Triassic character.” From this remark it would seem
that the reviewer considers the Rhetic as of Jurassic rather than Tri-
assic age, a conclusion he is hardly justified in assuming.

Warp, L. F.—Lesquereux’s Cretaceous and Tertiary Flora. Science,
vol. V, No. 116, pp. 348, 349. April, 1885. Cambridge.

A review of ‘‘ Contributions to the Fossil Flora of the Western Terri-
tories. Part iii. The Cretaceous and Tertiary Floras, by Leo. Les-
quereux. Rep. U. S. Geol. Survey Terr. F.V. Hayden, U.S. Geolo-
gist, in charge. Vol. vill, pp. 12, 238, pls. 59. 4to.” 1884. Govern-
ment. Washington.

WHITE, C. A.—The Application of Biology to Geological History ; a
presidental address delivered at the fifth anniversary meeting of the
Biological Society of Washington, January 24,1885. Proc. Biol. Soe.
Washington, vol. 111, pp. 1-20. 1885. Washington.

Concludes that the field geologist and paleontologist must work in
concert. Indeed, the field geologist who ignores the use of fossils, as
some have affected to do, is sure to burden science with the results of
worthless work, and the paleontologist who does not go to the field and
study there the formations from which his fossils have been obtained is
sure to produce results of work which will be worthy of the condemna-
tion of both geologists and biologists.

Wuits, C. A.—Notes on the Jurassic Strata of North America. Amer.
Journ. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XXIX, pp. 228-232. March, 1885. New Ha-
ven.

A criticism of Mr. J. F. Whiteaves’s views as expressed in “ Mesozoic
Fossils, vol. 1, part iii, Geol. Survey, Canada, 1884.” The author criti-
cises the identification of nine species of fossils from the Cretaceous strata
of British Columbia with fossils considered Jurassic in the United
States, and considers the identity of the beds containing them as in no
measure proved.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALA ONTOLOGY. tao

WHITE, C. A.—Notes on the Jurassic Strata of North America. Na-
ture, vol. XXXI, p. 522. 1885. London and New York.

(Notice and abstract of Dr. White’s article in the Amer. Journ. Sci-
ence.)

Waite, C. A.—The Genus Pyrgulifera, Meek, and its Associates and
Congeners. Amer. Journ. Set., 5d ser., vol. XXIX, pp. 277-280. April,
1885. New Haven.

Calls attention to the probable identity of the genus Pyrgulifera of
the Bear River group of North America, the fresh-water Upper Creta-
ceous of Hungary, and the living shells in Lake Tanganyika. Dr. Leo-
pold Tausch considers that he has found the type species, P. humerora,
in Hungary. This wide extensive range of fresh or brackish water
forms, both in time and space, is very difficult to understand and ex-
plain, and has also an extreme interest in relation to the assumed equiv-
alency of formations which bear similar faunas.

Wuite, C. A.—(The Genus Pyrgulitera, Meek, and its Associates and
Congeners.) Nature, vol. xxxtl, p. 68. 1885. London and New
York.

Notice and abstract of Dr. White’s paper in the Amer. Journ. Science.

WHITE, C. A.—On the Mesozoic and Cenozoic Paleontology of Califor-
nia. Bull. U. 8. Geol. Survey, No. 15, pp. 1-33. 1885. Washington.

The author considers that the Chico-Tejon groups are an unbroken
series of strata, and together represent the closing epoch of the Creta-
ceous and the opening or Eocene epoch of the Tertiary. The unbroken
continuity of the series is best illustrated near New Idria, Fresno County;
still, there is there, near the middle, a recognizable change in the aspect
of the strata, so that in appearance, and to some extent in the character,
of the stratification the upper half differs from the lower half.

In the Shasta group Dr. White considers the Knoxville beds as older
than the Horsetown beds. The Cretaceous of British Columbia and
Alaska he considers as probably the equivalent of the Knoxville beds.
This conclusion is based on the occurrence of Aucella. The author
considers Aucella erringtonii and A. piochii Gabb as identical, and as
varieties of Aucella concentrica Fischer, and on this account considers
the so-called Jurassic auriferous slate as of the same age as the Knox-
ville beds of the Shasta group, and considers the existence of the Ju-
rassic in California as very doubtful. The fauna of the Knoxville beds
of the Shasta group extends from Alaska southward at least as far as
Central California. Some fossils from Southern Mexico apparently come
from strata of the same age. No rocks of that age are known to exist to
the eastward of the probable site of that belt; and, finally, the Jurassic
fauna of the strata which lie to the eastward of the assumed site of the
belt is entirely different from that of the Jurassic strata to the west-
ward of it. The author throws out the Martinez group and considers

H. Mis, 15——48
T54 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

that there is an unbroken stratigraphical and faunal continuity from
the Cretaceous to the Tertiary in the Chico-Tejon series. The Shasta
group is divided into two divisions, the Knoxville beds and the Horse-
town. The latter probably represents the Gault and the former the
Lower Neocomian, and there is probably a hiatus between these two
divisions. The Knoxville beds are regarded as having been synchron-
ously deposited with the Aucella-bearing strata which have been found
at various points along the northwest coast of North America, and also
as homotaxially equivalent with those which in Northern Europe and
Asia bear the same species of Aucella. .

No species of fossils yet found in the California Cretaceous rocks
have been satisfactorily identified with any which occur in strata to the
eastward of the Sierra Nevada. The reasons for this view are given in
detail in the form of remarks on each specific identification.

This difference in fauna is believed to have been due to the presence
of a comparatively narrow but long continental belt which existed in
the region which now comprises that of the Pacific coast, continuing
from a time at least as early as the earliest epoch of the Cretaceous
period.

WHITE, C. A.—On Marine Eocene, Fresh-water Eocene, and other
Fossil MoWusea of Western North America. Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey,
No. 18, pp. 1-26, pls. i-iii, figs. 1-3 on p.19. 1885. Washington.
This article is divided into several parts, as follows:

(1) The occurrence of Cardita planicosta Lamarck in Western Oregon.
(2) Fossil mollusca from the John Day group in Eastern Oregon.

These fossils not only all belong to the types which are now living in

or near the same region where the fossil forms are found, but a part of

the latter are so nearly like the species that the author bas not thought.
it advisable to separate them. The species are all different from any
that have been hitherto known in a fossil’s condition. The new species,

Unio condoni, is deseribed, and the description of Helix (Monodon) dallit

is given from Dr. R. KE. C. Stearns’s manuscript.

(3) Supplementary notes on the non-marine fossil mollusca of North

America. Some additions and corrections for the illustrations on page

19 are made to the above work.

Wuiter, C. A.—On new Cretaceous Fossils from California. Bull. U.S.
Geological Survey, No. 22, pp. 1-25, pls. i-v. 1885. Washington.
The author regards the Todos Santos Bay locality, upon paleonto-

logic grounds, as equivalent with the Wallala beds, which Dr. Becker

considers similar to the Chico group. Dr. White thinks they probably
occupy a position between the Chico and Shasta groups. At Wallala,

Mendocino County, Dr. Becker found the strata several thousand feet

thick, resting upon a metamorphic series which he believes to be equiva-

lent with the Knoxville beds of the Shasta group, but he was unable to
discover any contact with the strata above them. The character of the

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAZONTOLOGY. 155

fossils seems to indicate for them the age of the Middle Cretaceous;
and in some respects they remind one of the Gosau formation of Europe.
The author describes the new genus Coralliochama ; with C. orcutti as its
type, he places it among the Chamide. The following new species are
also described: Trochus (Oxystele) ewryostomus, Nerita ?, Cerithium,
Pillingi, C. totium-sanetorum, Solarium wallalense.

WHITEAVES, J. F.—Report on the Invertebrata of the Laramie and
Cretaceous Rocks of the Vicinity of the Bow and Belly Rivers and
Adjacent Localities in the Northwest Territory. Geol. and Nat. Hist.
Surv. Canada, A. R.C. Selwyn, director. Contributions to Canadian
Paleontology, vol. I, part i, pp. 1-89, pls. i-xi. 1885. Montreal.
From the Laramie of the Willow Creek series the author describes

Unio Albertensis. From the Saint Mary’s River series and lower portion

of the Laramie generally he describes the following new species: Ano-

mia perstrigosa, Corbicula obliqua, Corbula perangulatu, Panopea simul-
atriz, P. curta, Acella 2, Physa Copei, var. Canadensis, Acroloxus
radiatulus, Patula angulifera, P. obtusata, Anchistoma parvulum, Valvata

Jjilosa, V. bicincta. Nonewspecies are described from the Laramie of the

Souris River district.

The following new forms are described from the “Fox Hills” and
“Fort Pierre” groups of the Upper Cretaceous: Gervillia recta, var.
borealis, Modiola (Brachydontes) dichotoma, Cyprina ovata, var. alta, Pro-
tocardia borealis, Panopea subovalis, Scaphites subglobosus.

The Belly River series, which the author thinks it would be imprac-
ticable on purely paleontological evidence to separate from the Lara-
mie and more especially from the ‘Judith River group.” From the Pale
or upper portion of the series, two new species are described, Crenelia (?)
parvula, Unio consuetus ; from the lower or yellowish and banded por-
tion of the series the following new species are described: Unio supra-
gibbosus, Khytophorus (?) glaber, Planorbis paucivolvis, Hydrobia subcylin-
dracea. A number of fossils are mentioned as occurring in the “ Lower
Dark Shales” of Dr. Dawson’s report, but no more new species are
described. A number of fossils are also mentioned from uncertain
geological horizons. :

WHITEAVES, J. F.—Notes on the possible Age of some of the Mesozoic
Rocks of the Queen Charlotte Islands and British Columbia. Amer.
Journ. Sct., 3d ser., vol. XXIX, pp. 444-449. June, 1885. New Haven.
The author reviews some previously expressed opinions on the age of

the Mesozoic rocks mentioned, as well as on the age of the Aucella-

bearing rocks of Europe, and criticises Dr. White’s remarks on his
identification of nine species with Jurassic fossils of the Territories.

WHITEAVES, J. I’.—Notes on the possible Age of some of the Mesozoic
Rocks of the Queen Charlotte Islands and British Columbia. Nature,
vol. XXXII, p. 358. 1885. London and New York.

(Notice of Mr. Whiteaves’s paper in the Amer. Jour. Science.)
756 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

WHITEAVES, J. F.—Description of a new Species of Ammonite from
the Cretaceous Rocks of Fort Saint John, on the Peace River. Trans.
fioy. Soc. Canada, vol. U1, section iv, 1884, pp. 239, 240. 1885. Mon-
treal. (Read May 23, 1884.)

The specimens were collected mostly from large concretionary nodules
in shales which, from their position, may possibly represent the Fort
Benton group of the Upper Missouri Cretaceous. The generic position
of the species is doubtful, but the author proposes for it the name of
Buchiceras (?) cornutum, although he says it is quite as likely to be an
Acanthoceras or an Hoplites. ih

WHITEAVES, J. F.—Note on a Decapod Crustacean from the Upper
Cretaceous of Highwood River, Alberta, North West Terr. Trans.
toy. Soc. Canada, vol. U1, section iv, pp. 237, 238. 1885. Montreal.
(Read May 21, 1884.)

The specimen described is too imperfect to admit of the determina-
tion of its exact generic position, but the author proposes for the pres-
ent to designate it as Hoploparia (?) Canadensis.

WHITFIELD, R. P.—An American Silurian Scorpion. Science, vol. VI,
No. 130, pp. 87, 88, fig. on p. 88. July, 1885. Cambridge.
Describes and names Palewophonus Osborni, from the waterlime beds

of the Lower Helderberg group, at Waterville, Oneida County, New

York. The author expresses doubt as to its being a land animal.

WHITFIELD, R. P.—On a Fossil Scorpion from the Silurian Rocks of
America. Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., October 10, 1885, vol. 1, No. 6,
pp. 181-190, pls. xix and xx, figs. 1, 2 on pp. 188,189. New York.

Proposes the new genus Proscorpius, and describes as its type P. Os-
borni from the waterlime beds of the Lower Helderberg at Waterville,
N. Y. The author places this species in the following manner:

Order Scorpionidea, Lund.

Suborder Anthracoscorpii, T. & L.

Family Eoscorpionide, Scudder.

Subfamily Proscorpionini, Scudder.

Genus Proscorpius, Whitfield.

The species was previously named Palewophonus Osborni by him.
(See Science, vol. v1, No. 130, p. 88.) /

WHITFIELD, R. P.—Notice of a new Cephalopod from the Niagara
Rocks of Indiana. Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., October 10, 1885,
vol. 1, No. 6, pp. 191, 192, pl. xxi. New York.

Describes Lituites Bickmoreanus from the Dolomite limestone of the

Niagara group at Wabash City, Ind.

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALA ONTOLOGY. (Cai

WHITFIELD, R. P.—Notice of a very large Species of Homalonotus
from the Oriskany Sandstone Formation. Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist.,
October 10, 1885, vol. 1, No. 6, pp. 193-195, pl. xxii. October. New
York.

Describes Homalonotus major from the Upper Oriskany? at Cranberry
Dam, 5th Binnewater, Ulster County, New York, collected by Louis
Bevier. The “ 5th Binnewater ” the author supposes to refer to a dam
of the Delaware and Hudson Canal Company’s privilege on the Binne-
water Creek.

WILLIAMS, H. 8.—C. A. White: A Review of the Fossils Ostreide of
North America, and a comparison of the Fossil with the Living Forms.
With appendices by Prof. A. Heilprin and Mr. J. A. Ryder. 8S. 273-
430, Taf. xxxiv-Ixxxil. Neu. Jahr. Min. Geol. and Pal., Jahr. 1885,
Band Hy, p. 292. Stuttgart. (Abstract.)

WILLIAMS, H. S.—Geographical and Physical Conditions as modifying
Fossil Fannas. Proc. Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., vol. XXXII, part ii, pp.
422, 423. 1885. Salem.

Abstract. The author says that ‘many other details might be men-
tioned, all pointing to the one conclusion that, in passing over geo-
graphical areas of sedimentary deposits of even a few hundred miles
in extent, especially when the direction is vertical to the probable coast
line of the period, the effects of those changed conditions recorded in
the different nature and structure of the deposits, and of other con-
ditions ouly recorded in the fossils themselves, which were probably
differences of temperature and ocean currents, must be borne in mind
in classifying the deposits.”

WILLIAMS, H. S.— Notice of a new Limuloid Crustacean from the De-
vonian. Amer. Journ. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XXX, pp. 45-49, figs. 1-3a, p.
48. July, 1885. New Haven.

The specimen was found in the bluish sandstone (which in places is a
fine pebbly conglomerate) at Le Boeuf, called the ‘third oil sand,” by Mr.
I. C. White in the Report Q of the Second Geol. Survey of Pennsylva-
nia (p. 239), and regarded by him as the equivalent of the third oil sand
of the Venango oil district of that State. In the same stratum and
above it are typical Chemung fossils. The author describes it under
the name of Prestwichia Hriensis, and gives three figures of if on page
48.

WiLuiAMs, H. S.—Notice of a new Limuloid Crustacean from the De-
vonian Formations of Erie County, Pennsylvania. Nature, vol. XXXII,
p- 350. 1885. London and New York.

Notice and abstract of Mr. Williams’s paper in the American Journal

of Science. .
158 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

WINCHELL, A.—Notices of N. H. Winchell on Lingula and Paradox-
ides from the Red Guastieates of Minnesota. Amer. Journ. Sci., 3d
ser., vol. Xxx, pp. 316, 317. October, 1885. New Haven.

Notice of the exhibition, by N. H. Winchell, at the meeting of the Amer.
Assoc. Adv. Sci., at Ann Arbor, of a large slab from the “ Pipestone quar-
ries,” covered with small shells named by him Lingula. From the same
quarries a form, regarded as an imperfect Paradoxides, was also exhib-
ited. (See Winchell, N. H.)

WINCHELL, A.—On Ccenostroma and Idiostroma and the comprehen-
sive character of Stromatoporoids. Amer. Journ. Sci., 3d ser., vol.
Xxx, p. 317. October, 1885. New Haven.

An abstract of a paper read before the meeting of the Amer. eee
Ady. Sci., at Ann Arbor, by A. Winchell. The author concludes that
it is vain to seek to place Stromatoporoids within the bounds of any rec-
ognized class type.

WINCHELL, N. H.—Fossils from the Red Quartzite at Pipestone. Geol.
and Nat. Hist. Surv. Minn., 13th Ann. Rep., for 1884, pp. 65-72, pl. i.
1885. Saint Paul.

Describes and illustrates two new doubtful fossils, Lingula calumet
and Paradoxides barberi. Also contains two letters on these dubious
forms, one by Prof. J. D. Dana and the other by Mr. S. W. Ford.

Winwoop, H. H.—Geological Age of the Rocky Mountains. Geol. Mag.,
new ser., Decade III, vol. 1, p. 240. May, 1885. London.

Reports finding a Menevian fauna with abundant remains of Parad-
oxides, Conocoryphe, and other allied forms north of the forty-ninth par-
allel, and between the one hundred and sixteenth and one hundred and
seventeenth parallels of longitude, near Kicking Horse Pass on the
Canadian Pacifie Railway.

WooDWARD, HENRY.—Notice of a new Limuloid Crustacean from the
Devonian. By Henry Shaler Williams, of Cornell University. Geol.
Mag., new ser., Decade III, vol. 0, pp. 427-429. September, 1885.
London.

An abstract of H. 8. Williamy’s article in the Amer. Journ. Sci., vol.
xxx, p.45. July, 1885. New Haven. States that Mr. Williams’s speci-
men, although of great interest, is too obscure to permit us to draw any
positive conclusions from it, save the fact of the important discovery of
a Limuloid Crustacean in rocks of Devonian age in Pennsylvania. A
still earlier Limuloid form has, however, been met with in the Upper
Silurian of Lesmahagow, Lanarkshire, and described by Henry Wood-
ward under the name of Neolimulus faleatus. (See Geol. Mag., vol. V,
pp. 1-3, pl. i, fig. 1, 1868.)

N. A. INVERTEBRATE PALAONTOLOGY. (59

Wricut, B. H.—Notes on the Geology of Yates County, New York.
Thirty-fifth Rep. NV. Y. State Mus. Nat. Hist., pp. 195-206, pls. xv
and xva. 1884. Albany.

Copies the figures and descriptions of Dawson in the Quarterly
Journal Geol. Soc. of London for May, 1881, of the following fossils :
Equisetides Wrightiana, Cyclostigma affine, Asteropteris noveboracensis,
and gives short lists of fossils from various localities.
ZOOLOGY.

By Prof. THEODORE GILL.

INTRODUCTION.

The laborers in the various fields of Zoology have prosecuted investi-
gations in the year 1885 with undiminished ardor, and scarcely any
department has been neglected. The tendency manifested for some
years towards a special study of embryology and of animals from an
embryological standpoint, has been continued. Systematic zoology, on
the other hand, has at least maintained its course during the period,
and some most valuable works have appeared. Among such may be
especially mentioned the tirst two of the comtemplated three volumes
of a catalogue of the Lacertilian reptiles in the British Museum, by Dr.
George Edward Boulenger. A number of works on extinct animals, in
which groups have been systematically considered, have been also pub-
lished. Doubtless the most important and interesting of these for the
American zoologist are (1) the enormous volume by Prof. E. D. Cope
on The Vertebrata of the Tertiary Formations of the West (Part 1), and
(2) Prof. O. C. Marsh’s beautifully illustrated and printed “ Dinocerata,
a monograph of an extinct order of gigantic mammals.” Both of these
volumes do indeed purport on their title pages to have been printed in
previous years, Cope’s work bearing the imprint of 1883 and Marsh’s
that of 1854, but they were not really published or accessible to the pub-
lic till early in 1885.

As in the previous reports, the language of the original from which
the abstract is compiled is generally followed as closely as the case
will permit. It has, however, been found necessary to limit the ab-
stract to the illustration of the prominent idea underlying the original
memoir, and pass by the proofs and collateral arguments. At the
same time it has been often attempted to bring the new discovery into
relation with the previous status of information respecting the group
under consideration. As to the special discoveries recorded, they have
been generally selected (1) on account of the modifications the forms
considered may force on the system; or (2) for the reason that they are
or have been deemed to be of high taxonomic importance ; or (3) because
the animals per se are of general interest; or, finally (4), because they

761
762 - SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

are of special interest to the American naturalist. Of course zoologists
cultivating limited fields of research will find in omissions cause for
censure, and may urge that discoveries of inferior importance have
been noticed to the exclusion of those better entitled to it. It is freely
admitted that this charge may even be justly made; but the limits
assigned to the record have been much exceeded, and the recorder has
studied the needs of the many rather than of the few. The summary
is intended, not for the advanced scientific student, but for those who
entertain a general interest in zoology or some of the better-known
classes.

A partial bibliography of noteworthy memoirs and works relating to
different classes of animals is supplied in the present article, and will,
it is hoped, prove to be of use to those to whom the voluminous bibli-
ographies and records of progress in science are inaccessible. It has
been a difficult matter to select the titles which might be most advan-
tageously introduced in a limited report like the present. Articles of
a general interest or of special importance as contributing to throw light
on the affinities of certain groups have been given the first place. Neces-
sarily many very important papers have not been referred to and very
few descriptive of species have been admitted and only when unusual
interest attaches to the new species or the groups which they enlarge

The compiler desires to make special acknowledgment for most mate.
rial assistance to the Zoologischer Anzeiger of Professor Carus, and to
the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society, whose abstracts of in-
vestigations have been freely drawn upon in the preparation of those
for the present report.

SYNOPSIS OF ARRANGEMENT.

GENERAL ZOOLOGY.
I. PROTOZOANS. Rhizopods; Sporozoans; Infusorians.
Il. PORIFERS. Sponges.
III. CHALENTERATES. Polyps; Acalephs.
IV. ECHINODERMS. Crinoids; Asterioids; Echinoids; Holothu-
rians.
Vv. worms. Iotifers; Platyhelminths; Nematelminths; Annelids.
VI. ARTHROPODS. Merostomes; Crustaceans ; Arachnids; Insects.
Vil. MOLLUSCOIDS. Polyzoans; Brachiopods.
VIII. MOLLUSKS. <Acephals; Gastropods ; Cephalopods.
IX. PROTOCHORDATES. Tunicates.
X. VERTEBRATES. TF ish-like Vertebrates; Leptocardians; Se-
lachians ; Fishes; Amphibians; Reptiles; Birds; Mammals.

GENERAL ZOOLOGY.

Cell changes.—A number of experiments have been made by Dr. O.
Lacbarias to determine the effect of various media and environments on
the behavior of cells. The mixture used by him was a 5 per cent. solu-

ZOOLOGY. 763

tion of sodic phosphate in distilled water, and ths objects experimented
upon were especially the cylindrical spermatozoa of Blyphemus pediculus,
and the amoeboid cells of the intestinal epithelium of Stenostomum leu-
cops. The changes undergone were remarkable, and the amcebiform
cells of the Stenostomum “ became like flagellate infusorians, each with
a long, thick, rapidly moving process, beside which two or three cilia
were sometimes seen beating at the original much slower rate.” These
experiments, supplimenting previous ones, especially those of Schneider,
Brass, and Kiihner, are ‘interesting as illustrations of the readiness
with which cells may pass from one phase to another in response to en-
vironmental influences, and are thus full of suggestion in relation to
normal and pathological cell variation, affording additional experimental
proof of the theory of a primitive cell-cycle, advanced by Geddes.”
(Biol. Centralblatt, v. 5, pp. 259-262; J. R. M. S., (4) v. 5, pp. 1014, 1015.)

Colors of cold-loving animals.—The colors of Arctic and Alpine ani-
mals have been commented upon by Prof. Lorenzo Camerano, of Turin.
His observations had reference especially to the Lepidoptera, and are
in brief as follows:

(1) “‘ A sensible mutation of color is observed in many mammals, now
more, now less distinctly, and generally it concurs with the change of
coat. Also not seldom in mammals strictly belonging to the Alps,” as
in the chamois and the ibex, ‘‘ the color changes very late in the summer
and in the winter, although the length, the thickness, and also the
coarseness of the hairs were very different.” In other cases, as, for ex-
ample, in a Chinese deer (Cervus mandarinus), “the coat is, in summer,
light reddish-yellow, with many round white spots, while in winter it is
dark brown, and the round spots are less numerous and are light brown.”

(2) “As to the insects, it is observed that in Coleoptera the colors of
the Alpine species are brighter than those of the warmer plains,” and
various species found at the greatest elevations of the Alps have often
lighter colors.

(3) “A darker color” is observed “ generally in the insects of the des-
erts,” as in that of Sahara, while—“ on the contrary, mammals in these
countries present in general a very light color.”

(4) “A very remarkable melanism is also observed in several mammals
as well as the reptiles and beetles that are in little islands.”

(5) “In the reptiles and in the Alpine amphibia, we sometimes meet
with some cases of darkening, but the cases of a remarkable brighten-
ing are not very rare, as for example, in the tadpoles of Rana muta,” a
kind of frog.

(6) “A sensible difference is observed in the coloration between the
Arctic birds and the Antarctic. In the last, black is much more abun-
dant.” ‘

The causes “ that intervene to modify the color of animals are very
complicated; climate has amongst these a certain importance,” but
764 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Professor Camerano does not think that a “‘ theory of radiation is suffi-
cient” to account for all the phenomena observed. (Nature, v. 32, p. 77;
see, also, reply by Mr. Meldola in same vol., pp. 172, 173.)

Temperature maxima for marine animals.—A series of experiments
has been undertaken by Dr. J. Frenzel for the determination of the
maximum heat under which certain animals canlive. The first experi-
ments were commenced by subjecting some to a temperature of 40° C.
This was supported by a Holothurian for two hours. A Diopatra died
in about five minutes; a large tectibranchiate gastropod (Pleurobran-
chea meckelii) exhibited at first lively movements, but after five min-
utes became torpid, although it was not killed; four minutes were
enough for a lobster-like crustacean (Scyllarus). ‘As the Holothurian
was the largest of the animals experimented on, the author points out
that, although the chief reason for its power of resistance might. be
sought for in its size, yet the others were conquered too rapidly.” Con-
sequently, it was to be inferred that the Holothurian is really capable
of resisting heat to an unusual degree.

Further observations were made at a starting point of 30° C., and of
the animals thus experimented upon an Ophiuroid (Antedon) began to
break up in two seconds; the Diopartra survived for eighteen hours; a
chetopod worm (Terebella) showed the effect of heat at 25° C.; a tecti-
branchiate gastropod (Sea-hare or Aplysia) lived at 26°; a pectinobran-
chiate gastropod (Murex) ‘bore 30° for a leng time;” and a Scallop
(Pectem) ‘‘ showed some resistance;” a Scyllarus “ could bear 25°, but
died slowly at 26°, and more quickly at 27°;” and a prawn (Palemon)
‘“‘died at 26°;” a fish (the Sea-horse or Hippocampus) “ bore 27° well,
and lived for an hour at 30°.”

In fine, “‘mapy marine animals were found to bear high degrees of
temperature for an astonishingly long time, as Actiniz, Murex, Tethys,
and Aplysia. But it is not yet certain what heat they can permanently
bear. It is also important to discover how winter animals comport
themselves towards increase of temperature, and especially animals
such as the Heteropoda and Phronima, which are quite wanting in the
summer; from what we know we must suppose that at the beginning
of summer, when the temperature of the sea becomes raised, they make
their way to greater depths, where the heat is less.” (Arch. f. gesammt.
Phystol., v. 36, pp. 458-466; J. R. M.S. (2), v. 5, pp. 791, 792.)

PROTOZOANS.
Rhizopods.

Differentiation in Amebas.—Although proverbially protean and un-
stable, the Amcebeans nevertheless exhibit differences which aptly dis-
tinguish them into forms generally considered to be Of specific value;
such. differences have been especially insisted upon by Dr. A. Gru-
ber. Dr. Gruber contends that “there are a number of separate
and exactly definable Amcebe which do not pass into one another,”

ZOOLOGY. 765

and this decision he gives as the result of observations by himself “for
months and even years, of forms living in the same locality.” The
differences are manifested in the ‘“‘ average size, the consistency of the
protoplasm, and the movements thereby conditioned, as well as in the
characters of its contents, such as vacuoles, granules,” and crystals, and
also, more especially, in the number, size, and structure of the nuclei.
Ten species are described by Dr. Gruber ; five of them are multi-nuclear,
and “it is proved how definitely the nuclei are distinguished from one
another, and with what certainty one can conclude from external char-
acters on the structure of the nucleus,” and the reverse. It further
follows that “two very similar species of Amoebe may have very dif-
ferently-formed nuclei, and that in forms which are externally very
different the nuclei may be quite similar; in any case, the number of
the different forms of nuclei is much more important than has hitherto
been supposed.”

The ‘only differentiation in the body of an Amoeba obtains at the
outermost periphery, where the protoplasm clearly, from contact with
water, is converted into an invisible cuticula-like layer, which disap-
pears during the outpushing of the pseudopodia and can be re-made.”

Dr. Gruber denies the existence of “‘ a plexiform structure of the pro-
toplasm” as well as refractive bodies, such as have been described to
Pelomyxa palustris.

As to the “ pale filaments” which have been found in some Amebe,
they ‘‘appear to be symbiotic fungi;” “in one species, which was re-
markable for the constant collection of chlorophyll containing food,
they were always present.”

Among the species of Amcebe recognized by Dr. Gruber is the A. vil-
losa, first described by Dr. Leidy from specimens found about Philadel-
phia, and the discovery in Europe of this species “confirms the doc-
trine that the fresh-water Rhizopods are cosmopolitan organisms.”
(Zeitschr. f. wissen. Zoolo., v. 41, pp. 186-225, 3 pl.; J. AR. M.S. (2) v. 6,
pp. 260, 261.)

Sporozoons.

Development of Gregorinids.—An important contribution to the devel-
opmental history of the monocysted Gregorines has been published
by G. Ruschhaupt. His observations were chiefly made on those in-
festing common earth worms or Lumbricids. Seven species of Grego-
rinids were found in the worms, which have been more fully described,
at least as to some points, by the author. The process of encystation,
the formation of sporoblasts, the presence of macrospores and micro-
spores in a single cyst, and the entrance of spores into the sperm-
mother-cell were especially observed in one or other of the Gregorinids
mentioned. The connection between the Gregorinids and the generative
products of the earth worms, the infection of earth worms with Grego-
rinids, and the relations between the parasites and coccidia have been
766 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

also considered. (Jenaische Zeitschr. f. Naturwiss., v. 18, pp. 713-750 (1
pl.); J. B. M. 8S. (2), v. 5, p. 665.)

Infusorians.

Artificial multiplication of Infusorians.—W ith a view to determine the
behavior of Infusorians when vivisected, A. Griiber experimented on
the Stentor ceruleus. (1) First, an individual was bisected transversely,
and on the following day each of the parts had become a perfect indi-
vidual; (2) one of these was likewise bisected, and again on the follow-
ing day the two sections had developed into perfect animalcules; (3)
one of the second bisection was also cut transversely, and again (4) one
of the third bisection. In both instances the sectionized parts became
perfect individuals on the day of their division. The result of the ex-
periments thus noticed, and others, further served to show also that the
sections without a nucleus, although they did well, ‘never grew up into
complete animals,” as did those with a nucleus. The presence of a
nucleus, in fact, is perhaps a necessary element for complete regenera-
tion. (Biol. Centralblatt, v. 5, p. 137; J. R. M.S. (2), v. 5, pp. 658, 659.)

PORIFERS.
Sponges.

Reproduction of the fresh-water sponge.—The reproductive process has
been investigated by Dr. W. Marshall in one of the common European
fresh-water sponges, Spongilla lacustris. The gemmules or winter em-
bryos are formed in the neuter autumn sponge from wandering nutri-
tive ameeboid cells, known as trophophores, which accumulate in the
inhalent corals or in the ciliated chambers. The embryo is at first a
‘‘morula-like mass of round uniform cells.” It escapes from the cap-
sule in which it is invested in April or early in May. In about a month
after the escape of the embryo from the capsule, maturity and complete
sexuality are attained. ‘It seems probable that the males are desti-
tute of enteric cavity and mouth,” while the females are ‘usually pro-
vided” with such. After fulfilling their sexual functions the “ males
seem to perish.” The females bear “neuter forms” and then increase
in size, but the “enteric cavities and mouth-openings are reduced in
size, and not unfrequently disappear.” In fine, there is ‘a seasonal
alternation of generations ;. the winter gemmule form spring sexual
spongillze which produce sexual forms in which arise the winter gem-
male.” (Sitzungsber. Naturf. Gesellsch. Leipzig, 1884, pp. 22-29; J. BR.
M. 8. (2), v. 5, pp. 1011, 1012).

CaSLENTRATES.
Polyps.

A new family of Pennatulids.—The mteresting group of Pennatulids,
which was named by Kolliker the “ Junciformes,” has received an inter-
esting addition during the past year, in the shape of a new species, rep-

ZOOLOGY. 767

resenting even a new family of the group; specimens were obtained in
Japan and have been described by Prof. A. A. W. Hubrecht under the
specific name Hehinoptilum Macintoshii and the family name Echinop-
tilide. It belongs to the “section Spicate,” and (as just noted) ‘sub-
section Junciformes” in K6lliker’s classification, and is ‘characterized
by the total absence of anything like an axis, which is present in all
Pennatulids except some of the primitive Veretellew and the divergent
Renillex.”

The polyps form a dense colony, which is rigid on account of the de-
velopment of calcareous needles, “which, on the rachis, unite to form
projecting polyp cells.” The needles are in the internal framework,
as well as in the investment; the polpy-cells are arranged in less dis-
tinct rows than in Stachyptilum, and the ventral is not wholly de-
void of polyps. Of all the specimens available for examination the
polyps had undergone desiccation, and consequently could not be fully
described. But it appeared plain that not only does the new type
constitute a distinct family, but, according to Professor Hubrecht, it
must be also recognized as representative of a group of higher rank in-
termediate between the groups already known. (Proc. Zool. Soc. London,
1885, pp. 512-518, 2 pl.; J. R. M. S. (2), v. 6, p. 81.)

Acalephs.

Radial disposition of Acalephs and Echinoderms.—The problem of the
number of segments in the radiate animals has been taken up by Dr. W.
Haacke, and he has sought to determine the primitive number of such.
Professor Haeckel considered that the star fishes were nearer the ances-
tors of the Echinoderms than any other group, because in them there is
a variation in the number of arms in some species, although in most the
number is five, while in the sea urchins, or Echinoids, and Holothurians,
the number is constant and always five. Dr. Haacke, however, main-
tains that in Amblypneustes, one of the sea urchins, he has seen indi-
viduals with four and others with six parameres or radial sections, and
that therefore Haeckel’s views are militated against by such facts. As
to the Acalephs, according to Haeckel, the primitive number of par-
ameres in the Medusz is four, and with this view Dr. Haacke is inclined
to agree. He further thinks that it is possible that the typical number
of parameres in the Echinoderms is four and not five, but he admits that
the question is still an open one. (Zool. Anzeiger, v. 8, pp. 505-507; J.
ki. M.S. (3), v. 6, p. 48.)

ECHINODERMS.
Crinoids.
Several important memoirs on crinoids have appeared during the

past year, or late in 1884. One of these is by Dr. Herbert Carpenter,
and furnishes a volume of the series of memoirs devoted to the elucida-
768 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

tion of the material collected by the Challenger Expedition. Another
is a systematic revision of the extinct American crinoids published in
the “Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia” ~
by Messrs. C. Wachsmuth and F. Springer. The concluding portion
of the latter will be published in 1886. A further notice of these and
other memoirs is therefore deferred.

Asterioids.

Nervous system of star-fishes.—In a memoir on the histology of Asterioids
Dr. O. Hamann has elucidated several interesting, and among them
is additional information respecting the nervous system. The well-
developed oral nerve-ring has long been known, but besides this there
is, according to Dr. Hamann, “a nerve-plexus in the oral disk ; this con-
sists of nerve-fibrils with scattered ganglionic cells, which pass into the
epithelial cells of the disk.” In fact, an arrangement is manifested
‘“‘comparable” to one previously observed by Dr. Hamann himself in
the Holothurians. (Nachr. K. Gesellsch. Wiss., Gottingen, “1884, pp.
385, 386; J. Rk. UM. S., (2), v. 5, pp. 652, 653.)

Hehinoids.

Compound eyes in Hchinoids—In a Diadematid (probably Diadema
Setosum) occurring at Trincomalee, some peculiar characteristics have
been discovered by Drs. C. F. and P. B. Larasin. That sea-egg is cov-
ered with blue spots. One of these, when examined under the micro-
scope, shows on the surface ‘a mosaic” of polyhedra (‘ generally irreg-
ular hexahedra,” but also pentahedra) which are so disposed as to call
to mind the compound eyes of insects or crustaceans. ‘ Each polyhe-
dron corresponds to a pyramid of very highly refractive substance,
the blunt edge of which is invested in pigment;” there *‘may be one
hundred or as many as one or two thousand pyramids in one spot; over
all of them the body-epithelium forms a thin ciliated layer, which may
be regarded as the cornea;” further, ‘‘each pyramid consists of a num-
ber of vesicular cells with quite hyaline contents, and in many of them
there is a distinct nucleus; this region may be regarded as that of the
lens and crystalline body.” These organs are ‘directly placed on a
ganglionic plexus,” and there is no distinct nerve intervening between
the two. When a hand is directed towards a point where these organs
are developed, the surrounding spines are seen to turn towards the
spot. It has been therefore inferred that the spots in question have the
junction of eyes capable at least of appreciating the difference between
“light and shade.” (Zool. Anzeiger_v. 8, pp. 715-720; J. Rk. M.S8., (2), v.
6, p. 253.)

Holothurians.

Values of differentiating characters.—The various parts and organs of
the Holothurians have been examined by Dr, K, Lampert, in order to

ZOOLOGY. T69

determine the systematic values thereof and the best means of classify-
ing the groups. ‘The arrangement of the ambulacral suckers varies
with age.” The calcareous deposits are much less variable, and in but
few cases are there notable differences, according to age or otherwise.
The tentacles appear to furnish the best differentiating characters. The
combination of Dendrochirote introduced by Prof. Jeffery Bell is adopted.
Further, the distribution of the tentacles into one or two rows affords
good grounds for a division into groups, to be called respectively, ‘ Mo-
nocyclia” and ‘ Heterocyclia.” A new and systematic monograph of the
order is promised by Dr. Lampert. (Biol. Centralblatt, v. 5, pp. 102-109 ;
J. R. M. S., (2), v. 5, pp. 1007-1008.)

WORMS.
Rotifers.

The relations of the Rotifers.—Much diversity of opinion has prevailed
as to the relations of the Rotifers to other classes of the animal king-
dom. The subject has been taken up recently by Dr. L. Plate in con-
nection with a monograph of the fresh-water rotifers observed by him.
He considers that it is clear that ‘sexual dimorphism is an acquired
character.” The progenitor of the class (‘‘Archirotator”) is supposed
to have had a cylindrical body narrower behind, a ventral mouth and
dorsal anus, and an aboral tuft of cilia; the wheel apparatus consisted
of two ciliated circlets; the fore-gut had a chitnious masticatory appa-
ratus, and the whole tract was lined by ciliated epithelium; into its hinder
portion opened two unbranched excretory canals and the genital ducts.
The nervous system consisted of a dorsal central ganglion, which gave
off several anterior and two postero-lateral nerves. As to their system-
atic position, the Rotifers appear to be of the same stock as the Anne-
lids, but they differ from the Trochophore in wanting a ciliated groove ;
the hinder circlet of cilia opens into the fore-gut, the aboral tuft does
not correspond to the perianal circlet, and the brains are not homolo-
gous.” (Jenaische Zeitschr. f. Naturwiss., v. 19, pp. 1-120, 3 pl.; J. R. M.
S. (2), v. 6, pp. 76-78.)

Platyhelminths.

New York Turbellarians.—An important memoir on the fresh-water
Turbellarians occurring especially in Monroe County, New York, has
been published by Dr. W. A. Silliman in the “ Zeitschrift fiir wissen-
schaftliche Zoologie” (v. 41, pp. 48-78, with 2 pl.). Twenty-one species
have been recognized, of which a considerable number, it is supposed,
are common to America and Europe. Dr. Silliman considers the groups
named Rhabdoccela, Tridada, Polycloda, and Nemertinea to be of approx-
imately equal value and representing four “‘ orders” of Turbellarians,

H. Mis. 15-———49
770 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Nematelminths.

Nervous system of tape-worms.—Although the nervous system of the
tape-worm was discovered half a century ago, the subje:t has remained
in considerable obscurity, and recent research by Dr. J. Niemiec is
therefore timely as throwing light on some of the controverted and
doubtful points at issue. Dr. Niemiec’s researches were based on sec-
tions of the scolices of T. cenurus, T. elliptica, T. serrata, and T. me-
diocanellata. The different parts are considered under four categories.

(1) A “nerve ring” situated under the hooks, from which “ filaments
run to the hook musculature, while from ganglionic swellings eight
branches descend, four going to the principal lateral ganglia, and four
prolonging their course even within the proglottides.”

(2) A “central ganglion” in the middle of the “ principal commissure,”
joining the two lateral ganglia, and “ from which a ‘transverse commis-
sure’ passes at right angles to the ‘ principal.’ ”

(3) “+ Polygonal commissures,” in the plane of the two chief commis-
sures, formed by “nerves which unite the two lateral ganglia with the
branches descending from the nerve-ring and with the transverse com-
missure,” and parallel to it, ‘a little below, there lies an ‘inferior polyg-
onal commissure’ of the same nature. Where the different branches
join, ‘secondary ganglia’ are situated, and from these, as well as from
the principal lateral ganglia, the suckers are supplied with nerves, four
to each.”

(4) ** Spongy cords,” ten in number, three pairs starting from the prin-
cipal lateral ganglia and the remaining four (as already noted) “ de-
scending from the nerve-ring and passing through the ‘ secondary gan-
glia.” .

In conclusion Dr. Niemiec insists upon (1) the resemblance between
the nervous system of the tape-worms, and that of the Tetrarhynchi ;
and (2) the homologies of the nerve-ring of the tape-worms with the
oésophageal ring of the annelids, ‘from which it differs only in its less
pronounced development or reversion to a more rudimentary form,”
and (3) the diminished gap which intervenes between the cestode and
trematode nervous systems. (Recueil Zool. Suisse, v. 2, pp. 5389-648; J.
R. M. 8. (2), v. 6, pp. 75, 76.)

Annelids.

Deep sea Annelids.—The deep-sea types of a few classes, such as the
fishes and Holothurians, are, to a large extent, much differentiated from
the shallow-water forms, but those of other classes are comparatively
little divergent from littoral species. Among the groups of the latter cat-
egory are the Annelids. The rich material collected by the Challenger
expedition has been the object of study to Prof. William C. McIntosh
for seven years, and the results thereof have now appeared in the form
of a large quarto volume constituting the entire twelfth of the Chal-
lenger reports.

ZOOLOGY. (ial

‘ Under the heading of ‘ classification ” (p. viii) Professor McIntosh
states that ‘the large number of new forms brought within our knowl-
edge by the Challenger would have been supposed to lead to a note-
worthy change in classification, but from the first it was apparent that
no new family was required. All the types fell under the groups already
constituted, and which have been very satisfactorily given by Malmgren
in his Annulata Polycheta” (1867). Much “ experience has not as yet
shown the necessity for any material change.” It is admitted, however,
that “there are some forms, such as the genus Eulepis” (retained in
Polynoidz) which almost merit the distinction of a separate family, but
they have only recently been discovered and may properly be left for
further investigation.”

Two hundred and twenty new species are described by Professor Me-
Intosh.

ARTHROPODS.

Merostomes.

Embryology and morphology of Limulus.—The horse-shoe crab, or Lim-
ulus, has been the subject during the past year (as in previous years) of
investigation with reference to its embryology, morphology, and sys-
tematic relations. Of American naturalists, Dr. J. S. Kingsley has con-
tributed an important memoir on the embryology of Limulus to the
“ Hnglish Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science” (v.25, pp. 521-576,
3 pl.), and Prof. Henry L. Osborn, Dr.-W. K. Brooks, Mr. A. T. Bruce,
- and Mr. W. H. Howell have communicated preliminary notices of in-
vestigatons to No. 45 of the “Johns Hopkins University Circulars.”
One, by Professor Osborn, is on the “* Metamorphosis of Limulus poly-
phemus” (p. 1), a second, by Dr. Brooks and Mr. Bruce, is an “‘ Abstract
of Researches on the Embryology of Limulus polyphemus ” (pp. 2-4), and
a third, by Mr. Howell, is “ On the Chemical Composition, &c., of the
Blood of Limulus polyphemus” (pp. 4,5). Dr. A. S. Packard has also
published in the American Naturalist (v. 19) a supplementary memoir
on certain points of the embryology of the same species. Important
memoirs have been likewise published by Prof. E. Ray Lankester and
several associates or students, in the ‘‘ Quarterly Journal of Microscop-
ical Science,” and the ‘‘ Transactions of the Zoological Society of Lon-
don.”

Arachnids.

Sense organ in legs of spiders.—The peculiar structural modifications
of the legs which have been observed in certain spiders by Bertkau and
Dahl, and considered to be sensory organs, have been studied anew by
Professor Schimkenitsch. The structures in question have been found
in most of the leg joints in a number of spiders, and in both males and
females. They are superficially thin chitinous plates with thickened
borders, whose opposite sides are connected by parallel thickenings,
Ay (v2 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

and in cross-sections are to be found ‘‘ round these organs a layer of
remarkably tall pigmented cells,” and *‘ between these are ganglion cells
with prolongations directed towards the chitinous layer.” These are
thought to be analogous to the “‘chordotonal organs” of insects. (Zool.
Anzeiger, 1885, pp. 264-266, 537, 538).

Dimorphism in spiders.—Several observers have determined that cer-
tain spiders have two broods, and that the individuals of the two differ
more or less, in a few cases the differentiation having been considered
as specific. The so-called Meta segmentata and Meta Mengei, for exam-
ple, represent several broods of one and the same species. In other
cases, however, there is but little difference between the two brcods.
(Zool. Anzeiger, 1885, pp. 459-464, by Bertkau; 532, 533, by Korsch.)

Crustaceans.

A nervous system in the Centrogonida.—The singular degraded ecrusta-
ceans, known as Peltogaster and Sacculina, which have been differen-
tiated into a distinct order called Rhizocephala or Centrogonida, have
a nervous system so rudimentary and obscure as to have escaped ob-
servation until the past year. Mr. Y. Delage resolved to supply the
deficiency, and after two years of observation he found it in Sacculina,
while in Peltogaster, on the other hand (although the absolute difficulties
of the search were exactly the same as in Sacculina) he found it in the
first individual dissected after less than an hour’s work. He mentions —
this particular only to show the value of the morphological method,
and if he found this nervous system it is by no means due to partic-
ular address in dissection; it is because, armed with the morphological
data derived from the study of Sacculina, he sought for it precisely
where it ought to be found. When one knows where to look for it, he
remarks, it is easy to find, but this last condition is indispensable, and
itis from not having this requisite knowledge at their disposal that
the numerous authors who have previously investigated the genera in
question failed to discover it. The ganglia are displaced and in ap-
parently different relations on account of the position of the ovaries
and other parts. In these displacements, was the nervous ganglion to
retain the original position at the bottom of the ovary, or was it to fol-
low the cloaca, or the mesentery or the cement-glands? Observation
has shown that it did not remain immovable; therefore its relations
with the declivous pole of the ovary are not at all essential; it had fol-
lowed the cloaca and the mesentery, but especially the cement-glands,
in their movements; hence it is with these organs, and chiefly with ©
the last named, that it has fundamental relations. On the other hand,
we see that the close relations of the ganglion with the testes in Pelto-
gaster are quite accidental, since in Sacculina these organs are as far
apart as possible. Henceforward in seeking for the nervous system in
other Centrogonida, in which the viscera-may again affect new rela-
tions, we see that we shall not have to pay any attention to the testes,

ZOOLOGY. 173
or to the anti-peduncular pole of the ovary, and that it is between the
cement-glands, in the sagittal plane, and perhaps slightly towards the
cloaca and the cement-glands, that we must direct the forceps and the
scalpel. It is only by the study of a type in which the cement-glands
may be far removed from the mesentery and the cloaca that we can see
whether the nervous ganglion would entirely break off its relations
with the latter two organs and follow the cement-glands in their dis-
placement. (Comptes Rendus Acad. Sci. Paris, 1885, p. 1010; Ann. &
Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 15, pp. 495-498.)

Blind sessile-eyed crustaceans.—The structure of the brain in sessile-
eyed crustaceans, and especially that of the Asellus communis and Ce-
cidotza stygia, has been investigated by Prof. A. 8S. Packard. The
brain of such forms has not ganglion and cells with a simple nucleus, as
does that of a lobster and other stalk-eyed crustaceans, but ten to twenty
nuclei appear to acell. The brain is therefore far less complicated than
that of the stalk-eyed crustaceans and is ‘a syncerebrum, the compo-
nents being the brain proper or pro-cerebral lobes, the optic ganglia, and
the first and second antennal lobes,” and these lobes are quite separate
from each other.

As to the blind species Professor Packard thinks that “the steps
taken in the degeneration or degradation of the eye, the result of the
life in darkness seem to be these: (1) the total and nearly or quite simul-
taneous loss by disuse of the optic ganglia and nerves ; (2) the breaking
down of the retinal cells; (3) the last step being, as seen in the totally
eyeless form, the loss of the lens and pigment.” Professor Packard
considers this evolution to be explicable upon what may be called
“‘Lamarckian” principles. (Mem. Nat. Acad. Sci., v. 3, part 14, p. 5.)

Insects.

Extinct myriopods.—As a result of a study of the fossil myriopods,
Mr. Samuel H. Scudder has admitted two extinct orders. The Archi-
polypodous type is the oldest, and Mr. Scudder considers that there is evi-
dence that some of the Carboniferous forms were amphibious. The group
culminated in the Carboniferous, and does not appear later than the
Dyas, while with one doubtful exception no true diplopod is know to be
older than the Oligocene. The Archipolypoda, which resembled the
Diplopoda in having two pairs of legs to every segment, became extinct
in the Paleozoic epoch. Three families have been recognized, the
Archidesmid, Euphorberiide, and Archijulide. Another extinct type
is found in the Protosygnatha, which are characterized by the develop-
ment of only a single pair of legs to each segment, in which respect a
resemblance is manifested to the Chilopoda. One genus only, Pale-
ocampa, is known from the Carboniferous.

For a brief period after leaving the eggs, modern Diplopods and pau-
V74 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

ropods have a shorter body than in after life, and the first three seg-
ments bear but a single pair of legs.

In adult life, these first three segments still bear but a single pair of
limbs, while all the other segments which exist in the larval state, and
those which develop afterwards, bear two pairs. The Chilopoda have
the same three anterior pairs of legs, early and permanently devel-
oped as organs of manducation, while all other segments have but a
single pair. Paleontological evidence is in favor of the view that the
dorsal scutes of Diplopoda are compound.

The sight of insects.—The power of vision of insects has been investi-
gated by Prof. Felix Plateau, whose special aim was to determine
whether insects can distinguish the form of objects. It has been con-
tended by certain authors that such-insects as possess compound eyes
cannot distinguish form, and that vision operates in a different way
from that generally admitted, and consists mainly in the perception of
movements. To some extent this view is sustained by Professor Pla-
teau as the result of a series of experiments. He concluded from these
that ‘‘ insects only utilize their eyes to choose between a white luminous
orifice in a dark chamber, or another orifice or group of orifices equally
white. They are guided neither by odorous emanations, nor by differ-
ences of color. A fact which will certainly astonish all entomologists,
and likewise surprise the experimenter himself, is, that bees have as
bad sight and comport themselves almost as flies.”

Professor Plateau directed his observations to many widely different
insects, belonging to the orders of Diptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidotera,
Odonata, and Coleoptera, and the experiments spoken of were essen-
tially harmonious. The following conclusion resulted:

(1) “Diurnal insects have need of a quick, strong light, and cannot
direct their movements in partial obscurity.

(2) “In diurnal insects with compound eyes, the simple eyes offer so
little utility that it is right to consider them as rudimentary organs.

(3) “Inseets with compound eyes do not notice differences of form
existing between two light orifices, and are deceived by an excess of
luminous intensity as well as by the apparent excess of surface. In
short, they do not distinguish the form of objects, or, if they do, dis-
tinguish them very badly.” (Am. Naz., v. 20, pp. 69, 70.)

Adherence of insects to ceilings. —There has been considerable differ-
ence of opinion as to the method by which flies and insects generally
adhere to the ceilings and walls of rooms and analagous surfaces, and
the subject has recently been investigated by Herr H. DeWitz. His
researches tend to prove that the secretions by whici flies, for example,
adhere to the window panes is not a thin fluid of a fatty nature, but
much more consistent. He adduces experiments to controvert Rom-
bout’s view that a fly can maintain itself on a glass surface by one leg

ZOOLOGY. 775

only, if that surface be vertical and if the body of the fly be in contact
with the glass. (J. R. M. S., Oct., 1885; Am. Nat., v. 20, p. 1221.)

Insects of the coal period.—The additions to our knowledge of the in-
sect fauna of the early periods of the earth’s history have been very
great during the past few years, and a deposit of species from the Car-
boniferous beds at Commentry, in the department of Allier, France, has
contributed a number of new types and furnished data for forming an
enlarged survey of the ancient insects. A French naturalist, Mr. C.
Brongniart, has been able to study the remains of 1,300 specimens,
among which not only the wings but sometimes the bodies have been
preserved. He corroborates the impression that has already obtained,
that the venation of the wings, which is generally so good a guide in the
appreciation of recent species, not only fails to a large extent, but is
even liable to lead into error in the case of the ancient forms; neverthe-
less, in spite of such discrepancies, the most ancient insects are, in some
respects at least, surprisingly like those of the present time, and only
differ in comparatively unimportant respects.

Among the insects of the Commentry deposit occurs the first fossil
Thysanuran, represented by 45 specimens. It is supposed to be re-
lated to the existing Machilis, but differs from all living representa-
tives of the order by having a single caudal filament. The species has
been named Dasyleptus lueasi.

The Orthopterous insects are represented by species which recall the
Phasmids or leaf insects of our day, but are segregated by Brongniart
in a special order under the name Neurorthoptera. Of this type two
major groups or suborders, with numerous distinct generic types, refer-
able to about five families, have been made known.

The Homopterous insects were represented in the deposit by five
genera.

The Pseudo-neuroptera had forms tbat were still more varied; six
families have been recognized for the carboniferous species. (1) One was
a group of eight new genera of a family to which the name of Megase-
copterida has been given: The abdomen had respiratory appendages
and the problematical Breyeria Borinensis is regarded as being a species
of the family. (2) Another family, called Protodonata, is recognized
for forms somewhat resembling the dragon flies or Libellulide of the
present age. Four other families, the Homothitida, Protephemerina,
Protoperlida, and Protomyrmeleonida, furnish additional species of the
Pseudoneuroptera. (Am. Nat., v. 20, pp. 68, 69.)

Crickets infested by Gordius or thread-worms.—Numerous insects har-
bor Gordius or thread-worms during some portion of their life history,
and some recent interesting observations were communicated by a lady
of Groton, N. Y., Mrs.C. W. Conger, to the Rev. Dr. Henry C. MeCook.
On one wee she noticed that a cricket mounted upon the edge of a
pail, and after some uneasy movements brought the tip of the abdomen
776 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

just beneath the water, and, with a few violent throes, expelled a black
mass, which fell slowly through the water, and before it reached the
bottom resolved itself into one of the worms. ‘: The cricket seemed ex-
hausted by the horrid birth, and did not find strength to draw itself up
on the edge of the pail for about eight minutes, and when it finally did
so, it tumbled to the floor and crawled off in a very rheumatic manner,
After this discovery we used to amuse leisure hours by watching like
operations until frost killed the crickets. I sometimes would crush
large crickets, generally with the result that a tightly-coiled snake
would be thrust out of a rupture just above the tip of the abdomen ;
but whether the snake was not sufficiently developed or because of its
needing water rather than air to vitalize it, none of the snakes so pro-
duced showed any signs of life.”

MOLLUSCOIDS.
Polyzoans.

Use of avicularia in classification of the Polyzoans.—The so-called
chitinous parts (operculum and avicularia) of the Polyzoans had been
much neglected until lately, but Messrs. A. W. Waters and G. Busk
have paid special attention to such parts with decided benefit to the
systematic arrangement of the chilostomata. The modifications of the
operculum especially were described when practicable by Mr. Busk in
his elaborate report on the species collected by the Challenger expedi-
tion. The avicularian mandibles were also investigated to some extent
by Mr. Busk; and, according to Mr. Waters, “to him we must give the
credit of first applying the form of the mandible in specific determina-
tion.” <A fuller discussion ‘On the use of the avicularian mandible in
the determation of the chilostomatous Bryozoa or Polyzoa” has been
contributed by Mr. Arthur W. Waters. Various points are discussed,
but only a couple can be here noticed. ‘The process in the chitinous
mandibles” Mr. Busk calls a columella, and says that ‘“‘it is covered with
short hairs,” but these, upon comparison with other mandibles, turn out
only to be the remains of the attachment of the muscular threads. In
fine, the processes in the mandibles, especially of Cellepora and Adeona,
“indicate differences in the muscular attachments, and both here and
in the opercula it is really the muscular system which has the greatest
classificatory value; but this is best studied by means of the variations
in the chitinous parts.” (J. R. M. 8. (2), v. 5, pp. 774-779, pl. 14.)

Brachiopods.

Vascular and nervous systems of Brachiopods.—Some points in the
structure of the Brachiopods are very difficult to determine for one rea-
son or another, but new light is gradually being thrown on such. Sev-
eral doubtful points have been investigated by Dr. F. Blochmann. The
heart and its contractibility were early correctly observed by Professor

ZOOLOGY. Chet
Hancock. Occasionally, as in the Argiope neopolitana, there are two
hearts. On the other hand, in some forms, as Crania anomala, there is
‘“no heart,” but ‘numerous enlargements on the ‘vein.’” The so-called
‘‘ afferent brachial canal” of Hancock is now affirmed to be ‘really the
supra-cesophogeal nerve,” and “further, the plexus which Hancock de-
scribes as circulatory, are really branching and anastomosing connec-
tive tissue-cells.” In one of the examined Brachiopods (Crania anomala)
the supra-cesophageal ganglion is replaced by a ‘“narrew fibrillar com-
missure.” <A ‘brachial vessel, sending off vessels to the cirrhi, runs
along the whole length of the brachial sinus behind the cwsophagus,
communicating by paired branches with the @sophageal blood-sinus,
and so with the heart.” (Zool. Anzeiger, v. 8, pp. 164-167; J. Rk. M. SN.
(2), v. 5, p. 440.)

MOLLUSKS.

Acephals.

Action of the foot in bivalve mollusks.—The movements of the foot in
Lamellibranchs, or the bivalve mollusks, have been studied by Dr. A.
Fleischmann. It is maintained that the so-called aquiferous pores in
the foot are “neither the orifices of glands nor artefacts. This being so,
they cannot serve as a means of communication between the blood vas-
cular system and the surrounding water. Suchstreams of water as are
seen on contraction are not normal vital phenomena, but are patho-
logical. Even if there were pores, they could not, for mechanical rea-
sons, have the functions that have been ascribed tothem. The swelling
of the foot is due to the entrance of a certain quantity of blood, which,
during repose, is stored up in the pallial reservoirs ; the bleod is aided
by the closure of a strong valve and by the simultaneous relaxation of
the musculature of the foot, the lacunz of which become filled by blood.
When the foot undergoes erection there is no change of volume of the
whole animal, but only a change in the volume of separate parts, due
to the dislocation of the blood. It has not been proved that water is
taken up by the kidneys or intercellular ducts. The Lamellibranchs
do not need to take in water. What is true of them is also true of other
groups of mollusks.” (Zeitschr. Wiss. Zool., v.41, pp. 367-451 ; J. R. M.
Sas Ve 0, D. 02.)

Byssogenous glands and Aquiferous pores in Lamellibranchs.—The bys-
sogenous glands and pores of bivalve mollusks, as well as the so-called
aquiferous pores of the foot. have been studied by Prof. T. Barrois.

‘In the present state of knowledge,” he indicates, “‘it is generally
admitted that the byssus is the secretion of special glands,” but the ex-
tent to which such glands are developed had not been known until the
professor was able to demonstrate that Lamellibranchs generally ex-
hibit more or less well marked traces of this byssogenous apparatus,
778 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

In such forms as have the glands moderately developed, such as the
common European cockle (Cardium edule), the organ consists of ‘a,
groove on the lower surface of the foot, of glands at the side of the
groove, of a canal which extends from it to the more or less spacious
cavity of the byssus, and of compact masses of byssogenous glands
which pass the products of their secretion into the cavity.” This cavity
as well, and also the canal and the groove, are lined with a cylindrical
epithelium. In the common cockle the byssus is formed by ‘a simple
hyaline filament.” . ;

In those forms in which the glands are more developed, such as the
common mussel (Mytilus), Pinna, and others, “the glands are much
denser, and the anterior extremity of the foot is prolonged to form the
linguiform muscle; the laimellze of the cavity of the byssus are more
numerous,” and the byssus is formed of a number of filaments consti-
tuting a tuft. ‘In Anomia differentiation is carried much further, for
the byssus becomes charged with carbonate of lime,” and compact, so
as to form the so-called ossicle.

In still other forms, ‘the organ undergoes great retrogression,” and
there may be “a very short groove, or none, and no glands,” as in Donax
and Tellina; ‘sometimes the groove and cavity are present, but no
glands exist,” as in Nucula, while in others ‘only a delicate blind canal
can be distinguished, formed by a simple layer of epithelial cells,” as in
Psammobia. And in few forms is there a complete absence of groove,
cavity, or glands. Pholas and Solen are examples of the few.

Professor Barrois has examined more than 50 species and, accord-
ing to his views, representatives of ‘‘every family except the Trigoniidz
and Tridacnid,” and, inasmuch as the byssus and its associated struct-
ures are so generally developed, “he is inclined to regard it as a char-
acteristic organ of the Lamellibrach type.”

The so-called aquiferous pores are thought by Professor Barrois to be
“nothing more than the orifices of degraded byssogenous glands.” It
is his opinion that, ‘‘if water does really enter the cirulatory system,”
it ‘must do so by fine intercellular canals, or by endosmosis, or some
other way,” but not through the aquiferous pores. (Comptes Rendus,
Acad. Se. Paris, v. —, pp. 188-190; J. R. M. BS. (2), v. 5, pp. 227, 228.)

Structure of bivalve shells.—The bivalve shells have been considered
by W. Miiller with reference to the attachment existing between the
mantle of the animal and the shell Two varieties are recognized. In
one the shell is only attached at certain areas to the mantle, and “the
organic substance of the mother-of-pearl layer is membranous”; this
phase is exhibited by almost all members of the class. In the other
variety the shell is “continuously grown to the mantle,” and ‘the or-
ganic substanee of the mother-of-pearl layer forms a network;” this
condition, so far as known, is only exemplified in the little fresh water
clam-like shells known as Spheriide or Cycladida. (Zool. Anzeiger,
y. 8, pp. 70-75; J. Rk. M.S. (2), v. 5, pp. 230.)

ZOOLOGY. Meg
Gastropods.

The wings or cephalic appendges of Pteropods.—The homologies of the
wing-like anterior appendages of the Pteropods are still involved in
doubt. In the gymnosomatous forms, especially of the genera Clione,
Clionopsis, or Pheumodermon, there are always two pairs of tentacles,
and Dr. Pelseneer believes that they are “homologous with the two
pairs of the euthyneurous Gastropods.” In thecosmatous Pteropods,
there is a pair of tentacles so reduced as to be rudimentary, and if the
species do not have eyes when adult, they have them in some stage of
development; these tentacles are homologous with the posterior or
nuchal oculiferous tentacles of the gymnosomatous Pteropods, while the
absence of the anterior is to be explained by the swimming lobes en-
circling the head. ‘Most of the gymnosomata have a pair of buccal.
appendages between the two pairs of tentacles, and these, though
‘varied in aspect, are probably similar in origin; it is explained how, in
Clione, they are really inserted on the external wall of the buccal cavity
just as in Cirrifer and Pneumodermon; but at the same time it is to be
remembered that this part of the buccal cavity is an introvert and not
a true part of the oral cavity.” (Quart. Journ. Micr. Soc., v. 25, pp.
491-509, 1 pL; J. &. Uf. S. (3), v. 6, p. 53.)

The eyes of Gastropods.— An investigation of the eyes of Gastropods
has been undertaken by Dr. C. Hilger. It appears that there are two
kinds of optic organs developed in ordinary forms. In the first a rudi-
mentary condition is manifested in that the eye “forms but a slight in-
vagination of the epithelium of the body;” this condition is exemplified
in the Rhipidoglossate and Docoglossate mollusks, as in the genera
Margarita, Trochus, Haliotis, Fissurella, and Patella. In the second,
“the eye forms a complete closed capsule, which is invested by connec-
tive tissue.” This condition is manifested in the Pectinibranchiates,
such as the genera Murex, Nassa, Ficus, Cyprea, and Conus.

In the former type ‘‘the eye has the form of a cup or bell shaped
invagination of the epithelium of the body,” and “in most cases, the
cuticle seems to be developed as a very thin lamella over the anterior
part of the vitreous body; the invagination is lined by the retina, which
anteriorly passes directly into the epithelium of the body and is in-
vested externally by the outspréad optic nerve.” In the ear-shells
(Haliotis) and top-shells (Trochus) “the cavity is filled by a delicate
gelatinous substance, and in Patella and Nacella by a finely granulated
mass.”

In those forms in which the eyes are more developed “the larger and
hinder part of the corpuscle is formed by the retina and the outspread
optic nerve, while it is closed anteriorly by the inner ceil-layer of
the pellucida. Within there is either alens or vitreous body or both,”
and “the eye is completely investéd by the connective tissue of the ten-
tacle,” or, a8 it has been more definitely named, the ommatophor.

:
780 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

For further details, reference must be had to the original memoir of
Hilger, published in the Morphologische Jahrbuch, and a fuller abstract
in the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society. (Morphol. Jahrb.,
v. 10, pp. 351-371, 2 pl.; J. R. M.S. (2), v. 5, pp. 222, 223.)

The relations of Sequenzia.—The small mollusks to which the generic
name Sequenzia has been given, and which, on account of the appear-
ance of the shell, have been supposed to be related to the Solariids by -
some, and by others to the Trochids, have, it seems, been quite misun-
derstood. Prof. A. E.. Verrill found in the dredgings of the United
States Fish Commission living examples of the genus, and, on exami-
nation of the radula and jaws, determined the affinities of the form to
be quite different. Professor Verrill approximates the genus (which he
raises to the rank of a family) to the Aporrhaide, and consequently in
the group or suborder of Tenioglossa instead of the Ptenoglossa or
Rhipidoglossa.

The family is definable as Tenioglossates with ovate jaws having a
tesselated surface and denticulated edge; teeth of the central row small
and with a denticle, of the inner lateral smaller and with curved, unarmed
tips, and of the two outer lateral slender, sharp, and strongly curved ;
shell trochiform, its aperture irregular, with a posterior sinus and a short
or rudimentary canal or sinus, with a pearly luster, and decussating
sculpture, and operculum thin, rounded-ovate, with a subcentral nucleus
and five concentric lines. (Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts & Sci., v. 6, pp.
186-191.)

The animal of A deorbis.—There is a small shell, of a discoid form, found
along the European coasts, as to whose relations there have been con-
siderable doubts; its generally accepted name is Adeorbis subcarinatus.
The doubts as to its affinities could only be solved -by an examination
of the anatomy of the animal. This has been undertaken during the
past year by Mr. Paul Fischer. He found that the radula has sixty-
eight transverse rows of teeth, each row consisting of seven teeth; the
central is wide and trapezoidal, and has a reflected summit and basal
cusps; the lateral teeth are rhomboid and each has a long, stalk-like
lateral process; the inner marginal are long, narrow, and denticulated
along its external margin; the external still narrower and with entire
margins. It appears, therefore, that Adeorbis has no relations with the
Trochids or Cyclostrematids to which some conchologists have been dis-
posed to refer it, and that its affinities are really with the Skeneids and
Rissoids, as has been long suspected by others. (Trans. Conn. Acad.
Arts & Sci., v. 6.)

The relations of Truncatelia.—Along the shores of many countries be-
tween tide-marks or even above normal high-water mark are found cer-
tain small mollusks having an elongdted turreted shell, truncated at
the summit, and with a subcircular aperture. These mollusks belong

ZOOLOGY. 781

to the family named Truncatellide, and they have been generally asso-
ciated with the Cyclostomids and allied animals and considered to be
true air-breathing and lung-bearing gastropods. The correctness of
this view however was long ago challenged, and its incorrectness
has been shown during the past year by Dr. A. Vayssiere. The
study of the respiratory apparatus of the animal reveals the fact that
it is a trus gill or branchia, which is placed transversely to the longitu-
dinal axis of the body; has itself an elongated form and is composed of
twelve to fifteen triangular lamelle, arranged in a row, but each almost
entirely independent of its fellows. On the surface of the lamellx, and
especially toward the free extremity, there are vibratile ciliz which deter-
mine the movements of.the water around the organ. It is, therefore,
says Dr. Vayssiere, undeniable that the respiration of the animal is by
means of branchiw. The mollusk lives in a moist atmosphere, although
not in the water, and therefore it keeps stored up in its respiratory cavity
a certain amount of water which is renewed every time that the tides
cover its station. Dr. Vaysseire adds some details on the habits of
individuals kept in confinement. They had been found on the sea bor-
der more or less ensconced in the muddy ooze and in the midst of débris
east on the shore, consisting largely of decaying fruit and animals. The
Truncatellas did not appear to be at all affected by the odor of the decay-
ing matter. They could remain out of the water and in an atmosphere
saturated with the vapor, and could live many days without suffering,
but moisture was necessary and they soon succumbed to dryness. Their
progress is peculiar, and the movements of the animal recall those of
the geometrical caterpillars. Normally and when in the water it uses
only its foot in walking, and does not employ its proboscis save in ex-
ceptional cases, and when a special demand is made upon its strength,
as when it is creeping upon a vertical and smooth surface, such as the
sides of a glass globe. Previous observers, who stated that it always
uses its proboscis, were misled by the fact that the mollusk, in its prog-
ress (which resembles that of the geometrical caterpillars), performs
with the anterior part of its body (the proboscis) a certain looping move-
ment. This movement, which at the same time entails an approach of
the extremity of the proboscis to the ground, leads one to suppose that
this plays a role in its progress, and one is the more disposed to
believe this, as the mouth, which is at the extremity of the proboscis, has
very much the appearance of a sucker.

The food of the little animal is chiefly composed of microscopic¢ ani-
malcules (such as Infasorians, Amebas, Foraminifers, &c.), as well as
the decomposing remains of alge and other aquatic plants. (Journ.
de Conchyl. (3) v. 25, pp. 255-288, pl. 12, 13.)

North American Land Slugs and Shetls.—The terrestrial Gastropods of
North America, north of Mexico, which have been treated of to such
an extent by Mr. W. G. Binney, have been submitted to a renewed ex-
i
(oz SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

amination by the same gentleman. The results have appeared in a new
volume, entitled ‘A Manual of American Land Shells,” which consti-
tutes *‘ No. 28” of the Bulletin of the U. S. National Museum.

The treatment is essentially the same as that in Mr. Binney’s previ-
ous publications, but instead of the species being arranged in a regular
systematic order they are distributed geographically under several cat-
egories: (a) those ‘universally distributed ;” (b) those of the *‘ Pacific
province ;” (¢) those of the ‘central province;” (d) species of the
‘¢eastern province,” and the ‘northern region” thereof; (e) species of
the ‘* eastern province” and the “interior region;” (/) species of the
“eastern province” and the ‘southern region,” and (g) those “ locally
introduced.”

After a brief introduction on (1) the “habits and properties,” (2)
‘“‘ geographical distribution,” (3) the “ generative organs,” (4) the “ jaws
and lingual dentition,” and (5) the ‘ classification,” the author enters
upon the description of the species under the geographical categories
enumerated. .

With Dr. Fischer, he divides the Geophilous Pulmonates (to which
the volume is restricted) into two groups (1) the Monotremata, dis-
tinguished by having common or contiguous external male and female
orifices, including almost all of the species, and (2) the Ditremata, em-
bracing those forms in which the external male and female orifices are
widely separated. Of the latter group only two species of the family
Veronicellide and two of the Onchidiidze have been observed within
the limits mentioned.

The Monotremata are divided into eleven families. These families do
not always appear to be very natural and sometimes discordant forms
have been combined in one, and sometimes forms for which no differ-
ential characters have been noticed have been referred to distinct fami-
lies.

A résumé of those families to which distinctive characters can be
given seems appropriate in this connection.

I. The Glandinide include those forms which are entirely destitute of
a jaw, and whose teeth are of only one kind, all being elongated, narrow,
and aculeate, while the mantle is submedian or postmedian and entirely
included in the shell, which itself is elongated or turreted. Of this
family five are enumerated as species of the genus Glandina. These, in
Mr. Binney’s plan, belong to the family Testacellide. 3

II. The Selenitidz constitute a group, recently recognized by Dr.
Fletcher, of which the jaw is ribless, the teeth are of nearly the same
character as those of the Glandinide and are aeuleate, the median one
being either suppressed or very small, and the mantle is submedian or
posterior and included within the shell, which latter is spiral and helici-
form. The species of this group are referred by Mr. Binney to the ge-
nus Macroyelis, and six are recognized as inhabitants of the North
American fauna.

ZOOLOGY. | 783

Ill. The Vitrinidze may be considered as embracing the Monotrema-
tous Geophila, with a jaw which is smooth or striated (destitute of ribs)
and has a median projection to the cutting edge; teeth differentiated
into a central tricuspid one, “laterals of about the same height as cen-
trals, bicuspid or tricuspid, but in latter case furnished with an ob-
solete inner cusp; marginal teeth differing from the laterals, aculeate
unicuspid or bicuspid,” and a heliciform shell. This family embraces
about fifty-two species, which are referred by Mr. Binney to the Lima-
cide.

IV. The Bulimulide include forms which have the jaw thin, and pro-
vided with distant transverse ribs, the teeth ‘‘ peculiar by the elongation
and incurvation of the inver cusp of the lateral” ones, and the mantle
included in the shell which, itself is more or less elongated and turreted.
Nine species, referred to the genus Bulimulus, are represented in North
America, and are chiefly found in the southwestern regions.

V. The Stenogyride include forms which have the “jaw ribbed or
finely wrinkled, thin, arched;” the teeth differentiated into (1) a small
central tooth, (2) tricuspid lateral teeth having the ‘“ central cusp long
and narrow” and “side cusps of subequal length,” and (3) “ marginal
teeth, quadrate, very low, wide,” and “ tricuspid or multifid ;” the man-
tle included, and the “shell generally elongated, polygyral, shining,”
and with its “apex more or less obtuse.” The six North American
species are referred to the genera Stenogyra, Ferrussacia, and Caecilian-
ella.

VI. The Helicide have a jaw of a single piece (generally. arcuate,
often ribbed), teeth differentiated into (1) ‘‘centrals unicuspid or tricus-
pid,” (2)‘ laterals unicuspid, bicuspid, or tricuspid, but with theinner cusp
obsolete,” and (3) ‘‘marginals quadrate, low, wide;” the mantle sub-
median and included in the shell, and the shell spiral and diversiform.
The American representatives are distributed by Mr. Binney among
two families, the Helicide and Pupide, but the only differences noticed
are as to degrees of exsertion of the spire. The gradations from a dis-
coid helix to an elongated turreted or pupiform shell are so gradual
and numerous (especially when foreign forms are taken into account)
that no advantage seems to result from the distinction of the two groups.
Including both types and eliminating the genera Arion, Ariolimax, Pro-
physaon Binneya, Hemphillia, and the Punctum pygmzum or minutis-
simum, one hundred and sixty-seven species have been admitted by Mr.
Binney into the North American fauna and distributed among twenty-
Six genera.

VII. The Limacide may be restricted to species having the jaws rib-
less, the dentition divided into (1) a “central tooth tricuspid,” (2) lat-
erals of same height as central, bicuspid or tricuspid, and (3) ‘‘ mar-
ginal teeth differing from the laterals, aculeate, unicuspid or bicuspid,”
the mantle anterior, small, narrow, and shield-like in appearance, and
the shell reduced to a rudiment and concealed under the mantle. All
184 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

the North American species are referred by Mr. Binney to the genus
Limax and are seven in number.

VIII. The Arionide include forms which have the jaw entire and
transversely ribbed ; the teeth of three types, (1) a wide central ob-
securely tricuspid; (2) lateral, “like the centrals but asymmetrical by the
suppression of the inner lower lateral expansion of the base of attach-
ment,” and (3) marginals quadrate, low and wide; the mantle anterior,
small and. shield-like, and the shell represented by a small flat plate or
granules. The North American species are referred to two genera,
Arion with two species (one introduced from Europe) and Ariolimax
with five. These species are interposed between genera of the Helicidie
by Mr. Binney.

IX. The Philomycide have a “jaw with or without anterior ribs,
and median projection or cutting edge,” teeth distinguishable into cen-
tral, lateral, and marginal; a mantle covering the whole body, and the
shell entirely suppressed. Four species are found within our kimits, all
of which are referred to the genera Tebennophorus, although there are
two quite distinct forms which seem to have been confounded in it.
The names used by Professor Morse are Tebennophorus and Pallifera,

X. The Orthalicide are forms which have a peculiar jaw in that it
is “ thick, solid, composed of a median triangular piece, with base cor-
responding to upper margin of jaw, and near the apex of which con-
verge on either side oblique imbricated plates, free below, adherent
above.” The teeth are distinguished into ‘central and lateral teeth with
quadrangular base, with central cusp more or less obtuse, generally very
much expanded, with rudimentary side cusps” and “marginal teeth
quadrate, of same type;” the mantle is posterior and included, and
the shell spiral and turreted. Two species are found in Florida belong-
ing to the genera Orthalicus and Liguus.

XI. The Punctide include forms with the “jaw low, wide, slightly
arcuate, with blunt, squarely truncated ends, ‘‘disintegrated into many”
(about sixteen) “separate pieces, each higher than wide, with small
overlapping edges;” the teeth are quite peculiar (but most like those
of the Auriculidz) and represented only by centrals and laterals hav-
ing bases of attachment longer than wide, expanded below and squarely
truncated, and free portions narrowed and reflected ;” the mantle is
submedian, and the shell heliciform. Not more than one species is cer-
tainly known within our limits. It is the Helix minutissima or Pune-
tum minutissimum of most American authors, but it is regarded by Mr.
Binney as being identical with a European species and called by him
Microphysa pygmea.

XII. The Succiniide have a jaw surmounted by an accessory quad-
rangular plate, teeth differentiated into (1) a central tricuspid, (2) lat-
eral which are tricuspid or bicuspid, and (3) marginal of a quadrate form
“with narrow base, multicuspid reflection, serrate by the splitting of
the inner cusp into numerous denticles ;” oe more or less included

ZOOLOGY. 785

in the shell, and the shell more or less developed, spiral, thin, and trans-
parent. The North American species are all referred to the genus Suc-
cinea by Mr. Binney, and twenty-six species are recognized.

All of the forms now noticed belong to the group Monotremata (or
Syntremata) as previously noted, and only four species belong to the
remaining two families of Ditremata.

The Veronicellide have a ‘jaw slightly arcuate, with numerous ver-
tical ribs ;” teeth differentiated into (1) ‘‘centrals, narrow, unicuspid,
with expanded sides,” (2) “laterals large, obscurely tricuspid,” and with
“medium cusp sharp and long,” and (5) “marginals with quadrate
base short, triangular, unicuspid,” and mantle not distinct from general
integument ;” the shell is entirely suppressed. Two species have been
found in the United States, one in Florida and the other in California;
both are terrestrial.

The Ouchidiide have the ‘‘ jaw entirely smooth or lightly wrinkled,”
teeth differentiated into ‘central tooth, tricuspid lateral teeth, and margi-
nals with quadrate base, razor-shaped,” having the “‘ baselong and with
cutting point narrow” and “medium cusp truncated and very long;” the
mantle is ‘thick, more or less tuberculous above,” and no shell is de-
veloped. The two North American species belong to the genus Onchi-
della, one (O. borealis) occurring from Prince William’s Sound to Van-
couver’s Island, and the other (O. Carpenteri) from the Straits of Fuca
to the Gulf of California.

Differences among the slugs.—Some of the European malacologists ad-
mit numerous species of Slugs as of the families Limacide and Arionidx
on slight differences of form, proportions, and coloration, but the pro-
priety of so doing has been questioned by Mr. 8. Jourdain, who thinks
that the differences that have generally been made use of for specific
distinctions vary with age as well as habitat. He therefore urges that
investigation should be directed to the internal organs and especially to
the arrangement of the generative apparatus. ‘The pedal gland is also
of service; it contains a cylindrical excretory canal which extends
more or less along the median line, and receives the mucoso-glandular
secretions of the lobules of a racemose gland on either side of it; the
internal face of the canal is vibratile. In the Limacide it arises as an
invagination of the ectoderm, and subsequently becomes branched; the
extremities of the branches are invested by mesodermic cells which rap-
idly become secretory.” On differences discernible in the characters in
question, Mr. Jourdain distinguishes five species occurring in the en-
virons of St. Vaast-la-Hougue: these are four of the family Limacida
and one of Arionide. (Comptes Rendus, Acad. Sci. v. 101, pp. 963-966.
J. R. M. 8. (3), v. 16, p. 50.)

An European Paleozoic land shell.—Until lately, no land shells have
been found in the paleozoic rocks outside of North America, but in the
H. Mis. 15 50

786 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

western continent seven species have been found in Carboniferous and De-
vonian deposits—six in the former and one in the latter. During the past
year however, Dr. Paul Fischer has described a species referable to the
genus Dendropupa from a Permian deposit at Sadne-et-Loire. The new
species is related, in Dr. Fischer’s opinion, to the first-discovered species
of the genus Dendropupa (D. vetusta), found in the coal-joggins of Nova
Scotia, but the form is different, and although larger, there are only seven
(instead of nine) whorls. Only a single cast of the species was found
in the midst of various vegetable remains. The form has been named
Dendropupa Wolchiarum. (Journ. de Conchyl. (3), v. 25, pp. 99-105.)

Characteristics of Tectibranchiate Gastropods.—In the first part of a work
devoted to zoological and anatomical researches on the Opisthobranchi-
ate mollusks of the Gulf of Marseilles, Dr. A. Vayssiére has treated of
the Tectibranchiates. The memoir is valuable on account of the use
made in it of characteristics which have hitherto been neglected. The
author, with Dr. Fischer, divides the group into three divisions, named
Cephalaspidea, Anaspidea, and Notaspidea. Besides much other infor-
mination, details are given as to the food of various forms. Some are
carnivorous, such as species of Scaphander, Philine, and Doridium ;
others are omnivorous, like Gastropteron and Pleurobranchus, and still
others are completely herbivorous, as the sea-hares (Aplysia) and No-
tarchus. (Recherches zoologiques et anatomiques sur les mollusques opis-
thobranches du Golfe de Marseilles, 181 pp.; Journ. de Conchyl. (3), v. 25,
pp. 206-209.)

Cephalopods.

Cartilages of Sepia.—The ‘cartilages occurring in the head of Sepia”
have been examined by W. D. Haliburton. “The basis of the cartilage
is achordrin-like body, which gives the re-action of macen and gelatine.
But the gelatinous element is exceedingly small and no gelatinization
occurs on the cooling of the hot-water extract. The cartilage differs
however from that of vertebrates in containing a small percentage of
chitin.” In Sepia the percentage is 1:22 per cent. (Quart. Journ. Mier.
Se., v. 25, pp. 173-181; J. R. M.S. (2), v. 5, p. 222.)

PROTOCHORDATES.

Tunicates.

Relations of Tunicates.—An elaborate monograph of the genus Dolio-
lum has been published by Dr. B. Uljanin as a contribution to the
“Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel (x, 1884), and in it are detailed
the structural characteristics and the embryology. Various mooted
questions as to the morphology and relationships of the group, as well as
the Tunicates in general, are considered. The author inclines to the view

ZOOLOGY. 787

that the Tunicates “‘ represent a side branch of the vertebrate phylum,
whose point of origin is near its root.” The Apperdiculariids are “re-
garded as the most primitive representatives of the group; they give
rise to the simple Ascidians; thence there branched off the Solpide on
the one hand, and the compound Ascidians on the other; the latter
gave rise to the social Ascidians, to Botryllus and to Pyrosoma, while
the primitive stock was continued on through Anchonia to Doliolum.”
Of course these views are to a large extent hypothetical, and perhaps,
or even quite likely, wrong in some details, but so far as they are legiti-
mate deductions from a careful and detailed study, are valuable as well
as suggestive for further investigation. (J. Kh. M. S. (2), v. 5, pp. 231-
233.)
VERTEBRATES.

General.

The North American Fish Fauna.—The ‘Synopsis of the fishes of
North America” by Profs. David S. Jordan and Charles 8S. Gilbert,
published early in 1883, has been followed during the past year by a
‘Catalogue of the fishes known to inhabit the waters of North America
north of the tropic of Cancer, with notes on the species discovered in
1883 and 1884,” by Prof. David Starr Jordan. Since the publication of
the synopsis, in 1883, “‘an active study of North American fishes has
brought to light many spesies not included in the synopsis, and has
shown various errors in the nomenclature of species already known.
The additions are chiefly in the Bassalian or deep-sea fauna of the At-
lantic, in the tropical fauna of the Florida Keys, and in the fresh-water
fauna of the lower part of the Mississippi Valley,” regions recently re-
examined. Professor Jordan has also extended the range adopted in the
synopsis so that the new catalogue represents ‘ the present state of our
knowledge of the fishodMtound north of the tropic of Cancer in American
waters.” In the new catalogue, 1,683 species are adopted, and in addi-
tion 187 subspecies are recognized, giving a total of 1,870 species and
subspecies. These species are segregated under 587 genera and 157
families. Several of the comprehensive genera and families of the syn-
opsis have been now disintegrated, more natural and better definable
groups being recognized in their place. In a “recapitulation,” an as-
signment of the species to the various faunas is made. In regard to
many of them, such an assignment, in the words of Professor Jordan,
is “simply arbitrary, and in this fact lies the chief element of error in the
following list. Thus many Arctic shore fishes belong to the Bassalian
fauna of New England, while mamy West Indian species occur north-|
ward, more or less frequently as far as Cape Cod.” It must be added,
too, that ‘“‘no species is counted twice, butin each case of the numerous
species which range over several faunal areas, each is referred to that
area which is supposed to be most properly its home, or to that in which
788 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885,

its occurrence has been longest known.” ‘The figures given by Profes-
sor Jordan are as follows:

Species
Bassalian or deep-sea fauna of the Atlantic........--....----------- +--+. ee 105
Avciie (Greenland) fauna... 2-0-6 these seseeee & semis ooeare eee eters 65
New England (Newfoundland to Cape Hatteras)....--..---------.------- -.-- 95
south Atlantic and Gulf coast (shore fauna) ss. --- 2. eae. eee eae eee 140
West Indian fauna (including Florida Keys and ‘‘Snapper Banks,” of Pensa-

Coders 205... ARSE at 2) Pest ee 290
Tropical fauna of the Pacific (Gulf of California, southward) ..........-.----. 240
California fauna (Cape Flattery to Cerros Island) .........--.-.----.---------- 220
Alaska) (Cape Hlattery; to) bering (s \Strarts)p----o-fcee sees eee eee 90
Pelavicispecies: 2 S.c.jence ce ee acseee se semiene cae saised Ce erac eae a ome eer cm am eee 35
Eresh waters: Hastotmocky Mountainsnesoc. se osean oe oeecnie seer eens sels 465
Fresh waters: Between Rocky Mountains and Sierra Nevada (Great Basin, &c.) 75
Fresh waters: West of the Sierra Nevada and Cascade Range ------..----.---- 50

ol Woy eH Payer a ah here eye Sa Ore al he red by bas ase ea Rs a a en 1,870

The Fishes of Tropical America.—After having elaborated all the spe-
cies of fishes of temperate and arctic America, Prof. David 8. Jordan
addressed himself to a preparation of a list of the fishes found along the
Pacific coast of tropical America from the Tropic of Cancer to Panama.
The species of this region were almost unknown a quarter of a century
ago, and, in the words of Professor Jordan, ‘‘our knowledge of these
species is due chiefly to the studies of Dr. Gill, Dr. Giinther, Dr. Stein-
dachner, and Professors Jordan and Gilbert. Only a few collectors
have given especial attention to the fish fauna of this region, but the
work of these has, in nearly all cases, been of exceptional value. The
earliest extensive collections were made by Mr. John Xantus at Cape
San Lucas, and later at Colima. The specimens obtained by Xantus
comprise especially the fishes of the rock pools. These were studied
by Dr. Gill in 1862 and by Professor Gilbert @nd the writer in 1882.”
Since that early time, however, numerous other collectors have obtained
fishes, and among the most prominent of these are Captain John M.
Dow, Mr. Osbert Salvin, Dr. Franz Steindachner, Prof. Frank Bradley,
Dr. Bocourt, and, last and greatest, Messrs. Jordan and Gilbert. Alto-
gether 407 species have been obtained, and these represent 187 genera
and 68 families. A comparison of these with the Caribbean and Gulf
of Mexico fauna is interesting and instruetive. According to Professor
Jordan’s identifications, 71 species, or 174 per cent., are found also on the
Atlantic coasts. If we add to this some 800 species now known from
the Caribbean Sea and adjacent shores, we have about 6 per cent. of the
whole number known, as common to,the two coasts. This number, 71,
is not very definitely ascertained, as there must be considerable differ-
ence of opinion as to the boundaries of species, and as several of these
species regarded as common are open to doubt and need verification.”
Professor Jordan believes however that “fuller investigations will not
increase the proportions of common species, and, if it does not, the two

ZOOLOGY. 789

faunas show no greater resemblances than the similarity of physical eon-
ditions on the two sides would lead us to expect.

These conclusions contrast with those of Dr. Giinther. ‘Dr. Giinther
assumes that nearly one-third of the total number of species of marine
fishes on the two shores of tropical America will be found to be iden-
tical. Hence he infers that there must have been, at a comparatively
recent date, a depression of the isthmus, producing an intermingling
of the two faunas.”

Professor Jordan explains that “this discrepancy arises from the
comparatively limited representation of the two faunze at the disposal
of Dr. Giinther. He enumerates 193 marine or brackish-water species,
as found on the two coasts, 59 of which are regard@éd by him as speci-
fically identical, this being 31 per cent. of the whole. But in 30 of these
59 cases” Professor Jordan regards ‘‘ the assumption of complete identity
as erroneous, so that, taking the number 193, as given,” he would “ re-
duce the percentage to 15. But these 193 species form but a fragment
of the total fauna, and any conclusions based on such narrow data are
certain to be misleading.” .

Some data respecting the supposed con-specific forms are interesting.
‘“‘ Of the 71 identical species admitted in our list, several (e. g., Mola, Or-
cynus) are pelagic fishes, common to most warm seas; still others (e. g.,

_Trachurus, Caranx, Diodon sp.) are almost cosmopolitan in the tropical
waters; most of the others (e. g., Gobius, Gerres, Centropomus, Galerch-
thys sp., &e.) often ascend the rivers of the tropics, and we may account
for their diffusion, perhaps, as we account for the dispersion of fresh-
water fishes on the isthmus, on the supposition that they may have
* crossed from marsh to marsh at some time in the rainy season.” But
“in very few cases are representatives of any species from opposite
sides of the isthmus exactly alike in all respects. These differences in
some cases seem worthy of specific value, giving ‘us representative spe-
cies,’ on the two sides. In other cases, the distinctions are very trivial,
but in most cases they are appreciable, especially on fresh specimens.”

Finally, Professor Jordan is “ brought to the conclusion that the fish
faune of the two shores of Central America are substantially distinct,
so far as species are concerned, and that the resemblance between them
is not so great as to necessitate the hypothesis of the recent existence
of a channel across the isthmus, permitting the fishes to pass from one
side to the other.”

These results are especially noteworthy inasmuch as they confirm
and are themselves corroborated by the results of studies of various
other classes of the animal kingdom. (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 8, pp.
361-394.)

Selachians.

Classification of the Sharks.—An important contribution to our knowl-
edge of the skeletons of sharks, and some excellent hints as to the
classification of the group, have appeared in an article by Prof. William
790 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1883.

A. Haswell, of Sydney, Australia, entitled “ Studies on the Elasmobranch
Skeleton.” That naturalist examined the complete skeletons or skulls
of 17 species of Selachians, and has described the essential peculiarities
of the skull, visceral arches, shoulder girdle, pectoral fins, and pelvic
fins, as well as dorsal, anal, and caudal. The results of his examina-
tions are embodied in a summary in which he recapitulates the essential
characters of the various families and including groups.

Professor Haswell recognizes for the plagiostomes generally two
orders, the Selachoidea and the Batoidei, which are characterized as
follows:

The Selachoidei are distinguished in that “in the skull the post-orbi
tal processes are usftally well developed; the orbit is usually provided
with a cartilaginous floor formed of the basal plate; there is always a
palato-basal articulation ; the rostrum usually consists of ‘three bars
with large foramina at the base. There are a series of external branch-
ial arches ; the first branchial arch never articulates with the skull;
the hyo-arch is supported by the hyo-mandibular; the copula of the
hyoid has the form of a broad plate connected with its distal extremity.
The pectoral fin is not connected with the skull by means of an ant-
orbital cartilage; the ventral portion of the pectoral arch is divided in the
middle by a more flexible portion into two lateral halves usually slightly
movable on each other, and the dorsal extremities do not articulate with
the spinal column. The pro- and meta-pterygia of the pectoral fin are
never greatly elongated, and usually have the form of relatively broad
plates.”

The Batoidei are recognized as an order contrasted with the Sel-
achoidei in the following terms: ‘The post-orbital processes are small *
or absent ; the orbit is devoid of cartilaginous floor. There is no palato-
basal articulation. The rostrum, when present, is usually imperforate
at the base. There are no external branchial arches; the first branchial
arch is sometimes directly connected by the hyo-mandibular with the
skull. When the hyoid arch is supported by the hyo-mandibular the
articulation takes place near the proximal extremity of the latter. The
ventral portion of the pectoral arch forms a continuous rigid bar; the
dorsal extremities of the arch are connected either with the spinal
column or with one another. The pro- and meta-pterygia of the pectoral
fins have the form of elongated narrow bars, and the mesopterygium
is insignificant. The anterior portion of the pectoral fin is connected
by a cartilage—the ant-orbital cartilage—with the ethmoidal region of
the skull.”

The Selachoidei, or sharks, are disintegrated into two ‘ suborders,”
named Paleoselachii and Neoselachii. Professor Haswell considers
this grouping to “follow as a necessary conclusion from the researches
of Gegenbaur on the anatomy of the skull.” The suborders are distin-
guished by the following characters:

In the Paleoselachii “the occipital region of the skull is not so
Sharply marked off from the spinal column as in other Elasmoranchii;

ZOOLOGY. T91

it presents above a mesial ridge continuous with the spinous processes
and at the sides ridges continuous with the line of the transverse proc-
esses. The plane of the occipital region is vertical or inclined from
below upwards and backwards. There is no lateral occipito-vertebral
articulation. The principal vagus foramen is placed far from the fora-
men magnum; the lower roots of the nerve pass out by from three to
five distinct canals which are in the line with the foramina for the spi-
nal nerves. The vestibulum forms a distinct eminence on the surface
of the infero-plateral portion of the auditory region. The articular sur-
face tor the hyo-mandibular is simple, and not sharply marked off from
surrounding parts. The post-orbital process presents an articular sur-
face for the palato-quadrate. The orbit has no cartilaginous floor.
There is an ethmoidal canal. There is no tri-radiate rostrum. Repre-
senting the ant-orbital cartilage of rays is an ant-orbital process. There
are either six or seven branchial arches; the external arches are incom- —
plete. There is only one dorsal fin; its rays are supported by a broad
basal cartilage.” .

In the Neoselachii “the centra of the vertebre are well ossified. The
occipital region is well marked off from the vertebralcolumn. The plane
of the foramen magnum is vertical or slopes forwards. The principal
vagus foramen is usually approximated to the foramen magnum, and
there is never a row of accessory foramina in line with the foramina of
spinal nerves. Thereis no distinct elevation on the surface of the skull
marking the position of the vestibule. The articular surface for the
hyo-mandibular is complex. The post-orbital process never presents
an articular surface for the palato-quadrate. The orbit has a cartila-
ginous floor. There is no process representing the ant-orbital cartilage
of the rays. There are never more than five branchial arches. There
are two dorsal fins, which may or may not present broad basal carti-
lages.”

The suborder Paleoselachii is represented by only one family, the
Notidanide, while the Weoselachii examined by Professor Haswell are
differentiated by him into the families Cestraciontide, Lamnide, Scyl-
liolamnide, Seyllide, Rhinide, and Pristiophoride.

Fishes or Teleostomes.

Pterospis and Scapbaspis.—In a Devonian bed in Galacian Podolia
(Russian-Poland). were found two shields, one a Pterospis and the other
a Scapbaspis united, and universily opposite each, and giving the im-
pression that they were in natural union; the Pterospis, however, pro-
jected further forwards than the Scapbaspis. It has therefore been
urged by Dr. A. Altb that the Pterotpis was the dorsal and the Scaphas-
pis the inferior buckler of the same fish. The mouth is thought to
have been in the inter-space between the two shields and thus to have
been somewhat inferior. (Abhandl. Sitz. Ber. Akad. Krahan, v. 11, pp.
160-187, pl. 6, Archives Slaves de Biol., v. 1.)
192 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

The Burramundi,—One of the most interesting of all fishes is an in-
habitant of certain Australian rivers, and is known to some of the
English settlers of the country as the salmon and flathead ; its native
uiame is Burramundi. It has no resemblance whatever in form to the
salmon and has been called so only because its flesh is pinkish like the
salmon’s. In shape it perhaps more resembles or rather has less dis-
similarity to the fresh-water ophiocephalids of India or to a thick eel
than to any common or well known fish. This resemblance results from
its elongated subeylindrical form and the gradual tapering of its tail
backward to the confluence of the dorsal, anal, and caudal fins. The
head is depressed, wedge-shaped, and covered with a bony armature.
The scales, which are almost confined to the body (although slightly
encroaching upon the vertical fins), are large and have a peculiar
structure. Its chief interest results from the fact that it is the repre-
sentative of a family of fishes which is represented by numerous species
in the secondary geological age in the northern hemisphere, and it was
supposed, until 1870, to have become extinet at the end of the Triassic
epoch. It was therefore a matter of the greatest astonishment to all
naturalists when a species of the type was discovered living in the fresh
waters of Southern Australia, and the living representative of the
ancient family was found to be so nearly related to the extinct forms
that it has been regarded by most naturalists as belonging to the typi-
cal genus Ceratodus. It exhibits however differences of dentition re-
moving it from any of the extinct forms, and there is no evidence that the
secondary species had a skeleton or scales generically similar to those
of the living representatives; it has therefore by a few naturalists,
been regarded as belonging to a peculiar generic type known as Neo-
ceratodus. The ceratodonts are remarkable likewise on account of
their nasal apertures opening into the palate, in which respect however
they agree with two other living types of Dipnoous fishes, although
differing from all others of theclass except them. The assiduous re-
searches of various naturalists have at length given us a tolerable insight
into the life history of the Burramundi. It is confined to certain rivers of
South Australia, and its headquarters seem to bein the Burnett River.
Its mode of progression is by waves of the tail or by paddling with the
pectoral fins without moving the posterior pair of fins or the tail.
When at rest on the bottom of the tank the pectorals are placed nearly
at right angles to the body while the hinder fins are brought nearly
parallel to the tail. If not disturbed it will remain in this position for
hours, and only when stirred up does it think it necessary to use the
fins and tail at all. It then lurches out with the great strong tail turn-
ing sidewise and squeezes in between some tufts of grass. Professor
Ramsey endeavored to urge it to make some progress in only afew inches
of water, but, as far as he could experiment, without effect. The fish is
exceedingly eel-like in its movements, and when going slowly along the
swaying of the great caudal fin entails a serpentine course. It is the

ZOOLOGY. 793

opinion of Professor Ramsey that the fish could not get forward in a
straight line unless swimming very fast or very slowly at the time,
and when it does this it does not use the tail at all, but depends upon
the pectorals. The Neoceratodus has been said to frequently leave the
water and go upon land, and the possession of fully developed lungs
seems to warrant such a belief, but Professor Ramsey doubts whether
it ever goes quite out of the water, as has been reported, for the simple
reason that the fish is too bulky to progress by the fins, and not long
enough in the body fo go eel-fashion; at any rate, individuals in con-
finement decidedly objected to being kept any length of time out of
water; they put up with it a few minutes and then began to plunge
about so that he was always glad to get them back again in the water,
fearing that they would injure themselves. As the cold weather ap-
proaches the Burramundi becomes inactive, and even too lazy to get out
of the way when about to be handled.

The ovaries and testes are nearly developed, and in April, or the
early antipodal fall, in the Burnett River, but not before the beginning
of September, or at the commencement of spring in the southern hemi-
sphere, have the eggs been found laid in the water. They are deposited
among the weeds and are placed each one by itself, ‘resembling those
of the common newt” or salamander. They are fertilized in the water
. like those of some species of the newt kind. They are veiy difficult to
be obtained. Mr. Caldwell spent many weeks hunting and, with the
assistance of the blacks, turned up many hundred water-holes before
he found any eggs. These were “covered with an enormous quantity
of gelatinous matter which required some special means to remove,”
and it was “eight days before he got a single egg out whole. When he
succeeded in getting at the early stages, it remained to rear them until
they were practically identical with the adult fish. This was a very
difficult task, as the enemies of the Ceratodus were very numerous.
There were two kinds of fungi which attacked the eggs. .He put in
crustacea to devour the fungus, but these in turn attacked the young
fish when it emerged from the egg. He was three months, till near the
end of November (or the end of the Australian spring), developing the
eggs.” It is also noteworthy that not until nearly six weeks after hatch-
ing were the hind limbs developed in the young. The egg of the Cera-
todus undergoes “a complete segmentation similar to that of the kan-
garoo.” (Caldwell in Journ. Royal Soc. N. S. Wales, v. 18, pp. 119, 120.)

The extent of Salmon Leaps.—Observations have been made by Prof.
A. Landmark, the chief director of the Norwegian fisheries, on the ex-
tent of the leaps which salmon are capable of. He thinks that ‘the jump
depends as much on the height of the fall as on the currents below it.
If there be a deep pool right under the fall, where the water is compar-
atively quiet, a salmon may jump 16 feet perpendicularly ; but such
jumps are rare, and he can only state that it has taken place at the Hel-
194 _ SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

lefos, in the Drams River, at Haugsend, where two great masts have
been placed across the river for the study of the habits of the salmon, so
that exact measurements may be effected. The height of the water in
the river of course varies, but it is, as a rule, when the salmon is run-
ning up stream, 16 feet below these masts. The distance between the
two is 34 feet, and the professor states that he has seen salmon jump
from the river below across both masts.” As another example of high
jumping, he refers to the Carritunk waterfall, in the Kenebec River
(Maine), ‘‘ where jumps of 12 feet have been recorded. Professor Land-
mark further states that when a salmon jumps a fall nearly perpen-
dicular in shape it is sometimes able to remain in the fall, even if
the jump is a foot or two short of the actual height. This, he main-
tains, has been proved by an overwhelming quantity of evidence. The
fish may then be seen to stand for a minute or two a foot or so below
the edge of the fall in the same spot, in a trembling motion, when, with
a smart twitch of the tail, the rest of the fall is cleared. But only fish
which strike the fall straight with the snout are able to remain in the
falling mass of water; if,it is struck obliquely, the fish is carried back
into the stream below. This Professor Landmark believes to be the
explanation of salmon passing falls with a clear descent of 16 feet.”
He thinks that this is the extreme jump the salmon is capable of, and
indicates that of course not all are capable of De Ns such a feat.
(Nature, Vv. 32, pp. 329, 330.)

A peculiar Mullet. A remarkable type of lower jaw.—A new generic
type of mullet, the family Mugilid, has been described by Mr. W. —
Macleay, which is noteworthy on account of the anomalous mode of
articulation of the lower jaw, and concomitant modifications of the
neighboring parts. The new type was found very abundantly in the
Goldie River of New Guinea, “ about 100 miles, by its course, from its
mouth,” and was found to be “ excellent” as a food-fish. The aspect
of the entire fish was not unlike that of other members of its family,
but in the inferior surface of the head differences from all others were
well marked. As Mr. Macleay remarks, ‘“‘ in most teleosteous fishes, at
all events in this family, the gill openings are large, and what may be
termed the gill covers extend quite to the symphysis of the lower jaw,
leaving a more or less open space on the chin composed of the integu-
ments surrounding the extremity of the hyoid arch, and forming the
floor of the mouth.” In the new form a transverse fissure or groove
appears behind the lower jaw, and when the integuments are removed
some remarkable peculiarities are unveiled. ‘The chief and most ob-
vious peculiarity” is “‘undoubtedly the well-marked division across the
under surface of the head, from the extremity of the ramus of the man-
dible on one side to that of the other, a division however which though
deep and well defined, is only external and has no communication with

ZOOLOGY. . (95

the mouth. An examination of the bones of the head shows however
that notwithstanding the very abnormal external appearance, the actual
divergence from the typical fish skull is less than might have been an-
ticipated, and in fact is not so much a divergence from the type as a
variation of it.”

“The hyoid bones are the least normal; the urohyal is slight; the
basihyal short, and the glossohyal very small and slightly longer than
broad. The most advanced of these bones, the glossohyal, reaches only
to the transverse division at the base of the mandibles, whereas in Mugil
waigiensis [or any other mullet] the basihyal and glossohyal bones
are large and prominent, supporting the whole floor of the mouth and
extending almost to the symphysis of the lower jaw.”

The new form has been named A‘schrychtys Goldiei. Good-sized
specimens are 18 inches in length. (Proc. Linn. Soc., N.S. Wales, v. 8)
pp. 2-6.)

The nest of the fifteen-spined Stickleback.—Like all the other species of
the family Gasteros¢eidie, the fifteen-spined or ‘salt-water stickleback
builds a nest attached to certain plants, which is much like those of its
congeners, but some additional information has been communicated by
Professor K. Mobius respecting the constitution of the threads by
which it interweaves the particles constituting its nest, and the origin
of those threads. An examination of male sticklebacks, in May and
June, 1884, demonstrated to him that the threads are generally from
0-12™™ to 0:13™" in diameter, and consist of several cords stuck to-
gether, and which again are composed of very fine parallel threads.
The substance of which they are composed is nitrogenous, and is a
peculiar modification of mucine as appears by its behavior towards
various acids and alkalies. It is formed in the kidneys of the male,
and indeed in the epithelial cells of the urinary canals, which exert this
form of activity only at the time of reproduction, and during this period
it behaves towards staining re-agents in the same way as the mucifer-
ous organs of other vertebrata. (Schriften natur-Vereins f. Schleswig-
Holstein, v.6; Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 16, p. 153.)

A tropical Gunnel Fish.—The family of Murznoidids or Xiphidiontids
had been supposed to be a characteristic cold-water type. All the pre-
viously known species were confined to the seas of the temperate and
north polar regions until the discovery had been made of a species of
the family representing a peculiar genus occurring at Key West, Fla.
The species has been named Stathmonotus Hemphilii by Dr. Bean,
the curator of fishes in the U. 8. National Museum. Most of the char-
acteristics of the new generic type are shared with the common gun-
nels or species of Murznoides, but it has no scales; moreover, on one
hand, the pectorals are much smaller, and on the other the ventrals
796 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

are better developed than in Mureenoides, their position is more ante-
rior, and a spine and two rays of moderate size exist. (Proc. U. S. Nat.
Mus. v. 8, pp. 192, 192.)

The American Flying Fishes.—The fishes of the sub-family of Exoce-
tines, including the true flying fishes, have been examined recently by
Messrs. Jordon and Meek, and tt appears that seventeen species refer-
able to four genera are recognizable as inhabitants of the American
waters on both sides of the continent. Three of these, Fodiator acutus,
Parexocetus mesogaster, and Halocypselus evolans, belong to special
genera, while all of the others are members of one natural genus (Exo-
cetus). Hight of the Exoccetines have been obtained off the At-
Jantie coast of the United States and one (Hxocetus Californicus)
along the Pacific coast. The California flying fish is one of the largest
of the family. (Proc. U. 8S. Nat. Mus., v, 8, pp. 67.)

Amphibians.

The Retrograde Metamorphosis of Siren—The remarkable eel-like am-
phibian named Siren lacertina, and abundant in the southern parts of
the United States, is the type of a group, by some considered as an
order, distinguished by some remarkable characteristics ; some of these
have been considered to be evidences of degeneration. Professor Cope
has now reason to believe that there are also indications to be found of
‘‘a retrograde metamorphosis” in the “history of its branchial appara-
tus.” He had been at a loss to account for the curious condition fre-
quently observed in the branchiw of the sirens. The fringes are fre-
quently partially atrophied and ‘“inclosed in a common dermal invest-
ment of the branchial ramus, or all the rami are covered by a common
investment, so as to be completely functionless and immovable. This
character, observed in the Pseudobranchus striatus, gave origin to its
separation from the genus Siren.” The character is however also ob-
servable in the typical species, Siren lacertina, at a certain age, and
the real difference, so far as generic valuation is concerned, depends
simply on the different number of the digits represented in the two
species.

Professor Cope surprised ‘on discovering that the functionless con-
dition of the branchie is universal in young individuals of Siren lacertina
of 5 and 6 inches in length ;” and even in a specimen little more 3 inches
long they were found ‘entirely rudimentary and sub-epidermal ;” in
fact, according to Professor Cope, only in large adult specimens are the
branchie fully developed. The inference drawn from the facts is, that
“the branchiz are in the Sirens not a larval character, as in other peren-
nibrachiate Batrachia, but a character of maturity. Of course, only di-
rect observation can show whether Sirens have branchiz on exclusion
from the egg; but it is not probable that they differ so much from the

ZOOLOGY. 197

other members of their class as to be without them. Nevertheless, it is

evident that the branchie soon become functionless, so that the animal
is almost, if not exclusively, an air breather, and that functional activity
is not resumed till a more advanced age.” Indeed, from observations
of a specimen in an aquarium, which for a time had no branchie at all,
it appeared that “sirens may be exclusively air breathers.” Professor
Gope urges that in explanation of this fact, it may be remarked that
this atrophy cannot be accounted for on the supposition that it is sea-
sonal and due to the drying up of the aquatic habitat of the sirens. The
countries they inhabit are humid, receiving the heaviest rainfall of our
Eastern States, and there is no dry season. The only explanation ap-
pears [to him] to-be that the present sirens are descendants of a terres-
trial type of batrachia which passed through a metamorphosis like other
members of their class, but that more recently they have adopted a per-
manent aquatic life, and have resumed their branchize by reversion.”
(Am. Nat., v. 20, pp. 1226, 1227.)

Peculiarities of Coecilians.—The life history of the singular worm-like
Amphitrans, representing the order Gymnophiona and the family Ce-
cibiide, is still imperfectly known. Some characteristics have been de-
seribed recently by the brothers P. B.and C.F. Sarason. - In an advanced
stage, shortly before hatching, the embryo is provided with very long
blood red external gill filaments, and has also a distinct tail, with a strong
fin. The gill filaments are shed previous to hatching, after which the
young Cecilians make their way to a neighboring stream, in which they
breathe by means of gill slits. After they leave the water their gill slits
close up, and they breathe by lungs. There is a fourth gill arch from
which the pulmonary artery is given off. The spermatazoon has a spiral
filament. The last two facts tend to show that the Cecilians were nearer
to the Modela than to the Anura, as is indeed amply shown to be the
ease by structural characteristics generally. It seems that there is a,
difference in reproduction manifested in closely related genera, for some
species are Oviparous while others are viviparous.

Reptiles.

The classification of the Lizards.—A very important and much needed
work has been in progress of publication during the past year in the
arrangement and description of the species of living lizards. ‘Two vol-
umes of the projected three of the ‘“‘Catalogue of Lizards in the British
Museum” have already appeared, in which all the species known are de-
scribed and a number illustrated. The species have been thoroughly
revised from a systematic standpoint and grouped into natural genera
and families. The classification is mostly based upon such characters as
were made use of by Professor Cope about twenty years ago, but which
have not received due consideration from later writers. Professor
198 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Cope’s work upon the group is indeed the only contribution to the taxon-
omy of the lizards that is esteemed of special value by the author of the
new catalogue. That author is the well-known herpetologist in charge —
of the reptiles of the British Museum, Mr. George Alfred Boulenger. —
Mr. Boulenger, however, by no means follows Professor Cope throughout,
but has his own well considered views as to the value of the characters
first brought prominently forward by Professor Cope. He accepts the
order of Lacertians with the limit generally accredited to it of late years,
and thus excludes the Sphenontide or Hatteriide. The order is sub-
divided into two sub-orders: (J) the Lacertilia vera; (2) the Rhipto-
glossa. The several sub-orders into which the former have been disin-
tegrated by Professor Cope are not recognized and even the families
have in same cases been separated, by the intervention of groups adopted
by Professor Cope. Twenty-one families of the order are adopted by
Mr. Boulenger, and it is interesting to note that three of these were en-
tirely unknown to Duméril and Bibron when, in 1336 to 1839, they pub-
lished those volumes of their great. work devoted to the order.

The following tabular synopsis of the characters most made use of
by Mr. Boulenger will give an idea of the range of variation and system-
atic values of the various characters. The external form is found to .
be not only of very little use, in many cases, in the determination of the
relations of the types, but sometimes it is very illusive indeed.

The characters utilized for the diagnosis of the various families are
almost exclusively derived from the skeleton and teeth, and especially
from the consideration of the following elements :

1. The development or non-development of a post-frental arch (Post/r.).

2. The development or non-development of a post-orbital arch (Posf-
orb.).

3. The development or otherwise of a supra-temporal roof (Suprat.
roof).

4. The existence or absence of a columella crani (Col. cr.).

5. The development or non-development of an inter-orbital septum
(TO: |

6. The number of parietal bones, 7. e., whether paired or single (Par.).

7. The number of frontal boues, whether double or coalesced (fr.).

8. The number of nasal bones, 7. ¢., whether two or one (Nasals).

9. The number of pre-maxillary bones, 7. e., whether one or two pairs
(P. mazx.).

10. The number of elements in each ramus of the lower jaw or man-
dible, 7. e., whether four or five (Mand.).

The teeth;especially whether implanted along the edge of the jaws
(acrodent) or on the inner slope (pleurodent) (Teeth).

12. The development of inter-clavicles, 7. e., whether ‘ dilated” and
“ loop-Shaped proximally,” or whether ‘‘not dilated proximally ” and
cruciform (X). Of course in forms whose fore limbs are absent or very —
much reduced, the inter-clavicles are wanting.

ZOOLOGY. 799

| |
A ea
= ) Ba 3 n y . a at
Ale: alee MU ig
patie, |) a) feat] a mila | 2 a 4
Geckonids ..-..-:-.--.-. 0 0 /0(x) | Xx 2 Zordin2 5 | Pleur 2d
Eublepharids® ..-.--..--. 0 0 Onh<. 55 1 2% eae COE oasecectsens
Uroplatides 222. - 25-5. ONO) Ese oee Coad ore 2 Uae aol Wl healee-Sech Se Minute
Py Zopodide) ae -\one =a) 0 0 On ee Ses llele (Din | (ex 072) heer eeelial eae ROUT) eee aoe a
Arsmid eset ssaesee eo x SOLE FOF Cre 1 10 | Peat tas Acrod. x
Tomnanide sees cee cece ct x< DG 0| xX 1 ae eect (int bal Pieur. x —
Xenosaurids ..-...---..- x x 0 |- 1 1) S28 en doves Ss: 2x
ON ULICSS Hats sso oases x x soils 1 a ea] le do) 325% 2x
UAT UE ie eeereaeceser ser x x x | ao 1 (AN |) Pay ab |e Var.-=s. 2 x (0)
PAMICUICE..<<ac 2 seis anim 0 0 One Os 20 1 |(2ex.oz.) | 2] 1/)- Fangs 1 (2)
Helodermatida ........-. 0 se Ons TH\(exio7) | ani Lalas s| 2 OOreeee x
iWaranid asec cae aasocs 8 usd 0 O}leaaale 1 SOE Neh secre Nene stares ><
antusiids -..-.-.---.-.- x x ile Sal Eee 2 P| ase a Picea 2x
MOUs Loe sess sme ccs sisi! m x 0 |.---|var. 1 AG eo niat| = Var. sol. 2X
Amphisbeenid@ ........-.- 0 0 OOF 0 1 7) N23 4 5 Lhe Var. -2 20 (x)
Lacertid® ........ joa eeen: x Bx | CBSE mel inces eee = meee See Selle A snow Stee seca eee esse
Gerrhosaurid® ...--..--- x X | X |----]----[e-++--]---2------ a 1 epee eeecoracc soe acetone
Seineid ees oes 5 ain en nl ee A] Seo ne Oa ior ewer |e see
Anelytropid@...........- 0 0 jrrreecfesec[ecee|oeeeee|eee eee eed MESS | Seessecaaallsconadsecc
‘Dibamids":=--4-2.-----=-- 0 Onecare On PP OGessrtelactcece sl Reclev antec | Sosaceemnc tee eens

Throwing these characters into diagnostic forms, economy of words
and a better idea of the generality of characters may be obtained by
recognizing a category called super-family. Under such headings those
forms which exhibit exceptional characters may be segregated from the

-great mass.

The various families recognized by Dr. Boulenger may be found
grouped as follows :

Geckonoidea.—Eriglossate saurians with the vertebre bi-concave, a
elavical dilated, and loop-shaped proximally, and post-frontal and post-
orbital osseus arches undeveloped.

(Geckonide.)—The only Geckonoidea known having the parietal bones
double.

EHublepharoidea.—Eriglossate saurians with concavo-convex vertebra,
elavicle dilated and loop-shaped proximally, and no post-orbital or post-
frontal squamosal arches.

(Hublepharide.)\—The only known Eublepharoidea simulating in
external appearance the Geckonide, but distinguished by the coalescence
of the parietals into a single bone, as well as by the concavo-convex ver-
tebre.

Uroplatoidea.—Krigiossate saurians with bi-concave vertebre, clavi-
cles not dilated proximally, and without post-orbital or post-fronto
squamosal bony arches.

(Uroplatide.)—The only known Uroplatoidea having two parietal
bones and a minute inter-clavicle.

Pygopodoidea.—Kriglossate saurians with concavo-conyex vertebra,
800 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

clavicles dilated and loop-shaped proximally, and no post-orbital or
post-fronto squamosal arches.

(Pygopodide.)—The only known Pygopodoidea, especially marked by
the exclusion of the frontal from the orbit, by the retention of the pre
and post-frontal bones towards each other so that they are in con-
tact.

Agamoidea.—Eriglossate saurians with concavo-convex vertebre,
clavicles not dilated proximally, and without post-orbital or post-frontal
squamosal arches.

(Agamide.)—Agamoidea with the supra-temporal fossa not roofed
over by bone, tongue thickened, and aerodont dentition.

(Iguanide.\—Agamoidea with the supra-temporal fossa not roofed
over by bone, tongue thickened, and a pleurodont dentition.

(Xenosauridw.)—A gamoidea with the supra-temporal fossa not roofed
over by bone, the interior portion of the tongue retractile, a pleurodont
dentition, and T-shaped inter-clavicles.

(Zonuride.)—Agamoidea with the supra-temporal fossa roofed over,
the tongue simple, and cross-shaped inter-clavicles.

(Anguide.)—Agamoidea with the supra-temporal fossa roofed over;
tongue with its anterior portion retractile, with clavicles cross-shaped
or absent, and the exo-skeleton developed as osteo-dermal plates,
each provided with a system of irregularly arranged aborescent or rad-
iating tubules.

Anielloidea.—Eriglossate saurians, with concavo convex vertebra,
clavicles not dilated posteriorly, and without post-frontal squamosal
or post-orbital arches. ;

(Aniellide.)—The only known anielloidea, distinguished by the ab-
sence of ante-orbital septum, and of the columella cranii, and without
squamosals.

Helodermatoidea,—Hriglossate saurians with concavo-convex verte-
bre; clavicles undilated proximally, and post-orbital bony arches, but ~
without post-fronto squamosal arches.

(Helodermatide.)—The only known family of the super-family, distin-
guished further by the exclusion of the frontal from the orbit on account
of the convergence and contact of the pre and post-frontals.

Varanoidea.—Eriglossate saurians, with concavo-convex vertebra ;
clavicles not delated proximally ; post-orbital arches, rudimentary or
absent, and with post-fronto squamosal arches developed.

( Varanide.)—-The only known forms of the type, distinguished further
by the union of the nasals into a single bone and the ensheathment of
the tongue at its base and its deeply bifid emargination anteriorly.

Lacertoidea.— Eriglossate saurians with the vertebra concavo-convex ;
clavicles undilated proximally, and post-fronto squamosal at post-orbi-
tal arches developed.

(Xantusiide.)—Lacertoidea with the supra-temporal fossa roofed over
and the parietals distinct.

ZOOLOGY. 801

( Tetide.)—Lacertoidea with the supra-temporal fossa not roofed over
and the parietals united into one, and without osteo-dermal plates.

(Lacertide.)—Lacertoidea with the supra-temporal fossa roofed over;
the parietal bones united; the premaxillaries simple, single, and without
osted-dermal plates.

(Gerrhosauride.)—Lacertoidea with the supra-eemporal fossa roofed
over; parietal bones united; premaxillaries single, and with osteo-der-
mal plates, each provided with a regular system of tubules (or trans-
verse ones anastomosing with longitudinal ones).

(Scincide.)—Lacertoidea with the supra-temporal fossa roofed over;
the parietals joined, and with osteo-dermal plates, as in the Gerrhosau-
ride.

Anelytropoidea.—Eriglossate saurians with the vertebrae concavo-con-
vex; the clavicles not dilated proximally, and without post-fronto
squamosal or post-orbital arches.

(Anelytropide.)—Anelytropoidea with the premaxillaries single, and
without osteo-dermal plates.

Doubtful super-family. (Dibamide.)\—Anelytropoidea, with the pre- ©
maxillaries double and without osteo-dermal plates.

All the preceding twenty families are combined in the suborder “ La-
certilia vera” (which may be better called Eriglossa), and are. distin-
guished by the “nasal bones entering the. border of the nasal apertures;
pterygoid in contact with the quadrate; clavicle present whenever the
limbs are developed [and the] tongue flattened.”

The only remaining group or family of the order is that of the Cha-
meeleontide, which represents alone the suborder “‘ Rhiptoglossa,” dis-
tinguished by the ‘‘ nasal bones not bounding the nasal apertures, ptery-
goid not reaching quadrate; clavicle absent; limbs well developed, [and|
tongue vermiform [and] projectile.”

The geographical distribution of Lizards.—Much difference is exhibited
by the associations of diverse animal groups in faunal areas. If, for
example, we compare the distribution of fishes and birds, it will be
found that the major groups into which they are combined are very dif-
ferent. The birds have accommodated themselves (to a large extent) to
the present lay of the lands, while the fishes are distributed in such a
manner as to convey the impression that the distribution has been de-
termined by previous geological conditions and relations of the conti-
nents. Dr. G. A. Boulenger has recently given the outlines of the
geographical distribution of the Lacertilians, or lizards, and has called
attention to the very great difference between their distribution and
that of other groups of reptiles, as well as that of the Batrachians or
Amphibians. “If,” says Dr. Boulenger, ‘‘we attempt to divide the globe
as to its Batrachian fauna, two primary divisions present themselves,
viz. a northern zone, comprising the Palearctic and Nearctic regions,
and an equatorial southern zone; but for lizards we have to draw a

iis, ot
SoZ) > SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

line from pole to pole, forming the Old World and Australia on the one
hand, and America on the other, into primary divisions.” The families
of lizards recognized by him are thrown into two great groups,—(A)
“small families having a narrow range,” and (B) “ large and much more
widely distributed families.” Ten belong to one of these groups and
eight to the other, distributed as follows:

A. Uroplatide, Madagascar. occupies Central America and the

Pygopodidz, Australia.

Xenosauridx, Central America.

Zonurida, South Africa and Madagas-
car.

Aniellidz, California.

Helerdermatidx, Mexico.

Xantusiide, California, Central Amer-
ica, and Cuba.

Gerrhosauridx, Africa and Madagas-
car.

Anelytropide, Africa.

Dibamidx, New Guinea.

. Agamidz. Most abundantly repre-
sented in the East Indies, less so in
Australia, still less in Africa and
Asia north of the Himalayas; ab-
sent from Madagascar and New Zea-
land. :

Iguanide. America. Two genera in
Madagascar, and another in the Fiji
Islands.

West Indies, spreading to North and
South America. One genus (Anguis)
in Europe and the Mediterranean
district, another (Pseudopus) repre-
sented by one species in the Medi-
terranean district and one in the
Khasia Hills.

Varanide. Africa (exciuding Mada-
gascar), Oriential region to Asia
Minor, Australia.

Teiide. America.

Amphisbeenids. Tropical and sub-
tropical America (excluding Mada-
gascar), and the Mediterranean re-
gion.

Lacertide. Africa (excluding Mada-
gascar), Europe, Asia; few in the
East Indies.

Chameleontide. Africa (most abun-
dant in Madagascar); one species,
identical with a North African, ex-

Anguide. The bulk of this family tending to India and Ceylon.

As will be thus seen, the families enumerated are dispersed much in
the same way as the birds, and in accord with the geographical division
of the continents into the Old World and the New World, or, as they are
termed by Mr. Boulenger, the “paleogean and neogean realms.” Ac-
cording to Mr. Boulenger, “ the latter is characterized by the presence
of the Iguanide, Teiidz, and abundance of Anguidze; the former by Aga-
mide, Varanide, Lacertide, and Chamzleontide. This division is the
more natural, as we find in both realms, within their respective fami-
lies, a repetition of the same forms having adapted themselves to similar
conditions. Few more striking examples of parallel series of forms can
be found than the families Agamide and Iguanide, or the Lacertide
and Teiide. Such parallel series occur in aanost every division of the
animal kingdom ; among the Batrachia we have the Arcifera and the
Firmisternia; among the Chelonia, the Cryptodira and the Pleurodira;
and there can be no doubt that the indications furnished by the range
of such analogous large groups are of the greatest importance in tracing
the relationships of the faunas of the various parts of the world.”

It also appears, on proceeding to further subdivision, that “the
Kthiopian and Oriental or Indian regions, which in their Batrachians
are so Closely related, have little in common as regards lizards; whilst,

ZOOLOGY. 803

on the contrary, the Oriental and Australian, (so widely different in
their Batrachians,) are extremely similar. We find also that the Pale-
arctic or Europeo-Asiatic, (the Batrachian fauna of which is so well
characterized, and without any affinity whatever to the Ethiopian,) bears
the closest resemblance to the latter region, differing only in the ab-
sence of various types which flourish in the tropical and sub-tropical
zones.”

In fine, according to Mr. Boulenger, “we arrive at the eonclusion
that the zoo-geographical regions generally in use, and especially their
degree of relationship to one another, receive little support from the
study of the distribution of the lizards; that the distribution in zones,
which is so satisfactorily shown by the Batrachians and the fresh-water
fishes, is contrary to the plainest evidence as regards lizards, which at
the present time range more according to longitude; that the two great
divisions originally proposed by Mr. Sclater, and derived from the study
of passerine birds, hold good; and that if a division of the world had to
be framed according to the lizard faunas, the primary divisions would
be the following:

‘‘T,. Palewogean realm.—Two regions: 1. Occidental (=Palearctic re-
gion, excluding the Manchurian subregion + Ethiopian region of Wal-
lace); 2. Oriental (=Oriental + Australian regions of Wallace).

“TI. Neogean realm.—Nearctic + Neotropical regions.”

The faunawhich especially interests Americans—that of the Neogean
realm—may be briefly considered in the words of Mr. Boulenger. That
fauna is “very uniform as regards groups of higher rank, and the changes
from the center towards the north and south are very gradual. And
it is noteworthy that the Central American fauna (of which the North
American is but an offshoot) presents a greater variety of types than the
South American ; thus it possesses representatives of every one of the
eleven families which occur in the realm, viz: Geckonidez, Eublepha,
ride, Iguanide, Xenosauride, Anguide, Aniellide, Helodermatide,
Xantusiide; Teiide, Amphisbenide, and Scincidze; whereas South
America lacks the small groups Eublepharide, Xenosauride, Aniel-
lide, Helodermatide, and Xantusiide. As the greater abundance and
variety of forms of the Anguide occurs in the northern half and the
West Indies, and the reverse is the case as regards the Teiide (espe-
cially with reference to variety of genera) and the Amphisbenide, we
may safely draw the boundary line between two regions or sub-regions,
as it may be thought fit to term them, at the Isthmus of Panama, the
West Indies being comprised with the northern region. Lizards range
only as far north as British Columbia (Gerrhonotus ceruleus), Minnesota
(Eumeces septentrionalis), and Massachusetts (Humeces fasciatus); whilst
they have penetrated to the straits of Magellan (Liolemus magallen-
icus).”—(Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 16, pp. 77-85.)

The contrast offered by the lizards to the fishes is marked, but not in
the manner indicated by Dr. Boulenger. The fresh-water fishes are not
804 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

distributed ‘in zones,” but in quite a peculiar manner, although so com-
plicated as to have given rise to the different interpretations of facts,
of which Mr. Boulenger’s (originating with Dr. Giinther) is one expres-
sion. The regions of Sclater and Wallace, so far as the fishes are con-
cerned, are rather grouped as follows:

I. Cenogean hemisphere.—Three regions: 1. Nearctic; 2. Palearctic;
3. Oriental.

Il. Hogean hemisphere.—Three regions: 1. Ethiopian; 2. Neotropical;
3. Australian.

Biped progression in a lizard.

A singular lizard of the family of the Agamids, having a frill-like de-
velopment of the integument on each side of the head and neck conflu-
ent below, is found in Northern and Western Australia, It has a com-
pressed body and a roundish tail, forming about two-thirds of the entire
length, which amounts to between two and three feet. Its name is
Chlamydosaurus Kingii, or the fringed lizard.

It seems, from observation by Mr. Charles W. De Vis, that thislizard
is capable, to a limited extent, of a biped method of locomotion. On two
occasions individuals were observed to adopt this method of progression,
“trotting out briskly” on the hind limbs and with the ‘fore paws hang-
ing down,” so as to give the idea of affectation to the observer. The
‘vertebral line to the very snout” was ‘stiffened at an angle of 60
degrees ;” the animal at length halted abruptly, erected its frill, and at
the same moment turned its head inquiringly from side to side; then |
trotted on again for 20 yards or so, and, repeating its attitude of atten-
tion, continued in this course until it reached a tree it was making for;
when this was reached it darted up the trunk and clung there immov-
able for a long time, or, in the words of Mr. De Vis, ‘“ for more hours ”
than his “leisure could afford for observation.” The listening attitude
was “so real, or at least so realistic,” that it appeared to Mr. De Vis
that ‘‘ one function of the hood might be that of conducting sound to
the tympanum, an office apparently aided by the channels formed by
its converging folds, and that if it were so it might be furnished with
special muscles.” Another subject of inquiry suggested by the animal
was the muscular furniture and other modifications of structure exhib-
ited by the hind limbs. An investigation of the myology was therefore
instituted. ‘The result of this investigation was, on the whole, ‘“some-
what disappointing” to Mr. De Vis.

The frill was found to be ‘served by special, though feeble, muscles,
as well as by a large extension of the functions of some ordinary ones.”
The muscles “ specialized for the purpose of assisting in the elevation
and depression of the hood do not of themselves indicate very clearly
that the appendage is in a strict sense an auditory conch. But since
they certainly forbid the idea, generated by the presence of the cartilage )
and by the observed actions of the animal, that the hood may serve to

ZOOLOGY. | 805

arrest sound and direct it toward the ear, we may, if we can overcome
our disinclination to attribute an auricle to a reptile, recognize this as
part of its office, without prejudice to its supposed use as an engine of
terror to assailants.”

The modifications of the hind limbs were not as great as might be
naturally supposed, although Mr. De Vis thought that he might “fairly
be allowed an expression of surprise on finding that the semi-erect at-
titude and plantigrade gait of the creature are not facilitated by any
additions or modifications in the hind quarters and limbs.” No essen-
tial differences from ordinary lizards are apparent. ‘The possibility of
raising the body on the legs is rather permitted by circumstances gen-
erally favorable than brought about by direct means. It is in the com-
parative shortness and lightness of the head and anterior part of the
trunk; the length without undue weakness of the hind limb; above all,”
as it appeared to Mr. De Vis, “ the imperfect isolation of the several
muscles, which enables them to act in certain directions with combined
strength, that we must find an explanation of the power possessed by
this lizard of simulating the gait of a cursorial bird.” (Proc. Linn. Soe.
N. 8. Wales, v. 8, pp. 300-320.)

Birds.

Important collections in the British Museum.—Two extremely impor-
tant and rich collections of bird-skins have been given to the British
Museum by their owners; one especially devoted to American species,
and the other to Indian forms. °

The American collection was the result of collections during a number
of years by Messrs. Osbert Salvin and Frederick Du Cane Godman, of
London, and contained “upwards of 20,000 specimens.” Many types of
formerly ‘new species” are in the collection, and numerous memoirs, as
well as the ornithological portion of the “ Biologia Centrali-Americana,”
have been based on its contents, and, indeed, the specimens belonging
to the families not yet studied for the latter work are reserved by the
authors till their examinations shall be finished. There is said to be
“a stipulation in the terms of gift that any specimen required by the
donors may be removed on loan from the museum during the lifetime
of the donors or the survivor of them.” (Ibis, (5,) v. 3, p. 236.) —

The Indian collection is due to the unsparing efforts and expenditures
of Mr. Allen O. Hume, an Indian government officer, and contained not
less than ‘63,000 birds,” besides “18,500 eggs” and ‘500 nests.” The
sum of £300 was appropriated by the English Government for *‘pack-
ing and transmitting from Simla to England a part of Mr. Hume’s col-
lection of Indian birds, presented by him to the trustees” of the museum.
Mr. R. B. Sharpe, the curator of the ornithological section of the mu-
seum, “started for Simla the end of April to superintend the packing of
the collection,” and was absent several months. Mr. Sharpe has good
reason for thinking that “it is not too much to affirm that such a private
806 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

collection as Mr. Hume’s is not likely to be formed again, for it is doubt:
ful if such a combination of genius for organization with energy for the
completion of so great a scheme, and the scientific knowledge requisite
for its proper development, will again be combined in a single indi-
vidual.” P

The ornithological department of the British Museum, previously
ahead of all competitors, has, by these acquisitions, become incompar-
ably richer. (bis (5), v. 3, pp. 236, 334, 355, 456-462.)

Nesting of a Woodpecker.—Interesting observations have been made
on the nesting of the brown woodpecker, scientifically known as Microp
ternus pheoceps, by,Mr. Charles Bingham, deputy conservator of the
forests of British Burmah. While passing through the Meplay forest re-
serve, he startled a woodpecker from a small pyingado tree (Xylia dolab-
riformis). Looking up into the branches, he saw ‘“‘a large ants’ nest, in
the center of which appeared a circular hole so exactly like the bor-
ings made by woodpeckers ordinarily in the trunks of trees,” that he
sent up a Karen boy, who was with him, “ to ascertain whether it was
possible the Micropternus had been boring into the ants’ nest,” as he
“(had heard was the bird’s curious habit. The ants’ nest was only about
10 feet above the ground, placed in a fork of the pyingado, two small
branches of which passed clean through it. Climbing up, putting in his
fingers and then a twig,” the boy ‘announced that there were two
eggs.” Leaving the nest alone for the time being, in the evening Mr.
Bingham returned by the same route, and he was “able not only to eut
off and carry into camp the whole nest as it was,” but he “managed to
secure also the hen bird as she flew from the eggs.” Arrived at camp,
he “got the two eggs out, and then very carefully made a cross-section
through the ants’ nest so as to divide the boring made by the wood-
pecker longitudinally.” The ants’ nest was “a large, spherical, solid
mass of leaves and clay, the leaves outside being arranged one over the
other something like the tiles on the roof of a house, but riddled in many

places with the entrance tunnels made by the ant, a small black and red
species of Myrmica.” “Very few of the ants remained in the nest, and
the few that were about seemed agitated and stung virnlently. Prob-
ably the mass of them had been driven off or eaten by the woodpeckers.
The tunnel the latter had made was about two inches in diameter and
four inches long, bored horizontally in, and ending in an irregular-
shaped egg-chamber about ten and a half inches in cross-diameter, but
narrowed by the branch of pyingado, which pierced the nest through
and through and crossed the egg-chamber diagonally. The bottom of
this chamber alone was smooth, but there was no lining, and the two
translucent white eggs of the woodpecker had rested on the bare boards,
so to speak, of the ants’ house. In the excavations made by the ants
themselves there were neither eggs, larve, nor pup; probably these all
had been removed when the woodpeckers invaded the nest.” (Nature,
vol. 32, pp. 52, 53.)

ZOOLOGY. | 807

The teleology of the plumage of the male Birds-of-Paradise.—The natural
inference in the present state of biological ‘science in explanation of the
sportive plumage of the male birds-of-paradise would be that it was for
the attraction of the females. Little has begn known however of the
habits of even the comparatively common species. Two English gen-
tlemen, Messrs. Chalmers and Wyatt, while travelling in New Guinea,
observed some species, and have recorded a meeting of males and females
of one of the species which is of interest in this connection. Their ac-
count is here reproduced in their own words:

‘‘One morning we had camped on a spur of the Owen Stanley Range,
and being up early, to enjoy the cool atmosphere, I saw, on one of the
clumps of trees close by, six birds-of-paradise, four cocks and two hens.
The hens were sitting quietly on a branch, and the four cocks, dressed
in their very best, their ruffs of green and yellow standing out, giving
them a large, handsome appearance about the head and neck, their
long, flowing plumes so arranged that every feather seemed carefully
combed out, and the long wires stretched well out behind, were dancing
in a circle around them. It was an interesting sight; first one, then
another, would advance a little nearer to a hen, and she, coquette-like,
would retire a little, pretending not to care for any advances. A shot
was fired, contrary to my expressed wish; there was a strange commo-
tion, and two of the cocks flew away ; the others and the hens remained.
Soon the two returned, and again the dance began and continued long.
As [I had strictly forbidden any more shooting, all fear was gone; and
so, after a rest, the males came a little nearer to the dark brown and
certainly not pretty hens. Quarreling ensued, and in the end all six
birds flew away. Passing through a forest at the back of the Astro-
labe, I saw several more engaged as above ; our approach startled them,
and away they flew. Anxious to taste the flesh, [ had one cooked after
being skinned; but, although boiled for several hours, it was as tough
as leather, and the soup not much to our taste. Fortunately we had
other things for dinner, so put the paradise dish aside.” (Chalmers and
Wyatt’s Work and Adventures in New Guinea; Jbis, (5), v. 3, pp. 463,
464.)

New Birds-of-Paradise.—The birds-of-paradise are pre-eminent among
all birds for the excessive and eccentric development in the males of
special feathers, or feathers on special parts of the body, and the great
variation observable, in otherwise similar forms, as to the special feath-
ers or parts in which such development is manifested. Almost every
genus (eighteen genera were recognized in 1877) has its own peculiar
system of hypertrophied or eccentric feather pattern. New Guinea is
the headquarters of the family, and of the thirty-four known up to 1877 -
_ few were found outside of that great island, and those few only in the
neighboring smaller islands and Australia. During the past year six
additional species were described from a collection made chiefly in the
808 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Alpine region of southeastern New Guinea, and two of these exhibit
phases of plumage entailing generic distinction. They have been de-
scribed by Messrs. O. Finsch and A. B. Meyer, and beautifully illus-
trated in the “Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte Ornithologie.” The new
species of previously known genera are Phonygama purpureo-violacea,
Epimochus Meyeri, Paradisea Finschi, and Diphyllodes Hunsteini, while
the remaining two (Astrurchia Stephanie and Paradisornis Xudeolphi)
represent hitherto unknown genera. The Astrarchia is related to As-
tropia, but the two middle tail-feathers are very elongated and concave
above, while the lateral ones are short. The Paradisornis is allied to
Paradisea, but the two middle tail-feathers are very long, narrow, and
spatuliform, and the bill is higher and more compressed; the long
flank-plumes are especially remarkable for the blue of different shades
which distinguish them. (Z. g. O., v. 2, pp. 369-391, pl. 15-22.)

An insular genus of Birds.—The faunas of the archipelagos are in-
teresting on account of the limited distribution of the resident species
and the fact that many of those species are peculiar to special islands
or groups of neighboring islands, but represented by kindred species in
other parts of the archipelago. Such is the case with a genus of war-
blers, (Certhiola) almost characteristic of the West Indies, although sev:
eral species are likewise found on the mainland of South and Middle
America or in Florida. The species of the genus have been subjected
to a revision lately by Mr. Robert Ridgway, and nineteen species are ad-
mitted. Of these four species (Certhiola bahamensis, C. mexicana, C.
luteola, and ©. chloropyga) are found on the mainland, two (C. mexicana
and C. chloropyga) being confined to the continent, while of the others
one (C. bahamensis) is found in Southern Florida as well as the Baha-
mas, and another (C. luteola) occurs in Tobago as well as Trinidad, Vene-
zuela, and Colombia. The other species are exclusively confined to
special islands or groups of islands, each of the large or well separated
islands, as Cuba, Hayti, Porto Rico, Jamaica, Martinique, and Barba-
does, having its special species. (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. viii, pp. 25-30.)

Mammals.

The ancestry of Mammals.—Much difference of opinion has prevailed
as to the ancestry of the mammals. Formerly it was generally sup-
posed that they were derived from such forms as the Dinosaurians or
that they were at least cognate with such reptiles. Later it was urged
by Professor Huxley (and the view has been accepted with considerable
favor) that the ancestry was to be sought among the amphibians.
Against both views, however, there were various objections. Professor
Cope has lately been disposed to consider that the nearest of kin were cer-
tain reptiles that lived during the Permian epoch. These reptiles have
been called the Theromorpha and are characterized in that the quadrate

ZOOLOGY. 809

bone is fixed and the ribs are two-headed; the pre-coracoid bone is
present and the coracoid bone is of reduced size and is free at the ex-
tremity ; the vertebral centra are deeply bi-concave, and the pubis is
entirely anterior to the ischium, and is united with it without interven-
ing obturator foramen. The order thus distinguished has been mostly
studied in remains found in the Permian deposits of Texas, but like
forms have been found at the Cape of Good Hope as well as in Per-
mian depositsin Europe. Some ofthe representatives were of the order
long ago exhumed in Cape Colony and were described by Professor
Owen under the name Therodontia. The great English naturalist
noticed the similarity in the teeth as well as in the bone of the leg, es-
pecially of the anterior leg of the reptiles to corresponding parts of mam-
mals, but the full significance of the similarities was not appreciated
until subjected to examination by Prufessor Cope. Professor Cope di-
vides the theromorphous reptiles into two divisions: first, the Anomo-
dontia, where there are several sacral vertebrae, and the vertebre are
not notochordal; and second, the Pelycosauria, where the vertebra are
notochordal, and there are only two or three sacral vertebre. It is the
latter suborder that is most noteworthy. Its species are ‘so far only
known from beds of the Permian epoch. They were moreover the only
known reptiles of that epoch, for it is not until the following or Triassic
period that the orders which characterize Mesozoic time made their ap-
pearance.

Professor Cope has given details on tke “structure of the columella
auris in Clepsydrops leptoupbalus,” on the ‘structure of the quadrate
bone in the genus Clepsydrops,” and on ‘ the articulation of the ribs in
Embolophorus,” and on ‘the posterior foot in Pelycosauria.” The con-
sideration of the characteristics revealed by this examination has led
Professor Cope to the following conclusions:

(1) ‘* The relations and number of the bones of the posterior foot are
those of the Mammalia much more than those of the Reptilia.”

(2) ‘ The relations of the astragalus and calcaneum to each other are
as in the Monotreme Platypus anatinus,” or rather Ornithorhynchus
anatinus. j

(3) “The articulation of the fibula with both caleaneum and astraga-
lus is as in the Monotreme order of mammals.”

(4) “‘The separate articulation of the anterior part of the astragalus
with the tibia is as in the same order.”

(5) “ The presence of a facet for an articulation of a spur is as in the
same order.”

(6) “The posterior-exterior direction of the digits is as in the known
species of the Monotremata.”

Professor Cope coneludes from this survey that there are good “rea-
sons for believing that. the mammalta are the descendants of the Pely-
cosauria.” (Proc. Am, Assoc. Adv. Se., v.33, pp. 401-482.)
810 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

The temperature of the body in Monotremes.—The mean temperature of
the body of mammals is but little under or over 100° F. :—according to
Dr. John Davies’ observations on thirty-one different speciés, 101° 10/
F. The corresponding temperature has been measured by Baron M.
Miclucho Maclay, in two species of Monotremes of Australia, and it ap-
pears that it is much lower than in most other mammals, an interesting
fact in connection with the relation of the forms to the amphibians and
reptiles.

A thermometer inserted in the cloaca of the duck-mole or Ornitho-
rhynchus paradoxus and allowed to remain there for five minutes indicated
a temperature of 70° 5’ F., the temperature of the air being at the same
time 73° 6 F., and the water of the tub in which it had been placed at
75° 8! FB.

The Spiny ant-eater, or Tachyglossus aculeatus, showed a somewhat
higher temperature, a thermometer, also introduced into the cloaca,
denoting a temperature of 82° 4’ F. Baron Maclay, believing that the.
large opening of the cloaca had interfered with the correctness of the ob-
servations in the ease of the first observations, made a small incision,
just large enough to introduce the oblong bulb of the thermometer into
the cavity of the abdomen, and the thermometer was left in over ten
minutes. The scale indicated a temperature of 86° F. (Proce. Linn.
Soe. N. S. Wales, v. 8, part 4.)

A new Porpoise.—The species of the genus Phocena, in which are in-
cluded the typical porpoises (perhaps better known to many as the puff-
ipg pigs or bay-porpoises), are in some confusion, it being doubtful
whether certain variations observed are of specific or individual value.
However, seven species have been quite generally recognized by cetol-
ogists. These are all very closely related and agree essentially in the
number of vertebra. Buta species has lately been found in the Alaskan
waters, and described by Mr. F. W. True as the Phocena Dalli, which
differs much from its relatives in the sum of the vertebree; it has twenty-
seven lumbar and forty-nine caudal in place of fourteen lumbar and thir-
ty-two caudal, as has the Phoceena communis and (approximately at least)
the hitherto known species. In all, the Phocena Dalli has about ninety-
seven or ninety-eight vertebra, while the other species Lave only from
sixty-three to sixty-six. The newly-discovered species exhibits also
striking peculiarities in the coloration as well as in the shape of the
dorsal fin. The only specimen that has been noticed by naturalists
was 6 feet long. (Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., v. 8, pp. 95, pl. 2-5.)

The Fin-whale Fishery of Norway.—At Vadi, in East Finmarken, fin-.
whales are found in sufficient numbers to be subjects of a profitable fish-
ery, and various observations have been made on the habits of the ani-
mals. In 1885, Dr. Robert Collet, a well-known Norwegian naturalist,
made interesting observations upon the structure and habits of Ru-

ZOOLOGY. ) 811

dolphi’s whale (B. borealis), which was “captured in considerable num-
bers during the latter part of July, although the great blue whale
(B. sibbaldii), generally so numerous,” was not then to be seen along
the coast. This is attributed to the absence of the Thysanopoda in-
ermis, a small crustacean on which the blue whale feeds. “ Rudolphi’s
whale is called ‘seje’ or ‘cod’ whale by the Norwegians, as it ap-
pears on the coast at the same time as that fish, but its food is
also a crustacean of still smaller species than that, which is the chief
nourishment of its gigantic relative.” It generally visits the coast of
Finmark between May and August, and Guldberg states that its aver-
age length is about 40 feet, but it sometimes reaches a length of 50 feet.
“Tts color is black, and does not exhibit the bluish tint” seen in the B.
musculus, as well as B. sibbaldii. “The sides are spotted with white,
and the under parts are white with a faint reddish tinge. A new use
to which the whales killed at Vad6 have been lately put is tinning their
flesh, which is said to be wholesome and to find great favor in Catholic
countries, where, being fish according to the zoology of the church, it
is allowed to be eaten on fast days.” (Nature, v. 32, p. 374.)

Texan Horses of the Pliocene epoch.—It would seem, from the researches
of Professor Cope, that no less than five species of horse-like animals of
the genus Equus lived in what is now Texas during the Pliocene period,
and some of them appear to have been very abundant. Of these five
species, four also lived at same time in the valley of Mexico, while one
is ‘peculiar to the Pacific coast and basin of North America.” Of the
characteristic species of the eastern United States (#. fraternus and
, major), only one (the H. fraternus) has been found in the Texas de-
posits. (Am. Nat., v. 19, pp. 1208-1209, pl. 37.)

The Gayal and Gaur.—By the old naturalists, the two largest bovine
animals of India known as the gayal and gaur were supposed to be very
distinct animals. Of late, however, several have contended that they
were merely forms of the same species, one being the wild animal and
the other the semi-domesticated form, although others have main-
tained that the gayal existed as a distinct species in the wild state. It
was urged in 1883, by Mr. J. Sarbo, that there is no such thing as a wild
gayal. Now, according to Mr. Blanford, “one most important cir-
cumstance mentioned by Blyth, on apparently excellent authority, is
that the gaur is kept tame in the interior of the Chittagong Hills, and
_ (as a tame animal) is quite distinct from Bos frontalis. If this is the case,
hybrids are very likely to occur, for the gayal breeds freely with the
much less allied Zebu, and such hybrids may account for the occurrence
of forms intermediate between the gayaland gaur. An indication that
such forms exist is,” so far as Mr. Blanford can see, “‘the only evidence
brought forward by Dr. Kuhn in favor of the gayal being a domesti-
812 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

cated race of the gaur,” the ‘“‘supposed discovery that the tame gayal or
wild gaur inhabit the same country, being,” in the words of Mr. Blanford,
“a singularly fine example of a nidus equa.” (Nature, v. 32, p. 243.) In
this conflict of testimony and belief, more light is required before im-
plicit reliance in either of the contrasted opinions is safe.

NECROLOGY OF ZOOLOGISTS, 1885.

BAUMHAUER (EDUARD HENRY VON), secretary of the Holland Society of Sciences
at Haarlem ; died at Haarlem, January 18, 1885, in the sixty-sixth year of his age.

BLAND (THOMAS), a well-known student of American land shells, long resident in
Brooklyn, N. Y., where he died August 20, 1885. He was born in Nottinghamshire,
England, October 4, 1809.

CARPENTER (Dr. WILLIAM BENJAMIN), a very eminent English physiologist and
naturalist, died in London, November 10, 1885, aged seventy-two.

Davipson (THOMAS), an English paleontologist, who devoted the greater part of
his life to the study of the Brachiopods, died at West Brighton, October 16, 1885, in
his sixty-ninth year.

DUNKER (Prof.), a German palzontologist and mineralogist, died at Marburg.

EDWARDS (HENRI MILNE), one of the most distinguished zoologists of the century ;
born October 23, 1800, at Bruges, Belgium; died July 29, 1885, at Paris.

Esmark (LAURITZ), director of the zoological museum of the University of Chris-
tiana, Norway, died in Christiana, December —, 1885.

Guy (W. A.), F. R. 8., an English physiologist and physician, died September 10,
1885, in the seventy-sixth year of his age.

HaRrTING (P.), professor of zoology in the University of Utrecht, died at Utrecht,
December 7, 1885.

HEULE ( ), one of the most eminent of European anatomists, died at G6ttin-
gen, May 13, 1885.

HOUGH (FRANKLIN BENJAMIN), for.a time United States commissioner of forestry,
anda student of natural history, died June 11, 1885, aged sixty-two.

JEFFREYS (JOHN GWyN), an English conchologist, died at London, January 24,
1885. He was born at Swansea, Wales, January 18, 1809.

JOLY (NICOLAS), a French naturalist, died at Toulouse, October 17, 1885, in the
seventy-fourth year of his age.

KERR (WILLIAM C.), of the United States Geological Survey and long State geolo-
gist of North Carolina, died at Asheville, N. C., August 9, 1885.

MarTIN (PuILipe LEOPOLD), a writer on zoological subjects, and especially on
museology and taxidermy, died March 7, 1885, aged seventy.

NEVILL (GEOFFREY), an English conchologist, author of a number of papers on
Indian shells, &c., died at Davos Platz, February 10, 1885, in his forty-second year.

Parry (Maj. F. T. SIDNEY), an English entomologist, died February 1, 1885.

PEALE (TITIAN RAMSAY), a contemporary of Say and Lesueur, and naturalist of the
United States exploring expedition commanded by Wilkes, died at Philadelphia
March 13, 1885, in his eighty-sixth year.

‘ROBIN (CHARLES), professor of histology in the faculty of medicine at Paris since
1832, died at Paris, October, 1885, in the sixty-fifth year of his age.

RYE (EDWARD CALDWELL), an English entomologist, died February 7, 1885, aged
fifty-two.

SEVERTSOFF (N.), a Russian zoologist, died from cold, resulting from a fall through
the ice in the river Don, January 11, 1885.

vs
at

aes ZOOLOGY. 813

SIEBOLD (CARL THEODOR ERNST VON), one of the most learned and celebrated of
European biologists, died at Munich, April —, 1885; born at Wiirzburg, February 16,
1804.

STEIN (FRIEDRICH RITTER VoN), professor of zoology in the University of Prague,
died February —, 1885, aged sixty-seven.

WEYENBERGH (H.), professor of zoology in the University of Cordoba, Argentine
Republic, died at Haarlem (Holland), July 25, 1885.

Woop (WILLIAM), a student of American ornithology, died at East Windsor Hill,
Conn., August 9, 1685, aged sixty-three years.
ANTHROPOLOGY.
By Orvis T. MASON.

INTRODUCTION.

An exhaustive chronicle of Anthropology for the year 1885 would con-
tain the account of a few general and a vast number of special works of
great importance. A cursory view of the titles appended to this brief
summary reveals the fact that new portions of the human frame, and
new groups of human phenomena, are yearly brought within the area
of scientific investigation. Hand in hand with the widening of the do-
main of inquiry has gone on, also, the invention of more refined appa-
ratus of research, and the increase of ingenious methods for bringing
knowledge into new combinations to ascertain and express means and
averages. With respect to the last point, it is gratifying to note that
more than one anthropologist has realized the fact that any expression
of means which does not also preserve the exact status of each com-
ponent is faulty.

There is one element of true scientific investigation which, under the
pressure of circumstances, is being better systematized by anthropolo-
gists. It is the classification of the subjects with which they have to
deal, according to the laws of evidence. If we may be permitted the use
of the term, the knowledges which underlie their scientific speculations
and deductions differ most widely, some resting on the testimony of a
single individual who bas destroyed the last vestige of evidence by
which he could make good his word; other reasonings are based upon
the preservation of material in such form and abundance, and with
such authentication, as to put it within the power of any investigator
to report experiments or examine methods. Surely conelusions based
upon these two kinds of evidence would differ greatly in their breadth
of base. If a report of progress in any seience should not omit to call
attention to improvements manifested in the methods of the investiga-
tor, much more should it mark growing tendencies to conform itself to
rigid logic in its inferences.

WORKS OF GENERAL IMPORTANCE.
The Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia organized courses

of scientific lectures during the year, and elected Dr, Daniel G. Brinton,

81h
816 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

professor of ethnology and archeology. The subjects covered were
Paleolithic Man; the Races of Men; the White Race; Civilization, its
Origin and Elements, its Centers, its Stages, and its Goal; Art in
stone, wood, bone, shell, metal, and clay; Textile art and decoration,
and Mnemonic design.

The American Association for the Advancement of Science met at
Ann Arbor, Mich. The section of anthropology, under the vice-presi-
dency of Mr. William H. Dall, confined its discussions chiefly to those
lines easily suggested by the environment, viz., the mound-builders, and
the Dakota stock of Indians. The vice- ae eaieneel address was a
studied discussion of the tribes of Alaska.

Volume vi of the Index-Catalogue of the Surgeon-General’s Library
appeared in 1885, with titles from Heastie to Inseldt. Works of value |
to anthropologists will be found catalogued under Heredity, Hermaph- ’
rodites, Hippocrates, Histology, Homicide, Humerus, Hypnotism, Idiots,
Imagination, India, Indians, Infant, Infanticide, Insane and Insanity
(157 closely printed pages), and Insects.

Pilling’s Bibliography contains the titles in full, and in important cases,
an abstract of everything that has been published upon the languages
of North American aborigines. Six years of uninterrupted labor have
been bestowed upon this colossal work. The index to the velume fur-
nishes an excellent synonymy of tribal names.

The work of the Bureau of Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, included that done in the field by archeologists, ethnologists, and
linguists, and the publication of the third annual report. The special
papers will be referred to under the names of their contributors. The
introduction, by Maj. J. W. Powell, the Director of the Bureau, is far
more than a résumé of the labors of others. The paper on Omaha Soci-
ology, by Mr. Dorsey, evoked the expression of the Director’s opin-
ions upon sociology among savages, a subject to which he has devoted
much thought; and Mr. Dall’s paper on Labretifery and Masks draws
out a chapter on activital similarities, in which certain rules are laid
down with reference to the origin of like inventions in different parts
of the world.

The Smithsonian Annual Report for 1885 will contain two volumes,
one relating to the work of the Institution, the second to the work of
the National Museum, where the subject af Anthropology is organized
as follows:

1. Arts and Industries. Mr. G. Brown Goode, assisted by Mr. R. T.
Earle, on Fisheries; Captain Collins, on Navigation; Mr. William H.°
Holmes and A. Howard Clarke, on Keramics; Romyn Hitchcock, on
Textiles and Foods.

2. Ethnology and Aboriginal Technology. Prof. Otis P. Mason.

3. Archeology. Dr. Charles Rau. ;

Anthropo-biology, Anatomy, and Anthropometry, are under the
charge of the Army Medical Museum,

f

ANTHROPOLOGY. 817

Art and medieval armor find their resting place at present in the
Corcoran Art Gallery.

In 1885 was organized in Washington the Woman’s Anthropological
Society, with Mrs. Tilly Stevenson as president, and Miss Sarah Scull
as corresponding secretary. The object of this association is twofold—
to conduct investigations to which the avenues are especially open to
women, and to encourage the sex in the prosecution of scientific work.

The Ecole d’Anthropologie, of Paris, carried through successfully dur-
ing the year the following programme:

Zoologic Anthropology.—M. Mathias Duval. Anthrepogeny and Em-
bryology compared; study of the first phases of development.

General Anthropology.—Dr. Paul Topinard. Analytical study of ra-
cial characteristics ; difference between races and peoples; evolution of
races in time.

Prehistoric Anthropology.—M. de Mortillet. Les Temps photohisto-
riques.

Ethnology—M. Dally. 1. Description of human races; their geo-
graphical distribution; races supposed to be pure, crosses of certain
ethnic groups. 2. Sociology according to Compte & Spencer.

Linguistic Anthropology.—M. Hovelacque. Language in its relations
to races and peoples.

Medical Geography.—M. Bordier. Influences of environment and in
particular of social environment upon the production, progress, and
spread of diseases.

Complementary course.—Zoologic Anthropology. M. Hervé. Paral-
lelisms of anatomy between man and the higher animals. Comparative
anatomy of the muscles and the viscera. Comparative and human tera-
tology; monstrosities in general.

Biologic Anthropology.—M. Blanchard. General physiological resem-
blanees between man and the animals.

Composite Photography is taking its place among the instruments of
anthropology, in one case the handwriting having been subjected to its
methods in order to arrive at the type or mean expression of each letter.

‘In this case the purpose was to detect fraud. Dr. Neubauer has made

an excellent study of the race types of the Jews, followed up by Mr.
Jacobs with a similar investigation concerning the modern Jews. His
composite photographs of Jewish lads will be examined with great in-
terest.

A serious problem in deductive anthropology is a graphic method of
illustration, which, while it exhibits means and averages, at the same
time does not conceal individualities. Tables of means have long given
dissatisfaction. Binomial curves are of great use up to three or four
series, after that, colors must be used, the printing of which is expen-
sive. It has been the practice with the author of this summary in show-
ing the distribution of mounds, &e., to take a county or township map,
and to put a dot or other plain symbol for each mound, heap, work, &e.

H. Mis. 1d——52
818 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

The result, of course, exhibits iv situ the extent and density of each
type. M. Manouvrier has improved on this in a paper read before the
Paris Anthropological Society. His plan is to place across the top of
the page the whole range of indices, each index number inclosed be-
tween two vertical lines. Down the left margin of the page may be
written the names, races, &¢., under consideration. Each measurement
taken is indicated by a dot in the proper square. In the space with the
name may occur the whole number of examples, while at the right ex-
tremity of the same line may be written the mean. ‘his system is
varied by M. Manouvrier by introducing horizontal lines of dots for
squares and putting actual fractional parts for dots.

The Société Américaine de France has undertaken the composition of
a dictionary of American archeology tou be published in its name and
under its auspices. A committee has been appointed to divide the work
among the members of the society. The secretary of the committee
will prepare the list of words for the dictionary. The committee con-
sists of the following-named gentlemen: MM. Auben, Léon de Rosny,
Malte Brun, Castaing, Remi, Simeon, and Peuvrier.

ARCHAOLOGY.

Mr. William H. Holmes had occasion during the year to examine the
collections of mound-builders pottery in the Museum of the Davenport
Academy. In paste, manipulation, and functions, this ware differs not
in the least from that which has been frequently described as coming
from the Mississippi Valley. The great merit of Mr. Holmes’s work is
the analysis and classification of form and the philosophic treatment of
the subject of decoration.

An archeological experiment of the greatest value was made by Mr.
Holmes. Noticing that very many fragments of ancient American pot-
tery preserved marks of textiles he conceived the nction that a cast in
fine seulptor’s clay or plaster would restore the fabric. The methods
and results of these experiments are given in the third annual report of
the Bureau of Ethnology. Itis highly’important that these experi-
meuts should be followed up on pottery from different parts of the
world. The same author has published a paper on the evidences of suc-
cessive populations in the valley of the city of Mexico.

Dr. Abbott’s publication in the American Naturalist on archeological
frauds opens our eyes to the enormous amount of these practices. Aris-
totle’s rule not to believe an archeologist unless he preserves the evi-
dences of his assertions, will have to be rigorously applied, in order to
subdue this pestilential element in a noble science.

The Rev. 8S. D. Peet bas written a series of articles on the symbolism
of the ancient Americans, his work being mainly directed to collating
the many types used in mythie representations.

ANTHROPOLOGY. 819

The American Journal of Archeology and History of ine Arts was
founded at the Johns Hopkins University under the editorship of Mr.
nS. Frothingham. The numbers which have appeared exhibit the
policy of the journal to be of the exalted standard adopted by the other
serial publications of the university.

The discussion of the question, who were the mound-builders? has
received a fresh impetus from the ground taken by Major Powell and
the Bureau of Ethnology that the so-called mound-builders were none
others than the immediate ancestors of the Indians inhabiting the
United States at the time of its first exploration. Mr. Cyrus Thomas
has devoted several papers to the discussion of the subject.

A course of Archeology was endowed during the year in Lisbon un-
der the patronage of Prince Charles, and in charge of M. da Silva.
Prizes to the amount of $250 will be divided among the students.

The Precursor of Man.—M. Gabriel de Mortillet is the author of the
theory that the flints of Thenay were the workmanship not of man ‘tt
all but of his precursor, the anthropopithecus. The argument of this
distinguished archeologist is somewhat as follows: The study of pa-
leontology acquaints us with the succession of animals. We know
that animals have varied from one epoch to another, and that these
variations are the more profound as the epochs are removed in time.
We know also that the higher the organism the more rapid have been
the variations. y

The mammals of the upper Tertiary are different from those of to-
day. Man cannot have escaped this law. If evidences of workman-
ship exist in the Tertiary, they prove the existence not of man but of
his precursor. 1. In Otta, Portugal, in the valley of the Tagus, at
the base of the Pliocene, have been found worked flints. 2. Puy
Courny, near Aurillac (Cantal), same horizon, has furnished silex both
wrought and transported. \3. Thenay (Loir-et-Cher) reveals a being
intelligent enough to soften flint by fire in order to make it more tract-
able, although the beds are older than those of Otta or Puy Courny, in
fact they belong to the lower Miocene or the upper Eocene. M. Mor-
tillet examines carefully the question of natural cleavage of flint, and
decides that those of Thenay afford unmistakable evidences of anthro-
popithecan workmanship.

In reply to M. Mortillet several archeologists have taken the view
that the so-called crackled and retouched flints of Thenay are not the
products of human workmanship at all. On the other hand, M. de
Quatrefages, admitting for argument sake the existence of wrought
flints from the Tertiary, combats de Mortillet’s theory of anthropopi-
thecus, alleging that man could have lived in that period. ‘It may
be true,” says de Quatrefages, “that during the Tertiary and since
mammalian fauna may have been renewed again and again, and that
not ove species belonging to that time survives, but the discoveries
R90). SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

made in the Quaternary gravels of Nerbaddah and Quadavéry lead us
to suppose even this assertion exaggerated. The law governing mam-
malian existence does not apply to man. Independent of his animal
nature man possesses an intelligence which enables him to contend sue-
cesstully with nature, even when he is in the lowest condition of social
and intellectual development. If man lived in the Tertiary he was cer-
tainly as able to defend himself against the deleterious influences re-
sulting from geological changes as he is to-day, against the extremes
of heat and cold.” It also occurs to us that the pithecan ancestors of
man had progressed further in the faculty of invention than have any
modern apes. In other words, if Tertiary apes utilized fire and chipped
flints, modern apes should also retain these arts.

In the Proceedings of the United States National Museum will be
found a detailed description of the Chaclacayo trephined skull from a
cemetery near Lima, Peru, which is the most remarkable case of post-
mortem trephining reported. Eight distinct furrows were cut in order
to remove the section, which is nearly 24 inches in diameter.

BIOLOGY.

Professor Cope, in his discussion of the origin of man and the other
vertebrates, comes to the following conclusion: “An especial point of
interest in the phylogeny of man has been brought to light in our North
American beds. There are some things in the structure of man and
his nearest relatives, the chimpanzee, orang, &c., that lead us to sus-
pect that they have not descended directly from true monkeys, bat that
they have come from some extinct tribe of lemurs.”

In reply to an editorial in Science (v1, 81) asserting that man is of
those forms whose ancestry is unknown, Dr. Theodore Gill says, ‘‘ I
cannot but think that the data at hand are already abundant for an
answer, and that we can allocate his systematic relationships as well
as those of any other animal. It is difficult for me to understand how
any one acquainted with the data could reach a conclusion other than
that man is the derivative of a form very much like the chimpanzee
and gorilla, and that, could his remote ancestors be seen, they would
be placed not only in the same family, but in the same group with the
African apes.”

The pelvie index is the ratio of the transverse to the conjugate diam-
eter of the pelvis brim expressed by integers. Dolichopellic signifies
a pelvis, the conjugate diameter of which is longer than the transverse,
or closely approaching it, above 95; platypellic, a pelvis in which the
transverse diameter greatly exceeds the conjugate, below 90; mesati-
pellic, a pelvis in which the transverse diameter is not greatly in excess
of the conjugate, between 90 and 95. To the thorough diseussion of
this characteristic Dr. Hennig devotes a monograph published in Archiv
fiir Anthropologie.

ANTHROPOLOGY. 8?1

Dr. Philippe Rey has made an investigation upon the weight of the

- cerebral lobes, and some of his conclusions will be of interest. Of the

347 subjects examined, 251 were men, 116 women. While the total
weight of the right hemisphere predominates over that of the left, the
left frontal is heavier than the right. The right occipital is slightly
heavier than the left. The difference of weight for the entire anterior
region between men and women amounts to 69.65 grains, which con-
stitutes a large proportion of the general cerebral excess of weight in
the male sex.

Dr. Lissauer has added the sagittal suture to the ether portions of
the human cranium which have been used in obtaining anthropological
measures. The sagittal curve or Norma sagittalis is obtained by saw-
ing the skull through the median line and observing the border of the
cut within the sagittal suture. Dr. Lissauer, by means of a special
craniograph, obtains the profile of the sagittal line on the anteropos-
terior median plane of the skull. Certain points are fixed on the per-
iphery, and by comparing them among themselves aud in relation to
a central point located at the intersection of the vomer with the lower
face of the sphenoid, he obtains angles by means of which he compares
the relative value of the different segments, and also certain of these
lines with the horizontal, extending from the point named to the exter-
nal occipital protuberance. A new vocabulary is introduced whieh will
add much to the complexity of craniometry. The ethnic results of the
paper may be thus set forth:

| INTCPON CTAN CS ees eo oe eee oeers See S Bushmen.

d Typical negroes.
(pHorehead: fatic----- 4-44 ------ Australians:
§ Negro children.

|
| bulged—~---=-----=- 2 Katiirs.
Occipub Haber. sees sa. es see Mongols (part).
Loxodontes{ Mesencranes ¢ bul cedatesese ee aeeee oe Bisicin Os:

§ Malays.
2 Melanesians (part).
Front of palatal straight......../ Americans.
| WNose elewated. 2255.24 2..c88- 0 s-. Mediterraneans.
| ( Negro children.
| Hottentot woman.
(eMacren cranes: saone sa, - sles e eee ee ee 4 Malays.
| Papuans.
(| Mongols.
Loxoprosopes, cerebral sector, small] ......-- Americans.
Mongols.
Mediterraneans.

Parietals bulged ....-.-.-.-----

Orthiodontes Orthioprosopes  ‘‘ ss Tan eens = os = ;

Dr. Herman Welcker, in Halle, has made a study of the capacity of

the cranium in connection with the three diameters. He first examines

carefully the methods employed for the curvature of the skull by
different processes and materials. The tables appended to the investi-
gation exhibit enormous variations in the results, as a few examples
will show. The following table gives the people, the author, the num-
ber of crania examined, and the average contents in cubic centimeters.
i>)
822 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

This study of Dr. Welcker’s is wor
: ; ei thy the i
pologists : : e attention of all anthro-

Average
People. Author. eae conten ts in
examined, cubic cen-
iu timeters.
Ie Germans! so: een. cw CleKer sane ee eee C
Morton PTA ORS ig Bo ou 1, ae)
Weisbacht.00: 165. aus nee ee ea
ee ick at ae 68 1,624
| | SRA OR AR LURE it 12 TRS
IN GUS eo eee Wieloitar (A226. SC Sa ; eae
; MORRO oo Ea a ae
Fao eR cn lee Ber aval
Swaving .---.. aL sek ak He note
Quatrefages ..-- MMM TAIN. ie | To
pote Davie oe ee ee os | ie
* Rronehe 000! uly ca | Sahaahaasene, ln eames aan
| SE OR oe eee ifs: 1, 450
HUGE 2s ee soe BEE vi Aa ty Lee
Weleker Toy Ste geky ie A 56 1, ee
Davis ee een BS i aun
| Bo ORT RA) a 503
emLiali ans a see ee oe WisloKee Sit gilli ho 0 ae iG I a
fieges. aa 76 ee
Gohaatfhausen: 0 eee eena e eee
Weisbach it. ec yeaa an en % epe
ener Dade a Sia SF liauuee
PRUSSIA Sie ee eee SChmiIdheeeeee messes Pace ‘ : Res
ScHaafPhatisen 2s. 40) 3ee eee i aoe
Hiarditcr! chek cat eee i en io Tae
Hudler .----2 ---- <---> 22222-2502: 5 1, 403
Wand zertes. = eae : Wenek vo utest “f et
eee IDE KAR se eoke Paes Syahas Petit a iene
5 Star repeeene eet’ os. | Schaatthausen cence eee : Hee
Weisbach, 2... dee Me eae 7 es
Li boa eam agers 28 37 1, 462
Hadler.2t:.. ne ae : ee
Davis ---+-+-+ ++--++- eta site es 3 Pees
“ ; poesia... ae eine Ol oa
202. Chinese: . ee aese Mortone. soe EIAs are ‘ ea
Jackerkandl . 2 ne We Ree mle eae tia De
Schaaffhausen ..-J..----22- ---2-- : : ane
Se no a Te ot 1,407
Schmidt Li Set A ae ¥ wonet-4 io tae Gakaned 16 I, 424
ROT. | ae ane 13 1,451
Baia 0 a ee ie ee
Wolokor .. a... bana eee nae af ase
Tuk. een ee 14 1, 407
Quatrefaces... 15.) dal geen eee n es
PUREE OHBE OR 2 ts Aenea es Deu
Brocsike { .... LL ee ‘ ae |
an [Dae Os eeu ae | tse @
» Dyaks.,s.i0¢s2) 24 Schaatthausen 5.2 au oeheeneae je
Ricci ep OA UREN a : foe
Weleker 2.2: ) 4: oui eines 9 iad
AS ea apap os EE 9 1, 404
Schmidt... <.. 7 eee "7 wel
29. Polynesians .... .... Ses Maas 5 eee : , sto
{Huckerhandl ..- Waatmenen te ome 5 eee
E Morton <.< +. ack aan Q eee
Sehaatf hansen 1 Le eae hes © enn ae ee
Sposa oe 15 1, 387
Recep 10 1,415
Lie pepe ek Se eer 18 | 1. 443

ANTHROPOLOGY. 823

Number | Average
People. Author. of crania | Contents in
examined.| Cubic cen-
timeters.

29. Polynesians—Cont’d.| Broea ..-.........--..------2+---- 54 1, 460
RUOWOD Shoe Sees ee ae eee 26 1, 469

ID EN a bees See ieee ee ee eee ee wae 100 1525

Quatrefages) > oon eso a Sosa 39 1, 549

30; Australians .....--_- DEOL) ate l= ee eR RE pepe a ME 87) Z 1,202
Lueae ..--- BGO Ooo DD cat eY bese Sooe 4 L217,

MEOTUO Tapes sree erccease oy aah ake eee ra |e Oe i 1, 229

Edlerys sete ease enema aot 7 1, 235

Schaafe hansen yo) 2.) yo. ce 19 1, 247

Wielckernec st. ce See ne sone 5 1, 294

BO WOE RS secccat can see ota e oe | 32 1, 298

IDANIS Seas oe ace scee coe eet eiee 12 1,319

BT OCA e ioe nee oles Soe eee ae tere 18 1, 347

Zuckerkan@yesee esse cee cee 3 SAY iP

ol. Papuans..---+-----.- IC ROD eye ser ates tine sae rere eee eee : 1, 215
SchaatiNausen ese seeee ness meee 8 | 1, 274

IBTOCSUCO Sau ose Sera eran scone 3 1,158:

Wieleker iscsi ice Seeks 2 koa 20 | a3}

MG ene sn sonore Se aet ee a saaeee 5A | 1, 398

HGNC oe pe Soe See ol Seam eee auree 48 1, 427

DAWA ars 2 ae stom tee eres ese iS 1, 495

Bes NOGTOGS el ccs cocece Schaativhauseniss = wae eae eee eee 27 1, 288
BCKeng: ane eee canis a aaa se 53 1, 295

SWAVIN ES oes scouted oho sees. 14 1, 309

Wielekera ees seat seme assis torciee 19 1, 328

Zuckerkand les sce ccs ee eee 4 1.339

DuCaeye 52.) oe soe ce nse sssec 5 1,344

Pbudler sis, see eaccecisces seesess 8 1, 352

SCHMIGtiecct sence ene ec se atlas 21 1, 356

MOrnbOny stele sages ae ee Sen coa a ceys eel ea eee ans 1, 360

WMIOWOLR Ras siete emits nicaene se eteees 26 1, 388

ote Caren een ee ae 2 3 1, 405

HQIyOiR Be Boba Capacn cep Gane Heeaae 3 1, 405

Quatretaresyesser sis sas ans eeet 85 1, 410

IBTOCA acts eee ee see neve siee eae 85 1, 430

Davis} ees c oe ae cles cers soseogset 12 1, 443

Bon USkiMOensse a-;secees Schaaiihauseneseess sees sea 7 1,391
Morton Jos2 52 steak soe sas Sa6 sees leseaeesoes 1, 410

Wrelcekerii. ace hae oa waco los areal ya 1, 468

Quatrefages: 5.2). sos sesce6 2235 soc ae] 1, 522

IBIOCA sate ae ee ceiseee Samana se cinas 12 1, 539

WD aivas A220 S Soe eee eee aloe 13 1, 542

BOWED i ee cee eae eee aera ee 17 1,546

The next point which Mr. Welcker considers is the so-called modulus
(found by adding the three diameters of the skull) and its relation to
the cubature, in dolicocephalic, mesocephalic, brachycephalic crania.

Chapter III discusses the cubature of the skull as well as its height
xud width among different peoples. Six pages are devoted to a table
of these three measures upon different races. The table of cubatures,
on ages 106, 107, represents the different races arranged in the order
of thas contents of the skull.

Chap ter IV is devoted to the cephalic index. Table IV, page 126, like
the one j, St mentioned on page 106, exhibits in a graphic manner the
various rac &S according to the cephalic index. This table is introduced
in order to e, “hibit the author’s method of graphic illustration.
| |
COFT | VOT" ~*~ s--**" saqq fey ¢ | | OOFL
06 | | 08
LECT ~* (II) SuvMoy YuoIOUH EZ |
08 | 08
OL aaa STIRUgBig, OopulAy ¢ | |
0! | GOEL SOOPULTT ,, O3SVO-YSTT,, € + OL
i RO Glceereteo ee ce see SIUBDIZ FL |
09 «| [ge] ose[esuog puv soopuly 9 5 09
i sy | 0g
og | ae ’
ra ae eae suvndssq Plo &% |
oe er Op saps sts savndsog MON €T 0b
= a oe aaa wt 77777" SBAPNG 6
0€ Teese aes “*"** Q8OTBDUTG ¢ 0g
foc GTET W9]VSN19 (7B ,, POOTE OGSIO IS Serer. SUIYIOH g |
O 02 JOPPA, OUP MOSEL | BEET ~* "777° OY ‘SUAS | 03
& ‘SIBqBYT ‘Sanyeyy,
(Hes ‘CAH[YOS *A) soopuly OT | | OT
gq | a
O over | | | | OOCE
(@) H i 7
<2) 00 \ | | 06
FS \ege@hen = 92" SOOPUT 19}}0g 81 |
(e | | | 08
oO HOD eT SLOUM ‘S[OX) ‘STINT 9 | H |
rae OL | QUCL “77 RTP Jo SOOpUTTL ZI | A OL
= | | |
ca 09 j ‘ | | H ao
Zi WS Igal ee Se ~*" SUVITISSAG YW F | BOC aaa syudfey oopurpy ¢
- 0s | | 0S
eS |
a uy | | | | | OF
0g | ag
02 | | 08
or} or
o0at | : | | 002K
| | }
fase — a ee ih sad oe or erat Les
‘SOUUIL]T PUL SozITIEG | ‘oydood vipuy deygae yy "S2ARTS | ‘syoory pure ‘suvuoy ‘82109 “SUBUILIOZ) |
— aed ty aS oe ee
en]

(o-6) ‘CH (0 '°D) suorpu juodoffip fig fyravdna pnysy
825

ANTHROPOLOGY.

QLPL "ooo ener ttc oe BQULY. gt

| ti eec erties! Cerra

LOPL ©" "°°" "*" "set OUBNY FT

‘SOIMUTT pur soptmeg

‘ojdood vipay 204310,

CPA he ae SSeS jjtans USbtBOLG i,

90ST 777-*-"-"" "==" BT00z0 98

“7 ""BHBVMOTS 9
C8fl---"""*--"-- SsURImOAINY 9
GST, econ “7"""" SUBIAIAS 9
CLY Seem O Odes
I9FI°°-" ">> SURIsEnY JVoTyH ge

“BOATIS

S0GL 727727" " =" = ===" yoq00g eT
SFL +2 ats <== oud, ez
6h. °°" SHO0Ty JUSLOUY ZL

GLPL “> >>" --*--- Spaviaeds TT.
LOM“ " "7° 77-77 > eSeNSNnzIOg 2

O9FL(SURZ0TO A JOU) SULITRIT 0Z
Sort = 57 | BHOOLDOON OF

QGrise sta os ro ee aR
BERL Tn SUBNOUOA ET
SOP "7-777 =" SUUUCMIMO, OT

O0FL'** ({) SuBMOY JuOTOUY 04

*‘syOvIy) pure ‘suvutoyy ‘sj[ap

GEG leer estes nee at SUO} occt
-UB) JUOIOBIP JO SSIS TT
OFST° *~ sUBIIvALg JUOLOTY 02 | OF

|
TOC Den aie meen oe eC STAG Ghe(t Og
02
BIGE-"""""*"-* "= onSsterg, 02
OL
60ST “"""""""""" SMvISSeH 06
= ==
|
| 00ST
P6PL °° >"> SUVTAIOAOUVA TT |
06
GSP1- "7-7" SLOpaRTOFT WIION OT.
G8PL-*" 77777777 BUBIGeNS CI | 08
SLPL "°°" 7 >> ~BLOpULT[OF OL |
OLPL ""  SyUUI OMIT Y FT | OL
LOPLI "~~ WIOYSTOFT-HIMSO[TIS FZ
C9PL “~~ SUBIYSDY-UvUIOL FZ 09
OOPL = Sate OTP JO WoIsoy 09 |
0g
Lt) id eae aaah Sy SSIMG f
ORR =2 essen S1opuvyooy {: | OF
ZEPL SUBISOAION puv sour oF |
C&Pl'*-~ "7---" suutsurnyy, oz | 08g
Lift *7 77" saoquessiqg ‘BSTAG G |
OGPT ~—  7 F = * BOPOAKS OG | 02
SGuleswe Selena eae) Uae)!
PIPL "Sdopur[sy dosuopi{nz ct oT
0O0FE
“‘suvUlda + |

CW ‘0 °)) suorny purcofip kq hpondno pnyg

SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

826

OOFT |
06
(acts Oar OORe SS -SSBLUCA WEF | LSE Tasers 2 UBPNOS eID
08 | 6LEL""*"~* SUeIpay WeorKoT 9 “PHN Pae “M ‘s90150N ¢
SLgl "* lopeiqe’y “‘somrysy 9
OL
698T° "7" "" Pa aeee $39} 009}07 OL
09 6GEL "7" eopndoj0g g | EGET Se0rsou onbiqmezoy 1
0g
OF OFS VOUT LOMO'T ‘SOOIDON 4
Geers = sss Re cae eene (pe GQ eee ees scee ae a “SITGU ST 06
0g -MIOjop JOU) SuLIAnIOY F | GZ8T ~~" 7°" S90AHoU TABI] ¢
: CoSlcceeee ee suvlizeig ¢ | 0¢&T°'"""""* Spies SUL
0Z “110 JUILAYIp ‘SeOISIN ge
SISh es Ses s1yUeysy ZI
Or
|
ae
008 | #6ZL°- Uvpnog ‘q ‘soorseN g
IRPOG be ocean sUyuod 9
06 . |
08
OL
SOG Io tue Sein came (pe
09 “TWIOJOP) SUBIANIET PIO £3 |
0g
or | FC oie “-"*" douysng OT
CAT ear eS “8QLIRD OT
6g
oz | |
or &
O0ET | OLTT ~~ (pemmojop ATTeI0g

“WQiv) SUBOLIOUTY Y}ION 2

“suLOLIOULy

“SLOW -1OJ, PUL BI0ITONT

‘penulyu0g—(C7 ‘9 *9) suonnu quasaffip fig hzvondna ypnysyy

PE ee ara suRleaysNy

|
|

eri ee suey
-ouned pure suryrqRy, ¢

terecct esses esoulled OT
"==" QSO1BQOIIN' F

gsottvpung 4

pec oro eee SOU FI

Teestakernats SUVAINANN L

‘suRlvIjsny Dus suvndyg

“‘sARTRTL

ST aa esoundve g

1UAS Ee ceeeaer se "sues IT

CoE Das scosses* suvoIng €

CAS) Bape oe suvjoqryL €1
*‘s[osuoyy

827

ANTHROPOLOGY.

OL
O0FT

GGE oom: ““""SlepULv[MIa1+) 6%

OFWs ese ca aS
PITTA oy} JO suLIpUy gz

glFTSvurdvavng pu sting 9

COFL SUBOLMIOULY JSOMGIION [T

CORL eee suBluos
-vjyeq pie suriuvonery 6

‘SuLaTIoUly

= eee

“SION “LOY pUv sooi3e Ny

‘panutyuoj—(-Py 7) °9) suonnu quasafrp liq fyrovdno ynygy

E9PL "~~~" SUVITOpsV) AON Z

‘gULT[VIISNY pur suendeg

*.
| |
| | 00st
: | CSrinae = ~ooeeessss* p78INg 8 | 06
L8PL"" "7" oo  BUVVAVAT FT |
| TLPL ©" ">">" "77>" = -OSOUIBIS FZ | 08
[SORE se weer eer SHONUIVY CZ |
ROBES as ena me omm ems OT 2 to OE
| GGbE-- "~~" *o noes" SHING, eg
| PRPL-* ooo 77" Badows 09
GCP" "7 *-**-- SuBIQVOANG Zz jo suvsiny oy} Mois g
PYRE =" 57 = O8OUITL) FS) | 08
TPT" YenzEy pu vsnqeg 6 | OPI s----> gonbdseg ZI
LoVe eernenn e DCSOMUAUIPIGS OP i Tacs cas voooosss-pausSvTy 9 | OF
FEPL “""*"** Sottiqorvy ‘oA 4
82hL “Sauisoudjog uot 2 | GePr 77 tt SaVAVY, OT | 08
SGPL"- ” SlOpU[ST WITTVID
FChL a ae 1 e SUERSUORTY CT 02
IGPL °°" "" "7" ** O8ETIIOGULW 0Z =
GIPL “= "*"* OSOINPUIN GT | OTFE-----"---"--*- O8ONSONT s | OF
OUPL
| =
*‘s[Osuoyy

“*sAVIVTL

eee ||

Dolichocephalic

—

Mesocephalic.

~1
bo

73

77

ia |
oO

79

80

81

SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

73.6 Modern Egyp-
tians.

73.9 mean of 7
Hindu groups.

75.1 Bhils, Gols.
Khols.
75.4 Ivish
76.2 Ancient Ro- |

mans.
76.3 Singalese
76.9 Arabs...-.----}
77.1 Ancient Egyp-)
tiansand Greeks. |
77.2 Swedes, 77.3
Spanish.
77.7 Kabyles

(e0uDatchseceee ee

78.2 Guanchesand
Ziganis.

78.3 Hindu Sudras

78.6
Norwegians,
78.8 Scotch.

78.9 English

79.0 Portuguese... -

79.1 Zuyder Sea
Islanders and
Icelanders.

79.8 Low German.

80.0 Modern Greeks

Danes and |!

eee wee ween

79.1 Chinese .-

79.8 Tartars. - -

80.2 Japanese.

80.8 Gorkhas

81.3 Middle Ger-
man.

81.6 Servians, 81.7
Italians, 81.8
Jews, Little
Russians.

82.0 Great Rus-
sians.

80.3 Finns ....
81.9 Magyars .

82.1 Poles, 82.2
High German
and French.

eee

"72.7 Papuans of
Mysore.
73.3 Australians.

75.9 Mean of
Polynesians.
76.4 Maoris, Nu- |

kuhivvi.

77.3 Oahuans and

Fatuhiwans. |
77.4 Nicobars . -.|
77.7 Dyaks

79.0 Balinese. - -
79.1 Amboinese -

79.7 Hawaiians. -

81.3 Mean of
Asiatic Malays.
81.8 Sumatrans,
Macassars.

82 Bugis
82.3 Javanese ---

72.3 Kaflirs

73.1 Negroes of |
Middle and |
West Soudan.

73.5 Mozambique
negroes.

°
Width indices of the various nations. —WELCKER.
Sy pee AED | Malays, Papu- ee
Mediterr eB Mongols. ans, and Aus- Nee ae Americans
ep tralians. :
aa co = |
Dsbnsenbdeee onan lateeoe Seances | 70.6 Polynesians.) 70.9 Maravi
| negroes.
7123 Abyssinian. en --ieq onto | 71.1 Caroline Isl- | 71.1 Koi-Koi--.-.| 71.7 Eskimo of
anders of Ulie. Labrador.
Tiled EUG OOS) Obs sos eae eae eee Mee eee eee 71.1 Guinea ne-
Bellary. groes.
SaOcMacbO FSO ed9099) jpacede sso Sasha mastessos eh oaseds 71.8 Ashantees..
BS Ee Baa O nna Boao OSCE AD aOOC | 72 New Caledon- | 72.3 Mean of 7 | 72.2 Greenland-
jians. negro groups. ers.

| 74.3 Puris, Quar-
apavis (Brazil-

jans).

74.8 mean of the
Brazilian In-
dians.

| 82.9 Mendanoese

77.0 Botocudos.

78.3 Mexican In-
dians.

78.9 Indians
the U.S.

of

80.1 Araucanians
and Patagon-

“jans.

80.1 Undeformed

Peruvians.

81.7 NW. Amer-
icans.

81.7 Undeformed
Caribs.

ANTHROPOLOGY.

‘

Width indices of the various nations—Continued.

lic.

1¢,
—_—--  F

Brachycepha

i

———.

eB:

Mediterranean
races.

83.0 Ruthenians...

83.3 Roumanians..

84.1 Slovaks
84.2 Czechs

88.3 From the Kur-
gans near Serep-

ta.

Weta an bea 85.5 Lapps.. - |

Mongols.

83.0 Kalmucks,
Basques.

83.3 Turks . --

83.6 Dune: :

85.1 Burjats. -

Malays, Papu-
ans, and Aus-
tralians.

Se es er ir

renee and
Koi-Kois.

——

‘ 829

Americans.

96.7 Ancient Pe-
ruvians.

102.0 Deformed
North Ameri-
cans.

=
wn

SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188

8 a) 0

‘ore dao fqovig =

SS Se

‘operdaooys!qtoq:

| | | | | eae | a eel |
i 66 5 | 8 | 08 GL OL
sayey dood TOR, i ated ao0qo1[og
a a a ts *5 ee Of nd ny
=e | | | a | | | | | |
| 06 G8 03 : L OL
vie dooorsnporag. orpeydoa Vana ; “To Raqqus *qda00qII0 ‘ydooosoyy *yda003sloeyy
eee nnn ee es voeuar LO SE eS — ———aaaies —————— SST,
| | | | | | | | | [eee caer fe ele =e) | | | | reese
| 06 1 Gg | 08 GL OL
‘dipeydooAqorag * ore doooyorpoq,
-——_—-o See ——_—_—_— CUO noo - ---- Cervwvmrr-: sn sn nna ———_———_———
pon [ao co! | | = | | | See allies
06 | ¢3 08 eee OL
ore doo tqovig x ‘olpeypdaoororpog
ooo— ooo ooo eee eee eee 9d :.:.—.." :)s— eee
el | | | | | [. | | | | | | |
06 ag | 08 | ¢2 OL
“poRigtod Ay orpeydaoa sow a1peqdooosayy “a1peydoaooqoryod *poprod Aqy
. *
— —_—s — _ -—_ - rerr—r————- ———_ —_—_———eeeee- rs ———————————————
eee PE CEeeel | | | 9°68 | G8 | Ene seeya | | 19°08 | |
06 ¢g 08 | G2 | 02
‘ouey deo sqorig m onemdoaooyqorog
o-oo re — A A
* | | oS | } = _ pe | | |
| 06 | 8 08 | cL | OL
«664 OF LLL
‘ound ‘Atporag. “Lyourg ‘qug ‘OrpuTtdao ,. -OsaTy top “qus squad ‘orpeydaooro1pog
- 2 ——_—, ——— ——$$<<—_— —_—__—_—_—_—_—, a = eS — - —<—_— —_—
| | oa ge nea ee el | pepe |F 4 : eal tie es ei esl | |
| 06 g3 03 cs OL
« 1dAO PUB T'Cg,. «664 OF TEL,
‘otputpdoo (qovaqaod 4 py .0'E8 03 0708,, ‘OTeydaosyavagy ‘orjey dao . -Oseyy .0°GL 02,, ‘oreydeooqorjog
elie | | | | | | 5 Eee en | it
1 0G | Toe Si 03 | o2 | OL
6°64 0} Z4,, ob topun ,,
, AOAO pure 0g,, ‘oIpeydooATvag ‘OTpLVYa , -OSITY ‘orpeydooorparpoq.
-——- a —- +-~—-— —
| |e aioe Pe ere | | ls ae ¥ Reale ers ee led ca a | ere
| 06 3 08 i GL OL

“neossnq

“ORGSIOM *6

“Ao[XuW “8

“aIvad

-IMYY, pue siaeg ‘ysng *L

‘SIT ‘IOs

"$881 ‘IOMOOM “H “e

“SRIZ}OU “V “PV

“e001

€

‘WLOMeIID Y PIOFYUVIT “Z

“(29 ‘TEL ‘dd ‘a10jory
oq} UO) Suwoyy OA “Tf
ANTHROPOLOGY. 83

Some experiments highly interesting to physiologists are reported
in Mr. Francis Galton’s vice-presidential address before the British
Association. By using a very large number of family records some
results regarding stature are made to appear. As with seeds so with
men, “offspring did not tend to resemble their parent seed in size, but
to be always more mediocre than they—to be smaller than the parents,
if the parents were large; to be larger than the parents, if the parents
were small.” An analysis of the family records gives the numerical
value of the regression towards mediocrity as from one to two thirds
with unexpected coherence and precision.

The most remarkable production of the year in the field of biological
anthropology is Dr. Paul Topinard’s Eléments @ Anthropologie Géné-
rale, an octavo of 1157 pages, 229 figures, and 5 plates. The volume
covers the history of anthropology, the discussion of the general prin-
ciples, and a minute account of anthropological methods regarding the
hair, color of eyes and hair and skin, height, the encephalon, the cra-
nium, and closing with anthropometry upon the living. Only a few of
Dr. Topinard’s results can be appended. Taking the section of the hair
or crinal index as a primary classific concept, he gives the table below:

1. Hair straight, section more or less round, scarce on the face and body: Yellow

and red races of Asia and America.
2. Hair nappy or very spiral, section more or less elliptical: Negro races of Africa

> and Oceanica.

3. Hair more or less curled or wavy, oval in section: Eurhpean races, Australians,
Nubians, &c.

The next concept is the nasal index, to which Dr. Topinard attaches
great importance. Adding this to the color of the skin we have:

Leptorrhines. White ( Hyperleptorrhine. Anglo-Scandinavian (Kymri).
(living. ) races. Leptorrhine (non aquiline). Celts.
69 and less. [Leucoid.] ’ Leptorrhine (aquiline). Semites.

(living. ) races. noses. ? Mesorrhine (cranial). Yellow races of Asia.
70 to81-4. [Xanthoid.]( Salient nose. Redskins.
Platyrrhines. Black Well formed nose. African negroes.

Mesorrhines. Yellow Flat Mes aaa (eranial). Eskimo.

(living. ) races, Melanesians and Aus-
82 and above. [ Melanoid ]. tralians.

The nasal index on the living is the ratio between the length of the
nose from the root to the outer insertion of the septum and the width
outside of the ale.

The subject of color is farther discussed in its relation to the eyes and

Nose coarse, with enormous ale. ;

_ hair and the races grouped as below:

Eyes, color : Hair, color:

1. Black and blackish, different shades. 1. Absolutely black.

2. Green. . Dark brown.

3 laze). . Clear chestnut.

4. Blue and clear of different shiules, iu- 4. (a) Blonde, yellowish.
cluding clear gray. (b) Blonde, reddish.
(c) Blonde, ashy.

(d) Blonde, clear.

. Red.

ma 65 ODO =

on
832 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Skin, color: 6. Yellowish white.
1. Absolutely black. 7. Brown white.
2. Brown, shaded with red. 8. (a) Rosy white.
3. Brown, yellowish or olive. (b) Florid white.
4. Reddish. 9. Freckled.
5. Yellow or olive.
By color: ( Blondes, Anglo-Scandinaviens or Kymri.
White 2 Chestnut, Celto-Slavs.
A Brunette, Mediterraneans and Semites.
(Leucoid).

Reddish (ruddy), one of the two Finnish types.

{ Yellow proper, races of Asia and Eskimo.
Red proper, Redskins and Caribs.

Yellow. 4 Red.< Yellowish red, Guaranis, Botoeudos.
| Olive red, Peruvians.
(| Blackish, Charuas (Uruguay), Anct. Cal., So. Dravidas.
(Redan Hottentots.

Reddish, African Negroes.
< | Blacks proper, Australians, Blacks of India, Tasm: wnians, and Papuans,
L Negritos, African Negroes.

Black.

The cephalic index is the ratio of the greatest skull width divided by
the greatest skull length. As to the boundaries of the terms applied
to these ratios, most unhappily the doctors disagree. Dr. Topimard’s
table is as follows:

Dolichocéphaly (74 per cent. and less) :

“64 and Jess. Ultradolichocephaly
*65—-69. Dolichocephaly.
‘70—:749. Subdolichocephaly.
Mésaticépnaly(75 to 79.9 per cent.):
‘TO; "10. Sub
‘77 Medium.
78, ‘799. Super. .
Brachycéphaly (80 per cent. and over) :
80 to 84. Sub ———.
85 to 89. Super.
‘90 and over. Ultra.

The application of the cranial index to the divisions of the human
species, previously considered, results as follows:

‘pelieho! 5 Anglo-Scandinavians, Franks, and Germans.
¢ Finns of one type, Mediterraneans.
i Mesan, Semites, Berbers, BASU
Brachy. Celto-Slavs, Ligurians, Lapps.
Eskimo, ane ient Tehuelches, some Americans, Santa
patie.) Barbara. Micronesia here and there; in Asia here
II. Yellow races

I. White races.

(
|
| and there, Melanesians.

) Mésati. Polynesians.

arabes § American type, Alaska, Siberia, Mongols, Mantchoos,
{“"""" 0 Indo-Chinese, Dravidians, Thibetans, Malay.
(pelkcho Australians, Veddahs and congeners, typical Mela-
J nyed nesians, African Negroes, Bushmen.

pceene Tasmanians, Mandingos, Haoussas.

Brachy. Negritos of Malaysia “and the Andamans.

Il. Black raees.

it will readily be seen that the cranial index in its‘three branches
applies to each of the three divisions of humanity [subspecies ?], the
significance of which seems to be that the tendency to pass from one to

Mt

1”

ANTHROPOLOGY. 833

the other belongs to the whole species rather than to any of its three
divisions.
In this résumé we shall have space to mention but one other charae-

teristic, stature:
Nomenclature of stature.

Statue. Men. Women.
PRES patrenc mace jacana ie eae es 1™, 70 and above. oe 1™, 58 and above.
Ultramedium Su Eee een Sen EE eter ee 1m, 69 to 1™, 65 ....| 1™, 57—1™, 53.
NMAIME CIM se eee creo sce secicn eects sere Im, 65—1™, 60 .-2.: 1™, 52—1", 40.
SHOE AE Aaa sc te ous esse eee ass 1™, 60—below .----- 1™, 39—below.

Combining this mark with all previously mentioned, Dr. Topinard
groups the races studied as follows:

Vivo-nasal index. Hair. Cranial index. | Skin color. Height. Races.
( Blonde, 5.|| Tallytosss- - Anglo-Seandinavi-
Dadlichooe ans.
es “: phalic. | Ruddy.... esr zeend ae pauls type I.
ite subspe- Brown ....| Short (rela- editerraneans.
cies, Hepes! ; Wary (oval ESC | tive).
rrhine. ae Mesaticephalic -|..-do ......|..-do ........ Semites, Egyp-
tians.
| Brachyce :) mee Omereee | Short. 220 Lapps, Ligurians.
phalic. Chestnut ./ Medium ....| Celto-Slavs.
{| Dolich oce-§! Yellow ...| Short ..-..-.. Eskimo.
phalic. ; Reddish ..| Tall ......-. Tehuelches.
Coarse, straight | Mesaticephalic |...do ....-. sanU OR Anasace Polynesiaus.
Yellow subspe- round section, (.76.) |
cies, Meso- long on the bee Osece nce sdOw scr see Redskins.
Trhine. head, body ee I Yellow ...| Short ....... Yellow race (of
lab ieee Ca a Asia).
glabrous. Halics : : sia).
P Yellowish.| Medium ....| Guaranis.
l Olivish ...| Short .....--. Peruvians.
Bushy (oval sec- | Dolichocephalic.| Black... -.. He oh ee a Australians.
tion).
Yellowish.| Very short..| Bushmen (steato-
Black  subspe- ; | neon)
cies, Platy- Ea . IBIRGK. ace ea so netcer elanesians (eye-
rrhine. D ote Oe, | brow salient,
| Woolly , (ellipti-}| | nose deep at the
cal section) | poner:
l é Black..... Weeden seas ae | African negroes.
| Mesaticephalic .|...do .....- “Medium ....) ‘asmanians.
Brachycephalic.|...do ...-.-. Shoertress-a. Negritos.
} i]

COMPARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY.

Prof. Alexander Bain read a paper at the Aberdeen meeting of the
British Association on the scope of anthropology and its relation to the
science of mind. The whole burden of the essay was to insist upon
amenability to measurements as the password of any set of human phe-
nomena to the section of anthropology. This is as it should be. Mr.
Bain further pointed out a great variety of mind actions which were
already under the instrument of precision, and others which ought to
be and could be. ‘Psychology has now a very large area of neutral
information. It possesses materials gathered by the same methods of
rigorous observation and induction that are followed in the other sci-
ences. If these researches are persisted in they will go still further

H. Mis. 15

53

834 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

into the heart of psychology as a science; and the true course will be to
welcome all the new experiments for determining mental facts with pre-
cision, and to treat psychology as an acknowledged member of the sec-
tion. To this subdivision will then be brought the researches into the
brain, and nerves that deal with mental function; the experiments on
the senses having reference to our sensations; the whole of the present
mathematics of man, bodily and mental; the still more advanced in-
quiries relating to our intelligence; and the nature of emotion as illus-
trated by expression.”

Instinct.—Mr. Romanes, in an address delivered before the Royal In-
stitution in 1884, and published in their proceedings for 1885, thus de-
fines instinct: “It is the name given to those faculties of mind which
are concerned in consciously adaptive action prior to individual exper-
ience without necessary knowledge of the relation between the means
employed and the ends attained, but similarly performed under similar
and frequently recurring circumstances by all individuals of the same
species.” The origin of instinct, according to the same author, is two-
fold: it is produced by lapsing intelligence or by natural selection.
The former is thus explained: ‘‘ Just as in the lifetime of an individual,
adjustive actions, which were originally intelligent, may by frequent
repetition become automatic, so in the lifetime of the species, actions
originally intelligent may by frequent repetition and heredity so write
their effects on the nervous system that the latter is prepared, even
before individual experience, to perform adjustive actions mechanically,
which in previous generations were performed intelligently.” For the
following reasons many instincts are referred to natural selection solely:
1. Considering the great importance of instincts to species they must
be in large part subject to natural selection. 2. Many instinctive
actions are performed by animals too low in the scale to admit of our
supposing that the adjustments which are now intuitive can ever have
been intelligent. 3. Among higher animals intuitive actions are per-
formed at an age before intelligence, or the power of learning by
individual experience, has begun to assert itself. 4. Many instincts,
like incubation, are of a kind which could never have arisen by intelli-
gent observations.” Finally, these two causes have codperated in the
formation of instincts.

The distance between intellection and volition on the one hand and
the organic processes associated with them seem to be narrowing year
by year. Dr. Horsely, in alecture before the Royal Institution of Great
Britain on the motor centers of the brain and the mechanism of the
will, omitting the discussion of the existence of the freedom of the will
and the sources of our consciousness of voluntary power, arrives at the
following conclusions :

As a rule, both cerebral hemispheres are engaged at once in receiving
and considering one idea. Under no circumstances can two ideas either
be considered or acted upon attentively at the same moment. Therefore

ste Sd.

mk

ANTHROPOLOGY. 835

the brain is a single instrument. Our idea of our being single individ-
uals is due entirely to this single action of the brain.

The lecturer also pointed out the specific portions of the brain to
which physiologists have been able to relegate certain activities.

Prof. Balfour Stewart delivered the annual address before the Society
of Psychical Research, in London, August 24, on the occasion of the
third anniversary. The exact position of the society is best indicated
by the language of Professor Stewart: ‘‘To my mind the evidence al-
ready adduced is such as to render highly probable the occasional
presence amongst us of something which we may eall thought-transfer-
ence, or, more generally, telepathy ; but it is surely our duty as a society
to accumulate evidence until the existence of such a power cannot be
controverted. We have not been remiss in this respect, and it will be
found from the pages of our proceedings that the main strength of our
society has been given to prove the existence of telepathy, in the belicf
that such a fact, well established, will not only possess an independent
value of its own, but will serve as an admirable basis for further oper-
ations.”

In a paper on comparative physiology and psychology, published in
the American Naturalist, Dr. Clevenger takes the ground that the
science of psychology is based upon comparative microscopic anatomy
and a physiology into which molecular physics shall enter more in the
future. Not only are the laws which bind the social organism similar
to and derived from those which govern the units of which it is com-
posed, but the protoplasmic units are governed by the same processes
down to chemical affinities. ,

Mr. Charles Morris contributes to the same journal a series of articles
upon mind and matter, in which the limits of the boundaries of con-
sciousness and unconsciousness are discussed.

ETHNOLOGY.

The classification of mankind by blood is ethnology. Professor
Flower’s presidential address before the Anthropological Institute on
January 27 was devoted to this subject. The majority of anthropolo-
gists at the close of 1885 leaned towards the theory of the unity of our
species. Humanity, according to this view, is included in a single genus
(Homo), which contains but one species (Sapiens). Here the consensus
ends, but there still remains a tolerably fixed belief that this species
contains three subspecies, main varieties or something of that kind.
** After a perfectly independent study of the subject,” says Professor
Flower, ** extending over many years, I cannot resist the conclusion, so
often arrived at by various anthropologists, and so often abandoned for
some more complex system, that the primitive man, whatever he may
have been, has in the course of ages divaricated into three extreme
types, represented by the Caucasian of Europe, the Mongolian of Asia,
836 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1888.

and the Ethiopian of Africa, and that all existing individuals of the
species can be arranged around these types or somewhere or other be-
tween them.”

The Ethiopian or Negroid race, may be divided as follows: —

A. Africans or typical Negroes.
B. Hottentots and Bushmen.
C. Oceanic negroes or Melanesians.
D. Negritos.
The Mongolian type:
A. Eskimo.
B. Typical Mongolian races of Asia.
C. The Malay.
D,. Brown Polynesians.
#. American Indians.
The Caucasian or white division includes:
A, Xanthochroi.
B. Melanochroi.

The Dravidians of India, The Veddahs of Ceylon, and probably the
Ainos of Japan and the Maoutze of China belong to this race, which
may have contributed something to the mixed character of some tribes
of Indo-China and the Polynesian Islands, and given at least the
characters of the hair to the otherwise Nevroid inhabitants of Aus-
tralia.

Modern Jews are thus tabulated by Mr. Joseph Jacobs:

Cotintry. Number. pn
A. Jews by religion and birth:
Ashikenazimioecem esa cen ee aee ee Teutonia, Slavonia ..-...- 6, 500, 000 92°8
Sephardi nm cet ss ee eeeee ee Romance, Levant, Africa.| 425, 000 6°1
SAMaAritanscese eet ee oe ees Nabluseess-: . eee ne ee 150 eee eee
B. Jews by, religion; not birth. =o. 2.2). 2.5 seeee ee eee (75,000) | 1:1
DOE WGC se Yo lieeeeaes hy God Ba a EL Alby ssinianeeeeeee eer eeee SOFOOO Mize
Karaltes. 22 S23 amet e eee Crimea. 3228: Sees 67000 “We see
Dacocatoumyse cscs ee ete Saharaiee peewee os NO OOO eee:
Benielsrael vases weasels eee Bombay; 35---asceecee eee | GO O00N teeta
Cochin gs 38-22 eee eee ee Cochini:225.2 2a ee: LIGOO Teese
Gy Jews by: birth, nop religion's. — = ¢-..3|\0.5 ance eee eee eee | (12,000) 0:2
Chuetar'or Anussim' 325. -2----..2.| Baleanic.-- pe ss-aneeeee | GOO; aeees
Maimines:. 22 o jai sei ae Salonichieeteeseeeeoe 34 4,000 |..----
Gididialslelamy ee eee an ee Khorassans see ee 2: 000- ees

The recent troubles in Bulgaria have evoked a number of volumes
ireating upon the ethnology of the peoples more or less intimately en-
gaged in the controversy. The works of Lewis Leger, Dr. Kanitz, and
Leon Prunel de Rosny may be consulted with profit.

Professor Packard brings together in two articles, published in the
American Naturalist, a great deal of interesting information respect-
ing the former southward range of the Eskimoin Labrador. Dr. Franz
Boas has in several communications made us well acquainted with his

ANTHROPOLOGY. . 837

residence among the Eskimos of Baffinland. Mr. Lucien Turner will
soon publish an exhaustive monograph upon the Eskimo and Indian
populations of Ungava, a region about which little has hitherto been
known. Add to these Schwatka’s travels, Lieutenant Ray’s report on
Point Barrow, Lieutenant Stoney’s brief report on the Kowak, Mur-
doch’s papers on arts at Point Barrow, Dr. Dall’s address on the tribes
of Alaska, and we shall have for this year a tolerably comprehensive
review of the Eskimo area.

The following is Dr. Dall’s outline of the tribes as at present recog-
nized:

Orarians.
INNUIT STOCK.

a i Estimated population.
Northwestern Innuit:

Kopag-mut,ISii... \J2 eet te a es aa —— -

Kangemalioimit, 01377 5..2)- oo. ots Jase SA ee )

STRAT LT Rael sf A ee OE LO RAPE GR LLG 64

NeriwerkOee rain, ST Ths i eet a ie a ete ic ae ee as aks

Bear fos mt ia Sia yas | ies Hath ee EE diay eer) sels)
Asiatic Innuit:

EID fs eh oA ede eh aes UR Tne riys PRIA 8S. SOREN aN ——— -
Island Innuit:

Imah-kli-mtt........... de epee hs arg bitpe 2 BRT ts e448

Dingestihi-Sclioannntgs ts ABAD eS VS SAA beet antl dk doce 40?

NE WOAH SMUG otk: siarts ofa raltiee sss atedase sane soe 150?
Western Innuit:

LERCINSORZHEAES 117 | C5) of eRe PACE oS Oe, oie Me PURE REN eS ey Seay eo

DAM e-Mab e AS Tiherai coins cp(ee oS ik ee het Sep |

Wn ae Cmint Se 7 saree easy ea eaten. eee

SOC MAME PEON tee ene. Lannea rete. ee Ua

MD ae ether saomaraie ears sreteea steeeietot. Ms ees Se I ee

ea Aieemialt ieee whe Am nee te ns ada ge $14,500?

VEG IS) 6), 20) 261711 ha OMe a Papel aot oe A a |

MSHA er ERO irc. 2 iste ates hee J) Bue My

Welommrmunre tics Shere fae aru fk URES AT Ch ye

UCLA TTT e/g 611] C1 a iy Se ee OR PSE 00 ee ep

Ohi sachigmutss- 2 secs 2 tt tarcee.. este ee \
Aleutians:

DST, ees ee hee: s Vt eee re Coe PON oo ys TK 2,200?

Indians.

TINNEH OR ATHABASCAN STOCK.

Western Tinneh:
Kar-yal-Rho-tananaee? O25. 05 Pe den!
Ko-yt’-kiikh-o-ta/-na, 1877 ...........
Un’-a-kho ta/-na, 1877. .

2.0002
838 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885

Kutehin tribes:

Ven! -an-kiit-chin’, 18772 .<'22 222 Gearon 7002
Tenniith’-kiit-chin’, 1877 2. ..ciis.Ue22e) eee ee ee Extinct.
Tat-sab/-ktit-chin’s 1877 2244. 92 4scee 2 aaee Ape pe ee ote Extinct.
Kit-cha-ktit-chin’; 187% tals ot ee -S eaeee eeee
Nabsit/-kiit-chin, 18772. 220 2ee eee! See ee BES A) =
Vunta!-kiit-chiin’, 1877 +223 voller ee eee eg .t ae ie
Hai-in-kut-chin (?), 1877 ..... eee Jes 2 BRR ee ——
astern Tinneh:
K’nai’-4-kho-bana. 2). 2. onc ci- ae es close = oe ise A erste ee 614
Ah-tena’, 1877 .....-. sk Soh OME. Go slo itibee ccere reer Se 250
Nehaunees:
Abba-to-tenah, 187Tiee 2) naan a ects oe ee eee —__—
Acheto-tinneb, 1877 2: 2 0222 cc ctes 2 Sees ee eee
Khiintim-ah” 2092 S502 ies Hale se Se eae ae eee nee ——
Carriers:
co Taki? 3. Coe Aue c es 2 oh eee oe
T’silkotinneh.....-.- Libte\ ste k ie be a eRe ee ee Ree pee
Tlinket or Kalashian stock:
Chilkaht-ewalllts =e 1-2 /2cls oo ete eee Soe SCRE 1,314
Vak--thit', IS(7e': = 22s sts s2 Se : ee ee 500?
Sit-ka-kwan; 1807 2: 22°5. Sa eee eee . vad ee ?
Stakhin-kwan, 1877 .......--.. Chacha arate eee ere eles \ 4,949
Skit-kwan (?) Dawson, 1844 ......-...........4....-.-. 5
Haida stock:
Haida 2 oo eee oe ok oe oe oe 6 ode oe cone ee 7388
Tsimp-si-an’ stock:
Tsimpi-Si-an!\.% 224 ween 6 ou. tA Mees ere ee ee ———

Ethnography of Guatemala.—Dr. Otto Stoll, a resident physician in
Guatemala, has undertaken to supplement the work of Brasseur and of
Berendt on the comparative linguistics of the Central American States.
There are eighteen languages now spoken in Guatemala, fourteen of
them belonging to the Maya Quiché, viz, Maya, Mopan, Chol, Qu’ekehi,
Pakonchi, Uspanteca, Ixil. Dr. Stoll divides the Maya in four groups:

A. Tzental.

B. Pokonchi.

C. Qwiché.

D. Mame.

A. Tzental group.

1. Chontals of Tabasco.
Synonymy: Do not confound them with the ‘‘Chontales” of Nica-
ragua, who are entirely different.
2. Tzentalis (Ocosingo).
Synonymy: Celdal (Cespeda).
i -

ANTHROPOLOGY. 839

3. Tzotziles (San Christobal de Chiapas).
Synonymy: Cinacanteca (Cespeda); Zotzlem (Brasseur) or Zotzil;
Quelenes (Spanish historians).
. Chanabal (Comitan near north of Gautemala).
. Choles (across Guatemala from Salinas r. to Montagua r.; see p. 90).
Synonymy: Putum (Berendt); Cholti (Moran); Colchi (Palacio) ;
Ecolchi (Alonzo de Escobar).
. Mopanes (north of Chols in Gautemala).

OU

<r)

B. Poconchi group.

—"

. Qu’ekchis (east, west, and north of Coban).

Synonymy: Caechi (Palacio); Caichi (Juarros); Aquacateca, Mame,
Qwiché, Cakchiquel, Tzu’tuzil, Pokomam, Chorti. The Sinca,
Pupulea, Pipil, and Carib represent other stocks.

Dr. Stoll takes up his work in a very systematic manner, stock by
stock, giving in each the tribes examined, together with the lit-
erature, Synonymy, chirography, history, and vocabulary. Thus:

(a.) Aztee stock. The Pipils (Escuintla and Cuajiniquailapa).

Synonymy: Pipil (authors); Mejicano and Nahuatl (Juarros);
Nahuatl of the Balsam coast and Izaleco (Squier); Mexicanic, or
language of the Tlaskaltekas (Scherzer).

(b). Mije stock. The Pupulucas (Cognaco extreme southeast).

Synonymy: Pupuluca (Juarros); Populuca (Palacio); Popoluca
(Berendt Mss.). Papaluka (Brasseur) is the name of a Cakchi-
chiquel village, and Scherzer’s Pupuluka Katschike is pure
Cakchiquel.

(c.) Carib stock. The Caribs (Gulf of Honduras).

(d.) The Maya-Qwiiché stock; 250 words in 16 languages given. Egkchi
(Habel); Cakchi (Charencey); Vater confounds Cacchi with
Quwiché.

2. Pokonchis (around Tactic).

Synonymy: Spelled Poconchi, Pocomchi, and Pakomchi. The Po-
conchi of Gage and Scherzer is Pokomam.

3. Pokomams (Guatemala to Jalapa and eastward).

Synonomy: Poconchi (Gage and Scherzer); Pakome (Charenay)).

4. Chortis (Zacapa and Chequemula and eastward).

Synomymy: Lenguaapay (Palacio); Chol (Jimenez, by Brasseur).

O. Quiché group.

. Qwichés (Cunen and Rabinal, southwest to Pacific).
Synonymy: Lengua Utatlica (authors); also Kiché.
Uspantaks (8S. Miguel Uspantan).
. Cakchiquels (Teepan to Sta. Lucia and to Pacific).
Synonomy: Lengua Achi (Fuentes, Palacio); Cuauhtemalteco?
(Palacio); Kacchikil (Vater); Chacciquel (Th. Gage); Pupuluka
Katschikel (Scherzer); also Cakchiquelchi.

bt

bo

ies)
840 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

4. Tz’utujiles (around Aitlan).
Synonymy: Sotojil (fuentes); also Zutuhil, Tzutohil.

D. Mame group.

="

. Ixiles (Cotzal and vicinity).

2, Mames (all Southwestern Guatemala).
Synonomy: Zakloh-pakap (Reynoso); Mem. (authors).

3. Aguacatecas (Huehuetenango. The Sinca language (Southeast Gua-
temala).

Synonomy: Sinca (Juarros); Xinea (Berendt Mss.); Xorti (Gavar-

rette’s chart).

The Alagiiilac language (8S. Cristobal) little known.

-

Scheme of the Maya languages.

_-- Huasteca.
Maya.
oe (Mopan.)
Chontal, QH
am i ai eee Tzental. s =
he Eee PSAe Tzotzit- i
Pe Chatiabal.
Chol.
See Qu ekchi. 4
_—-Pokonchi. | 2 >
——Poliomam. (& 3
Chorti. nee
_ —— Cakchiquel.
re
shige Oviche. st 3;
isin Uspanteca.
Txil,
Spake 3 5
Aguacateca.) ~ “

Dr. John Beddoe has published the result of a study extending over
thirty years, prosecuted for the purpose of ascertaining the components
in the present population of the British Isles. The color of the hair
and eyes is the chief reliancein the author’s observations for the analysis
of racial distribution in the present population of Britain.

GLOSSOLOGY.

The lecture before the ‘‘ Conference Transformiste” this year was de-
livered by M. Abel Hovelacque on the evolution of language. Accord-
ing to the lecture both scientific analysis and the speech of infants
prove that language primordially springs from monosyllabic elements.
At first the cries and ejaculations of children are intentional, and later
they in common with savages express their ideas by emotional tones.

ANTHROPOLOGY. 841

From these rude beginnings language pursues a law of evolution which
we may study quite apart from the people who use it, in the same man-
ner and through the same methods as the zoologist studies compara-
tive anatomy. M. Hovelacque relegates language to the class of physi-
ological science, and studies it in its formation, growth, maturity and
aecay. Monosyllabism is the youth of language, agglutination charac-
terizes its adolescence, flexion its manhood and decrepitude.

An ingenious example of linguistic criticism is that to which Dr.
Brinton has subjected the Taensa grammar and dictionary of M. J.
Parisot. After scrutinizing the structure of the grammar and exam-
ining the errors in climatic and other allusions in the text, Dr. Brinton
comes to the conclusion that the whole thing is a forgery. After cor-
respondence with Lucien Adam and I. Miiller it seems more probable
that the young author had really gotten hold of an ancient manuscript,
but that he had so doctored it that he is ashamed to reveal the original.
Meanwhile these savants have decided upon a most praiseworthy course,
viz, to say nothing about the Taensa grammar until the author pro-
duces the original manuscript. i

Dr. Daniel G. Brinton appealed to American students to devote them-
selves to our aboriginal languages, quoting in conclusion the words
of Professor Whitney: ‘‘ The study of American languages is the most
fruitful and the most important branch of American archeology.”

Philologists are frequently at a loss to see how collectors of vocabu-
laries can have listened so differently to the pronunciation of words of
savages. Much of the difference in their vocabularies is doubtless due
to a want of uniformity in alphabet and to the nationality of the tran-
scriber. More subtle than either of these causes is that pointed out. by
Mr. Hale, namely, the existence of elementary sounds of an intermediate
character which seem to float between two, and sometimes even three
or four, divers articulations.

The linguistic stocks of all the tribes of North America are gradually
being worked out by the Bureau of Ethnology. The strip of west coast
from Alaska to Mexico, crowded with different languages, is the last to
yield to classification. Mr. Dorsey has succeeded in unraveling the
little bands on the Siletz Agency with the following result :

Athapascan or Tinné family.—South River; Chetcoe dialect of the
Tutu; Joshua and cognate dialects of the Lower Rogue River Indians;
Naltunnetunns ; Mekwunutunns; Yukwitee or Euchre dialect; Kwatami
or Sixes; Upper Coquille; Applegate Creek; Galice Creek; Chasta
Costa (Shista. Khwu-sta).

Siuslaw.—Sitslaw ; Umpqua; Alsea; Yaquina.

Mulluk.—Lower Coquille.

Takelma.—Upper Rogue River,

Sasti.—Shasta,

Klikitat,
842 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.
COMPARATIVE TECHNOLOGY.

In several quarters a fresh impulse has been given to the intimate
study of modern savage technique.

The fact that we have no other clue to the industrial history of the
past or to the explanation of the discoveries of the archeologist ought
to have directed attention sooner to the necessity of describing savage
processes down to the minutial.

Dr. Washington Mathews, in his paper on Navajo weaving, has pro-
duced a paper of this class worthy of imitation. Its highest commenda-
tion is that any modern weaver could from the description reconstruct
the apparatus and produce a Navajo blanket or belt.

Col. F. A. Seeley, of the United States Patent Office, has published
a second paper on the genesis of inventions from the standpoint of the
patent examiner. A convenient term, ewrematics, is used to define the
study of inventions as to their order and their. laws.

Prof. Cyrus Thomas publishes in the third report of the Bureau of
Ethnology an elaborate examination of the *‘ Tableau des Bacabs,” Codex
Cortesianus, and plate 44, Fejervary Codex, to show the intimate rela-
tion between the Maya and the Mexican symbols and calendars in their
method of representation.

Dr. Brinton’s paper on the lineal measures of the semi-civilized na-
tions of Mexico and Central America reaches the following conclusions:

1. In the Maya system of lineal measures, foot, hand, and body meas-
ures were nearly equally prominent, but the foot-unit was the customary
standard. .

2. In the Cakchiquel system hand and body measures were almost
exclusively used, and of these those of the hand prevailed.

3. In the Aztec system body measurements were unimportant, hand
and arm measures held a secondary position, while the foot’ measure
was adopted as the official and obligatory standard both in commerce
and architecture.

4, The Aztec terms for their lineal standard being apparently of Maya
origin suggests that their standard was derived from that nation.

5. Neither of the three nations was acquainted with a system of esti-
mation by weight, nor with the use of the plumb-line, nor with an accu-
rate measure of long distances.

SOCIOLOGY.

As a means of realizing a vast amount of material for sociological
purposes, the only safe method in such investigations, Dr. Francis Gal-
ton has made use of family records, printed questions put in the hands
of great numbers of people to be filled up. The results of this inquiry
are partially summed up in the vice-presidential address before the
section of anthropology in the British Association with the title “Types
and their Inheritance.” Especial attention is given to stature, for rea-

ANTHROPOLOGY. 843

sons stated in the address. It appears that the offspring does not tend
to resemble the parents, but to be always more mediocre than they; to
be smaller if the parents were large, to be larger than the parents if
the latter were small.

“There can be no doubt,” says Mr. Galton, ‘that heredity proceeds
to a considerable extent, perhaps principally, in a piecemeal or piebald
fashion, causing the person of the child to be to that extent a mosaic
of independent ancestral heritages, one part coming with more or less
variation from this progenitor and another from that. To express this
aspect of inheritance where particle proceeds from particle, we may
conveniently describe it as particulate.”

‘¢ Whenever a feature in a child was not personally possessed by either
parent, but transmitted through one of them from a more distant pro-
genitor, the element whence that feature was developed must have ex-
isted in a particulate, though a personal and latent form in the body of
the parent. The total heritage of that parent will have included a
greater variety of material than was utilized in the formation of his
own personal structure.” The lecture closes with the application of the
argument to the formation of colonies or composite individuals.

Mr. Dall, from his long Alaskan experience, made familiar with
masks and labrets, has extended his study into other regions, and pro-
duced a work on the geographical distribution of these objects which
is of great ethnical value. His speculations lead him to the conclusion
that intimate relationship once existed between Oceanica and the west-
ern continent.

The Rey. J. Owen Dorsey was for many years among the Dakotan
tribes, and became so conversant with their language and habits that
he has been invited by the director of the Bureau of Ethnology to pre-
pare an elaborate account of that stock. His monograph upon Omaha
Sociology is the first of a series, which will terminate with grammars and
vocabularies. Mr. Dorsey is by far the best equipped man in the world
to treat this subject. The Omaha belong to the Dhegiha group of the
Siouan family, the other member of the family being the Kwapa. In
connection with this paper should be read Major Powell’s report upon
it in the introduction to his third annual report.

Mr. Ward read before the Anthropological Society of Washington a
paper of great sociological importance, in which are contrasted mora]
and material progress. By the former, the author means the actual
removal of social evils; by the latter, the discovery of principles and
the invention of appliances calculated to remove them. The aim of the
paper was to call attention to the fact that while material progress goes
on by steady accretions, in which every step is permanent gain, moral
progress takes place by a rhythmic action of which only the algebraic
sum of its many fluxes and refluxes can be counted. Every age has
possessed all the arts of the age that preceded it, and has added some-
thing to them, but the welfare of man does not advance by any such
844 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

method. Mr. Ward sees the reason for this in the fact that knowledge,
ingenuity, skill, and industry, well-nigh omnipotent in the acecomplish-
ment of anything toward which they can be once fairly directed, have
not been applied to moral end and directed to the attainment of svcial
well-being.

MYTHOLOGY AND FOLK-LORE.

A very important addition to the philosophy of animism is that of
Mr. J. G. Frazer in his connection of burial customs with the primitive
theory of the soul. The whole range of literature has been consulied,
and the serupulous habit of Mr. Frazer in the enumeration of authori-
ties will be of the greatest advantage to those who wish to follow up
the subject. The feature most thoroughly examined is the identity of
ghosts and the belief in a second or spirit self.

Major Powell, in reviewing Mr. Dall’s paper on masks, draws atten-
tion to the fact that in paraphernalia, as in folk-lore, the practical
passes imperceptibly into the mythical. ‘Savage mythology deals
largely with animal life, and savage drama is intimately associated
with savage mythology.” Among many North American tribes the old
men and women who transmit mythic lore are listened to with great
interest, and as the stories of the ancient god-beasts are told, resort is
had to dramatic personification to give zest and vigor to the mythic
tales.

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ANTHROPOLOGY, 185.

ABBOTT, CHARLES C.—Archeological frauds. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvu, 308-311.

The use of copper by the Delaware Indians. Am. Naturalist, xix, 774-776.

ABEL, CARL.—Gross- und Klein-Russisch. Leipzig: R. Dietitz. v1-138 pp. 8vo.

Academy, The London. (See Index for references to Sociological reviews and Folk-
lore. )

ApaM, Lucren.—Le Taensa a-t-il été forgé de toutes pieces? Réponse & M. Daniel
G. Brinton, A.M., M.D. Paris: Maisonneuve, 22 pp.

ALBRECHT.—Ueber die gréssere Liinge der zweiten Zehe beiden alten Griechen; 2. Ueber
dic gréssere Bestialitiit des weiblichen Menschengeschlechtes in anatomischer
Hinsicht; 3. Ueber die Unterschiede des menschlichen Beckens von den itibrigen
Atfenbecken. Cor.-Blitt., xv, 99.

ALCALDE, J. G.—Recuerdos del Americano Aborigen. Gac. de sanid. mil., Madrid,
Xi; kT, Is SSigeG-.

ALLEN, E. A.—The sun symbol in earthworks. Am. Antiquarian, Iv, 291-294.

Amat, C.—Les négresses du M’zab. Rev. Scient., Paris, pp. 33-38. (See, also, Les
négres, id, 10 janvier.)

AMEGHINO, FLORENTINO.— Nuovos restos de mamiferos fosiles oligocenos. Buenos
Aires. 205 pp. 8vo.

American Antiquarian and Oriental Journal. Editor: Stephen D. Peet, Clinton, Wis,
Bi-monthly. Vol. vir.

American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, vol. 11. Worcester, Mass.

American Association for the Advancement of Science. 34th meeting, held at Ann
Arbor, Mich., Aug. 26 to Sept. 1, Section of Anthropology. Vice-president,
William H. Dall, roy ,

”

ANTHROPOLOGY. RAH

PAPERS READ.

A visit to Siletz Agency. By J. Owen Dorsey.

Permanence of early Iroquois clans and sachemships. By W. M. Beauchamp.

The remains of San Juan Teolihuacan. By Amos W. Butler.

Significance of flora to the Iroquois. By Erminnie A. Smith.

A supposed natural alloy of copper and silver from the north shore of Lake Superior, in
Minnesota. By N. H. Winchell.

Exhibition of copper implements. By W.C. Wyman.

Sacred war tent and some war customs of the Omahas. By Alice C, Fletcher.

Laws and terms of relationship of the Omahas. By Francis La Flesche.

Exploration of recent Indian mounds in Dakota. By William McAdams.

Bupial customs of our aborigines. By Henry Gillman.

Ancient pictographs in Illinois and Missouri. By William McAdams.

Customs, language, and legends of the Senecas. By J. W. Sanborn.

Music in speech. By M. L. Rouse.

The stone ax in the Champlain Valley. By G. H. Perkins.

The number habit. By C. 8. Minot.

Indian persunal names. By J. Owen Dorsey.

An average day incamp. By Alice C. Fletcher.

Are contemporary phantasms of the dead to be explained partly as folk-lore? By C.S.
Minot.

Ornaments made of pieces of:human skulls, from a mound in Ohio. By F. W. Putnam.

On certain singuwar stone implements from Vermont. By G. H. Perkins.

Explorations in the great Cahokia mounds. By William McAdams.

Proper method of exploring mounds. By F. W. Putnam.

Who made belt-wampum? By Erminnie A. Smith.

- Primary classifiers in Dhegiha and cognate languages. By J. Owen Dorsey.
The degeneracy of races. By William Zimmerman.

Dr. Dall’s vice-presidential address was upon the native tribes of Alaska.

American Journal of Archeology and the History of Fine Arts. Baltimore. Vol. 1.
Editor: A. L. Frothingham, jr., Johns Hopkins University.

American Journal of Philology. Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore. Editor: B.
Gildersleeve. Vol. v, No. 4; vi, 1, 2,3. Quarterly.

American Naturalist. Illustrated Magazine of Natural History. Philadelphia. Vol.
XIx, 12 nos. [Has departments of psychology and anthropology. ]

Anales del Museo Nacional de México. Vol. Iv. ;

Anikier, Pa. Amanual of human and animalanatomy. St. Petersburg. 281p. 8vo.

Annales du Musée Guimet. Paris: Leroux.

Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, vol. xtv, 3,4; Xv,
1,2. London.

Anthropological Society of Washington. Transactions, vol. m1, Noy. 6, 1883-May 19,
1885. Washington: For Soc.,204 pp. S8vo. [Papers by Kengla, Dorsey, Holmes,
Blodgett, Thomas, Ward, Niblack, Bates, Thompson, Gregory, Gallaudet, Burnett,
Reynolds, Tylor, Howitt, Boas, Murdoch, Brinton, Mindeleff, Matthews, Henshaw,
Stevenson, Gatschet, Seely, and Powell. }

LIST OF PAPERS READ.

Stone mounds and graves in Hampshire County, W. Va. By L. A. Kengla.

An Osage secret society. By J. Owen Dorsey.

The textile fabrics of the mound-builders. By William H. Holmes.

The census of Bengal. By James A. Blodgett.

The houses of the mound-builders. By Cyrus Thomas.

The Cherokees probably mound-builders. By Cyrus Thomas.

Mind as a social factor. By Lester I’. Ward. ;

The Smithsonian Collections for 1883. By Albert Niblack.

Discontinuities in Nature’s method. By H. H. Bates.

Recent graves in Kansas. By Alton H. Thompson.

Elements of modern civilization. By J. M. Gregory.

Migrations of the Siouan tribes. By J. Owen Dorsey.

International ethics. By F. M. Gallaudet.

Comparative frequency of certain eye diseases in the white and the colored race in the
United States. By Swan M. Burnett.
846 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

LIST OF PAPERS READ—continued.

Collection of antiquities from Venddme, Senlis, and the cave dwellings of France. By
Elmer R. Reynolds.

Evidences of the antiquity of man on the site of the city of Mexico. By William H.
Holmes.

How the problems of American anthropology present themselves to the English mind. By
E. B. Tylor.

Australian group relations. By Alfred W. Howitt.

The Eskimo of Baffin Land. By Franz Boas.

Seal-catching at Point Barrow. By John Murdoch.

Origin and development of form and ornament in ceramic art. By William H. Holmes.

On the probable nationality of the mound-builders. By Daniel G. Brinton.

Moral and material progress contrasted. By Lester F. Ward.

Study of the circular rooms in ancient pueblos. By Victor Miudeleff.

Circular architecture among the ancient Peruvians. By William H. Holmes.

Mythological dry-painting of the Navajos. By Washington Matthews.

Medicine stones. By H. W. Henshaw.

Mythological painting of the Zutis. By James Stevenson.

The Chiricahua Apache sun-circle. By Albert S. Gatschet.

The genesis of inventions. By F. A. Seely.

Sinew-backed bow of the Eskimo. By John Murdoch.

The cubature of the skull. By Washington Matthews.

From savagery to barbarism. Annual address by J. W. Powell. .

Anthropologische Gesellschaft in Wien. Mittheilungen. Vol. xv.

Anthropologische (Die) Sammlung des anatomischen Instituts der Universitat Bres-
lau. G. Wieger. No. xu. Anthrop. Sammlungen Deutschlands. Suppl. to Archiv.
f. Anthrop., Brnschwg. xv. lvol. 4to.

ANTICHAN, P. H.—Le pays des Khroumirs: leurs institutions, leurs coutumes, et leurs
chants populaires. 2.éd. Paris: Delagrave. 192 pp. 8vo.

Antiqua. 1855. First volume.

Arbo. Beitrige zur physischen Anthropologie der Norweger. Verhandl. d. Berl.
Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., Berlin. 66-70.

ARCELIN, ADRIEN.—Silex tertiaires. Matériaux, x1x, 3 sér., 11, 193-204; 303-308.

Archeological Institute of America.

Archiy fiir Anthropologie. Zeitschrift fiir Naturgeschichte und Urgeschichte des
Menschen. Organ der Deutschen Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie
und Urgeschichte. Vol. xvi, Heft] 1, 2, 3,4. Braunschweig.

Archivio per l antropologia e la etnologia. Organo della Societa italiana, &c. Fi-
renze, vol. Xv, 1885, 4 fase. Ed.: Paolo Mantegazza.

ARLOING, 8.—Dissociation ou association nouvelle des mouvements instructifs sous
Vinfluence de la volonté. Compt. rend. Soc. de biol., Paris, 11, 648-652.

ARMAS, J. I. DE.—Les cranes, dits déformés. Havane: El Fenix. 16 pp., 8vo. °

Association frangaise pour l’avancement des sciences. At Grenoble, August 12-20.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS.

AULT-DUMESNIL (D’).—Nouvelles fouilles faites 4 Thenay.

BLANCHARD, L.— Atavisme chez homme.

CHUDZINSKI.—Sur les muscles de la face.

COLLINEAU. —Les inférieurs dans l’humanité.

CoLLoms.—Les populations du Haut-Niger.

FAUVELLE.—Des moyens de se rendre compte de Vintelligence dans les diverses races
humaines.

Hovetacqur, A.—Les premiers brachycéphales de l'Europe occidentale.

Herve, G.—Les anomalies costo-vertébrales chez les Anthropoids.

MAnovvnrirr.—Contribution anatomique a l’ethnologie de France.

MORTILLET.—Position de la question tertiaire au point de vue anthropologique.

Distribution g¢ographique de Vindustrie morgienne.

TuBINO.—Contribution 4 l’anthropologie espagnole.

ZABAROWSKI.—L’origine du fer en Assyrie,

Sur le fer en Chine,

ANTHROPOLOGY. S47

Athenzum, The.—(Reviews of archwological and sociological works. )

AvERY, J.—The races of the Indopacitic Ocean. Am. Antiquarian, vil, 1-6. [Notes
from the far East in each number. |

Ausland, Das. Stuttgart, vol. Lvi, 52 numbers.

AYMONIER, Et., L’Epigraphie Kambodjienne.—Notes sur le Loas. Notes sur Anam.
Saigon: Imprim. du Gouy.

Les Chams [of eastern Indo-China]. Rev. d’ethnog., Iv, 158-160.

BaELz, Dr.—On the physical qualities of the Japanese. Mittheil. d. deutschen
Gesellsch. f. Natur- und Vélkerkunde Ostasiens. Heft 32, May. [Chapter on
tattooing reviewed in Nature, Oct. 8.]

BaLFour, Surg. General.—Cyclopedia of India: and of Eastern and Southern Asia,
commercial, industrial, and scientific. 3 vols. 8vo. [Rev. in Athenzeum, Nov.
28. ] ‘

BARCENA, MARIANA DE LA.—Notice on some human remains found near the city of
Mexico. Am. Naturalist, x1x, 739-744.

BaRROIL, GIULIO.—Sulla lunghezza relativa del primo e secondo dito del piede umano.
Archiv. per l’ antrop., Firenze, xv, 7-22.

BasTIANn, A.—Der Papua des dunkeln Inselreichsim Lichte psychologischer Forschung,
Berlin, Xxx-368 pp. 8vo.

Indonesien oder die Inseln des Malayischen Archipels. Berlin: Diimmler, 114
pp., 2 pl.

Batrs. H. H.—Discontinuities in Nature’s methods. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash, II,
51-55.

Baur, TH. A.—Ueber Fetischdienst und Seelenkult als Urform der Religion. Corr.-
Blatt d. deutschen Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., &c., XVI, 9-13; 19-21.

BAYERN, I°.—Untersuchungen iiber die altesten Griiber- und Schatz-funde in Kau-
kasien- Berlin. 8vo.

BEAUCHAMP, W. M.—Permanence of early Iroquois clans and sachemships. Paper
before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting.

Prehistoric fishing. Science, May 22.

The Iroquois white dog feast. Am. Antiquarian, VII, 235-239.

The homes of the Oneidas. Mag. Am. Hist., xtv, 387-396.

BEAUREGARD, OLLIVIER.—Ceylan et ses habitants aux temps anciens, moyens et
modernes. Bul. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, xvi, 86-128.

Malays et Dravidiens; leur origine commune. Bul. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris,
XVIII, 535-576.

Beauvots, E.—L’Elysée des Mexicains comparé & celui des Celtes. [From Rey. de
VHist. d. Religions]. Paris: Leroux. 8vo.

BEDDOE, JOHN.—The races of Britain; a contribution to the anthropology of Western
Europe. Bristol: Arrowsmith, 279 pp., 6 pl., 1 tab., 10 maps.

BEIGEL, I.—Die Medizin der Talmudisten nebst einem Anhange: Die Anthropologie
der Alten Hebrier. Leipzig and Berlin. 8vo.

Beitriige zur Anthropologie und Urgeschichte Bayerns. Munich. Vol. VI.

Bretck, W.—Messungen von Buschminnern und Hottentotten. Verhandl. d. Berl. Ge-
sellsch. f. Anthrop., 59-62.

BELL, ALEXANDER GRAHAM.—Is there a correlation between defects of the senses?
Science, Feb. 13.

Memoir upon the formation of a deaf variety of the humanrace. [Irom Mem.
Nat. Acad. Se. Wash., 86 pp., 1 chart.

BELL, F. JEFFREY.—Comparative anatomy and physiology. Phila., Lea Brothers.
564 pp. f

Benepict, W. R.—The nervous system and consciousness. Pop. Se. Monih., Xx-vt,
731-749; xxvit, 66-77; 150-164.

848 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR i885

BGRENGER-FreRAUD.—Etude sur la Tarasque. Rey. d’anthrop., viii, 108,133. [The

Tarasque is a parade in which a fantastic animal is ,borne by men concealed
within. ]

BERGER, PHILIPPE.—L’Arabie avant Mahomet, d@’aprés les inscriptions. Bull. hebd.
de Assoc. se. de France. Paris, 7-14 juin.

Bertin, A. F.—Relics of copper from eastern Pennsylvania. Am. Antiquarian, VII,
42-44.

BERTHET, Ev1e.—Paris avant histoire. Paris: Jouvet. 346 pp. S8vo.

BERTILLON, J.—Taille. Dict. encyel. d. se. méd., Paris, 3 s., XV, 581-649; also Rev.
scient., Paris, XXXvI, 481-488.

BERTRAND, ALEXANDRE.—Les sculptures de Gavr’ Inis [resembling the lines on the
palm of the hand]. Mag. Pittoresque, Paris, an. Li, 59

Brart, L.—Les Azteques, histoire, murs, coutumes. Paris: Hennuyer, xx11-304 pp.,
illustr., maps. 8vo. (Bibliotheque ethnologique. )

Biitiines, J. S., and WASHINGTON MatrHews.—Methods of measuring the cubie
capacity of crania. Paper read before National Academy of Sciences, April 21,

1885.

Composite photographs of skulls. J. Anthrop. Inst., x1v, 287.

BINKLEY, 8. H.—A fortification and a cemetery at Dayton, Ghio. Am. Antiquarian,
IV, 295-297.

Ancient fortifications in Ohio, Am. Antiquarian, viI, 152-155

BLANCHARD, RAPHAEL.—L’Atavisme chez homme. [Lecons faites & ’ Ecole d’anthro-
pologie pendant le semestre d’hiver 1884-185 (cours libre aerial biolo-
gique.] Rev. Vanthrop., vii, 425-492.

Sur un cas de polymastie et sur la signification des mammelles surnuméraires.
Bull. Soe. @anthrop. de Paris, xvi, 226-239.

Buiss, EUGENE F.—The Diary of David Zeisberger, from 1781-1798. Cincinnati: R.
Clarke. 2 vols. 8vo.

3LocH, A. M.—Note sur état du prépuce a la naissance chez Jes enfants juifs.
Compt. rend. Soc. de biol., Paris, 11, 495.

BLopGEt, JAMES A.—The census of Bengal. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., m1, 9-13.

Boas, FRANZ.—Cumberland sound and its Eskimos. Pop. Sc. Month., xxv1, 768-778.

Die Sagen der Baffin-Land-Eskimos. Verhandl. d. Berlin. anthrop. Gesellsch.,

Ap. 18, 1885. 6 pp.

Die Wohnsitze und Wanderungen der Baffinland Eskimos. Deutsche geog.

Blatter, Bd. vin, Heft 1, 31-38.

Reise im Baffinlande in 1883 und 1884. Verhandl. d. Gesellsch. f. Erdkunde,
Berlin., Nos. v and vi, 10 pp. x :
The Eskimo of Baffin Land. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., 111, 95-102.

Bopto, L.—Notice sur les travaux de la statistique officielle du royaume @’Italie en
matiere démographique et sanitaire. Milan. 8vo.

Borrner, P.—Textilindustrie. Ber. ii. d. allg. deutsche Ausst. a. d. Geb., Hyg. u. d.
Rettungsw., Breslau, 1, 293-300.

BouN, I’.—Les possessions frangaises du Bas-de-Céte. Bull. Soc. de géogr. de Mar-
seilles, 1x, 36-47, chart.

Boletino Folk-lérico Espafole. Semi-monthly journal published in Seville, Spain.
Editors: A. Machado y Alvare and A. Guichet y Sierra.

Boletin Folk-Lorico Gaditano. Ed.: D. Juan de Burgos y Requejo. Cidiz. Vol. 1.

BOLTON, HENRY CARRINGTON.—A catalogue of scientific and technical periodicals
(1665 to 1882), together with chronological tables and a library check-list.
(Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 514.) Washington: Pub. by Sm. Inst.

BONAPARTE, PRINCE ROLAND.—Notes on the Lapps of Finmark (in Norway). J. An-
throp. Inst., xv, 210-213.

Les récents voyages des Néerlandais A la Nouvelle-Guinée. Versailles: Im-

primé pour l’auteur, mars.

ANTHROPOLOGY. | S49

Bowes, G. B.—An atlas of practical elementary biology. New York: Macmillan. 4to.

Bowes, J. L.—Japanese marks and seals. London. 1 vol.

Japanese enamels. 1 vol.

Brain. A Journal of Neurology. T. C. Bucknell: London. Quarterly. vu.

BreuM, ALFRED E.—Siberia and the Exiles. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvu1, 625-637.

BripGEs, Tuomas.—The Yahgans of Tierra del Fuego. J. Anthrop. Inst., xrv, 288.

Brinton, Danie, G.—American languages and why we should study them. Address
before the Pennsylvania Hist. Soc., Mar. 9. Reprint from Penn. Mag. Hist. &
Biog. Phila.: J. B. Lippincott. 23 pp.

Annals of the Cakchiquels. Vol. vi. Lib. Aborig. Am. Literature, Phila.

—— Did Cortez visit Palenque? Science, March 27.

Notes on American Ethnology. Am. Antiquarian, vu, 301-304.

On polysintheses and incorporation as characteristics of American languages.

41 pp. Phila.

On the language and ethnologic position of the Xinca Indians of Guatemala.

Read before Am. Phil. Soc., Oct. 17, 1884.

On the probable nationality of the Mound Builders. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash.,

wu, 116-118.

The chief god of the Algonkins, in his character of a cheat and liar. Am.

Antiquarian, vu, 137-140.

The Lenapé and their legends; with the complete text and symbols of the

Walam Olum, a new translation and an inquiry into its authenticity. Phila.:

D. G. Brinton. Vol. v. in Library of Aboriginal American Literature.

The lineal measures of the semi-civilized nations of Mexico and Central
America. Read before Am. Phil. Soc., Jan. 2. ;

——— The philosophic grammar of American languages. 51 pp. Phil.

——— The sculptures of Cozumalhuapa. Science, July 17.

The Taensa grammar and dictionary. Am. Antiquarian, Vu, 275-277.

British Association, Aberdeen meeting.

PAPERS ON ANTHROPOLOGY.

The index of the pelvic brim as a basis of classification. By Prof. W. Turner.

Insular Greek customs. By J. Theodore Bent.

Parliamentary acts relating to ancient monuments. By Gen. Pitt-Rivers.

American shell-work and its affinities. By A. W. Buckland.

Red men about Roraima in British Guiana. By E. F. im Thurn.

A game with a history. By J. W. Crombie.

The rule of the road. By George Campbell.

The modes of grinding and drying corn in old times. By Jeannie M. Laing.

The flint-knapper’s art in Albania. By A. J. Evans.

The discovery of Naukratis. By W. Flinders Petrie.

A new man of Mentone. By Thomas Wilson.

Ancient British lake dwellings. By R. Munro.

Abnormal and arrested development as an induction of evolutionary history. By J. G.
Garson.

The Nicobar Islanders. By E. H. Man.

The scope of anthropology and its relation to the science of mind. By Alexander Bain.

Brooks, W. K. Can man be modified by selection? Pop.Se. Month.,xxvu, 15-24,

Brookville Society of Natural History (Indiana). Bulletin No. 1, published in 1885.

BRUGMANN, Karu.—Zum heutigen Stand der Sprachwissenschaft. Strassburg:
Triibner. 144 pp. 8vo. [Review by Professor Fry-in Science, October 23. ]

Brunati, A.—Una microeefala. Arch. per Je mal. nerv., Milano, xxr, 148-159.

BIEDERMANN, Dr.—Superstitions about the Dolphin. Pop. Sc. Month., xxv1, 691-
694.

BUCKLAND, ANNIE W.—F acts suggestive of prehistoric intercourse between East and
West. J. Anthrop. Inst., x1v, 222-232.

Bureau of Ethnology. Annual report, dated 1884. Printed in 1885. Washington :
Govt. Print. Lxxiv + 606 pp., 44 pls., 200 figs. [For contents see Powell
Thomas, Dall, Dorsey, Matthews, Holmes, Stevenson. ]

H. Mis. 15——-54

850 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

BURNETT, SWAN M.—Comparative frequency of certain eye diseases in the white and
the colored races of the United States. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., m1, 67.

BurLer, AMos W.—The remains at San Juan Teotihuacan. Paper before A. A. A.
S., Ann Arbor meeting. Am. Antiquarian, vi, 148-151.

BuTRON, EmrL10o.—Memoria sobre las islas Carolinas. Bol. Soc. Geog., Madrid, xxx,
233)95)5 138:

CAGNAT, R.—Rapport sur une mission en Tunisie, 188182. Archives d. Mission
scient., 157 pp., charts and plates. Paris.

CaLLomsB.—Contribution 4 étude de Vethnologie et de ’anthropométrie des races du
Haut Niger. Lyon. 8vo. [From Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Lyon. }

CAMPBELL, JOHN T.—Traces of prehistoric man inthe Wabash. Am. Naturalist, xrx,
965-971. :

CAMERON, A. L. P.—Notes on some tribes of New South Wales. J. Anthrop. Inst.,
XIV, 344-370.

Canadian Institute in Toronte. Proceedings, vol. 1, ser. 3.

CANDOLLE, ALPHONSE DE.—Histoire des sciences et des savants depuis deux siécles.
2.éd. Genéve-Bale: Georg. 594 pp. 8vo. [Review in Science, Jan. 2.]

Capus, G.—lLa vallée des Jagnaous (Central Asia). Rev. Vethnog., Iv, 233.

CARNERI, B.—Zur Geschichte der Moral. Kosmos. Vol..t. 1; 815; 321.

CaARTAILHAC, EmMILe.—Cours d’anthropologie & Toulouse. Matériaux, xrx, 3 sér.,
u, 47.

Gravures et objets sculptes de Page du renne. Matériaux, xix, 3 sér., 0, 295-

299.

Les grottes artificielles sépulcrales. Matériaux, XIx, 3 sér., m1, 1-18.

—(Euvres inédites des artistes chasseur de rennes. Matériaux, XIx, 3 sér., II,

63-75 ; 295-299.

CaRTER, H. BRUDENELL.—Hints on vision-testing. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 121-127.

CasTaInG, A.—Ethnographie de la France. 116 pp. 12mo. Vol.u. Bibliothéque
ethnographique.

Le communisme au Pérou. Arch. Soc. américaine de France, m1, 15.

Les systémes religieux dans Vantiquité Péruvienne. Jd., 86; 145; 239.

CASTELFRANCO, POMPEO.—L’anthropologie générale & ?Exposition de Turin en 1884,
Matériaux, XIx, 3 sér., 0, 36-40.

CELS, ALPHONSE.—FEléments d’anthropologie. Bruxelles, 1884, 1. 8vo.

CHANNING, EpWaRkD.—Bulgaria and the Bulgarians. Science, October 9.

The Narragansett Planters. Johns Hopkins’ University Studies, ser. 4, No. 3.

The races of Central Asia. Science, May 1.

CHANTRE, ERNEST.—Les Dolmens du Caucase. Matériaux, XIX, 3 sér., 0, 545-557.

Monuments et superstitions de ’époque néolithique. L’Homme, Paris, 74-87.

CHARENCY, H. prE.—De la conjugaison dans les langues de la famille Maya-Quiché.
[From Museon.| Louvain: Peeters. 8vo.

CHARNAY, D&sirE.—Les anciennes villes du nouveau monde. Paris: Hachette.
407 pp., 204 figs., 19 charts.

Le Yueatan au moment de la conquéte. Rev. d’ethnog., Iv, 81-37.

CHIARUGI, GIULIO.—Delle omologie e dei rapporti reciproci della fossetta occipitale
mediae del lobo mediano del cerveletto nell’uomo e negli altri mammiferi. Siena.
21 pp., 1 pl. 8vo.

CHRISTIANI, ARTHUR.—Zur Physiologie des Gehirns. Berlin: Enslin. x-+-175 pp.,2
pl. 8vo. (Reviewed in Science. }

Ciark, W.-P.—The Indian sign language, &c. Philadelphia: Hammersly. 443 pp. 8vo.

CLAVEL.—Les Marquisiens. Arch, d. méd. nav., Paris, XLII, 194; xm, 209: 353,
188485.

CLEVENGER, 8. V.—Comparative physiology and psychology. A discussion of the evo-
lution and relations of the mind and body of man and animals. Chicago: Jan-
sen, McClurg & Co. vi-+247-+10 pp. 8vo. [Reviewed in Science, May 8, Also
Am. Naturalist, xix, 1-17. ]

ANTHROPOLOGY. 851

Coun, Furp.—Prahostorische Pflanzenfunde in Schlesien. Corr.-Bliitt., xv, 101-109.

Congres archéologique de France. Report of 17th session at Montboison (Loire) in
Matériaux, XIx, 284-287. :

Congrés international d’anthropologie et d’archéologie préhistorique will be held in
Athens in 1886, during the autumn.

Corr, Epwarp D.—Origin of man and other vertebrates. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvii,
605-613.

Correspondenzblatt der deutschen Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, &c. Munich. Vol,
Xvi1,12 numbers. Ed.: Dr. Johannes Ranke.

COBBEAU, G.—L’homme tertiaire de Thenay. Auxerre. 23pp. 8vo.

CoupDREAU, H. A.—Vocabulaires de dialectes indigénes de Amérique équatoriale.
Arch. Soc. américaine de France. New ser., 11, pt.6. [Vocabularies of Tucano
or Dace & Taviano or Javis. }

CuRL, J. M.—On Pheenician intercourse with Polynesia. J. Anthrop. Inst., x1v, 273-
274.

sacar CARL FREIHERR VON.—Die alten Volker OberItaliens. Wien: Hélder. 311
pp. 8vo.

D’Acy, M. E.—De la pseudo-taille des silex de Thenay. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris,
Xvill, 173-184.

DAFFNER, FRANZ.—Ueber Grosse, Gewicht, Kopf- und Brustumfang beim minnlichen
Individuum vom 13 bis 22 Lebensjahre, nebst vergleichender Angabe einiger
Kopfmaase. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, sup., 121-126.

DALu, WILLIAM HrALy.—Masks, Labrets, and certain aboriginal customs, with an in-
quiry into the bearing of their geographical distribution. Third An. Rep. Bureau
of Ethnology. pp.67-202. Plates v-xxIx.

The native tribes of Alaska. Vice-president’s address before the section of
Anthropology, Am. Association at Ann Arbor. Separate print, Salem: Salem
Press. 19 pp.

D’ALVIELLA, COUNT.—Religious value of the Unknowable. Pop. Se. Month., xxv1,
779-786.

DaREsSTE, M.—Hypothése sur l’origine des droitiers et des gauchers. Bull. Soc. d’an-
throp., de Paris xvi, 415-418.

DARMESTETER, JAMES.—Le Mahdi depuis les origines de Islam jusqu’a nos jours.
Paris: E. Leroux. 18mo.

The Mahdi, past and present. London: Unwin. 150 pp. 12me.

D’AULT-DUMESNIL.—Note sur de nouvelles fouilles faites 4 Thenay, Loir-et-cher, e
sept. 1884. Matériaux, x1x, 241-251.

Davin, T.—Anomalies de ’appareil dentaire chez Vhomme. Amiens [from Odontolo-
gie]. 8vo.

Davis, N. DaRNELL.—The etymology of the word Rum. TZimehri, Demerara. IV., pp.
76-81.

DecaZzES, E.—Chez les Batékés. Rev. d’ethnog., rv, 160-168.

Dr Hass, WILLS.—Animal mounds of Wisconsin. Paper before the A. A. A. 8., Ann
Arbor meeting.

DELACROIX, J. E.—Le temple de Boro-Boudour. Rey. d@’ethnog., Iv, 452-456.

DerLaunay, M.—Sur la beauté. Bull. Soc. @anthrop. de Paris, xv, 193-200.

DELBRUECK, B.—Die neueste Sprachforschung. Leipzig: Breitkopf. 49 pp.. 8vo.

DE MorGAN, J.—Négritos de la presqw’ ile Malaise. Homme, Paris, ii, 577; 609.

DENIKER, J.—Sur un fetus de gibbon et son placenta. Compte-r. de Acad. des sc.,
Paris, 654-656. Also Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Par., 1854. 743-748.

DE SER, Louis. — La virilité et ’Age critique chez Vhomme et chez la femme. Paris:
Delahaye, &c. 29 pp.

Deutsche anthropologische Gesellschaft. xv. allgemeine Versammlung zu Breslau,
4.-7. Aug. 1884. Report in Corresp ndenz-Blatt, xv.

Xvi. algemeine Versammlung, in Karlsruhe, 6.-9. August 1885, Stenographic

report in Correspondenzblatt, xv1, Nos. 9, 10, 11, 12.

852 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.
COMMUNICATIONS.

Scope and tendencies of anthropology. Opening address by President Schaaffhausen.
Statistics of color in eyes, hair, and skin. By R. Virchow.

The Rhine in prehistoric and historic times. By Honsell.

Roman Baden. By Herr Bissinger.

Prehistoric connection between Upper Donau and Upper Rhine. By Herr Mayer.
Excavation in Tiryns. By Henry Schliemann.

The origin of the Germans. By Dr. Wilser.

Committee on pelvic measurements.

Committee on the color of the hair.

Committee on prehistoric charts.

Committee on nephrite chart.

Gold objects found at Petroessa. By R. Virchow.

The ethnography of Japan. By Herr Balz.

Man’s place in nature. By Herr Albrecht.

Russian superstitions. By Herr Kullischer.

Measuring apparatus. By Herr Mies.

An anthropographic apparatus. By Hans Virchow.

The human pelvis. By Herr Hennig.

Hallstadt and La Téne. By Otto Tischler.

Necklaces of bronze. By Herr Cohausen.

Dictionnaire des sciences anthropologiques, publié sous la direction de Letourneau,
de Mortillet, Hovelacque, ete. Livr. 15. Paris. 4to. Figs.

D——, Madame G.—Sur la musique chez les Chinois. Mag. Pittoresque, an. LIII, 234;
2875 327; 390.

DoiGNEAU, M.—A propos des silex de Thenay. Matériaux, XIX, ser. 3, 0, 44-46.

Donati, GIROLAMO.—Sopra alcuni amuleti tibetani del Museo d’antropologia di Fi-
renze. Archiv. per l’ antrop., xv, 23-30.

DonnatT, L.—La politique expérimentale. Paris: Reinwald. v11-+-488 pp. 12mo.

DorskEyY, J. OWEN.—An Osage secret society. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., 01, 3-5.

A visit to the Siletz agency. Paper before the A. A. A.S., Ann Arbor meeting.

Indian personal names. Paper before the A. A. A.S.,Ann Arbor meeting.

Migrations of the Siouan tribes. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., I, 65.

Mourning and war customs of the Kansas. Am. Naturalist, xrx, 670-680.

New vocabularies from Oregon. Am. Antiquarian, vol. vu, 41, 42.

Omaha sociology. 1. An. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., pp. 205-370, plates Xxx—xxXxIII,

figs. 12-42.

Primary classifiers in Dhegiha and cognate languages. Paper before the A. A.

A. §., Ann Arbor meeting.

Siouan folk-lore and mythological notes. Am, Antiquarian, vu, 105-107.

Vocabularies at Siletz agency. Am. Antiquarian, vi, 41.

Douetas, A. E.—Some characteristics of the Indian earth and shell mounds of the
Atlantic coast of Florida. Am. Antiquarian, vn, 74-81; 140-148; Ancient canals
of Florida, id., 285-289.

DUFFIELD, J.—On the natives of New Ireland. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 114-121.

Dumas.—Attitude naturelle du membre supérieur de Vhomme. Gaz. hebd. d. sc. méd.
de Montpel., vii, 182-186.

Dupoux.—Les femmes-médecins dans Vantiquité. Médecin. Paris. Xt, No. 15.

Duro, C. F.—Antigiiedades en América Central. Madrid. Pamphlet.

Relaciones geogrdficas de Indias de Pern. Madrid. Vol. 11.

DuvaL, Marutas.—Bibliothéque anthropologique. Le Darwinisme. Paris: A. Dela-
haye. 636 pp. 8vo.

Sur les wufs pourris comme aliment en Chine. Bull. Soe. d’anthrop. de Paris,

XV, 299.

Le Transformisme (suite). Cours d’anthropologie géologique & PEcole @’an-

thropologie. Rev. @anthrop., vir, 1-38, 193-209; also 1883, 211; 406; 557; 1884,

225.080.

ANTHROPOLOGY. 853

EBBINGHAUS, HERM.-— Ueber das Gediichtniss. Leipzig: Duncker. x-+-169 pp. 8vo.
[ Review in Science, Sept. 4. |

Eccres, R. G.—Darwinism and immunity. N. Y. Med. J., xLi, 311-314.

EELLs, Myrom.—The worship and traditions of the aborigines of America; or their
testimony to the religion of the Bible. Paper read before Victoria Inst., London.
41 pp.

Eléments de science sociale, ou religion physique, sexuelle et naturelle, &c. ‘Tours:
F. Alean. 8vo. 4. 6d. Tr. from 23. ed. Eng.

El folk-lore Espatiol.—Sociedad para la recopilacion y estudio del saber y de las tra-
diciones populares. Madrid: Publishes quarterly El Folk-lore Bético-extremeno.
M. Antonio Machado y Alvarez.

ExioTtT, A. M.—Contributions to the history of the French languagein Canada. Am.
J. of Philology, v, 135-150.

ELy, RicHarD T.—Recent American Socialism. Johns Hopkins Univ. Studies in
Hist. & Polit. Sc., 3. ser., Iv. Baltimore: N. Murray. 74 pp.

FABART, F£LIX.—Histoire philosophique et politique de l’occulte, magie, sorcellerie,
spiritisme, &c. Paris: Marpon. 366 pp. 8vo.

FaMg, L.—Des causes internes et externes des diversités des races humaines. Gaz.
méd. de Algérie, Alger, 19-26.

FassgEL, V.—Volksmedicin und medecinischer Aberglaube in Steiermark. Graz:
Leuschner. 8vo.

FAUVELLE, Dr.—De la volonté au point de vue anthropologique. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop.
de Paris, Xvill, 154.

De la volonté au point de vue physiologique. Bull.Soc.d’anthrop. de Paris,

XVIII, 58-68.

Des idées et de la mémoire. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, xv111, 485-507.

FEATHERMAN, A.—Social history of the races of mankind. London: Triibner, I.

NIGRITIANS.

FERNANDEZ-DURO, CESAREO.—Primeras noticias de Yucatan. Bol. Soc. geog., Madrid,
XIX, 336-342.

FINLAYSON, I. C.—Biological religion. London: Simkin. 110 pp. 8vo.

FiscHER, H.—Ueber den Stand der Kenntnisse von der prihistorischen Persier. Cor-
respondenz-Blatt, xv1, 17-19.
Frnscu, Orro.—Ueber Bekleidung, Schmuck und Titowirung der Papuas der Siid-
ostkiiste von Nen-Guinea. Mittheil. d. anthrop. Gesellsch., Wien, xv, 12-33.
FLESCH, M.—Zur Casuistik anomaler Befunde an Gehirnen von Verbrechern und
Selbstmérdern. Arch. f. Psychiat., Berlin, xv1, 689-697.

FLETCHER, ALICE C.—An evening in camp among the Omahas. Science, July 31.

An average day in camp among the Sioux. Science, October 2.

Historical sketch of the Omaha tribe of Indians in Nebraska. Washington:

Detweiler. 12pp., illustr., map. 8vo.

A letter from the Exposition at New Orleans to the Indian tribes. Carlisle:

Ind. Sch. Print.

Report to Commr. of Ind. Affairs on Indian Bureau at N. Orleans. IJd., 3

pp. 8vo.

Sacred war tent and some war customs of the Omahas. Paper before the A.
A. A. 8., Ann Arbor meeting.

FLINT, EARL.—Human footprints in Nicaragua. Am. Antiquarian, vil, 156-158.

LOWER, WM. H.—On the classification of the varieties of the human species.
Presidential address before Anthrop. Inst. Gr. Brit., &c., Jan. 27. London: Har-
rison & Son. From J. Anthrop. Inst., x1v, 378-395.

Folklore Society. London. Folk-lore Journal, Vol. m1. Issued quarterly.

VorBES, HENRY O.—A naturalist’s wandering in the Eastern Archipelago, from 1878
to 1883. London: Sampson Low & Co. Illustr.

Formosan ethnology. Nature, Aug. 13, 346, 347.

854 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

ForTESCUE, J.—Les Indiens Cris de VAmérique du Nord. Arch. Soc, américaine de
France, II, 31.

Foster, WiLL1AM E.—Town government in Rhode Island. Johns Hopkins Uniy.
Studies, ser. 4, No. I.

FRANKLIN, SELEM M.—The science of morality. Pop.Se. Month., xxvu, 661-0664.

FRAZER, JAMES G.—On certain burial customs as illustrative of the primitive theory
of the soul. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 64-104.

The primitive ghost and his relations. Pop. Sc. Month., Xxvi1, 668-683.

French Association for the Advancement of Science, 14th meeting. Grenoble, August.
12-20.

Fritscu, A.—Ueber einen Menschenschiidel aus dem Léss von Podbaba bei Prag,
Sitzungsb. d. Gesellsch d. Wissensch., Prag, 152-156.

Gaka.— Natur und Leben. Céln. Vol. 21, 12 Hfte.

Ga1poz, H.—Les origines de la Grande-Bretagne et la nationalité anglaise. Rev.
internat. de Venseign., Paris.

GALLAUDET, E. M.—International Ethics. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., U1, 65-67.

GALTON, FRANCIS.—Opening address before the section of Anthropology in the
British Association. Nature, September 24.

Regression toward mediocrity ‘in hereditary stature. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv,

246-263 [with 5 graphic tables].

The Anthropometric laboratory at the late International Health Exhibition.
J. Anthrop. Inst., x1v, 205-220; 275.

GANNETT, H.—Are we to become Africanized? Pop. Se. Month., N.Y., xxvn,
145-150.

Garson, J. G.—On theinhabitants of Tierra del Fuego. J.Anthrop. Inst., xv, 141-160.

On the physical characteristics of the Lapps. J. Anthrop. Inst., Xv, 235-288.

GatscueT, ALBERT 8.—The Chiricahua Apache sun-circle. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash.,
i, 144-147.

The Ataocapa language. Lake Charles Echo, La., February 14, 1889.

— The Beothuk Indians. lart. Am. Phil. Soc., Phila., June 19.

The Aruba language and the Papiamento jargon. Kansas City, Rev., No-

vember.

The Rhetsua language. (Kev. of v. Tschudi.) pp. 227-230.

—-— Die Karankawa Indianer. Globus. Braunschweig.

——-— The Yuchi tribe of Indians and its language.- Science, March 27.

GEGENBAUR, C.—Lehrbuch der Anatomie des Menschen. 2. Aufl. 1 Hefte. Lpzg.:
Engelmann. 8vo.

GEIGER, W.—Civilization of the eastern Iranians in ancient times. Vol. I. Ethnog-
raphy and social life. London: Frowde. 302 pp. 8vo.

GERVaIs, P., and H. P.—Elements de zoologie comprenant l’anatomie, la physiologie,
la classification et Vhistoire naturelle de Vhomme et des animaux. Paris: Ha-
chette et Cie. 8vo.

Gracomint.—Annotations sur ’anatomie du negre. (From Gior.d.r. Accad. di med.
di Torino.) Arch. ital. de biol., Turin, v1, 247-304, 2 pl.

GIACOMINI.—Contributo allo studio della microcefalia. Arch. di psichiat., &e.,
Torino, V1, 65-81, 2 pl.

GIACOMINI.—Studies in microcephaly. Archiv. di psichiat. e la se. penale., VI, fase.
1 and 2.

GIGLIOLI, ENRICO.—Notizie sugli indigeni delle Isole Nicobar. Archiv. per l’antrop.,
XV, 31-35. ' } i

GILL, S.—A chapter of medical archeology; the ring in medical lore. N. Orl. M. & S.
J., XII, 735-748.

GILL, THEODORE.—Man’s Ancestry. Science, August 28.

GILL, W. WyaTrT.—Jottings from the Pacific. London: The Religious Tract Society.

ee ee

ANTHROPOLOGY. 855

GILLEBERT D’HERCOURT, Dr.—Rapport sur Vanthropologie et Vethnologie des popu-
lations sardes. Arch. des miss. scient., Paris: Nat. Impr. 6pl. 8vo.

GILLMAN, HENRY.—Burial customs of our aborigines. Paper before the A. A.A.S.,
Ann Arbor meeting.

Further confirmation of the post-mortem character of the cranial perforations
from Michigan mounds. Am. Naturalist, xrx, 1127. .

GLass, Henry.—Marine international law. Proc. U. S. Naval Institute, x1, 355-603.

GLoBUS.—Illustrirte Zeitschrift fiir Lander und Volkerkunde. Braunschweig:
Kiepert. Vols. 47 and 48.

GOLDSTEIN, Ep.—Introduction 4 Vétude anthropologique des Juifs. Rey. d’anthrop.,
3. sér., VIII, 639-675.

GOZZADINI, GIOVANNI.—Di due Stele Etrusche. Reale Acad. dei Lincei, CCLXxXXII,
8pp.,2pl. Ato.

GraTacaP, L. P.—Ruins at Palenque and Copan. Am. Antiquarian, V1, 193-207; 257-
270. ;

GREEN, E. H.—The hygiene of the Eskimo, with some observations on the thermom-

eter, to determine their physiological norm. Med. News, Phila., xLvu, 505-507.
GrrG, R. P.—Some prehistoric and ancient linear measures. Canadian Ree. of Se.,

I, 211-228.

GREGORY, J. M.—Elements of Modern Civilization. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., 11, 57-
64.

GRIFFIN, APPLETON P. C.—Contributions to the bibliography of Historical Societies
in America. Mag. American Hist., xiv; 106-110; 218-221; 418-421; 523-524.
GUENEAU, DE Mussy N.—Considérations sur la diminution do la natalité en France,

&c. Union méd., Paris, XxxIx, 325-336.

GUIMET, EM.—Hnuit jours aux Indes. Le Tour du Monde, April.

HAECKEL, Ernst.—Ursprung und Entwickelung der thierischen Gewebe; ein histo-
genetischer Beitrag zur Gastroea-Theorie. Jenaische Ztschr. f. Naturwissen., XI,
266-275.

HALE, Horatio.—Ethnography of Antarctic America. [Review of P. de Lucy
Fossarieu’s ‘‘ Ethnographie de Amérique antarctique.”] Science, July 31.

—— On some donbtful or intermediate articulations; an experiment in phonetics.
London: Harrison & Sons. [From J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb., 233-244. ]

Chief George H. M. Johnson (Onwanonsyshon). His life and work among the

Six Nations. Mag. Am. Hist., Feb.

Report on the Blackfeet tribes. British Association, Aberdeen meeting. Na-

ture, Oct. 1.

The obsequies of Red Jacket at Buffalo. From Trans. Buffalo Hist. Soce., °
vol. 111, 113 pp.

—— The Iroquois sacrifice of the white dog. Am. Antiquarian, VII, 7-12.
HALIBURTON, R. G.—Lost colonies of America. Pop. Sc. Month., vol. xxvu, 40-50.
HaLuLetr, Horr §.—Explorations in Indo-China. Science, Aug. 7. [From London

Graphic. ]

HamMonD, G. M.—New form of Dynamometer. N. Y. Med. J., p. 83.

Hamy, E. T.—Décades américaines.

Etude sur les peintures ethniques @’un tombeau Thébain de la xvi. dynastie.

4 figs. pamph., in 8vo.

Les arts et les industries des négres d’Afrique. Science et Nature, 11, 200;

327, fig.

Les Lacandons de Ja haute Uzumacinta. Rev. d’ethnog., Iv, 1-5.

L’industrie hameconniére chez les anciens habitants de lV’archipel Californien.

Id., 6-13.

Le svastika et la roue solaire en Amérique. Rev. d’ethnog., Iv, 14-22.

Note sur les chevets des anciens Egyptiens et sur les affinités ethnographiques

que manifeste leur emploi. Bull. Soc, d’anthrop. de Paris, xvi, 290.

‘

856 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Hamy, E. 'T.—Stahl process for the consolidation of burned objects, by means of Col-
ophane 1 pt., 4 parts of white fish glne (blanc de baleine).

HarRLez, C. DE.—L’infanticide en Chine d’aprés les documents chinois. Louvain: B.
Peeters. Svo.

HARRINGTON, Harrret.—A family record showing the heredity of disease. Phys.
& Surg. An. Rep., Mich., 49-51.

Haynes, H. W.—French fabrications or blunders in American linguistics. Proce. Am.
Antiq. Soc., m1, 475-481; Prehistoric Congress at Lisbon. Science, v, 218.

Hearn, L.—Gombo Zhébes: Dictionary of Creole proverbs; selected from six Creole
dialects. N. Orleans: T. C. Eyrich. 8vo.

HeGER, Fr.—Ueber die Tiitowirung bei der Stidsee-Insulanren. Mittheil. der anthrop.
Gesellsch., Wien. 35.-37.

HELLWALD, F. voN.—Naturgeschichte des Menschen. Stuttgart: Speman. Ill. 8vo.

HENNIG.—Das Rassenbecken. Arch. f. Anthrop., Brnschwg., xvi, 161-228, 1 pl.
[ With bibliography. ]

HensHaw, HENRY W.—Medicine stones. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., 111, 142, 143.

The aboriginal relics called sinkers, or plummets. Am. J. Archzol., 1, No. 2,

_ 10 pp.

D’HERCOURT, GILLEBERT.— Rapport sur V’anthropologie et Vethnologie des popula-
tions sardes. Paris. 73 pp.,6pl. 8vo.

HiGGinson, T. W.—American flash language in 1798. Science, May 8, Oct. 2.

HILDEBRAND, Hans.—Beitrige zur Kenntniss der Kunst der niederer Naturvolker,
200 figs, 8 tables and charts. Leipzig: Brockhaus. 8vo.

His, W.—Anatomie merschlicher Embryonen. III. Zur Geschichte der Organe.
Leipzig: Vogel. 8vo. Atlas.

HOFFMAN, WALTER, J.—Remarks on aboriginal art in California and Queen Charlotte
Island. Washington. 17pp. 8vo. [From Proc. Davenport Acad. rv, 105-122. ]

Une curieuse relique trouvée dans la Californie du-Sud. Bull. Soc. @’anthrop.

de Par., X vii, 25-28.

Bird names of the Selish, Pah-Uta and Shoshoni Indians. The Auk., u, 7-10,

Die kunst unter den Haida-Indianern der K6nigin-Charlotte-Inseln. Das Aus-

land, 701-704.

Hugo Reid’s Account of the Indians of Los Angeles Co., Cal. Bul. Essex Inst.,

Xvu, 1-33. ;

HOFFMANN and RAUBER.—Lehrbuch der Anatomie des Menschen. 2 yols. Erlangen:
Besold. 8vo.

HOFMANN, K. B. Ueber vermeintliche antike Seife. Deutsches Arch. f. Gesch. d. Med.,
&e., Leipzig, vit, 208-215.

HotmEs, WILLIAM H.—Ancient Pottery of the Mississippi Valley. From Proc. Dav-
enport Acad. Se., Iv, 123-196. Washington: Judd & Detweiler.

Evidences of the antiquity of man on the site of the city of Mexico. Tr.

Anthrop. Soc. Wash., m1, 68-81.

Examples of iconoclasm by the conquerors of Mexico. Am. Naturalist, x1x,
1031-1037.

——— Illustrated catalogue of a portion of the collections made by the Bureau of
Ethnology during the field season of 1881. «1. An. Rep., pp. 427-510, figs. 116-
200.

Origin and development of form and ornament in ceramic art. Tr. Anthrop.

Soc. Wash., m1, 112-115.

Prehistoric textile fabrics of the United States derived from impressions on

pottery. m1. An. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., pp. 393-425, plate Xxx1x, figs. 60-115.

The textile fabrics of the mound builders. Tr. Anthrop.Sec. Wash., 111,
6-9.

HOMMEL, FRirz.—Neue Werke iiber die Urheimath der Indogermanen. Arch. f. An-
throp., Xv, sup., 163-168.

ANTHROPOLOGY. Sh7

HORNADAY, WILLIAM T.—T'wo years in a Jungle, the experience of a hunter and
naturalist in India, Ceylon, the Malay peninsula, and Borneo. Maps & ill. N.
York: C. Seribner’s Sons. 512 pp. 8vo.

HorNUNG.—Les races de la Suisse au point de vue historique et juridique. Trav.
Assoc. des Soc. Suisses de Géog. Genéve: Staplemohr. 8vo.

Hors Ley, Vicror.—The motor centres of the brain and the mechanism of the will.
Lecture before the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Nature, Aug. 20, 1885.

Houzh, E., et Vicror JacquEs.—Les Australiens du Musée du Nord. Bruxelles:
F. Hayez. 101 pp., 4pl., & figs. 8vo. [Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Bruxelles, 11. ]

HOVELACQUE, ABEL.—L’6volution du langage. Conférence Transformiste. Paris: A.
Hennuyer. 23 pp. [Extr. Bull. Soc. @anthrop. de Paris, xvi, 371.]

Le commerce a distance en Malaisie, 4 Ceylan, dans l’Asie du Nord-est, en
Afrique. Bull. Soc. d@’anthrop. de Paris, xvu, 457-462.

Howirt, A. W.—Australian group relations. Smithson. Rep., 1883, 797, 824.

The Teraeil or initiation ceremonies of the Kurnai tribe. J. Anthrop. Inst.,
XIV, 301-325.

Hoy, P. R.—Man’s influence on the avifauna of southwestern Wisconsin, Madison,
pamph.

Hutu, E. GorRDoN.—Domestic remedies of the Arabian desert. Brit. Med. J., Lon-
don, I, 734.

The Arabs of Arabia Petra, and Wady Arabah. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv.
132-136.

HuGues, THoMas P.—A dictionary of Islam. London: W. H. Allen & Co. 750 pp.
8vo.

HUTTEROTT.—On the Japanese sword. Mitheil. d. deutsch. Gesellsch. f. Nat.-u.
Voélkerkunde Ostasiens. Heft 33.

Hyabes, Dr.—Sur état actuel des Fuegians de l’archipel du cap Horn. Bull. Soc.
@anthrop. de Paris, 200.

ILEs, GEORGE.—Religion without dogma. Pop. Sci. Month., xxvu, 51-62.

Index-Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General’s Office, United States Army.
Authors and subjects. Vol. v1. Heastie to Insfeldt. Washington: Govt. Print.
[11]-+-1051 pp.

Index Medicus, a monthly classified record of the current medical literature of
the world. Compiled by Dr. John S. Billings, U.S. A.,and Dr. Robert Fletcher,
M.R.C.8. Vol. vi. :

Indian Affairs, Annual Report of the Commissioner. Washington: Government
Printer.

Instructions anthropométriques pour les voyageurs. By Dr. Paul Topinard. Fasc. 11,
April, 185, and separate. Paris: G. Masson. 28 pp. 8vo.

Instructions pour un médecin d@’hopital. By Dr. Bordier. [For the conduct of autop-
sies.] Mém. Soc. d’anthrop., 2 ser., 01, 3. fasc., 1882. Paris: Masson.

International Geographical Congress. Toulouse. Section of Anthropology, includ-
ing somatology, demography, prehistory, ethnology, glossology, and instrumen-
talities. M. E. Cartailhac in charge.

Internationale Zeitschrift fiir allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft. F.Techmer. vol. 1.

IsRAEL, S.—Eine Forschungsreise nérdlich des Congo am Kwilu-Niadi. Berlin:
Diimmler. 8vo.

JACOBS, JOSEPH.—On the racial characteristics of modernJews. J. Anthrop. Inst.,
XV, 23-62.

JAHN, Max.—Der Einfluss der Kantischen Psychologie auf die Pidagogik als Wissen-
schaft. Leipzig: Frohberg, 47 pp. 8vo. From N. Jahrb. f. Phil. u Piidagogik.

JASTROW, JOSEPH.—Composite photography. Science, Aug. 28.

JENTSCH, H.—Die prihistorischen Alterthiimer aus dem Stadt- und Landkreise Guben.
Guben, 1885.

Jorst, WILHELM.—Um Afrika. Tllust. K6ln. 8vo. [Review in Science, Aung. 7.]

858 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885

Johns Hopkins University. Historical and political series. H. B. Adams, editor,

Baltimore.

Jounston, H. H.—The people of Eastern Equatorial Africa. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv,
3-15.

JONES, GEORGE S.—Cave myths of American Indians. Mag. American Hist., x11,
552-568.

Journal Anthropological Institute. Vols. xtv and xv. London. 4 pts.

JOUVENCEL, M. pE.—Sur le cubage des crines. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, xv11,
450-457. :

J.J.—Racial characteristics of the Jews. Science, October 9.

Kansas City Review, Kansas City, Mo., Theodore Case and Warren Watson, editors.
Vol. rx. n.ser. 1. Monthly.

Krann, A. H.—Ethnology and philology of the European races. 31 pp. 8vo.
London.

The Lapps: Their origin, ethnica! affinities, physical and mental character-
istics, usages, present status, and future prospects. J. Anthrop Inst., xv, 213-
239.

KENGLA, L. A.—Stone mounds and graves in Hampshire Co., W. Va. Tr. Anthrop.
Soc. Wash. 111, 1-3.

KERRY-NICHOLLS, J. H.—The origin, physical characteristics, and manners and cus-
toms of the Maori race, &e. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 187-209.

KITTREDGE, GEORGE LyMAn.—Arm pitting among the Greeks. Am. J. Philology, v1,
151-170.

KLEINPAUL, Rpr.—Menschen- und Volkernamen. Leipzig: Reisner. xxx, 419 pp. 8vo.

KOLLMANN, J.—Beitrige zu der Rassen-anatomie der Indianer, Samojeden und Aus-
tralier. Verhandl. d. naturf. Gesellsch. in Basel, 588-622.

KOLLMANN.—Rassenanatomie der europiischen Menschenschidel. Tagebl. Versamml.
deutsch. Naturf.u. Aerzte. Strassburg, vii, 206-210.

Kosmos. Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte Entwicklungslehre. Stuttgart. Editor Dr.
B. Vetter. Second year, vols. I and 1.

Krauss, F. 8.—Sitte und Brauch der Siidslaven. Wien: A. Holder. xxv, 681 pp. 8vo.

Kunn, ErNst.—Herkunft und Sprache der Bewohner Ceylons. Correspondenz-Blatt,
XVI, 41-45.

La FLESCHE, FRANCIS.—Laws and terms of relationship among the Omahas. Paper
before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting.

LAGNEAU, H.—Situation démographique de la France, de croissance de la population
de certains départements. Bull. Acad. de méd. Par., 62-82.

LaipLaw, G. E.—Gambling among the Piegans. Am. Antiquarian, vit, 163.

Lane, C.—Om Sindsbevaegelser. Et psykofyziologisk studee. Kjobenhaven: T.
Lund.  8vo.

LANSDELL, HENRY.—Russian Central Asia, including Kuldja, Bokhara, Khiva, and
Merv. London: Low, Marston, xxxm-+684, xv1-++-732 pp., illustr., portr., maps.
8vo. N. Y.: Seribner [Rev. in Nature, July 20.]

L’Archivio per la studio delle tradizioni populari. Quarterly publication at Palermo.

LAULANIE, F.—Sur Vévolution comparée de la sexualité dans V’individu et dans
Vespéce. Compt. rend. Acad. d. sc., Par. c1, 393-395.

LAUMONIER, M.—La notion de race dans Vhistoire. Rev. scient., Xxxv1, 112-117.

LAVELEYE, EMILE DE.—The State versus the Man; a criticism of Herbert Spencer,
with a Rejoinder. Pop. Se. Month., xxv, 165-194.

Lawson, A. C.—Ancient rock inscriptions on the Lake of the Woods. Am. Natur-
alist, XIX, 654-658.

Lu Conte, JosrpH.—Immortality in modern thought. Science, August 14. _

Lepinu, ALctus.—Boucher de Perthes, sa vie, ses ceuvres, sa correspondence. Abbe-
ville: E. Caudron. 292 pp. 8vo.

5
\

ANTHROPOLOGY. 859

LepoustEA, A.—Des anomalies du grand pectoral chez Vhomme et de leur significa-
tion au point de vue de Vanthropologie zoologique. Rev. d’anthrop., vir, 99-
106; 282-299 [copious references to authorities ].

Le Muséon. Revue internationale. Publiée par la Société des lettres et des sciences
et L’Athénée oriental. Tomeiv. Louvain: Peeters.

Société des sciences et des lettres. Louvain. Iv.

LE PLONGEON, AUGUSTUS AND ALICE.—The monuments of Mayax and their historical
teachings. Prospectus, 1 page.

LesHaFt, P.—Anthropological measuring. Med. pedagog, Vestnik, St. Petersburg,
I, 52-82.

LE SuEvR, W. D.—Evolution and the destiny of man. Pop. Se. Month., XXvi, 456-468.

LETOURNEAU, CH.—Sur l’anthropophagie des Peaux-Rouges. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop.
de Paris, XviIl, 37-41.

Lewis, T. H.—Some recently discovered effigy mounds. Science, No. 106, 3 pp.

L’HEvREUX, JEAN.—The Kekip-Sesoators, or ancient sacrificial stones of the north-
west tribes of Canada. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 161-165. :

L’Homme. Journal illustré des sciences anthropologiques. Paris. Vol. 1.

LILLIE, GORDON WILLIAM (PAWNEE BILL).—Sacred dances of the Pawnees. Am.
Antiquarian, Vil, 208-211.

LINDENSCHMIDT, L.—Review of Beck’s Die Geschichte des Hisens. Arch. f. An-
throp., Xv, Sup., 168-170.

LINDNER, GusTav.—Zum Studium der Kindersprache. Kosmos: Stuttgart.

LIPPERT, JULIUS.—Deutsche Festbriiuche. Prag, 1884.

LissAUER.—Untersuchungen tiber die sagittale Kriimmung des Schiidels bei den An-
thropoiden und den verschiedenen Menschenrassen. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv,Suppl.,
9-120 pp., 7 pl.

LIissNER.—Schwanzbildung beim Menschen. Arch. f. patholog. Anat., Berlin, xcrx,
191.

LomBroso.—L’épilepsie et la folie morale congénitale. Archiv. di psichiat. e la se.
penali, v1, fase 1-2.

LortTet, A.—Causes des déformations que présentent les cranes des Syro-Phéniciens.
Lyon. 18 pp.

Lortin, Dr.—L’industrie actuelle du silex dans le département de Loir-et-Cher.
Matériaux, XIx.

LOWELL, PERCIVAL.—The new palace at Séoul, Corea. Science, March 27.

The Hong Sal Mun, or the Red Arrow Gate, Korea. Jd., May 29.

LUBBOCK, Sir JoHN.—The intelligence of the dog. Nature, Novy. 12.

On the customs of marriage and systems of relationship among the Australians.
J. Anthrop. Inst., xtv, 292-300.

LUMSDEN, Sm PETER.—The tribes upon the Afghan Boundary. Communication to
Roy. Geog. Soc., 22d June. Science, July 24.

Lussana, I*.—L’ indice cérébrale. Arch. ital. per le mal. nerv., Milano, xx11, 132-139.

MACLEAN, J. P.—The great serpent mound. Am. Antiquarian, vu, 44-47.

MAGAZINE OF AMERICAN History. Ed. by Mrs. Martha J. Lamb, New York.
Monthly. Vols. x1 and xiv.

MaaitroT.—Essai sur les mutilations ethniques. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris,
XVUI, 21-25. *

Many, E.—Zur Geographie und Ethnographie der Goldkiiste. Verhandl. d. naturf.
Gesellsch. in Basel, 809-852, 1 map.

MAN, EpwArRD HoraAce.—On the aboriginal inhabitants of the Andaman Islands.
London: Triibner. [Rev.in Nature, September 3.] From J. Anthrop. Inst., X1v, _

253-272.

~ ~

MANovuvRrieER, L.—Considérations sur la méthode en dynamométrie physio-psycholo-
gique. Compt. rend. Soc. de biol., Paris, m1, 117-124.
860 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Manouvri&r, L.—Divers modes trés simples de représentations graphiques des séries
anthropologiques. L’Homme,u. No. 4.

Sur les Peaux-Rouges du Jardin d’acclimatation. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de
Paris, XVIII, 306-346.

MANTEGAZZA, PAOLO.—Nuovi fatti in apoggio della Pangenesi di Darwin. Archivio
per Vanthrop., xv, 1-7.

MaRcHAL, P.—La coloration des animaux. Rev. scient., Paris, xxxv1, 12-18.

Marras, E.—La colonie de Natal. Bull. Soc. de géogr. de Marseilles, rx, 28-35.

MaRrTER, J. G. VAN.—Some evidences of prehistoric dentistry in Italy. Independent
Practitioner, N. Y., 1-5.

Martin, C.—Die Krankheiten im siidlichen Chile. Berlin. 8vo.

MARVIN, CHARLES.—The Russians at the gates of Herat. N. York: Scribners. x-+-
185 pp., illustr. [Reviewed in Science, May 1.]

Mascart, M. E.—The physiology of colors. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvu, 683-691.

Mason, Otis T.—Thé Chaclacayo trephined skull. Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vim, 410-
412, plate. Anthropological notes in American Naturalist.

MATERIAUX pour Vhistoire primitive et naturelle de Vhomme. Revue mensuelle il-
lustrée. x1xth volume, 3d series, vol. 11.

MATTHEWS, WASHINGTON.—Measuring the cubic capacity of skulls. Read before Na-
tional Acad. Se. [Abstr. in Science, June 19. ]}

Mythic dry painting of the Navajos. Am. Naturalist, xxx, 931-940; also. Tr.

Anthrop. Soc. Wash., 11, 139-141.

Navajo weavers. lI. An. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., pp. 371-391, plates XxxXIV-xxXVIII,

figs. 42-59.

The cubature of the skull. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., m1, 171-172.

The origin of the Utes. A Navajo myth. Am. Antiquarian, vm, 271-274.

McApams, WILLIAM.—Exploration of recent Indian mounds in Dakota. Paper be-
fore the A. A. A.S., Ann Arbor meeting.

Ancient pictographs in Illinois and Missouri. Jd.

Explorations in Great Cahokia Mound. Id.

McGeEE, W J—Hereditary abnormality of sense-organs. Science, March 20.

McLENNAN, DonaLp.—The patriarchal theory. Based on the papers of the late John
Ferguson McLennan. London: Macmillan. xv1+365 pp. 8vo. [Reviewed by J.
W. Powell in Science, April 24.]

MEIGNON, VICTOR.—From Paris to Pekin, over Siberian snows. London: Swan Son-
nenschein & Co. [Edited in English by Wm. Conn.]

McMaster, J. B.—History of the people of the United States. New York. 8vo.

MELVILLE, G. W.—In the Lena Delta. Boston. 8vo.

MercER, H.C.—The Lenape stone, or the Indian and the mammoth. New York:
Putnam.

MERRIAM, A. C.—Notes on classical archeology. Am. Antiquarian, VI.

The dogs of Asculapius. Am. Antiquarian, vir, 285-289.

MERRILL, GEO. P.—Supposed crude jade from Alaska. Science, March 13.

Mestorr, JuL1a.—Etain ouvré dans les sépultures de Page du bronze. Matériaux,
XIx, 19-22.

Referate aus der skandinavischen Literatur. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, Sup., 127-
151; also, Urgeschichte und Archiologie, 23-26.

Meyer, A. B.—Album von Philippinen-Typen, 250 figs, 32 tables. Dresden: Hoff-
mann. Fol.

Ein weiterer Beitrag zur Nephritfrage. [From Mittheil. f. anthrop. Gesellsch.,
Wien, xv, 1-12.] Wien: Boehler. 4to.

MEYNERT, THEODOR.—Psychiatrie. Wien: Braumiiller. xx, 288 pp., illustr. 8vo.
[Reviewed in Science, March 27.]

MICHEL, Louisr.—Légendes et ehantes de gestes des Canaques. Illustrations &
vocabularies. Paris: Kéva. 18mo.

ANTHROPOLOGY. 861

Migs, Joser.—Beschreibung und Anwendung eines neuen kraniometrischen Instru-
mentes. Beitr. Anthrop., &c., Bayerns. VI, pp. 83-103. Tables xxv, xxv.
MILLSPAUGH, CHARLES F.—American medicinal plants. Issued in parts. 180 plates.
Mind. A Quarterly Review of Psychology and Philosophy. London. Edited by
George Croom Robertson. Vol. x.

Minot, C. 8.—Are contemporary phantasms of the dead to be explained partly as
folk-lore. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting.

The number habit. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting.

MITCHELL, C. P.—Notes on the Psychology of the Chimpanzee. Pop. Sc. Month.,
S:Q 7 ZABE ING Moe

Moeyorosi, A. J.—A new philological theory. Buffalo: Lockwood. 11 pp. 8vo.

MOLINARI, G. DE.—Les lois naturelles de économie politique. J. des Economistes.
No. 6, juin.

MONCELON, M.—Un Canaque Néo-Calédonien. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, xvr,
303.

MONDIERE, A. T.—Note sur quelques moulages d’organes génitaux des deux sexes pris
par le Dr. Hyades sur les Fuegiens. Mission du Cape Horn. L’Homme, Paris,
u, 111-114. f ,

MONGEOLLE, PAUL.—Origines et évolution de la parure. Rev. d’anthrop. de Paris,
vill, 79-98.

Montano, J.—Sur une mission auxiles Philippines et en Malaisie (1879-1881). Arch.
des miss. scient. Paris: Imprim. nat. 34 pl., 2 cart. 8vo.

MONTELIUS, Oscar.—Sur la chronologie de ’4ge du Bronze. Spécialement dans la
Scandinavie. Matériaux, X1x, 3. ser., 1, 108-113.

MorGAN, J. DE.—L’age de la pierre poliedans la Presqu’ile malaise. L’Homme, 494-
498; Matériaux, xrx, 482-485.

Négritos sur la Presquwile malaise. L’Homme: Paris. 1, 545-559.

Morris, CHARLES.—The Relations of Mind and Matter. Am. Naturalist, xrx, 533-
541, 680-690, 754-766, 845-857, 940-953, 1059-1076, 1150-1159.

MORTILLET, G. DE.—Le précurseur de Vhomme. Bull. Soc. @anthrop. de Paris,
XVI, 139-150. [Discussion by the Marquis de Nadaillac. ]

Le préhistorique. AntiquitédeVhomme. 2.éd. Paris. 670 pp., 65figs. 12mo.

——— Silex tertiaires intentionellement taillés. Matériaux, xrx, 3. éd., 11, 252-263.

MULLER, FRIEDRICH.—Ethnologischer Bilder-Atlas in colorirten Tafeln von A. Gerasch.
No. 2. Amerikanische Indianer. Wien. fol.

Le Taensa n’a pas été forgé de toutes pieces. Lettre a Lucien Adam. Paris:
Maisonneuve. 45 pp.

MU.tier, J. H.—Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur: Urgeschichte und
Archiologie. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, Sup., 1-23, 27-31, 32-35.

MULLER, SoPHUS.—Ursprung und erste Entwickelung der europiischen Bronzecul-
tur. Braunschweig: Vieweg u. Sohn. [From Arch. f. Anthrop. ]

Murpocu, JOHN.—Ethnography and natural history at Point Barrow. In P. H.
Ray's veport on International polar expedition to Point Barrow.

Seal catching at Point Barrow. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., 1, 102-108.

——— Sinew-backed bow of the Eskimo. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., m1, 168-171.

The retrieving harpoon; an undescribed type of Eskimo weapon. Am. Nat-
uralist, XIX, 423-425.

Murray, J. CLARK.—A handbook of psychology. London: A.Gardner. 432 pp.

Museo Nacional de México, anales, vol. vi.

Musso et BERGESIO.—Circulation cérébrale chez Vhomme. Riv. sperimentale di
fren. di med. legale. x1, fase. 1.

NADAILLAC, Marquis de.—Les anciennes populations de la Colombie. Matériaux, x1x,
49-61. [Rev. of Uricoechea, Saffray, and White respecting the Chibchas. ]

Les Barrows dans les Iles Britanniques. Rey. d’anthrop., vu, 300-314,

Les pipes et le tabac. Matériaux, xrx, 3 sér., 01, 497.

-

862 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

NADAILLAC, Marquis de.—The flints of Thenay. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, xvm1,
144-148.
L’anthropophagie et les sacrifices humains. Rev. d. deux mondes, Nov. 15, pp.
405-434.
L’homme tertiaire. Paris: Masson. 55p. [Rev. in Matériaux, x1x, 3. sér., 0,
308. J

Nature. A weekly illustrated journal of science. Vols. 31 and 32. London.

NavE, JULIUS.—Die priihistorischen Schwerter. Beitrage zur Anthrop., &c., Bayerns,
VI, pp. 61-79. Tables X1I-xXiv.

NaveErRY, R. DE.—Lesiles sauvages. Paris. 517 pp. 18mo.

N&iGRi, A. and G.—Des tissus pourpres du Pérou. Rev. d’ethnog., 1v, 269-271.

NEHRING, Dr.—Ueber die Abstammung unserer Hausthiere. Vortrag, gehalten im

Klub der Landwirthe am 24. Miirz 1885.

NEIs, PauL.—Sur le Laos. Bull. Soc. d@’anthrop. de Paris, xv, 41-58.

NEUBAUER, A.—Notes on the race-types of the Jews. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 17-23

pp.,1 pl. Composite photography.

New England Historical and Genealogical Register. Boston. XXXIXx,

NIBLACK, ALBERT.—The Smithsonian anthropological collections for 1883. Tr. An-
throp. Soc. Wash., 38-50.

NicoLtk, PauL.—L’Homme il y a deux cent mille ans. Paris: Dentu. vuiil,75 pp.
12mo.

NORDENSKJOLD, BARON DE.—Quelques traits des mosurs des Esquimaux ou Innuits.

Rev. @ethnog., Iv, 277-278, from Tr. Soc. Sued. d@’Anthrop., &c.

Studien und Forschungen, veranlasst durch meine Reisen im hohen Norden.

200 figs., 8 tables & chart. Leipzig: Brockhaus. 1x,521 pp. 8vo.

OrTEGA A. N.—Apuntes histéricos sobre la rodela Aztadoca, conserve en el Museo
Nacional de México. Bruselas. 1 pamph.

Orthography for native names of places, system adopted by the Council of the Royal
Geographical Society. Nature, July 2,199. :

OssowskI, G.—Monuments préhistoriques de Vancienne Pologne. Cracovie. 47 pp.,
10 pl. [Translated into French by 8. Zabarowski, Paris. }

OviEDO Y BaNos, Jos.—Historia de la conquista y poblacion de la provincia de Vene-
zuela. Vol.u1. Madrid. x1x,402 pp. 8vo.

PaCKARD, A.S.—Notes on the Labrador Eskimo and their former range southward.
Am. Naturalist, xrx, 471-481 ; 553-559.

PaNSCH, AD.—Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur.—Anatomie. Arch. f.
Anthrop., Sup.; 35-46.

PaRDO DE Tavera, T. H.—Contribucion para el estudio de los antiguos alfabetos
filipinos. Losana: Jaunin. Pamph.8vo,from Ann.de VExtréme Orient, vu,
204-210 ; 232-239.

PARKER, W. KITCHEN.—On mammalian descent. London: Griffin. 8vo.

PAULITSCHKE, PHILIPP.—Die Sudanliinder. Freiburg. 8vo.

Peabody Museum of Am. Archeology and Ethnology. Cambridge, Mass.: F. W.
Putnam. 16. and17. Annual Reports. ill. 8vo.

PEET, STEPHEN D.—Ancient Agricultural works in America. Am. Antiquarian, Vm,

13-38.

Animal effigies and native symbolism compared. Am. Antiquarian, vm, 164-

171; Threefold division of the race, id., 171-176; Darwinians in American Arch-

wology, id., 177-179.

Game drives and hunting screens among the mounds. Am. Antiquazian, Vn,

82-104.

Explorations among the emblematical mounds. Am. Antiquarian, IV, 298-301.

Native American symbolism. Am, Antiquarian, vil, 215-234. Relics from

Siberia and Japan. Id., 241-247,

ANTHROPOLOGY. 863

PENAFIEL, ANTONIO.— Nombres. geograficos de México. Catalogo alfabético de los
nombres de lugar pertenecientes al idioma Nahuatl. Estudio Jeroglifico. México:
Oficina Tip. 220 pp. 4to.

PENCK, ALBRECHT.—Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur: Volkerkunde und
Reisen. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, Sup., 46-120.

PENHALLOW, D. P.—Traditions of the Ainos of northern Japan. Canadian Rec. of
Sce., 1, 228-2536.

PERKINS, GEORGE H.—The stone ax in Vermont. Am. Naturalist, xx, 1143-1150.

The stone ax in the Champlain Valley. Paper before the A. A. A.S., Ann

Arbor meeting.

On certain singular stone implements from Vermont. Jd.

PETERMANN’S Mittheilungen a. J. Perthes Geogr. Anstalt. Gotha. 12 Hefte.

PHILASTRE.—Le Yi: king, ou livre des changements de la dynastie des Tsheou.
Annales du Musée Guimet, vu. Paris: E. Leroux. [Rev. in Rev. @ethnog.,
IV, 457.]

PuiiPron, G.—Cours de zéologie. L’homme et les animaux. 500 pp., 300 figs.

Puitiies, HENRY, Jr.—Notes on European archeology. Am. Antiquarian, VII.

PISTREMENT, C. A.—Sur la portée historique du mot égyptien, heter. Bull. Soc.
@Vanthrop. de Paris, xvi, 151.

Pierre, Ep.—L’art pendant Vage du renne. Lyon: Pitrat ainé. [Rev. in Maté-
riaux, XIX, 572-576- ]

PIGORINI, M.—Sur la coutume & lage néolithique de n’ensevelir que les os humains
déchainés. Matériaux, x1x, 299-303.

PILLING, JAMES CONSTANTINE.—Proof-sheets of a bibliography of the languages of
the North American Indians. To collaborators. Washington: Govt. Print. 1135
pp. [Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology, J. W. Powell, Director. ]

Poss, H.—Geschichtliches und Ethnologisches iiber Knabenbeschneidung. Leipzig:
C. 8. Hirschfeld. 32 pp. 8vo. [Trans. Deutsches Arch. f. Gesch. d. Med. u. med.
Geog. VII. |

Poorn, Ben: PeRLEY.—A descriptive catalogue of the Government publications of
the United States, September 5, 1774—-March 4, 1881. Compiled by order of Con-
gress. Washington: Govt. Print. 1392 pp. 4to.

Poorg, G. V.—On climate in its relation to health. Lancet, London, 1, 172-174.

PoraGgos, P.—Dix années de voyages dans VAsie Centrale et l’Afrique Equatoriale.
I. Paris. 8vo.

Pottery, List of books and pamphlets on, in science and art department, South Ken-
sington Museum, London.

PowELL, J. W.—From savagery to barbarism. Annual address as president of the
Anthropological Society of Washington. Transactions, 111, 173-196.

Inheritance among the ancient Arabs. Science, January 2. [Review of G. A.
Wilkes’ Das Matriarchat (Mutterrecht) bei den alten Araben. Leipzig:
Schultze. 72 pp. 8vo.]

On kinship and the tribe. On kinship and the clan. Tribal marriage law.
On activital similarities. mua. An. Rep. Bureau of Ethnology, XxxviI-—
LXXIV.

Preface to m1. An. Rep. Bureau of Ethnology. [Review of Papers in the vol-
ume, report of operations of the bureau.] Pp. I-LXXIv.

Third Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution, 188182. Washington: Govt. Print. [dated 1884 on the title-
page, 1883 in page 1, and issued in 1885]. 606 pp., 200 figs. Svo, [Contains
papers by Powell, Thomas, Dall, Matthews, Dorsey, Holmes, and Stevenson, q. ¥. ]

PRINCE, M.—The nature of mind and human automatism. Phila. 12mo.

The question of a vital principle. Boston Med. & 8. J., CXIM, 251-253.

Protar CHANDRA Roy.—The Mahabharata of Krishna-Dwaipayana Vyasa. Trans-
lated into English prose. Published and distributed chiefly gratis. Sections
CLXXXIX-CCVU, pt. XIx, Calcutta, pp. 561-640.

$64 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

PumPreity, RAPHAEL.—Composite portraits of members of the National Academy of
Sciences. Nature, June 25, 176. .

Putnam, F, W.—Man and the mastodon. Science, October 30.

Ornaments made of pieces of human skulls, from a mound in Ohio, Paper be-

fore the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting.

Proper method of exploring mounds. Paper before the A. A. A.S8., Ann Arbor

meeting.

Remarks on chipped-stone implements. Bull. Essex Inst., xv. Separate at
Salem Press: Salem, Mass. 8 pp., 19 figs.

QUATREFAGES, A. DE.—L’ Homme tertiaire et sa survivance. Matériaux, XIX, 3. sér.,
i, 337-341.

——— L’Homme tertiaire. Lyon [from Matériaux].

——— L’Hommetertiaire. Thenay et les iles Andamans. Matériaux, XIX, 3. sér., 11,
97-107.

——— Muséum WVhistoire naturells de Paris. Id., 276-280.

——— Note sur l’état actuel des Maoris restés indépendants. Rev. @ethnog., rv,
97-119.

Quick, E. R.—Stone mounds in Whitewater, Indiana. Bull. Brookville Soc. Nat.
Hist., No. 1.

Rasot, Cu.—Notes ethnographiques recueillies en Laponie. Rev. d’ethnog., rv, 23.

RaNKE, H., and Cari v. VorT.—Ueber den amerikanischen Zwerg Frank Flynn,
genannt General Mite. Arch. f. Anthrop., Xv1, 229-239.

Zur Craniologie der Kelten. Beitrige zur Anthrop., &c., Bayerns, vi, pp. 109-
121.

RANKE, J.—Bronzeschiidel und Schideleubirungsmethoden. Corr.-Blitt., xv, 98.

———— Report on recent anthropological literature before the general meeting of the
German Anthropological Society. Corr.-Blatt., 79-87.

Rapport sur une mission aux iles Philippines et en Malaisie, 1879~81. Arch d. mis-
sions scient., Paris, 271-479, chart and plate.

RAUBER, A.—Homo sapiens ferus, oder Zustiinde der Verwilderten, &c. Leipzig:
Demeke. 434 pp.

RAUTENBERG, E.—Aus der vorgeschichtlichen Zeit. Hamburg: Kappmann. 33 pp.
8vo.

Ray, P. H.—Report on the International Polar Expedition to Point Barrow, Alaska.
Washington: Gov’t Print. 695 pp., plates and figures.

RAYLEIGH, LoRD.—Civilization and eyesight. Science, September 4. From Nature,
No. 798, p. 340. .

ReciLus, EL.ie.—Earth and its inhabitants. Asia, rv. N. York. 8vo.

Les primitifs; études d@’ethnologie comparée. Paris. 394 pp. 12mo.

Reiss, W., and A. SriBEeL.—Das Todtenfeld von Ancon in Peru. 12-13. Lfg. Ber-
lin: Asher & Co. - Folio.

Report of the committee appointed for the purpose of investigating and publishing
reports on the physical characters, languages, industrial and social condition of
the northwestern tribes of the Dominion of Canada. British Association for 1885.
Nature, Oct. 1.

Revue @anthropologie. Paris: P. Topinard. Sér. 1, vol. vu, 4 nrs.

Revue @ethnographie, Paris. Vol. rv, 4 nrs. :

Revue de Vhistoire des religions. Annales du Musée Guimet. Nouv. sér., XI.

Revue scientifique. Paris: M. Charles Richet. Vols. 35 and 36. Weekly.

Rey, Puitrppr.—Du poids des hémisphéres cérébraux d’aprés le registre de Broca.
Rey. @’anthrop., vin, 39-57. (See Le poids du cervelet, du bulbe et de la protu-
bérance. Jd., VII.)

Du poids des lobes cérébraux (frontaux, occipitaux et pariéto-temporaux)

d’aprés le registre de Broca. Rev. @’anthrop., 3. s., VIM, 385-396.

Du poids des lobes selon le sexe, l’Age d’apreés les registres de Broca. Ann. méd.-

psych., 7. s., 11, 248-253.

ANTHROPOLOGY. 965

REYNOLbDs, LLMER.—Antiquities from Vendome, Senlis, and the caves of France. Tr.
Anthrop. Soc. Wash., Ill, 67.

RIALLE, GIRARD DE.—Formose et ses habitants. Rev. d’anthrop., VU, 58-78, 247-281.

RICHTOFEN, I’. voN.—China. Atlas, Iste Abth., Iste Hilfte. Berlin.

RresBECcK, Emrit.—Die Hiigelstimme von Chittagong. Berlin.

The Chittagong hill tribes. Result of a journey in 1882. Transl. by A. H.

Keane. London: Asher. [Rev. in Nature, June 235. ]

RieEGER, C.—Hine exacte Methode der Craniographie. Jena: Fischer.

RifGER, K., and M, TrppreL.—Experimentelle Untersuchungen tiber die Willensthitig-
keit.. Jena: Fischer. 8vo.

Rixx, H.—The Eskimo dialects as serving to determine the relationship between the
Eskimo tribes. J. Anthrop. Inst., Xv, 239-245.

ROBERTS, CHARLES.—Eyesight of savage and civilized people. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv,
127

RoMANES, G. J.—On the Darwinian Theory of Instinct. Proc. Roy. Inst. Gr. Br., x1,
131-146.

Rosny, LEON DE.—De la mort et des funérailles chez les anciens Caraibes. Arch.
Soc. Am. de France, n. sér. 111, 208-278. 5

L’Amérique était connue des Chinois a l’époque du déluge. Arch. Soc. Am.

de France, sér. 11, tome m1, 191; 206.

Eléments @’ethnographie générale. Paris: Maisonneuve. 1 vol. 18mo.

L’interpretation des caractéres hiératiques de ’Amérique Centrale. Rapport

sur un mémoire de M.A. Pousse. Arch. Soc. Am. de France, sér. 11, m1, 118.

Premieres notions d’ethnographie générale. Paris. 116 pp. 12mo. Vol.1
Bibliotheque ethnographique. pub. sous la direction of L. de Rosny.

Rosny, Lucren.— De la mort et des funérailles chez les anciens Caraibes. Arch, Soc.
Am. de France, 2. sér., 111, 268.

Royal Asiatic Society. Journal n.s., XVI.

Rousk, M. L.—Musie in speech. Paper before the A. A. A.S., Ann Arbor meeting.

Russian Archeological Congress in Odessa, 27 Aug. to 12 Sept., 1884. Mittheil.
anthrop. Gesellsch., Wien, xv, 12.

Russian Geographical Society [Report] 1584. [Journal], xx, pt.6; xx1,1 & 2.

RyGu, O.—Antiquités Norvégiennes, arrangées et décrites. Paris: E. Nilson; Boston:
John Allyn.

Norske Oldsager ordnede og folklarede. Christiania: Lindberg. 2 & 3 hefte.
{Reviewed in Correspondenzblatt, xx1, 48. ]

SAGLIO, Ep.—Poupées antiques. Mag. Pittoresque, Paris, an. LUI, pp. 12.

SALMON, PH.—La fabrication des pierres & feu en France. Paris: Hennuyer. 2 pl,
Bvo.

SANBORN, J. W.—Customs, language, and legends of the Senecas. Paper before the
A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor meeting.

SANCHEZ, J.—Linguistica de la Repiblica Mexicana. Anal. Mus. nac. de Méx., v,
279-280.

Saporta, Marquis de.—Sur les déscendants d’un Européen blond et d’une mulatresse.
Bull. Soc. Vanthrop. de Paris, xv111, 257-277.

pp’ AULT-DUMESNIL, G.—Note sur de nouvelles fouilles faites 4 Thenay, Matériaux, XIx.
3. sér., Il, 24-249.

SCHAAFFHAUSEN, HERMANN.—Anthropologische Studien. Bonn: A. Marcus. 685 pp.
Svo.

On Schiller’s skull and Kant’s death-mask. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, 170-185.

SCHADENBERG, A.—Die Bewohner yon Siid Mindanao und der Insel Samal. Ztschr.
f, Ethnol., Berlin, xvi, 58-89, 1 pl.

Ur- und Mischrassen Philippinen. Cor.-Blitt., xv, 109-112.

SCHEFFLER, HeERMAN.—Die Welt nach menschlicher Auffassung. Leipzig. 8vo.

H. Mis. 15 5d

866 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

ScHEIBE, B.—Klinische Beobachtungen iiber die Krankheiten Japans. Arch. f. pa-
tholog. Anat., Berlin, XCrx, 356-377.

Scu1@7Tz, H.—Et selvregistrerende Perimeter. Norsk Mag. f. Legevdensk. Christiania,
XV, 329-333.

ScHLEY and Sotry.—Rescue of Greely. N. York. 8vo.

ScCHLOssER, Max.—Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur in Beziehung zur
Anthropologie mit Enschluss der Fossilen und recenten Landsdugethiere. Arch.
f. Anthrop., xv. Sup., 129-156.

ScHMIDT, Em1Lt.—Die Anthropologie in der Hauptstadt der Vereinigten Staaten.
Separat-Abdruck aus ‘‘ Kosmos.” Bd. I, 380-393.

Ueber alt- und neu-Aegyptische Schidel. Leipzig. 64 pp. 8vo.

ScHoLz, FrRIEDRICH.—Die Handschrift und ihre characteristischen Merkmale. Bre-
men: C. Rocco. 30 pp., 18 tables. 8vo.

SCHRADER, O.—Sprachvergleichung und Urgeschichte. Jena: H. Costenoble.

ScHuttTz, F.—Fetichism. [Transl]. by J. Fitzgerald.] N. York: Fitzgerald. Hum-
boldt Libr., 59, 112 pp. 8vo.

Science. New York. Vol. v1.

Scorpion lore. Pop. Sc. Month., xxv1, 855.

SEBILLOT, PauL.—Les maisons rustiques en Haute-Bretagne. Rev. d’ethnog., Iv,
148.

Questionnaire des croyauces, légendes et superstitions de lamer. Bul. Soc.
@anthrop. de Paris, XV111, 424-438.

SEELY, F. A.—The genesis of inventions. Tr. Anthrop.Soc. Wash., m1, 147-168.

SEIGNOBOS, CH.—Histoire de la civilisation. Paris: Masson. Vol. 1, 420 pp., 105
figs.

SERGI, G.—L’origine dei fenomeni psichichi e lore significazione biologica. Milano.
8vo. Vol. xt. Internat. Library of Science.

SHUFELDT, R. W.—Zunian conceptions of animal forms asshown in pottery. Science,
September 25.

SIMEON, REMI.—Lecture on the Nahuatl language. Arch. de la Soc. amér. de France,
Pps ly ola o:

SIMONIN, AMEDEE H.—Psychologie humaine appliquée, &c. Cing conférences faites
& la Salle des Capucines en 1484. Paris: J. Michelet. 431 pp.

SMITH, ERMINNIE A.—Artificial wampum. Science, Jan, 2.

Customs and language of the Iroquois. J. Anthrop. Inst., x1rv, 244-252.

——— Who made belt wampum? Paper before the A. A. A.8., Ann Arbor meeting.

——— Significance of flora to the Iroquois. Paper before the A. A. A.S., Ann Arbor
meeting.

SMITH, W. RoBERTSON.—Mohammedan Mahdis. Proc. Roy. Inst. Gr. Brit., x1, 147.

Smithsonian Institution. Annual report of 1883. [Anthropological papers edited by
Otis T. Mason. ]

Progress of Anthropology in 1884. By Otis T. Mason.

Australian Group Relations. By A. W. Howitt.

Mounds of Sangamon County, Illinois. By James Wickersham.
Mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois. By W.H. Adams.

Ancient Relics at Dayton, Ohio. By Aug. A. Foerste.

Mounds in Butler County, Ohio. By J. P. MacLean.

Earth-work in Highland County, Ohio. By J. P. MacLean.
Mounds in Berrien County, Georgia. By Wm. J. Taylor.

Mounds and Shell-heaps on west coast of Florida. ByS.T. Walker.
Stone mounds of Hampshire County, West Virginia. By L. A. Kengla.
Remains in Bucks County, Pennsylvania. By John A. Rath.
Relics in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. By Henry Booth.

Notes on the Wampanoag Indians. By Henry E. Chase.
Antiquities from Ometepec, Nicaragua. By Charles C. Nutting.

On the Phonology of four Siouan Languages. By J. Owen Dorsey.

a

ANTHROPOLOGY. 867

. Société Américaine de France, Archives dela. Nouvelle [11] série, Tome ur. [The
publications of the society are as follows: Actes: Tome 1, 1863-1865; Tome 11,
1866-1873; Tome 111, 1874. 8vo. Archives: Premiére série, 3 vols.; seconde série,
Tome 1, 1875; Tome 1, ——; Tome 111, 1885.

Société @anthropologie de Bordeaux et du sud-ouest. Founded 17 December, 1883.
[Publishes bulletins, 1. and 2. from January to June, 1884. ]

Société d’anthropologie de Bruxelles. Bulletin. Vol. m1, 1884, 1885.

Société d’anthropologie de Lyon. Présidence de M. Lacassagne. Vol. Iv.

Société @anthropologie de Paris. Présidence de M. Hamy. Bulletins. Vol. xv.

Société d@anthropologie et de géographie de Stockholm. [Report of, in Matériaux,
XIX, 3. sér., 11, 376-379. ]

Société suédoise d’anthropologie et de géographie.

STADFELDT.—Eine Bemerkung iiber Dr. Badik’s Eintheilung von Verbrechern in
vier Typen. Arch. f. patholog. Anat., Berlin, xcrx, 391.

STaGE, G. G.—Om Boérns Vegtforhold i det forste Leveaar. [Weights of infants in
first year of life.] Kj@benhaven: Reitzel. 8vo.

STEINITZER, Max.—Ueber die psychologischen Wirkungen der musikalischen For-
men. Miinchen: T. Riedel. 139 pp.

STEPNIAK.—Russia under the Tzars. Transl. by Wm. Westall. [Review in Science,
Oct. 23.] :

STEVENSON, JAMES.—IIustrated Catalogue of Collections obtained from the Pueblos
in 1881. wu. An. Rep. Bur. Ethpol., pp. 511-594. Plates xi—x1iv.

Mythological painting of the Zufiis. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., m1, 143-144,

StrepDA L.—Urgeschichte und Archiologie Russlands. ([Bibliography.] Arch. f.

Anthrop., xv. Sup., 31, 32: Anthropologie, Ethnologie und Reisen, 1882-83,
id., 121-128.

Strep, L.—Der VI russische archiiologische Congress in ae 1884. Arch. f. An-
throp., XVI, 263-274.

Verwendung des Glycerins zur Anfertigung von anatomischen Dauer-pripara-
ten. From Archiv f. A. und Ph. Anatomische Abtheilung.

STIRRUP, MaRK.—On the so-called worked flints from the Miocene beds of Thenay.
J. Anthrop. Inst., xrv, 289.

Stone, G. H.—The inscription rocks on the island of Monhegan. Science, Aug. 14.

Srrone, E. E.—The Caroline Islands. Science, Oct. 2.

STURTEVANT, E. Lewis.—Indian corn and the Indian. Am. Naturalist, xrx, 225-233.

Kitchen garden esculents of American origin. Am. Naturalist, xrx, 444-457;
542-552.

Swank, JAMES M.—History of the manufacture of iron in all ages. Philad.: Pub. for
the author.

TAFANI, ALESSANDRO.—Della presenza d’ un terzo condilo occipitale nell’ uomo.
Archiv. per l’ antrop., Xv, 35-72.

TARENETZKY, H.—Beitrage zur Craniologie der grossrussischen Bevélkerung, ete.
Mém, Acad. imp. d. sc. de St.-Pétersbourg, vii. série, vol. xxxu1, No. 13.

TAUTAIN, L.—Etudes critiques sur V’ethnologie et ’ethnographie des peuples du bassin
du Sénégal. Rev. dethnog., Paris, 1v, 61; 137; 254.

TENCHINI, LORENZO.—Cervelli di delinquenti. (Superficie metopica.) Parma: L.
Battei. 118 pp.,22pl. 8vo.

Ten Karn, H. F. C.—Notes ethnographiques sur les Comanches. Rev. d’ethnog., rv,
120-136.

Reizen en onderzoekingenin Noord Amerika. Leiden: Brill. chart,2pl. 8vo.

Sur les cranes de Sagoa Santa. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, xvm1, 240.

The Journal of Speculative Philosophy. Ed. Wm. T. Harris, New York. Vol. x1x,
quarterly.

The New England Historical and Genealogical Register. Boston. Voi. xxxrx, quar-
terly.

868 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

THOMAS, Cyrus.—Axcient works in lowa. Am. Antiquarian, vir, 212-214; A modern
mound burial, id., 24.

—- Cherokees probably mound-builders. ‘Tr. Anthrop. Soe. Wash., m1, 24-30.

Les signes numériques dans le Codex américain de Dresde. Arch. Soc, am. de

France, ii. sér., 111, 207. .

——— Mound building tribes. Science, June 26.

Notes on certain Maya and Mexican manuscripts. 1. An. Rep. Bur. Ethnol.
pp. 1-65, figs. 1-10, plates I-Iv. ;

—— Palenque visited by Cortez. Science, February 27.

Silver from a Pennsylvania mound. Science, May 22.

Stone graves, the work of the Indians. Third paper. Am. Antiquarian, Vu,

129-136. :

The houses of the Mound-Builders. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., m1, 13-20.

Who were the Mound-Builders? Am. Antiquarian, vi, 65-74. Continued
from March, 1884.

THOMAS, OLDFIELD.—A collection of human skulls from Torres Straits. J. Anthrop.
Inst., X1V, 328-343.

THOMPSON, ALTON H.—Recent Indian graves in Kansas. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash.,
Ill, 56-57.

Heredity and development of the teeth. Dental Cosmos, Phila. xxvu, 513-
520.

THOMSON, JOSEPH.—Through Masai Land. Boston: Beall. 8vo.

TuHRUSTON, G. P.—The ancient races of America. Mag. American Hist., x11, 457-463.

THULIE, Dr.—La femme west ni inférieure ni égale & Vhomme. [Extr. de ‘‘La
Femme, essai de sociologie physiologique.” Paris: Delahaye et Lecrosnier.] Rev.
@Vanthrop., VII, 229-246.

TIELE, C. P.—Manuel de Vhistoire des religions. [Trans. from Dutch by Maurice
Vernes.] Paris: Leroux. 1 vol. 12mo.

TOPINARD, PauL.—Crane étalon en bronze. Méthode de cubage de Broca. Bull. Soe.
@anthrop. de Paris, XVIII, 396.

De la restitution de la taille par les os longs. Rev. @anthrop., vii, 134-140,

Eléments d’anthropologie générale. Paris: Delahaye. 5 pls., 229 figs., 300

tables, 1157 pp. 8vo.

Instructions anthropométriques pour les voyageurs. Rev. d’anthrop., 3. sér.,

vill, 397-424. :

La nomenclature quinaire de l’Indice céphalique. Rev. d’anthrop., vii, 210-

228.

L’anthropologie de Linnée. Matériaux, 3. sér., I, April.

Le crane de bronze de Ranke et la méthode de cubage de Broca. Rey. d’an-

throp., Vi11, 493-503.

Procédé de mensuration des os longs, dans le but de reconstituer la taille.
Bull. Soc. @anthrop. de Paris, XVII, 73-83.

TREMLETT, Rear-Admiral.—Quadrilateral constructions near Carnac, in Brittany.
J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 170-183. [A list of Dolmens and Tumuli in Brittany is ap-
pended. ] :

TURNER, W. W.—-Scientific report on the voyage of the Challenger during the years
1873~76. Report on the human skeletons. I. The crania. Part xxix of Vol.
x. Zoology. London, 1884. [Review in Rev. d’anthrop., vill, 339-345, by P.
Topinard. ]

The index of the pelvic brim as a basis of classification. J. Anat. & Physiol.,
Xx, 125-143. [Rept. of Brit. Assoc. in Nature, Oct. 15. ]

TyLor, E. B.—How the problems of American anthropology present themselves to
the English mind. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, 11, 81-95.

VALENTINI, Pu. J. J.—Semi-lunar and crescent-shaped tools. Proc. Am, Antiquar.
Soc., tt, 449-474.

ANTHROPOLOGY. 869

Voss, A.—Der Bronzefund von Callies in Pommern im kénig!. Museum zu Berlin. Ar-
chiv f. Anthrop., xv. suppl., pp. 1-8, tables x1, x1.

VamBrERY, H.—Das Turkenvolk in seinen ethnologischen und ethnographischen
Beziehungen. Leipzig: Brockhaus. xii+638 pp. 2pl.,illustr. 8vo.

VERGUET, L.—Avossi ou San-Christoval [in the Solomon group] et ses habitants.
Rev. @ethnog., Iv, 193-232. Illustr. and vocabs.

Verhandlungen der anthropologischen Gesellschaft in Wien.

VERON, EUGENE.—Histoire naturelle des religions. Paris: Doin, Marpon, &c. 2 vols.
700 pp. 12mo.

VERRIER, E.—De quelques modes de l’accouchement consacrées par des monuments
historiques. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, XvItl, 367.

Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur, in Arch. f. Anthrop., Xv. suppl. [156
pages of closely printed matter, giving titles of works down to 1884, together with
abstracts and reviews, frequently of an exhaustive character. |

Victoria Institute. Journal of Transactions, Vols. XVII, XIX.

VINING, E. P.—An inglorious Columbus, or evidence that Hwui Shan and a party of
Budhist monks from Afghanistan discovered America in the fifth century. New
York. 8vo.

VircHow, R.—Die Verbreitung des blonden und des briinetten Typus in Mittell-
europa. Sitznngsberichte akad. Wissensch., Berlin, v, 39.

Nicobaresen, Schombengs und Andamanesen. Verhandl. Berl. Gesellsch. f

Anthrop., 102-109, 1 pl.

Opening address, fifteenth general meeting of the German Anthropological

Society at Breslan. Corr.-Blatt., xv, 65 -76.

Schema zu anthropologischen Aufnahmen. Verhandl. d. Berl. Gesellsch. f. An-
throp., 99-102.

WaGNER, E.—Hiigelgriber und Urnenfriedhéfe in Baden. Karlsruhe: G. Braun. 7
photoliths. 55 pp. 4to.

Warkb, LESTER F.—Mind as a social factor. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., m1, 31-38.

Moral and material progress contrasted. From Transactions Anthrop. Soe.
Washington: Judd & Detweiler. 121-136 pp.

WAGNON, A.—Traité d’archéologie comparée. Paris: Rothschild. 173 pp.,16 pl. 8vo.

WARREN, William F.—Paradise found. The cradle of the human race at the North
Pole. London: Sampson Low & Co.

WEISGERBER, H.—L’Oued-Rir et ses habitans et sur quelques monuments du Sahara
algérien. Rev. d’ethnog., rv, 417.

WEISMANN, A.—Die Continuitaét des Keimplasmas als Grundlage der Vererbung.
Jena: Fischer. 8vo.

WELCKER, HERMANN.—Die Capacitit sacl die drei Hauptdurchmesser der Schiidel-
kapsel bei den verschiedenen Nationen. Archiv f. Anthrop., Xvi, 1-160. [A work
of enormous research and invaluable to the anthropologist. ]

WERTNER, M.—Ueber die Stellung des iirztlichen Standes im Alterthum [fr. Hun-
garian]. Deutsches Arch. f. Gesch. d. Med., &c., Lpzg., vir, 173-207.

WrI&GER, G.—Die anthropologische Sammlung des anatomischen Instituts Ger Uni-
versitat Breslan. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv. Suppl. 45 pp.

WILDER, MARSHALL.—The progress of archeology and American history during 1884.
Ni: E. Hist. and Genealog. Register, Xxx1x, April.

Witson, A.—The missing incisors in man: what are they? Brit. J. Dent. Sc., Lond.,
XXIXx, 389-391.

Witson, D.—Anthropology; with an appendix on archwology by E. B. Tylor. N.
York: J. Fitzgerald. 15 pp. 8vo.

WINCHELL, N. H.—A supposed natural alloy of copper and silver fromthe north shore
of Lake Superior, in Minnesota. Paper before A. A A. S., Ann Arbor meeting.

WITHINGTON, C. ’.—Consanguineous marriages; their effect on offspring. Mass. Med,
Soc., Boston, xm, 453-454; and Boston Med. & S. J., ex, 172, 193.

870 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1885.

Women’s Anthropological Society, Washington. Prospectus and constitution. Darby,
printer.

Worsaak, J. J. A.—De Vorganisation des musées historico-archéologiques. Copen-
hague: Thiele. 8vo.

De Vorganisation des musées historico -archéologiques dans le Nord et ailleurs.
Matériaux, xix, 433-436. Extra. Mém. Soc. Roy. Antiquar. du Nord, 1885, pp.
93-119.

Wrzfsniowski, AUGUST.—Bericht aus der polnischen Literatur iiber Anthropologie,
Archiologie und Ethnographie fiir die Jahre 1880, 1881, 1882. Arch. f. Anthrop.,
XV. sup., 152.

Wyman, W. C.—Exhibition of copper implements. Paper before the A. A. A. S., Ann
Arbor meeting.

Year-book of the scientific and learned societies of Great Britain and Ireland. Lon-
don: Griffith & Co.

ZABAROWSKI, M.—Les chiens quaternaires. Matériaux, x1x, 3. sér., 146-162; 11, 263-

Q~
27

L’homme tertiaire. Rev. scient., Paris, xxxv1, 426-433.

Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologie. Berlin. 17th year. 6 Hefte.

ZERNOW, D.—Manual of anatomy of the human nervous system. Moscow: A. Lang.
2.ed. 238 pp. 8vo.

ZIMMERMAN.—The degeneracy of races. Paper before the A. A. A. §., Ann Arbor
meeting.

ZINCK, L.—The stone age in Africa. Communication to Roy. Soc. Northern Anti-
quaries, Ap. 14. [Review in Science, May 15. ]

roe

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING.*

By GEORGE ERCOL SELLERS, of Bowlesville, Lil.

When a boy, living among mechanics, artists, and artisans, preparing
for the profession of civil and mechanical engineer, it was natural that
I should be attracted to the studio with its adjoining workshop and
taxidermic room of my mother’s father, Charles Wilson Peale, and his
sons. There was always something new to be learned there. He was
a native of the province of Maryland, the son of one of the earliest
Episcopal ministers who came from England and settled in that colony.
He always took great interest in the history and incidents connected
with the early settlement of Maryland and Virginia. He had a shelf
in his library devoted to books and pamphlets relating thereto, many
of which seemed to have been sent from Europe to him, for they bore
inscriptions of “presented by,” or “received from,” my friend, Sir J.
Banks or from Count Rumford, and others. Among them was a volume
of autograph letters from his friend Thomas Jefferson on the same sub.
ject. This shelf was particularly attractive to me, for it always led to
reminiscences of the most interesting character from my grandfather.
On one occasion I came across on this library shelf a thin bound volume
of letters of John Smith trom the Virginia colony. It was a London pub-
lication, and (if my recollection is not at fault) comprised several pamph-
lets bound together. A passage in one of these letters, in describing an
Indian he had met with, referred to the making of stone implements. I
have not seen the publication since, and cannot after a lapse of more
than sixty years quote from it, but will give the substance as impressed
on my mind. He said in substance that the Indian carried with him a
pouch filled with flakes of precious stones, and within his mantle, in a
pocket made for the purpose, a small instrument made of bone or horn,
that he valued above all price and would not part with, and with it he
deftly shaped arrow-points and spear-heads from or out of the stone

*In the summer of 1885 Mr. Sellers visited Washington and called upon Dr. Rau,
to whom he gave an account of his experiences in stone-chipping, but dwelling chiefly
on what he had heard from Mr. Catlin concerning this subject. Dr. Rau, perceiving
the importance of Mr. Sellers’s remarks, induced him to prepare the present article.
It will be seen that the Indians of this country resorted in stone-chipping to methods
similar to those employed by the Mexicans, as related by Torquemada and Moto-
linia.

871
Si2 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

flakes. On calling my grandfather’s attention to this, he said that
although there was much truth in what at the time was written from
the colonies, some things were highly colored and had to be sifted
out or taken with caution, and he supposed the cutting of hard stone
with bone or horn was one of these, and might be set down as one of
Smith’s yarns. I asked myself the question, What object could he
have in inventing and telling it? There must be some foundation. At
all events, it made an indelible impression on my mind.

Most of the arrow-points found within my reach in Philadelphia, Dela-
ware, and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania, were chipped from massive
quartz, from the opaque white to semi-transparent and occasionally
transparent. Once, in company with my early preceptors, Jacob Pearce
and Isaiah Lukens, both well-known scientists, on a mineralogical ex-
cursion, we came to a place where (judging from the quantities of flakes
and chips) arrow-points had been made. After most diligent search
only one perfect point was found, which is still in my possession, marked
with ink 1818.” There were many broken ones, showing the difficulty
in working the material. Mr. Lukens collected a quantity of the best
flakes to experiment with, and by the strokes of a light hammer roughed
out one or two very rude imitations. No effort was made by pressure,
which I cannot now understand, for at that time I was in the habit of
breaking off points and trimming mineral specimens (likely to be injured
by the jarring of a hammer stroke) by pressure with the hickory handle
of my mineral hammer.

Maj. S. H. Long, afterwards colonel, who in the latter part of his
life sueceeded Col. John J. Abert as head of the Topographical Depart-
ment of the United States Army, whenever in Philadelphia, was a fre-
quent visitor at my father’s house; and, when preparing for his expedi-
tion to the Rocky Mountains, in which my mother’s youngest brother,
Titian R. Peale, went as assistant naturalist, I saw him almost daily.
The subject of flaking and forming arrow and spear-heads was one
of frequent discussion. My grandfather, C. W. Peale, was at that time
owner of the Philadelphia Museum, which had for that period a large
collection of Indian curiosities, among them, many collected by Lewis
and Clark on their northwestern expedition,—and to me the most inter-
esting, was a box of stone implements in various stages of manufacture,
evidently collected with the view of illustrating the process. They were
never put on exhibition other than in the original package, the lid of the
box only having been removed. Major Long’s attention was called to
these, and he expressed his belief that on his expedition he would learn
the entire process, and on his return be able to explain everything in
the Lewis and Clark collection.

The expedition returned, and, as far as I know, without any positive
information as to the process of making the flakes. Mr. Peale said he
had seen squaws chipping flakes into small arrow-points, holding the
flake in their left hand, grasped between a piece of bent leather, and

a

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. S73
chipping off small flakes by pressure, using a small pointed bone in the
right hand for that purpose. From this it was evident that John
Smith’s story was no myth. In my life-long intimacy with Colonel Long
the subject of the flaking operation has frequently been one of conversa-
tion, on my regretting that more attention had not been paid to it on
either of his expeditions. Knowing his pre-eminence as a civil engineer
and his high attainments as a mechanic, I thought more reliable infor-
mation would have been obtained by him and his party, composed as it
was of such prominent men of science. He said that flakes prepared
for points and other implements seemed to be an object of trade or
commerce among the Indian tribes that he came in contact with; that
there were but few places where chert or quartzite was found of sufii-
cient hardness and close and even grain to flake well, and at those
places there were men very expert at flaking. He had understood that
it was mostly done by pressure, and rarely by blows, but he had never
witnessed the operation. He expressed his belief that it was an art
fast being lost, for he had found among tribes who had never seen a
white man since the advent of Lewis and Clark, wrought-iron arrow-
points made in England by the birmingham nailers, sent out as articles
of trade by the fur companies, and that they were preferred to the
stone points.

My early acquaintance with Catlin, the artist, was in the shop of Catlin,
musical instrument and model maker, of Philadelphia. There I knew
him as a very expert and superior workman in wood and ivory. Asa
portrait painter he was not at that time successful. He painted stcong
likenesses, but they lacked life-like coloring. A delegation of Indians on
their way to Washington gave him an opportunity to paint the likeness
of one of the chiefs. This was exhibited in the Pennsylvania Academy
of Fine Arts, and from its novelty attracted much attention; in fact, it
was so far a success as to bring him into notice. About this time I met
him very frequently; his conversation always drifted on to the great
value and importance of preserving correct likenesses of the Indians,
whom he believed to be fast passing away. We all know how well he
lived up to this idea, devoting his life to the work of producing the col-
lection of Indian portraits now in the National Museum.

On Mr. Catlin’s return from his long sojourn among the Indians, be-
lieving that, as an observing practical mechanic, nothing in the way of
art among them would escape him, I took the first opportunity to see
him. On my inquiry as to the mode in practice of splitting the stone
into flakes for arrow and spear points, his reply was by a question
characteristic of the man. He asked if [ had forgotten Dr. Jones’s
axiom, ‘The least possible momentum is greater than the greatest pos-
sible pressure.” This was in allusion to a lecture on mechanics we had
together heard delivered by Dr. Thomas P. Jones (afterwards Commis-
sioner of Patents). He then added, “That is well understood by the
flake makers among the Indians, but it will soon be among the lost
874 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

arts, just as the nests of Birmingham brass battered-ware kettles, the
Yankee tin-ware, and glass whisky bottles have already almost totally
destroyed their crude art of pottery making. The rifle is taking the
place of the bow and arrow. For boys’ practice and for small game the
iron points got from the fur traders are preferred to stone. A common
jack-knife is worth to them more than all the flint knives and saws ever
made.” ,

After expressing himself in this manner he went on to explain what
he had seen. He considered making flakes much more of an art than
the shaping them into arrow or spear points, for a thorough knowledge
of the nature of the stone to be flaked was essential, as a slight differ-
ence in its quality necessitated a totally different mode of treatment.
The principal source of supply for what he termed home-made flakes
was the coarse gravel bars of the rivers, where large pebbles are found;
those most easily worked into flakes for small arrow-points were chalce-
dony, jasper, andagate. Most of the tribes had men who were expert at
flaking, and who could decide at sight the best mode of working. Some
of these pebbles would split into tolerably good flakes by quick and
sharp blows striking on the same point; others would break by a cross
fracture into two or more pieces; these were preferred, as good flakes
could be split from their clean fractured surface by what Mr. Catlin
called impulsive pressure, the tool used being a shaft or stick of between
2 and 3 inches diameter, varying in length from 30 inches to 4 feet, ac-

cording to the manner of using them. These shafts were
4 pointed with bone or buck-born, inserted in the working
end as represented in Fig. 1, bound with sinews, or raw-
hide thongs, to prevent splitting. For some kinds of work
the bone or horn tips were scraped to a rather blunt point,
others with a slightly rounded end of about one-half inch
in diameter. He described various ways of holding the
stone while the pressure was being applied. A water-
worn pebble broken transversely was commonly held by
being sufliciently imbedded in hard earth to prevent its
slipping when held by the foot as the pressure was applied. .
Large blocks of obsidian or any easily flaked stones were
held between the feet of the operator while sitting on the
ground, the impulsive pressure being given to the tool
grasped in both hands, a cross-piece on the upper end
resting against his chest, the bone end against the stone
in a slight indentation, previously prepared, to give the
proper angle and to prevent slipping.

In some cases the stone operated on was secured be-
tween two pieces or strips of wood like the jaws of a vise,
bound together by cords or thongs of rawhide; on these strips the oper-
ator would stand as he applied the pressure of his weight by impulse.
The best flakes, outside of the home-made, were a subject of commerce,

Fic. 1.

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 875

and came from certain localities where the chert of the best quality was
quarried in sheets or blocks, as it occurs in almost continuous seams in
the intercalated limestones of the Coal Measures. These seamsare mostly
cracked or broken into blocks, that show the nature of the cross fracture,
which is taken advantage of by the operators, who seemed to have re-
duced the art of flaking to almost an absolute science, with division of
Jabor; one set of men being expert in quarrying and selecting the stone,
others in preparing the blocks for the flaker. This was done when the
blocks were nearly right-angled at the corners, by striking off the corner
where the flaking was to commence, and, with a properly directed blow
with a hard pebble stone, knock off of the upper edge a small flake, mak-
ing a seat for the point of the flaking tool. Sometimes these blows were
carried entirely across the front upper edge of the block, making a groove
entirely across the edge, when the first row of flakes have been thrown
off. It is the work of this operator to prepare seats for a second row,
andsoon. What was meant by almost absolute science was a knowledge
and skill that would give the proper direction to the
pressure to throw off the kind of flake required. Fig.
2 represents, as nearly as [ recollect, the rude sketches
made of the flaking tool used to throw off massive flakes,
when a sudden percussive pressure was required in ad-
dition to the impulsive pressure the man could give.
Thestafts of these flaking tools were selected from young
hard-wood saplings of vigorous growth. A lower branch
was utilized, as shown at a in Fig. 2, to form the crotch
in which the blow was struck. Another branch on the
opposite side, a, was used to secure a heavy stone to
give weight and increasethe pressure. Whenthestone
to be flaked was firmly held, the point adjusted to give
the pressure in the required direction, the staff firmly
grasped, the upper end against the chest of the oper-
ator, he would throw his weight on it in successive
thrusts, and if the flake did not fly off, a man standing
opposite would simultaneously with the thrust give a
sharp blow with a heavy club represented in cross-
section b in Fig. 2, it being so shaped that its force is
downward close in the crotch. It has been represented
to me that a single blow rarely failed to throw off the
flake, frequently the entire depth of the block of stone,
sometimes aS much as 10 or 12 inches. The tooth or
tusk of the walrus was highly prized for tips of the flakers.

What I have thus far written is at second hand, being merely recollec-
tions of conversations at various times with the parties I have referred
to, and more recently with a man who for over thirty years had been
connected with a fur company, and who had lived most of that time
among the Indians, and much of it, as a trapper.

876 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

What I now propose is to give some of my experimental practice in
flaking and working flint (chert), and (from a purely mechanical stand-
point) some conclusions drawn from a pretty extensive examination of
the waste and refuse as well as finished and partly finished work left in
the aboriginal flint workshops.

There are many places along the banks of the Ohio River and its
tributaries that are not subject to the annual overflow, but are still
below the occasional great floods, where the flaking process has been
extensively carried on, and where cores and waste chips are abundant.
At one of these places, on the Kentucky side of the river, I found a num-
ber of chert blocks, as when first brought from the quarry, from which
no regular flakes had been split; some had a single corner broken off as
a Starting point. On the sharp, right-angled edge of several, I found the
indentations left by small flakes, having been knocked off evidently by
blows, as described by Catlin, as a preparation for seating the flaking
tool. Most of the localities referred to are now under cultivation, but
before being cleared of timber and subjected to the plow, no surface relics
were found; but on the caving and wearing away of the river banks,
as the light earth washed away, many spear and arrow-heads and other
stone relics were left on shore. After the land had been cleared and
the plow had loosened the soil, one of the great floods that occur at
intervals of some fifteen or twenty years, would wash away the loose
soil, leaving the great flint workshops exposed. It is from the stores
of material left, the cores or nuclei thrown aside, caches of finished and
unfinished implements and flakes, the tools and wastage, vast accu-
mulations of splints, &c., that we can, on critical examination, draw
tolerably correct ideas of the mode of working pursued.

One of these great flaking banks or workshops is exposed on the
northern bank of the Saline River at its first rock “ripple,” about 3 miles
above its junction with the Ohio, the general course of the Saline being
from the northwest to the southeast. Above the “ripple” the stream is
only navigable during high water of the Ohio. On its southern side
are ranges of hills from its mouth to its source, ranging between 300
feet and 400 feet in height, and on the divide between the west fork of
the Saline and Eagle Creek they rise to a height of over 800 feet. The
ridge is broken through by the valleys of small tributaries ; the spurs
from the ridge at places terminating in rock bluffs close to the river, at
others leaving a narrow bottom. On the northern side of the stream
the hills proper commence about 4 miles above the mouth, leaving a

_wider valley or bottom on that side; the low bottom lands of the Ohio
extend nearly to the ripple, where commences what is termed the second
bottom lands of the Ohio, which rise rather abruptly, extending with
the river by its windings at varying distance from it. It is on this
ridge where it is intersected by the Saline that the coal company made
the terminus of their railroad and shipping port of coal.

On my first visit, in the fall of 1853, this was in dense forests with

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. S77

the exception of a narrow strip along the bank of the Saline, which had
been cleared for railroad coal dump, saw-mill, shops, and dwellings.
The most of the cleared portion was a range of low sepulchral mounds
crowded together. In cutting into them for foundations, small sized stone
cists were exposed, none over 4 feet in length, with a single exception ;
this was (in excavating foundations for saw-mill boiler in the side of
the largest of the mounds,) a skeleton at full length, surrounded by and
covered with thin sandstone slabs, much as the small cists were formed.
With this skeleton were found two small clay pots, some shell beads,
a flint gun-lock, barrel, and metal trimmings of an old English musket,
the stock so decayed that it fell to pieces when being taken out—no
doubt a recent surface burial; in fact, human bones were found near
the surface of all these mounds. The small cists over which they were
originally raised contained nothing but fragments of bones, teeth, and
occasionally a stone celt and a few flaked implements. The first in-
dication of relics on what has proved to be a great stone implement
manufactory was in sinking a cistern on the ridge about 200 yards from
the river. This went through a mass of tlint chips. By the year 1859
the little clearing around the house where the cistern was sunk had
joined with tbe cleared strip on the river banks, making in all a clearing
of some 25 acres. Heavy rains after the first plowing exposed some few
specimens of spear and arrow points; the next plowing, a still greater
number. But it was not until the great flood of the winter of 1862 and
1863 that overflowed this ridge some 3 or 4 feet, with a rapid current,
that the portion under cultivation north of the mounds on the river bank
was denuded, exposing over 6 acres of what at first appeared to be a mass
of chips or stone rubbish; but amongst it were found many hammer
stones, celts, grooved axes, cores, flakes, almost innumerable scrapers,
and other implements, pieces of broken, much-decayed bone, but no per-
fect bone implements, many tines of the buck or stag, all of which bore
evidence of having been scraped to a point. On exposure to the air they
fell to pieces. Among this waste it was rare to find fragments of rude
pottery, though they abound among the mounds near the river bank,
and further north on the same ridge, where burnt sandstones, black earth
full of fragments of shells and bone, show the site of a settlement—the
field being nothing but a workshop. The great August flood of 1875,
and the winter floods of 1881, 1882, and 1583 continued the work of de-
nudation until the ground became unfit for cultivation, and was aban-
doned. The gréatest number of cores, scattered flakes, finished and
unfinished implements, are of the chert, from a depression in a ridge 3
miles to the south-east, where there is evidence of large quantities lav-
ing been quarried. Ihave found a few cores of the white chert from Mis-
souri. and the red and yellow jasper of Kentucky and Tennessee; but
the flakes of these have mostly been found in nests or small caches,
many of which have been exposed, and in every case the flakes they
contained were more or less worked on their edges, whereas the flakes
878 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

from the neighborhood chert preserved their sharp edges as when split
from the mass. These cache specimens with their worked serrated
edges would, if found singly, be classed as saws or cutting implements.
But here, where found in mass, evidently brought from a distance, to
a place where harder chert of a much better character for cutting im-
plements abound, they tell a different story. No two are exactly alike,
yet the work on all is of the same character, and evidently done for the
same object. To one discovering that object, they tell the story clearly,
as well as the mode of working, written on stone, and better than it can
now be told either by writing or illustrations.

To make myself understood I must have recourse to sketches, and
then will most probably fail to make it as clear to the general reader
as these stone flakes do to me. Let us first look at a flake as detached
from the mass, and study its nature, presuming it to have been flaked
from a stone that by a hammer stroke would break with a fine-grain
conchoidal fracture. Fig. 5 is a plan view of the outer or high side

(Half size.)

Fie. 4. Fie. 5.

of an ordinary flake intended for a spear or arrow-head ; the shape
of this high side depending on the lines of fracture of the previous flak-
ing. Fig. 4 is a section through the center of the flake on the dotted
line a a’, showing its flat side and sharp edges. Fig. 5 an edge view,
showing at its upper end the angle of the recess formed, and against
which the point of the flaker had been pressed to throw off the flake ;
dotted lines in the cross-section Fig. 4 show the form of an arrow-head
on the line a a’ that the flake will work into. The form of the head is
given by dotted lines in Fig. 3. From these it will be seen that the por-
tion of the flake to be chipped away (and also the greatest portion of
the chipping to be done) is from the flat side.

The man who makes the flake can at a glance see what it will best
produce. His flakes are for transportation; bulk and weight are seri-
ous considerations. His practical eye tells him how to reduce them into
the best merchantable form; and the greater number of the flakes found
in the caches alluded to have been sp worked, and always from the flat
side of the flake. This could not be accidental. By referring to theaxis
line in section Fig. 4, the amount of chipping from the flat side that

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 879

has to be done will be seen. To attempt to do this and to throw off long
chips from the sharp edge of the flake would prove a failure, as its
sharp edge would either crumble away or it would cut and injure the
point of the bone flaker without throwing off the desired chip or flake.
Experience has taught the operator the best shape of edge to apply the
pressure to accomplish his object, and it has also taught him how to
reach it in the simplest possible way. A spoon-shaped hollow on the
top of a flattened log, or even a gutter or groove cut in it, furnishes the
means of holding the flake firmly, the raised or high side placed in the
hollow, the flat side up; with the ends of the fingers of his left hand
pressed on it he holds it firmly, while with his right hand a downward
pressure is given by the flaking tool which breaks off chips with a fract-
ure of about 45 degrees from the flat surface, leaving the edge in the
best possible shape for future work, and that is the condition of these
cache flakes as they are found:

In old times, before the invention and introduction of planing and
shaping machines to work metals, the first and most important lesson
taught to the machinist’s apprentice was the use of the hand-hammer
and cold-chisel. When an outer shell was to be removed from a metal
casting and its surface left in condition to be finished by file or scraper,
the smoothness and regularity of that surface was essential, not only
for economy in working, but accuracy of the file finish. The apprentice
was taught to hold his cold-chisel and so direct the strokes of his ham-
mer that when a chip was started the chisel should hold to it, and not
be allowed to cut too deep or slip and fly out, leaving a shape that is
difficult to start a fresh cut without leaving ridges or cutting deeper,
in either case causing additional labor for the finisher.

To a practical mechanic the examination of such a flint workshop as

Thave described—its waste chips to the partly worked flakes, the roughed

out blocks, and the finished implements—reveal a line of workmanship
so clear that it can be followed to the production of the same results.
The handling of the tool and flake to form an arrow-point is as much
an act requiring exactness and precision as the handling the cold-chisel
and hammer is to the machinist. The first chip thrown off is analogous
to the first starting work of the cold-chisel; it is the text that must be
adhered to to the end of the chapter. Holding the flake in such position
that commencing at what is intended for the point of the intended work,
the pressure with the flaking point is brought to bear close to the edge
of the 45 degrees angle and at right angles to it; the result isa flake
thrown off inclining towards the stem end of the arrow-point. In sec-
tional sketch Fig. 4 from a to a’ shows the 45 degrees angle ieft by the
first rough shaping from ¢ to c’ the direction of the first chip thrown off.
The seat left by this chip when thrown off is concave on the edge of the
flake, the advance corner of which is the seating point for the tool to
throw off the next chip, which does not entirely obliterate the concave
of the first, and the following chip leaves.a serrated edge, the chips or
S80) PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

flakes being generally parallel, whichis the object of a good workman
to make them. When the flat side by chipping has been reduced to
nearly therequired form, its edges are in the best possible shape for chip-
ping the opposite or high side, then by alternate working from side to
side the point is finished, either leaving it with serrated edges or by after
delicate work throwing off the points, leaving a smooth, sharp edge.
The indentations at the base either for barbs or for thongs to secure
the point to its shaft are made by direct down pressure of a sharp point
working alternately from side to side, the arrow-point being held firmly
on its flat face. From the narrowness of the cuts in some of the speci-
mens, and the thickness of the stone where they terminate, I have in-
clined to the belief that at the period they were made, the aborigines had
something stronger than bone to operate with, as I have never been able
to imitate some of their deep, heavy cuts with it; but 1 have succeeded
by using a copper point, which possesses all the properties of the bone,
in holding to its work without slipping and has the strength for direct
thrust required. A soft iron or thoroughly annealed steel point answers
even a better purpose. As yet no copper has been found on this flaking
ground, though a few copper beads and remnants of what appear to
have been ornaments have been taken from mounds on the ridges of the
Saline, which I think is evidence that they had that metal at the earliest
time work was done on this flaking bank.

Bryce Wright in his description of the Scandinavian knives or dag-
gers refers to them as being most beautifully dentilled with parallel
flaking and serrated edges. He says: ‘“ These knives or lances are true
marvels of pre-historic art, and show an amount of skill and workman-
ship which cannot be imitated in the present age, the art of fashioning
them having been entirely lost.” Sir John Lubbock, on page 104 of
‘Prehistoric Times,” says: ‘‘The crimping along the edge of the handle
is very curious.” As to parallel flakings with serrated edge, I have
endeavored to show (from a mechanical stand-point) that the refuse
of the great flint quarries points to a mode of working that must leave
the dentilled markings parallel, and the edges worked from, serrated.
What Lubbock speaks of as curious crimping on the edge of the han-
dles is but the natural result of the mode of working I have exam-
ined these Scandinavian dagger handles, and find the same appearance
on the blades of large-size broken piercers, numbers of which I have
found among the rubbish, picked up, examined, and thrown away as 1m-
perfect specimens. Some of them have a spread, flat end or handle of
over I4 inch, with nearly square blades, evidently having been worked
by down pressure from the edges corresponding to the spread end, these
45 degrees flakes meeting form angles and produce the square. The
interlocking of the flakes at their meeting causes the crimped appear-
ance, in some cases not unlike a row of beads, very beautiful, but not
made with any such view, but sumply the natural result of the mode of
working.

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 881

Here also are found massive flakes or chips of fine-grained quartzite,
’ that teach another lesson to a seeking practical mechanic, nosing about
among the accumulated refuse. These flakes are often rough on one
face, showing them to be an outside scale from the stone; occasionally,
fragments of large flat implements that have been classed as agricult-
ural (hoes or spades). These fragments have not been broken by want
of skill in the workmen, but from undiscovered seams in the stone that
did not show until the outer surface was thrown off. None of these frag-
ments show any sign of use; in fact, some of them have not been wrought
to an edge. I have several specimens of hoes from the same ridge be-
yond the settlement where it would naturally be cultivated, that from
their highly polished working ends show long use. The lesson is that
they are not made from great flakes, but rather represent the core from
which flakes have been thrownoff. Finished hoesand spades frequently
have portions of natural stone partings that have not been worked off,
and show them to have been worked from thin slabs. These slabs are
a metamorphic thin bedded sandstone, belonging to what our State
geologist, Prof. A. H. Worthen, calls the Chester group. They occur
near the Saline, about 8 miles above the flaking ground, in an upheaval
that has brought them to the surface with the upturned edges of the
carboniferous limestone through which the salt springs flow. This is
probably the source whence this quartzite was obtained, as slabs from 1
inch to 2 inches thick are found there; but there are many other locations
stretching across Southern Illinois to the Mississippi River where they
also occur.

It is the large agricultural implements that I refer to as having been
. made from quartzite slabs, some of which are as much as 16 inches long
by 6 inches and 7 inches wide at the spade-blade end. There are many
smaller specimens of the same form and character that have been regu-
larly flaked from chert, white waxy quartz, yellow and brown jasper,
that do not exceed 6 or 7 inches in length, their working ends highly
polished by long use in digging. It is the large hoes and spades flaked
from quartzite slabs that to me are evidence of a much higher degree
of intelligence and skill than the most highly-finished spear and arrow
points evince. Take an edge view of one of these large spades, and
observe how accurately straight and free from wind the edge has been
earried entirely around the implement, the flattening of one side and
rounding the other; then observe that the long flat very slightly
depressed flakes have been thrown off at right angles to the edge, even
to those curving around its digging or cutting end, which appear to
have radiated from a common center. If these flakes have been thrown
off by blows so struck and directed as to preserve the cleanly lined
edges, as the operator had carried them in his mind, a skill must have
been acquired that we cannot approach.

In‘all the experiments that I have tried with a hammer, whether of
stone, steel, soft iron, or copper, they have failed to produce the desired

1s adn bt be eS
882 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

result; the seat of the flake is more conchoidal, shorter and deeper de-
pressed, whereas the direct percussive pressure throws off the shape of
flake that we find has been done in making these spades. If this mode
has been resorted to, it necessarily required considerable ingenuity in
devices for holding the stone slab firmly, while the pressure was being
applied in the right direction. The wooden clamp described by Catlin
may have been used. The simplest device that occurs to me that will
answer the purpose is a block of wood planted in the ground, with its
end grain up, cut on top into steps, as represented in sketch, Fig. 6, the

attthnen,
a *e

= 1
= = \\ I},
qo Be aD \ it rh ial din i
ere ghee Ways Brisech tery peo taets ——— ——
ee rere ——
oe = a eel SSG

eT SS ee
aN SSS SS SS

Fie. 6.

lower step having grooves parallel with the rise of the upper step; in
one of these grooves the edge of the implement is placed, its back rest-
ing against the edge of the higher step, as represented by the dotted
lines showing the form of a spade. When in this position, presenting
the proper angle to the operator, a man holds it firmly while another
applies the pressure. A lower step, e, with the back edge of top are
hollowed out to receive the work, while its lower end rests in an inden-
tation in the lower step. In this manner a spade can be firmly held
while its cutting end is being flaked. I do not present this as a mode
that was practiced, but as a device that answers the purpose, and I
judge to be within the capacity of the ancient flint-workers, of whom
there is nothing left but their chips and finished work.

Let any one experiment with a bone point in chipping flint; he will
soon discover the value of a dry bone, a bone free from grease that will
hold to its work without slipping, a bone with sufficient hardness to
resist abrasion, a bone of strength to bear the pressure, and he will
value such a pointed bone, and will understand why, with such a bone,
John Smith’s ancient arrow-point maker ‘valued his above price, and
would not part with it.” I have been informed that the modern Indians
free their flaking-bones from grease by burying them in moistened clay
and wood ashes, not unlike the common practice of our housewives to
remove grease spots from their kitchen floors.

The hunter or trapper described to me a mode still in practice among
the remote Indians of making flakes by lever pressure combined with-
percussion, that is more philosophical and a better mechanical arrange-

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 883

ment than by the use of a flaking-staff, as described by Catlin. Figure
7 shows the manner of utilizing a standing tree with spreading roots

Fic. 7.

for this purpose; a flattened root makes a firm seat for the stone, a
notch cut into the body of a tree the fulcrum for the lever; either a
pointed stick is placed on the point of the stone where the flake is to
be split from it, its upper end resting against the under side of the
lever, or a bone or horn point let into and secured to the lever takes
the place of this stick. When the pressure is brought to bear, by the
weight of the operation, on the long end of the lever, a second man
with a stone, mall, or heavy club strikes a blow on the upper side of
the lever, directly over the pointed stick or horn-point, and the flake is
thrown off.

Lubbock, in “‘ Prehistoric Times,” illustrated the Eskimo scraper as
used at the present time in preparing skins. When we consider the
close proximity of the flint workshop to the great salt licks on the Sa-
line River, the flowing salt springs, the deeply worn buffalo paths still
to be seen after having been subject to the destructive work of cultiva-
tion by the plow for more than a generation, where skins by the thou-
sands must have been dressed, it is not surprising that the many chert
flakes that have been split off with too great a curvature of their flat,
side in their length to admit of being chipped into arrow-points should ;
have been utilized for scrapers, many of which are the exact fac simile .
of what Lubbock has illustrated as the Eskimo and others of the Euro-
pean type, of which he says:

“Tt is curious, that while these spoon-shaped scrapers are so common,
in Europe, they are very rare, if indeed they occur at all, in North Am-
erica south of the Eskimo region.”

1 think it most probable from their close resemblance to refuse flakes
and chips they were overlooked by early collectors. In the great game.
districts of the West, both in flint workshops and among the waste of -
Indian settlements, they are much more abundant than arrow-heads, |
or any other implements, with the exception of the small flint knives.
884 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

It is also in these game districts that what is known as the “ bevel-
edge arrow-points” are found, that have been a subject of much discus-
sion as to their use. Foster says of the one he has illustrated: “The
specimen represented is from Professor Cox’s collection, and the two edges
are symmetrically beveled, as if to give it a rotary motion.” Ihave met
many others that accept this idea, unmindfal of the fact that a ship is
not steered at its stem, but by the rudder, at its stern, and an arrow is
not direeted or held to its course by its point, but by the feather at the
butt end of its shaft; and if a rotary motion was required it would natu-
rally be given by placing the feathers spirally around the shaft. The
broat flat sides of these beveled points would neutralize any effect from
the short bevels in passing through the air.

I have heard it urged that they were reamers, and that the uniform bevel
being in one direction, to cut as reamers they would have to be turned to
the left, or, as our workmen say, “against the sun.” From this it has
been argued that the people who used them belonged to a left-handed
race. The direction and uniformity in the beyels is to me evidence of
exactly the reverse. Among all the points we find they are the simplest
and easiest to form by chipping when laid on their flat. Nothing but the
down pressure of flaker is required to separate a chip from a flat at a
45-degree angle. Suppose a flake that had been roughly shaped held
flat on a block of wood by the fingers of the left hand, the tool in the
right hand chipping from the point to the broad end by direct down
pressure; then by turning the flake over and working the other edge
in the same manner, we have in a center cross-section a form resemb-
ling a long-stretched rhomboid with sharp cutting serrated edges at
the acute angles.

Colonel Long said that 2 inches was the greatest length of stone
arrow-heads that he found in use among the Indians; that all longer

Fie. 8

not used for javelin and spear-heads were strongly hafted and used as
cutting implements. This was confirmed by Catlin. It is more where
and under what circumstances we find a stone tool than the tool itself

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 885

that teaches its probable use. In the case of the bevel-edged points,
all I have found have been among waste where the users have lived,
done their cooking and skin-dressing ; and these were always associated
with broken bones, muscle shells, fragments of pottery, flint knives,
scrapers, &¢c., never scattered as if lost in hunting, as we find arrow-heads.
One peculiarity of the bevel point is its strong, massive shank to secure
it to ashaftor handle. This is shownin Figs.8 and 9, with their cross-sec-

Fic. 9.

tions on the dotted lines; they are both of very dark, hard chert. . Fig. 10 is
from Bath County, Kentucky, near the Upper Blue Lick; it is of beauti-
fully striped jasper ; two sections are given to show the great thickness
to give strength to the cutting-edges Fig. 11, yellow jasper; the want
of symmetry in form is most probably the result of sharpening by fresh
flaking. Fig. 12, a beautiful specimen of workmanship, showing a differ-

(Half size.)

ae 7"
re ag UN
ate emcee

Fic. 10.

ent mode of attachment to a handle. All the above are drawn full size.
in a small cache of leaf-shaped implements were found six of the bevel-
edged points, all broken off at the shank in precisely the same manner,—
pretty conclusive evidence of hard service, and probably brought to
the workshop to nave new shanks formed and to be re-hafted.
S86 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

The only effort at drilling or piercing that 1 have found among the
rubbish is a piece of yellow fluorspar 2 inches long, roughly rounded to
1} inches diameter ; in one end a hole one-fourth inch in diameter has
been drilled three-fourths inch deep; at the other end, a hole one-eighth
inch diameter and only one-fourth inch deep. Many pierced implements
have been found at or near dwelling sites associated with this flint man-
ufactory, such as banner stones split through the drilled eye; some split
fragments of tubes of great length, made out of hard schistose slate.

Among the waste are pieces of specular iron ore from Missouri, in ev-
idence that it was worked here, probably into axes and weights or plumb-
bobs. There is also evidence that argillaceous iron ore, the clay iron
stone or carbonates of the coal measures, was a material extensively
used. From the various forms of much oxidized pieces that I have found
that will not bear handling, they appear to have been cutting or carving
tools, probably used in the manufactories; though axes and celts made
from this material are occasionally found in the vicinity of the salt licks,
always deeply oxidized, peeling off in flakes that conform to the origi-
nal form of the implement.

Many scooped or hollowed out blocks of sandstone or large flattish
river bowlders, mostly sunk on both sides, that are classed as mortars
for crushing corn, and with them crushing stones and pestles, have been
plowed up on this flaking ground, but they are much more abundant on
the dwelling portion of the ridge; also river pebbles partly pecked to
an edge for celts, some of them roughly grooved for axes; but what
surprised me most was the great number of what have been called
cup-stones, by some nut-stones. These are frequently found scattered
over Southern Illinois and Western Kentucky, and occasionally on all
the tributaries of the Mississippi. But here they are found in mass.
When the ground was first put under cultivation none were seen,
and it was not until the great denuding floods had passed over it that
they were exposed. On finding, just above the surface of the ground,
the face of a fine specimen that showed a number of cups, I loosened
and turned it over to examine the cups on the under side, and found it
was lying on top of another. With pick and spade I soon exposed a
group or pile of over twenty, and with them a number of slabs of the same
sandstone that showed marks of having been used as rub or grind-
stones, all from the millstone-grit series from the bluffs on the opposite
side of the Saline. Further research developed a number of such piles,
some only having the cup-like indentations, as illustrated at page 40 of
No. 287 of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge; others having
a center depression of from 4 to 6 inches in diameter, similar to the rude
mortars with the cups irregularly arranged around them. Subsequent
overflows exposed many scattered over the entire flaking ground; they
varied in size from large pebbles with a single cup on opposite sides,
known to the early settlers as having been used by the Indians as nut-
stones, up to massive slabs, having from two up to eight and ten cups

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 887

on a side, some too heavy for me to lift into my wagon without assist-
ance (the largest I have seen was taken from near the center of a large
mound in Bath County, Kentucky; it had twenty-seven cups one side
and a greater number onthe other). Many have been carried away from
the flaking ground and used as cornerstones for log cabins or built into
hearths and fire-backs to their wooden curb fireplaces, with their stick-
and-clay daubed chimneys. So many being found where the manu-
facturing of stone implements has been so extensively carried on is
suggestive to a mechanic that they were either made on the ground and
kept on hand for sale, or they were tools in some way used in their
works. That they were newly made can hardly be the case, for very fre-
quently one cup has been worn into another. This, considering their
sharp grit, rather points to some grinding process. Had they been
for paint receptacles or pallets, we would expect to find them at dwell-
ing places (where the Indians would naturally do their dressing and
painting), and not in their workshops.

On the opposite side of the Saline River, due south of the flaking
bank, a spur from the main ridge terminates abruptly by a very steep
descent to the bottom lands, which at this point have a breadth of about
50 yards; at the foot of this bluff are masses of sandstone; they also
project out of the steepest portion of the earth (at a time long past about
100 feet high), from the top of which the ascent is gradual to the crown
of the ridge, forming a beautiful inclined plateau extending with the
ridge until it is lost by steep inclines into the valley of the Little Sa-
line, a small tributary that has cut through the ridge and falls into the
Saline 15 miles above its junction with the Ohio, and midway between
its mouth and the first ripple. This plateau, when I first saw it, in 1894,
was covered with heavy timber, many trees being from 5 feet to 6 feet
in diameter. The broad valley of the Little Saline had some portions
that are above the ordinary overflows cleared and under cultivation as
early as 1834. The slope from the ridge to the Saline, including its
bottom lands, have been under process of clearing since 1859. After
the plow had loosened the soil, and it had been washed by the rains,
both the slope and thebottoms have been rich in stone relics, the bot-
toms—particularly, in the agricultural implements of the Mound Builders.
Climbing the steep directly opposite the flaking bank, chips of chert are
found mixed through all the soil that has been worked from above,
changing the rock bluff into the present steep incline, on the top of
which on its turn from the steep to the gradual slope, another flaking
place has been exposed. There within a space of two acres and not
over an hour’s tramp, on the fresh-plowed earth, I found scattered over
twenty specimens of the cup-stones, which I collected and piled in a heap.
This is another instance of their having been left among the offal of a

workshop.
In the valley formed by the junction of the Big and Little Saline, oc-

cur extensive earth-works, long walls, mounds, &c. The largest of the
888 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

mounds has a height of 25 feet, length of base 225 feet, and width of
175 feet; its oval, truncated top is about 35 by 70 feet; its direction
lengthwise is north 12 degrees west; it has a graded way on the east
side, and was originally faced with stone; over one hundred wagon-
loads have been taken from it and used in walling drains.

The earth-work and mounds extend on to the ridge to within one-
fourth of a mile of the flaking ground on the bluff, thus connecting all
these works. On the spurs near the Sabine are cemeteries and sepul-
chral mounds, from which many human bones have been turned out by
the plow. I have opened several of the mounds, one of which, from a
mechanical point of view, possessed great interest, for the primary inter-
ment over which it was raised was that of a worker in stone; and who
knows but be may have been at a time the master mechanic or chief super- |
intendent of the great flint works? The center of his mound was paved
with the valves of the muscle shells of the Sabine, laid on the levelled
surface of the natural soil in concentric rings, with the convex sides up.
This shell pavement was about 7 feet in diameter; on its center was a
pillow composed of twenty-seven pebble rub-stones of various grit and
differently shaped edges. On these the skull was laid on its side; it was
far gone in decay and crushed out of shape; the teeth much worn; the
position of the large bones that escaped decay showed the man had been
bent, bringing his knees near his chin, and laid on his side. He was a man
of massive frame; the femur measured 19 inches and the tibia 154 inches
long. Close to the crown of his head stood a rude clay vessel, badly
broken; in front of the skull, on the rub stone pillow, a gorget, finished
with the exception of drilling hole for suspending it, on which lay a
plumb-bob, a stag’s tine scraped to a point; this broke to pieces on
removing it. There were some bone splints, two canine teeth of a
wolf, some pieces of galena, one crystal of mica one-half inch thick (the
plates had not been parted), a few chert flakes, and a single finished
arrow-point: on the shell floor of the mound, near its outer edge, one
of the mysterious cup-stones, with three cups on one side and four on
the other. I could not see that it had been placed with any reference to
the center skeleton, but close to it, on the shell floor, lay a small-sized
skullin a better state of preservation than the central one. <A large hole
in the back of it showed it had been crushed in, the broken portions
either having been removed or decayed. Close to it lay the deadly
slingstone, of roughly shaped chert. The decayed and broken bones
of this skeleton had been thrown out in removing the earth from the
Shell floor, so that its position could not be accurately ascertained,
though from portions of bone still remaining after the skull was dis-
covered it was evident that the entire skeleton lay on the shell floor,
and close to the central one, and was no doubt a primary interment.

Among these earth-works, where the densest aboriginal population
have left their marks, stands a farm house and its outbuildings, with
its garden on a pre-historic cemetery. From this point radiated the

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. 889

early clearing and cultivation that has been most destructive to the
long wall earthworks, and was the place of all others where I ex-
pected to find the cup-stones. The single-pit nut-stones and indented
hammer-stones were plenty, and also the rude mortars, but the cup-
stones were comparatively few.

An aged farmer, whose father with his family emigrated from Wieginie
into this section when it was Indian territory, and whoas a boy worked
at the early salt works, tells me that the Indians then here used the sin-
gle-pit nut-stones, but they did not know anything about the cup-stones.
He asked me if I could divine any use for them. On my suggesting
grinding he said I was wrong and that he could tell me their use. I
will now give his explanation as near as I can in his own language.
He said: “If you want to see them in daily use, go to Patagonia, and you
can any day see a lot of women squatting around one of these stones
spinning yarn and talking scandal. You see, they strip and singe the
hair off of a piece of raw hide, lay it on the stone with the flesh side up;
they then squeeze it into the cup holes and put something on to hold it
while it dries. Then you see every cup makes a step for the foot of a
spindle to rest in, and holds just enough grease in it to make the spindle
run slick; and, depend on it, that is the way the thread was spun here
to weave the cloth that has left its impressions on the pieces of the old
clay salt-pans. You know that our Indians did not know anything about
them, or of salt either, for that matter; so how could they know what
these stones were used for?” JI understood him to say that when a boy
he learned this from a Pacific whaler, who drifted to the salt works,
and who related that on one occasion the vessel he was on laid up for
some time in the Straits of Magellan, and that he then saw the Patago-
nian women using just such stones as steps for their spindles.

If that could have been the use of those that are so abundant here,
we should expect to find them where the women dwell rather than at
the flint workshops, the same reasoning applying to their use as paint
pallets. If used for either of these purposes, why do we find the eup
depressions on both sides, and many of the cups of various size, some
just started and others worn one into another?

From the fact of the upper stone of the piles as they were left on the
flaking ground being covered with such a depth of vegetable mold as
not to have been discovered until after cultivation and exposure by the
denuding floods, the finding one in the mound with the decayed skele-
ton of a stone-worker, the one I have before referred to as having been
found near the center of a large mound in Kentucky, leaves little room
to doubt of their having been, as well as the primeval workshops, coe-
val with the earth-works and their associated mounds.

There are other evidences of great antiquity in the condition of many
of the granite and porphyry implements being honeycombed by the
disintegration of their feldspar, leaving the silicious portions rough
890 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

and projecting. Celts and fleshers made of the carboniferous limestones
have the silex skeletons of their fossils sharp and clearly marked. (

From the location at the first ripple of the Sabine as a fishing point,
the proximity of the salt-licks for the larger game, no doubt the place
was frequented, if not permanently occupied, by the last of the Indians
in this section, who have left their stone implements scattered broad-
cast over the country. They had lost value by the introduction of the
nailers iron points, the rifle, knives, and the usual stock of the Indian
trader. Had not this paper extended far beyond my original intent,
I could give an accumulation of evidence of the rapid decline in the art
of flaking stone.

From a mechanical stand-point, it is hard, if not impossible, to recon-
cile the accepted evolution of works of the stone age from flaked to
ground and polished implements. It is true that specimens are found
in all stages of progress from rough flake to polished implements in
America as wellas in Europe. But here in America, where the true flint
is absent, a greater range of stone has been resorted to, and what we
find flaked and afterwards ground and polished are mostly cutting tools,
such as chisels, gouges, &c., of chert, jasper, or fine-grained quartzite
that will maintain a keen cutting.edge.

For axes, either plain or grooved, the water-worn pebbles of greenstone,
granite, or porphyry bave mostly been selected. For fleshers, softer
Stones are common, such as limestone of various qualities, steatite, oc-
casionally cannel coal, and the harder shales of the coal measures have
been used for these wedge-shaped implements. But let the material be
what it may, the pecking with a hard stone on a water-worn pebble, often
found nearly of the required shape, to modify and bring it to a cutting-
edge ready for grinding, by simply rubbing with sand and water on a
flat stone, only required labor, patience, and perseverance, but not the
knowledge and skill requisite to split off the flakes, nor the judgment,
steady hand, and correct eye to shape them into the exquisitely sym-
metrical forms we find them.

J am not writing on or questioning the evidence of the antiquity of
man, but simply on the instruments and tools he would naturally resort
to, in his primitive state, to sustain life when depending for food, on
the waters for fish, the earth for fruits, seeds, nuts, and roots, and on
the chase for animals, not only for food, but, what was most essential
for his comfort, skins for clothing, sinews, bone, and horn for innumer-
able uses. With the aid of a sharpened pebble (stone ax) he could at-
tack a forest tree, and by the aid of fire shape its wood to his uses.
Most probably scraping came in advance of cutting, and what could be
better adapted for this purpose than the sharp edges of fractured flint
pebbles ?

With the wooden bow and arrow arose the necessity for an arrow-
point harder than wood. If bone was used, the pebble scraper was es-
sential. The river drift or gravel bars, when subjected to the grinding

OBSERVATIONS ON STONE-CHIPPING. S91

and crushing action of drift-logs or rolling bowlders, would furnish many
suggestive forms and shapes that a little ingenuity would apply, and
out of which would naturally grow the art of flaking.

The streets of Paducah, Ky., are paved with partly rounded, angular,
silicious gravel, mostly of jasper. Seeing heaps of this ready for spread-
ing, I was struck by the many forms, mostly highly water polished, that
if found on a flaking ground would pass for refuse flakes and rubbish
left by the workmen.

On inguiry I was informed that this coarse gravel was from banks
on the Tennessee River above the ordinary overflows. I selected many
forms that any archeologist would pronounce to be the work of man.

A heavy wagon, loaded. with hogsheads of tobacco, drawn by five or
six yoke of oxen, passed over the tresh-spread gravel with a sharp,
crushing, grinding sound. On examining the wheel tracks I was sur-
prised to find the slight impression the iron tire had made on the sur-
face stones. They had been pressed aside from the wheels, leaving a
slight rut, those under the wheels compressed together, but very little
broken; not sufficient to account for the sharp, crackling noise made as
the wagon-wheels passed over them. On examining the effect from the
tread of the wheels to the old road-bed, a depth of about 6 inches, I
found most of the larger gravel stones under the top layer split, some into
flakes, the fractures in various directions, some crossing others. This
spread from the width of the wheel-tires to about three times as wide
on the old road-bed. Many of the fresh fractures presented the forms
and appearance of genuine cores, and would be mistaken for the work
of man. It was a beautiful illustration of the effect of pressure on small
points of contact. Our lady friends, often inveterate iced-tea drinkers,
when they find a lump of ice too large for their glass, will, with a com-
mon toilet-pin between thumb and finger, press its point into the ice, tap
its head with the handle of a case-knife, or give it a click with a thimble.
The cohesion is destroyed and the ice splits with just such a fracture
as is made by impulsive point pressure on the more tenacious and re-
factory chert.

These Paducah observations led to considerable investigation as to
the action of lodged drift-logs on gravel-bars, and finally to an experi-
ment that I should recommend the Smithsonian Institution to try on
more extensive scale than I was able to.

I filled a metal cylinder with pebbles of various sizes and shapes,
brought a pressure by a screw on them through a plunger; immediately
a crepitating sound was heard, which as the pressure increased became
sharper and louder, at times almost explosive, as the interstices became
filled with broken fragments, producing side pressure and eross fract-
ures. The sound became more confused and died away. On emptying
the cylinder, the result was many representations of the rude imple-
ments found in the drift.
892 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

COPPER IMPLEMENTS FROM BAYFIELD, WISCONSIN.
By Colonel CHARLES WHITTLESEY, of Cleveland, Ohio.

In grading the streets of Bayfield, Wis., about the year 1864, the
workmen found a copper implement in the gravel. The accompanying
figure, one-half the natural size, will give some idea of the shape and
character of the specimen (Figure 1). A
is an upright outline or elevation, with
the concave surface toward the rear. B
is a top view or plan of the implement
as seen from above, and C a vertical or
longitudinal section through the middle
at the dotted line ¢ d. The irregular
space ee shows a flaw in the metal.

the United States and Canada of about
the same outline, but generally the blade
or flat part is much larger in proportion
to the shank or socket. Where the two
a parts are equal they are regarded as
Rie th spades. One described by Mr. Squier in
“Ancient Monuments,” taken from a sepulchral deposit near Brookville,
Canada, is about 10 inches in length. It could be used in digging by
inserting a handle several feet in length, with a notch or ofiset for the
foot near the bottom.

Those with the short bit may have been spades worn out by use.
Their edges are generally sharp, as though they had been used to cut
wood or some other hard substance. After they were well worn as
spades they could be turned into an adze by inserting a crotch, with
the plane of the blade at right angle with the plane of the handle, or
into an ax by making the planes coincide.

Lound te 1866 ow Presgue Ist. one of the Apostle
Group Lake Superior: on the Surtice.

Section at 6.6.

Seckion atl a.a.

Copper Knife trom Baytield, Wésconsin,

PIE. 2

Figure 2 represents a copper knife (half-size) found on Presque Isle,
one of the Apostle Group of Lake Superior, in 1866. It was lying on :

Several have been found elsewhere in q

ae

ANCIENT REMAINS IN OHIO. 893

the surface of the ground, and is now in the possession of Mrs. KE. M.
Haywood, of Bayfield, Wis. The thickness near the ends is shown by
the cross-sections at aa@ and at bb.

Seeltow at a@.a.

ce
Copper Cutting toot trom tinite River, Minn.
Fic. 3.

Figure 3 represents a copper cutting tool from Knife River, on the
northwest shore of Lake Superior, Minnesota. It was found in 1865,
and is now in the collection of the Western Reserve and Northern His-
torical Society of Cleveland, Ohio. It was evidently cold-hammered,
and the surface is rough from corrosion.

ANCIENT REMAINS IN OHIO.
By Jk: MacLean, of Hamilton, Ohio.

Works near Winchester, Adams County, Ohio.—Winchester Township
is located in the extreme northwestern corner of Adams County, Ohio.
The terminal moraine of the great ice age enters the township at the
northeastern corner, extends diagonally across it, and passes out at the

southwestern extremity. The township, for agricultural purposes, is
the richest in the county. The soil, for the most part, is poor, known
as cold clay, and the surface broken by the tributaries of Brush Creek.

North of the village of Winchester, a distance of one-half mile, is a
series of circular works, which for fifty or more years have been plowed
over. Near the center of these works is a mound (A) (Plan 1) 8 feet

_D f
A B

yw,

as" Wry

1
% RZ 772

Mz
ee
SS

rie

Ft

z a
7AW =

My,

&

7
i“
‘YD

Uy
7,
\\

atl
ya
“iw

s

3

SP
wir

sya

RY

“yy,
My

SS
PATS

1411/1
rarer

Wd,
UZ

ee
7)
“it

4.
Gi

MUL

\y

\

“i
774i

Nit

nw
te

Plan lhl Rematis near Winchester AdamsCo, O.
S94 PAPERS RELATING TO- ANTHROPOLOGY.

high, conical in form, which has never been disturbed by the plow
From the top to the bottom on the east side is 50 feet; from top to cir-
cumference on north side 48 feet. Kast of this mound (a dD), a distance
of 172 feet,is the circle B. The wall is almost level with the surround-
ing surface, although from 6 inches to 1 foot high along the line g bh.
The remaining part of the work is difficult to trace. The gateway can-
not now be located, although it is said to have faced the east. South
of the mound (c @), a distance of 175 feet, was formerly another circle (C),
but no trace of it exists at the present time.

West of the mound (ef), a distance of 540 feet, is the circle D, 150
feet in diameter. This work presents a wall averaging from 10 to 15
inches in height with a ditch in the interior. I was unable to locate
a gateway.

When first discovered these works were covered with forest trees.
The walls averaged 5 feet in height. The material is composed of clay
of the same kind as that in the immediate vicinity. The mound has
never been opened. The spot is level, and appears to have been well
chosen. Following are the measurements:

(A.) Conical mound, 8 feet high; east to top, 50 feet ; north to top, 48
feet.

(B.) Circle 172 feet east of mound. Circle 510 feet in circumference.

(C.) Obliterated circle 175 feet south of mound.

(D.) Circle 540 feet west of mound. Circle 150 feet diameter.

One mile and a quarter north of these works, located on a high point
of ground, is a mound (Entry No. 3, Map b) removed a few rods west of
the Hillsboro’ turnpike. The mound is conical, 14 feet in height, with
a circumference of 250 feet at the base. Original height, 20 feet; solid
contents, 2,098 cubic yards. From its summit a fine view of the country
may be obtained.

On Entry No. 8 (see map) is a small mound (ce) 3 feet in height.

Works in Eagle Township, Brown County, Ohio.—Eagle Township
(see map) is bounded on the north by Highland County (White Oak
and Concord Townships); on the east by Adams County (Winchester
Township); on the south by Jackson Township, and on the west by
Washington Township. The general surface is comparatively level,
although the west fork of Brush Creek has made a deep valley running
from west to east. Some of the tributaries of this stream have formed
deep ravines. Where these ravines have cut through the glacial till
the Hudson River blue limestone is exposed, save in one spot (see map
Z, entry 398), I noticed Clinton strata.

The ancient remains located on entries 398 and 1316, in company with
Prof. J. W. Fertig, I measured, May 16, 1885 (see Plan 2). The mound
A is located on the line between Brown and Adams Counties. It is
located on a knoll, several of which occur in the immediate vicinity.
It is difficult to tell just where the base of the mound begins. If the

place [ assumed to. be the base is the correct one then the mound is 328 ,
ANCIENT REMAINS IN OHIO. 895

NZ

aS —+——

WA SU

ety

y PAN
MUNIN HLS TTL Paquetes Ae “wr wis

NN TA TIN USL

OUTER

NIV PAU IDDRU I PRULAD Wy,

vity, rey
RTARTA TTR

Ullal); alll,
NTI RLU RLLLORG LT ORULOR SLae

My

WE “iu ii
xt sis Spiddal
sq ys08

WH) A/T " 0 eT
le laws

ppoullee

TAN
Y
cgi REAR M\

WN ili NU ais ji" ij, sxbilinss

OX tl x Hine
N Sy (Wha Zs
SS <\t TN Nt
SH N Vy
Siw Bey

NOH SHINS:

a uN Ny HIN

ACN
iia iil
iki Wy NOY),
Ly MN) Ni
Ni AUN RUIN RS

ay,
“usm yg

WH, uli
NVANUUISS

aqua” a

up RUST ECLA e
=
a

WANT)

4 A
Hin'y
a Tj);
ANU

| Ne iyy

MWY, yr Nays

Aly

Mp ey 97

Plaw #2. remectws-tn Hagle Tp., Browy Go: 0.

S
>
2
=
>
896 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY:

feet in circumference; from northwest base to top, 70 feet, angle 11°;
southeast to top, 44 feet, angle 15°; solid contents, 1,533 cubic yards;
height, 144 feet. A view of the country to the southeast is here pre-
sented.

Measuring due west and passing through two deep ravines we come
to fort (B), striking it at a, and removed from the mound a distance of
1,970 feet. This work is entirely surrounded by deep ravines, save a-
narrow strip of land at the north. That part of the wall marked pch
degis in woodland. From p toh the wall is about 18 inches high ;
from h to d not over 12 inches, while from e to git will average 32 inches.
A ditch in the interior extends from ¢ to h, also from e tog. The highest
point of land is at p, thence the wall extends rapidly down the ravine
until it is almost level with the bottom at s, thence it rapidly rises to
e, then declines to g. From g to a the wall is entirely obliterated, that
part of the work having been under cultivation for the past forty years.
From e to b is a gradual ascent, the distance being 985 feet. The dis-
tance from a to 6 to ¢ to dis 1,291 feet; from d to e 75 feet, and from e
to g 130 feet; from a to b 300 feet, and from a direct to ¢ 400 feet;
from the point c (B) we started directly west a distance of 1,875 feet,
as we measured it. This number must not be relied upon as being cor-
rect. Owing to the density of the underbrush on the west side of the
ravine we were forced to deviate from a straight line, but the result
Was as near aS we could reach it without cutting a straight path. At
the end of the distance measured, and between two small ravines, on
a piece of land sloping to the southeast, is an are of a circle (C) 288 feet
in length. The wall has been plowed over for fifty years, yet is 2 feet
in height, with a base 20 feet in diameter, and accompanied by a ditch
in the interior.

Measuring westward 1,993 feet, and through open grounds compara-
tively level, we reach the mound #. ‘This mound is 332 feet in cireum-
ference at the base ; from north side to top, 44 feet; from south side to
top, 44 feet; across the top, 21 feet; slope angle, 34 degrees; height,
244 feet ; solid contents, 2,516 cubic yards. It is perfectly symmetri-
cal; commands a fine view of the surrounding country ; has never been
disturbed by plow, pick, or shovel, and is one of the most beautiful
mounds in the State. It is surrounded by a circle 160 feet in diameter.
The circle, however, is plowed almost down to the general level of the
surface. There are indications of a gateway at the east. At a dis-
tance of 640 feet southeast of the mound is the circle D, 865 feet in
circumference. The original height of the wall was 10 feet. It is now
about 2 feet, and 40 feet in diameter at the base. The gateway is to-
wards the northeast.

Due north of the mound a distance of about 300 feet was a walled
well. The history of this well is not known; it was there when the first
Settlers came. It has been filled up, and now plowed over.

The whole distance from the foot of the mound A to that of H, as

measured, is 6,526 feet.
difference between the two opposite figures is 118 feet.

897

The figures run 1,970, 1,875, and 1,993. The
The average

ANCIENT REMAINS IN OHIO.

distance would be 1,946 feet, while the average of all, including works

not given, 2,175.

It is more than probable that some system in these

measurements was followed.

we

mai slldbesssiy Ny, ally

Mey ;
TTT SUNIL yyy);
Wi/joue
is

Gia, silyy,

7771

AWA

My,
Hi Mar

ny My din,
My Mdlay 2
‘Mmmm
NTRS: |
se

4
AD
Mp,

TAF
()
CATR RTP RL NLL coe

FEOMIMA

we

3

S

=
>
>

TW Ip
His NIN? AY Ae {sre 3 “ifs UW mis 7 AL eee Ynn,
SE

YSt2aA
Wy

of

e,
My,
%

in a Aan, lyse

Ancient remains in Concord Township, Highland County, Ohio.—Three
and one-half miles northeast of the mound A (Plan 2) are ancient re-
mains (see Plan 3) located on Entry 281, Concord Township, Highland
County, Ohio. The spot where these works occur is a secluded one.
Great west fork of Brush Creek makes a bend almost at right angles.
The land slopes from the northeast. Before reaching the creek a bench
is met, upon which these works are built. No view can here be obtained
of the surrounding country, because it is literally hemmed in by hills.
The most interesting work is the stone structure marked 6 (Plan 3).
The entire wall, except from a to e, is composed of Hudson River lime-
The stone has been burnt, and for a long period exposed to the

stone.
H. Mis, 16——57
898 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

elements. ‘The wall has been thrown down, yet its regularity 1s perfectly
preserved. The following are the measurements: From a to e (inside
to inside of wall), 32 feet; 5b to d (inside to inside of wall), 32 feet; b to
c, 125 feet; e to d to ¢, 165 feet; a to b to ¢, 165 feet; thickness of wall
across base at c, 21 feet ; thickness of wall across base at k, 24 feet; also
same at p. Height of stone wall, 2 feet. From a to e the wall is com-
posed of earth, is 8 inches in height and 7 feet in breadth. The floor
on the interior of this work is perfectly level.

Fifty-two feet due north-east of this work is a section of a circle (A).
The wall has been plowed over, and will not average over 1 foot in
height by 22 feet across. The distance from g to f, following the curve,
is 225 feet, and on a straight line 130 feet.

Two hundred and eighty-five feet due east of a (B) is a mound 3 feet
high and 22 feet diameter.

At a distance of one-fourth of a mile northeast of (A) is another mound
located upon a hill, but not having a commanding view of the country,
nor of the works just described.

It is fair to assume that the works near Winchester, those of Eagle
Township, and the ones just described, belonged to the same people.
There is no evidence that they were constructed in different ages and
by different people. The nearness of the structures to each other, and
their evidently unfinished condition point to the same time and the same
people. On a straight line some 6 or 8 miles east is the Great Serpent
Mound. This is removed a distance of about 5 miles from “Fort Hill,”
in Brush Creek Township, Highland County, Ohio. This work has
been figured and described * in “ Ancient Monuments,” with the addi-
tional information that “no other remains, except perhaps a few small,
scattered mounds, in its vicinity.” Near the southern foot of the hill
upon which the fort is located is a series of circular works, now almost
obliterated. :

It is a fair assumption that the builders of *‘ Fort Hill” and the circles
near it belonged to a clan separate, yet related to the one that con-
structed the works near Winchester.

Now, the so-called “serpent efligy” is composed of a frog, an egg, and
a serpent. Why may not one of these clans have been the frog, and
the other the serpent, or snake; and the series of the effigies represent
that the snake clan came from the frog?

Ancient remains in Clarke County, Ohio.—On May 23, 1885, in com-
pany with Prof. J. W. Freeman, I visited the works located on the land
of Benjamin Newlove, section 29, Harmony Township, Clarke County,
Ohio. When these works were first discovered only saplings were grow-
ing upon them. The works are situated on the side of a hill descending
towards the northeast (see Plan 4). The larger work is oblong, the
longest diameter being 320 feet, and the transverse 250 feet. The gate-
way a b is 33 feet; the entire wall is 821 feet long; the wall at dis 7 feet

* “Ancient Monuments,” page 14.

\
f
7
ANCIENT REMAINS IN OHIO. 899

8 inches high; at a and b) 4 feet high, and 25 feet wide at the base. The
width at c, 38 feet; at the same point the ditch is also 38 feet across.

mas C
Wit,
Ne
Oe
Sia
Wy SEB -B SSE illu,
Yoga NOS
fee JA Gi at MNS YY \\ da? |
ZY \
SG ge LD) ies a eetthisseas>
CLS SO
CLZANS es
WLI; 5S Z SS RSX > fe re
GZASS A Og
“GEG ASE &
GEES SS Va Rs SN S&S
SASS Ra
Eig SNK
Yi
LE ZY) \

Zi TNS

PL

The land at ¢ is 15 feet higher than the land at the gateway. The ditch
is in the interior, extending the whole distance around save at the gate-
way. Here the land is perfectly level. The ditch does not touch the
embankment. <A platform averaging 4 feet across follows between the
line of embankment and the ditch.

By the side of the work (A) is the circle (B). From the bank of one
to that of the other at the nearest point is 34 feet. The bank is 560
900 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

fect in circumference, to which is to be added 45 feet for the gateway
gh. The wall is 5 feet high, with a diameter at the base of 25 feet.
The work is accompanied by an interior ditch, which, however, does
not extend across the gateway. Between the interior foot of the em-
bankment and the ditch is a platform 20 feet in width.

One hundred and forty feet north of the small circle is a circular es-
tufa, walled with small bowlders. Forty fect still farther north is a
spring of clear cold water, which has never been known to fail.

A PRIMITIVE STOREHOUSE OF THE CREEK INDIANS.
By CHARLES C. JONES, Jr., of Agusta, Georgia.

In his description of the customs of the ancient inhabitants of Virginia,
William Strachey* says: ‘Their corne and, indeed, their copper
hatchetts, howses, beades, perle and most things with them of value,
according to their own estymacion, they hide, one from the Knowledge
of another, in the grownd within the woodes, and so keepe them all the
yeure, or untill they have fitt use for them, as the Romans did their
monies and treasure in certaine cellars, called therefore as Plinye remem-
bers, favisse; and when they take them forth they scarse make their
women privie to the store-house.”

In plate xxii of the Brevis Narratio [Fraucoforti ad Moenum MDXxC1],
le Moyne de Morgues furnishes a drawing of what, in the accompany-
ing text, is called a publicum horreum. It is situated upon the low bank
of a river, and toward it canoes—filled with corn and fruits, and pro-
pelled by Florida Indians—are tending. Such granaries or public recep-
tacles were, by the peoples dwelling within the limits of the extensive
domain then known as Florida, built of stones or earth, and roofed with
palmetto leaves and clay. For their location cool spots were selected,
where protection was found against the violent rays of the sun. They
served as depositories for maize, fruits, nuts, nutricious roots, dried
fishes, alligators, deer, dogs, and other jerked meats. Hoards of corn,
nuts, and meat are frequently mentioned in the early narratives as ex-
istent among the primitive peoples of this region at the time of primat
contact with Europeans. They were both public and private.

In alluding to the agricultural occupations of the Southern Indians
Mr. Bartram observes: ‘ When the fruits of their labors are ripe and in
fit order to gather in, they all, on they same day, repair to the planta-
tion, each gathers the produce of his own proper lot, brings it to town,
and deposits it in his own crib, allotting a certain portion for the public
granary which is called the King’s crib because its contents are at his

* History of Travaile into Virginia, p. 113. London. (Printed for the Hakluyt
Society, 1849.)

CREEK INDIAN REPOSITORY. 901

disposal, though not his private property, but considered as the tribute
or free contribution of the citizens of the State at the disposal of the
King.” He further states that the common or public granary served
the valuable purposes of assisting the needy when in sore want, of fur-
nishing entertainment for strangers and noted guests, and of supplying
warriors with provisions when they were setting out on hostile expe-
ditions.

That the American Indians often concealed in the ground and in se-
cure receptacles not only the products of their agricultural labor and
trophies of the chase, but also objects manufactured of clay, shell, and
stone, is a fact capable of easy demonstration. Without enumerating
the proofs, or pausing to cite authorities in support of the frequent use
by the Southern Indians in the sixteenth century of storehouses, both
public and private, we desire to call attention to the existence of one
of these primitive structures upon the plantation of Colonel Seaborn
Jones, at Mill Haven, in Screven County, Georgia. For quite a century
it has remained unchanged. It is located upon the declivity of the
right bank of Briar Creek, in proximity to that stream, and in the midst
of a beautiful forest of oak, holly, and pine. Cylindrical in shape, this
receptacle has a diameter of 8 feet, and is about 6 feet deep. The ex-
cavation in the ground was at first carefully and regularly made and,
when completed, the sides and bottom were covered with a uniform
layer of well-kneaded red clay 4 inches in thickness. These clay walls,
the interior surface of which was pressed hard and smooth, are still
quite perfect. As one looks upon the struccure, it presents the appear-
ance of a huge cylindrical terra-cotta vessel let into the earth. There
is some indication of the action of fire in hardening the walls. To
Briar Creek, and especially to this neighborhood, did the Creek Indians
resort to fish and hunt. The adjacent bluffs and fields give token to
the present day of former and long-continued occupancy. Village sites
may still be seen littered with fragments of earthen vessels, flint chips,
spear and arrow points, grooved axes, scrapers, and other objects of
primitive manufacture. Even now this stream abounds in fishes, tur-
tles, and alligators, and the swamp, at an early period, was filled with
deer, wild turkeys, and other game held in repute by the natives.

Doubtless, during the use of this receptacle, it was furnished with a
roof or covering which long since perished. It is probable that in it
were stored, from time to time, the fishes caught by visiting Indians.
These, having been previously dried, there accumulated until the sea-
son arrived for the homeward journey, where they were removed and
transported to the permanent lodges of their captors. It is hoped that
care will be exercised in the preservation of this interesting object.
902 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

SHELL HEAPS AND MOUNDS IN FLORIDA.

By JAMES SHEPARD, of New Britain, Conn.

In February, 1884, in company with Dr. F. H. Williams, of Bristol,
Conn., I visited Palatka. Many walks about the town were covered
with small snail shells which were gathered from large deposits in that
vicinity. It was a common belief that these were marine shells; and
frequent was the inquiry why the Indians brought these shells from
the distant sea. The answer is, “‘ They did not,” for the shells are mostly,
those of the river snail, Vivipara contectoides (Binney). Several of
whom I inquired thought that like specimens of live shells could not
be found near Palatka. In this opinion they are probably mistaken.
On being informed that there was a shell heap on the Saint John’s River
a few miles below Palatka, four of us started out the next morning to
explore the land in that vicinity. Late in the afternoon one of our
party discovered a shell heap. It was on low ground, in the woods or
hummock, probably not far from the Saint John’s River, although the
river was not visible. It was literally a heap, quite irregular in form,
covering three or four square rods of ground and varying in depth from
2 to 5 feet. It was just such a heap as one would expect a pile of débris
to be. There were no indications that any shells had been removed or
that the heap had ever been dug into. On the surface the shells were
bat little broken, and the entire heap appeared to be composed of two
kinds of shells, the Pomus depressa (Say) and Vivipara contectoides
(Binney). By digging below the surface, pieces of river mussels or
Unios were found, very much decomposed and covering the other shells
with a nacreous paste. Bones of small animals and birds and flint chips
were numerous, with many pieces of pottery and an occasional arrow-
head. There were only a few shells in the entire heap of any genera
other than the Pomus, Vivipara, and Unio.

On sailing up the Saint John’s River we saw several shell heaps on
the banks of the river apparently of the same general character, only
some of them were much more extensive. We stopped only at Sanford,
and there found a shell heap a mile or two below the steamboat land-
ing. This was much larger than the Palatka mound and spread irregu-
larly over the ground. Shells had been carted away from here and
the heap dug into in many places by relic hunters. All of the shells
were of the same three kinds, Pomus, Vivipara, and Unio. The shells
at the surface were very much crushed, indicating that they had been
much trodden on. Many pieces of pottery were scattered about over
the surface, and others were found by digging. Arrowheads and flint
chips were infrequent. In some places indications of ancient fires were
found, the shells being burned and firmly cemented together. Below
the layer of cemented shells and ashes the shells were found in a
remarkable degree of preservation, some of the Vivipara showing the

MOUNDS IN FLORIDA. 903

four bright brown bands about the body-whorl quite as distinctly as in
the day when they were taken from the water. Others seemed to have
changed their substance, and were white and glossy with a porcelanous
appearance. Here, too, we found a lump of hardened red paint.
Some pieces of pottery were perfectly plain, while others were orna-
mented in various patterns both by scratching and by depressions.
Some of the checkered ornamentations seemed to have been made by
repeated impressions with a stamp, such as would be produced by
making channels in a flat surface at regular distances apart and at
right angles to each other, and then, in using the stamp, turning it
between each two impressions so as to make the lines in one depression
stand obliquely to those of the adjoining one. At the junction of two
such depressions the overlapping or intermingled lines were plainly
visible. One piece was ornamented by straight parallel depressions,
and then, after the depressing implement was withdrawn and while the
clay was yet soft, other depressions were made transversely to the first
ones, but not so deep, the ribs between the first depressions being
flattened down on the cross-lines and partially filling the first depressions.
One piece was found of such an arc, that supposing it was from a round
vessel the diameter of said vessel was 29 inches.

Near this shell heap were two mounds of symmetrical shape, formed
mostly of earth, but partly from shells like those in the heap. The
earth was the same as the surrounding soil. These had been dug into
considerably, and on digging farther into one of the holes we found the
leg and foot bones of a human skeleton, but no implements or orna-
ments.

In returning we found by a ditch on the flats of the St. John’s River,
a smaller shell heap of fresh shells, but not thick enough to cover the
ground. ‘The shells were identically of the same three kinds. The fresh
operculum lying by these shells showed that they had recently been taken
alive, and that their meat had been picked out by some small animal.

The long-billed curlew (Numenius longirostris) is said to eat the live ani
mal from these shells. These shells were of great interest to me for they
put atrest all speculation as to where the Indians obtained their supply
of food, of which the shell heaps are the refuse, and proved to my mind
that they took their shell-fish from the river whose bank they have lined
with shell heaps, and also that the same species of mollusks are living
there to-day. Undoubtedly this fact has been noted and published be-
fore, but there are many who still believe that the shell heaps of the
St. John’s River are composed of marine shells. When we consider the
resemblance of the Pomus to the Natica, itis not strange that such opin-
ions may be formed by a cursory observer.

Our nextstop wasat Tampa, Hillsborough County, and our first excur-
sion was to Rocky Point, Old Tampa Bay, about 5 or 6 miles westerly
- from Tampa, near where the salt works were located during the civil
war. Here was a large mound of marine shells situated at the base of
\

904 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

the point and extending entirely across it. Oyster shells formed the
major part of the pile. Several holes had been dug into the surface
which, with the general appearance of the place, indicated that it had
frequently been visited. The rocks of which the point is mainly formed

-and from which the point was named, consists of fossil coral. The ma-
terial for many of the rough implements found in this vicinity evidently
came from this point.

Most of the surface specimens yielded by this heap were found at or
near the base of the slanting sides of the pile. In addition to arrow-
heads, scrapers and rough-shaped implements of quartz, we found
pottery and quite a variety of shell and bone implements, the latter
being entirely new to us. Among these were several celts quite similar
to those illustrated in “The Archeological Collection,” p. 67, figs. 254
and 255, also chisels, gouges, pendants, and beads made from the colu-
mella of large shells, and smaller chisels made from bone, besides other
rough pieces which we suppose were implements of some kind. One
piece of pottery was ornamented with impressions of a long spiral shell
of the genera Cerithum. Near by we found large numbers of live speci-
mens of this shell, some of which quite closely fitted the depressions in
this piece of pottery.

On the land of Colonel Culbreath, about 2 miles from Tampa, and on
the shore of Old Taminpa Bay, is what is termed a “shell hummock.”
It is cultivated as an orange grove and a market garden. It was prob-
ably once an immeuse shell heap, but now it is scattered over several
acres. A little to one side of the center of the lot the ground is slightly
elevated and nearly or quite half of the surface material is shell. From
this point the shells are less numerous, as they are spread out in all di-
rections, growing gradually less until the soil is free from them. Here
we found an abundance of quartz implements and worked pieces of ill-
shaped forms, that might or might not have been intended for imple-
ments. Others were of fossil coral limestone, like the coral at Rocky
Point farther up the bay. Some pieces of the quartz and coral were
nearly spherical, the whole (in some cases only a part) of the surface
having been formed by chipping. Perhaps, in the absence of natural
pebbles in this section, these had been worked out for use as a substi-
tute; perhaps to use as club heads, incased with rawhide. We found
rough and somewhat rounded pieces of fossil coral with pit-holes on
opposite sides, and a single piece of soapstone, about one and a half inch
in diameter by half an inch thick, but its surface was not worked suf-
ficiently to show its use. I refer to it only because it is a material which
has not to my knowledge ever been found in nature within several hun-
dred miles of South Florida.

Of shell and bone implements we found all the kinds collected at
Rocky Point, celts, gouges, pendants, beads, and also the columella of
small conchs, worked into small round shafts pointed at each end.
Some of the columella of the larger conchs were worked to a point on
one end. ‘There were triangular and other shaped pieces of the shells

MOUNDS IN FLORIDA. 905

of the common hard-shell clam worked to a sharp edge on all sides.
One spoon was made from the umbo of one of these clam shells, another
from the outer whorl of some large conch. We also found beads made
from the Oliva literata, as illustrated by fig. 260, p. 69, “The Archzo-
logical Collection,” and large couch shells, perforated and worked to
form club heads. Some were minus the hole in posterior surface of the
spire, but were otherwise exactly like those described by Dr. Rau on
page 66 of said book. A friend of mine has a similar supposed club
head from South llorida, consisting of a like conch shell worked in the
same manner at the small end and perforated by two holes in the outer
wall, but without the notch in the outer lip, so that the handle passed
to the right of the columella instead of at the left. The necklace or
bead conchs having two holes and truncated at the apex like fig. 257,
p. 69, we also found, and it was the first time our attention had ever been
called to them. We wondered if they might have been toy club heads
for children, but Dr. Rau’s book informed us otherwise. In most of
these shells the perforations have been so formed that when strung and
disposed about a person’s neck or chest, the lips and the most brightly
colored parts of the shell would be exposed to view. One small disk
from a hard clam shell having ragged edges and a beveled perforation
in the center was found. The hole was almost identical with those
made by boring worms and shells, and one person who saw it was con-
fident that this was only an accidentally broken piece having such a
worm-bored hole. Upon having his attention called to the fact that
the bevel was at the inner surface of the shell, he was willing to accredit
the supposed work of a worm to an Indian. I mention this to show the
importance of close observation and how a very little thing may often
decide a question. A workman in the field informed us that he often
plowed out parts of shells that had been engraved. We visited the
hummock several times but found nothing of the kind. At last the
workman found one and showed me. It was nothing but a plain un-
worked columella with the outer whorls broken off undesignedly. He
had mistaken the natural spiral lines for carvings. This is about as
reliable as the information one can get from those who have never paid
special attention to archeological specimens. Fragments of pottery of
various patterns were abundant here. The shells were all marine shells
excepting such land shells as had probably found their own way to that
place.

By Hillsboro’ Bay, at the mouth of the Alifia River, several miles be
low Tampa, is a shell heap called “ Bull Frog Mound,” so named from
the fancied resemblance of its shape to a bull frog when viewed from
the water in sailing up the bay. This is by far the most extensive shell
heap of any that we visited. It is formed of two mound-shape piles at
considerable distance apart, while all the ground between these piles
is covered with shells to the depth of several feet. The larger pile is
reported to be 60 feet high and stands close to the river; in fact the
shells extend well down into the river as if filled in beyond the original
906 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

bank, so that the mound itself, at this point, now forms the river bank.
A large oak tree stands at the very summit of the mound. ‘The lesser
pile has been considerably reduced by burning the shells for lime. In
front of the mound, looking towards the bay, is a point consisting of a
flat salt marsh covered with rushes. The mound is composed largely
of oyster shells and appears to have been frequently visited of late.
Relies were scarce, and those we did find were of the same class as we
had found before. The only relics which could be found here in num-
bers were the small perforated and truncated conchs for necklaces or
beads.

Bordering on the city limits of Tampa, Hillsboro’ Bay, and the mouth
of Hillsboro’ River, is the garrison called ‘ Fort Brooke.” Here are two
ancient earth mounds which have been dug into considerably, but we
could not learn that anything of special value had ever been found. On
the ground about the mounds we found bits of pottery, flint chips, a
few arrow heads and roughimplements. I here found a genuine quartz
pebble, about 2 inches in diameter, round and flat, with its edges
broken a little on two opposite sides. This was the only specimen of a
pebble that I saw in Florida, and I pronounced it a foreigner.

All of the marine shells which we saw at these South Florida shell-
heaps corresponded with the live species now inhabiting the waters of
that section. All of the stone implements or fragments, except the
piece of soap-stone and quartz pebble before noted, corresponded with
the limestone, or the lime fossil coral, or the silicified corals, &c., of that
region, the latter, so far as I know, being found only in Hillsboro’ Bay,
and mostly at Ballast Point, about 5 miles below Tampa. In fact all
of the arrow heads from South Florida that I have observed appear to
have been made of material obtained at or near Ballast Point. Here
are many Ssilicified geodes, both large and small, some having an outer
surface that shows a coral formation, while the inner surface is of vari-
ous bright colors of chalcedony or drusy quartz. Here also are pieces of
cherty flint of considerable size, which, when they have not been previ
ously broken, are coated with limestone. The beach at low tide is lit
erally covered with quartz that has been artificially broken. Many ap-
parently unfinished implements are found, and also occasionally finished
arrow heads, scrapers, &c. Arrow and spear heads were made from
the thin flattish sides of geodes, so that the work was much more haz-
ardous than making them from thicker stock. Cavities were numerous
even in the best material found here, and presumably for that reason
unfinished implements are very numerous in this vicinity. While in
many places the beach abounds in stone, I have never known of any
having been found, in nature, upon the inland surface.

A little back from the beach at Ballast Point is a long ridge of shells,
much broken, as if washed up by the tide. There are, however (the
facts before noted), plenty of evidences that this was ground formerly
frequented by the Indians, and many believe this ridge of shells to be
the remains of an Indian shell heap.

ON ETHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 907

ANCIENT EARTH-WORKS IN CHINA.
By Mark WIu1ams, of Kalgan, China.

From Kalgan to Yticho are ancient mounds in cluster on the plain or
singly on eminences. These latter would indicate signal towers, while
the former would suggest tombs. They are about 30 feet bigh, circular
and oval in shape, and no arrangement can be observed in the clusters.

At the base of a signal mound by the great wallof Kalgan I found
a stone ax.

The Chinese give no rational explanation of these mounds. I have
_ as yet found no mention of them in ancient records. At Yiicho, 100 miles
south of Kalgan, is a cluster of forty mounds; 4 miles off are ruins of a
city wall. Chinese cities have rectangular walls, with towers at short
intervals. But this is a circular embankment with no remains of towers.
The part of the remaining entrance is unlike the gate of a Chinese city.
Records state that this was the seat of a Chinese prince who lived B. c.
200. In some places the wall is levelled, in other places it is perfect,
making an acute angle at the summit. Cultivation has narrowed the
bases of the mounds, but superstition prevents their destruction. To
one familiar with the works of the mound builders in the Mississippi
Valley, the stone ax, the mounds, circular wall, suggest a similar race.

PLAN FOR AMERICAN ETHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION.

By the late HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAFT.

[The following programme, though never officially adopted by the
Smithsonian Institution, embodies the result of much study of the sub-
ject by the distinguished author ; and even after the lapse of forty years
possesses sufficient interest and suggestiveness to justify its publica-
tion. |

“ Plan for. the investigation of American ethnology, to include the facts
derived from other parts of the globe, and the eventual formation of a mu-
seum of antiquities and the peculiar fabrics of nations ; and also the collec-
tion of a library of the philology of the world, manuscript and printed.
Submitted to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, at their
Jirst meeting, at Washington, in September, 1846.”

NEw YorK, August 22, 1846.
GENTLEMEN: In laying before you the following suggestions, I am
governed by the opinion that there is a means of investigation of the
subject proposed, which possesses general interest as a branch of human
knowledge, and cannot but be invested with peculiar force to men of
letters dwelling on the western continent. ‘The origin, dispersion, and
908 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

affinities of nations, and their transference from the eastern to the
western hemisphere, prior to the period of Columbus, have constituted
subjects of interesting inquiry from the time of the discovery. And
viewed in the lights which are now presented by the progress of eth-
nography, modern geographical discovery, and other means of advane-
ing the study of nations, the inquiry may be supposed to be one which
the mind of Mr. Smithson had embraced in his enlarged conception of
promoting ‘the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

The occupation of the continent itself by men diverse—in their phys-
ical and menta) traits and their languages, from the various races of
its discoverers at and after 1492; separated as that continent is, by
seas and open straits, from other parts of the globe, constitutes an inter-
esting and unsolved problem. And its solution is still more interesting
when we reflect that these native races had no maritime skill adequate
to the construction of ships; that the state of arts, if we make some
local exceptions, was very low; that they were without letters or litera-
ture; and, when questioned as to their origin, they put forth traditions
which were generally better suited to engage the imagination than to
satisfy the judgment.

The extent and noble proportions of the continent, stretching for
thousands of miles along the Atlantic, and forming a vast and mount-
ainous barrier between it and the Pacific, entitled it in more than one
sense to the appellation it received by every succeeding navigator of
thé New World. It was indeed a new world, not less in its grand
physical structure than for the races of man, who roved over rather
than inhabited it. And these latter races, now that 354 years have
passed, are quite as much a problem to historians and philosophers, in
respect to their early connection and national affinities with the races of
Asia, Africa, and Europe, as they were then.

But when we examine this continent in all its sweeping latitudes and
longitudes, in its highest altitudes, and in its lowest and broadest val-
leys, we find imbedded in its very geological strata, as well as in its
surface, ruins and otber evidences that it had been inhabited long an-
terior to the Indian race,—that there had been people of diverse arts
and habits upon its plains and estuaries. And that, of the red race
itself, there are evidences of mutations and changes, reaching from mere
sachemships to rude colossal empires, which, like that of Montezuma,
broke down, in fact, under the glittering and disproportioned weight of
their inherent corruptions and barbarisms.

Forts, mounds, ditches, and works of art, pottery with the triune
emblem of the philosophy of Zoroaster, mummies wrapped in their half
Nilotie cerements, vast pyramidal structures of earth and of stone, pal-
aces and ruined cities, are among the objects of its antiquarian and his-
torical interest. Not only from the romantic and sublime lake of Titi-
caca, and the fire-crowned peaks of the valley of Mexico, do we perceive
centers of population, rushing out to rule and conquer, but from the yet

ON ETHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 909

unexplored plains of the Rio Gila.and the Colorado of California, from
the broad valley of the Mississippi, from the southern slopes of the Ap-
palachian range of the South Atlantic, and even from the colder lati-
tudes of the Great Lakes, where the indomitable Iroquois built up their
republic, we behold a concurring series of facts and discoveries which
prove incontestably that various races of the wide-spread and original
family of man have lived, and cultivated, and warred, and died at these
localities.

When we come to apply to these vestiges of ancient structure the
serutiny of exact observation and description, and to view the facts
under the lights of induction and historical analysis, we elicit several
classes of evidence which tend to restore important links in the history
of the original dispersion of our species, advance us in the scale of knowl-
edge, and go far to enable us to appreciate and understand our position
on the globe. And in proportion as this investigation is pressed, in
proportion as science is applied to it, and the current of investigation
deepened, we abstract from the boundaries of mystery and conjecture,
and add to these of ascertained facts and history. We thus progress
indeed in knowledge, and compass one of the noblest ends of being.

It is in this light that ethnology makes its appeal to modern letters ;
and I beg leave to bring its claim to your early consideration. It is
proposed to consider ethnology in the most enlarged sense of which the
etymology of the word admits as embracing man in his divisions into
nations; their affinities and characteristics, mental and physical, with
such proofs deduced from history, philology, antiquities, and the exact
sciences, as may serve to link nation to nation, and race to race. In
this study particular reference is designed to be had to the position of
the American continent, and to the aboriginal races found upon it, when
first discovered by Europeans. In this view, it will embrace not only
geography, antiquities, and history, as descriptive sciences, but likewise
the early history of arts, ethnography, comparative philology, geology,
and physiology, and such other collateral sciences as may be found nec-
essary to investigate, illustrate, and explain the subject.

The mode of advancing the subject, and carrying into effect the in-
quiry, so as best to bring out the facts for general information, may
admit of some diversity of opinion. It is not an inquiry which admits
of extempore results. To consider diligently the various parts of the
continent which furnish aliment for the investigation, to scrutinize and
collate what has been discovered and written, to collect from mounds
and other sources, in various parts of the world, specimens of ancient
art, and above all to embody the present and past philology of tribes
and nations, is a labor requiring time and attention. Much of this,
when acquired, is hardly of a character to sustain popular lectures. It
may be doubted, indeed, whether in offering researches in a verbal form
they are not always in danger of suffering from the hands of theory and
rhetoric. Still, it is a question whether condensed statements of parts
910 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

of the inquiry may not thus occasionally be thrown out. But whether
so or not, the inquiries should be printed at a press owned and con-
trolled by the board, and in a form to correspond with the general style
and plan of their publications. In what manner compensations should
be awarded, and whether by a temporary appointment or a fixed pro-
fessorship, having a residence at the parent Institution, and the benefit
of its library and collections, in the various departments, may admit of
consideration. One remark may however be confidently added, that
without adequate provision for the time, books, and travel incident to
the inquiry, no person can be expected to enter upon effective labor in
this field.
Outlines of the study are sketched in the following synopsis.

(I.) OBJECTS OF INQUIRY.

1. Physical type of man, or physiological traits by which the several races
of men may be distinguished.

(a) Ethnographical position on the globe.—Tribes ; nations. ( Wiseman.)
Generic groups. (Blumenbach, Pritchard.)

2. Material existence.

(a) Means of subsistence.—In the hunter state: (Zea maize, roots and
fruits, flesh of animals;) Ichthyophagi: (Coast-tribes, crustaceans,
fish. What species?) Herdsmen: (Gens des roche, gens des large.)
Agriculturists: (What plants cultivated? how? and by whom?
what agricultural tools? Cotton-plant ; tobacco ; potato.) Concurrent
facts in natural history.

(b) Mechanical arts: skill—Clothing: skins: bark: hemp-plant ;
hunting implements ; arms; implements of public games; fishing im-
plements : nets: fish-hooks: bone-needles ; navigation; vessels: native
cordage; utensils for preparing food: knives: pots; potter’s art:
What condition? vessels of clay—raised by hand or on the wheel?
boiling. How effected, where no clay pots? Metallurgy. What facts?
Axe of stone, of copper. Trees, how felled? baskets: twine: awls, of
bone or horn; pipes of clay, of stone; art of dyeing.

(c) Architecture.—Dwellings, how made; tools in reference thereto;
sculpture; painting; monuments of stone, of earth; temples; roads;
bridges ; teocalli; mounds; idols; baths; fountains ; sepulchres.

(3) Intellectual existence.

(a) Languages spoken and written.

(b) Geographical names.

(c) Picture writing. Moroni ine wampum belts; quippus; in-
scriptions.

(d) Arithmetic.—Units: mode and limits of computation; decimal
system; vigesimal mode; high numbers, how denoted.
ON ETHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 911

(e) Measure and division of time-—Day, month, year ; astronomical
facts; chronology, how denoted; measure of length; capacity; value,
(currency.)

(f) Social state and government.—Civil institutions; political phe-
nomena; laws, penal and civil; marriage; distinctions of rank; castes;
clans, chieftainships; descent of titles and rights; totemic principle,
how extensive; condition of females; marital rights to property.

(9g) Religious belief and institutions.—Ideas of the Deity; priesthood,
how organized; prophets; jossakeeds; metas; nature of worships;
fire worship, how spread; demonology; guardian spirits; compensa-
tions for sin; sacrifices; feasting ; fasting; dreams; dancing.

(h) Music and poetry.—Musical instruments; music boards; mnemo-
nic songs, by symbolic annotation; rhymes, any; war chants; pictorial
rolls and devices.

(i) Oral tales and legends.—Historical fictions; allegories; fables; tales
of amusement; concurrent proofs of imagination (Algic researches).

(k) Medical knowledge.—Lancet; cupping ;. pathology of diseases ;
magic, as applied to medicine and hunting; botanical remedies; metal-
lic; knowledge of anatomy, what; theory of the circulation of the
blood.

(lt) Mythology.—Persian; Egyptian; Chinese; Grecian (Bryant) ;
Roman; American.

(m) Philosophy of life, death, and immortality. Ancient cosmogony ;
notions of creation; deluge; monster-era; transformations; metemp-
sychosis; state of the dead; ghosts; witchcraft; idea of vampires.

(4) Geographical phenomena as affecting or modifying the physical type and
the material and intellectual existence.

Climate; interior or seaboard position ; natural productions, as affect-
ing physical development; tropical and torrid zones; influence of the
polar latitudes; meteorology and topography generally ; effects of snow
and ice on the physical type, as in the Eskimo.

(II) MEANS OF ASCERTAINING THE FACTS.
1. Antiquities and existing monuments.

(a) Remains of art.—Buildings; antique excavations; caves; tumuli;
pyramids; teocalli; military works, ditches, moats, &c.; columns; arms;
the arch, how developed; mechanical tools, of stone, lead, copper; the
jever and wedge; idols; sarcophagi; mosaics; bricks, art of making,
traced; pottery, how developed; gems and other ornaments; has glass
ever been found in American ruins of the ancient period ?

(b) Proofs of mental development in the fine arts and composition.— Laws
of proportion in architecture; painting; statuary and sculpture; picture
writing ; hieroglyphics; phonetic signs; dawning of the alphabet; oral
tales and traditionary lore; inscriptions,
912 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.
2. Existing intellectual evidences of generic groups.

(a) In vocabularies; (b) dictionaries; (¢) grammars; (ad) plan of ut-
terance; (e€) names of places. (Antique.)

3. Physiology.
(a) Skulls; (6) mummies; (¢) osteological remains.
4. Historical relations and works.

(a) Works ascribed to natives, as in Mexico; (b) works by Europe-
ans; (¢) missionary translations, &c.,; modern period; (d) authentic tra-
ditions of all ages and countries. (Recorded.)

5. Natural History.

(a) Changes the earth and animated nature have undergone, as de-
noted by embedded bones; (b) what effects have taken place in the
superincumbent formations since the existence of mammalia; (¢) how
deep in the geological column can the existence of man be traced;
(d) general reflex character of geology on the topie.

6. Mythology, as a proof of mental affiliation in remote and barbarous
races.

In reference to all the objects, it is essential to compare the several
American nations one with another, and with the leading nations of
other parts of the globe. In proceeding to explore the subject, the first
labor must be that of accumulating facts. Visits to the several objects
of antiquarian interest demanding attention, with proper instruments
for observation, are required. Field surveys of ruins, and drawings of
all important objects to be commented on, are essential. Care must
be taken to notice whether there be more than one era of occupancy,
or one type of nationality, denoted by the same locality. And with
the same view the different ages and relative position of the different
geological formations, embracing ruins, or objects of art, should be care-
fully noted. Fossil bones of extinct or ancient species of animals, and
beds or banks of shells of the Eocene or Pliocene deposits, furnish the
character of evidence denoting separate epochs of occupancy, and be-
come invested with new interest. Traces of organic life of the higher
species have been found deeper down in the geological column, in later
days, than were known to the elder geologists, and the vestiges of man
should be carefully sought in all the unconsolidated strata. We know
the globe has been disturbed since its creation and destruction, and we
should be prepared to find physical evidences of it. Not only architect-

ON ETHNOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 913

ure, but metallurgy, pottery, sculpture, and drawing should be inter-
rogated, in examining their remains, on American soil. Inscriptions
on rocks are of value, as antiquarian proofs, as well as all traces of the
ancient method ot symbol or picture writing.

But whatever degree of care is evinced by personal inspection, it is
essential to the purposes of comparison that a full and complete collec-
tion of antiquarian objects, and the characteristic fabrics of nations,
existing and ancient, should be formed and deposited in the Institution.
By adding to this, from time to time, such implements of art or war,
articles of costume, or other objects of curiosity, as might be obtained,
there would be formed, in the end, a museum of mankind, wherein each
tribe and nation would be characteristically represented. Such a mu-
seum would, in itself, be a desideratum.*

Nothing is more characteristic of the intellectual existence of man
than language. It is found to be amore enduring monument of ancient
affinities than the physical type, and there is no tribe however situated
from whom this proof of affiliation should not be obtained. By colleet-
ing a vocabulary and grammar of every known tongue, from printed
and verbal sources, the Institution would present to the world a library
of philology which would cause its site to be resorted to from the re-
motest quarters. In the United States and British North America
alone we have atleast sixty-four dialects and languages.t Nor should
the mythology of rude nations be neglected. It is the frame-work of
their philosophy and their rejigion. and gives character to their songs
and poetry and every form of intellectual excitement.

Finally, both the duty of observation in the field, and the examina-
tion of facts and evidences in the cabinet or library, may be commenced
immediately, and need not be delayed until the contemplated buildings
are completed, and other parts of the library, &c., perfected. Time is
essential in making preliminary examinations. The consideration of the
country may be taken up in a separate and systematic manner, taking
valley by valley, or State by State. Some portions of the land are more
prominent in their claims to notice than others; but in all over which
the tide of modern emigration sets, the evidences of its former oceupa-
tion are rapidly disappearing. The same may be said of the Red Race,
whose language and customs it is wished to preserve. The earlier the
labor is done, the more easy will be its execution. In the Mississippi
Valley alone, where so many evidences of the earliest and heaviest
ancient population exist, but a few years will place the most important
facts beyond our reach. By adopting the plan suggested, or some plan
of this nature, we shali rescue from the oblivion of past generations
matter for thought and reflection for the future. As fast as the infor-

*Many valuable objects of this kind have been bronght home by the exploring ex-
‘| pedition, and are now deposited in the Patent Office,
+Gallatin, Am. Ant. Col., Vol. 2:

H. Mis. 15——58
914 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

mation is collected, digested, and prepared, it can be submitted to the
public. Whatever form for diffusing it the Board may through its
committees adopt can be conformed to; and in this way the object
may at once be made to assume a practical cast.

In submitting this plan, which has been hastily sketched, and ex-
pressing at the same time the interest he feels personally therein, the
undersigned begs leave to subscribe himself,

With high respect, gentlemen, your obedient servant.
HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAFT.

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM,
1789-1885.

By H. CARRINGTON BOLTON.

PREFACE.

‘«_____ Tndex-learning turns no student pale,
Yet holds the eel of science by the tail.”
Duneiad, I, 279.

When engaged in researches on the compounds of uranium, nearly
twenty years ago, the writer compiled for his convenience an index to the
literature of the element and of its principal compounds. At the sugges-
tion of several friends who thought the compilation ought to be placed at
the disposal of chemists, the manuscript was extended and printed in the
Annals of the New York Lyceum of Natural History (Vol. rx, Feb.,
1870). As published, the index was far from complete; but the simple
plan adopted, a chronological arrangement of authorities and references,
with brief notes of the subject-matter, seems to have commended itself
to chemists, for the Index to the Literature of Uranium was followed
by several others similarly arranged. A list of these will be found at
the close of this preface.

Impressed by the great importance of index-making, in 1882 the
writer proposed to the Chemical Section of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, at the Montreal meeting, the formation
of a committee to encourage chemists in a scheme of co-operative in-
dexing briefly outlined at the time. The Chemical Section kindly ap-
proved the proposal, and a committee was appointed to *‘ devise and in-
augurate a plan for the proper indexing of the literature of the chemical
elements.” This committee reported in August, 1883, that it had con-
sidered three methods of collecting material for the indexes, viz:

1. Reviewing the Catalogue of Scientific Papers published by the
Royal Society. (8 vols. 4to.)

2. Indexing special journals by different individuals and collating
the matter.

3. The independent plan, whereby each chemist indexes all the jour-
nals accessible to him with reference to a given element, in which he is

presumably especially interested.
915
916 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Each of these schemes is open to objections and fraught with difficul
ties that need not be named. On the whole, the third plan seemed to a
majority of the committee the only feasible one for the present. The
report also considers the best arrangement of material, and three ways
are suggested: (1) chronologically ; (2) alphabetically by authors; (3)
topically. The committee do not venture to dictate to volunteer and
independent workers, but recommend the chronological arrangement,
accompanied by a topical index.

In September, 1884, the committee further reported that several
indexes had been published during the twelve months intervening, and
that more were in progress. They also announced that the Smithsonian
Institution had consented to publish indexes to chemical literature
indorsed by the committee, limiting somewhat the number of pages
per annum. ‘The Smithsonian Institution also distributes, free of
expense, the circulars and publications of the committee.

The following work is offered as an additional contribution to the series —

of indexes named below. It is, strictly speaking, a second edition of
that published in 1870, but much new matter has been added and new
features introduced, so that in reality it forms an entirely new work.
The edition of 1570 contains 522 references to papers by 150 authors;
the present index contains 1,330 references to papers by more than 300
authorities. New matter has been incorporated with that of the first
edition, and the whole has been brought down to the close of 1885, cov-
ering « period of sixteen years of much activity. In each paragraph
the first reference following the name of an author is that of the original
publication of the paper in question; the succeeding references are those
of reprints or abstracts of the original,

In accordance with the suggestion of the index committee, two indexes
have been added—an alphabetical index of authors and a classified in-
dex of subjects. These, itis believed, will materially increase the utility
of the work. The scheme of classification adopted for the subject index
is by no means an ideal one. It is not intended to serve as a model for
others, but it is deemed the most satisfactory attainable with the material
in hand. Knowing, moreover, that as a rule classification schemes are

intelligible only to their authors, we have added a synopsis of the clas-

sification to serve as a key. In using the author and subject indexes,
it must be remembered that they refer to the items in the chronological
index, and that the contents of each paper are not completely indexed.
Finally, the list of abbreviations will remove doubts as to the journals
quoted, and will show at the same time what sets have been thoroughly
examined.
H. CARRINGTON BOLTON,
Chairman of Committee on Indexing Chemical Literature.

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-188. 917

LIST OF INDEXES TO CHEMICAL LITERATURE.

Uranium, Index to the literature of. By H. Carrington Bolton. Annals of the New
York Lyceum of Natural History, Vol. IX, February. 1870. 15 pp. 8vo.

Manganese, Index to the literature of ; 1596-1874. By H. Carrington Bolton. Annals
of the Lyceum of Natural History, New York, Vol. XI, November, 1875. 44 pp.
8vo.

Titanium, Index to the literature of; 1783-1876. By Edw. J. Hallock. Annals of
the N. Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. I., Nos. 2 and 3, 1877. 22 pp. 8vo.

Vanadium, Index to the literature of. By G. Jewett Rockwell. Annals of the N.
Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. I, No. 5, 1877. 13 pp. 8vo.

Ozone, Index to the literature of; 1875-79. By Albert R. Leeds. Annals of the N.
Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. I, No. 12, 1880. .32 pp. 8vo.

Peroxide of hydrogen, The literature of; 1818/78. By Albert R. Leeds. Annals of the
N. Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. I, No. 13,1880. 11 pp. 8vo.

Electrolysis, Index to the literature of; 178480. By W. Walter Webb. Annals of
the N. Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. II, No. 10, 1882. 40 pp. vo.

Speed of chemical reactions, Literature of. By Robert B. Warder. Proceedings of
the Am. Assoc. Adv. Science, Vol. 32, 1883. 3pp. 8vo.

Starch-sugar, Bibliography of. By Edw. J. Hallock. Appendix E to report on gln-
cose, prepared by the National Academy of Sciences in response te a request made
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. 1). 8. Internal Revenne, Washington,
D.C., 1884. 44 pp. 8vo.

Ozone, Index to the Jiterature of (187983); accompanied by a historical-critical
résumé of the progress of discovery since 1879. By Albert R. Leeds. Annals of
the N. Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. III, p. 137, 1884. 16 pp. 8vo.

Peroxide of hydrogen, Index to the literature of; 1879-83. By Albert R. Leeds.
Annals of the N. Y. Academy of Sciences, Vol. III, p. 153, 1884. 3 pp. 8vo.

Dictionary of the action of heat upon certain metallic salts, including an Index to the
principal literature upon the subject. Compiled and arranged by J. W. Baird;
contributed by A. B. Prescott. New York, 1884. 70 pp. S8vo.

Catalogue of chemical periodicals. By H. Carrington Bolton. Annals of the N. Y.
Academy of Sciences, Vol. III, p. 159, 1885. 58 pp. 8vo.

Committee on indexing chemical literature.

Dr. H. C. Bouton, of Hartford.
Prof. IRA REMSEN, of Baltimore.
Prof. F. W. CLARKE, of Washington.
Prof. A. R. LEEps, of Hoboken.

Dr. A. A. JULIEN, of New York.

918 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM.

CONTENTS

Preface ..--------------------22-0---+ +--+ 202-222 BBE Ain Onnd sb osenasoed dace
Iist/of,indexesito.chemical literature pan] ese a4. ee ee eee eee eee eee ae
Committee on indexing chemical literature ........... ...----..-....-.-. goes
Chronologicaliindexs COM Tbe ra GUC ae ee ae ee eee ral alee

Sechionot mineral 0 cyygys ta ota aes eee ares eee eee eee ye
Alphabetical index to authors............ Sic eece ees Selene eal chum oce eee ee or
Classified index of Gubjects:.2-22.....2.-.c+cceces, sSancececeencneeeceer essen caee

Synopsis/of classification -2-—.. s2..<c.cccecessccceseetoresteeee cette es
Key to abbreviations. -...-.........-... sosaca acdoocessscccess SBoccniecanonse

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM.

919

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Date.

Author.

1789
1789
1789
1790
1790
1792
1793
1793
(?)
1795
1797
1798
1799
1800
1803
1805

1805

1807
1810
1811

1813
1814 |

1817

1818
1818
1819
1820
1821
1822

1823
1823
1823
1823

1823
1823

1824
1825
1825

1825
1826
1826
1826
1827
1829

1789 | Klaproth -...-...-..

Karsten

Teme MGthOriey Socacce eeees Same meee eer ast

Kdaproth .--.--.....
Hermbstadt

Klaproth
Fuchs, G. F.C

Champeaux......---
Saussures----.-----—-
Kirwan

phomsone-ee- cea 6
Vauquelin ....-.----

(Oia se Seeeesaneacs

Pormetb scons. taceo.

Chevreulee- 22s.
Berzelias .-22-...-

Clarke, E. D
Gahn -.

Lecanu & Serbat -..-
Langier

H. Rose

Berzelius ........--
Berthier
Gmelin

Plewsehl 3722 Lee
Berzelins ._........
Berzelius ..........-
Berzelius'. 2.22.22.
Mincherwacos ees
Migeherln: (is. 324-

Metal (oxide)

Occurrence in France. --..

Blowpipe reactions -.-..--
Methods of decomposing |

mnerals.

Magnetic properties .-----
‘Silene esse sac wae.
Researches!)-22-22=225-.--

Researches) 22-2222 s.524-

Occurrence in sand from

river Dee.
Method of decomposing
uraninite.
Chromate asi 22222052...
Estim. of atomic weight. --

Sulphocyanide
Carbonate of U and K .-.-..

Acidity of peroxide

| Selenate ....-. ae

Reduction of U. oxide .-...
Blowpipe reactions - ---..-

é Suaberatoveese sy: coh. ssh en:

Researches .:.....-.-.--.-

Mi doridessscs2cc-s eee
Extraction. =. -2.--222. bess
Extraction Pe abana sneer a's

Examination of autunite..

PUIPUIGS see eee
Researches and minerals. .

Wisolubleinagie-s2- eee ees
Oxidet se see se eases :
Physiological action of

salts.
Todate

Remarks. References.
Discovery of element .....| Schriften ber]. Ges. naturf. Fr., LX, 373;
¥ | Mém. acad. roy. sci., Berlin, 1786-87, 160;
| Crell’s Ann., 1789, IT, 387; Ann. ch. phys.
| 1], IV, 162; Klapr. Beitrage, LI, 197;
<lapr. Analytical Essays, London, 1801,
| 476.
Bes hates 2 ta Ss ort Se ca Schriften berl. Ges. naturf. Fr., [X, 170.
Journ. de phys., 1789, 399.
BS te Mu apes tach Se a ae | Journ. de phys., XX XV, 391.
Re pete ar acta RSet te ale | Journ. de phys., XXXVI, 53.
IN trate eee ce oraesacieee Crell’s Ann., 1790, I, 291.
Researches and metal | Crell’s Ann., 1792, II, 311.
(oxide).
Corréection)=-2-------=\.-- Ann. chim. phys. [1], VI, 175; Crell’s Ann.

1793, Ef, 151.
Acta acad. mogunting, 1793; Ueber Rich-
ter’s Darst. d. Urans, Erfurt,1793.
Bull. soc. philomath., Paris, VIII, 107.
Crell’s Ann., 1795, I, 210.
Crell’s Ann., 1797, I, 503.

Trommsd. J. der Pharm., V, 121.

Phil. Mag., 1799, 112.

Gilbert Ann., IV, 24.

Gilbert Ann., VII, 127.

N. Gegenst. der Ch., I, 1; IX, 36; Gehlen’s
di., LV, 402.

Gehlen’s J., 1V,17 and 134; Ann. ch. phys.
{1}, LVI, 142; Repert. Arts j2), VIII, 274;
Bucholz Beitrige, I, 62.

Trans. Roy. Soc. Edinb., 1807; Phil. Mag.,
1810, 98

Ann. chim. phys. [1], LX VIII, 277: Nichol-
son’s J., X XV, 69.

Schweigg. J., II, 382.

Schweigs. J, XV, 284; Dissert. de conjunct.
chem. ejusque ration. Upsala, 1813, 18.

Phil. Trans., 1814. 553.

J. de phys., LXXXV, 472; Ann. Phil., XII,
31

Bull. des sci., 1819, 20; Ann. Phil., XII, 144.

Schweigg. J., XXIII, 457.

Gilbert Ann., LXII, 353.

Schweigg. J., X XTX, 307.

Schweigg. J., XX XIII, 100.

Kong. Vet. Acad. Handl., 1822, 404; Pogg.
Ann., 1, 245; Schweigg. J., XLIV, 8; Ann.
ch. phys. [2], X XIX, 148; Ann. Phil., N.S.,
VII, 253; Am. J. Sci., VII, 185; Edinb.
Phil. J., X, 369; Ann. d.M., X, 130; Berz.
Jahresb., II, 120.

Kong. Vet. Acad. Handl., 1823, St. IT; Ann.
Phil., XXIV, 337.

Quart. J. Sci., XIV, 86; Schweigg. J.,
XLIV, 1. ,

J. de pharm., 1X, 141 and XT, 279; Schweigg.
J., XLIV, 35. 4

J. de pharm., IX, 145, XI, 286; Schweigg. J..
XLIV, 40; Ann. ch. phys. [2], XXIV, 239.

Gilb. Ann., LX XIII, 139.

Kong. Vet. Acad. Handl., 1823, 155; Pogg.
Ann., J, 359; Ann. d. M. [1], X; 137 and 299;
Schweigg. J., XLIV, 191; Berz. Jahresb.,
1V, 117; Ann. Phil., XXV, 266.

Poge. Ann., II, 149.

Ann. d. M. [1], X, 141.

Schweigg J., XLIII, 110; Edinb. Med. and
Surg. J., X XVI, 136.

Schweigg., XLV, 23.

Pogg. Ann., VII, 28 and 148.

Poge. Ann., VI, 456.

Pogg. Ann., VII, 276.

Pogg. Ann., LX, 264; J. pr. Ch., XXIV, 227

. Ann., XVI, 125.
920

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885—Continned.

Author.

Quesneville......-..

Berthemot...-------
Stromeyer

Wawisaatscoaasse ee

Berzelius
Herscnhelicss cesses

Persoz

Perso7- 22s ssee ee
Berzelins’.<.2-0---ee"
Heiler
Marebond
Wiermenrs=ocee sees

Regnault

Plantamour.....---

Rammelsberg..-----
Marchand

Péligot

Ebelmen=.--2a.-2ee¢

Wittstein..... amass
Delffs 5 << ajo ces ssets

Fresenius
Wertheim

Dela Provostaye....
Rammelsberg. -.----
Berthiere-seesse see

Bonaparte

Kohnke ....
Malaguti

Cock sees2 eae ee

Bottinger.......-..

Muspratt...........
Péligot

| Sulphethylate
els 2 Cin Gee etc e ce

Remarks.

Extractions... 22.0s<sscse-

Bromide
Pyrophosphate

Use as mordant........-..-

Vanadate

Separation from iron by
KoFeCy3.

Telinrate

Separation by acetate lead

Separation by CuO and
gO.

Pyroracemate

Croconate and rhodizonate

Specific heat of metal (ox-
ide).

hee to reduce protox-
ide.

Sulphantimoniate......- z

Atomic weight

Vd. in Uranpecherz

Metallic U and general
researches.

Metallic U and general
researches.

Researches. Action of
light ; oxalate, sulphate.

Hxbrachonee=se-sc= ese. = ==
Carbonate; &e=s2>-2------
Preparation of cryst. UO2z
Criticism on Péligot

Cyanide
A cetates:. soes2.05 scas ae

Drystallographic.......-..
IBTOMALO:se8s.ss.c\.c05cee8
Sulphite and separation. .
Valerianate; action of light

Technical uses.....--..--.
Hydrated sesquioxide ---.

Artificial Uranite........-
Uranous)salts.-.-.. 5-2...

Separation.....- ee

Sulphitesssc2seo-'b aie.
MartratessesCas- =. 525. s ser

References.

J. de pharm., XV, 493; Dingl. pol. J.,
V, 1483; Berz. Jahresb., X, 117;
Schweigg, J., LVII, 127.

Ann. ch. phys. [2], X LIV, 387.

Gott. gelebrt. Anz., 1830, I, 111; Schweigg.
J., LVILI, 130.

Repert. Pat. Inv., March, 1831, 174; Dingl.
pol. J., XL. 152.

Pogg. Ann., XXII, 63.

Ann. ch. phys., XLIX, 310; Pogg. Ann.,

| XXV, 627; Berz. Jahresb., XI, 120.

Pogg. Ann., XXXII, 596 and 608.

; Ann. ch. phys. [2], LVI, 333; J. pr. Ch., 1834,
ILI, 216; Instit., No. 70, 299; Berz. Jah-
resb., XV, 195; Poge. Ann., XX XIII, 248.

Ann. ch. phys. [2], LV LU, 202.

Pogg. Ann., XXXVI, 24.

J. pr. Ch., XIT, 228 and 2389.

J. py. Ch., XU, 264; Pogeg. Ann., XLI, 629.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XXVIII, 240; J. pr. Ch.,
XII, 381; Ding. pol. J., LX VIOLA, 465.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XXXVI, 108; Berz. Jah-
resb., X XI, 13.

J. pr. Ch., XXIII, 230; Pharm. Centr., 1841,
592,

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XL, 286.

J. pr. Ch., X XIII, 497.

Pogg. Ann., LIV, 600.

C. OR. Se 725); di.) pr. | Ch exexee 404
XXIV, 442; J. de pharm., XXVII, 525;
Ann. ch. phys. [3], V, 1; Ann. Ch. Pharm.,
XLI, 141.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLII, 255; Pharm. Centr.,
1842, 321 and 847; Berz. Jabresb., XXII,
113; XXIII; Pogg. Ann., LIV, 122.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., X LITI, 286; Ann. ch. phys.
(3), V, 189; Pharm. Centr., 1842, 863; J.
pr. Ch., XXVIII, 385; Berz. Jahresb.,
XXIII.

Buchner’s Repert., LXIIT, 231.

Pogg. Ann., LV, 229; Berz. Jahresb., XXII,
201.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLI, 345; Berz. Jahresb.,
XXII; Journ.de Pharm. (3), I, 48.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLI, 337; Pharm. Centr.,
1842, 324.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., X LIMIT, 135.

Monatsb. d. berl. Akad., 1842; J. pr. Ch.,
XXIX, 209; Ann Ch. Pharm., XLIV, 274;
Ann. ch. phys. [8], XI, 49; Annuaire
chim., 1845, 118; Pharm. Centr., 1843. 585;
Pogg. Ann., LVI, 481.

Ann. ch. phys., V, 47; WI, 165; Berz.
Jahresb., XXIII, 213.

J.pr. Ch., XXIV, 285; Berz. Jahresb., XXII,
140.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLVI, 184; Pharm. Centr.,
1843, 382.

J. pr. Ch., XXX, 308; Pharm. Centr., 1843,
949. .

Wiener polyt. J., 1843, 1117.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLVIII, 236; Ann. ch.
phys., TX, 463; Annuaire chim., 1845, 118; J.
pr. Ch., X XTX, 231;C. R., XVI, 851 ; Pharm.
Centr., 1843, 590; Berz. Jahresb., XXIV,
118.

Proc. Chem. Soc. Lond., I, 38.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., XLVIII, 234; Pogg. Ann.,
LV, 318; LVI, 125; LIX, 10; Berz. Jahresb.,
XXII

Pogg. Ann., LIX,1; J. pr. Ch., X XTX, 234;
Berz. Jahresb., XXIV, 117 ; Pharm: Centr.,
1843, 577.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., LI, 407; Pharm. Centr.,
1845, 107.

Ann. Ch. Pharm., LV, 290. :

C.R., X VIL, 682; Annuaire chim., 1845, 117;
Ann. ch. phys., XT, 549; Ann. Ch. Pharm.,
LVI, 230; Pharm. Centr., 1845, 193.

1848

1849

1849
1850

18506
1852

1852

1852

1852 |

1852
1853

1855

1855
1855
1856

1856
1856
1856
1856
1856

1856

| Persoz

INDEX TO

THE LITERATURE

OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 921

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885—Continued.

Author.

Playfair and Joule. -
W ohiler..--

Berzelius ..-.. ....
Peters

Engelherdt and

Maddrell.

Muspratt

Werther

Marbach
Williams, C. Gr...-.
Williams, C. Gr.....

Graham

Scheibler ...........

Phosphates and arsenates.

Extraction on large svale.-

Estimation of phosphoric

acid.
Red sulphide

Selenites .....
Fluorescence of uranium
glass.

Extraction

Detection by absorption
spectrum.
Sulphite

| Crystallographic forms
of acetate.

Extraction on large scale. -

Optical examination «----

Oxychloride and organic
bases.

Oxychloride of U and
chinoline.

Dialysis of nitrate
Purification of U yellow-.

Estimation

Acetate of U and Li..--

Crystallographic form of
carbonate.
Fs of metallic

Remarks. References.
Spr. a and at. vol. of | Mem. Chem. Soc. Lond., III, 83.
oxides.
Purification from Co Ni | Ann.Ch. Pharm., LVI, 127; Annuaire chim.,
and Zn. 1847, 94.
a os 5 AS OD Pe ae ee | Berz. Jahresb., XXV, 162.
UXGA CHOM=sesc.- + :.-n ses Arch. der Pharm., XLVI, 146; Pharm.
Centr., 1846, 831.
IBY TOtARLLALO.: = 2. aoe =m Inaug. Diss., Helsingf., 1847; Ann. Ch.
Pharm., rip Aig a 73.

GAGERLORS joemiea sais: cake Ann. Ch. Pharm. ., LXIITL, 99.
Pyrophosphate...........| Ann. chim. phys. [3], LXV, 165; Jahresb.,
1847-48, 353.

Atomic weight.-..-.....-.-. C. R., XXII, 487; Ann. Ch. Pharm., LX, 183,
Ann. ch. phy 73. (3), XX, 329; J. pr. Ch.;
XLI, 398; and XXX Vii, 152; Jahresb.,
1848, 418; Journ. de pharm [3], X, 80.

J. pr. Ch., ‘XLII, 321; XLIV, 127; Ann. Ch,
Pharm., LX VIII, 312; Pharm. Centr., 1848.
433; Instit., 1848, 393; J. de pharm. [3],
XIV, 57; Annuaire chim., 1848, 140 and
144; Phil. Mag. (3), SOCRIED 244; ‘Jabresb.,
1849, 418 and 1218.

Wien. Acad. Ber., 1849, 353; Wien. Ber.
Freund. d. Wiss., IV; J. pr. Ch., XLVI,
182; Jahresb., 1849, 274, 584.

C. R., X XIX, 55; Jahresb., 1849, 572.

J. pr. Ch., LI, 122; Ann. Ch. Pharm.,
LXXXVI, 254; Pharm. Centr., 1851, 402;
J Bleed 1850, 313; Annuaire chim., 1851,
118.

.| J. Chem. Soce., I, 68.

Phil. Mag. (4), IV, 388; Pogg. ay ot
LXXXVLII, 488; Am. J. Sei. [2], XV 270;
Jahresb., 1853, 140; Ann. chim. phys. [3],
KEXORAV IES 505.

Arch. Pharm. [2] eax, 150 pre Ch.;

LV, 445; Dingi. pol. J., CXXIV, 355;
Pharm. Centr., oreo. 232; Jahresb., 1852,
779.

Instit., 1852, 392; Jahresb., 1854, 125.

CO.) Ran eXeoehy, 22>. Ann.) Ch... Pharm,
LXXXI1, 366; Pharm. Centr., 1852, 100; J.
pr. Ch., LV, 285; J. de pharm. [3], XXI,
183; Jahresb., 1852, 376.

Jahresb., 1852, 433.

Wien. Acad. Ber., XI, 842; J. pr. Ch., LXI,
397; Pharm. Centr., 1854, 236; Dingl. pol.
J., CXXXII, 36; Chem. Gaz., 1854, 178;
Jahresb., 1853, 740.

J. pr. Ch., LXV, 349; Pharm. Centr., 1855,
605; Phil. Mag. [4], X, 390; Jahresb., 1855,
ies

Poge. Ann.. XCIV,
[3], XLIV, 45.

Chem. Gaz., 1855, 450; C. C., 1856, 47; Trans.
Roy. Soe. "Edinb. ; Tahresb., 1855.

Trans. Roy. Soc. Edinb., 0:0. part II, 377;

422; Ann. chim. phys.

Chem. Gaz., 1856, 261, 283; J. pr. Chem.
LXIX, 355; C. C., 1856, 817; Jabres ..
1856, 532.

J. Chem. Soc., VIL, 91.

Ding. pol. J., CXLI, 372; C. C., 1856, 843 ;
Polyt Centr., 1857, 75; 5 pr. on ae ree

118; Oestr. Zeits. Berg u. Hiitt. 1856, :

Jd. pre Ch., Xe, 401; C. C., 1856, 738
and - 803 ; "Jahresb., 1856, 728.

Cac; 1856, TAP: pr. Chem., “LXVII, 485:
Jahre sb., 1856, 331.

Pogg. Ann., XCIX, 275; Jahresb., 1856,
Bev ; J. pr. Chem., TX 303.

C. R.. XLII, 73; Instit., 1856, 29; J. de

arm. [3], XXIX, 2038 ; ‘ann. Ch. Pharw.,
cag 256; Pogg. Ann., XCVII, 630;
r. Ch., LXV r 184; C. (om 1856, 228 ;
J Sabres” 1856, 380 ; Phil. Mag. 1857, 123.
922

od

1858

1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859

1859

1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860

1860
1860

1861

1861
1861

1861
1861
1861
1861

INDEX TO

THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885—Continued.

Author.

Kessler ese tess:

Burnett.-----.-:----
Arendt and Knop..-
Ordwayieee soccer

Weselsky

Brianchon

Spiller
Crespon & Godefroy

Gr ailich -
Verdet. . c
Niepce de St. Victor.

Niepce de St. Victor

Niepce deSt. Victor.

Becquerel .-.-.--
Uhbriaub

|

Remarks.

Extraction from urani-
nite.

Photographie prints. -----
WXPLACHLONG sees eee
Basicisalts. 2033 2.22.2 3.22s5

Acoetates cnt Jols(s2ees seas

Technical uses.........-.-

Influence of citric acid. --.
Photography

Photographic printing. - --

Cryst. and Opt. studies -.

Magnetic rotary power -.-

Absorption of light and
use ia photography.

Absorption of light and
use in photography.

Absorption of light and

|
|
|

Hallwachs and Scha-|

farik.
PING WAS ee see
W ysocky

N. de St. Victor and
Corvisart.

Corvisart
ROS6s.)4 S18 eee
De Luynes....--.-.
Burnett ees eae
W othly
W othly

Drenkmann

Becquerel
Hermann, H

Fresenius........---

Grahamsseoscsesceee

Schrauf ...

| | Nitride

use in cage

| Phosphor escence ©

Action . of
ethyle.
Estimation of phosphoric
acid with acetate of U.
Extraction on large scale.

Action of light on oxalate.

Action of light.-.-.--..--.
Estimation ......-
Photographic printing.
Actinometry :

Original announcement - -
U with PtCl of Wothly’s

process.

Estimation of phos. acid -
Extraction

Historical summary and
researches.

Phosphorescence

Researches.

Estimation

Sdecharatene ee eee eee
Optical examination of
acetate.

Estimation and mineral
analyses.

References.

U on iodide |

J.de pharm. (3), XX XI, 182; C. R., XLVI,
530; Dingl. pol. J., CXL 17; C. C., 1858,
386; Polyt. Cent., 1858, 1513; Jahresb..
1857, 199; Verh. d. Niederdstr. Gewerbe-
vereins, 1858, 293.

Liverpool Phot. J., 1857 and 1858; Humph-
rey’s J., 1857, 81; 1858, 44.

C. C., 1857, 162; J. pr. Ch., LX XI, 68; Jah-
resb., 1857, 200.

Am. J. Sci. [2], XX VI, 197; J. pr. Chem.,
LXXVI, 19; Jahresb., 1858, 115.

Wien. Acad. Ber., XXX, 205; Chem. Gaz.,
1858, 390; J. pr. Ch., LXXV, 55; C. C.,
1858, 610; Jahresb., 1858, 282.

Génie Indust., 1858, 147; Technologiste,
1858, 521; Polyt. Centr., 1858, 1242; Dingl.
pol. J.. CXLVIUI, 172; C. Gs 1858, 698 ;
Polyt. Centralhalle, 1858, 670.

J. Chem. Soc., X, 114.

Polyt. Centr., 1858, 1509; Humphrey’s J.,
1858, 172.

Ber. Akad. Wiss. Berl., 1858, 290; Brit. J.
Phot., V, 75; Humphrey’s J., 1858, 262; J.
pr. Ch., LXXIV, 67; Dingl. pol. J.,
CXR 143700) “Ch o1s58 i7esw Instite
1858, 268.

Wien. Acad. Ber., XX VII, 3.

Ann. chim. phys. [8], LII, 158.

C.R., XLVI, 449; Enstit., 1858, 73; Dingl.
ae CXLVIL, 126; J. re Che
XXIV, 233, Cimento, VIL, 202; Jahresb.,

1858, 18.

C. R., XLVII, 866 and 1002; Instit., 1858,
398 and 427; Humphrev’s J., 1858, 10;
Dingl. pol. J., CLI, 180 and 435; Jahresb.,

1858, 20.
C. R., XLEX, 815; Dingl. pol. J: OL Ve
456; Jahresb., 1859, 33; Cosmos, XIV,

568; Polyt. Centr., 1859, 889 and 1032.
Ann. cifim. phys. [3i, LV, 86, and LVII, 101.

Verbind. einiger Met. mit Stickstoff, "Got.
tingen, 1859, "21.

Ber. Acad. Wiss. Wier, XXXIII, 569;
Pharm. Centr., 1259, 163.

J. pr. Ch., LX XVI, 104; Jahresb., 1269,
667.

Oest. Zeitschr. Berg— u. Hiittenw., 1859;

Dingl. pol. J., CLV, 305; C. C., 1860, 327 ;
Polyt. Centr, 1860, 139 ; Jabresb., 1860,
098.

C.R., XLIX, 368; Instit., 1859, 287; Ann.
Ch. Pharm., CXIUII, 112; Dingt. pol. J.,
CLVL., 38; Jahresb., 1859, 33.

Bull. soc. chim., 1862, 62; Jahresb., 1859, 33.

Pogg. Ann., cx, 141.

Brit. Photoer. J., 1860; Polyt. Centr., 1860.

Phil. Mag. [4], X'X, 50'and 406.

Horn’ s Photog. J., XVI, 104.

Polyt. Centr., "1860.

Chem. News, I., 97, 192; Jahresb., 1860, 622.

Dingl. pol. 5 a GLVI, 207 and 288 ; Zeitsebr.
Ch. Pharm., 1860, 412; Rép. chim. appl., IL.,
281; C. C., 1860, 549 and 591; Polyt. Centr..,
1860, 1118, and 1274.

Zeitschr. yes. Naturw., XVII, 113; Jabresb.,
1861, 255.

Ann. chim. phys. [3], LXIL, 42.

Inaug. Dissert. Gott., 1861; Jahresb., 1861,
258

J.pr. Ch., LX XXII, 257; Chem. News, 1861,
150,

J, Chem. Soc. XV, 254; Ann. Ch. Pharm.,
CXXI, 52; Jahresb., 1861, 77.
Pogg. Ann., CXII, 593.

C.R., LII, 72 and 817; Rép. chim. pur., I,
222 and 639 ; Zeitschr. Ch. Pharm., 1861,
123; J. pr. Ch., LXXXYV, 186; C.C., 1861,
221; Chonk News, Iu, 211; Jahresb., 1861,
824 and 1030.

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM,

1789-1885. 923

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885—Continued.

1864

1865
1865
1865

1865

1865
1865

1865
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866

1866
1866

1866

Author. Remarks. - | References.
pee 2s ate ee a ES
DWebrayinss oe Artificial crystallized | Ann. chim. phys. (3), LXT, 445.
phosphates.
Vogelsang ...--..--- Mechnicaiees 12 2 soa Preuss. Zeitschr. Berg-,H. u. Salin., X, 168.
BuUrehessitees --=-2 42) LOnInE DAtD =. -- ..5- | Polyt. Centr., 1862, 1590; Am. J. Photog.,
| 1862.
Simpsonvs-- oes essee Action of light ....-.-.---- | Am. J. Photog., VII, 295.
Draper ent ee Action of light ........--. | Brit. J. Photog., I. 241.
Maack ....-..- ee Action of Al and ee on | Verhalt. des Mg. und Al. zu Salzlésungen,
solution. .-.. weet -| _ GO6ttingen, 1862, 32.
INOSGNE eee eee ee STIMAION -o2e5s cs<s =~ 2c) Pogg. Ann., CX VI, 352; CX, 141; Zeitsebr.
| anal. Ch., I, 411; Rép. chim. pur., V, 27;
Chem. News, VI, 159 and 99; C:C., 1862,
868; Jahresb., 1862, 601.
Brachet..; 2. 2-- 422 -- Use of U glass.......----- C.R., LV, 409.
Parkmann .-.--.... Carbonate ...-.-------.-- Am. J. Sci. [2], XXXIV, 321; Chem. News,
| 1863, 122; C.C., 1868, 465. -
Gniyard hae = - 32s. Volumetric estimation....| Bull. soc. chim., 1864, I, 94; Jahresb., 1863,
j | 692; Chem. News, 1864, 13; Zeitschr. anal.
Chole 376:
Phipson. sees... 5: Actionof Mg on solations.| Eee Roy. Soc. Lond., XIII, 217; Jahresb.,
| 1864, 193.
JustolOsns- 2-04: Sc es\ Estimation, silico-fluoride.| Zeitschr. anal. Ch., III, 71; C.C., 1864, 1053;
| _ Jahresb., 1864, 718.
Grothe: s<- === | Action of alkalies, &e.....| J. pr. Chem., XCII, 177.
Hoyermann......-.. peumaeuon of phosphoric | Arch. Pharm. [2], DOD: 193 5 Jahresb., 1864,
acid. 91
Remeléi e224) teen oe | Oxysulphide ..........-.-- | C.R., LVIII, 716; Bull. soc. chim. [2], * 36;
a N. Arch. ph. nat., XX, 52; Ann. Ch. Pharm.
Suppl., IIT, 196; Pogg. Ann., CXXIV, 114;
J. pr. Ch., XCIII, 316; C.C., 1864, 596;
Chem. News, X, 123 and 158; Jahresb.,
1864, 234.
Liesegang .......--- Action of light on ammo- , Monit. photogr. 1864, No. 17, Nov. 25; Bull.
nio citrate, and photo- | soc. chim. II 482; Chem. News, 1865, 103; C.
graphy. | _C., 1865, 1151.
Von Hauer ......-- Wicebateree | seit nce en Poge. Ann., CX XV, 149; C.C., 1865, 735.
Koopa aes aace ete Estimation:.<--—. <-==- C.., 1865, 161; Jahresb., 1865, 2238.
Remeté .--.-- We Aes Estimation and separation ; Pogg. Ann., CX XV, 209; Zeitschr. anal. Ch.,
oxysulphide. LV, 371; Zeitscbr. Ch., 1865, 548; 1866, 471;
J.pr.Ch., XCVII, 193 and 280; Bull. soe.
ehim., VI, 318; C.C., 1866, 628; Jahresb.,
| 1865, 221 and 726
Gibbs sees cc sas: Separation.....-..- FSO ASE | Am. J. Sci. [2], XXXIX, 58; C.C., 1865, 407;
J. pr. Chem., XCV, 357; Zeitschr. anal.
Chem. III, 327; Zeitschr. Chem., 1865, 307;
Dingl. pol. J., CIXXVITII, 133; Chem
News, XI, 101, et seq.; Jahresb., 1865, 127.
Remel6. oe. ce 283 Pb Snulphitet: 54: 2s ascesacee Pogg. Ann. CXXV, 238 ; Jahresb., 1865, 225;
| J.pr. Chem., XC VII, 214.
Seekamp .........-- | Action of light on the | Ann. Ch, Pharm., CXXXIIL, 253; Zeitschr.
succinate. | Chem., 1865, 317; ©. C., 3865, 767; J. pr.
Chem., XCVI, 192; Bull. soe. chim. [2], LV,
132; J.de pharm. [4], II, 67; Phil. Mag. [4].
; | XXX, 358; Jahresb., 1865, 389,
Manny sees ees cee Photography -.--..-------- | Ee J., Jan., 1865, Bull. soe. chim.,
32
Wiotblyacsee ssc se Wothly type. --.-.-----+:- Bull. belge photog., 1864; Am. J. Photog.,
VII, 1865.
Wiothlye-esecene a Specification of patent....| Polyt. Centr., 1865, 943; Photog. Archives,
| 1865.
Liesegang ..-..-.-.-. Photorraphy, >.22-2--s---- Beane Jan. 1, 1865; Bull. soc. chim.
159
Mlsner et ssc se :..-'- Volatility of UOz ...-..--- Chem. techn. Mittheil, 1857-’58, 36; Jahresb.,
| 1866, 35; J, pr.C hem., XCIX, 260.
Banseliecc= 22 sss Flame reactions .....----. | Ann. Ch. Pharm. CXXXVIII, 291; Zeitschr,
anes Chem. V, 377; Phil. Mag. [4], XXXII,
81; N. Arch. ph. nat. XX VIL, 25; Jahresb.,
| 1866, 783.
Commaille ......... | Action of Mg on solutions -| Bull. soc. chim. [2], VI, 257, Jahresb., 1866, 171
IW Yeockysis- eee! Manufacture of U yellow.| Oestr. Zeit. Berg- u. Hiittw., 1866; Polyt.
Centr., 1868, 1601; Ding]. pol. lit CLXXXI,
448; Jahresb. chem. Tech., 1866, 275; Bull.
soc. chim. 2], VI, 494; Jahresb., 1856, 840.
Belohoubek -....--. Volumetric estimation saul J. pr.Ch., XCIX, 2381; Zeitschr. anal. Ch.,
| I, 120; Zeitschr. Ch., 1867, 121; C. C.

| 1867, 656; Bull. soc. chim. [2], VI, 494;
Jahresb., 1866, 809.
924 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885—Continued.

Date. | Author. Remarks References.
1866: Paterage: 2225-2522. Estimation of U in ores....| Dingl. pol. J., CLXXX, 242; Zeitschr. anal.
Ch, V, 228: Bull. soc. chim. (2), V, 442;
Jabresb. chem. Tech., 1866, 274; Les Mon-
des, 1866, 234; Dingl pol. J., CLXXX, 242;
| Polyt. Notizbl., 1866, 222; Deutsche In:
dustrie Ztg., 1866, 208; C hem. News, XIII,
291; Polyt. Centr., 1866, 831; Jahresb.,
1866, 809.
1SEOR HP WrisChiecc. ot. cee Tartrate\:<sse. e-toc soane J. pr. Chem. XCVU, 281; Zeitschr. Chem.,
1866, 345; C. C., 1866, 598; Bull. soc. chim.
(2], VII, 257; Jahresb, 1866, 401.
18667 “bolton .- = =2--sses-—— | Fluorides, oxyfluorides; | Berl. Akad. Ber., 1866, 299; Inaug. _
| action of light. Gottingen, 1866; Bull. soc. chim. [2],
450; Zeitsehr. Ch. [2]. LE 253i5 pr: On
XCIX, 269; C. C, 1866, 977; N. Arch. ph.
nat., XX VI, 338; Jahresb., ‘1866, 209.
HOTA | SKeyes | weeeeeecee | Sulphoeyanide. .....-----. ae News, XVI, 201; Zeitschr. Chem. [2],
123.
L867), | Souchay )-- 225 -- ee | Composition of the hy- Zeitschr. Chem. [2], IV, 527; Zeitschr. anal.
crated ammoniacal car- Chem., VI, 400; Bull. soc. chim., XK, 375:
; onate.
IRGC FN Leet hta = 555.5 8 bn Solaple modification of | Ann. Ch. Pharm. CXXI, 52, Jahresb., 1867,
oxide. Lit
1867 | Scheller -.2 2-2 --422- Salphitesse¢ 2242. 3362-6 Ann. Cb. Pharm., CXLIV, 238; J. pr. Chem.,
CIV, 56; Zeitschr. Chem., 1867, 522; Bull.
| soc. chim. 2], VIEL, 417; Zeitschr. anal.
Chem. VII, 252; Chem. News, SEVil 2325
1867 | Ed. Beequerel . .---- SREB HAS Anon ree Etudes chim. sur quelg. métaux, Paris, 1867.
1867) einners-2 sso eee ‘Cyanides - TON Arey BEARD De uranylio evan. et rhodan. Berlin, Inaug.
Dissert., 1867.
1867 | Rammelsberg...--... iWehosphiles) sasse=—yo-2 8 ee Pogg. Aun. CXXXTI, 500.
1868) eMierz ss eae | Fluorescence .....-..-.--- J.pr.Chem. CI, 261; CC. 1868, 99.
1868 | Péligot and Valen- | Manufacture of the metal.| 0. R. LX VIL, 507; Ann.Ch. Pharm ,CCXLLX,
| ciennes. 128; C..C., 1869, 1040; Dingl. pol. J-, CXC,
305; J. pr. Chem. CVI, 255 ; Jahresb.,
chem. Techn., 1868, 152; Jabresb., 1868, 226;
f Instit. 1868, "306 ; Ann. chim. phys. (4],
| XVII, 368; Zeitschr. Chem. 1868, 716.
18690 PELGInGZ ee eee eee Recovery of residues..--...|, Ann. Ch. Pharm., CLL, 216.
Am. J. Sci. (2), L, 113.
Jabresb., 1869, 286; Chem. News, XX, 166.
1869 halon eee soe aeae oe Wave lengths oflightrays | Nova acta Reg Soe. Se. Upsal. [3], VI.
Ann. chim. phys. [4], XVIII, 239.
1869 | Reichardt. .-......-- Separation from phos- | Zeitschr. anal. Chem., VIII, 116; Chem.
phoric acid. News, XX, 167; Am. J. Sci. [2] L, 118;
Zeitsehr. Chem., 1870, 92; Archiv der
Pharm. [3], If, 232; Jahresb., 1869, 916.
18690 Bol tonto: soe ee Action oflight; historical | Am. J. Sci. {2], XLVIII, 206; Jahresb., 1869,
summary and experi- 1176; Chem. News, XX, 213.
ments.
1869 | Winkler ......‘%....| Estimation; a correction..| Zeitschr. anal. Chem., VIL, 387; C. C., 1870,
530; Jahresb., 1869, 916; Chem. News,
XXII, 167.
1869 | Byasson .--.....-... Estimation of phosphoric | Pharm. CentraJh., IX, 41; Russ. Zeitschr.
acid. Pharm., VIII, 30; Jahresb., 1869, 977.
1869 | Selhorst-. 2... ..---- Non - fluorescence of U | Rev. hebd. chim., Dec. 2, 1869; Chem. News,
salts in Geissler tubes. XX, 299.
1869 | Thudichum..-....... Absorption spectrum. .. | Centralbl.f. med. Wissensch., 1869, 1; C.C.,
1869, 67; J. pr. Chem., CVI, 415.
1870) {Bolton =-- a2 eee are to the literature Annals. Lye. Nat. Hist., TX, 362 ; Am. Chem.,
) : A asl
1870)| Sordi cco secmaceeee Absorption spectrum of| Chem. News, XXI, 73; Zeitschr. anal.
compoundsof ZrandU.| Chem., IX, 258; Cc. Ge ’1870, 369; Ber. d.
ee Ges., 1870, 147; Ball. soc. chim,,
1870; | Meyer sins. s.-5e. Atomic weight .-.........| Ann. Shan: Pharm., Suppl., VII, 354; Jah- |
resb., 1870, 14.
1870 | Schwarz --.....-..-. Coloring porcelain. ....-.. Dingl. pol. J., CXCVII, 251; Pol. Notizhl.,
1870, 290; C. C., 1870, 557; ‘Jahresb., 1870,
1155; Jahresb. chem. Techn., 1870, 306.
1870 | Schultz-Sellack..-.. Hydrated nitrate ........- Zeitschr. Chem., 1870, No. 19; Chem. News,
I, 47.
1870 | Mendelejeff...-.._-. At. wt.and position of U | N. Petersb. Acad. Bull., XVI, 45; Ber. d.
in the Periodic System. seeee Ges., 1870, 991; Ann. Chem. ‘Pharm.,
pl., Vit, 178; Jabresb., 1871, 312.
1370):) Bolton eewseeeewe se Extraction from uraninite. a ee
1871 | Schultz—Sellack. .... Disulphatet. 22. eae: ee d. chem. een 1871,13; Am. J. Sci. [3], I,
374; Am. Chem., if 469.
1871 | Schultz-Sellack ....| Basicity ofoxide.......... Ber. d. chem. Ges., IV, 12; J. chen Soo.

},
1X, 199; Bull. soc. chim., IESV; oe
1879, 87; jJabresb.. 1871, 332; Ghee News
XXII, 131

¢

1873

1873
1873

1873
1873

1873
1873

1873

1874

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

925

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885—Continued.

References.

Author. Remarks.

Rheineck ...._.-...- Use of acetate of U and
Na in estimating phos-
phoric acid.

BEF) eee ere eee U solution in titration of
P20.

ADS «eee eae Recovery of residues. .___.

|

Hagenbach ..-...--. Fluorescence of U glass--|

Schumann .....-.--- Estimation of phos. acid..|

Brachet......--...--: Use of U glass in electri-
cal illumination.

Paylor = 2sco lie see As sensitizer in photogra-
phy.

GOS eA eee Blow-pipe test ............

‘Roltone asec sees Tetrethylammonium U ...

Rammelsberg -.---- Uranous acetates with
copper, and with cobalt.

Rammelsberg .--.-- Formule when U = 240...

Bolton. 22 <2) 254 Thallium uranate.--.....-.

Follenius ..-........ Titration with potassium
permanganate.

Becquerel .--.-..--- Fluorescence ...--...----.

Rammelsberg. -----. | Hypophosphite ....-......

thockyers see <2- Occurrence in the sun....

Gabba eee see Arseniate......----- Sah ciee

Krenuslere se ese? Recovery of residues. -.--.

OOUIIGN Ane kee na Use in estimating phos-
phoric acid.

Clarke, F. W......-- Specific gravify of com-
pounds.

Reichardt .....:..-. Separation from  phos-
phoric acid by means of
magnesia mixture.

Cronander ..........| Chloride of U and P ..-.-..

Schnauss ..-.1....-. Use of nitrate in photog-
raphy.

Gautier. 22-5) <<... Hypophosphite .......-...

Pateran shes ssa Commercialand industrial

BKotchin’ --2--- Est. of P as uranic phos-

Abesser, Jani, and
Miircker.
Morton and Bolton..

ee

phate, and At. Wt.

Use in estimating phos- |
phorie acid.

Fluorescent and absorp- |
tion spectra.

|

| Separation from Cr

Dingl. pol. J.; C.C., 383; Zeitschr. Chem.,
1871, 474; Chem. News, XXIV, 233; Bull.
soc. chim. [2], XVII, 37; J. Chem. Soe. [2],
X, 178; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XI, 83; Am.
Chem., II, 190; Jahresb., 1871, 941.

C.C., 1871, 329; J. Chem. Soe. [2], LX, 753.

C.C., 1871, 219; J. Chem. Soe. [2], LX, 586;
Am. Chem., I. 472; Jahresb., 1871, 331;
Chem. News, XXIII, 220; -Zeitschr. anal.
Chem., XI, 71. :

Pogg. Ann., CXLVI, 393.

J. pr. Chem, [2], VI, 416; Jahresb., 1872, 896.

C. R., XX1Ii, No. 16; Am. Chem., II, 191.

Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1872, 820.

San Francisco Se., XXIII, 13; Berg- und hiit-
ten-Ztg., XXX, 414; C.C., 1872, 218.

Am. Chem., II, 456; Jahresb., 1872, 259.

Poge. Ann., CXLV, 158; Jahresb., 1872,
259; Ball. soc. chim. [2], XVII, 209; J.
Chem. Soc. [2], X, 401; Am. Chem., I, 431.

Ber. d. chem. Ges.. 1872, 1003; Jahresb., 1872,
257; Bull. soc. chim., XIX, 210; J. Chem.
Soc., 1873, 247; C.C., 1873.127; Am. Chem.,
IV, 148; Chem. News, XX VII, 22.

Am. Chem., IT, 456; Jahresb , 1872, 255.

Zeitscbr. anal. Chem., XI, 179; Jahresb., 1872,
915; J. Chem. Soc., 1873, 531; C. C., 1872,

600.

C. R., LX XV, 296; Am. J. Sci. [3], IV, 486;
Anv.chim. phys. [4], XX VII, 539; Jnhresb.,
1872, 152; é. C., 1873, 17.

J. Chem. Soc., 1873, 11;
1872, 495.

Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1873, 1554; Proc. Roy. Soc.,
XXI, 285 and 508; Jahresb., 1873, 153.

Ber d. chem. Ges., 1873, &34.

J. fiir Landw., 1873,1; Am. Chem., IV, 316.

Chem. News, XX VII, 228, 309, 314; Jahresb.,
1873, 922.

Constants of Nature, Washington, D. C., 1873.

Arch. der Pharm. [3], 2, 232; Jahresb., 1873,
924; Jour. Chem. Sve., 1873, 1260; Zeitschr.
aval. Chem., XIII, 310; C.C., 1873, 356;
Am.Chem., IV, 276; Chem. News, XXVIII,
315.

Ber. d. chem. Ges., VI. 1466; Bull. soc.
chim., XIX, 499; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1878,
25,

Archiv der Pharm., Nov., 1873; Jahresb.,
1873, 1130. '

C. R., LX XVI, 49; Jabresb. reinen Ch., 1873,
e

ov.

Jahresb. chem. Tech., 1875, 609.

Chem. News, X XVII, 199; Jahresb. reinen
Ch., 1878, 71; Jahresb., 1873, 921; Bull. soc.
chim., XX, 177.

Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XII, 254; Jahresb.,1873,
919.

Am. Chem., ITT, 361 and 401; also IV. 1, 41,
and 81; Chem News, XXVIII, 47, 113, 164,
233, 244, 257, 268: Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1873,
72; J. Chem. Soc. [2], XII, 12 and 642;
Monit. scient. [3], 963; Zeitschr. anal.
Chem., XIT, 308; Jahresb., 1873, 158; C.C.,
1873, 593; Bull. soc. chim., X XI, 63.

Am. J. Sci. [3], V, 110; Chem. News,
XXVIII, 63; Jahresb., 1873, 937; J. Chem.
Soc., 1873, 98; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XII,
310; C. C., 1873, 281; Bull. soc. chim., XX,
175.

Ber. d. ch. Ges., VIT, 1181; Bull. soc. chim.,
XXIII, 270; C. C., 1874, 657; Jahresb.,
1874, 284; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1874, 115;
J. Chem. Soc. [2], XI, 933; Am. Chem.,
V, 304, and V, 234; Chem. News, XXXT,
32.

Ber. d. chem. Ges.,
926

Date. Author. Remarks.

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885—Continued.

1874
1874
1874
1874

1875

1875

ASH eyes See meee ae ee

Hartley

Isambert

Atterberg

Manni ce tere i: He

Maxwell Lyte -.-.---

1877

1877

1877
1877
1877

Bolton

Kern ss2) 3) sates eee

Gawalovski..-....-..-.
iWzyrouboitse-.-ceee-

Strohmer and Klaus

Kresenius=ce-seeeeee

Sendtner

1877

Patera

Action of P on solations
of U.

Fiuorescent relations of
basic salts.

Use in estimation of phos-
phorie acid.

Influence of heat on ab-
sorption spectra.

Precipitation of Ag by ox-
ide.

Selenites

Separation from Vd

Production of U im Prus-
sia, 1869 to 1873.
Ferrocyanides --..---.-----
Utilization of bye-prod-
ucts in U manufacture.
Use in titration of zine --.

Value of metal
Uranic acid, UOs 2H20. --

Price of metal

Use in titration of phos-
phoric acid.

Absorption spectra

Reagent for U. (Ferrocy-
anide soluble in HCl.)

sction of Mg on salts of
Recovery of U residues. --

Formulaof U ferrocyanide

Production of U ores in
1874.

Action of CO2 on U cya-
nide.
Succinatepess. 4-0 ase ae
Tetroxide and peruran-

ates.
a from Fe and
r.

Recovery of U residues - -

Estimation of Pand As
acids.

Production of oresin Aus-
tria in 1875.

Criticism on Kern’s rea-
gent for U.

Researches. |)... 225-52

Report on technical pro-
cesses,

References.

Jahresb. phys. Ver., Frankft., 1872-1873, 14 ;
C. C., 1874, 322.

Monit. scient., [V, 318; Chem. News, X XIX,
17; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1874, 116.

C. R., LX XVIII, 1305; Ber. d. chem. Ges., ’
1874, 737; Jahresb., 1874, 973.

Chem. News, X XLX, 148; Ber. d. chem. Ges.,
1874, 740; Proc. Lond. Roy. Soc., XXII,
241; Jahresb., 1874, 96.

C. R., LX XX, 1087; Bull. soc. chim., XXIV,
368; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1875, 697; J. Chem.
Soc., 1875, 1164; Chem. News, XXXII, 239;
Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XIV, 346; Jahresb.,
reinen Ch., 1875, 82; Jahresb., 1875, 223.

Researches on salts of Selenious Acid; Nova
acta Reg. Soc. Scient. Upsala [111], 1875;
Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1875, 655; Bull. soc.
chim. [2], XXII1, 497; Jahresb., 1875, 163.

Am. Chem., V, 363; C. C., 1876, 809; Bull.
aoe. chim., XX VII, 295; Jahresb., 1875,

C. C., 1875, 528.

Bull soc. chim., XXIV, 355; Jahresb., 1875,
235; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1876, 856.
C.C., 1875, 83; J. Chem. Soc., 1875, 1303.

Chem. News, XX XI, 222; Zeitschr. anal.
Chem., XIV, 343. .

San Francisco Sc.; Berg-u. hiitten-Ztg.,
XXXILV, 244: C. C., 1875, 544:

Chem. News, XXXII, 219; Bull. soe. chim.
XXI, 553; J. Chem. Soc., 1876, 192; Jahresb.,
1875, 223; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1875, 82,
and 1876, 6; C. C., 1876, 130; Ber. d. chem.
Ges., 1876, 948; Am. Chem., VI, 316.

Am. Chem., V, 443.

Sitzungsb. k. béhm. Ges., 1876, H.4; Zeit-
schr. anal. Chem., X VI, 104.

Ber. d. chem. Ges., VIII, 1533 ; Zeitschr. anal.
Chem., XV, 329; Dingl. pol. J.. CCXIX,
535; Jahresb. reinen Ch 1875, 462.

Chem. News, XX XIII, 5; Jahresb.,1876,1002 ;
J. Chem. Soc., 1876, 741; Zeitschr. anal.
Chem., XVI, 238: Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1876,
86, and 1877, 106.

Chem. News, XX XIII, 236; Jahresb., 1876,
236.

Zeitschr. anal.Chem.,1876,292 ; C. C., 1876,775; -
Jahresb., 1876, 270; J. Chem. Soc., 1877, 345.

Ann. chim. phys. [5], VIII,444; Jahresb.,1876,
311; C. C., 1876,691; Jahresb. reinen Ch.,
1876, 81.

C.C., 1876, 415, and 31.

Ber. d. chem. Ges,, 1876, 1433.

Chem. News, XX XIII, 90; Bull soc. chim.,
XXVI, 362.

J. Chem. Soe., 1877, I, 127; Jahresb., 1877,
297; Chem. News, XX XIII, 287.

Cc. R., LXXXV, 281; Ann. chim. phys. [5],
XIf, 185; Jahresb., 1877, 1057; J. Chem.
Soc., 1877, II, 926; Chem. News, XXXVI,
100; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XVII, 96;
Bull. soc. chim., XXX, 414; C. C., 1877,
631 and 712; Dingl. pol. J.. CCX X VIL, 412;
Jabresb. reinen Ch , 1877, 102.

Dingl. pol. J., CCOXXV, 561; Jahresb., 1877,
1057; C. C., 1877, 744; J. Chem. Soc., 1878,
114; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XVII, 94;
Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1877, 106 and 1878, 109.

Zeitsehr. anal. Chem., XVI, 22; J. Chem.
Soc., 1877, 741; Dingl. pol. J., CCXXIV,
558.

C. C., 1877, 128.

Zeitschr. anal. Ch., XVI, 238 ; Jahresb. reinen
Ch., 1877, 106. 3

Verbind. des Urans, Erlangen, 1877.

Hofmann’s Entwiek. der chem. Industrie,
836; Jahresb., 1877, 1121.

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE

OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 927

Index to literature of Oraniuwm, 1789-1885—Continued.

Date Author. Remarks.
18780 Sock yerssseese eee Occurrence in the sun .-.-.
L873) Burcken)--o- ess -- Separation from iron ..--.
|
|
1S18)}) omy el) 5-2 sece ne - Fluorescence of U glass.-|
1S8718y|) Oto. 25 252 eeee =e Decomposition of uran-
inite by citric acid.
|
USPS CKO Wee Sse oer - Electrolytic separation ---
1878 | Vincent....-- ies Action of dimethylamine
on U solutions.
Rey fel EEN) Weare enh Separation of Vd. in U
ores.
1878 | Priwoznik and | Composition of commer-
: Schneider. cial sodium uranate.
1878)|) Bottgers.- 2022. Action of P on solutions -
1879) Donath 03.2552. Specitic heat of oxides ---.
,
1879 | Sendtner.. .........| Selenates, selenites, and |
bromides.
1879 | Zimmermann ...... Separation from Fe -
LBIO) WWopeliss 42 shes: sse-ee Absorption spectrum of
nitrate.
1879) | Dittey. 65: se. Action of fuming HNO:
on U nitrate.
1880 | Schucht ....-. ...... Electrolytic behavior -.__.
1880 | Smith, E. F ......... Electrolysis of acetate --
1880 | Chastaing .......... Behavior of U. salts with
alkaline pyro-and meta-
phosphates.
1880 | Zimmermann ....... Sulphide ; uranium red_.-
1880 |Ditte=--2-- 2-2-0. -- Fluorides and oxyfluor-
ides.
1880 | Clarke and Owens ..| Monochloracetate of U

1880

1880

1880
1880

1880

and Na.
Luckow ...... wea Estimation by electrolysis-
Schuchti) sco ssseas4- Estimation by electrolysis.
Schicht............. Estimation by electrolysis.
Zimmermann ....-.. Action of uranyl salts on
turmeric paper.
Lallemand.......... Technical working ot ores.

References.

Lond. R. Soc., Proc., XX VII, 279; LXXXVI,
317; Jahresb., 1878, 185.

C. C., 1878, 453; Dingl. pol. J., 230, 96;
Jahresb., 1878, 1060; J. pharm. chim. [4],
XX VII, 347; J. Chem. Soc., 1878, 2, 771;
Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XIX, 350;*Jahresb.
reinen Ch., 1878, 109; Chem. News,
XXXVIII, 276.

Ann. Phys. [2], If, 113; Jahresb., 1878, 162.

Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci.; Chem. News;
XXXVII, 99; Jahresb., 1878, 1198; Zeit-
schr. anal. Chem., XIX, 60; Mineral. Mag.
Apr. 1881.

Zeitsehr. anal. Chem., XIX, 9 and 18.

Bull. soc. chim., XXXIII, 156; Zeitschr.
anal. Chem., XIX, 479; C. C., 1880, 279.
Oest. Ztschr. f. Berg - u.' Hiittenwesen, 1878,
2and 13; Dingl. pol. J., CCX XXI, 556.
Berg - und hiittenm. Jahrbach, 1878, 208;
Dingl. pol. J., CCXXVIU, 379 and 556;
Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1878, 109; Jahresb.

chem. Tech., 1879, 531.

C. C., 1878, 208.

Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1879, 742; Jahresb., 1879,
91; Wien. Acad. Ber.[2], 1879, 699; J. Chem.
Soc.,1879, 2, 688; C. C.,1879, 387, and 1880, 227
Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1879, 97, and 1880, 101.

Ann. Chem., CXCV, 325; J. Chem. Soc., 1879, 2,
507; C. C., 1879, 275; Jahresb. reinen Ch.,
1879, 97; Bull. soc. chim., XX XIT, 181.

-| Ann. Chem.,CXCIX, 1;Chem. News, XL, 273;

Jahresb., 1879, 1051; J. Chem. Soc, 1880, 2,
189; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XX, 414; Ball.
soc. chim., XXXIV, 713; Ber. d. chem.
Ges., XII, 2254.

J. Chem. Soe., 1879, 189; Ber. d. chem. Ges.,
XI, 913.

C. R., Oct. 13,1879; Ber. d. chem. Ges., XII,
2270.

Chemikerztg., 1880, 292; Berg-u. huttenm.
Ztg., XX XIX, 121; Jahresb., 1880, 174.

Am. Chem. J., I, 329; Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1880,
751; Jahresb., 1880, 174; Zeitschr. anal.
Chem., X XI, 260; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1880,
102.

Bull. soc. chim. [2], XXXIV, 20; Jahresb.,
1880, 353; C. C., 1880, 564; Jahresb. reinen
Ch., 1880, 101; Ber. d. chem. Ges., XIII,
1860.

Ann. Chem., CCIV, 226; Ber. d. chem. Ges.,
XII, 2078; Bull. soc. chim, XXXV, 176;
Chem. News, XLIII, 153; J. Chem. Soce.,
1881, II, 79; Zeitschr. anal. Chem., XX, 557;
C. C., 1880, 40 and 756; Jahresb. reinen
Chem., 1880, 102; Jahresb., 1880, 351.

C. R., XCI, 115 and 166; Ber. d. chem. Ges.,
XIII, 1977; Jahbresb chem. Techn.,1880,408 ;
Chem. News, XLII, 62 and 95; J. Chem.
Soc., 1880, II, 853 and 794; C.C., 1880, 625;
Dingl. pol. J.. CCX XXVIII, 504; Jahresb.
reinen Chem., 1880, 101; Jahresb., 1880, 353.

Am. Chem. J., II, 331; Ber. d. chem. Ges.,
XIV, 35; Bull soc. chim., XXXVI, 441; C.
C., 1881, 197; J. Chem. Soe , 1851, II, 1124;
Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1880, 102 and 1881, 97;
Jahresb., 1880, 764.

Ztschr. anal. Chem., 1880, 1; Chem. News,
XLI, 213, Jahresb., 1880, 1139; Jahresb. rei-
nen Ch., 1880,2; Jahresb. chem. Tech.,1880,
411.

C.C., 1880, 374; Jahresb., 1880, 1143; Dingl.
pol. J., CCXXXIX, 303 and 378.

Chem. News, XLI, 280; Jabresb., 1880, 1143.

Ann. Chem., CCIV, 224; Jahresb., 1880, 1184;
J. Chem. Soe., 1881, 2, 122; Zeitschr. anal.
Chem., XX, 415; C. C., 1880, 756; Chem.
News, XLII, 153 ; Ber. d. chem. Ges., XTIT,
2093.

Monit. scient. (3, X, 965; Jahresb. reinen

_ Ch., 1880, 103; Chem, News, X LIL 72.
928 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE

Index to the litcrature of Uranium

OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

, 1789-1885—Continued.

References.

Date. | Author. Remarks.
1880) |\"Baker 2s: -o2-- 5-7 Isomorphism of flaorine
compounds.
1881 | Zimmermann ...----. At. wit. based on density
of gaseous compounds
Wuees (chlorides).
BRST Glarke 225.0 s-cicce Recalculation of at. wt . - -
| |
1881 | Zimmermann ..-.... Alkaline uranates .....-..
1881 | Reinsch ..--.-....-. Deecnes by the micro-
scop
1881 | Brauner .....--..-!. Specific vol. of oxide..-....
|
1881 | Zimmermann ....-.-. Titration with Ke Mne Os. -|
1882 Zimmermann ...--..! At. wt.determination

based on specific heat of
metal.

Ann. Chem., CCI, 234.

Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1881, 1934; Jahresb., 1881,
4; J. Chem. Suc., 1882, 2 2 143; C. C., 1881,
676; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1881, 97; Bull soc.
chim., XXXVII, 350; Ber. d. chem. Ges.,
XIV, "1935 6.

Smithsonian Misc. Coll., 441, 150; Phil. Mag.
(5], XIL, 101; Am. Chem. Ae III, 363;
Jahresb., 1881, 6; Chem. News. XLIk. 112.

Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1881, 440; Jahresb., 1881,
292; J. Chem. Soc., 1881, 2. 686; ©. C: 1881,
298; Dingl. pol. J., CCXL, 326; Jabresb.
reinen Ch., 1881, 97; Jahresb. chem. Tech.

1881, 376.
Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1881, 2325; Jahresb., 1881,
er Mag. [5], XI, 60; J. Chem. Soc., 1881, 2,

1183.

Ber. a chem. Ges., XIV, 779; Jahresb. reinen
Ch., 1881, 90.

Ber. d. chem m. Ges., 1882, 847; Jahresb., 1882,
16; Dingl. pol. J., CCXLIV, 334; Jahresb.
chem. Tech., 1882, 178; Bull soc. chim..
XXXVIIL, 266.

1882 | Zimmermann ...-. ~~ | Uranyl compounds and re- | matt Chem., CCXIIT, 285; Jahresb., 1882,
searches ; metallic U, es- 327; J. Chem. Soc.. 1882, 2, 1269; Zeitschr.
timation, &c. anal. Chem., XXIII, 63 and 920; Ber. d.
chem. Ges., xv 2617.
18823) atte lee cert Crystallized uranates -..-. C. R., XCV, 988; Jahresb., 1882, 330; J.Chem.
| Soe , 1883, 2, 296; Chem. News, XLVI, 290;
| Bull soe. echim., XX XTX, 520.
TSB2 | AWHOSNON .<sesete eee Chromates of Uranyl and | Chem. Centr., 1882, 777; Anz.d. bohm. naturf.
Ife | Versamml. Jahresbericht, 1882, 332; J.
Chem. Soc., 1883, 2, 425.
1882 | Lecog de Boisbau- | Separation from gallium -.| Compt rend., XCIV, 1154; Chem. News,
dran. | ; | XLV, 207; Jahresb., 1882, 1294.
De ode EA ee ale oe Sb eet Stanshies es aoe. eee eee Jabresb. chem. Tech., 1882, 223.
1883 | Smithells ........... PIVOTIUSS 2.32 sess osc s Chem. Soc. J., XLIII, 125; Jahresb., 1883,
| 385; Chem. News, XLVI, 44; Ber. d. chem.
| Ges., X VI, 955.
TSSaslSavorys-eesacccece co} Recovery of residues, and | Chem. News, XLVIII, 251; Jahreshb., 1883,
| separation from phos: | 385; J. Chem. Soc., 1884, 397.
Phoric acid by tin.
1883 | Gibbons .-~---2-.-:- i Oleate: =-raee eat ase sees | Pharm. J. Trans. (8], XIII, 737; J. Chem.
Soc., 1883, 2, 692; Monit. scientif., "Sept. 1883;
| Chem. News, XLVIII, 182.
1883 | Zimmermann .....-- Reactions of U.; prepara- | Ann. Chem., ‘CCXVI, 10; Zeitsehr. anal.
tion of metal. Chem., SOGsuE 66; Jahresb. chem. Tech.,
| 1888, 219; Chem. News, XLVII, 130, and L,
67; Bull soc. chim., XX XIX, 599; Ber. d.
chem. Ges., XVI, 388.
1884 Dibte: 2. cee Fluorides and uranates ...) Ann. chim. phys. [6], 1, 338; J. Chem. Soc.
1884, 825.
1884 | Classen ......-...... | Separation from Zn. and | Ber.d.chem. Ges. XVII, 2483; Chem. News,
| Cr. by electrolysis. LI, 220.
1885 | Regelsberger ....... Ammoniacal compounds | Ann. Chem. CCX XVII, 119.
of uranyl chloride.
1885 | Rammelsberg .-..-.. | Double acetates ...... ...| Ann Phys. Jan. 15, 1885.
1885 | Bliimcke ...-....... | Specific heat < . Ann. Phys. Jan. 15, 1885.
1885 | Casamajor .-..-..... | Blowpipe reaction with | Chem. News., LIU, 1.
silver iodide.
MINERALS.
J
ABREVIATIONS.—A., Autunite; G., Gummite; T., Torbernite; Ur., Uraninite.
Date Author. Mineral. References.
1727 | Briickmann......_.. Schwarz Beckerz ...-..--. Magn. Dei, 204.
1747 | Wallerius.....-....- iBeckblandews--- = a4 ese aes Wall. Min., 249.
1758 | Cronstedt........--. Swartblende .............. Cronst. Mir., 198,
2) De Borie eee Pechblende, Mica viridis | Lithophyl. Born., 138.
cryst.
L780 |eWWrermericecen cet. aoe Griiner Glimmer........-- Ueb. Cronst., 217.

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 929

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885—Continued.

MINERALS—Continued.
Author Mineral. References.

atte ets, Soe ioe Grtiner Glimmer. ......-..| Mém. acad. sci. Paris, 1785, 238; Crell’s Ann.
1791, LU, 152.

Kdlaprotin csere ee ee | MORAN GNA tecnico ne 5 can sina Mem. Akad. Berl., 1787, 160.

Klaprothi §-.----=-- Uranit Spath ............. Schr. Ges. N. Berl., LX, 2738.

UApYOtn sso ns ae) AMON VSIS UM cae ta- cies ecer-'- Crell’s Ann, 1789, 11, 400; Klap. Beitr., II,
221.

"Wrernen 2.528 oe Chalcolithywe:- 5 -)252-5.25/. Bergm. J., 376.

Weemerjcetesecr se. Pechblendes. 32 --- 2. 5-4-5 Bergm. J.

Clap roth ys aaeaeaees ATIALVSIS UR}. <5 = <in-2'o2 22's J.de phys., XXXVI, 248.

ALT OUUN IN OTIS ote cosh ol) PUSS WUT oh ie ole caine J.de phys., XLII, 241.

IKatsten: ese seen [MEOnDRrIbe menses see cces es Ueb. Wern. Verbess., 43.

Karsten). 0825 14: IRCCHOnzisere ame icise nats Karst. Min. Tabell., 56.

Champeaux......--- UWRETINNIG). «soa sasecrecoose se Phil. Mag., 1800, 185.

AWW sce sesh i er WUrancioxiduley. 3.0 oon. Haiiy Traité.

DADO reer secs | Analysis Ur ..-..-----| Phil. Mag., 1802; J.de phys., LV, 314.

Hkoherg 6255268 | Discovery of P20s in T ---} Ann. ch. phys. [1], X LU, 233.

Ta diwi pessoas Ne Uranglimmer -..........-. Ludwig.Muin., 1, 55.

Greront.s-23 2222254" Analysis T ..... Ren ie oes Phil. Tians., 1805; Ann. Phil. V, 281; Ann.
Phil. VII, 68; Nicholson’s J., XIII, 247.

‘Brunner e542 es ae OCCOrnenGe S28. ae ese Leonh. Tasch. 1, 362.

Vauguelin ...-../2.- WPaninite i sake] oo) Weems: Ann. ch. phys. [1], XLVI, 277.

Bernhardi - -..--. . | Crystallographic, Uran- | Leonh. Tasch., 111, 95.

glimmer.

WAGIIM sume: os anes Wranities tas s> hock sce Mineralog. Manual, 1814.

Werner 2 coy. couse! Festé Uranokker .-.-..--- Wern. Min. Syst., 26; Hoffm. Min., [X a 279.

IPT ipSse ae see. Sal Oiranite wrens rer cosa. cok Trans. Geol. Soc.. IIL; Ann. Phil. XII, 133.

Freiesleben....----- Lichtes Uranpecherz. --.. Bes Min, Kenut.Sachs., 187 ; Leonh. Tasch.
SIT, 168,

Borzsligge. soo. k-< Ulirankseul eee ete eee ...| N. Syst. Min., 295; Ann. chim. phys. [2],
XIII, 31; Schweigg. J., XX VII, 74; Ann.
Phil. XU, 464.

JAMESON). === 4: -2s<s< Uranmica .....-.....-....| Min. Syst., 1620.

Breithanpt .-......- Uranphy lite =. 2.22.66 Charak. d. Min. Syst.

ohne aes: See aoe URED VALE Ole aebem erect Chem. Unters., V, 254.

iBerzelius!= 2-2 =--2.- ZAP POU esos cas ce nsec eh Schweigg. J., XXXII., 245. Leonh. Tasch.,
XVI. 698; Ann. Phil., XXIV, 390.

hillipsss=ceseeene see Torberniten S242. sos Ann. Phil., XX, 469.

3 fot oh vs ee Se FAME LG SISN UI Ge ese nae es Schweigg. J.,. XX XV, 326.

Berzelius sei. see VET Abe) eee aes Sears Ann. ch. phys. [2], XII, 31; Berz. Jahresb.,
I, 89.

Berzelius ........-. Analysis’ 5222-32 sen2- Berz. Jabresb., 1823, 137.

Berzeliusic.. 2252: Analysis A., Chalcolite..-; Pogg. Ann., I., 374; Schweigg. J., XLIV, 29;
Edinb. J. Sci., 11, 372; Ann. Phil., XXV,
274.

Phillips seesso ee Presence of P20; in T .---| Ann. Phil., N.S., VI, 156.

PHU pss. sae PANIEIVSIB ascot anemia Ann. Phi. }2], V, 57; Am.J. Sei. [1], VII,
380; Schweigg. J., XLIV, 42.

angionyseoe: os ane IAMDLVSIS VAS... .< apes. Ann. ch. phys. [2], XXIV, 239.

ZAPPOsetosee kale nie Uranblithe.-...-. Hales otra Verh. ves. BOhm. Prag., 1824; Leonh. Zeit-

| scehr., XX, 168; Edinb. J.Sci., V, 185.

Lippe sescta- == -- Bred fet Bf gs 0} 8) A Ys) see Kastner’s Arch. Nat., XII, 252; Berz. Jah-
resb., VIII, 198.

Haidinperyeecs s+. -4| POHANNITE) 25. -—. sas nciesae Abh. Bohm. Ges. Prag., 1830; Edinb. J. Sci.
N.S, UT, 306; Berz. Jahresb., XI, 208.

Beudanti.2ss.25-222: UWraconises.<.---scekeese= Beud. Traité, 11, 672.

Breithanpt ......-.- UsiGummierz -22 52. sre 0) Charak. Min. Syst., 218.

Kerstenvses occ. Gummite .................| Pogg. Ann., XX VI, 492; Schweigg. J., LXV,
18; Ann. Ch. Pharm., VIII, 285.

Kersten :22beh tes. Uranpecherz .-.--....-.-. Pogg. Ann., XXVI, 491; Berz. Jahresb.,
XITT, 165; Ann. Ch. Pharm., VIII, 285.

Gerhardt 2--.---- >..|)Uranpecherz --..-..-----: J. pr. Ch., [V, 54.

Breithaupt ........- Wmanery sence acme clio J. pr. Ch., XII, 184.

OSG; Gee eee ee Uranotantalite.......-.... Poge., Ann. XLVIII, 555; Edinb. N. Phil. J.,
XXIX, 418.

Breithaupt ..-...... Uranochalcite -.........-- Breith. Hsndb. Min., 173.

Ebelmen.......-.... ANBIYSIB VOT coe eae ale - Ann. d. M. [4], IV, 400; Ann. ch. phys. [3],
VIII,498; Gerz.Jahresb., XXIV, 304; J. pr.
Ch., XXX, 414. }

Rammelsberg...---- SAMAIGSIS UT, sae S=5n=e =! Poge. Ann., LUX, 35; Berz. Jahresb., XXIV,
304; Jabrb. f. Min., 1884, 353.

Teschemacher --25--|eenscs a= -Sete nsec se =se Am. J. Sci. [1], XLVIT1, 395.

Shepard yeas eee ase er pl sia slaw ete ane see Am. J. Sci. Ui, XLVI 395.

Haidinger ........- WTAnINe esha. Cece Hanidb. best. Min., 549.

Haidinger ........-. Zippeit ........-.-...-..-.| Handb. best. Min., 510.

ose ieee ee ee MAINA Kteios) ocasee teclc c Posy., LXXI, 157.

Breithaupt ....... .; Schwer Uranerz ---..---.. | Handb., 1847, 863.

Breithaupt .....--.- UraAReuM Miles cee en | Handb., 1847, 863.

Breithaupt ..-.---.- We Pittinergis s,s. SS. | Handb., 1847, 863.

H. Mis.

1d

ov
930 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. -

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885—Continued.

MINERALS—Coutinued.
Date. Author. Mineral. References.
1848 | Scheerer, Th..--..--- Analysis) UT i) ee --nisee ye Pogg., Ann., LX XII, 570; N.Jen. Lit. Ztg.,
1848, 55,
19484) SWiertherssaats.- sect Uranitis es. 2s. | J. pr. Ch., XLII, 332; Jahresb., 1848, 1218.
1848 | Hermann .........-. ¥ttroilmenite:.....--.--.- J. pr. Ch., XLIV, 216.
1848 | Smith, J. L.-.--..-.-- Medjidites oo a. s--e tes Am. J. Sci. [2], V, 337; XI., 259; Ann Ch.
Pharm, LX VI, 254: Jabresb,, 1847-48, 1220.
1848 | Le Conte ..-.....-:. Coracite. 232-24 ase anes Am. J. Sci. [2], II, 173: Jahresb., 1848, 1167;
3 1853, 642.
1848 (Genth 522 ceccaciee Wramitss See se ate Ann. Ch. Pharm., LX VI, 280.
1850) | Wihitney’ =. 5222-2. Coraciter scat tect see Am. J. Sci. [2], VII, 434; J. pr. Ch., LI, 127;
Phil. Mag. [8], XX XVII, 153; Annuaire
| chim., 185], 204.
18525) ‘Brookes dé, Maller. olticeoet be oye ae eee eee eee | B. & M. Min., 1852, 517.
1852 | Haidinger .......... Hliasitessss93)4- oie ee ee Jahrb. geolog. Reichs., LV, 124.
1852 OP see ataemas ees Liebigite, Voglite ....---. Jahrb. geolog. Reichs., IV, 221; Jahresb., 1853,
849.
1853) veoauer 2-2 tee Analysis of Uranpecherz | Jahrb. geolog. Reichs., 1853, 105; and 1854, 186;
J.pr.Ch., UXT, 391; Pharm. Centvr., 1854, 334;
Jabresb., 1854, 793; Jahrb. Min., 1855, 76.
1853 | Chapman ........... Uranatemnite ............ Chap. Pract. Min., 148.
1853) Ragsky 22-220. 22 Pittinerg: sds e nce eee Pogg. Ann., Ergiinz., IV, 348.
1854) Dawber s- 22-452 ass. Basic sulphate:....-.:.... Pogg. Ann., XCITI, 251.
1855. | Fritsche;-..:.-=.-- =: Uranpecherz ...-.- .. | Bou. H. Ztg., 1855, 111; Jahrb. Min., 1855, 445.
1856 | Descloizeaux .......| Opticalexam. of minerals -| Ann. mines[5], XI, 261; Am. J. Sci. [2], XXV.
396; Instit., 1857, 49; C. R., XLIV, 322; Jah-
resb., 1857, 687.
DBOT i} WOBTS ac seeees aha Basic sulphate ........... Min. Joach. Teplitz., 1857.
1857 | Lindacker --........ Uranochalcite, Zippeite | Am. J. Sci. [2], XXV, 414; Min. Joach., 1857,
&e. 95 and 119; Jahresb., 1857, 694.
1857 | Descloizeaux ....... Autoniten seas. ce eee Ann. d., XIV, 377; Jahrb. Min., 1861, 184.
18o7a|\Genthins a coer eee Analysis of Coracite.-..-. Am. J. Sei. [2], XXUL 421; J. pr. Ch.,
| LX XIU, 206; Jahresb., 1857, 663.
W859i) CEvermiamn esse see ee Uranoniobitvscsss eee J.pr.Ch., LX XVI, 326; Bull. soc.nat. Moscou,
1859; Jahresb., 1859, 798.
1859 | Hermann.........-- Pittinerz, faeces ee Jahresb., 1859, 798.
18598} (\Ordwayee eee essence Basic sulphate: ...4.4.2'.4) Ams Ji uSei (21) eeVil, 197): ei. epr:, Chess
LXXVI, 23.
TS6O | Rheyereaanasce sees Analysis Wr) josie wee ooe Ramm. Handb., 1860, 175.
$860: Webslty 0 2c oun uiin ae capes ieenerat cities au Jabrb. Min., 1860, 810.
S610) HRisanias ero ee Analysis vAy es.) t sc ecese C. R., LI, 817; Jahresb. 1861, 1030; Rép. chim.
pure, III, 222; J. pr.Ch., LX XXV; Jahrb.
| a x Min., 1862, 601.
ritzscheite —- 22-0 ..62.- ei
5 Sara er Berg. u. hiittenm. Ztg., XXIV, 302; Jahrb.
UE ai ; pois epietc ee ae al , Min., 1865, 743; Jabresb., 1865, 911.
1865s; Church eserves. ea Amaely sis te ence ech wee Chem. News., XII, 183; Jahresb., 1868, 911.
1866. ;Churchyssr see esssee Anitonite ora ie eect cee J. Chem. soc., 1866, 185.
1268) | Wiebskyra se eeeeeeee LY (Nie ate ee eee Jahrb. Min., 1868, 607; Jahresb., 1868, 1013.
1869 | Hermann .......--- Samarskite and related | J. pr.Ch., CVII, 139.
minerals.
L870: |Wiebskyi--s- ose Uranophane .-...----.-..- Zeitschr. geol. Ges., XXII, 92; Jahresb., 1870,
1304.
1670) |PBOricky=-- 2-2 nee Wranotie 203-025 eee Jahrb. Min., 1870,780; Jahresb., 1870, 1305;
Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1870, 307.
1870); Kirejeiec=. 52288. Us| Uranophaner- nn s- eek Ber. d. chem. Ges., 1870, 806.
1870 | Zepnarowich -....-. Crystallographic, uranotile| Jahrb. Min., 1870, 780; Jahresb., 1870, 1305.
1971) [eyes vacheeecacees= Uranospinite, Trégerite .. | Jahrb. Min., 1871, 869; Jahresb., 1872, 1135.
1872)| Wieisbach!!. 222) 2 Silicateda sree ee Jahrb. Min., 1872, 316; Jahresb., 1872, 1123.
1872 | Maskelyne & Flight.) Uranite........ ........- | Chem. Soc. J. [2], X, 1054; Jahresb., 1872,
| | 1136; Ber. d. chem. Ges., V, 990; C. C.,
, 1873, 118.
1872 | Nordenskj@ld -----.. INohlites Seems tees eae = Geol. For. Forhandl. Stockholm, I, 7; Jahrb.
Min., 1872, 534.
1873 | Rammelsberg.--.-.- Samarskite .......-...... Pogg. Ann., CL, 2138.
1873 | Zerrenner ..-.....-. Samarskite ...........-- Zeitschr. geol. Ges., XXV, 461.
1873 | Weisbach ......:.- Uranosphirite, Uranospi- | Jahrb. Min., 1578, 314; C. C, 1878, 341;
nite. Jahresb., 1872, 1099.
1873) Weisbachyeccceee-. Oranges segs 2b? ee Jahrb. Min., 1873, 296; Jahresb., 1873, 1178;
| oJ. Chem. Soc., 1873, 1108.
1873 | Schrauf 3 Wranotiles.2-86. 22s2-62 | Min. Mitth., 1873, 138; Jalresb., 1873, 1179.
E873; \Wabell Seabee oe PATI GONnI bole se hoe ee Jahrb. f. Min., 1873, 242; J. Chem. Soc., 1873
1130.
1Si3\ | Wainklerastestse Uranospharite, Trégerite, | J. pr. Chem. [2], VII, 1; Jahrb. Min., 1873,
Zeunerite, Uranospinite. | 870; Jahresb., 1873, 1190; C.C., 1873, 342;
| Am. Chem., IV, 36; J. Chem. Soc., 1873,
606; Jabresb. reinen Ch., 1878, 72; Chem.
News, X XVII, 307, and XX VII, 227; Bull.
| soc. chim., XX. 171. 7
1873) | Frenzel_..<--. -..:- Torbernite, Autunite and | Jahrb. Min., 1872 946.

Zeunerite.

Date.

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE

OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 951

Index to the literature of Uranium, 1789-1885—Continued.

MINERALS—Continued.

Author. Mineral.

It7 Lkcern: SA ee
1877 | Winkler

eva eburGhics.-) = eee Uranocircite, estimation of|
water.

1877 |) Weisbach’ ---.-5---- Crystallographic -.-....--

1878 | Nordenskjgld- ...--. Cleveite and Yttrogum-
mite.

1878 | Brush and Dana....| Uraninite.................|

PRT OE ROSLOLce see ee Uranite in Elba ...... --

1878 | Reichardt ..... ._-. Uraninite from J oachims-
thal.

1878) Brezina® 2... «22.2 | Autanite, crystallographic

1878 | Borzizky ........--. Uranoile ssn esas eee

PSTO! One eae ket jeeditOse se Moen se snc tec

TS79) WP atera: snot e see | U. ores as a source of Vd.-

TSTOGL Gonth 22.2.2 4-5 = | U minerals of North Car-

| olina, Uranotil, Phos-

| phuranylite, Gummite.

1S80Ul Lewiss--25-- see Optical character of Au-
tunite.

1880 | Weisbach........... ROE tay ae nee

1880 | Comstock........... | Uraninite from Branch-
ville, Conn.

|

TSsl | Coblier=. ee. ]a-2c- | Uranothorite -........ -.

TSSiyeHiddenesse--- 4 Uranins inite in North Caro-
ina.

1882 | Weisbach..........-. | Uranium ochre -.-.-...--

1§S2} Nilson ssece ss oe | Uranothorite ..........---

1882 | Schranf............. | Uranothallite(=Liebigite).

Hl |

1883 | Hidden ..........-..| Uraninite from North
Carolina.

1883 | von Foullon......-... Researches on decomposi-
tion products of uran- |
inite.

1884 | Blomstrand ......_-. Mineral from Moss, Nor-
way, and on the occur-
rence of natural uran-
ates. Broggerite.

TSRAT I Barebias5-'5 eee a Porbernite: 225-5.22.-2. 22

—
1873 | Ghurche2*37- |
1874 | Church

i

Schroeckeringite
RT eek | Autunite and Torbernite -

| Occurrence of U. minerals
in North Carolina.

|

|

| Uranocircite....... ere st

|

References.

sabre: geol. Reichs, 1873, No.1; Am. Chem.,
} 7, 479.
| Chem. News, XXX, 245; J. Chem. Soc., Feb.,
1875, 109.
Am. J. Sci. [3], XIV, 496.

J.pr. Chem. [2], XVI, 91; Zeitschr. Kryst.,
1,394; Jahresb., 1877, 1302; J. Chem. Soc.,
1878, LI, 17; C.C., 1877, 646; Jahresb. reinen
Ch., i877, 107.

Min. Mag., I, 234; Zeitschr. Kryst., III, 113;
Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1879, 98.

| Zeitschr. Krvst., I, 394; Jahrb. Min., 1877,

406 ; Jahresb., 1877, 1303.
Geol. For. Forh., LV, 28.

Am. J. Sci. [3], XVI, 35.
Jahrb. f. Min., 1877, 531; J. Chem. Soc., 1878, 2,

} 280.

Arch. Pharm. [3], XI11,130; J. Chem.Soc.,1879,
2,18; Jabresb. reinen Ch., 1878, 109.

Zeitschr. Kryst., LL, 273.

i di ale geol. Reichs, May 31,1878; Min. May.,

, 150.

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., 1878, 408; Zts.
Kryst., Lil, 596; Jahresb. reinen Ch., 1879,
98,

Dingl. pol. J., COX XXI, 556; J. Chem. Soc.,
1879, 2, 989

Am. Chem. J., 1, 87; Am. J. Sci. [3], XVIII,
153; Chem. News, XL, 210; Zeitschr. Kryst.,
IV, 385; Jahrb. Min., 1880, Ref., i, 35;
Jahresb., 1880, 1475 and 1433 and 1415; J.
Chem. Soc., 1881, 2, 96; C. C., 1879, 810;
Jahresb. reinen Ch , 1879, 96.

Proc. Min. Section Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci.; Am.
Naturalist, July, 1882, 609.

Jahrb. Min., )880, 2,111; Zeitschr.Kryst., VL
107; J. Chem. Soc., 188!, 2, 342.

Am. J. Sci. (3), XIX, 220; Ztschr. Kryst.,
IV, 615; Jahrb. Min., 188), Kef., II, 171;
Jahresb., 1880, 1413; C.C.,1880,314; Jahresb.
reinen Ch., 1880, 103.

Am. J. Sci. [3], X-XI, 161; Ztschr. Kryst.,V,
514 ; Jabresb., 1881, 1361; J. Chem. Soc.,1881,
2, 1009; Bull. soc. min. France, V, 117.

Am. J. Sei. [3], XXII, 22; J. Chem. Soc.,
1881, 2, 1110; Zeitschr. Kryst., VI, 517.

Jahrb. f. Min., 1882, 2, Mem., 249; J. Chem.
Soc., 1883, 2, 433; Zeitschr. Kryst., VIL,

541. C. R., XCV, 784; Ber. d. chem. Geés.,
1882, 2519; Jahresb., 1882, 1528; J. Chem.
Soc., 1883, 2, 299.

Ztschr. Kryst., VI, 410; Jahresb., 1882, 1537 ;
J. Chem. Soc., 1883, 2, 955; Bull. soc. min.
France, V. 165; Am. Naturalist, June, 1882.

Am. J. Sci. [3], XXIV, 372; J. Chem. Soc.,
1583, 2, 165 and_1063.

| Jahrb. geolog. Reichs, 1883, XX XIII,1; 4m.

Naturalist, 1883, 1278.

Geol. Fér. Férhandl, Stockholm, VII, 59; J.
pr. Chem. [2], XXLX, 191; J. Chem. Soc.,
1884, 1102; Chem. News, L, 104; Am. chim.
phys. [6], IV. 129.

Bull. soe. min. France, V LI, 460.

932 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

’

ALPHABETICAL INDEX OF AUTHORS.

Nore.—The numbers refer to the years, the figures ‘‘18” being dropped. Figures preceded by ‘“M”

refer to the section of minera)

It should be remembered that

ls.

* Date and
Author. Subject. section.
Abesser and Jani .-.....-.---- Estimation of phosphoric acid .-.-.--.-...---------.--- a 73
AGIGin 1222. nee eee eee Oh gh dhis) Mee anes SanOae enone ao ne aconnTncecornusossocuaacr M. 14 —
BAN EHON woes ah ae oF See ea | PROC LOT tre elas ler aa ae teem satel leet 60
Arendt and Knop....-....:-.--|------ Gai oe eS eee dS en ono agg semasssdots sSeassecs 57
iArivedson:).-22.02eee- 520-2 ee IRESCSECHES aoa. Sake a cee ene elon cite ernerret 2
ISU) 4655 checcos satsaesss2¢ Pyzrotartrate.-...........:.-. 47
Aiberberg cess assaceseoeeee ¥Ferrocyanides 75
Bakers 85.5222 eae | Isomorphism of fluorides .--..-...-.--.------.--.-----«.. 80
137) a Hee nlee pe ecb eraer ase) |) Nia Ney urbticl AAac pape moras Hah Soi scadeSaces eesercdogsae M. 84
Becquerel. .---- E Noede ee enjcne INOTES CEN CO) a see ails = de see eee eee 72
W Op ssoLe seen ec iPhosplorescenCe p= sesh = =e eeae sen ee Stee ee eee 57, 61, 59
DO eee Pane Pe cam eroanenereareracacaOrcac. = US eee iene chee 67
Belohoubek 23-.2-.oss2-5 states SLIMIATLION VOLUM CLLIC se senate eee or tee a 66
Dore ess aes ae Estimation (volumetric) of phosphoric acid ..........- 67
Bernhardil-4:cs+-s-eeee eae Uranglimmer, crystallographic ......-. ..--..--..--..-. M. 09
Berthe mote -eeescrs ee reese oe Bromid Giese. ese ee eee ee sneer ee 30
IBeLthienseaeer eset e =a) eee LOS )ss Weare anostseoos- cris se Saco - 5 setigdebesecisscr seetce | 25
DOE eee ee ee Sule) Mites Saku SOP BEAU Sen oeusscoceooc bate Soomedcestn ces 43
IBeudant Secs aeees se eee ee LOR VEG Mt oe soca Meet danisotboe bio st ococtdonssayopassso nes | M. 32
Berzeliusy sc tase sceecceeeeee PAST SRO eM EG eC eae oenine, noeshsoponcsesbstemetess M. 23
D Chalcolite -...-..-. SB Moe SOUS OONe CES auConeh sys oEeccosscco | M. 23
Ie Wag BaP beeen sen ecoo~cuaosesorpocosococose jose 23
iy dates eeese setae neaer M. 22
Pyroracemate -.---- SA 85
Researches 2nd minerals 23
Si Phe snes Shek eon ocmesecorsSnc dia Jods<spescepcenesee er 18
Solubility of (Oi im Wwately sees nee alee eee ee lel 24
Suliph arsenate ase al nie ae eet le 26
Sul pho-carbornte se. eee ss eee ee eee eel 26
Sul pho:molvbdatera =. -eesser a eeeeeere ee eee 26
USUI esr A GaeRe Ab Ganeeototoesaccoesrecsoctsane 34
Wrankallic (AS) ite sera sees etre et ein ete reece aie oleate M. 19
Varia Fhe semen encenenescoodoe skascomsougasnpaeobecse = 31
BSE eso ne eee Ga ee meee Oesoe Meboouc cent ae asare enoos esate 46
IN@tubal ran at6e eee eee eee eran eee M. 84
Specificiheat es tae ase ee a ene area rea ee 85
Decomposition of uraninite by citric acid.--..--.-.------ 78
Extraction from uraninite------...--------- seca 70
Fluorides, oxyfluorides, action of light ------ .-.-.----- 66
Historical summary 2nd exp. on action of light. -...----. 69
Index to liberthorele sas eee aerate eee ere ae 70
Privevotmetal =: seeleseee oe eee te an eeeaeee 75
Separation iconipvidas sere ee tees eae 13a
TRetrethy ammonium GLanatee------ 45 -ee=—- 2h 72
DO ee Soe eee eel Boom (oan at eee eee wee 72
Bolton and Morton ..-..-...--. Fluorescent, absorption spectra --.........----.-----.--- 73
Bonaparte <-=-202-ke..-/25-2-- WValerianate, action of Lighttss=- sss ssesses= sees 43
Boviekyvoe. (2 jah ee oe oe UO ranotileie= ae) ee ae eee eae eee eee ieee M. 70
Born (We)eees sss sce setae eee Pechblende and mica viridis cryst ----.-....--------.---. M. 1772
Borzizky: Yee s<2 < se=ccnenesscees| Uranotile: 2.) occ sce cep aes oie cane coins oan seeaneeee ease M.78
aR) te enter aa Sate eSBs ois = | Action of Pon solutione.c-.) seen ee sssse see ec eee ceeenee 74 and 78
Bothingers eee! toe ee Separation. 2-2t 2 2 aee ee cen aeee shee ame stee epeee 44
IBrachet.c sss scenes Use of Uielass: 22528 fe eae. see coeee seers seee meee 62
Do sees eee | U glass in eiectrical illumination. .-....-.-..-------.---- 72
Brand6) tee eee heen eee | Joxtrachion .o-\. oe a aebee seeee seen se Gatos naan eos we cree 23
Brandes Rud sso eee Suberate!: + — bos. 1 22S een ee ey Se ee eae 21.
Brauner Specific 'volumesiof/oxide 5-0 -ooeeeneee cee eee eee eae 81
Breithaupt | Fritzscheite. cuprouranite, calcouranite -...--.--..--.--- M. 65
Do I Sehiwer-uranerz yt cs ones Ae a ea eget aera eI M. 47
Do RSL Oh asrvr eps Arner net RSet! SoA SI cs Aan once M. 37
Do Wrangiinmi::2 5.4 4.2 eee ae ee eee ano M. 47
Do Uran gummierz -.....-...-. M. 32 —
Do. Uranphyllite(L))2.sssceeees M. 20 —
Do Uran Pittinerz (Eliasite) M.47—
_ Do Uranochaleite 22.0 .222..02% M. 41 —
Brezina Autanite, crystallographic --..- M78

For key to the abbreviations of minerals see seetion of minerals.
) prior to 1841 the protoxide was regarded as the metal.

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Alphabetical index of authors—Continned.

Author.

‘Brianchon)<.scs5-escns << c-e eee
Brookes and Miller
Briickmann
BrucelmMann. <lssecsesssiee sera:|
IBNUNNeR eck ee can ect does
Brush and Dana |
IBUICHOlS oe aash eee ocean pel

IB VASSOM <a misses c.cl Ses |

Wasamajory cc-css--0-0 <-> - <=
ederpeaux Beata ameter tools

Chapman
Chastaing
Chevreul

Do

Clarke, E. D
Clarke, F. W

Collier

Comstock

Crespon and Godetroy
Cronander
ORT ties SG posdaonesasterooae |

Draper

Fischer
Follenius
Foullon, von
Freiesleben

resenius

TOL CEL Tea Se ine a Se See ete es

| Acidity of ‘‘ peroxide” (UOs)

| Artificial uraninite
| SORE CUA) We cee beak ade Coe sO cokHE BESO S en CSBOOOCHOnEE ee

Subject.

Estimation of P and As acids.-.-..-- Ren Senate be sinieisis te hae sere
Occurrence of minerals
Uiraminiters nse n mene teceaue See ee maae as eee amare seme
TRES@arCHES h- 5 sets coin scl oais es icee
Flame reactions
Separation from Fe
ER OVUM OA) oe ee ee ore
INO MADINA Goo ee oss se aloe te CSO OR OE SnD sea aneDesbac 0 ac
Photographic prints
Estimation of phosphoric acid

we eee eww ewe ee wt cee csc cecscccce

Blowpipe reactions
Occurrence in France
Uranite
Uranatemnite
Pyro-and meta-phosphates ......-.....-....----=--------

See eee ee ee

Carbonate of U and kK
Analysis A
cAnalysigt Dares yaser cin
A and T
Schroekeringite
Wranocirete ==. 2222--2=
Reduction of oxide
Recalculation of atomic weight-.:..-........-.-----------
Specific gravity of compounds
Monochloracetate of U and Na
Electrolytic separation from Zn and Cr.-...-.------------

Action of Mg on solutions
Ur from Connecticut
Actionoflicht on oxalateces------ = 2. os cecer een n=

REHatoe phi eee ee ee ee oars ee
Chloride of U and P
Swartblende

Basic sulphate
Wise as mumordanbe sect see aes see cas dee Or sishodecs2cos

Fluorides and oxy fluorides
Fluorides; uranates
Separation from Ie and Cr
Specific heat of oxides
Action of light
Historical summary and researches

Analysis Ur
Researches, action of light, oxalate, &c . .-.---.-----.---
Discovery of P20; in TL
Volatility of UOs
Lactate

Tetroxide and peruranates
Uranic acid
REG CtiOnyb yee tal Semmes ease esa e ans eats eeinrcin sinner
Titration with potassium permanganate
Decomposition products of Ur...---...-------- paecseae eee
Lichter Uranpecherz (G.) 5. cccsmenc> «doce. -oteme 2 s== ams
Criticism on Kern's test
Cyanide
Estimation
T. A. and Zeunerite
Tartrate
Uranpecherz
Metal (oxide)

Blow-pipO LeacChonsacesna=e2~ nn cta--n cs wwoneet = —scene=e
Hypophosphite
Recovery of residues

933

27 and 29
* 72
934 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Alphabetical index of authors—Continued.

Author. Subject.
Gonth 202 Saree so enaoes tee Analysis coracite '5: o)sc5 Shs ose ke ce ae a oe ee eioeee eres
Do North Carolina minerals, analyses
Do TO Tanite Linc pe coe ea Oe marae eee Re eee ae Oe ane ete
Gerhardt Uranpecherz: .:252..2.525.2222%
Gibbous see. -4-2 0-6 Oleate .-.....
Gibbaeee cen os 35s ener Argeniate ts 253. 5) ahs osceeoeeee ee eene ee Dee
Do Separation ........... miaSiaais Canto esctae tars lor eae ete sta
Do Separation from Cr
Gieseckeasceer eran teeter are extraction js sc esoe be eee re nee ae een ee an ee eae
Ginandiiee. beac ce eee eer Sulphite Gece e eee oe eee Cee eee juieeaeee
Gmelin? oe et enone eee eee Physiological action of saltseesoes: -peee ee eee eee
Girahames fos05. 5 ee Dialysisyor mitrate se ee iene e ss ase ee rn eee ee ee eee
DO'S os sectetasalen eee eee Saccharate: eater Soo ey mean ey Ra eee one ener
BB Reels Bere ai apm Soluble modificationiofioxide essa eseane-seee se cece eeeee
Graiichs-e-.2 eee eaten (oe eleepnie and opticalistudiessseces oe ee cree cece ene
Grerors.c ss eee eee Amal ysigyt . 2503. Soe ea ee eae pac ee ee
Grothe? sskeke athens ere ees Action of ‘alkalies; &6% 22220 Sconces eee see ee eeaeee encase
Guyard --...-- soc see ee eee Estimation, volumetric ..............-..-------- acure ees
Haven: .55-2505- EN re aD: Photographic printing). 532 ss-92-s oceuweeseemeeeese ane
Hacenbach 22... 55. 35s. sss8eee Fluorescence of U glass

Haidineer —-2-c- eee eee Mbasite zeae esse aoe eae ees

Johannite® 22. osocneeseeen ene
Mranin zippeitel- 2: 2sss. cee ee
Ethyl iodide and U
Hartley case cees Home eens Absorption apectse 2 and heat. 222628 tse 0s feetee te Saini
BUC? VON ice. paecinee eee eee Acetate, .o2t ies Nie Gia tag sates iwesee mone cloleinneeis eee
One rasts oC Cineaeee eee Mineralss: S15 45 oo seise Soe Cet eaten seniemcencee oe eect concert
1 Ch hyReE ater acSoo pose loeb aeeee Uranetoxidulé (Ur) esas ea et eee cee cece eee ner ee
Me@olit 222552 scscthse Skee dae |e SEE eS ie) pe a ee etc onc et mE
emis epee eee eee Recovery! of residues) 2-2 sees aee ee oe seco sees eeseeeae
Heller? sit 3- Seas See phe Croconate and rhodizonate.-....-1....---2-.-+-scccese5--
(Ferm ann ely sece eens Researches’. 2.0: hock Das eee eee sete ee eeeet con eeemee ae
Hermanni:(. = 22 Ssels 5 eee Pisbinerg soos 25s Seniesa eee ete one ease e a we obese omotaee
DOs feo i San sea soe eee Samarskite «22 csc osc f- c eee Sahea cnc mmea ane cence
Me EERE eC AA ene F Uranoilmenites: 22.) eh ee ee eee
Stemiole se eee ke one Pee Uranoniobite ..) <2. 02-2 See eee ee ee eee
Herabotade SESE RAN ce Researches and metal (oxide) .-..-.-.--..----<+.-<.+-----
Hers chells is. soctece rete Separation from iron by KeFeCys .-..---..---------------
ENA énis 2 - Sass toew eae eee rot: North\C arolina 96 eee tates ee eee saeco eee eee
DOR Sk a ee ney Loe ee Uraninite from North Carolina
Hoyermann|.ccs-cee some eee Estimation of phosphoric acid......-.....--..-------,---
Tsambert) eso ien ace eee ee ars Precipitation of Aig byiox déle-neeenea as eee eee eee
SP AMOSON 12 es a Ao yee eee Uranmica ((D:))) 2052 Ste Gene sae se euen aes aoe
SAINI: Soe ec oe oe ee ee oa Estimation (volumetric) of phosphoric acid ----....--.--
Woe pacer cee eeee eee Recoveryiof residneseis sans sce seen aoe ere eee enee eee
Jani (see A besser ‘and: Jiant) eal ns a4. J. hoe oe ee ec nee nn cate anne wis eee ee |
SCAN aa rsese oe eee ee Blow: pipe testis 03.21 gees Soot Daten e ase orn aae
DOer Eee eeeaceceee nese Estimation of phosphoric acid..........-...-..----------
OHNE? 5 Vos Ue ake Ub ee Chromate i: 3.157) oe ae Se ee a ease oeeeeee
Dos. sce aooce eee eee Uranvitriol:and! zippeitess-222 222 o14-- 22 22225 -se eee
JOM Gy Foe tena nese eee eneee Estimation of phosphoric acid.............-.---..-.-.---
Rarsten oo is eiceGeete cise Sek Se ee eae a re a Re nee
DOG eee oe cen Torberite 25.562 see Se oo eee Cee nee cores coc
DOSS eee POCherz. 05 cyisse ae eee BER ROE oa rae se cee eee eee
Kefersteini a... eet enes nee Crystallographic form of carbonate
IRersten oes cane meaner one Gummitee as ee-eee
Do tseses sy Sees ee Uranpecherz
Kessler aici. ie aes oe Bxtractiontrom uraninite cere eeese eos oe eee eee
ICGIn es eer oe eee eee Mest fon Uu(terroeyanide) mee ee one ese eee
Dor Sad ee ee a Action of Merion Saltae iain sae ee eee eee eee
ORE Wea tcc un ptereyt At a een Occurrence of minerals in North Carolina ---.....-..---.
1G 6) URE epee ae eae a ener ae Methods of decomposing minerals .........---. .---------
Kate hing eee cs So) eee Estimation ot phosphoric acid and atomic weight - ------
Klaproth ass see eee oer Analysis U9 3335226. ee eA cee eee
Doisronas sare ose ae ae eeeee Analysis) Up 225.25.) 4S SCTE eae ieee det hi etree ee eens
Doyen ke eneee sao sen one Original announcement of discovery of element....-.-.--
Dori eee ees eee ee Nitrate. 22.3212 oe We erate ae ere NOSE eis ree eee eee ae
IDOE eee ee eee Correction... 2 - s2sscce seen eee eee ee eee ees
DOi ssc thiececkn swe Yenewes | MOMANOLZ) < 5) Seaea aee ee E e eee ee e ee EEE
Doane eeeeeaeeeees Uranitispath .. 2s -co25-. eee eae gece eee eeebe cewsee
NOD Soo 2 econ eee eee Bstimationi: 222) 25.65 See moe eet eer eee naeee
ARG LE Oem te ee aa ieee echnical ass! 3-5. Goes ae ae cs hoe eee eine
a AY VE eee ape Saree Ces bon Randite s2 2c. fos. ceek eae cee eee
MerejGl 228) cc, sede ue | Uranophane .-......--.- RESTA See bee Oe eos Se bere
Krengler soos 22 sees sean | Recovery of residues

TGV eget ata Acai is Pie Ayla Criticism. on Péligot acesseeee cee seelnceees eee

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Alphabetical index of authors—Continued.

Author. Subject.
allemand ieeeces ssa Technical working of ores.-...--.. .---------+-----------
IDR ec G5 gaocict ence oad |Asde oe dsccashensenopecasuesocae
LS a) ee ae ppoceenceeciceee eae JST ENE Me ane an Been) 2Ob nOo Seo Oo SEcao Ic a SOee Seeeee
Man pier and boudobse mer esen asl emu asec eae cece cenac c/cisaa eases etn am tem eect incase = |
Lecanu and Serbat ....-....--- Lapa n ein) a ede sO see Ecebcen Hasna neti Co snaos = Scere sence
ie, Conte sas sees eareet=t=/tai | GUSTO GAS Cea ian os Aaa he ae alm inlA eo nOm SC ricas Er aeSeR aaa
pede cose ye aseecequcste Estimation of phosphoric acid ........--... .-------------
Lecog de Boisbaudran ..--..--. DOparabionirom Gases eee een ce nme ttes an eile etm i=l }
IOGh peso se boobs otto staoseace Opticallicharacterot Aves. eee ee ne nee ge neciee sare )=
Liesegang Action of light on ammonio citrate. ---.-.---.-----------
D Photography -.----.--.-- pee Oy Coe eae oe caer ee een
Uranochalcite, zippeite, &c -.--.. ........-----------.---
Ocourrence inthe sin see see eae eee eee ee
HTOrescencel OL Uno lasseecee wae eames emticec resect
MIGOGLOLY iG SCDALAGIONe sam ee tee naam mine aaa etree eater
Estimation by electrolysis ....-....-.---.----------- ----
Wiranelimim enh. eae Ore ee Peele samine as stseee salar
EOE ema nahn os nesemno Aeapecadignoceosoeesedeasacr
iPhotorrap hie printers seme ae ems ee ene tee eer
Action of Al and Mg on solutions ........-.--.--..-------
Hesgqwoxidevnyarated cece eee cee secs set seis eiainars
By-products in U manufacture .....-....---------------:
Opticaliexamination sae o se esc ee esses tonne ee eee eisai
Atomic weight
IDO). 5 see sicabsdasdeseadse Solphethylatel secs sss secese onesies se SU OuNbe ae
Maskelyne and Flight .....---. ran Come oe es Oe UE Yah aes eas vate
Max wellskivtecscssse sce -tis eee e Estimation (volumetric) of zinc..-..-...-----------------
Mendelejett eee 2 ncn een Atomic weight and periodic system ....----------.------
WUT ono aod acsenoceocespadance PE MOLES CENCE e ec ees ie eae ee ee eer eLearners
Moyer, ict cosncse nee nia= ee TACO MIG W.G1 SH Gina eee eee ee taye ets nent ea Dee erey=
MOGRDN -eae5ceecsqncooea deserts Fluorescent relations of basic salts ---.-..--.------- Soe
Morton and Bolton ---..--..--. Fluorescent and absorption spectra ...---.---------------
Wane ieiiinace sp baa aeponcabeogas Selenite as ae cn ae ae ee eC tea Satie /alaidia/elays
1D) s-seb ooenbacuseuce se Sulphitespes seca ee eee cece ree eee eens Sree ee enacts == =
Naudin and de Montholin--..-- Cyanide and carbon dioxide..........:..--.------.-------
INTUADY seoceseboSscotocceebeb sor (Wranaihoritescesseoe re tees eee ss ase sar == elec cee ii
Niepce de St. Victor ..-----.--. Absorption of light and use in photography. .-.----------
Orr sect reese eee catteaieee es One ian a ire ein eae et oie ts sae eee
INDISON eeeemeee oer enon cet eter Selenibessaee tone ce eee eee ae lace eit a= Netcare essa
Nordenskjeld ........-...-.---- Cleveite and yttrogummite. ........---- Ma oaoan ae aueure es
ID} eed piteadddesessess PAINE) DE et ars aS ROO AS Coane oat
Ceca eee eee ee sake en euaies TENS li) pote eeoae ee sprSesaeanaredeice caotocsesmcaic
Onsegecditecsoresosehsees Basico phates ete sacl <n ease eine late n= = a mitelebeis
Paria errr ee - oleeeeeetae Garhonatore sae eee ao Nees emcee santos asec etter
PP ALCLA Eee vie wjeteleinlelol=!=(=(«12/=\3/~aimi=\- Commercial and industrial. ..-....---.------ S5agco seaenni
JINN soo sg0nscedesoncosacse Histimation Of Ui im OLes. ole. se ness 2. teme nie ee ei
IM oecsacessegsoseeassssse Extraction on large scale .....--...-------------+--+-+----
IW). 635 sscesgagsesceidadsses Purification of Usyellow: 22.202 4-= 2 .2--- 72-02-25 -
LON Se ass deseesonopodack FRiedip ul pHide eee eee ase oe eel ses stats (se eee seer am eer
IDM coc ati coasoecscgescss6 | Report on technical processes...---.---------------+-----
IDM) 4 seis occnocd sasomcedaaes | Separation of Vdin U ores ....-..-------------+---+-----
LO ens acioci-eadaaawonacte ss | Uranium ores as source of Vd ....--.--------------------
Péligotiteer secrete seteeetceae WeAGOMmiGrwelgiibes sa eens eee eee no acre amines rater telain
D | Metallic U and general researches ...---..---------------
iIPreparatiomotametaless esses een cee beat oe lets =e
FIV RYEEOUGE Steere eer ee ete tee ca etatets elsiciain ape eln/aipjaslo!s) dione we
Manufacture of metallic U....---...-..-----------------:-
IR BYBOZ fncaterens nee eee oe era peep yrOpPHOspHAtorereere ses tence sae eae = mee ees eile
Does eee ee ee ea Separation by lead acetate ...........-..-----------+-----
DDR eaoaauid seceumnennecene | Separation by CuOlund by HeO..-.-....-.---.---------.
Evers + eee ee Peete eee eee: MECC ACLION Ms beme Cenc tmee sae vem seme com one enne keene
fatto a. ose pa eee eee Pee PATA VAIS eee ae eee re ttae ele steno iene
PAWNS oss hee eee es. BSrial yg Aish Lie ey Nee ee eee wees ect ne sete Aue eee oe ee |
Mee oto oscise socaacaod aan Presence otiPaOn im da eseeaee aes scccie = canine eee eis ena
DOS Pence eee ee le A OLDOEDILOR eet eee a eee eae cenit ee teen eree
DO. oss e te eee ence eal (Wine i bO ne een ee ee eee a Sa hen aN an eer
LA VION Sosesmasso53ndoseR Action of Mg. on solutions -.-..-.-...-------2---------=-
IBNCo Sones Acacuoscseccosece Estimation of phosphoric acid with acetate of U..-...-.
Pinner’! eS. ce ses ke eeseeee oes Cyanides in Benerall pee: Lagat bee hee cee
TAKES Iso Aa shteeae ae oe ke WAH ell si ap Ate eee ee eee ne ee ee ante tae ree
1 Oe a iG sed eee Estimation and mineral analyses .------..---------------
Plantamonurt 2.222) iszsolees<:- Attempt to reduce protoxide ..2....... 2.2.5 2-.02----- =.
Playtair and Joule.....-....--. Sp. gr. and at. vol. of oxides ....--..-.---.--.------------
Pleisechl TOURER La fee eee ee RUAN Se Saat en ere ane

4)

Date and

section.

M.

M.

49,

M. 6
936

INDEX TO

THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Alphabetical index of authors—Continued.

Porrett ....

Author.

Priwoznik and Schneider ...-...

Proust.....

Qnuesnevilloe

RACs kyr seca n nese eseeae
RAMMEISVELE = sess ee ns ae

eC Cls VOL sere ce steerer eres
FROMM AI Ue sce = ele arctan ora
Reichardt 2-- oe meee acces

Sage! 22.6:
Saussure .-
Savory .-.-
Schabus — -

Scheibler .- .
Scheller -..
Schicht ....
Schnauss-.

Dose

Do 2
Schumann .
Schwarz ---
Seekamp --
Selhorst . --
Sendtner --

Shepard ...
Simpson .--
Skeyeys. oe:
Smith, E. F
Smith, J. L

Stolba ..---

Strohmer and Klaus........-.-

Stromey er .

, Sutton.....
Taylor. ...-
ahalenisece

pe Date and
Subject. section.

Sulphocyanide ee pois ue ace melee ctleeieetmci ae eee reece 14
Commercial sodium uranate ...........-....--.-.2--.---- 78
Sil6nesoose cose ence RP OE ER see tee Deeea eas pee nace eae 03
Crystalhopraphici=j soe cijasssecema seca eres ace ne nee 42
Extraction) acces ose seneeeeeneatermen asec taser meee 29
Pittinerz. 202 <hass a= se tiaelsmmeas ceteris em bee einactoeenialese M. 53
Amaly sis Ur aaa aera see temieeint a otsae siseetacle nine a ae aoe M. 44
Atomiciweight sj as sseses seteeisaaen tele se eels eal imemelers 44
Bromate) 2 sie cs ck oc meneame asters cece tere aene mas 43
Double ac&tates:--. 5 soe. -ce see 85
Formula when U = 240 72
ypophosphiterceeseeseesecere ates ee eee ances seer 73
PHOsphites eee eerste ce taeraree ee tet ene atelier yr 67
Salphan tM ONIhe eee ese e oe ete aie aaa alana ate ate stats 41
Uranous acetates with Cu and Co ......_...--......-.-- 72
Uranous salts. - BUS a seu iaenmeeinisienine 44
Ammonical compounds GE UOshiee ss cc. essue, See ue 85
Speciticuheat of metal (Oxide) sees eoeeee ene See ee 41
Separation from phosphoric acid 69, 73
Uritromdoachimsthalicsteceesceeee ce esece- M.78
Estimation of phosphoric acid ..-..--..--.-- 71
Detection by the microscope ..-.-----.-------.--06------ 81
Oxysulphides.o7ce a 2ses oste at eseen te cesar atalaeretee He nen 64, 65
PU eae A Be ee eee ee ee oo saskAss ood don eaop moot 65
ROSCATCHES rc Ses tale tie ore uloetteetene ees ale olor mratatoter tee atten ettote 05
Maonetic propernles yess opener ame aetna se se eeaae eee 1800
IRentachlonide eco gaa. teecleneecteemen melee tciem tate setae 74
Wrantteini Elba sasq5-s2s eee eae smote ror eaee M. 78
Uranotantalite -.....-....... .- FUE Os Beda ola ote = min er eteleieiietae M. 39
Hstimation.s.-- i otcacsesssoeee ook ee osaiese sees acaeeeeecer 60, 62
Samarskite sc 2. -ls sc cewcestaneuactee ens ceciecocieein ponkoneoe M. 39, 47
Salphide je ase sk caw selocweeceeeence ees SR eseesecaoseasd a

"AMal YSIS Ref o- CO ccs Go ctetecmeists cele etnen ratsleane aatatoes M. 02
Blowpipetedctionss=-s5-e= saa-eeee cee ae eee ae 1795
Separation from phosphoric acid .-..--..-...-....--...-- 83
Crystallographic properties of acetate ...-.-.----.------ 52
Analysis (Ur. 2iccoss shee) taeee eee bapiezerecsions aeeneaer M. 48
Algetate of Ui and) ics) s.cecetmesecs seen cence es neaateee 56
Salphitesy ops us. ose oer ee revee eae ees ae tots aerate 67
Estimation by electrolysis......--.----s--0----ssceceen-- 80
Photography, and use of nitrate....-.-.---.- yiccisiceneie 73
Atomic weight emer si Seseere 13
Optical examination Gf acebatene ee ctcn: Clleen aes 61
Uranothallite (Leibigite)\o5-- session. nes aeee= ceeesceser M. 82
Uranotilee oss os Bs cae nen een ee ccncem stocsseecenee M. 73
Electrolytic behavior -....-- once es ecctaceseueeesenar 80
Hsiimation byzelectrolysiswes sess eee eee eee acer 80
Disulphate ; and basicity of oxide .-.-.. Hoedabadcdsssssee 71
Hy drabedinitrahenssan-see see teense anisms seat cisieee 70
Estimation of phosphoric acid..........-..--.----------- 72
Coloring porcelain. - 4 Ceo RS aan See orinitinalobod 70
Action of light on BUCO Atekee eee ee a eR 65
Non-fluoresence in Geissler tubes ......--..---.--------- 69
Researches) -ao/2c)0s dee ae gees tae eee ce be eile came 77
Selenates, selenites, and) PLOMIGGSIa- ee ecae se oeeeiececasees 79
UGTA eeeee Sone Sain skeen em ee a Dep Gne ROD oseene M. 45
PN Kes Woy i) Viel eC ae eens one Ser Se aa ee Sarre SU 62
Sulphocyanid eye eee oe ae eet eee 67
HM LeCtrolysis Of ACetabeu sence ee ne eee sere eee BROS he 80
MG Qj Mite: c Sen ce tall aioe en eae cen A cee fence M.48
Hilnorides re-examined. cuss) weaees eecceseeceeee eaten 83
Absorption spectrum of Zr and U compounds Sse Mets 70
Hydrated ammoniacal carbonate. --.--..-----....-------- 67
Influence of citric acid on solution...-..-..--..---------- 58
Flnorescence:of Ui classwicaucscee sume eran eee sceeeen sess 52
JA‘bsorpti On SpE Cbrunins sees eee eee nec eee ae eninetiere 52
IMBUMALIONy Sulico-fUOridG)— sees eesee tense oeenes iweseue 64
Recovery, Of residues) 25s) ses sse more esos owese eee ore es 77
Byrophosphate.c canon soe eeee amen en aaeeeeine saa ene ae 30
Estimation of phosphorie acid._....-.-...-2-.<scc5------ 60
Sensitizerdiniphotorraphysrasoseestocee seer ceeesseseeeee 72
Minerals e en i SR A PREECE Re a8 Oe Ee M. 45
Wavelengths of ichtiraysimeescssesc cet cecs cece see eee 69
IAM BURSISNUT Sean cise ook AR ae Ce cee one am reer M. 60
Occurrence in sand of river Dee 07
A DSOTPULON) Spe CUMMM Ee coe ae ceaeenleee eee oe . 68

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANTUM, 1789-1885. 937

Alphabetical index of authors—Continned.

Date and
Author. Subject. section’
|

PONY oo co's wictae os te nee Seis IPHOLOPTApDY sosn = eee ae See eh eace aaa cmameisneacince = <> 65
nyanecn BL ee ns ae ee mE Een Mua a <8) -cicln aside Vaca ewanle Soeemencinetelnjee en abs. 1798
Wihrlanh!- 20-25. eeene ese Tiloy (i OSS Sasa aan een ne ne peat eRe SRS eee 59
Wanquelim'<..22. -ceccmeecese a Method of decomposing Ur \---.-----.--2c---\be=seeneen== 10
DOs cae eice Ge ace sae Uraninite.:...- Fe yah eS SANGER Syl oath aeiomaae M. 08
WEST G) ieee es a te Magnetic rotary power .--... Sea eee wa semooen stunts soca 58
WAN CONG 20 822 s2 oe. Bees o ae ee sem. Dimethylaming; Action (OL- s-cesese see ooeee se eee temas 78
WORel AE es ics yore racers wane FADSOrp WON SPaCural cases sean a oaae ee eerste eeeeeemaa 76
1 eae one eee a teen Absorption spectrum of nitrate......-..--..------------- 79
Somelsange = stisn cea ee eee oe meehrnicall Ais. ceerse sae oe eto ce ne eee eee ntcte nee aera ete terete 62
IViO BREE Sec case oes See Basic sulphate) (Vorlianite)ssscssencess ses acee= ese <ne M. 57
QWs ena ose ace eomes 4 DPSS] 1 Va irs eae ee Aen a a, ee ee ee em ccr M. 52
Wallerius Beckblande M. 1747
Websky Woche@litetores. s2- on sacs eter M. 68
Do MEME alSh amen ct cacti eee cise ae nema ors eratchtatc ci erat havens M. 60

Do iUiranophanes- tes ose a. ooo koe e eee cee anc noece cr te cwee M.70
Weisbach Crystallography of minerals...-...-..-.--..----.-0----=- M.77
Do Silicate gees hee ee Se cece cig dea se iiasainsiesieoretate M. 72

Do Uiranimmrochre(G) cess sence wees eeascee ene reer nee aeeas M. 82

Do Wranespinitentrecenite;--. sees eee cee ane seeninen eee M.71

Do Uranospharitets: Cseee soo taseeeceacs secs etesuieesee M. 73

Do USAT OGLE ies case ee ee Nena a nialaraG ee elamereere M. 73, 80
WWierm@n ss on vee = iia wena: Clajeolithvand pechblende veces cess eee eee eee eee eee M. 1789
DOe neo secs eas cee asemen BESSA CHLOD pe seen ere ne sees oneness seca etin sensei 338

ID OBSES Wie somece eee eee Feste Uranokker (G) M.17
PWOTNO I ace ete tenn sheets ore i Gruner Glimmers). soos nee ce essececoenenes M. 1780
Wertheim ...-.- et atau tte | Acetates PRIA © OA MR ee S oe see ec Wawecicset 42
NAGY a8) VS CUR ae Les aie MARIMOLESCONCE a a2 cc coe ss ce cemenacee ees vejececomeetices 55
iWierther: 222 --525-275-- aSeaare | Phosphates and arsenates....-......-.--.-..-s2s-s0----- 43
WO ease nce een ees ceeaee I ULTEI LOLA ee ee eae me Se neon ene cece eet take M. 48
iWieselsicy 2: Sse .-~- eters | Geass - Sasay toe wicks Suceleeclescssen cise sadscscicseesanes 58
Whitney ei ee ee ee ceo: | Coracite.......--. 2.222. enn ee eee sent ewes eee eee M. 50
IWiibelee iste soon tac ie oe Autunite ... ... PEE NORMALE aM Fa a cheers We ad aeee M. 73
IWVACRNON ER ire eee occa Chromates (of WOs and Ker 23. ees eee eens Sos hae 23 82
iWilhams: CsGroe= 22. he = Oxychloride and chinoline......_-.. BAR ees ae ea ee Set 56
LOY RAR an aR ee eee ..--.. Oxychloride and organic bases 55
Winkler rss eset. \asee Estimation, a correction......-....-....-.-- 69
LORY Coe ee Laer eee UUireanocir etter ect ec series Maange ahh eed Eee ea M. 77

DY Est te ep ee eh Pea a ' Uranospharite, trégerite zeunerite, uranospinite -.-..---- M. 73
WWiilUstOlnaete namin Senecio ae 1 Dord hey nN) Cade ee aul le ho RU eae ae SS eee ae oe eee 42
BVO ler aoa Bate tee og Preparation of erystalized UO: .-2.-. 5...) 22. .26e. 2c ccs 42
ID Tae ies Nee She ee ea ce Ranhcationetrom Go Nwandyme-- eee oe) ce eedee ewes 45

IDO: hoes aseseee Pees Wiitnadiim ia miriminihe as see eccclee eles ne eee ee eas 41
WVIOUL Yon te rca mane aoe Wothly’s photographic process -.----.....:-------.----. 60
DOR Sess seem emits ose Wiothhysty pe. pitentes ssa see seen eee eee aioe 65
Wayrouboft tae seeeo ts beste se Hemocyanide, formulates secmeeee seen noe ae se eeeeeee 76
WI SOCKCY == Aa scranene ae cities aed AMINA ChOMON Larcescaleres seme emo ee = ase se ciontaseneeee 59
DO a testes cies os sieae | Manutactureiof Ui yellowshess5. seen sence cecedeeces cee 66
MAMMELM AAs s 54-20 -ees =- PAN callin er ananahes accom neta eas eterna ln eye a Soe 81
DO Ness passe eee tas Atomic weight based on specific heat.....-.----.--.---- 82
DOs432 58055 Poe me dees oc Atomic weight-based on vapor density.--.--..--.-------- 81

DORs Ss ete rece cee Metallic U and researches, estimation.......---...-..--- 82

Do. -.--...:-..=..---...--.| Reactions of U, preparation of metal.-....--.....-- ase &3

DO e225 ese eee ence ce NOPANAGIOMNECOMMN Gasp ee eee eee See 79

1D TS ae Ro ee Oe Sulphide, uranium red ........--. Loi SERCO ae haere. 80

OS coo cee eo toe Misration i with ike MnOgss. 2525 ss sel Scans eace se cece 81

DO. ssc Soe saeemeeeee es! Uranyl salts and turmeric paper. -..-.-..------------- =ae 80
Hepuarowich = 222252 sssssen a TAO EH GR ee ere ae oe See ee en ace ne ee M. 70
Zerrenner SINS GO a ene ether eee Cae ae ee ee ee Oe M. 73
MADD ssa o scsi sce eedrentoe ado Wire bliath ah ( Aye eeeess 8 testes steels a eh A a as M. 24
OS S25, see sneer | CNS oe ial tise Reel ee NOR sere isc De es SENSI on M. 27

PAE eee ctnars sso cise ne eee SN GOUG nese aoe oe a ree eens Sane rs so Bean ney a Se VAN SS 1799
Beret Semasinee sie siemen eet. Aa VSS TUirjss so eters coe es aes cok canoe eealgdemeeenee M. 1792
Beinn as csc eeee nema Produchon OMOVes iMLSts cee. cece ceee sc ce eres sseceenee 76

Pade wena ncaa ston nasoe ese PrOGUCION Of OTEMan IST Ooh cena ccs cence cucen ooeeeecwes 77

nA RHE DSSEDOgeoee Socacrioce Eroduchionyof Ul ini EVUssia) ee. sea ee es wewencenneeuek 75

Pei eam satalce sees et meteoee EUG avi) al SS eee Oe a a ee 75
SSavems ees owasisecseouaeetee Statistios)(commercialy os .4 525 sec Ges wceeeectidevecses 82

938 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

CLASSIFIED INDEX OF SUBJECTS.

SYNOPSIS OF CLASSIFICATION.
I.—Analytical.
. Action of reagents.
. Extraction from minerals and ores.
. Qualitative tests.
. Quantitative estimation.
. Separations.
. Recovery of residues.
. Use of U solutions as reagent.
II.—Crystallography.
Ii1.—Electrolysis.
IV .—General.
V.—Light.
1. Absorption spectra.
2. Chemical effects of light.
3. Fluorescence and phosphorescence.
4. Photography.
VI.—Metal.
VIl.—Minerals.
VIII.—Oxides.
IX.—Salts.
X.—Technical and commercial.

“TS Ol COD

INDEX OF SUBJECTS.

I.—ANALYTICAL.
Subject. ] Author. : Date.
1. Action of reagents.
Action of Al and Mg on solution .....-.....----.------ Masok onc aoesiss ences
Action of Mg on solutions. --.. Dope Aes eae Sa oink Sete Phipson’.-scecs ste see eee cee
DO Fae San a Re enue cy atin 7 tae ea Commailie ies oo eee noe eae
DO ese eek ayn EOE a ke ae Kernaee caches Ene UES CRnANS
Alkaliess action of ;6Gs- poet eee eee Bes oe Grothe eee eres siviseeaet
Citric acid, influence of, on solution ............-.---- Spiller 2: 2e sess ones secon tease
Dimethylamine action of Ge. use ease eu eee es WiOCONieee ene Spee ;
Phosphorus, action of, on solutions ...........-------- BOttgers aces seen eos oe eee 74,78
Precipitationo£ Ac hyoxides-<.) sae eee ee Teambents = -2:/c2senas sin one 75
Turmeric paper, action of, salts on. .......-----..---- ZAMMELMADN: —- <0 esse otec a=
2. Extraction from minerals and ores.
Decomposition of uraninite by citric acid....-.-....-. Bolton eee eee ae eemas seen
extraction <o-clsosceteee cote ae eee aoe ee WAN GNOME > eee oe eeaeee Mea
DOs. aateae Save cee eee eo ee eee en eee eS Arendt and Knop...-.--------
DO oss idan sre Se eee Ree ele Se ee Brandes} .ce eo. s= pessooooasosS
DO): 522 aioe cwind = comen Soe Een ne ee Ree Denese pene Gieseokole. fee ose cee
DO uisis5 32a eo a ea ee een age aE ee Lecanu and Serbat...-.-.....---
IDO) see chsk ede eee oan oc tac es A ee Petersnece oe eect asese es
DON Seed secnaeee eee een ade Ae eau Seen a Me sncenep ile etna crate bra mete ieoe
DO icgescscktekl ocelot ae eee SIMON o.oe cis eee ae ene
DO oes teandaeccmck ante ee ee ee eae eed Writistein: 25 --<.ace eee eae
Extraction fram uraninitossa--eesesce cece ee eee nee Bolton =ssc--c te eee eee
DO..ud cere ses Seep etn a AS ee te ae oe WRWesslenes cece. nase see ‘
Methods of decomposing minerals.... -.......---.--. LG Lie hes sabebe ee seres ese 178
Method of decomposing uraninite..-...........-....-. Wanrquelin\s 522s ncaa J
3. Qualitative tests. :
Blow=pipe neactions).coseeee ee eee ace eee eee Gahnt soo 325 eee noes cee
D Saussure ....-- Neen eke ere 1795
8 Ge a eed Ce epcccapoe cscs = I
Reinsch
Kern)... ---s5-52-6
Bunsen
Zimmermann
Dest for ee Caan he ee TROT oe se ae ee ere
4. Quantitative estimation.
Watimationes- .2.Les+ ose Ree Ree oe eae eee Fresenius. ---- TS oe ee eee
Oi eas eececlte 52 Se ea Aa le Se emi Knop secon ceec ee caee sere eee 56, 65
DO i ee Reeeee e  et ane Pisani oon tase coe eaeoeee
DOr eee See 2 lt UE RG Ee ocak ye H Rose SOD Se SC ODO Oem s 60,

ne
INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 93
Classified index of subjects—Continued.
I.—ANALYTIcCAL—Continued.
Subject. Author. Date.
4. Quantitative estimation—Continued.
Estimation by electro] oyets tage de ono Soocnéosecescads WUCKOWaessane sa saaeia sna 80
Dea ee eee aay ss ating Seicietinclciviais ema wolaies aes Scltichts:- 2. sch. secsecersesass 80
DOr Aare erecta ae eee owen Sec eteusscse nce Schuchti.22;-4446 2-8 seu ceeoem. 80
FISTINETIONVOL MOP UNLOLGS eee ese in ae ite ae eee lm a ail Patera oe see aoe wicie = 66
stimation slucohuoniderc. sso ceecs ce ccos-scen ss -eaoe Stolbaco.-eecae CREA te eaten 64
Estimation (volumetric) with LG Molleonius'< <2 22/s-4esce ena eaeee 72
EDO ee asec Sets eee a a ee Near atin anos adele ZAMMEIMAND «.---. ..---65050- 81
Estimation (volumetric) BONG Ec bio Berea a eeeee Ge Belohoubeksces-occcset weeeee 66
1 Oa Se py aie CRS Te EER a a G@uyard 2). 23.0.5. -soecerw ce eses 63
5. Separations.
Phosphoric acid, separation from -.....-....--.---.--- Reichardt 69, 73
Purification from Co, Ni, and Zn Wohler ....-. 45
Separ: aon Bottinger 44
Sea Tee ER ee soke slaw s sbcinwa ce auaeels Gabba ee re 65
cee by) Cu@and) by He teest: e254.) o- POrs07). fae ccs seh eee sucnicene 35
Separation by electrolysis from Zn and Cr........---. Clagsems: 5522 heetecee set eoes 84
Separation by lead acetate. ....-...........----.----- POrs0 Ze een ea naee eee seer 34
Separationifrom| Or: 2-2: 52. --2)2e222e. 222... Baca Gibbae oes sence cee eee 73
Soparahionmromenene: sah ace ee ee ee als oe BUrCKer ene one poeenee 78
De ee eee Seaton ere ret ae Oe es melee ZAMMOLMANN oo teeses se enoe ne 79
Separation from Fe by Ke Fe Cy3..--.---.--.---------- orschele nie ccc ecestecamenese 32
Sopaxrationyirom) Hevand!Cre-so- toes o2sce sss - cee Ditte . Bae eee Ho ane coe G7
Separation trom: Gai eo eS oe Bese ees nlc Lecoq de Boisbandran .-...-.. 82
Separation from phosphoric acid -....-..--..-----.--- IReichardtiesse-seecs- ee oeeee 69, 73
ION Bs BOS 6 Ed wee een ore ad MAIN ie cies Met St ie Be SANVOny pense o wise aseeee ones 83
Separationmrompvigh ps seakes sees te ee cee et Bolton eee cose acess 75
Separation (electrolytic) from Zn and Cr . Pi eepata le Classomre aan c celae ease csioee 84
Separation of U and Co, Niand Zn............-.----- IWiOhlen erect ste ce seeesoe oe } 45
Vanadium, separation in U ores ...---...---.---------- IPAtCrae ceases sacncceeewee ee 78
6. Recovery of residues.
IRecovElyzOtenesiducs nas tere eee ce aes ceed a ate aera Gawalovski 76
A Oe sees erases see rata seeiaeis Heintzete-esee 69
UD) Sic ee Pie Suck Sieh s Boe cOk same wiscicek JUN, eee a ee Le Saree 71
18 Yi) eee A RAT AL aA Ra ee, in, Senn ee ae erenslers. cask Sen teen ees | 73
DG Sees rate sonlne Sataise wee meehie em oti tars Strohmer and Klaus ..-..-.--- 77
7. Use of U. solutions as reagent. |
Hstimation of arsenic acid). 22-2... -.---5-----2-- ee IMMA NTN aaenso sods segac 77
Estimation of SECRETS RODS eee es CER antes Abesser and Jani............- 73
IDs neers On era nese BAK BUS eRe Se ac mas Sheree IBrucelmann «2 0--eseesece oes 77
WD Gece a enon mania a nae mame hla Geese ea By S880 ee eee nee eee 69
DO ects ast. an oelecveesie ewes Gaseeucaeee Movermannees =< pee ee nae 64
ID ek oie Uae ee ae a eee aS Se ie ere PORN oe te ea hae Cer mceertoes 74
DOR Ste tes acs cee ece en caeesige, caaasersienseeees AOUHG) oo etree wes et eteaiacte 73
LOSS deca eee SSeS aor See DAB SE eR aor anes ae Sitchin 35 soon cennecee cele 73
DO eee osteo nas oe eee cect le oese eels steedoees Mecontern cesses ceseecsa = 49
DG eats oe ee Sees nte a eaccc ses stesso ae Rieineckressssecee nena. Base 71
DOs at posicmiaihe peo aioe comin uitie dda ceaneet Schumann so) coe e ee nee 72
DO see sass ee eg some ine wis as sincinre eects ae SUtiOn pees ee tien eeeitcceense 60
Estimation of phosphoric acid with acetate U --...---- LEAGHE) séasces Seca csdsticsbet 59
Methnstion of phosphoric acid (volumetric) -.--.---.--. Bplchonbek ue
Se aa ae Mee etae sae cea os cb seme: ani .- 7
Estimation of zine (volumetric) .....--.-...---------- Maxwell-Lyte - 75
IT. —CRYSTALLOGRAPHY.
Crystallographic forms of acetate..-..........-.-----..--. Schabus ...--------.---------- 52
Crystallographic forms-of carbonate.............-..--.--- eines 56
Crystallographic researches.-.-.....---.--- det csespaekcey | Dela Provostaye Seis sentens 42
Ge on oe ene amet esate. pck eet tes Gravichiceecssede ses ale sseee 68
Teomorphism of Muonidesse- osc sete seek ce ck eacee noose IBRROU erence eet a eenta ae aera \ 80
(See also Minerals.)
III. —ELECTROLYSIS
Hlectrolysis; estimation by: --.6ss-5+-- -<5---s--6-capcee cee | TSU GE ON) = sesunose ence ean ee 80
BY Ones ene eet eee enters baie a crete bas MSCLICNG) auth we coe ee =a seit 80
ID Tey Seegeee EPPS oeyATOR. Cee we. ota eo ae ee ee Schuoht)- 5.055 12-year 80
MiectroloneASpamiblOUnce ose ce eeee toNee lace eso cen cece MUCKOW |. jcace tesaccs taaae oars 78
(See also Analytical.)

940

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF

Classified index of subjects—Continued.

URANIUM, 1789-1885.

IV.—GENERAL.
Subject. Author. Date.
|
PATO eT Te eee anse reo pocaconepodh cmentcacsoSsao5 (Of) essa coasoogdecacanese 43
COrrectionmer eee a. eee a ee oan een eee eae eee kta prothee pees seen 1793
Criticismion Kern’s test <- 2-2-.eeec see eee eee one eeieese es | Hres@nwUB sooo ess cnc --m a= 17
Criticism on ph GUGOu. ooo. aaes eae alee nace ee aed Uli cas scrodéescoeeaos: seosc- 42
DiScOveryaotieleMent 22 -— = <a scales ee eee Renee Klaproth! 2c 2 cscs osecceseee sae 1789
Monmula when) W240) Aes 32 eee see a ee eee Rammelsberp.2.5- s.-cseses ser 72
Historical summary and researches.......---------.------ Drenkmann Soe esos tees H
Historical summary of action of light ..-..--..--..------. AO sasasecbsasocbseos oes 69
index: to literatures ss sass e sciente seems jose nae eae ae d 70
darronium (Uiand’ Zr) mene o oe cece case eee eens ene ee 70
Me ignetic VOUAPY POWER coco cena eee eee See 58
Mineral anglySeshe seas. ec aclenieenee 61
Minerals/and researches, 35.525. -2-+2 - eeet sare nlece neon. 23
Occurrence in France) oh asc. s es seacan sees ee eae ee eee eee 1793
Oceurrencein’sand\ofstiver Dee: =~ -3- -- 45-2 see ee oe eee Dhomson eee eee ee 07
Occurrence tin the snes esas nae seen ee eee hockyer 2 sess seee cee see 73, 78
Phosphoric acid. (See Estimation of BEpeopore acid.)
Physiologicaliachioniof salts)----co-e-e eae e eee Gmelini2c2 shee aee sees 25
Reduction by;metalss es eee ee een eee ae Wischort. 222.2 saree ses cstens 27, 29
Researches). 5: 222 .acesessce senses ces user cacseeceaeetee Arivedson'- = ones sesenee sae re
0:
42
61
05
WO Ses ouie ements eee er ne Cee nea ae yee eee ee Senditner 2...4. 25s0ss4s2s)s 252 V7
Researchesjand metal (oxide) a0. -- = oe eee ee ee Hermbstadt -<---- jaseee sea 1792
Researches’and minerals) oo 525 55 -\-2ec 55 o> ane eee es WD OLZO Rs ae eer a eee eee 23
Silene eG jks so oee cise cas camlee cee cis nwes Seniors aeeaee ae) |MELOUstesesee Sah eeaece acess 03
Solupility of Wi mlwatete- on css- cs sce ener se soene teen cess BOrZOlUB 2. 5- =a ee mee eee eee 24
VanAdi NM: IMNPANINIbOPoos 6 5 - Sos cea cme ae eee Wiohler 2458: sc eee aes 41
V.—LIGHT
1. Absorption spectra:
Absorption spectra, a general study of ..-.--.....---- Morton and Bolton.--....-.-. 73
A‘ DROLPLLON SPCCtLUM sss es eee rece cee sec eee near Stokes stone ce see eens eee 52
DB [eet Ae Wi Sele SMR ohana Bei ae Um a See Pea Mhadiohumi:-se-sede eee 69
MORSE ae Gein ae Seen ce cine bio Seeiise sy PEP eee MOS Cle ae cee e os eset 76
Absorption spectrum) of nitrates... --4.---6- -casca- 2 | Reeeee COR 4 22 Sener reeae aces 79
Absorption spectrum and influence of heat. . Ee a] Cantley reese. cen eee eeeeece 74
Absorption spectrum of compounds of U and Zr...-- Sorbyieae heat ene 70
2. Chemical effects of light: -
Absorption of light\by nitrate ............-.---....-.- Niepce de St. Victor....--.--- 58
Acetate, optical properties of ......!2.....:--+-.2222- Schrani=. yes eae ee eee 61
ACtinoMettysosh ese ee a oe meek aoe cack bee eee Bornethe- cose eo eee eee ee 60
Action of light on solutions ..............-....-.--.-- Bonaparte t.cse-ssess-- > eeee 43
dD OR AR Se Aetna gc arr orem NEE argc gma a ee WhelMene 52554252 seee ve oeee eae 42
DOSS Sette eels nee ae ee sn ae cee ce eee Draper ---2-- -22-------2== = =- 62
DO Rear ecco tet ee ences sa ceece ese eee ee meee SIMPSON ee eee nese eee a eens 62
Action of light on ammonio-citrate ...........-.....-- Wiesegang 2: -sdcgsses cceecn se 64
Action of light onloxalates-c< 45. --.-<-2252- 2252 ee Corvisart and Niepce......- - 59
Action of light on oxyfluorides .-.............--...--- Bolton(ei.-- see ss tones sees 66
Action of light, historical summary ...............---]...-- €632:25- Reese Nene 69
Action of light/on!succinate!-o/2.25-262)--.2.2)) sec: Seekamp {2220-220 ese 65
3. Fluorescence and phosphorescence:
Hloorescence 280 .Asee sees bre oo ee eats ee Becqnerel! 20-15. 2sqacssrse oe 72
DOG aioe eer hes coe Bbnoe ere ate UES aes IMPOR Zh ey Ee Ue ee Ak LL ALI ERS 68
DO) ee ese Os Ce ete ek uae, Sl eee ‘Werther 225) a2bsto eer h ese 55
Fluorescent relations of basic salts .-........-......-- Mortonis 2 3626 eso eee 74
Fluorescent spectra, general study of _.....-.......--- Morton and Bolton ..-------.- 73
Fluorescence, non-fluorescence in Geissler tubes -.--. Selborst isn be eareeeeceee 69
Glass, fluorescence Of .........-2--2-20. s2220+0 +2200. Hagenbach ...-.- ee Sete 72
DO5223.0 ee eee Ree eicp SOR Be se neieet sin te Je aos en LO TEIND © eee ae eee eee 78
DON fet pea eet ae Be et eran ea Stokesoe a2) eee eee 52
Glass, in electrical illumination.........--.-.-... Brachet 2422) soe eee 72
Glass) Se’ Of sas eee ey ee yet eate oa gee Sens ene eee COM ey Be eee 62
Lightitays, wave lengths of... ...-.-.0.s+-cce+ sence. halons. ce ee a ee 69
Opticalistudies| ee eaeeeneee Gees SOs ae ene Grailichss 25.26 5n: eee 58
Di ee ieee Pe ee ae eee wen. hea tan Marbach 2.32523 oees roses 55
~ Phosphorescencontes state ie tea ay a wey soe dae Baoquerel icc. co caeecee a seeas 57, 59, 61
4. Photography:
Photopraphioiprinisee see heeeseeeaee eee eee Hagen 22: cecasen eee eee 58
Do SS e aS a ae e ae hota ee ee ease ae oe De Lmynes.. 2 25-boeee eee 60
sete fois iw Sareea eee ates Bee aictai ane oe re ae | Burnett. «aivalseeeemessee eae 57
Photopeauhy. use of (ea Wssscsccioesaooe Beto acHobes. Crespon & Godefroy ....-..-.. 58
DO So 5322 2 oct se oO ee ae eee a | TACKOFANE sso eee eRe eee 690
DD eh ee ee eens crates Lea a Niepce de St. Victor .....-.--- 58
DO nse cae ees ona co ee ane eee een oe | Magny ss so cee ee eee 65
INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. ‘41

Classified index of subjects—Continued.

V.—LicHt—Continued.

Subject. Author. Date.
|
4. Photography—Continued. P | .
Photography, use of nitrate in-----...-.....-........- Schnansses- eer esee aaa 73
Photogr: aphy, use of oxyfluorides im --.-..--.-....-.--. Bolton sense eee eee 69
SensitizerjoWUisal ts\aswmeees loss so. sees ee asp ese Ooee MEO Str cocossecor sacasnotas 72
Toning Tit ie cae Sp a ng Os een a IBUTENHESS ocra aceon se ee 62
Wiothlysimprocessereert cree ee secu oe oe tes e eats Wioublycrecec=resseseeeomcenas 60-65
Spectrum AbsorpHon,. (sce A DsOrpLlon Spectrum)k 2 24| > ams seis aac closen einai sa| a oia)ajar locos

Spectrum, fluorescent, (see Fluorescent spectrum) .. BEES AC RES Sees Ode Se He I 00 556.4 pCR OUBSE

VI.—METAL.

73

41

70

41-47

) 44
Atomic weight, determination of (oxide) ......-.. -..... | Schonberg .-..-..--.-..-...--- 13
Atomic weight based on specific heat ........-.....3.---. Zimmermann ..--.-+---_-- te 82
Atomic weight based on vapor density -.....-.--...-..--- ZAMNMOLMANN! <— -a2 oc sls ne = 81
Atomic weight and periodic system ..........-......-.--- Mondelejeft..<--5-.4-25--4-6-6 70
AGOmenweioh bt: recalculawonlOf 282202 22s ae An Clarkco2 551.2 joa toa eee are 81
Nico OtLCHD LO PELULES amet mee ers ee ae ee aeeaee eee Ribben ee seats = Aes emetecatics 1800
Meia! and general POSEEEUNER NL Saigheee ny ge Only wii is Religote es s22 = eee eee 41
MetalyprepanauioniO tested wees Beene ea ss cele ee sees none RGN Ob see recast aoe 56
Metal, MANULAChULG Ol. = =~ ac esne es eaansessc- Sashes: Péligot & Valenciennes -...-. 68
VO ese le eee ar inet n sala ae ciokelem sia hers o(sie ZAM MOLMANN == 2 = 2 Sais se ae 83
Metal, ee OL RRE ep ee erase ce enlace eines Coe eee Boltones seen ce teen eee eee »
Metal, apache TEE seo aecoo noche Sennen meeneCe eso Cen: Bluncke esses ac sence aan oe 85

VII.— MINERALS.

Autunite (= variety of uranglimmer, chalcolite prior to 1819): Urankalk, Berzelius, 19 and 23 ; Laugier,
23; Calcouranite, Breithaupt, 65; Uranite, Werther, 48; Genth, 48; Descloizeaux, 57; Pisani, 61;
analysis, Church, 65; Wibel, 73; Frenzel, 73; Church, 74; Maskelyn and Flight, 72.

Broggerite, Blomstrand, 84.

Cleveite : Nordenskjgld, 78.

Ooracite: Le Conte, 48; Whitney, 50; Genth, 57.

Eliastie: Uvan-Pittinerz, Breithaupt, 47; Haidinger, 52; Ragsky, 53; Hermann, 59.

Gummite: Feste Uranokker, Werner, 17; Lichtes Uranpecherz, Freiesleben, 18; Gummierz, Breit-
haupt, 32 and 47; Gummite, Kersten, 33; Weisbach, 82.

Johannite: Uranvitriol, John, 21; Johannite, Haidinger, 30.

Kochelite: Websky, 68.

Liebigite: Vogl, 52; Uranothallite, Schraufy 82.

Medjidite: Smith, 48. ;

Miscellaneous : Occurrence, Brunner, 07 ; occurrence in North Carolina, Kerr, 77; Genth, 79; Hidden, 81
and 83. Optical examination of minerals, Descloizeaux, 56; Crystallographic, Weisbach, 77; Crys-
tallography of Autunite, Brezina, 78; Optical characters of A., Lewis, 80; Decomposition products
of Ur., Von Foulon, 83; Crystallography of T, Bernhardi, 09; Teschemacher, 45; Shepard, 45;
Brookes and Miller, 52; von Hauer, 53; Websky,60. Uranium ores as asource of Vd, Patera, 79;
Natural Uranates, Blomstrand, 84.

Nohlite: Nordenskj¢ld, 72.

Randite: Konig, 79.

Samarskite: H. Rose, 39, 47; Hermann, 4&, 69; Rammelsberg, 73; Zerrenner, 73.

Schroeckeringite : Church, 73.

Torbernite (—Kupter. Uranit): Mica viridis eryst., De Born, 1772; Griiner Glimmer, Werner, 1780;
Uranitspath, Klaproth, 1789; Champeaux, uranite, 1800; Discovery of P20; in T, Ekeberg, 02;
Uranglimmer, Ludwig, 03; Analyses, Gregor, 05; Uranite, Aikin, 14; Phillips, 18; Uranmiea,
Jameson, 20; Uranphyllite, Breithaupt, 20; Phillips 22 and 23; Berzclius, analysis, 22; Genth, 48;
Church, analysis, 65; Cuprouranite, Breithaupt, 65; Frenzel, 73; Church, 74; Roster, 78; Baret, 84.

Trégerite: Weisbach 71; Winkler, 73.

Uraconite: Beudant, 32.

ma Uranatemnite: Chapman, 53. ~

942 INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Classified index of subjects—Continued. Py
ViII.—Minerats—Continued.

Uraninite: Schwarzbeckerz, Bruckmann, 1727; Beckblande, Wallerius, 1747; Swartblende, Cron
stedt, 1758; Pechblende, De Born, 1772; Uranerz, Klaproth, 1789; Pechblende, Werner, 1789 ;
Analysis Ur., Klaproth, 1789, 1790; Pecherz, Karsten, 1800; Urane oxidulé, Haiiy, 01; Analysis,
Sage, 02; Vauquelin, 08; Analysis, Pfaff, 22; Breithaupt, 37 and 47; Kersten, Uranpecherz, 34;
Gerhardt, 36; Analysis, Ebelmen, 43; Analysis, Rammelsberg, 44; Analysis, Schecrer, Th., 48;
Fritsche, 55; Theyer, 60; Brus & Dana, 78; from Joachimsthal, Reichardt, 78, from Connecti-
cut, Gonistocks 80; from North Carolina, Kerr, 77; Genth., 79, and Hidden, 83; Decompcsiiion,
products of, Von Foullon, 83.

Uranite (see Torbernite). q

Urankalk (see Autunite). P

Uranochalcite: Breithaupt, 41; Lindacker, 57. >

Uranglimmer (see Torbernite). °

Uranocircite: Winkler, 77; Church, 77.

Uranmica (see Torbernite).

Uranoniobite: Hermann, 59.

Granophane: Websky, 70; Krejei, 70.

Uranospharite: Weisbach, 73; Winkler, 78.

Uranospinite: Weisbach, 71; Winkler, 73.

Uranotantolite (see Samarskite).

Uranphyllite (see Torbernite). .

Uranothallite (see Liebigite).

Uranvitriol (see Johannite).

Uranothorite: Collier, 81; Nilson, 82.

Uranpecherz (see Uraninite).

Uranotile: Boricky, 70; Zepharowich, 70; Weisbach, 73, 80; Schrauf, 73; Borzizky, 78.

Voglite: Vogl, 53.

Voglianite: Vogl, 57.

Yttrogummite: Nordenksj#ld, 78.

Zippeite: Uranbliithe, Zippe, 24, 27; Haidinger, 45 ; Dauber, 54; Lindacker, 57; Ordway, 59.

Zeunerite: Winkler, 73; Frenzel, 73

VIIT.—OXIDEs.
= = - = —— : 2
Subject. | Author. | Date.
|

Acid. laranic! .!Jss2 2225. sans en ase towns cases awisces eae Wairley << 3.5 22ccsseteee eee | 75
ACidibyiOr peroxides (UW Os) oor act seateeee snes eee ere Chevrenl 222525 G2 tess 18
Oxidese sae ee Soe Ske ee soon inten an aes aa ba eae Berthien 2c oan) anne omemeiss 25
Oxides atomic volumerofss sees. ee ese cance: waren iee Playfair and Joule..--.-....-. | 45
Oxides reduction Of eset eee eae encicen ae cee eee HDC larkol 2 veeasses cee 19
Oxides, soluble:modificatiomvof, 22222220 eee chen ete Graham's cee aceon 67
Oxides, pseudo-metal .--_............2.- Sores aseed 2 orsacc MuCnS aoe. See eee es eee ree 1793
Oxides, specific gravity of. ......- i eeods aban sp aasecsascoe- | Playfair and Joule.......-.---| 45

DOP See ose Cee ee be EP tak a ante tee eae “ie iarnetectereen |) ha WrnO@laricecvenas sea saeaeee 73
Oxides, spec ific heat of pseudo- FY tr A ee EE | Reonanle siieessesaa tee 41
Oxides, specific heat of - 2 seagadteetuoousosecha das: Donathieee-pe=-eeencec ase eer 79
Oxides, specific volume DE SRM seh or ae dat a | "BRAWHED coc s ee cecinee coee ee 81
Sesqmioxde NyGtabed nas- pees ele e ee ase mer acer eames Malawutivise. scien ee seee sae 43
Trioxide wolatiliby, ofme sere eee eee ee cee anes ee Eisner - 66
RO ELO RAG erect ee a eee ee ee ete ae Mairle yee 2. coco scssscet ees | 75, 76
Reduction of protoxide attempted....-. -.........-.----- Plantamour espe ees eee 41
Uxranousoxide crystallized 2 ees eerste eee eee Wiebler292 22 s2e0 Sune aan 42
LUN Ay Ot Se aoee sae serb aia Ge Ssesie co seec ue ees sue | Jab EN soc open sbecéoseeoctions 75
Volatility of Ws) >. Spess--cscan so nee e een e eee nee ISN OR eee eee seer ieee ee 66

IX.—SALTs

Acetate: 22. a seeass oon sep ene eterna en pee ee Se eee ee Von Haters. 32 5-ssseces 322 65
Acetates. . Woeoselsky 2322 2a eee 58
Acetates (double salts) .. Renreleberg, aia esas eeo cee 85 -
Acetates of Cu and of Co with uranous acetate ..........| .-..do0.....-....--.---------- 72
Avcotate of Uianduliite shoe ee pee eee seen Scheibler Ys = at ad adler mean eg Pr 56
Acetate, ery stallographic properties of................:.- Schabus usc... eae ee 52
Acetate: electrolysis Ofs2: 7225 (ea eee es ee ne Smith. Hii 2. pe eee et 80.
Alkaline nranates snore ce iaeesy Ti, ane LL A ZimmMermann...322. 42 se5- oe 81
AT SenIate (M55 50 ee PELE eae Ra A) ae es Coe Gibbs. oi ee eee 73
A TRONIALER ‘<a 5: ia5 Jucisee see C ee nA LEE ae ea ee Wiorther 2 So ee eee 48
Basio walt. 922.0 S12 ea ae ee ee Ordway. 2-235. 225-o tte 58.

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885. 943

Classified index of subjects—Continued.

1X.—Sa.ts—Continued.
Subject. Author. Date.

TBR EN aa nec cana de osc ee esos so soa: socwaneeeseseysabe Rammelsberg*.....--.-------. 43
THREE) Sop oae Bei ene ca toan sbnado ose cde eereecRen or oseone= Berthemots-2e) -e- see aes aoe ae 30
Leia {ees Suobcass at hoe chee de ape ones eSsecno soe cue Baeabs Sendiner 2 ose see cccoeeeee2 } 79
Garbonate saat ee ae eee ee ee eee eee oem eile erent) Parkman]: osessee-ce eee | 62
Carbonate ccCseee reer eee eee en ace eee een rece neme al DGS es eee see eee soe 42
Carbonate, crystallographic ee fees ioe oe ee ete a ceo es AXGLOEStOQUNE sae en eee 56
Carbonate, hydrated ammoniacal. .--.--.-.---.----------- Souchayrketes ce seee eee eee 67
Gambon nhGio Lalean dole ee ae eine eo aa eae i. SENS Chevrenl eee a yaa nae ee V7
@hinoline andoxychlomd Gree sere see set sale aesraasell = l= CliGr wWalliamsss- 4. sessess es 56
Chloride of © and phosphorus...---.----------..--------- @ronanderee-ees esas seer 73
(GUN Eee Bue ie Saat ee Sos beacon ba soseeurenrEapasosDeoer 5 shi ee pee ces See sacratacases 11
> (CURT ERE WOT OKO ERG UE oo ut gasicSee GarOODOECoEOSod Wiesner ssics -scscce= aces ee 82
Citrate, action of lightion-.---- 2-2. --- == =< == = >= =e Ibiese pan Pees see enee sae 64
@roconatecn ter eee eee a eee eee aera ramen ace Se eiaer 1st) Gia pence Sec opseooGcobetosc 37
(Oh ances see o ease t ec Aono sane od onsets conan peasedes: Fresenius . see 42
Cyanide and carbon-dioxide Naudin and de Montholin..---| 76
Cyanides in general....--.---.- (Pinner eee oneness 67
ID FEN SASS) OL? THR) Seto se Spo nesoae -eooeme4yemooemce Oo Geran AIM hee oe an eee cer 56
Ininy oun ear din Uy eee eee ee pte eetne) aeene me nome Maroc Hallwachs and Schafarik ---.-- 59
INGLE ENS) a2 eS Re eee Ree pepo bee Atterberg...-.- .--.-.- = 75
Ferrocyanide, foriiularph ae wu es 3 toe Are MO NeC) W yroubofft 76
ALONG Oe ete ee ate ais ei Sine hes slam chataiein or eserat al sista aaa avetats Berzeliuses-ce eo seseee seers 23
Fluorides, oxyfluorides, and double salts...---.-- .---..-- Bolton sso. eases cuieeeesen es « 66
MITOTid See ee ee es ie se ea ee Se bed DILL oases eeiisere cee aes 80, 84
Hilvorides,re-examined...-- js s+ <4. <\- socio Pa te Pse Cem ee Smithellss-- =. sss et = aaa 83
Fluorides, isomorphism in. --....---..-------------------- IHN) ocoe Besass cosocconeemas 80
Hypophosphite Buen meee ae Oates aoe nine as eee a weinsaeise Rammelsberg --.-------------- 73
DO ee ee epee as ioae velo a cee sec e ccm e ae aoa aie wa geleee (EP se oe passe toe sees 73
JE Rea See OOS ae DCSE pe not Dace tae orator Bare Osos IP IeisChilver esse eee 25
JOGA) Sechine SORES aa AsOO ncn sod 46 Jab asoc ore pooLesoebee Engelherdt ané@ Maddrell...-. 47
Monochloracetate of U and Na...........-2.-...2.--.---:- Clarke and Owens..-.-..-.--- 80
INGRDMNDco555 sees sshons Séo50econgbs soe ssoseceosbacbode a: TORN jhe goon esonsen= 1790
INGULACO; DY OTAted ees ae ee ola aveiaeainn ate psrenje cetearepe Schultz-Sellack...........---- 70
Nitrate, action of foming nitric acid on........-...--..- JPRS sabecsedseayeccocenectoce 79
IND GEL OR eee ose See ays he ee eaistia see leerose eciaeeilacicines ae Wihrlaubssesce- see eeeee nee 59
Oleationcs 220 ok ees eeio dee eeas tent ce sede eeecedees Gibbonsiy cee esee ee eee rece ac 83
Organic bases and oxychloride C. Gr. Williams. ....------.--- 55
Olwalittesiy: foo ee ao are et Sire etlen dee tcsbeaee ca ceeeece Ebelmen..-.-.-.--- Seooonss 42
Oxalatesiaction of lichthone-ss-c5- 2 sos 5- 2 eee Corvisart and Niepce. Lena suese 59
Oxychloride, ammoniacal compounds. ..-.-. Span aEAcor see Regelsberger...-.- ----------- 85
Oxychloride ‘and OLEaANIC|DASOS. ac. ooo ok Sete ee eaee ee C. Gr. Williams.......-....--- 55
Oxyfinorides, double Halte GLO esac we ccclsgee de shot eee eee Boltoneee si eeciecisaes ce eeaeee 66
Oxyfiuor 10a (Sea eee ha: I Oe IR OG ROE CSR MS Diftew nn. seecen aba -ece oer 80, 84
Oxysulphidersext- sacs ee secon cesses caries cine eeesa RRomoloese- ete eeee weer ee 64, 65
Entre HORIdGsaser ses seas |e een ence hee eee Roscoe. ..-.----- Le tye eet 74
POTUTAN a bOse eA see eames were als lac cic cea ene Rane Sinem ara 1p Gh eoencbopaaasercosomsece” 75, 76
Hosp hates ee cece he sae erste cine a aditnae emotes ae Werther asso eeeseceese eee 48
Phosphates, artificially crystallized ..........-....--..-- IDA cater emcoseoosbeagabes 61
PHOspHites Ate toss, Jess ch secs seach suas sce as clonal Rammelsberg.---.----------- 67
Byrophosphatessenn o2- 22 toes songs soca eseee eae eeecen PETSOZ Sha eaten a eee 47
OY 0 Ree ete eer yee eae encarta seats Siromey Ons seeseseee= =e Bal
Pyro- and meta-phosphates DAE Sanseaee ase eees re aos @hastain ges s-e a ares 80
IPVROLRCOINALE oe ee oo ae cco wens seater aoe eealceee es BOLZOlUS. - oes = ss ese ce es eee 35
VTOLAT erates seca ee a oo neat es ah ae Ot ae 47
ROU ZONAL: eee ea aise an Boe oe eee emma = cinetee 37
Saccharate cee eaters ee Nek Oe Ree) ah oo 61
Selemate.......-.--: 18
Selenates and selenites | 79
Selenite ce eee eee eee OL RU ee eh es See ere 50
DO RE SRO ESS NRL A ee cetera i : 75
SDONGLO: 02 spas pee ee ont MER Gat bee 21
MUCCINALE: <2 222 oq Matera oe ligtiasacansess erst wesee. : 6
Succinate, action of light on ....-..-...--...---------++---- Seekampseseeesceesa- rea ee 65
Sulphantimoniate ..........-. a ED a) De ae ee Rammelsberg .--------------- | 41
Sulpharsenatei:s-serse wee see sca Mesa mee awe oe loe Rorzelinse es: fee eee eee 26

Sulphate. (See General researches ) :
Sulphate, di-sulphate and basicity of oxide -....-.-.--.--. Schultz-Sellack ...-@....-.---- | 71
Sulphethylate a PERDANA De coal a taco RO ee ae Ae ee Marchand ene: aos sue moe 37
SUP HIG GE eS ere Me aoe ene et Leh A ESA a AEE oh ose Hee ad seat eae | 23
lp RI Or nE di <4 sas eeye a meme tate tart ota rare a Ce ASHE Pateraesslsheck caseeesene oane 50
Uli p lide pred eerste Nemec rc emc amiertan sehen HIMMeEVMANN) eo = ces see 20
Sulphiitie so 05 Dee ke oes oe eae ae) adoane oe aewee as Berthien -oicb ease sse means 43
OUP HI te. file sas eee BRU A ah eo oS hes Som sues IReMElO eu esaocereneen eeeee ee \ 65
SUlphite sa eee rele SNe me eee Miao) ae See Sean Garrard eee ek 52
SO OE ee Ue Ua Sore le nA eGo rs aU RMB r pee cem Ne ecuRciae Sobeller. 0) cs sce ae ee 67
Dulphites): Sse e cal Sb ae Ge one un ana eee uae ease eas Mubprattias:accns seseweeecey 44
Sulphocarbonatese. ons ses- see eseaeae cee eseten aces --| Berzelius - 26
Sulphocyaniders--.ssssseses ae see Soin HisPorrott:. useses cose se keine eee 14
Sil phocyanides = sesse este nee eons Sea see ERS KGY.0 soo cece no eae teeeeaae 67
SuLphomolyhdatecsa-- sees se cece eases aeeee elon --------| Berzelius -. * 26

944

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

Classified index of subjects—Continued.

IX.—Sa.tTs.—Continued.

Subject. Author. Date.
SPALtLAtOS see me yea mcieelois ala ale lo etal area lolatm ela oleae ta eet alfa IPGligotiecesese nese eeceeee eee e 45
HME Tanta) nO Ge SO ORES OBC CEE EE panos cunStoRenn senoee Wrischy oe rissa eetdesne sane 66
AMOS PIG ot bo Be berine coaber co Hobos cone deoesbcsebddocadsasce Iberzeliusizeecse- sees teeeoees 34
Tetrethylammonium uranate ......-...------------------- ‘Bolton@csaat an see seen oeeee aes 72
Abi itrirT Tings PEE eee SpA o css osebe abe Sossssassacss5)) adsac- OOs2 ssc hte sase esac 72
Wiranatessenys tallized amen aye = siete ee Ditte eee nae pieeeen eee eee 82, 84
Loins TOE A) po kage og doschpanoAsbosbecas sat Gockiaset eer ota see eeee 43
Wranousgalisenes sess cesce eee eeene shee ee ee creiae nae Rammelsberg. ---..-...------- 44
MMalerianatesseacaacescee sacs somata eee meee eee eres Bonaparte) s22455.s2sccee=saeer 43
irri Pe Qe eae Stet ee ceee een Bosca nosecgrodsionrgecotsas Berzelius) ic coe ee eee 31
X.—TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL.
By-products in U manufacture.......-.-.........--.------ Minnie hs eeeise ee eee ee 75
@oloringiporcel aime ese te eerste te ee ee ate ae eel are oie Schiwargil re estes ease 70
Commercial extraction: o 2 eee ee oon nen em ime = ielaa LEH eye eo oconanoapsorcorshe 49, 58
Commercialandindustrial’=.--5--o5- ees ees oaaceeeees | eee aoe Was eeeueat eee 3
Wxtrachiononlarpe SCaleissceemce see ee a= eee eae eae Eee GO pert e eerste seca 49, 53
MRGraChon Onllalte Seale jt eer eee ee = senate eee eee WiysoCkyies2e sce ecee eee meee 59
Mianufactire:of U=\ollowi2 eae e- a aseeee es ciel nin elomrataiee | eens COM cae eet Sake ae) sens 66
Ware Wey bee eee ecm seerineaouocHo nH oSneaooecons DD RiVAs Nee crescent ance sere 81
Production lof oreswnl 874. oh es eee cee cee oceeclice ee Nicene ene e eee ssl mee aris 76
Production Of Onésn 1OV5e ae ese esau see aire raieeleeiaiss sina ease store see sores eee eteyanae ratte Wie
iProduchion of UMnvE russian asc eesen oe ee eae ese ae ea See eee eee ae teen 15
Puriicauoniot U-vellowre. soecsseee eee ee eee ae Pateraaacse ose eres 56
Sodium uranate) commercials - <2 s--2-.- seco sie le Priwoznik & Schneider. .-.---. 78
Statisties; commerciale sess. cse sae ee eee ae one ae oe | eee aes Sate denaceeceeremece 82
Mechnicala, see ses= se eee eee este ees sete iene Octet I WViogelsan oy (jcc enlace evclersye ers 62
Meekini calex tr aenlo nese ae eres eee ete elele leet Patendenesssecccees eae eseae 49, 53
Technical processus; rOpOrh ON - --1--. een =- ==) l=» y= lem Goatees stent enemas q7
Mechnical working on Oresiae= sess as eee eee eee eee ee Iballemand ces -meee nese ieee 80
MOT NI Cal WSES wee Ses oes cea ete Sele a aetna re ee ogee Briapehoniesss tacos eee eects 58
Technical usesysaesssc mses eee ease eects cena eee Kohnkes see: esse costae zs 43
Yellow uranium, manufacture of.....-.-.----------------- Vive @elinve CS-sosnnonkcodsoosds 66
Wellow: Us puriticatiomiOf£ so-so nese encase ee Paterals:.sessteeesce sees 56

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

KEY

AS

TO ABBREVIATIONS.

(Dates following titles indicate works fully indexed. ]

Abbreviations. Fuller title.
Ams CHEM aes sae eae aeons ce American Chemist. Chandler. New York. 1870-’77.
AWE NERD EOIN) oo Sood cin Second oodsenbe American Naturalist. Philadelphia.
PACTS SMe HOGG Sy eaae ner aeee tajanetalesicseiae American Journal of Photography. New York.
PALIN es Clpgata ls ted a aie ae ste eas iciecaiardiae eis American Journal of Science. Silliman & Dana. New Haven.

Ann. Ch. Pharm. or Ann. Chem....-.-..--

PAM NS GHD HVS reyes ore eeceaiars
VANS GW aT ERD 7 URS ee se
Amn Physi otis can aeese cine cites
Annals Wiy.c. Nat. EUSb)ss-]Q5 4-5 -)s-o =
AmnalsiNo VA cads Sete ueceseneer acme

AMIN SITOWCMIM =< isccee cee nsec cacae's
Anz. d. bohm. naturf. Versamml......--
Archiv der Pharm
TBs So Viens mane a ee Sin oeeice

Berg- und hiittenm. Ztg.....----.--.---
[sper A eos anoetosncopesacodaase See
IBerzad 2NTOS DE oaseeeaae cerceen easier

Breith: Hand pe Miiny =e <ncie cease alain

IB rite we NOt eee nee ei faire mrctanais
Buchner|s Reporte-ceesc-ce d=) e=ee=cae=
Bull beleeiphotog 22s. en an eae
BM QOS iS Cie emit = emesis see stellar

Bull SsOCxC bums xe a))-4- (ase ise sees Soe clo
Biallssocsminws eh Trance sso essere ese
Bull socsnat.MOsc@w asses <eeeceacce-
ae soc: philomath.:: << -.sseeseis--ci--

@hemaNe ws eeccee eee soe
Chem. techn. Mittheil.......... ie seat
Chem: wWOntersweetcsss seeesi sens eases

ChemilkkerZteuses sascms vcasoe oes ssaeas,s
COSMOS Ee Si ae oaee sme maceee ee eure

Dingls polidiss teers Ws es\aetes ae ants seis
Gehlents( se aan ecalees
Geol. Fér. Férhandl.
(Génie indUsteemecse see ee eae eee
Gilbert Annie ee Bes we fee athe Ua
GotticelehrivAnze sees eens e cesta
Hand biibests Maines rose senor eens cee
Maui Rrait6i een acerca een
Horn )s|PHOtOg./d) seeee acne eaeee seas es
Humphrey's Siesta essence ou cosuioe
Instit

apraC Dy pay Wee aee ee weet e eas &
Jahrb. geolog. Reichs ..----..-...-.---
Wabyr biMin 2 2s ysceee ee see wees cee
PANES D fina ce aotearoa eee

Jabresb:.chem.-Lech)-=-- ss asesseeee

Jahresb. phys. Ver. Frankft...........
Jahresb. reinen Ch..............--.....
deurn de pNaArMiye sees eee eee
Journ pdemphiys) sacs occ eee eee
Rarst., Mint Tabellencnsesscmen semen ose

H. Mis. 15-60

1818-’85.

Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie; and Liebig’s Annalen der
Chemie. Heidelberg. 1832’-’85.

Annales de chimie (et de physique). Paris. 1789-1884.

Annales des mines. Paris.

Annalen der Physik und Chemie Wiedemann. Berlin. 1877-’84.

Annals of the New York Lyceum of Natural History.

Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. New York.
1877-84.

Annuaire de chimie. Millon et Reiset. Paris. 1845-’51.

Anzeiger der béhmischen naturforschender Versammlung.

Archiv der Pharmacie, des allg. deutschen A pothcker-Vereins.

Introduction to mineralogy. Brooke & Miller. London.

Berichte der deutschen chemischen Gesellschaft. Berlin.
1868-84.

Berg- und hiittenmannische Zeitung. Leipzig.

Bergmannisches Journal. Kohler. Freiberg.

Jahresbericht tiber die Fortschritte der physischen Wissen-
schatten. Berzelius. 1822-51.

Vollstindiges Handbuch der Mineralogie.
Leipzig.

British Journal of Photography. Liverpool.

Repertorium fiir die Pharmacie. Buchner. Niirnberg.

Bulletin belge de la photographie. Bruxelles.

Belcan des sciences, publié par la Société philomathique de

aris.

Bulletin de la Société chimique de Paris. 1864-'85.

Bulletin de la Société minéralogique de France.

Bulletin de la Société Impériale des naturalistes de Moscou.

Bulletin de la Société philomathique. Paris.

Chemisches Centralblatt. Leipzig. 1850-'84.

Practical Mineralogy. E.J.Chapman. London.

Charakteristik des Mineral-Systems. Breithaupt. Freiberg.

Chemical Gazette. London.

Chemical News. Crookes. London. 1860-’85.

Chemisch-technischen Mittheilungen. Elsner.

John’s Chemischer Untersuchungen mineralischer

* * * Substanzen. Berlin.

Chemiker-Zeitu. g. K6then.

Cosmos. Moigno. Paris.

Chemische Annalen. Crell. 1784-1803.

Mineralogie. Cronstedt. Stockholm.

Polytechaisches Journal. Dingler. Stuttgart. 1820-’85.

Neues allgemeines Journal der Chemie. Gehlen.

Geologiska Férening, Férhandlingar. Stockholm.

Génie industriel. Paris.

Annalen der Physik. Gilbert. 1799-1824.

Gottingische gelehrte Anzeigen. Gditingen.

Handbuch der bestimmenden Mineralogie. Haidinger. Wien.

Traité de minéralogie. Hauy. Paris. 1801.

Photographisches Journal. Horn. Leipzig.

Humphrey’s Journal of the Daguerreotype. New York.

L'Institut. Paris.

Journal of the Chemical Society of London. 1849-85.

Journal fir Landwirthschaft. Gottingen.

Journal fiir praktische Chemie. Leipzig. 1834-84.

Jahrbuch der k. k. geologischen Reichsanstalt. Wien.

Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie. Leonhard & Bronn.

Jabresbericht tiber die Fortschritte der reinen, pharmaceu-
tischen und technischen Chemie. Liebigund Kopp. Gies-
sen. 1847-’84

Jahresbericht tiber die Fortschritte der chemischen Techno-
logie. Wagner. Leipzig. 1855-84.

Jahresberichte der physikalischen Verein zu Frankfurt a. M.

Jahresbericht tiber die Fortschritte auf dem Gebiete der
reinen Chemie. Tiibingen. 1873-82.

Journal de pharmacie (etde chimie). Paris. 1815-84.

Journal de physique, de chimie [ete.]. La Méthérie. Paris.

Mineralogische Tabellen. Karsten. 1800.

Archiv fur die gesammte Naturlehre. K.W.G. Kastner,
Nuremberg.

A. Breithaupt.
946

Key to

INDEX TO THE LITERATURE OF URANIUM, 1789-1885.

abbreviations—Continued.

Abbreviations.

Fuller title.

Kong. Vet. Acad. Handl--.-.----.--------

juéonhsLaschen Dacre ccs eee ese cee -eeee |

si GHOp Hy PSOLn oe ont beca= eee ala

Liverpool Phot. Ji..--2.---------------- |

Iba CAN bb Se gamancmemaane Sasee ase
vipa re DY Seo eet snee ano seossoes casas
Mém. Acad. roy. sci. Berlin. ..-.----.--.
Mem. Chem. Soc. Lond .-......---------

Mims doeach: -Leplitzicassess-o -h ese -

AO Bye oa ooe soe godor arses ae
Min. Syst
IMG MIE GHGS See icin atemiee cei tan
Mineralog. Miamiall Sacer areata
Monatsb/d) Berl: Acad 2222-222 52-.-=--

Mpndes “bestrcsenares aaa ae eae Abe
Monit photog teense =e ane eeen a.
NTONTLAS CLONE. eee eee eee eee
N. Arch. ph. nat

IN. Gegenst. der Chee --2 = 2. ==. =a =
N. Petersb. Acad. Bull

NBS ise Gi eater aes gusceeoa noc euoeGsccr

Nova acta Reg. Soc. Se. Upsal...-.----.
Oestr. Zeits. Berg-u. Hiitt........------
Pharm. Centr
PharmeiCentralhe: 222-2 sre. eee - == ar
IOI Rye So co eoerbospecer bodes ctacc
Phil. Trans
Jeti eae oMWiba) (2 Soe eto ed aoosuespes lcte

PolytiContr ee iesecccs ao eewas ease ces
Polyt. Centralhalle
IPolyb.aNOluzZbleste ee cos eee eee eee aes
Preuss. Zeitschr. Berg-H. u. Salin ---..

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sei. Philad

Proc..Chem- Soc! Wonds=-e2s-2-- v=-e=
Otarivden Scie see see oneness ae
ami Elan g Dee setom wettest eee

ING py CHEM es DUE ee ee see meet eee ee
ROPCLs., ATS woes sess Meera ee ae

Kepert-7P abv eee eee meer
Revuehebas chime oc =cmsenasesececemce

DED Wel Sie eo weet es ete nee eels sie
Sitzungsb. k. béhm. Ges .--.-.-.--- Beh

Smithsonian Misc. Coll................
Pechnolopiste! 22h e ee eae

‘Trans. Roys/Soc.dinb. <2. - 22-2 --

‘Lrommsd-is) ders harm 2c) S085 e-2 22.
Wall Maint. 52) See Se eee oe
Waen Acad? (Bors ceases eee oe

Wiener polyt. is es-5- pose seeeee =- ees bee
Zertschrs analeC haere eee eee eee

ZeibschrsG he es eee Babi sar Sevan
ZSLISCHT Ae RaAEmMes sae eee eee ene ee eee
Zeitschr. ges. Naturw....-.----- Saroseoe

ACS CHT ery Stee eee eee pee eee |

Kongl. Vetenskaps Akademien Handlingar. Stockholm.

Taschenbuch fiir die gesammte Mineralogie. Leonhard.
Frankfurt a. M.
| Lythophilacium Bornianum. Prag.
Liverpool Photographic Journal.
Handbuch der Mineralogie nach Werner. Ludwig.
Magnalia Dei in locis subterraneis. Briickmann.

Mémoires de l Académie royale des sciences de Berlin.
Memoirs and Proceedings of the Chemical Society of Lon-

don. 1841-48.
Ganguerhiltnisse und Mineralreichthum Joachimthals. J.
Fl. Vogl. Teplitz. 1857.
Mineralogical Magazine and Journal. Truro. 1876-84.
Jameson’s System of Mineralogy. Edinburgh.
Mineralogische Mittheilungen. H.Tschermak. Wien.

Aikin’s Manual of Mineralogy. London, 4
ona ete der kén. Academie der Wissenchaften.
erlin.

Les Mondes. Moigno. Paris.

Moniteur de la photographie. Paris.

| Monitenr scientifique. Quesneville.

| Archives des sciences physiques et naturelles.
Série. Genéve.

Ueber die neueren Gegenstinde inder Chemie. J. B. Richter.
Breslau.

} Bollega de l’'Academie impériale des sciences de St.-Péters-
ourg.

Nouveau systéme de minéralogie. Berzelius. Paris.

A Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry [ete.].

| Nicholson. London. 1797-1813.

Reg. societat. scient. upsaliensis, nova acta. Upsala.

Oesterreichische Zeitschrift fir Berg- und Hittenwesen.

Pharmaceutisches Centralblatt. Leipzig. 1830-’49.

Pharmaceutische’ Centralhalle fiir Deutschland. Berlin.

Philosophical Magazine. London. 1798-1884.

Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society. London.

Annalen der Physik und Chemic. Poggendorff. Berlin.
1824-84.

Nouvelle

Wm.

Polytechnisches Centralblatt. Leipzig.
| Polytechnische Centralhalle. Leipzig.
Polytechnisches Notizblatt. Bottger. Mainz.

Preussische Zeitschrift fiir das Berg-, Hiitten- und Salinen-
wesen. 5

| Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Philadel-
| _ phia.
| Proceedings of the Chemical Society of London. 1843.

| Qaarterly Journal of Science.
Handbuch der Mineralchemie. Rammelsberg.

Répertoire de chimieappliquée. Paris.

Répertoire de chimie pure. Paris.

Repertory of Arts, Manufactures [ete.]. London.
Repertory of Patent Inventions. London.

Revue hebdomadaire de chimie. Méne. Paris.

Russische Zeitschrift fiir Pharmacie. St. Petersburg.

San Francisco Scientific and Mining Press.

Schriften der berlinischen Gesellschaft naturforschender

Royal Institution. London.

Freunde. Berlin.
Journal fiir Chemie und Physik. J.S.C.Schweigger. Niiwrn-
berg. 1811-’33.
| Sitzungsberichte der kén. béhmischen Gesellschaft der Wis-
senschaften. Prag.

| Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collect:ons.
Le Technologiste. Paris.
Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Journal der Pharmacie. Trommsdorft. Leipzig.
| Mineralogia. Wallerius. Stockholm.
| Sitzungsberichte der math.-naturwiss. Classe der kais. Acad-
| emie der Wissenschaften. Wien.
Wiener polytechnisches Journal.
Zeitschrift fir analytische Chemie.
1862-84.
Zeitschrift fir Chemie. Gottingen.
Kritische Zeitschrift fiir Chemie.
Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte Naturwissenchaften.
Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie und Mineralogie.
Leipzig. 1877-'84.

Trescnius. Wiesbaden.

Groth.

(For full titles and bibliographical details of the above consult : Catalogue of Scientific Serials, by S.
H. Seudder, Cambridge, 1879, and: Catalogue of Scientific and Technical Periodicals, 1665-1882.
by Henry Carrington Bolton, Washington, D.C, 1885.]
}

|
|
|

Se se So

aT? =

i

ae

ate ee

PRICE LIST OF PUBLICATIONS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

JULY, 1885:

This list includes only the publications of the Institution (1847 to 1885) which can
be furnished at the prices named. All others are out of print. All gratuitous distri-

bution to individuals has been discontinued.

The ‘‘Smithsonian Contributions” and “Miscellaneous Collections” are presented
to public libraries containing 25,000 volumes, learned societies of the first class, and
smaller public libraries, properly recommended, where a large district would be

otherwise unsupplied.

12. LIEBER, F.—Vocal sounds of Laura Bridgman.....-.....--.-.------------ .
15. Squier, E. G.—Aboriginal monuments of the State of New York....--.---
7 EAE Sy. ——b x plOSiveness OL MItePeass sete soe as ss oc cess ee os = eleisis aan cte
20. BaILEY, J. W.—Microscopical examination of soundings..--.--.----------
21. Annnal Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1849..............-----
23. BAILEY, J. W.—Microscopical observations in So. Car., Ga., Fla. .....-.-
25. JEWETT, C. C.—Notices of public libraries in the United States..---.-----
27. Bootu, J. C., and Morrir, C.—Recent improvements in chemical arts----

28. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1850.........-...----.----
33. Davis, C. H.—Law of deposit of the flood tide..---...---..--------.-----
34. BarrD, S. F.—Directions for collecting specimens of natural history -....

36. SeccHt, A.—Researches on electrical rheometry.----...-...--------------
Ai, LMUDY, J. xtinet Species Of AMeriCamMlOX--).0- 2s. so2-te Jos oes eae
AG) TORREN Ws ——b ante mi roMmonmlameas a= svsaeies oes. ses Dose ccee pee oeeess sac
47, JEWETT, C. C.—Construction of catalogues of libraries ...-...----.------
49. BairD, 8S. F., and GrrarD, C.—Catalogue of N. A. serpents in Museum..--
50. STiMPsoN, W.—Synopsis of Marine Invertebrata of Grand Manan.... ----
52. CorFin, J. H.—Winds of the northern hemisphere ...--...----..---------
56. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VI..----.---------------
57. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1852.......-.--.-.------
56 WEED. J.—AnelenteraunajofwNebraskaiee= acess ooo -\c cose eae ne ee seeierse ae
59. CHAPPELSMITH, J.—Account of a tornado, New Harmony, Ind. .....----.
60. TORREY, J.—Batis maritima of Linneus_----..---..--------.------------
GLA LORREYA J. Darlin ohonialCalitonnl Caps s sss 42 sao es) ae 2a ee
62. MELSHEIMER, F. E.—Catalogue of Coleoptera of United States ..-.-...----
65. HENRY, J.—Registry of periodical phenomena........---.---------------

(0: LAPHAM, )0. A. Antiquities of \WiSCOnsin-s.--..--2 6+ 2225+ o-.-<- = se = see
72. LEIDy. J.—Extinct sloth tribe of North America .......-.----.----------
73. HENRY, J.—Publications of societies in S. I. Library, 1854. Pt. I....---..

76. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VII..---------.---------
78. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VIII...----------.-------
79. RUNKLE, J. D.—New tables of planetary motions -----...---.------.-----
80. ALVORD, B.—Tangencies of circles and spheres..---.-.-----.--------.----
82. JONES, J.—Chemical and physiological investigations of vertebrata...-..
83. Mrrecu, L. W.—Relative intensity of heat and light of the sun --...-----
84. Force, P.—Auroras in higher northern latitudes .....------.------------
85. HENRY, J.—Publications of societies in 8: I. Library, 1856. Pt. I1...--..
948 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

. CoFFIN, J. H.—Psychrometrical tables
. GIBBS, W. ., and GENTH, F’. A.—Researches on the ammonia-cobalt bases...
: BREWER, T. M.—North American odlogy. Part I
: Hircucock, E.—Illustrations of surface geology
. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. IX
. RUNKLE, J. D.—Asteroid supplement to new tables..-...-.......-....---
. Harvey, W. H.—North American Marine Alge(Chlorospermesx). Part III
. KANE, E. K. —Magnetical observations in the Arctic seas
: Bowen, T. J.—Grammar and dictionary of Yoruba language
. GILLIS, "J. M.—Total eclipse of the sun, Peru, September 7, 1858
. Hix, THos.—Map of solar eclipse of March 15, PB Bre Set oa.wa col etion openers
: CASWELL, A.—Meteorological observations, Pr ovidence, R. I., 1831-60---
. Barrp, 8. F.—Catalogue ‘of North American mammals in Museum, 1857...
. Barrp, 8. F.—C atalog ue of North American birds in Museum, 1857

. Henry, J.—Communication on the electro- magnetic telegraph

. MorRIs, J. G. —Catalogue of Lepidoptera of North America
. WHITTLESEY, C.—Fluctuations of level in North American lakes
. HILDRETH, 8S. P.,and Woop, J.—Meteorological observations, Marietta,

. Loomis, E.—Storms in Europe and America, December, 1236
. KANE, E. K.—Astronomical observations in Arctic seas
. Kann, E. K.—Tidal observations in the Arctic seas..:-...-.. 2-2-2 22.2.
. SmitH, N. D.—Meteorological observations, Washington, Ark., 1840-1859. .

f Morris, J. G.—Synopsis of Lepidoptera, North America. Part I
. HAGEN, H.—Synopsis of Neuroptera of North America
. Henry, J.—Circular to officers of the Hudson’s Bay Company
. Morean, L. H.—Cirecular relative to relationship. .
. BARD, 8. F.—Instructions for collecting nests and eggs of birds
. Le Conte, J. L.—List of Coleoptera of North America. Part I
. Loew, H., and OSTEN SAcKEN, R.—Monographs of the Diptera of North

i
ee ae

er er
a ee

. BACHE, A. D. —Magnetic and meteorological observations, Philadelphia,
Pa, '1840-1845.° Part’ 1) ete. 2 soc ene ot eee ee a at

| Mixer. —Observations on terrestrial magnetism in Mexico

. Henry, J.—Catalogue of publications in S. I. Library, 1658: Ve es ane

Ohio, 1817-1823, and 1826-1859 ~

. BacuE, A. D.—Magnetic and meteorological observations, Philadelphia,

Pa., 1840-1845. Part Ec) ase 98) 0 jek out aa nt
. Le Conte, J. L.—Coleoptera of Kansas and Eastern New Mexico

. BacHeE, A. D. —Magnetic and meteorological observations, Philadelphia,
Pa., 1840-1845. Part ILI

e- tee ees
ee ee
wees weer

America; Part: T 2. oo55 Se ecitic ane eee cee eae eee ee
. BINNEY, W. G.—Bibliography of North American conchology. Part I-.-

3. BINNEY, W. G.—Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part II..
. Brnney, W. G.—Land and fresh-water shellsof North America. Part III-
. PRIME, T.—Monograph of American Corbiculade
3. McCuintock, F. L.—Meteorological observations in arctic seas
. GuYoOT, A., and HENRY, J. —Directions for meteorological observations and

- 222 wees

register ‘of periodical phenomena. 322.52 8a2- sere te aaarsae cos ae see eee
. EGLESTON, T.—Catalogue of minerals with their fourmulas-_...-...-...----

. MITCHELL, S. W., and Morenovuss, G. R.—Anatomy and physiology of the
Chelontagss . a fe h eto Seeijewe eas se ee Oe One eee ee = eee

- GIBBS, G:—Dictionary of Chinook Jarcon-22-----54- es ae eee eaaoe

. BacuE, A. |).—Magnetie and meteorological observations, Philadelphia,
Pare 1340-1845, Parts: TV, Vi, and. Vil o22 coe ce ase eer ae Cees

. BAIRD, S. F.—Cireular on history of North American grasshoppers- ....--

: Bar, S. F.—Museum Miscellanea, numbers, labels: (& Cac. = a kiee ates

. BACHE, A. D.—Magnetic survey of ’Pennsylvania..

. LE Conte, J. L.—New species of North American Coleoptera. Partial.
. Henry, J.—Circular relative to birds from South America..
. GIBBS, G. —Comparative vocabulary -

. DEAN, J.—Gray substance of the medulla oblongata...

: BINNEY, W. G.—Bibliography of North American conchology. Part IL--
5, BACHE, ’A. D.—Magnetic and meteorological observations, “Philadelphia,

Pa., 1840-1845. Parts VII, VIII, and IX Zieh gdahecle Liseiea AL Cees ae ee
HEnry, J.—Cireular relative to collecting BREWS) 6s 3. 2. Rite ae a ares
MEEK, F. B.—Check-list of Cretaceous and Jurassic fossils of N. A

: Henry, J.—Circular to/entomologists:.--2 sess eee eee eee eee
: Hunry, J.

Catalogue of publications i in S. I. Library, 1866
DRAPER, Hi —Construction of a silvered-glass telescope
. Barrp, S.F ",—Review of American birds. Part I
——

No.

182.

183.
184.
185.
186.

187.
188.
189.
190.
192.
193.
197.
199.
200.
201.
202.
204.
205.
208.
209.
210.
211.

214.
215.
216.

ily
221.
222.
223.
224.
227.
228.
229.
230.
232.
233.
234.

235.
236.
Oat
238.
239.
241.
242.
244,
246.
247.
249.
254,
256.
258.
259.
261.

262.
264.
266.

267.

270.
Diee
274.
2975.

276.
277.

279.
250.
281.
982,

LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 949

Prive.
Henry, J.—Results of meteorological observations, 1854 to 1859. Vol. II,

SLE ean eee ee one ee saat a es Ie oe in oa pein ais to nm ess Samet $2 50
MEEK, F. B.—Check-list of Miocene fossils of North America ..-.-...---- 10
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XIV.- .----.----.------- 12 00
BaIrRD, S. F.—Desiderata of birds of Mexico, Central America, &c--.----- 05
BACHE, A. D.—Magnetic and meteor ological observations, Philadelphia,

Pa., 1840-1845. ‘Parts ».e.4 oy vibe. @ 8 Be eae tees te BAe Reo 95
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1863 .... -----.-----.-- 50
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1864-....-..----..----. 50
ScuppeEr, 8. H.—Catalogue of the Orthoptera of North America..-.....-- 1 00
HENRY, a — Queries Tolative tottornadoes™.) 22) Nees eis eee 02
LEIDY, ’J.—Cretaceous reptiles of the United States - A de Soeeeese.) | 500
List of duplicate shells of Wilkes exploring expedition .. Soe nesses ehieee 02
WHITTLESEY, C.—Fresh-water glacial drift of the Northwestern States... 1 00
NEWCOMB, 8. ‘—Orbit of Neptune PRE oo RS rapa nese SS oI spe ac eta cele an cerinpats 3 60
CONRAD, 1’. A.—-Check-list Eocene and Oligocene fossils of North America- 10
STIMPSON, W.—Researches upon the Hydrobiinzs Ae eee a tee ee eae 50
PUMPELLY, R.—Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan .... 3 00
CLEAVELAND, P. —Meteorological observations, Brunswick, Me., 1807~59.. 100
HENRY, J.—Cireular relating to archeology and ethnology Haha Cake sanbss 02
SRICKHRING. | C-——G iddoneamnmmy-Caseuve ce eeiemas. ele a6) ee ela ata aaa 50
“Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1865--...........----.-- 1 00
BatrD, 8. F.—Arrangement of families of birds. -...- ---.---------.------ 05
Smithsonian Contributions to ranonmleylegey, WA OVNI Bene 5 ods soo GoemEe 12 00
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1866 .....--...-.---.-- 1 00
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1867 ...... ..---..----- 1 00
HENRY, J.—List of photographie portraits of North American Indians... 10
OsTEN-SACKEN, R.—Monographs of the Diptera of N. A. Part IV...---.. 2 00
CorFFIN, J. H. — Meteoric tire- ball, July 20, 1860.....---.----------------- 1 00
Scuort, C. A.—Tables and results, rain and snow in the United States... 3 00
GOULD, ’B. A.—Transatlantic longitude -..-- seal eas seen 200
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for Seog) cant ey ass 1 00
GiLL, T.—Arrangement of families of Mollusks. ....-...-----.------------ 25
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1869. --.-....----------- 50
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVII....-. .----.------ 12 00
GILL, T.—Arrangement of the famihes Gla amenable! sa ssc. asec 25

STOCKWELL, J. N.—Secular variations of elements of the orbits of planets. 2 00
FERREL, ae —Converging series, ratio between diameter and circumference 25

BairD, 8. —Questions ‘relative to food fishes of the United States ...... 05
HENRY, J. Sav oatones for observations of thunder storms .----..------ 02
HENEYs\-— Circular relative:to heishts) S225 22 o20 5c... aoe sas sce wena cone 02
Henry, J.—Directions for constructing lightning-rods---.-..-...---..----- 02
RuHEES, W. J.—List of institutions, libraries, colleges, &c......----.----- 25
HARKNESS, W.—Observations on terrestrial magnetism...--.-.-..-----.- 1 00
Woop, H. C.—Fresh-water Algz of North America .-.--....--...---...-- 5 00
CuaRK, H. J.—Anatomy and physiology of Lucernarie ...---..---..----- 5 00
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1870........---..------ 1 00
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVIII...--- SA EGOD OSlSDe 12 00
GILL, T:—Arrangement of families of fishes..-......-..-.-.-------------- 25
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1871.....-....---.----- 1 00
DE SaussuRE, H.—Synopsis of American wasps. ..----..----------------- 2 00
Loew, H. eee on the Diptera of North America. Part III----- 2 00
WATSON, S.—Bibliographical index to North American botany.--..----- - 200
JONES, J. —Aboriginal Pemains. Ot ennesseGs- 4 ssscc=eeeses soe cies ee eee 3 00
PACKARD, A. 8. —Directions for collecting and preserving insects --..-.-.. 15
NEWCOMB, S Si OED b Ole WLAN eae eae ee AS IO BE JSR Sse crete 2 00
LE Contr, J. L.—New species of North American Coleoptera. Part II... 1 00
Woopwakb, J. J.— Structure of cancerous tumors. Toner lecture, No. re 25
Swan, J. rae Indians of Queen Charlotte’s Islands ...--.-------- 1 00
OSTEN-SACKEN, R.—Catalogue of Diptera of North America-..--.--.--.----- 2 00
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledee.. Vol. MEMS 2S s. eee es 12 00
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XII ..-..-.---.-.----------- 5 00
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1873....-.-.----------- 50
CLARKE, F. W.—Table of specific heats. Constants of Nature. Part II-. 50
Scuortt, C. A.—Tables of temperature in the United States.....--..--.--- 3 00
Da Costa, J. M.—Strain and over-action of the heart. Toner lecture, No. 3- 25
ALEXANDER, S.—Harmonies of the solar system --.-...------------------ 1 00
NEWCOMB, S. —General integrals of planetary MOtION sss Nae ee 50

Woop, H. ’O.—Nature and mechanisin of fever. Toner lecture, No, 4-..... 25
950 LISE OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

. GILL, 1.-—Catalogue of fishes, east coast of North America -....---...----
. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XX. ...--...........---.
5. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XXI.---......-..---..---
: Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1874500.0 10) sui ous
. Rau, C.—Archeological collection of the U.S. National Museum .---..---
. CLARKE, F. W. —Specific gravity tables. Constants of Nature. First sup-

plement toPart foo. 328 sees ote See hee eee eee Ee eee

. CLARKE, I’. W.—Tables of expansion by heat. Constantsof Nature. Part IL-
. BROWN-SEQUARD, C. E.—Dual character of the brain. Toner lecture, No. 2-
. Cops, E. D.—Check-list of N. A. Batrachia and Reptilia. Bull. N. M., No. 1-
: KIDDER, J. H., and Cougs, E.—Natural History of Kerguelen Island. I.

Ornithology: Bull. NiMe Non? yee se eee eee a eae een eras

. Kipper, J. H., and others.—Natural History of Kerguelen Island. II.

Odlogy;botany,.c&e." ‘Bull Ne MeNO osee eee eee ee aaa eee eee

. LAWRENCE, G. N., and SuMIcHRAST, F'. E.—Birds of Mexico. Bull. N.M.,

: Goopz, G. B.— —Catalogue, fishes of Bermuda. Bull. N. M., No.5.-.-2. 2...
. GoonE, G. B. —Classification of animal resources of the United States.

Ball: NieMi3 NosO2h sce Sse ee ee eee eee Ee eee

. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1875. -...-....-.--------
. KEEN, W. W.—Surgical complications of fevers. Toner lecture, No. 5---
. ADAMS, W.—Subcutaneous surgery. Toner lecture, No. 6.-......--...--.
. STREETS, T. H.—Natural history of Hawaiian and Fanning Islands. Bull.

Nu MG OINO. (ons ie 3 colnt co eee = eee ae ee eee eee ee ele eee

. DALL, W. H.—Index of Brachiopodas BullaNyMeaNo: St ceaaseee eee
- JORDAN, D.S.—North American Ichthyology. I. Rafinesque, North Ameri-

can fishes. Bill IN Mis Nos Oe Ss S28 Bake hoe Se ns Rt ae Oy 9 eae

3. JORDAN, D.S.—North American Ichthyology. IL. Cottidw. Bull. N. M.,

: JORDAN, D.8., and Brayton, A. W.—North American Ichthyology. it fs

- Fishes, Alleghany region. Bull. N. Mi; NOV se eee ae ee ete

l BARNARD, J. G.—Internal structare of the GArUhE sss eS he ed oa eee
. HOLDEN, E.8.—Index catalogue of books and memoirs on Nebule.- ..----

312. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XIII--..-.--.--.-.-...----2-.
313. Eq@Gers, H. F. A.—Flora of St. Croix.and the Virgin Islands. Bull. N. M.,

NOMS woos Sec aae eRe eee ceoe es ee ee eee ee eee eee
314. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XIV -:...-.----.--...-...---
315. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XV ....-.-....-...--.----.-.-
317. Exuior, D. G.—Classification and synopsis of Trochilidw ---...---.--.----
318. DaLL, W. H.—Remains of later prehistoric man from Alaska caves.. --.- -

319. Barrp, S. F.—Circular relative to crawfish and fresh-water Crustacea .---
321. SHAKESPEARE, EH. O.—Reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligatures,

&ce. Toner lecture-INowy 3. .eoS ses en eee eee
322. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XVI ......:....---..--..---
o24,) Circular relative tovexchanges).-- = a= aseiceseeer eee oe he eee ae aaa
325. Business arrangements of Smithsonian Institutions ca scence eee ee

. GOODE, G. B. —Catalogue of collection, animal resources, Philadeiphia Ex-

hibition. Bull. N. M., NO: Wasco ee ees Peat eee rs eer A

327. SMITHSON, J Scientific WEL OS 152 he tee hase eae, 2 eo eee eee
328. RHEES, W. J.—Documents relative to history of Smithsonian Institution - -
330. RHEES, W. J.—Smithson and his bequest 222. 235542 22e5 22 -- eee See
Jol. AU, C.—Palenquertablet: 2322-2) 2as tae oe sige eee ee eis cee eee eee
332. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1878. Vol. I....-.-....:----..--
333. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1879. Vol. IL ........ ..-.-.-....--
334. ELLIOT, D. G.—List of described species of humming-birds -.....-.....--

. List of principal scientific and literary institutions in the United States. -
5. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XVII ....-..--.---.-..----
7. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XVIII..-.....----.-.-------
. WELLING, J. C.—Life and character of Joseph Henry .---..---.-----
. Taytor, W. B.—Memoir of Joseph Henry; a sketch of his scientific work.
. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Viol XeXaD ieee see eee ert
. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1878 ...-.. ...-....--..-
2. KuMLiEen, L.—Natural history of Arctic America. Bull. N. M., No. 15.-..
. HENRY, J.—Annual reports of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-

tion, 1865 TO LET Ses OATES GRASS Ne ea Se ae I a es ne gS

: Annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1879..............--..--
. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XXIII

eet et eee eee tee wees
LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. Qik

No. Price.
352. WHITNEY, W. D.—lectures on linguistic science --..--.-.----.-----.-.-.- $i) 25
353. SCHOTT, G. A.—Tables and results, rain and snow in the U. S., revised

Cera pCO AS STE SS oe a ee ee aE en eae 3 00
304. DELAUNAY, M.—Essay on the welociby Ol Wont eomete es seems e elmer nose 25
350. WETHERILL, Ci O7one/andilantozomes cue sateen Ue ye hd 10
Sob Memonialote J osephiennyy se ej 28e Yes Iane mye an Se i Ar Ze Saha 50
357. Woop, H. C.—Morbid and normal physiology of fever aepRey UAT Stel cialeal iors ae 2 50
308. BECKER, G. F.—Atomic weights. Constants of Nature. Part IV_....--. 3 00
360. DEsoR, E.—Palafittes of the Lake of Neuchatel..............-----.------ 10
362. Rau, C.—Artificial Shell- deposits in New Jersey---------- er wneeieS 05
363. LEWIs, J.—Instructions for collecting land and fresh- water ‘shells - Beh SS 05
365. GIBBS, HARDISTY, JONES, Ross.—T inneh or Chepewyan Indians...-.-.-.- 10
366. EDWARDS, A. M.—Directions for collecting: Diatomacea.) 2-2. 22-2 22-2252 05
370. Rau, C.—Flint implements found in Lllinois..............----.--.------- 05
Sae4 WAU C.——Drillineanistonewwithoutimetial e242 5 eee Se eee 05
374. ScuorT, C. A.—Rain-charts for summer, winter, and the year_--.-....---- 25
3io- LAYEOR, Wi..B:—Nature and origin of force: = 22e 4. <2) ce ee el eee 05
370. ELON TAL. St-—C hemistnyion ihe Oana 32 soe asa ae se soe as se eee 05
377. BABINET, M.—Diamonds and other precious stones ......---------------- » 05
378. ROEHRIG, F. L. O.—Language of the Dakota or Sioux Indians. .---...--.. 05
379. HENRY, J.—KHulogy on Prof. Alexander Dallas Bache... .--..-....--.- ---- 05
380. PEABODY, A. P.—Scientific education of mechanics and artisans .....-...- 05
381. ScHotr, C. A.—Temperature chart of the United States for the year--.-. 05
382. Rau, C.—North American stone implements..-.....--...---..--------.s. 05
383. BRANSFORD, J. '.—Archeeological researches in Nicaragua -.---.-------- 2 00
384. BarRD, 8S. F.—Circular in reference to shippinotreshifisht2s 3 22o a4 sees 02
385. Rav, C.— Ancient aboriginal trade in North America ..-.-....--.--.----- 05
386. BREZINA, A.—Principles of crystallography and crystallophysics. ..-....- 10
387. ScHotT, C. A.—Temperature charts of U. 8. for summer, winter, and

SASH Cee abe ME aie ING eal, DY on es gy SPEER ey ge PAN oS ig ea eR 2 Be 25
390. HinGarD, J. E.—Tides and tidal action in harbors ...-......------.----- 05
391. Act to establish the Smithsonian Institution .....-...-.--.----2. 2.22242. 02
392. Romer, F. F.-=Prehistoric antiquities of Hungary ..-----..---..--------- 02
393. GILLMAN, H.—Mound-builders and platyenemism in Michigan......----- 20
394. ABBOTT, C. Ce —Stone age in New Jersey.------- BR OR aa ne Oe eee aera Roce 25
395. Taytor, W. B .—Kinetic theories of PTANALAOMN SS ist Seem sana eos 10
396. McPaRLIN, T. A.—History and climate of New Mexico .......-..-.------ 05
397. Mason, O. T.—Latimer collection of antiquities from Porto Rico ---....-- 05
398. ABBE, G.—Meteorological memoirs by Colding, Ferrel, Hann, Peslin, Reye,

SOHC hese se ome Uhre ln Sa AME BLES uted eS eis varae ota lala Cet 25
399. HOLMGREN, F.—Color blindness in its relation to accidents-.--.--.------- 10
400. JONES, C. GC. —Aboriginal structures in Georgia ...--....---2.-.:-----.---- 05
401. WEISMANN, A. —Change of Mexican axolotl to amblystoma. Ade ae eee a 05
402. Rau, C. —Stock in trade of an aborigunalilapidary (22222 .- ee seeansiee 05
403. Rav, C.—Gold ornament from mound TP LOTIG a) ves Ue ee es ere 05
404, HALDEMAN, 8. 8S.—Polychrome bead from Florida -...--....------------- 05
405. TayLor, W. B.—History of Henry’s contribution to the telegraph... --...- 25
406, HENRY f-—Researchesjon sound! 4. (2) csecee Jet Jetset es Seen 25
408. BairD, S. F.—Report of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1878... 10
411. LAUTENBACH, B. F.—Ettect of irritation of a polarized nerve ...---.----- 25
412. Corr, E. D.—Zodlogical position of Texas. Bull. N.M., No.17 ........-- 50
413. GoopE, G. B.—Catalogue of collection, Berlin Fisheries Exhibit. Bull.

IN ATMA RIN gS hee Se ae UMA fa HN Ey AT Ra UR Te PS) ae 50
414. Scuort, C. A.—Base chart of the United States... BNL ce 05
415. Knigut, E. H.—Savage weapons at the Philadelphia Exhibition. _..._... 25
416. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XIX........--.-------- 2--- 4 50
Ala Nin Any: —- Henry as ia) GiSCOVOLEIy ys feiss oete iss aa) cetaas see 25
418. Barrp, 8. F.—Report of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1879-... 10
420. Mason, O. T.—Anthropological investigations in 1879 - _.. --..-----.--.- 10
421, B@uMER, G. H.—Index to anthropological articles in 8. I. publications. - 10
422. Ripeway, R.—Nomenclature of North American birds. Bull. N.M.,No.21- 25
423. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XX ......-.---.-----.----- 4 00
424. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XXI....-..----.----------- 4 00
425. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1880. Vol. III---.---..-----.-.-- - 2) 00
427. HOLDEN, E. S.—Report on astronomy for 187980 ..--..-.----.---------- 10
430. FARLOW, W. G.—Report on botany for 187980 _.....--..-... 5-222. .2--.. 10
431. GILL, T.—Report on zodlogy for 1879-80 ..-....------.------- Se ero Hose 25
433. Mason, O. T.—Report on Luray Cavern in Va. in 1880..........--...---- 10

435. Loup, F. H.—Discussion of Snell’s Barometric observations,...-----:-..: 10
952 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.
No. Price.
438. HoLpEN, E.8., and Baumer, G. H.—Reports of astronémical observatories

POT TSEO) Ae ee ars bela sk Se RES BIOS SUR Mee RN ee a nee rato $0 25
439. Mortn, A.—Warming and ventilating occupied buildings -......-.....--. 35
440. Rau, C.—Articles on anthropological subjects. From Reports 8. I-...-.-.-. 25
442. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1880 ........---....-.. 1 00
443. CASWELL, A.—Meteorological observations, Providence, R. I., 1831~76.... 1 00
444, Warp, L. F.—Guide to the flora of Washington, Brl. N. M., No. 22_.-..- 50
445. Goons, G. B.—Plan of organization and regniations of Aft seum. Cireular

US National) Masenm Nowe cease te osm iten go Sor eie a Neto 05
446. Barrp, 8S. F.—To friends of the Museum. Cir. N.M., Nu.2...---..--. ---- 02
447. BarrpD, S. F.—Petroleum collections. Cir.N.M., No. 3...........--..---- 02
448. BarrD,S. F.—Department of insects. Cir.N.M., No.4.-......---...---- 02
449, Barrp,S. F.—Establishment and officers of the Museum. Cir. N. M., No.5. 02
450. FLINT, J. M.—Classification of materia medicacollection. Cir. N. M., No. 6. 02
451. FiLunt, J. M.—Classification of drugs and medicines. Cir. N.M., No.7...- 02
452. Furnt, J. M.—Memoranda for collectors of drugs. Cir. N. M., No. 8...--- 02
453. Barrp, 8. F.— Circular in reference to building-stones. Cir. N. M., No.9-. 02
454, PuHILuies, B.—Letters on work ofthe National Museum. Cir. N.M., No. 10- 02
455. GooprE, G. B.—Classification of food collection. Cir. N. M., No. 11 .----. 05
456. Hornabay, W. T.—Classification of taxidermist’s collection. Cir. N. M., ‘is

IN Osh Dies 2 2a Se si ree ect  a fete tetes mionatate Sree nett tale teeters a ren ere aNe re Y
457. GooDE, G. B.—Scheme of Museum classification. Cir. N.M., No. 13..--... 02
458. Barrp, 8S. F.—Circular requesting material forlibrary. Cir. N.M., No. 14.. 02
459. Goons, G. B.— Organization and objects of the Museum. Cir. N. M., No. 15- 02
460. Warp, L. F.—Directions for collecting and preserving plants --.-.....---- 05
461. Warp, L. F.—Check-list of plants of Washington..-........-.----.----- 05
462. RipGway, R.—Catalogue of Old-World birds in Museum -.----- ood ighee 02
463. GILL, T.—Bibliography of fishes of Pacific coast. Bull. N.M., No. 11-..--. 50
464. Bran, T. H.—Directions for collecting and preserving fish... ...--....--. 02
465. RATHBUN, R.—List of marine invertebrates distributed. Series II-...... 02
467. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1881. Vol. 1V.....---.-.-..----. 2 00
468. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. XXII..................-...-. 4 50
469. BauMeER, G. H.—List of foreign correspondents of 8. I......-.-..---.---- 10
470. SCUDDER, S. H.—Nomenclature zodlogicus. Index of genera. Bull. N.M., aig

NO ee ses Seite ee Sb LESS cee UES ee See ce er
472. GoopE, G. B.—Plans for installation of collections. Cir. N.M., No.16.-.. 02
473. Bairp,S8. F.—Acknowledgment of contributions. Cir. N. M., No. 17 .--. 02
474. List of Publications of National Museum, 1875-1881. Cir. N. M., No. 18-.. 02
475. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. XXIII ....-...-...-.---.--~ 4 50
477. B@&umMeER, G. H.—History of Smithsonian exchanges..--....---..-.------- 10
4738. RuxEEs, W. J.—Catalogue and index of Smithsonian publications, 1846~82. 75
479, BAIRD, S. F.—Report of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1881 -.- 10
481. Mason, O. T.—Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1881 ............ 10
482: GORE, J. H.—Duckahoe, or Indian"bread<2-222 222225 ass 2 eee ee see 05
483. HOLDEN, E. S.—Report on astronomy for 1881..............------------- 10
484. ABBE, C.—Report on meteorology for 1879-1881.........---...----.------ 25
485. BARKER, G. F.—Report on physics and chemistry for 1881 ............--- 10
486. FARLOW, W. G.—Report on botany for 1881......-.......-....--...2--.- 10
4872) Git, Report on zodlogyatordeel) on eeee eee eee eee eee eee 25
488. Mason, O. T.—Report on anthropology for 1881............-.---..------ 10
489° Corr, 4. D!—West) India boneicaveses cece sees eee ete cee eee 2 00
490. Baumer, G. H.—Additions to list of foreign correspondents of 8. I ...-.. 10
492. JORDAN, D. S., and GILBERT, C. H.—Synopsis of fishes of North America.

Bull, Ne Mii Nol 1G oe ibook Sie ee ae Vs Se eee eee 2 50
493. YARROow, H. C.—North American reptilia and batrachia. Bull. N. M.,

NO DAS copie eS acd 2 re AS ER Je hoe ipa CDE ene Pe Aya ye PV 50
495. Jonts, J. M., and others.—Natural history of Bermuda. Bull. N.M.,No.25. 1 00
496. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XXIV ....-...-.----------- 3 00
498. Bulletin Philosophical Society of Washington for 1821. Vol. IV-.....---- 1 00
499. Proceedings Biological Society of Washington for 1880-1882. Vol. I..--. 1 00
500. Couxs, E.,and Prentiss, D. W.—Avifauna Columbiana. Birds of District

of Columbiay Ball NYIMEAIN O26 yee eee wae ea 75
501. Transactions Anthropological Society of Washington for 187982. Vol.I. 1 00
502. Transactions Anthropological Society of Washington, abstract 1879-’80.... 1 00
503. Bulletin Philosophical Society of Washington for 1882. Vol. V..-.------ 1 00
504. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XXV.......--.-.---------- 5 50
505. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XXVI..--- ee ene toe ae
506. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Wol. XXVIL....-...--..-------.- 4 00
508, GoopE, G. B.—Bibliography of Spencer F. Baird. Bull. N. M., No. 20... 1 06

>
LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 953:

No. Price
509. Rau, C.—Prehistoric fishing in Europe and America.-........--..-----... $6 00
510. GoopE, G. B.—Report of Assistant Director of National Museum for 1881. 20
511. Goons, G. B., and others.—Catalogue, London Fisheries Exhibition. Bull.

ING M., sft oe hea eee GREENE (he OO Ae ne 3 00
514. Botton, H. C—Catalogue of scientific periodicals. ...........----.--...-- 3 00
515. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1881................... 50
SI YARROWs eC. Check=list of reptiles|!.. 22502 een ete e se eee ce sees 10
518. Proceedings U. S. National Museum for 1882. Vol. V.....--.-------.--- 2 00
520. Barrp, S. F.—Report of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1882 .. . 10
524. Goon, G. B.—Report of Assistant Director of National Museum for 1882. 20
525. HOLDEN, KE. §.—Report on astronomy for 1882..--..- BAS zB 10
526. Hunt, T. S.—Report on geology for 1881 and PBI: LAGOS We tits tale 2x 10
527. GREEN, F. M.—Report on geography for 1881 and 1382..-.-....--..----.-- 10
528: ABBE. C.—heporuonimeteorolory fon lSs22.--. -o-s-- --e eo. -e ae ee eee 25
beds DARKER Gk heporsonl physics for dees soos ase ce eae aoe ee toe tae. 10
530: BoLron, H. C.—Report on chemistry for 1882 -.-.-.--2. 2222-22. ses ee 10
531. DANA, E.S. —- Report on mineralogy tor 1682 32422526 eae see ccs sos see 10
532. FaRLow, W.G.— Report on botany for 1882! saree sels eee es 10
533. GILL, T.--Report on’zodlogy forilSS2e ese Be asian ai tee ele aera 25
534, Mason, O. T.—Report on anthropology for 1882 .... ...--..----..--------- 10
535. MASON, O. ‘’.—Miscellaneons anthropological papers for 1882 -...---.---- 20
537. KENGLA, L. P.—Archeological map of District of Columbia...-.-......-- 05
538. Guyot, A.—Meteorological and physical tables ....-.......---..----.---- 3 00
539. FLINT, J. M.—Catalogue of materia medica collection. Cir. N.M., No. 19... 10
540. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1882 -.-.---...-....... 50
541. Bairp, 8S. F.—Request for specimens of drugs. Cir. N.M., No. 20 .......-. 02
543. Bulletin Philosophical Society of Washington for 1883. Vol. VI-.....---. 1 00
544. Transactions Anthropological Society of Washington for 1882~83. Vol. Il. 1 00
545. Proceedings Biological Society of Washington for 1882~e4, Vol. II.-..--.. 1 00
547. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XXIV.-.-.-..----......... 6 00
548. Proceedings U.S. National Museum for1883. Vol. VI......---..----..--- 2 00
551. GOODE, G. B.—Catalogue and Synopsis, London Fisheries Exhibition. .... 20
552. RATHBUN, R.—Crustacea, etc., of U.S. at London Fisheries Exhibition. -- 10
553. RipGway, R.—Aquatic and other birds of U. 8. at London Fisheries Exhi-

DUGLOMNs Sos ese Sy aaa itecieis, Sele Sei a cia 61s a cracis cine Sissel ceive sees 10
554. WINSLOW, F'.—Economic Mollusca of U. 8. at London Fisheries Exhibition. 25
555. BRown, J. T.—Whale-fishery and appliances at London Fisheries Exhi-

bition eee ee ee oy crt ae eee tee area ai ciaiey nie aie wtarerola nic = (mvain) SNS haere alate ee 25
556. BEAN, T. H.—Catalogue of fishes of U.S. at London Fisheries Exhibition- 25

597.

560.
561.
562.

563.
564,
565.
566.
567.
568.
569.
572.
574.
575.
576.
577.
578.
579.
580.
581.
a82.
583.
584,
585.
586.
587.
588,

RaTHBUN, R.—Catalogue of collection illustrating research in sea and fresh
water eHuondoniHisheries sh shibiilOM sesso -/5 semis ses ones cscs accece 25
FLINT, J. M.—Report on pharmacopeeias of all nations ---..----.--......- 10
SIMPSON, J. H.—Coronado’s march in search of Cibola......-....-.---.... 05
TrRuE, F. W.—Catalogue of aquatic mammals. London Fisheries Exhi-
DULTOM Pee ees See ciee ee Actes ais Seema ee etauta a cing ec oclee isis macinesremeees 25
RICH eG cology Of Sermud Bice e ends seen 2 (ania! sislq mmm clsiniaeiatelaeinlta a 10
LEFROYdN.—botany of Bermudai.t2 225222526 voccss os cccs os caeeiecates 25
JONESY JaMe—-Mammalsiof Bermuda) ee2ce- ce. 3 sone soce wccces seem ese e 10
REED Vr. bird sof Sern dares sas. satee wine ees cen ae saiee ene ee eee 10
MERRIAMA CMH —--Birdsion Bermild a) aos seme 2 oan sae oon wemies aice moieties 05
GARMAN on epiilesd Of bermuda). ata cine anne \~ scien olan ciel seme seems 05
WEBSEER SESE. Annelida OL BeLMuGdassecicas=--)=55- ceo. ace Soe cece ee aes 10
Rav, C.—Circular relative to aboriginal antiquities. Cir. N. M., No. 21.-.-- 02
HOLDEN, E.S.—Report on astronomy fOVUUSS See ee a setas lee sees eee 10
Hunt, T.S. RepOnt One colony On ecosseee es aaa acne clear area 10
GREEN, F. M.—Report on geography for 1883 ..--..--....---..0-2-+ -e-0-- 10
ABBE, C.—Report on meteorology for 1883 .--.--...----- -------.--------- 25
BARKER, Gane Reporionphysicstormlesa i... jes sean ome ee a wees 10
BOLTON, EC.—Reportion chemistry fonlses)- s2s- 5-5 aces nee bees cone eee 10
Dana, E. S.— Report on mineralogy for 1883 .......-..-----2 0-2-5 s--eee- 10
FARLOW, IWeG.—seponivonsbotanygtorml Coase s-)s255 cetemess aaoeeoeescees 10
GILL, T Report Onizoology TormlSSae 4 stew get caia sae sees tee moees 25
Mason, O. T.—Report on anthropology fOTMSESS. oe ose sane eee 10
Loomis, POE AUITOREUAD OLE aL Sirye ei apm a a aey Na) p are A Oe ee AE Sete 05
PorTER, N. and others.—Addresses and ceremonies, Henry statue... ..--.-. 05
Bairp, 8. F.—Report of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1883-..-- 10
GooDE, G. B.—Report of Assistant Director of National Museum for 1883 - 20

MASON, QO, T.-—Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1883........-... 20
5A LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

. Hornapbay, W. T.—Directions for preserving skins of mammals. Cir. N.

ISIN Dae) Cae ed ee eee Peace eo noecoran ccs Saco reas Sone mess bescsoe $

. Nrpiack, A. P.—Instructious for taking paper molds of inscriptions, &c.
Ging IME SINO 823 oe <5 - bas oa area a ete eee eee a eee eee

2. Bulletin Philosophical Society of Washington for 1884. Vol. VII.....--.-
93. Annual report ot the Smithsonian Institution for 1883 -....--..----..----

. Mirus, C. K.—Mental over-work. Toner lecture N6.9.-.....----.....-----

5. TAYLOR, W..B.—Refraction of sound. .2 56 44502 oe eee eee eee eens
. Howrrn A. S:—Australian-vroup relations): 2. :ses- oe ste es eee eee eee
. Hircucock, R.—Plan of textile exhibit. Cir. N.M., No. 24.............2.

. Merricy, G. P.—Plan of building-stone exhibit. Cir. N.M., No. 25...---.
. CLARKE, F. W.—Plan of gem and precious stone exhibit. Cir. N. M., No. 26-
. FERNALD, C. H.—Directions for collecting moths. Cir. N. M., No. 27 ....-.

)1. THOMAS, C.—Direetions for mound ex <ploration. Cir. N.M., No,28-...-..-
2. ‘TRUE, F. W.—Plan of mammal exhibit. Cir. N.M., No. 29........-25.-...
BE BENDIRE, C. E.—Instructions for collecting eggs. Cir. N.M., No. 30-..----

) DEWEY, B P:—Mineralex hibits) Cin: NSIMENowelee ee eee ee eee eee
. Dorsry, J.O.—Comparative phonology of four Siouan languages ---..---.
. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XXV...-..----.--------..-
. Proceedings U.S. National Museum for 1884, Vol. VIE...- -...----.-- --22-.
. Barrp, 8. F.—Report of Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for 1884... ..

9. HOLDEN, E:. S.—Report on astronomy for 1884 -:---.22.522-. 22-2 foch seen

. Marcou, J. B.—Report on paleontology for 1884 ................--..----
. GREEN, I. M.—Report on geography for 1884 --_.-:-.--2.2--2-2:--2-2----

2. ABBE, C.—Report on meteorology for 1884 .....--..... 22-22. -2-- cones

) DARKER, Gor —Report on physicstor 1884 ee esesee seer e eee een eeee eee
+ BOLTON; H.C:—Report onichemisiry for les4ees sae eee eee

5. DANA, E. S:—heport on mineraloovifor 884 seee sae ee ee- eee eae eee eae

; Rockwoop, C. G.—Report on vuleanology and seismology for 18842 S-eee

i GILL, T.— Report) on) zoology, for 188422 ee es eaten eae ee eee ene

. Mason, O. T.—Report on anthr opology for 1884s~ fo. eee seine ete

O: BRANSFORD, J. F.—Antiquities of Costa Rica ...... et

. Mason, O. T.—Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1664. kk Na
. Beyer, H. G.—Catalogue of materia-medica cojlection, revised. Cir. N.M.

“No. Docc wisiwe Suice wawelcinaleiss Seales See cee eee eee eee ne ee

626. Lucas, F. A.—Notes on the preparation of skeletons.

Cir. N. M. No. 33 -

27. Price-list of Smithsonian Publications. July, 1885 ............---...--.- j
LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

955

INDEX OF AUTHORS IN THE PRECEDING LIST.

A.
No.
Abbe; Coico 398, 484, 528, 577, 612
AD bOth, (CC Saeeese cee scces cise oe 394
INCLAINS, Woe cece atuiec are aioe chete Store aie = 302
AMVexanders Secret eee cee ee 280
ATV ORG, By Soteeen wee soem en 80
B.
iBabinet, Mise ayer ocse cee 377

Bache, A. D. 113, 121, 132, 162, 166, 175, 186
Bailey, Va Witeewe es : 20, 23
Baird, S. F.- Laer 49, 105, 106, 139, 163
164, 181, 185, 210, 234, 319, 348

384, 408, 418, 446, 447, 448, 449

453, 458, 473, 479, 520, 541, 586, 608

Barker, (Gob) sos iss2 esos 485, 529, 578, 613
Barnard) Je Gioceecsce scence csscee 310
Bean’ niet eee cress pease ie cans 464
Becker) Gay Banos sacs sais sae Ss i 308
BendiresC 5 Bees ve ociese eee mee 603
Beyers ies iG: swscies cocis= cine sacra 622
Binney, WeGee.s 2222-56. 142, 143, 144,174
Boeltmer, G. H .--.--. 421, 438, 469, 477, 490
Bolton pHs C2. sense seee 514, 530, 579, 614
Booths Cleese meso oe oe scrsce een 27
BOWEN, Wl Use aioe esseensslooslacisee 98
IBTANSLOLG ome oats oes aes 383, 619
ISTAy CON PARIS nos = clara /csisiec ciciecie 308
Breweries aes on sole yse sec eee 89
IBTeZIN awa semerres Sec coca se eee 386
BLO Waa as Soars orc electra soeres 555
Brown-Sequard, C. E........- sass | 2a)!
C.
Caswell Wares. 2.8 So. nes ee LOSS44S
Chappelsmithydis-n cess so eee: 59

@larks TAS Sigeece 22sec 1s cea 242
Clarke yi eWirssee esse 276, 288, 289, a
@leavelandseieees oes saat 204
Coffin, J. Hen Le pene Le eloT Oe Re eeel
Conrad, AUREL Beenie ee Ns 200
Cope; Hh. D2 espa eses)so45 292, 412, 489
@oues;: is sae east ne esas 293, 500
D.

DanC Osta ss sieeme sees aes ae ate 279
JO FNS anes Bea ooh Sao ope eae eat: 304, 318
Dana, 79 Mie eee oes 531, 580, 615
LD EAU Ciel g Ce tenes Be te ee 33
Dean; diss oatste eee mnsz sess ee 173
Delaunay: | Cees. esse sees nected ae 354
De Salissure web cae esos oes oe 254
ID eyeC0) BAN Hes ers oie rtd a 360
Dewey. vb bse sscceeee ees seo ce Cn OOS
l OTSe yar On serene marmcee ects eas 604
DEapeL iebeepe saacttuomtn nes sees a2.) oO

KE.
No.
Bidwards Age Macs. aan ers sine ee 366
Ngoers HW As se cssteeee ce Laese 313
BW cleston; Wye celeste eee ae cae 156
Biliog,) Dy Gao eee eo a1 SOA
ie
Harlonyign Win Geese ane aoe 430, 486, 532, 581
Mernald), Oxo. oo ees 5h ee a
Ble rrelaG Wega as Boe oe eee 233
Bilin ies ee etaerae 450, 451, 452, 539, a
HOLCO Paste is ese ne setae eaeee eee
G.
Garman, Soe Balalataicrnt lac sniahsie tobe eee 568
Genth, IN AC Sioa. Bl Shanta
Gibbs, CES isan eetsaee 161, 170, 365
Gibbs eWis-sosostsasisescicsese eee 838
Gilbert Cove w2 ste ee ae eee 492
Ga ee eae wiles ese 227, 230, 247, 283, 431
463, 487, 533, 582, 617
Gullisg foe Se yoeite oases eee 100
Gilman Ebsco. 25 s53- se ett 2e a 393
Girard Cistase nes ee eh ome sce ames 49
Goode. Go B e222 22s ane 297 O20 sAls
445, 455, 457, 459, 472, 508
510, 511, 524, 551, 587
EOL REA fee) [ye oe Cy een eae ee 482
Goulds 0B Aveta oct cee stcsrsee 223
Green, PH . Mi oe past jsoeecue 527, 576, G11
Gy Ol, Ales sarses «sete foe 148, 538
H.
arene aes o ye aoe eee 134
Haldeman Sao eeesess letine setae 404
HMardishy, GWerlkicsossmet secs cse ons 365
Hare ps Sees seca als scene eee 17
apkired so Wiseacece ae te oe esisinene 239
Harvey, Wie Hib toe. sack eee ces 95

Henry, Joseph .-- -.65, 73, 85, 115, 117, 137
168, 176, 178, 179, 182, 190, 205
216, 235, 236, 237, 343, 379, 406

En dmeth je Sigbe ace nies Bee ecco eee 120
Jaber GS I ID doce so 6beede de deneae 390
TET eee eats te es ap 101
Hitchcock Bis sce eee sees eee. 90
1B DN AE) eK Ol eal hy ee oh Se Ss oe 597
Holden, E. 8-311, 427, 438, 483, 525, 574, 609
Holmoren hectic eto nate 399
IFOrMad ay.\ Wise e cece oss =a 456, 589
EVO Warde ib). C222 Su Reese eras 347
IO wittwAS)./2.2 2). 20 cee ccocan eee OOO
unt; IiS os nieeeaieeneces 376, 526, 575
J.
VOW Obi Cn Gee ee cae cere 25, 47
ONES CC ccc. sas came are clanenernte 400
956 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.
No. No.
JONOS; Wise ace ace eee eee wa cinse 82/259 Pickering |Cos-- eee e seeeee eee 208
JONES DM eke eee seen kee se A95; 565) ||| Porter Nesco==- eee een eens 585
JONES See ste eae mremeiee See 365 Prentiss, Di Wc: week oa 500
JON anwD Sesser sere cece 305,;306;,308; 4923) prime) Aloe ceee eee eee eee eee 145
IRumpelly Rite asee ee ese eee 202
K.
Kane} Baker se sects ces 97, 129, 130 R.
Keen, W. W .-----2--+2-----+---0. 10s Rathbun eee ese e eee 465, 552, 557
Kengla, L. P.....--- +--+ +--+ -----; a 23! | Rau, C ........-.287, 331, 362, 370, 372, 382
Kidder debs cst tcosec sae eeeaes 293, 294 » E nMAMSRER 402. 403. 440. 509. 572
7 7 fl > ’ ’ 5 >
[ECT Sila Bop Soahie asec oeecrocs 415 | puiad SG 566
- 5 mae td Si Gy asain eet sate ne ee
PON oo tnn eno clnser Coase S42: | Rhea NiCd eae ee 238, 328, 330, 473
it Rice; WieiNi cee veo ser saeues Cece mee 563
; Ridgway, Wt.sse oe. oeriee ee 422, 462, 553
Mapham gh... cees eee eee ZO Rockwood: (Cl Gass secs sees ses 616
ivaubenbachw Bakes seen eeeeeee AV) Roshrig i hl. Oteesce se soso eee 378
dbawrence, 'G. Nie ecsiecestc sense 295 | (Romer) Foy 2282 oasce selene 392
Moe Conterds lasses eeeeee 126; 140) A675.264) Rossy eeeseseeee eee neerniaeeree 365
Melroy; JaNcsoeacot eae eee ee eee 564) |) Runkle, Disses mcceceececeeeee ee 79, 94
Meld yy; Ieseesa sce see ences 41, 58, 72, 192
WGOWAS iJ Gos caae hei e case ee seeee 363 S.
Lieber, Pe asacleisiacsiencieesn sean 12
MOO W HEL aura ek ee 2 Seeks oe ee ee 141, 256 | Schott, C. A..-... 222, 277, 353, 374, 387, 414
TiOOMIS, $B oea- sence ee oe eee 127,584: | Scudder, Sie eee ieee 189, 470
Loud, Pah coos, 0508, coc aden ce eee ey Mb AOD NP SOC CIT ge Awe a pene eneete eee ee oe ee eet 36
Toueas PR SeA: So. hele woe eee eae 626)| Shakespéare) KH. Oe222 22-6 oe seeene 321
Simpsons oho ess ace eee eee 561
M. Smith Ney eee saa eee 131
Marooned: Benes ty tere ad 610 Smithson, James.-.-..--.. See visi 327
M: Sonntag, A Dede Sasa oe esas 114
BVOUPASM cA e a eice Cc eee ee cree OT eee anal
7; i = Aequieruh), G? eens e.acce eee aree 15
McClintock, | hel Drape tees eames Se ies 146 Stimpson, W 50, 201
MoParliny i: Ase) eles 306! |: Siame cont ie oie On 539
Mason, O.T - -397, 420. 433, 481, 488, 534, 535 ear tees Aoehvacs can
; ; Streets; Ee ce eee eee eee eee 303
583, 588, 618, 620, 621 | Gumichrast. F 295
Meochsls Wis en cben ne eee eta mens BS) | Grantee Lovenpes eieter denis va 967
Meek he fae eee ee see nee 177, 183 Park acy AS ia ca ks ke aE
Melsheimers bb \ees cass aseccR sees 62 T.
Merriam, »C. Je AA Sees acer ene e oe 567
Merrill Gabi cs aoe ee eee 5987 |) RaylonaWebieeeseeee 339, 375, 395, 405, a
Mills, GK iL Stee 9 ee ete E594 Phonan @ 6s le 4) ee ee
MitchelliSe Witness eee ee eee eee 159): Morrey. Jie .ce0 ee See ee eee 46, 60, él
Morehouse, GEORGE. SAS MEE Yess ae 159) Erne SW chee ace ae eee actos 562, 602
Morfits! Ce seas en te es ee 27
Morcan Shih. eseceece oe coe 138
Coa ede mea. ee Be) Ne
Morris 231G2 sok) 2 28 see ee ee 1185133 1 WardSik Flt. oeceee eee ee 444, 460, 461
Muller, Baron von: 2225222520200 c8 114 | WatsoneO assoc ea cee es eee 258
Wiebster, He Bee sescmes toe ooeaeeee 569
N. ‘Weismann, Alea coe. cote etme Bs
Newcomb Sette He SA se ALL Bb AX ‘ ‘ Welling, AJ C wn te eee cee nee eee
NP ay on SoMa ani ye mibidiaree Maik mee NO Cie ER pe
MAN Well) acess obdoo acne canes 352
O Whittlesey, Ca a2sc oe eeee oe eee 119, 197
: Winslow; Hose cceeeee ee ener ee 554
Osten-Sacken, R ..-.-......2. 1415 219.070| Wood, l. @s25 a5 eee ee 241, 282, 357
WO0did cece coee sete eee eaee 120
P. Woodward, Feel ape ae eI oink LT 266
Rackard svat Succcececijcene. eee 261 Y
Peabody ;/A. Ps .2..- eee ee 380 ‘
Phillips, Bh s.22 es ee 454 | Yarrow, Hi; © wi... cc esitees ce cnesne 49a) be
LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 95%

CLASSIFIED LIST.
ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, MEDICINE, AND SURGERY.

No. in

Catalogue. Price.
ApDAmMs.—Sub-cutaneous surgery. Toner lecture No. 6.......--..----- 302 $0 25
BATRD:——Request LOr/SpeCimens Or (LUGS 5-45. 7 eases eee oe ee 541 02
BEYER.—Catalogue of materia-medica collection, revised-...--..----- 622 1U
BROWN-SEQUARD.—Dual character of the brain. Toner lecture No. 2.. 291 25
Da Costa.—Strain and over-action of the heart. Toner lecture No. 3. 279 25
DEAN.—Gray substance of the Medulla oblongata. (S. C.)* ..-.--.. an 2 50
FLINT.—Catalogue of materia-medica collection. ..-.......-------.--- 539 10
FLin?T.—Classification of drugs and medicines..---...-.-..---------- 451 02
FLInT.—Classification of materia-medica collection....--.......-..-. 450 02
FLint.—Memoranda for collectors of drugs.......--...---..----.---- 452 02
FLINT.—Report on pharmacopeeias of all nations -........-.....----. 560 10
HOLMGREN.— Color-blindness in relation to accidents...-.-..--..----. 399 10
JONES.—Chemical and physiological investigations. Vertebrata.

(SEC ees aioe ae ee denen ove ne OR URN MES oS Loe eade sdoa ne as 82 1 50
KEEN.—Surgical complications of fevers. Toner lecture No.5 ...-.-. 300 25
LAUTENBACH.—Effect of irritation of a polarized nerve ............-- 411 25
MILLS.—Mental overwork. Toner lecture No. 9...--......-..-.-...--- 594 25
MITCHELL and MOREHOUSE.—Anatomy and Physiology of Chelonia.

(SR OS) Bae swine cores bolts ai ce auiren pie as ae cicecles leak Le eas 159 100
SHAKESPEARE.—Reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligatures,

SCH LONerpecturetNO nde case nee aes ae see as ene tan ee AE 321 25
WEISMANN.—Change of Mexican axolotl to amblystoma ..--...-.--.-- 401 05
Woop—Morbid and normal physiology of fever. (S. C.)..-.--- poe ere 357 2 50
Woop.—Nature and mechanism of fever. Toner lecture No. 4 -..---- 282 25
W OooDWARD.—Structure of cancerous tumors. Toner lecture No.1... 266 25

ANTHROPOLOGY. (See also PHILOLOGY.)
ABBOT: —Stonelage InNe ws JOMSCyi crm sens cle ani Se oie cee wine 394 25
B@HMER.—Index to Smithsonian anthropological publications ..--.. - 421 10
BRANSRORD-——Antiguities Of Costa RiCaieases-)o- 6s nce seen «cess 619 10
BRANSFORD.—Archeological researches in Nicaragua. (S.C.).-.---- 383 2 00
Cop —Westilindia bone=-caver ,(SaC a iteesemesaeesacas eee. ce ecencces 489 2 00
DaLu.—Remains of later prehistoric man from Alaska caves..-......- 318 2 00
Drsor.—Palafittes of the Lake of Neuchatel...............-....----- 360 10
GIBBS, HARDISTY, JONES, Ross.—Tinneh or Chepewyan Indians..--.. 365 10
GILLMAN.—Mound-builders and platycnemism in Michigan.-.........- 393 20
GCorn—Cuckahoe or Indiansbread 2s cces eae. ence cijceces se cecee se 482 05
HALDEMAN.—Poly chrome bead from Florida..............-.....----- 404 05
Henrky.—Circular relating to archeology and ethnology .......-.----- 205 02
HENRY.—List of photographic portraits of North American Indians... 216 10
HOWLETT: — Australian oroup-relatlonssesn seas cca see nc coels oe gaceces 596 05
JONES.—Aboriginal structures in Georgia-- .....--...-./..+. ---- -<s-s 400 05
JONES.—Aboriginal remains of "Tennessee. (S. C.) .....-.--..------- 259 3 00
KENGLA.—Archeological map of District of Columbia. ..........---.- 587 05
KNIGHT.—Savage weapons at the Philadelphia Exhibition -.......--. 415 25
DAPHAM.—Antigquities of Wisconsin. (S.'C.) -.-2.2.2-2. 222. 222. 22-- 70 =©10 00
Mason.—Latimer collection of antiquities from Porto Rico. ...--.---- 397 05
Mason-—Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1879 ..........---- 420 10
Mason.—Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1881.............-. 481 10
Mason.—Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1882 ........---.-- 535 20
Mason.—Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1883.........----.- 588 20
Mason.—Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1884...........--.- 620 10
Mason.—Report on anthropology for 1881 ..................--.------ 488 10
Mason.—Report on anthropology for 1882 ........-....... ----.--0-- 534 10
Mason.—Report on anthropology for 1883 ...........----..---- 02+ 583 10
Mason.—Report on anthropology for 1884..................-...----- 618 10

* * Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, quarto.
958 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

Catalogue. Price.

No. in
MorGAN.—Cireular relative to relationship...-...........-----.-.-.-. 138
NIBLACK.—Instructions for taking paper molds of inseriptions, &e ... 590
PICKERING.—Gliddon mummy case:: (8. @>)-- 22-32 oo ee - eee a ae eee 208
Ravu.—Ancient aboriginal trade in North America..........-..----.-- 385
Ravu.—Archeeological collection of the U.S. National Museum. (S.C.) 287
Ravu.—Articles on anthropological subjects. (From Reports 8. I.).--. 440
Rav.—Artificial shell-deposits in New Jersey --....---..-.-+--------- 362
Rau.—Circular relative to aboriginal antiquities. .........--..-.. ---- 572
Ravu.—f lint implements found in Illinois .:..--.. .--...--...-.--.---- 370
RAUE——Drillins-in stone without metaleess sess. ah aaa ete eee cena. 372
Rau.—Gold ornament from mound in Florida ..-...---.-----..------- 403
Ravu.— North American stone implements <2.2 2.55 -.22-- <2-2-- 22-2 -5-- 382
KAU: ——Palenque tablets! (SiC eas creat sea ee eer een a rete 331
Ravu.—Prehistoric fishing in Europe and America. (8. C.) ------.----- 509
Ravu.—Stock in trade of an aboriginal lapidary -......-..------------ 402
RomeER.—Pre-historic antiquities of Hungary... --...-----.--------- 392
Srimpson.—Coronado’s march in search of Cibola .....----.----------- 561
Squizr.—Aboriginal monuments of the State of New York. (S.C.) -- 15
Swan.—Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte’s Islands. (S. C.) -.----- 267
Transactions of Anthropological Society of Washington, for 1879-82.
Wolo Ses Sees Saleen) cee ork eee eg ee ee 501
Transavtions of Anthropological Society of Washington, abstract
1ST 9 = BOF ee a Dae en re ce Ee ear eee eee 502
Transactions of Anthropological Society of Washington, 1882~83.
VOL i 2 fie 3 erecta secret SoTL Be ce ae a ee ener 544
THomas.—Directions for mound exploration ...-....-..--..---------- 601
ASTRONOMY.
ALEXANDER.—Harmonies of the solar system. (S. C.)....-..-...----- 280
DrapEeR.—Construction of a silvered-glass telescope. (S. C.) -..----- 180
GILLISs.—Total eclipse of the sun, Peru, Sept. 7,1858. (S. C.) -.----- 100
GouLD.—Transatlantie longitude, (S. C.).2.--25-22-22 ces peneselen. eee
HitLt:-—Map of solar eclipserof Marely 15) 18585 -5----- --= saeo ee eae 101
HOLDEN and B&HMER.—Report of observatories for 1880..........---- 438
HOLDEN.—Index catalogue of books relating to Nebule -...--.--.-.--- 311
HOoLpEN.—Report on astronomy for 1879 and 1880 .....-..-.......---- 427
HOLDEN.—Report on astronomy for 1881 .......-.. .......-.---...---4 483
HOLDEN.—Report on astronomy for 1882 ..............-..-.----- ees 525
HOLDEN.—Report on astronomy for 1883........-- Leet az, ce cee 574
HOLDEN.—Report on astronomy for 1884..........-...-- se haere aed 609
KanE.—Astrononical observations in Arctic seas. (S.C.) -.-..-.----- 129
NEWCOMB.—Integrals of planetary motion. (S.C.) ...--...----.----- 281
NEW.COMB:--OrbitiotNephumen (S41 Oa) ae a eee eee nee 199
NEwComMB:—Orbit‘of Uranus: “(85 G.)iecs eo cet ce ee eee eee eee 262
LUNKLE.—New tables of planetary motion. (S. C.) .......----.----- 79
RUNKLE.—Asteroid supplement to new tables .............--.-------- 94
STOCKWELL.—Seenlar variations of elements of the orbits of planets.
(Ss Cue aoe Se tase Sere icle saeeieeneee cS MR ana Sg Re 232
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
BINNEY.—Bibliography of North American conchology, Part I..-.---. 142
BINNEY.—Bibliography of North American conchology, Part II.....-. 17
Bo.Lton.—Catalogue of scientific periodicals _............--.----.---- 514
GILL.—Bibliography of fishes of Pacific coast......=.-.-.----------<- 463
GoopE.—Bibliography of Spencer F. Baird .........--...-.:--------- 508
Denry.—Catalogue of publications in S. I. Library, 1858 ........-.--- 117
HENRy.—Catalogue of publications in S. I. Library, 1866.........-.-.. 179
Hrennry.—Publications of societies in 8.1. Library, 1854, Part I ...--... 73
Henry.—Publications of societies in 8. I. Library, 1856, Part II .-.... 35
HoLDEN.—Index catalogue of books and memoirs on Nebule..-..---- 311
JEWETT.—Construction of catalogues of libraries .........-...--..--- 47
JEWETT.—Notices of public libraries in the United States .........--- 25
List of principal literary and scientific institutions in the United States. 335
RHEES.—Catalogue and index of Smithsonian publications, 184682... 478
RHEES.—List of institutions, libraries, colleges) @ ei sec see + 238
258

Watson.—Bibliographical index to North American botany ...-..----
LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

BIOGRAPHY.

Joo

No. in
Catalogue. Price.

HENRY.—Eulogy on Alexander Dallas Bache --.--....--..-----..---.--
Henry, memorial of (by numerous contributors)....-....--. ----------
MAYinR =H eniyas aise OVierel an. = Sl sei se. eae ele eek eee a aah ee enc
PORTER and others.—Addresses, Henry statue....-....-...-.---+----.
RennS:——smithsonandshis bequests.) Ws. Ses2 eee 2 en ee ee oe
TayLor.—Memoir of Joseph Henry, a sketch of his scientific work. --
WELLING.— Life and character of Joseph Henry...--..----. .----.----

BOTANY.

EGGERS.—Flora of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands...--...----..----
FAaRLOW.—Report on botany for 1879380 --... ...--....---------- ----
HAREOW.—heponionspoLatyg torical) oss jesse steele eee aelane ate ciae
ARLOW.—ireporton botany for 1882) 22222 8 oe ose saeieee se ecleses
HARLOW. ie porbionbotan yor eca, ssa iets ssa - oe eee seas aoe
Gorn —Muckahoesorllmdianybreadee soe. is sate see eens eee Sacer
GuYOT and HENRY.—Register of periodical phenomena ...--.---.-----
HaRrvEY.—North American marine Algze, Part III. Chlorospermee.

(S53) C25) Bae es oe wae Ie al aiinrs, Nes wrseniadvae We ithe eit ect teia ial ere ayaa
MRR ON: =— bOban yi OLsb CrMUG asa cie ere t= eee se seis oe ais resent e cis
MORE Xe 1s abl S WAAL GI as ge OS uO) heen che ae a ais clos Sina siete) si siaere meio
TORREY.—Darlingtonia Californica. (8. C.)-...-...--.--..-----------
ToRREY.—Plantx Frémontiane. (SACO ee ae aerate lor SSeS aes
Warv.—Check-list of plants of Washington. .-....--..----...--------
WarpD.—Directions for collecting and preserving plants ........-.----
WarpD.—Guide to the flora of Washington SP lien See Se TRE ea ae
Watson.—Bibliographical index to North American botany .-----.----
Woop.—Fresh-water Algz of North America. (S8.C.).--...-----.-----

CHEMISTRY AND TECHNOLOGY.

Barrp.—Cirecular in reference to building-stone collection, U.S. Nat.

MEU Be eye stare) See Yate acy tee eit eae erate raion se ae acne = Savein= have (p wtnelerats
BARKER. heporti on chemistry tories 25 a2 252225 sane seen == so =
BECKER: — Atom] ChWweLOhtS) eee ce eee ene ie, Soa s aanalaaini ees
Bowron:——-keport on chemistry tor L882 seas. seem. 2 2 === ene =
BOLTON: —heport Onichemistny OD oee. see sie aa esis eins nie Soa
BOLTON-—Report on ‘chemistry for 1884 ©. 2... 2-2. --2-5- 2-22-22 4--==-
Booty and Morrir.—Recent improvements in chemical arts... .-----
Crarkn—— lables of expansion by heatces see oes so 2st einen iai=)s oe
CLARKE.—Specific gravity tables, lst supplement to Partilaves 2 ona
CLARKE.—Table of “specific MGA Gee Soe een ne aaah ws sob te ei eeeiel este
FLINT.—Report on pharmacopeias of all nations -..-...-----.--------
GIBBS and GENTH.—Researches on the ammonia cobalt bases. (S.C.)-
HARE Exp losiveness Of miter: (U.iCs)bsee ces scee ost ese eee acces
Er OHCOCK——blamlot ce xtllevexdlbit) = sepa eee sean ja eee ee eales see
una © hemistrycoiunevearbhioues 2255 seme Mace ohe os toe ie eee noe elete
JONES.—Chemical and physiological investigations of vertebrata.

(CSI BPA) RSE es ULE SS oe el ie eR et ae ae ky eee
MERRILL.—Plan of building-stone exhibit.--.-....-.---.-.-..--------
Morin.— Warming and ventilating occupied buildings --.--..---------
See eet ee writings SOP AE Seas ce Se ae ER aEE eae en eee rrT

ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM.

BacHE.—Magnetic observations, Philadelphia, 1840-45. Part I.
BaGHE.—Magnetie observations, Philadelphia, 1640745.” Part I
BACH, Magnetic observations, Philadelphia, 1840245, Part’ TI
baci. Stagackic inervations, hiladsiphiy 18402%%, Past TV i

379

113
121
132
162

$0

05
50
25
05
00
50

25

25
25
960 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

No. in

Catalogue. Price.

BacuE.—Magnetic observations, Philadelphia, 1840-45. Part VII to

JOG SE Ci) 6 465 4635850 baa cesdeoeseicoas 52 sce dtoesosesedsasotssatss4 175
BacuE.—Magnetic observations, Philadelphia, 1840~45. Part X to

OU (GS) C. N ele teiere eiococe slays ioveveie aa /alalote aya fay asta tare p= fa Senne See ae ee 186
BacHE.—Magnetic survey of Pennsylvania. (8. C.)...--..-.---..---- 166
GouLp.—Transatlantic longitude (by electro-magnetic signals). (S.C.). 223
HarkKNESS.—Observations on terrestrial magnetism. (S. C.).....---. 239
HENRY.—Communication on the electro-magnetic telegraph...-....-- 115
KaNE.—Magnetical observations in the Arctic Seas. (S8.C.)...-.----- Si
MULLER.—Terrestrial magnetism in Mexico. (S.C.)..-...-----..---- 114
SEccHI.—Researches on electrical rheometry. (S. C.)---..---.-..---- 36
TAYLOR.—History of Henry’s contribution to the telegraph. -.....----- 405

ETHNOLOGY. (See ANTHROPOLOGY and PHILOLOGY.)

GEOGRAPHY.
GREEN.—Report on geography for 1881 and 1882........-....-..-.-.-- 527
GREEN.—Report on georraphy tor Lesa yao. ees sense ae eee ne 576
GREEN:— Report on geooraphy ior 1684222. ss eee ee eee eee eee 611

GEOLOGY. (See also PALZONTOLOGY.)

BARNARD.—Internal structure of the earth. (S.C.).....--..--..-.... 310
Hitcucock.—Llustrations of surface geology. (S. C.).---..--------- 90
HuouNr.—Chemistry of the earth -22--es-.-peeeaee eee eee eee eee eee 376
Hunt.—Report on geology for 1881 and 1882........-.........--.---- 526
Hund: Reportion ceolosy, tor 1883-2 eee eeee eee eee eee eee 575
PUMPELLY.—Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan.

AO) Fissaie ciao Se SSE cia 5 ct Sa Ricotta 5 Coe rN ret aor ee ranys eae aS 202
RICE. — Geology of (Bermuda... 2. sense sees eee ee eaeis scores 563
WHITTLESEY.—Fresh-water glacial drift of the Northwestern States.

(SACD) REE se ee oe eas ee oe cenners Lisstale afeia ajaieyaeemenala Sieeisel os eiate eters 197

HYDROGRAPHY. (See TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS.)

MAGNETISM. (See ELECTRICITY.)

MATHEMATICS.
ALVORD.—Tangencies of circles and spheres. (S. C.)..---.----.----- 80
FERREL.—Converging series, ratio between diameter and circumfer-
ONGO.) 10S: Cl) 25s oe ciate tintnjo a lataiee er ee ere a et el ee re 233
NEWCOMB.—General integrals of planetary motion. (S. C.)........-. 281
MEDICINE. (See ANATOMY, &c.)
METEOROLOGY.
ABBE.— Meteorological memoirs by Colding, Ferrel, Hann, Peslin,

Reye;Sobnekes soe oc so steeds oni nies sarsice eeete see oe ee eee 398
ABBE.—Report on meteorology for 1879 to 1881.........-....---.---- 484
ABBE.—Report on meteorology, tor) IS82222 4a eee eee ee 528
ABBE: —Reéeporb onimetecrolocy tor lees esses seen e eee eee eee eee 577
ABBE.—Report on meteorology fOr 1884 ooo soe Oe Ey ee eee 612
CASWELL.—Meteorological observations, Providence, R. L., 1831~60.

(SUC ae eee eyes zee as 103
CASWELL. —Meteorological “observ: ations, Providence, R. 72 "183176.

(Si Gain dice wc DE AUs spice tar iene Beas ks 0 sce a Nee a 443
CHAPPELSMITH.—Account of tornado, New Harmony, Ind. (S.C. 59
CLE oye .—Meteorological observations, Brunswick, Me., 180759.

ce 26) alesis Ma tayasceat es gen NUS Laie Sparano ea aL RG nA ag a 204

$1 00

Sk
— a

I

LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

961

Catalogue. Price.

H. Mis. 15 —— 61

No. in
Corrin:—Psychrometrical’ tables=22 222222 52 - = seces er ele-in--* --- >= 87
Corrin.—Winds of the northern hemisphere. (S.C.) ..---.---------- 52
Forcr.—Auroras in higher northern latitudes. (8. C.) ..--.----..--. 84
Guyror and Henry.—Directions for meteorological observations ..-.-. 148
Guyor.—-Meteorological and physical tables......-.....-------.---.- 588
Henry.—Directions for constructing hghtning-rods.... -...---------- 237
HENrY.—Circular to officers of the Hudson’s B ay Company -.-.--.-.-.- 137
HeNryY.—Instructions for observations of thunder-storms. --..-... --- 235
“Hrenry.—Results of meteorological observations, 1854~59. Vol. ie
HuNRY.—Queries relative to tornadoes —22 5-55.55. 522 (else ken cee es 190
HENRY.—Registry of periodical phenomena..--.........----..---.---- 65
HILDRETH and Woop.—Observations, Marietta, Ohio, 181723, 1826~59. Boi

Ss, Co) eae as eer yee NCR Lele ee ae Co eatin eee aie y
HOWARD: Nomenclature of Clouds): soci. anes yoc ease cee cease 347
Loomis.—Aurora borealis .-...--.---- 2 Shs MDGS
Loomis.—Storms in Europe and America, December, 1836. é Cc. Ne Beat LAY)
Loup.—Discussion of Snell’s barometric observations ....-....--.---- 485
McCLINTOCcK.—Meteorological observations in Arctic seas. (8. C.).-. 146
McPARLIN.—History and climate of New Mexico. ......-.-..--------- 396

. Mercu.—Relative intensity of heat and light of the sun. (S.C.)-...-- 83
ScHorr.—Base chart of the United States-..-..-.......-.-.-.-------. 414
ScuorT.—Rain-charts for summer, winter, and the year..--..-- Pe CL
ScHuotTr.—Tables and.results: Rain and snow in the U.S. (S. C. ye 222
ScHoTr.—Tables and results: Rain and snowinthe U.S. (8.C.) _ Re-

MISC GKECUGIOM Man eae ere sete Nala ee cine a aeisas Seman acin es OLS ale 303
SCHOTT.—Tables of temperature in the U.S. (S. C.)...........----- 277
ScuoTr.—Temperature charts of U.S. for summer, winter, andthe year. 387
Scuotr.—Temperature chart of United States for the Var ssisio ks 381
SmMiTH.—Meteorological observations, Washington, Arkansas, 1840-59.

CSuICS) ees ete erence a aliataroatas een Se UA SS elas 131

MICROSCOPY.
BaiLEY.—Microscopical observations, So. Car., Ga., and Fla. (8S. C.)- 23
BatLry.—Microscopical examination of soundings. (Si Ciy ees tenes 20
DrEAN.—Gray substance of the Medulla oblongata. (Sep) )enseeuesesse | LG)
EDWARDs.—Directions for collecting Dintomaccn ee ace eet 366
MINERALOGY.
BABINET.—Diamonds and other precious stones -...--.-..------------ 377
BairD.—Circular relating to petroleum collections, National Museum. 447
BREZINA.—Principles of crystallography and crystallophysics .......- 386
CLARKE.—Plan of gem and precious stone exhibit..-.-.......-.---... 599
Dana.—Report on mineralogy for 1882.-...-.....--.----------.------ 531
Dana.—Report on mineralogy for 1883--..--.....-.------------------- 580
Dana.—Report on mineralogy for 1884......-......-..--..------.---: 615
EGLEsTon.—Catalogue of minerals, with their formulas............-. 156
MISCELLANEOUS.
Act to establish the Smithsonian Institution .............-.-.-.---.--- 391
Batrp.—Museum miscellanea, numbers, labels, &c....--------------- 164
BoruMER.—Additions to list of foreign correspondents Of Seles eta oO
BoOEHMER.—History of Smithsonian exchanges. a A edie tuatbe kt ep aD eaten AGG)
BoEHMER.—List of foreign correspondents GE Ge le Gab eh See EO
Business arrangements of Smithsonian Institution ........-----.----- 325
Circular relative to COE NINERS es Eg A ee EE Nas DV i a ease aa eens a et Sas
HENRyY.—Circular relative to |e ey Cel aASA O e  ooe eee end Se eran ae 14)
Mason.—Report on Luray Cavern in Virginia in 1880 ............---- 433
PraBopy.—Scientific education of mechanics and artizans . BSH erste 0)
PORTER and others.—Addresses and ceremonies Henry Statue .......- 585
Rures.—Catalogue and index of Smithsonian publications, 1846-62... 478

ee
or >
ooo
962 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

No. in
Catalogue. Price.
328 $5 00
238 25

RHEES.—Documents relative to history of Smithsonian Institution. --
RHEES.—List of institutions, libraries, colleges, &c -.-.....-.-...-..-
See also Proceedings of societies.
See also Reports of Smithsonian Institution.

NATURAL HISTORY. (See ANATOMY, BOTANY, MICROSCOPY,

PALAONTOLOGY, and ZOOLOGY.)

PALAONTOLOGY.
ConrapD.—Check-list of Eocene and Oligocene fossils of N. A .-......
Copr.—West India, bone-cave -. 222-22 -. csicese oa cease esseee ea
Lurpy.—Ancient fauna of Nebraska 222 e-sen sees esee eee eee
Lr1py.—Cretaceous reptiles of the U.S. (S. C.).....--..-.--..-.---
LrEIpy.—Extinct sloth tribe of North America. (S. C.) ..--..--------
LrmDy.—Ixtinct species of American ox. (S. C.) .---.- Akai apace he
Marcou.—Report on Paleontology for 1884....-.......---.--..------
MrEK.—Check-list of Cretaceous and Jurassic fossils of N. A..-.-...---
MrEEK.—Check-list of Miocene fossils of N. A...---..----..--.--------
PHILOLOGY.

BowrNn.—Grammar and dictionary of the Yoruba language. (S. C.)--
DorsEY.—Comparative phonology of four Siouan languages. ---. ---- -
Grses:— Dictionary of Chinook janconpse-pee es see ae eee eee ae

Ginns!— Comparative vocabulary, 05... nen en oasseeene eer
LIEBER.—Vocal sounds of Laura Bridgman. (8S. C.) .--..-----.------
Reuric.—Language of the Dakota or r Sionx Indians... 62.000. eee
WHITNEY. —Leétures On ding nistic Science cee e a aeee eee aoe

PHYSICS. (See also TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS.)

BARKER: —Report on Physics, for 1880s seo. tose sae anes
BaRKER.—Report on Physics, for 1882....--..---. Datei aot eae eee ae
BaRKER.—Report on Physics, for 1883........-.-.-------------------
BARKER.— Report on Physics, tor! 18S4 ses esas a eee aera eer
BREZINA.—Principles of crystallography and cry es
CoFrFIn.—Winds of the Northern Hemisphere. (S. C Ue eelsemtercnt's
DELAUNAY.—Essay on the velocity of light.......-......-.-.--------
DRAPER.—Construction of silvered-glass telescope. (8. C.) ..--------
GOULD.—Transatlantic longitude. uy OF POE aineranen unpre tele guiite na
Guyot.—Physical and meteorological tables tp Meneses teas ater Mam ons
HeNRY.—Commuunication on the ‘electro-magnetic telecraph 2 i=-)2--
HEenry.—Directions for constructing lightning-rods.-...---..---------
Hunry..—Researches/on sound). 22 2) 2 2 2 ee eee ete
MerECcH.— Relative intensity of heat and light of the sun. (8S. C.) .---.
ScHoTr.—Base chart of the United States.--..: ...-...----.+--22-----
SECCHI.—Researches in electrical rheometry. (S. C.)-..--.----------
TayLor.—History of Henry’s contribution to the telegraph - .

TayLor.—Kinetic theories of OTAVUGATLONG 42158 eee ee as eee cerns
TayYLor.—Nature and origin of POT CO ee OU aR ee ee
TAYLOR.—Refraction of sound UPLATE DAT AY Mu Mee aE TT WeekAt Taes Cb Bc cemenrers

(See also Bulletins Philosophical Society of Washington.)
PHYSIOLOGY. (See ANATOMY, &e.)
SEISMOLOGY. (See TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS.)
SURGERY. (See ANATOMY.)
TECHNOLOGY. (See CHEMISTRY, &c.)

bm 29 C1 S20

or
LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

965

TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS. (See also ELECTRICITY, GEOLOGY,

METEOROLOGY, and PHYSICS.)

Catalogue. Price.

No. in
Davis.—Law of deposit of the flood tide. (S.C.) ------------------- 33
HILGARD.—Tides and tidal action in harbors.-..-..---. .------------.- 390
KaNnE.—Tidal observations in the Arctic Seas. (S8.C.) -.------------- 130
Rockwoop.—Report on vulcanology and seismology for 1884 -..-.---- 616
WHITTLESEY.—F luctuations of level in the N. A. lakes. (S.C.).---- 119
VULCANOLOGY. (See TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS.)
ZOOLOGY.
GENERAL.

BairD.—Directions for collecting specimens natural history ..-. ------ 34
@orE:—Zoolocicali position) Of Mexas o--2— eee == see eae a etl 412
Giit.—Report on zoology for 1879 and 1880..-... .----. ---.. ---.---- 431
Ginn:—Report on) zoology for 1682-222. - 2 22-2 22 = @ 22 ee = = 487
Gine.—Report on) zoology for 18822_--.- .2-2-- ---- 222 -= = = = 533
Gine.—Report on zoology for 1883222222 s--.-2- --- =< = 582
GILL.—Report on zoology for 1884........----..---.-----..---------- 617

GoopE.—Catalogue of collection, animal resources, Philadelphia Exhi-
CERT ee ee ee eee ee oie DOR ae Se ae SEEM Wee once a 326
Goopr.—Catalogue of collection, Berlin Fisheries Exhibit ......--... 418
Goopr —Catalogue and synopsis of London Fisheries Exhibition .---. sol
GoopE.—Classitication of animal resources of the United States. ----- 297
GOODE and others.—Catalogue, London Fisheries Exhibition......-.- 511
JONEs and others.—Natural history of Bermuda.......--..----------- 495
KIDDER and others.—Natural history of Kerguelen Island. Part Il. 294
KUMLIEN.—Natural history of Arctic America ............---.------- 342
ScuppER.—Nomenclature Zoologicus. Index of genera.--.----.----- 5 470
SrrREETs.—Natural history of Hawaiian and Fanning Islands....----. 303

See also Bulletins National Museum.
See also Proceedings National Museum.
See also Proceedings of societies.

ZOOLOGY.
SPECIAL.
Annelids.
WEBSTER. Anne lidavoh BOLMmUuaa secs sea) n ce oa selec canis eas 569
Birds.

Barrp.—Arrangement of families of birds .......-....--------------- 210
BairRD.—Catalogue of North American birds in Museum, 1857 -....-.-. 106
Bairp.—Desiderata of birdsof Mexico, Central America, &c....--.-- 185
BairRD.—Instructions for collecting nests and eggs.--.-...---.-----.-- 139
BArkD:—- Review, on American birds!) Part) L222 2222 - os < ses) sec8 = 181
BENDIRE.—Insiructions for collecting eggs ..-...----.--------------- 603
BREWER.—North American odlogy. Part-I. (S. C.)-...-------.----- 89
Cours and PRENTIss.—Avifauna Coijumbiana. Birds of Dist. of Col.. 500
ELLioT.—List of described species of humming-birds ....-..----.---- 33
ELLiotr.—Classification and synopsis of Trochilide. (S.C.).-..-----. 317
HEeNRyY.—Circular relative to birds of South America......-.....---- 168
KippDER and Covugrs.—Natural history of Kerguelen Island. I. Orni-

thology tsesse ne Seema ese cee eta res oe aes SEO Ss Sie! Unie 293
KipDER and others.—Natural history of Kerguelen Island. II.

OGlOog y, nee eee ee er ees oeeh ce se sreeteteciale eee ce cteeiciccia/abiecie 294
LAWRENCE and SUMICHRAST.—Birds of Mexico...--...-..---.------- 295
MERRIE; —BirdsiOfeBermild aces! sacs nee esee scisc= ee cciecce ss cicis = 567
REID: —birdspoimbermudwerecee 2 oe eres see cia ee se ok oe ee mseccce 566
RipGway.—Aquatic and other birds of U. S. at London Fisheries

J Boo DRRO NT Bees See Sc a 4S oe SEE beS HOSS SESE Ua CmIne Hoe eee maser 553

me LO
Catalogue. Price.

64 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.
No. in
RipGway.—Nomenclature of North American birds.......-.-....---- 422

See also Bulletins National Museum.

See also Proceedings National Museum.

See also Proceedings of societies.

Fishes.

Bairp.—Circular in reference to shipping fresh fish .........--..----. 384
BairRD.—Questions relative to food fishes of the U. S-..---.-.--...-.. 234
Barirp.—Report on fishes of New Jersey coast .......----- ~---------. 348
BEAN.—Catalogue of fishes of U. S. at London Fisheries Exhibition -. 556
BEAN.—Directions for collecting and preserving fish....-...---..----- 464
Brown.—Whale-fishery and appliances at London Fish. Exhib...---- 555
GiLL.—Arrangement of families of fishes -.....--...-.-...---....---- 247
GILL.—Bibliography of fishes of Pacific coast...-.......----.---.----- 463
GILL.—Catalogue of fishes east coast North America......--..------.- 283
GoopE.—Catalogue of collection Berlin Fisheries Exhibit ........---- 413
Goopr.—Catalogue of animal resources, Philadelphia Exhibition .... 326
Goopr.—Catalogue of collection and synopsis London Fisheries Exhi-

WU GLOM, Soe aia oe sininis (oo Syevatave how Sta Sie Se elatoie eee aie fae lais SE ee ono 551
GoopE.—Catalogue of fishes of Bermuda .-.-.....-...-..-------.---- 296
GOoDE and others.—Catalogue London Fisheries Exhibition ---....... 511
JORDAN and BRAyTON.—N. A. Ichthyology, III. Fishes of Allegheny

POPION aanke se se =m ain ace ae eee ele a eee eee 308
JORDAN.—N. A. Ichthyology, Dl. Cottid@ 22 222 2s aa eee seen eee eee 306
JORDAN.—N. A. Ichthyology, I. Rafinesque’s North American fishes.. 305
JORDAN and GILBERT.—Synopsis of fishes of North America .........- 492
RAaTHBUN.—Catalogue of collection illustrating research in sea and

fresh waters. London Fisheries Exhibition..--..-.--.....--....--- 557

Insects.

BatrD.—Circular on history of N. Am. grasshoppers --...----.-------- 163
Barrp.—Circular relating to department of insects, National Museum. 448
Dr SAUSSURE.—Synopsis of American wasps .....--..--------------- 254
FERNALD.—Directions for collecting moths. ..............---..------- 600
HAGEN.—Synopsis of Neuroptera of North America-...:.......-------- 134
HENRY.—Cireular to entomologists=24-... 6 ote oe aoe nee 178
LE ConTE.—Coleoptera of Kansas and eastern New Mexico. (S.C.)-. 126
LE ConTE.—List of coleoptera of North America. PartI ........... 140
LE CONTE.—New species of North American coleoptera. PartI...... 167
LE CONTE.—New species of North American coleoptera. Part II -..-.- 264
LOEW and OsTEN SACKEN.—Monographs of diptera of North America.

Part ioe see Ca seen Soy io ane hci yet pr a ee ee 141
LorEw.—Monographs of diptera of North America. Part III .....--.. 256
MELSHEIMER.—Catalogue of coleoptera of North America .........-.. 62
Morris.—Catalogue of lepidoptera of North America......---.---.-- 118
MorRIs.—Synopsis of lepidoptera of North America .......--.------- 133
OSTEN SACKEN.—Monographs of diptera of North America. PartIV. 219
OSTEN SACKEN.—Catalogue of diptera of North America..-.-.-....---- 270
PACKARD.— Directions for collecting and preserving insects of .-...--. 261
ScuDDER.—Catalogue of orthoptera of North America.........------- 189

Mammals.
Bartrp.—Catalogue of North American mammals in Museum..-....-.-. 105
BROWN.—Whale-fishery and appliances at London Fisheries Exhibition 555
GILL —Arrangement of the families of mammals .......-.-.---------- 230
Gooprn.—Catalogue of collection, animal resources, Philadelphia Exhi-

LSo1 Ke) | eee eet Seo S sennn Ae RO taney mane) No AT ee ao Bere
HornabDay.—Directions for preserving skins of mammals ..--...----- 589
JONES.—Moemmals of Bermuda 25. 6-5-0. 6 ue oe ee ee es
TRUE.—Catalogue of aquatic mammals, London Fisheries Exhibition. 562
TRUE: —Plan. of mamma) @xhibitc-: Soca ee nae ee eee ee 602
: Mollusks.

BINNEY.—Bibliography of North American Conchology. PartI...... 142
3INNEY —Bibliography of North American Conchology. Part II..... 174

$0 25
LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 965

No. in
See Price.

Binney.—Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part II-- 143 = $2_:«:00

BINNEY.—Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part III.- 144 2 00

Hrnry.— Circular relative to collecting shells -..-.-.-....--.----.... 176 02

DAT: Incdexotmprachiopod an: sce aise celseeies Neco eee amen ee aee ea < 304 50

List of duplicate shells of Wilkes Exploring Expedition..---....--.-- 193 02

GILL.— Arrangement of families of mollusks. - scsass Bey 25

LEewis.—Instructions for collecting land and fresh-water shells......- 363 05

PrRIME.—Monograph of American corbiculad®........2.....---- Leiess 145 75

STIMPSON.—Researches upon the hydrobiinw......-......---..2-..--- 201 50

WinsLow.—Economic Mollusca of U. S.at London Fisheries Exhibition 554 25

Radiates.

Batrp.—Circular relative to craw-fish and fresh-water crustacea ..... 319 02
GLARK.— —Anatomy and physiology of tucernarie. (S. C.) ..---....--.. 242 5 00
; RaTHBUN.—Crustacea, etc., of U. S. at London Fisheries Exhibition... 552 10
| Ratapun.— List of marine invertebrates distributed. Series II ...... 465 02

STIMPSON.—Synopsis of marine invertebrataof Grand Manan. (S.C.)- 50 1 00

Reptiles.

Baird and GIRARD.—Catalogue of North American serpents in Museum. 49 1 00

Copr.—Check List North American Batrachia and Reptilia........... 292 50

GARMAN— hep tilesion BermMnudaace cer a oan see ce eeecs Ss )s 5 oe obser 568 05

MITCHELL and MOREHOUSE.—Anatomy and physiology of chelonia.

(SC ESE Caer ee cen eae eee abe wee 5 hee ee dE ou scasise we 159 1 00
WEISMANN.— Change of Mexican axolotl to amblystoma --.---....... 401 05
WaArrow-— Gheck-hstiot reptiles 3 = tue se ee ne eee es 517 10
YaRRow— North American Reptilia and Batrachia --................. 493 50

Shells. (See Mollusks.)
966 ‘AST

OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE.

Vol Rea Date. | Contents. (Nos. of Smithsonian series. ) Price.
I 2 1848 | Los So Sete gee ness Oeae sees Bea eee Out of print.
II 26 1851 »).3;4) 51657, Ve 3s 14 om Ghle 20s. Do.
Til 38 1852) 225245 295 3032, a0500.50, 5 (use eeh eee eee Do.
IV 39 1852), Ow o52 5 ce ether es ene ye aa ee ees Do.
Vv 55 1853 | 41, 42, 43, 44, 45-_. CA Science eee OHeaee Do.
VI 56 1854 | 46, 50, 52, 54. 58, 60, (Gb on 22 Sedeaiaat oe $12 00
VII 76 1855 59, O33 LOS TONS See see set ss an er ees ces 12 00
Vill 78 1856 71,80, 81, 82, 84, 85 -..- bond) See EL ose ae 12 00
IX 92 TES 7 ih TOSESSORSE GO NGA ee ule aie Deas eee ey ere 12 00
x 99 18587) 955. O75 Vere aayae See re cm ene et tape enna Out of print
xI 111 1859) | 29, LOO MOS IS. ae 7 eee eee seinen Do.
XII 112 LSOO 7 LOS AO MLO Se syne eae ee eee Do.
XIII 151 1863 | 121, 130, 132, 146, 155, 159, 162, 166 - ...- --.- Do.
XIV 184 a belaryaizpeyal Lees y Roti ey Ie ae ee le oa 12 00
XV 206 1867 196, 197, 199 202 eee oan ataeice s eeeere Out of aes
XVI 211 1870 | 120, 173, 204, 208, 220221) O23 eaeeieeses ceee 12 00
XVII 229 POZA OMG is ene ee aie eer eae eras SP els men a eaaD 12 00
XVIII 246 Lys NPB yaa Rest le See ag S45 Sonbecatenode 12 00
xIX 272 1874 | 240, 241, 262. UE os kpMasnae emer csi ese mee 12 00
XX 284 1876) 2682 sachs ee sabre GS ee ree ee eek 10 00
XXI 285 Moya we irm rein els Hell eve toe ee ae Soe coke sooce 10 00
XX 340 1880 259, 269, 987, 318, 331. RY EEE = LER eee 12 00
XXIII 346 1881 242, 248 SLO SIE Sore sos a ase eee ae ee 12 00
XXIV 547 LESS |; S5SNAAS Se Se Bey eae ee eee ee tae 6 00
XXV 606 1BBD | SBS) ABOU SOG SS: See eee ee eee ee emcee ast 12 00
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS.
Vol. No. ins, Date. | Contents. (Nos. of Smithsonian series.) Price:
|
I 122 Ns) o4s Btevigu @ oh BRIS S SE Soe eco om aauocoasoacadosoce Out of print.
Il 123 1862 | 27, 34, 49, 53, 108, 115, 128, 137, 138, 139, 163,
fs a ICR Se ONENESS es 1 Do.
Ill 124 Alte ta4 hea Koes hy eR BI seas on osmoobcobooGee dace Do.
IV 125 1862 || 133, dled es). Soe eee aceeec ese eee eee Do.
V 158 1864274) 142, 154-3. so osas aaentn se Soe aeee eee Do.
VI | 169 18673); 140 4a VIG 7 Fle ee ee eee eee Do.
Vil 191 1867 | 143, 144, 145, 156, 160, 161, 165, 177, 183, 200,
201 203255052 sere et See pees Sonne Do.
VIll 212 1869 | 157, 164, 168, 178, 189, 194, 205, 207, 210, 219... Do.
1D:o) Teale: helo Jolie We: Wel Vt ee ee Ss SRO oot Snags cues Do.
Xx 250 1873 | 190, 227, 231, 234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 243, 245,
252, 20d) 2 HS cis sree tes nee CUE ears Sie Do.
XI 273 1874 230, 247, 256,261 2645 200 ce oe cee Sees eee Do.
XII 274 1874 || 1815 255, ' 2632.0 oo eee een enters $5 00
XIII 312 1878 | 292, 293, 294, 295, 296, 297, 303, 304, 305, 306- 5 50
XIV 314 1878 216, 254, 276, eines Heth OU Si ee eee soos 5 50
XV | 315 1878 | 258, 266, 279, 282 291, 300, 302, 309, 316, 319,
| SOO os uc. tue aise Came ee nana | 5 00
XVI 322 18€0 | 253, 270, 321, 324, 325, 334, ese O44 ees shee 5 00
XVII 336 1880 | 328.- BS sae nee ic Sekar! 5 00
XVIII 337 1880 | 329...- aie 5 00
xXIx 416 1880) 3332) S3RS Se se Soe eee eee, coer 4 50
xX 423 IKotey Mis ta: SS doe genet etre Arte Cee ye RN i ee 4 00
XXxI ABA) LBB1 307.330; 308s ooo) Gob ae eee ee eee 4 00
XXII 468 1882 | 425, 445-459, 462, 464, 465, 467, 471-474... -.. 4 50
XXIII AT 1SE2 HSU TSIS 7320154204 Gaeta eer eee ee ener = 4 50
XXIV | 496 1883 | 492.. Sees tae WSS es oe eee 3 00
XXV 504 | 1883 | 498, 499, 501, 502) 503. Rann noes hue oe papas 5 50
XXVI 905 | 1883 ; 319, 469, 490, SOR BRE SSeS OR eee ert 4 50
KXVILY | 506) |v 18e8 || S58) 457 aada7e-4B0 yale ee 4 00

LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.

|
No. of |No. in8. Year. Contents. (Nos. of Smithsonian series.)

report | series. |

1 Gap retenenl Ae Bali se eee Ee ee wate ae oo» J
2 H TIES Ds 9) fe) Dh ae Re Pe eee oe adn (aoa Ro TORRES
3 Hel SAC Erde ace see eee kale a ai ate te eee naar eo are
4 21 TOA OR OO eee se, ceeen Sanaa ne ciays clr, fae) ain ee amie en ees reise ah
2D 28 TSSOP PC Se 2 Se ee Ee ee eR ee ee et Saha a eee eee
6 51 TS '551 [| 5s ee Pe ASE ae Me rte ate Seta tee, see
7 57 TES ASW AS Rees OAR ey escheat rae OE Oe ey ah REN Reet pA CN A
8 7 1853 1G, H, 1,8, 0, 81, 28,81, 37, 69 Bp Dee Aes ay htt ay RL
9 75 1854 348 Be eaten pa wiaterteicic.c Sen Seana aye nia ek tleetata a wipe ntatenets
10 ai 1 ESTs Si ail Ko) Seay eS AS ee te ie en Oa de a eka
11 91 PESOP NAA ae aS 2S Sa tee ee eee ese ae ne en
12 107 SS ae Wilien tes had Rees See ee Sats Eee ee he eee
13 109 PSHS RE SONOS oe Se cee een oye nat Wence tine nN) «Savarese
14 110 ASSO aM Cees, ae i PAL ST GN By LEE (6 Bivins ts eae
15 147 TESCO G | aS OUe eee Eee ate ed Cee TS De a
16 PAOD OSGI LG Ose oa a eyoneis sisi clams sisrsie oeiwereais s sisi ee eae
ivi ES CO Vie eS SE Os roe ee eneli alee A Cris, mete se a urate oe
18 187 1863 | 352, 361 - - Ee eres Merete on etree fen Pee ee wees
19 188 1864 354, ; 355, 361, RSROR YL ae UU ARGee Uae ie LOG ane
20 209 1865 360, BOSS TL SBAT eee Vee Ieee Ba ee
Pat 214 1866 SGA ESE meh bia fans baad «Naina A eva
22 215 LEGG RSOCROO memos stein ae ticlee selene ee Se on see wees
23 224 ISESRoueeonetotoete ee ke eee ees ce Se ee ame o ee snes
24 228 SHO AOI S TGs Holes eects see tet hee ee
25 244 IBY AUS PAVE BY pei isc oCee See Ee OTe aac oeme rae
26 249 1871 we ISU AU Pek ORs Bene tn Rend ee nw et A ks OE
| egal icy Onl als UR ley yates tied Ce Sere ae eau et ar ea
28 Tyee Ni fess OL arise y oR WV TEN GU a ck
29 286 LSTA OOO ARO Me emus wae Sect cise ela ede. cyale eto ae
30 298 1 STD E SOo OO se OOM tes seein ce See om ee areeal ae
31 299 PSTCR SOT SOON IO tO (ecm tee ees oe cis eae eee ene eee
32 323 1877 | 396, 398, 399, 400, 401, 402, 403, 404 - Saks coceee
33 341 1878 | 405, 406, 407, 408, 41 1 Rohe Soe Dr ay Ua Bk Suan
34 345 1879 330, 409, 410, 415, 418, 420, 4 Pl eRe em Ne ene A ens

35 442 1880 389, 419, 426, 427, 4 28, 429, 430, 431, 432, 435, 434,
435, 436, 4 38 NE Se br ay 8 le aioe 2 Tis JEN E ook hy Se uO ac

36 515 1881 | 491, Aaa Ze 479, 481, 452, 423, 484, 485, 486, 487, 485,
LOTEE ager See fee enn mms TEED a)

37 540 1882 | 520, 524, 525, 526, 527, 528, 529, 530, 531 5 Joe, woos
534, 535 Be el CRE ee eet en ae

38 593 | 1883 | 574,575, 576,577, 578, 579, 580, 581, 582, 583, 585,
SSO DE CsOeS OU OMeARs foe Se. ee eee eae be ee ee

_ 39 623 | 1884 | 608, 609, 610, 611, 612, 613, 614, 615, 616, 617, 618,
(227 i RN eal aC TR POR IRD TOA WPL R 8

* Out of print. + In press.

PROCEEDINGS OF SOCIETIES.

No.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON.

‘LraNnsacolons ee Violle lee) GO! See we sere ore telnet aioe eiiaereeians 501

Abstrachot mransachions 10r L879 80 ek on sess cso tiadeces Janene 502

EDEATISACHLONS HEM VO LALO Oo ae soot ee pactetas ia ie ee er eeleer 544
BIOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON.

IPTOCCEGIN GA MV Ol MYT SSO CO eee ie la Ae ie ie eye ie es ere eyo 499

Proceedings. Vol. IL, SER OAR ee ke Wise oS Soe mete te Sete ee eer 545
PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON.

Bullotineeyolsateliie 1S tomesl sees sons. oclee See ee euce 497

Bulletin. Vol. IV, for 1881 BS TA aR af tase fetes eye ate nd Ma 498

BOLE Ge VOLE SLOT LOS aie eye a nai cto sec ok eam Res Teo taek re Ho 502

BLS TIME VOL RVIE SOLA OSS icc meiner Sutera ue ang eek 1 Aa A ae ay Ba)

dBxut ll Kevan SANK ON IS WANA Eaton Al ete ys NA es ame Na am EL pata ae aQ2

Tf
* pet pt

oN
*
I Vw

*

ee eR

(ao)
*
Se

(t)

oo
oo

2)
i=)
968 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

REPORTS ON RECENT PROGRESS IN SCIENCE.

ANTHROPOLOGY.—O. T. Mason. .
Homl879 andstS80. ae woo co crs ceca ee eee ee ee te ee
Hor 188) ses SoS eee Soo toe cceee cee Eee eee eee eee meee
Poril8s2 32326225 Se eRe etna a ete Bi, rr Sos eg
1003 gil to! ar eam an ea ee Sree et ee EE Re tN key
1 E005 shal Kote: Rin eee Seep nea ey EAN US yr ede eA el

ASTRONOMY.—E. S. pees
For 1879 and: 18805 soos) cho PES eee ees ee eee a ape eee

Botrany.—W. G. Farlow.
Hor 1879 ana BBO ss csicsce see oe sce ee eee Meee ee ees nee

POT: 1883 “swersiss sckioica ma sinicieis ste ee pe ocle cieaietc esticiet tae SIS ct ae eee
CHEMISTRY.—G. F. Barker.

Ror. 1879 and 1880) saws ss cue acres slots are inreree) oe ie eee ae ere nae

Fores) 2.2225 cccsas cos scaue onelesiee Selene Oe eee ee

Bor 1884) 3 ..cce cee Seo pe See ee ee ae Ss ee ese ea eas
GEOGRAPHY.—F. M. Green.

Por 1861. and 1882.52 je ciscdien serene sees see ee eee eee

Mor 1883\; cic isa cioeeis eee eioet ee eee a ee eee ee nee ee eee

Por 188433 scone aes ae sel sae gee mentee eee See Ce Pen C Ree ee ee
GEOLOGY.—G. W. Hawes.

For 1879/and 1880 sc si. ve-s cece a eee ro ee ee eae eee onions
GroLocy.—T.S. Hunt.

Hor 1881 ‘and 18822 fee cack os oes eis eee ee ee eee

For 1883 ...- EceSL BOSE Hate hiaie eel te ee ee a
METEOROLOGY. RG! Abbe. _

Ror; 1879 toleBl on. oe ibe sees ce tome See ee ee eee

BOR PSSA oy os eR RRS a Pe ane oe tPA LR OR
MINERALOGY.—G. W. Hawes.

KOT 1879 andes ees oa lee eae ee ee ea ae He ae een CE
MINERALOGY.—E. S. Dana.

Or TS82 is oS eae ee SC crore, See oy are ee te a ee

Mor S84 iso OS SS Se By i tee eee ae ee Se EES Ae
PALZONTOLOGY.—J. B. Marcou.

Por 1884 qe 6.5 So5e eS sah <a ee ea nee ee
Puysics.—G. F. Barker.

For 1879 and. A880 55 ccc tee wt ee CS ee aa een

Por LSSL oo sect yee ee oe a ae

Horlees eee 2 kee ees Jeeta eee et eee Ree Bee ee ae

Dope Thetey Ms ee PRE ae AEE
VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. ar Ss. ‘Rockwood.

For 1881 we Se Oe Bsc apete crane Me ter fotees ois ate ne ea

* Ont of print.

No.
LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.
TONER LECTURES.

(For advance of Medical Science.)

No. in
Catalogue.
No. 1. Structure of cancerous tumors. J, J. Woodward-...-.----.--.-- 266
No. 2. Dual character of the brain. C. E. Brown-Sequard..-.-...----- 291
No. 3. Strain and over-action of the heart. J. M. Da Costa.-....-.---.. 219
No. 4. Nature and mechanism of fever. Horatio C. Wood....-------- 282
No. 5. Surgical complications of fevers. William W. Keen...-....---. 300 —
No. 6. Subcutaneous surgery. William Adams..-.......-....---.-.--. 302
No. 7. Reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligature. Edward O.
Shakesnenneresmssrescets eat alee ieee ef ee anatase area sapere 321
No. 8. Sanitary drainage of Washington. George E. Waring, jr.----- 349
No. 9.Mental overwork. Charles K. Mills......2..-2. 222.22 2cee-eee- 594

96

Price.

LIST OF BOOKS FOR COLLECTORS AND EXPLORERS.

No.

34. Directions for collecting, preserving, &c., specimens natural history --..-
139. Directions for collecting, preserving , &e., nests and OPUS ee aee cas see seers
261. Directions for collecting, preserving, &e. PPINSECHS see ese eeeise cee ee ata
460. Directions for collecting, preserving, &c., plunts .-----.-----.+---.------
366. Directions for collecting, preserving, &c., diatoms..---.-.----..----------
363. Directions for collecting, preserving, &c., , land and fresh water shells ..-.
319. Directions for collecting, preserving, &c., crawfish and crustacea .......-.
384. Directions for shipping SErCISL A HTS] cl dN Opa ea ag CT ESE er
AGA DirectionsHtoncolleching wisn ee msec er nai sea eleliaasieee alee ieee
205. Directions for collecting archeological specimens.-..-.-...--.--..--------
572. Directions for collecting aboriginal antiquities .........--..--.-...--..--
148. Directions for meteorological observations........-..----- So00 cocaONoRbaS

Hiss @heck- list, reptiles) andebatrachianses sree eso ls aa onl ol scbslaieicins elie ==)
164. Museum miscellanea, series of numbers, &c ..--..--....----.----.-------
589. Directions for removing and preserving skins of mammals ..--...-..---.--
590. Instructions for taking paper molds of inscriptions in stone, wood, &c....
600. Directions for collecting tortricids and small moths...-...-.....--...-----
6015 Directions formound explorations 2-4. 425- <2 s- ase - cto< ce se Saisel= eo
603s instricuonspon collecting Ores -ase seas] oe 252 een oa eas) eel) eeieeeee
626. Notes on the preparation of'skeletons ~-.. ..2--. ---5-. 2.5 cece ooo 5 eo -e--

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OF THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

[NoTE.—Published under the direction of the ‘‘Secretary of the Interior,” YEE es

ton, to whom all applications for them should be addressed. ]

Smithsonian
number.
1. Bulletin No. 1. Cope. Check list N. A. Batrachia and Reptilia -.....---. 292
2. Bulletin No.2. KidderandCoues. Natural History Kerguelen Island. Pt.1. 293
3. BulletinNo.3. Kidderandothers. Natural History KerguelenIsland. Pt.2. 294
4. Bulletin No. 4. Lawrence and Sumichrast. Birds of Mexico. -.-.......--- 295
5. Bulletin No.5. Goode. Catalogue of fishes of Bermuda........---..----- 296
6. Bulletin No. 6. Goode. Classification of animal resources of the U. S. 297
7. Bulletin No.7. Streets. Natural History Hawaiian and Fanning Islands. 303
Se oBullenmuNowes Dalle index of Brachiopoday..o-s25-> oesee ee secc ec cision 304
9. Bulletin No.9. Jordan. N. A. Ichthyology. I. Rafinesque, North Ameri-
CADATI NOS» gonad ace Sega He eon Conbee CS oeuE oH BEa oi oe Gnb ano er ciao mosocsoder 305
10. Bulletin No. 10. Jordan. N.A.Ichthyology. II. Cottidw..:........-.... 306
11. Bulletin No. 11. Gill. Bibliography of fishes of Pacific Coast -..----.-..- 463
12. Bulletin No. 12. Jordan and Brayton. N. A. Ichthyology. III. Fishes,
Alles hamyire ri ONmei eae ean eee seen ee mae oe nee ne ne lea eel eens 308
13. Bulletin No. 13. Eggers. Flora of St. Croix and Virgin Islands.......-.. 313
14. Bulletin No. 14. Goode. Catalogue of collection, Philadelphia Exhibition. 326
15. Bulletin No. 15. Kumlien. Natural History of Arctic America.......- 342
16. Bulletin No. 16. Jordan and Gilbert. Synopsis of fishes of North America. 492
17. Proceedings National Museum for 1878. Vol. I-......-....--..-----...--. 332

* Out of print.
970 LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

Smithsonian

+ number.
; bulletins:National Museum. | Nos: lator 10s) iVolo ste seu nae e see eae 513
. Proceedings National Museum for 1879. Vol. IL-....- Ee ee es ae fs 333
. Bulletin No. 17. Cope. Zeolovical position of Texas... .. 22.22) .52.2- 412

. Bulletin No. 18. Goode. Cxatalogue of collection, Berlin Fisheries Exhibit. 413

22. Bulletin No. 19. Scudder. Nomenclature Zoologicus. Index of genera... 470
23: Bulletin No: 20: (Goode.| | Bibliocraphyset Sab. Baird!) -2-p-- sees sneer 508
24. Bulletin No. 21. Ridgway. Nomenclature North American birds......... 422
25. Proceedings National Museum for 1880. Vol. III.--...............--..... 425
26. Bulletin No. 22. Ward. Guide to the flora of Washington, D. C ......---. 444
27. Proceedings National Museum for 1881. Vol. IV .........---.---..----. -- 467
28. Bulletins National Museum? | Nos.Ultoli5s,) Violy ie. =) sees 519
29: Bulletin No. -23)2) Pisce ec Nes nS aie ere ocr pea ee ea ae r
30. Bulletin No. 24. Yarrow. North American Reptilia and Batrachia......-.. 495
31. Bulletin No. 25. Jones and others. Natural History of Bermuda .....----- 495
32. Bulletin No. 26. Couesand Prentiss. AvifaunaColumbiana. Birds of Dis-

trict: Columbia sys) Uh ok eee meee eee eee re pe ee ee 500
33. Bulietin No.27. Goode and others. Catalogue, London Fisheries Exhibition. 511
34: Proceedings National Musenm tor [eden Viole Vio seen eee oe oe econo 518
3p. Bulletins National Museum. NoiiGi y Vole lla sesne ee seee wie slateia/s soles :
36. Proceedings National Museum for 1883. Vol. VI ....-..---- .-.------- se. 548
37. Proceedings National Museum for 1884. Vol. VII .......-.............--. 607

BULLETINS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

: g fe) g }
Sen es See ee
dey @. cr 2 Loe) he P=
Sieh dh see ae yal BLM desta lah eae :
No. aS ao Qa Price. No. ay An m2 Price.
8 AS aa 8 a2 ee
: = 3
E Z zo E Z A
1 1875 1 292 $0 50 15 1879 15 342 $0 50
2 1575 2 293 50 16 1882 16 492 2 50
3 1876 3 294 50 lye 18280 20 412 50
4 1875 4 295 50 18 1880 21 413 50
5 1876 5 296 50 19 1882 22 470 3 00
6 1876 6 297 50 20 1284 23 508 1 00
‘a 1877 7 303 50 21 1881 24 422 25
8 1877 8 304 50 22 1881 29 444 50
9 1877 9 305 50 Ov eee sce cal) meee oe | ne ~
10 1877 10 306 50 24 1883 30 493 50
11 1882 li 463 50 25 1884 31 495 1 00
12 1878 12 308 50 26 1884 32 500 75
13 1879 13 313 50 oa 1885 33 511 3 00
14 1879 14 326 50
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
g } g }
s | 2g s | 3¢
D ~ 0 D # oO
F Ss @ ‘Se As = ‘SH
Volume.| & ae & & Price. ||\Volume. & ao a 2 | Price.
Ba 32 |) 68 ae AS | 28
6 S a 5 3 38
etal ee iz [Peay coped ia Z
I 1878 17 332 $2 00 V 1882 34 518 $2 00
II 1879 19 300 2 00 VI 1883 36 548 2 00
Ill 1820 25 425 2 00 VII | 1884 oT 607 2 00
IV 1881 Dar fel 467 2 00 |
| | |

* Tn press.
a

number.
1. Plan of organization and regulations. G. Brown Goode .-.---.--- 445
2. To “ friends of the Museum.” Spencer F. Baird .....-...--.-..-.- 446
- 3. Petroleum collections. Spencer F. Baird ......-.--..---.--.-..-- 447
4. Departmeni of insects. Spencer F. Baird...--.........----....--- 448
5. Establishment and officers. Spencer F. Baird........---.---.---- 449
6. Classification of materia-medica collection. James M. Flint...--. 450
7. Classification of drugs and medicines. James M. Flint.........-. 451
8. Memoranda for collectors of drugs. James M. Flint.....-....---. 452
9. Building-stone collection. Spencer F. Baird..----.-.--.----.---- 453
10. Letters on work of the Museum. Barnet Phillips --.--...---..-.-.. 454
11. Provisional classification of food collection. G. Brown Goode.... 455
12. Classification of taxidermist’s collection. W.T.Hornaday....--.. 456
13. Scheme of Museum classification. G. Brown Goode...-....-..--- 457
14. Requesting material for the library. Spencer F. Baird -.......-.. 458
15. Organization and objects of the Museum. G. Brown Goode ..--... 459
16. Plans for installation of the collections. G. Brown Goode..-.....-. A72
17. Acknowledgment of contributions. Spencer F. Baird -..---...-.-.- 473
18. List of publications of the Museum, 1875-1831 ..---.-.--...-----.- 474
19. Catalogue of materia-medica collection. James M. Flint.-....--. 539
20. Request for specimens of drugs. Spencer F. Baird........-..-.-- 541
21. Instructions for collections of aboriginal antiquities. CharlesRau- 572
22. Directions for preserving skins of mammals. W. T. Hornaday.... 589
23. Instructions for taking paper molds of inscriptions, &c. A.P.
INTIDIEYS Kiss Soeeiso Suen Boeke Sear Rarene peoe Ges poe Eeecels See OOO
24. Plan of textile exhibit at New Orleans Exposition. R. Hitchcock. 597
25. Plan for collection of building stones and rocks at New Orleans Ex-
joOsino@m, (Ga JP Miler 5255 Gece ced scouste soos voce cose samece oees 598
26. Plan for collection of gems and precious stones at New Orleans
IDpyNOMHOM, LN, WWoWIRWKS oo san Goose e sec cco poSape cucu secnod cBae 599
27. Directions for collecting moths. C. H. Fernald ..--...--.....--.. 600
28. Directions for mound exploration. Cyrus Thomas.----..-..-....-- 601
29. Plan for collection of mammals at New Orleans Exposition. F.W.
ANUS Beeb eG eeoetoropoeoooos ee a SO RO SCR IOM CIO A IGE AE eree 602
30. Instructions for collecting eggs. C. I. Bendire ...-...---...---.. 603
31. Plan for exhibit of mineral resources at New Orleans Exposition,
Prederrek ha Deweyewaca- sce aa SOS et en Ole 604
32. Catalogue of materia-medica collection, revised. H.G. Beyer-.-... 622
33. Notes on the preparation of skeletons. IF. A. Lucas ..-..-.-..---- 626

LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

CIRCULARS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
e

971

Smithsonian Bree!

$0 05
INDEX.

A.

Page.

Abadiano, Eufemio, deposit of casts and antiquities made by. .----.-------- 33
Act of Congress relating to exchange of Government documents. -..-..------ 20
Acting Secretary of Institution, appointment of...._....--..----..----.---- XII, XIII
NciSsiandehesolublons Ot CONSTOSS emanate ears eee ae oe ale) elateale alien 335
INRA. COREL) DOMAINS TO oa eases -oeHSelsocc Boebas coaeoe poco coe sees] Saad 71
INTRON, GEOMATICS) (ROR 45 sSqqnoosee DoBAee Ron 6 ose4 BEB SBEoeTCEeerA moe ae cea. = 66, 67
Agricultural Department, collection of American woods received from .----. 27
collection of mounted birds received from. ......-.--.----------.----.----- 35
collectionsottexthl enivensrO Mp eme ete a= aes eee ee a erate eee 30
JNM oe Wile, COO TEEN TOMO = Son chooses sb 5o0 bee eee cobeos SaUOI cea eda Bead = 69
“Albatross,” Fish-Commission steamer, collections by .--------------------- 35, 37, 39
@ngqulonanvgrs, Nyy ocdco cabs ceeeasce COOadS Secon OeEs S450 GoueSS Ecee IBeCnE Bass 8, 45, 46
Alcoholic specimens, building required for .---...----..-..----------------- 7
Algeria, correspondents in... --- -- J3dG BOSSE UOBEOSS PATO SE RO Se CE RECECEDbor 71
CEO ND TIVGRS) TNR. aoe sobs ca base Gabe bs SOEO OBES COOSCU BEE eae BEDoee aeEg esaeicaec 66
Atlas Steamship Company, acknowledgment to ....--...----.-------------- 19
Ailey, ibe. ei Wes WIS [Divoccs eoanades dono S665 Hoesen SeSenO BoOCOORb Ie coae 44
Alicemeines Deutsches) Vereins;Handbuch ccs. s=- -s2-2-5--- sees = eee = 70
JN Ais, Moy, COO DOLENIOL) COLE oe seg bGonns Bade Hoocon Cheam Sade CDOS coaceuicHens 69
INTO. COTM MOIS 33356 ocean peoood deeede Hoosen Uae He Sccu a oeseecasc 66, 67
AMerica sNOLbhsCORrespondents ie pease) seaee = in aes a= o « elmi=l= oln)m'=ime) === 74
ANCA, SOUT, COREE) KONE WN 555 cash oneoee eS aaee Ho SUSE ouIsseossaca=ac 80
American Colonization Society, acknowledgment to ..---..----------------- 19
American Fisheries Society, meetings of .......--..------------------------ 28
American Institute of Mining Engineers, collection presented by ---- ------- 45
/mnein@nin Ibn elk, tama Ole 2245 B56 Loo so6d Boos osadleaeoeseane o5eD Sace 28
American Museum of Natural History, N. Y., collection of building-stones for- 22
/\nngidierin ORR ARO Gis) a och eee eeooce cass cuacobcs BaseeO Baa epEenocdboSeSec 457
American Ornithologists’ Union, meetings of.....----.------------------- : 34
American prehistoric pottery section of the National Museum..-...-.-.------ 29,32
Mntanicaniishive Sen pturG 2...) 522 \- (occ os << ins 25-6 oon Ssee ea asin nns 3
ATNELICANEWOOUSICOlEChlOne Ohm ete er ees sence ae eee is ns sate ele aiele mean 27
JN a Liye Wh 62 we oo Goce bo6 B66 oon Bacorssooe coceeueeonuensre 44
Anatomy, Comparative, Department of, National Museum ..---.-.----------- 29, 36
Anchor Steamship Line, acknowledgment to.......--.----.------+--- --+--- 19
Ace line MENCO-O CLACTON O lps ser es sealer aie a iale oye a eilcio= sain oi onesie ar 69
Animal-product section of the National Museum..-....----.----------------: 29
Annual meeting of the Regents, time of, changed - .-..--....---------------- XIV
Anthropology, account of progress in -...--...----.---------------- ---- 12, 14, 17, 815
Anthropology. miscellaneous papers OM -2). 5226.2 S26 Js.) 2c cece -ma) =e - 12, 14, 17, 871

973
apes INDEX.

Page.

Antiquities, casts of, deposited in National Museum..-.--/2- 22.2222 222.220. 32
Antiquities, department of, National Museum)... 22222222222 2-28 222522228 29, 22
Antiquities/sent bo New) Orleans BE ssposiGro mse areata ee ete ene 33
Apparatusjot Dr Joseph iE riest] eyes seem ae aera eng eee ee eel eee 31
physicalof the Smithsonian Instituciom =) sess seen ee are eles ee 31
Appendix, ceneral, to the Report for 1685 222 22s 2 ee ene ele ee eee 339
Application for publications, form’ of-- 54-2042 os seen eer ee ee 260
Appropriation. (See Congress, appropriations by) ...~ .-:--..---2.--.2._--- 335
for Bureau-of “Hthnology 22a. aay se eee ee eee eee ee XVII, 45, 336
for exchanges) <2. 221: oa AOE AOS II, Oe WAS, ene ny Oe XVII, 4, 19, 336
for National Museum <2 252 Paes cere ee ae re ee re ee ee a aE SN TIME coo
fornew Army) Medical Museumjbwilding= ss. -s--5 eee eee eee 6, 336
for packing: exhibits. 3: 32-222 oere cesses see sees alae eeeiee serie see XVU, 27, 335
Archeological explorations 2 ea.) - see e eee seen eee ae eee 8,9
Arcentine Republiesicormespondentsnnes seer eee eee eee eee eee eee eee 80
exchanges from. -..-... nieiaide Sai dere/e iai8) sateodierey eiaieraic eae ea eee oa a eee eee 65, 66
Argo Works; collection frome-2aes ce sacl se eee eee ee eae eee eee 44
Arizona, Ox plorabions IN )222 Aes ss las ae ee ee ae eee eS 9
Sspecinions from: $3052 Sey Se yea Ee eee Sve ere ep nea Ee 32
Arkansas, COrrespondentsiness2 cree eee een oe ee eee ee ee eee 261
exchanges fObs 22258 eee See Se eee eee 67
ArMOry buildins occupied by HishiCommissionwes=s=seeee nt sea eee eee eeee 5
preservation of collections in, Congressional appropriation for -.----....-- 335
Army Medical Museum ~exclianoe awa eee eae ae eee eee ee 24, 36
mew. (OWIGIN Goss GLAS Sf eee ae a Att Leta ee ee ne a 6, 336
Arrieta, J., relative to exchange with Uruguay and Chili...--....--. ------ 57
Arskatalog itor Svenska) Bokhandelnees sess sse eee e eee Senet n een eae 70
Art and Industry Department, National Museum...........-.-...-.-..----. ep Ae)
Asia, COrrespOndents im. sop eee one ee ee ee ae 84
exchangesfor. : 32520 2s ise se ee ee eee a 66, 67
Assistants, temporary, in‘exchange ofiee:---2----s eee eee eee ae eee eee ance 48
Astronomical Observatories: listiotess se oo eee eee eee ean ee 457
Astronomy, Account Of PLrocresspmses soe tee ee eee ee ee 13, 17, 343
Atlas Steamship Company, acknowledgment to ...........-....--.------ ---- 19
ALPOPA NVEestiration pon, Dy DIE eyensae sesamiae eee ee eee 30
Atwater, Prof. W. C.,-acting curator, National Museum ......--.. ......---- 29
Australasia, COrrespondents IMs. - ose eee eee eee reer eee eee 83
exchanpes fori. chose 2c Sac ne Sees eee ee eee a eee ee 66, 67
Australia, Correspondents anes esse aete eats ete eee eee reer ee arene 88
Austria-Elun gary) CORLESPOMd Mts li) emer eee ee ees eae eee are eee 92
@xchan ees With “sees As Oo 5 IE ee ey ey a eae ene ae ea eee er 21, 58, 66
Austrian Ministry of Worship and Public Instruction, publications of. ...--. 64
AZOLES, COTFESPON GENUS Ay ee oe ee ere ee eee ee ee ee eee 71
Aztec: Calendart®Stone,, cast of-2 225 ssa2 aoe ie nee ee eee ee eee eee eee 33
“Goddess of Death; cast of 235225 e beens oe Cee ee ee ee eee eee 33

B.

Bailey & Co;,.H. B., acknowledgment, tos2222 2302s So eee eee eee 19
Baird, Prof. S. F., letter to, Hon. F.'T. Frelinghuysen (222. .222--22>45-2 soe 57
Report for TSBS as swe Tyee sao iy ee eee ieee SE ge 12
Report. for 1884 ii kes Bie I ae PO 13
Report on Bureau.of Ethnology 22. Sj 2 fee ee ete 45
veport/on United States Hishi Commissions: ses ee eee 45

45

Report on United States Geological Survey ../....2c<2. Joveeeen onesie ace
INDEX. SHS)
Page.
Baird, Prof., S. F.—Continued.
Report om United States National Museum). 222. 2222022505 2.5 2 oo. oe a 20
Report to iBboardiotmRerentsis 2-522 os seaslo a ociaisaleats fo SS Se en Eee 1-46
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, acknowledgments to -------.------- 20
Barker, Dr. George F., report on progress in physics.-.....---..----.---- 12, 14, 17, 579
Barnard.) rkeeAcieerinUSuee or tlre) Duvn dell turd 2.22 a se ee sere alee a= 26
Barnum, Bailey and Hutchinson, zoological specimens from.-----..--------- 24, 38
Batrachians (Reptiles and) of North America, report on ...-....---..------- 15
BanmhavenProressonvon,.cO-Operabign Ol 22/2/92 ey. sie yeck eats a eleetu erat Og
PRES AVAL A OX MAM MESO ae eisrets ars se severe) eee Ae Nev ia a ala hie SPO raveve rel Patera ate 66
Oficial) PUbUcatiO Ms ME CELVe Cl TROT a sa mien svete eee ni Na) aya) ce eee eapeg cay 50
Bean, Dr arletonwa, curator, National Musemm 2222/2.) ho 2 Cua e Sse 29, 35
SSMU LOUG OM SuCAMAeT) Ge A UD ALTOSS\ ae orale ere ya vera rome le LINE) SUS We eis tater 35
SMULOT OLNITISS UNE ULES, ULOTNS eerie ua ce Minh aa al) NI pe ol ae ee 37
TPE YORE GSA Riyal Mc OAL 0 a I eS UN NHN A ak 15, 16
BEMian peace mack Owl Sc one Obs array= jaye) alo) pense nee yeu iia WA ales ae ees 19
Bse-culture,cusplayiot;in National Museum: 2255 2220 0 eee ene 38
Beleiquebibhopraphie de) sas 4. cee caneees sei he i eet paces yy a ete 70
BeloiMmmcorrespon dents lM Ee c eases Vee nels =item a ene ee cle le ater a silent ne rte 102
exchanges DAE Us SS a ie gn ie Re ER i SR I eh ee 65, 66
Bendire, Capt. Charles, honorary curator, National Museum...--.---.------ 29
A POLS MD gees eter sense stam ie tater osicioes Bere cepa se ses ina srarnicin iA onc a iaewaerare aioe 16
ibenedichy Mrs collectionsimadeibyes- + o> cisec sac cee ee os oe eine cis cisjamlee Sioa Bi)
Benmud as iCOLrespondenibs isa aeie elena tre ements as) ese Seeley or sera alee opal elevate 79
BELLI © aALlos scollechion mecervied trom «seme ee ee aes sce esiae veel leis 30
Beyer, Dr. H. G., honorary curator, National Museum.-................------ 28
classification by, of the materia medica collection in the National Museum. 28
aC AUK) hye Si Sarclor aio eRe Ioan a BER eR CoO CoE Bee eee OT enor neao 30
APSA year eats erase ytecersiaie tae sicie eis cae ne eee eae ew ainia wle)miavarseinyletalaicaicraneio cis 17
Biblvoonaplie7; den olorqumevcse resect see eee sere eee eee atria re 70
Bibliography of the publications on fossil invertebrates ....-.-..----------- 28
Omoihe publications oflsaacmiea sone se= 34 soee see ose on lt sitet oiara eae eet 27
Bibliothek des Deutschen Reichstags, Katalog der ..-..--.--...-..---...--- 70
Billings, Dr. John S., examination of zoological specimens.-.......--.------ 24
Binney wWeG i Manwalion American) Wand shells 0522/22 Gale ae ee eee stels 28
Biological Society of Washington, meetings of -.....-.-.-.-..-.----- -2-- so. 28
TORO ELEC GU ERS OE TET OVEN Gees A AA ED A ee a ea ee ag eu Ee US 13
BirdswdeparimenihoryNabionaly Marseumis® Veen umes. o). see) el eee lee eneee ae sa 29, 34
soRopaat (OKoyABNaaely, No eM cee HEN OWg Paes wana areas es al cuba ul ial lea eal ap MMA SMa Sees aE 3
mounted, received from Agricultural Department ..--.....--.------------ 39
Bixby, Thomas) E:, & Co., acknowledgements to: ..-2..._2..22222.22252----- 19
1 ga Rad Ee IOVS Dor GCOV=O) QLETEEEH ENICODDVICOY ea ae RAM a SnIE Ue SS HS oa 70
Board of Regents. (See Regents.)
Poco DT KC O-OPSLaLlOnvobese mae meee aN INU NUS unite NL ee uey, Aah alhe Veneto 69
Boehmer, George H., in charge of exchange bureau ..---..-.-..------------ 18
TOMY OCSN ash LU ye eae ea Dh gS IS LS A Pi A RASS 69, 457, 495, 513
LE VOLMON MSM NSOM AM eXC NANG es) Nepal oe ewer sae Nee sense ees ots oe te aia 18, 47
ISL AO ETOpe Om exchanre DUSINOSS!...2-) 422.2 2252 Locos. hi tole ae ceeel ese 20, 47
BOliva nCOrres pond enGsminy yyy hs Ne en eee ANAL ASS CURSE eo ats eyes 81
Bolton, Prof. H. Carrington, account of progressin chemistry -----.------ 14, 17, 639
INnGeX LOwleravure Ol Mirani). 2 scrsd Mes see se ser oe eS oe abe cee sees 915
Bond, George W., collection of wood received from ......---..----.--------- 30
Books tor Simithsonianilibramyyeecce eee a ee) Saas ee oe ae ee ere 21, 49
used in preparing list of foreign correspondents ..---.------.------------- 70
manted for the ibrany of) Congress 2322525205 s sec. obs ae cose scsee fae = 50

,
976 INDEX.
Page.
Booth, Henry, papercby Ses 0 o.oo 65.0 a. Joe Seno ae nee epee ee re 12,17
Borland, B. R-vacknowled pment (02206 ow seco s pane oe ee eee 19
Botanical/specimens) from Lady Mrankdin Bay see ose e-eee a eeee eee eee vA
work of the department of plants, National Museum ..........-.........- 41
Botany-report.on progress inls-.=e- = ean s= ee eee eee ene eat 17
Boulton; Bliss & Dallett, acknewledement toe--s— eee esee eee eee eee ees 19
Boye-Strom; M-; (co-operationvor e- seaseee oe ae eee eee en eee 69
Bransford, Dr. J. F., antiquities of Pantaleon, Guatemala..............----- 14
Brazil; correspondents:in. 2.5, oko ont aceiee eae Sete eee ie ee eee eee 81
exchanges. for...5 2222 2s52 soc osnle ace cae eae tele Ie nee ee ee 66
Brick workshop; conditioniand. purposelOt-aees-eeee ee sees eee eee eee 6
Bright, Hamphrey & Co., contractors for Army Medical Museum building. - 7
British America, correspondentsiims sss eee see eee ee eee ee 74
British Burmah, correspond ents pines sss ae ee eee 84
British: Guiana, correspondents soe eee eee 81
Brown, A; E.; zoolopicalispecimens irom eo. esse eee eee eee eee eee 24, 33
Brown, J. Temple; paperwy:. 22.222 Soe ae sete ote ine eee eee 15
Brown; Vernon Hi, (& Co. acknowlede ment toesea-- sere a eee ee eee 19
Broun, M.;, co-operation of :2222'-) S) 2 s.8 522 see ee eee eee eee 69
Buildings’. <<... 2S. es 22s 2 hones ere = Ge a ee eee ee 5,6
ALTMOLY. Hots e ssid Sekine ea Sees Oa ale eee ee ene rem Sele een eae te 5
Army: Medical:Museum: 2.255 Jas 52ee ese eeeee eee aieee eee ae eee 6
brick! workshops. : 22-24. 2352 jasnes ees cel es ee ee en = ae ee oe ate 6
for\aleoholic) specimens 2252 4.02 ya eee eee Eee eee ee nee 7
National Museu coe oi.2 pas Se eek he ete bree ete e ne aT eee ee 5-7
Smithsonian! 222. 02sec Soe ee ele re ee ee eo ee 5
temporary Workshop. jo 2-22) crise ia, cele ee Ses sree leper ree ener a 6
Buildime-stones, collection of ass. 2 see ee ee ee 43
for the American Museum of Natural History in New York....-..-..--.-.-- 22
Bulletins of the:National Miser ss se ees eed ae eee 1A, 27, 28
of the Philosophical Society of Washington -ca4os0- sseeree ae 13
Bureau of Education, co-operation of -....----. --- ey bite Ne Acne laste pte eae pero 22
Bureau of Ethnology, collections received from..---.....-.-.--------------- 32
Congressionallappropriation tons ee eee eee aa ee ee 46
Congressional resolution relating to printing of reports of the...--...---- 337
OxXCHAN TES 6:52. Seow Be ERS ce ee ee eee eae ae ERNE 64
reportion, by Professor, Baird: 2.) sos eens pee one ee ee eee ere eae 45
publications of thee. ye ee ted 17
under theldinectronson Mays) Wi. 1.0 welll aes sess reeaya eeree 45
under the supervision of the Smithsonian Institution. ....--.----.---.---- — 45
Bureau des-Longitudes, Arnnaries: 3 22.cuse. eases aeeee ee eee eee eee 70
Bureau of Navigation exchanvess: sce - ese eee eee eee eer Cae eee eee 64
Burgess, Edward, dipterological collection received from........-.--.------ 37

C!

Caffeine, investigation upon physiological action of.-...........-...-.------ 30
Cazeaux, H., acknowledament;to2-5-.5 2o= ose ne ee eee ae eee eee eee 19
CalendarioiGeneralideltneono d@italiaysss=. 9-24 eee eee eee eee eee 70
California, correspondentsumy: 2s 22)55 osha eet en eee 261
exchanges for: oc.) 2s 25 See Oe ee oe) oe oe aca es See 67
Cameron, R. W., & Co., acknowledgment to ...--.....-.-.----- ult SR as 19
Canada, correspondents ims 2225 ee). ao aes ee ry ee ey a el nee a 74
exchanpes foresees ou eae ae cts oe Ara A aan Oa se De 66
geological survey of, collections received from ..........---- AChE Om Da 2 8
INDEX. 977

Page
Cape Colony, correspondents in) <2. 5-22 ose one alamcieleeciay see ee ieeoe clase aie ars 71
GRCIMOMMES, MOR. sacs boos seSd oceeee conpcobmno sine Seeded sebeoctege eaeeoe 66
Card) catalopues/of exchange services i354 52S ae ata ee nei oto 48
“Carlile P. Patterson,” Coast Survey steamer, explorations by.----.-------- +
Gases ini Muse uaa) tes aefenese act ye tise ale! he Ae os Ns ies Min eh Wal afatctayayal tetas e ley ates be oe Uh
Castro, Carlos de, relative to the establishment of exchange office in Uruguay. 54, 56
Casts of antiquities deposited in National Museum....--..--....---..------ 32
Catalogue of Government publications, copies for the Institution...--...---- 337
of the Catlin collection/of Indian paintings:.-27- -552525. 44-822 080e8e- ee Bil
Catalogues turned over to the Bureau of Education...--....-..-.-------.-- 22
Catlini Indianicollection catalogueot S55 .8 5 ss2 loo). sobve eee eee 31
Central-Americas correspondents) am 5325 ses Se Saud Sposa aatelse ea eee 76
CXQMIGIANOONS Woo oe cobb a speeder Gabbe bbb ope vanone ssbecooEee se sapcos Soeoe = 9
Central Park menagerie, ew York, zoological specimens from ..--..-.----- 24, 33
Certificate of accounts given by Executive Committee. ....----..--...------ 4
(Clete Kern, Sem AVGU CTE ONE Ao oe ee ee ods Bebe iodo Ricco seeco core cade 33
Ceylonscorrespondentsmmy esas ta ans joys ao ataitnial ais it SS eto wieh es sea te ere 85
Changelofitime or printing annuallreportes so ) (oe sc ches cae te oree neeee eee 2
Chisethennryakre paper! Dy sed *erceav seas sa eodcccse sacceendas sessed SOLOS pea
Cheekwlistiot: plantezsaa2 22455 52)2) SUE Ee Ae hn ea ee eae ee 41
Chemicalapparatus of Dr.) Joseph Priestleyce= 2-5-2252. jocces -co- otc ool ee 31
Imvestication- os cinchona Darkiesc> saess sss hose co scoot scene eee eee eee 30
Chemistry saccount Of) propress Misa 4= se see see eo eoet eae =o Soles Sebo 14, 17, 689
Chilitcorrespondents*ims2ss25222 a2 aoe oe eee eee ee teetic lee Sosa 82
CAE NONE S HO C456 Bnd obs bHee toes cose esoned Set eek cao eeeHeoeigas Coes o eon 66
exchancesspublicationsswith Wao Waynes == e alesse sacerese eee eioeteieine eee 56
China correspond entsrimi ese) oso awa ss ISS cca eaeceate seve bee ee 84
ancient earthworks in, by Mark Williams .-..-..---2.-2.-..---.--.2-5.2-. 907
Cinchona bark chemicalinvestigationvOh ess! 2.2222 so ccs) ee eiesesl oo este 30
Chiriqar1, Panama, ancient) pottery from... =. 5-2 ne oe ree cece tees 32
Cincinnati exhibit, accessions from, for National Museum .---...-----..----- 26
Circular of the) National Musenine\72:522256 228500 csc JOURS pals hae Ge 16, 28
Clark, A. Howard, in charge of historical relics in the National Museum ---. 29
PRPUGE DN in Soe canoe scooes dod oncubeaced deci qau SSO ree Sco sep es5 a 55 c6ee pee 15
BOLVICe Ofer ere ee cete streams ees tee ye nae ee Ny Seles Se Neen Ey a 28
Clarke, Prof. F. W., honorary curator, National Museum..-..-..--...----.---- 29, 42
Da PCTS Dye seer mae oer eels eels acters aoe e apa le ren Ste oa cA lame of iar einenlenet 16
Classification of the materia medica collection. -...-.....--......---....-.-- 28
Coashand!Geodetic Survey, Oxchangeseoe seas a ne ae ae aa aloes tana lel aem mint ees 64
Coast Survey steamer “ Carlile P. Patterson,” exploration by-.--.-.--...---. 8
Cocaine, investigation upon physiological action of........-.---.----------- 30
CwolenteratarcollechionsrOt ee aie eee eee eye nico clemre stuiaawleiemcleserioaee 39
Coleoptera sentiby the Reva Co Hea) alleen c) sae sie cee ineelelala ieee eeitee ae 37
Collection/of Americant woods) re eraeie eee eee eee aeeteineiseir) = a ae ae iaee eel 27
{OHMIC NE ROWE. 6 tes ebecop sea bobd Beaten ee boee GbeEen pose He Seee Se acce 22, 43
ofsfosstlinverteprates: bibloprapinyg Oso ce ayaa eels = = =e easta staat anima = 28
of mounted birds received from Department of Agwiculture ........-.----- 35
Collections at New Orleans, restoration of, Congressional appropriation for -- 335
Collections received from :
He Nng 66 (eihed Cops Civ ay Bs A ete cee ne aR rr Se Be 9
De Cs RP LOLENSOL ee yee eater Lie tiie LN ERIE ED RE AY SE eee ee 9
ST OTS AVY reiterate peat ht HAL IN SAN MIN SE Stat os trcttiSlos cilomia nreatalae Salat nate 8
Geological Survey of Canada.---..--- Bg RRS ES SANS SAN Seen hapa 8
Greely, Lieutenant, botanical specimens from -.-..--.--.--..-- s+ -66- a

H. Mis. 15

62

978 INDEX.

Page.
Collections received from:

AO) I Oe ee ee BEGG OShe Gedoce dqccaa casa scosegteedte ete 8
AOE) DS ad Oe RE See Seco emSoee sentes dcctOdEces adeeecants Hace 9
Kiefer, George .... -.-. ------ --22 20 = eee cee cones eee ee cnn n ne eee eee eee 9
McLean, John J-.----. ------ ------ --- +--+ 2-202 20s 2 = oe os ee one 8
Niblack, Ensign A. P..-... ---. ---- ---- ---- 2-22 2-202 eee ene cee ene eon eee 8
Nelson, E. W)..---. --<<i2- + -<0> sescer sen = So cwissee os = meee een sam cane 9
TEAM Yee DDI DO Deh Ol ee AE Ae Bodo Bote cbeece botade dooode st aneeses 9
oye eal eary SONS) Sabeoe seas code oes eae so sdos sbeU ss sbsnesse epee aE HENS 9
SJ apni ohip Dial ty "pages deeseo Osseo -8e 5 BeoS cao See ea nHessé Scans seesec 9
Raylor Drobs Wi ss-ssee2- gl kB. Sea hete dl teas eicld Bete SEC TRIS Oe Se eRe ee 9
Townsend, Charles Hives ee ites hire ee as See teaate ta eateic etete eyaiat ote totale etree 8,9
Mamer, LaicienvMse ss sscces ees seeiae= isl emoees essence caleeiala saute e 8
Wilson, Chomas) 22) saeee Sean e Sota temeiaiee oe certs steiePe teraile siete ae eer 9
Woolfe, Henry, s2se2e2 282 neater eels cepacia se eee ree mec sce eae 8
PAYS (0) 0d Jat Ope era oo a aG 6 Heap Ses NOs SU eee RnanssoaGe mobs ce -* See S5se 9
Collectiontofiibersirecely. ede seen eee eee en ee ee eee See eee eet 30
Collections, preservation of, Congressional appropriation for...-......-.---- 335
EAC MOON We gaemen Aone ee Bao e Hee OnOn oooomo boon DUoEomEeoe otod atoeos sheede a
Collins, J. W., honorary curator, National epee? Te a Aa ee aterm yee een ee 29
cone Sie BEE a ese Sa A tee SAS a cles ch Ice rian b MEM mam Ee cists 15
Colorado; correspondents amis 5-55 ssiees seelso celeste sees eee ee eee _ 263
exchang@esfonseosacsecr jose lene eeee sateen ee eee ee ree ee eee ee 67
Commander Islands, ornithological explorations in *he.---........---...---- 28
Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, acknowledgment to ..---..--.-..---- 19
Comparative Anatomy, department of, in National Museum .......-....---- 29, 36
Concretenwalksiny the prom dsys a ei ayaa aaa eae eral eel le eae 5
Conchological display of the Museum at the New Orleans AG AAS, ee 36, 37
Congress, actsiamdsresolutions Ofjs seats serie wleietars ele ata alee atte areata 20, 335
action of, relative to printing of annual reports -..----.-:-...---2)---- .-2- I, 3, 337
Congress, appropriations by, for packing exhibits consigned to Museum .... 27
foriinternational Exchanges) — aera aie aaa a ane leet ote eee a 19, 336
for National Museum ....-.--: A RRS MEE Cpe yas doles Ga seeee eel repre 335
for Naval Observatory, freight on exchanges......-.--..--.--------...... 336
for Northy Amen cane btn Ol Oo yeas steele are ere lercle teeta elle tater 45, 336
for preservation of collections in Armory building... .-.---.-..--- ---------- 335
for restoring collections from New Orleans Exposition....-...--.-------.- 335
HC Otsicabyrlatsoroveshal toy rNCObHA Ak Ae A Bee ee Teas Sec seaos sees coed eons Onc 336
for War Department, freichtion exchanges. <5. 5 -seme6)- seer = ea ie 336
Conklin, W. A., contributed zoological specimens...-.....--..----..-------- 24, 33
Connecticut: icorrespondentsuinesoe sees see eee oe eee raaeer ais eee eit 263
CXCHANGESROT) jeer eee a ete tee ee se eae eel le ale teat ete ate 07
Consuls of foreign governments, thanks to.-.....--..--..---.2---- -+-------- 20
ContributionsitoMnow led geste ae see ee ae eine ae eee elite eee 10,11
Prehistoric fishing inv uTrapere eaten e eee ee eee eee eee a aee eee eee 11
Volumes XOXDVe and XEXGV WSSU ed eee ieee ae eer ya ele re reer 11
Contributions of specimens by U. 8. Geological Survey .--------.----------- 45
Co-operative relations of the) Institution. -.2 222. <a.) ens. oo esa se oe ene 22
Buresauof Hducatione..-< -,204= shes Sees ee eee ye Seen eee CHES e eee reee rae 22
Diplomate Revie wis settee = ts) s0 OS hore aye Severe alutacene ns elas ol eee aha nese 22

duplicate collection of building stones for the American Museum of Natural
History; New (Yorke ou oe oh a hy ela Ue a a 22
Newfoundland, postage on exchanges \:2.020. 224i ca aclete) a gece ca oeate 23

zoological specimens contributed by menageries ...... Mele Seite at hatin eid 24
INDEX. 979

Page.
Cope, Professor E. D., report on the reptiles and batrachians of North
America .....- dacs dodaood badsS5 tossed sess sy dss Sooo cee ese eueess see sons 15
Coppée, Dr. Henry, member of Executive Committee of Board of Regents. - 2
expiration of term as Regent-.-....---.----- Jposseactoocsac shoo ob sSSacene 2
Copper implementamrom: WISCONSIN. 2-5. = <<: nce oan s ose awe Sete Meee 892
Copper Queen Company, collection presented by ..-....----.----------.----- 44
Correspondents of the Institution, domestic.........--.-..-.--.2.---------- 259
OTOL Oh epee eR teeter tag oat eterna are Aer ster sis'sjeraisteicralsee hmisrersaisvepasieis acre nee 69
*“Corwin,) revenue cutter, explorations by:-.-- ==). .0 222. 22522355 ssecl else. 8
Costa Rica coueehions frome) taselas cesclc a so cole bees soe es Ye eaeeemes 32
COLLESPONdemtstMe sess ats ee estes Hos cle = Is Lsisiaye ce se te ce case emma e ae 76
Cozumel; Yulcatansibird stoma vaascsaa sae seas se cece oss Sate caer ace seems 35
Creela indians primilivecSsOLOnOuse Olp weet neces =- sass os oes eenee scene eee 900
Ciba) Correspondents s saeet eee sae ae see cian eee sem sme oa cs ccmoee eee 79
xX CHANTS (OMe aaa sette sae e eee ne eae aa saan cle Ao Saseia cise ses scse ce cese ocee 66
Cnillem pron obel bye Merappomted herent asaciscan- soc ice ec cose cco ec eaos 2
junard Royal Mail Steamship Company, thanks to. .----:..---.-.:--..----. 19
Cushing, Frank H., paper by, in Annual Report of Bureau of Ethnology.. - 18
D.
JVAINGCHE, J AN UGOG FAA pe con odie cep BOL See ROeSS Snee BECO Sd ABSA EAR es AR eeee er base 70
Dall, William H., honorary curator, National Museum..-.-.--.---.........-- 29, 36
JEVRETES W\/ Bede DGoece oototen snack cle socd seen els= gees o- oe9 Hae e ee ee = Pere 16
Dall, Rev. C. H. A., collections and specimens received from.........-......- BPE BY/
Dana, Prof. Edward §., report on progress in mineralogy .-..---.....---.-- 14, 17, 689
IDEN ANNE: COMME DONC CINE ENS =5 coe noEbto sapood aoe sed Hearne cee aecoode Sans 265
SESE REE TOP 2 Gocoe oe Seteah God eg07 gC ISSO Sg COs UES see Ao a eee eee ere 67
Denmark, correspondents in. ---.... DHA SE eee Qe Ben CACO ECO CEE SEE E eee eae 108
CX Chan S CS wl tl)s sels ae aioe eel ree tae eat ofeiciituconais iene ieee 5, OOOO:
ef cralipublicamons receLved trom yee te ee sce serena los seis seleltenic eis ces 50
DennisonsMhomassthanks tO paces cle= <= sete ere eee cece ceo ne uae ae 19
Department of Agriculture, collections received from-.....--..-.--...----.- 30, 35
Department interionex chan ges)\-5--sae=seer eae at ee eee cs ebeae coos eae 64
WE paneMenbiol justice exc hane Osea serie .52 ese S255 2)-)2 2 sys = mma soe oevacie ents 64
Departmentjof State exchanges. 2. <- <2i..< osm fain oe wlassnsen sce eeu os Ss aemete 64
Departments of the National Museum. (See National Museum)...-......--. 29
Deutsches) Verems, Handbuch, Allgemeines... <....--- «s2-~6 54+ oh ceeti onl 70
Dewey, .ired es curatonNagional Museum s-.25224)550-5-) sacse oes ass eee 29, 43
diiesro ate New, Orleans Exp Gsition (asap ieee eee css ceeeos esse cos. 43, 44
OPENS SLUSY ONY Pah cai Ly et NI Sey a Sper ne ee Le UO 16, 17
Dinoceras bones, casts of, placed on exhibition. --........ 2... ----...----- 36
Diplomatic Review distributed by the Institution............-......----.-- 22
Dipterological collection received from Edward Burgess.----..-.,---------- 37
PASHUIScMentOMappropriatiOnses |.) oe el Le ee aL ye 4,5
Disinibution of Diplomatic Review < 222 322i 5oeecnce sey ne 3 Ssh ass swede kee ce 22
OfpputC ash] OT Swe merne ses chs Reenter. CO a oe ee 10, 259
Mistnetiot Columbia, correspondents ins: .=--.2- ss. 2 254 62--06 eaeeck 265
CSP. O EE OVENS. 5 RO) Bea ae, Senet seer CHER AE, aye a aL SU A PAST 67
Dolphin, spotted, reward offered for capture of .........-.. .----.----------- 33
Domestic correspondents, list of...-.....--...---. sete oases 2 oate eye ps er oe 259
WOMES ICE RCH AMO OGE meee ae an eee me Co lS 6 ec ee OF ASI
PE COUP US eee e yee ie eeepc eee rede er aye ermine Serer gE ee 65, 66

DEAD SOLSS LON Geese eee Seaton eA Kemal aman itn ka | os LL ae 7
980 INDEX.

Donaldson, Thomas, illustrated catalogue of the Catlin collection of Indian

paintings, prepared by .--- --------------------++---+----------------
Donaldson, Thomas, in charge of collection presented by the American Insti-
tute of Mining Engineers.----..----.------------------ ++----+--------
Donations: made to Museum! 22522- toe 26s aaa a ere eee i al
Dorsey, Rev. J. Owen, on the comparative phonology of four Sioux lan-
QUAGER.---- = 22 - wnn = nnn en ene ee renee ene ene ce cene vase wena saan
papers by ..-------- ---- ------ een ee ene enn eee enn cee eee ene eens
Drolsum, Axel Charlot, co-operation of. ----- 2-25-22 - ooo nee nn en e
Dugés, A., collection received from .-.----. ---------------------++----+ ----
Dutch Guiana, correspondents im ..-.-.-.-...--.--. ---. --=-- ------ ----------
E.
Earll, R. Edward, curator, National Museum -.-..-.--.----------------------

paper by.---.----- ------ +--+ ---- ---- 26 eee ene coe cee eee ener eet eee
Echini, collections of....--..----------------- e+ 222-2 e one eee eee eee
Economic geology, department of, National Museum..--.---------------.----
Ecuador, correspondents in.----. ----.---+----- -----+ ------ ------ + ---0+ ===
Egypt, correspondents in.------------- -----+ ---- +--+ +---20 +--+ 2 22 eee eee
ex chan ves) OR= see-.r = ae =e lea 5 soSsS5 os6dees5 556555552
Election of Regents ..-.---...------------ ---- -- ++ + e+ 2222 eo = 22-2 oe tees
Electrial apparatus of Dr. Joseph Priestley .-.. ---------- ---- +----+ ----------
Electrical service, Congressional appropriation for.-...--.-----------------
Engineer Bureau, U. 8. A., exchanges....----.----- -----+---- +--+ +----+----
Entomological Society of Washington, meeting of..----.--------.----------
Entomology, researches in..---.------- Jose leciescmeeie sen! tas siae wen eleeeen anne
Eruptions, volcanic, in Iceland, report on ....-....-------------- ---- --------
Ethnological collections secured from New Orleans Exposition -.-.---.------
Ethnological Bureau appropriation, disbursement of.-..-.-.---.-----------
Ethnological investigation, plan of ....-.---.....------------------- Pe tee see
Ethnology, Bureau of, exchanges....-.-..---.---- ------ ---- +--+ -----0------
publications Ofs- secs ea aias ate ae ee eae eee te teat ett lalarat
Ethnology, department of, National Museum .......--.--------------------
Ethnology, North American, Congressional appropriation for ..-.-.---------
Europe, exchanges with<-- - <2... 2= == <2 sere emcee oem leew le minnie oe aa
Chg oka rao sab ons Ceoceoee cane Sue Boon 6bb0.cose Saou boa ones aeScesaeso ao
VISIT) COs ONREXCHAMN Ge DUSUNCSS ete re te ietete =a erate elma = at tee tee
Examination Of vouchers 64.212 2/55 soc - 3.2 daa cere oes ee eee ey ee eerste
Executive Committee of Board of Regents, Dr. Henry Coppée appointed
MILA MNS OO ierS som ces pETooURaeb sone s5 CooD Sconud bane coco aapeco Sebooc
Exchange agency for Europe recommended -.-.........----.-----------------
bureautestablished ans Wiru eu ays se eee = aes eee aie eee ere rete eee eae
Of mammals Dy Nabi onailp Mise vr eee ae ela ae rata ee eee elo
OL minerals! sa2ese5 = ssa Soe ae Oe ee ein ele le etaraee eet Cele te ee enetetete
of publications between Uruguay and Chili ......---...---.--------------
er eVAK Gs) 0 MAI ONO) 11) os Scene SoSa emoe aco os SAK Soon ose osogaods cas Sloe Ssido<
RPO Me Sina ere ee OS Ges actuneaceien GaoGobon das mot aoomonaa cose ca=
PRA ONLU RITE Aeon om beceb Geo Foospsod GaobSheadeSoat copa docoasos
Pxchanges, international, appropriation for 24 sce. ee. e eee essen eee
promotion of, by transportation companies. ..--...-.----.----------------
NS) UOC) ae See ae ome Cee Bo dedd SoSode Hoda cdboSnb OSadSsSeessice
domestic’@ivision ees sas see eee ae eae ee eee ee eee ee a eee ee eee
extensiomiof systemint---22 2 oe nee eee eee eee ees eee eiseee See eee taae
TOLEION GIVISlON eee eek es eee ae ee ne see eee ee ee ee eee eee eee ee ee

17
29, 32
336
66, 67
9

47, 49

5

2
52

INDEX. 981

Exchanges, report on, government division ...--..----.---.---------------- 49
BLS DIS DIC eee ee hee aera ee ao cine oie einen oe ate mete lee ans araielatal wintelel 64
visit to Europe relative to..-.---.---.. tL | Suan EMA S RET Ca Sarasa nee 47
with Newfoundland, postage free ...... .---.. ---. ..---2 .----------- ------ 23
Executive Committee of the Regents....---..----.------ .<=--- -=---- ------- aK
RE KONO 55.8 66 ob. 6 HOSEA RE EOP Beer GRIER EDR ES pe torSce no cE mec Criecireree ite XV
Expenditures of the Institution .....--.....-...---. -----+ s-6- ------------- Xv,4
Explorations sac counb Olsens ese eitaem = oles a alo clon ale = eater eiaeleate ini a 7
along the coast of the Gulf of Mexico .......-.--. ---.-------------------- 8
along the east coast of the United States. ....-....-.--------2-- ----+----- 8
along the west coast of the United States .........---....---------------- 8
by Coast Survey steamer ‘‘Carlile P. Patterson” ...--..--- SR LL Wiehe 8
bye ProtessOnwO erst sateen aes Sa otis als oom ewe sens Senialan/aeie sin 9
by Fish Commission steamer ‘‘Albatross” .....----.---------------------- 8, 45, 46
OSE ANS Bed ONES, 012) oes eatin gis eS ts ane ere os Fe pa re eRe AS ea 8
lyr Haier nin Cali Coca oa oe Seabee od Coe oed Be Se bemeEebe coeoerecorser och:
pyp hire TouMAGhye aeemee caren Mem natok atom louie. ala ates cama
JER PAD Ny AWG 13 be Ol fasalercPel Ofgis py): leas ype etme aot el Ray ee Pet OES Ree pa
byeGeorge Kaefer se sees newness ce Payor e ast he OL tos eau seluaminers
bya ohnivpuMc beaniehe nese a saci ne se nals meee atan ice as saicisias/siicicioinfacimieiminie ate
ing Beneye Nelsons Seas oes Se ea es 2 ele Sk aS Oat
iby Ensign ALP NIDIACK 422.225. accce ence send ssenaelase—--lssccen se-ess nee
LOyy 1Dips, Dh eiwal IPP? pop ooo poser OSS bE6 CLOG GOO eS Ho SmuO Gadd Ee beeOOoeD He
Ly Legos od GIES OOS pei os Beet cooU BaD ooIEcon BCOneS BLO OSE eC SADE mE EoRocint
lay Ove Des Vili fStpnge hic cacmosceoced cos sadanodes ECUseneBcEEpmonoed cogcce
bDyslieuts Georce Mia SlOnOy aa sose ee elecsaeelsas ae eam leeelellmml—= atl
lyr diner) (6s Swen eabses coceos sdobne B6GA55 HaescoSeHeon BHUCeSeoceneoe Hse
yr heer LA VlOL eats at sah acacia na ee aca icsiee aces <a-iscesen
byaCharlessenwMownsendiasseseeee ter sce aie sacieaae ae asl csssteniiniaaieiiaiiol ai 8,
Dy lamcionw Ma Lurnense soos ea seston aaelaae cara a soles a= ain ae) ela nine) cise
Ibyy Wns) \WYAUEOIN oc Cece ceoeas chen besos coca CoB bICDEOUE DEOGOO DUD COD EBHE eS
jonvds kien IDs MUR) s Coeaed cooueo Bee) G56 Coe SHO SUEUD Gbcn caGoCcU Coes baeene
ibys Jeu@rveledonisas.sacae ceesa se celestite sa saecida= fais Sass ee sae siswiemiaral aia
TA ACL 1 Sy cree ete ee eet oy licen ak Si Shes Sl pe ae nti Sav Ne chaise la/a ce ate /oiniey aie mereietels
ATA ACE 7, OTN eT ee eh terra ata RU ea nt an Mr OS St Stat tal Stee mars sian
INO BLIGISHETOVAN CESS caioee elect oe aeles sole ee cle a aea lense) o Seleleeeisieisinne lane
iIns@ontraleAmericaencas saee sees eles cetseeetaa cee aes some acne alee = aininvclninl=

semmauveueomvraveeo

TANCE A ED 100), oes IGE EIHEE MEET SSA SOHO? Hc SSS BEES COn nero oSeose
ANE SOUUHPAINORI Cases scree aie eo ares ote Se IS Sera pos\noinalt Aalnlnictaliat—
in Washington Territory ..-- .----. -----. -----+ --2-20 ---25- ee eee eo 2 nee
Ganshin banks) see osnee fos ass eases ty so stead aoe Sasesc/sesiewmema sas
OLISbeAM ELPA BELOSS See eke Sore ee net et we ne ee ao ateiatsl aa Sale evereineteiaiat=
Explorations, ornithological, in fie Commander Islands and in Kamtschatka 28
Exposition at New Orleans, participation in, by National Museum .... .----- 26
lixtension of exchange Service. ---. --2-se cess 222255 see = 2-2 -- enna se sn n= 52

eomueonmponrwsoontowmwome om ©

vy ©
ve)

arin, Canlosienber Ome saa see kao saa ences cous sass comm aan aaieene 54
Farlow, W. G., report on progress in botany..---..---------------+---+---+- 17
Faxon, Prof, Walter, studies upon crayfish ..--...----------+ ere cere renee 39
982 INDEX.

Page
Fernald; C: H:, papers by <4. 2-2 + 2 ooo ee a iene ne ee ‘16
Fibers, collections of, received by National Museum..........---------.---- 30
Fire-proofing of Smithsonian building...--.--..----.----.------------ ------ 5, 336
Fiscal year adopted by the Regents.--..-----.-.-----. BibH AO Bee cca.ACrc xiv, 1,2
Bishi @Commissionvot the United’ Statest-.--=-eerarrese eerie team eieeee eee 45
@XChanges <= 5-c5-- sso eensice er pre nee espe eae? sees eee eee 65
exploration by steamer Albatross... ..---- ---- <- cee cnme ome nee -ne === 8, 45, 46
investigations at Wo00d’s Holl ooo nee e one oon een tee = eee er oe ei 46
IRA) NO HNO Aaesee ae Se ySe soo Se COMES OHoCaD CoObstHscobe -s05 oso S Sec eS oeee sors 45
use OL che Armory Dullding. byes oasis se eee tee ee ee 5
WOrk GOnC:DY us. - ou co temo «no Sea cmae eee Same meete cet aati Saaremaa 45
Fisher, W. J., collections received front. scene ose ssp eens named eee eee 8
Fisheries of the United States, special report upon the...... ..---..---..---- 28
usheries section.o1 the Nationals Museoumeee-teseeeee se aeeeeeee eee eae oor DL
Hisheries| Society, American, meetings Of -1 2-524. -se> ose alse ees : 28
Fishes, Albatross, collectionyof ss ..cccessosee cee sae see See area eee 35
Fishes, department of, National Museum cs. ses 2 =e ae eee eee 29, 30
ishing banks, exp] Overt OM Oe ae meee eee eee ate eee 8,9
Flint, Dr. James M., classification of the materia medica collection, Neen
AY ITSO Ree eee eA ACS aCe Oa Se SO OMooR ness se Ge toedec 28
[824 SEM Ngai Geng Ode Bene SoS SOEs GHOSE cond ands HESS Oscb Ga sG HES HBSn Os ocee 17
Florida, correspondents in; .1---. 2225+. eeccst eee see <a ee 268
exchanges for:>. sericeseses tees cebees ete cece ane roan Aare aes 7
shell-heaps and: mounds in. -22)seeece =e ieee eta ae 902
Boerste, Angustus, AC paper Dye a2. eo = aan eee se seein = aati elem 12,17
Hoerstemanns. Dr: co-operation (Of 5 seer clsiiabn ee arate eal ae eee een 69
Foods, investigation upon physiological actions of........-------- ---.------ 30
Section of, National Museumies.: 2s Sie oe eee ee emt oem a ole ee reer 29, 30
Foreign correspondents, list of:---).-+-<2 2222 .s50 e006 ese ee a eeene iar e a eee
exchange division Bee OES ec aoe Acar ae aa cece Gone aocaetes 48
Oxchan ves). .2 2c. Sadan ccs ect ie cols chile a ceiee mice tes teagan os stone tee erate 19
TOCOIPUS: 252. ce, cciae oh cd Gee eee e ee cose aS Sea e eee ee ee ee eee epee eee OS
tLAaNSMISSiONS). 2. Lee See week ewe eee eae ae eee ae eects 66
Governments; exchanges fons :: os osieseee eles eee een eae eeete =e aetna 65
publicationsiol: 2.2 oacee ee ensees essere see eeieeen eee eee eset eee 21
Ministers, thanks:toj.-%. -c\.-, snes osrec cee weenie cee le seee eae eee eeee ees mers)
Observatories, list ofc. 5.22232 5sl52c5 eta eee ise oes Beet ene seer eee eee 460
Horeman, DrBdward, ceathOf-cs on eo eneaeeleeenie eee eee ae eee ee eee 24
Forepaugh, Adam, zoological specimens from ..---..-.-1..----.------.----- 24, 33
Form of. application for publicabions-2¢ 29.22 ees een ae ee 260
Forrer: A. collections received trom) so 2s-)755 heer see ee een ee eee aoe 39
Fort Chimo, Labrador, exploration of region about. .-...--..--.------------ 8
Fossil invertebrate, collection of, in National Museum, bibliography of ..---. 28
department of, im National) Masenmes ==. -2 es sene aoe eele ee eae eee aes 29, 40
Fossil plants, department of, in National Museum.-.........---------------- 29, 40
Hrance, correspondents in: 222282052 en) cece Ga cciee coe ere cee Eee ras 110
exchanges With)... 2 2. J 2b: oso ssish ae esice wie occ oe ee ere eee ee eee nie cee ne
eoxplorationsine.3.2 522220 cokiseseiese Seam aee see ese ee eee ew eeoee 9
official publications received from). 52-22.) -5 54-5 secon see eee eae eee 50
Francis, Hon. John M., letter to Count Szégyényi .-.-. .-..--..-------------- 60
letters (of, to Eon.) Bl) ire lin ohm ysen seers seis ee eet ee tee 59, 62
Franking privilege on exchanges for Newfoundland ......-.--.-------------- 23
Freight on exchanges, Congressional appropriation for -....--..------------ 336

Frelinghuysen, Hon. F. T., letters to Professor Baird....-....---.-------s.-~ 52, 58
INDEX. 983

Page.
Bung SMH sonian, CONMION OL jcacce.. 5 toes ecae al anes cee ee acme aianeic es xv, 4
munch dye iCo.acknowled SMents tOn sae eee eee ie ae carey eis 20
Furniture and fixtures, Congressional appropriation for --......--...--.---- 335
G.
GatschetvAnS. papery) jc jest eo e  SL RA s  oee 18
Geography account of progressiin'.. 2 2)..)- 23. SSS ee ee 14, 17,543
Geological Survey of Canada, collections received from ..........---.-..-.-- 8
Geological Survey of the United States, building required for .-....-....-.- 7
contributions of specimens to National Museum .........--...---.-------- 45
OR CHAN GES Heerer vom inksarcctoe alae state peta sen a MURAI CRIN Peete CAME It ea OER 65
Maj Jowiobowell Director soc sce seek i lb SS I Dae ree 45
LEP OLLLON eae eral evsoer le eiernrsepe (Sole Ree elec aie ore etela eral ean aie ere Sahai a 45
Geolory, report onprocressdin a eee ase ce eee eal © Sak MEE ee 17
Georgia; correspondentsnn sso sole ote ss ble Sees a ea 268
exchanG es One eete a tei se etc ae ec miee sa a ete Wena te SL yO A 67
Gerber DLP yVonpCO-OPeLravion Olwso-ocice cee side sae ee ore enc eanee eee 69
Germany, icorrespondenbs in). cjacis iso sane ee eeece ome a eee See ee ee 143
exChanres wah eee er remem rl nae ettolae cto a seis Aa ta ELS ROE a - 65,66
Gibbonyrecenved.insexchangeis seo. sols saeco alecin close cium s aan sem eee 33
Gill, Theodore, account of progress in zoology -......-.-..---------«+-- 12, 14, 17, 763
DAP CTS ND Yew ene SR ela ale E dicla eislateluiceielelae SPAS Us Sa Sn Sp SSO SS 16
Gilberts Charles.) papers dy yess mas oy ek ea ee ae SL kU Bh Beales eal a 16
Goode, G. Brown, assistant director, U. S. National Museum........-..----- 29
CULATOMENahiona le Mn se mmm eee sees sree ye ee ee es OY Ds re ead See by
DaAperspbyer eee ea eec ete ictaca Actes nacisetsateca mae aMark MAS Oa tad 16
Goodrich, J. King, report on progress in geography ..-...--..-----.-------- 543
GothayAlman aches cei cee wei aeine oh ee mt CEO i Sy Cua olen SCM AN LG im SE 70
Government Departmentiexchanges)sasramasene saaeiae sales ae) eee sneer eae 20, 64
ECOL US eee ster eect este rate a) ara eaten ea teresa ae cre ayaa aie hol Scalia Ln 65, 66
GLEAN SMISSION Gye peeves heme ae etcta teats alae Sia IS aye va eS cl See yo ee tea Deane 68
PUblicanions scajalocu evohwesee Meee eee ens Sota oo cons leita saa oe lesen ee 337
DELCO aU S bo eer eer mel epe ee are rere yates aye ina Sy Valay wee ciate Ss a Neer ae 51
Governm entspmpb nropervisitediseasmoemnes sacle ccieele coe See oe Nees ete seers 49
Gray, Prof. Asa, expiration of term as Regent ..........-...----.--+---s----- 2
DAP SLA Yee eieseen ei earn eats ene a each saci a aie an cvelalo io tal niaiateronsiae atesia ence 16
Great  Britaimcorrespomdentsum esses me saan a alee ace aces sceiieene ie oee eames 194
OX CHANGES pv kuysi seeds mile perience ene man say Ics Semen nies Cele yelg heat ea ee 65, 66
GEreeceCornespon Menta im yas saan em ota eee ele cen ie 2 se a are cee as a 217
OXCRAN GOs RWG N52) (ooo aoe nee CUM sew ie dod bos owe mantne Sale te 66
Greely, Lieutenant, specimens received from.........-..----- s-0.---------- 7
Green, Commander F. M., account of progress in geography .--.--.---------- 14,17
Guatemala icormespondemts ina yaete cee eu NE oe See ese neces Sec 77
OXCHAM POShWiltli nascar yae a cive a a streta a eis We aera tits et alana oh cla me crates 66
Guesde collection of antiquities ....-...-- Boo Aaa Wa ee Sebo ane thee wate alle 14
GultotiMexicovexploratlons imac ne eee isja nals vals icy, ee ete ae cee ars a 8
GuinGasCOLres Pon ad Smug aye se wee cree Pye ae Aen le en te acral relia a eaten re es 72
Guyot, Dr. Arnold, tables, meteorological and physical.....-...-..---.----- 12
He
Hamburg-American Packet Company, acknowledgment to ..--..-..---.---- 19
Harnnaun, Or co-operarion ors) Merre eR Lane e else Ac he el ee 69

Hatch MasmaniarAlumanace sere cee ceeusere a umd l cher Wee ae a eee 70
984 INDEX.

Page.

Hayti, exchanges with .... ....---- -------- ------ -----+ ---------- Beata sete 66
Hemphill? Henry, collections madelby)=22-ten--- see sees caer eee 39
Henderson & Brother, acknowledgment to.....----.--....-.---..-----.---- 19
Henry, Joseph, trustee\of Tyndall fand).o. 2 os eo Reeiesamaee meee cee eataeee 25
Henshaw, Henry, Wie, paper Die see= ae oor = ese) eee eee eee Aodoc 18
Heyd; Dr: co-operation of ..oo.- 22 -con ce ewes Jeee ace =a ie eee eee ae 70
Hill) sHon-N:2-, collection presented! byj----\.se5 -aasine eee eee eee eae eee 44
expiration of, term as Regentin. joes) oe eae ene ee ee aaee eee eee 2
Historical publications of Switzerland eos sc setseoe ae ase) eee 50
relics, section of, in National Museum,........-.----.---. 22+ --2-+-------- 29, 31
Hitchcock, Romyn, acting curator, National Museum -...............------- 29, 30
in charge of physical apparatus) =5-)co 25s oee oe soe eee ie sees tee 31
paper Dy 2. eee ee ee ce emer aeare Ne SO ele sae eee ele ce me oe en 16
Hobbs, Maj. T. J., disburses exchange appropriation ......---....--.------- 4
Hof- und Staats-Kalender der Oesterreichisch-Ungarischen Monarehie. ----. - aco
Holden, Prof. Edward S., report on progress in astronomy .-....------------- 13,17
papers by, ossso2 ose sol sos erg are rises eee s eae) eases ee eee eer eet er 18
Holland official publications irom sere se eees eon ee ae eee eee ee eee 50
Holmes, William H., honorary curator, National Museum..-..-...----.------ 29, 32
paper bys escnoeseke Siete anata sce csetieecia sales Sarees oer eee abate 18
Hornaday; William, paper Dyess ssscee eae dae See e eee oe eee eee eee ae 16
House of Representatives exchan gs 2o-->-teceeaeaee eee eee ia ae ee soa eee 65
Howitt/A- W)., Australian Group Relations=:-45----- se) sseesse ease erie 12
paper by 2c ss posses eed SE este Sesh eee ne Seger rey 5 eeu eee ate
Hungary, exchanwes: {rom oi gi! ae sass Vaseto ose seo ee eee eee 65
official publications received tromyase. Heo sccs cae eee eee e eee ee eee 50
Hunt, DT. Sterry, reportion prosress ani geolopy: passe eee ae eee ee 17
Hylobates concolor received in exchange \)-22 522-0 soc eee cone eee eee eee 33

he

Ibatiez, Adolfo, relative to exchanges between Uruguay and Chili -.-...---. 57
Ieeland) correspondents its -n2 soo neces ae eee eee Cee Ee eee eee eee 218
voleani¢ eruptionsdnl!. (oe cceeese acne secre e Sen AC ee enuee eee meee eee 495
ie Werceiza, Azores, correspondentspints- +n. ose eee ne onee noes eee eee 71
Eilinois, ‘correspondents ist sa. jemane nests oe eee ee eee eee ee eee ee 270
exchan Sesfor cass. nein ars SAS eee Be eC ee See rere eee eee ee es 67
Mlustrations'in volumenlistrob ss. ee ciec ee eee ee eee eee ees eee VIII
Indra, correspon dentsulttcne =) eeemalsie certs Coe cee ee ee eee oe te eee 84
Indian) Territory, correspondents wns shee eae eee Beer eeeee aerate a imei eee 278
Indiana, "COrrespOnaents Des aseptic ye ee pee eee ete ete ete er 275
exchan Ces for is 2s = 5.< cs ane eer SS ee eee eae Ie Heme 67
Individual exchangesis.se.c5- 08 Meses aisle enie eee ae ee cee ieee eats 65
Insecticide machinery, display of, in National Museum ..----.-------------- 38
substances, display, of, in) National Museum) ooo soe seeeece sooo eee ane 38
Insects, department of, in’ National Musenum.-----.5.--- -2--- ose oe cesses 29, 37
injurious to agriculture, display of, in National Museum......--.---------- 38
Interior Department exchanges (2-2 5242 dee eee nee eee eee 64
International exchanges, Congressional appropriation for-....-...----.-----4, 19, 386
disbursenient.of appropriation)... 2025- 225 322 se20 sre pate eae eee ae 4
of Government: publicationsis.. nec sees te tee Ree eee eee eee rs ne 20
Professor Baird’s report Oni. i.) aie sis oo i a mee ae le eee 18
Statistics Of ois. 5 od Soden eon ela le Se ey oo PAN ee pe a fee 18
International exhibition at New Orleans, extra duties on account of....---.- 1,6

Introduction to the record of scientific progress ...-...--..----- -e--- eee eee 341
> ae

INDEX. 985

Page.
Invertebrate fossils, departments of, National Museum -...--. ......--..---- 29,40
Invertebrates, marine, department of, National Museum...--....--........- what)
Invertebrate paleontology, North American, account of progress in.-..--..- 13, 715
Invertebrates, collection of fossil, in National Museum, bibliography of-.---- 28
investigation, chemical, ef ‘cinchona bark.-22-..):2ss00 Us Pes s8ese 30
inVestivaiionsrahiwoow A HOLL 2:22 isos bo2225 5 Jos ee ee Sse Suk 46
upon physicalsaction of atropia, ee -os2- 4-5 ee - se aes eae seco ee == 30
lowacorrespondentsine =: 222 anee sean les sacs co oe eo ae ee eee Sees 278
SXCHANSES tolerates sense eae sense ates Seca s See SI SES 67
liialy; correspondentssinin. 22 2s2cn5 202 sss deg sce des ceceesaee eee oer ee 218
OxchangestOvee eae eases seek Ge ee ee She seen pode chee eae 66
onicialzpublicabionsirecelved: from! 25-2 s2s= 245 see ee ane coe ee oe ema 50
J.
Japan. correspondentsilis.- <2 42-2 scs—0/02-2 22 ose cons soocee sec eeeeeeeite 86
Japanese shells presented by Mr. Uchimura ..---. --...:.---..----- .--.------ 36
Jaya mCOLEespond ents Meese seeing sae ae eee nema sae abe asec See eee ee 87
Jesup, Morris K., procured collection of building stones for American Mu-
SseumofeNaturaleHistoryum N@wWiy O0ks-= =<). 255 see isa= cassie ieee sels 22
Joscucollechiontofiplants~. =. s5-1 oceans eee ees s tyaaa ec oos ve soem Se cee ee 40
SOLE Uva OCOMODIV Grae osc ons = 5 o/s Se eieisee Saas inosis + ie ode ms wale eo Seeeere 32
Johnson Mr collectionsitecelved from =.= 2 = 5256 s=-p-oeecceene eons cocineses 8
Jones, Charles C., on a primitive storehouse of the Creek Indians ..-------- 900
TONES WOT eee Oech Oonsece CelV.ed)LLOM! sa25 32 os) seca ica cates ase eee 9
EXpPlOLanlOnsw Dy Meet sere es se see alee ate Sita mcisteeista s Sia Bisie es . mapas 9
VOR AME DA VA GES sy PADIS! Dyers ee ec, Seer aoe ass Een oa ee cae 16
Journal rOfeproceedine slot une OP OM Us eam eases) see lee alate heise eyo XI
DuUsicew Wen akomMent(OrsexChanCespssen sec reee ce a= cece aes cece eee ee 64
K.
Kamtschatka, ornithological exploration In.......--....---. --.-.------.---- 28
Reads BCOELES PON OMES MG east erie leltseraes aisle a te oiia\ate esi sh lata) sieinjaeaiwi= sisters scale 280
EXCHANCCSMOLA so ceca) sats sage a Scions eeisiinalicic nis see ne oa pininieie obc(esct rea e wrap aera 67
Katalog der Bibliothek des Deutchen Reichstags..--....-...---------..---- 70
Keno lappa papel D vie ae tee ere legs see ioc cla a clematis Boole sorycinaaae 12) 17
Kentucky) CORES pONGONbS AM) 5 os. rahe cals carciau Saco cones easeee s-ceem sass 282
OXChHAN CESMOL S22 saay- eae erence re ose sisiotnctcininain aad b eelniasie/laclcisiese eines 64
Rieter Gecorfe collection TecelvednromMbrs sa eases sae sole sis onl oneal ele iS 9
Kel emimianion Gabi. (CO-OperavioNiOls ose cesin oe ase. coos cc Sans asic oss cate om ar 70
Knowlton, Hirano. duties of .--- sess. -22-+- eee eS Soa Se ese se Sen eseenes 41
Knoeble, Mr., assisted Prof. Riley ds Wish soy oii i ie RENE a he Tig ake aro an 38
Kunhardiic. Cor acknowled SMenb tOs eas] ei oseees sea) see secs os ose etaceaae 19
L.
ahradory 6x plora hous M425 sos wacsyoe oo ee siiew) oo Se sepsis sisal ares eer ee 7
Lady Franklin Bay, botanical specimens from.. ...--..-.---.--..-----2----- 7
Randishells American jmanualotassecs se. 4-6=csceos see ele ye R Ocha t bee a 28
Valb mann yr Co-Operation Obuccema2)21- ais ohio oe ae aie = see Oa ae eee 70
Lavinia, X., establishment of exchange office in Uruguay.-.---..--.---.----- 54
Baws Pela .cOnpUbic PLIMbgin Ces, sae Se ean sean Je) -nse ee eee 3
ea lsaacebibliooraphy.oh the publicationsiofessss5. 465. 2-seeee ase see ae 27
Beach Mca ce paperepyperee yess erase ctsc. ce aces as wey Sapo oie ree ohare & eee eee 14

Leech, Daniel, corresponding. clerk .......-.. -sece+ csrccrscens Side Geen a Ix
986 INDEX.
Page.
Heetures. in National MiUsewm aioe eae eae ee aap ie ere alec 28
Lepidoptera sent by the Rev. ,C. 31.A> Dall 2. o-oo teens 37
Letters relating tojexchanges, with Uruguay...) 2 eee 52
Libbey, William, jr., edited preparation of fourth edition of Guyot’s tables... 12,13
AUD STI eC OLROS 1 OG TN se ee eee eae ae eal 72
Library of Congress, exchanges .--------- .~-<-3 <---4<c0s0 s245 <se= eeqnine eee 65
Ofs they Nig blomay Mise UNS oe rete a ete oka aetna eesti ele aretoets 28
ofsthe, smithsonian Inatipubiony. cess. e seem ase eae eeiee ae ete elementals 21, 49, 68
List of astronomical Observatories... - - bodejcbadiesedccue essences seme sasems 457
domesticicorrespondents = eee asses acetal elas alate se eae tale rae ato 259
OrRaey ay (La awelsh Kors Chall) Hanson Asoo coss SS56o4 Sooo SHooed SSeS deon cho eS tte 47, 69
List of the writings of Fielding B. Meek, Charles A. White, and Charles D.

A EANIGTO fh tedesece Sosa Sbecio comb toe amo doObau so eo so SOSbHCsopoe osouae 28
Lithology and physical geology department, National Museum..---.---.----- 29,42
Lithology exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition.-..-......... Me CeSens sun sne 42
Longitudes, Bureau des, Annuaire........-..--.-.---- a ape eerie bs es a alas Bi fee 70
Bouisiana, correspondents ints. 245 (letes ce see cese ae cease see eee eee 283

E@X CHAM MOS OLE as ciererriare eee ee eee eon are ae ce 67
Louisville Exhibition, accessions from, for National Museum -....-.---.---. 26
Lower Califormia,; explorations inte sos-\-oeee eee one ee eee ete aes 9
Lucas, Frederic A., notes on the preparation of rough skeletons ....-.-..-.--- 28

2 ote) aN eee eS erMe mmc nee as St soak be oa dodoaad HaGaledea case dtoc 17

M.
Maclean, Rev. Dr. John, expiration of term as Regent...... .....:-..--.----- 2
Maclean, J. P:, on ancient remainsin Ohioe. sos. -sos ieee nee eeee eae 893
Madeira, correspondents) 1n~ cS 022 ee. se ee ee eee ere Renee ee eed aatete 72
Maine, correspondentsin... ote sa aaa sac ee eae sem eciece sie eeree 284

OxeCbanPestOLs eee oe se ere ey eee cena e siciewncte storm elmisiseyatoct atretaate 67
Mallery; Garrick, paper by. ....-2-):252 coe ce s-e een seein ne elecee eee ee eae eee 18
Malta, correspondentsiin 22 eee eee ee oe eeeeeoeece Salo the cet Mot see eee 72
Mammals; departmentiof National Museume-sesccetemese sere carnation eo ioe
Mammal exhibit/for New Orleans exposition=2 225-5---+5see+ p2-=-o eee ae 33
Manitoba; correspondents in <0 S222. Bee ecek eee acc eecacciceeeie eos ease 75
Manualiof;Americanwuand-shells os22- ose sre nec ae oss ee ea eeeeeeeeeeeee 28
Marcon, John Belknap, bibliography of fossil invertebrates. ..-.-..---------- 28

report on progress in North American invertebrate paleontology. -.-----.- 13,715
Marine invertebrates, department of, National Museum.........-...-------- 29, 39
Marsh; ProfiO3C., presentedicastiombonessecoacceeeeee sere ese eee eee eee 36
Maryland; correspondents)ani-2 2 --2-~ esas eee Seite netic teenie ote 285

exchanges for: sacccscs eee eee RAP nC NO NR IeRR ID ASEN Sea ARRSNO A Ea 2512S Mel Ca oe 67
Mason; Prof, Otis T., curator National Museum... -2s25+ o-seuses ceee ese see eee 29, 32

accountof progress ineAnthropologyiseeeee aaa ae eae eee 12, 14,17

theiGuesde collection ofvantiquibiesse.- ces. a 2necese seca nee eee eae 14
Massachusetts, correspondentssimie ee coe see eerie sae eee ee nee ese eee 286

Oxchanl@esmOn= es sor eeaee ae aha) al RN CS NARS Te Ee a) ar, ee ee eee 67
Materia medica collection, National Museum. ........---.-..--..--- -----=-- 28

section, National Musenm i352 oe open Saisie ee ee ae ae ee ree 29
Mathematicaliprizeicincullan soe. sacar ee ee an eye er eee 331
Matthews, Washington, paper by ........---.. BED A te eR 18
Mauritius, eorrespondents in................ Src h Spee tee Ren ete ED ere rs ten a 72
McChesney, J. D., disbursement of appropriation by...--..-.--.-----.------ 5
McLean) Johns): ‘collection received frome eee eee ee ear at 8

exploration byes. vas seu Pees une awl Ba ate NU ays tial ae Neus eye cade ake ee 8

INDEX. 987

Page
MIG) Distha, Ailes, EY Ue |D\voeo sad caesaaedogceoessoe soon cdr ecu Urea eeeaeh oe Gage 12,17
Medical Museum, Army, Congressional action regarding building of_.-...---- 336
Meek; HieldinoyB,. listrot the writings Of .2225-c2 secs cease scces cesses esse ses 28
WMepks SounphnpADelsn Dime eae ee mane cee. Coma ace aelceee semis S = sniinia seats 16
Meetings in lecture hall of National Museum ..-....-.----- .-.--22++------- 28
Mental overwork and premature disease among publie and professional men. 13
Merchants’ Line of Steamers, acknowledgments to.............----.------- 19
Merrill, George P., acting curator, National Museum...-.-..-.-..---...---.---- 29, 42
dutiesotrabpNewsOrleans 6x positioner 525 2 jj cose) tans ae eee ioe 42
DANE OWS esen badd ap oc Co ape Net poe eb DS pHIpEBEee Reemetieo > poncee.-osacc 16
SUS CesuIMA Ma OND, eran eee eons 2s sis a cen eae Aaaeeeeie 2 43
Meso-cenozoic invertebrate fossils, department of, in National Museum. .---- 29, 40
Metallurgy and economic geology, department of, National Museum ...... -- 29, 43
Metallurgy, exhibit at New Orleans Exposition ...-.....-....--.----------- 43
Meteorology accountiol progress 5222s) eae. eee osceidas See a emeeeiee 12, 14,17
Mexicam Aztec Calendar stone. CastOb-.. 2. 522-521. ceaeae ees sess sean é 33
Mexico ncollectiOns merOMemes ae /sae ae nes cae e orn nae iac oe shoes sas hte eee ite 27
COTLESHONG ENT SmANE eae eee tee se eee Sesto na eee aes Maton ease ae Me eo
ExGhanGesnwlb lean sace teas Ne meee ea Vast ahe an Seen ones ose ates te, Jette 66
Ex) ORALLON Ay een eee ca ae lelar saat ee oe aaa a ana) eter Sinan HBO IE BHO Oat GOE a
MexiconGnitiot explorations oitssees tnesecccse as cess sae as ce Soe ee ee 8
Michi pan mcOLLespondenis) ins me. see eet eee asec ceemaas cosa see sae oes 292
EXCHANGESi Wilh o nee ose eet neces eect ews [cue Joeseaeehe se coe suhciie seer 67
Mills Charlesthe aio Il) Secures Diypeece see ete sales eee cn omian ss season aa ets 13
Mineral exhibit of National Museum at New Orleans exhibition ...-....---- 42
resources of the United States represented in Museum collections -...-.. -- 44
Mineralopy-raccount of propressin easese dese ss scee sea oe anaes ones cas ne 14, 17, 689
Mineralswexchangetoha ses a5) scat wen acs eee cie mancwa Soe mentee Seo eS Melo ee 42
‘department OLineNa tional Museumls costes = ssc. tee eee abe aecwae nae sears 29, 42
Mines -viers oh, onvexhibitiony o2-+s1-nseesinces se oases acess Jacccicnssacessoe 44
MAINMEEO ta COLPESPONTENtsaN 4-5 25= asc se as ead eoaee sas neh ceee os cis.ceecte ane 293
OxChHanGesMOneen cote asic wong oe uae cents Say eos SIR Els One eee ate 67
Miscellanecousrcollections esaasne sense ee eee One ee oe oes tone a aioe nee 10, 12, 13, 14
Miscellancous papers on anthropolory = -25---).-----,-<-scee-coes sce -se cose 12, 14, 17
Missaglia, José Luis, establishment of exchange office in Uruguay.-.-....-.-. 54
INFISSISSID Dige COLTESPONCEMUES) AMuse som wa cisace seins cic cicaaee ot sane ce cGa a eeawioeee 295
MISSOUTINE COLFESPONG CNUSHIM eels sae = actos aia aioe isis bie wotee eo isereninel ouisinieaeieels 296
EXCH AN Ges ail Mie sappy ater mays ohe a ede wiata/ occa te cise A siciseie eae wean 67
Molluscamcollectionsyofye-soa.) stews Seaton ee eA A tet ete eee 39
Mollusks, department of, National Museum .........--- pe GIS aa rahaat ce eases 29, 36
Monarch Line of Steamers, acknowledgment to..........-.-.-------e------- 19
Montanacornrespond ents ai onas= sae 4a a He eae Se soe oe seers Meee 298
Morr Hon redo. appoim ted Averentiacesece> 522 S2=- adss6-eke sceuneane seas 2
Mounted birds, collection of, from Department of Agriculture ....-..--.---- 35
Mozamioiques- correspond entisume ssc. 25s tao cee ao aoe Soa deo ec eos meeeee (6
Miller, Dr. Johannes (Vereine und Geaclisehation Bentsetmaads) iakisce Jelec 70
Munoz ywspricllaacknowledomentitoles ees cess c< nee ceaebedelc ose eee 19
Murdocks) Gli ipa PELs ey nse ue aes ehnee S ce FT ey Mi te sae ae ek 16
Murray, Ferris & Co aeknowledgementt0\2.-. 22.2 -ss2ssal sect ss oeaee sees 19
N.
National Academy of Sciences, meetings of .......=-- ---- ----e+ eens e enone 28
National Museum, Professor Baird’s report on ........---.-.--------++---ee- 2€
PETA MEG DORIS Otten mete mae seiseelorn nie A ce Let Oe Ik lei) eee a 33E
988 INDEX.

Page

National Museum} appropriation for =. ..2-:2--222-c2s< sa-. seem soos eno au AVIS
arrangement of material in. .-----.-----------.--.---.- ween oe meee nee cone 26
building; conditionrof 4. soot. =na ete eee eee ae eee ee eee 5
OMA OE 2555 soa a ckeesdiosecan oaesed Goes SasStososes6 Sedo otigssses o5gccs 14
ATCT SRS yee ee a 16
Congressional appropriation for ...--..----. ---.---------.----- ---------- 5, 335
Congressional resolution relating to printing of annual TOporti. esos 335
Departmentiof antiquitiese{--2- =. o--seees= + ese = eee eae eee eee ner 32
arbsand industrese-ce eee. tee ease ere see seers peo ALE Joe sense 29
DIndS) oe. CE ee Sa ae ero eatin elec ee ne erne tate tein ate teeters 34
COMM PATA) CII BEE ER po coe hoon cbono ossceb ee seSo codes 36
OULD OOS Fee ease ace ete See ica Celeron alee eIne cee eine erecta ee eteeente ete 32
OXCHANGES oes wiee clematis eee ale ee ieee tre era le 65
fishes 2.5 bc 0 bee hacen aes SE ES Se ee eee sabeeteatek cere aes 35
fossil and recent plamits:.-< ite - ce sec ee ee eae ee cee see see enemas 40
insects ick. eeea Les be er eee ee Babs ee ee nee amiae omere eesretate 37
invertebrate: fossils: .202 Swe eect ae eel ec efe eo cee eee e a anes 40
litholocy*andiphysical geolopy Sen c eee see iee eat eae eee etter 42
maminale + soe 24:5 522s eee ee eee ce Rb eee Ute bee See ek mote es eos ae eieen 33
marine invertebratesis.2 <2 kee Ree Reese Boe eee Cehee ee eee 39
metallurgy and economic peolopyc-secee = aeeeiee= = eee ee eee ee eae eee 43
minerals on. 5 swviec eee ee eS ee Cee SER eee Oe enone Pee E Ee eter bce 42
mollusks! --o--2e =e =r ee See eee eee ee eee ee 36
MiDrary? 322442 heehee eA See ee ee eee ees Seine Seamer Dev adce Oe eee eee 28
meetings in lecture fall cous She ReeUE LL VAGUS ER Ee nee ee oe eae 28
new building required 2st {Tester tae cee oe eerie ee eee eee sate eee a
organization oF departmentS:.22 +e. s2= acces ces eres eae eee tesco eeeeeee J2
proceedings of ...-........ JL LLORES DERSLER RR cle cee ohne eee rt Coe eee eee 5
publications of..--... eRe bee Le Eee eRe Ae ete re eee settee 27
Saturday lectures'S.: 222522 e it eeeees tee et ye ee eee oe ee eee eee 28
VISIGOTS' = 5 2socc2 Seas ck cheese eset ecee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee eee 28
Naval architecture, section of, National Museum ......-....------------- ---- 29
Naval Observatory exchanges © 25/22 .4/522 chats sete eee omeu eeeioeee 65, 330
Navigation, Bureau of, exchanges..---..----.---.--- SY SRY cha 2 Lae 64
Nebraska, ‘correspondents ani s2e SS ee ane eee 298
exchanges with sone oe ee een oe ee ee ere et re ee oes 67
Necessity fornew Museum’ building 222222) ei eee eee eee eens 7
Necrology cece seb ete aris Bere he ee eee a Pes peer en IES far 24
Nelson, Ey Wi) collections’ made by sscs case eee sce eee oe eee eee eee eee 9
explorations ‘by oe ie fete Ee ESSER Be Oe nee eo 9
papers by sb ka ewe Mid Seem ee Nes NNO I Ce eh ota ae eR Rr 16
Netherlands-American Steam Navigation Company, acknowledgment to --..- 19
Netherlands; correspondentsam' pcos eee ees ceo See ee eee aes er ee 229
exchanges “within < Ween eR a RE ee RAE A Bea ee ee See 65, 66
Newfoundland))correspondentsune==-- 2c. =e eee eee eee eee eee eee 76
exchanges with 1322520 Ae cE a ee ee ee eee 66
free postage on exchanges-.----- felch Were Bec Be etc ee Re nes ee eer 23
New. Hampshire; correspondents: in--e.-= sees oleae eee eee eee 298
exchanges, With i.22e8 Bose Sek oe cee eae oe ee at eee 67
New Jersey, (correspondemtssin) 2620 a. ee eee ee ee ee ener eae 299
exchanges! withioceesmeen seen eeeeee SPAR SNe eS Ch et a eh eH ee tampa 67
New, Mexico;;correspondents ine esee ees eee ee ee 301
exchanges with:-...3252.2Sac hee c Se cee ce cae eek eee eee eee 9
INDEX. 989

Page
New Orleans Exposition, accessions from, for National Museum. ....-...-.-. “26
NTO Meh MOM Mine eee els Aa cic mielacirace sas anianon Seinen sete marcela okie 31
Sxl rGkyIEs OO ACEGUMD Ole main ca). 20 asain s one a bieameriaee es qamicucices bance 1,6
PNSDRS IO Gre) SIE le 3 VE Se Ree A CPE EN UB eS gE 27
participation in, by Museum BOSC CS Hae a CaO Se OScarebm cocade Geos nooTooredoa 26
New Southey Walesmcorrespondents) ils oc> o.oo enone same eee a aiseemeoieeee 88
Ss CIEE eB Be WANE pare res niin aie ap iw wea sa a ho chan ee a 65, 66
New Mork, sCOEesPONGenig IN joo oeuin-caisnis4 oocec coms aati oe ene ahem aa eae 301
OX CHANG Ba DARE meta eo tale = = Inieim aloe cicto nl cmie io ninralainisicoe aie a eee oe 67
New York and Brazil Steamship Line, acknowledgment to.---......-....-.. 19
New York and Mexico Steamship Company, acknowledgment to-.-.......-.- 19
New York Central Park Menagerie contributed zoological specimens..-.-_.-- 24, 33
INewaZealanicarresponden tsi: 502 oi Sai nit wesn/anjnes ocean tas suae seek 90
exc han esi ers: sere -leomatiescisisce el ecen sta soapaeae eel oheistee see erent 66
Niblack, Ensign A. P., collections received from......---.--.-...----.2.---- 8
SPQ Oe MOS) [7 ooo lee Soko Cae eso SES ER Or a6 Bee Sele eM Oba Me Somc aber mor 8
WENUGIe UN a2 bec coeeos ce end COC COs Cane ere CPO ro Oneee Ee ase ss rae emrine oe 16
Ni Carag ia eOEReSpONU CNUs AM) ca aaviana = sawed ssa seenee lass Seed = weet aagien 77
HOTU SAMEeTICa, (COLreESpONGONtS Nas = 5 os ocln c/o ces sates secs santte ease! 74
North American ethnology, Congressional appropriation for ...-.....-...... 336
North American invertebrate paleontology, account of progress in ......-... 13, 715
DESH MO AEOli Na; CORLESPONGONUG NT coe eem ccna foc ceves sae os eos icca~ enone 308
SAC NRTA AOS Ake 5 Sed Seine a OE he CE SON OEE ISEOROE ORE men Rema en ae 67
North German Uloyd, acknowledgment to. =. :2-2-. ---...25552c-2e2 sa. 2808 19
Norway ;COLLCSDONUON tS renee. am a ariolcmsae Ses anitaance sae ea! = Sete ase ie oe 234
OxChan CCS sWiAb lew maie terete am sais Sitnaisia Sel ssi states Sonys ese oe cate data seas 65, 66
Of CIalg MMIC aONSILeCeLVeGurl OM ss ae alae laa cne ese sae eaeee rae ere 50
Notes on the preparation of rough skeletons.......---- yonnued a deeilaeele rset 28
NOV 2 SCOuIa  COMeSPONGeNws AN (os oe cn eccacs occ. Cec aed oSecansee see shoe hees 76
NMS RATES Ce MADE iOY, sso 5's acnca aston tt tad on ckes tesco neste eeeeee 12, 17
0.
Oaxaca, Mexico, collection received from... .-.. 2-2. .2cs05 122 oes cede decode 32
Ober Mangelsberreraty, letter Of. : sec ss. sect ce eect sc se See ee 53
Observatories astronomical, list O£=- 2225255 2-. 225.2 sees se ee 457
WOclriehsk: Ca acknowledgment tO 25s... sy sesasoslck 1. 2ane eases esse 19
WHE CTS Ort lepkastitUblOM -— she cae basins sees utce se -eeuae Seas ee eoes IX
Official publications received from tones Governments o2sso nesses a eee 50
Ginig, COMDCSMEHNen TS Ms». 2 ste eet oe ae eel soe Ue Se 309
EDO) MEY OVERS /SY TIT Ea I Ee i es eS PO gee eee Coe 67
Femains in, by Jo. MeLean :..--. 52.2222... Sgoessacese Gocose soto casocs 893
Wx On WCOrrespand cite) tmnt Ns) 2. Ol Bs aa al en Ag 313
PES LE TELE SIT TUT CA OSS A ean AS GP Ae i epee ERIE SI SaeReeR EGE BEN DE 67
Gres utilization on dillustrated) sects: ---s-. oe Soe Sees Soe ee 43
Ornithological exhibit at New Orleans Exposition..........-..----.-------- 34
exploration in the Commander Islands and in Kamtschatka ..........---. 28
Ornithologists’ Union, American, meetings of ..-........--.-------2-+eee-e- 34
Ps
Pacific Mail Steamship Company, acknowledgment to-........-.-----.----- 20
Paleontology, North American invertebrate, account of progress in........- 13, 715
Palxozoic invertebrate fossils, department of, National Museum Boe tase Betoe 29, 40
calmer elas Edward: COUeCiONS DYinscs vsces uate eeetls2 = Seka cee koe ee 932

explorations by---..-.-- CR ANIL sale Ged SORA Soma OF GCS BoScInst: 9
990 INDEX.

; Page.
Panama Railroad Company, acknowledgment to ..---- .-.------------------ 90
Paraguay, correspondents in .-----.----- ------ +--4++ ------ -----+---------- 83.
Parker, Hon. Peter, resignation of, as Regent..---.---.------+---------+---- XI, XII
Pasetti, Baron, letter to Hon. John M. Francis.-.-.-.-.------.----.-----.----- 62
Passier, A., co-operation of ...--..--. .----- e+ eee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee 70
Patent Office exchanges-\.222ss<<sskece ur shen ere wasp eetseeneriat en eben 48, 65
Patton, Vickers & Co., acknowledgment toc.- 2.2. ..-- 22. --2. Joo. hoon aso 19
Peru, correspondents in - ..---- .----- ---- eee ee eee ene nnn wae eon ne woo one 83

exchanges With...-... ---- ---- -----+ e202 eo 2 = cone eens cone ene ene cree ones 66
Pennsylvania COLLesp on gents Mee pas ete a ate == terete ate te e te tte late elt ee 314
Ghd ne hiker\c) oll tee Sek ea aan Bao oe GbOse OSOgcs 3855 SHSCSO Sod S Sera resosc 67
railroad Company, acknowledgment to ..-.-.....---.--------.--..--.-... 20.
Pentacrinus, Collection) Otis scree eters aa otter te feet ae tel 39
Philadelphia Zoological Garden, contributed specimens ...-..-...-.-..----- 24, 33
Philippine Islands, correspondentsanelss = a22 = see e see eee ae nome aleeiele 87
exchanpesif0le pesas eons e=-eceee Soe sere ose So see Sse S05 camese gassccocbe 66
Philosophical Society of Washington, Bulletins of the ....--.---..-.-.-- wag 13
Physical apparatus of the Smithsonian Institution. .......--.---..----.---- 31
geology, department of, National Museum. -........-.....---.-------..--- 29, 42
Physics, account of progress 125... 22s ase S52 eee eel em ce wee ce avelvendeyua na sono
Physiological actionsiotiatropiane 2 so. . -e-a\-e=— ena a= ae eee eee 30
COS Ua ROTO TS See ie ye rieg re ane 4 oO Sce am sgd Docgce GOO cone Hoses Sa codods 30
Pickford & Winkfield, collection presented by .----. ----<. --2--. -- 2-22 soe 44
1EaMb ier os (Ob ea Ne thy soeeos Go oon ogo S ooo aSoedodesasoocnoadosesd osesss cose 18
Pim, Forwood & Co., acknowledgment to.......---.---.---------------- anh 19
LEAR TSH Clete IMI OES be Gees Seueboue seo eso OSooon disso qsed cote seiSosecos chad 41
Department, of, in) National Museums acces eas see atane = eee eee eeteer 29, 40
HOPKIN bron WOR Sones patos obhgaon sod pobste tidss coeSoeee cooacosd 40
iPlason, Mode; co-operabionvOles-- sea. -p eee ee ee ee eee ae eee nee ete aes 70
Polynesia, correspondents in ..--.-- Se ober py ocoo eee Rd OsneSeoecees Ghogdessee 91
Porter, Noah, address at the unveiling of the Henry statue-...--.-----.-... 12
Portugal, correspondents in -.-..--------- Scibeod See edb edegsesese cnba send osc 237
OC MAMAS GH NS eases See Amc mEeons Sao soto cons s4euSsSaeecs Gossocqer= 66
Post mortem examination of zoological specimens ...--- ----.--------------- 24, 36
Pottery, American prehistoric, section, National Museum..-.--.----..---.---- 32
Pottery exhibit at New Orleans Exposition ......---..--..---<. ------ ------ oe
Rotthast; Dr! co-operation Of - 24. 2-6 coseeiirie eel e eee aa ee eee eee eee 70
Powell, Maj. J..W.;, director Bureau of Eithnolocy. ==. sacle n-aetise cise) ae om 45
director United States Geological Survey .../%---.-.-...---..--.-.-.--.. 45
Paper by Myton oe se = See eee esis s cetseoie eves eis eee ae See tee eet 17,18
Prehistoric ishing an Bure petascec aac eerse lees ieee tea ee ate ere eee ii
pottery, American, section, National Museum-.-......--..----.-----...----- 29, 32
Preservation of collections, Congressional appropriations for...-.-..-..-----. 335
Price list:of Smithsonian publications 22.4 s.. scs/.-- ose aeean eee ee eee 947
Price list of United States Government publications..----.-..-<.--.----.--- 51
Priestly; Dr. Joseph, apparatusiotee se 2e = os) hah cele je ta) eat) ae oe rey et 31
Prime, Temple, papers by ..---- AS Aanene ames Meh a 3) Fr NASI TU wee lvibBS Ny Ph es lc 16
Prince|EdwardiIsland, correspondents In 222/25 seus <n e lates see eee eee 74
Printing ofannualoreports, chan cejor timeesseee ee eee eee ee ee eee eee 2
Congressional resolution as GOs eye eee Se eee eye ey rca eer I, 337, 338
Erocecdings of Biologically Societys ca ean a ee ae ee ee eee eee 13
of ‘National: Muse mii ey ie A Le Ting CURE MOR cee eT 15527, 35
Progress in developmentiof Museum. 2-00. So ee caeten seers oe ee eel eee iin

Scientific, record Of 2) Tie. ee eee Cae eee eer ciel eee a 12, 13, 14, 341
INDEX. 991

Page

Prussia, exchanges with. .-.---. sone Coates Choo seer edhe Contes oodood cosdas 66
Publigikrinteriexchan meson ese. icneiscelss mails ale seielaisatelaeloya ne eee . 65
PublicationsemAnstmansMimis try.) 2)s-ta soe oysiaislayeisin(aimminejoiseelesiciers oeisya nae 64
eres tan ie Ce aOR ya aletn tn) =< /—paia) aire yash emia) armies ram aioli wine a ales otece eo 17
Of Poreiyn Governmental: : 200000 052.. o ie eaen be 21
OTN MOE WINGED aot be Be OH OO EC SEse BOSE BE aOss Socibch Sood se Goros ease 27
DUbletins ro fee ey eee Sis sin wie svee wis tsislonl oon toe ale oeee te eesiesce 14, 28
CHROME ES Ol 2k O Ss oo obo Shoda) Sees SOBER CORES eB OGeG CONSOO Hen Sue Sone eeee 28
COUIGG. yr lr 1 ean boos hoe SERRE OREO Ene Ric cH SSO OOK OBS nome tc aca 27, 35
PTOCEECIN GS Ye ej yaeersw ee seleainiajare Veen aloe SSRIS Sel a latiecielne cence LORS Mao
special report upon the fisheries industries.....----.---.---..------...- 28

Of Smithsonian Institution: 52.55.52 2 Sele ses ee eee eee eoeceeee 10
Anca MS ports eas toe seh Sea ses Su cde atu aetna 20 se See SL ee sete LOpk7
Contributions) tovKriowled ges ees)... aos oe cjoamoeciaaieisee oeioe wtonesee 10, 11
distributions Ofer sete aes ols alos oe ae slain clerely nia sia tera ara alse rare, Sees ae 10, 259
miscellaneous collechionsijsoo ess bees eee ee a. ee 10,12
ElGOwlint) Of nen were oeeniaccleeisineeiecicneic wae see sane aa sel aeiaormes Soot 947
rulestordistribution! Of (655 sa.) srs ose loos eiesee lle uN ee swe 259

of United States Government, price list of..--.....-..---.------2--+-.---- 51
used in preparing list of correspondents ......---..----.------------se6 70
Bushs QuecnelandsAlmanaGrssontseeisceeiee assoc otels iaeiselsassoelss se eaae tee 70
Byemyssperm-whale tor Museum <cetscmelenmil so octets sjanio coalesce ecisee oe 33

Q.
GQnarterlyexamimahlonyonminanCes racer ss\a\eiosiel= ac) eins stelele soe aeons 4
Queens landealmanaGeae near aster a salasa seals ne == wea as ecmelsiciala 4 seinem se 70
Queensland "correspond entshimessre see eee ee se sian n ea cate cals ciace eel oamete 86
R.

alo aGutrackatOrarmonyjer sss e aeons saa acne saonccste sa saoeles ee crae ae 5
Rathbun sichard .curator sMUsOUMlsstmaclena cetacean em one steer ene ee 29, 39
jp gets) Wi sos eed sods ped dea debe sepada padosd Cabs poate sosed Gone seooessesne 15, 16
Ra OriC. curator Nationale Museumlssc.)-s c\eescccs oaiscine = c/a e eee i eOuae
PLCMISLOL CHishin ony OTOPe mes meraicins se aaser=alaia ajoniarse a alee se itera 11
Leela Cin NCU Gone an yeg Sk a Se a ee Sone Sereooeeer sooceen: y ken (s:!
AfeuMeM MUSH lib LOM eee se nee ene eters aha opal ately —iniaie ale are clnicteiateeta\s)areue yom ae 4
ecord divisionvof exchanpe SehviCO paeees esa een es soe asin atbe sera eile 48
OLS CLE ChPLOS TESS ene tessa cleanser cineca aie) Sais a) slalasin\e sia mie aise see 12, 13, 14, 341
ING! Siighe Joie) WEAN KE) Ooo so es eece ba boop aceeee Ces aee cEosonedoors cose socieac 20
Rete cmon Om Sound DY, \WllliatN Dy dy Ole cee eae cecal snels) seein ilee ie sieemraer 13
Revents atthe institution, BOArG@ Ob. se ioc. /so 2 scious < cle al ateisia)= (uals = esis x
nepents,,Journal of proceedings Of 4 5)5- 22/00). <2 <n oas sm Gaiam) minis ave ete xI
HS CAlVOMT ALO Le dues setae ote eels sine lsisiaa tears lala etelate sia inate aetete iets 2
coma hey hinee ane? Olt RS SR mos Soooe Se5 eS UOlG bd COUD ES BOoecs DoeSso eae ES osonoe XI
annual meeting of, changed to 2d Wednesday in January... -..-.------.-.- XIV
BDPOIMLIMENtOLe seu ae ree SL Sea arate ase | aitichel a ey eidye, aici eteleleeacinam cae 2
CONSHIMUION Of HE OAT Obese)! oer ayaa ee cette) alate ati ey eie a afelal clan ic\ clair ieee X
CMMI AMON LOT bEnIMNS Obese NN ava ha Urea levhau Ns vay arash aeieeteis takes yeliele XK, Lye
Reichstags Bibliothek, Deutsche, Katalog -....---...-.---- sooaseG Seba sesor 70
Relics of General Wauluvetn GIs OC OIA ENE EES Mente Ons SROeoH 31
Repairs required in Smithsonian pele IEE Make Nara o'e kta te a are hl Semteperee at aa 5
Report; annual, ofthe National) Museume2 22. 2225.2. Sao eeacleme soe ee noe 28
ObUELOLOSSO RD RIECU eaten yon sos eam dioneele twee Lk ody 2) See lo oie aa 1
Off cheng titubion tones ter eee ete cece ucicse cei 2 ome cteteiefeinemscseetanice 12

of the Institution for 1884...... saa aCpietetele Seaisisiaeia eeiers BHCC oOOD Shee tae 5 13
992 INDEX.

Page
Report on Bureau of Ethnology-.- -----.------- ---- ---- +--+ +--+ ------ ------ 45
on Fish Commission......---...-.-.------------- Pee ROSE and oas BBs sa a= 45
om GeolocicalaSutveyeensstssee sees eee ee ee 45
printing ,of, change in time of. 2-22) -- ere eee ee ee Ps
Report, special, upon the fisheries of the United States....-...--....-..--- ng 28
Reptiles and Batrachians of North America, report on..--....----.---------- 15
Researchesanientomolopyaee secre. eee eer eee res ere ee eee ee eee 38
Resolution of Congress relative to printing annual report. ..--...----...-.-- i, 3
Resolutions)\and Acts) of Congress! 2 Seer — eee eae ee ee eee eee 335
Revenue cutter ‘< Conwin,77 exploration by, cee scesaae= a= -e see pees aaa 8
Reward offered for spotted dolphin . . - s-+)2s<stinj5- 4-2. etme neh eae ascents 33
Rhees, William J., appointed acting secretary .......-..-.----.----.---..--- XIII
Rhees, Williamyd., chief clenky. <2) -5—-n—=— ee er = ee eee ee eee ie |
Rhizocrinus; collections Ofe = 4----- =e -ecesei eee ae asses See eee 39
Rhodetisland correspondents) iles- eee eee eae eee se aee eae eee ee eee 320
exchan@es HOG eas a2 creas se sere fee pei eee ee ee ee eee lee 67
Rhy tinaso1cas pSkele bono tyes ees ieee eee ee ale ee le ee eee 36
Richter, M.,,co-operation Of osc eoetea- eee eee eee ese ee eee eeeaee 70
Ridgway, Robert, curator, National Museum..-.-.....---........----.- ores 29, 34
papers! byeeeee- eee aslo Gee RE IORSEE GOB SE enone Seam OaeOO oo ceL eo omc e 15, 16
Riggs, 8. Ro, Paper PY. esc mee mew ee meee ne i= a eel eae 18
Rigier,) Me. co-Operaii OM Of jee emis a see iees eller tetera eae tne te eee 70
Riley, Prof. C. V., honorary curator, National Museum........---..-......- 29, 37
Rock, Prof, Miles; collections received from’ 222222 -225.-2- see ee =e eee 9
Gh. NANO NI a Choo esse Se oma 5oa SOS 5G ob json Ja sace co Sasa oe ones Goda possse 9

Rockweod, Prof. Charles G., jr., account of progress in vulcanology and seis-
Mol sy ..Ldea +o sce4c chaste bees ece te ek cere een nie eee eens 14, 471

ROG TOC kere) plese np hp) GIS yi eee ee ae eee 16
Rough skeletons, preparation of, notes on...-.-...-.--.--..----~----- see 28
Roumania, correspondents in.....----.------ Sere Waa OC Aca Heme en tm er ae 239
Routine work of Institution ..2-+ sete Scere eee eee eee eee eer 1
Ieonuweey (OeCOR heey Geos o ee ane - Sooeesauondes Saqued cHocacSoed Soadoseaes 18
Rules for distribution of publicationsesepeemaeeseiee a ee eterna tee eee 259
RUSSL AC OLLES OU CMs NN ere re tata ete ee teat 239
SCONE MYR AU Aeneas Hecen oebe soon acacia cobs Saad Hoomeo Memecomteeasinc 65, 66
Ruths JohneAe papers Dyas ae pele eee eee eel eee ee leer tal 12,17
JALAN Wr Tee eee) ON aWe oe sigan ner aoa Ee Goues See ceoses nonoad cco dsces 16
S.
Sacrificial stone, castiof 2 2525S. Goce s ne see eee eee ese esa ee eee 33
Samson, Rev. Dr. George H., specimens received from .----. -- SL USBUR 32
San) Salvador; correspondents im 240 -seee oo eee eee oe aetna 77
exchanges with .----. dS e Sake ole SASS Sas athe lect nctetet aye ye tote eet 66
Sand wich Islands¥eorrespondents inws2.s\so- Sse eo aes Setar oe eee eeeee 91
Santos, M., establishment of exchange office in Uruguay .-.-.--------------- 54, 56
Saturday lectures)in National Museum 322. 52s 2.4 sotto nrolai= elo =P nate 28
Saunders, William, collection of American woods .---.-...-----.------------- 27 -
Saxony; exchanges swith: 2 sss so oa3 nes seco sees tte toe eae ater 50, 66
Schoolcraft, Henry R., on plan for American pohnolegieal investigation - ---- 907
Schott, A. L., check- he: of plants 2232052. totonc/ote dca ee cee eat eee 41
collections aie Dye eee eeiatey cts Aalst ote Sheena es BONE FES 27 See crea eae 4l
Schumacher:& Co.; thanks toss 22. 53 sis. ccs ee os Sa epee 19
Scientific departments of the National Museum....-..--...----.------------ 29
Scientific: propress, record: of 206 bia yay oye ok bes ees ere See eee 14, 17, 341
Bocileties; iexchanges.of 324 53.23 jesse oan ee Soe eae ee PSPS Ara sprig 65

writings of Joseph Henry! 225 22.45: pose Ue posse cine oe aoe nee iee eee 14
INDEX. SII,

Page.
Scotland weorkespond envsiNyesocjam coe els sacs eon sieine ieee aap ieee 215
Scudder, Newton Pratt, bibliography of the publications of Isaac Lea ...... 27
Sige nies. meri gS Gass or eens Bo CCUE EOE ae Bese THGr a SAeura: ESOrO coors 39
Sea-urchinssicollectioniof sec 2/2. <i. - saeniwo ne ais ciclae acne eeeleaseisnconciccee 39
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. (See Baird, S. F.)..--..-.-.-.--.----- Ix
Secretary ,achinc appointment 2222.5. ease cisiseue es seeee enamels ete ieae ce XII, X11
Secretary’s report to the Regents to be printed by December 1 of each year .- XIV
Secretary of War a member of the committee to select a site for new Army
MoedicaleMusenm building? foie) ais .ccr eee eee eae eee cece eeeae 6
Seismology, ;ACcCOUNt OF PLOLTOSS) 10 \acee oo noes wa cicine a gee/een=saeiajonas saeco 14,471
Sellers, George Ercol, observations on stone-chipping.-.-....---..----.----- 871
Selva. icorrespondentsnnecsrscnmenessescestocswec me teers setae eee 249
Shells pAmencanwand semana Oferta sce)-u.- sine ames toeseisatesinniaaIs enero 28
Japanese contributedy bya Mr WU chimuralc cece s loess otaseeioeeeiceet= 36
Shepard, James, on shell-heaps and mounds in Florida........-..-.-.------ 902
Sherman, General William T., expiration of term as Regent ..........-..--. 324
Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., alcoholic specimens of insects sent by ..-.....--------- 7
collections received from ..---..-.-.--- satoipee sic at eye ceca ms iad sels 9
ORT OGLE Ly OS Seba Oot ss eo Riba Se aa GEOR ebb aeacodoe agdeoo boy Bon oEdicaon cobe 16
Sidenbladha Moy co-operauion Ol. sac se soo we cine siecle = c/aiselelse viek He bewiceicets 70
Siew aee MccKe CM ANE Ashe. eee eels santana sa ninnlee ea cias ae eam emine setae 65
SuK-culhure @isplayameMlnuseum y= sac) oat aele wie apse ccins clea sis sive e etc cele 38
Skeleton of Rhytina gigas......---.--.-. sBLO GoddoccdU adda Sededonocnaobeoesace 36
Bkelebons pOxXChan Ger Olwoos sclociane soos see cece cae esa seis coseseleacicwelnents 36
LOUGH sPLeparatiONuOleeiom cose classics clelswicisicicisieisiels soe sisisiwa =!oa\nielseaiiwinicial= 28
Skull of Atlantic whale received by Museum ...........-...----------.------ 33
Skulls, exchange of, with Army Medical Museum .........-...----.....-.-- 36
Slade melishawpaApeLrslp yao sees cisee eececitee toto eleacisiclsl cols etesaacelsciciess 16
Smithy CharlesuM-s papers Dao cece se osccce sees soe ceo eaicicisecs cuice = creinee es 14
SUNG WE LMM eva DApELI DY aeceerccsnsce cece see cel cactaae seisiaipere mae 18
SUMMA OSA GD APSLS! DY te cere cece esos ee Sonu isic ce ce acne meckemcer meee. 16
Smithy sydneyaltpaperswby esc eses cece ce ceesteaoscececescnas ccaelsessee en ae 16
Smibhsontond wcondi1On Oly-ewas= asses eee se oasis see ce ead sies celae acter 4
Smithbsoniangoulldimey condition) Of -ee.-)saseese= 2 52 eee een ee es) saree 5
fire-proofing of, Congressional appropriation for .........--..-..--------- 336
Smithsonian establishment, members of....-...-. .----. ---- ------ s-ceee ---- 14
SMUGASOniaNexc han Ces sem aaa sencineeealeeiieeiesoet oleic cre yaee oe eisiainieinetimierm= tate 47
Smithsonian Institution, Congressional appropriation for.......--.------.-- 336
ProfessombalEdss Te POLtE ease eer ertee sae iaa ener ole monies) eee cicistesmarecisisic 1
PHO wy INO ATES. ccehodbedb CecRco MODE EU OSIese poo esos AS obecboDE -doSce 68
Smithsonian publications, price-list of 2220-222 .2)2- 2552. ch see .eScee es ee cee 947
Smithsonian Reports for 1884 and 1885, Congressional resolution relating to
PLING OL ee ee pea ese eae clnaee lapels dislwa) ve clavclaiicid selelemiajste/ se clslares 337, 338
Societies meeting in the lecture hall of the Museum ..--......--..--,--------- 28
Society of Naturalists of North America, meetings of ...-....---..--------- 28
HouuheAmMericay COLresponagenbs iM. sosseiiss eee see aee dee eee eee eeia seein a 80
CeO) YANN jo cceciocococeseno osocHa5 odbods odeno5 coecou Hobo NaBecUUSOs oc 9
POHEH Caroling. COLES PONGSNES IIb)... sa5 cosa a cie's cits cle cncisSe Secialnamelnaw cela 320
OXC HAN SOS lb eee ee sae seein alee cela emia clee scene seeiscis icles ninalsiome selene wins 7
Mpaimmcorrespond ents iiss eee eee ae eels Socio emcee accesses essences cme 249
OXCHAMOES Willen may ees mer ce See Meas ENE Sate Savalas auicaveereleceree 7
Specimens, alcoholic, building for, required .....-....-..-- SoS ee eee aerate ri
econtributedtbysmenav erties mesma cece ae ce ate oie ie) mie oe oneieinieia eines 24, 33
igor LE RM Iam al ahooy Tey aye ee ee A Cul es eee eccomooouD HonUtoor 7
aCe MO bes Selene Oly Cae Ol eo ee Nee ocec cobs Gaus nado 7

H. Mis 15 63

994 INDEX.

Page.
Sperm-whale, pygmy, received in Museum...........--------------+------- 33
Spofford, H. W., appointed assistant librarian in Museum library--..-.-..... 28
Spotted dolphin, reward for capture of-...-.-----~----------------+--++---- oo
Steam transportation section, National Museum.........-...----.-----.--- i 31
Steamer! “Al batress, exploration Dy aa sees sot elses eae nneee ae eee aan 8, 45, 46
‘Carlisle P. Patterson,” exploration. bys... oc. 2g oe ieee eae 8
Ai Corwill1explOPavlOws Dyenase ss ena aoe tert ee ele eiieeta nates ee ai aera 8
Stearns, Dr. R. E: C., collection recetved trom). 522 22-22. sccae ea ace seen ee 39
AGA Gels) 0) 8 ge Goa es eeae aero Se cee daoud GoussuoooboS codedeidead dosedn toeeck Se 36
Stejneger, Dr. Leonhard,.assistant curator, National Museum-.--..--- eee eee 34
ornithological explorations in the Commander Islands and Kamtschatka- .- 28
papers by... .----. --- 22+ ee noe cone een ce nn cece enn eee nnn ween 16
skeleton of Rhytina gigas obtained by --..---.......--------- .----------- 36
Stevenson, James, papers by.----- .-----.--------------- ------ ------------- 18
specimens received from. ...-.. --.----- ------ -- 2220 oes oe ene penne ---- =~ 32
Stone-chipping, observations on, by George E, Sellers....-...-.-.-.----.----- 871
Stoney, Lieut. George M., collections received from ......--.- .----. -------+-- 39
explorationsin Alaska 2-223 2u ces ec seesuces ees sence caer soe seamen eerie 8
Stners, M.. de, co-operation O& 222552222 62) poco stella eer wesine sees ace =m cleat 70
iM
Tables, meteorological and physical, by Dr. Arnold Guyot, edited by William

Dey, [Ese ook ole ace see oem ee ee os ears eet eee 12
Masmanian AlM AN aCe sala fem sae ee wee ene eile eel ateie ear tela eae aaa ieee tetete 70
Rasmania, COMreSpOnGenta ame 2 foe see aioe oats te eleecie pape hate ee re Leta 29°
Taylor Dr. FL W..,.collections received trom... cen ng ees mab eine tee ae eee 9
Taylor, William B., the refraction of sound ...:........------ 2-04 ---- ---- 13
Taylor, William J., paper Dy s222)--s0- = os) soe eal) eam e aelcle niet) tellin iol 12,17
Technical botanical work of the department of plants ........-.-.-----.---- 41
Telephone service, Congressional appropriation for .......-.--..------------ 335
Temporary workshop, condition and purpose of.......-.--..---------------- 6.
Mennessee, COMrespON d GIGS ee eee eel ee ie atelier cela tel otter a teteta aati 321
exchanges 08 52-20 d-0 4 sn 32 sation oes Secieisla e see ee ee tela 67
Meoyoaumigui, CastiOl.-=-— sec ee oes ae aaa eee sere ace aea eae ete se ieee 33.
Texas: correspondents Instat ss oc. eee en ee Selaca aciesta eee eee eieeene ue 323
DCO NMS NG Ol ee een Goes ee mbe KemEcy Poodeo Go4uee Hsodae Soc 6socsencarcs 67
Textile collection sent to the New Orleans Exposition ....-...---..---------- 31
industry, section of the National’ Museum) s25-e--cee oe cine ee eieeeneces 29, 30
Thomas* Cyrus spapersiWyacea ose ea acess ee eee nee eeeisee eae neta 16
Poner lectures, s22 ssa sccenss A= see Seen ese bet on an cee eee aaa see 13
Townsend, Charles H., collections received from.......-.......--------- «a0 8,9
explorations by caescso. sect oe eee May ara Gade eo mor eee ate ee cereceaets 8,9
Transmissions of eschangves:-+-o-saose ese eas eee ser oe ace cee 19
Transportation companies granting free freight .--.....-.----.-------------- 19
Treasury Departmentiexchanvese esa ap oes ae <a ee een eee reretate 65

Trinidad: correspondentsumesos see sa receive een a Senet e eaters ee aan i
exchanges for 52-22 hud: J ooo ceeisnee sane coe semusciteretanee Renan eats 66.
True, Frederick’ W., curator, Maseunl ..2.,: 0500 soa ese ean sector ee 29, 36
honorary.curator, MusenMcss crane seuleoo cee nec wioneine seis aoe eateries 29. 36.
librarian: Museame.G oes etal oe re ee ere ae Sse eR ee eee ere tra 28:
papers. bys £25.62 Uae aeteen be soe eiee a Seema ee aimee eens See Se aa ees aero 16.
Trustees of Tyndall fund..-............ elnino lalul mini wim =)ole/=| aim al mee nl pice =i cle 25, 26:
farkey, correspondents ine cose ess a5) cea uees aie eschalstole ticmpianaenne amma eters els 257

exchanges fore ccs ce an selena een ime meee erent a ek ney eS 2 67
INDEX. 995

Page.
Marijslslandsncormesponud OMS dM po. scien aacioee Helene slam cleinien = Sale lehaelel= cine 79
Turner lucien vie recollections fom).5.o4\--1oss)se see sale sea anise os=ele se 8
@XpPlOLratviONS MOY eam to) ae lew win ctwinin =e we ee ale ele alm mae) wen nine ewe = =e 8
Tyndall fund, origin and condition of ....-.-- ...--..----- +--+ -+--+----- + 24
Tyndale, General Hector, trustee Tyndall fund ..........-.-.----.---------- 25
U.
Uchimura, Mr., contributed Japanese shells.-.-....-..--. ..2--- e-2--- eo- 0 36
Dngara, Das Unterrichtswesen Ie. 02... oo. coc cne wenmen ie neicae con sencn == 70
Uranium, index to the literature of, by H. Carrington Bolton ....-.........- 915
Rina riay, (COLespONG GMCS AN! «cine <5 = occa s/s aime cals ciejecnleaisinw nls sinietalclnigie cial 83
EXCHANZESMWAED Meee aan acie alias sn veinnoele' Goals nines sasie eelea) (scien mnjnin asian 21, 52, 55, 56
PGE COLES NOnd Onis Mts sa ticiesicin etc glow c'ss cianin(s ence ae win chene a/a cineca 325
Diiizationonoresllnsttated seacinseoeseccicseoesicce cae cceioo sme sceinccienr 43
Ne
Vacancies in the Board of Regents. ...... 22... ---- 02.220 cence coc ene coeee- 2
iWeneznela sCOrrespondenteat ese neces aaminee == soe) sacs cecesewiencs seiececiosee 83
Wermont, correspondents 1M) sas s-leseeecsicci= «scelen ac sosieas ssciemel= serie /-aiam el 32D
SX CHUM AGRE LON ere ee tre eas ties ayes Sales sae, aces esis ce=nlaareiciens 67
Verrill, Prof. A. E., ener of collection to Museum ..-.--..---...----------- 39
Victoria, eer ontiontel: NGF ees Ses one TAB VA OI NA AO ne a EOP ie esl 89
BXCHAU SES MON se eee = ol eins oaioe tals ae oes ac (sise Soeloa mines wiswieseleiens/eimrinine 66
Win oinid, COnespONGOM SVN a2 soe a)<nsiecieisic ssn oes = cinsiciamiepich == =ecminiewie =e sia 326
EXCHAB ECS One saat satan) aeistslsiclaaociste cine sais scneratioaleciaie aciairesis sm/ammie 67
Visit to Europe on exchange business We ay te ee rete eae nen en nich apna eiehs(oias 21, 47, 49
WARIO 1D Naima Woeenh, Soooee bidoos coda ponebbseoeds acescouoDEooseuoos 28
Walser Dr GO-OPSlaviON @be= ca. 2 oss -\<% cise hee So sls. os appniswaseh nears 70
WonehersseriticalexanlinablonliOlecessecee ea) see seem aatesseine 2 ami aenialerel== 5
Vreeland, Lieut. Charles E., and Dr. J. F. Bransford, Antiquities of Pantaleon,
Guatemalasee sae cm seerte cicero oe cetoe siavesine micicisisie Saleiawiolve mie citiacioiee 14
Woleaniclerupiionsinelceland, reportione-)4- 1-1-2 -5-- --2- 2 --rie oe wle eines eee 495
Wulcanolocy account) of) promress ine. s26 sees a sas cince ne iene nee sel= = 14, 471
W.
Waite, Chief Justice, address at the unveiling of the Henry statue .--.....--- 12
Walcott, Charles D., honorary curator, Museum...-.-...---.---.---- -------- 29, 40:
St OhWVnIbMN TS Oh seem see se ees cieic oe aa ot pamaie oe | <.0:" wij uimipiele) siemmic'w pin alainis 28
\ivellicare, (Se WES sey aoe Wh soodad AboSas ancseeescco boeeeo ce occmpadeer ob Gsauoe up a lz
War Department, Congressional snare Seah for freight on exchanges. -.-. 336
EXON AN MES eee epee a ase setae aie eie eas eines aise fae eieie efanime eis\elole(alainisleletiormel= 65
Ward, Prof. Lester F., honorary curator, National Museum..-...-...-..----- 29, 40:
suggestions made by ..--.....2-. -- 2-2. oe = eee ee eee ene ce een cee ee eens 40
Warren and Stearns, specimen of spotted dolphin furnished by..--...----. = 33
Washington, George, relics of... .--. ..---- --2 220 cnnnne occas eee cee codes == 31
Washington Territory, correspondents in..........-.-----. --------++------- 327
SRG TORNTG eee acetal ala alee aN a oc c)s ania curate alejalal~ wislaieveimmtatsy= ix at 67
ES GOHAN es Secs book qabdas sees ea nos] desnuda coSEeUbEOBed saeco cEOo ooo 8
Watkins, J. E., honorary curator, National Museum....-...-.--------------- 31
Welling, Dr. James C., appointed Regent......--...----. +--+ -+--00-------- 2
Welling, Dr. J. C., elected on executive committee ........--...------------ xII
Wesley, William, co-operation of... . 2... ...--- --- 222 ce cees cocces cone cose - 70

West Australia, correspondents in ...... .-.--. ----.- oes scene coee cone ones- 90
996 INDEX.

Page.
West Indies, correspondents in -..2 22222 calcce cme dole earniece cemeee aeeeele 78
West \Virpimia, correspondents imico-- co See rae wanes ets aee eee cers ae eee 328
Whale received/in;Museum'. 22222222 bo laceeecemecleoen he eens eee nh eeeeee 33
White, Dr. Charles A., honorary curator, Museum ......-..... secenistet wcities 20, 40
check-lish,of wwritings)of. ¢.2-. 2252.0. s Sane eee so eee et aa eee jects stieeee 28
White Cross Line, acknowledgment'to-2:: (23.222 05-505 esse esos ee ete nee eee 20
Whittlesey, Charles, on copper implements from Wisconsin.........-......- 892
Wickersham;: James, paper by lc scs22tee a> See ce ween cain een eee ee cea eee 12-17
Williams, Mark, on ancient earth-works in China ........-.......--....---- 907
Wilson, Thomas, collections received from). 5222502525. sl loons wae ete cee Hee 9
CXPlOTALIONS DY .'o 2 jc sl seic nce gee eM cee a ae eae tee Ee CRE Daten e rere 9
Wilson and Asmus, acknowledgment to........ -.---- --22 ceo + cone nn ee cenene 20
Wiltheiss, Eo. P.s paper by: sos Sec sete coer ee ree ae ee care ere 14
Winlock, William C., report of progress in astronomy..............---.---- 343
Winslow, Lieut., Francis; paper iby i2co0 ac ccce eee ee een emecciee cortoeeee f 15
Wisconsin, correspondents in s-: -/22 oe emese eon ae baci soso soe eee eee 328
exchanges fori: 2.205 sd cis cee Mee Ee Oe ae ee eee eee et Sees 67
Woods, American, collection of3 255 2s ke toca cae oe ae eee eee 27
Wood’s Holl, Mass., Fish Commission investigation at........---....-..-..- 46
Wools, collection(of, received ttc 52 Sone ee ae te Senn ey ree o
Woolfe, Henry D., collections received from...... -.....c0-- eoe0 coceee acces 8
explorations Dy csi 2.2.0 iat on lametce seen eects renee ere ae cane eee rc 8
‘Work done: by U.S.’ Fish Conimissions.:05.. cos coe ce ence eee tenes eee 45
of the: Museums ei 5 noc. c8 soc rasta oaseoe soe iee Ore oe ae eee ee ee eee 27
Workshops, condition and purposes Of--25-2. cele esas eyes care e eee eee 6
Wright, Peter, & Sons, acknowledgment to .--.....-.-....--+.----+--c----- 20
Writings of Fielding B. Meek, Charles A. White, and Charles D. Walcott, list
Of. 5 AG alates a nitc mise foie ce See See oye eae eee ee oe 28
Wirtemberg, exchanges with i222: 2 23522 tesc ese eee ae se eeee aaa 50, 67
‘Wyoming Territory, correspondents in....... ei seiceieemsisinaey Rist cricera! aime ete 330
CXChANSES TOT. o5 needs wa cece ne saa ne ee Rasa REE See me nee oars 67
We
Yarrow, Dr. H. C., honorary curator, National Museum .............-.-.--- 29
DAPOL, Dye 522s Sears eos ccoe si ete chs eee ole esto Ce Ene ere oe eae 18
Yeates, William 'S., services Of .2555.5-o- 5atceres sateceeeue eee ee ee eaeeeeee 42
Youmans, ‘Dr. KE. ., trustee of ‘Tyndall fund 2-25 sos. -ceseet cence eeeeee 25
Yucatan, birds from 32722229505 as ae. Cae ee ee eae eee eee 30
casts\of ‘antiquities from 225. .2c2 se aso eee al ee nee ee ae 32
Z.
Zeledon, J. C., explorations and ‘collections: .22023 220 est sone: see eec eee 9, 32

Zoological Gardens at Philadelphia contributed zoological specimens........ 24,33
Zoological specimens contributed by menageries ..........--.-------------- 24, 32
Zoology, account of progress in.......... = Vics nleeeine Remake see Soe ane 12, 14, 17, 763
RR

; ee Ki
Ary ee HY es
% one

P ah J Lap om i
r iret y in , Z
Claude

ata,

i my i

3 9088 00944 9
OS a
—

ait

entero ow

t, .
_
%
re
ee
atti | di
a -
: ~ ae
ie ~
al
8%,
—~ }
a —
ant —_
as
= —_
M samy
ge =
“ te,
—
Ms wig -
: ra
on
a
ae
: BES =
5 —~
x _
=
ea Ychewe
wel
: Le nie
er, cele
Se
— “ y

—s

ry
é

r; = oor 7
a ry
=
“ =
z
v a
aw
Pa we &
"I = :
» om \
v
= 7 - Z
ony
?
, , : = 7
s
: ae
‘ i
4
‘ ; ‘
re é 3
fl z . -
’ 6 Si.
é } F
*

‘
=,
=
a
a
—)
at
=A = +
= — =
<—-
~ .
, -
—
—
~ ‘ v=
~
—

