a

i, ra : ‘
QO): eae! &
Pee tay i 1 -
es Fe &
a ae
“See ai -

: ee: :

ey

an &

i ; i e a ; My Y

a

7 _— : wigtit. 7 ‘iu i A z >
N ma % c cs x |
2 See OO OT ERE

§ : be s: ve Se BNE od : :

‘ai ‘ be 5 Bi Ae te ee i we | ; .
: : z -- m =? os a 2 —, an re . " u “ D h

s. . af = iar. es P i a i t r | : |

3 . ' 1 - ae se, 2 ae Sauk aie a %, OO ee a
ae. ,, ; a Ye a) ae a’ ee B3 ie i a ® S$ phe & -
. f . : = TR ie we ae TUS, on casa ez, se / eo ites

Tans “
‘opie Bo vay ™ m.
x Ve” Oe. a

‘

a

ae
7.
Se’
aigpoes

,? a .)

Og

TT
———

Ps | —s ” =
" gx 7
a Te en, ell
oF MA >
one = - p - = +» a
pen ate nn me he a s
- wy > 3 és -
OE 65
ew” SS
eS

on tal
= S
——— on ca
Ca eee.
+. =
Fa <

hay

Annual Report of the Board of Regents

of the
SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

PUBLICATION 4518

Showing the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of the
Institution for the Year Ended June 30

1962

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1963

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C., 20402 - Price $4.75 (Cloth)
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 28, 1962.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1962.

Respectfully,
Lronarp CARMICHAEL, Secretary.

Il
CONTENTS

Mhistromotcials: oS eck 8 ee I oe ee ae ee Ee ane
General statement

The Board of Regents
PIC CS 2 een ets es as ee ee ee a eee eye ee ee tei
SUS) Re a peg yo Sr ee Ca nae SRO WE ONY SP
Reports of branches of the Insitution:
United States National Museum
Bureau of American Ethnology
IAStrOpayaical Opsenvatory ss 2 9 ol See ae ae
National Collection of Fine Arts
nreeriGaery Ol Arbo £2 ee eet Jee Sek Doe ee
Nationa Arr iMiuseums 22.552 Soe eo soe aha ie Cote. Ba ae
National Zoolocical Park... 500,080) 0 Se et e ei so Be rae a
@anal Zone, Biological Aréas 2 Gs ste ok Se es Dee
International Exchange Service
National Gallery of Art
ucMonion tne MOrary = 22-22 ee ee a tes ee eee ee ee ees
Report on publications
Other activities:
ectutes sae as ae ee ee de SO ee ee ad re eee
Science Information Exchange
Smithsonian Museum Service

ween — — ee oe ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

GENERAL APPENDIX

Aircraft propulsion: A review of the evolution of aircraft powerplants, by

GPSS GU Rey I (0) ee ie eg a a me ne RN
Rocket: propulsion, by Ralph..S. ‘Cooper=......5...-.2s22-- 2 2e8s 22.
The early history of radar, by R. M. Page
Modem glass, by. 5. Wonald Stookey=-— =. 22222 2 en ec cele s cess.
The great earthquakes of May 1960 in Chile, by Pierre Saint-Amand_ ___
ihe rim of. the reef, by EH. Yale: Dawsons.2..2.-...-.2-...--2-..---.-.
What’s happening to water? by Charles J. Robinove_______________-_--
The opening of the Arctic Ocean, by Lt. Comdr. James T. Strong_______
The place of genetics in modern biology, by George W. Beadle
The shark that hibernates, by L. Harrison Matthews
Man in a world of insects, by Dwight M. DeLong
Tropical fruit-fly menace, by L. D. Christenson____......._.-._.._..---
The soil as a habitat for life, by Sir John Russell. __.__..__.__.._______--
The evolution of the echinoderms, by H. Barraclough Fell_____________-
Mangroves: Trees that make land, by William M. Stephens_________--_-
IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Page

The history and relationships of the world’s cottons, by Sir Joseph
Hutchinson 2224 « s525522 2222. se es ee ae 497
Some mysteries of life and existence, by R. E. Snodgrass___------------ 517
Civilization and the landscape, by Sylvia Crowe.-_...----------------- 537
How many people have ever lived on earth? by Annabelle Desmond ----- 545

Bows and arrows: A chapter in the evolution of archery in America, by
Paul (h). Klopstet-...5.--2 sess. et See oe ae ea eee eee 567

Scientific methods in the examination and conservation of antiquities, by
ASG. A. WeIner cen 265 oa eos see eee ee ee ate 593

LIST OF PLATES

Secretary’s Report: Following Page
Plates I 2222222222230 bo eet eet Sa ae ee ie ee ae 54
Plates 3-6 2223 oon oo. ho a a ee ee a sae 118
Plates 7-10.25 oo ee ee eee eee ae ee ee 134
Plates 11-162 2 so 2 ee ae ee eae 198
Aireraftt propulsion (Taylor): Plates: 1=27_2.. 222.2242 225-2 soo 298
Rocket propulsion (Cooper): Plate 12-2. 2...-.-1 3245 3 ee ee 310
Harly history of radar (Page): Plates 1-4: 22522202 2-0 Seen 318
Modern glass (Stookey): Plates 1-3..=:2.-- 3.25.5. ssssee+22-Soescecs 326
Earthquakes in Chile (Saint-Amand): Plates 1-10__.---.-.------------ 358
Rim: of the reel (Dawson): Plates 1-822 22222 =e meee ae eee oes 366
What's happening to water? (Robinove): Plate 1--.._-_.2.+...-2---.-- 382
Opening of the Arctic Ocean (Strong): Plates 1-4_.......-------------- 394
Place of genetics in modern biology (Beadle): Plate 1__---------------- 406
Tropical fruit-fly menace (Christenson): Plates 1-6_._..--------------- 446
Soil as a habitat for life (Russell): Plates 1—52-_-2 == 2-252 -2 22252 see ses 454
Evolution of the echinoderms (Fell): Plates 1-3_.._.........---------.- 470
Mangroves: Trees that make land (Stephens): Plates 1-4_-___--------- 494
Civilization and the landscape (Crowe): Plates 1-4__.---_------------- 542
Bows and arrows. (lopsteg) Plates 1—b=22 22 5222 ase eee eee eee 582

Methods in the conservation of antiquities (Werner): Plates 1-4_-______~- 598
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1962

Presiding Officer ex officio —JOoHN F. KENNEDY, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—EArL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
JOHN I’. KENNEDY, President of the United States.
LyNpDoN B. JoHNSON, Vice President of the United States.
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
DEAN Rusk, Secretary of State.
DovuGLAs DIt1on, Secretary of the Treasury.
RosBerT S. McNAMaARA, Secretary of Defense.
Rosert FF. Kennepy, Attorney General.
J. EpwarD Day, Postmaster General.
Stewart L. UDALL, Secretary of the Interior.
ORVILLE L. FREEMAN, Secretary of Agriculture.
LUTHER H. Hopgss, Secretary of Commerce.
ARTHUR J. GOLDBERG, Secretary of Labor.
ABRAHAM A. Rrigicorr, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Regents of the Institution:
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
LyNDON B. JoHNSON, Vice President of the United States.
CLiInTon P, ANDERSON, Member of the Senate.
J. WILLIAM FULBRIGHT, Member of the Senate.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
FRANK T. Bow, Member of the House of Representatives.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
MICHAEL J. KInwANn, Member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN NICHOLAS Brown, citizen of Rhode Island.
Rosert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D.C.
CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of Delaware.
CaryYL P. HASKINS, citizen of Washington, D.C.
JEROME C. HUNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts.
Executive Committee—Rosert V. Fiemine, Chairman, CLARENCE CANNON,
CaryYL P. HASKINS.
Secretary.— LEONARD CARMICHAEL.
Assistant Secretaries.—A. REMINGTON KEL1Loaa, JAMES C. BRADLEY.
Assistant to the Secretary.—THEODORE W. TAYLOR.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Mkrs. LOUISE M. PEARSON.
Treasurer.—Epcar L. Roy.
Chief, editorial and publications division.—PAUL H. OEHSER.
Librarian.—RvutH BH. BLANCHARD.
Curator, Smithsonian Museum Service.—G. CARROLL LINDSAY.
Buildings Manager.—ANDREW F.. MICHAELS, JR.
Director of Personnel._—J. A. KENNEDY.
Chief, supply division.—A. W. WILDING.
Chief, photographic service division.—O. H. GREESON.
vi ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—A. Remington Kellogg.
Registrar.—Helena M. Weiss.

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Director.—A. C. Smith.
Administrative officer.—Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd.
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY: T. Dale Stewart, head curator; A. J. Andrews,
exhibits specialist.
Division of Archeology: W. R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., G. W.
Van Beek, associate curators.
Division of Ethnology: S. H. Riesenberg, curator; G. D. Gibson, E. I. Knez,
W. H. Crocker, associate curators; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator.
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. D. Stewart, acting curator; M. T.
Newman, associate curator.
DEPARTMENT OF ZooLoey : H. H. Hobbs, Jr., head curator.
Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, curator; C. O. Handley, Jr., H. W.
Setzer, associate curators.
Division of Birds: P. S. Humphrey, curator.
Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, curator.
Division of Fishes: L. P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, W. R. Taylor,
associate curators.
Division of Insects: J. F. G. Clarke, curator; O. L. Cartwright, R. E. Cra-
bill, Jr., W. D. Field, O. 8. Flint, Jr., D. R. Davis, associate curators.
Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; T. E. Bowman,
C. E. Cutress, Jr., D. F. Squires, associate curators.
Division of Mollusks: H. A. Rehder, curator; J. P. E. Morrison, Joseph
Rosewater, associate curators.
DEPARTMENT OF BoTANY (NATIONAL HERBARIUM) : J. R. Swallen, head curator.
Division of Phanerogams: L. B. Smith, curator: R. 8. Cowan, Velva E.
Rudd, J. J. Wurdack, associate curators.
Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.
Division of Grasses: J. R. Swallen, acting curator: T. R. Soderstrom, as-
sociate curator.
Division of Cryptogams: M. BH. Hale, Jr., curator; P. 8. Conger, associate
curator.
Division of Woods: W. LL. Stern, curator.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY: G. A. Cooper, head curator.
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: G. 8. Switzer, curator; P. E. Desau-
tels, E. P. Henderson, associate curators; R. 8. Clarke, Jr., chemist.
Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: R. S. Boardman,
curator; P. M. Kier, Richard Cifelli, E. G. Kauffman, associate curators.
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; Nicholas Hotton
III, associate curator; F. L. Pearce, exhibits specialist.

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Director.—¥. A. Taylor.

Assistant Director.—J. C. Ewers.
Administrative officer—W. E. Boyle.
Chief exhibits specialist —J. HB. Anglim.
In charge of tavidermy.—W. M. Perrygo.
SECRETARY’S REPORT vil

Assistant chief exhibits specialists—B. S. Bory, B. W. Lawless, Jr., Julius
Tretick.

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY: R. P. Multhauf, head curator: Joseph
BE. Rudmann, assistant curator.

Division of Physical Sciences: L. C. Lewis, curator; W. F. Cannon, associate
curator.

Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineering: S. A. Bedini, curator; H. A.
Battison, R. M. Vogel, associate curators,

Division of Transportation: H. I. Chapelle, curator; K. M. Perry, J. H.
White, Jr., associate curators.

Division of Electricity: R. P. Multhauf, acting curator.

Division of Medical Sciences: S. K. Hamarneh, associate curator in charge.

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES: P. W. Bishop, head curator.

Division of Textiles: Mrs. Grace R. Cooper, curator.

Division of Ceramics and Glass: P. V. Gardner, curator.

Division of Graphic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator; F. O. Griffith, Eugene
Ostroff, associate curators.

Division of Manufactures and Heavy Industries: P. W. Bishop, acting cura-
tor; C. O. Houston, Jr., associate curator.

Division of Agriculture and Forest Products: B. C. Kendall, associate cura-
tor in charge.

DEPARTMENT OF CrviL History: Richard H. Howland, head curator; P. C. Welsh,
associate curator; Doris A. Esch, assistant curator; Ellen J. Finnegan, junior
curator.

Division of Political History: W. B®. Washburn, curator; Mrs. Margaret
Brown Klapthor, associate curator; Mrs. Anne W. Murray, H. R. Collins,
K. E. Melder, assistant curators.

Division of Cultural History: C. Malcolm Watkins, curator; Rodris C. Roth,
associate curator; Anthony W. Hathaway, J. N. Pearce, Cynthia L. Adams,
assistant curators.

Division of Philately and Postal History: Richard H. Howland, acting cura-
tor; G. T. Turner, F. J. McCall, associate curators; C. H. Scheele, assist-
ant curator.

Division of Numismatics: Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, curator; Mrs. Elvira
Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ARMED Forces History: M. L. Peterson, head curator.

Division of Military History: BE. M. Howell, curator; C. R. Goins, Jr.,
associate curator.

Division of Naval History: P. K. Lundeberg, curator; M. H. Jackson,
associate curator.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director.—¥. H. H. Roberts, Jr.

Anthropologist.—H. B. Collins, Jr.

Ethnologists.—W. C. Sturtevant, W. L. Chafe.

River Basin Surveys.—F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director; R. L. Stephenson,
Chief, Missouri Basin Project.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—¥F. L. Whipple.

Assistant Director.—C. W. Tillinghast.

Astronomers.—G. Colombo, L. Goldberg, S. Hamid, I. G. Izsak, Y. Kozai,
J. Slowey, F. W. Wright, P. E. Zadunaisky.
vu ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Mathematicians. —R, B, Briggs, D. A. Lautman,

Physicists —BK. Avrett, A. FL Cook, R. J. Davis, J. DeFelice, BE. L.
BK. Franklin, O. Gingerich, M. Grossi, P. W. Hodge, L. G. Jacehia, W.
M. Krook, R. BL MeCrosky, H. Mitler, T. W. Noonan, R. B. Riggs,
Rustai, A, Skalafuris, R. B. Southworth, D. Tilles, C. A. Whitney.

Geodesisis.—J, Roll, G. Veils,

Geologisis.—V. B. Marvin, J. Wood,

Diviston or RADIATION AND ORGANISMS ¢
Chief.—W. HH. Nein.

Fireman,
Kalkofen,
IROL.

Plan? physiologists —P. J, A. L. deLint, J. L. Edwards, V. B. Elstad, K.

Mitrakos, L. Price.
Biophysicis?—W. Shropshire.
Biochemist—M, Margulies.
Cutogeneticist—R, L. Latterell.
Niectronic agin’ er—I. H. Harrison.
Trstewment engineering technician —D. G. Talbert.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director —T. M. Beggs.
Associate cnrater.—Rowland Lyon.

SarrpRsontan Travenone Exurerrron Servicsr.—Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope, Chief.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director —Jonn A. Pops.

Acting Assisten? Director —Harold P. Stern.

Head curator, Near Nastern Art —Richard Ettinghausen.
Associate curator, Chinese Art—Tames F. Cahill.

Head ewrator, Lederatory—Rutherford J. Gettens.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:
Leonand Carmichael, Ch@irman.
Maj. Gen. Brooke E, Allen, U.S. an Force.
Rear Adm, P. D. Stroop, U.S. Na
Lt Gen. James H. Doolittle (U ry x. F. Ret.)
Grover Loening.
Direetor—P. S. Hopkins.
Head curator one historian.—P. E. Garber.
Cwrefers.—L. S, Casey, K. E. Newland.
Curetor—R. B. Meyer.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Directer—T. H. Reed.

Associate Director —J. L. Grimmer.
General Cwarator—Waldtried T. Roth.
Foologist—Marion McCrane.
Veterinerien—Tames F. Wright.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

Resident Netauralisi?—M. H. Moynihan.
SECRETARY’S REPORT

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Chief —J. A. Collins.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Trustees:
Esart Wanrzen, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
Dean Rusk, Secretary of State.
Dovcias Ditton, Secretary of the Treasury.
LeonARD CABMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
CHESTER DALE.
PAUL MELLON.
Rusu H. Kzess.
JoHN HAY WHITNEY.
Joun N. Jewtn II.
President CHESTER DALE.
Vice President PAUL MELLON.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUnNtTIncion CAIRNS.
Director.—JOHN WALKER.
Administrator —Exsest R. Femmes.
General Counsel—HvUntinGton CAIRNS.
Chief Curator—Prnzy B. Corr.

* ” * a

Honorary Research Associates, Collaborators, and Fellows

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
John BH. Graf
Unitep States NATIONAL Museum

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Anthropology
J. M. Campbell, Archeology. Betty J. Meggers, Archeology.
G. H. Cole, Archeology. F. M. Setzler, Anthropology.
Albert Jarmame, Archeology. H. Morgan Smith, Archeology.
N. M. Judd, Archeology. W. W. Taylor, Jr., Archeology.
H. W. Krieger, Ethnology. W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology.
Zoology
Mrs. Doris H. Blake, Insects. Allen McIntosh, Mollusks.
J. Bruce Bredin. Biology. J. P. Moore, Marine Invertebrates.
M. A. Carriker, Insects. C. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects.
Ailsa M. Clark, Marine Invertebrates. W. L. Schmitt, Marine Invertebrates.
H. G. Deignan. Birds. Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology.
C. J. Drake, Insects. R. E. Snodgrass, Insects,
Herbert Friedmann, Birds. T. E. Suyder, Insects.
F. M. Hull, Insects. Alexander Wetmore, Birds.
Laurence Irving, Birds. Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson,

W. L. Jellison, Insects. Copepod Crustacea.
x ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Botany
C. R. Benjamin, Fungi. F. A. McClure, Grasses.
Mrs. Agnes Chase, Grasses. Kittie F, Parker, Phanerogams.
E. P. Killip, Phanerogams. J. A. Stevenson, Fungi.
HH. C. Leonard, Phanerogams. W.N. Watkins, Woods.
Geology

©. W. Cooke, Invertebrate Paleontology.
W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy.

W. P. Woodring,
Invertebrate Paleontology.

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

History

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, I. N. Hume, Cultural History.
Cultural History. F. W. MacKay, Numismaties.
E. C. Herber, History.

Science and Technology

D. J. Price.

Exhibits
W. L. Brown, Taxidermy.
BuREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sister M. Inez Hilger. A. J. Waring, Jr.
M. W. Stirling.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY
C. G. Abbot.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Max Loehr.
Katherine N. Rhoades.

Oleg Grabar.
Grace Dunham Guest.

NATIONAL AiR MusEUM

Frederick C. Crawford. Alfred V. Verville
John J. Ide.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
E. P. Walker.
CanaL ZonE BioLtocicaL AREA

©. ©. Soper.
Report of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution

LEONARD CARMICHAEL
For the Year Ended June 30, 1962

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN : I have the honor to submit a report showing the activi-
ties and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1962.

GENERAL STATEMENT

The writer of any annual report can well be accused of a want of
originality if each year he begins by saying, “The twelve months
covered by this report have been characterized by progress and con-
structive activity.” Lacking in novelty as it is, this statement, how-
ever, must be made with strong emphasis about the Smithsonian In-
stitution for the period between July 1, 1961, and June 30, 1962, for
this year has indeed seen outstanding advances in many areas of the
Institution’s work.

There is one aspect of this year’s accomplishment that is of primary
importance but that cannot easily be reduced to statistics or presented
onagraph. This pertains to the strengthening of the staff. During
the months covered by this Report, there have been a number of retire-
ments for age and for other reasons from the professional staff of the
Institution. A number of these losses were of very distinguished
scholars who can never be exactly replaced; but, on the other hand,
a number of outstanding new scientists and academic specialists have
come to the Institution, some of them already widely known because
of their previous scholarly contributions. For many years the pro-
fessional or, as it may be termed, the academic staff of the Institution
has enjoyed world-wide respect because of the individual distinction
of many of its members. The year’s new appointments will, I am
confident, strengthen this great Smithsonian tradition. It is surely
important that Smithsonian experts be leaders in their varied fields
if the Institution is to perform in the best possible way the specialized
and in some ways unique functions assigned to it by its founder and
by the Congress.
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

James Smithson, in leaving what was for his time a large estate to
the United States, directed in his will, written almost a century and
a half ago, that the institution that was always to bear his name
should be devoted to “the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.” The basic legislation that created the Smithsonian was passed
by the Congress and signed by President James K. Polk 116 years
ago. One of the most important provisions of the act is the direction
that the Institution should be faithful in the execution of the trust of
James Smithson “according to the will of the liberal and enlightened
donor.”

The first Smithsonian Board of Regents wisely chose Joseph Henry,
then possibly the greatest student of experimental science in America,
as the first Secretary of the Institution. The group of men who were
assembled and who worked in the then new Smithsonian Building
constituted the first research organization with a full-time staff of
investigators in a wide variety of scientific fields ever assembled on
this continent. Particularly during the Institution’s first half century,
under the effective administration of Henry and of his successor,
Spencer F. Baird, a staff of broad-gauge, distinguished scientists was
built up. Such names come to mind as George Brown Goode, John
Wesley Powell, William Healey Dall, Robert Ridgway, Frank Hamil-
ton Cushing, W J McGee, William Henry Holmes, and Leonard
Stejneger—principally naturalists, ethnologists, and explorers who
brought distinction to the Smithsonian through the notable contribu-
tions to science that they made each in his field.

Since Henry’s and Baird’s time there has been no deviation from
the policy of naming to the staff individuals who have won a recog-
nized place as leaders in the various fields of science and scholarship
that are dealt with at the Institution. The high title of “curator”
at the Smithsonian thus becomes the equivalent of a research
professorship in any great university.

Last year the Smithsonian published 85 titles, making available
to the world the results of Smithsonian research. This brings the total
number of scholarly publications of the Smithsonian to at least 10,000
since its first scientific monograph appeared in 1848. Besides these
formal publications the staff of the Institution also answered over
325,000 specific requests for information during the period covered by
this report.

One who knows the staff of the Institution in detail can go through
the names of those who work in its bureaus and laboratories with a
feeling of deep pride at the distinction of the men and women who
are spending their professional lives at the Smithsonian.

In the Museum of Natural History, which is part of the United
States National Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, there are
SECRETARY’S REPORT 3

many very highly regarded scientists. For example, in the field of
anthropology the Institution has distinguished archeologists, ethnolo-
gists, and students of cultural and physical anthropology. In the
area of zoology there are experts on mammals, birds, reptiles, amphib-
ians, fishes, insects, marine invertebrates, mollusks, and other fauna.
In all the principal branches of botany the Institution has experts
who work with the millions of specimens of plants in the United
States National Herbarium of the Smithsonian Institution. The same
may be said of the Smithsonian’s department of geology, where
scholars with expert knowledge in such fields as mineralogy, inverte-
brate and vertebrate paleontology, and paleobotany are at work.

The Museum of History and Technology, which also is a part of the
United States National Museum, has on its staff experts in the history
of the physical sciences, mechanical, electrical, civil, and other fields
of engineering, and the history of transportation and of the medical
sciences. Under the general heading of arts and manufactures, the
Institution has experts in textiles, ceramics, glass, agricultural imple-
ments, and the processes and equipment of the so-called heavy indus-
tries. In the department of civil history the Institution has scholars
who are specialists in political history, cultural history, as well as in
philately and numismatics. The research staff of the Division of
Military and Naval History deals in an expert way with the facts
and especially of museum objects that are related to the development
of the Armed Forces of the Nation.

The Bureau of American Ethnology and the Astrophysical Observa-
tory of the Smithsonian both have staffs of distinguished scientists.
In the field of art, the National Gallery of Art, the National Collection
of Fine Arts, and the Freer Gallery of Art all are represented by
scholarly staffs. The same may be said of the staff of the National
Air Museum, the National Zoological Park, and the Canal Zone Bio-
logical Area.

This outline enumeration of these fields of expert knowledge repre-
sented at the Smithsonian demonstrates how important it is for the
Institution at all times to devote its best energies to the securing of in-
dividuals for its staff who have outstanding qualifications. Today, be-
cause of increasing competition with large governmental organizations
and research oriented universities, obtaining men and women
of high distinction for what may be called the research faculty of the
Smithsonian is not easy. The current year has, however, been one in
which some truly outstanding scholars have elected to join the family
of experts who make up the modern Smithsonian.

In last year’s report a summary was given of the progress that had
taken place in recent years in the renovation of exhibits at the Smith-
sonian. Work on this great program continued in an active way dur-
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

ing the present year. Once again it may be pointed out that as a
result of the new educationally significant exhibits now on view the
total attendance at the Smithsonian again reached an all-time record.
In the old Smithsonian Institution buildings on the Mall, exclusive of
the National Gallery of Art and the National Zoological Park, at-
tendance this year reached 8,923,131. This is an increase of 1,819,657
visitors over the previous year. This year’s attendance becomes even
more dramatic when it is remembered that only 10 years ago the total
attendance at these same buildings was 8,108,651.

It is important for all who are interested in the work of the Smith-
sonian to remember that in spite of its outstanding new exhibits the
total collections of the Smithsonian contain many more objects than
are on exhibition. These great study collections are utilized by
hundreds of research workers from other government bureaus and
from universities all over the United States each year. The total
number of cataloged objects at the Smithsonian Institution now
numbers nearly 56 million.

When the east and west wings of the Natural History Building are
completed and opened for use and when the great new Museum of His-
tory and Technology is open, the effectiveness of the whole pattern
of public display and of the use of study collections will be greatly
increased.

To all who are interested in the active present programs of the In-
stitution, it is important to point out that the high caliber of its staff,
the new Smithsonian buildings, the improvements in the display of
objects, and the increase of collections are all directly and indirectly
related to the leadership of the Institution provided by its dis-
tinguished Board of Regents. The Secretary and all the staff mem-
bers of the Institution can never express in an adequate way their
deep debt of gratitude to the members of the Board of Regents for all
that they do each year for the welfare of the Smithsonian Institution.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment,” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The Institution suffered a deep loss during the year in the deaths of
two of its Regents: Representative Overton Brooks on September 16,
1961; and Dr. Arthur H. Compton on March 15, 1962. Mr. Brooks
had served as a Regent for over 614 years, and Dr. Compton’s length
of service as a Regent (over 23 years) is exceeded by only one member
of the present Board. The wisdom and counsel of these eminent and
distinguished members will be greatly missed. Representative
Michael J. Kirwan of Ohio was appointed by the Speaker of the
House of Representatives to fill the vacancy in the congressional] mem-
bership. The appointment to the vacancy in the class of Citizen
Regents was pending at the end of the fiscal year covered by this
report.

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
Chief Justice of the United States Earl Warren, Chancellor; Vice
President Lyndon B. Johnson; members from the Senate: Clinton P.
Anderson, J. William Fulbright, Leverett Saltonstall; members from
the House of Representatives: Frank T. Bow, Clarence Cannon,
Michael J. Kirwan; citizen members: John Nicholas Brown, Robert
V. Fleming, Crawford H. Greenewalt, Cary] P. Haskins, and Jerome
C. Hunsaker.

An informal dinner meeting, preceding the annual meeting, was
held on the evening of January 24, 1962, in the main hall of the Smith-
sonian Building. Exhibits were arranged at this time from the var-
ious divisions showing some of the most recent developments in the
work of the Smithsonian bureaus. Dr. Nicholas Hotton III spoke
on “Mammal-like Reptiles of South Africa”; Dr. Philip K. Lunde-
berg on “The Revolutionary War Gunboat Philadelphia”; Dr.
Harold P. Stern on “Research and Contrast—Japanese Art in Euro-
pean Collections”; and Dr. Fred L. Whipple on “Dust in Space.”

The annual meeting was held on January 25, 1962. The Secretary
presented his published annual report on the activities of the Institu-
tion. The financial report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961,
was presented.

Tn addition to the annual meeting, the Board of Regents met again
on May 18, 1962. A brief report was presented on the new Museum
of History and Technology Building, and the chairman of the execu-
tive and permanent committees of the Board presented a financial
report. The Regents then adjourned to inspect the Air and Space
Building.

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian
private funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee
of the Board of Regents, page 227. Funds appropriated to the Insti-
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

tution for its regular operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1962,
totaled $9,125,000. Besides this direct appropriation, the Institution
received funds by transfer from other Government agencies as follows:
From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park,
$1,387,600; from the National Park Service, Department of the In-
terior, for the River Basin Surveys, $231,705.

VISITORS

Visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings on the Mall reached
a total of 8,923,131, an all-time high and 1,819,657 more than for the
previous year. April 1962, with 1,490,262, was the month of largest
attendance; August 1961 second, with 1,335,189; May 1962 third, with
1,160,980. Table 1 gives a summary of the attendance records for the
five buildings; table 2, groups of school children. The figures are all
actual counts and are not estimates. No fully satisfactory plan for
an actual count of visitors to the National Zoological Park has been
developed. Under the new plan of estimating, the number of visitors
during the year covered by this report indicates an attendance at the
Zoo of 2,035,000. When this figure is added to the figure for at-
tendance in the Institution’s buildings on the Mall, and to the 1,332,506
recorded at the National Gallery of Art, the total Smithsonian at-
tendance for 1962 may be set at 12,290,637.

TaBLE 1.—Visitors to certain Smithsonian buildings during the year ended
June 30, 1962

Smithsonian Arts and Natural Air and Freer
Year and month Building Industries History Space Building Total
Building Building Building

1961
July 158, 793 540, 436 255, 738 161, 542 | 18, 803 |1, 180, 312
August... - 161, 689 647, 184 304, 306 208, 486 | 18, 524 |1, 335, 189
September - - 49, 403 186, 702 109, 433 58, 295 6, 008 409, 841
October____- 51, 248 174, 515 127, 271 70, 705 7, 456 431, 195
November _ - 56, 467 157, 901 135, 748 87, 687 7, 589 445, 392
December-_-- 30, 480 77, 897 75, 354 51, 919 5, 625 241, 275

1962
January ____- 28, 268 73, 554 77, 397 48,434 | 5,430] 233,083
February - - - 44, 842 109, 370 105, 047 84, 112 6, 289 349, 660
March_-____- 70, 750 164, 641 142, 139 163, 651 | 11, 220 552, 401
Are es 210, 408 521, 962 302, 351 433, 612 | 21, 929 |1, 490, 262
May--_----- 165, 161 424, 154 252, 709 304, 785 | 14,171 |1, 160, 980
JUNC eee 194, 603 392, 734 225, 560 313, 091 | 17,553 |1, 143, 541

—_—————— | | | | LT

Total___|1, 222, 112 |3, 471, 050 |2, 113, 053 |1, 986, 319 |130, 597 |8, 923, 131
SECRETARY’S REPORT 7

TaBLE 2.—Groups of school children visiting the Smithsonian Institution during the
year ended June 30, 1962

Year and month Number of | Number of Year and month Number of | Number of
children groups children groups
1961 1962

July s2.-S2e ese 7, 441 209..|| January—=.--=.—- 9, 186 296
IANIGUSte aoe eee oe 4, 506 Onl | Rebrwanyes soe = 15, 010 445
September__-____-_ 2, 521 (0 Me ee ee 39, 490 972
Octoberta. 322222 15, 906 BSA April ees as eetee eae 89, 516 ie Oe
November--_-_-_-_-_- 27, 689 (OZ Miaveso= == 172, 665 3, 508
December__-_-__--_- 10, 335 28Sei Pune n ss ae eee 66, 587 179
otalles=s= 460, 852 10, 460

672-174—63——_2
Report on the United States
National Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operations of the U.S. National Museum for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1962:

COLLECTIONS

During the year 854,185 specimens were added to the national col-
lections and distributed among the eight departments as follows:
Anthropology, 18,556; zoology, 480,003; botany, 32,236; geology,
115,387; science and technology, 2,363; arts and manufactures, 3,155;
civil history, 205,358; and armed forces history, 2,077. The largest
divisional acquisition was in the division of insects, which accessioned
a total of 417,279 specimens. Most of this year’s accessions were ac-
quired as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government de-
partments and agencies. The complete report on the Museum,
published as a separate document, includes a detailed list of the year’s
acquisitions, of which the more important are summarized below.
Catalog entries in all departments now total 55,817,940.

Anthropology—tThe division of archeology received by transfer
from the River Basin Surveys 11,3834 artifacts, mainly of mid-19th-
century white man’s manufacture, from the site of Fort Berthold,
N. Dak. The following important additions to the divisional Latin
American collections were also received : 24 pre-Spanish textiles from
Peru, presented by the International Business Machines Corp.; a rep-
resentative group of 42 stone and bone artifacts from the early cultures
of the Lagoa Santa area in Minas Gerais, Brazil, presented by H. V.
Walter, of Belo Horizonte; and a type collection of 290 pottery and
stone artifacts from various cultural levels on the islands at the mouth
of the Amazon River, collected and donated by Drs. Clifford Evans
and Betty Meggers.

As a gift from the Government of India, the division of ethnology
received 292 ethnological objects, including a complete assemblage of
dance costumes of the Kathakali religious drama of South India, tex-
tiles of unusual quality, and representing a wide range of techniques
and designs. Another fine ethnological collection, comprising native
musical instruments and a large number of shadow-theater puppets,
was donated by the Federation of Malaya through its National Mu-

8
SECRETARY'S REPORT 9

seum in Kuala Lumpur. Obtained from Rev. Francis Lambrecht,
of Baguio, Philippine Islands, and from Dr. Harold C. Conklin, of
Columbia University, are 51 cultural objects of the Ifugao, one of the
mountain peoples of the Philippines. Approximately 854 ethnological
specimens from India, Pakistan, Northern Rhodesia, the eastern
Congo, the Cook Islands, and the Solomon Islands were procured
from various sources under the exhibits modernization program.

The division of physical anthropology received for the first time a
good collection of prehistoric skeletal remains. The collection, as-
sembled by Dr. Samuel K. Lothrop and donated by the Peabody Mu-
seum, Harvard University, comes from the Venado Beach site located
at the Pacific end of the Panama Canal Zone. An important feature
of this collection is the presence of a type of cranial deformity here-
tofore known mainly from Mexico. A donation of 15 prehistoric
Indian skeletons from the W. R. Winslow site on the Potomac River
in Montgomery County, Md., was received from the Southwestern
Chapter of the Archeological Society of Maryland. Dr, Dan Morse
of Peoria, Ill., added two specimens from that State to the division’s
outstanding collection of skeletal evidence bearing on the history of
tuberculosis among the earlier American Indians.

Zoology.—Most of the accessions received in the division of mam-
mals represent established programs of collecting and research in
various parts of the world. Approximately 450 specimens were ob-
tained by Bernard R. Feinstein from Viet Nam and Cambodia, in
cooperation with the Army Medical Research and Development Com-
mand and the Bernice P. Bishop Museum. The Smithsonian Insti-
tution-Alan Collins Expedition of 1961 contributed 163 mammals
from previously unworked areas in Libya and Chad, collected by
Dr. Henry W. Setzer. From Panama and the Canal Zone, about 750
mammals were sent to the Museum by Vernon J. Tipton, C. M.
Keenan, Carl M. Johnson, Pedro Galindo, Conrad E. Yunker, and
other contributors representing agencies cooperating in the major
project being conducted by Dr. C. O. Handley, Jr. Several accessions
from localities in the eastern United States include specimens collected
by Kyle R. Barbehenn in Maryland and New York; by John T. Banks
in Virginia; by C. O. Handley, Jr., in Virginia, Georgia, and Florida;
by Richard and Daniel Peacock in North Carolina and Virginia; by
Daniel I. Rhymer in Virginia; and by Merlin D. Tuttle in Tennessee.
Specimens of outstanding interest are 102 bats from Drotzky’s Cave
and vicinity, Bechuanaland Protectorate, presented by Laurence K.
Marshall, and five rare dolphins, Stenella microps, from the west
coast of Mexico, received from Dr. R. R. Whitney, of the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service, and Dr. W. L. Klawe, of the Inter-American
Tropical Tuna Commission.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Among the 1,454 specimens received in the division of birds is a
series of 583 bird skins, 27 skeletons, 3 alcoholic specimens, and 14
eggs contributed by Dr. Alexander Wetmore, retired Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. From the Republic of Panama Gorgas
Memorial Laboratory, 100 bird skins were received, and by transfer
from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 419 bird skins, 47 skeletons,
1 alcoholic specimen, and 10 eggs were added to the national
collections.

In the division of reptiles and amphibians, several accessions are
noteworthy. Procured from Dr. Fred Medem, Instituto de Ciencias
Naturales, Bogota, Colombia, were 226 Colombian frogs. A gift from
Dr. Coleman J. Goin, of the University of Florida, of 116 Colombian
frogs, an exchange involving the receipt of 9 South American frogs,
including a cotype of a Colombian arrow-poison frog, from the British
Museum of Natural History, and a gift of 105 South American frogs
from Dr. James R. Tamsitt, University of the Andes, Bogota,
Colombia, constitute outstanding additions to the Museum’s South
American holdings. By transfer from the U.S. Naval Medical Re-
search Unit No. 2, 41 snakes from Taiwan add to the already excellent
collection from that island.

The majority of the specimens received in the division of fishes
was contributed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. This co-
operation of another Government agency in building up the Smith-
sonian research collections should be credited to the following
individuals: Elbert H. Ahlstrom, W. W. Anderson, Harvey R. Bullis,
John R. Clark, Daniel M. Cohen, Eugene Cypert, George F. Kelly,
Craig Phillips, James G. Ragan, Donald W. Strasburg, and Paul J.
Struhsaker. Dr. Edward C. Raney and Dr. Bruce B. Collette gave
2,500 fishes collected by the latter in Cuba, and Dr. Robert E. Kuntz
and Lt. W. H. Wells transferred 1,412 fishes collected at Taiwan by
the U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2.

The largest and perhaps most important accession received in the
division of insects is the A. L. Melander collection of Diptera, con-
sisting of approximately 250,000 specimens, including 1,200 types.
Through Dr. Alfred Brauer, the W. D. Funkhouser collection of
Membracidae (Hemiptera) consisting of 238,855 specimens was re-
ceived from the University of Kentucky. The Connecticut Agricul-
tural Experiment Station donated, through Dr. James B. Kring, 346
type specimens, including 130 holotypes. Most of these types are
Hymenoptera not previously represented in the national collections.
Dr. A. Earl Pritchard presented his collection of 12,142 Diptera.
N. L. H. Krauss again made a substantial gift in donating 11,572
specimens principally from the Neotropical Region. Col. Robert
Traub presented more than 10,000 mites from Malaya and Thailand.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 11

The Graham Heid collection of 2,243 specimens, chiefly Lycaenidae,
from Atlanta, Ga., was also obtained. The Boyce Thompson Institute
for Plant Research presented 7,966 miscellaneous insects through
Dr. Albert Hartzell; O. L. Cartwright donated 7,500 Scarabaeidae
from his personal collection; and Dr. C. M. Biezanko added 621
Brazilian insects. Dr. Nell B. Causey, University of Arkansas, do-
nated 415 centipedes, most of which were collected in the southern
United States. Received by transfer from the Insect Identification
and Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S. Department of
Agriculture, were 59,678 specimens retained in the course of identifica-
tions made by the combined staffs.

Outstanding among the accessions acquired by the division of ma-
rine invertebrates were 1,461 identified copepod crustaceans, including
2 holotypes, 2 allotypes, and 672 paratypes of 14 species, donated by
Dr. Arthur G. Humes, of Boston University. Received from Mrs.
Will Hutchins, Washington, D.C., were 2,000 slides of bryozoans
representing the personal collection of her son, the late Dr. Louis W.
Hutchins. Dr. Paul L. Illg, University of Washington, added 22
specimens of 10 species of notodelphyid copepod crustaceans, includ-
ing holotypes of all 10 species, allotypes of 2, and paratypes of 6.
From C. E. Dawson, Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, 620 miscellan-
eous marine invertebrates collected in the Persian Gulf were received.
Dr. Arthur Loveridge, St. Helena Island, added 334 miscellaneous
marine invertebrates. A gift of 208 amphipod crustaceans collected
during a voyage in the Okhotsk Sea of the training ship Hokusei Maru
was made by Dr. Sigeru Motoda, Hokkaido University. Received
from the Carnegie Institution of Washington were 1,800 lots of plank-
ton from the cruises of the Carnegie. Received by transfer from the
U.S. Navy Hydrographic Office, through William H. Littlewood, were
360 miscellaneous marine invertebrates collected in the Ross Sea by
J. Q. Tierney, from the U.S.S. Staten Island during the U.S. Navy
Deep Freeze Expedition of 1960-61. Collections made for the Smith-
sonian include 1,165 miscellaneous marine invertebrates from Puerto
Rico by Dr. Thomas FE. Bowman and 1,512 crayfishes from Alabama,
Georgia, North Carolina, Kentucky, and Tennessee by Dr. Horton H.
Hobbs, Jr.

A total of 127 accessions, comprising 1,923 lots and 20,621 speci-
mens, was received by the division of mollusks. In addition, 1,597
lots, totaling 14,980 specimens, from previously recorded accessions
were added. A number of important collections of marine mollusks
from areas in the Indo-Pacific region poorly represented in the study
collection were received from various sources. Purchased through
the Chamberlain fund was a marine collection of 702 lots containing
2,165 specimens from the Kudat area, North Borneo. Two collections
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

of marine mollusks from the Seychelles, totaling 195 lots, 1,041 speci-
mens, were received as gifts from Mrs. Margot B. Banks and Barry
Grogan. By exchange from the Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia, 92 lots, 920 specimens, of marine mollusks from Mada-
gascar were received. The holotypes of six species of nudibranchs
were donated by the Marine Laboratory of the University of Miami
through Dr. Gilbert L. Voss.

Botany—The Gray Herbarium of Harvard University sent in ex-
change 873 plant specimens, largely from North America. The Her-
barium Bogoriense, Bogor, Indonesia, forwarded in exchange 2,417
specimens of Indonesia. Also received in exchange were 950 plants
of New Guinea and Australia from the Commonwealth Scientific and
Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, Australia; 515 speci-
mens collected in Alaska by J. E. Cantlon from Michigan State Uni-
versity; 300 specimens from Africa from the Istituto Botanico,
Firenze, Italy ; and 840 plants collected by R. M. King in Mexico from
the University of Texas.

The division of woods received the Archie F. Wilson collection,
comprising 4,637 wood specimens and constituting a more critically
chosen group of specimens from a greater number of species than
existed in the division prior to 1960. Mr. Wilson, a business executive
with a keen interest in woody plants, was a research associate of the
Chicago Natural History Museum for many years. In exchange 727
wood specimens from Netherlands New Guinea were received from
the Division of Forest Products of the Australian Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Research Organization. Important pollen
slides received were 309 from Duke University and 642 from the Pan
American Petroleum Corp., Tulsa, Okla. Dr. William L. Stern made
a collection of 136 wood samples of the highly peculiar flora of the
Hawaiian Islands.

Field collecting by staff members yielded the following for the
department: 1,091 specimens, mostly grasses, collected in Mexico, by
Dr. T. R. Soderstrom, and 1,423 specimens, collected in Oregon, Colo-
rado, Hawaii, and the Florida Keys, by Dr. W. L. Stern. From the
U.S. Geological Survey were transferred 593 specimens collected by
Dr. F. R. Fosberg on the Pacific Islands, and 766 specimens from
Alaska collected by H. T. Shacklette; from the Agricultural Research
Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 325 specimens of South
Africa collected by H. S. Gentry and A. S. Barclay; and from the
U.S. Forest Service, 415 specimens from Puerto Rico, collected by
E. L. Little.

Geology.—A total of 3,252 specimens was received in the division
of mineralogy and petrology. An important gift is a very fine gem-
quality crystal of emerald weighing 176.66 carats, from Muzo, Co-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 13

lombia, from Fred C. Kennedy. New mineral species received as
gifts were: chambersite, Texas, from Frank R. Beck; orthopinakiolite,
Sweden, from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseets, Stockholm, Sweden;
and ferriphengite, Japan, from the University of Tokyo. Outstanding
among specimens received in exchange is an extraordinary crystal
of kunzite (the lavender gem variety of spodumene) weighing 5 kilo-
grams. New species received in exchange were: birnessite, Massa-
chusetts; rooseveltite, sigloite, and farallonite, Bolivia; kahlerite,
Austria; yoshimuraite, Japan; cheralite, Malaya; sharpite and wyart-
ite, Congo; and fleishcherite, South West Africa.

Outstanding specimens added by purchase from the Roebling fund
or by exchange are two groups of very large stibnite crystals com-
pletely altered to stibiconite, Mexico; four fine amethyst geodes,
Brazil; a large single crystal of amethyst, Korea; two groups of un-
usually large axinite crystals, Japan; and a collection of 40 very
fine wulfenite specimens from various localities in Arizona. Acquired
by purchase from the Canfield fund is a very large single crystal of
danburite, Mexico, and a large tourmaline crystal from Baja
California.

New acquisitions to the gem collection are the following: a 423-
carat sapphire, one of the largest and finest in the world, from Mrs.
John Logan (the former Mrs. Rebecca Guggenheim) ; a large wine
pourer carved in white jade, formerly a part of the Vetlesen jade col-
lection, donated by Mrs. Mildred Taber Keally; and a female head
sculptured in pink tourmaline by Oskar J. W. Hansen, given by Ray
A. Graham. Gem specimens acquired by purchase from the Chamber-
lain fund for the Isaac Lea collection include a 45.9-carat sphalerite,
Spain; a kornerupine weighing 21.58 carats, Ceylon; smoky quartz,
Brazil, weighing 1,695.5 carats; a 71.05-carat brownish yellow spodu-
mene, Madagascar; two scheelites, one weighing 37 carats from Cali-
fornia, and the other 7.35 carats from Mexico; and a fine kunzite from
Brazil weighing 63.30 carats.

A number of outstanding gems were received in exchange, includ-
ing a very fine 287-carat peridot, an extraordinary 330-carat blue star
sapphire, and a fine ruby spinel weighing 36.10 carats, all from Burma;
and an excellent 187-carat aquamarine from Brazil.

During the year 25 different meteorites were added to the meteorite
collection, including 15 new to the collection. Obtained as gifts were
the following: four specimens of the Murray, Ky., meteorite having
a total weight of 163 grams, donated by Dyer Observatory, Vander-
bilt University; a complete stone which fell in her yard was given
by Mrs. Jay Law, Garland, Utah; and a piece of a new Carbonaceous
chondrite from Belle, Tex., donated by Oscar Monnig, Fort Worth,
Tex.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Fourteen meteorites were obtained by exchange with the following
institutions: Geological Survey of India; Committee on Meteorites,
Academy of Sciences, U.S.S.R.; Universitets Mineralogiske Museum,
Copenhagen, Denmark; Geological Survey of South Africa; and
Victoria University, Wellington, New Zealand. Two recent falls,
Ras Tamur, Saudi Arabia, and Ehole, Angola, were obtained by trans-
fer from the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

Several large and important collections of fossil plants and in-
vertebrates were acquired this year by the division of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany. Funds from the income of the Walcott
bequest were used to purchase the incomparable Bones collection
of Eocene seeds, nuts, fruits, and wood from Oregon, consisting of
over 5,000 specimens of remarkable preservation collected and pre-
pared by Thomas J. Bones, of Vancouver, Wash., over a period of 20
years. The Walcott bequest also made possible field work which
yielded 10,000 Cretaceous mollusks and 500 Foraminifera samples,
collected by associate curator Erle G. Kauffman and Dr. Norman F.
Sohl; and 10,000 specimens of Ordovician and Silurian invertebrates
from those respective formations of Great Britain, Norway, and
Sweden collected by curator Richard S. Boardman.

Donations from collectors outside of the Museum accounted for the
following gifts: 1,500 Lower Paleozoic fossils from areas including
Nova Scotia, Maine, Germany, and Gotland from Dr. Arthur J.
Boucot, of the California Institute of Technology ; 345 type specimens
of Foraminifera from California and the Mississippi Delta regions
from Miss Frances L. Parker, of Scripps Institution of Oceanogra-
phy; 175 type specimens of planktonic Foraminifera from the Carib-
bean region from Dr. Pedro J. Bermudez, of Venezuela; 87 ostracod
types from the early Middle Ordovician of eastern United States and
146 types from the Gubic formation of northern Alaska from Dr.
F. M. Swain, Jr., University of Minnesota; 300 specimens from the
Ripley formation received from the Mid-South Earth Science Club
of Tennessee ; 350 specimens from the Devonian of the Spanish Sahara
from the Pan American Hispano Oil Co.; and 332 Mesozoic specimens
from Saudi Arabia donated by the American Arabian Oil Co.

Transfer of collections from the U.S. Geological Survey includes
the Hass collection of conodonts, numbering an estimated 40,000 speci-
mens and several hundred types; 168 Middle and Upper Devonian
cephalopods collected by Dr. Mackenzie Gordon in Morocco; an esti-
mated 35,600 Bryozoa from the Lower Paleozoic of New York, West
Virginia, Virginia, and Tennessee, collected by Dr. Boardman.

A collection of 189 specimens of fossil mammal-like reptiles from
the Karroo, Republic of South Africa, was accessioned in the division
of vertebrate paleontology. These specimens are representative of
SECRETARY'S REPORT 15

all levels of the Beaufort series (Permo-Triassic) and document the
therapsid adaptive radiation of that time and also the strong trend
toward mammalian organization for which these animals are noted.
The therapsids illustrate an important phase in vertebrate evolution,
which has heretofore been unrepresented in the national collections.
The fossils are of high quality, consisting of about 40 complete or par-
tial skeletons with the remainder being skulls. The collection was
made by associate curator Nicholas Hotton III and by James W.
Kitching, of the Bernard Price Institute for Paleontological Research,
University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg. Noteworthy of
mention also are the skulls of about 200 individuals of the Permian
amphibian Diplocaulus collected by Dr. Sergius H. Mamay, of the U.S.
Geological Survey, and Dr. Walter W. Dalquest, of Midwestern Uni-
versity, in terrestrial deposits of the Vale formation in Texas. An-
other outstanding addition to the collections is a 4-ton shipment of
skeletal remains, almost all of the mammoth Mammuthus columbt,
from a spring deposit on the ranch of Charles I, Lamb near Littleton,
Colo. These were collected by a joint archeological-paleontological
party under the supervision of Dr. Waldo R. Wedel and Dr. C. L.
Gazin. Particular mention may be made of stratigraphically im-
portant accessions of Eocene and Paleocene mammals from new locali-
ties in the Fossil, Wind River, and Green River basins of Wyoming,
and of early Oligocene mammal jaws and teeth from Pipestone
Springs in Jefferson County, Mont., collected by curator C. L. Gazin
and Franklin L. Pearce.

Science and technology.—Examples of the rotating mirrors used by
A. A. Michelson in his experiments in the determination of the velocity
of light were obtained in the division of physical sciences from Preston
Bassett and from Mount Wilson and Palomar Observatories. Dr.
Henry E. Paul donated telescopes representing the work of Alvan
Clark and Sons and John Brashear. Two of the earliest extant ex-
amples of photographs of the sun and moon, made by the pioneer
scientist and photographer John W. Draper, were obtained from New
York University. A group of 12 globes painted to illustrate as many
geophysical phenomena, from Prof. Rhodes W. Fairbridge, of Co-
lumbia University, was added to the geophysical collections. Gulf
Research & Development Co. contributed the pendulum apparatus for
relative gravity determination which was developed by them in 1929.
John Kusner contributed a repeating circle of the type used in the
1830’s in the first geodetic surveys in this country.

A reproduction of the celebrated clock of Giovanni de Dondi, con-
structed from contemporary 14th-century manuscript descriptions,
was acquired in the division of mechanical and civil engineering. The
original clock, which disappeared from historical account over 400
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

years ago, was built in Padua between 1348 and 1364. It is the earliest
mechanical clock of which details survive but is in no way a primitive
clock. The calendar and astronomical dials surpass by a wide margin
any other known pre-Renaissance mechanism. An astronomical clock
with torsion pendulum by the American inventor Aaron D. Crane was
added to the timekeeping collection. This was the basis of the 400-day
or anniversary clocks of modern times. An experimental model of the
cesium beam atomic clock, developed at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1956 by Dr. J. R. Zacharias, was also received.

A simple condensing mill steam engine built in 1819 by Thomas Hol-
loway, of Philadelphia, was added to the collection of heavy machin-
ery. This severely simple machine, the earliest stationary steam
engine in the collection, contrasts markedly with the refinement of the
Mathias Baldwin engine built in the same city only 10 years later.
A model of one of the Allis-Chalmers- Westinghouse engine generators
of the type built in 1904 to power New York’s first subway was also
added to this collection. One of the most important acquisitions of the
section of tools was a multiple-spindle drill used from 1905 for the pro-
duction of cash-register frames, donated by the manufacturer, the
National Automatic Tool Co. Another important accession com-
prised a collection of tools, instruments, and documents representing
the pioneering experiments in the 1920’s of Prof. Orlan W. Boston, of
the University of Michigan, in the investigation of metal-cutting
processes.

Through the courtesy of the University of California, the division
of transportation received seven important builder’s half models of
West coast steamers and sailing vessels built by the Dickie Yard in
San Francisco. Outstanding models received were those of the Mis-
sissippi River stern-wheel steamer Greenbrier, the Chesapeake bay
steamers Pocomoke and President Warfield, a Letter-of-Marque
schooner of 1815, the ferryboat Jersey, South Sea Island trader Tahiti,
Alaskan trader Ounalaska, a Florida shrimp trawler, and a North
Carolina Sounds schooner. The two last named were received,
respectively, from the Diesel Engine Sales Co. and from W. C.
Matthews. The section of land transportation passed a landmark with
acquisition of a full-sized example of a modern steam locomotive, No.
1401 of the Southern Railway System, which was generously donated
by that company. Two important carriages were also added to the
collection, a landau of 1879, from Chauncey D. Stillman, and a buck-
board of 1890, from Edwin H. Arnold.

The division of electricity received from the University of Michigan
11 examples of H. N. Williams’ work with the magnetron, a high-
frequency oscillator, dating from the 1930’s. Obtained from the
Radio Corp. of America is a group of cathode-ray tubes used in the
SECRETARY'S REPORT 7;

development of television. The color television system developed
in 1951 by J. M. Lafferty, of the General Electric Research Laboratory,
is represented by a tube received from that company.

Individual items of importance added to the electrical collections
were printing telegraphs, received from the Western Union Tele-
graph Co. and the Netherlands Postal Museum; a set of Pupin loading
coils arranged to simulate the telephone circuit from New York to Bos-
ton, from the Armstrong Memorial Research Foundation; the Soren-
sen vacuum switch for power circuits, from Prof. R. W. Sorensen;
and the radio sextant developed by the Collins Radio Co., transferred
by the U.S. Department of the Navy.

The division of medical sciences acquired from the University of
Illinois the remarkable Edward H. Angle collection of dental instru-
ments and related material, and from Dr. Julius Lempert a collection
of otological instruments representing Dr. Lempert’s well-known work
in that field.

Arts and manufactures—The division of textiles received an ex-
cellent collection of 10 examples of buratto and drawnwork lace of
the 16th through the 19th century, presented by Miss Harriet Wins-
low. Mrs. Beatrice E. Baker added a group of beautiful costume
laces to this collection. Mrs. W. A. Pickens presented a “Feathered
Star” quilt made by the wife of Gen. Mordicai Gist. Dr. and Mrs.
Leonard Carmichael donated several interesting examples of silk
embroidery on wool, used for infant wear. Three excellent needle-
point pictures, lent to the division several years ago, were bequeathed
to the Museum by the late Crystal Palmer. These fine examples were
made by Miss Palmer’s grandmother in the mid-19th century. An in-
teresting sewing machine, an 1859 West and Willson model, a type
not previously represented, was donated by Mr. and Mrs. L. E.
Isaacson.

The division of ceramics and glass received a collection of rare 18th-
century porcelain, donated by Dr. and Mrs. Hans Syz, of Westport,
Conn. Important pieces in this group include a Boettger tankard of
red stoneware, 1712-15; a Boettger white porcelain bow] with applied
decoration of rose buds and leaves, 1715; and a Viennese porcelain
trembleuse cup and saucer, 1730-35. To her previous gift Mrs. W. A.
Sutherland has added 25 pieces of fine porcelains, including 2 rare
Bow mugs, 1760, and an unusual Chelsea dish, 1752.

A magnificent example of printing, 7he Works of Geoffrey Chaucer,
printed in 1896, was presented to the division of graphic arts by the
Honorable Clinton P. Anderson, a Regent of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. Known as the Helmscott Chaucer, the book is the handiwork
of William Morris, whose concern with fine craftsmanship resulted
in a revival of high standards in industrial design. Another impor-
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

tant accession is a lithograph, Divertissement dE spagne, by the
Spanish artist Francisco Goya. The gift of Albert H. Gordon, of
New York City, through E. Weyhe, Inc., this rare and valuable print
is one of a set of four bullfight subjects that is considered the first
great product of lithography.

Among the important prints obtained were two separate states of
the lithograph J tombe dans Vabime, by the French artist Odilon
Redon; three lithographs from Campaign Sketches by Winslow
Homer, the American artist who documented the Civil War, A Pass
Time (Cavalry at Rest), Foraging, and The Baggage Train; two
color aquatints, Juggler and Ballerina, by Georges Rouault; five
rare lithographs by outstanding American contemporaries, Brown
Moons by Helen Frankenthaler, Poet J by Robert Motherwell, Last
Civil War Veteran by Larry Rivers, Speaker by Robert Goodnough,
and Coathanger by Jasper Johns; two chiaroscuro woodcuts, The Visi-
tation after Annibale Carracci and Statuette of Neptune after Gio-
vanni da Bologna, by John Baptist Jackson, the 18th-century master
of the color woodcut.

Among the fine examples of photographic equipment and prints
acquired by the section of photography was a Cinematographe, in-
vented in 1895 by Auguste and Louis Lumiére of France. This was
one of the earliest devices to take and project (perforated) motion-
picture film. The section also acquired an important collection of
apparatus invented by Frederic Eugene Ives, of Philadephia, a pio-
neer in color photography. This group includes an Ives Lantern
Kromskop, made about 1890, the first practical device to use 3-color
separation positives for projecting full color on a screen; a group of
slides for this projector; an 1894 Ives photochromoscope Kromskop
stereo camera and viewer, and a large number of Kromogram slides
for use in the viewer. The Kromskop System offered a method for
taking color separation stereo pictures and viewing them in full color.

Of particular interest among specimens received in the division of
manufactures and heavy industries are some of the first stampings of
aluminum made from the first commercial production of the Hall
process. These, presented by the Scovill Manufacturing Co., will
shortly be shown in a special exhibit which will include the first glob-
ules of aluminum produced by Charles Martin Hall in February
1886. Another important acquisition is a Winsted machine which was
built prior to 1873 and which was in active use at the American Brass
Co.’s plant at Waterbury until 1961. Dr. W. L. Libby donated to the
section of nuclear energy the experimental equipment used in his pio-
neer work to establish the dates of archeological material by carbon-14
dating. Two of the first X-ray tubes to be made in America were
donated by the Catholic University of America. The section of iron
SECRETARY’S REPORT 19

and steel obtained the first steam hammer erected in the United States,
built by Nasmyth between 1851 and 1856 and in use at Taylor-Wharton
Tron & Steel Co., High Ridge, N.J., until 1935. The first wide-flange
universal beam mill to be erected in the United States was presented
by the Bethlehem Steel Co. The United States Steel Corp. donated
the pilot model of a Lorig aligner, an important innovation which
speeded up the handling of strips of metal in continuous mills.

The division of agriculture and forest products acquired a water-
powered sawmill including the building, waterwheel, shafting, and
gearing. The mill, a fine representative of 18th- and 19th-century
sawmills, operated an up-and-down saw and moved a 30-foot-long car-
riage against the saw. The New Holland Machine Co. gave a small
portable gasoline engine of the early 20th century, used to drive
machines such as grinding mills, saws, etc.

Civil history.—The division of political history received the per-
sonal memorabilia of President and Mrs. Woodrow Wilson. <A black
satin dress, worn by Edith Bolling Wilson the first time she dined at
the White House and a white silk dress she wore at a diplomatic
reception in 1916, her first appearance at a state occasion at the White
House after her marriage, were among the items received from Mrs.
Wilson’s estate through her personal secretary, Mrs. Margaret C.
Brown. Mrs. Joseph P. Kennedy donated a white silk gown decorated
with gold and silver sequins worn by her when she was presented at
the Court of St. James when her husband was Ambassador to Great
Britain. The dress was worn again in 1961 at the Inaugural Ball
of her son, President John F. Kennedy. Ralph E. Becker continued
his donations from his important campaign collection. The most
significant of these is a painted banner, bearing a portrait of Thomas
Jefferson, celebrating his victory in 1801. An exciting silk campaign
banner carried by the “Downers Grove Plough Boys,” a Republican
marching club of 1860, was given by Elbert A. Rogers, Downers Grove,
Ill. <A 3-sided transparency, containing a portrait of Abraham Lin-
coln and campaign mottoes of 1860, was donated by Mrs. Robert A.
Hubbard, Walpole, N.H. Made of cloth and wrapped around a
wooden frame, the transparency, with torch inside, was carried on a
pole in political parades. Another significant acquisition was the
Adelaide Johnson Collection donated by Mrs. Elizabeth Johnson Cris-
tal, a niece of Mrs. Johnson. Adelaide Johnson, a devoted feminist,
was best known as the sculptress of the Women’s Rights movement.
The robe worn by Charles Evans Hughes as Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court was received from the New Canaan Historical Society
through Dorothy Cocks, New Canaan, Conn.

Noteworthy donations to the collections of the division of cultural
history include two early-19th-century blown-glass whale-oil lamps,
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

a 17th-century brass couvre-feu, and other domestic objects, from
Preston R. Bassett ; a set of champfered oak bed posts of a hitherto un-
identified type of 17th-century Massachusetts bedstead, the gift of
Virginia Beets; five paintings, 19th-century American, by E. L. Henry
and Eastman Johnson, given by Mrs. Francis P. Garvan; and five
diorite door and marker stones with primitive carved designs and
dates, from the site of a mansion built by Lt. Gov. William Dummer
of Massachusetts in Byfield in that State, donated by Mr. and Mrs.
Stephen Twaddell.

The division of philately and postal history received a specialized
collection of the famous La Guaira local stamp. These issues, author-
ized by the Venezuelan Government, were prepared by Waterlow &
Sons for the mail carried by steamship between La Guaira, Puerto
Cabello, and St. Thomas beginning in 1864. L. W. Christenson, of
Cleveland Heights, Ohio, gave a collection of the issues of Manchukuo
and of the Ryukyu Islands, which include postal stationery, booklets,
covers, and a number of reference books. James A. Farley, former
Postmaster General, donated a number of new covers. Dr. Joseph H.
Kler, of New Brunswick, N.J., gave an initial portion of his prize-
winning topical collection of stamps pertaining to Rotary Interna-
tional and placed the balance on loan. In eight albums are mounted
many full sheets, singles, blocks, and many covers bearing appropriate
cancels and cachets. Included also are several preliminary artist’s
drawings, some printer’s proofs, and the Monaco color-error essay.

The most outstanding additions to the numismatic collections are
the original obverse and reverse dies prepared in 1861 by Robert
Lovett, Jr., of Philadelphia, for the proposed striking by the Con-
federacy of a copper cent, an issue which never materialized. The
dies, two hubs made from the original dies, and other material in
connection with the restrike of the Confederate cent in 1962 were
received from Robert Bashlow, of New York. A rare 1916 pattern
half dollar, a gift of Benjamin M. Douglas, and a silver ingot put
out by the Nevada Silver Co. in 1876, a gift of Harvey Stack, of New
York City, are also notable. A collection of 436 Polish gold, silver, and
copper coins and medals was donated by Christian Zabriskie, of New
York. This remarkable collection was started in the 1870’s by the
donor’s father, Andrew Zabriskie, a noted United States numismatist.
To his previous donations of Russian coins and medals coming from
the famous Grand Duke Mikhailovitch collection, Willis H. duPont
added another significant group of 860 specimens, including many
exceedingly rare pieces issued during the reigns of Czar Ivan IIT
and Czarina Elizabeth (1740-62). An interesting group of Babylo-
nian and Sumerian clay tablets recording commercial transactions was
given by I. Snyderman, of New York. Pietro Giampaoli, chief en-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 21

graver at the Rome Mint and one of the foremost medal engravers in
the world, donated a select group of his own medals exemplifying var-
ious stages in his artistic evolution. A modern silver medal of excep-
tional artistic merit, issued by the Maison Carrée of Nimes in 1961,
was given by the Honorable Claiborne Pell, Senator from Rhode
Island.

Armed Forces history—A unique 1842 pattern musket and set of
Ordnance Department inspectors’ verifying gauges were received in
the division of military history from William H. Guthman. A rare
13-inch bomb fired by the British fleet at the time of its attack on
Alexandria in 1814 was received from the Department of the Army.
Through the courtesy of Adm. Sir John Moore, the Victoria Cross
and associated service medals awarded Private John McGovern for
gallantry during the Indian Mutiny were deposited as a long-term
loan from the Royal United Service Institution. Also received on
loan, from David N. Rust, was a rare cavalry saber made by John
Potter and formerly owned by Col. George Baylor, aide-de-camp to
George Washington.

A significant addition to the Museum’s extensive flag collections
is the 48-star national ensign that served as the official flag of the 1960-—
61 Antarctic Expedition on its traverse from Byrd Station to the
South Pole, presented by Rear Adm. David M. Tyree through Rear
Adm. William Rea Furlong.

An important collection of objects recovered from Bermuda ship-
wreck sites dating from about 1621 to 1914 was added to the collec-
tions through the field work of head curator Mende] L. Peterson,
in cooperation with EK. B. Tucker and the Government of Bermuda.

The year’s most important accession in the division of naval history
is the Continental gundelo Philadelphia. The oldest major American
naval relic of the Revolutionary War, the gundelo reached final moor-
ings early in December 1961, when it was moved into the new Museum
of History and Technology. A shot-scarred survivor of Benedict
Arnold’s gallant flotilla that opposed superior British invasion forces
on Lake Champlain, this flat-bottomed gunboat was sunk at the Battle
of Valcour Island on October 11, 1776. For nearly 159 years the
Philadelphia lay on the muddy bottom of Valcour Bay, before it was
located and raised intact in 1935 through the skillful efforts of Col.
Lorenzo F. Hagglund, of New York, who donated the historic war-
ship. Over 700 objects were recovered from the 54-foot gundelo, in-
cluding her entire main battery of 9’’ and 12-pound guns, with their
original carriages, as well as numerous other items of ship’s equipage
and the crew’s gear. Brought to Washington with the generous as-
sistance of the United States Coast Guard and the United States Navy,
the oaken-hulled Philadelphia will shortly enter another episode in
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

her long career, that of transporting the Smithsonian Institution’s
visitors vividly and intimately to that precise moment in the nation’s
history when this shattered warship, having fired her last shot in our
struggle for independence, slid quietly beneath the waters of Lake
Champlain.

Notable among early 19th-century naval accessions is an oil painting
by Michele Felice Corne, depicting the engagement in 1812 between
the Constitution and the Java, donated by Mrs. Mabel P. Garvan.
The Department of the Navy provided two early boarding pikes and
a pair of mid-century gangway headboards, on indefinite loan. Valu-
able light on the emergence of the steam Navy and its Corps of En-
gineers is provided in the professional correspondence (1847-67) of
Chief Engineer James M. Adams, USN, donated by his great grand-
son, James Adams Knowles. Submarine operations during the Civil
War are represented by a superb model of the Confederate submers-
ible H. L. Hunley, constructed and presented by Floyd D. Houston, of
New Suffolk, N.Y.

EXPLORATION AND FIELDWORK

Dr. T. Dale Stewart, head curator of anthropology, participated in
a conference on “Anthropology and the Conditions of Individual and
Social Freedom,” held at Glognitz, Austria, in August, and also
studied specimens of particular interest to him at the Paleontological-
Geological Museum at Zagreb, Yugoslavia.

A late Pleistocene bone bed with possible human associations, near
Littleton, Colo., was under study last year by Dr. Waldo R. Wedel,
curator of archeology, and Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of vertebrate
paleontology. This study was resumed in the summer of 1962. Arti-
facts have been found to a depth of about 40 inches, in association with
bison bones. None has yet been found in the lower level where bones
of camel and mammoth are more plentiful, indicating that these
species may have been the characteristic fauna. The hints of strati-
fication in the faunal remains raised the hope that some sort of cul-
tural stratification will eventually turn up as well. The field party,
in charge of George S. Metcalf, museum aide, will continue its work
through the summer of 1962.

En route to a site for field work in Ecuador, Dr. Clifford Evans,
associate curator of archeology, and his wife, Dr. Betty J. Meggers,
honorary research associate, attended a training conference in arche-
ological techniques at Barranquilla, Colombia, in June and early July
1961. The conference had been planned and organized in cooperation
with the Pan American Union and was conducted at the Universidad
del Atlantico. Young, qualified archeologists came from Argentina,
Brazil, Chile, Guatemala, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 23

zuela to participate, and a highly successful interchange of knowledge
resulted.

Continuing to Ecuador, Drs. Evans and Meggers spent nearly 3
months in a continuing field study being conducted in collaboration
with Emilio Estrada. Aspects of archeology investigated included
pre-ceramic horizons, Valdivia culture, Jambelli culture, Mexican
cultures in Ecuador, Manteno culture, and Milagro Period burials.
The Smithsonian archeologists brought back 59 large boxes of speci-
mens in addition to many notes and data on classified pottery for at
least eight stratum cuts of material. Numerous developed and cata-
loged photographs, both black and white and in color, will be invalu-
able in working up the results of this expedition.

For a period of nearly 6 months, Dr. Gus W. Van Beek, associate
curator of archeology, conducted archeological field work in Wadi
Hadhramaut, East Aden Protectorate. He was accompanied by Dr.
Glen H. Cole and Dr. Albert Jamme, and Dr. Henry W. Setzer, of the
Museum’s division of mammals, joined the group for 1 month to col-
lect mammals in the Wadi Hadhramaut region. For 314 months
without interruptions the field party conducted its survey in Hadhra-
maut, systematically surveying the main wadi from Terim to Shibam
(this portion of the wadi is approximately 40 miles long and from
114 to 4 miles wide) and, more superficially, an additional 40 miles of
the western part of the main wadi, from Shibam to Qarn Qaimah be-
yond Henin; they covered the major portions of all tributary wadies
in the region.

Dr. Cole’s work on prehistoric sites proved to be highly significant.
His was the first systematic work in prehistory ever done anywhere in
the Arabian Peninsula, and he should be able to provide a framework
for Arabian prehistory and to draw tentative conclusions regarding
the affinities of the Arabian industries with those of surrounding re-
gions in Africa and Asia.

Dr. Van Beek discovered and recorded approximately 50 sites, of
which 23 are pre-Islamic and 27 Islamic. The pre-Islamic sites range
in date from about the 11th or 10th century B.C. to the 7th century
A.D., and the Islamic sites from the 7th century A.D. to the present.
Some of the pre-Islamic sites are extremely impressive, measuring
as much as half a mile long by a quarter of a mile wide. For the most
part they consist of good stone masonry, and many structures still
have mud-brick walls on masonry podia. On the eroded surface of
the sites are vast quantities of potsherds and many fragments of
architecture, sculpture, and ancient South Arabic inscriptions in stone.
Previous to the work of the expedition, the earliest known occupation
of Hadhramaut was the 5th century B.C.; by discovering sites going
back to the 11th or 10th centuries B.C., the party has pushed back

672-174-633
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

the date of human occupation some five or six centuries in the
Hadhramaut.

Dr. Jamme copied more than 1,000 graffiti in the main wadi and in
tributary wadies. Before his work, no more than 60 or 70 graffiti
were known in this entire area and these were on only two rocks. The
information thus gained will add enormously to our knowledge of
the history of Hadhramaut in pre-Islamic times.

The material collected by Dr. Setzer is the first of its kind from
Arabia in the National Museum collections. From an archeological
point of view, this collection of mammals will be extremely useful for
identifying bones recovered in excavations in this region.

Dr. Van Beek and other members of his party were delighted by
the warm reception and excellent relations they enjoyed in Aden and
Wadi Hadhramaut. The American Consulate, the British Director of
Antiquities for the Colony, the Royal Air Force, the Protectorate
Secretary, the Residency Staff in Mukalla and Seiyun, and the officials
of the Kathiri State in Seiyun and the Qu’aiti State in Hadhramaut
were all extremely cooperative.

En route to and from Aden, Dr. Van Beek visited several institu-
tions and met archeological colleagues in England, Italy, Sudan,
Ethiopia, and Jordan. Discussions were very profitable along the
lines of mutual research and also in connection with the exhibits pro-
gram of the Smithsonian, where a new hall of Old World archeology
is in the planning stage.

For 2 months of the summer of 1961, Dr. Marshall T. Newman,
associate curator of physical anthropology, continued his now nearly
completed nutritional study of more than 100 schoolboys of Vicos,
Peru. He was accompanied by Dr. William J. Tobin, collaborator of
the Smithsonian Institution, and Mrs. Tobin. For several years Dr.
Newman and Dr. Tobin have been collaborating with staff members
of the Instituto de Nutricién of Lima in this project. Analyses of
the data obtained are necessarily complicated, but in a preliminary
way the following conclusions are now apparent: Mean weight gains
as viewed longitudinally have increased 19-53 percent, depending on
the school year, since the school-lunch program started. Stature in-
creases do not appear to be similarly affected. Clinical signs of vita-
min and mineral deficiencies declined grossly from 1956 to 1961, and
mean hemoglobin levels are up from 13.16 to 14.24 gm/100 ml. Al-
most all the Vicos boys are within the normal] serum calcium limits, but
21 percent are still low in vitamin A and 8 percent are low in serum
carotene. An analysis of the detailed metric data is proceeding, and
the bone density figures from the X-rays are expected to be available
in the near future.

In April Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., head curator of zoology, under-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 25

took a collecting trip through parts of northwestern Georgia, northern
Alabama, and Tennessee. While assembling more than 1,500 speci-
mens of crayfishes, Dr. Hobbs intensively surveyed the Hiwassee
drainage system in North Carolina and Georgia, the Tennessee River
system in northern Alabama, and the Cumberland in northern Ten-
nessee. It is hoped that the materials collected in these areas will be
helpful in clarifying several problems in the genus Cambarus that
have puzzled students of crayfishes for some 60 years.

In October Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of mammals,
accompanied by museum aide Gary L. Ranck, traveled to Benghazi,
Libya, to begin field work on the mammals of Libya. With the aid
of every courtesy and cooperation from the 64th Engineer Battalion
(Base Topographic Survey), the Smithsonian field party made sub-
stantial collections in Libya. Toward the end of November Dr.
Setzer went to Aden to join Dr. Van Beek in the Wadi Hadhramaut,
leaving Mr. Ranck to carry on studies of the mammals of Libya,
which he continued throughout the fiscal year. In Aden, Dr. Setzer
spent 4 weeks collecting small mammals and attempting to obtain
skeletons of larger mammals for comparative purposes, in connection
with the archeological research conducted by Dr. Van Beek.

For 3 months, between January and April, Dr. Charles O. Handley,
Jr., associate curator of mammals, continued his long-term study of
the mammals of Panama. During this period nearly 2,000 mammals,
together with their ectoparasites, as well as several hundred specimens
of birds, reptiles, amphibians, fishes, and snails, were preserved. Two
previously unsampled faunas were studied: in the high mountains at
the southern tip of the Azuero Peninsula and in the islands off the
coast of Bocas del Toro. In addition a good high-elevation collection
was made in Chiriqui, and previous collections at Cerro Azul were
supplemented. During this field study Dr. Handley was assisted by
F. M. Greenwell, of the Smithsonian’s office of exhibits. Invaluable
local assistance in Panama was furnished by the Gorgas Memorial
Laboratory and by military services that provided transportation
facilities.

In June Dr. Handley spent a few days collecting small mammals
in extreme southwestern Virginia. His particular intent was to search
for the northern limits in the Appalachian region of some rodents of
the Mississippi Valley which have been shown in other areas to be
expanding their ranges. As an example, a specimen of the cotton-rat
Sigmodon hispidus was collected at Ewing, Va., well north of the
previously known limit of its range in Tennessee.

Field work on the survey of the geographic distribution and varia-
tion of the birdlife of the Isthmus of Panama, under Dr. Alexander
Wetmore, honorary research associate and retired Secretary of the
2°26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Smithsonian Institution, covered the period from January 8 to April
5, 1962. ‘The month of January was devoted to the valley of the Rio
Guanico at the southern end of the Azuero Peninsula, a region pre-
viously not studied, with shorter trips to the marsh areas in the
savannas east of Pacora, and to an area between the Trans-Isthmian
Highway and the eastern boundary of the Canal Zone. Early in
February work continued in the lower valley of the Rio Bayano, with
interesting results. Following this the party moved to the Province
of Coclé near the Veraguas boundary. In addition to work in the
lowlands and the foothill region, one camp was made in rain forest on
the Caribbean slope of the continental divide. Three hours distant
by trail to the south the vegetation was brown and dry, as is normal
on the Pacific slope in the height of the dry season, while at the Tigre
camp rain fell daily and the forests were dense and green. Specimens
taken here included a number of birds that are little known. Other
collections in this region were made during a survey by Jeep of the
savannas near the sea, and trips in a dugout canoe to the mangroves
in the extensive swamp lands at the mouth of the Rio Pocri.

Dr. Wetmore’s final field trip of the season, in the latter half of
March, was a survey of the islands that lie between Isla Coiba (visited
in 1956) and the Pacific coast of Veraguas and Chiriqui. The party
traveled and lived on the launch Barbara ZT, handled expertly in these
rough waters by Capt. George Edgington and his companion William
Bailey. On this expedition it was finally possible to identify the sooty
terns that come to nest on the rocky islets Frailes del Sur off Punta
Mala. Collections were made also on the islands Canal de Afuera and
Afuerita, and on Brincanco in the Contreras group. AII are forested,
rock-bound, and uninhabited, with landings possible only on a few
tiny beaches. The final specimens were taken on the western end of
Isla Cebaco, from an anchorage in the sheltered bay Caleta Cayman.
Affinities of the few resident land birds of these islands appear to be
with the peculiar forms of Isla Coiba farther at sea, rather than with
the adjacent mainland. Throughout this travel Dr. Wetmore had as
assistant Rudolfo Hinds, technician from the Gorgas Memorial Lab-
oratory, who made blood smears from all specimens taken, to be
checked for incidence of tropical disease.

Bernard R. Feinstein, museum aide in the division of birds, com-
pleted in September 1961 the field work that he had begun in August
1960, under the auspices of the U.S. Army Medical Research and
Development Command and the Bernice P. Bishop Museum.
During the period of his operations, Mr. Feinstein obtained speci-
mens of 1,070 mammals and 1,300 birds, in addition to a number of
reptiles. The vertebrate collections include much topotypical mate-
rial. Areas visited included regions in Viet Nam and Cambodia.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 2

After attending the Tenth Pacific Science Congress in Honolulu,
Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, curator of fishes, spent a few days in Septem-
ber on the island of Hawaii, where he made ichthyological observa-
tions of the offshore waters. He was impressed by the paucity of reef
fishes here in comparison with similar areas in the Pacific.

In May and June Dr. J. A. F. Garrick, research associate in the
division of fishes, spent a week in the Bahamas at the invitation of
the International Oceanographic Foundation examining sharks dur-
ing a cooperative operation with the anglers in the Grand Bahama
Bluefin Tuna Tournament. Several sharks were taken, including an
adult of Carcharhinus springeri, which is of considerable interest be-
cause presently only juveniles of this species are available in museum
collections. A complete set of measurements and vertebral counts
were made on this and other specimens.

In September and October Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke, curator of in-
sects, after attending the Tenth Pacific Science Congress in Honolulu,
conducted entomological field work in the South Pacific. Although it
proved impossible for Dr. Clarke to reach his principal objective, the
island of Rapa, because of adverse weather conditions, he made col-
lections of insects and other arthropods on the islands of Tahiti and
Huahine. In the material thus acquired, there seem to be many species
of Microlepidoptera which are new to the national collections and
some of which are doubtless undescribed.

In August William D. Field, associate curator of insects, spent 2
weeks in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park primarily to
obtain specimens of the genus ’hopalocera. Forty species of butter-
flies were collected, of which several were unusual and rare, including
Speyeria diana and Lerodea neamathla. At the close of the fiscal year
Mr. Field was engaged in field work in Maine, collecting specimens
of Rhopalocera for the Museum and conferring with several local
collectors with regard to future contributions to the Smithsonian’s
entomological materials.

Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr., associate curator of insects, made a suc-
cessful collecting trip to Puerto Rico in August. Asa result, the Mu-
seum collections now possess the immature stages of all species of
caddisflies known to occur on the island. In addition, the lengths of
the adult series were increased and several species previously unknown
were collected. The trichopteran material, which contains at least
2 new genera and over 12 new species, will be studied and reported
upon. A considerable collection of Odonata, both adults and naiads,
was made.

At the end of the fiscal year, Dr. Donald F. Squires, associate curator
of marine invertebrates, and Thomas G. Baker, of the oflice of exhibits,
were still engaged in field work in New Caledonia. The Smithsonian
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

party began its work on that island early in May, continuing the ac-
quisition of specimens and data for a coral-reef group being planned
for the new Hall of Oceanic Life. They were successful in obtaining
an adequate supply and variety of corals to reconstruct a typical New
Caledonian reef. Other representative elements of the fauna were
also obtained and shipped back to the Museum.

For approximately 9 weeks between January and April, a Smith-
sonian Institution party conducted field work in the interior of
British Guiana for the purpose of obtaining data, specimens, and
models for the construction of a rain-forest life group in the proposed
Hall of Plant Life. Dr. Richard S. Cowan, associate curator of
phanerogams, served as leader of the expedition and technical adviser
to the group, which consisted of Dr. Thomas R. Soderstrom, associate
curator of grasses; Reginald J. Sayre, of the office of exhibits; and
Paul Marchand, modelmaker. In addition to a large number of col-
lections of plant materials, 2,500 color slides were made and 5,000 feet
of 16-mm. film were exposed by Dr. Soderstrom. Mr. Marchand pre-
pared numerous life-size models of different species of plants which
can be duplicated as desired for use in the life group. Mr. Sayre made
field sketches and paintings of many of the items that will be used in
the exhibit, as well as a scale painting of Kaieteur Falls that will serve
as a guide in preparing the background of the group. Numerous plant
materials were preserved to serve as specimens from which to make
additional models. In the time that was available from the exhibit
functions of the trip, Dr. Cowan and Dr. Soderstrom obtained ample
material of about 500 species of plants for scientific purposes.

In April and May Dr. Velva E. Rudd, associate curator of phanero-
gams, visited museums in Trinidad, Venezuela, and Panama, in con-
tinuation of her studies of Ormosta and other Leguminosae. She
conducted field studies at certain interesting botanical localities, in-
cluding Colonia Tovar, El] Avila, and Parque Nacional Henri Pittier
in Venezuela, as well as the Canal Zone Biological Area in Panama.

In April Dr. John J. Wurdack, associate curator of phanerogams,
began extended botanical field work in Peru. After assembling his
supplies and equipment in Lima he traveled to Chachapoyas in north-
ern Peru, headquarters for the first part of the trip. At the end of
the fiscal year Dr. Wurdack reported that his work was progressing
satisfactorily and that he was amassing large collections for the
Smithsonian’s department of botany. One of his objectives is to re-
collect some of the species very inadequately known through the pio-
neering collection of the British botanist Mathews nearly a century
ago. Many species obtained at that time have not been rediscovered,
primarily because travel in the mountains of northern Peru is difficult.
Dr. Wurdack will particularly emphasize research collections of his
own specialty, the family Melastomataceae.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 29

In October and November Dr. Thomas R. Soderstrom, associate
curator of grasses, made extensive collections of plants in the state of
Michoacan, Mexico, in collaboration with Robert King, of Texas, who
is spending a large part of this year at the Smithsonian Institution.
Thorough collections of the flora were made in six diverse localities in
Michoacan. Special emphasis was placed on study of the grasses, and
the material obtained will be incorporated in a taxonomic revision of
the grasses of Mexico, upon which Dr. Soderstrom is now embarking.

In August, prior to attending the Tenth Pacific Science Congress
in Honolulu, Dr. William L. Stern, curator of woods, collected wood
samples and herbarium material mostly in the mountain forests of
Kauai, Hawaii. It was possible to visit the poorly collected Na Pali
Kona coast of Kauai, where Dr. Stern and Dr. Sherwin Carlquist, of
the Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, gathered specimens of the
monotypic lobeloid Brighamia insignis, as well as other rare plants.
On his return trip, Dr. Stern visited colleagues in Oregon and Colo-
rado and spent several days in the field making collections of wood
samples and herbarium vouchers. In continuation of his study of
the flora of the Florida Keys, Dr. Stern spent 2 weeks in December
and January making collections of wood specimens and herbarium
material at Key Largo, Big Pine Key, Grassy Key, and Craw] Key.

In June and July 1961 Dr. G. Arthur Cooper, head curator of geol-
ogy, and Dr. Richard E. Grant, of the U.S. Geological Survey, con-
tinued their field studies in Texas and New Mexico. In the vicinity
of Marathon, Tex., much of their time was devoted to examining the
lower limestone of the Word formation, which proved to be a key bed
in their studies, and collecting from it at about 20 localities. Subse-
quently the field party spent some days at Van Horn working in the
Lower Permian Huaco formation, where they collected from the
Capitan limestone and its equivalents, their objective being to obtain
a good representation of this fauna to use in comparative studies with
their Glass Mountains fossils. This field season essentially completed
the coverage of the Glass Mountains area for collecting purposes by
Dr. Cooper and Dr. Grant.

In October Edward P. Henderson, associate curator of mineralogy
and petrology, went to the vicinity of Henagar, Ala., to prospect for a
meteorite which had first been discovered in 1959. Although the main
mass of this meteorite had been removed, Mr. Henderson, using a
sensitive metal detector, prospected 5 acres of ground and located one
sizable piece and several smaller fragments. A second trip took Mr.
Henderson to Fort Worth, Tex., to investigate reports about a mete-
orite that fell there on September 9, 1961. With the aid of Oscar
Monnig, field work was organized, and after many hours’ search the
party located a small piece of the meteorite, which is now on deposit
in the national collections.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

In April Dr. Richard S. Boardman, curator of invertebrate paleon-
tology and paleobotany, spent several weeks collecting bryozoans from
the Simpson group of lower Middle Ordovician age in the Arbuckle
Mountains of Oklahoma. The fauna of this region is largely un-
studied and has the advantage of starting with the earliest known
bryozoans in this country and continuing through a long period of
time. This sequence should reveal evolutionary details and the origins
of several genera. The faunas are abundantly represented through-
out and will support many detailed population studies.

Dr. Porter M. Kier, associate curator of invertebrate paleontology
and paleobotany, accompanied by Dr. Druid Wilson, of the U.S.
Geological Survey, over a period of several weeks in Florida in Novem-
ber and December, collected fossils from formations of probable Mio-
cene and Pliocene age. The collecting was spectacular, providing a
much larger fauna than anticipated. Over 2,000 specimens were
found, representing approximately 25 species, most of which are new.
The results of the study of these specimens should be most helpful in
determining the age of the formations. Subsequently, Dr. Kier col-
lected and studied living sea-urchins and sea-biscuits in the vicinity
of Miami. Using aqualung equipment, he spent many hours on the
sea floor observing the behavior of nine species of echinoids, anticipat-
ing that these studies will permit a better understanding of the ecology
of the fossil forms that are his particular interest.

In February Dr. Kier and Dr. Erle G. Kauffman, associate curator
of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, spent several weeks in
Saudi Arabia collecting fossils under the sponsorship of the Arabian
American Oil Co. With the aid of officials of this company, they
made extensive collections in central Saudi Arabia, where three camps
especially erected for the expedition gave access to fossiliferous Lower
Cretaceous, Upper Cretaceous, and Jurassic areas. The operations
were extremely successful, and the Smithsonian party obtained over
a ton of well-preserved Mesozoic fossils, including approximately
8,000 brachiopods, 30,000 mollusks, 1,500 echinoids, and numerous
corals and sponges, many of them new to science. The material col-
lected from carefully measured stratigraphic sections will be invalu-
able to Middle East biostratigraphic work and an excellent source for
evolutionary studies.

In June Dr. Kier, in company with Dr. Druid Wilson, worked for a
few days in the Miocene formation near Cape Fear, N.C. The scien-
tists were fortunate in collecting sufficient echinoids and mollusks to
enable them to date these beds and in turn to date the Caloosahatchee
formation.

In the summer of 1961 Dr. Kauffman conducted field work in Mon-
tana, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, and New Mexico. He collected
SECRETARY’S REPORT 31

large suites of fossil mollusks and worked out a refined biostrati-
graphic zonation of the Upper Cretaceous rocks in these areas. The
ultimate purpose of the project is widespread regional correlation,
based on mollusk zones, of Upper Cretaceous deposits throughout
the Western Interior of North America, with special emphasis placed
on the role of pelecypods as time-zonal indicators. The success of
the summer field season far exceeded Dr. Kauffman’s expectations.
Collections superior to any previously made were obtained at numer-
ous localities and include a wealth of new species and new faunas.
Refined biostratigraphic zonation of key Upper Cretaceous sections
was accomplished. Regional studies in central and eastern Colorado
are now near completion, making possible future expansion to Kansas,
New Mexico, western and northern Colorado, and Wyoming.

In April Dr. Richard Cifelli, associate curator of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany, joined the oceanographic vessel 2. V.
Chain of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. The vessel
cruised to the Nova Scotia shelf at longitude 65° W., and then pro-
ceeded due south to St. Thomas. Stations were occupied at each
degree of latitude and the Gulf Stream. Collections of Foraminifera
from oblique, 200-meter plankton tows were made at each station.
A total of 24 samples were collected, representing excellent coverage
for the western Sargasso Sea and adjoining waters.

Between July and September Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of ver-
tebrate paleontology, accompanied by Franklin L. Pearce, chief of
the laboratory of vertebrate paleontology, made an extended collect-
ing trip through several Western States. Their first stop was at
Littleton, Colo., where they joined the Smithsonian group carrying
on a combined paleontological-archeological excavation in a quarry
south of Littleton. In subsequent field work near Shoshoni, Wyo.,
they made collections at Paleocene, Lysite lower Eocene, Badwater
upper Eocene, and Cameron Springs lower Oligocene localities in the
Wind River Basin. Also in Wyoming near Kemmerer, their work
had excellent results at a new locality for Paleocene mammals in the
Evanston formation, as well as at the previously discovered locality
in this formation near Fossil Butte. Continuing into Montana, the
party spent a fruitful period at the well-known lower Oligocene
locality at Pipestone Springs. At the conclusion of this field season,
Dr. Gazin and Mr. Pearce returned to Littleton, Colo., to assist in
the packing and shipping to Washington of some 4 tons of fossil
materials, mostly mammoth, obtained by the party working on the
Littleton project.

Between February and May Dr. Gazin conducted research in Guate-
mala, Nicaragua, Argentina, and Brazil. In Guatemala, at the
request of and with the support of the Government of Guatemala,
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

he visited several localities where fossil vertebrate remains had been
found. Undoubtedly the most significant of these was a rather ex-
tensive area, evidently of lake-deposited volcanic ash, in and around
the town of Estanzuela, near Zacapa in eastern Guatemala. Remains
of mastodon and giant sloth were observed in place. During his
short stay in Nicaragua Dr. Gazin examined a locality on the banks
of the Rio Viejo, to the north of Lake Managua, where Pleistocene
mammal remains were encountered. These included teeth of horse,
bison, and mastodon, and a pair of toxodon jaws. While in South
America, Dr. Gazin spent extended periods at Buenos Aires, La Plata,
and Rio de Janeiro, pursuing his studies of early Tertiary mammals.

Dr. Nicholas Hotton III, associate curator of vertebrate paleontol-
ogy, left in February 1961 for South Africa for a collecting season
in the famous Permian Karroo beds. His work extended through
July 1961 and proved to be extremely successful. Accompanied by
J. W. Kitching, of the Bernard Price Institute for Paleontological
Research, University of the Witwatersrand, he covered more than
4,000 miles in the Karroo area. Starting from Johannesburg, the
party spent some weeks on the east flank of the Drakensberg Moun-
tains, collecting fossils from the upper part of the Beaufort series.
From there they went to the classic area of the uppermost Beaufort,
around Burgersdorp and Lady Frere, where they completed another
2 weeks of successful collecting. Gradually they worked their way
westward across the Karroo, a course that took them downward
stratigraphically. The collection consists of nearly 200 specimens,
which will be added to the material of the National Museum. Many
of the specimens are of exhibit quality.

The greatest importance of the collection lies in its being repre-
sentative of the Permo-Triassic synapsid fauna of Africa and in its
high proportion of good anatomical specimens. It is believed that
excellent coverage of the Beaufort series was achieved both hori-
zontally and vertically. The collection of Cynognathus zone material
is particularly complete, and there are a number of relatively rare
upper Lystrosaurus-zone theriodonts. In addition, the genera
Lystrosaurus and Diademodon are represented by several individ-
uals from a variety of stratigraphic levels and geographic locations.
Further progress in understanding taxonomic and ecological rela-
tionships of the Beaufort synapids depends upon more accurate strati-
graphic data than are currently available in the literature. However,
it is expected that the data obtained by Dr. Hotton and Dr. A. S.
Brink, scientific officer of the Bernard Price Institute, from various
sources will be valuable in marking out approaches to an ultimate
solution.

In September Dr. Hotton worked several days in the vicinity of
Wichita Falls, Tex., examining collections of Permian amphibians
SECRETARY’S REPORT 33

discovered by Dr. Sergius H. Mamay, of the U.S. Geological Survey.
The material in this vicinity probably represents the last vestiges of
a drying pond or river waterhole, in which the amphibians were
trapped and preserved. It consists of about 214 tons of siltstone
matrix containing perhaps 150 skulls and scattered postcranial re-
mains; the bones range all the way from impressions to complete ele-
ments. Although preservation of some of the specimens leaves
something to be desired, the collection as a whole is remarkable. For
obtaining much of this valuable material and shipping it to the Smith-
sonian Institution, credit must go to Dr. Walter W. Dalquest, of
Midwestern University. The fossil locality itself is in Haskell
County, about 150 miles from Wichita Falls.

During the year staff members of the Museum of History and
Technology and the Office of Exhibits made many short and a few
extended field trips in order to examine collections of potential use-
fulness in developing the new exhibit halls of the Museum. During
field work of this sort, the staff members carry out essential assign-
ments of appraising the potential of objects to the research programs
in history and technology, as well as their possible value to the ex-
hibits program. While all such trips are of importance to the de-
velopment of the Museum, only a few visits to institutions outside the
United States are here discussed.

In August Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, curator of political history,
visited numerous museums and historic buildings in and near Athens,
Vienna, Paris, and Rome, to familiarize himself with the latest museum
exhibition techniques and the extent of the collections in these areas.
He was pleased to note that some of the institutions visited have in-
spired a renaissance of temporary craftsmanship in their regions.

In the summer of 1961 Miss Rodris C. Roth, associate curator of
cultural history, visited many museums and historic houses in Eng-
land, including some in Cambridge and Brighton, in addition to the
better-known institutions in and near London. She studied collec-
tions specifically in relation to research projects and problems, and
generally in relation to museum practices and attitudes.

In September and October Dr. Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, curator
of numismatics, and Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator, visited
numismatic collections housed in museums in Portugal, Spain, Italy,
Austria, Germany, France, Sweden, and Denmark. They were much
impressed by the excellence of many of these collections. The in-
crease in interest in numismatics is noticeable all over the western
world, as evidenced by the new exhibits observed in various stages of
completion. The extensive series of numismatic exhibit halls in prep-
aration in Madrid is a good example. These will provide the world’s
largest display of its kind and, together with the six planned exhibit
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

halls in the Catalan numismatic museum in Barcelona, will give Spain
a leading position in this field so far as sheer exhibit area is concerned.

Donald E. Kloster, museum aide in the division of military history,
visited several military museums in Oslo, Norway, and Copenhagen,
Denmark, during July and August. He studied the display tech-
niques, conservation measures and experiments, storage systems, and
reference collections of each museum and obtained considerable in-
formation on experiments and practices in preservation, especially in
the fields of leather, metal, and silk.

EXHIBITIONS

On June 28, 1962, the modernized hall of the cultures of the Pacific
and Asia was formally opened in the presence of ambassadors and
other official representatives of several Pacific and Southeast Asian
countries. In this hall 50 special exhibit units depict aspects of past
and present life in the Pacific Islands, Australia, New Zealand, and
the great arc of southern Asia from the Philippines to Pakistan. The
cultures represented range from the Stone Age to the highly ad-
vanced cultures of India, Pakistan, Malaya, and Indonesia. The
peoples of Hawaii and New Zealand are portrayed as they existed
when discovered by Europeans over a century ago. Included among
the exhibits are a large stone head from Easter Island, a 614-foot piece
of stone money from Yap, royal feather capes from Hawaii, and recent
gifts of material culture from India and Malaya. Life groups de-
picting living conditions of New Guinea pygmies, an Ifugao rice
harvest in the Philippines, and domestic scenes among the Maori of
New Zealand and the Samoans are installed in the hall.

Construction in the adjacent hall, which will contain additional
Asian exhibits and also interpret the cultures of Africa, was nearing
completion at the year’s end.

At the close of the year two-thirds of the exhibits in the second of
two hails of North American archeology had been designed and in-
stallation was proceeding in anticipation of a fall opening. This hall
will display exhibits which will interpret archeological methods and
objectives and the prehistoric cultures of the United States east of the
Rocky Mountains.

Staff members of the department of anthropology collaborated with
the division of cultural history in the selection of musical instruments
from the Congo, Polynesia, China, and Thailand for an exhibit assem-
bled for the Eighth Congress of the International Musicological So-
ciety which met in Washington. A selection of weapons and armor
from the John Oliver La Gorce collection was displayed from Novem-
ber 1961 to March 1962. In December 1961 and January 1962 the
division of ethnology offered a special exhibition, of 80 newly cleaned
SECRETARY'S REPORT 35

and restored oil paintings of American Indians by the artist George
Catlin, which was installed in the foyer of the Natural History
Building.

By the year’s end the major construction of the hall of fossil reptiles
was completed and several wall displays were partially or completely
installed by the staff of the division of vertebrate paleontology. This
hall will interpret the biological relationships among the reptiles
through time and the various ways in which they met environmental
demands. J. H. Matternes completed the large mural depicting an
early Miocene assemblage of terrestrial mammals.

Many new and outstanding gems, including a 300-carat blue star
sapphire from Burma, were added to the gem exhibit. On November
9, 1961, the 245.35-carat Jubilee diamond, the third largest in existence,
was received on loan from its owner, Paul-Louis Weiller, and placed
on exhibition for approximately 8 months.

Curatorial activity in the development of the hall of oceanic life,
including field collecting of specimens for exhibition, the specification
of models, and the writing of detailed exhibits scripts, was coordi-
nated by Dr. Fenner A. Chace, Jr., curator of marine invertebrates.
Detailed specifications for models of marine invertebrates were pre-
pared during the year for the guidance of highly skilled modelmakers.

Construction of the new hall of cold-blooded vertebrates began early
in May 1962. Displayed in this hall when completed will be repre-
sentative types of fishes, amphibians, and reptiles, and exhibits inter-
preting their life activities, anatomical adaptations, breeding
behavior, distribution, and developmental history.

Planning of the exhibits for the new hall of osteology was advanced
during the year. Skeletons of mammals, birds, fishes, reptiles, and
amphibians have been carefully selected to illustrate relationships,
variations, specializations, and adaptations. General topics, such as
the nature of bones and the interrelationships of skeletal parts, also
will be presented in this hall.

The temporary exhibit of mollusks in the west hall of the second
floor was removed to provide space for construction activities in the
adjacent exhibit hall.

Curatorial efforts in the department of science and technology were
directed toward the acquisition of specimens, the specification of
models to be built, and the writing of exhibits scripts. Exhibits for
five halls to be installed in the new Museum of History and Tech-
nology Building were in production during the year. Twelve new
exhibits on health education and the history of medicine, pharmacy,
and dentistry were installed in the gallery of medical sciences in the
Arts and Industries Building. They illustrate child health, the use of
X-rays in medicine, hearing aids and surgery of the ear, inhalers,
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

masks and machines used in anesthesia, the development of electro-
cardiographs, early pharmaceutical mortars and pestles, and dental
drilling.

A fine collection of original machine tools was obtained and a dozen
models illustrating the development of tools for mass production were
completed. One of the exhibits in the hall of tools will be a reproduc-
tion of a 13th-century stained-glass panel from the Cathedral of
Chartres depicting a wood turner at work.

A special case was built to exhibit a reproduction of the DeDondi
clock, the earliest known mechanical clock about which details have
survived. This will be one of the featured exhibits in the hall of light
machinery. Construction of a series of enlarged escapement models
illustrating significant clock and watch mechanisms was in progress.
Designs and specifications for a full-size operating tower clock, to be
installed in the horology section of the light machinery hall, have been
developed.

For the hall of civil engineering eight scale models illustrating the
historic development of soft-ground and hard-rock tunneling in
Europe and America were completed. In the refrigeration section of
the hall of heavy machinery, a number of demonstrations of the prin-
cipally employed refrigeration cycles will be featured with examples
of refrigeration machinery. Exhibits interpreting early physical
science were completed, and additional units in both classical and
applied physics were prepared.

In December 1961, the 92-foot, 280-ton Pacific-type locomotive
“1401,” a gift of the Southern Railway System, was the first exhibit
to be installed in the new Museum of History and Technology
Building.

Three vehicles which will be exhibited in the hall of automobiles and
coaches in the new museum were restored. The Lawrence coach, a
gift of Mrs. Richard Saltonstall, was placed on display in the Arts
and Industries Building in May 1962. The Winton Bullet and Haynes
automobiles were restored and returned to exhibition in the hall.

During the year an Edison incandescent lamp collection, previously
in storage, and a color television set, presented by the General Electric
Research Laboratory, were placed on exhibition in the Arts and In-
dustries Building.

A change in the mechanism of the automatic quilt case was necessi-
tated by unexpectedly heavy use by visitors. The dial electronic sys-
tem of operation was replaced by a much simpler direct mechanical
means of selecting quilts. Temporary exhibits of large color photo-
graphs lent by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service were continued in
the farm machinery hall.

The Kelmscott Chaucer, a beautiful and important book printed by
SECRETARY’S REPORT 37

William Morris, was placed on permanent display in May 1962.
Housed in a specially designed case, this book is a gift of Senator
Clinton P. Anderson, a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution.

The appointment by the American Petroleum Institute of a special
subcommittee to assist in the location of historical material and to de-
velop appropriate exhibits has provided a valuable means of commu-
nication with the production side of the petroleum industry. A large
number of typical machines have been acquired for the hall of general
manufacturing.

The division of political history installed small temporary exhibits
dealing with the political campaigns of 1840 and 1896, and an exhi-
bition of commemorative objects associated with the three assassinated
presidents. The Women’s Rights exhibition is being developed gradu-
ally to reflect more completely and with greater accuracy the develop-
ment of this movement in the United States during the 19th and 20th
centuries.

An exceptional collection of marked 17th- and 18th-century Ameri-
can pewter lent by Dr. Joseph H. Kler, and a New York repoussé silver
2-handled bow], made in the early 18th century by Benjamin Wynkoop
for Nicholas and Hiletje Roosevelt and lent by Mrs. Jack R. Hovey,
were placed on exhibition in the present hall of everyday life in early
America inthe Natural History Building.

A special exhibition of rare and seldom shown musical instruments
was assembled from the museum collections on the occasion of the
Eighth Congress of the International Musicological Society in Sep-
tember 1961. On view through October, this attractive display of in-
struments associated with the traditional music of Europe and
America, as well as instruments from Asia, Africa, and Oceania,
proved of interest to the public as well as to students of music.

The cooperation of the British Crown Agents enabled the Museum
to prepare a special exhibition featuring new stamps issued by Sey-
chelles, Fiji, Tanganyika, Swaziland, and the Postal Centenary issue
for the West Indies. Also displayed were original drawings and de-
sign subjects for these stamps, items seldom seen outside the British
Isles,

In the numismatics hall a specially designed semiautomatic case
which can display an average of 800 coins was installed on an experi-
mental basis. It contains 40 trays, each measuring 2.5’’ x 44’’, sus-
pended between continuous chain devices. The visitor may select for
viewing any tray in which he may be interested.

Highlight of the completely restored series of World War I naval
vessels was a strikingly camouflaged model of the cruiser St. Louis.
Prominent among new Civil War models were the Union gunboat
Carondelet, the Confederate ironclad Fredericksburg, and the Con-
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

federate submarine H. Z. Hunley. <A full-scale replica of the Cur-
tiss A-1, first aircraft purchased by the United States Navy, was
placed on exhibition with the cooperation of the National Air Museum.

A special exhibition of marine paintings and ship portraits by
John W. Schmidt was shown in the rotunda of the Arts and Indus-
tries Building during December 1961 and January 1962. The divi-
sion of naval history also cooperated with the Naval Historical Foun-
dation in providing half models and other memorabilia for exhibits,
on naval aviation and naval aspects of the Civil War, held in the Trux-
ton Decatur Museum. During the annual meeting of the Company of
Military Collectors and Historians, a special display of rare naval
uniforms and flags of the Civil War period was exhibited.

Under the chairmanship of museum director Albert C. Smith, the
committee coordinating and supervising the modernization of natural-
history exhibits reviewed the planning of six additional halls in
earlier stages of development.

Assistant director John C. Ewers continued to coordinate the activi-
ties of the curators and the exhibits staff engaged in planning and
preparing exhibits for the Museum of History and Technology.
During the year exhibits units were prepared which will be installed
in 16 halls of the new building. Although some of these exhibits were
placed on temporary display in the Arts and Industries Building,
others were placed in storage until the museum is completed.

Exhibits chief John E. Anglim provided over-all supervision to the
exhibits staff engaged in the design, production, and installation of
permanent exhibits in the U.S. National Museum, and directly super-
vised the exhibits laboratory in the Museum of Natural History.
Benjamin W. Lawless continued to supervise the design and prepara-
tion of exhibits for the Museum of History and Technology, assisted
by Robert Widder in design, Bela S. Bory in production, and Robert
Klinger in the model shop. Julius Tretick assisted in supervising the
production and installation of exhibits in the Natural History Build-
ing. Joseph G. Weiner, with the assistance of Constance Minkin and
Edna Wright, continued the editing of the curators’ drafts of exhibits
scripts and labels.

The design of the renovated halls in the Natural History Building
was aided greatly by Richard S. Johnson, design branch chief, and
John E. Morrissey, architectural branch chief, of the architectural
and structural division of the Public Buildings Service, General Serv-
ices Administration, and by Luther H. Flouton and Pasquale Battes-
telli, design architects of that agency.

DOCENT SERVICE

The Junior League of Washington continued its volunteer docent
program, conducting school classes from the greater Washington area
SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

through the Smithsonian museums. The program was carried out
through the cooperation of curator G. Carroll Lindsay, Smithsonian
Museum Service, with Mrs. E. Tillman Stirling, chairman of the
League’s docent committee, and Mrs. Vernon Knight, cochairman.
Mrs. Knight will serve as chairman for the forthcoming year, with
Mrs. Dickson R. Loos as cochairman.

During the 1961-62 school year 20,880 children were conducted on
720 tours, representing a 24-percent increase over the previous year’s
participation.

Tours were conducted in the halls of everyday life in early America,
Indians of the Americas, and textiles, for grades 3 through 6, and
in the halls of gems and minerals and power machinery, for grade 5
through junior high school. Four tours each day, 5 days a week,
were offered every half hour from 10 through 11:30 a.m. in the
halls of everyday life in early America and in Indians of the Americas.
Tours in the hall of gems and minerals were conducted on Monday
through Friday at 10 and 11 am. To meet the increasing demand
for docent service in this hall, tours were occasionally offered at noon
and at 1 p.m., in addition to the tours offered in the morning. Two
tours daily during school days were offered in the power machinery
and textile halls.

Tours were conducted from October 16, 1961, through May 25, 1962,
with the exception of the month of April 1962, when tours were sus-
pended because of the exceedingly heavy visitor traffic in all museum
halls during the Easter and cherry-blossom seasons. The great
number of visitors to the Smithsonian museums during the early
spring so overcrowd the exhibition halls that the usual group tours
cannot be satisfactorily conducted.

In addition to Mrs. Stirling and Mrs. Knight, the members of the
League’s docent committee were: Mrs. George Armstrong, Mrs. A.
Stuart Baldwin, Miss Janet W. Barfield, Mrs. Thad H. Brown, Jr.,
Mrs. Thomas R. Cate, Mrs. Thomas K. Clarke, Mrs. Dean B. Cowie,
Mrs. William Dixon, Mrs. Rockwood Foster, Mrs. Clark Gearhart,
Mrs. George Gerber, Mrs. Robert H. Harwood, Mrs. Everett Hutchin-
son, Mrs. Charles J. Kelly, Jr., Mrs. J. H. Lasley, Mrs. Ralph W. Lee
IIT, Mrs. Dickson R. Loos, Mrs. John Manfuso, Jr., Mrs. Ernest May,
Mrs. William McClure, Mrs. Robert McCormick, Mrs. Arnold B.
McKinnon, Mrs. Peter Macdonald, Mrs. Joseph Metcalf, Mrs. William
Minshall, Jr., Mrs. L. Edgar Prina, Mrs. Robert EK. Rogers, Mrs. W.
James Sears, Mrs. Walter Slowinski, Mrs. Joseph Smith, Jr., Mrs.
James H. Stallings, Jr., Mrs. David Toll, Mrs. John S. Voorhees, Mrs.
Richard Wallis, and Mrs. Mare A. White.

The Institution deeply appreciates the able and devoted efforts of
these volunteers, whose services to the schools of the Washington-area

672-174-634
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

encourage effective use of Smithsonian museum exhibits by teacher

and student alike.
BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

At the close of the fiscal year the contract for construction of the
west wing and completion of renovation of the existing Natural
History Building of the Smithsonian Institution had not been
awarded. The west wing when completed will provide laboratories
and workrooms as well as more adequate storage space for collections
of the entire department of botany and the divisions of fishes, reptiles
and amphibians, marine invertebrates, and insects. On June 26, 1962,
construction of the east wing, which was started on January 3, 1961,
was about 85 percent complete.

During the year construction of the building for the Museum of
History and Technology reached the stage where it was deemed
advisable to place two of the largest museum objects in the exhibition
galleries. The large steam locomotive and tender presented by the
Southern Railway System was placed on the rails in the first-floor
transportation hall, and the original Revolutionary War gunboat
Philadelphia was hoisted through a window to its display place in a
third-floor military history hall. The Public Buildings Service, Gen-
eral Services Administration, advises that limited areas in the build-
ing should be available for occupancy commencing in October 1962,
and that substantial occupancy of the entire building is estimated to be
possible in March 1963. At the end of the fiscal year the construction
of the building had reached 81 percent of completion.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

In the department of zoology, Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., accepted
appointment as head curator on February 1, 1962. Dr. Donald R.
Davis, specialist in microlepidopteran moths, was appointed associate
curator September 14, 1961, in the division of insects. A vacancy in
the division of mollusks was filled October 2, 1961, by the appointment
of Dr. Joseph Rosewater as associate curator. Dr. Donald F. Squires,
a stony-coral specialist, entered on duty as associate curator in the
division of marine invertebrates on December 18, 1961. Dr. Philip
S. Humphrey was appointed curator of birds on June 1, 1962. Dr.
William H. Crocker was appointed associate curator in ethnology Feb-
ruary 12, 1962, to provide coverage of South American aboriginal
material culture.

Included among the additions to the staff of the Museum of History
and Technology were the appointments of Dr. Lester Clark Lewis as
curator of physical sciences on February 19, 1962, and Dr. Walter F.
Cannon as associate curator on February 5, 1962. In the division of
SECRETARY’S REPORT 41

mechanical and civil engineering Silvio A. Bedini accepted an appoint-
ment of curator in charge of the section of tools on November 27, 1961.
Joseph Rudmann entered on duty October 30, 1961, as assistant curator
in the head curator’s office, department of science and technology.
Miss Doris Ann Esch entered on duty June 13, 1961, as assistant cura-
tor, and Miss Ellen Joy Finnegan as junior curator August 7, 1961,
in the head curator’s office, department of civil history. Keith E.
Melder was appointed assistant curator of political history on Septem-
ber 5, 1961. In the department of armed forces history, Dr. Melvin
H. Jackson entered on duty as assistant curator September 14, 1961.

Herbert G. Deignan, curator of birds, resigned January 31, 1962,
after 24 years of service in the U.S. National Museum. Mr. Deignan
intends to reside in Geneva, Switzerland, but plans to engage in Mada-
gascar field ornithological studies as a member of a Museum expedition.

Dr. Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator of soft corals, division of
marine invertebrates, for the past 14 years, resigned December 15,
1961, to accept the position of research associate professor, Institute of
Marine Science, University of Miami, Florida.

Robert R. Ireland, Jr., assistant curator of cryptogams, resigned on
December 12, 1961, to continue with graduate studies after 4 years’
service in the department of botany.

On January 31, 1962, Emery C. Leonard retired as associate curator
of phanerogams after 44 years’ service in the department of botany.
Mr. Leonard’s employment by the Institution began on January 2,
1918.

Dr. Ray S. Bassler, research associate in geology since his retirement,
died at Washington, D.C., on October 3, 1961. Dr. Bassler retired as
head curator of the department of geology on July 31, 1948, after 47
years’ service. Dr. David C. Graham, a collaborator in biology since
October 19, 1931, died at Englewood, Colo., on September 15, 1961.
Dr. Graham served as a missionary in Szechwan and other parts of
China for many years and during this service forwarded important
natural-history collections to the U.S. National Museum. A. Brazier
Howell, a collaborator in mammalogy since December 11, 1926, and
formerly a member of the staff of the department of anatomy of Johns
Hopkins University, died at Bangor, Maine, on December 23, 1961.
Dr. Roland W. Brown, a collaborator in paleobotany since December
27, 1956, died at Lehighton, Pa., on December 12, 1961.

Respectfully submitted.

Remineton Kentuoce, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the
Bureau of American Ethnology

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1962, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau “to continue independently
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American In-
dians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection of
the United States and the excavation and preservation of archeologic

remains.”
SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., director, devoted a portion of his time
to office duties and the general supervision of the Bureau and the River
Basin Surveys. In mid-July in company with Dr. Robert L. Stephen-
son, chief of the Missouri Basin Project of the River Basin Surveys,
and Dr. John M. Corbett, archeologist for the National Park Service,
he made an inspection trip to the River Basin Surveys excavating
parties in the Missouri Basin and visited several local institutions
which were conducting excavations in cooperation with the Inter-
Agency Archeological Salvage Program. He then proceeded to the
Agate Basin Site in eastern Wyoming where a joint Smithsonian In-
stitution-National Geographic Society party under his general direc-
tion was digging in a site attributable to one of the early hunting
groups in the Plains area. Dr. Roberts remained at the site until the
work was terminated early in August. The immediate field work was
under the direction of Dr. William M. Bass. During the course of
the investigations numerous cut and split animal bones with evidence
both for a kill and for a camping area were found. Associated with
them were a variety of stone and bone implements. Most of the ani-
mal bones have been identified as representing bison of an extinct
species, Bison antiquus. A few of the bones undoubtedly represent
one of the Cervidae, but they are not diagnostic of species. Also,
there were a few jack-rabbit bones. The artifacts in addition to pro-
jectile points include various forms of scrapers, flake knives, spoke
shaves, flakes with graver’s points, and a few bone tools. This assem-
blage of implements represents a definite contribution because it makes

42
SECRETARY’S REPORT 43

possible the establishment of an Agate Basin Complex. At two places
in the excavated area, objects found at a lower level indicated that
Folsom Man had at least visited the area prior to the occupation by
the makers of the Agate Basin type complex. One carbon-14 date
obtained for the Agate Basin level indicates that the occupation was
at about 9,850+400 years before the present, and charcoal from the
Folsom level has given a date of 10375700 years before the present.
This suggests that the basin was occupied at least at intervals over a
period of about 1,000 years.

After returning to Washington from Wyoming, Dr. Roberts went
to Sio Paulo, Brazil, where he represented the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and the United States at a conference on the origin and antiquity
of man in the New World. He made three speeches at the conference
and was elected one of the two vice presidents for the session. In
September he went to Mesa Verde National Park in southwestern
Colorado where he served as a member of the advisory group for the
Wetherill Mesa Project. In November he participated in the 19th
Plains Conference for Archeology at Lawton, Okla., and read a paper
on the 1961 excavations at the Agate Basin Site. Later he went to
Macon, Ga., as a member of an advisory group for a series of studies
to be carried on at Ocmulgee National Monument. Early in June he
visited the offices of the Missouri Basin Project of the River Basin
Survey at Lincoln, Nebr., and assisted in sending out a number of
field parties for work in Kansas, South Dakota, Wyoming, and
Montana.

Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropologist, continued his Eskimo studies
and other Arctic activities. The Russian translation program—An-
thropology of the North: Translations from Russian Sources—which
he organized in 1960 continued its operation with the support of a
second year’s grant from the National Science Foundation. The
second volume of translations, Studies in Siberian Ethnogenesis,
edited by Henry N. Michael, was published by the University of
Toronto Press for the Arctic Institute of North America in April
1962. This 313-page volume contains 17 articles by Soviet ethnolo-
gists, anthropologists, historians, and linguists on the origin and re-
lationships of the Yakut, Tungus, Buryat, Kirgiz, the Amur tribes,
and Samoyed and other ethnic groups of Siberia. Work is proceeding
on the translation and editing of additional volumes and papers on
Siberian archeology, ethnology, and physical anthropology selected by
the Arctic Institute’s advisory committee, of which Dr. Collins is
chairman.

Dr. Collins’ article on Eskimo art appeared in volume 5 of the
Encyclopaedia of World Art. It traces the development of Eskimo
art from prehistoric to modern times and describes and illustrates the
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

various regional art styles, ancient and modern, in Alaska, Canada,
and Greenland. He also prepared an article on the relationships of
the earliest Eskimo cultures to recently discovered pre-Eskimo cul-
tures in the western Arctic for a volume on early man in the western
Arctic to be published by the University of Alaska.

Dr. Collins continued to serve as a member of the Board of Govy-
ernors of the Arctic Institute of North America and as a member
of its publications committee responsible for the quarterly journal
Arctic and the two other Arctic Institute series, Technical Papers
and Special Publications. He also continued to serve as chairman
of the directing committee which plans and supervises preparation
of the Arctic Bibliography, a comprehensive reference work which
abstracts and indexes the contents of publications in all fields of sci-
ence, and in all languages, relating to the Arctic and sub-Arctic regions
of the world. This Arctic Institute project, for which Dr. Collins
has been primarily responsible since its inception in 1947, is being
supported by grants and allotments from the Department of Defense,
National Institutes of Health, Atomic Energy Commission, and De-
fense Research Board of Canada. The Library of Congress provides
office space, and most of the work of compilation and editing is done
there under the direction of Miss Marie Tremaine. In addition to
the unsurpassed collections of the Library of Congress, those of the
Smithsonian Library and 80 other large libraries in the United States
and Canada, as well as of polar research institutes in England, France,
and Norway, are being utilized in the preparation of the bibliography.
Volume 10 was issued by the Government Printing Office in December
1961, and volume 11 is ready for the printer. Volume 10 (1,520 pages)
abstracts and indexes the contents of 6,570 scientific publications on
Arctic and sub-Arctic areas and on low temperature conditions; added
to the abstracts appearing in the previous nine volumes, this makes a
total of 62,848 such publications abstracted to date. In volume 10,
for the first time, Russian language material exceeds that in English,
reflecting expanded research activities of Soviet scientists in their
Arctic territories; the volume contains abstracts, all in English, of
3,075 Russian publications, of 2,503 publications in English, 513 Scan-
dinavian, 212 German, and 267 in other languages. Subjects that
have received special emphasis in this volume are geology, geophysics,
mineral resources, meteorology, fisheries, oceanography, transporta-
tion, construction, economic and social conditions, anthropology and
acculturation of Eskimos and native Siberian peoples, acclimatization,
military and public health, diseases, and the environmental effects of
darkness, humidity, light, and low temperature on animals, man, and
plants.

Dr. William C. Sturtevant, ethnologist, continued his research re-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 45

lated to the ethnology of the Eastern North American Indians. Par-
ticularly he broadened his Iroquois research, previously concentrated
on the Seneca of New York, to include the very poorly known Seneca-
Cayuga of northeastern Oklahoma. During August 1961 he spent 3
weeks doing field work among this group (including attendance at
their major annual ceremony, the Green Corn Dance). In January
and May he spent several days studying Oklahoma Seneca-Cayuga
specimens in the Museum of the American Indian in New York, and
in June visited the National Museum of Canada in Ottawa to study
the large collection made among this group by Marius Barbeau in 1911
and 1912. These Iroquois are descended from a group which settled in
Ohio in the 18th century, together with accretions received since then
from New York and Canada. At present those who speak an
Indian language speak Cayuga. Although there have been continu-
ous intermittent contacts with other Iroquois, the culture of this group
is the most deviant found in any Iroquois community, and its study
promises to elucidate several aspects of general Iroquois culture—
particularly some features of the various major ritual complexes.
Conversations with informants during a brief return visit to the New
York Seneca in October helped clarify some of these matters.

While in Oklahoma Dr. Sturtevant spent a day among the Delaware
inquiring about the last years of their ceremonial structure, the Big
House. Carved posts from this building were studied in museums
in Oklahoma, New York, and Toronto during this and previous years,
and some notes on the subject by F. G. Speck were located in the
American Philosophical Society Library in Philadelphia. Dr. Sturte-
vant returned from Oklahoma via Mississippi and North Carolina,
stopping about 3 days in each State to renew and expand his acquaint-
ance with the Choctaw and Cherokee.

During September Dr. Sturtevant prepared a paper on “Spanish-
Indian Relations in Southeastern North America,” which he delivered
at the annual meeting of the American Indian Ethnohistoric Con-
ference in Providence in October. This later appeared in Hthno-
history (vol. 9, pp. 41-94, 1962). His paper on “Taino Agriculture”
was published in Antropolégica Supplement Publication No. 2
(Caracas, 1961). In October Dr. Sturtevant attended an International
Conference on Iroquois Research, at McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario, where he presented an oral report on his Oklahoma field
work. In November he attended the annual meetings of the American
Anthropological Association in Philadelphia.

Dr. Wallace L. Chafe, linguist, spent July and August in Anadarko,
Okla., collecting material for a description of the Caddo language.
He recorded a considerable quantity of linguistic data on this language
for which almost no information was previously available, and he
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

returned to Oklahoma in mid-June 1962 to continue this work. In
August he spent a few days with Dr. Sturtevant at the Seneca-Cayuga
Green Corn Dance and was able to locate a few speakers of Wyandot,
a language that had been thought to be extinct.

Between September and May Dr. Chafe worked at the Bureau on
a half-time basis, teaching courses on several linguistic subjects at
Catholic and Georgetown Universities. At Georgetown he worked
with a speaker of Winnebago and hopes eventually to prepare some
descriptive material on that language. Through this study he was
led to pursue further some facts suggestive of a remote relationship
between the Siouan, Caddoan, and Iroquoian language families.
During the fall he continued his survey of the present number of
speakers of North American Indian languages, the results of which
are being published in the International Journal of American
Linguistics. He read papers at the International Conference on
Troquoian Studies at Hamilton, Ontario, in October, and at the Annual
Meeting of the American Anthropological Association in Philadel-
phia in November. He was program chairman for the spring meeting
of the American Ethnological Society in Washington in April and
edited the papers read at the meeting for publication. During the
late spring he spent several weeks continuing work on a Seneca dic-
tionary.

Robert M. Laughlin, ethnologist specializing in the Middle Ameri-
can area, joined the staff of the Bureau on June 11, 1962. He spent
the remaining days of the fiscal year in research on the Huastec of
Veracruz and San Luis Potosi, Mexico, in preparation for an article
for the Handbook of Middle American Indians, to be published by
the Middle American Research Institute of Tulane University.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

During fiscal 1962 the River Basin Surveys unit continued its pro-
gram for salvage archeology in areas to be flooded or otherwise
destroyed by the construction of large dams. The work as in previous
years was carried on in cooperation with the National Park Service
and the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior, the
Corps of Engineers of the Department of the Army, and a number
of State and local institutions. An increase in funds that became
available late in the year made possible an expansion in the program.
During 1961-62 the investigations were supported by a transfer of
$231,705 from the National Park Service and a grant of $2,000 from
the Appalachian Power Co. The funds from the National Park
Service were for use in the Missouri Basin and along the Chatta-
hoochee River, Alabama-Georgia. The grant from the Appalachian
Power Co. was to provide for an archeological survey in the area along
SECRETARY'S REPORT 47

the Roanoke River in southern Virginia where its Smith Mountain
Project is underway. The funds from the National Park Service
provided $204,500 for the Missouri Basin and $27,205 for the Chatta-
hoochee Project. A carryover of $7,734 in the Missouri Basin made
the total for that area $212,234. The grand total of funds available
in 1961-62 for the River Basin Surveys was $241,439.

Investigations in the field consisted of surveys and excavations.
Most of the efforts were concentrated in the digging of sites, but sur-
veys were made in three new reservoir basins and two watershed proj-
ect areas. Also, at the end of the year a survey was underway in the
Missouri River area in Montana, locally known as the Missouri Breaks,
which is to be set aside as the Lewis and Clark National Wilderness
Waterway. Two of the new reservoirs were in Virginia and one in
Nebraska. One of the watershed projects was also in Nebraska and the
other was in Iowa. At the beginning of the fiscal year three parties
were in the field in the Missouri Basin. A fourth began operations
in that area in August, and another party resumed investigations
along the Chattahoochee River during the same period. At the end
of April a party returned to the Chattahoochee area and started fur-
ther excavations in the Walter F. George Reservoir Basin. In May
two small parties were at work in Nebraska, one in South Dakota, and
one in Iowa. In June 11 parties moved into the Missouri Basin; one
of them was working in Kansas, seven were in South Dakota, one
was in Wyoming, one was in Wyoming-Montana, and one in Montana.
With the exception of the one in Alabama-Georgia, which terminated
its activities on June 30, all these parties were continuing their investi-
gations at the close of the fiscal year.

As of June 80, 1962, reservoir areas where archeological surveys and
excavations had been made since the start of the salvage program
totaled 258, located in 29 States. In addition, two lock projects, four
canal areas, and two watershed areas had been examined. During the
years since the program got underway, 4,979 sites have been located
and recorded, and of that number 1,171 were recommended for exca-
vation or limited testing. Because complete excavation is rarely
possible, except in the case of a few small sites, the term “excavation”
implies digging approximately 10 percent of a site. With the excep-
tion of those where the work was done during the past year, prelimi-
nary appraisal reports have been issued for most of the areas surveyed
and, in cases where additional reconnaissance has resulted in the dis-
covery of other sites, supplemental reports have been prepared. Where
no archeological manifestations were noted or where they were too
meager to be of import, no general report was issued. Manuscripts
have been completed for two of the surveys made last year, and they
probably will be issued sometime during the coming fiscal year.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

By the end of the year, 547 sites in 54 reservoir basins and 1 water-
shed area had either been tested or dug sufficiently to provide good
information about them. Thus far at least one example of each site
recorded in the preliminary surveys has been examined. They cover
the range from camping locations occupied by the early hunting and
gathering peoples of about 10,000 years ago to village remains left by
early historic Indians, as well as the remains of frontier Army and
trading posts of European origin. Reports on the results of the in-
vestigations have appeared in various scientific journals, in the Bul-
letins of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and in the Miscellaneous
Collections of the Smithsonian Institution. Bulletin 179, containing
River Basin Surveys Papers 21-24, was distributed in December 1961.
These papers consist of a series of reports on excavations conducted in
Texas, Iowa, and the Columbia basin, Oregon-Washington. Bulletin
182, containing River Basin Surveys Paper 25, a report on the exca-
vations carried on in the John H. Kerr Reservoir basin, Virginia-
North Carolina, was in press at the end of the year and should be
ready for distribution early in the coming year. River Basin Sur-
veys Papers 26-82, comprising Bulletin 185, should be ready for
distribution early in the coming year. The papers contain data on the
results of investigations in the Tiber Reservoir basin, Montana, the
Garrison and Jamestown Reservoir areas in North Dakota, and the
Lovewell Reservoir area in Kansas. River Basin Surveys Papers
33-88, which will constitute Bulletin 189, have been turned over to the
editors and will be sent to the printer early in the next fisca) year.
The contents pertain to excavations in North Dakota, South Dakota,
and Kansas.

Throughout the year the River Basin Surveys continued to receive
helpful cooperation from the National Park Service, the Bureau of
Reclamation, the Corps of Engineers, the Geological Survey, and
various State and local institutions. The field personnel of all the
cooperating agencies assisted the party leaders in many ways and the
relationship was excellent in all areas. Transportation and guides
were furnished in a number of instances, and mechanical equipment
made available by the construction agency speeded the work at a
number of locations. Detailed maps of the reservoirs under investi-
gation were supplied by the agency concerned and helpful informa-
tion was provided whenever it was needed. The National Park Serv-
ice continued to serve as liaison between the various agencies, both in
Washington and in the field. It also was responsible for the prepara-
tion of estimates and justifications for the funds needed to carry out
the salvage program. Valuable assistance in numerous ways was pro-
vided by the commanding officer at Fort Benning in Georgia while
studies were being made in that portion of the Walter F. George
SECRETARY’S REPORT 49

Reservoir basin which is within the boundaries of the Fort Benning
Reservation. Various local clubs and groups of citizens, both in Ala-
bama and Georgia, the Georgia Historical Commission, and the Uni-
versity of Georgia assisted the leader of the River Basin Surveys
party while he was working along the Chattahoochee River. In the
Missouri Basin Project engineers and personnel from the Corps of
Engineers were very helpful in carrying out activities in that area.
Furthermore, the Corps of Engineers and the Missouri Basin Project
of the River Basin Surveys cooperated in the preparation of small
informative pamphlets telling about various reservoirs along the
Missouri River. The pamphlets were published by the Corps of Eng-
ineers and are being distributed to visitors at various reservoir
installations.

General direction and supervision of the program were continued
by the main office in Washington. The field headquarters and labora-
tory at Lincoln, Nebr., was in direct charge of the work in the Mis-
souri Basin. The activities along the Chattahoochee River and in
southern Virginia were supervised by the Washington office.

Washington office—The main headquarters of the River Basin
Surveys in the Bureau of American Ethnology continued under the
direction of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., throughout the year. Carl
F, Miller and Harold A. Huscher, archeologists, were based at that
office. Mr. Miller spent a major portion of the year in the Washing-
ton office working on materials and data he had collected during pre-
vious seasons in the field. He also corrected the final page proofs for
his report on the investigations made at the James H. Kerr Reservoir
on the Roanoke River in southern Virginia. He made a number of
talks before schools and civic organizations in the metropolitan area
of Washington and spoke before the Archeological Society of Dela-
ware at Wilmington. In October he attended the sessions of the East-
ern States Archeological Federation at Williamsburg, Va. He
identified numerous artifacts from the southeastern archeological area
for collectors who either sent them to the office or brought them in
person and furnished information for replies to letters inquiring about
archeological problems. On April 3 at Rocky Mount, Va., he began an
archeological reconnaissance of the Smith Mountain Project of the
Appalachian Power Co. He completed that assignment and returned
to Washington on May 11. He then prepared a report on the results
of his survey, recommending a series of excavations for the two reser-
voir areas included in the project. On June 11 he left Washington
for Lincoln, Nebr., to take charge of one of the Missouri Basin field
parties. His activities during the remainder of the fiscal year are
covered in the Missouri Basin portion of this report.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Mr. Huscher was in the Washing-
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

ton office working on records and collections from the previous field
season. Early in August he established headquarters at Eufaula,
Ala., for a series of archeological studies in the Walter F. George
Reservoir basin on the Chattahoochee River. Because of unfavorable
weather conditions, he ended his field activities there at the end of
December. In November he participated in the sessions of the Con-
ference for Plains Archeology, at Lawton, Okla., and on December 1
and 2 in the Southeastern Archeological Conference held at Ocmulgee
National Monument at Macon, Ga. After his return to Washington,
Mr. Huscher devoted his time to the study of data and materials
which he had collected during the previous months along the Chatta-
hoochee River. At the end of May he again returned to the Walter F.
George Reservoir area, Alabama-Georgia, and resumed his investi-
gations of archeological sites to be flooded by the rising waters of
the reservoir. He completed his field activities at the end of June.

Alabama-Georgia.—During the period from August 4 to December
30, a series of investigations was made in the Walter F. George Res-
ervoir basin on the Chattahoochee River by a party under the direc-
tion of Harold A. Huscher. They spent the first 2 weeks of the field
season checking a series of public-use areas laid out at regular inter-
vals on both sides of the Chattahoochee River from Columbia, Ala.,
north to the Fort Benning area. Between the Fort Benning Reser-
vation and Columbus, Ga., a series of harbor developments is con-
templated, and a further check of sites was made at that location.
The party found that the recreation-area program would involve
four important sites on the Alabama side of the river and one on
the Georgia side. Original plans had called for virtual destruction
of the great Rood’s Landing mound site on the Georgia side, but as
a result of conferences with the representatives of the Corps of Engi-
neers the roads contemplated were shifted so that they would com-
pletely miss the mounds and adjacent archeological manifestations.
The new plans also provided for the development of the central
plaza of the site as a grassed lawn area. This particular site is
significant because it was an important ceremonial center which
contained eight mounds.

Following the study of the public-use area the crew was enlarged
and the remainder of the field season was devoted to an examination
of 24 additional sites. Collections were made from 21 of them, 9
of which had not previously been listed. Actual excavations were
made at eight sites, of which the two mounds south of Georgetown,
Ga., were worked most extensively. In every place where digging
was done, four or more squares were excavated. Each square is
10’ x 10’ in area and each was excavated in 6’’ levels, the material
from them being put through power screens. This made possible
SECRETARY’S REPORT 51

much more progress than would have been the case had the usual
hand methods been used throughout.

The mound sites were particularly important because they contained
considerable new information pertaining to several cultural periods
in the region. One of them, known as the Cool Branch Mound site,
proved to be an unusually fine example of a large burial mound with
accompanying village, surrounded by a palisade. The large mound
was in the approximate center and the walls were constructed to
conform to its orientation. The enclosure was rectilinear, measuring
about 700 feet on the side, with 10-foot-square bastions or towers
spaced about 115 feet apart. The data obtained indicate that this
village conformed quite closely to those which occupied the Gordon
sites in Tennessee, the New Madrid sites, Aztalan in Wisconsin, and
even the Huff and Black Partizan sites in the middle Missouri Valley.
Furthermore, the findings agree closely with the description of the
town of Mauvila in Alabama which the Spaniards destroyed in 1540.
The village may well have been occupied at the time of the first pene-
tration of the Spaniards, but it apparently was abandoned and fell
into ruin before the Indians had contact with the Europeans, because
no materials of European manufacture were recovered during the
course of the excavations. The other locations consisted in the main
of former villages, and they yielded specimens representative of all
the cultural periods from Early Archaic to Early Historic Creek.
The data obtained from them will assist materially in developing
the aboriginal history of that area.

In the last week in April Mr. Huscher resumed his activities in
the Walter F. George area. During most of May he continued fur-
ther excavations at the Cool Branch site, gathering data on the burial
pit which lay beneath the main mound and further information about
the palisade walls and general village features. Attention was then
turned to an examination of nine sites, one of which had not previ-
ously been recorded. Actual excavations were conducted at six of
the sites. In view of the limited time available, only three excava-
tion squares were dug at most of them, although in one or two cases
an additional square was opened. Two of the sites have particular
significance. One of them on the Alabama side of the river in the
Fort Benning area is presumed to be the location of the last town
occupied by the Yuchi in that area. It has not definitely been identi-
fied as to name, but the information from it should help to throw
considerable light on the length of time that tribe was living that
far north along the Chattahoochee River after having been driven
from their Tennessee and Savannah River locations. The second site
is on the opposite side of the river in Georgia and may well repre-
sent an extension or continuation of the Yuchi village in Alabama.
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Trade materials are present in the deposits at both locations. Those
on the Georgia side, however, are much less numerous than those on
the Alabama side and may indicate an earlier abandonment of that
part of the village. There is close similarity between the specimens
from both sites. The Georgia site actually may represent the loca-
tion of one of the towns called Hlekatchka and also seems to be the
most promising location for the original Captain Ellich’s (Yuchi)
town which was settled in the early 18th century. If it was
Hlekatchka, the latter is reported to have been destroyed in 1814.
Excavations on the site produced large quantities of debris indicating
the burning of a house or houses, possibly the entire village, which
supports the idea that it may have been that particular village. It
is unfortunate that time and funds did not permit further and more
extensive excavations on both sides of the river. The other sites
which were tested during June contributed still more information
pertaining to several aboriginal periods in the Chattahoochee Valley.

Missouri Basin.—For the sixteenth consecutive year the Missouri
Basin Project continued to operate from the field headquarters and
laboratory in Lincoln, Nebr. Dr. Robert L. Stephenson served as
chief of the project throughout the year. Activities included surveys,
excavations, analyses of materials, and reporting on results. During
the summer months the work consisted mainly of excavations. Analy-
ses and preparation of reports received the major attention through-
out the rest of the year. The chronology program, begun in January
1958, was especially emphasized.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the permanent staff, in addition
to the chief, consisted of three archeologists, one administrative assist-
ant, one administrative clerk, one secretary, one scientific illustrator,
one photographer, and four museum aides. On the temporary staff
were two assistant archeologists, one cook, and 25 field crewmen.
At the end of the year there were five archeologists in addition to
the chief, one administrative assistant, one administrative clerk, one
secretary, one clerk typist, one scientific illustrator, one photographer,
and four museum aides on the permanent staff. The temporary staff
included 4 archeologists, 5 field assistants, 8 cooks, and 83 field
crewmen.

During the year there were 19 Smithsonian River Basin Surveys
field parties at work in the Missouri Basin. Two of these were
operating in the Oahe Reservoir area and two in the Big Bend
Reservoir area of South Dakota during July and August. One
small party investigated the Salt-Wahoo Watershed area in Nebraska
in April; one party conducted surveys and excavations in the Pony
Creek Watershed area in Iowa in May; a small party visited the
Fort Sully Site in the Oahe Reservoir area in May; a survey of the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 53

Arcadia Reservoir area in Nebraska was also made in May; during
June one party was at work in the Tuttle Creek Reservoir area in
Kansas, one in the Missouri Breaks area of Montana, two in the
Yellowtail Reservoir area of Montana and Wyoming, four in the
Oahe Reservoir area of South Dakota, and three in the Big Bend
Reservoir area of South Dakota.

Other field work in the Missouri Basin included 12 parties from
State institutions operating under agreements with the National Park
Service and in cooperation with the Smithsonian Institution in the
Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage Program.

Appropriated funds for this fiscal year were materially increased
over the previous 2 years, thus permitting a substantial increase in
the amount of salvage that could be accomplished. Most of this new
activity came at the end of the fiscal year since the field season at the
beginning was nearly completed before the new money became avail-
able. The field parties at work at the start of the year were conduct-
ing intensive excavations of key sites. Toward the end of the year,
when the 1962 field season began, crews were engaged in intensive
surveys of new areas, sampling of large numbers of sites in other
areas, and carrying on intensive excavations at a series of key sites
in several reservoir basins.

At the beginning of the year Robert W. Neuman, assisted by
William G. Buckles, was directing a crew of 10 Indian laborers exca-
vating a series of 8 prehistoric burial mounds near the Big Bend
Dam in central South Dakota. Having begun work on June 7 of
the previous fiscal year, this party continued in the field until Sep-
tember 8. Three low, dome-shaped, earthen mounds were excavated
at the Sitting Crow site (89BF225).1. The mounds, ranging from
2 feet in height and 50 feet in diameter to nearly twice that size,
contained 10 intrusive historic interments representing at least 3 types
of burials. These were primary burials in wooden coffins, primary
burials in pits, and a secondary bundle burial. Some of the coffin
burials were associated with grave posts and were scattered, singly,
while others were associated with the pit burials within a circular
enclosure of vertical posts. Glass, metal, wood, stone, leather, and
fabric grave goods were recovered from this historic component.
The burial mound complex proper was represented by single and
multiple secondary burials. These remains were found scattered
about on the mound floor or sometimes deposited in shallow, sub-

1 Site designations used by the River Basin Surveys are trinomial in character, consisting
of symbols for State, county, and site. The State is indicated by the first number, accord-
ing to the numerical position of the State name in an alphabetical list of the United States ;
thus, for example, 32 indicates North Dakota, 39 indicates South Dakota. Counties are
designated by a two-letter abbreviation; for example, MH for Mercer County, MN for
Mountrail County, ete. The final number refers to the specific site within the indicated
State and county.
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

mound pits. Artifact associations consist of small, triangular, side-
notched points, end scrapers, marine and fresh-water shell beads, and
a bipointed copper awl.

Four mounds were excavated at the Side Hill site (89BF223).
The burial] mound component there was essentially the same as at the
Sitting Crow site, but in addition there was evidence of cremation
in association with Truman Plain Rim pottery.

Only one mound was excavated at the Old Quarry site (89BF2384).
It was found to contain a portion of a wooden log, a bison skull, and
concentrations of hematite on the mound floor. Two large, subfloor
pits were located near the mound center and each contained secondary
burials of seven to nine individuals. A single artifact, a large un-
diagnostic body sherd, was recovered from one pit. A bison skull
also was found in the same pit.

While testing below the mounds at the Sitting Crow and Side
Hill sites, two, and possibly three, stratified, lithic components were
located. The deepest component was indicated by a zone of charcoal-
stained soil containing stone chips. The intermediate component
was in a light-colored soil zone and contained thin, triangular points
with concave bases, end scrapers, knives, worked and unworked chips,
bison bone fragments, and shallow basin-shaped firepits. The upper-
most lithic component is typologically similar to the McKean complex
represented at various sites in western South Dakota and eastern
Wyoming.

During the last week of the field season, all the 46 mounds between
Fort Thompson and Campbell Creek were mapped. They range from
25 to 80 feet in diameter and from 1 to 4 feet in height. The tumuli
sometimes occur singly and in other instances are in groups.

The second Smithsonian Institution field party at work at the
beginning of the year was directed by Dr. Warren W. Caldwell,
assisted by Richard E. Jensen. With a crew of 11 men, they had
begun work on June 13 of the preceding year and continued through
August 22. The entire time was devoted to excavations at the Pretty
Head site (891L.M232). This site is situated on the right bank of the
Missouri River in the lower portion of the Big Bend Reservoir area.
Two houses were completely excavated, a third was excavated except
for the heavy fill marking one corner, two midden areas were exten-
sively tested, a defensive moat was sectioned in several places, and
the old occupation surface between two houses was cleared.

The site is roughly a rectangular area of hillocks and depressions
capping the riverward edge of Terrace 1, which stands about 60 feet
above the summer stage of the Missouri River. A number of oval
depressions were arranged in irregular rows paralleling the cutbank
of the river. These proved to be the remains of houses, although
Secretary’s Report, 1962

1. Smithsonian River Basin Surveys crew excavating two burial pits at the Old Quarry

Mound, Big Bend Reservoir, South Dakota. These pits contained bones of both infants
and adults.

——,

atm 4

2. Smithsonian River Basin Surveys crew skimming the fl
following dragline pass at the Pretty Head site, Big
found very effective in moving large amounts of overburden.

oor of a long, rectangular house
Bend Reservoir. The dragline was
Secretary's Report, 1962 PLATE 2

1. Long, rectangular house excavated at the Pretty Head site. Crewman is sitting in the
remnant of a ditch that extended the length of the house. The floor of the house, except
where disturbed by the ditch, was covered with a deposit of red ocher. River Basin
Surveys.

2. Aerial view of the Potts Village, Oahe Reservoir, South Dakota. The Missouri River is
in the background. At maximum pool elevation the Oahe Reservoir will be about 15
feet above this site. ‘The excavations outlined in the fortified area indicate the house
structure within it. River Basin Surveys.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5D

the orientation was not consistent and the village pattern was by no
means as regular as had been anticipated. The village had only one
extended occupation. It appears that the houses had been arranged
in streets or blocks but subsequent growth was haphazard and un-
planned. There is further support of this view in relation to the
defensive features of the village. The entire occupation area is
mantled by midden debris and wind-blown silts to such an extent
that the moat was completely obscured. At least one late house
(Feature 7) was built athwart the moat, which was already filled with
refuse and could have had but little usefulness for defensive purposes.
Feature 7 was smaller and less complex than the other houses.

Mantling all the houses were several soil zones, the earliest of which
was particularly evident. It is tempting to equate this with a severe
drought in the Central Plains during the last quarter of the 13th
century. Drought conditions may well have been a disruptive factor
that brought progressive changes and collapse to this village. The
houses excavated (Features 2, 4, and 7) were uniformly of the long
rectangular type but differed in details. All were deep, with floors
excavated 2 to 3 feet below the old occupation surface, which in turn
was 2 to 4 feet below the present surface. In each the floor had been
painted with a red, mineral paint and in Feature 4 there were two
such painted floors separated by 0.2 foot of sterile fill. The entrance
to each house was a wide ramp from the old surface to the floor. In
Feature 4, the ramp led across a wide platform and ended in a low
step. On either side of the ramp was a narrow trench that continued
across the front of the trench, separating it from the house proper.
There was a similar trench in Feature 2.

A large number of bell-shaped cache pits were found beneath the
floor of Feature 2, but not in the other houses. Features 2 and 4 con-
tained much bison bone, particularly skulls, lying on the floor and
within the mantling fill. They were notably absent from Feature 7,
suggesting a change in cultural emphasis or perhaps in local ecology.
In each house the firepit was located on the centerline just inside the
inner end of the ramp. Superstructures of all three houses were
nearly identical. Posts 2 or 3 feet apart were set at the base of the
wall excavation and, except for the entrance, continued around the
entire perimeter. Central posts were absent but were replaced by
roof supports in two rows, each a short distance from the centerline.

A large area between Features 2 and 4 was cleared to the old sur-
face and two thick midden deposits were trenched. The defensive
moat was located and sectioned in six places, tracing it through Fea-
ture 7 and around a bastioned corner. Uniformly the moat was 8 to 5
feet deep with a maximum width of 10 feet. The accompanying
stockade was not discernible. Artifacts were abundant in the midden

672-174-6835
56- ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

areas and the house fill. Pottery was mainly of the Foreman types,
but there was also much Over Focus pottery. Probably the cultural
position of the site is intermediate between the Monroe-Anderson Foci,
where Foreman Ware is frequent, and the Over Focus. Nonceramic
artifacts were not distinctive, but a fragment of copper and a long
bone object resembling an arctic snow beater are notable. These two
objects suggest trade with the north, and the architecture of the
houses is remarkably similar to certain examples reported for the
northern Plateau. It seems suggestive that the Early Village people
of the Plains may have cultural ties not hitherto recognized.

The third Smithsonian field party at work at the beginning of the
year was directed by Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, assisted by Lee G:
Madison. With a crew of 10 men they had begun excavations on
June 19 of the previous year and continued work through August 31.
Most of the season was spent on excavations at the Potts Village site
(39CO19) on the right bank of the Missouri River, just south of
Mobridge, S. Dak., in the Oahe Reservoir area. Al or parts of seven
houses were excavated, the fortification ditch was tested in several
places, middens and cache pits were sampled, the entire stockade was
uncovered, and the single loop bastion and two bastioned entrances
were completely excavated.

This is the site of an early La Roche village that probably dates
from about the late 15th or early to middle 16th century. It is en-
tirely precontact, and no items of White origin were found in any
part of the excavations. The site consisted of the remains of about
30 circular earthlodges, grouped in a long, oval area along the edge
of the second terrace above the Missouri River. Within the village
11 houses, including a large ceremonial lodge, were encircled by a deep,
narrow fortification ditch and palisade. The ditch was 6 to 8 feet in
depth and 10 to 20 feet wide. The palisade was composed of upright
cedar, cottonwood, and oak posts set close together. A single large
loop bastion protected the north and west sides of the fortified area
and a steep bank protected the east and southeast sides (toward the
river).

Architectural details of the entrances to these fortified villages along
the Missouri River have not previously been determined. On the basis
of some evidence, simple overlapping lines of stockade posts with a
passageway between have been presumed. At the Potts site two
examples of a very distinctive entrance were clearly defined. In this
type of entrance the stockade line curved outward and then back in
toward the center of the fortified area to form a small loop bastion
about 10 feet in diameter, but with one side forming a straight line
of posts extending some 10 to 15 feet into the village. Parallel to the
straight line of posts was another similar line about 4 feet from it
SECRETARY'S REPORT 57.

that extended outward from the fortified area and curved around to
form a small loop bastion about 8 feet in diameter and then recurve
back to join the regular line of the palisdae posts. Thus the entrance
consisted of two small, loop bastions with a narrow passageway be-
tween them that ran some 10 feet back into the fortified area. Opposite
the narrow passageway was a ramp across the fortification ditch.
One entrance was to the north, the other to the south.

Outside the fortified area the two houses that were partially ex-
cavated appeared of the same structural type and artifact content as
those that were within the fort. The architecture was of the four
center post pattern with widely spaced wall posts, leaner posts, and
short entrances, forming a circular earthlodge of some 28 to 45 feet
in diameter. Artifacts from the site include abundant pottery, bone,
stone, and shell objects. The pottery is unusually homogeneous and
well within the earliest of the La Roche tradition. Elaborate or
spectacular objects were almost entirely lacking, although a few
shell ornaments and catlinite pipes were recovered.

One week was spent in August by this party in excavating a portion
of the Blue Blanket Island site (839WW9), located on an island in
the Missouri River just north of the Potts Village site. This was a
late village of circular earthlodges encircled by a wide, shallow forti-
fication ditch and palisade. The palisade formed a nearly circular
pattern enclosing less than 20 houses with no evidence of houses out-
side it. The ditch was but 2 or 3 feet deep and 20 to 25 feet wide.
Half of one house was excavated, the ditch and palisade were sampled
in several places, and a dozen random test squares were dug.

Stockade posts as well as outer wall posts of the house were split
timbers set close together with the bark side in. Burning caused good
preservation of the structural features. Inside the row of split wall
timbers of the house were large, whole support posts spaced every
6 or 7 feet to form main roof and wall supports. The four main center
posts were large, whole posts. The entrance was short but unusually
well made. Pottery and other artifacts were not abundant but metal
objects were present. The village apparently is one of those viewed
by Lewis and Clark as a recent ruin in 1804, and probably dates from
the last quarter of the 18th century until about 1802 or 1803. Access
to the site each day was by motorboat from the right bank of the
river near the Potts Village site.

The fourth Smithsonian field party at work during the early part
of the fiscal year consisted of a crew of four men directed by Dr.
William M. Bass. They worked from August 7 to 18 and excavated
40 burials from the Sully site (89SL4), some 19 miles northwest of
Pierre, S. Dak., on the left bank of the Missouri River. Dr. Bass
spent two previous seasons on burial excavations at that site and has
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

recovered a total of 264 interments there. It was thought that the
brief stay during the 1961 season would exhaust the burial area and
give a good statistical sample of a single population. However, it
became evident that more burials are to be found there and plans
were made to continue the work in the 1962 season. The Sully site
unquestionably offers a better opportunity than any other to obtain
a really meaningful sample of the protohistoric Arikara physical
types in the Missouri Basin. Numerous artifacts were recovered
with the burials. They include catlinite pipes, wooden pipe stems, a
whole pottery vessel, glass and copper beads, woven mats, and bone
tools.

The 1962 field season began early this year with a brief survey of the
area to be flooded by the several proposed small reservoirs in the
Salt-Wahoo Drainage Basin in Lancaster and Seward Counties,
southeastern Nebraska. Robert W. Neuman, assisted by Lionel A.
Brown and John W. Garrett, the latter a member of the staff of the
Nebraska State Historical Society, spent April 5 and 6 investigating
the areas designated as Dams 4, 8,18, and 17. This initial survey re-
vealed nothing of archeological interest in proposed flood areas of
these four reservoirs. Construction activities at these dams should be
watched, however, when the time comes for building the dams, as
buried sites of the Archaic and Woodland periods might then be
discovered.

The second Missouri Basin Project field party for the new season
began work in the Pony Creek Drainage area of Mills County, south-
western Iowa, on May 1. There the Soil Conservation Service is
building a series of small reservoirs and terracing large areas as
protection against erosion. Lionel A. Brown, assisted first by Wilfred
M. Husted, and later by Lee G. Madison, made an intensive survey of
the area in immediate danger of destruction, and then with a crew of
3 men tested 7 of the 16 sites located. They completed the season’s
work on May 25. One house was excavated in each of three sites,
13ML205, 183ML206, and 183ML216. Extensive tests were made in sites
13ML201, 183ML204, 13ML208, and 13ML215. This party recom-
mended further investigations in all of the sites, 13ML201 through
13ML216 except 13ML201, 18ML213, 13ML214, and 13ML215, which
will either be out of danger of damage from construction or have no
promise of yielding useful archeological information. The houses
excavated were square to rectangular in shape and provided artifacts
suggestive of the Aksarben Aspect and related materials.

The third field party, consisting of G. Hubert Smith and Jerry L.
Livingston, visited the historic site of Fort Sully (39SL45) in Sully
County, north of Pierre, S. Dak., during the period of May 15-18 for
the purpose of making a topographic map of the site, but heavy rains
made this impossible.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 59

The fourth party, Smith and Livingston, made a survey of the
area to be flooded by the Arcadia Dam in Custer County, Nebr., on
May 19 and 20. One site, 25CU202, was located within the reservoir
area, but it appeared to be of little archeological value.

On June 12, the fifth and sixth Missouri Basin field parties left for
the field. Party No. 5, directed by Robert W. Neuman and assisted
by John J. Hoffman and a crew of 10, began work on the early circular
house village known as the Mostad site (89DW284) and by the end
of the year was well along on the excavation of the fortification
system of that site. Party No. 6, also directed by Neuman but as-
sisted by James J. Stanek and a crew of 10, began work on the 2
burial mounds at the Swift Bird site (89DW233). By the end of the
year this party had cleared a large part of one mound and was ex-
cavating the burial chamber within it. Both sites are on the right
bank of the Missouri River some 8 miles south of Mobridge, in Dewey
County, S. Dak., and will be in the bank-slumping area of the Oahe
Reservoir. The two parties were camped together in the area between
the two sites.

The seventh and eighth Missouri Basin Project field parties left for
the field on June 7. Party No. 7, directed by Dr. Warren W. Caldwell
and assisted by Richard T. Jensen and a crew of 11, began work on
the Langdeau site (391L.M209) in the neck of the Big Bend in the
Big Bend Reservoir just above Lower Brule, Lyman County, S. Dak.
By the end of the year this crew was well along with the excavation
of three houses of long-rectangular pattern. Party No. 8, also directed
by Dr. Caldwell but assisted by Richard E. Carter and a crew of
nine, began work on site 839LM2, overlooking Medicine Creek, near
the neck of the Big Bend in the Big Bend Reservoir, some 8 miles
above Lower Brule, Lyman County, S. Dak. By the end of the year
this crew had completed the excavation of one circular house but was
finding evidence of an earlier occupation of the long-rectangular house
period. These two parties were camped together at the Crazy Bull
School House near Lower Brule.

The ninth Missouri Basin Project field party, under the direction
of G. Hubert Smith assisted by Lee G. Madison and a crew of eight,
left for the field on June 12. Based in Pierre, S. Dak., this crew at
the end of the fiscal year was making progress on the excavations at
the historic site of Fort George (89ST202) some 15 miles downstream
from Pierre in Stanley County, in the area to be flooded by the Big
Bend Reservoir. Prehistoric occupations le beneath the historic fur
trading post at that site and both historic and prehistoric components
were being excavated.

The tenth Missouri Basin Project field party, directed by Dr. Wil-
liam M. Bass and assisted by Jon Muller and a crew of six, left Lin-
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

coln on June 7. Also based in Pierre with the Smith party, this crew,
with the aid of heavy equipment, by the end of the year had exca-
vated approximately 89 burials from a new area at the Sully site
(89SL4) some 23 miles upriver from Pierre in Sully County. The
rising waters of the Oahe Reservoir were beginning to encroach upon
the site at that time. So far over 350 burials have been recovered
from this one protohistoric Arikara site.

The eleventh Missouri Basin Project field party, directed by Dr.
Alfred W. Bowers, assisted by William B. Colvin and a crew of
10, left for the field on June 14. Based in Mobridge, S. Dak., this
party began excavating at the two adjacent sites, 39CO14 and 39CO034,
at the mouth of the Grand River in Carson County. These sites are
in the bank-slumping area of the Oahe Reservoir and were substi-
tuted for others that had become unavailable for excavation owing to
impoundment of Oahe Reservoir waters. By the end of the year tests
in middens, excavations of lodges, and samples of the fortification
system were progressing well.

The twelfth field party, not scheduled to begin work until early in
the following fiscal year, was to go to the Big Bend Reservoir.

The thirteenth Missouri Basin field party, directed by Lionel A.
Brown with a crew of five, left for the field on June 13, and after a tor-
tuous trip by pack train down Black Canyon into the Big Horn Can-
yon made camp at the confluence of the two canyons. The group
began excavation of site 24BH215, adjacent to the party camp, in the
bottom of the Big Horn Canyon some 6 miles upstream from the
location of the Yellowtail Dam, Big Horn County, Mont. The site
proved to be a large camping area and a few projectile points and pot-
sherds had been recovered by the end of the year.

Party No. 14 also left for the field on June 13. It consisted of Wil-
fred M. Husted with a crew of five. The party established camp near
the upper end of the Horseshoe Bend of the Big Horn River in Big
Horn County, Wyo., in the upper reaches of the Yellowtail Reser-
voir area. They tested one site and partially excavated another but
the terrain proved to be so rough that work without a boat was im-
practical. At the end of the year the men were making intensive foot
surveys of that end of the canyon. There were prospects of obtaining
a boat so that excavations could be resumed early in the coming fiscal
year.

Party No. 15 left for the field on June 13 with Oscar L. Mallory in
charge of a crew of three. This group began an archeological] survey
along the Missouri River between Fort Benton, Mont., and the upper
reaches of the Fort Peck Reservoir. This is known as the Missouri
Breaks area. Beginning near Fort Benton, the party had surveyed
some 20 miles of the area by the end of the fiscal year and had located
19 sites, mostly tipi sites and rock cairns.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 61

The sixteenth Missouri Basin Project field party, directed by Carl
F. Miller, with a crew of nine, left for the field on June 15 and estab-
lished headquarters in the town of Blue Rapids, Kans. By the end
of the year this party had examined three of the sites in the upper
reaches of the Tuttle Creek Reservoir in Marshall County, north-
eastern Kansas, and had begun testing one of them (14MH70).

Cooperating institutions working in the Missouri River Basin at the
beginning of the fiscal year included six field parties, representing
five State agencies in Nebraska, Kansas, South Dakota, and Missouri.
Dr. Preston Holder, with a crew of students from the University of
Nebraska, completed work during July on the Leavenworth site
(39CO9), 10 miles north of Mobridge, 8. Dak., in the Oahe Reservoir
area. Dr. Carl H. Chapman and a crew from the University of Mis-
souri continued the survey and testing of sites in the Kaysinger Bluff
Reservoir area on the Osage River in west-central Missouri during the
period July to September. In addition, Chapman had a University
of Missouri crew at work on the survey of the Stockton Reservoir in
a branch of the Osage River in Cedar and Dade Counties, Mo.
Thomas A. Witty with a group from the Kansas State Historical So-
ciety was excavating the Woods site (14C Y30) and testing several
other sites in the Milford Reservoir area on the Republican River in
Geary County, Kans. Roger T. Grange and a crew from the Ne-
braska State Historical Society was at work in the Red Willow Reser-
voir basin in Frontier County, southwestern Nebraska. This reservoir
is nearly completed and by the end of this field season will begin to
fill. Dr. Preston Holder, assisted by Dr. Emily Blasingham and a
crew of students from the University of Nebraska, was at work on
excavation, testing, and survey of sites in the Norton Reservoir area of
northwestern Kansas. Dr. Carlyle S. Smith, assisted by Walter
Birkby and a crew of students from the University of Kansas, began
work in June excavating two key sites and testing several others in the
Melvern Reservoir area in Osage County, east-central Kansas. Dr.
Carl H. Chapman and a crew from the University of Missouri were
continuing the survey and testing of sites in the Kaysinger Bluff
Reservoir area in west-central Missouri and, with a second crew, was
at work sampling sites in the Stockton Reservoir area in Cedar and
Dade Counties, Mo. All the cooperating institution parties men-
tioned above were operating under agreements with the National Park
Service and cooperating with the Smithsonian Institution in the
Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage Program.

During the time that the Missouri Basin Project archeologists were
not in the field, they were engaged in analyses of their materials and in
laboratory and library research. They also prepared manuscripts of
technical reports and wrote articles and papers of a more popular
nature.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

The Missouri Basin Chronology Program by the end of the year had
been in operation 314 years, having been begun by archeologists of the
Missouri Basin Project in January 1958. Cooperation and continued
participation by most of the archeologists in the Plains area have been
most encouraging. Especial emphasis last year was on the dendro-
chronological section of the program, particularly the master chart
for the Fort Thompson-to-Cheyenne River area. During the fiscal
year many wood samples from prehistoric houses were matched
to this chart and considerable effort was devoted to the refinement of
the laboratory techniques of tree-ring study being used in the Lincoln
office. To this end additional equipment was purchased, such as mi-
croscopes, a De Rouen Dendrochronograph, a power sander, and an
increment borer. Also, consultations and advice were sought from
the staff of the laboratory of tree-ring studies at the University of
Arizona, and much assistance was obtained from these discussions.

The carbon-14 section of the Chronology Program received major
attention throughout the year. Seven additional dates were obtained
from charcoal samples submitted to the University of Michigan
Memorial Phoenix Laboratory. In addition to this source of C-14
dates, an agreement was entered into between the Chronology Program
and Isotopes Incorporated, of Westwood, N.J., under the direction of
Milton Trautman, to date a series of charcoal specimens. The agree-
ment with Isotopes Incorporated has resulted in 19 dates so far de-
rived from the Missouri Basin Chronology Program.

The laboratory and office staff spent its full effort during the year
in processing specimen materials for study, photographing and illus-
trating specimens, preparing specimen records, and typing, filing, and
illustrating record and manuscript materials. The accomplishments
of the laboratory and office staff are listed in tables 1 and 2.

Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, chief, when not in charge of field parties,
devoted a large part of his time to management of the over-all Mis-
souri Basin Project. His individual archeological research and re-
port writing were minimal during the year, but he made some further
progress on the monograph reporting the “Archeological Investiga-
tions in the Whitney Reservoir, Texas” and on the analyses of speci-
mens from the Sully site (89SL4) in the Oahe Reservoir. Through-
out the year he continued to serve as chairman of the Missouri Basin
Chronology Program, as assistant editor of “Notes and News in the
Plains Area” for American Antiquity, and as associate editor of the
Plains Anthropologist. At the 19th Plains Conference for Arche-
ology, held in Lawton, Okla., on Thanksgiving weekend, he served as
chairman of the session on “Salvage Archeology in the Plains” and
presented a paper on “Three Smithsonian Salvage Sites” and also
one on “Historic Montana Burials.”

Dr. Stephenson attended the meeting of the “Committee for the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 63

Recovery of Archeological Remains” held in Washington, D.C., on
February 8-9 and reported on the Missouri Basin Project activities
of the past 2 years and the prospects for the coming year. He at-
tended the annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences in
Lincoln on April 18. During the period April 15-22 he was in Austin,
Tex., serving as technical adviser and making studio sequences for a
motion picture on salvage archeology in the Plains area. From April
28 to May 8 he attended the Society for American Archeology annual
meeting at Tucson, Ariz., where he presented a paper on “Administra-
tive Problems of the River Basin Surveys.” While in ‘Tucson he con-
ferred with the staff of the Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research and of
the Geochronology Laboratory of the University of Arizona. During
the year he wrote several book reviews for scientific journals and gave
talks to various local civic organizations. Among the latter was the
Omaha, Nebr., Kiwanis Club meeting to honor Dr. Ahmed Fakhry
and the Tutankhamun exhibit at Joslyn Art Museum on May 9, and
the meeting of the planning committee for the Heartland Exhibit at
the New York World’s Fair in 1964-65, held in Omaha on May 17.
From June 17 to 24 he visited the field parties in Montana and at the
end of the year was back in the Lincoln office.

Lionel A. Brown, archeologist, joined the staff on April 2 and spent
the ensuing month in the Lincoln office learning field and laboratory
procedures and preparing for the summer’s field work. He was in the
field from May 1 to 25 conducting surveys and excavations in the
Pony Creek Drainage area of southwestern Iowa. On June 13 he
again left for the field, where at the end of the year he was excavating
in the Yellowtail Reservoir in Montana.

Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, archeologist, when not in charge of field
parties, devoted most of his time to analyses of specimen materials he
had recovered from salvage excavations in previous years. He com-
pleted two drafts of a monograph entitled “Archeological Investiga-
tions at the Black Partizan site (89LM218), Big Bend Reservoir,
South Dakota,” and that is now ready for final revision. He con-
tinued sporadic work on the revision of his manuscript “The Archeol-
ogy of Wakemap,” wrote several reviews for various scientific journals,
and had the following three technical articles and one monograph
published: “Archeological Excavations at the Coralville Reservoir,
Iowa,” published in Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 179,
River Basin Surveys Paper No. 22, 1961; “Tree Ring Investigations
in Central South Dakota,” published in abstract in the Proceedings of
the 72d Meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, 1962; “Tree
Ring Dating and the Village Cultures of South Dakota,” published
in Progress of the Interior Missouri Basin Field Committee, 1962; and
“The Missouri Basin Chronology Program, Statement No. 3,” pub-
lished by offset in the Missouri Basin Project office, 1962.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Throughout the year he served as collaborator for the Plains area
on Abstracts of New World Archeology and prepared abstracts of 10
articles for that publication. In addition, he served as contributing
editor for Plains literature and reviews for the Plains Anthropologist,
and (on annual leave) as part-time assistant professor of anthropology
at the University of Nebraska, as well as continuing his position as
chairman of the dendrochronology section of the Missouri Basin
Chronology Program. On April 14 he attended the annual meeting
of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences where he presented a paper
entitled “Tree Ring Investigations in Central South Dakota” and
served as a panel discussant in a symposium on “Modern Research
Methods in the Field of Ethnohistory.” He attended the 27th annual
meeting of the Society for American Archeology in Tucson, Ariz., on
May 3-5, where he participated in a symposium on “Tree Ring Dat-
ing” and also conferred with the staff members of the Laboratory of
Tree Ring Research and the Geochronology Laboratory at the Uni-
versity of Arizona. At the end of the year he was again engaged in
excavating archeological sites in the Big Bend Reservoir area.

Wilfred M. Husted, archeologist, joined the staff on April 16 and
spent the rest of that month in the Lincoln office learning field and
laboratory procedures and preparing for the summer’s field work.
During May 1-11 he was in the field with Brown in the Pony Creek
Drainage area in Iowa. On June 13, he again left for the field where,
at the end of the year, he was excavating in Yellowtail Reservoir area
in Wyoming.

Robert W. Neuman, archeologist, when not in the field conducting
excavations, was at work analyzing archeological materials he had
previously excavated in the Big Bend and Oahe Reservoir areas. He
completed one monograph entitled “The Good Soldier Site, Lyman
County, South Dakota,” which will appear as River Basin Surveys
Paper No. 37 in Bulletin 189 of the Bureau of American Ethnology.
The major portion of his laboratory research time was devoted to an
analysis of data and the development of a trait list for burial mounds
in the Middle Missouri and northern Plains areas, the compilation of
a report on preceramic horizons in the Fort Thompson vicinity, and
an article on check-stamped pottery in the northern and central Plains.
Throughout the year he served as chairman of the carbon-14 section
of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. Over the Thanksgiving
weekend he attended the Plains Conference for Archeology at Lawton,
Okla., where he presented a paper on “The 1961 Missouri Basin Proj-
ect Field Season” and another on “Historic Indian Burials near Fort
Thompson.” On April 13 he attended the annual meeting of the
Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln and presented a paper en-
titled “Check Stamped Pottery on the Central and Northern Plains,”
which was published in abstract in the proceedings of the meeting.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 65

On May 4-5 he attended and participated in the annual meeting of
the Central States Anthropoligical Society in St. Louis. At the
end of the year he was again in the field conducting archeological
excavations.

G. Hubert Smith, archeologist, was on duty at the first of the year
in the Lincoln office continuing work on the comprehensive report of
investigations at the site of Like-a-Fishhook Village and Fort Berth-
old I and II (82ML2), in the Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota. He
devoted most of his efforts during the year to this report and had
completed most of a first draft of it by the end of the year. During
the period July 21-29 he accompanied the chief on a trip to Montana
and Wyoming, particularly to consult with Bureau of Reclamation
officials in regard to the salvage and preservation of Fort C. F. Smith
at the mouth of the Big Horn Canyon in Montana, near the construc-
tion area of the Yellowtail Dam. He attended the 19th Plains Con-
ference for Archeology at Lawton, Okla., on Thanksgiving weekend
and served as chairman of a session on “Historic Sites Archeology and
Ethnography.” On April 13 he attended the annual meeting of the
Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln and participated in a sym-
posium on “Research Methods in Ethnohistory.” On May 5 he at-
tended and participated in the annual meeting of the National Trust
for Historic Preservation held in Omaha, Nebr. Throughout the year
he served as chairman of the historic documentation section of the
Missouri Basin Chronology Program and as a member of the edi-
torial board of the Plains Anthropologist.

During the period of May 15-20 he was in the field visiting the Fort
Sully site in the Oahe Reservoir area of central South Dakota and
making an archeological survey of the Arcadia Reservoir area in
central Nebraska. On June 12 he returned to the field where he was
again conducting excavations in the Big Bend Reservoir area at the
end of the year.

TaBLE 1.—Specimens processed, July 1, 1961-June 80, 1962

Number Catalog Number of

Reservoir of sites numbers specimens

assigned processed
LNT eCEEXC VE: Ye as SR, ee a he 6 eee 2 ee SD oc Pee 1 5 29
ICMR DONG Bieta A eer ee ee eye ke 9 2, 485 64, 892
HOntevand all eek whee ce ee ete ee Ne 1 5 8
ewissand: @larks) 2225 22) 2B o26 pe ee 1 4 20
CO Dhie Wine OE ee er as Sve Me Oe Ke, hee 9 1, 971 17, 457
Sites not in a reservoir area______-...--.--- 5 325 1, 274

Ovaes 2 See eee Se eel Soo 26 4, 745 83, 680
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

As of June 30, 1962, the Missouri Basin Project had cataloged
1,339,396 specimens from 2,152 numbered sites and 59 collections not
assigned site numbers.

Specimens restored: 5 pottery vessel sections.
Specimens donated to the Missouri Basin Project for comparative use:
Thirty-one pot rim sherds representing Fort Rice and Huff wares—State
Historical Society of North Dakota, courtesy of W. Raymond Wood.
Thirty-one trade beads—University of Texas, courtesy of Edward B. Jelks.
Three United States Army buttons dating 1850-70—courtesy of S. J. Olsen,
Florida Geological Survey.

TABLE 2.—Record material processed, July 1, 1961-June 20, 1962

MISSOURI BASIN PROJECT

Reflex:copies Of Tecords2 2)... =. aaa i et a ee eee eee eee 3, 809
Photographic negatives; Mad Ga. <2 ae ee ee ee 1,185
PHOCOSLA HIG PLUMES) Wa Cl Cee a oe ee ec eae ee 3, 392
Photographie prints mounted and filed 22- = ==) = ee 1, 673
Transparenciesimounted! in glasses eee ee wees ere eee ee ee eee 564
Kodachrome pictures taken in lap 2-9-2 eee 156
Cartographic'tracings and drawings) 22 22 ee ee 55
MM strations:: cos Fos e ao ec Bn Se 29
Lettering of plates 222 Se 2 en eee, eee 10
Pronles Gira wnt Ee ae eee ee, ee ee 33
Plate layouts made for manuscripts____.____________-__-__-_-__--_-_--_-- 10

Virginia.—An archeological reconnaissance was made during the
period from April 3 to May 11 at the Smith Mountain Project on
the Roanoke River in southern Virginia. That is an Appalachian
Power Co. undertaking and consists of the construction of two dams—
Smith Mountain and Leesville—which will provide water for power
purposes. The two reservoirs they will form will be located in Bed-
ford, Franklin, and Pittsylvania Counties, Va. The survey was made
by Carl F. Miller. His work was greatly facilitated by complete
cooperation on the part of personnel of the Appalachian Power Co.
and the Nello L. Teer Construction Co. The power company provided
a helicopter which made possible a study of the reservoir areas from
the air and also the taking of aerial photographs of the more important
sites.

Mr. Miller located and recorded 35 sites in the Smith Mountain basin
and 17 sites in the Leesville basin. Of the total of 52, only 1 will
not be endangered by the inundation of the 2 areas. However,
after careful examination of the surfaces and the testing of some
sites, Mr. Miller concluded that only four of them merited excavation
and detailed study. Three are in the Smith Mountain basin, while
the fourth is in the Leesville basin. The sites cover the Early, Middle,
and Late Woodland periods, involving a timespan beginning about
3000 B.C. and lasting to about A.D. 1000. They are significant be-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 67

cause of the fact that they occur upstream from the James H. Kerr
Reservoir where extensive archeological studies were made several
years ago and, while related to the manifestations present there,
they appear to contain some cultural elements which were not found
farther downstream. Excavations will be made at Smith Mountain
during the next fiscal year.

ARCHIVES

The Bureau archives continued under the custody of Mrs. Margaret
C. Blaker, archivist.

Following the death of Dr. John P. Harrington, extensive series
of his linguistic and ethnographic notes relating to numerous North
American Indian tribes were returned from private storage and
deposited with the Bureau through the courtesy of his daughter, Miss
Awona W. Harrington. This material is voluminous and has become
disarranged during years of storage. To serve asa preliminary guide,
a list of the manuscripts, with particular attention to those dealing
with Indian languages of California, was prepared by Miss Catherine
Callaghan, scientific linguist.

A collection of letters, family records, and photographs from the
estate of Matilda Coxe Stevenson, relating mainly to Mrs. Stevenson,
although some pertained to her husband, Col. James Stevenson, was
received as a gift from Manning Gasch of McLean, Va.

Two copybooks containing Micmac ideograms and an interlinear
transcription of the Micmac words written about 1943 by Frank Navin,
an Indian of Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, were lent by the Rev. Father
Placide, O.F.M., Cap., Ristigouche, Quebec, to be microfilmed for
the Bureau archives.

A collection of over 4,000 photographic prints relating to North
American Indian tribes was transferred from the U.S. National
Museum. The prints have been sorted and arranged by cultural area
and tribe, but much remains to be done in tracing the original acces-
sion data in order to determine actual or terminal dates and other
relevant background information.

Forty-two photographs relating to several Hopi pueblos, taken
by Miss Margaret Brainard in 1929-31, 1938, and 1950, were donated
by her.

Thirty-six color transparencies of North Carolina and Oklahoma
Cherokee, taken by Raymond Fogelson in 1960, were donated by him.

Thirty-three photographs of persons of Indian descent living in
Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Maine, and Quebec, taken by Daniel
Kennedy in 1960 and 1961, were donated by him.

Sixteen photographs of Chippewa Indians taken in 1905 at Grand
Marais and Grand Portage, Minn., by Frances Densmore before she
became affiliated with the Bureau were donated by Eliot Davis,
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

superintendent of Grand Portage National Monument, Grand Marais,
Minn.

Seven photographs of western Indians were lent for copying by
Vernon M. Riley of Chino, Calif.

As in previous years the manuscript and photographic collections
were consulted by numerous scholars and members of the general
public. There were approximately 175 written and personal inquiries
about manuscripts, including requests for microfilm copies, and ap-
proximately 600 inquiries about and requests for photographic prints.
Over 2,450 photographs were prepared and distributed, an increase
over last year’s figure.

ILLUSTRATIONS

The illustrator devoted most of his time to preparing and com-
pleting a variety of tasks in the fields of archeology, anthropology,
and ethnology. Work was also prepared for the River Basin Sur-
veys and for several other branches of the Institution.

LIBRARY

A reference librarian was appointed for the Bureau of American
Ethnology Library in May 1962, to provide library services for the
staffs of the Bureau and other branches of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, and other qualified scholars. Rearrangement of the library’s
collection has already been completed, and it is planned to organize
and maintain the collection so that it will realize its potential
usefulness.

In the process of shifting materials, various interesting publications
have attracted attention, among them what seems to be the original
Circular in Reference to Degrees of Relationship Among Different
Nations by Lewis Henry Morgan and a good collection of congres-
sional reports pertaining to Indian affairs beginning with the 12th
Congress. Several early editions of encyclopedias, dictionaries, and
gazetteers have been gathered together and made more accessible for
the patrons.

The valuable reprint collection has been organized and an author
index made with assistance of summer student employees.

Special emphasis will be placed on the strengthening of this
library’s collection by filling gaps in important serial runs, reactivat-
ing and following up on exchange materials, and the acquisition of
important works, both retrospective and current.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editorial work of the Bureau continued during the year under
the immediate direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. The following
publications were issued :
SECRETARY'S REPORT 69

Seventy-eighth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1960-61.
i1i+33 pp., 2 pls. 1962.

Bulletin 175. Mohave ethnopsychiatry and suicide: The psychiatric knowledge
and the psychie disturbances of an Indian tribe, by George Devereux.
vi+586 pp., 10 pls. 1961.

Bulletin 179. River Basin Surveys Papers, Nos. 21-24, Frank H. H. Roberts,
Jr.,editor. xviii+337 pp., 56 pls., 48 figs. 1961.

No. 21. Excavations at Texarkana Reservoir, Sulphur River, Texas, by
Edward B. Jelks.

No. 22. Archeological investigations at the Coralville Reservoir, Iowa, by
Warren W. Caldwell.

No. 23. The McNary Reservoir: A study in Plateau archeology, by Joel L.
Shiner.

No. 24. The Sheep Island site and the Mid-Columbia Valley, by Douglas
Osborne, Alan Bryan, and Robert H. Crabtree.

Bulletin 183. Seneca Thanksgiving rituals, by Wallace L. Chafe. iii+302 pp.
1961.

Publications distributed totaled 19,326, as compared with 29,845
for the fiscal year 1961.
COLLECTIONS

The following collections were made by staff members of the River
Basin Surveys of the Bureau of American Ethnology and transferred
to the permanent collections of the Department of Anthropology,
U.S. National Museum:
Acc. Nos.

23001, 206026, 26802 (a 11,560 miscellaneous stone, bone, and shell

archeological specimens from various
localities in the United States.

Sees 7

MISCELLANEOUS

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Dr. A. J. Waring, and Sister Inez Hilger con-
tinued as research associates. Dr. John P. Harrington, linguist on
the staff of the Bureau from February 20, 1915, until his retirement
on April 30, 1954, and later research associate, died on October 21,
1961, in San Diego, Calif., after many months’ illness.

Dr. Wallace L. Chafe worked part time during the academic year
1961-62 so that he could teach linguistics in the graduate school at
Catholic University of America.

Robert M. Laughlin reported for duty on June 10 as ethnologist
specializing in the Middle American area.

The Bureau revised and reissued during the fiscal year the follow-
ing bibliographies and lists:

SIL-47, rev., 8/61: Selected bibliography on the Battle of the Little Big Horn.

5 pp. nee .
sen rev., 3/62: Bibliography on American Indian medicine and health.

Compiled by William C. Sturtevant. 39 pp.
SIL-65, 3d rev., 3/62: Introductory bibliography on the American Indian. 7 pp.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

SIL-53, rev., 4/62: Photographie collections of the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy. 2 pp.
SIL-90, rev., 4/62: Some dealers in second-hand anthropological and govern-
ment publications. 2 pp.
SIL-50, 4th rev., 6/62: Selected list of portraits of prominent Indians in the
eoliections of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 3 pp.
SIL-81, rev., 6/62: Selected bibliography on stone-chipping methods. 4 pp.
Although the 3,227 letters received in the director’s office during
the year indicate a decrease from the previous year, the total is well
above the average for the past several years. This number, of course,
does not include semiofficial letters received by staff members from
colleagues and interested individuals. Because the Bureau does not
maintain a mailing list for its bibliography series, many college and
university librarians write in for complete sets and for information
leaflets. About 8,000 informational items were mailed from the main
Bureau office in response to requests for such material. The above
totals do not include Bureau material and publications sent out by
the Editorial and Publications Division. Many lots of specimens
were received by mail or brought to the office for identification and for
such information as could be provided by Bureau specialists.
Respectfully submitted.
Frank H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the op-
erations of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1962:

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two divisions: the division
of astrophysical research in Cambridge, Mass., for the study of solar
and other types of energy impinging on the earth; and the division
of radiation and organisms in Washington, for the investigation of
radiation as it relates directly or indirectly to biological problems.
Shops are maintained in Washington for work in metals, woods, and
optical electronics, and to prepare special equipment for both di-
visions; and a shop conducted in cooperation with the Harvard College
Observatory in Cambridge provides high-precision mechanical work.
The field station at Table Mountain, Calif., was discontinued. Twelve
satellite-tracking stations are in operation, in Florida, Hawaii, and
New Mexico in the United States and abroad in Argentina, Australia,
Curacao, India, Iran, Japan, Peru, South Africa, and Spain.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

The Observatory research staff made significant contributions to
knowledge of solar astrophysics, meteors, meteorites, artificial satel-
lites, geophysics, and space science. The continuing refinement of
observational techniques and the development of new analytical meth-
ods provided valuable data and opened up new areas of astrophysical
investigation.

The Observatory continued, with mutual benefit, its close liaison
with Harvard College Observatory, the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Boston University, and other research centers.

Solar astrophysics.—Dr. Leo Goldberg, with Dr. William Liller, is
directing the design and construction of the ultraviolet scanning
spectrometer for flight in the S-17 satellite within the framework of
the program of Orbiting Solar Observatories of the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration. The spectral range of the spec-
trometer will be 500 A. to 1,500 A. and the resolving power will be
about 1.0 A. Calibration and testing of the instrument packages
will be carried out in a new laboratory of the Space Science Building.

The scanning spectrometers are scheduled for rocket flights at the
end of 1962 and for flight aboard the S-17 satellite during the first
quarter of 1963.

672-174 636 71
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

The work of the laboratory also includes a broad program of basic
research on the vacuum ultraviolet radiation of atoms and molecules
of astrophysical importance with 1- and 3-meter vacuum spectro-
graphs and a shock tube and flash tube as sources.

Trying to account for the effect of solar-radiation pressure on the
drag of the Explorer IX satellite, Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia, assisted by
Jack Slowey, found that the computed variations of orbital eccen-
tricity for that satellite are 3 percent too small when the old value
of the solar constant, 1.94 ly. min”, is used; the discrepancy disappears
when use is made of the new value, 2.00 ly. min“, proposed in 1960 by
F. S. Johnson to account for the excess ultraviolet radiation. This
experience suggests that artificial satellites, of appropriate construc-
tion and in appropriate orbits, could be used for a better determination
of the solar constant, although there remain serious difficulties con-
nected with the earth’s albedo and with the reflectivity and the spin of
the satellite.

Dr. Max Krook proceeds with his theoretical investigations into
the further development and application of methods for determining
the structure of nongray atmospheres. He is also applying, in a num-
ber of cases, methods developed in continuum theories in gas dynamics
to problems of the flow of rarefied gases; examining various problems
in the dynamics of ionized gases (e.g., the structure of shock fronts
in the presence of magnetic fields) ; and studying the exact solution
of one-dimensional problems in the kinetic theory of gases.

Dr. Charles A. Whitney has completed several projects related to his
long-range studies of stellar atmospheres and stellar pulsation. He
has devised a simple but powerful new computational method for the
smoothing of spectrophotometric data, a central problem of obser-
vational astrophysics hitherto dependent on subjective procedures.
His comparison of theoretical with observed duration of line-splitting
in the spectrum of a pulsating variable (W Virginis) reveals excellent
accord with previous observations. His investigation of the reaction
of a stellar atmosphere to abrupt variations in heat flux from below
has resulted in a formula that will aid in distinguishing between fluctu-
ations from variable heating and those from sound waves propagating
through the atmosphere. From his study of the structure of shock
fronts in hydrogen he has found, with the aid of Angelo J. Skalafuris,
that radiation produced by recombination behind the shock heats
and ionizes the gas ahead of the shock, thus significantly altering the
flow and temperature patterns.

With the assistance of Mr. Skalafuris and W. Kalkofen, Dr. Whit-
ney has studied ionization relaxation with a one-level atom, an essential
aspect of the general shock problem, and has drawn some significant
conclusions on temperatures which, with other results, will bear im-
portantly on the whole program in this area.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 73

Studies on the structure of stellar atmospheres continues along
several lines. Dr. Owen F. Gingerich, investigating radiative equi-
librium, has introduced into his computer program new correctional
procedures developed by Dr. Krook and Dr. Eugene Avrett and is
preparing several manuscripts for publication. David W. Latham’s
work on convective equilibrium will provide a basis for the theoretical
study of solar granulation, a subject to which Dr. Whitney’s work on
thermal relaxation (performed with Alan Krasberg) will contribute.
Dr. Whitney is also carrying out tests to determine the magnitude of
departures from local thermodynamic equilibrium in stellar atmos-
pheres; is attempting to interpret the periodicity of small-scale mo-
tions in terms of cepheid-like pulsation; and has begun a new study of
the structure of the lunar surface by means of optical, infrared, and
radio data.

During this period Miss Sylvia Boyd and Barry Goldstein com-
pleted measurements of the profiles of 30 absorption lines in 25 spectra
of pulsating variables. Robert B. Stefanik studied the time-depend-
ence of hydrogen excitation in a varying electron gas to determine the
type of atomic model necessary for obtaining realistic shock structures.

Dr. Paul W. Hodge and Dr. Frances W. Wright have been investi-
gating the possible presence in the Large Magellanic Cloud of Popu-
lation II Cepheids, at present not known to exist there. They have
concentrated on the globular clusters as the most likely location, in
the vicinity of which previously known and new variables have been
studied for periods, brightness, and light-curve characteristics.

Dr. Richard McCrosky made further progress in his observations
of Raman scattered Lyman a to determine the still unknown percent-
age of hydrogen molecules in interstellar space. He is using for this
purpose the infrared sensitive detectors on the Harvard College Ob-
servatory 61-inch telescope.

Dr. Henri E. Mitler is making a theoretical and analytical study
of the possibility of optical cosmic-ray detection, on the assumption
that information obtained from the Cerenkov light pulse might lessen
the need for the usual huge counter array. He has nearly completed
his analysis of the probable amount of He® produced in planetesimals
and its effect on concurrent element formation, the determination of
which is crucial for testing the cosmogonic theory of Fowler, Green-
stein, and Hoyle. Dr. Mitler is also investigating single-particle
energy levels in nuclei for possible application of the Hartree-Fock
theory (especially for predictability of low-lying excited states), in
preference to Brueckner’s ¢-matrix .

Dr. Thomas W. Noonan is attempting to formulate, and then solve,
certain problems in cosmology and general relativity, especially in the
field now being studied at the Harvard College Observatory under the
direction of Dr. David Layzer.
74. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Meteoritical studies—Dr. E. L. Fireman, Dr. David Tilles, and
J. De Felice continue their measurements of radioactive isotopes in
recently fallen meteorite and satellite material. Dr. Fireman has
established that the Khole meteorite fell August 31,1961. The quanti-
ties of helium-3, argon-37, and argon-39 present are similar to those
found in the previously measured Bruderheim and Hamlet meteorites,
an indication of a similar history of cosmic-ray bombardment. Al-
most completed are measurements of those isotopes in the separated
stone and iron phases of the Harleton meteorite, to determine the
sources of excess argon-37. Dr. Fireman and Mr. De Felice have
measured helium-3 and argon-29 in the metallic phase of a stony
(Bruderheim) meteorite. Results of their analysis of uranium, po-
tassium, argon-40, and krypton-xenon in iron meteorites by neutron
activation will be important in determining the age and early history
of the meteorites.

The most important results from the study of radioactive isotopes in
recovered satellites were the discoveries that solar flares contain 1
percent tritium and that Van Allen particles also contain 1 percent
tritium. The program will continue to provide information on the
intensity, energy spectra, and isotopic composition of the trapped
hydrogen nuclei in the Van Allen belts, as well as on the flux of pri-
mary high-energy cosmic rays in the vicinity of the earth.

Dr. Ursula B. Marvin, while investigating accessory minerals in
meteorites, discovered in an iron sample the presence of cristobalite,
which appears to contradict metallurgical evidence requiring far
higher pressures of atmospheres than this mineral can theoretically
tolerate. In association with Professor C. Frondel she has also studied
the meteoritic phosphate mineral merrilite, apparently having the
structure of whitlockite. Analysis of both these minerals should
provide useful information on the geochemical environment of the
meteorites at the time of formation.

With Dr. Fireman and Dr. Tilles, she is attempting to eel
100 mg. mineral samples from stony meteorites to determine the areas
of noble gas isotopes and trace elements. The study seeks light on
the early history of the meteorites and the solar system. For such
analysis and other isotopic measurements, Dr. Tilles continues work
on the construction of a high sensitivity mass spectrometer, which,
when completed, should augment present scanty knowledge of pri-
mordial and radiogenic noble gases in iron meteorites and help eluci-
date the age, cooling history, and formation of the irons. Dr. Tilles
has initiated an additional investigation of hydrogen and tritium
retention in the metal of meteorites as a means of studying their
temperatures in space and to help explain the widely varying tritium
content of the metal phase of stony and iron-nickel meteorites.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 15

Dr. F. Behn Riggs is experimenting further with his design of an
electron probe microanalyzer, which makes possible a point-by-point
chemical analysis of polished surfaces of sectioned meteorites without
destroying the material. Combined with other metallurgical tech-
niques, it should throw light on the nature, history, and formation of
meteorites. His analyses so far show the need for a spectrometer, now
under construction, to scan X-ray wavelengths for the presence of
elements interfering with best results.

Dr. John Wood has been studying the composition of chondrules to
determine whether his hypothesis, that they are hardened droplets of
liquid silicates which condensed from the vapor phase during the
origin of the solar system, is compatible with current solar theories.
Estimating temperatures and pressures in the models of Hoyle and
Cameron, and comparing them with those at which liquid silicates and
liquid metallic iron are stable, he concludes that conditions do obtain
in these models under which the droplets might condense. If, as he
has postulated, the chondrites should in fact prove to be original
planetesimals from which both planets and chrondrites accreted, re-
search into the birth and history of the planets can be greatly advanced.

Important in this connection is Dr. Wood’s almost completed analy-
sis of the compositional variation of about 50 chondrules separated
from the chondrite Bjurbéle. For his quantitative are spectrographic
study he has used equipment available at the Cabot Spectrographic
Laboratory at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr. Wood has
also extended his investigations to the chondrite Renazzo, probably
a sample of quite primitive, unaltered planetary material, the detailed
mineralogy of which should reveal the nature of processes operating
during the origin of the planets. He is using the services of the Ad-
vanced Metals Corporation of Cambridge for his microchemical de-
terminations. From his examination of the probable metamorphism
of most chondrites, Dr. Wood is offering in a forthcoming paper a
hypothesis to explain the mineral peculiarities of unmetamorphosed
(e.g., Renazzo) chondrites.

Dr. Pedro E. Zadunaisky’s study of the definitive orbit of Comet
Halley 1910, to test current theories about forces perturbing the el-
liptic-orbit motion of a comet, has now achieved three written and
tested computer programs. Interpretation and reporting of results
will follow further development of these programs.

Dr. Richard E. McCrosky, in collaboration with the Harvard Col-
lege Observatory, the United States Air Force, Lincoln Laboratory,
and NASA, has progressed in his attempt to reproduce meteor phe-
nomena by injecting into the upper atmosphere, at meteoric velocities,
bodies of known and sufficient size. His results are of critical im-
portance in calibrating the mass-luminosity and density scale of na-
tural meteors in the optical range.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Dr. McCrosky’s project of seeking recovery of meteorites as soon as
possible after their fall, to provide data on the intensity of cosmic-ray
intensity near the earth and throughout the orbit of the meteorite,
is approaching actual implementation. In the first such large-scale
use of automatic photography for the purpose, he will direct a net-
work of 16 camera stations in the Midwest which will record meteors
in flight and from analysis of the film indicate the probable site of
meteoritic landing. To this site, from headquarters in Lincoln, Nebr.,
designated searchers will make their quick-recovery trips and forward
the material for analysis. Field testing of the cameras has been
carried out, and the first station is expected to begin photographing
in November, with hopes that the entire program may be in operation
by the summer of 1963. Results should greatly increase our present
knowledge of the numbers, masses, and orbits of meteorites. Dr.
McCrosky is being assisted by Messrs. Tougas, Munn, and Wargo.

Dr. Salah Hamid has found from his study of the selection effects
on the orbital elements of short-period photographic meteors that a
true distribution of the eccentricity and perihelion distance of the
interplanetary particles corresponds to previous observations, and
that any comparison between theoretical and observed distributions
must consider separately meteors meeting the earth at the ascending
node and those meeting it at the descending node. His examination
of the age of short-period photographic meteors, though employing a
different method, confirms the 10+*-year estimate of the director and
Dr. Luigi Jacchia.

From his study of the Quadrantids meteor stream, Dr. Hamid con-
cludes that it originated from a comet captured by Jupiter 3,000 years
ago and that its inclination, owing to perturbations of the planet,
changed from 138° to 75°. Investigating the question of a possible
common origin of this stream with the apparently unrelated §-Aquarid
stream, he found that both stem from the same comet, but that their
differing approaches to Jupiter (and its perturbations) have markedly
affected their different duration, perihelion distance, and present po-
sition. This study should be useful for investigation of other meteor-
itic problems, such as the rest of the Aquarid stream complex and the
Toroidal groups.

Dr. R. Southworth’s project of observing faint meteors for data
basic to meteor studies has involved planning and supervising the
computations of the trajectory and the previous orbit around the sun
of meteors observed by the radar system of the Harvard Radio
Meteor Project near Havana, I]. His observations of fainter meteors
than have been previously made by this method show excellent results
in accuracy and homogeneity. He has progressed satisfactorily also
in his study of the dynamical history of meteor streams, a problem
SECRETARY'S REPORT 77

both important to the whole subject of meteors and probably helpful
in the study of other objects and events in interplanetary space.

Robert E. Briggs completed his study of the space distribution of
interplanetary dust particles. He found that the light scattered by
the computed distribution is in good agreement with observed zodia-
cal light, particularly along the ecliptic, and that most of the particles
must have diameters of the order of 1 micron and fairly rough surfaces
of low reflectivity. He is now turning his attention to the velocity
distribution of interplanetary dust particles. The results of this
study should be valuable for current and future research on the nature
of interplanetary space, and perhaps provide new estimates on the
significance of particle collisions and breakup.

Dr. Paul W. Hodge and Dr. Frances Wright continue their study of
the rate of accretion of meteoritic matter by the earth, especially
that in the form of dust particles collected by jet aircraft at altitudes
ranging from 380,000 to 90,000 feet. They plan to analyze material
gathered at even greater heights on the X-15. In addition, they have
examined dust from very old ice deeply embedded in the Greenland
and Arctic icecaps.

The director’s study of the erosion and puncturing of bodies in
free space continues. The preliminary results obtained have been re-
ported at three scientific meetings and two publications in press. In
brief, he has found that space erosion increases from a few angstrom
units per year for irons to 10 times this rate for stones and nearly
a thousand times greater rate for fragile material from comets. The
correlation of erosion rate with brittleness or compressive strength
indicates cratering by impacts with dust particles in space. A mean
space density of about 10°? gm/cm# is required, consistent with
measures of scattered sunlight. Near the earth a higher rate appears
to prevail, possibly from moon dust, as he has previously suggested.
The most dangerous place with respect to meteoritic puncture is prob-
ably the moon’s surface. The project has importance for fundamental
research on the interplanetary medium and for space engineering
problems.

Dr. Fred A. Franklin has completed his dynamical and photometric
studies of the rings of Saturn. He has obtained for rings A and B
the values of their optical and physical thicknesses, their masses, and
the fraction of their volume occupied by particles. He now also has
a value for the average radius of the individual particles and a
measure of the roughness of their surfaces. The derived thicknesses
of the rings are surprisingly small, measured in inches. The rings are
found to be an enduring feature of the solar system.

Space studies —Two major projects for Orbiting Astronomical Ob-
servatories have made satisfactory progress. The director and Dr.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Robert J. Davis, astrophysicist in charge, with other Observatory
scientists, have concentrated on “Celescope,” the series of telescopes
intended for orbiting in artificial satellites above the earth’s atmos-
phere. Equipped to provide television images in four colors of the
entire celestial sphere, this vital new technique, when completed and
in operation, will vastly extend astronomical observation to the far ul-
traviolet region of the spectrum and prepare the way for further
detailed studies of objects and areas revealed by the surveys. Con-
tracts have been completed for fabrication of two Aerobee-Hi rocket
payloads carrying a prototype Celescope of simplified design to test
critical electronic equipment and the brightness of stars in the ultra-
violet. These stars, found in recent observations by NASA and others
to be 10 times fainter than supposed, require more sensitive television
camera tubes (“uvicons”) and larger optics than were originally
available for the experimental flight. Now that better uvicons are
available, the rocket payloads will be rebuilt to accept them. Contract
for the satellite payload has been awarded, and construction is
proceeding.

In connection with this problem Dr. Om P. Rustgi has set up a
laboratory for absolute calibration of uvicons, a matter of highest im-
portance to the project for measuring stellar and interstellar radiation.

Rocket failures and the insufliciently sensitive tubes have delayed
the program, but successful orbit is expected in 1964. The Celescope
project is being conducted in cooperation with NASA’s Orbiting
Astronomical Observatories Program, which provides auxiliary equip-
ment and support, but the scientific management of the experimental
payload and analysis of the results remain the Smithsonian’s responsi-
bility. The long-range plan is for development of even more power-
ful celescopes and equipment.

Dr. G. Colombo, professor of theoretical mechanics at the University
of Padua, Italy, during his 2-year stay at the Observatory has analyzed
the stabilization of a satellite at the point of equilibrium between the
earth’s and the moon’s gravitational forces and is exploring the feasi-
bility of a high sensitivity device for detecting displacement which
would significantly affect techniques of space navigation and com-
munication. He has also completed an analysis of the motion of Ex-
plorer XI (1961 Gamma) around its center of mass and demonstrated
qualitatively that variations of its angular momentum are explicable
only by the interaction of the earth’s magnetic field and the body of
the satellite.

Dr. Colombo has recently initiated a study of numerical integration
in the semirestricted three-body problem (including radiation pres-
sure from a fourth body) to investigate the possible use of such pres-
sure for transferring earth-around-moon orbits of satellites with large
SECRETARY'S REPORT 79

A/m ratios to moon-around-earth orbits. Related research includes
the effect of lunar orbital eccentricities on moon satellites with large
semimajor axis, and the problem of the asteroidal belt and the law of
distribution of apsidal lines. Results should contribute to informa-
tion about dust particles emanating from the moon, orbits of moon
satellites, and space navigation and communication.

G. H. Conant, Jr., began an analysis of techniques of numerical
integration of orbits to determine the nature of error “buildup” as a
function of time, and possibly to devise new methods for minimizing
this factor. The program has special pertinence to satellite and lunar-
probe research.

Dr. Mario D. Grossi studied the effect of the ionosphere, the Van
Allen belts, and the earth’s magnetic field on radio-astronomical ob-
servations in MF and HF bands. Using the Hamiltonian ray-tracing
for his analysis, he has written a program for computation on IBM-
7090. He has demonstrated the existence of a continuous series of
focal regions produced by the earth’s ionosphere and has applied his
results with some success to the problem of Jovian decameter radio
bursts.

Imre G. Izsak, seeking increased accuracy of geodetic data derived
from satellite observations, devised a modification of differential orbit
improvement using residuals of observations along the orbit and in
the normal direction to it with different, empirically determined
weights. He constructed a precise theory of the critical inclination
for more adequate knowledge of satellite motion. He also developed
a computer program to make satellite orbits with very small eccentri-
cities useful for the determination of odd zonal harmonics. Using
precisely reduced Baker-Nunn satellite observation, he finds coefli-
cients with 0.5 percent standard error, which is the highest accuracy
achieved yet. For his continuing research into the tesseral harmonics
of the geopotential, he is developing a computer program more satis-
factory than that provided by an earlier method. In collaboration
with Dr. Michael P. Barnett of Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
he is also working on the application of computers to the analytical
development of the planetary disturbing function in the restricted
problem of three bodies.

Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia has concluded a significant portion of his study
of atmospheric drag on artificial satellites, at present the only reliable
source of information on atmospheric densities above 200 km. His
analysis confirms the theory of the semiannual effect of interaction
between the solar wind and the upper atmosphere, its amplitude
varying with the 11-year solar cycle; reveals the influence of geo-
magnetic perturbations on the temperature of the upper atmosphere;
provides correlations between atmospheric temperatures and the solar
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

flux at diametric wavelength, as well as the position of the sun with
respect to the zenith; and makes possible prediction of atmospheric
temperatures and densities as a function of solar-activity parameters.
In continuing this program, which has already made such important
contributions, he will concentrate especially on atmospheric structure.
Jack Slowey has been closely associated with Dr. Jacchia in these
investigations.

Dr. Yoshihide Kozai, on the basis of recently determined data from
artificial satellites and other celestial bodies, proceeds with his investi-
gations of astronomical constants. From his research into the geo-
detic uses of artificial satellites, he has recently prepared reports on
results for the tesseral harmonics of the earth’s gravitational field, on
his second-order theory of oblateness perturbations, and on his rede-
terminations of coefficients of zonal spherical harmonics to the ninth
order, derived from analysis of Baker-Nunn observations of 13 satel-
lites. Dr. Kozai has also begun a new program to investigate secular
perturbations of asteroids for information on high inclination and
high eccentric orbits, a problem involving the stability theory of
asteroids and of the solar system.

Dr. Don A. Lautman’s study of the distribution of the perihelia of
the asteroids attempts to determine a possible relationship with effects
of second-order secular perturbations by Jupiter. His continuing
numerical integration project to explore possible use of radiation
pressure on balloon satellites as a means of achieving orbits around
the moon has resulted in several computer programs which he will
utilize for this purpose and for the study of other orbital problems
awaiting investigation.

Dr. G. Veis continued his work in the geodetic uses of satellites from
a geometric point of view. He is developing a program to use almost
simultaneous observations for space triangulations and for absolute
orientation in space of triangulation nets. He is currently attempting
to determine the position of the 12 Baker-Nunn cameras by using the
newest precisely reduced Baker-Nunn observations.

Satellite-tracking program.—The optical tracking of artificial sat-
ellites with NASA support continues to furnish important data for
the prediction of orbits, determination of atmospheric densities, and
geophysical and geodetic information. The program embraces a
worldwide organization of 92 Moonwatch teams composed of non-
professional observers and 12 precision photographic stations in var-
ious parts of the world, photographic image-reduction, detailed
analysis by electronic computers, precise reduction of satellite
positions, and calculation of satellite ephemerides.

From May 1, 1961, to May 1, 1962, visual observations by Moon-
watch of 75 objects (satellites and their orbiting components) totaled
SECRETARY’S REPORT 81

12,078, furnishing basic data for correcting ephemerides and for ac-
quiring and reacquiring nonbroadcasting satellites. During the year
the teams conducted a number of searches for orbiting objects.

In the same period the Computations Division distributed to the
12 Baker-Nunn stations 73,466 predictions that yielded 26,446 obser-
vations reported by cable to Cambridge. ‘This amounts to approx-
imately twice the activity of the previous year.

The Photoreduction Center received 25,060 successful films (ares)
and completed 15,409 reductions of satellite positions.

Through the Communications Center, 1.5 to 2 million words were
cleared each month, 95 percent of these representing satellite data
received or sent throughout the world. This compares with approx-
imately 1 million words per month in the previous year.

The Research and Analysis Division has derived valuable conclu-
sions based on the data drawn from the several tracking activities (see
Space Science). For example, the variations of density in the high
atmosphere for altitudes of 200 to 750 km. have been determined
with respect to solar activity, ultraviolet and corpuscular radiation.
The data on atmospheric drag obtained by optical observation are now
used as basic information by most investigators in the field of
atmospheric studies.

The geodetic applications of satellite observations continue to be
studied. Knowledge of station coordinates has been improved by
means of a program of simultaneous satellite observations from se-
lected stations. The Baker-Nunn stations are now well equipped for
this type of observation, and a prediction program for simultaneous
observations is working satisfactorily. Good results have been ob-
tained already from the stations in Peru and Argentina working
simultaneously.

To further this work, studies are being conducted of the adapta-
bility of modified aerial reconnaissance cameras for use as semimobile
cameras for geodetic use, both independently and in conjunction with
the fixed-position Baker-Nunn network. The Observatory is coop-
erating with the Department of Defense and NASA in establishing
an international program for a flashing-light geodetic satellite.

Following a decision to continue operations of the optical satellite
tracking program for a number of years, steps are being taken to do
major maintenance and overhaul work on the cameras.

This work is complicated by the fact that facilities for handling the
optical components of the cameras do not exist in most of the countries
where the cameras are located.

PUBLICATIONS

Publications of the Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics in-
cluded numbers 9 through 11 of volume 5.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

The following papers by staff members of the Astrophysical Obser-
vatory appeared in various journals:

AvreTT, E. H. Particle motion in the equatorial plane of a dipole magnetic
field. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 67, pp. 53-58, 1962.

Cargizr, G. F., and Avrett, E. H. A non-gray radiative-transfer problem. As-
trophys. Journ., vol. 134, pp. 469-481, 1961.

Cotomzo, G. Instability of motion at the Lagrangian triangular point in the
earth-moon system. Nature, vol. 193, p. 1063, 1962.

Cook, A. F.; Hawkins, G. S.; and Stienon, F. M. Meteor trail widths. Astron.
Journ., vol. 67, pp. 158-162, 1962.

Davis, R., and Goprrepson, BE. A. Optimum resolving power for an ultraviolet
space telescope. Planet. Space Sci., vol. 5, pp. 207-212, 1961.

Davis, R. J., and Rusrei, O. P. Ultraviolet instrumentation for Celescope—an
astrophysical reconnaissance satellite. Applied Optics, vol. 1, pp. 131-137,
1962.

FirEMAN, WH. L. The Ehole meteorite, its acquisition and its radioactivity.
Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 67, pp. 2592-2594, 1962.

FIREMAN, WH. L., and De Fetice, J. Argon-39, argon-37, and tritium in the re-
cently fallen Bruderheim meteorite (abstract). Journ. Geophys. Res., vol.
66, p. 2528, 1961.

Tritium, argon-37, and argon-39 in the Bruderheim meteorite. Journ.
Geophys. Res., vol. 66, pp. 3547-38551, 1961.

FIREMAN, E. L.; De FELicg, J.; and TrLtes, D. Solar flare tritium in a recov-
ered satellite. Phys. Rev., vol. 123, pp. 1935-1938, 1961.

FIREMAN, HE. L., and FisHer, D. E. Uranium in the Sikhote-Alin meteorite and its
relation to the lead method of age determination. Nature, vol. 192, pp. 644—-
645, 1961

FirEMAN, E. L., and Row.anp, F. 8. An additional measurement of the tritium
contents of atmospheric hydrogen of 1949. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 66, p.
4321, 1961.

GINGERICH, O. Polynomial approximation for the negative hydrogen-ion ab-
sorption coefficient. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 134, pp. 653-656, 1961.

A computer program for non-gray stellar atmospheres (abstract). As-
tron. Journ., vol. 66, p. 285, 1961.

GotpBerG, L. Project West Ford—properties and analysis. Introduction. As-
tron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 105-106, 1961.

Solar experiments—U.S. plans. Mém. Soe. Roy. Sci. Liége, ser. 5, vol.

55, pp. 30-38, 1961.

The Sun. Bull. Atomic Scientists, vol. 17, pp. 210-213, 1961.

Studying the universe from a space platform. In S. Ramo, ed., Peace-

time uses of outer space, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York, 1961.

Report of Commission 12 on radiation and structure of the solar at-
mosphere. Jn D. H. Sadler, ed., Trans. Intern. Astron. Union, Reports on
astronomy, vol. XIA, pp. 63-89, Academic Press, New York, 1962.

GOLDBERG, L., and Dyer, E. R., Jr. The Sun. Jn L. V. Berkner and H. Odishaw,
ed., Science in space, pp. 307-340, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York, 1961.

Galactic and extragalactic astronomy. Jn L. V. Berkner and H. Odi-
shaw, ed., Science in space, pp. 341-899, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York,
1961.

GrossI, M. D.; Strom, K. M.; and Srrom, 8S. H. Ionospheric focusing of cosmic
radio sources. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 67, pp. 1672-1674, 1962.

HaciHara, Y. Rotation of an earth satellite in flight along its orbit. Smith-
sonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 5, No. 9, pp. 113-143, 1961.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 83

Hopaz, P. W. Sampling dust from the stratosphere. Smithsonian Contr. As-
trophys., vol. 5, No. 10, pp. 145-152, 1961.

Izsak, I. G. A determination of the ellipticity of the earth’s equator from the
motion of two satellites. Astron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 226-229, 1961.

A determination of the ellipticity of the earth’s equator from the motion
of two satellites. Jn H. C. van de Hulst, C. de Jager, and A. F. Moore, ed.,
Space Research II, pp. 352-359, North Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam,
1961.

Izsak, I. G., and Kozar, Y. Equipotential surfaces of the earth as obtained
from satellite motions (abstract). Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 66, pp. 2538-
2539, 1961.

Jaccuia, L. G. Irregularities in atmospheric densities deduced from satellite
observations. Ann. Géophys., vol. 17, pp. 52-55, 1961.

A working model for the upper atmosphere. Nature, vol. 192, pp.

1147-1148, 1961.

Satellite drag during the events of November 1960. In H. C. van de

Hulst, C. de Jager, and A. F. Moore, ed., Space Research II, pp. 747-750,

North Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam, 1961.

Interplanetary matter. In H. H. Koelle, ed., Handbook of astro-
nautical engineering, pp. 2.57-2.64, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York, 1961.

Kozar, Y. Tesseral harmonics of the gravitational potential of the earth as
derived from satellite motions. Astron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 355-358, 1961.

Potential field of the earth derived from motions of artificial satellites.
In S. H. Laurila and W. A. Heiskanen, ed., Proc. Symposium of Geodesy
in the Space Age, pp. 174-176, Ohio State University, Inst. Geodesy,
Photogrammetry, and Cartography, Publ. No. 15, 1961.

Kumar, 8. S. A method for computing monochromatic fluxes in model stellar
atmospheres (abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 288-289, 1961.

On the age of the galaxy. Observatory, vol. 82, pp. 34-36, 1962.

On the A and © operators of radiative transfer theory. Smithsonian
Contr. Astrophys., vol. 5, No. 11, pp. 153-185, 1962.

Lassovszky, K. On the accuracy of the measurements made upon films photo-
graphed by Baker-Nunn satellite tracking cameras (abstract). Astron.
Journ., vol. 66, p. 289, 1961.

Lepoux, P., and Wuirney, C. A. Velocity fields and associated thermodynamic
variations in the external layers of intrinsic variable stars. In R. N.
Thomas, ed., Aerodynamic phenomena in stellar atmospheres, Proc. 4th
Symposium on Cosmical Gas Dynamics, I.A.U. Symposium No. 12, pp. 131-
193, Nuovo Cimento Suppl., ser. 10, vol. 22, No. 1, 1961.

Mitter, H. E. Electromagnetic potentials in quantum mechanics. Phys. Rev.,
vol. 124, pp. 940-944, 1961.

Sxauaruris, A., and Wuitney, C. A. Radiative cooling behind shock fronts
in stellar atmospheres. Ann. d’Astrophys., vol. 24, pp. 420-424, 1961.
SouTtHwortH, R. B. Planetary perturbations and the Perseid meteor stream

(abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 295-296, 1961.

Strom, 8S. E., and Strom, K. M. A possible mechanism for Jovian decameter
bursts (abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 67, p. 121, 1962.

TILLes, D. Variations of silicon isotope ratios in a zoned pegmatite. Journ.
Geophys. Res., vol. 66, pp. 3015-3020, 1961.

Natural variations in isotopic abundances of silicon. Journ. Geophys.

Res., vol. 66, pp. 3003-3013, 1961.

Primordial gas in the Washington County meteorite. Journ. Geophys.

Res., vol. 67, pp. 1687-1689, 1962.

84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Vris, G., and WuHIppPLeE, F. L. Experience in precision optical tracking of satel-
lite for geodesy. In H. C. van de Hulst, C. de Jager, and A. F. Moore, ed.,
Space Research II, pp. 17-83, North Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam,
1961.

Wureete, F. L. Dust halo. Space World, vol. 1, No. 8, pp. 20 ff, 1961.

Problems of the cometary nucleus. Astron. Journ. vol. 66, pp. 375-3880,

1961.

On the distribution of semimajor axes among comet orbits. Astron.

Journ., vol. 67, pp. 1-9, 1962.

Report of Sub-commission 22a on meteorites. In D. H. Sadler, ed.,
Trans. Intern. Astron. Union, Reports on astronomy, vol. XIA, pp. 213-227,
Academie Press, New York, 1962.

WHITNEY, C. A. Determination of atmospheric densities from satellite observa-
tions. Ann. Géophys., vol. 17, pp. 237-244, 1961.

Woop, J. A. Chondrules and the origin of the terrestrial planets. Nature, vol.
194, pp. 127-130, 1962.

ZADUNAISKY, P. H.; SHAprRo, I. I.; and Jones, H. M. Solar radiation pressure
effects, gas leakage rates, and air densities inferred from the orbit of Echo I.
In H. C. van de Hulst, C. de Jager, and A. F. Moore, ed., Space Research II,
pp. 339-351, North Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam, 1961.

The Special Reports of the Astrophysical Observatory distribute
catalogs of satellite observations, orbital data, and preliminary results
of data analysis prior to journal publication. Thirty-five numbers

(64 through 98), issued during the year, contain the following
material:

Special Report No. 64, July 7, 1961.

The revised orbit of Satellite 1958 Zeta, by R. C. Nigam.
Special Report No. 65, July 14, 1961.

Atmospheric drag on non-spherical artificial satellites, by P. KE. Zadunaisky.
Special Report No. 66 (C-22), July 17, 1961.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1958 Alpha (Explorer I),
1958 81 (carrier rocket, Vanguard I), 1958 Epsilon (Explorer IV), 1959
al (Vanguard II), 1959 a2 (carrier rocket, Vanguard II), 1959 Eta
Vanguard III), and 1959 «1 (Explorer VII), for Sept. 1—-Dec. 31, 1960, by
D. V. Mechau.

Special Report No. 67 (C-23), July 17, 1961.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1960 1 (Echo I), and 1960

‘2 (carrier rocket, Echo I), for Sept. 1-Dec. 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 68 (C—24), July 17, 1961.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1960 81 (carrier rocket, Tiros
I), for Sept. 14-21, 1960; 1960 62 (Tiros I), for Sept. 2-Oct. 15, 1960;
1960 y1 (carrier rocket, Transit 1B), for July 7-27, 1960; 1960 y2 (Transit
1B), for July 26-Nov. 7, 1960; 1960 71 (Transit 2A), for June 26—Dec. 29,
1960; 1960 72 (Greb), for June 22—Dec. 23, 1960; 1960 78 (carrier rocket,
Transit 2A, Greb), for June 23—Dec. 31, 1960; 1960 £1 (Explorer VIII), for
Nov. 4-Dec. 30, 1960; 1960 2 (carrier rocket, Explorer VIII), for Nov. 19-
Dec. 24, 1960; 1960 Omicron (Discoverer XVII), for Nov. 13—Dec. 31, 1960:
and 1960 Sigma (Discoverer XVIII), for Dec. 8-31, 1960, by D. V.
Mechau.

Special Report No. 69, July 17, 1961.

List of coordinates of stations engaged in the observation of artificial earth

satellites, by D. V. Mechau.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 85

Special Report No. 70, July 18, 1961.
The motion of Satellite 1958 Epsilon around its center of mass, by G.
Colombo.
Special Report No. 71, July 24, 1961.
Elements of the orbit of the Satellite 1959 Eta (Vanguard III) during the
first year after launching, by P. BH. Zadunaisky and B. Miller.
Special Report No. 72, August 9, 1961.
Tesseral harmonics of the potential of the earth as derived from satellite
motions, by Y. Kozai.
Special Report No. 73, August 10, 1961.
Differential orbit improvement with the use of rotated residuals, by I. G.
Izsak.
Special Report No. 74, September 18, 1961.
On the accuracy of measurements made upon films photographed by Baker-
Nunn satellite tracking cameras, by K. Lassovszky.
Special Report No. 75, September 19, 1961.
Density of the heterosphere related to temperature, by M. Nicolet.
Special Report (unnumbered), September 20, 1961.
Index to SAO Special Reports Nos. 1-75.
Special Report No. 76, October 2, 1961.
Effects of the earth’s ionosphere on HF radio astronomy from artificial satel-
lites, by M. D. Grossi, K. M. Strom, and §. HE. Strom.
Special Report No. 77, October 24, 1961.
Short-periodic oscillations in the drag of Satellite 1958 Alpha, by L. G.
Jacchia and J. Slowey.
Special Report No. 78, October 25, 1961.
Satellite orbital data: Satellites 1958 Alpha, 1958 61 and 1959 11 by B. Miller,
for May—Dec. 1960, compiled by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 79, October 30, 1961.
The analysis of gravity, by H. Jeffreys.
Special Report No. 80, November 1, 1961.
The stabilization of an artificial satellite at the inferior conjunction point
of the earth-moon system, by G. Colombo.
Special Report No. 81, November 24, 1961.
The orbits of the Satellites 1959 «1 and 1959 a2 and the perturbations on
the perigee distance of 1959 al, by R. C. Nigam.
Special Report No. 82 (P-1), November 30, 1961.
Catalog of precisely reduced observations: Satellites 1959 a1, for Feb. 17-
June 30, 1959; and 1959 Eta, for Sept. 18—Dec. 31, 1959, prepared by G.
Veis.
Special Report No. 83, January 31, 1962.
Project Celescope, by R. J. Davis and Celescope staff.
Special Report No. 84, February 9, 1962.
Preliminary analysis of the atmospheric drag of the twelve-foot balloon
satellite (1961 61), by L. G. Jacchia and J. Slowey.
Special Report No. 85 (P-2), February 12, 1962.
Catalog of precisely reduced observations: Satellites 1959 «1, for July
1-Dee. 31, 1959 ; 1959 «2, for Mar. G6—May 31, 1959 ; 1960 .2, for Sept. 10-Dec.
31, 1960 ; 1960 Omicron, for Nov. 13—Noy. 16, 1960; and 1960 Sigma, for Dec.
8-Dee. 10, 1960, prepared by G. Veis.
Special Report No. 86, February 21, 1962.
Satellite orbital data: Satellites 1958 Alpha, for Jan. 1—July 1, 1961; 1958
A1, for Jan. 1-July 27, 1961; 1960 £1, for Nov. 4, 1960-July 3, 1961; 1961 61,
for Feb. 16-July 2, 1961; and 1961 +1, for April 28-Sept. 1, 1961, by B.
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Special Report No. 86, February 21, 1962—Continued
Miller; and 1959 «1, for Dec. 31, 1960—July 1, 1961, by J. Weingarten, com-
piled by I. G. Izsak.

Special Report No. 87 (C—25), February 23, 1962.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1958 Alpha (Explorer I), 1958
f1 (earrier rocket, Vanguard I), 1959 1 (Vanguard II), 1959 a2 (carrier
rocket, Vanguard II), 1959 Eta (Vanguard III), and 1959 .1 (Explorer
VII), for Jan. 1-June 30, 1961, by D. V. Mechau.

Special Report No. 88 (C—26), February 23, 1962.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1960 .1 (Echo I) and 1960 .2

(carrier rocket, Echo I), for Jan. 1—-June 30, 1961, by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 89 (C-27), February 23, 1962.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1960 £1 (Explorer VIII), for
Noy. 3, 1960-June 30, 1961; 1961 51 (Explorer IX), for Feb. 16—June 30,
1961; and 1961 71 (Explorer XI), for April 27-June 30, 1961, by D. V.
Mechau.

Special Report No. 90, Mar. 14, 1962.
On the critical inclination in satellite theory, by I. G. Izsak.
Special Report No. 91 (P-3), April 20, 1962.

Catalog of precisely reduced observations: Satellites 1958 62, for Dec. 1-17,
1958; 1959 a2, for Jan. 1—-Dec. 31, 1960; and 1959 Eta, for Jan. 1—June 30,
1960.

Special Report No. 92 (H-1), April 23, 1962.

Satellite orbital data: Satellites 1958 52, for Dec. 7-14, 1959, by Y. Kozai;
1959 «1, for Feb. 21-Dec. 30, 1959, by P. Stern and M. Gutierrez; 1959
a2, for Mar. 19-May 28, 1959, by P. Stern; 1959 Eta, for Sept. 23—Dec. 30,
1959, by R. Nigam and P. Stern; 1960 «2, for Sept. 11, 1960-—Mar. 12, 1961,
by I. Izsak and J. Weingarten; 1960 Omicron, for Nov. 138-15, 1960, by J.
Weingarten; and 1960 Sigma, for Dec. 8-10, 1960, by J. Weingarten,
compiled by I. G. Izsak.

Special Report No. 93, May 4, 1962.

Satellite orbital data: Satellites 1958 Alpha, for July 1, 1961-Jan. 1, 1962,
by B. Miller; 1959 «1, for July 1, 1961—Jan. 1, 1962, by M. Gutierrez; 1960
£1, for July 1, 1961-Jan. 1, 1962, by M. Hall; and 1961 81, for July 2,
1961-Jan. 5, 1962, by J. Weingarten, compiled by I. G. Izsak.

Special Report No. 94, May 23, 1962.
On the motion of Explorer XI around its center of mass, by G. Colombo.
Special Report No. 95 (P-4), June 18, 1962.

Catalog of precisely reduced observations: Satellites 1959 Eta, for July 1-
Dec. 31, 1960; and 1960 «12, for Jan. 1-June 30, 1961, prepared by K.
Haramundanis.

Special Report No. 96 (C—28), June 25, 1962.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1958 Alpha (Explorer I),
1959 «1 (Vanguard II), 1959 Eta (Vanguard III), and 1959 :1 (Bxplorer
VII), for July 1-Dec. 31, 1961; and 1959 a2 (carrier rocket, Vanguard II),
for July 1-27, 1961, by B. Miller.

Special Report No. 97 (C—29), June 25, 1962.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1960 11 (Echo I) and 1960

«2 (carrier rocket, Echo I), for July 1—Dec. 31, 1961, by B. Miller.
Special Report No. 98 (C-80), June 25, 1962.

Catalogue of Satellite observations: Satellites £1 (Explorer VIII) and
1961 51 (Explorer IX), for July 1—Dee. 31, 1961; v1 (Explorer XI), for
July 1-Sept. 28, 1961; and 1961 o1 (Transit 4a) and 1961 o2 (Injun Solar
Radiation), for June 29—-Dec. 31, 1961, by B. Miller.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 87
OTHER ACTIVITIES

The director and Drs. Gingerich, Goldberg, Jacchia, Kozai, and
Lassovszky attended the International Astronomical Union meeting
in Berkeley, Calif. Mr. Izsak addressed the Space Science Symposium
at Pasadena, Calif.

In August 1961, more than 50 scientists from 9 different countries
attended the International Symposium on the Astronomy and Physics
of Meteors held at the Observatory headquarters, Cambridge, Mass.
The director, Dr. Hawkins, Dr. McCrosky, Dr. Southworth, and Mr.
Briggs presented papers at the meeting. Drs. Fireman, Hamid,
Jacchia, Wright, and Cook also attended. The proceedings of the
symposium will be published in the Smithsonian Contributions to
Astrophysics.

Dr. Whipple addressed the American Rocket Society meeting in
New York on the concentration of dust around the earth.

Sir Harold Jeffreys delivered a series of 24 public lectures on figures
of the earth and moon. He also lectured at the Institute of Geodesy
at the University of Ohio.

Dr. Whipple represented the International Astronomical Union at
a meeting of the International Academy of Astronautics and the
Twelfth International Astronautical Congress in Washington, D.C.
He also attended the U.S. Air Force’s North American Air Defense
Command Optical Space Science Conference in Colorado Springs,
Colo.

Dr. Southworth presented a paper at a meeting on the exploration
of the solar system by radar and radio-astronomy at the International
Astronautical Congress in Washington, D.C.

Dr. Kozai attended the USSR conference on Theoretical Astronomy
in Moscow.

Dr. Tilles presented a paper “Tritium in Discoverer Satellites” at
the National meeting of the American Geophysical Union at Los
Angeles, Calif.

Dr. Davis and Mr. Strom attended the American Astronomical
Society Meeting in Denver, Colo. Mr. Strom presented a paper at
the meeting.

Dr. Whipple was awarded the American Astronautical Society’s
Space Flight Award for 1962 at the annual meeting of the Society
in Washington, D.C. He was elected vice president of the Society
for 1962. He also spoke before the Subcommittee on Patents of the
House of Representatives Committee on Science and Astronautics.
He appeared before the full committee and presented a paper urging
removal of military secrecy from the planned flashing-light geodetic
satellite “Project Anna.”

672-174—63——7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Dr. Davis presented a paper on Project Celescope to the Institute
of Radio Engineers in Baltimore.

The director and Dr. Wood attended the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration Institute of Space Studies Conference on “The
Origin of the Solar System” in New York.

The Observatory, together with the Harvard College Observatory,
were hosts to the 110th annual meeting of the American Astronomical
Society. Drs. Whipple, Southworth, Fireman, Kozai, Gingerich,
Whitney and Messrs. Briggs and Zadunaisky presented papers.

Dr. Kozai attended a symposium on Solar System Constants at the
Rand Corporation, Santa Monica, Calif.

Mr. Hagge attended a meeting of Study Group VII, C.C.LR., in
Geneva, Switzerland, concerning the international distribution of
standard frequency and time signals.

Drs. Whipple, Colombo, Fireman, Jacchia, Kozai, Lautman, Tilles,
Wood, Veis, and Mr. Izsak contributed to the COSPAR Meeting in
Washington.

Drs. Jacchia and Kozai attended the International Symposium on
the Dynamics of Satellites in Paris, France.

Drs. Whipple and Goldberg were invited to attend the National
Academy of Sciences, Space Science Board, summer study program
at the State University of Iowa. The program was directed toward
an examination of the scope and quality of the national space science
program and its future objectives.

STAFF CHANGES

The following scientists joined the staff: Dr. Thomas Noonan, Dr.
Henri Mitler, Dr. Ursula Marvin, Dr. Frances Wright, and Dr. Allan
F. Cook. During this year Sir Harold Jeffreys, Dr. Marcel Nicolet,
Dr. Salah Hamid, Dr. George Veis, and Dr. G. G. Cillié worked at the
Observatory.

Dr. Karoly Lassovszky died on December 20, 1961.

As of June 30, 1962, 322 persons were employed at the Observatory.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
Prepared by W. H. Kietn, Chief of the Division

The research program of the Division has been concerned with
fundamental studies in the area of radiation biology with emphasis
on developing systematic concepts of the metabolic mechanisms and
responses of living organisms as influenced and regulated by radiation.

in the study of phototropic responses, the tropic response of Phy-
comyces blakesleeanus to unilateral broad band blue (400-500 mz)
light has been found to disappear at intensities greater than 1,300
SECRETARY'S REPORT 89

pw/em?. The growth response also has been found to vanish for
sporangiophores adapted at intensities greater than 1,300 pw/cm?.
As this intensity is approached, the growth rate becomes 30-50 percent
higher than that observed for sporangiophores adapted in the normal
range of intensities, and this increased rate is maintained for long
periods of time (3 or more hours). However, the mechanism control-
ling the level] of light sensitivity (the range adjustment mechanism)
appears to function at any intensity and with the same time constant
of about 4.0 minutes as in the normal range.

The bending rate in the normal range is about 5-7 degrees/minute
for continuous unilateral stimuli given at 90° to the long axis of the
sporangiophore. As the intensity approaches 1300 pw/cm?, the bend-
ing rate decreases rapidly to zero. Apparently, the gradient across
the cylindrical growing zone disappears, just as found previously
for immersion oils with an index of refraction near 1.295. Whether
this loss of a gradient is due to saturation of the light sensitive system
or to bleaching of the photoreceptors is not yet known.

Preliminary action spectra, at 20 my intervals, for this disappear-
ance of the tropic response have been completed and found to have
very nearly the same wavelength dependence as observed previously
in the normal range tropic response.

The dimensions of the cytoplasmic layer within the growing zone
and adjacent regions of the sporangiophore have been measured under
oilimmersion. On the average, the cytoplasm occupies about 40 per-
cent of the diameter from the sporangium to 1 mm below. In the
growing zone itself it is about 25 percent of the diameter, and below
the growing zone decreases to about 15 percent. The cytoplasm is con-
tinuously streaming while being observed, and its thickness fluctuates
as much as 10 percent within a few minutes at any one point.

The growth promoting effect of cobalt in etiolated leaf tissue is in-
dependent of growth inhibition by 2,4-dinitrophenol, which uncouples
oxidative phosphorylation. Cobalt does not raise the adenosine tri-
phosphate (ATP) concentration of leaf tissue, but does prevent a
decrease in ATP content in the presence of 2,4-dinitrophenol. In
order to elucidate the role of cobalt, experiments were performed with
isolated mitochondria, the subcellular organelles which are the sites
of oxidative phosphorylation. The results showed that cobalt alone
had no significant effect on respiration or phosphorylation. However,
when mitochondria were exposed to both cobalt and 2,4-dinitrophenol,
phosphorylative activity increased about 10 percent over that of the
2,4-dinitrophenol control. Mitochondria contain not only enzymes
that synthesize ATP, but also enzymes that decompose ATP. Since
the influence of cobalt on the synthesis of ATP was relatively small,
the possibility of cobalt’s influencing the enzymatic decomposition was
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

examined. The results of these experiments showed that cobalt in-
hibited the destruction of ATP. This effect was observed both in the
presence and absence of 2,4-dinitrophenol. Thus, it is indicated that
cobalt exerts its growth-promoting influence by inhibiting the activity
of the enzyme ATPase.

Studies on light-dependent chloroplast maturation have been con-
ducted, using chloramphenicol (antibiotic) to determine the participa-
tion of protein synthesis in the maturation process. Etiolated plants
that have been treated with chloramphenicol do not develop photo-
synthetic activity when irradiated with white light. Synthesis of
chlorophyll is markedly inhibited and cannot be altered by large
changes in the intensity of irradiation. In contrast, other light-de-
pendent responses such as leaf expansion, opening of the hypocotyl
hook, and anthocyanin formation are not inhibited by the antibiotic.

Measurements of excitation of chlorophyll fluorescence in intact con-
trol and treated leaves show that chloramphenicol does not prevent
development of the ability of carotenoid pigments to transfer energy
to chlorophyll. Measurements of Hill reaction and photosynthetic
phosphorylation of chloroplasts of treated and control leaves show
that antibiotic prevents development of these photosynthetic activities.
Light-dependent increase of the photosynthetic enzyme TPN-linked
glyceraldehyde-phosphate dehydrogenase was inhibited by chloram-
phenicol but that of another, carboxydismutase, was not. Increase in
leaf protein which is associated with chloroplast maturation was par-
tially inhibited by chloramphenicol.

These results indicate that chloramphenicol prevents synthesis of
substances necessary for dark reactions of photosynthesis. At least
one of the substances lacking in treated leaves and necessary for
photosynthesis is associated with chloroplasts. Inhibition of develop-
ment of photosynthetic activity of leaves can be accounted for by the
ability of chloramphenicol to inhibit protein synthesis in leaves.

The physiological basis for changes in sensitivity of maize chromo-
somes to X-rays during seed germination has been studied, using
somatic mutation technics. X-ray damage was markedly enhanced
by oxygen, ie., plants grown from seeds irradiated under anoxia
(helium) showed a two- to three-fold reduction in sector frequencies
as compared to plants grown from seed irradiated in air. Oxygen
enhancement, which was virtually nil for dry seed, attained its initial
expression after 4-5 hours hydration. Irradiation in two atmospheres
of pure oxygen, rather than in air, effected no increase in sector fre-
quencies during these first 4-5 hours. Apparently, the “oxygen effect”
is not influenced primarily by factors governing availability of oxygen
to the embryo, but owes its inception to other biochemical or biophysi-
cal changes during this early period of germination.
SECRETARY'S REPORT QO]

Studies involving the reversal of red light induction by far-red
radiation at 25° C. show that there must be a time delay interposed be-
tween red and far-red light treatments before maximum reversal can
occur in hypocotyl hook of beans, in Arabidopsis seed germination, and
in leaf disc expansion. Lettuce seed germination and reversal by far-
red light at 25° C. does not require a time delay between light treat-
ments to obtain maximum efficiency in reversal. However, when the
experiments are conducted at 2° C., a requirement for a time delay
between light treatments is manifested.

The influence of such exogenous and endogenous factors as substrate,
age, ionizing radiation, and particularly the red, far-red photomor-
phogenic pigment system on the development of the chlorophyll-syn-
thesizing mechanism in etiolated leaf tissue, have all been previously
demonstrated in this laboratory. The apparent effect of the media-
tion of a photomorphogenic receptor on chlorophyll synthesis implies
a radiant energy stimulation of biochemical systems associated with
either pigment precursor synthesis and/or exo- or endoplastid enzyme
systems, resulting in observable gross morphological proplastid
changes.

Light-microscope examination of corn leaf tissue macerates have
revealed both biochemical and morphological changes within the de-
veloping proplastid. In the dark-grown seedling, proplastids con-
tinue to enlarge slowly and accumulate considerable starch internally
during the first several days of growth; a short pretreatment with
white light, on the other hand, induces an observable degradation of
accumulated starch, as well as considerable enlargement in proplastid
size. These light-induced proplastid changes can be correlated with
photomorphogenic leaf responses such as elongation and expansion.

PUBLICATIONS

PRICE, LEONARD, and Kirin, WILLIAM H. Red, far-red response and chlorophyll
Synthesis. Plant Physiol., vol. 36, pp. 733-735, 1961.

SHROPSHIRE, WALTER, Jr. The lens effect and phototropism of Phycomyces.
Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 45, pp. 949-958, 1962.

Marculiss, Maurice M. The effect of chloramphenicol on the light dependent
development of seedlings of Phaseolus vulgaris var. Black Valentine, with
particular reference to the development of photosynthetie activity. Plant
Physiol., vol. 37, pp. 473-480, 1962.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

The division was represented during this year at various confer-
ences of scientists and meetings of scientific societies. Drs. L.
Loercher and W. H. Klein were invited participants in the Gordon
Research Conferences on Biochemistry and Agriculture, Tilton, N.H.,
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

where Dr. Loercher presented a paper on “The Influence of Cobalt on
Leaf Expansion and Yield of Oxidative Phosphorylation.”

Attending the annual meetings of the American Institute of Bio-
logical Sciences in August 1961 at Purdue University were L. Price,
M. Margulies, W. Shropshire, V. B. Elstad, W. H. Klein, L. Loercher,
and J. L. Edwards. Included among the papers presented to the
American Society of Plant Physiologists at these meetings were
“The Effect of Red and Far-Red Radiant Energy and Delta Amino
Levulinic Acid on the Lag Phase of Chlorophyll Synthesis in Bean
Seedlings,” by E. C. Sisler, W. H. Klein, and Rebecca Gettens; “The
Mode of Action of Cobalt in the Expansion of Etiolated Leaf Tissue,”
by L. Loercher; “The Effect of Chloramphenicol on Chlorophyll
Formation and on Development of Photosynthetic Activity,” by M.
Margulies; and “Negative Phototropism of Phycomyces Sporangio-
phores to Blue Light Stimuli,” by W. Shropshire. Dr. Klein attended
the Executive Committee sessions of the American Society of Plant
Physiologists.

Also in August, J. H. Harrison attended the Seminar for Scientific
Glassblowers held at the State University of New York. Mr. Harri-
son and A. H. Busch attended the 8th Annual Symposium of the Amer-
ican Vacuum Society held in October in Washington.

Dr. Klein was an invited participant in the Conference on Basic
Mechanisms in Radiobiology, San Juan, P.R., sponsored by the Atomic
Energy Commission in November.

Dr. Shropshire attended the annual meeting of the Biophysical So-
ciety in Washington in February 1962. In March Dr. Klein visited
the University of Arizona at Tucson to consult with Dr. Paul Damon
regarding carbon-dating facilities, and in April he studied newly
developed carbon-dating technics at Radiochemistry, Inc., at Louis-
ville, Ky.

In May 1962, Drs. R. Latterell and Klein attended the 10th Annual
Meeting of the Radiation Research Society at Colorado Springs, Colo.

Dr. Shropshire visited Duke University and North Carolina State
College in June to consult with university scientists in the Depart-
ments of Biophysics and Plant Physiology.

Also in June, Mr. Harrison and A. H. Busch attended the 7th
Annual Symposium of the American Scientific Glassblowers Society,
held in Washington, where Mr. Harrison participated as chairman of
the workshop committee.

The installation of a radio-carbon dating laboratory has been ac-
complished, and the facility is expected to be operational by August
1962. Facilities have also been installed for research in the biochem-
istry and physiology of marine organisms.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 93

Dr. Pieter J. A. L. de Lint joined the research staff as visiting
plant physiologist from Wageningen, the Netherlands. Dr. Konstan-
tinos Mitrakos also joined the Division as visiting physiologist and
biochemist from the University of Thessalonika, Greece.

Respectfully submitted.

Frep L. Wurpeie, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Collection of
Fine Arts

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1962:

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The 39th annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was
held in Washington on Tuesday, December 5, 1961. Members present
were Paul Manship, chairman; Leonard Carmichael, secretary; Gil-
more D. Clarke, David E. Finley, Walker Hancock, Bartlett H. Hayes,
Ogden M. Pleissner, Charles H. Sawyer, Stow Wengenroth, Archibald
G. Wenley, and Andrew Wyeth. James C. Bradley, Assistant Sec-
retary; Theodore W. Taylor, Assistant to the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution; and Thomas M. Beggs, Director, National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts, were also present.

The Commission recommended reappointment of Robert Woods
Bliss, Wilmarth Lewis, Henry P. McIlhenny, and Ogden M. Pleissner
for the usual 4-year period.

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Paul
Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Leonard
Carmichael, secretary.

The following were reelected members of the executive committee
for the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss,
Gilmore D. Clarke, Archibald G. Wenley, with Paul Manship and
Leonard Carmichael, ex officio.

Dr. Carmichael announced the gift from Mrs. Laura Dreyfus Barney
of Barney Studio House, 2306 Massachusetts Avenue. One of its
principal rooms is being redecorated at the suggestion of the donor to
be used by the Smithsonian Institution for meetings and cultural
events.

He informed the Commission that Congress had appropriated plan-
ning funds to provide detailed plans and specifications for the re-
modeling of the Patent Office Building, which is expected to be vacated
by the Civil Service Commission in 1963 and ready for occupancy by
the National Collection of Fine Arts and the National Portrait Gallery
during 1965. Dr. Carmichael stated that bills concerning the National
Portrait Gallery had passed the Senate and had been favorably re-
ported out of committee in the House.

94
SECRETARY'S REPORT 95

[An act “To provide for a National Portrait Gallery as a bureau of
the Smithsonian Institution” (Public Law 87-448) was approved on
April 27, 1962.]

Mr. Beggs reported briefly that plans for space distribution in the
Patent Office Building at present allotted approximately 40 percent
to the National Collection of Fine Arts, 40 percent to the National
Portrait Gallery, and 20 percent to common services. He stated that
the National Collection of Fine Arts was looking forward to utilizing
the space for increasing its temporary exhibition program and for the
expansion and proper display of permanent collections. Mr. Beggs
pointed out the following sources from which the National Collection
of Fine Arts receives its collections: purchases, such as those from the
Ranger and Myer Funds; gifts and bequests from individuals; trans-
fers from other Government agencies; and gifts of state.

The Commission recommended acceptance of the following for the
National Collection of Fine Arts:

Two bronzes, The Bear Tamer and Head of Kid, by Paul Bartlett, N.A. (1865-
1925). Offered by Miss Mary Bowditch, Boston, Mass.

Bronze, Napoleon I (1769-1821) by Launt Thompson (18383-1894). Offered by
Dr. Gifford B. Pinchot, Upperco, Md.

Oil, Mother (Annie Williams Gandy), by Thomas C. Hakins (1844-1916). Be-
quest of Mrs. Edward Pearson Rodman, through Miss Helen W. Gandy, Wash-
ington, D.C.

Oil, Portrait of Isaac Lea (1792-1886) by Bernhard Uhle (1848-1930). Of-
fered by Mrs. Lea Hudson, New York City.

Watercolor, Hains Point by William H. Holmes (1846-1933). Offered by
Lt. Col. C. W. Tazwell, Madeira Beach, Fla.

Andre Joseph Villard by David Boudon (active 1795-1797), miniature, water-
color on paper. Offered by Frederick W. Cron, Falls Church, Va.

Two subjects, Mary and Unidentified Gentleman, miniatures, watercolor on
ivory, by Nina Nash Cron. Offered by Frederick W. Cron, Falls Church, Va.

Henry Smith by Undetermined Artist, miniature, watercolor onivory. Offered
by Mrs. Willis Adams, Arlington, Va.

Flemish tapestry, The Beheading of St. Paul. Offered by Mrs. Phillip Coffin,
Hamilton, Mass.

The Commission recommended that decision concerning an Uniden-
tified Portrait by Undetermined Artist, 011 on panel, which was trans-
ferred from the Library of Congress, be deferred until next year.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

The following miniatures, watercolor on ivory, were acquired from
the fund established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden
Myer:

No. 127. William Thornton (1759-1828) by Robert Field (c. 1769-1819).
Acquired from Miss Maude 8. Gallup, Springfield, Vt.

No. 128. Portrait of a Lady attributed to John Cox Dillman Engleheart
(1783-1862). Acquired from Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Rankin, Laurel, Md.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

No. 129. Self Portrait by John Wesley Jarvis (1780-1839). Acquired from
Mrs. Helen Moffatt Langdon, Alexandria, Va.

No. 180. Portrait of Mustian by E. Bossi. Acquired from Arthur J. Dettmers,
Jr., Washington, D.C.

No.1381. J. Maitland attributed to Richard Cosway (1740-1821).

No. 1382. S. Stone, attributed to John Wood Dodge (1807-1893).

No. 183. Man in Black Coat, White Stock by A. Galloway.

No. 184. Manin Brown Coat by Nathaniel Hone (1718-1821).

No. 185. Man in Dark Blue Coat by Mausion.

No.136. Young Woman with Dark Hair by Andrew Plimer (1763-1837).

No. 187. Man with Black Hair, Blue Coat, by Undetermined Artist.

No. 138. Man with Powdered Wig, Blue Coat, by Undetermined Artist.

No. 1389. Young Girlin White by Undetermined Artist.

Nos. 131 through 139 were acquired from Mrs. Hubert G. King,

Washington, D.C.
WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Silver sugar bowl and cream pitcher by William Thomson, lent
October 25, 1951, were withdrawn by William Huntington on Novem-

ber 20, 1961.
ART WORKS LENT AND RETURNED

Loans

Institutions Loans returned
Baltimore Museum Of Awtice ss Se eee ee 1 1
Bureau of the: Budgets 22822 se ee ee eee 2 2
Chrysler Art Museum, Provincetown, Mass_________----------- ane 1
Council:of HMeonomic, Advisers=2 24-22. 222 32228 22 ee eee 1 aes
Dallas Museum of Wine Arts... =. 222 2 eee 1 1
Defense, Department vor.- = =a tee ee ee eee 1 1
General Services Administration___.._.___.__.___.._______.------- i a
GWHETA ((Hdueational “DV Studio) 222222 22 eee 2 2
Health, Education, and Welfare, Department of_________-__-___- 22 20
Indian, Claims Commissions. 22s 2 2.2 =e es SOs ee eae al =
Interiors: Departmenteot, theie: 222222 ee eee ul 1
al 4

Internal Revenue, Servicen = 8 se ee ee ee eee
Justice, Department i082 2s. = Aa ee eee = 10
Win colnsdVLuseumM == =e oe Ne ee ee ee
Municipal Court for the District of Columbia______--__-___-_--_
National Gallery of, Art 22222862 eee ee eee
Naval-Eistoricall Hound ations. 2-22 hes ee ee eee
Peru. HIMbassy-Ofee 2 £= So So See es ot SS ae ee ee ee
Post Office-Depantments: 3922242 eae ee ee
Smithsonian: institution] = 2-8 - eee
State; ‘Department: (Of22 2 42 et ee eee eee
Supreme: (Court,@United ‘States22o- 222 a2 =. (ae 2s bese
Treasury, Department of thei += 2 2 Se 2s ee ee ee
United States District Court for the District of Columbia_-_--_ 5
United States. Information Agency = 22-222 oe eee ee il
Virginia: Museum of Mine Arts: 25 22 2 eee ee ae 1
THE AWihite sHOUse sot ee Le es eee ei We pk eee al 2

1

3

bo
RHEE DH

Heb He
'
1

Whitney, Gertrude Vanderbilt, Museum of Western Art____-_-- =s
Williamsport (Pa.) Community Arts Festival______-_-----_____-- 13 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 97
SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION

The following were added to the lending collection December 5,
1961:

Bronze, Head of Cat, by Paul Bartlett, N.A. (1865-1925). Offered by Miss
Mary O. Bowditch, Boston, Mass.

Ivory, Statue of Liberty, by Raman Sankar. Offered by the artist, Karala
State, Trivandrum, India, through the Embassy of India.

Two oils, Circus People Resting and Side Show, Ticket Seller, by Bernice
Cross (1912— ). Transferred from the National Zoological Park.

Three oils, Trout Stream, Top of the Ridge, and The Alcantara, together with
two watercolors, Cathedral Steps, Cicicastenango, and Castillo de Bagor,
Gerona, by Albert Sheldon Pennoyer (1888-1957). Offered by the estate of
Albert Sheldon Pennoyer through the executors.

Three oils, The Deserted House, The Happy House, and Little White House
(Holland), by S. Seymour Thomas (1868-1956). Offered by Mrs. Jean Haskell,
Los Angeles, Calif.

Five oils, Unidentified Man by M. Shramchenko (1909- ), George Washing-
ton (1782-1799), by Undetermined Artist, Christopher Columbus (c. 1446 or
1451-1506) by Undetermined Artist, Undetermined Title, by M. Stolypin, and
Undetermined Title by G. Villegas. Transferred from the Library of Congress.

Two soft crayon lithographs, Duchess Charlotte of Northumberland and Duke
Hugh of Northumberland, by Undetermined Artist. Offered by Mr. and Mrs.
J. M. Higgie, Durham, England.

Harold F. Cross restored the following paintings: Alice Barney in
Brown and White by Troubetzkoy; Albert Clifford Barney by O. W.
Roederstein; Child by P. L. J. DeConinck; Laura at 16 by Alice Pike
Barney; and Angel by Undetermined Artist.

The White Stock by Alice Pike Barney was renovated by Istvan P.
Pfeiffer.

ABT WORKS LENT FROM LENDING COLLECTION Onn
Institutions Loans returned

District Court for the District of Columbia_________________ 3 at
Dutchess County Art Association, New York__-_-___-__-___-- 11 abl
Health, Education, and Welfare, Department of___--_-------- 20 20
NNternal Revenue SCCVIGC= 2 eee ee ee ee ee ees 1
Science Information Wxchange_o_- =.= 222522 a ee am 15
United States District Court for the District of Columbia_____ my 3

34 50

ALICE PIKE BARNEY MEMORIAL FUND

Additions to the principal during the year amounting to $2,260.62
increased the total invested sums in the Alice Pike Barney Memorial
Fund to $43,358.91.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

According to a provision of the Henry Ward Ranger bequest, that
paintings purchased by the Council of the National Academy of De-
sign from the fund provided by the bequest and assigned to American
art institutions may be claimed during the 5-year period beginning
98

10 years after the death of the artist represented, the following paint-
ings, recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art Commission at its
meeting December 5, 1961, were returned for permanent accession by

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

the institutions to which they had been assigned.

No. 34. Captain Taylor’s Sister, by Ernest L. Ipsen, N.A. (1869-1951) ; pur-
chased in 1923 for $2,000 and assigned to the Dallas Art Association, Dallas, Tex.
No. 60. Still Life, by Frank W. Benson, N.A. (1862-1951); purchased in
1926 for $10,000 and assigned to the California Palace of the Legion of Honor,
San Francisco, Calif.

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National
Academy of Design since the last report, have been assigned as
follows:

246.

Title and artist
Landscape, Bridgehampton, by Paul
Resika (1928- ).

Assignment
St. Gregory College, Shawnee, Okla.

247. The Sleeping Porch, by Frank Furn- Smith College Museum of Art, North-
ham (1926- ). ampton, Mass.

248. Douarnenez, by Miriam SBroudy Hverhart Museum, Scranton, Pa.
(1905- ).

249. Reflections, by Adolf Konrad Assignment pending.
(1915-  ).

2°50. Elements of Construction, by Robert Indiana University, Bloomington,
W. Daley (1922- ). Ind.

251. City of Churches, by Zoltan Sepeshy Rhode Island School of Design,
(1898- ). Providence, R.I.

252. Lake Erie Shore, by Werner Groshaus Davenport Municipal Art Gallery,
(1913-  ). Davenport, Iowa.

253. Thanksgiving, by Salvatore Lascari Bruce Museum, Greenwich, Conn.
(1884- ).

254. High Pastures (watercolor), by War- Assignment pending.
ren Baumgartner (1894 ).

255. Housing Development (watercolor), University of Kansas, Lawrence,
by E. Ingersoll Maurice (Mrs.) Kans.
(1901- ).

256. Figures in the Sunlight (watercolor), Rochester Memorial Art Gallery,
by John E. Costigan (1888- _ ). Rochester, N.Y.

257. Thaw (watercolor), by Robert W. T. L. Wright Art Center, Beloit Col-
Bode lege, Beloit, Wis.

258. The Fascination of Toledo (water- Assignment pending.
color), by Carol M. Grant.

259. Walls of Georgetown (watercolor), Witte Memorial Museum, San An-
by Ralph Avery (1906- ). tonio, Tex.

260. Porlock Weir (watercolor), by Don- Mills College, Oakland, Calif.
ald Teague (1897- ).

261. Turn Around (watercolor), by Ed Assignment pending.
Graves (1917- ).

262. Story Teller (watercolor), by Fred- Assignment pending.
erick Wong (1929- ).

263. Monday Morning (watercolor), by Assignment pending.
Herb Olsen (1905- ).

9264. Evening by the Seashore (water- Des Moines Art Center, Des Moines,

color), by Mong Q. Lee (1923-1960).

Iowa.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 99

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

In addition to 108 exhibits held over from previous years as indi-
cated below, 27 new shows were introduced. The total of 135 shows
was circulated to 816 museums in the United States. Two exhibitions
were prepared for circulation abroad.

EXHIBITS CONTINUED FROM PRIOR YEARS

1955-56: Chinese Ivories from the Collection of Sir Victor Sassoon.

1956-57: Japan II by Werner Bischof; and The World of Edward Weston.

1957-58: The American City in the 19th Century; Recent American Prints;
Japanese Woodblock Prints; Theatrical Posters of the Gay Nineties; Con-
temporary Portuguese Architecture ; Nylon Rug Designs ; Burmese Embroid-
eries; Japanese Dolls; Thai Painting; The Anatomy of Nature; Photographs
of Sarawak; Glimpses of Switzerland; Drawings by European Children;
Photographs of Angkor Wat; and Pup, Cub and Kitten.

1958-59: Advertising in 19th Century America; The Hngravings of Pieter
Brueghel the Elder; Charles Fenderich—Lithographer of American States-
men: Contemporary Religious Prints from the Sloniker Collection ; Religious
Subjects in Modern Graphic Arts; Contemporary French Tapestries I; Our
Town; Stone Rubbings from Angkor Wat; Shaker Craftsmanship; Chil-
dren’s Paintings from India; and A Child Looks at the Museum.

1959-60: The Art of Seth Eastman; Contemporary Greek Painting; Early Draw-
ings of Toulouse-Lautree; Watercolors and Drawings by Thomas Rowland-
son; Prints and Drawings by Jacques Villon; American Prints Today;
Brazilian Printmakers; Lithographs of Fantin-Latour; Arts and Cultural
Centers; Bernard Ralph Maybeck; Enamels; Eskimo Art; Contemporary
French Tapestries II; Story of American Glass; Bazaar Paintings from
Calcutta; Gandhara Sculpture; Sardinian Crafts; Arctic Riviera; Photo-
graphs by Robert Capa I; Photographs by Robert Capa II; Outer Mongolia ;
Pagan; Portraits of Greatness; Contrasts; Paintings by Young Africans;
Japan I; and Greek Costumes and Embroideries.

1960-61: Work by Torres Garcia; Three Swiss Painters; The Technique of
Fresco Painting; Folk Painters of the Canadian West; Paintings by Ch’i
Pai-Shih; Birds of Greenland; A Tribute to Grandma Moses; The America
of Currier and Ives; View 1960; Drawings by Sculptors; The Graphic Art
of Edvard Munch; German Color Prints; Eskimo Graphic Art; Civil War
Drawings I; Civil War Drawings II; American Art Nouveau Posters; Ameri-
ean Industry in the 19th Century; America on Stone; Designed in Okinawa ;
Okinawa—Continuing Traditions; Prints by Munakata; Contemporary Jap-
anese Drawings; Japan: Design Today; The Spirit of the Japanese Print;
Americans—A View from the East; Swiss Industrial Architecture; Con-
temporary Swedish Architecture; Mies van der Rohe; Irish Architecture of
the Georgian Period; One Hundred Years of Colorado Architecture;
Brasilia—A New Capital; Scenic Designers Offstage; Design in Germany
Today; Fibers, Tools and Weaves; Designed for Silver; Batiks by Maud
Rydin; American Textiles; The Seasons, color photographs by Eliot Porter ;
The World of Werner Bischof; The Image of Physics; Charles Darwin:
The Evolution of an Evolutionist; The Beginnings of Flight; The Magnifi-
cent Enterprise—Education Opens the Door; The New Theatre in Germany ;
Tropical Africa I; Tropical Africa II; Symphony in Color; Paintings and
Pastels by Children of Tokyo; Children’s Art from Italy; Hawaiian Chil-
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

1960-—61—Continued
dren’s Art; Designs by Children of Ceylon; and Children’s Paintings from

Chile.
EXHIBITIONS INITIATED IN 1962
Archeology
Title Source

Tutankhamun’s Treasures______----~- Department of Antiquities, United Arab
Republic; United Arab Republic

Embassy.

Paintings and Sculpture

14 Americans in’ Mrances=-222222=22="= American Cultural Center, Paris.

George Catlin, Paintings and Prints___ Smithsonian Institution.

Physics) ang. Painting=2 2222-22222 s= Index of American Design, National

Gallery of Art.
UNESCO Watercolor Reproductions___._ UNESCO in Paris; Twentieth Century
Fund.
Drawings and Prints
Belgian Drawingss- 22) = 2a ee Ministére de 1l’Instruction Publique;
M. J. van Lerberghe; Belgian
Embassy.

The Lithographs of Childe Hassam__-- Smithsonian Institution; National Gal-
lery of Art; Boston Public Library ;
Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh;
Detroit Institute of Art; Philadelphia
Museum of Art; and others.

Contemporary Italian Drawings_-_----- Traveling Exhibition Service, Smith-

sonian Institution.

John Baptist Jackson=22=2222<.-2-=_=— Smithsonian Institution, Jacob Kai-
nen; museums in the United States
and abroad.

Contemporary Swedish Prints__------~- National Museum; Galleri Brinken,

Stockholm; E. Maurice Bloch, Cu-
rator, Grunwald Graphic Arts Foun-
dation, UCLA Galleries.

Tiepolo: Drawings ss 2422-22 Victoria and Albert Museum, London;
British Government.

Oriental
Japanese! POSternSs =. sae aa ee Collection of Library of Congress.
The Haceiof Viet Nam _o2-2.22256 2222252 Raymond Cauchetier, photographer,
Paris.

Architecture

Architectural Photography (New Edi- American Institute of Architects;

tion). Architectural Photographers Asso-
ciation.
Le Corbusier—Chapel at Ronchamp-_-_-_-_-_ American Institute of Architects.
The Family, The Neighborhood, The United Neighborhood Houses; Na-
City. tional Federation of Settlements

and Neighborhood Centers.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 101

Design and Crafts

Title Source

100 Books from the Grabhorn Press__--- Edwin and Robert Grabhorn Collec-
tion, private owners.

Wisconsin Designer-Craftsmen____-_--- Milwaukee Art Center, Mrs. Meg Tor-
bert; Wisconsin Designer-Crafts-
men.

Photography

Caribbean’ Jourmeyn == 2—— e Fritz Henle, photographer, New York
City.

TheiSwedishshilms22 22222 2 Ss ee eee Swedish Institute, Stockholm, Dr.
Tore Tallroth, Director; Embassy of
Sweden.

The Story, of a) Wineryo---- ===> == Paul Masson Vineyards; Ansel Adams
and Pirkle Jones, photographers.

Science

This Is the American Earth____________ Sierra Club of San Francisco.

The Hidden World of Crystals___-_______ Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Labo-
ratories.

Jeloveoosr ie? aes Se ee American Museum of Natural History,

New York City.
Children’s Art

Brazilian Children’s Avtes=22-2 2252-2] Alvares Penteada Foundation, Sao
Paulo; Escolinhas de Arts do Brazil,
Rio de Janeiro; Brazilian Embassy.

Children Look at UNESCO_____________ School Art League, New York; Com-
mercial Museum, Philadelphia.

Mics OHI) OT CS et be Set) en de aS Ae Arts and Activities Magazine; Galerie
St. Etienne.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

An increasing amount of staff time is devoted to reorganization and
planning in preparation for removal to the Old Patent Office Build-
ing. Adaptation of NCFA collections and functions to the space
allotted, certain areas of which must be shared jointly with the newly
authorized National Portrait Gallery, demands much of the director’s
time. Recommendations of many features essential to modern gal-
lery operation are required in the conversion of a historic structure
erected a century ago. Assistance of the staff of the Smithsonian,
especially in providing the services of consultants, Eugene Kingman
for exhibition techniques, Dr. Anthony Garvan for historical research
on the Old Patent Office Building, and Dr. Richard H. Howland for
architectural character of interior design, has been much appreciated.
Professional advice from construction specialists and staff members of
the architectural firm of Faulkner, Kingsbury & Stenhouse, has been
found most helpful. Guidance of the Public Buildings Service, Gen-
eral Services Administration, has been indispensable.
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

The renovation of the Natural History Building and the removal
and rehanging of between 300 and 400 other items have required relo-
cation of storage involving packing and shipping large canvases.
This has been planned and removal operations accomplished with the
aid of the buildings management department of the Institution. That
department has also given the NCFA generous shop assistance in movy-
ing the A. P. Barney Lending Collection to new storage and has pro-
vided excellent cooperation, often at short notice, in the installation of
foyer exhibits, such as Okinawa: Textiles and Traditions. The assist-
ance of Mr. and Mrs. Istvan P. Pfeiffer was helpful in completing this
special show. Keyes Porter has contracted to cross-index accessions
and otherwise amplify the usefulness of cataloged information. Until
illness prevented, George C. Groce was engaged in a study of the col-
lections to determine most essential needs in future augmentation.
The staff inventoried Barney Collection pictures on loan to Federal
agencies, noting condition and obtaining information essential to the
care of the collection.

In addition to the approximately 20,000 requests for information
received by mail and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office
numbered 1,600. In all, 189 works of art were examined by the di-
rector and curator.

Special catalogs were published for the following traveling exhibi-
tions: Tutankhamun’s Treasures; Tiepolo Drawings; Belgian Draw-
ings; and Drawings by Sculptors. Informative folders were printed
for traveling shows in the following categories: Natural History and
Science; Oriental Art Exhibitions; History Exhibitions; Photography
Exhibitions; and Children’s Art Exhibitions. A special catalog of
Traveling Exhibitions for 1962-63 was also published.

Contracts were let for the relining and restoring by Harold F. Cross
of the following: Roses by Walter Shirlaw; Sheepyard, Moonlight,
by H. L. Walker; Portrait of Dr. Stejneger by Bjorn Egeli; Brother
and Sister by Abbott H. Thayer; Nymph and Water Babies at Play
by William Baxter Closson; Angel by Abbott H. Thayer; Autumn
by Bruce Crane; Rome and the Campagna by Richard Wilson; Visit
to the Tomb of Washington by Thomas P. Rossiter; A Load of Brush
by Louis Paul Dessar; 11 paintings by Edmund C. Tarbell entitled
President Wilson, General George Leman, Mary Reading, Herbert
Hoover, Self Portrait, Mr. Frick and Daughter Helen, Mrs. Tarbell
as a Girl, Margery and Little Edmund, Marshal Foch, Roses in Blue
Vase, and In the Orchard; and Mrs. Elizabeth Boucher attributed to
John S. Copley.

Henri G. Courtais contracted for renovation of the following paint-
ings: Self Portrait by Sir Thomas Lawrence; Archibald Skirving by
Sir Henry Raeburn; Head of Old Man by Jose de Ribera; Mrs. Towry
SECRETARY’S REPORT 103

by Sir Thomas Lawrence; Edmund Waller by Gerard van Soest
(formerly attributed to Dobson) ; Marine by Richard Parkes Boning-
ton; Virgin and Child by Bernard Van Orley; Ralph Cross Johnson
by Ernest Moore; Duke of Sussex by Sir William Beechey; Canal
Scene by Francesco Guardi; Water Scene by Francesco Guardi;
Landscape by Thomas Barker; and Young Girl attributed to Drost.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

July 1 through 23, 1961. Ninth Interservice Photography Contest, sponsored
by the Armed Forces of the United States; consisted of photographs by members
of the armed services.

July 29 through August 27, 1961. The Magnificent Enterprise: Education
Opens the Door, sponsored by the Vassar Club of Washington, D.C., and circu-
lated by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service; consisted of 200
photographs, engravings, lithographs, posters, and drawings.

September 8 through October 18, 1961. The Highth International Exhibition
of Ceramic Art, sponsored by the Kiln Club of Washington, D.C., and installed
by the Division of Ceramics and Glass; consisted of 426 items, including 255
objects from the United States and 171 objects from 16 foreign countries. A
catalog was privately printed.

October 21 through November 9, 1961. Sixty-eighth Annual Exhibition of the
Society of Washington Artists, consisting of 74 paintings and 20 sculptures. A
catalog was privately printed.

November 19 through December 7, 1961. Twenty-fourth Metropolitan Art Ex-
hibition, sponsored by the American Art League; consisted of 134 paintings and
30 sculptures. A catalog was privately printed.

December 15, 1961, through January 7, 1962. Paintings by George Catlin,
Artist and Historian of the American Indian; consisted of 115 items including
90 paintings (recently restored by Henri G. Courtais), 13 colored lithographs,
7 photographs, and 3 miniatures from the collections of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, together with 2 photographs loaned by the Gilcrease Institute of American
History and Art. A multilithed catalog was printed. (Thirty-five paintings
and 12 lithographs from this exhibition were selected for circulation by the
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service.)

December 16, 1961, through January 7, 1962. Americans—A View from the
East, circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service; consisted of
42 Japanese woodblock prints.

January 14 through February 4, 1962. Twenty-fourth National Exhibition of
the Society of Washington Printmakers; consisted of 165 prints. A catalog was
privately printed.

January 14 through February 4, 1962. The Character of Korea, sponsored by
the Embassy of Korea and circulated by the American-Korean Foundation ; con-
sisted of 55 photographs by Wallace C. Marley. An illustrated catalog and
explanatory brochure were privately printed.

February 11 through March 4, 1962. An exhibition of the Ilke and Jacoby
Lace Collection from St. Gall, Switzerland, sponsored by the Ambassador of
Switzerland and circulated by the Swiss Fabric and Embroidery Center, New
York City. An illustrated brochure was privately printed.

March 11 through 29, 1962. Sixty-fourth Annual National Exhibition of the
Washington Water Color Association; consisted of 104 watercolors. A catalog
was privately printed.

672—-174—63——_8
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

March 29 through 31, 1962. An exhibition by Ikebana International, consisting
of Japanese flower arrangements by Sofu Teshigahara.

April 8 through 29, 1962. Twenty-first Biennial Art Exhibition sponsored by
the National League of American Pen Women; consisted of 74 items, including
paintings, drawings, and graphic arts. A catalog was privately printed.

April 16 through 29, 1962. The Hidden World of Crystals, circulated by the
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service; consisted of 25 microphotographs
of drugs and chemicals by Jack Kath of Merck Sharp & Dohme Research
Laboratories.

May 6 through 27, 1962. Twenty-ninth Annual Exhibition of the Miniature
Painters, Sculptors and Gravers Society of Washington, D.C.; consisted of 157
items. A catalog was privately printed.

May 5 through 27, 1962. Okinawa—Textiles & Traditions, under the auspices
of the Cultural Properties Committee of the Government of the Ryukyu Islands
and circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service; consisted of
164 items, including scrolls, lacquer, ceramics, toys, inryo and netsuke, and
textiles (kimonos, tisaji, furoshiki, fabric samples, and bolts). Oriental flower
displays were arranged daily by members of Ikebana International.

May 5 through 27, 1962. Birds of Greenland, sponsored by the Ambassador of
Denmark and Countess Knuth-Winterfeldt and circulated by the Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service; consisted of 52 watercolors by Gitz-Johansen and
a book, The Birds of Greenland by Finn Salomonsen, containing reproductions
of paintings by Gitz-Johansen. A brochure was privately printed.

June 3 through 21, 1962. Works of Government Artists sponsored by the So-
ciety of Federal Artists, consisted of 153 items.

June 3 through 24, 1962. An exhibition of color woodcuts by John Baptist
Jackson (1701-1780), circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ice; consisted of 40 woodcuts and a book, John Baptist Jackson: 18th Century
Master of Color Woodcuts, by Jacob Kainen, U.S. National Museum Bulletin 222.

Respectfully submitted.
Tuomas M. Becas, Director.
Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Freer Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit the 42d annual report of the Freer
Gallery of Art, for the year ended June 30, 1962.

Archibald Gibson Wenley, second director of the Freer Gallery of
Art, died on February 17, 1962. He was born May 5, 1898, in Ann
Arbor, Mich., and graduated from the University of Michigan in
1921, and the Library School of the New York Public Library in
1923. In that same year, Mr. Wenley joined the staff of the Freer
Gallery as a trainee sinologist, and participated in the archeological
surveys conducted in China under the joint sponsorship of the
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and the Freer Gallery. He studied
under Freer auspices in Paris for 3 years at the Ecole des Langues
Orientales Vivantes and the Institut des Hautes Etudes Chinoises;
and in Kyoto, Japan, for 2 years.

Mr. Wenley formally joined the staff of the Freer Gallery in 1931
as associate in research. He possessed a firm foundation in the lan-
guages, history, and culture of China and Japan; and, when John
Kllerton Lodge, the first director of the Freer Gallery, died in Decem-
ber 1942, Mr. Wenley was appointed as director. He served on numer-
ous committees through the years, including the Smithsonian Art
Commission; member of the Board of United States Civil Service
Examiners at Washington, D.C., for the Smithsonian Institution;
member, the Visiting Committee, Dumbarton Oaks Research Library
and Collection; research professor of Oriental art, University of
Michigan; trustee, Textile Museum of the District of Columbia; trus-
tee, Hermitage Foundation, Norfolk, Va.; chairman of the Louise
Wallace Hackney Scholarship Committee of the American Oriental
Society; president, Cosmos Club; and chairman, American Commit-
tee for the Japanese Government Loan Exhibition, 1953.

Archibald Wenley was a distinguished scholar and was particularly
known for his contributions to the study of archaic Chinese bronzes.
He contributed articles and reviews to many journals, and in 1946,
in collaboration with Dr. John A. Pope, who now succeeds him as
director, published A Descriptive and Illustrative Catalogue of
Chinese Bronzes Acquired during the Administration of John Eller-
ton Lodge. In 1948 he brought the Freer Fellowship program with
the University of Michigan into reality and expanded the research
facilities and publication programs of the Gallery. One result was
the inauguration of the monograph series Ars Ovientalis, a scholarly
quarto journal of the arts of Islam and the East published jointly

105
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

by the Smithsonian and the university. Altogether, Mr. Wenley was
associated with the Gallery for more than 30 years, and his construc-
tive influence on the progress, growth, and administration of the or-
ganization will be felt for many years to come.

THE COLLECTIONS

Under the terms of paragraph 4 of the first codicil of the last will
and testament of the late Charles Lang Freer, the following five
objects were presented by Mrs. Eugene Meyer:

BRONZE

61.30. Chinese, Chou dynasty. T'sun; stylized dove; four gold characters on
crest. Height: 0.265; length: 0.200; width: 0.135.

61.31. Chinese, Chou dynasty. Yi (or i); snake motif. Height: 0.205; length:
0.320; width : 0.177.

61.32. Chinese, Chou dynasty. Hw; inlaid with silver, and malachite. Damaged.
Height: 0.526; width (with handles): 0.278; width: 0.255.

61.383. Chinese, Shang dynasty. Kuang; design incorporates many stylized birds
and animals. No inscription. Height: 0.314; length: 0.318; width:
0.142.

PAINTING

61.34. Chinese, Sung (Chin) dynasty, late 12th or early 13th century, by Li
Shan. “Wind and Snow in the Fir Pines.” Ink and light colors on
silk; signature, 1 inscription, and 25 seals on painting; label, 5 colo-
phons, and 50 seals on mount. Makimono (painting): height 0.297;
width: 0.792; (overall) height: 0.312; width: 10.032. (Illustrated.)

Twenty-seven objects were added to the collections by purchase as

follows:
METALWORK

62.1. Persian, Sasanian, first half of 6th century A.D. Silver bowl partially gilt,
showing King Kavadh I hunting ibex and gazelle. Dark purplish gray
incrustation of silver chloride on silver background; traces of green
eopper corrosion products. Small breaks, with some pieces missing on
lower left. Height: 0.024; diameter, 0.191. (Illustrated.)

PAINTING

62.14. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, 18th century, by Huang Shen (1687-after 1768).
Old man gazing at branches of magnolia in a vase. Ink and light red-
brown color on paper. Inscription and two seals of the artist on the
painting. Height: 1.020; width: 0.400.

62.5. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, dated 1706, by Wang Ytian-chi (1642-1715).
River landscape; in the manner of Huang Kung-wang. Ink and color
on paper. Inscription and four seals of the artist on the painting, along
with seven collectors’ seals. Label, with one seal, on the reverse of the
mounting. Kakemono: height: 0.977; width: 0.592.

62.4. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, dated 1704, by Wu Li (1632-1718). Landscape:
“Streams and Mountains after Rain”; in the manner of Huang Kung-
wang. Ink on paper. Inscription and three seals of the artist on the
painting, along with three collectors’ seals. Label on reverse of the
mounting. Kakemono: height: 1.810; width: 0.310.

62.2. Japanese, Kamakura period, 14th century, Buddhist school. Kako Genzai
SECRETARY'S REPORT 107

Ingaky6o (Sutra of Cause and Effect). Ink and color on paper; frag-
ment of a handscroll. Makimono: height: 0.269; width: 0.989.

62.3. Japanese, Kamakura period, 14th century, Yamatoe school. Hdénen Shonin
Gyojo Hzu (Illustrated Deeds of the Priest Hoénen). Ink and color
on paper; fragment of a handscroll. Makimono: height: 0.406; width:
0.727.

62.6— Japanese, Kamakura period, 14th century, Yamatoe school. Three illus-

62.8. trations from: Shotoku Taishi Eden (An Illustrated History of Prince
Shotoku). “The Archery Contest,” “The Flying Tiles,’ and “Shotoku
Taishi on Horseback.” Ink and color on paper; fragments from a
handscroll. Makimono: height: 0.347; average width: 0.460—-0.505.

62.9. Japanese, Kamakura period, 14th century, Yamatoe school. K6nin Shénin
Eden (An Illustrated Biography of the Priest Koénin). Ink and color on
paper; fragment from a handscroll. Makimono: height: 0.336; width:
0.559.

62.13. Japanese Namboku-cho period, late 14th century, Yamatoe school. Por-
trait of Prince Shotoku (aged 14) as the Budhisattva Jizd. Ink and
color on silk. Kakemono: height: 1.247; width: 0.689.

61.23- Japanese, Ashikaga period, Yamatoe school. A pair of illustrations from:

61.24. Geppdji Kenritsu Engi (History of the Founding of the Geppdji
Temple). Text by Kinnatsu; dated 1495. Ink, color and gold on paper.
Makimono: height: 0.3845; average width: 10.660-11.377.

62.19 Japanese, Edo period, Ukiyoe school, by Shorakusai (18th-19th century).
Theatre scene from “The Tale of the Brothers Soga” ; man and woman in
snowy landscape. In color on paper. Makimono: height: 0.254; width:
0.520.

61.25 Japanese, Edo period, 18th century, Ukiyoe school, by Tsukioka Settei
(1710-1786). “Woman with a Puppet.” Ink, color and gold on paper.
Kakemono: height: 0.989; width: 0.269. (Illustrated.)

62.10- Japanese, Edo period, early, Unkoku school, by Unkoku Tonin (early 17th

6212. century). A set of three screens; Birds in Landscape. Ink, color and
gold leaf; fusuma (sliding doors) now mounted as two-fold screens.
Average: height: 1.605 ; width : 1.680.

POTTERY

61.27. Chinese, T‘ang-Sung dynasty, “gray ware” of yuweh type. Tall vase with
slender neck and wide mouth; loops on shoulder; cover. Clay: hard
gray porcellaneous stoneware. Glaze: clear. Decoration: none.
Height: 0.326; diameter: 0.152.

62.17. Chinese, Ming dynasty, early 16th century. Dish with plain rim. Clay:
fine white porcelain. Glaze: transparent, glossy. Decoration: dragons
among lotus scrolls inside and out, painted in underglaze blue. Mark
of four Mongolian (Phags-pa) characters in blue on base. Height:
0.047 ; diameter : 0.216.

62.16. Chinese, Ming dynasty, Chia-ching period (1522-1566). Vase of kuan
shape. Clay: fine white porcelain. Glaze: transparent, glossy. Deco-
ration: floral scrolls, and boys playing in a garden, painted in under-
glaze blue. Six-character Chia-ching mark in blue on base. Height:
0.267; diameter: 0.320.

62.20. Japanese, Momoyama period, shino ware. Dish on three feet, so-called
“cake dish,’ with four-lobed, upturned rim. Clay: coarse buff-gray
stoneware. Glaze: thick, bubbly, uneven, grayish. Decoration: plum
blossom sprays in iron brown. Height: 0.055; diameter: 0.169.
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

61.26. Japanese, Edo period (1615-1867), imari ware. Jar of kuan shape.
Clay : white porcelain. Glaze: clear, slightly bluish. Decoration: three
plant groups in underglaze blue. Height: 0.287; diameter: 0.220.

62.15. Japanese, Edo period (late Genroku), imari ware. Dish with ten-lobed
rim. Clay: white porcelain. Glaze: transparent. Decoration: paulonia
and diaper pattern painted in underglaze blue, overglaze enamel colors
and gold; waves and plum blossoms outside Daikon in blue on base.
Height : 6.057 ; diameter : 0.343.

62.18. Japanese, Edo period (late Genroku), imari ware. Jar of globular form,
with cover and small handle on top. Clay: white porcelain. Glaze:
transparent. Decoration: floral patterns, roundels, and diaper patterns
in underglaze blue and overglaze enamels and gold. Daikon in overglaze
red and gold on base. Height: 0.140; diameter: 0.1388.

61.29 Japanese, Edo period (1615-1867), Kakiemon ware. Deep bowl of decag-
onal shape with flaring rim and upturned lip. Clay: white porcelain.
Glaze: clear. Decoration: hydrangeas and phoenixes in overglaze
enamels; dragon in slip inside; brown rim. Height: 0.101; diameter:
0.210.

61.28. Japanese, Edo period (1615-1867), by Kenzan. Teabowl; round with
smooth surface and finely cut thin foot; signed Kenzan. Box. Clay:
fairly fine grained brownish buff stoneware. Glaze: clear, finely crackled.
Decoration: pine trees with blue needles on ground of white slip, on
one side inside, and on the other outside. Height: 0.066; diameter:
0.183. Box: height: 0.124; length: 0.161; width: 0.161.

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS

Thirty-two Chinese, Japanese, and Indian objects were restored,
repaired, or remounted by T. Sugiura, Oriental picture mounter.
F. A. Haentschke, illustrator, remounted 73 Indian, Persian, and
Arabic paintings. Repairs and regilding of 16 frames for American
paintings were done outside the Gallery.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions amounted to 523, which were as follows:

American art: Japanese art:
OU S 5 2 FE od Se See 55 Gol di Se ae A Ee 2
Prints A ete Be ee ee 34 acquer. 228 et eee 12
Chinese art: Pamtings 2" = vee ara 66
BrOnzet So Lee ee AT Pee 29 Rotiery 22"). ee ese 20
Cloisonné: == See eee 1 Sculptures] sess eee 3
TVODy Glo kate ee eee 4| Near Eastern art:
A EEG (39 Neils ea ote PS Fo! A 40 Bookbinding) 222222222222 5
NAC QUI: = tree Stee ee & Glass 32S ihe eee 6
Paintings) ao! ewe Te 25 Ade eet ee eee ee eee 2
IROttery, <2 23 i ae 50 Manuscripts] 225 foe eas al
Christian art: Metalwork 222222 eee 37
Crystal: 2) — 3223 at Bea. 2 Paintings ==) 22 us Se Seek 20
CAS Pe Re ee Se 6 Pottery = 25-26 == eee 35
G8) (0 | ae er ol a a ae Eee 20
Manuscripts 22 eee 43

Stone sculpture... =. 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT 109
LIBRARY

The library is the research unit for study of the cultures which
produced the objects in the collections. The reading room is open
to the public Monday through Friday, and 659 college and university
students as well as specialists made constant use of the reference
materials. No statistics are kept of the use made by the staff or the
Freer Fellows and Hackney Scholars who are studying at the Gallery.
The need for additional space for both librarians and readers is
increasing constantly.

During the year 870 acquisitions (by title) were added to the
library; 248 of these were by purchase and 622 by exchange and
gift. Outstanding gifts were: 155 titles of books, which supplied
many reference books difficult to find, from the library of A. G. Wen-
ley; 86 rare picture books, the gift of Lincoln Kirstein; a copy of
Chigoku kinseki toji zukan (Old Chinese art), the gift of T. Asano
and T. Misugi; a rare woodblock print of an 11-headed Kannon of
the early Kamakura period (18th century), the gift of R. Hosomi of
Osaka, Japan. The outstanding purchase was a copy of Chieh tei
yuan hua chuan (Mustard seed garden painting manual), a Japanese
recut edition of 1812-17.

The year’s record of cataloging included a total of 926 entries of
which 485 analytics were made and 283 new titles of books, pamphlets,
and microfilms were cataloged. Additions to the continuations of
sets of books numbered 158, and 4,815 cards were added to the
catalog.

The slide collection was transferred to the library in February 1962.
Mrs. Roberta Handler joined the library staff as slide librarian. New
equipment for housing the slides was purchased, a manual of pro-
cedure outlined, and the work of binding, classification, and labeling
has proceeded. During the year 1,884 slides were bound and labeled,
and 3,579 were lent.

There were 202 requests for bibliographic information by telephone
and letters. Two bibliographies were prepared for publication, and
a bibliography of the works of each member of the staff.

Librarians from other museums visited the library for exchange
of professional knowledge. Mr. Hewson of Gallaudet College, ac-
companied by his class of 12 library science students, spent some time
at the Gallery observing library methods.

The library staff continued active in the professional associations.
Mrs. Hogenson and Mrs. Handler attended the annual conference
of the Special Libraries Association in Washington, May 1962. Mrs.
Usilton attended the American Library Association in Cleveland,
July 1961, and at Miami Beach, Fla., June 1962.
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

PUBLICATIONS

No publications were issued by the Freer Gallery during this
fiscal year.
Publications of staff members were as follows:

CAHILL, JAMES F. The art of Southern Sung China—Asia House, 1962. New
York, Asia Society, 1962. 103 pp., illus.

“The return of the absent servants: Chou Fang’s Double Sizes re-

stored.” Archives of the Chinese Art Society of America, vol. 15 (1961),

pp. 26-28 incl. illus.

Review of “Chinese pictorial art, as viewed by the connoisseur,” by R. H.
van Gulik. Journal of the American Oriental Society, vol. 81 (1961), pp.
448-451.

ETTINGHAUSEN, RicHARD. Arab painting. Geneva, Skira, 1962. 208 pp. mount.
illus. (part col.) map. (Treasures of Asia.)

Review of “Turkish painting,” edited with introduction and notes by

Emel Hsin. Artibus Asiae, vol. 24 (1961), p. 73.

. Persian miniatures in the Bernard Berenson collection. Milano, Officine
Grafiche Ricordi, 1961. 6 pp., 12 pls., each with descriptive letterpress.

GETTENS, R. J. “Mineral alteration products on ancient metal objects,’ in Pro-
ceedings of the IIC Rome Conference, 1961, pp. 171-174.

“Proposal for a handbook on analysis of materials of paintings,” in

Proceedings of the IIC Rome Conference, 1961, pp. 47-50.

“TIC and ICOM: Conservation meeting in Rome and Barcelona,” in
Museum News (Washington, D.C.), vol. 40, pp. 36-39.

Port, JoHN A. Review of “Bronze culture of ancient China,’ by William C.
White. Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 482-440, plate.

PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY AND SALES DESK

The photographic laboratory made 11,461 items during the year as
follows: 8,718 prints, 1,222 negatives, 1,605 color slides, and 76 color
film sheets. At the sales desk 50,570 items were sold, comprising
4,496 publications and 46,074 reproductions (including postcards,
slides, photographs, reproductions in the round, etc.).

BUILDING AND GROUNDS

The exterior of the building appears to be sound and in good con-
dition. Refinishing of the bronze surrounding the court and on the
exterior of the north door is underway. ‘The roof is scheduled to be
repaired this summer; also the sidewalk in front of the building is to
be removed and replaced to conform with the work now being done
on the 12th Street underpass.

In the interior, the limestone door frames of the exhibition gal-
leries are being cleaned. All concrete floors were painted and given
a protective coat of wax.

The doors leading from the main office to the library were reworked
and fitted with glass.

The sales desk at the north entrance was completely refinished on
location.
SECRETARY’S REPORT inal

Three hundred twenty seats were installed in the Auditorium.

In general, the courtyard planting is doing well. Four small box-
woods and four azaleas were replaced. Two cotoneasters were replaced
with Zlex var. globosa. A complete new listing and diagram of all
plants was made for the Freer Gallery of Art pamphlet. The plant-
ings at the fountain have been made as usual. Each has made a
splendid showing in its respective season. Lantana was set out for the
summer and is beginning to flourish.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4:30 every day except
Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the main
entrance was 130,597. The highest monthly attendance was in
April, 21,929.

There were 2,589 visitors who came to the Gallery office for various
purposes—for general information, to submit objects for examina-
tion, to consult staff members, to take photographs or sketch in the
galleries, to use the library, to examine objects in storage, etc.

AUDITORIUM

The series of illustrated lectures was continued as follows:

1961
October 10. Dr. Noel Barnard, Australian National University, Can-
berra, Australia, “Bronze Casting in Ancient China,”
Attendance, 145.
November 7. Dr. Eleanor Consten von Erdberg, Rheinisch-Westphalische
Technische Hochschule, Aachen, Germany, “The Japa-
nese House: A Pattern of Simplicity.” Attendance, 294.
1962
January 16. Prof. Osvald Sirén, Keeper Emeritus of Pictures and
Sculptures, National Museum, Stockholm, Sweden, “True
and False in Chinese Sculpture.” Attendance, 255.
February 13. Prof. Willy Hartner, Johan Wolfgang Goethe-Universitat,
Frankfurt, Germany, “Astrology on Persian Metal
Work.” Attendance, 206.
March 138. William Watson, British Museum, London, England, “A
New Find of Chinese Bronzes with Human Figurines.”
Attendance, 1838.

April 3. Dr. James C. Harle, Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, England,
“The Art and Architecture of South India.” Attendance,
215.

Outside organizations used the auditorium as follows:

The Washington Film Society showed the following films:
“La Retour” and “Under the Roofs of October 6. Attendance, 150.
Paris.”
“Storm over Asia.” October 13. Attendance, 167.
“Under the Black Mask” and “United Na- October 20. Attendance, 119.
tions Week.”
112

The

“Berlin, Symphony of a Great City” and
“Arms and the League.”

“Cabinet of Dr. Caligari.”

“Carnival in Flanders.”

“Vampyr” and “Sunday by the Sea.”

“Seven Samurai.”

“Les Mistons,” ‘Meshes of the Afternoon,”
and “The Very Hye of Night.”

“El” and “City Lights.”

“Ten Days that Shook the World.”

“The Passion of Joan of Arc.”

“Mother” and “Chess Fever.”
“Tolerance.”

“Duck Soup,” “Primary,” and “Musical
Poster No. One.”
“Ttalian Straw Hat.”

“Thunder over Mexico” and ‘Mexican Bus
Ride.”
“Variety” and “The Knockout.”

“The Gold Rush” and ‘‘Night at the Peking
Opera.”
“Eva Wants to Sleep” and “Sunday.”

October 27.

November 3.

November 17.
November 24.

December 1.
December 8.

December 15.
December 22.
March 22.
March

April 5.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Attendance, 155.

Attendance, 154.
Attendance, 190.
Attendance, 158.
Attendance, 193.
Attendance, 122.

Attendance, 112.
Attendance, 170.

Attendance, 1382.
23. Attendance,
Attendance, 137

155.

April 6. ‘Attendance, 231.
May 38. Attendance 153.

May 4.

Attendance, 239.

May 10.
May 11.
May 17.
May 18.
May 24.
May 25.
June 7.
June 8.

June 21.

June 28.

Attendance, 106.
Attendance, 179.
Attendance, 114.
Attendance, 208.
Attendance, 96.

Attendance, 206.
Attendance, 91.

Attendance, 127.
Attendance, 247.

Attendance, 214.

U.S. Department of Agriculture held meetings as follows:

Marketing Division.

Outlook Conference.

4-H Clubs.
Farmers’ Cooperative Service.

Federal Extension Service.

Agricultural Stabilization and Conserva-
tion Service.
Foreign Agricultural Service.

October 16.
October 17.
October 18.
October 19.

Attendance, 176.
Attendance, 197.
Attendance, 117.
Attendance, 129.

November 14. Attendance, 82.

November 15.
November 16.
December 11.
December 12.
December 18.

December 14.

January 9.
January 10.
January 12.

Attendance, 447.
Attendance, 177.
Attendance, 143.
Attendance, 144.
Attendance, 131.
Attendance, 68.
Attendance, 185.
Attendance, 212.
Attendance, 92.

April 4.

April 9.

April 12.
April 25.
April 26.
April 27.

May 18.

Attendance, 194.

Attendance, 260.
Attendance, 70.
Attendance, 117.
Attendance, 350.
Attendance, 166.

Attendance, 82.

June6. Attendance, 91.
SECRETARY'S REPORT

113

Junel3. Attendance, 94.
June 20. Attendance, 127.
June 27. Attendance, 96.

The Food and Drug Administration held meetings as follows:

October18. Attendance, 119.
November 2. Attendance, 264.
December 20. Attendance, 91.
January 17. Attendance, 67.
March 21. Attendance, 78.
March 27. Attendance, 66.
April12. Attendance, 70.
Mayi16. Attendance, 82.

The Washington Society, Archeological Institute of America, held illustrated

lectures as follows:

Dr. Zakhy Iskander, Department of An-
tiquities, Cairo, Egypt: ‘“Tutankha-
mun’s Treasures.”

Dr. J. O. Brew, Director, Peabody Mu-
seum, Harvard University: “The
Drowning Sphinx: Salvage Archeology
in Advance of Technical Progress in
Nubia.”

Japan-America Society, two recitals by Miss
Miyoko Watanabe, Kabuki dancer, and
Mr. Kimio Eto, koto player.

American Chemical Society.

Washington Society, Archeological Institute
of America.

Washington Fashion Group, programs by
Eleni Epstein, fashion editor, Washington
Star.

Japan-America Society and Washington Film
Society, two showings of Japanese film,
“Jochuku” and selected short subject.

Morgan State College, lecture by Dr. Robert
P. Multhauf, Department of Science and
Technology, Smithsonian Institution.

November 9. Attendance, 193.

November 30. Attendance, 143.

December 2. Attendance, 660.

February 8. Attendance, 51.
February 8. Attendance, 221.

March5. Attendance, 275.
March12. Attendance, 243.
March19. Attendance, 197.
March 26. Attendance, 219.
April2. Attendance, 198.
March 30. Attendance, 423.

April 27. Attendance, 278.

Overall total attendance in the auditorium for the year was 13,417.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members was devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects sub-
mitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects in
the fields represented by the collection of Chinese, Japanese, Persian,

Arabic, and Indian materials.

Reports, oral and written, and ex-

clusive of those made by the technical laboratory (listed below), were

made on 10,893 objects as follows:

For private individuals, 3,269;
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

for dealers, 1,785; for other museums, 5,839. In all, 440 photographs
were examined, and 920 Oriental language inscriptions were trans-
lated for outside individuals and institutions. By request, 24 groups
totaling 489 persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent service
by the staff members. Five groups totaling 20 persons were given
docent service by staff members in the storage rooms.

Among the visitors were 61 distinguished foreign scholars or per-
sons holding official positions in their own countries who came here
under the auspices of the Department of State to study museum ad-
ministration and practices in this country.

During the year the technical laboratory carried on the following
activities:

Objects examined by various methods including microscopic, microchemical,
X-ray diffraction, ultraviolet light, spectrochemical analysis, and specific grav-
ity determination :

Hreer-obyects examincden sss ae ee ee eee 140
Outsidevobjects7examined === se ee ee ee eee 113

The following projects were undertaken by the laboratory during
the year:

1. For a period of 2 weeks in October and November 1961, Miss E. West
worked as a guest of the Conservation Center of the Institute of Fine Arts,
New York University, where she continued the spectrochemical analyses of in-
seribed Chinese ceremonial bronzes in the Freer collections.

2. R. J. Gettens continued as editor and Miss West as assistant editor of JIC
Abstracts published by the International Institute for Conservation of Historic
and Artistic Works, London, England.

3. Continued systematic collection of data on technology of ancient copper
and bronze in the Far Hast.

4. Continued analysis by wet chemical methods of Chinese bronzes in the
Freer collections.

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery
by staff members (illustrated unless otherwise noted) :

1961
September 13. Dr. Pope, at the College Art Association, New York City,
“Collecting Oriental Art in America.” Attendance, 250.
September 18. Dr. Stern, at the Kunstindustrie Museum, Copenhagen, Den-
mark, ‘Popular Painting in Tokugawa Japan.” Attend-
ance, 100.
September 25. Dr. Cahill, at the Society for Asian Art, San Francisco,

Calif., ‘Some Distinctions in Chinese Paintings.” At-
tendance, 100.

September 25. Mr. Gettens, at the International Institute for Conservation
of Historic and Artistic Works, conference in Rome, Italy,
“Museum Climate.” Attendance, 190.

September 26. Mr. Gettens, at the International Institute for Conservation
of Historic and Artistic Works, conference in Rome,
“Proposal for a Handbook on Painting Material.” At-
tendance, 190.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 115

1961—Continued

September 27.

October 4.

October 5.

October 6.

October 17.

October 20.

October 26.

October 27.

November 6.

November 7.

November 7.

November 13.

November 20.

December 1.

December 5.

1962
January 7, 9.

January 8, 9.

Dr. Cahill, at the Oakland Art Museum, Colloquium Orien-
talogicum. University of California, Oakland, Calif.,
“Some Problems in the Dating and Attribution of Chinese
Paintings.” Attendance, 35.

Dr. Stern, at the Ethnographic Museum, Miinich, Germany,
“Popular Painting in Tokugawa Japan.” Attendance,
25.

Dr. Stern, at Société Suisse Japon, Ziirich, Switzerland,
“Popular Painting in Tokugawa Japan.” Attendance, 30.

Dr. Cahill, at the United States Department of Agriculture
Overseas Club, Washington, D.C., “Chinese Art.” At-
tendance, 75.

Dr. Pope, at the Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Del.,
“Chinese Porcelains at Home and Abroad.” Attendance,
240.

Dr. Stern, at the Musée Guimet, Paris, France, for staff
members only, “Popular Painting in Tokugawa Japan.”
Attendance, 5.

Dr. Cahill, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York
City, “Chinese Art Treasures.” Attendance, 400.

Dr. Stern, at the Museum of Asiatic Studies, Amsterdam,
Holland, “Popular Painting in Tokugawa Japan.” At-
tendance, 150.

Dr. Cahill, at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadel-
phia, Pa., “Some Distinctions in Chinese Paintings.” At-
tendance, 200.

Dr. Stern, at the Victoria and Albert Museum, London,
England, “Popular Painting in Tokugawa Japan.” At-
tendance, 250.

Mr. Gettens, at the American Embassy, London, England,
“Technical Studies of Works of Art.” Attendance, 50.
Dr. Pope, at the Alexandria Association, Alexandria, Va.,
“Chinese Porcelains at Home and Abroad.” Attendance,

50.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Center of Mid-Eastern Studies,
Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Mass., “Pictorial Arts of
the Umayyads.” Attendance, 70.

Dr. Cahill, at the American University (Seminar Group),
Washington, D.C., “Chinese Painting and the Contem-
porary West.” Attendance, 30.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Institute of Fine Arts, New
York University, New York City, “Opportunities for
Studies and Careers in Near Eastern Art.” (Not illus-
trated.) Attendance, 30.

Dr. Pope, at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass.,
“Chinese Art Treasures.” Attendance, each day, 400;
total 800.

Dr. Cahill, at Smith College, Northampton, Mass., ‘‘Con-
temporary Relevance of Chinese Painting to the Modern
West.” Attendance, each day, 750; total, 1,500.
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

1962—Continued

January 12.

January 24.

February 2.

February 4.
February 5.

February 5.

February 15.

February 16.

March 2.
March 20.
March 25.
March 31.

April 5.

April 9.

April 9, 10.

April 18.

May 3.

May 9.

May 9.

May 10.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at International Student House, Wash-
ington, D.C., “Western and Eastern Art: A Comparison.”
Attendance, 40.

Dr. Stern, at the Regents’ Meeting, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, “Research Contrast—Japanese Art in Buropean
Collections.” Attendance, 26.

Dr. Stern, at the Norfolk Museum of Art, Norfolk, Va.,
“Popular Painting in Tokugawa Japan.” Attendance,
150.

Dr. Cahill, at the Washington County Museum, Hagers-
town, Md., “Chinese Art.” Attendance, 150.

Dr. Pope, at the Norfolk Museum of Art, Norfolk, Va.,
“Oriental Pottery.” Attendance, 100.

Dr. Cahill gave the first of 16 lectures at American Uni-
versity, Washington, D.C.; there were 25 students in the
group.

Dr. Pope, at the Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, IIl.,
“Chinese Art Treasures.” Attendance, 500.

Dr. Pope, at The Orientals, Art Institute of Chicago, gave
a gallery talk and lecture, “Chinese Art Treasures.” To-
tal attendance, 175.

Dr. Stern, at the Norton Gallery, Palm Beach, Fla., “Popu-
lar Painting of Tokugawa Japan.” Attendance, 60.

Dr. Cahill, at the Cleveland Park Club, Washington, D.C.,
“Chinese Art.” Attendance, 35.

Dr. Cahill, at Asia House, New York City, “The Art of
Southern Sung China.” Attendance, 250.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Hajji-Baba Club, New York City,
“Persian and Mughal Miniatures.” Attendance, 52.

Dr. Stern, at the American Oriental Society, Harvard Uni-
versity, Cambridge, Mass., ““A Japanese Screen Painting:
Kamikaze versus Christian.” Attendance, 30.

Dr. Pope, at the Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C., “Chinese
Porcelains at Home and Abroad.” Attendance, 175.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the 15th Annual Symposium on Art,
Sarasota, Fla., “Persian Painting” and ‘Persian and In-
dian Painting.” Attendance, respectively, 325 and 275;
total, 600.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Michigan, Depart-
ment of the History of Art, Ann Arbor, Mich., ‘Political
Themes in Harly Muslim Paintings and Mosaics.” At-
tendance, 100.

Dr. Stern, at the Japan Society, Asia House, New York
City, “A Survey of Japanese Art.” Attendance, 175.
Dr. Cahill, at the De Young Memorial Museum, San
Francisco, Calif., “Chinese Art Treasures,’ Attend-

ance, 400.

Mr. Gettens, at the Abracadabra Club, Washington, D.C.,
“Minerals in Art.” Attendance, 30.

Dr. Httinghausen, at the Asia Society, New York City,
“Herat School of Painting.” Attendance, 180.
SECRETARY’S REPORT BL?

1962—Continued

May 11. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Institute of Fine Arts, New York
University, New York City, “Political Themes in Early
Islamic Paintings and Mosaics.” Attendance, 95.

May 15. Dr. Cahill, at the De Young Memorial Museum, San
Francisco, Calif., ‘Chinese Art Treasures,” and
“Chinese Figure, Bird, Flower and Animal Painting.”
Attendance, each lecture, 400; total, 800.

May 16. Mr. Gettens, at the U.S. Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare, Food and Drug Administration, Washing-
ton, D.C., “Analytical Problems in Archaeology.” At-
tendance, 82.

May 16. Dr. Cahill, at a seminar, Stanford University, Stanford,
Calif., ‘““Connoisseurship of Chinese Painting,’ and lec-
ture, “Chinese Art Treasures.” Attendance, respectively,
15 and 200; total, 215.

May 17. Dr. Cahill, at the University of California, Berkeley, Calif.,
“Great Paintings in the Chinese Art Treasures Exhibi-
tion” and “The Contemporary Relevance of Chinese
Painting.” Attendance, respectively, 250 and 300.

Members of the staff traveled outside Washington on official busi-
ness as follows:

1961

July 5-8. Dr. Stern, in New York City, examined objects at dealers
and in museums.

July 8-10. Dr. Stern, in Boston, Mass., examined objects at dealers
and in museums.

July 9-15. Mrs. Usilton, Librarian, in Cleveland, Ohio, attended the
meetings of the American Library Association.

July 29. Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, examined objects at
dealers.

August 25— Dr. Stern, in Europe, examined objects in museums, in pri-

January 8. vate collections, and at dealers; and consulted with col-
leagues in various institutions of learning, which in-
volved travel in Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Switzer-
land, France, Belgium, Holland, England, Scotland, Italy,
and Greece.

September 4-15. Dr. Cahill, in New Haven, Conn., and New York City,

examined objects at dealers, and in private collections.
He attended the International Congress of Art His-
torians at Columbia University, a session of the College
Art Association, Biltmore Hotel, and a reception of that
group at the Institute of Fine Arts, New York Univer-
sity. He also attended the dinner and opening of the
Chinese Art Treasures Exhibition at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, and saw the exhibition of Peasant and
Nomad Carpets of Asia at Asia House.

September 13-15. Dr. Pope, in New York City, attended the dinner and
opening of the Chinese Art Treasures Exhibition at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, and examined objects at
dealers.
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

1961—Continued
September 9- Mr. Gettens, in Europe, attended meetings of conference

November 25.

October 17-18.

October 20-25.

October 23-29.

October 23-

November 3.

October 30.

November 7.

November 15.

November 15-21.

November 19.

December 14-21.

1962
January 10-12.

January 11.

of the International Institute for Conservation of His-
toric and Artistic Works, in Rome, Italy; and meetings
of the International Council of Museums, in Barcelona,
Spain, where he read a paper, “Report on the Study of
Metallic Antiquities.” He traveled extensively in Italy,
Spain, Greece, Turkey, Switzerland, France, Belgium,
and England, where he examined antiquities in various
museums and private collections; visited various arche-
ological sites, and historical locations and monuments.

Dr. Pope conducted a seminar on Chinese Trade Porcelains,
at Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Del. Attendance,
87.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, attended the Social
Science Research Council Conference on Muslim Self and
Image; he also examined objects at various dealers.

Dr. Pope, in Boston, examined objects in the Morse Collec-
tion at the Museum of Fine Arts, and Japanese ceramics
at the Fogg Art Museum. He also attended a meeting
of the Committee to Visit Department of Far Eastern
Civilizations, Harvard University.

Miss West worked as a guest of the Conservation Center
of the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, carry-
ing out spectrographic analyses of Chinese bronzes and
glazes from the Freer collections.

Dr. Pope, in New York City, examined objects at various
dealers.

Dr. Pope, in Baltimore, examined objects at the Baltimore
Museum of Art and at the Walters Art Gallery.

Miss West, Dr. Cahill, and Mr. Sugiura, in New York City,
attended a Symposium on “Paper and Textile Supported
Art Objects.”

Dr. Ettinghausen attended the Annual Conference of
American Research Center in Egypt, at the Boston
Museum of Fine Arts, as a trustee. He also examined
objects at various dealers and in one private collection
in New York City.

Dr. Pope, in Philadelphia, appeared as a panelist on the
University of Pennsylvania TV program, “What in the
World,” over WCAU-TV.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Paris, France, attended the exhibition
of “Seven Thousand Years of Iranian Art,” held at the
Petit Palais; he also examined objects at various
dealers.

Dr. Pope, in New York City, examined objects at various
dealers.

Dr. Cahill, in Boston, visited the Chinese Art Treasures
Exhibition at the Museum of Fine Arts, where he gave
several gallery talks, and examined Chinese paintings in
the permanent collection.
Secretary's Report, 1962 PLATE 3

61.25. Japanese painting, Edo period, Ukiyoe school; ‘‘Woman with a Puppet” by Tsukioka
Settei. Freer Gallery of Art.
PLATE 4

Secretary’s Report, 1962

er

Art.

r Gallery of :

Free

ang dynasty.

h

S)

Chinese bronze kuang,
Secretary's Report, 1962 PLATE 5

reer Gallery of Art.

F

by Li Shan

dynasty,

Sung

o
Bo

Chinese paintin

61.34.

Secretary's Report, 1962

PLATE 6

‘Vy jo Als[eyH) Jes1y

‘G’y Aimiuss yig [Mog JoATIs (UvIULSES) UvISIOg

Ae)
SECRETARY’S REPORT 119

1962—Continued

January 13.

February 24.

March 2.

March 23.

March 28.

March 25.
April 2-4.
April 6.

May 3-4.

May 7-10.

May 8-18.

May 15.

May 25.

June 1.

June 1, 2.

June 4-7.

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, visited the Chinese painting
exhibition at the Mi Chou Galleries; and examined ob-
jects for a dealer and in a private collection.

Dr. Pope, in New York City, attended a meeting at the
American Council of Learned Societies as Chairman of
ACLS-SSRC Joint Committee on Grants for Research on
Asia.

Dr. Stern, in Palm Beach, Fla., examined objects for a num-
ber of private individuals, and at the Norton Gallery.

Dr. Stern and Mr. Gettens, in New York City, attended a
meeting with representatives of New York University and
Mr. McLane of the Rockefeller Foundation re: plans for
setting up a course in conservation of art objects.

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, met with Mr. Compton of the
Rockefeller Foundation re: plans for photographing the
Chinese collections of art objects in Taiwan.

Dr. Pope, in Baltimore, examined objects at the Baltimore
Museum of Art.

Dr. Pope and Dr. Stern, in Boston, attended meetings of
the American Oriental Society.

Dr. Stern, in New York City, attended a training program
meeting at the New York Conservation Center.

Mrs. L. O. West attended the meetings of the Museum
Sales Association at the Munson-Williams Proctor In-
stitute, Utica, N.Y., and the Corning Glass Works, Corn-
ing, N.Y.

Dr. Pope, in New York City, examined objects at various
dealers.

Dr. Cahill, in California, was a member of a panel discus-
sion on a radio broadcast from Station KPFA, Berkeley ;
was interviewed regarding the Chinese Art Treasures
Exhibition, Station KPIX—-TV, San Francisco; and made
tape recordings for future broadcasts, of an interview on
The Chinese Art Treasures, and the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, Station KCBS, San Francisco.

Dr. Pope, in Ann Arbor, attended a meeting of the Freer
Fund Committee at the University of Michigan.

Dr. Stern and Mr. Sugiura visited the Philadelphia Museum
of Art, where they examined Far Eastern paintings in
need of repair.

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, attended a conference at the
Rockefeller Foundation re: his proposed trip to Taiwan.
Dr. Pope and Dr. Cahill, in New York City, attended a con-
ference on the Study of Chinese Civilization at the Ameri-

can Council of Learned Societies.

Mr. Gettens and Miss HE. West, at Williamsburg, Va., at-
tended meetings of the American Association of Museums,
and the IiC-American Group, where Miss West served as
Chairman of the Art Technical Section.

Dr. Pope, at Williamsburg, Va., attended meetings of the
American Association of Museums.

9
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

1962—Continued

June 14.

June 14-15.

June 15.

June 18-22.

June 21.

June 29-30.

Dr. Pope and Dr. Cahill, at Mt. Kisco, N.Y., visited the home
of Mrs. Eugene Meyer, where they examined Far Hastern
objects.

Dr. Stern, in Philadelphia, visited the collections in the
Philadelphia Museum of Art and examined objects in a
private collection.

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined objects at various
dealers.

Mrs. Bertha Usilton, in Miami, Fla., attended meetings of
the American Library Association.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, examined objects at
dealers.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, attended a dinner
meeting of the Iran Foundation, Inc.; examined objects
at one dealer’s, and visited the collections at the Metro-
politan Museum of Art and the Jewish Museum.

As in former years, members of the staff undertook a wide variety
of peripheral duties outside the Gallery, served on committees, held
honorary posts, and received recognitions.

Respectfully submitted,

JoHN A. Popr, Director.

Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Air Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 380,
1962:

Staff studies and planning for the new National Air Museum Build-
ing and exhibit continued, pending the appropriation of planning
funds.

All records for visitors in the Air and Space Building were broken
during the year with a total of 1,986,319. This was more than double
the count of 987,858 for fiscal year 1961 and reflects the growing
interest in the historic relics of air and space flight. Although this
old (1917) building contains but 17,400 square feet and houses less
than 5 percent of the National Aeronautics and Space Collection, it had
the third largest visitor count of the Smithsonian museum buildings.
The largest single day’s count exceeded 31,000. One aircraft had to
be removed to makes room for people!

The Museum received many historically significant accessions dur-
ing the year. Here are a few examples: the Air Force-Douglas C-54
“Sacred Cow,” first Presidential aircraft, and an F-86A North Amer-
ican Fighter aircraft, from the U.S. Air Force; a Bellanca CF air-
plane and an Anzani three-cylinder air-cooled radial engine, from
Mrs. Guiseppi Bellanca; instrumented duplicates of Pioneer IV,
Lunar Space Probe and the Explorer I, America’s first orbiting satel-
lite, from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory; the General Thomas D.
White Air Force Space Trophy from Dr. Thomas W. McKnew; As-
tronaut Alan B. Shepard’s Mercury Spacecraft “Freedom 7,” from
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; a Polaris rocket
from the U.S. Navy; and the original “Journal des Marches et Op-
erations” kept by Capt. Georges Thenault, French Commander of
the Lafayette Escadrille, from Madame Thenault.

One of the most active and increasing functions of the Museum
continues tc be information service. During the year the Museum
averaged more than 600 letters per month, furnishing historical,
technical, and biographical information on air and space flight to
authors, researchers, schools, Government agencies, students, and the
public.

ADVISORY BOARD

A meeting of the Advisory Board was held on March 21, 1962, with
all members present. Among the actions taken by the Board were

121
122 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

the following: Approval of the appointment of Alfred V. Verville as
an honorary fellow of the National Air Museum; approval of the
inauguration of a series of publications called “Smithsonian Annals
of Flight”; and approval of the preliminary floor arrangement and
interior concept of the proposed new National Air Museum Building,
planning funds for the building to be included in the 1964 budget.

SPECIAL EVENTS

Many distinguished visitors came to the Museum during the year.
Among these were U.S. Astronauts Shepard, Glenn, and Grissom
and Soviet Union Cosmonaut Titov.

Among the special presentation and commemorative ceremonies held
were: The Polaris rocket, presented by the Honorable Paul B. Fay,
Jr., Under Secretary of the Navy; “Freedom 7,” presented by the
Honorable James E. Webb, NASA Administrator; “Sacred Cow,”
presented by Maj. Gen. Brooke E. Allen, U.S. Air Force; Whittle
Engine Anniversary Commemoration, with his Excellency Sir David
Ormsby Gore, British Ambassador; reproduction of the A-1, the
Navy’s first airplane, by Adm. James S. Russell, U.S. Navy; “Boedy’s
Album,” a collection of some 12,000 autographed photographs of
people in aviation, by Kenneth Boedecker ; portrait of Amelia Earhart,
by Blanche Noyes, Zonta Club of Washington.

The director attended a number of the annual meetings of aviation,
aerospace, and educational organizations and societies. He also visited
a number of Air Force and Navy bases, NASA centers, and major
contractors of these agencies in the aerospace flight program. He
spoke frequently on these visits, emphasizing the importance of the
proper preservation and recording of the space flight history currently
being made. This has resulted in an increased flow of historical
material and information to the museum.

Paul E. Garber, head curator and historian, and Curators Louis S.
Casey and Kenneth E. Newland represented the Museum at a number
of aviation and aerospace meetings during the year and spoke on the
work of the Museum. Mr. Garber delivered 42 lectures.

IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS

Continued experiments with means and methods of display in the
Air and Space Building provide valuable experience in planning the
exhibits for the new building.

REPAIR, PRESERVATION, AND RESTORATION

The acquisition of surplus machines, parts, and tools for the pres-
ervation and restoration division at Silver Hill, Md., has improved
this facility. Storage, restoration, preservation, and the preparation
of aircraft and engines for display are full-time activities of the staff.
SECRETARY’S REPORT is

ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS

The Museum continued its service to various Government depart-
ments during the year. Included were the Federal Aviation Agency,
NASA, Library of Congress, Department of Justice, U.S. Navy, and
U.S. Air Force.

REFERENCE MATERIAL AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The library, reference files, and photographic files of the Museum
have been greatly enriched during the year with new materials. These
are very valuable to staff and visitor researchers in providing informa-
tion, authenticating historical data.

The cooperation of the following persons and organizations in pro-
viding this material is sincerely appreciated and acknowledged:

ACADEMY OF AERONAUTICS, INCc., Flushing, N.Y.: Six boxes of periodicais.

AIRCRAFT OWNERS AND Piots ASSOCIATION, J. B. HARTRANFT, JR., Bethesda, Md.:
Two cabinets each with 20 drawers for IBM card files; 37 of the drawers have
IBM ecards filed by aircraft registration numbers.

ALTHIN, Dr. TorsTEN, Stockholm, Sweden: Book titled “Moderna Luftfartyg,”
in Swedish and published in 1910.

ARMSTRONG, RoBERT, AIRCRAFT OWNERS AND Pixots Association, Bethesda, Md.:
AOP’s Yellow Guide to Aircraft Listings.

ATWELL, Lt. Compr. Rosert B., USN, Norfolk, Va.: An aeronautical map of the
United States, Canada, Cuba, and Mexico, made by James T. Igoe Co., copy-
right 1930.

AzBgE, Victor J., AzBE Corp., St. Louis, Mo.: Original letter written by Major
Parseval ; photograph of Major Parseval.

BEatrD, HENRY G., JR., SwisS AMERICAN AVIATION CorpP., St. Gallen, Switzerland:
Photos of SAAC-23%4 scale model; three-view and longitudinal drawings;
preliminary specifications list.

BERLINER, Cot. Henry, Washington, D.C.: Photograph of Emile Berliner, two
scrapbooks.

BRAND, HARRISON, JR., AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION, Washington, D.C.:
Three books, “American Heroes of the War in the Air,” by Howard Mingos
and inscribed by the author; “The Birth of an Air Industry”; “Air Power for
Peace.”

Bryant, Mag. Rosert L., USAF, Direcror, Arr Force Museum, Wright-Patterson
AFB, Ohio: Approximately 1,500 linear feet of documents on foreign aircraft ;
photos and drawings on commercial aircraft and others on the theory, history,
and development of aviation.

CocHran, Miss JACQUELINE, Washington, D.C.: A dossier requesting the homolo-
gation of two world records by Alan B. Shepard in “Freedom 7.”

CooxE, Davin C., Valley Stream, N.Y.: Books, “Racing Planes That Made His-
tory”; “Flights That Made History”; “Jet and Rocket Planes That Made
History”’—all by David C. Cooke.

Day, Curtiss L., Elkhart, Ind.: 25 Photographs of early planes and flyers.
Cirea 1910-11.

Dopp, Mrap & Co. Inc., New York, N.Y.: A book, “Wonders of Flight,” by
Robert Wells.

DoorittLe, Lr. Gen. JAMES H., Redondo Beach, Calif.: 36 black and white aerial
photos, unmounted; 4 mounted black and white aerial photos; 2 mounted
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

color aerial photos; 1 print, “The First Carriage, The Ariel”; 1 drawing,
“Put-ankh-amen’s Battleplane’; 1 drawing color, “British Schneider Trophy
Team, 1929”; 2 sets of photographs of J. H. Doolittle tablecloth, 6 photographs
to a set.

Drain, Capt. NicHotas A. USN (Ret.), Ventura, Calif.: Original patent for
low-drag, metal aircraft rivet joint.

Dricas, Ivan H., Washington, D.C.: Assorted photographs, Mr. Driggs’ proof copy
of article written by Mr. Driggs and Mr. Lancaster on “Gas Turbines for
Aircraft.” Brochure on Luscome Airplane Development Corp., newspaper
clippings.

Enestrum, Pau, Arlington, Va.: Pamphlet, photograph, and clippings illus-
trating and describing the Slate all-metal dirigible airship SMD -100, pro-
posed as a cargo-handling long-range versatile vehicle especially for airlifting
parts of space vehicles. One large mounted photograph of the Slate airship
of 1928; one photograph of proposed Slate airship; two copies of article from
“Aeronautical World” for September 1928 describing Slate airship.

Evans, A. W., MCDoNNELL AIRCRAFT Corp., St. Louis, Mo.: Twelve 11’’ x 14’’
color photographs of F4H-1 aircraft.

FAIRBANK, Murry N., Belmont, Mass.: 5 paintings of early aircraft; 3 photos
of Burgess airplanes; 4 photos of Harvard-Boston Meet, 1911; 6 Burgess Aero-
plane brochures; 1 folder containing newspaper clippings and magazine
articles; 1 folder of transcripts from G. 8. Curtiss diaries and interviews;
18 blueprints, pencil drawings, and an original tracing of Burgess Navy Hyro-
aeroplane, Twin Float, March 1919.

FLIEDNER, C. S., Chevy Chase, Md.: About 14 file cases of books, photographs,
and other material.

FRANK, Mags. Gren. W. H., Washington, D.C.: Eight photograph albums,
historical set of aeronautical photographs, 1906-17.

FRIEDMAN, MITCHELL, Belleville, N.J.: Cross-section view of a Warner “Scarab”
engine. General information about the Lambert R-266 air-cooled radial
engine. General information plus a picture and a drawing of the Wright-
Hispano 8-cylinder V-type water-cooled engine. The Waco Model “EF” airplane
booklet. 21 tracings of models A, HE, I, and H Hispano-Suiza engines.

FRITSCHE, CARL B., Alexandria, Va.: Pamphiets, “The Metalclad Airship,” “Some
Economie Aspects of the Rigid Airship,” all by Carl B. Fritsche; book, ‘The
Metalclad Airship ZMC-2.”

GILLESPIE, GEORGE M., Miami, Fla.: Copy of poem “Prayer Becomes Our Shepard’s
Rainbow” written by George M. Gillespie. Copy of letter from Commander
Shepard to Mr. Gillespie.

GLovER, GEORGE, Northwood, Mass.: Book, “European Sporting Activities Amster-
dam-Cologne,” by Kiesel & Hulek.

Gorr, Cou. BE. A., Edgewater, Md.: Book, “First Transcontinental Flight,” by
Charles 8. Wiggin.

Gray, Capt. A. A., USNR, McLean, Va.: Photocopies of following: one certificate,
attesting to crossing by air of international date line; one photo, 7’’ x 5’’,
of crew who made first commercial flight to Suva, Fiji Island, photographed
with Fiji chiefs; one framed photo, 8’’ x 10’’, of the S-42 arriving at Diamond
Head, Hawaii, on first flight, April 7, 1985; one postcard, 5144’’ x 814’’, Cali-
fornia Clipper at Cavite, P.I.; one photo, 5’’ x 7’’ Boeing 314 at Honolulu,
February 1939; one photo 91%4’’ x 7’’, China Clipper leaving San Francisco;
one framed photo, 8’’ x 10’’, of Capt. Ed Musick.

Hartow, Max B., Pasadena, Calif.: Brochure and 3-view drawing on the Atlas
Model H-10 airplane; brochure, photograph, and 38-view drawing of the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 125

Harlow PJC-2 airplane; photograph and two 38-view drawings of the Harlow
PC-5 airplane.

HatcH, DENISON, Franklin Watts, Inc., New York, N.Y.: Book, “Early Air
Pioneers, 1862-1935,” by Maj. James F. Sunderman.

HENRY ForpD MUSEUM, Dearborn, Mich.: 8’’ x 10’’ photograph showing left front
view of Packard diesel-powered Stinson ‘Detroiter’? Model SM-1B. On the
side of the fuselage are painted the words, “This airplane powered with
original Packard diesel aircraft engine made world’s first diesel powered
flight, September 19, 1928.”

HigHaM, Dr. Rosin, Chapel Hill, N.C.: Book, ‘Rolls-Royce Dart Aero-Engine
Maintenance Manual.”

Hinson, Mr. AND Mrs. Joun A., New York, N.Y.: Insurance policy issued to
Harry Houdini in 1909 for his aeroplane; photo of aeroplane (Farman).

Irvin, Lestic L.: Newspaper clippings, magazine articles, Parachute Manual
by Engineering Division Air Service.

JENSEN, VOLMER, Volmer Aircraft, Burbank, Calif.: Three-view drawing of the
VJ-22 airplane.

KERLEY, Rogpert V., Ethyl Corp., Detroit, Mich.: Book, “History of the Aircraft
Piston Engine,” by 8. D. Heron, subtitle, “A Brief Outline,’ preface by Lt.
Gen. James H. Doolittle, USAF, published by the Ethyl Corp., Research and
Development Department.

Korn, Epwarp A., Hast Orange, N.J.: Two 8’’ x 10’’ photographs of Mr. Korn.

LARKINS, WILLIAM T., Concord, Calif.: Book, “U.S. Navy Aircraft 1921-1941,”
by William T. Larkins.

LiepIncort, Harvey H., Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford, Conn.: Cross
section drawing of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Engine No. 1 Wasp Model A.

LARSEN, Doueias, A., General Dynamics Corp., Washington, D.C.: Book,
“Dynamic America.”

Liexis, Leon G., Los Angeles, Calif.: Book, ‘The 541st Bomb Squadron.”

MAOCKENzIg£, Roy Jay, Cranston, R.I.: Texaco house organ, vol. 24, No. 2, “The
Texaco Star Aviation Number”; Rhode Island Review, vol. 1, No. 3; 17 avia-
tion photographs.

MaAssIn, ALEx, Ontario, Canada: 6 magazines, 21 commemorative envelopes.

McDoNNELL, AIRCRAFT Corp., St. Louis, Mo: Three copies of “Report No. 8422,
October 9, 1961; Freedom 7, May 5, 1961”; a 67-page illustrated report of the
capsule used in the first Mercury manned space flight and the renovations made
to it prior to its being placed in the National Air Museum; line drawings, col-
ored charts, picture of “Freedom 7” on cover, size 11%’’ x 8%4’’.

McGowan, JOHN, FRANKLIN INSTITUTE, Philadelphia, Pa.: Microfilm of Wright
Brothers material containing a series of laboratory notebooks, data sheets,
notes on various wind tunnel tests, sketches and original drawings of the
1903, 1904, 1905, 1907, and 1910 biplanes.

MEANS, Dr. J. H., Boston, Mass.: Three books edited by James Means: “The
Aeronautical Annual 1897,” No. 3; “The Aeronautical Annual 1895,” No. 1;
“Epitome of the Aeronautical Annual 1910.”

MEYER, Rogert B., Jr., Potomac, Md.: Nine 5-view drawings by EH. F. Schmidt.

MIKESH, Capt. Rosert C., USAF, Washington, D.C.: One 8’’ x 10’’ photo, one
4’’ x 5’’ transparency, one sheet of operational history of the C-—54 “Sacred
Cow.”

Motson, K. M., NATIONAL AVIATION MUSEUM, Ottawa, Canada: Transcript of the
clippings from J. A. 8. McCurdy scrapbook.

Moopy, JAy H., Oklahoma City, Okla.: Book, “Aircraft and Engine Code Book.”

MoREHOUSE, Harotp E., Williamsport, Pa.: 44 illustrated biographies which
appeared in various issues of the “American Aviation Historical Society
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Journal”; two copies of biography of his life; one copy of description of the
Kettering Aeriai Torpedo (1917-18) titled “The Dayton-Wright World War
I ‘Bug’ Story,” and a photograph of himself; eight 3’’ x 4’’ photographs of
persons connected with the Kettering “Bug” Aerial Torpedo project of World
War I and one 5’’ x 7’’ photograph of the type of “Bug” constructed during
the 1930's.

Movurey, RicHarp D., KAMAN AtrcoraArr Corp., Bloomfield, Conn.: Eleven 8’’ x
10’’ photographs of Kaman helicopters.

MoyEerRMAN, SAMUEL, Philadelphia, Pa.: 15 pilots’ logbooks covering period 1917-
39.

NAvy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, BUREAU OF AERONAUTICS Liprary, Washington, D.C.:
88 volumes of aviation books.

NAvy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, NAVAL PHOTOGRAPHIC CENTER, Washington, D.C.:
Five 16-mm movie films, MN-15389Z—“K” Type Airship Take-off Operation;
MN-15389AA—“K” Type Airship, L.T.A. Landings; MN-2722A—History of
Balloons; MN-61385—Lighter Than Air Training; MN-6830—The Airship
Fundamental Principles and Operation.

NAvy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, DEPARTMENT OF SPECIAL PROJECTS, Washington, D.C.:
Book, “Polaris.”

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, BUREAU OF WEAPONS, Washington, D.C.: One volume
entitled “Seaplane and Flying Boats—Line and Test Data for Early Aero-
nautical Models, 1836 to 2234.”

NATIONAL AVIATION Museum, Ottawa, Canada: Five 5’’ x 7’’ photographs of
Curtiss Model L airplane engine of 1910-11.

PETERSON, JOHN J., NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION, Langley
AFB, Va.: Booklet, “Results of the First U.S. Manned Suborbital Space
Flight.”

POBEREZNY, PAUL H., EXPERIMENTAL AIRCRAFT ASSOCIATION, Hales Corners, Wis. :
A set of Health Parasol drawings, 14 sheets; set of EAA Biplane drawings,
15 sheets.

PFEIFER, JOL, Porterville, Calif.: Framed photograph.

RAMSEY, Mrs. DeWirt C., Washington, D.C.: A collection of 149 books from
Admiral DeWitt C. Ramsey.

REYNOLDS, Bruce, Santa Barbara, Calif.: Eight 5’’ x 7’’ photographs, two
314"’ x 6’’ photographs, one 4’’ x 6’’ photographs, 19 8’’ x 10’’ photographs
from Frank Bryant.

Ringe, GRANT A., UNITED AIRCRAFT Corp., Hast Hartford, Conn.: 9 annual reports
and 8 pieces of literature dealing with company growth.

Scearce, W. R., Caprran AIRLINES, Washington, D.C.: Airline schedules and
chronological history of Capital Airlines Service; 17 8’’ x 10’’ photographs;
book, “Biography of a Pioneer.”

ScHOENE, ARTHUR L., CHANCE VouGuT Corp., Dallas, Tex.: 26 8’’ x 10’’ photo-
graphs of the “V” type Vought aircraft.

SHaw, W. H., QAnTAS AIRLINE, London, England: Research report on Lawrence
Hargrave, “The Aeronautical Work of Lawrence Hargrave (1850-1915).”
Scornr, R., CHANCE VoucuHt AtRcRAFT, Dallas, Tex.: 41 8’’ x 10’’ photos; 1
genealogy chart; 1 Corsair Outline F4U; 1 reprint of the “Flying Pancake”
from Air Pictorial, February 1959; 1 chronological history of Corsair; 1
biography of Chance Milton Vought; 1 historical Data Production Airplanes
made by Chance Vought Aircraft; 1 list of Chance Vought “Firsts”; 1 his-

torical sketch on F4U ; 1 reprint from Naval Aviation News, March 1957.

SPEIZMAN, WILLIAM J., Silver Spring, Md.: Book, “Instructions for the Care

and Operation of Model A-I and E Hispano-Suiza Aeronautical Engines.”
SECRETARY’S REPORT 127

Sterror, THOMAS E., Estate or, Fontana, Calif.: Two albums; one airmail
and one Early Birds; one file folder on Karly Birds.

Stirs, RayMonD, Riverside, Calif.: SA-7D “Skycoupe,” 30 sheets, 1 photo; SA-
8B “Playboy,” 12 sheets, 7 photos; SA-3A “Playboy,” 12 sheets, 6 photos, SA-
6B, “Flut-R-Bug,” 18 sheets, 5 photos; 7 8’’ x 10’’ photos, 1 general arrange-
ment of Stits aircraft, Model SA-9A plan.

SrupEr, Mrs. CLara, West Medford, Mass.: A recorded tape, pastel portrait,
photographs, copies of letters, news clippings, and other texts pertaining to
Amelia Earhart; two texts relative to airmail history and philately.

TILLMAN, RAy, Mercury ArrcraFrt, INc., Hammondsport, N.Y.: Duplicate and
copies of Howard Shaver collection of air-mail photographs.

Truck, Lr. Compr. W. J., Sctence Museum, London, England: Two sets of 2
true-to-scale prints of the full-size and half-scale drawings of the W.1.A.
engine.

UHL, Cuartes C.: A folder of newspaper clippings on Carl Ben Eielson.

VERVILLE, ALFRED V., San Diego, Calif.: Blueprint of Curtiss TS-1, one sheet,
plan view only, scale 114’’ to the foot, made by the Navy Department, Bureau
of Construction and Repair.

Von MEtIster, F. W., MAysBAacH Motor Co., New York, N.Y.: 13 original photos
of the LZ-127 Graf Zeppelin.

WATERMAN, WALDO D., San Diego, Calif.: 1 file folder of biographical and Early
Bird material: 21 blueprints of Waterman W—4 airplane; 13 original tracings;
1 set of erection drawings for JN4D; 19 miscellaneous photos of W—4 airplane ;
1 wire bracing diagram of JN4D from Payne Field.

WERTHEIM ADVERTISING ASSOCIATION, New York, N.Y.: Print, black and white,
816"" x 11’’, titled “Emanuel Swedenborg,” showing that Swedish philosopher
seated and holding a quill pen in act of writing.

WIEGMAN, ©. H., Lycomine Divis1on or AvcO MANUFACTURING Corp., Williams-
port, Pa.: Test of Diesel Power, Inc., diesel conversion of the Lycoming
0-290-1 engine (December 1948).

WriGHT, Dr. THEODORE P., Ithaca, N.Y.: 3-volume set of articles and addresses
of Dr. Wright.

ZONTA INTERNATIONAL, Chicago, Ill.: A poster, reprint of biographical article,
and a copy of “The Zontian,” describing the Amelia Earhart scholarships
established by this organization of executive and professional women.

ACCESSIONS

Additions to the National Aeronautical and Space collections re-
ceived and recorded during the fiscal year 1962 totaled 137 specimens
in 81 separate accessions, as listed below. Those from Government
departments are entered as transfers unless otherwise indicated ; others
were received as gifts or loans.

Axssort, Dr. IRA H., Washington, D.C.: Oil portrait of Dr. Joseph S. Ames.
(N.A.M. 1294.)

Arr Force, DEPARTMENT OF THE, BotittIne Arr Force Base, Washington, D.C.:
Air Force Douglas C—54 “Sacred Cow,” Presidential aircraft (N.A.M. 1285).

Arr Force Museum, Dayton, Ohio: Group of six aerial cameras; four
American, one German, and one Japanese (N.A.M. 13809) ; North American
F¥-86A Fighter aircraft (N.A.M. 1296).

Avco MANUFACTURING CorP., Lycomine Division, Stratford, Conn.: T-53-L-1,
Shaft-turbine helicopter engine. (N.A.M. 1826.)
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

BeecH Arkorarr Corp., Wichita, Kans.: Models of the Beech 65 and L-28D air-
craft. (N.A.M. 1265.)

BeLtLtanca, Mrs. GiusepPr, Galena, Md.: Bellanca CIF airplane and an Anzani
3-cylinder aircooled radial engine. (N.A.M. 1259.)

BiopGeTt, CHarLtes L.: Sample of RPI rocket fuel taken from Thor missile
just before launch of first Pioneer space probe. (N.A.M. 1295.)

Boyp, G. N., Brielle, N.J.: A 6-cylinder 1911 Kirkham aircraft engine which was
used to fiy at least 5 different airplanes in 1911 and 1912. (N.A.M. 1282.)
BurRNELLI, V. J., Washington, D.C.: Wind-tunnel model of Burnelli Loadmaster,

1:12 size. (N.A.M. 1812.)

Capy, Dr. GrorcE, Seattle, Wash.: Tube of helium from Navy’s first helium-
filled airship and one tube of gas from well in Kansas where helium was dis-
covered in 1905. (N.A.M. 1811.)

CHENNAULT, Mrs. CLAIRE, Washington, D.C.: Oil portrait of Gen. Claire Chen-
nault painted by Y. T. Lin of Taipei, Taiwan. (N.A.M. 1297.)

CorryNn, Mrs. Frank T., Palo Alto, Calif.: Pilot’s license No. 26 issued by
Aero Club of America to Frank T. Coffyn and Helicopter certificate No. 3.
(N.A.M. 1329.)

Cote, Marcu G., Merrimac, Mass.: Stock certificates and circulars issued by
Aerial Navigation Co. in 1851. (N.A.M. 1269.)

CRAUN, Bernarp, Arlington, Va.: Radio receiving set for use in aircraft during
WW-I, complete with leather helmet and built-in headset. (N.A.M. 1517.)

CRELLY, Mr. AND Mrs. H. J., College Park, Md.: Two Wright airplane wheels,
one Paragon propeller, and one book of airmail covers—all associated with the
donor’s personal acquaintance with early aviation history at the College Park
airfield. (N.A.M. 1806.)

Custer, W. R., Hagerstown, Md.: Prototype of the Custer Channel-wing aircraft.
(N.A.M. 1261.)

Driccs, Mrs. Ivan, Washington, D.C.: Model of Driggs Dart and computer.
(N.A.M. 13828.)

DITTENBERGER, RicHARD, Parma, Ohio: Model of the Lockheed U-2 Recon-
naissance aircraft. (N.A.M. 1298.)

Harty Birvs, Tue, Fairfield, Conn.: Bronze plaque commemorating Glenn
Curtiss first solo (N.A.M. 1333) ; bronze plaque containing the names of all
members, past and present, of the donating organization (N.A.M. 1822).

Ecxer, HerMan A., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.: Curtiss-type flying boat built and
flown by donor. (N.A.M. 1818.)

Fiurerl, Bernarp P., Baltimore, Md.: Pastel portrait of Charles A. Lindbergh
painted in 1956 by Rosemary Mahoney. (N.A.M. 1302.)

FLAMMER, Carr. Pome M., Colorado Springs, Colo.: Helmet which was taken
from dead body of Raoul Lufbery after his tragic death in combat in WW-I.
(N.A.M. 1267.)

FLeet, Mas. Reuven H., San Diego, Calif.: Scale model of Consolidated NY-2
as flown by James Doolittle in his famous “under the hood” blind flight, Sept.
29,1929. (N.A.M. 1307.)

FRANKEL, ARTHUR G., Little Rock, Ark.: Letter and envelope sent to donor on
first air mail, May 15,1918. (N.A.M. 1320.)

GAFFNEY, JAMES F., Cleveland, Ohio: Scale model of the Japanese Army “Nick,”
Kawasaki two-place twin-engined long-range day and night fighter, used in
WW-II. (N.A.M. 1832.)

GeNERAL DyNAMIcS CorpP., Washington, D.C.: One scale model of a Convair
Atlas-E satellite launching vehicle. (N.A.M. 1330.)

GENERAL Morors, ALLISON Division, Indianapolis, Ind.: Cutaway specimen of
the Allison 501 Turboprop engine mounted for display (N.A.M. 1303) ; OLpDs-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 129

MOBILE Division, Lansing, Mich.: Rotor assembly for the J 65-B-3 Sap-
phire turbojet engine. (N.A.M. 1283.)

GLeIcK, J. T., Morton Grove, ill.: Stabilizer brace wire fitting whose failure
caused termination of world endurance flight of Jackson and O’Brine in 1929.
(N.A.M. 1324.)

GROENHOFF, Hans, Miami Beach, Fla.: Purchase of photo negative collection.
(N.A.M. 1800.)

GRUMMAN AzrrcraFtT Co., Bethpage, N.Y.: Models of Grumman Aircraft F-11-F,
WI-2, and S2F-1. (N.A.M. 13816.)

Harianpek, A. C., Oakland, Calif.: WW-I memorabilia including navigation
chart, fur-lined goggles, carrier pigeon message capsule, Very signal pistol, and
two rolls of aerial gunnery film. (N.A.M. 1281.)

Hartwick, Hersert D., La Crescenta, Calif.: Model of Ford 4AT-B Trimotor
(purchase). (N.A.M. 1315.)

HaywarpD, JOHN B., Washington, D.C.: Original letter written by Orville
Wright to Otto T. Mallery, Nov. 9, 1933. (N.A.M. 1289.)

Hern, ARNotD: Skeletonized model of the Fokker D VII World War I single
seat fighter. (N.A.M. 1292.)

Hu, C. R., Grafton, Ohio: Carburetor for Curtis OX-5 engine. (N.A.M. 1286.)

Hock, CuHartes F., Allentown, Pa.: Falcon propeller used on early Navy
trainers. (N.A.M. 1304.)

Jacoss, Mrs. Rutu A., Dayton, Ohio: Harly 4cylinder Wright Brothers en-
gine. (N.A.M. 1273.)

JET PROPULSION LABORATORY, Pasadena, Calif.: Instrument duplicates of the
Pioneer IV, Lunar Space Probe, and the Explorer I, America’s first satellite
(N.A.M. 1262) ; fully instrumented flight-spares of the satellite Explorer I.
(N.A.M. 1271.)

Kerrwoop, Cot. CHARLES, Washington, D.C.: Trophy of the Ligue Internationale
des Aviateurs, founded in 1926 by Col. Clifford Burke Harmon, pioneer Ameri-
can balloonist and aviator. (N.A.M. 1287.)

Marr, Capt. GIFFEN A., Fort Leonard Wood, Mo.: Three flight instruments re-
covered from the B-—24 Bomber “Lady Be Good” after 16 years. (N.A.M. 1270.)

MARTIN-MARIETTA Corp., Baltimore, Md.: Models of Martin aircraft and experi-
mental projected aircraft of the Martin Co. (N.A.M. 1299.)

McKunew, Dr. THomAs W., Washington, D.C.: The General Thomas D. White
Air Force Space Trophy. (N.A.M. 1280.)

MEYER, Corp, New York, N.Y.: Portion of side fuselage fabric from the DH-4,
the first American-built DH to see combat in WW-I. (N.A.M. 1284.)

Moorgt, Mas. GEorrrey, Bath, England: WW-I Anti-zeppelin explosive dart.
(N.A.M. 1274.)

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION, Washington, D.C.: “Free-
dom 7” Mercury Spacecraft which carried Alan Shepard on U.S. First Space
Flight and an astronaut space suit. (N.A.M. 1264.)

NAsH, Miss CAROLYN, Washington, D.C.: Fragment of a parachute reported to
be associated with the 1925 expedition of Roald Amundsen and his compan-
ions who endeavored to fly to the North Pole in two Dornier flying boats,
departing Spitzbergen May 21,1925. (N.A.M. 1334.)

NATIONAL HISTORICAL WAx MUSEUM, Washington, D.C.: Plastic display head
of Comdr. Alan B. Shepard made to fit into the Space Helmet and Suit to be
displayed with the “Freedom 7” Mercury Capsule. (N.A.M. 1266.)

NAvy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D.C.: Polaris, the Nation’s first large
solid propellant ballistic missile, and the first designed to be fired by ships
at sea. (N.A.M. 1260.) Navan AcapEeMy, Annapolis, Md.: Engine from
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Japanese Ota kamikaze attack plane. (N.A.M. 1277.) NAvaL RESEARCH
Lagoratory, Washington, D.C.: 16-mm. movie camera which took pictures of
the earth from 100 miles altitude in 1954; also a copy of the film and a mosaic
picture, using 180 frames from the film. (N.A.M. 1276.) Bureau or WEAPONS,
Washington, D.C.: Full-size replica of Curtiss A-1, the Navy’s first aircraft
(N.A.M. 1275) ; Mitsubishi Airplane, AGM5 “Zero” (N.A.M. 1805.) U.S. Marine
Corps, Quantico, Va.: Ordnance materiel for installation on Museum speci-
mens. (N.A.M. 1263.)

NEUMANN, CHARLES L., Tulsa, Okla.: A complete Mark I Sperry Automatic
Direction Finder unit, one of the first to be used by the airlines in the 1930's.
(N.A.M. 1298.)

NEVIN, Rospert S., Denver, Colo.: Scale model of the Curtiss twin-tractor flying
boat of 1912 (purchase). (N.A.M. 1201.)

Parsons, Rear ApM. Epwin C., Osprey, Fla.: Fragment of first American flag
to be flown over German lines on day America entered WW-I. (N.A.M. 1278.)

PIONIERI DELL ’AERONAUTIOA, Rome, Italy: Life-size bronze busts of the pioneer
Italian flyers Mario Calderara and Umberto Savoia. (N.A.M. 1821.)

PopuLAR MECHANICS MAGAZINE, CLIFFORD Hicks, Epiror, Chicago, Ill.: 12 water-
color paintings by Korta, of the ‘Twelve Most Significant Aircraft of All Time.”
(N.A.M. 1827.)

Proctor, Etpert W., Takoma Park, Md.: Pilot’s flight gear used by donor as a
pilet for National Air Transport in late 1920’s. (N.A.M. 1255.)

RANDALL, W. D., Jr., Orlando, Fla.: Duplicate of hand-wrought knife carried in
“Freedom 7” Mercury spacecraft on its famous flight. (N.A.M. 1254.)

RoOcEWELL, Cor. Paun A., Asheville, N.C.: French uniform worn by the donor’s
brother, Kiffin Rockwell, as a pilot in the WW-I Lafayette HEscadrille, together
with copies of the eight medals awarded to the deceased. (N.A.M. 1323.)

ScaLe Crart Mopers, Massillon, Ohio: Model of a Curtiss HS2L Flying Boat,
Ww-l, U.S. Navy patrol craft (purchase). (N.A.M. 1810.)

Srmpson, Cor. Donatp P., Teheran, Iran: German WW-II Navigation I[it.
(N.A.M. 1279.)

Six, Rosert F., Denver, Colo.: Original watercolor painting entitled ‘Beech
Aircraft in Flight,” by Alfred Owles. (N.A.M. 1318.)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D.C.: Original letter written by Wilbur
Wright to the Smithsonian on May 30, 1899, requesting available information
on flight (N.A.M. 1301); flag taken from L-49 German Zeppelin and frag-
ments of outer and inner bag of craft (N.A.M. 1268).

SousIRAN, Mrs. Rosert, Washington, D.C.: Memorabilia of donor’s husband’s
service in the Lafayette Escadrille. (N.A.M. 1256.)

Stemp, Mr. AND Mrs. Ronaxup F., Annapolis, Md.: Wooden aircraft propeller of
the middle 1920’s presented to donor by Col. A. A. Anderson, a partner in the
Bellanca Airplane Co. (N.A.M. 1308.)

SWEDENBORG FOUNDATION, Inc., New York, N.Y.: A scale model of the concept
of an aircraft by Emanuel Swedenborg, Swedish philosopher, engineer, and
theologian who conceived this aircraft about 1714. (N.A.M. 1290.)

THENAULT, Mur. Geroraes, Paris, France: Two-volume diaries “Journal des
Marches et Operations” kept by Capt. Georges Thenault, the French Com-
mander of the Lafayette Escadrille. (N.A.M. 1272.)

Tracy, DANIEL, Lakewood, Ohio: Model of Curtiss R-1 Pulitzer Prize winner of
1921 aircraft (purchase) (N.A.M. 1257) ; scale model of the French Nieuport-
Delage-29 airplane, the final winner of the James Gordon Bennett Trophy,
1920 (purchase) (N.A.M. 13381).
SECRETARY’S REPORT sal

Unitep Arrcrarr Corp., Hartford, Conn.: The Igor Sikorsky International
Trophy awarded for outstanding achievement in the helicopter field (N.A.M.
1825). Prarr & WHITNEY Division: Two-throw crankshaft for Pratt & Whit-
ney R-2800 engine (N.A.M. 1258).

Unirep AIRLINES, Chicago, Ill.: Models of Douglas DC-6, DC-7 and Boeing
Stratocruiser 277. (N.A.M. 1814.)

Weems, Capt. P. B. H., Annapolis, Md.: A Japanese cargo WW-II parachute.
(N.A.M. 1288.)

ZONTA CLUB OF WASHINGTON, Washington, D.C.: Oil painting of Amelia Earhart
by Arthur Laronda. (N.A.M. 13819.)
Respectfully submitted.
Puiuie 8. Horxins, Director.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Zoological Park

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30,

1962:
BIRTHS

The major zoological event at the National Zoological Park during
the past year was the birth of a male lowland gorilla on September 9,
1961. The parents, Nikumba and Moka, were brought from French
Equatorial Africa (now Congo) by the Arundel Expedition in Feb-
ruary 1955; at that time their age was estimated to be 18 months for
the male and 20 months for the female. During the last weeks of the
9-month pregnancy an hourly check was made on the gorilla cage, but
the actual birth was not observed. The baby was discovered by a night
keeper at 6:58 am. As Moka showed no maternal interest in her
infant, it was removed from the cage and taken to the home of Bernard
Gallagher, supervisory keeper of great apes, where Mrs. Gallagher
reared it along with a 5-month-old chimpanzee. On April 24, after
more than 7 months with the Gallaghers, Tomoka and his chimpanzee
companion, Lulu, were brought to the Zoo and put on exhibition
April 24.

Radio Station WAVA, Arlington, Va., owned by Arthur Arundel,
who had originally escorted Nikumba and Moka from Brazzaville to
Washington, held a contest to select a name for the baby, and the nam-
ing ceremony was broadcast on April 24.

Tomoka is the second gorilla born in captivity in the United States
and the fourth bred, born, and raised in captivity in the world. Com-
paring the development of this gorilla with the statistics available of
those born elsewhere (Columbus, Ohio, and Basel, Switzerland), the
most outstanding difference appears to be the early date at which
upper and lower incisors erupted. In Goma, the female gorilla reared
in the home by Dr. Lang in Basel, under similar conditions to ours, the
first breakthrough of the incisors was observed at the age of 2 months,
and at the age of 6 months four lower and two upper incisors were
reported. As indicated in the accompanying table, Tomoka’s lower
median left incisor broke through on October 3, 25 days after birth,
and the lower median right on October 5, 27 days after birth. Both
median upper incisions were showing 35 days after birth, and at the
end of 66 days all eight incisors had erupted.

132
SECRETARY’S REPORT 133

ERUPTION OF DECIDUOUS TEETH

[in days]

Average

chimpanzee*_______ 308 126 122 111 Mazilla
Average human*__-__- 839 486 316 277
Gomes se eee 68] 74
Momokgas, 2a. S222 alfasys -abibal OL “Sl 55> 61: 1 ai

mM pM, pm, C ie iy i, iy © pm; pm, m,

Rhomokase sees] ee 183 145 68 25, 27 79 141 183
Gomasss2 oe eae 90 60! 59 90
Average human*_____ 787 492 395 222
Average

chimpanzee*______- 247 150 124 95 Mandibula

*Ref: E. Boyd, L. B. Higley, E. H. Hixon, V. O. Hurme, M. Massler, H. V. Meredith, A. H. Riesen,
A.H. Schultz (Zurich).

Tomoka’s weight curve appears to ascend a little more rapidly than
that of Goma, while Tomoka’s growth curve levels off at an earlier
date than Goma’s.

iixcept for an early rhinal and bronchial cold and occasional diar-
rheas, mostly during dentition periods, no major upsets occurred in
Tomoka’s early life, and the baby at present gives all indications of
being sound, healthy, and both mentally and physically well developed.
Special mention should be made of the ceaseless effort of Mrs. Louise
Gallagher, who proved to be an extremely reliable, conscientious, and
dedicated foster mother.

Among other important births at the Zoo was that of an F2 Dorcas
gazelle fawn, as well as a male fawn from the mother originally
donated by President Bourguiba of Tunisia in 1960, bringing the num-
ber of this little herd up to five.

The birth of a male ring-tailed lemur (Zemur catta) on April 21,
1962, appears to be the first in this country since 1914 when the Phila-
delphia Zoo recorded a Lemur catta born, but did not note whether it
was bred in captivity.

For the first time in this Zoo, lesser pandas were born—twins, a male
and a female, on June 20. They were approximately 4 inches long,
weighed about 4 ounces, and were nursed by the mother.

The Australian kookaburra laid a total of six eggs in two clutches,
and five young were successfully raised.

The exchange of the old black swan cob for a new one resulted in
two clutches of eggs, four and six, respectively. Out of the first, one
cygnet was hatched in the incubator, while in the second clutch all six
cygnets were hatched and brooded by the mother.

Following the procedure of previous years, all births and hatchings
are listed below, whether or not the young were successfully raised.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Average human weight

soscecoeee Weight of Tomoka

saoaae Growth of Tomoka

=cmeaem Weight of Goma (Basel)

Ficure 1.—Growth and weight’ graph of Tomoka compared with the average human
weight and the weight of Goma.

In many instances the record of animals having bred in captivity is of
importance.

MAMMALS

Common name Scientific name Number
Australian sugar glider_______________- Petaurus breviceps__..- 3 ab
Ratikangaro00 2-2-2 ste ee ee ‘POLOTOWS ISPri2 = Fee. eat 2
European hedgehog___________________ FHrinaceous europaeus______-_- c= 4
Rine-talled ent t = ee GCMs CUCL ee ee 1
Gala gos. kets eee eee Galago crassicaudatus____-__-___ al
Brown Capuchin 2326554521 ae ee CeOUS SPs ae ets Lr ib Se ee al
Black ‘spider monkey_=- 22 = ie ae AL ClEShGCOTOyt 2) eee 1
Black spider monkey_________________ ANLELES Ul SCLCODS 2-8 te sche eee aD
Pygmy marmoset. = 2 2222) ee NCebuetlapyqmact. 2 ee 1
Hybrid macaque___.__________.______. Macaca philippinensis x« M. il

irus.

Barbary: apes se St ee NESE Macaca sylvanis._ 2 = 2 3

*Stillborn.
Secretary's Report, 1962 PLATE 7

Tomoka, male lowland gorilla, when 4 days old. National Zoological Park.
Secretary's Report 1962 PLATE 8

Tomoka at 11 months, playing in his cage. National Zoological Park.

Photograph by T. W. Roth.
Secretary's Report, 1962

1. Baby lesser pandas bred and born in the National Zoological Park.

Photograph by T. W. Roth.

2. Baby Lemur catta, bred and born in the National Zoological Park, with its mother
Photograph by T. W. Roth.
PLATE 10

Secretary's Report, 1962

“TRIS SUIUIAY] UOIBUTYSE AA * uuly-)
Aq ydeisoj0yg “ylrd [BITBOTOC 17, [PUOT] EN, ‘IvoA JUdLIND
oy BULINp purfley |, wolf poAltie B1IqOo BUT JOO}-CT V We

YIOY, "ML Aq Ydessojoyg ‘yzAirg
[eo1sojoogy [wuoNeN ‘ayeWla} ay. 02 asvurep qusaoid 07 uU10Y
yova uo asoy Joqqni jo adaid v sivam adojajue vsies o[eul oy, “]

ed ad Nac aa

2
OP a ES os
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Common name Scientific name Number
NOotysMan ea cya ae Cercocebus fuliginosus__________ 1
ELV bride sib bonwee ses see Se ee Hylobates agilis eH lar 1

pileatus.
Chimpanzees sees ee see ee PON SOY TUSES a eee ee ee al |
Mowland:vorilla= sso See eee. Gorilla, gortlliaz.= = =) Ses 1
TT O=LOGOES] O Ghee oe ei ee Choloepus didactylus___________ 1
PPA EI O=C 0 eee ere ee re ee Cynomys ludovicianus._________ 5
PatagonianiGa vy as ee ee Dolichotis patagona____________ 2
PTSD Caw Oi ees steer he 2 Canis lupus nubilus____________ *1
Capenhunting doze as. Se ee EYCQOTE PICIUSSS kes) ae 8 ee 4
IWorean beaten ss ee ores See Selenarctos thibetanus ussuricus— 1
Huropeanibrowmbear=——-- === UUGSUS AQT CLOSa nanan es ae ee ee 2
ELV DETG DG aie 2 wearer eee ee Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus xo
middendorffi.
Grizzly enh ww ih eau eae ee Ursus horribitis___._-___.___... *1
WESSer Apa Caeser ee AE Se ee Anlurus fulgens_.---. y}
Neumann's "genet. 2 2 Genetta genetia neumannii_____ 2
Mormosan’ spotted civet=-=—-- == =F Viwerricula. indica_—___-__-_--1_ al
AtriCan: wialterechvyebe =. == ee Atilam paludinosus______________ 2
Black# leopards es. aa Panthera pardus_.___...-___.__ *]
FACETS CAN Oso eae ee ee ee EOE CE OAL CO nan eee ee ee, 4
Grantisezeb rae ena ee oe Equus burchelli boehmi________— 2
Collaredipecea ty se ee Pecart tajacun 222 3 = a 3
Nilen hippopotamuse = a2 eee ee Hippopotamus amphibius__.____ 1
a EAU: Bool?) Se ot ee ee ee a cee yey RE LOMG*OLGING 22 ee 2
Wihite fallowedeer: 22 2 2 eee Dama dame 220 ee 1
VAS Si CON eas oe lege eee eto ADUS © DUS Eee eee a I ee 3
Reds deer wasn ae a eee Cervus elapnus22- = ee 1
] END pas a BAO SE By aD ie oa es ae Cervus canadensis______ il
Nilca (Gers 26 re SE a CCTUUSANDDON saan ene eee 6
Virginia cena See Odocoileus virginianus_____-____ 2
Reind Cer 222 betas ae ee el Rangifer tarandus_____________- 2
Doreas waveles. ==. 5 ovat eee Gazella dorcas_.__________.___.. 2
ASO UL OLE igs eo een a ee Oe ee Ammotragus lervia__._.__._____-__ *1
Big-hormed sheepe. 2222s nas eee Ovis’ caonadensig_2_.__.-________— at
BIRDS
IBIAGKIS Wa Twa 5 yhe Ae eo Chenopis atrata= == =- a 7
WOOO Onicha ee awiee ape e S ee ADS) OVS Cee ee ee ee 15
Mallard ducks 228 ee Anas platyrhynchos___________~_ 25
Mandarinudick22 222222 eee ee Dendronessa galericulata__.____ al
Redeyjunglefowlt = 22 222 2 ee el GOUUSIORULUS Seen al!
1 EAS FEW yf Le ae ee ge oe ees hry eae aD ROQUOCTIS COILS ee eee 4
Indian emerald-winged tree dove______ Chalcophaps indica_____._____._. al
Leadbeater’s cockatoo________________ Kakotoe leadbeateri____________ 1
Grassiiparakeet esses ee ee Melopsittacus undulata___-_____ 2
KoOkaburray ea 2s etna Soe ee DD OCElLON GIG CS ee 6
REPTILES
BOE CULE esas a eee kee en Sl Terrapene carolina__._______.___ 1
Painted turtles see ee es, Chrysemys piclaas 2 4
Red-lined turtles 22 es Pseudemys scripta callirostris___ 2

672-174—63—__10
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Common name Scientific name Number
Vellow-bellied: turtle::22¢¢2s.ss2= Pseudemys scripta scripta_______ 5
Red-cared: turtles. 22220 US eee Pseudemys scripta elegans__---- 4
Red-bellied) turtle: 22228 eee Pseudemys rubriventris________- 2
Cook's: tree: boa eee BOGHENYATIS COOKt = eae 18
Eastern garter snake________-__-___-- Thamnophis sirtalis____________ 30
Hastern-ribbon snakes 222222. s sess Thamnophis sauritus__._.-.__._ 6
Black: Pacers22 2 eo ese as San ie Coluber constrictor. ==. 2222228 24
Corn isnake2s ote seine ee Elaphe obsoleta guttata____---- 6
Northern ‘copperhead sss. 2- == es Ancistrodon contortrig________-- 8
Western diamondback rattlesnake____~_ Crotalus ei eee é

FISHES
Egyptian mouthbreeder____--_-_------- Haplochromis muiticolor____---- 30
GIFTS

Gifts from foreign dignitaries again enriched the National collec-
tion. President William V. S. Tubman of Liberia, making an official
visit to Washington, spent 2 hours in the Zoo on September 13 and
presented a leopard. President Ibrahim Abboud of Sudan came to
the Zoo on October 5 and donated four demoiselle cranes and two
migratory cranes, which were welcome additions to the collection.

“Ambika,” the Indian elephant which was a gift from the “Share
Your Birthday Foundation” and the Maharajah of Mysore, came to
the Zoo on deposit April 14, 1961. After touring the country and
making appearances at schools and playgrounds, she was formally
presented to the Zoo on January 5, 1962. A. K. Ray, first secretary
of the Indian Embassy, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
and Mrs. Ira J. Heller, president of the Share Your Birthday Foun-
dation, were all present at the ceremony.

Tn return for a pygmy hippopotamus, given last year by President
Tubman of Liberia, the National Zoological Park sent a trio of Amer-
ican bison to the zoo in Monrovia. The shipment was accompanied
by Charles Thomas, senior keeper.

Dr. R. E. Kuntz sent a valuable collection of reptiles (listed below),
and J. E. Joy, who has sent interesting specimens in the past, gave
his entire collection of western reptiles.

Space does not permit listing all gifts received in the course of the
year, but the following are of special interest :

Brown, Comdr. L. L., Takoma Park, Md., hill mynah.
Browne, Mrs. Elwyn, Seat Pleasant, Md., kinkajou.
Cline, Martin J., Bethesda, Md., 4 alligators.

DePrato, Mario, Kensington, Md., coral snake, sand boa.
Eceard, Elliott, Bethesda, Md., Petz’s parakeet.

Evans, Wallace L., Richmond, Va., boa constrictor.

Fish and Wildlife Service: through Dr. A. S. Mosby, Blacksburg, Va., broad-
winged hawk; Cambridge, Md., 2 whistling swans; through Dr. Gordon Clark,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 137

Chincoteague, Va., 4 snowy egrets, 4 little blue herons, herring gull, 4 common
terns, 14 American egrets, 6 laughing gulls, 5 Louisiana herons, 6 skimmers,
4 ospreys, 2 eastern green herons; Wildlife Refuge, Patuxent, Md., 2 ovenbirds,
2 Acadian flycatchers, red-eyed vireo, 3 cardinals, 20 wood thrushes, 5 scarlet
tanagers, 2 Kentucky warblers, redstart; through R. Halstead, Washington,
N.C., 3 pintail ducks, 3 black ducks, 4 mallard ducks, 6 wood ducks, green-
winged teal, 3 whistling swans.

Franklin Park Zoo, Boston, Mass., 3 pygmy goats.

French Creek Game Farm, French Creek, W. Va., 2 American black bears, 2
southern fox squirrels, 8 timber rattlesnakes.

Hoffman, Charles R., Washington, D.C., American bittern.

Holmes, Mrs. Dorothy, Arlington, Va., Petz’s parakeet.

Hood, Capt. G. H., U.S.S. Hermitage, African ball python, Nile crocodile.

Hower, Lt. 8. H., Washington, D.C., mute swan.

Johnson, Alex R., San José, Costa Rica, ocelot.

Jones, Thomas R., Arlington, Va., 3 timber rattlesnakes.

Joy, J. B., San Angelo, Tex., 3 crevice spiny lizards, 2 flat-headed snakes, western
hog-nosed snake, 2 rough green snakes, 2 Sonoran king snakes, 2 bull snakes,
Lindheimer’s rat snake, 2 Great Plains rat snakes, 3 Texas long-nosed snakes,
Texas soft-shelled turtle, broad-banded copperhead, northern copperhead, 7
Western diamondback rattlesnakes, 14 Texas horned lizards, 10 collared lizards,
5 Texas spiny lizards, diamondback water snake, 2 race runners, 3 Western
coachwhips, 2 Brazos water snakes, 5 short-lined skinks, 2 water snakes,
black-necked garter snake.

Kuntz, Dr. R. H., Taipei, Taiwan, 2 Asiatic crested porcupines, 5 lesser Indian rat
snakes, 3 Formosan green snakes, 32 palm vipers (of 2 species), 4 Taiwan
habus, 4 Formosan rat snakes, 2 Russell’s vipers, 9 many-banded kraits, 5
Taiwan cobras, 5 greater Indian rat snakes, 5 Formosan striped rat snakes,
6 striped keel-backed water snakes, Oshima rat snake, 4 Philippine monitors,
3 regal pythons, 10 Tokay geckos.

Latham, Mrs. Inez, Washington, D.C., 2 Bengalee finches, 2 cut-throat finches,
2 Indian silverbills.

Lewis, Dr. T. H., Bethesda, Md., 5 teeid lizards.

Montana State Game Commission, Helena, Mont., 2 Rocky Mountain goats.

Mullinax, Mrs. Lois, Takoma Park, Md., green monkey.

National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md., 10 deer mice (including 2 albinos),
meadow vole, 6 Egyptian spiny mice, 9 African grass mice, 2 Egyptian gerbils.

Owens, Charles H., Woodbridge, Va., 3 green guenons.

Pesacane, A., Silver Hill, Md., toucan.

Ratliff, Lester, Washington, D.C., regal python, alligator.

Roth, T. H., Washington, D.C., 14 hinged-back tortoises (of 2 species), gelada
baboon, green guenon, leopard tortoise, 12 vitelline masked weavers.

Rothrock, Mrs. Grace E., Washington, D.C., double yellow-headed parrot.

Schein, Steven, Silver Spring, Md., Cook’s tree boa, boa constrictor, Florida king
snake, spectacled caiman.

Setzer, Dr. Henry, Washington, D.C., desert hedgehog.

Sinclair, Miss Glenn, Hampton, Va., 3 gray foxes.

Skeels, Reginald V., Alexandria, Va., lesser hill mynah.

Van Doren, F. 8., Manassas, Va., lesser hill mynah.

Voorhees, Alan, Bethesda, Md., mute swan.

Walter, Garvin J., Jr.. Washington, D.C., keel-billed toucan.

Zander, Mrs. R. V., Alexandria, Va., cockatiel.
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962
PURCHASES

Among important purchases of the year were a female African
rhinoceros obtained as a mate for the male acquired last year, two
female Masai giraffes (Giraffa camelopardalis tippelskirchi), the rare
(in captivity) East African golden cat (Felis (Profelis) aurata pal-
lida), a magnificent specimen of honey badger or ratel (Mellivora
capensis), four saiga antelopes, and a trio of African jumping hares
well adjusted to captivity and very rarely exhibited in zoos.

A shipment from Thailand yielded two open-billed storks (Anasto-
mas lamelligerus) and one Feilden’s faleonet (Veohyrax cinereiceps),
believed to be the only one at present in captivity in the United
States.

The reptile collection was increased by two magnificent specimens
of king cobra, the larger of which measures a good 16 feet. When
word was received that these snakes had arrived at Idlewild Airport
on a cold February day, senior keeper Mario DePrato made a quick
trip to New York to receive them and bring them back to the Zoo.
They were put in a safe place for the night and unpacked the follow-
ing day.

Dr. W. T. Roth, general curator, while in India purchased an in-
teresting collection of small birds; and J. Lear Grimmer, associate
director, during his field trip in British Guiana purchased four white-
faced saki monkeys and an assortment of small mammals, birds, and
reptiles.

Other purchases of interest were:

Clouded leopard Hoopoe

Martial eagle 2 Gaboon vipers
Hooded vulture 4 African clawed frogs
White-backed vulture 2 Blumberg’s toads
Long-crested hawk eagle 18 Tokay geckos

3 pygmy cormorants 2 Kori’s bustards

4 African gray parrots
EXCHANGES

An arrangement with the British Guiana Zoo, Georgetown, B.G.,
resulted in an exchange in which a surplus lion cub belonging to the
National Zoological Park was offered for 56 birds indigenous to South
America, 14 mammals, and 2 snakes.

During the course of his studies of the hoatzin in British Guiana
Mr. Grimmer collected 63 birds and 34 reptiles for the Zoo. Among
the birds was a small parrot (Conurus solstitialis). 'There are no rec-
ords of this species ever having previously been in captivity in zoos
of the United States.

Other animals obtained through exchange were:

Barcelona Zoo, Barcelona, Spain, 2 Goliath frogs.
Catskill Game Farm, Catskill, N.Y., llama.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 139

Franklin Park Zoo, Boston, Mass., 2 Abyssinian ground hornbills.

George’s Pet Shop, Bladensburg, Md., 2 spiny-tailed iguanas, 2 emerald tree boas,
2 razor-billed toucanets.

Gorsuch, George W., New Windsor, Md., 2 Egyptian geese.

Hanson, Charles, Athens, Ohio, Texas gopher snake, desert tortoise, 2 island
water snakes, 3 garter snakes (melanistic phase), 6 gray tree frogs.

McCrossin, B., Washington, D.C., Egyptian goose.

Norfolk Zoo, Norfolk, Va., 4 coatimundis, 2 American bison.

Portland (Oreg.) Zoo, 2 siamangs, 3 Columbian ground squirrels.

Royal Zoological Society of Scotland, Edinburgh, 2 gannets.

San Antonio Zoo, San Antonio, Tex., jungle cat, tassel-eared squirrel.

Southwick Game Farm, Blackstone, Mass., 2 saddle-billed storks, mute swan, 2
tricolored squirrels.

Thomas, Charles, Washington, D.C., 2 Huropean songthroats, 2 European bunt-
ings, 8 Huropean linnets.

Tote-em-In Zoo, Wilmington, N.C., 4 European red squirrels, 2 murine opossums,
2 pygmy marmosets, chicken turtle, chicken snake, 2 South African spiny liz-
ards, 2 plated lizards, 2 Ameiva lizards, 4 crested basilisks, 4 South American
tortoises, 4 Florida box turtles, 2 Texas tortoises, African mud turtle, 12 day
geckos (3 species of Phelsuma), mabuya, 4 lizards (Hoplurus sazvicola), skink
(Zonosaurus aeneus), 3 skinks (Z. madagascariensis).

Zinner, Hermann, Vienna, Austria, 7 Aesculapian snakes, 3 European racers, 4
European grass snakes, 6 tessellated water snakes, 14 water terrapins, 10 tree
frogs, 4 spadefoot toads, 21 green lizards, 2 malpolons, 4 European vipers.

Zoological Society of Trinidad, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, South American racer,
rainbow boa, 10 Ameiva lizards, boa constrictor, 2 boat-billed herons, 6 scarlet
ibis, 4 maroon tanagers, 2 palm tanagers, 6 blue tanagers, 6 kiskadee fly-
eatchers.

The following animals were sent to other zoos and to private col-
lectors in exchange:

Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, Buffalo, N.Y., tree boa.

Calgary Zoo, Calgary, Alberta, European brown bear.

Chicago Zoological Society, Brookfield, Ul., Dall sheep (traded a female for a
male; sent female for breeding).

Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio, llama.

Fort Worth Zoo, Fort Worth, Tex., harpy eagle.

Franklin Park Zoo, Boston, Mass., serval kitten, black-backed jackal, black spider
monkey, 3 fat-tailed gerbils.

George’s Pet Shop, Bladensburg, Md., 2 yellow-necked parrots.

Hanson, Charles, Athens, Ohio, corn snake, American alligator.

Houston Zoo, Houston, Tex., 2 woodchucks, 3 Egyptian spiny mice, 2 fat-tailed
gerbils, 2 Meriones, 3 Neumann’s genets, 2 water civets, night monkey, hybrid
gibbon, 3 brown-throated conures, 4 tawny-bellied seedeaters.

McCrossin, B., Washington, D.C., 2 onogadori chickens, ring-necked dove.

Norfolk Zoo, Norfolk, Va., llama, African porcupine.

Oakie, W. A., Winston-Salem, N.C., 4 mute swan cygnets, 2 whooper swan cygnets.

Philadelphia Zoo, Philadelphia, Pa., American crocodile.

San Antonio Zoo, San Antonio, Tex., African crowned crane, raccoon dog, jungle
eat, spider monkey, 2 sooty monkeys, gelada baboon, 4 black squirrels, 4 fat-
tailed gerbils.

Southwick Wild Animal Farm, Blackstone, Mass., emu, black swan, 2 wild
turkeys.
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Steinhart Aquarium, San Francisco, Calif., 2 Surinam toads.

Thomas, Charles, Washington, D.C., 2 cockatiels.

Toledo Zoo, Toledo, Ohio, 2 Cape hunting dogs.

Tote-em-In Zoo, Wilmington, N.C., 4 Virginia deer, collared peccary, 4 American
black bears, 3 olive baboons, 2 leopards, 5 Sika deer.

Werber, S. F., Silver Spring, Md., 1 Canada goose.

The associate director, J. Lear Grimmer, and Mrs. Grimmer re-
turned to British Guiana to continue investigation into the ecology
of the hoatzin (Opisthocomus hoatzin). Certain observations of the
bird in former years made it desirable to have a morphologist-anato-
mist on the expedition, and Dr. Wilhelm Marinelli, professor of zo-
ology and director of graduate biology, University of Vienna, was
invited to participate in view of his longstanding interest in the species.
After spending 10 weeks in field work throughout British Guiana,
Mr. Grimmer and Dr. Marinelli assembled and studied their findings
for 2 months at the University of Vienna, correlating behavior pat-
terns and anatomical aspects of the bird.

One of the hoatzins brought to the National Zoo established an
important longevity record. Captured July 10, 1961, it lived until
January 25, 1962—long enough to make close-range daily observations
possible. Much was learned of its adaptability to cage environment
and food requirements. The field work will continue with an ultimate
goal of establishing an integrated breeding colony of this extraordi-
nary bird in the National Zoological Park.

The expeditions have been sponsored by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, the National Geographic Society, the Mitch Miller Foundation,
and the Jewett Foundation. An article on the work done in British
Guiana will be published in the October 1962 National Geographic
Magazine.

General improvements and innovations in the anima] department
included experimental reversed daylight setups. Also an attempt was
made to winter more animals outdoors than previously. By provid-
ing a minimal amount of heat, through overhead lamps or under-
ground heating cables in their shelters or sleeping boxes, gazelles and
macaques were successfully wintered outdoors. Cockatoos and para-
keets were given “hot-foot” perches made of pipe, through which an
electric heating wire was run, controlled by a thermostat.

In the large mammal division an elephant training program was
initiated in May in order to keep the young male African elephant,
“Dzimbo,” under control and to provide “Nancy,” “Ambika,” and
“Shanti” with more exercise.

The commissary division increased the raising of food animals such
as waxworms, crickets, mealworms, chickens, rabbits, and guinea pigs,
and thereby provided a valuable addition to the diet of the animals.

The night-keepers program, while not yet completely staffed, has
SECRETARY’S REPORT 141

proved to be a valuable development; night-time feeding and atten-
tion have contributed greatly to the number of baby animals and birds
successfully raised at the Zoo.

The importance of a zoological collection rests, to a large extent,
upon its diversity and scope. The National Zoological Park has en-
joyed some measure of success in its efforts to add representative
species belonging to little-known or absent families.

The total number of accessions for the year was 1,340. This in-
cludes gifts, purchases, exchanges, deposits, births, and hatchings.

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION

Class Orders Families | Species or | Individuals
subspecies

Mamma |S 22222 Saw eee Se 14 48 244 665
DINGS Se ae Seen ark see ee Sek 22 78 415 1, 209
1 Rey 0) Al Cas eae eee reeset Ses ee ee ee 4 26 206 809
PAI MTL AMS ners see eens ee ee ee le 2 isl 23 109
ISOS teeters le ees Dee eo Se a 9 21 80
PARE OUOUS 22) Sete a oa | ae eens 3 5 5 57
IMIOUIUIS Kc ere = Bates aie ee eye Se 1 1 1 30
PROtAbS eure E i ees fe 50 178 914 2, 959

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1962

MAMMALS
MONOTREMATA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Tachyglossidae:
Echidna, or spiny anteater_____._____ Tachyglossus aculeatus_________ |
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphidae:
Murine opossumes==222 22222 MGTINOSG Spas ee ee 2 ee eee 1
Didelphis marsupialis__________ 1
Dasyuridae:
Pasmanian: Ceyilsse see ee Sarcophilus harrisii___._..__._____ 1
Phalangeridae:
USA] Ceres eee ee ee Petaurus breviceps____________- 3
SSLORD Ui ea ofc) beta 1X0 (ey lapis epee Snes Rr oe Petaurus norfolcensis__._cc-_._-_-— 7
Phascolomidae:
Hairy-nosed wombat _______________ Lasiorhinus latifrons___.._._--_ 2
Mainiand wombate2 2222-02222. Wombatus hirsutus___-__________ 1
Macropodidae:
reek aNnZaToOo. = as 22 ee Dendrolagus matschiei___.___-__-_ 1

Ratekangaroos 2 hee ene os ee (POLO OUSESD ae ae ee ee ee 3
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

INSECTIVORA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Hrinaceidae:
European hedgehog_---------------__ Hrinaceus europaeus_______-____ 4
African desert hedgehog__________-- Paraechinus aethiopicus_____-_- ak
Short-tailed! ishrewesee2o eae Blarina brevicauda__.__...~..-- 2
PRIMATES
Lemuridae:
Ring-tatled. lemur= === 2 es eee LeCmuUr COtl Ga. 2s See ee 4
Lorisidae:
Greativalagos2 cs See eee aes Galago crassicaudaius___-__--____ 2
Dwar PalacOss--2-2 soe = eee Galago senegalensis zanzibaricus— 2
Common potto=22222-22— a ee Perodicticus pottop=_ == - = = af:
Cebidae:
Nightimonkey_2-=22- = 222 2 Aotus trivirgatus________._.--~~ 2
Brown capuchin monkey
White-throated capuchin }__-----_-_- Oebus capucinus._-_-____--=___= 10
Capuchin
Weeping capuchin monkey__-------- OCDUS OTISCUS 2 = ee eee 1
White-faced saki monkey__--------- Pithecia pithecia_________-__..--- ak
Squirrel monkey 22222 n=) ase Saimiri sciureus_.._________.--.- 6
Black spider monkey___---__-_----~ ALCLES) [USCICE) Sa ee ee 4
Spider monkey=—-- aaa a ea eaee= Ateles geoffroyi—________--~-—-—— 6
NWVOOlly monkey === se ee ee ees Lacgothvig sp 2-2 -2-— = 2-2 see 1
Callithricidae:
Pygmy marmoseti=-=-=—2- 2 Cebuella pygmaea________------- 2
Cottontop marmoset=22--2--2----—=— Saguinus oedipus______-__-_-_----- 1
Red-handed marmoset__-----------~ Saguinus midas.___...-_=~==...- 1
Cercopithecidae:
Toque, or bonnet monkey___--------~- Macaca sini 8
JAVAD MACAVUCS.2- 2222 a2 e eee Macaca irus mordav_____-------~ 2
Crab-eating macaque ———2=--=-2= Macaca irus________.__--_-__-_- at
Philippine macaque___---__-___--___~- Macaca philippinensis_______-_-- 2
Macaque, hybrid________.._-_.__-_--_- Macaca philippinensis * M. irus— 1
Rhesus monkey=2222 2.222252 22 ee Macaca mutaita--.-2=- === 4
Formosan monkey=—— = =—==- == — Macaca cyclopis___._-_____.____<.— 2
Red-faced macaque_.----___---_---- MOGCQCQ SPeCiOsd 2222-222 =a al
Barbary apes s=<26 senor Macaca sytvudnus_..__._.____---~~- 14
Moor macaques oe- = =n sesneeeee Macaca maurus._____..=—-~~-=-= al
Gray-cheeked mangabey__--------_- Cercocebus albigena_____-_----- 1
Agile mangabey-2=s—.=-— 2-25-22. == Cercocebus galeritus agilis__._-- afl
Golden-bellied mangabey__--------- Cercocebus galeritus chrysogas- 1
ter.
Red-crowned mangabey__----------- Cercocebus torquatus_______.__-- 2
Sooty mangabey =" =-=222 222s sss5 Cercocebus fuliginosus____-___--- 3
Crested mangabey_______--_---_-_-_-~ Oercocebus aterrimus opdenbo- al
schii.
Black-crested mangabey_____-___--- Cercocebus aterrimus_._______--- 2
Chacma: baboon). 222 eee ‘Panioicomatussecs: 22. es 1
Olive baboons 2222. eee PODUOVONNUOIS 222 ae ae eee S
Gelada baboons. 2 eee Theropithecus gelada_______-_-- 4
Vervet puenons2 222-22 2 ee ee eee Cercopithecus aethiops pygery- al

thrus.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 143

Family and common name Scientijic name Number
Cercopithecidae—Continued
Green SuCnOn sas aae nese ae eee Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus__ 5
Grivet guenon (color variation) _____ Cercopithecus aethiops aethiops_ il
Moustached monkey....-._._____.-- Cercopithecus cephus___-__-____~ 33
Diansmonkeyooos- 2222-2 Cercopithecus diana__.________-_ 1
Roloway-monkey= 22 ese eee eae Cercopithecus diana roloway___-_ 1
IPTeUSS SiPUeNON aoe ae ae enone Cercopithecus Vhoesti preussi___ al
DMeBrazza SpcuCnONS sas snaenan nea Cercopithecus mneglectus_.______ 2
White-nosed guenon_____-_--------- Cercopithecus nictitans___._____ fl
Lesser white-nosed guenon____----__ Cercopithecus nictitans petaur- il
ista.
Allen’s swamp monkey______---__--- Allenopithecus nigroviridis___-__ 2
Spectacled, or Phayre’s, langur____-~ Presbytis phayrei__...____—_____ 1
Entellus, or Hanuman monkey__---- Presbytis entellus_.____________ al
GTP Ue see aa ee ee ee ETSY US ASD ae ae ee il
Pongidae:
White-handed gibbon_____--__-_____ HYULOURLES AIC eee 5
Wau=waus gibppon!= 22225.) 2 ae Hylobates moloch___-_-_--_--____ 1
Gibbon, bybrid2=2- == Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus_ i
Gibbon hybrida=s2ae== aaa ae Hylobates lar XH. sp_________- 1
Siamane gibbon. 22---- 2-2-2 Symphalangus syndaciylus______ 1
Sumatran’ orangutan=== -222--- 2 Pongo pygmaeus abelii__________ 2
Bornean orangutanes sono Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus_____- 1
Chimpanzee 222222 sooo oe ONS CUYTM Ga ee eee eee 4
Gorilla cere 2 rere ear ee a Gorilia gorilia____.._.._______.-— 8
EDENTATA
Myrmecophagidae:
Giant anteater== 222. Myrmecophaga tridactyla_.__..-_ 1
Bradypodidae:
Tw 0-LOC0) SlOth a= ee aan we Seen Choloepus didactylus___.________ 8
Dasypodidae:
Nine-banded armadillo____.________ Dasypus novemcinctus__________ 1
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Domestic rabbit=="=-—---=—-- == Oryctolagus cuniculus______—__-_ 7
RODENTIA
Sciuridae:
Tassel-eared squirrel_______.-..-_.. Sciurus aberti abertt__.._._.______ 1
Gray squirrel (albino)---___--____- Sciurus carolinensis__...-_..--- 2
Sciuridae:
Southernatox. squirrel 22222222 SCURUS N10 Cr aaa eee ee 3
European red squirrel_____________- Sciurus vulgarig___.____________- 4
Indian palm squirrel_______..-.___- Funambulus palmarum_____---- 1
Giant Indian squirrel_______________ Ratufa indica___....--__--____— 1
Tricolored, or Prevost’s, squirrel____ Callosciurus prevosti__.____._____ 1
ASIATIC SQUITTO@ eon ee Callosciurus nigroviitatus_______ 1
Formosan tree squirrel_____________ Callosciurus erythraeus________- if.
Woodchuck, or groundhog___________ Marmota monagv_.....______-_- 3
Prairie-d 0g yaa ee aS Cynomys ludovicianus__.______- 8
California ground squirrel__________ Citellus beecheyi___________-___ 4
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Sciuridae—Continued
Washington ground squirrel________~_ Citellus washingtoni___________- 5
Golden-mantled ground squirrel____~ Citellus lateralisseie_ 22 3
Hastern) “chipmunks 2222533 s ae TONUNGS: Stiatusen ese ee 2
Eastern chipmunk (albino) —---_-___ Tamias “striatus eee 1
Yellow pine chipmunk _____________-_ Hutamias amoenis_____----_~=- al
Formosan flying squirrel____________ Petaurista grandis. 2 == a 1
Eastern flying squirrel_____________ Glaucomys volans_.-2-—-.—--_— 5
Castoridae:
Cav Tapes oe rae tee earn se eke wee ee ci Castor canadensisce- 2s ee 2
Leporidae:
Cape: jumping hare.22_> 22222 sses2= Pedetes cajjerc= = 3
Cricetidae:
White-footed mouse_____---_--_---_ PeCTOMYS8CUS +S) 22222 ee a eS us
Golden hamsteres === 2 22 2 ae eee Mesocricetus auratus___.......- al
East African maned rat__---_-____- Lophiomys ibeanus__.__-__-_-_- 8
Pine “voles. ae ee ee Pitymys pinetorum_______------ 3
Gerbil pene See eee ae eee eee Gerbillus pyramidum_____--_-__ 16
Fat-tailed: gerbiloc 2-2 =e ee Pachyuromys duprasi____.____--- 30
itd = See Ss os 2 eee eee MCTiIONGS SP 22-2 a eee eee 4
Mainy-tavled) jing] 222 22s eee Sekeetamys calurus_.__..__._.-- Ll
Muridae:
Multiimammate: nates. ssa Mastomys natalensis___._________ al
Slender-tailed cloud rat_____________ Phloeomys cumingii______-----_ 1
EKegyptian spiny mouse_______-_---__ Acomys cahirinus________.-.--- 14
HKgyptian spiny mouse________---~_- Acomys dimidiatus_________---- 25
Hystricidae:
Malay porcupine_.-....--2.-_-____- Acanthion brachyura______----- al
African porcupine: 22-22 2.) eee Hystria galeata...___-____-~=—.=- {4
Asiatie crested porcupine___________ HYStTie Spa aaa eres one 2
Caviidae:
Patagonian Can ye ee eee Dolichotis aqustralis_____.__.__.._- 5
Dasyproctidae:
REG ae OU Gate ee ne eee aca eee DGSYprocta Se aeeanneees. =e 3
A GUCHIY 2 2s een. tr Berne sone ren ee eee Dasyprocta acuchy_____-------- 2
Chinchillidae:
Peruvian viscaccia.Z Lagidium viscaccia_____--.----- 1
CARNIVORA
Canidae:
INS Of Stes seek 22k el a eed eee ee Canis familiarig dingo__-__---_~ 3
COVOtG Snes oe Cons tions ee 1
Commons jackal. === ae ee ee Canis aureus. = eee 2
Amber wolle = 4 i oe ae Canis lupus nubilus________-_--- 2
Nexas red wolie 2222522 we Canis niger rufus__._.._..-..--_. al
ATCC TOXES soe See 2 ee ee Alopex lagopus_________-_------ 2
Wenn 6@2==2a5to a se eee eee HEnNeCUS ZeTdG = nee 2
GraygtOxXose 2 2 eee Urocyon cinereoargenteus___---- 3
RaCcoontd 0g 2 a= See eee Nyctereutes procyonoides_____-- 2
Cape hunting dog: = 22s a eee Lycaon pictus .._-__------_---= a
Big-eared stOxe = 2a ee oa oe Otocyon megalotis___- ak

_ eee -
SECRETARY’S REPORT 145

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Ursidae:
Spectacledmped Tees es ee See Tremarctos ornatus____________ al
iimalayan beans. 22-2). 2a Selenarctos thibetanus___--__-~ Al
Japanese black bears.2-25 = sea Selenarctos thibetanus japonicus— 1
ISOLA DOA Tee eee ee nee Selenarctos thibetanus ussuricus— 2
European brown bear_____-_-------- UnSUs OnClOS= eee eae 3
Iranian brown bear__.----___---__-. Ursus arctos occidentalis________ Be
Alaskan Peninsula bear_____----_-_- UR SUSIOY Sa ae eee ne 1
Grizzlyspeare= 22 es Se ee ee Ursus horribilig.2 so - =  e 2
IB ackebea eh ne ee ee a Cee Huarctos americanus_____-______ all
Polar beamens. st eae Pe Thalarcios maritimus____.______ 2
ety bridanen ies. = aa eo ee Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus 4
middendorffi.
Malay sunbears 222 =e ee Helarctos malayanus__.-----___ Ds
SIOUNGDGAT Sac ee ee eae ee Ca Melursus ursinus i... 2
Procyonidae:
Cacomistle, or ring-tailed cat-___--- Bassariscus astutus___.___-_--__- 5
TEU COCO Ms ae a we es ee Se Procyon lOltOhe == eee 5
Raccoon (albino) -----______~-___-_-. Procyon (Gl0peo === eee rT
Coatimundi== = ee ee Nassua narica__.__...-...______ 4
Peruvian coatimundi_______________ Nasua nasua dorsalis_____._____ 1
BISSUT 295) OU es ee ee Ee OLOSIIULOUS =e eee ee 4
CL) wpe ge ee Bassaricyon gabbi_______-______ 2
Wessen panda 2 ae Ailurus fulgens________..__..____ 5
Mustelidae:
DENS ef epee Re ON ee ee Mustela eversmanni______-_____ 1
Mia fGTiee ane tern eke de Martes americana______-______-_ 1
IHS @ Ieper ates 2 ene oe at See ees Martes pennanti______-_________ 1
South American tayra_____________- Tayra barbara barbara___-__-__ 1
British Guiana tayras---- === oe Tayra barbara poliocephala_____ 2
GriSOn eee ee ee eee Galictis vittata_-L--.___.__. 1
Zorilla, or striped weasel________--- Ictonyx striatus_._______________ 2
WiOlVerine= 22202 3s. ee es GallO Us see a eee eee af
DG 1) Ee ce SR eg ore ge Mellivora capensigs______________ a
American badger_________.____~.-_- Tavidea tawus_.._-__-.----_____. aE
Golden-bellied ferret-badger______-__ Helictis moschata subaurantiaca_ 3
Common. skunk. 2-2 22-2= 2 ose Mephitis mephitis__.____.__._____ De
California spotted skunk________-___- Spilogale putorius phenav_-____ 1
Viverridae:
Gen Chee ea a ee eee Genetta genetta neumannii______ uf
Genet (black phase) ~-__.__________ Genetta genetta________________ 1
Formosan spotted civet_____________ Viverricula indica__.___-__-_____ 2
WT San Gaeta a PS Se Se eee ee Prionodon linsang_---------____ 1
African: palm ¢ivet2_—-=-=—2 —=- === Nandinia binotata__---__--_--___ Pe
Formosan masked civet_________-____ Paguma larvata taivana________ 1
TEST GUO 1 ee eens ee Arctictis’ binturong—L == =- = 2 al
African gray mongoose_________-___ Herpestes ichneumon____------- 1
African water civet_________________ Atilaze paludinosus_..__________ 4
Striped African mongoose___________. Crossarchus fasciatus___-_-_-_-~- 2
Black-footed mongoose______________ Bdeogales spies ae a ee 2
White-tailed mongoose______________. Ichneumia albicauda___--------- a
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962
Family and common name Scientific name
Hyaenidae:
Striped hyena. —.2-— =) = 42 ee Hyaena hyaena_ =. == ===
Felidae:
Bobcat. 222 aoe ae ee eee LEUNG VP UfUSs 222 ea ee
Wynx ce 22a Se ee Lynn canadensis._________-
Caracale 228 222s ee eee Lyng caracal caracal______-_
Jungle: cCatss22- 224422 eee HiGUSACh OUS2 22 === ee
Pallas cata oe oe es ee ee HeUS MON see
Senvallicaites 2a ae ee eee CMS NS Ci ee ee
Ocelot ee In a ence eee HeCUS INORG Sha eee
Morevay Cati2s222222 252-2 ee. CUS WULCOM ana aa
Gold encase eee PeWSiOUPOLG 222 ee
PUT ee ee ee ee Felis concolor___..._______
heonarnd 222222 aa eee Panthera pardus______-----
Black leopard. 2-22. 222 2S eee Panthera pardus____----~--
GOT ee eee ete ae Oe ee Panther@® le@222 2222
Benwalitigens. a= ses a) eee ee Panthera tigris____-.-__-___
Bengal tiger (white phase) ---------- Pantherg tigris_
PACUPT wee aS ee eee a ee Panthera onca______-_---~-
Clouded leopard==22-2="=- = =- 2) ===—— Neofelis nebulosa______-----
Snow leopards 22] nee UNCIO UNC ee
@heetah2a sss See ae Acinonye jubata____--__-_-
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
@alifornia. sea-liona2=~ == == 5-222. Zalophus californianus______
Patagonian sea-lion_--___-----_-_--~- Otaria flavescens_________--
Phocidae:
arbor Seales a= = oe as eee eee Phoca tn
TUBULIDENTATA
Orycteropodidae:
Aardvark, oneantbedt===- 2-22-22. -2— Orycteropus afer______-----
PROBOSCIDEA
Hlephantidae:
African elephant.--.<--..-..-=--=— Loxodonta africana___----~-~
Forest elephant-_..--_....--..--___ Lowvodonta cyclotis______----
Indian: elephantj2= Sass") Hlephas mavimus_—__------~
HYRACOIDEA
Procaviidae:
1 & Bip op epee perce ne Re a ee ea Procavia sp __-__-___--____
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
Mongolian wild horse____________--- Hquus prezewalskii______--_-_
Burro, OF donkey a eae EBquus asinus.._._._____.__~__
Grant's 2ebrasesso 2 eee en eens Equus burchelli boehmi
Grovy’s zebras. 2 222 ee eee Hqauus grevyt___.-.-—--=_..
Tapiridae:

Brazilian, tapir 222 22osee. eee ene Tapirus terrestris.__._._.___...

Number

cis 2

NWF HHENOANRHHaFPwW NPN ED

=

NRE

Li)
SECRETARY’S REPORT

147

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Rhinocerotidae:
Great one-horned Indian rhinoceros__ Rhinoceros unicornis__---------- Al
White, or square-lipped, rhinoceros__ Ceratotherium simum-_--------- Z
African black rhinoceros__---~-~---- Diceros vicornisa__=— = = Se 2
ARTIODACTYLA
Tayassuidae:
Collared peccary2s-2--=——-———=—===— (PCCOMs (04 OCWaeeaee een nae 4
Hippopotamidae:
EMIppOpotaMUsS 2-2 eee seen oe eee Hippopotamus amphibius__------ 3
Pygmy hippopotamus.__.---------~- Choeropsis liberiensis_.____------ 4
Camelidae:
Wilamat nso aee Beene cnn ee eee WONG OlON Gee ee ee 6
Guanacor ses! ee eee oe Lama glama guanicoe____------- 3
ANCA Senco ta soa see eee aeeS GUNG 00 COS ane ee 4
IBactriani (camel =2- sas SS eS Camelus bdbactrianus_.___-------- 1
Cervidae:
White fallow deer__________-------- DONG UN Aaa ee eee 4
WACK S| CCIE ee ee ee eee ee APIS WLCIS ae ee an eee 6
Red deers wae oe ee ee Cervus elapniuscs- 2-2 eee 5
American! elk2= = 222-2222 eeeaoosese Oervus canadensis_____________—_ il:
Sa CC ee eee ee Oervus nippon.__._—-.~~---=--= at
Pére: Davidis deer. 2-2 = =a Sak aan Elaphurus davidianus___------- 1
Wireiniaed COrenanoneas an anna ae Odocoileus virginianus__-------- 7
FVCIN Gee ren ee Rangifer tarandus___._-_._--__--- 12
Morest carvibows oe aoe oe eeecee Rangifer carivow.—---—- === == == 1
Giraffidae:
INublanVeingites oo) eno oee nese eee Giraffa camelopardalis camelo- 1
pardalis.
Masa ie Pir aii eens eee eee cre Giraffa camelopardalis tippelskir- 2
chi.
Antilocapridae:
JELLO) ded AYO} Oe Oh eee ee Antilocapra americana___-_------ al
Bovidae:
Sitting ae ay ee ee Tragelaphus spekiti_.______._-___-~ 1
Brindled gnu, or blue wildebeest____~_ Connochaetes taurinus_____----- 3
PANT) 0) Gl Seem tee Se eee re Se AN oe ieee SE Anoa depressicornis________---- 2
VL;5) 0 0 bi le ag ON ec 2 De pe ere eR Ee IBOSSANGICUS= = eee ee a
BY 57) keene ane ea A eee ee ek Poephagus grunniens____------~ 3
Gaur ee ee es eee ‘Bivos! QWuUrUsSs 22a a 2
Cane mb ittal (ee ee ree SUMCERUS CO Cia= === 4
SATMCTICAME DISON = ees eee, ‘Bison: 01802 aaa eee 2
Woreased zelie se ee ee GasellandorCds nase ee 5
Saiga antelope____.______-.-...-_-- SUG COLO Ci een ae 4
Eimalayanwialn tse ee eee Hemitragus jemlahicus___------ al
Rocky Mountain goat_________------ Oreamnos americanus___------- 1
African pyemy COdts 2 ea ae CONGO RINCUSE ae ea eee ee ee 3
Ti) Ges eee ee ee Capra (ben aes sae al
ENO U Ch ees i i eee Se ere Ammotragus lervia_______------ 3
Bi chOrmye SNe eee eee eee Ovis canadensis_-__________._-__. 2
Wa SHCeC ps tases tae ae eee ee OUlis Calin alee ee eee eas 1
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Family and common name
Spheniscidae:

Kineipenvuins.-2 2s
Adélie penguine === saa 2= ==

Struthionidae:

Ostrich 2 aan ee

Rheidae:

Casuariidae:

Double-wattled cassowary--

Dromiceidae:

Tinamidae:

Pileated tinamou_____-_--_

Diomedeidae:

Black-footed albatross__-_--

Pelecanidae:

Rose-colored pelican___----
White pelican_____---__-_-
Brown pelican222—-=-- ==

Dalmatian pelican__-----~-

Sulidae:

Garnet ye ae eee

Phalacrocoracidae:

Double-crested cormorant__-
Farallon cormorant. ___--~~

European cormorant__-_---

Ardeidae:

Reddish egret______________
Reddish egret (white phase)

Cattle egret________._.____
American egret___________-
SHOW ieeret= sean saa
Great white heron_________

BIRDS
SPHENISCIFORMES
Scientific name Number
ae ee Aptenodytes patagonica__------- 4
pe Pygoscetis adeuae === a i
STRUTHIONIFORMES
es Struthio camelus__.._._._....___ 1
RHEIFORMES
=eaque Rhea americana____________-_-__ 1
CASUARIIFORMES
ee ae Casuarius bicarunculatus_______ 2
ee Dromiceius novachollandiae_____ 3
TINAMIFORMES
es Ree Crypturus soui panamensis______ al
PROCELLARIIFORMES
a A ae Diomedea nigripes_________--___ 2
PELECANIFORMES
ERO Pelecanus onocrotalus_____-___-_ 2
Soavia wa ea Pelecanus erythrorhynchos___--~ 3
iar pede ils Pelecanus occidentalis occiden- 1
talis.
Be (PClLCCONUS Chis DU Sane ee ee 4
eter ae Sula bassana.__...---__--______- if
ese ae Phalacrocoragz auritus auritus___ 3
a Sree Phalacrocoraxz auritus alvbocilia- al
tus.
ee eee Phalacrocorag carbo___-__----__~ 6
CICONIIFORMES
eee Dichromanassa rufescens rufes- 2
cens.
Loe Sere 2 Dichromanassa rufescens rufes- 1
cens.
eee IDUCUICUS 4018 = a eee 5
eae ae Casmerodius albusi22 8
a Es. Leucophoyo. thuta.- = 3
eee Enna Avdea occidentalis. 2 Pe
SECRETARY’S REPORT

149

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Ardeidae—Continued
Hastern green heron--=--+-=---_—---= Butorides virescens. 222-2 - 3
Mouisiana NerOnss s2s2 en een ae Hydranassa tricolor__________-- 4
Black-crowned night heron__------~-- Nycticoragw nycticorav_______--_~ 12
Wittlewblude herons. 22s ee Florida caerulea caerulea____--_~ 4
American: bitherna=- === nee ese Botaurus lentiginosus____------ at
east -bitterne=—.2* 282282 ee Ieobrychus eavilis evilis___.______ 1
cer Ditters =e ae eee Tigrisoma lineatum__--__------- 2
Cochleariidae:
Boat-pilled® heron!22232. 2 a= Cochlearius cochlearius______-~ 1
Balaenicipitidae :
Siocon ete a BOlGeniCeps: T6D22=— == = al
Ciconiidae:
Amerncan wood ibis) 2==2—-2.=.-— Mycteria americana____-------- 2
Buropean white stork.—.2.=-22.-=-— Ciconia. ciconia__._____-—-=—-_-- 4
Indian adjutant stork 2—------———=== Leptoptilos dubiws__________-_~ 1
Wihite-bellied! storko2_ =~ = 2222 Se Abdimia sphenorhyncha _.------~ 2
@pen-billed ‘stork 2—= -2 225 aa Sss Anastomus oscitans_—_.-.-=-==- 2
Saddle-billed: stork= === ~22-——- ses Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis__ ai
Threskiornithidae:
WVihitesi bi Sains ee eee Hudocimus alous..___-_-._-_-—. 2,
Nenrletaibis=-2o = a oe eae wes Hudocimus ruber__________.._--~ 8
Black-faced tbisios 2-223 - eo Theristicus melanopis___------~ al
Black-headed: ipis2s2-22 22282 -Ue Threskiornis melanocephala____- al
White-faced glossy ibis_____-___----_- Plegadis mexicana.____.-___..-—~ 1
Hastern glossy ibis________._____-..- Plegadis falcinellus_____-_----- 4
Roseate spoonbillz—.-- = 2. ee AVOIG (j0j0o2 = 22 6
Phoenicopteridae:
Chileans taming O25 a ees Phoenicopterus chilensis___.__-__ 2
Cubans flamingona2-— see es ee Phoenicopterus ruber_---___--_-~ 1
Old, World flamingos 322s eee Phoenicopterus antiquorum___—- 1
ANSERIFORMES
Anhimidae:
Crested screamer_______________-- Chauna torquata____________---- 4
Anatidae:
Coseoroba Swan--———~-==-- = Coscoroba coscoroba____-_-_____ 4
Muterswanves 2 22 ees Cyonis 00 ee 3
Black-necked swan____-__--_-___-__ Cygnus melanocoriphus_______-- 2
NWinooper Swanss-=2=22 22 2a eee OLOTACY ONS Ean Sees eee 2
Wihisthing swans == 222 ee eee Olor columbianus_________-_____ 13
ALTUMPEtER Swank = a= = 8 See Oller CuGGIN@LOT E22 eee 2
IB lacksS Wats sesese we wr ae Chenopis atrata._____~.._..--.—— 2
Hey Dil AanyeOOSC2= = sen aa on eee Le Alopochen aegyptiacus_____-__-- 4
White-fronted goose________________. Anser Qlotfrons se eee 33
Indian bar-headed goose____________- ANSCr INUIiCUS sao ea= ee 5
HIM PCLOr PO0SG= 822 22 ae eee eS ANSE CONUUICUS Se ae nan 2
BUG) 2 OOSC 2 ae et oe On ee 8 ee Anser caerulescens caerulescens__ 6
Lesser snow goose (color phase)____ Anser caerulescens caerulescens_-_ 2
Greater snow goose_________________ Anser caerulescens atlanticus___- 5
IROSSIS/SOOSC i == tee ree Sarah ANS CT OSS aoe ae Be -L
Red-breasted goose_________________. Branta ruficollis___-__— == 4
Canad are 00se 2a 2 Sea ae Branta canadensis___._________-- 24
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Anatidae—Continued
besser Canada gooses2=2_ 2h seen Branta canadensis leucopareia__ 5
Cackling gooses=2-22 22227 2 eses sees: Branta canadensis minima___--- 4
White-cheeked goose___--------_-_-- Branta canadensis occidentalis___ 3
Canada goose X blue goose, hybrid__ Branta canadensis KX Anser cae- 2

rulescens.

Ruddy shelduck=22- 222222 ee see ese= Casarca ferruginea__-_--.-~-_- 2
Wood ducki 222225262 se eee AND SPON8G. 2522 esas eee eee val
Mand srinvauck es ae ae Aig galericulata__.......--.=-.. 12
Indian cotton teal=22 22222 22 = eee see Nettapus coromandelianus___-__ 5
Pintailiducks222222 22222 seas ANG8 GCUld__<-2-=_ == S5=23S aes 5
Green-winged teal___________--_--~-. (ANS) OR CCC a ee ee 1
Chestnut-breasted teal__-_-_--------. ANGS (COStONEO 222 = aaa nee 1
Gadwallete si seee = eee Anas strepera strepera_______-__ 4
Huropean wigeon__-_-___-_--------- Anas penclope=222=—— = eee 2
Miailardidtickes sss. aoe eee ee Anas platyrhynchos_..----..— 45
Mallard duck X American pintail Anas platyrhynchos X A. acuta 1
duck, hybrid.
Indian spotted-billed duck_____---_-~ Anas poecilorhyncha_____------- 1
Blacks dick ene eee eae Anas rubripes___._._.._._._..... 8
Greater scaup duck__--__---------_- Ayihya Marit. 2 22 Se ee 5
Wesser SCaUD CuCk ss aa aaa Aythya affmis____._--~---.-=.=-- 5
Red-headed duck__---_-..-___----__ Aythya americana______.-----.. 1
Ring-necked! (duck=2=2s2e——-—sesn—e—— AYthya@ Collaris.-- ae  eee 1
@artivasback duek22222 =22-55- 22a 2-= Aythya valisineria________------ 5
Rosy-billed pochard___----_---_-_- Metopiana peposaca_.___-------- 1
Red-crested pochard_---__---------_ NGCUC TUNG. Ane ee eee eee aL
IBullehead ducks a22 sees eee Bucephala albeola___-__.-------- 1
American goldeneye duck_____----_- Bucephala clangula americana___ 1
(Baldpate ge ee ee eee Mareca americana___..-=—-==-=~- 10
FALCONIFORMES

Cathartidae:
ATIC Gans CONG Os ee ee VA OTU DNS 2 one anne nee 1
IGEN EVEN @ eee eee = 2 es meee et Sarcoramphus papa_------------ aft
IBlackayultites == ee Ooragyps atratus__..__...--.—.. 2
Hooded! vyultureés2234 == 2222522 22. Necrosyrtes monachus __-------~ if.
Griffon yulture= 22222 — === ee GYUDS fUlOus 2a oan eee nae 1
Ruppell’s vulture___._____________-_ GUDS nin Delliiesa se 3
TRUNK Ve IVUWICUTG 2s en nee Cathartes aura. 22-2 ee 8

Sagittariidae:
Secretanypind esta sss eee Sagittarius serpentarius_____-_- 2

Accipitridae :
African yellow-billed kite___________ Milwus migrans_____.===-=-=--.= 2
IBrahminy kitee.22 = = eee Haliastur indus_..-..__._._-. - 1
Black-faced hawk__.._.__.__..__....__~ Leucopternis melanops_____----~ 1
Red-winged hawk________________-_ Heterospizias meridionaligs__.___ 1
Red-tailed’ hawk! 2252 ssee ss Buteo jamaicensis_________----- 4
Red-shouldered hawk ___--___-_-___ BUCO” VUNCOUUS = 3 ae ee ee 2
Swainson’s hawk _-_______________ Buteo swainsoni_...___.._____-- al
Mauduyt’s hawk eagle______________ Spizactus ornatus_.___..-------— al
Long-crested hawk eagle________-___ Lophaétus occipitalis___._c-_--- 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT Lt

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Accipitridae—Continued
Great black» hawke=2-2-25 9 ---— Ictinaetus malayensis______--_--- at
Golden: eagl esee oe. aaa a ee Aquila chrysaetos_________.-.~— 8
Tmperial, earlier. = 2s) se seoe se Aquila. heliace== === 2
White-breasted sea eagle___-------- Haliaeetus lewcogaster_____----- 1
Pallasis enrlessess22 ne eeee eee a Haliaeetus leucoryphus___------ al
Bald! eagles = 222252 eeee se ese Haliaeetus leucocephalus_____---~ 2
Buzzard: eaglevo 222s. 4 a= Se ee Buteo poecilochrous______----~-- 1
Harpy, capler 22-28 2s ees ee este Horpia ROTpyj@=2--2s- eee 1
Guianan crested eagle_________----_- Morphnus guianensis_____------ al
Monkey-eating eagle-_____--------- Pithecophaga jefferyi__-__------- al
Martinlvenvle@s= 22." eet ee eee Polemaetus bellicosus________--- Al
iBateleur’ eagles] 222-2 see eS Terathopius ecaudatus____-----~ 7
Bearded. vultures... 22-2 see Gypactus barbatus_______.__-__- 1
Pandionidae:
American: OSPrey. 222-2 -2 eee = Pandion haliaetus carolinensis___ 2
Falconidae:
Sparrow, hawke-ossa-2--—s22-- == FiQUCO *SDOTUCTIUS aaa aa eee 3
Ducks hawks. tee eee Falco peregrinus anatum___----- al
Feilden’s faleconet___________.__-_~--. Neohierasx cinereiceps_______---- 1
Red-footed falcon, or crane hawk__-. Falco vespertinus___------------ elt
iarce-billed falcon===2==—22222" =. == Falco biarmicus._.___.___.--~~~- of:
MOTeSiiial CONS ewe a ae eee, Micrastur semitorquatus__------ 2
C@himane ost sees aa a ee Milvago chimango___.-~-------- 1
Chimachima hawk__._......-_.~_--. Milwago chimachima___--------- 2
Audubon’s caracara___..--_-___-... Polyborus cheriway------------- 2
White-throated caracara____-__----- Phalcoboenus albogularis____---- 2
GALLIFORMES
Megapodiidae:
Brushtturkey-—22232se2 6 se se Alectura lathami___.____----.-- 1
Cracidae:
Wattled> curassow.2---=--2s---5—-—— Oran gtobulosa_i—— = =-= 2-2. 2
@rested) curassOw= 22 = aa Cran WlectOTe eee 4
Nocturnal curassow--..--~---------. Nothocraa urumutum___-------- 1
White-headed piping guan____-_--_-~_- Pipile cumanensis._-—.--__-____ at
Phasianidae:
Bobwhitey or quaile 22-222 262 Colinus virginianus___.__-------- 1
Chuckariqualleas22-02= S222. 22-2 Alectoris o7raeca 2 == ee at
Gambel/siquall 2232) Lophortyx gambeli_________-_.- 2
Valley. qu ail see ae eater ee eee eee Lophortysz vallicola_____.___----- 6
Argus pheasantias=. 220223 fae, Argusianus argus_.____-.--_---__ 1
Golden pheasant__________--__--_-_-. Chrysolophus pictus____-------- 3
Red jungletowl sea ao as ee Gallus galis== = 22 ee 6
Black-backed kaleege pheasant___-~_~-. Gennaeus melanonotus__-_------- 2
Silver: pheasants sss 22-5 2 ese Gennaeus nycthemerus___------- ab
Peat owl beta ses oer woe e ele POUO CristQtusaeena 82 eee eee 7
Indian blue peacock..._____.-_-_—_- BOWO Cristatusseos sense ab
Ring-necked pheasant___---_------- Phasianus colchicus_._____._._--- 4
Ring-necked pheasant (albino)----~ Phasianus colchicus__._._.._____- 2
Ring-necked pheasant X_ green Phasianus colchicus X P. versi- a
pheasant, hybrid. color.
Bhutan, or gray peacock pheasant... Polyplectron bicalcaratum__----- 2

672-174 63——11
152  §ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Family and common name Scientific name Number

Numididae:

Vulturine guineafowlu2--= = sss-5 Acryllium vulturinum___-------- 3
Meleagrididae:

Ocellated turkey 2c. 22322 t shee Agriocharis iocetlata=—-2=22—e 2

Wild: turkeys 3522s ee eee Meleagris gatlopavo-=——--=_ —==_~ i

GRUIFORMES

Gruidae:

Sibertan (crane22 2222 ae a ees Grusteucogeranus] == al

Huropean ecranes2s 2-22 22=. = 2a GUUS OT US Se ee Sey ed ee el 2

Saris veranes 2) -22 22 ne es: Antigone antigone_________-_--- 2

African. crowned crane === Balearica pavonina___-_-_____. 5
Psophiidae:

Trumpeter scss.---= 26a. = ee Psophie. crepitans_=-—-.=—-_-=.- 2,
Rallidae:

@ayenne: wood! Taille 2 =e ee Aramides cajanea___-.---.-~.—- 2

Virciniay rails = ee Ratlus imicola__-_.___--_~------- 1

Purple vablinule 222 eee eee eee Ionornis martinica______..---~~- 2

White-breasted waterhen___________ Amaurornis phoenicurus________ 1

South Pacific swamp-hen_________-_- Porphyrio poliocephalus________ al
Kurypygidae:

Sune bittern=--- = ee eee Hurypyga helias___._._.c.._._..___ ab
Cariamidae:

Cariama, or Serigmas2= 2222 eee Cariama cristata__.____.....-_- il
Otididae:

Kori bustard 2 ea eee HUPOUOtWS hOM=== 2 ee a ne ea 2

Senegal bustanrd 22 3) Hupodotis senegalensis______---- 1

CHARADRIIFORMES

Jacanidae:

Common jacanas 222-2 a ae JOCOND SPIN08S@22 ee 3
Haematopodidae:

Oystercatcher=2222 22-22 ose eee Haematopus ostralegus__.______- 1
Charadriidae:

Australian banded plover______-_--__ LONG Cr Ti COlOt == 2. ee 2

Huropean lapwing. 22-525 22-2 22 Vanellus vanetlus— 2. =] 2 = 3

South American lapwing___________-_ Belonopierus cayennensis_______ 4

Crocodile bird] 222222 =e Pluvianus aegyptius_____._______ 16
Recurvirostridae:

Black-necked stilt 2-332 see Himantopus mexicanus____-___- al
Burhinidae:

South American thick-knee_________ Burhinus bistriatus____._--_-- 1
Stercorariidae:

MacOormick(s'skttdis. a) = a a ee Catharacta skua maccormicki___ 1
Laridae:

ing-pilled culls ee Larus delawarensis._____.__..-.-- 3

Kelp sulle a ee Larus dominicanus___..___..___~ 3

haughing oulln oe ee Se ee OPUS CUT == =2 2 = eee 3

Hering gulls 2252 ee DLOrus argentatus == ee 1

Great black-backed gull_____________ GOLUS NOTIN. ee eee 2

Silverge llisen 2 aera Larus novaehollandiae____--__- 6

Noddy tern2a22 =e ee AROUS StOUQUS= == ee ees Soe 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 153

COLUMBIFORMES
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Columbidae:
Band-tailed pigeon__._____.._______. COlWWmUGTaSCiCtd see 2
High-flying Budapest pigeon________. Columba tivig2 == ee alt
Black-billed pigeon_________________ Columba nigrirostris___.________ af
Triangular spotted pigeon__________. Columba guinea______._______» 2
Crowned} pigeons see 2 see eee eee Gotra victoriaq2o—— = 1
Blueigroundidovel=2== 22222 en =e: Claravis pretiosa__...__________ 4
Ruddy ground ‘dove = Chamaepelia rufipennis__..______ aL
Indian emerald-winged tree dove____- Chalcophaps indica__.___________ 8
Bleeding-heart dove________-----__- Gallicolumba luzonica___________ 1
Diamond GOvVe=. 2.22222 eee Geopelia cuneata___._____.______ 1
Plain-breasted ground dove___---_~_-. Columbigallina minuta__.._-____ 8
Ground doy eG2sesse =e 2 eee Columbigallina passerina_______~ 74
Ring-necked dove__-__--------------.- Streptopelia decaocto___________ 5
Blue-headed ring dove_____--------~-. Streptopelia tranquebarica______ Pe
White-winged dove_________-__-___- LENUCU ASC d 2 eee 1
RTOUEHIN OV esas Zenaidura macroura___--------- 1
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:

Keay parrot. 22s-5 22 Se tee Nestor notabilis______.__________ 2
ed @loryls)-24226c255 2 ee ee Domicella garrula____-___-_____ 1
Banksian .CcoCKatoo2s=-——— = — see Calyptorhynchus magnificus_____ 1
Wihitescockatoot=22225 25 = aaa sae Kakatoe alba_______.___.________ al
Solomon Islands cockatoo_____---_--~ Kakatoe ducrops.___._._..._____- 1
Sulphur-crested cockatoo________-_- Kakatoe galerita__._.____.________ 3
Bare-eyed cockatoo___._____-______~ Kakatoe sanguinea____--_______ 3
Great red-crested cockatoo________-- Kakatoe moluccensis____________ 1
Leadbeater’s cockatoo______---___-- Kakatoe leadbeateri____________ 6
COcKatiels eae wae mens EE Ee ee ee Nymphicus hollandicus__._______ 6
Yellow-and-blue macaw ____----__--~ ATG OfGUTQUNG= 2222 ee 5
Red-and-blue macaw. --_________- Ara chloroptera___.___________.— 4
Red-blue-and-yellow macaw___----_- Al LTTE COO eee ee 2
livers: MacdWoo2 a2 oe ARG MOTO CONG = aaa 2
Brown-throated conure_____________ Conurus aeruginosus___________ 11
Yellow conure2222 222222 Conurus solstitialis____.________ 1
Petz/s parakeets ses) eles ok Be Aratinga canicularis____________ 2
Rusty-cheeked parrot_.______________ Aratinga pertinag____._.._.______ 2
Tova “parakeet se ee ee Brotogeris jugularis____________ 1
Yellow-naped parrot_.____-__________ Amazona auropalliata__________ 2
IinSCh’s Parrots sose ease Amazona finschi._.________.______ 1
Blue-fronted parrot___.___.__________ Amazona aestiva__._..tt.______ 5
Red-fronted parrot_______.__._______ Amazona bodini_____.___________ 1
Double yellow-headed parrot________ Amazona oratrig_________.______ 4
Black-headed, or Nanday, parrot____. Nandayus nanday_--_----______ 7
Lineolated parakeet___._._._________ Bolborhynchus lineolatus_______ 2
White-winged parakeet____________ Brotogeris versicolorus________- 1
Atri CANT erayspALTO t=. eae ee es Psittacus erithacus___._._.________ +f
Blossom-headed parakeet___________ Psittacula cyanocephala____-___ 9
Greater ring-necked parakeet______~ Psittacula eupatria___._c.______ 2
Rose-breasted parakeet_____________ Psittacula alexrandri____________ 1
Moustached parakeet__..._.________ Psittacula fasciata_______..____ at
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Psittacidae—Continued
Lesser ring-necked parakeet___--__~ Psittacula krameri._.___.~-.==.= 4
Barraband’s parakeet___--__.-_-_-. Polytelis swainsoni_______--_~~. Al
Quaker parakeet.—- == 222-5 =e aes Myiopsitta monacha__---------- 15
Grass: parakeet==-— 2 a2 s_ eee ee Melopsittacus undulatus_--_---- 4
Rosy-faced lovebird__-_-_-----_-_-_ Agapornis roseicollis________._._— 2
Masked lovebird.._._._.____-_____-___.. Agapornis personata_________--~ 1
Black-headed caique, or seven-color
DOTTO tan es ee ee eee Pionites melanocephala____----- 2
Yellow-thighed caique________-_---- Pionites leucogaster canthomeria_ 1
CUCULIFORMES
Musophagidae:
Purple-headed turaco______-------- Gallirex porphyreolophus___---- al
south African turaco..=-2=—-_=--_ = Tauraco corythaig_______-.--~—. 1
White-bellied go-away bird_------- Corythaixoides leucogaster_____ at
Pilantaim-eater =o ee 22 see eee Crinifer africanus====-2— al
Cuculidae:
{01 =) cee ee nen ea ew ek cae ck OD pe Hudynamys scolopacea_____--.-. 1
IROAGTUNN GT = 8s eee Geococcyx californianus___----- 2
Coucal, or crow-pheasant__________ Centropus sinensis___.__._.c---.._ 1
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Barny Owl see. 23 See eee See es UC OR GUO Ce ne ne eee 2
Strigidae:
Greathorned owls a Budo virginianus_________---.-- 2
Sereech! Owls ee. 2 ses OLUS? C810 eee ee 3
Spectacled owl___________-_-_________ Pulsatriz perspicillata..______._- 1
Malay fishing owl. 2 Ketupa ketupwi = 1
Snowy owl2u-._. 22.2 2 en NY CLEG NY ClLEG = eee 4
IBATred (0 Wile ess. ae Strig varia varia... === 9
Burrowing owl___________.__..__.__- Speotyto cunicularia hypugaea__ 2
Nepal brown wood owl___-_-__--___ Strivw newarensis__..__-~=--<-—~ 1
SHOrE-eCaned) Owls a= ee ee ASiO lUNMMECUNSa none nee eee 2
COLIIFORMES
Coliidae:
MOUSebDITC 2222 22a eee so Sew eee eee Colts striatus__--= = ae al
TROGONIFORMES
Trogonidae:
Cuban strogon sso. ee eee Priotelus temnurus__._._._._._..—~
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
Kookaburra 2282-22 = 2S ae Naceloagigas==—- = eee 13
Coraciidae:
Lilac-breasted roller________________ Coracias caudate... 2
Indianiroler=== 225 Sa eee ee Coracias benghalensis________--_ 2
Bucerotidae:
Ried shornbillee2 = 2a 2a ee Anthracoceros malabaricus______ i
Concave-casqued hornbill___________ BUCET OS (O1COTNIG§= === nee 1
Abyssinian ground hornbill____._____ Bucorvus abyssinicus.__..__.__...— 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT 155

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Bucerotidae—Continued
Headbeater’sihornbille—s-- === Bucorvus lteadbveateri____.._____ 1
Grayshormbili= == see ee ess Tockus birostris-.-—----— === 1
Great black-casgued hornbill________ Ceratogymna atrata____________ al
Maloyamhorn bill sees eee se AIGCTOS UNQUIGIUS =e ne 1
Crowned hornpille esses eee ee Tockus alboterminatus__________ 1
Yellow-billed hornbill______________- Tockus fiavirostris___._________— 1
PICIFORMES
Capitonidae:
ASiaticereat DATLDeb=s2 === =a ose. Megalaima virens_______________ al
Crimson-breasted, or coppersmith,
| OFS el 8) pees epe ere Re eta aa een ee ee OEE Megalaima haemacephala_______ al
Moucan Darbetse sone sss ee ae feo Semnornis ramphastinus_..-____ 1
Ramphastidae:
Keel-billed toucan__________________ Ramphastos culminatus_________ 2
Sulphur-and-white-breasted toucan_._ Ramphastos vitellinus__________ 1
PATS VCO Gel Tiere ee noes ose ereh es Beat ee Ramphastos ariel___._.__-________- 4
Cuvier Stoucane =) 2) = ee Ramphastos cuvieri_____-__-_-_-- 2
Razor-billed toucanet_______________ Pteroglossus castanotis____._____ 2
Picidae:
Golden-backed woodpecker_____--_-_ Brachypternus benghalensis_____ 2
PASSERIFORMES
Tyrannidae:
Kiskadeefiyeatehers 222 = sae a= Pitangus sulphuratus____-__--_- 4
Acadian fly catchers. = 2. 22a = sae Hmpidonan virescens_____-_--__ 2
Hasternmicnebind= 2222s oe Tyrannus tyrannus___....._..___ al
Pittidae:
indvani pitta. a ee eee iti@ ULOChYUL One ee cf
Alaudidae:
VOT CON AT Ke. ee ee ee Hremophila alpestris____________ Fe
Corvidae:
Male iChat eae ee ee ee (PACU CGS oe oe ee ee eee 4
Yellow-billed magpie_______________- ALCO TULL ee ee a
IAS Tat Cr URCO Up Geese a = ee ee ee ee Crypsirina formosae_____-______ 2
Magpies faye a eee seen Calocitta formosa_____----____-_ 1
IBC R Bye ta ee ee et ae, eee Cyanocitta cristata_____________ a
HULOP CAG Ay. eee ee ees Garrulus glandarius____________ Pe
African white-necked crow__________. COnVUSTOLDUS= = 2 aa 2
American crow --.--=-=- ae ee Corvus brachyrhynchos_________ 3
d B02 Th (5) 0 Se ee ane a Sl a eed ae COPUUS"COnDD = = a eee 2
InGiam Crow= se. 2 ees ak ee Corvus splendens__...___.__.____ al
Formosan red-billed pie_____________ Cisse: 7CGenulege 2s ane eee 5
Occipitaliblue piesa eee Cisse occipitalis_-_ = = at
Chinese cissa, or hunting crow______ OissaxGhinensisese = ee 3
EN CAG diya eee AB ee a ee Xanthoura ynoas________-___-__- 1
Paridae:
GED CL Gee ae en ea a POnUS AO) OF 2 ee 1
Green=backedtit= 2 es ee Parus monticoltus_._.__-___--..- i
Putted titmouses 22222 ee IROTUSDLCOLOT ae ee 1
Sittidae:
Chestnut-bellied nuthatch___________ SULlGRCOStAN Gaon as nee ee 1
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Timaliidae:
Red-eyed:babbler==_ 2s = Chrysomma sinense__-----------~ 4
Scimitar babbler.1. ==) = 2 ess Pomatorhinus schisticeps—-------- Z
White-crested laughing thrush_--_--- Garrulag bicolor___.___.___..--- 4
Black-headed sibia-—-_=-2-==-=< "ao Heterophasia capistrata__-_----~ 2
Silver-eared Mesid—-22—- aos. eos—— Mesia argentauris_-.__- > =~ 3
Pekin TrObiM= 222 aan eee TiCLOLNII@ UULCUs aa ae ee 9
@restedsyuhinas= == seen eee Yuhina flavicoltis____=—=--==-— —— 2
Pycnonotidae:
Red-earted bulbwl=—- 22 == 2 == 22 Pycnonotus jocosugs___________ 1
Black-headed’ bulbul-2222—==-=2 2-2 = Pycnonotus atriceps_..-__-~.... 3
Red-vented: Dulbul=-s——-——= + - == Pycnonotus. cafer.—_ 2 2 5
White-cheeked bulbul --------------- Pycnonotus leucogenys___--_-___ 5
White-eared bulbul_____-______----- Pycnonotus leucotis___._cct____ al
Mimidae:
Mockingbird 2-222-222-0222 Mimus polygtottos.__._._.._______ 1
Cathird = nee ee ee ee ce Dumetella carolinensis______-_-_ 3
Turdidae:
Wood thrush = 22=2 2222s eee Hylocichla mustelina_______--__ 20
Robin: A(albino)\2=—— 4 S23 ae ee ee Turdus migratorius_________.--~-~ a
Huropean song thrush=2-=-—- 2. =22-= Turdus ericetorum.__.__-=--=--- 2
BlackDind seta ee eae Turdus merul@. oa 2
Cliffe chat 2-222 = 3 ee ee ea k Thamnolaea cinnamomeiventris— 1
White-capped redstart_____-_-____---~ Chaimarrhornis leucocephalus___ 1
Muscicapidae :
Veriter flycatcher —2—=—- 222222 2s Muscicapa thalassina____-_-----~ 1
Bombycillidae:
Cedar waxwing. 2-22-2222. 22s Bombycilla cedrorum____-------~ Ps
Sturnidae:
Rose-colored pastor=—= 2-22 es Pastor roseus__.._____________— 1
Purple sstarling 22s aes eee Lamprocolius purpureus________ 3
Burchell’s long-tailed starling____-_~ Lamprotornis caudatus_________ al
Amethyst starling-====—=5—- 2-3 = Cinnyricinclus leucogaster_____~ 1
Tri-colored starling===---=-=~-22-2— Spreo superbusa- = 1
Starlings == = aes ee ee oe eee Sturnus vulgaris._-..-- £228 2
Jungle, Miynah = Ss Acridotheres tristigs__........__~ ab
Lesser hillmynanhss2-22 = 2S 2e2 Gracula religiosa indica_________ 3
Greater Indian hill mynah______-~_~ Gracula religiosa intermedia____ 2
Nectariniidae:
Searlet-chested sunbird______-___--_ Chalcomitra rubescens____--___-- 1
Variable: sunbind 2222222 = eS eee Cinnyris venustus raceis_____--_ 2
Scarlet-tufted malachite sunbird_____ Nectarinia johnstoni________-__- 2
Beautitulesubbind 222222". 2 22 ee Nectarinia pulchella___._-__.____-- 1
Purple; sunbird= =" a — =2 2222 eee Nectarinia asiatica_______-----_ J
Tecasse “sunbird =. 2222 Ss Se Nectarinia tacazze___________-_- a:
Zosteropidae :
White-eye@y S22 2 eee Zosterops palpebrosa_________-- 6
Vireonidae:
Red-evyedvvined--=2- 2s bee Vireo olwacews- 22 ee all
Chloropseidae:

Blue-winged fruit-sucker_____.___--~ Chloropsis hardwickei_______--- 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT Laz.

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Coerebidae:
Black-headed sugarbird___--------- Chlorophanes: spiza@-_-_-_---___- 2
PULP eeSUSAE DIO se ee Cyanerpes coerulea_.______--_--_ 4
Blue, or yellow-winged, sugarbird___ Cyanerpes cyaneus___---------- 1
Bananaguityes 2. seta Coereba flaveola____-_-~_—--==--— al
Parulidae:
Kentucky warblerz== 2-2-2 Oporornis formosus_____---_--- 1
RCGSTAG TS ee oa ee eee ee Setophaga ruticilla___.__________- it
Ovenbind, oe 2222— eee ee ee eS Seiurus aurocapillus_______-____ 2
Ploceidae:
Red-naped widowbird______________ Coliuspasser laticauda__._______ 10
Giant. whydah2=- = 222525 eee Diathropura procne.______---~~ 1
IBAY.a “WeAVeDie soo. oe es RIGCCUSE OGY C22 ee ne eee eee 3
Vitelline masked weaver____________ Ploceus vitellimus______..__.---= i)
Mahali-weavero2. 2 es Ploceipasser mahali_.___._____-- al
Red bishop weaver___--____________ HUDLCCtES 10M ens2= 2a ae il
White-headed nun_________________ LOnchura Maja__ = 4
indian. Silverhill 6) ses se. Lonchura malabarica___________ i!
Bengalese: finch] -=s = Sse LONCHUNG ‘Spe a2 2 ee ee 6
Cut-throat weaver finch___________- Amadina fasciata_________.~--- 2
maven Ger. tn Che re See Se ee Estrilda coerulescens_____-__--- 2
Strawberry finch = 22 eee ee Estrilda amandava__—___--_---~ il
Red-eared waxbill_________________ HStTALA@ GS = 1
Common waxbll=22 = -22a2 eae Estrilda troglodytes_________--- aE
ACO asin Chr a Se et ee Poephila castanotis___________-- 10
Gouldian finch s 22222 a ee Poephila gouldiae__.________.-- aft
Javan SPALL OW oe = ee Padda oryzgivora_______________ 13
Icteridae:
Yellow-headed marshbird___________ Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus— a
Nice teri ckleses=s esos ane ae Psomocolag oryzivora___-------- 1
Purple.grackles 222. ane ee Quiscalus quiscula____________- 4
Swainson’s grackle_________________ Holoquiscalus lugubris_____---- 1
Boat-tailed grackle_________________ Megaquiscalus major.____-_--_- 1
GIOSSys COWDITG 2 Molothrus bonariensis__________ 2
Brown-headed cowbird_____________. MOlLOthTUS: GleT ea eee 2
IBayuCOW DITO a oe oes ee See Motlothrus tdadiusi2s = Ye
Colombian red-eyed cowbird_________ Tangavius armenti_____.___.__._- 1
Red-winged blackbird______________. Agelaius phoeniceus___..__._--- 4
Red-breasted marshbird____________- Leistes: militaris..-—.-.-2-—- = 8
Thraupidae:
Balm tans cepa sak eee ee Tanagra palmarum____-----_--- al
Bluestanasers2 = Seer al. Ser See ae URTOUDIS: CONDsS= 22 oe ee 2
White-edged tanager_______________ Thraunis teucoptera=__—- =>" = 2
Yellow-rumped tanager_____________ Ramphocelus icteronotus____-__-_ al
Passerini’s; tanager = ae Ramphocelus passerinii______-_- 1
Maroon, or silver-beaked, tanager____ Ramphocelus jacapa_______-_--_ 3
Scarlet tanagepea seco ee Piranga olivacea_________--_--- 5
Redband eens seue hee ered SE Pirtng@ rubra 2=222=-= ee al
Fringillidae:
Tropical«seed tinchs=22 2 Oryzoborus angpiensis___------- 3
RICCRETOSbCaleaeee eee eee ee Oryzoborus crassirostris___------ BI

HVening 2rOsbeakss22. ae eee, Hesperiphona vespertina___---- 3
158

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Fringillidae—Continued
Black-throated cardinal_____-___-_-- ‘POLO Qulariszo2= = 222 5
Black-eared cardinal_____--_--_----. Paroaria gularis nigro-_____----~ Lt
Cardinal. --—- 222552252 eee eee Richmondena cardinalis___----- 3
Huropean linnet..—— 2-22 esse Carduelis cannabina___-_-----~- 4
European goldfinch=—_——_=—---_-_==- Carduelis carduelis__________... 3
European goldfinch X canary (hy- Carduelis carduelis X Serinus 1
brid). canarius.
Canary: 2222222 2S eee Nerinus. Canariuss2 22222 eee 2
Green inch] 2s ne eee a ees Chloris Chlopisse a2 aon eee il
Thesser yellow finech2=s2- 222-252-2222 Sicaus UULéOlt eee D,
Saffron: inchs 22.2 = saan eee ee Sicdlis lave0lte 222s ee 5
Wihite-lined finch 22222-22222 =— Spermophila lineola_._____.__..- 5
European bullfinch-==2-----=-=-=— Pyrrhula pyrrhula_____.____.--_ al
Melodious grassquit=—=—=—=-—=-—-==- TAQri8 (CONOTW==2= 53 eee ee al
@hafiinch sea eee ee Eringiug Co cleus 22 = ae 1
Slate-colored JjJunco_.2-=22=.=2.-=-=- JUNCO NYCMANS == a ee al
Buff-throated saltator.__.-_...--.—— Saliator maximus___._.-s_-____ 1
Tawny-bellied seedeater______------ Sporophila minuta___-____------- 9
Sono Sparrow nassse oe eee Melospiza melodia________..-.-- 1
IDICkGISSCly See aa ee ee ee SpiZ@ (NemMeanGsa = ee 5
White-throated sparrow_-----~------ Zonotrichia albicollis___.________ al
White-crowned sparrow------------ Zonotrichia leucophrys___----_-- 2
Yellowhammenrss =) ea ae ae Hmberiza citrinetla.__._........ 1
Huropean: bunting=—==2)22-- = aae Hmberiza calandra_____-_------- 2
AVAGATAN etn Chee eee eee ee Volatinia jacarini___..__.___..... 5
REPTILES
LORICATA
Alligatoridae:
Cain ane ee re ae ere ee Caiman sclerops________.______ 3
Bsc nhl) ae ee a Melanosuchus niger___.._..._~— 8
American alligatore. sos ee eee Alligator mississipiensis__.__.__- 16
Chinese alligator=.=-2-2 2222 ose, Alligator sinensis=—_ 2
Crocodilidae:
Broad-nosed crocodile____-____------- Osteolaemus tetraspis_______-_-- 2
African crocodilés=_ 2-22-25 soa Crocodylus niloticus.___._._._.._..._ 8
Narrow-nosed crocodile____________-. Crocodylus cataphractus_____--- af
Salt-water crocodile__.____-_..-—-~-- Crocodylus porosus_____------~~ 1
American crocodile__________---_~-_-. Orocodylus acutus.__..-2— oa al
Gavialidae:
MCT A hal ee ee re Gavialis gangeticus____=--=+--_— al
CHELONIA
Chelydridae:
Snapping turtles 2223-3 = ee eee, Chelydra serpentina____._.__-___~ 20
Alligator snapping turtle____________ Macrochelys temminckii___------ BE
Kinosternidae:
Muskiturtles 222 22s ae oe ee Sternotherus odoratus__-_----~- 4
Mud turtles 2 22 ose es eee Kinosternon subrubrum_____---- 5
South American mud turtle_________- Kinosternon creuntatum__------ 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 159

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Emydidae:
BOR CUTE] Ome wees Pa See eT Terrapene= COnOUNTa 22 sas ee 91
Three-toed. box turtles-2 22 es Terrapene carolina_.__--_______ 2
Ornate box turtles 2 sa Terrapene ornata_.—---_--______ at
Mioridaibox turtles =-2 Terrapene Oduri_= 222 ee 5
Kurawikura boxturtles._= 22222-2522. Cuora amboinensis_____________ 2
Diamondback turtles====-— = === = Malaciemys terrapin..__._________ 4
Mapeturtier 2) 2252. S20 eae: Graptemys geographica_________ 2
Halseumnap turtles: 2-222 = Sane Graptemys pseudogeographica___ 74
iBarbours map turtles --==" 2-2 Graptemys barbouri____________ 4
Painteditintlesas=-. ee eae Chrysemys picta_.__..__..-_____ 10
Western painted turtle______________ Chrysemys picta belii___________ 13
Cumberland turtle__________________ Pseudemys scripta troostii__.____ iz
South American red-lined turtle______ Pseudemys scripta callirostris___ Ps
Yellow-bellied turtle________________ Pseudemys scripta scripta_______ 15
Red-bellied turtless=——=-— = Pseudemys rubriventris_________ 9
Red-eared turtle==- 2 == 2 Pseudemys scripta elegans______ 34
Southern water turtle_____-____-_-__- Pseudemys floridana________-___ ih
Florida red-bellied turtle____________ Pseudemys nelsoni_____________ 2
Central American turtle____________- Pseudemys ornata____-_________ 2
Cubaniwater turtles. 2-22 = fee Pseudemys decussata____.______ 1
@hickentjuntles=—= 2322s ee eee Deirochelys reticularia__________ 2
Spottedsturtlese=2- 22a = eee Clemmys guttala__._____________ 3
Woods Curtle S22 a8 Se ea Se Clemmys insculpta_______-_-_____ 5
Iberian’ pond turtle2—=——_-=2-- =. Clemmys leprosa____.___-_______ 2
Huropean water terrapin___-_-_____~- Clemmys caspica rivulaia_______ 14
Huropean pond turtle___—_ = -__ =... Emys orbicularigs____._._..._..-___ 3
Blandinge’s turtles 2222 2=s5 2222 =e Emys blandingii___._.__.._-_.______ 2
Reeves Turtle 22 2-5 oe eae Chinemys reevesit.__.____________ 4
Testudinidae:
Giant Aldabra tortoise_________----~ Testudo elephantina_____--____-_ 7)
Galapagos: tortoise_=22——2-— =.=. Testudo. vicima__..--._-. -_ = 2
Duncan Island tortoise-__________--_ Testudo ephippium_____________ 2
South American tortoise_______--_-- Testudo denticulata_..__.______ 5
Saye LOLLOISC sae ee ee Testudo elegans________________ a
Huropean tortoise______________-_-_ = UCSUULO OT OCCU 2 a. eee il
Mountainitortoise= 22-2222 2-2-2. Testudo emys_.__-_.__-_________ Z
Texas gopher tortoise____________-- Gopherus berlandieri___________ Ye
Pelomedusidae:
African water turtless2-2- 22-2225 = Pelomedusa subrufa__-_--______ 2
African black mud turtle______-___- Pelusios nigricans________..-___ 1
Amazon spotted turtle-__-__-_________ Podocnemis unifilig____.___--____ 2
Chelydidae:
South American side-necked turtle_. Batrachemys nasuta____________ 2
Australian side-necked turtle_______ Chelodina longicollis___________ 3
Small side-necked turtle____________ Hydromedusa_ tectifera_________ 2
Large side-necked turtle____________ PRIYNODS MATa ee 8
Kremes, tUEt els eee ae hee ee Hmydura krefitis. 22 3
MULTE ye GUT th) Cesare eee eee Sone Himydura macquarrii______-____ 3
South American gibba turtle________ Mesociemmys gibba_____________ 2
Flat-headed turtle_________-_______ Platemys platycephala_________- 3
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Trionychidae:
Southern soft-shelled turtle-_------- TOnYO fOLOUa==222= a ae 4
Texas soft-shelled turtle_______-_---- Trionyo emoryt._..2-=-2=2— 5220. 1
African soft-shelled turtle-__------- Trionya triunguis.______._.~---- 2
SAURIA
Gekkonidae:
Giant. gecko22a2. 222 Aas SS Gekko stentor-2- = ee 1
Tokaye LeCkOssa == ae ae eee Gekiso 10 6Ch0 222232 eee 20
Day .geck0_=2- 220 a Phelsuma cepedianum__-------- 3
Day. ceckos222 2222 ee ee (PRCISUING SDs eee eee 2
Iguanidae:
G@ommomnigianaoa = eee iguana igquana_______-__-_. = __ 1
Caroling’ anoles. 22a == ss 7 eae Anolis carolinensis__________ ~~ 50
Mexas horned lizards. == sna Phrynosoma cornutum_____----- 10
WencesliZang. = 2222 ee ee Sceloporus undulatus_________--~ 2
Texas spiny lizards. 2222 ==2s2— Sceloporus olivaceus__-----_---- 2
Crevice spiny lizard22=-=- === =2s22"= Sceloporus poinsetti________--_- 3
Cuban spiny Jizard2--- == = Se = Leiocephalus varius___-_------- 2
Collared) lizards. 222 22222225 Crotaphytus collaris_______--___- 3
Spiny-tailed iguana_____________-__ Ctenosaura acanthura_____----- 3
AMCIVG f.2aT G2. == == ees Sie eS Ameiva ameiva ameiva_____-----~ 6
Ameya. NZatG= 22 ee eee ee Ameiva ameiva praesignis_____-- al
Agamid: lizard <=. ee = eae Hoplurus savicola_______...—~-~- 2
Chuckwalia. === ee eee Sauromalus hispidus_-__--------- 1
Scincidae:
Mourning skink=2--==22--===" 2222 Hgernia. tuctuosa-...-...-.-- = 2
Wihites: skink= 2252222222222) 5 Egernia whitei_____-_.___-_-__-_- 4
Shirt-lined 'skink=:22 2222033 Humeces brevilineatus________-- 5
Greater five-lined skink-___________ Humeces fasciatus......_.=---== al
Great elaimns skinke= =< 222s == Eumeces obsoletus___-__--_-_-_~ Pe
Broad-headed skink______-----___-- Humeces taticeps—a-==---2== == aL:
Sand skink 232 eee Scinus officinaligs_.__..ccu__._._ 2
Stump-tailed skink______.__________ TiVQuarvuUgos@ 222s ee 1
Malayan skink- —— =) 2 2 = 22S eee Mabuya multifasciata__-------- 2
Gerrhosauridae:
African plated lizard____.<...______-. ZONOSQUTUS SPoeke2 sana e oe ee es 2
Madagascar plated lizard___________ Zonosaurus madagascariensis___ 3
Bronze plated lizard2=2-222-222—- = Zonosaurus aeneus.__.________—_. a
Piated: lizard==_ 2222523 s ee ee Gerrhosaurus major ___--------~-~ al
Plated lizard 2222 ee eee Gerrhosaurus validus_____------ 2
Lacertidae:
European green lizard_____________- TGQCChIG OUTS ee ee 9
European green lizard______________ Lacerta strigata trilineata__-_-~ 8
Teiidae:
Nellow Cou 2222s 6 oe eh eee ee, Tupinambis teguevin____-_____-- 4
UA COMMUN GI otras Se nee eee ae Cnemidophorus sacki gularis___- di
Reid wizard5-= == 22 eee ee Cnemidophorus sp_——______----~ 3
Cordylidae:
South African spiny lizard__________ Cordylus vandami perkoensis__.. 2,
Varanidae:
Dumeril’s monitor.i22~ 5-2 = ee Veranus: dumerilizca==-- == 22S 2

Indian monitors. ee Varanus flavescens2-22-— === ==
SECRETARY’S REPORT

161

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Varanidae—Continued
Malayansmonitori== 222252 S222 2 =. VQranus SQlvatorz sas eae 1
Philippine: monitor == 222 = Varanus nuchalis_______-------. 4
Helodermatidae:
Gilamonster 2 a ee See ee Heloderma suspectum_____------ 1
Mexican beaded lizard__________--_-~ Heloderma horridum___-------- 1
Beaded lizard (black phase) ~-------. Heloderma horridum alwernensis— al
Anguidae:
Glassihizardis 25 2222S Sees ee Ophisaurus ventralis_________.— 3
Huropean glass lizard_--_-____-_--___- Ophisaurus apodus_________---- 2
SERPENTES
Boidae:
ANACONDA = Sees = ee ee Ce ee Hunectes murinus..__.___-.--—._~ 1
Cooksitree b0a=2= ==24 = Boa enydris cooki_____._______-_ 5
Hmeraldstree: boda sss n= n— eee DS OGCOMNAS eae ees 2
1S OS CON'S EI CHO Tena ees eee Constrictor constrictor__________ 2
HIMPCLOn ) Oia ess a Sea Constrictor imperator_______---- 1
Cuban) sroun Gd DORs =n nee nee Tropidophis melanura___------- 1
EVEL O WO Be ee a Hpicrates CONChTiG2= === = 3
Cubanitree boa] =— se === eee Epicrates angulifer___._________— 3
Sangh Oana =o een ec eee FY O CONICW 2a eee al
IB spy. tNO Ne eo oe ae SS IPULN OTC OULS =a ae ee 2
Indian sock pythons.. 22. 22 esas Python molurus__..__...._._..— 2
Regalepythone 2-2-2. 2 eee eee Python reticulatus_______-___.-= 5
Acrochordidae:
Hiephant trunk snake___.___________ Acrochordus javanicus______---~ 1
Colubridae:
GET ST) Dc ot meee ea a een eee Se Lampropeltis getulus getulus___- al
Speckled king snake________________ Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki__ 3
California king snake______________ Lampropeltis getulus californiae— 1
Hlorida king snake. 2-2-2 ee Lampropeltis getulus floridana_— 1
Sonoran kine snake 22222 22 2s Lampropeltis getulus splendida__ 3
Scarlet king snake___._____________ Lampropeltis triangulum doliata— 1
IMG SNaK@ = serutren sive ee Lampropeltis triangulum___----- al
Tropical kang snakes2. = #225 2s eae: Lampropeltis polyzonus____--__-~ a
Garterisnakess 22225. oe ee ee Thamnophis sirtalis sirtaligs_____ 2
Garter snake (melanistic phase) _____ Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis____- 2
Black-necked garter snake__________. Thamnophis cyrtopsis ocellata___ al
Ribbonrenakess =] se eee Thamnophis sauritus___..---_-_ 1
Western hognose snake____-________ Heterodon nasicus__=.---_.__- 1
IW abe Sak Giessen ee ee Se INGETIS SUD COON ase ee eee 2
Red-bellied water snake____________. Natrix erythrogaster___________ 1
Island: water snakec2 222 2e asses Natriz insularum______-._----.-- 2
European grass snake______________. Natriz natrig natrig________---- +f
HKuropean water snake______________ Natrnie natrig nersa_..-- = 2
Brazos water snake________________. INGUIN OINORL Ch Soe eee ne 2
VW Vitteresn a kes 2. eee eae Natriz harteri paucimaculata____ 2
Diamondback water snake_________-. Natrig rhombifera— 2 af
Tessellated water snake___________~_- INGEGtC CCSSCUCLO == 4
Tessellated water snake (green WNatrixv tesscllata__________----- 2
phase).

Queentsnakesa i Shier eee ee Natriz septemvittata____________

ay
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Colubridae—Continued
Indivorsnaker 222 ee Drymarchon couperi___--------- if!
Pilot black snake =... —--22=_-2 22-25. Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta__------ 3
Pilot biack snake (albino) ~---------. Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta___----- 1
@orn snakes 22222 _ 2652 Se See ee. Hlaphe obsoleta guttata____----- 2
Wox snakes=* 4-2 ee a Hlaphe vilpingj.-=--- = 2 2
Asiatic rat snakes.2 25 2s Sates Blaphe taenvirasa=—----_--22- + 2
Lindheimer’s rat snake__-__-____----. Elaphe lindheimeri_____-___----- i
Great Plains rat snake_________-__~- ElANVECMOTY tz 2222s ae 2
Chicken snakes see s2 Seas aaa Elaphe quadrivittata_______---- Be
Aesculapian snake---____-__-------. Elaphe longissima subgrisea___- 16
Mormosan rat snakes2==—-2--=_ === Dinodon rufozonatum___-~------ 4
Oshima rat snake=22- 2 === esa ZGOCYS OSNIMGtaa2 ae ee 1
Cat-eved nnnke oe ee eee Leptodeira annulata_________--- al
Black raCere 2s eee ee a ae Coluber constrictor constrictor___ afi
HUROpedn ta Cet === eae Coluber jugularis caspius_____--~ 2
European racer (melanistic phase)_ Coluber viridiflavus_____-------- 1
Cd Ta CeP ia. ene ae eae Masticophis flagellum frenatum_ 1
Western coachwhip==— "== ==- == Masticophis flagellum testaceus__ 3
Rime-necked snake-=="-=222 2 2== 225. Diadophis punctatus edwardsii__ 1
Lesser Indian rat snake_--------~~- Elaphe carinata_____.-...--=.~- 9
astern worm snakeo=--2--— === Carphophis amoenus_____-___---~ Hk
DMekay's snakes s=.-- 222s Sea seee Storeria dekayt__.__-- fl
Rough green Ssnuake 222 = = 2227S ==2 Opheodrys aestivus______._____-- 2
Green whip snakel= 2242.22. Ss Dryophis prasinus_____—..______- 1
Bull snakes see a eee Pituophis catenifer sayi_____---- Pe
Great Basin gopher snake__-------- Pituophis catenifer deserticola___ 1
Greater Indian rat snake__--------.- PUYUS) MUCOSUS so oa ene 4
Huropean malpolon2=— = 2222—22-—- Malpolon monspessulanus___--- 2
Wiet sna Ke. 08 ee eee De ee Simocephalus capensis_____--_-~ al
Wolfisnakese:= 2222 2 8 ee Lycodon flavomaculatus____-___- aft
Tantilla*snalke-222 7222 522 SSS Tantitla graciltis_____---_____-__ 2
Texas long-nosed snake__------_--_-.- Rhinocheilus lecontei tessellatus_ 2
Formosan green snake___-_--_------. Liopeltis major_.-._..__._-._--- 2
@at-eyed) snake=2_ 2.2262 Hteirodipsas sp..______._.._-..---- 1
Green-headed tree snake___----_--~-- Leptophis mewxicanus___--___--_- 1
Elapidae:
IN GTAMCODRA = ne ee NIC] Os AY] (ere ee ens are aft
Maiwan Cobras] 22-22 s oe IN OFONG OC OV Wane samen i Pe
King’ cobrans.2222.-4-2=2-22sss2 = Ophiophagus hannah__--------- ye
Many-banded krait.-__._--__--==_-=--. Bungarus multicinctus____------ 10
Crotalidae:
Southern copperhead__---------~---_ Ancistrodon contortrix contor- 1
triz.
Northern copperhead_____________--. Ancistrodon contortriz mokeson__ 4
Western broad-banded copperhead___. Ancistrodon contortriz laticinctus Pe
Water moccasin, or cottonmouth__-_-_-. Ancistrodon piscivorus___-_------~ 2
Asianisnorkel Vipen=<2=-22 5225-25 =— Ancistrodon acutws_._._-_-__=__~ af
Green palm vyiper-—— =. 2-= == =32 2225, Trimeresurus gramineus___----- 29
Stejneger’s palm viper____________-_-. Trimeresurus stejnegeri_____---- 3
Mamushi, or Asiatic viper________-~_-. Trimeresurus elegans_______---- 1
Habu, or Asiatic viper__-_----=__--_. Trimeresurus flavoviridis_____-- 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT

163

Family and common name Scientific name Number

Crotalidae—Continued

ea Wee Ey ab) ee eee ee et Trimeresurus okinavensis_______ 4

Western diamondback rattlesnake____ Crotalus atro~___._____________ 13

Timberrattlesnakesas= = 22 eee Sas, Crotalus horridus___.___.________ 5

Canebrake rattlesnake______________. Crotalus atricaudatus__________ 1
Viperidae:

Gaboon Vipers. 22 ee Bitis gabonica_._________________ 2

HKuropean viper (melanistic phase)_--. Vipera berus_______________ | a

HUrOpeaAn Viper oo ee ee Vipera ammodytes meridionalis__ al

Huropean viper___.____.---__._.__.__ Vipera ammodytes montandoni__ 2

HUTODeCAn VID ers 2-s= eeees es eee Vipera ammodytes ammodytes___ 2

Russell's viperss eae. eee Vipera russellti_.____.__________ 2

AMPHIBIANS
CAUDATA

Amphiumidae:

Wongormeelize ts aoe Amphiwma means______________ 1
Ambystomidae:

Spotted salamander________________ Ambystoma maculatum_________ 1
Salamandridae:

Japanese red-bellied newt___________ Diemictylus pyrrhogaster_______ 8

Red-spotted newt______-___________ Diemictylus viridescens_________ if

SALIENTIA

Bufonidae:

American toad] 22. es Se ee Bufo terrestris americanus______ ak

Blomberg’s toad____________________ Bujo blombergt-—.- = 2

Giant etoad ce sere ee ee eee Bufo MATS 2 oe ee 5

Cuban: toad es ee eee Bufo peltocephalus___.__________ 6
Pelobatidae:

European spadefoot toad__________ Petobates fuscus____-__ 4
Pipidae:

Surinam) togdesns) 2) ses see oene ee 0 DUD Amen ne UR eka 15

African clawed: frog- === 2222 Xenopus laevis.___._..___________ 4

Congo. pygmy frogs 22222 222 Hymenochirus sp_....-.________ 2
Leptodactylidae:

Colombian horned frog_____________ Ceratophrys calcarata__________ 2,
Hylidae:

Barking tree wroes 227 352 ei es ELYlG (OV OUO8G =~ 2 oe 3

Greenstree from 2. ee ELYUG CN CT Ce ae ee eee 1

@ubanvtree, trove ess = se eee ee Hyla septentrionalis___._________ 3

Huropean tree froeaa. =. ee HIGGS OV UOTE 222 = ae ee 8

Grayatree frog. = suelo eae Hyla versicolor. ae 2
Microhylidae:

Narrow-mouthed toad______________ Microhyla carolinensis__________ 2
Ranidae:

Acricam bull froges Sa ee, ls) tee Kana. adsperse.._- = --=____= al

American bull trog: = 30. Rane catesbeiana______________- 1

GRECTIE LOS eran ee tee eee Eee Rana clamitans melanota_______ 1

THCOPAT Gy TRO Suet al ee se ROE DIDVeN Gan ae ne eee 25
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

FISHES
NEOCERATODONTOIDEI
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Protopteridae:
African lungfish] 22—-2—= =. eee eeee Protopterus annectens 2
OSTARIOPHYSOIDEI
Characidae:
Piranha) 22 oes eee eee Serrasaimus niger.-==—-———-_-__ 1
Metyinis isos eae Metynnis rooseveltiti_______--.-- 1
Black: tetrase- 2 ee eee eee nae Gymnocorymbus ternetzi___----- il
Cyprinidae:
Zepratishe =! 22 ae nea Brachydanio rerio__~---.------- 4
eer es DAT == 2 en Puntius partipentazona____----- 2
White Cloud Mountain fish__---~~-. Tanichthys albonubes_--_------- 8
Electrophoridae:
Miecttic: eel ===) aaee ee Se Electrophorus electricus____---_- 8
Gymnotidae:
African. knitetish2=22-22=-22=e—s=—— Sternarchella schotti _---------- al
CYPRINODONTOIDEI
Poeciliidae:
Hlac-tailed guppys-—-=--=--——— = Lebistes reticulatus________-__-_- 10
CHUL DV ee Lebistes reticulatus__________-- 15
‘Blackomolliee=. 22 see eee Mollienesia latipinna______------ 3
Piaty, Of MOONS = === =.= on Xiphophorus maculatus__------- 2,
PERCOMORPHOIDEI
Anabantidae:
@)imbing: perches. = aa eae Anabas testudineus_.______-__---- 3
Cichlidae:
Peacock "cichlid==22=23s222—2 = Astronotus ocellatus______-----~- ul
Egyptian mouthbreeder ~.-----~---- Haplochromis multicolor____-__- 3
African. mouthbreeder_-—_- === == Pelmatochromis beliadorsalis___ ye
Angelfish) = 22-28 = = oes eon Seen, Pterophyllum eimekei___------- 2
Jack Dempsey fish2"22—2222=s22s22— Cichlasoma biocellatum_—_------ 8
Jewelfish=22-- 88 sees ee Hemichromis bimaculatus___--- i
Loricariidae:
South American catfish-2_==2=) = 22 Plecostomus plecostomus__------ 2
ARTHROPODS
DECAPODA
Cenobitidae :
hand hermit crabes22- 2222 an Coenobita clypeatus________----- Pay
Gecareinidae:
Hiorida blue land crabs2=-2 322s. == Cardisoma guanhuni_____------ 2
ARANEIDA
Theridiidae:
Black-widow spider.__________...--_- Latrodectus mactans_____------~-- 1
Aviculariidae:
Tarantula;e=uo See I eee Hurypeung spies aca se eee ah
SECRETARY’S REPORT 165

ORTHOPTERA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Blattidae:
Tropical giant cockroach_____------ Blaberus giganteus___—____-----~- 30
MOLLUSKS
PULMONATA
Planorbidae:
Pond sngile= 2S eee ese eee Helisoma trivoWwis____.___------- 30
REORGANIZATION

A reorganization of management of the National Zoological Park
was completed during the year. The number of departments was
reduced from five to three, headed by the office of the director.

The functions of the animal department, under Dr. W. T. Roth,
were increased to include the veterinary and commissary divisions.
This department also has reptile, bird, small mammal, and large
mammal divisions. It provides for the development, identification,
classification, and care of the zoological collection. The veterinary
division provides medical care for the collection. The commissary
division provides food for the animals. The duties of the reptile,
bird, small mammal, and large mammal divisions include cleaning
of enclosures, feeding and watering the animals, observing and in-
specting for signs of sickness or injury, and administering prescrip-
tions as ordered.

A scientific research department, under J. Lear Grimmer, was
created, and at the present time is operating with one division, the
information and education division. A research division will be
formed at a later date. This department provides zoological research,
educational, and informational programs and activities. The infor-
mation and education division designs, creates, and maintains all
signs, enclosure labels, and directional aids (with the exception of
police traffic signs) and prepares for publication and distribution in-
formation about the National Zoological Park and the animal
collection.

The administrative services department, under Travis E. Fauntle-
roy, Jr., includes the mechanical, police, grounds, and services
divisions. This department provides administrative and operational
services necessary for support of the functions of the National Zoo-
logical Park. The mechanical division constructs, renovates, repairs,
and maintains the buildings. The police division protects the build-
ings, grounds, facilities, property, employees, and visitors. The
grounds division provides gardening, tree care, and grounds main-
tenance. The service division provides operational services, including
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

procurement and supply, custodial and labor activities, transporta-
tion service, vehicle and motorized equipment maintenance, restrooms,
telephone switchboard, and messenger service.

PERSONNEL

William R. James, captain of the National Zoological Park police
since 1953, died at the age of 62 on December 21, 1961. He had been
an employee of the Park since 1922 and on the police force since
1929. The quiet, efficient manner in which he handled his work won
him the respect not only of his fellow employees but also of the
thousands of visitors whom he befriended.

The director was one of the 10 “outstanding young men” of the
year in Government service to receive the Arthur Flemming Award.

In September the director visited a number of western zoos to study
new construction in connection with the forthcoming construction
program at the National Zoological Park. He also attended the an-
nual conference of the American Association of Zoological Parks
and Aquariums in Rochester, N.Y., and was elected secretary of the
association for 1961-62.

Two new positions were filled: Dr. Waldfried T. Roth became gen-
eral curator of the National Zoological Park on August 7, 1961;
Miss Marion McCrane was appointed zoologist on April 17, 1962.
She has been assigned to the information and education division
and is working on a project to design new labels for the entire
collection.

Dr. James F. Wright, appointed veterinarian at the Zoo on Au-
gust 5, 1957, resigned on June 30, 1962, to take a position in the U.S.
Public Health Service. In addition to his regular duties in the
Park, Dr. Wright has made a valuable contribution to the study of
the projectile syringe and its use in capturing and treating wild
animals.

Tony Wallace, who came to the Zoo as a mason November 27, 1933,
retired May 26, 1962; and George Schmedegaard, an animal keeper
since April 10, 1948, retired June 30, 1962. Samuel Beeler, animal
keeper, was recalled to military service on September 380, 1961.

Thomas Schneider, animal keeper, was promoted to medical
technologist.

In the fiscal year 1962 there were 205 authorized positions in the
Zoo: Administrative office, 17, an increase of 1 (zoologist) ; animal
department, 80, an increase of 4 (1 commissary steward, 2 night
keepers, 1 biologist) ; mechanical department, 64, an increase of 3
(1 subjourneyman, 2 laborers); police department, 83; grounds
department, 11.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 167
FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

The Friends of the National Zoo, a group of civic-minded citizens,
continued their interest in the development and expansion of the
Zoo. Robert McLaughlin, former Commissioner of the District of
Columbia, was elected president of the organization. Its member-
ship has been kept informed on plans for the modernization of the
Zoo, and at a luncheon on February 21 the director showed the
Friends the master plan for a 10-year capital outlay program for
the Zoo.

The Friends are actively backing plans for a “Breeding Zoo” in
this country, to be established possibly as a cooperative venture by
American zoos under the direction of the Federal Government, and
John Perry, former president of the Friends, contributed an article
to the Saturday Evening Post (April 7, 1962) dealing with the ne-
cessity of some sort of “Operation Rescue” for animals now threatened
with extinction.

From June 1 to June 10 the Friends sponsored a “Home Show for
Birds,” which took place outside the birdhouse. The many types of
birdhouses, feeding stations, and bird baths displayed attracted much
favorable attention, not only from visitors but also from the native
wild birds.

On June 6 the Friends gathered for their annual night visit of
the Park, and saw many of the animals under nocturnal conditions.

INFORMATION AND EDUCATION

The Zoo continues to handle a large correspondence with persons
all over the world and from every part of this country who write to
the Zoo, as a national institution, for information regarding animals,
proper diet, or treatment of disease. Visitors to the office as well as
to the animal exhibits are constantly seeking information.

An innovation this year was the showing of films made of Zoo
animals over the new educational TV station in Washington, Station
WETY, channel 26. Five programs dealing with mammals, birds,
reptiles, and amphibians were beamed to the children of Maryland,
Virginia, and the District of Columbia. Lulu, the baby chimpanzee,
appeared on a Science Program entitled “Space,” and her keeper,
Mr. Gallagher, spoke of the contributions chimpanzees have made to
space travel. One of this year’s lion cubs appeared on channel 4,
WRC-TV, with M. Brown, keeper in charge of the lion house.

The director addressed the annual meeting of the Dallas (Tex.)
Zoological Society on October 23, 1961. He also gave two radio
talks and several illustrated lectures to local clubs and civic organi-
zations, as well as a lecture on the white tiger to a Smithsonian

672-174 6812
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

Institution seminar. He assisted WMAI-TY in taping a Zoo pro-
gram, which was broadcast on April 14, and advised Parthenon
Pictures of Hollywood on the Zoo section of a travel film they were
making of Washington, D.C.

Dr. James F. Wright gave many illustrated talks on the use of the
projectile syringe in immobilizing or treating wild animals. Among
the groups he addressed were the School of Veterinary Medicine, Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania; the Zoo Veterinary Association of the Ameri-
can Veterinary Medical Association, meeting in Detroit, Mich.; the
Veterinary Pathology group of the Armed Forces Institute of
Pathology; Biological Society of Washington; Grayson Laboratory
personnel of the University of Maryland.

Set. Marvin Jones, U.S. Army, now stationed at Fort Myer, made
a signal contribution to the history of the Zoo by reorganizing the
card catalog of mammals in the collection since 1888 and publishing
a mimeographed list giving the scientific name, common name, date
when each species was first exhibited, date of the first birth of a species
in the collection, and designating by an asterisk the animals still living
in the Zoo on June 30, 1962.

Ordinarily the Zoo does not conduct guided tours of the Park, but
exceptions were made for three groups of handicapped children and
adults. Mrs. Perle Mesta and Miss Jane Russell sponsored the visit
on June 18 of 52 children from WAIF (World Adoption Inter-
national Foundation). The occasion was the adoption of the 10,000th
child by American parents under this foundation.

On July 13, 1961, 1,842 foreign students from 50 different countries
toured the Zoo; on May 12, 1962, the school patrol, consisting of
6,336 students from all parts of the country, came to the Park follow-
ing their annual parade cn Constitution Avenue.

The Virginia Herpetological Society held its annual meeting in
the reptile house on August 11, 1961. The American Society of
Ichthyologists and Herpetologists, holding its 42d Annual Meeting
in Washington, came to the Zoo on Sunday morning, June 17, and
about 100 scientists were shown the reptile house before the regular
visiting hours.

REPORT OF THE VETERINARIAN

In the Annual Reports for 1960 and 1961 reference was made to
the similarity, both clinically and pathologically, of a central nervous
system syndrome occurring in monkeys at the Park to the “Acute
Amaurotic Epilepsy” described by Langdon and Cadwallader in 1915
and Van Bogaert and Scherer in 1935. Since the last Annual Report
four additional cases have been seen clinically in young monkeys, one
of which was euthanized for viral isolation studies, the others being
SECRETARY’S REPORT 169

still under observation. The euthanized individual was an 8-month-
old female sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuliginosus); the three
monkeys under observation are two 10-month-old Barbary apes
(Macaca sylvanus), one male and one female, and one hybrid macaque
(Ml. philippinensis X M.irus). Tissues were also taken for viral iso-
lation attempts from two black-crested mangabeys (Cercocebus ater-
rimus) with histories of at least one CNS seizure. One of these
monkeys was apparently blind without visible defect in the eyes, and
both seemed normal in all other respects.

Although no viral agents were isolated from the black-crested
mangabeys mentioned above, the histopathological sections of the blind
animal showed enough lesions in the optic nerve to account. for its
blindness. It has not been determined what was responsible for these
lesions although they appear to be of long standing. No viral agent
has been demonstrated in the tissues from the 8-month-old sooty
mangabey described above. All viral isolation attempts included
culture and intracerebral mouse and hamster inoculation.

The three remaining young macaques still under observation have
been free from seizures and any other abnormal clinical signs for ap-
proximately 3 months.

The virus isolation attempts were performed by Dr. Anthony Mor-
ris, chief of the Section on Respiratory Viruses of the Laboratory of
_Virology and Rickettsiology, Division of Biologics Standards, Na-
tional Institutes of Health.

From the past 4 years’ experience with this condition, several facts
became apparent. First, the condition has occurred only in Old
World monkeys, the Cercopithecidae (except for one gibbon, Wylo-
bates sp.). It has involved the genera Afacaca, Cercocebus, Cercopt-
thecus, and Hylobates (one case), with the genus A/acaca most often
noted. Second, there seems to be no relation to the habitat of the ani-
mal, some cases appearing in a closed exhibit building, others in all-
season outdoor cages, and one case in a monkey that had been raised
in a keeper’s home from the day of birth. Third, the condition is
first seen when the animal is usually less than a year old. Both sexes
have been affected but females predominate. Fourth, those animals
which have died usually did so after the first or second noted CNS
seizure. Several animals which had one or two seizures in their first
year have been followed until age 214 without report of additional
seizures and without apparent blindness. Fifth, in none of the cases
has there been any diarrhea during or after the seizure, nor had there
been any evidence of inappetence. Some animals which had been
eating at the onset of the seizure began to eat again within minutes
after the attack, and there was no animal noted that did not eat within
the day.
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1962

In spite of the previous points, the histopathological and microbio-
logical studies to date on these monkeys seem to support the premise
that the condition is not infectious but probably toxic. At this time
the possibility of lead poisoning cannot be completely ruled out.

Parasites —Identification of parasites from the animal collection
was made by the Beltsville Parasitological Laboratory of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. The nematodes, acanthocephalids, and
linguatilids were identified by M. B. Chitwood; trematodes, ticks, and
mites by Dr. A. McIntosh; and cestodes by W. W. Becklund.

Bacteriology—Tuberculosis was found to be the cause of death in
four animals, two bighorn sheep, a female wisent, and an aged female
gaur. The infections in the bighorn sheep and the gaur were classi-
fied as the bovine type of organism by Dr. A. G. Karlson, of the Mayo
Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

Dr. J. R. Wadsworth of the Department of Animal Pathology of
the University of Vermont continued to assist the Zoo with his inter-
pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.

Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.
Whenever possible, hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens

UaLy Wasnt vensuy we oY vt asavasy a AN ne PROT eV wean ove wae ane a

pretation of suspected tumor tissues from the collection.

a ae | > a 7 tte | mI e
