fe 6 “ ee ee it “ee ar? on e " ne i ee v é
ii ae te he ie ay ae WW We we de ae te ee we Pe & Be
i ie Ye Je ig ae: ‘gs, A XP ae ae 4 ye Ho Me 9s Ea e 49 |
ie Fy a we P & 4a Ow de mw t & qe fe Ge Bw te Re ow TH
Es a. ja @% as ay, day te we a qe ge qe ee Ye ye: “i
‘ay ae te ar ier iy oy we & & 8 eH ew & Ww wb
Ce
Ye ws te de ay v ja aw ae ae wee  & Ry fe te :
ie ae i we we ae ie ie Ye Pee Pf ee Ss
ie ay ee aw Ws aw “We aay ae th de qe qe Je We qe we te i
lg ie We. AS te ae We A Me Ge Ye Be de Ge ga fe
i ay WO ay Ue Re ee i yw ee fe && te ie ww w & we & we Be
bs Wy RR ae AH Ue ae ae Ge Te EP. te a ¥ ae TB, fe es ef
, ae ae We ae ty ve ae 48 de ae de te Ye qe je ae Je a : a ~ w ;
iy €5 We ok Ae We We Ge Ye he Ge fe ye “p “" {e: 3
, Oe Be @e ae Wy le te de av ge je Ye de Je qe je je de |
ta Us VA GH be an iP. We Ge Ye dw fe Ye de de &e ie me ‘ce @ &
, aw By Ae ae as ae we le de we i le je te & fw ie we ew,
BG 4 Ry We ae Be fe Ge qo we je de we Ye je & & fe
; Wy €s ae ae Ye de ge te i tw te fe je te te je qe. i
Wi BR Vs Qe VR Ae AR Ae aw Tr fe GH Je Ye Ye Je je GH
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR, dona YEAR ENDED. JUNE: 30

|e Aes

sqeo0ee | CARS

(Publication 3817)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1946

a ee Ls A ee RS a OE
For sale by the Superintendent of Pecumients - peeamest Printing Office, Washington 25, D, C.
rice $1,
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SmirHsontan Insrirurion,
Washington, December 3, 1945.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1945. I have the honor to be,

Respectfully,
A. Wermorrn, Secretary.
CONTENTS

Page
Weis OIMO IN CIS er eee ae ee oe ete ao ee oo en ee eho 1
SPecialowanuime ACtlVIvICS=— 25. eee a Ie ae 2 ber tet! © renee eis ee 9
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution_______ 11
BH CLES CH DO NISHIMGN G8 52 eee Se aes Be ae eee ae eee ete hp ee 16
Mie sboardiol Tegenits:- <a) Seo ee (2 ek on rt eer AE Se 16
AIAG OSS saya cr i ae SO ash Me re tote ates rca tN a cel cet hl ee 18
Centennial CeleDTAlION§ 25 2c oka tes ie gd Ot eS eR Sd ae 18
irteenth arthur vecturo.c:: o> 22 ae ete ee wt) ay tl 18
TPMT OW UCYe yea) oVe Vag ae Sela 2m crane CAR Ve we Se Ne gs 19
LATCH SDN = 2 ie apd eal sl lan eS edhe ga eee, Re Sc eT 19
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum____________ 21
2. Report on the National Gallery of Art.._.._._._.._.________- 32
3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts_-._________ 43
4° Report om the’ Freer;Gallery of Art 2: _.-.---.-_....22-2 49
5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology_-___________- 57
6. Report on the International Exchange Service____________~ 66
7. Report on the National Zoological Park_._.._.________-___ 73
8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory__-.....______-_-- 98
Oe ELEPOLU OD URC HUT AR ye eee see ee ee ee Se 102
HOM Report OD: PUDNCATIONS ae ees ae re 108
Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents___-_________- 115
GENERAL APPENDIX?
Our revolving “island universe’ and its spiraling counterparts, by
VV alone ans eal Lit ote = Sk EL SRE re eS ae 125
Medical usesiof the cyclotron, by EF. G.'Spears-22—--- 2 oes 137
Drinking water from sea water, by W. V. Consolazio, N. Pace, and A. C.
iyiy eee ee ee RRs ol ek shee 5 Se Ce he ee 153
Plastics and metals—competitors or collaborators? by G. K. Scribner___. 165
The mineral position of the United States and the outlook for the future,
pyabilimervWi.ehrsome ss secs we ea a Bk 175
Japanese eartuquakes, by IN- WHY Heck2..2 22222220222 --22424se523ccc2 201
Conquest of the Northwest Passage by R. C. M. P. schooner St. Roch, by
RPO WASHING DINO M ewes Po ee Ae NE, Oe ees 219

1In the 1944 Report, the article entitled ‘‘Southern Arabia, a Problem for the Future,”
by Carleton S. Coon, pp. 385-402, is only a part of the larger article from which it was
reprinted. The complete paper can be seen in Papers of the Peabody Museum of American
Archaeology and Ethnology, Harvard University, vol. 20, Dixon Memorial Volume, 1943.

In the same Report, in the article on penicillin by Florey and Chain, the reference to
footnote 2 on page 466 was inserted in the wrong place. Instead of following the words
“synthetic processes,” it should appear after the last word on the page, ‘“‘avoided.’”’

mm
IV CONTENTS

Page

The New England hurricane of September 1944, by Charles F. Brooks and
Conrad Chapman-=- 2-22 20 = 2 255. sao ee ee ee ee 235
Conserving endangered wildlife species, by Hartley H. T. Jackson _---_ ~~ 247
Living with the boll weevil for fifty years, by U. C. Loftin --.-___--_---- 273
The indispensable honeybee, by James I. Hambleton_-_----------------- 293
The importance of plants, by William J. Robbins__________------------ 305
Fungi and modern affairs, by J. Ramsbottom: —.......__..-.-.---_--=2 313

The introduction of abac4é (Manila hemp) into the Western Hemisphere,
by HD: idwards:=2 2 22" 2 ee a oe ee ee ee 327
Growing rubber in: California, by EB: L. Perry... =-2-2-4- 2 22 2 351
Thinking about-races by 5. i. "Washburn. 5. 57-222) See se ee 363
A unique prehistoric irrigation project, by Henry C. Shetrone_-_-_---~---- 379
Concepts of the sun among American Indians, by M. W. Stirling---_-_--- 387
Human problems in military aviation, by Detlev W. Bronk_____---__~_- 401
Blood and blood derivatives, by Edwin J. Cohn-___-_-_---------------- 413
‘The microbioties, by John: N- MeDonnell—-. - se ee ee 441

A brief summary of the Smithsonian Institution’s part in World WarII__ 459

LIST OF PLATES

Page

Secretary § Report: (Pistes | 02s 0 eee ee se ee Se ee 50
Our revolving ‘‘island universe” (Skilling): Plates 1, 2--___._.---------- 136
Medical uses of the cyclotron (Spear): Plates 1-4_..-_--_-------------- 152
Drinking water from sea water (Consolazio, Pace, and Ivy): Plates1,2-. 164
Piastics*and metals, (Seribner) Plates 25-225. 055 oe ss eee 174
Japanese earthquakes (Heck): Plates,1—3.-22 22.2... S225 Ss 218
Conquest of the Northwest Passage (Robinson): Plates 1-12_...__.__.... 234
Conserving endangered wildlife species (Jackson): Plates 1-13___-_----- 272
heybolleweevaln(oftin) sek ates |— i Om sees ee ee ee ee 292
The honeybee (Hambleton): Plates 1-4.____--_-------------- SGI popig #3 304
Abac4 (Manila hemp) (Edwards): Plates 1-10_-__--_----------------- 350
Growing rubber in California (Perry): Plates 1-4______._-------------- 362
Prehistoric irrigation project (Shetrone): Plate 1__.-__--__------------ 379
PIG LeS eon re a ee ee ce Oe eae eet oe ee ee 386
Concepts’ of the sun’ (Stirling) y Plates 1—6-~ = = == 2 eee a oe 400

Blood and blood derivatives (Cohn): Plate 1_______-_- aan = a on oe 440
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1945

Presiding Officer ex officio—Harry S. TRUMAN, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—HARLAN F. Strong, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Harry S. TRUMAN, President of the United States.
Vice President of the United States.
HARLAN F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States.
Epwakrgp R. STErTIniIvs, Jr., Secretary of State.
Henry MorcENTHAU, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury.
Henry L. Stimson, Secretary of War.
Tom C. CLarK, Attorney General.
FRANK C. WALKER, Postmaster General.
JAMES V. ForrESTAL, Secretary of the Navy.
Harrop L. Ickes, Secretary of the Interior.
CLINTON P. ANDERSON, Secretary of Agriculture.
HENRY A. WALLACE, Secretary of Commerce.
FRANCES PERKINS, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Harwan F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Vice President of the United States.
ALBEN W. BARKLEY, Member of the Senate.
WALLACE H. WHireE, Jr., Member of the Senate.
WaALrTerR F’. Georar, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
Epwarp 1). Cox, Member of the House of Representatives.
B. CarRoLyt REEceE, Member of the House of Representatives.
Freperic A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Rouanp S. Morris, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey.
ARTHUR H. ComPrTon, citizen of Illinois.
VANNEVAR BusH, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Freperic ©. WaLcoTt, citizen of Connecticut.
Executive Committee.—FREpERIC A. DELANO, VANNEVAR BUSH, CLARENCE CANNON.
Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Assistant Secretary. JOHN BH. GRAF.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.— HARRY W. DORSEY.
Treasurer.—NIcHOLAS W. DORSEY.
Chief, editorial division.—WEBSTER P. TRUE.
Administrative accountant —THOMAS F’.. CLARK.
Librarian.—LEILa F. Clark.
Personnel officer.—B. T. CARWITHEN.
Property clerk.—JAMES H. HIt1.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY:
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, chief preparator.

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, associate
curator; J. R. Caldwell, scientific aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary
assistant curator of Old World archeology.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant
curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator.

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.*

Collaborator in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY:
Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist;
Aime M. Awl, ilustrator.

Division of Mammals: Remington Kellogg, curator; D. H. Johnson, associate
curator*; R. M. Gilmore, associate curator; H. Harold Shamel, scientific
aid; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator; Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collec-
tions; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; R. R. Miller, associate
curator; Marie P. Fish, scientific aid.

Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A, Chapin,
curator; R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator*; W. BH. Hoffmann, associate
enrator; W. L. Jellison, collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T, Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; Mildred S.
Wilson, assistant curator; Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, collaborator ;
Max M. Ellis, collaborator; J. Percy Moore, collaborator; Joseph A.
Cushman, collaborator in Foraminifera.

Division of Mollusks: Paul Bartsch, curator; Harald A. Rehder, associate
curator; Joseph P. H. Morrison, assistant curator.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo-
rator.

Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.

Division of Plants (National Herbarium) : W. R. Maxon, curator; Ellsworth
P. Killip, associate curator; Emery C. Leonard, assistant curator; Conrad
V. Morton, assistant curator; Egbert H, Walker, assistant curator; John
A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological collection.

Section of Grasses: Agnes Chase, custodian.

Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, custodian.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.

Section of Diatoms: Paul S, Conger, associate curator.

*Now on war duty.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

DEPARTMENT or BroLoay—Continued.

Associates in Zoology: Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall, A. G.
Boving, W. K. Fisher, C. R. Shoemaker, EH. A. Goldman.

Associates in Botany: Henri Pittier, F. A. McClure.

Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark.

Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:
R. S. Bassler, head curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. ¥F. Foshag, curator; E. P. Hender-
son, associate curator; B. O. Reberholt, scientific aid; Frank L. Hess,
custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustav A. Cooper,
curator.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection ; J. B. Reeside, Jr., custodian of Mesozoic collection ;
Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; C. Lewis
Gazin, associate curator* ; Norman H. Boss, chief preparator.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry.

Associate in Paleontology: T. W. Vaughan.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF E}NGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Carl W. Mitman, head curator in charge; Frank A.
Taylor, curator.*

Section of Transportation and Civil Hngineering: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.*

Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber, associate curator,* F. C. Reed,
acting associate curator.

Section of Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.*

Section of Electrical Engineering and Communications: Frank A. Taylor,

in charge.*

Section of Mining and Metallurgical Engineering: Carl W. Mitman, in
charge.

Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.*

Section of Tools: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.*
Division of Crafts and Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Elizabetia
W. Rosson, assistant curator.
Section of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
Section of Woods and Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, associate
curator.
Section of Chemical Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
Section of Agricultural Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
Division of Medicine and Public Health: Charles Whitebread, associate
curator.
Division of Graphic Arts: R. P. Tolman, curator.
Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, associate curator.

Division or History: T'. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, associate curator ;
J. Russell Sirlouis, scientific aid; Catherine L. Manning, assistant curator
(philately).

*Now on war duty.
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. 8. BRYANT.

Assistant chief of correspondence and documents.—L. HB. COMMERFORD.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—L. L. OLIVER.

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHARLES C. SINCLAIR.
Editor.—PavL H. OEFHSER.

Accountant and auditor.—T. F. CLarK,

Photographer.—G. I. HiGHTOWER.

Property officer—A. W. WILDING.

Assistant librarian.—ELissBETH H. GAZIN.

; NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:
Haran F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
Epwarp R. STETTINIvs, Jr., Secretary of State.
HenkyY MorGENTHAD, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury.
ALEXANDER WeErMorE, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Davip K. E. Bruce.
FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
SAMUEL H. KReEss.
CHESTER DALE.

President.—SAMUEL H. KRess.

Vice President.—FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.

Secretary-Treasurer.— HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.

Director.—DaAvip EK. FINLery.

Administrator.—H. A. McBRIDE.

General Counsel.— HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.

Chief Curator.—JOHN WALKER.

Assistant Director.—MAcGILL JAMES.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Acting Director.—RUEL P. TOLMAN.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. WENLEY.

Assistant Director.—GRACE DUNHAM GUEST.

Associate in research.—J. A. POPE.*

Associate in Near Eastern art.—RicHARD EXTTINGHAUSEN.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief.—MATTHEW W. STIRLING.

Assistant Chief—FRANK H. H. Roserts, Jr.

Senior ethnologists.—H. B. CoLiins, Jr., JoaN P. HARRINGTON, W, N. FENTON.
Senior anthropologists.—H. G. BARNETT, G. R. WILLEY.

Collaborator.—JOHN R. SwANTON.

Editor—M. HELEN PALMER.

Librarian.—MimiamM B. KETCHUM.

Illustrator.—EDWIN G. CASSEDY.

INSTITUTE OF SocIAL ANTHROPOLOGY.—-JULIAN H. STEWARD, Director.

*Now on war duty.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Acting Chief—HArry W. Dorsey.
Acting Chief Clerk.—F. BE. Gass.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assisiant Director.—RNEST P. WALKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—Loyau B. ALDRICH.

DIVISION ofr ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH: Loyal B. Aldrich, in charge; William H.
Hoover, senior astrophysicist; Charles G. Abbot, research associate.

DIivISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS: Harl S. Johnston, assistant director;
Edward D. McAlister, senior physicist ;* Leland B. Clark, engineer (precision
instruments) ; Robert L. Weintraub, associate biochemist ; Leonard Price, junior
physicist (biophysics).

*Now on war duty.
7 7 a nv ae

S Chey aparece rs) & peal ha

an Rasttans Me ay aces we ede
: se ta rae a) wo ont i” ae ie ae
ae eer et ee ® 2 Ae eet Ares = Se

on: ’ :

¥ 1 ee 4 ie A ec i
7 Pig 4s \ Say Se Mth .'t if pein AAT al

; wiv. 34 _ ag

was
t* ss ean hh aaah e

kata ay rai 4

ny T ried

eke a tisk ie ic ey apie san
an ‘| delta ge hivseaiad sels sy 4

al ie
- »
rt
va
obec’ is bal e
= > 7
#
4 :
: Se Dy
= > 4 ee
‘ a a
: L
7 a , © 2 ete @
eek -- eo hs i oe
e les oe
N be eR CSR SS tr
7 ‘tn W@ _ a ae
{ My hii) iene
70 Qua be iO wuiacy
Som Gale hehe ay prety

ea Laas i oer
r=. ris

rn re

eat a le
AY Sas 5. Ca
—?. se vail

ate SRERHIND ABs" PRL FRA

‘> @
ii get

Sesietn age ott

Se ’

east. pate
4 eee oye, iia ee
eer err ee
‘ 0 MOL rATa NSE aot wine
ig Nolonye copay .C> ieee
ii wt ATS y "
oly high

lab aw om

RY. <.)

sg

ve.

o od 7, te. ay**
o 3, at

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ALEXANDER WETMORE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1945

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: J have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and
the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the
fiscal year ended June 30,1945. The first 14 pages contain a summary
account of the affairs of the Institution; it will be noted that many
activities usually included in this section are missing, wartime con-
ditions again having forced their suspension. Appendixes 1 to 10 give
more detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum,
the National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the
Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the In-
ternational Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, the Smithsonian library, and of the publications
issued under the direction of the Institution. On page 115 is the finan-
cial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents.

As stated in last year’s report, Dr. Charles G. Abbot, Secretary of
the Institution since 1927, resigned on June 30, 1944, in order to devote
himself to his researches in solar radiation. Having been Assistant
Secretary of the Institution since 1925, by instruction of the Executive
Committee I took over the duties of the position as Acting Secretary
until the next meeting of the Board of Regents on January 12, 1945,
when I was elected Secretary. I am fully mindful of the honor done
me by the Board, as well as of the great responsibility devolving upon
one called upon to direct the multitudinous and varied activities of
such a large organization as the Institution has grown to be.

Next year, the Smithsonian will celebrate its one-hundredth anniver-
sary, so that for 99 years its officials and staff have devoted their best
efforts to making it in very fact what the founder, James Smithson,
desired, namely, an institution for the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge among men. Starting with only the Institution proper housed
in a single building, the organization has developed and expanded its
fields of activity until it now directs six Government bureaus, as weil
as the privately endowed Freer Gallery of Art, and occupies five

7
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

buildings on the Mall, besides the numerous buildings of the National
Zoological Park in northwest Washington. From a single series,
Smithsonian publications have expanded to include nine regular series
and four others issued at infrequent intervals.

In promoting the increase of knowledge, the Institution conducts
and sponsors original researches and scientific explorations, mainly
in the fields of anthropology, biology, geology, and astrophysics; the
diffusion of knowledge is accomplished through the publications just
mentioned, through museum and art gallery exhibits, through the In-
ternational Exchanges (of scientific and governmental publications),
through radio programs and popular science news releases, and
through answering the scientific inquiries of thousands of correspond-
ents each year.

Throughout Smithsonian history the basic principle that has un-
derlain its scientific work is that researches shall be prosecuted for
the new knowledge to be gained alone, without regard to its possible
economic usefulness. This simple principle has enabled the Institu-
tion to accomplish much more in the way of new additions to existing
knowledge than might have been expected with its limited financial
resources, and it is the intention to continue this type of operation.

I assumed the secretaryship in the midst of the trying times of.
World War If. A large proportion of the Institution’s normal ac-
tivities in research, exploration, and publication had been suspended
so that the staff could devote itself to aiding the Army and Navy in
the prosecution of the war. Some of this work is described later in
this report. At the close of the fiscal year, however, victory had been
achieved in Europe, and it was beginning to be apparent that the
Japanese could not resist much longer. My first duty, therefore, will
be to plan the orderly resumption of normal Smithsonian work, at the
same time taking stock of the Institution’s position in the light of
postwar conditions. Two of the major problems facing the Institu-
tion at the close of the war are the inadequacy of the present buildings
for the National Museum, and the need for more personnel in the
scientific, clerical, and custodial categories. Steps to remedy both of
these conditions are under consideration.

One of my first concerns was to review the relationship of the Insti-
tution with the Series Publishers, Inc., who published the Smithsonian
Scientific Series. This set of 12 volumes was written and edited by
members of the Institution’s staff, and published and sold under con-
tract by the above corporation, the Institution receiving author’s
royalties on all sales. Over the past several years numerous com-
plaints had reached the Institution regarding the selling methods of
the publisher’s agents. I held a series of conferences with the officials
of the company, as a result of which it is believed the causes for
complaint have been largely eliminated.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9
SPECIAL WARTIME ACTIVITIES

Technical information to armed forces.—Probably the Institution’s
most useful wartime function has been to furnish technical informa-
tion requested by the Army, Navy, and war agencies. During the first
years of the war information was urgently needed on the geography,
peoples, disease-bearing insects and other animals, and other features
of many little-known war areas, particularly in the Pacific theater.
As many members of the Institution’s scientific staff had visited or
studied these regions, they were called upon with increasing frequency
to furnish such information. Records kept by the Smithsonian War
Committee showed more than 2,000 such requests during the first 2
years of war. As the Pacific war moved westward, however, first-
hand information became available to the Army and Navy, and calls
upon the Institution’s staff during the past year began to diminish, al-
though several staff members continued to be in almost continuous
conference with Army and Navy officials.

Ethnogeographic Board—The same sequence of events occurred in
the case of the Ethnogeographic Board, a nongovernmental agency
created cooperatively by the Smithsonian Institution, the National
Research Council, the American Council of Learned Societies, and the
Social Science Research Council, to act as a clearinghouse for anthropo-
logical and geographic information needed by the Army and Navy.
During the earlier stages of the war the Board was called upon con-
tinually for information, reports, and assistance, and its very ex-
tensive file of American experts in many branches of science was in
constant use. Around July 1, 1944, however, the need for such service
began to taper off, and Dr. William Duncan Strong, the Director, re-
turned to Columbia University to resume his duties as professor of
anthropology. The Board was kept in operation under the direction
of Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr., of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
who had assisted Dr. Strong from the beginning. Its services were
in demand, though to a lesser extent, throughout the year.

Improvement of cultural relations with the other American re-
publics—A wartime service which the Institution was unusually well
fitted to take part in was the Government’s program for the improve-
ment and extension of cultural relations with the other American re-
publics. A number of projects in this field were undertaken soon
after the beginning of the war, and these have been carried forward
during the past year. The monumental Handbook of South American
Indians, of which 50 percent of the authors are scientists of the other
American republics, progressed satisfactorily under the continued
guidance of Dr. Julian H. Steward. Volumes 1 and 2 were in proof,
and volumes 3 and 4 went to the printer toward the close of the year.
The manuscript of the fifth and last volume was expected to be com-
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

pleted early in the coming year. The editorial costs of the Handbook,
which will appear as a Bulletin of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
have been defrayed by the Department of State.

The Institute of Social Anthropology, set up in 1943 under the
directorship of Dr. Steward to carry out cooperative training in an-
thropological teaching and research with the other American re-
publics, continued its work in Mexico jointly with the Escuela
Nacional de Antropologia of the Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e
Historia. Two members of the Institute’s staff taught at the Escuela
and, during the last half of the year, directed field research among the
Tarascan Indians. In Perd, staff members studied Moche, an Indian
community on the north coast, and supervised a field survey of the
central Highlands of Pera by representatives of the Museos Histéricos.
In Brazil, teaching and research in Brazilian social anthropology
were planned in cooperation with the Escola Livre de Sociologia e
Politica of Sao Paulo.

The third part of a “Checklist of the Coleopterous Insects of Mexico,
Central America, the West Indies, and South America,” by Dr. R. EK.
Blackwelder, appeared during the year. As stated in previous re-
ports, this published list of one of the largest and most important
groups of insects will be an invaluable aid in future entomological
research in the Americas.

In addition to these major projects several members of the staff
conducted field work in various South and Central American coun-
tries in cooperation with scientists of those countries.

Return of evacuated collections—Karly in the war many of the
priceless and irreplaceable historical and scientific materials in the
national collections were removed to a place of safety in anticipation
of possible bombings of American cities. By November 1944 this
potential danger was considered to be negligible, and all the evacuated
material was brought back to the Institution. The specimens so
handled occupied 21,000 cubic feet of space and weighed some 117,500
pounds. The transfer was made without damage in spite of the fact
that many of the specimens were fragile and difficult to pack and to
handle. Among the materials safely transported both ways were
thousands of type specimens of mammals, birds, fishes, insects, plants,
and other life forms, which are of vital importance to science. Other
priceless specimens to make the trip were the original Star Spangled
Banner, George Washington’s field kit, and many other tangible
evidences of America’s past struggles to win and preserve her freedom.
The scientific and historical collections in American institutions and
museums assume an ever greater importance in view of the destruction
of a great many such collections in Europe.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Et

Smithsonian War Background Studies.—The series of publications
started early in the war to present authentic information on the
peoples, geography, history, and other features of war areas, entitled
“War Background Studies,” was concluded during the year. Details
of the series are given later in this report, and I will say here only
that the demand for the books far exceeded the expectations of the
Institution, and it was found necessary to reprint all of them, some
a number of times, not only for distribution by the Institution, but
also for the official use of the Army and Navy. The total number of
copies printed for both the Institution and the armed services was
632,225.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF THE
INSTITUTION

National Museum.—All possible efforts of the staff were concen-
trated on projects related to the prosecution of the war, though these
naturally lessened toward the close of the year. Several members of
the staff worked in connection with the Department of State’s pro-
gram for cultural cooperation with the other American republics, in-
volving travel and study in Mexico, Haiti, Chile, and Panama.
During the year, 232,822 specimens were added to the collections,
bringing the total number of catalog entries to 18,151,400. Worthy
of special mention among the new accessions were the following: In
anthropology, 5,677 specimens from Indian village sites in Scott and
Lane Counties, Kans., a large number of specimens from various
islands in the Pacific, and the valuable Arthur Michael collection of
early American silver; in biology, a collection of 600 birds from
Panama, 700 reptiles and amphibians from the Indo-Pacific region,
the Dayton Stoner collection of Scutelleroidea, 25,000 mollusks from
the Perlas Islands, Panama, and two lots of plants from Colombia
totaling 3,720 specimens; in geology, a number of rare and valuable
gems and minerals, including the finest specimen so far recovered of
the new mineral brazilianite, several meteorites, including the 1,164-
pound Drum Mountain, Utah, meteorite, and 10,000 fossil specimens
collected in the Paleozoic of the southern Appalachians by Dr. Charles
Butts; in engineering and industries, the first experimental jet-pro-
pelled plane built in this country, a well-preserved 1902 Oldsmobile,
and the entire equipment and furnishings of an Old World apothecary
shop of the period 1750; in history, a series of 50 bronze statuettes by
Max Kalish of distinguished Americans, known as The Living Hall of
Washington, 1944. The total number of visitors to the Museum
during the year was 1,730,716, an increase over last year of 197,951.
The year’s publications included 1 Bulletin, 1 Contribution from the
National Herbarium, and 18 Proceedings papers. Among the im-
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

portant staff changes were the advancement of John E. Graf from
Associate Director of the Museum to Assistant Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution; the appointment of Dr. Raymond M.
Gilmore as associate curator in the division of mammals, William E.
Hoffmann, associate curator in the division of insects, Robert A. Elder,
Jr., as assistant curator in the division of ethnology, and Mrs. Mildred
S. Wilson as assistant curator in the division of marine invertebrates.

National Gallery of Art.—The year’s attendance at the Gallery was
the largest since it was opened in 1941, the total being 2,078,739.
Approximately 35 percent of these were men and women in the armed
services. Sunday night openings with free concerts continued
throughout the year with undiminished popularity. In October 1944
the Gallery published a book, Masterpieces of Painting from the
National Gallery of Art, which contained 85 color reproductions of
paintings in the collections. The public demand was so great that
a second edition was being printed at the close of the year. A
contract was entered into for the completion of six new galleries for
exhibition of recent acquisitions of paintings and sculpture. All
the works of art in protective storage in North Carolina during the
war were brought back to the Gallery without damage in October
1944. Gifts included 80 important Italian, French, and Dutch paint-
ings and 26 pieces of sculpture from Samuel H. Kress and the Samuel
H. Kress Foundation, and a number of other paintings from various
donors, as well as 1,740 prints and drawings from Lessing J. Rosen-
wald, and others from a number of donors. Twelve special exhibitions
were held at the Gallery, including several of war paintings. Travel-
ing exhibitions from the Index of American Design and the Rosenwald
collection of prints were sent to art institutions in various parts of
the country. The Gallery tours attracted more than 15,000 people,
and nearly 27,000 attended the daily 10-minute lectures on the “Picture
of the Week.”

National Collection of Fine Arts—The twenty-second annual meet-
ing of the Smithsonian Art Commission was held on December 5,
1944, the annual meetings scheduled for the 2 previous years having
been canceled on account of transportation conditions. A number
of oil paintings and other art works that had been submitted since
the last meeting in 1941 were accepted. The Commission adopted
resolutions on the death of three former members, John E. Lodge
in 1942, and Charles L. Borie and Dr. Frederick P. Keppel in 1948.
Officers elected for the coming year were: Paul Manship, chairman;
Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman; and Dr. Alexander Wet-
more, secretary. Seven miniatures were acquired through the Cathe-
rine Walden Myer fund. A number of paintings were lent to other
organizations, including two to the White House, one of these—Max
Weyl’s “Indian Summer Day”—to be hung in President Truman’s
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

study. Eight special exhibitions were held, as follows: A selection
of paintings from the William T. Evans collection of American paint-
ings; group of portraits by Enit Kaufman, called “The American
Century”; the Seventh Metropolitan State Art Contest; miniatures by
the Pennsylvania Society of Miniature Painters; water colors of Latin
America by Carl Folke Sahlin; paintings by modern Cuban painters;
paintings and sculpture by members of the Society of Washington
Artists; and drawings presented to the United States by the French
Republic in 1915.

Freer Gallery of Art—Additions to the collections included
Egypto-Arabic bookbinding, Chinese bronze, Arabic and East Per-
sian calligraphy, Chinese and Persian ceramics, Persian manuscript,
Persian and Veneto-Islamte metalwork, Chinese, Indian, and Persian
painting, Chinese sculpture, and Chinese silver. Curatorial work of
the staff was devoted to the study of new acquisitions and to general
research work within the collections, as well as to the preparation
of material for publication. Reports were made on more than 2,000
objects submitted for examination by other institutions and by indi-
viduals. Work connected with the war included assistance given the
Office of War Information by a staff member 4 days a week for 6 months,
and the revision of official Government publications on China and
Japan. The Gallery has heretofore been open to the public every day
except Monday, but beginning January 29, 1945, it was open 7 days
a week. The year’s visitors totaled 72,186. Staff members gave 12
lectures during the year before various organizations. Among the
changes in personnel were the appointment of Richard Ettinghausen
as associate in Near Eastern art, and the detachment from the Gallery
of John A. Pope, associate in research, for active duty as Captain,
United States Marine Corps Reserve.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the
Bureau, devoted 5 months to continuing the work of the Smithsonian
Institution—National Geographic Society archeological project in
southern Mexico. Reconnaissance work located a number of archeo-
logical sites, and excavations were conducted on a large earth mound
covering a complex stone-masonry structure in Chiapas near the town
of Ocozocoautla. A new large site of the La Venta culture was dis-
covered on the Rio Chiquito in southern Veracruz. It contained two
large mound groups and a number of carved monuments, including
the two largest La Venta colossal heads yet found. Dr. John P. Har-
rington spent a large part of his time in translating letters and docu-
ments in obscure languages for the Office of Censorship. In addition,
he prepared 12 articles on American Indian linguistic subjects. Dr.
Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., continued his studies of the Folsom material
obtained from the Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado, including
comparisons with artifacts from other early sites in the New World.

676212462
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Dr. Roberts served as liaison between the Smithsonian Institution
and the Committee for the Recovery of Archaeological Remains, an
organization representing several societies interested in the preserva-
tion of aboriginal materials that are in danger of being lost through
the flooding of river areas by power-dam construction. Dr. Henry
B. Collins, Jr., served as Director of the Ethnogeographic Board after
the resignation of Dr. Strong. He also attended a meeting in Mon-
treal to organize the Arctic Institute of North America, formed to
promote scientific research in Alaska, Canada, and Greenland; later,
as one of the governors of the Institute, he attended other meetings
in Montreal to formulate plans for its operation. Dr. William N.
Fenton continued his work as research associate of the Ethnogeo-
graphic Board, completing six reports on x survey of Army training
programs in American universities. Toward the end of the year Dr.
Fenton resumed his studies on the Iroquois Indians, visiting the Six
Nations Reserve near Brantford, Canada. Dr. H. G. Barnett con-
tinued his studies of the general problem of cultural change, especially
as related to Indian tribes of California, Oregon, and Washington,
and one publication on this subject was nearly completed. Dr. Gordon
R. Willey devoted a large part of the year to editorial work on the
Handbook of South American Indians. He also studied and com-
pleted a report on several large collections of archeological specimens
from southern Florida. The Institute of Social Anthropology, an
autonomous unit of the Bureau under the directorship of Dr. Julian
H. Steward, continued its program of cooperative teaching and field
researches in Mexico and Perti, and an agreement was reached during
the year for similar work in Brazil. Under Dr. Steward’s editorship,
the Handbook of South American Indians progressed materially.
Volumes 1 and 2 were in proof, volumes 3 and 4 were completed and
sent to the printer, and the fifth and last volume was in the final stages
of preparation.

International Exchanges.—The International Exchange Service is
the official agency of the United States for the exchange of govern-
mental and scientific publications between this country and all other
countries. The number of packages passing through the Exchange
Service during the year was 386,758, with a total weight of 211,160
pounds. The franking privilege in transmitting packages through
the mails was discontinued by the Post Office Department during the
year, resulting in an increase in the costs and work involved in han-
dling such packages. Although the war in Europe ended toward the
latter part of the year, it was not possible to resume exchange con-
signments to liberated countries by the close of the year. Accumula-
tions for France, Italy, and Belgium, however, were forwarded through
the Office of War Information, and those for Sweden, Palestine, and
Egypt through the United States Despatch Agent in New York.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

Regular consignments were sent during the year to all countries in the
Western Hemisphere, and in the Eastern Hemisphere to Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, Portugal, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Africa, India, Australia, and New Zealand. Ship-
ments to other countries will be resumed as soon as conditions permit.

National Zoological Park.—The exhibition collection of animals
has been maintained in good condition during the year, but to accom-
plish this with the serious shortage of personnel that prevailed, some
phases of the care of the Park had to be neglected, and no improve-
ments could be made. Increased personnel is the most urgent need of
the Park. Visitors to the Zoo numbered 2,355,514 for the year, a con-
siderable increase over last year. Among the interesting specimens
presented to the Park were a pair of Solomon Islands cockatoos, a
red-sided lory, three wallabies, a pigmy galago and two green fruit
pigeons from the Gold Coast of Africa, a collection of brilliant cage
birds from Costa Rica, and a pair of the rare antelope, Orya beatria,
from Saudi Arabia. A list of the donors of specimens will be found
in the full report on the Zoo, appendix 7. Notable among the births
at the Park were a hybrid gibbon, a giraffe, and four chinchillas. Al-
together, 58 mammals were born, and 21 birds were hatched. At the
close of the year, the collection contained 2,623 individuals represent-
ing 686 species.

Astrophysical Observatory.—Dr. C. G. Abbot, for many years Di-
rector of the Observatory, retired from administrative duties on
June 30, 1944, but will continue his investigations as research associ-
ate. L. B. Aldrich was named Acting Director, and on April 16,
1945, succeeded to the directorship. In the Division of Astrophysical
Research two sets of experiments were carried out at the request of
the Office of the Quartermaster General to determine the surface
temperatures attained by various samples of military clothing under
conditions similar to those of actual field use. Toward the close of
the year another study was undertaken for the Quartermaster Gen-
eral of the radiation from sun and sky at Camp Lee, Va., in connec-
tion with tests being made at the camp. Much time was devoted to a
compilation of all solar-constant values for the period October 1939 to
January 1945, an extension of the table published in volume 6 of the
Observatory’s Annals. A study of these values, which cover a com-
plete double sunspot period, showed a diametrically opposite relation-
ship between solar-constant values and sunspot numbers in the two
halves of the period. Studies were continued of the effects of solar-
radiation changes upon atmospheric circulation and related problems.
Observations of the solar radiation were continued at the three field
stations. In the Division of Radiation and Organisms, war re-
searches on deterioration of cloth, cardboard, and wire insulation by
molds and by ultraviolet light were concluded. The termination of
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

this emergency work permitted the resumption of studies on photo-
synthesis and on the wave-length effects of light on growth. Work
was also taken up on the influence of light on the respiration of the
grass seedling, the course of development of the grass seedling as
influenced by various factors, particularly radiant energy, and the
reducing sugar content of etiolated barley seedlings as influenced by
ught.
THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian
Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust,
Congress determined that the Federal Government was without au-
thority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted
an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the President, the
Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

During the year the following changes occurred in the personnel of
the Board of Regents:

January 20, 1945, Harry S. Truman assumed office as Vice Presi-
dent of the United States, vice Henry A. Wallace, and thus became,
ex officio, a member of the Board of Regents. On April 12, 1945, Mr.
Truman acceded to the Presidency, on the death of President Roose-
velt, the resulting vacancy in the office of Vice President creating a
vacancy on the Board of Regents.

March 1, 1945, Senators Wallace H. White, Jr., of Maine, and
Walter F. George, of Georgia, were appointed regents to succeed the
late Senator Charles L. McNary and former Senator Bennett Champ
Clark, respectively.

January 29, 1945, Representative B. Carroll Reece, of Tennessee,
was appointed a regent to succeed former Representative Foster
Stearns.

The roll of regents at the close of the fiscal year, June 30, 1945, was
as follows: Harlan F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States,
Chancellor; members from the Senate—Alben W. Barkley, Wallace
H. White, Jr., Walter F. George; members from the House of Repre-
sentatives—Clarence Cannon, Edward E. Cox, B. Carroll Reece; citi-
zen members—Frederic A. Delano, Washington, D. C.; Roland S.
Morris, Pennsylvania; Harvey N. Davis, New Jersey; Arthur H.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 17

Compton, Illinois; Vannevar Bush, Washington, D. C.; and Frederic
C. Walcott, Connecticut.

Proceedings—The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was
held on January 12, 1945, with the following members present: Chief
Justice Harlan F. Stone, Chancellor; Representative Clarence Can-
non; citizen regents Harvey N. Davis, Arthur H. Compton, and Van-
nevar Bush, and the Acting Secretary, Dr. Alexander Wetmore.

The Acting Secretary presented the annual report covering the
activities of the parent institution and of the several Government
branches, including the financial report of the executive committee,
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, which was accepted by the
Board. The usual resolution authorizing the expenditure by the Sec-
retary of the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1946, was adopted by the Board.

The annual report of the Smithsonian Art Commission was pre-
sented by the Acting Secretary and accepted by the Board. The
Commission on December 5, 1944, held its first meeting since the com-
mencement of the war, and took action on the acceptance of numerous
works of art which had been offered to the Institution in the interim,
including a number of paintings which had been purchased by the
Council of the National Academy of Design from the fund provided by
the Henry Ward Ranger bequest and were eligible for acquisition by
the National Collection of Fine Arts under the provisions of this
bequest. Vacancies on the Commission were caused by the death of
Charles L. Borie, Jr., John E. Lodge, and Frederick P. Keppel, and
the Commission recommended to the Board the names of George
Hewitt Myers, Archibald G. Wenley, and Robert Woods Bliss to fill
these vacancies, the recommendations being approved by the Board.
Paul Manship was elected chairman of the Commission to succeed
Mr. Borie, and Dr. Alexander Wetmore was elected secretary.

In connection with the proposed centennial celebration of the Insti-
tution during August 1946, the appointment of the following com-
mittees was announced : By the Chancellor, regents Bush, Delano, and
Walcott, with the Chancellor as chairman; by the Acting Secretary,
Messrs. Graf, Clark, True, and Roberts, with the Acting Secretary
as chairman.

A report was received from the special committee of regents ap-
pointed at the last annual meeting of the Board to consider the policy
of the Institution with respect to the tenure of office and retirement
provisions for the office of Secretary, and the several recommendations
made by the special committee were adopted by the Board. In ac-
cordance with this procedure, the resignation of Dr. Charles G. Abbot
as Secretary was accepted, and he was, by resolution, appointed as
research associate of the Institution.
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

The Board then adopted a resolution electing Dr. Alexander Wet-
more as Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Resolutions were adopted by the Board regarding a study of the
business management and future policies of the Institution.

In a special statement Dr. Wetmore outlined to the Board recent
_activities carried on by all branches of the Institution.

FINANCES

A statement on finances will be found in the report of the executive
committee of the Board of Regents, page 115.

CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION

August 10, 1946, will be the one-hundredth birthday of the Smith-
sonian Institution. On that same date in 1846 the act was signed that
established the Institution, culminating 8 years of debate in Congress
as to how best to carry out the wishes of James Smithson, the English
scientist who bequeathed his fortune to the United States of America
“to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” Ina human life the passage of a century brings vener-
able old age and usually the end of useful activity ; for an organization
such as the Smithsonian it merely marks the end of a conventional
period of time and the beginning of a new period which must see the
Institution continue to develop and expand in the furtherance of its
stated objectives.

Such an anniversary clearly calls for a fitting celebration, and for
the past several years plans have been shaping up. About the time
these plans would have crystallized, however, the Nation was forced
to go to war, and all such matters had to be held in abeyance. With
the end of the war definite plans will be announced by the committee
of the Board of Regents appointed to select the final form that the
celebration will take.

THIRTEENTH ARTHUR LECTURE

Under the terms of the will of the late James Arthur, of New York,
the Smithsonian Institution received in 1931 a fund, part of the in-
come from which should be used for an annual lecture on some aspect
of the science of the sun.

The thirteenth Arthur lecture was given by Matthew W. Stirling,
Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, on January 17, 1945,
under the title “Sun Lore of the Indians.” The lecture will be pub-
lished, with illustrations, in the Report of the Smithsonian Institution
for 1945.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

PUBLICATIONS

One of the Smithsonian Institution’s primary functions, the diffu-
sion of knowledge, is carried out chiefly by means of its several series
of publications. ‘These record the results of original researches by
members of the staff or by outside scientists working on the national
collections under direction of the Institution. The Smithsonian An-
nual Report contains each year a selection of original or reprinted
articles presenting new developments in nearly all branches of science;
it continues in wide demand by librarians, teachers, and individuals
interested in the progress of science. ‘The vital importance to a nation
of the vigorous promotion of science was dramatically demonstrated
during World War IJ, and such semipopular reviews of science prog-
ress as the Smithsonian Reports have played a definite part in building
the popular understanding and appreciation of science that is essential
to its healthy growth.

The series of Smithsonian War Background Studies was brought
to a conclusion during the year with the appearance of No. 20 on China,
by A. G. Wenley and John A. Pope, and No. 21 on the Aleutian
Islands, by Henry B. Collins, Jr., Austin H. Clark, and Egbert H.
Walker. ‘The widespread demand for the pamphlets continued, from
Army and Navy organizations and personnel and from civilians. The
largest reprint order so far received, totaling 180,000 books, was from
the Army for use in orientation of officers and men transferred from
Europe to the Pacific theater. The titles and authors of the entire
series, which covered nearly every country and island group in the
Pacific war area as well as other regions and special war topics, will
be found in the report on publications, appendix 10.

Among outstanding publications of the year may be mentioned one
by former Secretary C. G. Abbot on “Weather Predetermined by Solar
Variation,” in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections; “Summary
of the Collections of Amphibians Made in Mexico under the Walter
Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship,” by Edward H. Taylor and
Hobart M. Smith, and “Review of the Spider Monkeys,” by Reming-
ton Kellogg and E. A. Goldman, in the Proceedings of the National
Museum; and “Houses and House Use of the Sierra Tarascans,” by
Ralph L. Beals, Pedro Carrasco, and Thomas McCorkle, the first pub-
lication of the Institute of Social Anthropology.

A total of 56 publications were issued during the year, and 141,635
copies of publications in all series were distributed.

LIBRARY

Demands on the Smithsonian library by the Army and Navy de-
clined as the war drew to a close. On the other hand, receipts of
foreign publications began to increase toward the end of the year,
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

and it became apparent that some European learned societies and
museums had been able to continue publication throughout the war
period. The rare books and manuscripts removed from the Institu-
tion early in the war to Washington and Lee University were safely
returned during the year. Usually, the need for current scientific
books makes it impossible for the library to purchase the older volumes
needed for reference, but this year it was fortunate in being able to
acquire a considerable number of these valuable old works, some of
them dating back to the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. As
usual, the Institution received a large number of gifts of publications
from individuals and organizations. The library’s most urgent need
is relief from the overcrowding of the shelves in all the Institution’s
buildings. The year’s accessions totaled 4,844 items, bringing the
library’s holdings to 918,460. New exchanges were arranged to the
number of 218, and 6,671 “wants” were received. Volumes and pam-
phlets cataloged numbered 6,512, and loans totaled 10,833. More than
2,500 volumes were sent to the bindery.
Respectfully submitted.
A. Wermors, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operation of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1945.

Appropriations for the maintenance and operation of the National
Museum for the year totaled $938,994, which was $8,995 more than
for the previous year.

THE MUSEUM IN WARTIME

It was with considerable relief that we were able during the year to
bring back to Washington the thousands of valuable type specimens
and other irreplaceable objects that early in the war had been re-
moved from the Capital for safekeeping in the event of enemy air
raids on the city. Return of this material, which aggregated more
than 60 tons, was completed in November 1944, and by the end of the
year most of the specimens had been reinstalled.

As in previous years since 1941, all possible efforts of the staff were
concentrated on projects related to the prosecution of the war, di-
rectly or indirectly, though naturally these lessened toward the close
of the year, as the end of the war became imminent. Again this year
several members of the staff were called upon for work in connection
with the Department of State’s program for cultural cooperation with
the other American republics. This entailed travel and study in
Mexico and Haiti, respectively, by two Museum anthropologists, and
in Chile by the curator of insects. Strategic geological work was
conducted in Mexico in cooperation with the Geological Survey; and
biological investigations in Panama were made for the War Depart-
ment by two Museum staff members. Others undertook specific re-
search projects directly connected with the war and its attendant
disease, food, and other problems. Still others were granted fur-
loughs for military service or for work with the Office of Strategic
Services and other war agencies. Hundreds of specimens were iden-
tified for the Army and Navy, and special attention was given to ma-
terial sent in by members of the armed services from remote corners
of the earth where few or no collectors had previously been. All
these activities add up to considerable when their far-flung results are

21
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

actually evaluated, and the Museum staff may be justly proud of
its part in the war effort, which now has ended so victoriously.

COLLECTIONS

The Museum collections were increased during the year by 232,822
specimens, which were included in 1,562 separate lots. The five de-
partments registered specimens received as follows: Anthropology,
6,642; biology, 197,462; geology, 23,770; engineering and industries,
3,199; history, 1,749. Most of the accessions were acquired as gifts
from individuals or as transfers of specimens by Government de-
partments. The complete report on the Museum, published as a
separate document, includes a detailed list of the year’s accessions,
but the more important are summarized below. Catalog entries in
all departments now exceed 18,000,000.

Anthropology.—The largest lot of archeological material acces-
sioned during the year consisted of 5,677 specimens excavated from
Indian village sites in Scott and Lane Counties, Kans., in 1939 by
Associate Curator Waldo R. Wedel. Other Kansas material included
343 archeological specimens from the collection of the late Dr. Nor-
man L. Roberts, of Topeka. Specimens of interest from out of the
country included 2 painted Neolithic jars from China and 10 Nasea
and Early Chimt vessels from Pert. In the field of ethnology, the
year’s accessions came especially from the Northwest Pacific coast
and Alaska, Micronesia, Polynesia, Solomon Islands, New Guinea,
Burma, China, Ecuador (Jivaro Indians), and North America (sev-
eral Indian tribes), many of them through the interest and efforts of
men in the armed services. An important contribution to the Micro-
nesian collection was a large model outrigger canoe (baurua) from
Tarawa in the Gilbert Islands. Another interesting addition was a
royal Hawaiian cape (ahwula), fully feathered with black and yellow
feathers of the oo bird and red feathers of the z#wi. An Arab costume
presented to Gen. H. H. Arnold by the King of Saudi Arabia was lent
to the Museum by General Arnold. The section of period art and
textiles received through deposit from the Smithsonian Institution
the valuable and well-known Arthur Michael collection of early Amer-
ican silver, representing the work of 121 silversmiths of the Colonial
and Federal periods (1675-1850), among whom are John Coney and
Paul Revere. This outstanding bequest was placed on exhibition in
the lobby of the Natural History Building. Notable gifts to the di-
vision of physical anthropology included 22 skeletons from Amchitka
Island, Aleutians, 35 embryological specimens, and the well-known
skull of Homo novusmundus found near Folsom, N. Mex., in 1935.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

Biology.—Important collections of mammals came from the Indo-
Pacific region, including species heretofore unrepresented in the col-
lections from Australia and the Philippines, and from Panama.

A collection of nearly 600 birds came from Panama, 500 from Ceylon,
and about 100 from Admiralty Islands, the last being a region here-
tofore unrepresented in the Museum’s collections. Other avian mate-
rial received included 45 bird skins from Nissan Island, Solomons; 8
specimens of Venezuelan birds; the type of a new subspecies of black-
bird, Agelaius xanthomus monensis, from Puerto Rico; and 62 bird
skins from extreme eastern Brazil.

Noteworthy additions to the herpetological collections came from
Panama, Haiti, Trinidad, Sierra Leone, Virgin Islands, Ceylon, and
New Guinea. Four accessions, comprising about 700 specimens of
reptiles and amphibians from the Indo-Pacific region, were received
from the Naval Medical School, Bethesda, Md.

A bramble shark received during the year represents, so far as
known, the only specimen of this shark in any North American mu-
seum; it was washed ashore on the California coast. Exchanges
brought many valuable fish specimens to the collections, including 12
paratypes of Venezuelan fishes. Fifty-eight Cuban fishes, including
43 paratypes, were received asa gift. The largest single ichthyological
addition of the year comprised 1,180 specimens collected for the
Museum from the Perlas Islands, Panama.

Most important of the year’s insect accessions was the large amount
of mosquito material received from various units of the Army and
Navy. Aside from this, the outstanding addition of the year was the
Dayton Stoner collection of Scutelleroidea, accompanied by a consid-
erable series of Coleoptera and other insects. In addition, about 3,000
insects of all orders were collected for the Museum from the Perlas
Islands, Panama, and 1,500 from Chile. The Department of Agricul-
ture transferred 72,000 insects to the Museum.

Six of the year’s accessions brought type material of marine inverte-
brates, representing new species of parasitic copepods, crayfish, a para-
sitic isopod, and a turbellarian worm. Besides, a large collection of
marine invertebrates came from the Perlas Islands, Panama,

In mollusks, the year’s largest accession, 25,000 specimens, was col-
lected for the Museum in the Perlas Islands, Panama. Other note-
worthy molluscan additions were 200 specimens of shipworms from
the Canal Zone, about 300 Mexican land, fresh-water, and marine
shells, 885 land shells from Panama, more than 600 shells from the
Pacific region from the Naval Medical School, and nearly 2,900 shells
from various Pacific localities received from 13 members of the armed
services. Helminths added during the year included paratype and
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

cotype material of 10 new forms, 13 specimens from New Guinea, and
101 specimens from the Perlas Islands.

Among the echinoderms received was an example of the starfish
Linckia rosenbergi from the South Pacific, not seen since originally
described in 1866, and 85 other specimens from Biak Island, the first
echinoderms ever received by the Museum from that part of the world.
Thirty-four corals were received from five servicemen in the Pacific
region.

Botanical material came from many parts of the world and in vary-
ing lots and quantities. Perhaps the most important accession in this
field was a set of 8,000 photographs of plant types in European her-
baria (mostly in the Berlin Herbarium), purchased from the Chicago
Natural History Museum. Other important accessions included two
lots of plants from Colombia, totaling 3,720 specimens; about 1,400
plants transferred from the United States Department of Agriculture,
of which 1,360 are from northern Brazil; 111 specimens and nearly 300
photographs of type material of Crepzs and related genera; 622 speci-
mens of Ecuadorian trees; several sizable lots of plants from Vene-
zuela, Mexico, Martinique and Guadeloupe, Cuba, and Texas; and 172
specimens of ferns, mostly from Pacific islands. In addition, about
6,400 plant specimens of many kinds were received in exchange with
other institutions, both North and South American. Diatom material
was received from two remote places: 10 samples from various deposits
at Oamaru, New Zealand, and 2 samples of planktonic species from
near Attu Island in the Aleutians.

Geology.—Income from the Canfield and Roebling funds continued
to supply rare and valuable gems and minerals for the collections.
The finest specimen so far recovered of the new mineral brazilianite,
from Arrasuahy, Brazil, was among the four accessions credited to
the Canfield fund during the year. Through the Roebling fund 10
accessions of minerals and gems were recorded. Among the many
gifts were 16 different-colored jade rings and a synthetic emerald of
90 points, and from the United States Customs Service came a series
of 160 cut stones. The mineral collections also benefited by a number
of very fine gifts, outstanding among which were the James Douglas
collection of copper minerals from Bisbee, Ariz., and the T. Sterry
Hunt mineral collection. Several meteorites were added, including
the 1,164-pound Drum Mountain, Millard County, Utah, meteorite
(through the Roebling fund) and an 81-pound mass of the Odessa
meteorite. A suite of 22 nickel ores came from New Caledonia.

In the field of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany seven times
as many specimens were received as for the previous year, and several
accessions were noteworthy. Transferred from the United States
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

Geological Survey was the extensive Paleozoic collection made in the
southern Appalachians by the geologist Dr. Charles Butts. This
collection, numbering more than 10,000 specimens and representing
the accumulation of many years of field work, is highly important
for the information it contains bearing on the stratigraphy of the
Appalachians. Another worthy transfer consisted of 3,500 Silurian,
Devonian, and Cretaceous fossils from the Canol Project, Canada,
which came from the Chief of Engineers, United States Army. The
Zimm collection of about 3,000 Devonian (Oriskany) fossils from
Glenerie, N. Y., came to the Museum as a purchase through the Walcott
fund. The collecting work of the curator, Dr. G. Arthur Cooper,
brought in much important invertebrate material from the Ap-
palachians and Mexico and will add a fair number of types to the
collection. In addition, many gifts and exchanges of invertebrate
fossils were received—tco numerous to list here but representing many
type specimens or examples otherwise of interest and value.

The outstanding exhibition specimen received in the field of verte-
brate paleontology was a composite skeleton of the large flightless
pigeon Dodo ineptus from Mauritius, transferred from the division of
birds. Skeletal remains of this extinct creature are exceedingly rare.
A collection of 350 fossil sharks’ teeth and a nearly complete dental
plate of the extinct ray Myliobatis (Miocene of the Chesapeake Bay
region); a molar tooth of the northern elephant, Mammonteus
primigenius; and an avian egg found 714 feet below the surface of
Tinian Island, Marianas, are accessions to the study series deserving
special mention.

Engineering and industries—The year’s outstanding accession in
this department was the first experimental jet-propelled pursuit air-
plane built and successfully flown in the United States. Designed
and constructed by the Bell Aircraft Corp., it holds the unique position
of being the first propellerless airplane in the Museum’s collection, as
well as representing perhaps the greatest development in aeronautical
engineering in the past decade.

To the automotive collections came two unique gifts—a radial 9-
cylinder Diesel engine, of the type designed for and used in the
United States Army M8 light tank, and an original, beautifully pre-
served 1902 Oldsmobile. Two accessions of note to the department’s
radio communications collections were a Marconi coherer, a device
which formed the “heart” of wireless telegraphy before the invention
of the electron tube, and an early (1911) spark transmitter, designed
for wireless communication between an airplane and the ground.
Another interesting communications object added was an original
electric telegraph fire-alarm and street box, such as was installed on
the streets of Boston in 1851.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

In textiles, an outstanding accession was a historic document com-
prising the original indenture of Samuel Slater, dated January 8,
1783, which he brought with him from England when at the age of 20
he decided to try his fortune in America. Wartime textiles and
those inspired by the war were represented in many gifts. To the
collections of early homecraft textiles there were added by gifts and
loans a number of noteworthy specimens of weaving, needlework, and
supplementary items.

A gift of historic importance to the section of chemical industries
was a series of specimens of lewisite, American mustard gas, or “blister
gas,” and derivatives therefrom, all prepared for exhibition. Impor-
tant additions to the wood collection were 20 samples from the Russell
Islands group of the Solomons, 12 from Brazil, and 63 from the Philip-
pines. In the division of medicine the outstanding accession was the
entire equipment and furnishings of an Old World apothecary shop
of the period of 1750. This large collection, consisting of nearly
1,200 specimens, was gathered in Europe over a period of 40 years
and is unique in completeness of original materials and in its variety.

Chief among the accessions in graphic arts was the unique gift of
Charles W. Dahlgreen of 76 copper plates of his original work in
etching, aquatint, and drypoint. These plates, many of which are
in almost unused condition, were deposited with the division with the
understanding that they are to be used to make prints, to be sold as a
“Smithsonian Edition,” the proceeds to compose the Charles W. Dahl-
green fund, which will be used to enlarge and improve the collections
of graphic arts. The section of photography, among other valuable
gifts, received a collection of rare old lenses of French, English, Ger-
man, and American manufacture, and also the first portable motion-
picture projector designed, patented, and made in 1912 by Dr. H. A.
DeVry, often referred to as “the father of visual education.”

History.—Perhaps the most outstanding addition to the historical
collections was the gift of a series of 48 bronze statuettes of notable
contemporary American public men, made from life by the distin-
guished sculptor Max Kalish. The series is entitled “The Living
Hall of Washington, 1944” and is on exhibition in the costumes hall
in the Arts and Industries Building. Valuable additions to the cos-
tumes collections included two gowns worn by Mrs. Herbert Hoover
in the White House, two inaugural gowns worn by Mrs. Franklin D.
Roosevelt, and a cape worn by the Honorable Hamilton Fish in the
early nineteenth century. There was placed on special exhibition
in the Natural History Building a doll dressed in the costume of
Brittany which was presented to Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower by the
children of Normandy in gratitude for their liberation from the Nazis.
Accessions to the military collections included an office desk and chair
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27

used by General Eisenhower in the European war zone in 1944. The
usual number of interesting numismatic items were received, includ-
ing samples of recent mintages, and the philatelic collection was in-
creased by 1,306 specimens during the year.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

The principal studies in the field, like those of last year, related
directly or indirectly to the war and have been considerably reduced
below the usual level of times of peace. The results have been valu-
able and have covered a variety of subjects.

In continuation of the program for the promotion of cultural rela-
tions with scientists in the other American republics in cooperation
with the Department of State, Dr. E. A. Chapin, curator of insects,
traveled in Chile for work in connection with entomologists and en-
tomological collections in that country. Upon his arrival in Santiago
arrangements were made by the Chilean Government for him to visit
forested areas, both natural and artificial, the agricultural extension
stations, and the agricultural schools in southern Chile between San-
tiago and the Island of Chiloé. About 5 weeks were spent on this trip,
and many important contacts were made. Although the season was
unfavorable, some very interesting insects were observed and col-
lected. The last 3 weeks of Dr. Chapin’s 2-month sojourn were spent
in Santiago, where considerable work was done on the Chilean na-
tional collection at the museum. Arrangements were also made to
render assistance to the Department of Agriculture in Chile in their
white-grub work; and exchanges were arranged with certain col-
lectors in Santiago.

In connection with this same program of cultural cooperation with
the American republics, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, curator of physical
anthropology, went to Mexico on March 8, returning on June 23. The
primary purpose of this trip was to give training in methods of
osteometry to the graduate students of the Escuela Nacional de Antro-
pologia. Owing to the recent activities of the Instituto de Antro-
pologfa e Historia, of which the Escuela and Museo Nacional are part,
Mexico is now one of the leading anthropological centers in this
hemisphere. The subject of physical anthropology is handled by such
able workers as Dr. D. F. Rubin de la Borbolla, the acting director
of the Escuela, Sr. Javier Romero, curator in the Museo, Dr. Juan
Comas, and Srta. Ada d’Aloja. Under them a number of young stu-
dents are developing who already have had extensive field experience.
In addition, Dr. Stewart was able to study a collection of skeletal re-
mains in the Museo Nacional de Antropologia collected by Dr.
Eduardo Noguera earlier in the year at Xochicalco. This collection,
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

although small, is unusually well preserved, and contains interesting
examples of tooth mutilation and cranial deformity. The teaching
and research supplemented one another as the Xochicalco collection
was used for demonstration purposes, particularly as regards restora-
tion, sexing, aging, and pathological changes. Much interest in this
field of research has developed as a result of this work.

A third project was concerned with work in Haiti for the Museum
by Dr. Alfred Métraux, of the Institute of Social Anthropology, from
September 18 to November 30. His investigations concerned anthro-
pology and were made in cooperation with the Bureau of Ethnology
of Haiti and the Scientific Society of Haiti. For a month Dr. Mé-
traux conducted cooperative archeological investigations on Tortue
Island in the north, and for another month he was in Port-au-Prince
engaged in lectures and anthropological investigations. During the
entire period Dr. Métraux maintained close contact with the Scien-
tific Society for which he organized seminars for the discussion of
anthropology.

In continuation of the ornithological reconnaissance of northeast-
ern Colombia, M. A. Carriker, Jr., of Santa Marta, went into the field
to complete examination of the valley separating the Sierra Nevada
de Santa Marta from the Sierra Perijaé. At the end of the fiscal year
he had moved into the lower elevations of the Sierra Nevada where
this range extends to the east toward the Guajira desert. Excellent
results were reported in additional specimens for our rich collections
from this area. This work is financed by the income of the W. L.
Abbott fund.

A few local collections have been made by Dr. Leonard P. Schultz
and Dr. Robert R. Miller, curator and associate curator of fishes, re-
spectively, who secured fossils at Scientists Cliffs, on Chesapeake Bay,
and fishes from various creeks in the State of Maryland. Several
of the insect specialists have made extensive, largely local, collections
within their own groups, some 3,000 specimens being added to the
national collections through these efforts, a number being forms new
to the collections, especially in the case of coleopterous larvae and
the Aleyrodidae. Most of the aleyrodid material was obtained by
Miss Louise Russell from preserved plant material at the National
Herbarium and in the Herbarium of the New York Botanical Gardens.

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper, curator of invertebrate paleontology, in
company with Dr. Byron N. Cooper, of the Virginia Geological Sur-
vey, carried on further investigations in the complicated geology and
paleontology of the nearby Appalachian Valley, during two brief field
trips. The first, in June 1944, covered parts of this area as far north
as southern Pennsylvania and south to Staunton, Va., to study facies
changes in the Ordovician limestone (Chambersburg formation) from
its type area near Chambersburg, Pa., to a point in the vicinity of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

Staunton. About 2 weeks were spent in the study, which resulted in
interesting information and good collections.

A second trip extended these studies through the Ordovician rocks
of southern Virginia and Tennessee. On this trip the two men were
accompanied by Dr. Raymond S. Edmundson, also of the Virginia
Geological Survey. The party began work about the middle of Oc-
tober near Athens, Tenn., and visited type sections of Ordovician
formations in Virginia and Tennessee to see if the Tennessee forma-
tions could be recognized in southern Virginia. The party worked
from Athens north to Knoxville, then went to Clinton, Tenn., and
worked from there to Cumberland Gap in northern Tennessee. From
here they traveled for a short distance along the Cumberland Front
and on to Natural Bridge, and then to Harrisonburg to tie the studies
into the work of the early part of the summer. The work was com-
pleted in early November.

At the end of January 1944 Dr, Alexander Wetmore, with Dr. J. P.
E. Morrison, assistant curator of mollusks, as assistant, went to Pan-
ama to inaugurate some biological investigations for the War Depart-
ment which continued into the fiscal year 1945. Dr. Wetmore returned
late in March, leaving Dr. Morrison to continue the work until October.
As one result the Museum now has extensive collections of birds, mol-
lusks, and reptiles as well as valuable lots in other fields from some
islands of the Archipiélago de las Pérlas that have not been well known
previously.

MISCELLANEOUS

Visitors.—An increase of 197,951 visitors to the Museum buildings
was recorded over the previous year, the totals being 1,730,716 for
1945 and 1,532,765 for 1944. August 1944 was the month of largest
attendance, with 183,394 visitors; July, the second largest, with 177,-
065. Records for the four buildings show the following numbers of
visitors : Smithsonian Building, 342,762, Arts and Industries Building,
674,920; Natural History Building, 531,712; Aircraft Building,
181,322.

Publications —Twenty Museum publications were issued during the
year—1 Bulletin (pt. 3 of Checklist of the Coleopterous Insects of
Mexico, Central America, the West Indies, and South America, by
Dr. Richard E. Blackwelder), 1 Contribution from the National Her-
barium, and 18 Proceedings papers. A complete list of these publica-
tions is given in the report on publications, appendix 10.

Special exhibits —T welve special exhibits were held during the year
under the auspices of various educational, scientific, recreational, and
governmental groups. In addition, the department of engineering and
industries arranged 24 special displays—12 in graphic arts and 12 in
photography.

676212463
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

Changes during the year in the organization and staff included the
advancement of John E. Graf from Associate Director, United States
National Museum, to the position of Assistant Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution on April 1, 1945.

The department of anthropology lost, through retirement, Richard
G. Paine, scientific aid in the division of archeology, on February 28,
1945, and to this vacancy Joseph R. Caldwell was appointed on April
9,1945. Robert A. Elder, Jr., was appointed assistant curator in the
division of ethnology on May 16, 1945.

On the staff of the department of biology, an honorary appoint-
ment was conferred on Maj. W. L. Jellison, A. S. F., U. S. A., as
collaborator in the division of insects, on August 2, 1944. Other addi-
tions were the appointment of Dr. Raymond M. Gilmore, associate
curator in the division of mammals, on September 2, 1944; Mrs. Marie
P. Fish, scientific aid in the division of fishes, on December 4, 1944;
William E. Hoffmann, associate curator in the division of insects, on
August 18, 1944, and Mrs. Mildred §. Wilson, assistant curator
(aquatic biology) in the division of marine invertebrates, on August
21, 1944. Three employees left the service; one, James O. Maloney,
aid in the division of marine invertebrates, resigned effective Apri!
15, 1945, and through retirement, John A. Mirguet, osteologist, on
October 31, 1944, and Earl D. Reid, scientific aid, division of fishes, on
February 28, 1945.

Through the retirement of Nicholas W. Dorsey, accountant and
auditor, on May 31, 1945, after long service to the Museum, Thomas
F. Clark was advanced to fill the vacancy on June 16, 1945. Mrs.
Anna W. Murray was appointed assistant accountant and auditor on
April 30, 1945, to fill the position made vacant by the transfer of Mrs.
Florence L. Weirich to the Department of Agriculture on April 8,
1945.

Other changes in the administrative staff during the year were the
resignations of Mrs. Margaret M. Pflieger, assistant purchasing oflicer,
on February 28, 1945, and Mrs. Margaret L. Vinton, personnel assist-
ant, on January 4, 1945. These vacancies were filled by the promo-
tion of Armstead D. Hilliard and Gertrude R. R. Bogdan, respectively,
on March 1, 1945.

On the staff of maintenance and operation, William Crossingham,
mechanic (foreman of paint shop), retired on September 30, 1944,
and on October 9, 1944, Axel J. Anderson succeeded him in charge
of the paint shop.

The following, upon completion of military duty, returned during
the year to their positions in the Museum: Reuben W. Gore, February
14, 1945; Robert E. Kirk, May 16, 1945; and John B. J. Peck, January
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3l

12,1945. On February 26, 1945, Oliver N. Armstead was furloughed
for military duty.

Through the operation of the retirement act, 11 employees were
retired, as follows: For age—Mrs. Marie Arm, forewoman of char-
women, on August 31, 1944, with 82 years 3 months of service; Nicholas
W. Dorsey, accountant and auditor, on May 31, 1945, with 50 years 3
months of service; Richard G. Paine, scientific aid, on February 28,
1945, with 44 years 4 months of service. For optional retirement—
William Crossingham, mechanic (foreman of paint shop), on Sep-
tember 30, 1944, with 47 years of service; Harry Kaiser, mechanic
(painter), on June 30, 1945, with 35 years 10 months of service; John
A. Mirguet, osteologist, on October 31, 1944, with 35 years 4 months of
service; Earl D. Reid, scientific aid, on February 23, 1945, with 34
years 8 months of service; Clarence T. Taylor, guard, on June 30,
1945, with 25 years 7 months of service; and Mrs. Eleanor C. White,
scientific aid, on November 30, 1944, with 25 years 8 months of service.
For disability—James W. Burns, guard, on May 31, 1945, with 9 years
11 months of service, and Winfield S. Dean, mechanic, on November 1,
1944, with 18 years 7 months of service.

Through death the Museum lost during the year Louis B. Hanks,
guard, on June 21, 1945, and Carter C. Wood, laborer, on April 2, 1945.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER Wetmore, Director.

Tue SecreTary

Smithsonian Institution
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: Ihave the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees
of the National Gallery of Art, the eighth annual report of the Board,
covering its operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945. This
report is made pursuant to the provisions of the act of March 24, 1937
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 18, 1939
(Pub. Res. No. 9, 76th Cong.).

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945, the Board consisted of
the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, ex officio; and five general trustees, David K. E. Bruce,
Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Samuel H. Kress, and
Chester Dale.

At its annual meeting, held on February 12, 1945, the Board elected
Samuel H. Kress as President, succeeding David K. E. Bruce who
resigned, and re-elected Ferdinand Lammot Belin as Vice President,
to serve for the ensuing year. The executive officers continuing in
office during the year were:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer.

David BH. Finley, Director.

Harry A. McBride, Administrator.

Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.

John Walker, Chief Curator.

Macgill James, Assistant Director.
Donald D. Shepard continued to serve during the year as Adviser to
the Board.

During the year Margaret D. Garrett was appointed Acting Chief
of the Inter-American Office, to succeed Porter A. McCray, who
resigned,

The three standing committees of the Board, provided for in the
bylaws, as constituted at the annual meeting of the Board, held Feb-
ruary 12, 1945, were:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTER

Chief Justice of the United States, Harlan F. Stone, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Alexander Wetmore.
David K. BH. Bruce.

32
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, Henry Morgenthau, Jr., Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.
Ferdinand Lammot Belin.
David K. E. Bruce.
Chester Dale.
ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Samuel H. Kress, Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Vice Chairman.
Duncan Phillips.

Chester Dale.

David HE. Finley, ex officio.

The permanent Government positions on the Gallery staff are filled
from the registers of the United States Civil Service Commission, or
with its approval. On June 30, 1945, the permanent Government
staff of the Gallery numbered 245 employees. Since the beginning
of the war 61 members of the staff, or approximately 25 percent, have
entered the armed services, and during the past year 5 of these em-
ployees have obtained their discharges and have returned to the
Gallery.

The operating and maintenance staffs have been reduced to a
minimum, owing to the fact that the Gallery has desired to curtail
expenditures and the use of manpower to the greatest possible extent
during the war period. Nevertheless, owing to the intensive effort,
interest, and efficiency of the employees, it has been possible to main-
tain a high standard of operation and maintenance of the Gallery
building and grounds and protection and care of Gallery collections.

APPROPRIATIONS

For salaries and expenses for the upkeep and operation of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, the protection and care of works of art acquired
by the Board, and all administrative expenses incident thereto as
authorized by the act of March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51), as amended by
the public resolution of April 13, 1939 (Pub. Res. No. 9, 76th Cong.),
the Congress appropriated for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945, the
sum of $642,600. This amount includes the regular appropriation of
$634,000 and a supplemental deficiency appropriation of $8,600 for
increases in personal services and other Gallery expenses.

From these appropriations the following expenditures and encum-
brances were incurred :

EXPENDITURES AND ENCUMBRANCES

Personaltservices=.3 <2. 7a ee ee ee ee ee $521, 211. 91
Printingvan Ge pinding=. bo ao Lee we ee eee 1, 838. 17
Suppliessand equipment, etc! == se eee 119, 425. 88
Unencumbered balance____~ EW Bee sen ee ey 124. 04

Ee USI a I erg Pe eee 642, 600. 00
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

In addition to the above-mentioned appropriations, the Gallery re-
ceived the sum of $35,000 from the Department of State to cover
expenses during the fiscal year of the Inter-American Office of the
Gallery for the promotion of art activities between the United States
and the Latin American republics.

ATTENDANCE

During the year 1945 the Gallery enjoyed the largest annual attend-
ance since the building was opened to the public in 1941, the number
of visitors being 2,078,739, as compared with 2,060,071 in the fiscal
year 1944, or an increase of 18,668. This is an average daily attend-
ance of 5,711 visitors, showing the continuing popularity of the Gal-
lery. The greatest number of visitors on any one day was 25,023, on
Sunday, September 10, 1944.

Men and women in the armed services are visiting the Gallery in
increasing numbers, accounting for approximately 85 percent of the
total attendance. For relaxation they make constant use of the Serv-
icemen’s Room, where writing and reading materials are furnished
them.

The Sunday night openings, together with the Sunday evening con-
certs offered free of charge, continued throughout the year and con-
tributed to the public’s interest. Special exhibitions of contemporary
art held during the year, especially art produced by members of the
armed services, have been unusually well attended.

PUBLICATIONS

The most ambitious project of the Publications Fund of the Gallery
since its organization was the publication of the book “Masterpieces of
Painting from the National Gallery of Art” in October 1944. The book
contains 85 color reproductions of paintings in the Gallery collections,
each matched with an interpretive passage from the world’s literature,
and was edited by Huntington Cairns and John Walker, of the Gallery
staff. The public demand for this book has been so great that a second
edition is now being printed.

The Information Rooms of the Gallery continued the policy of fur-
nishing moderately priced color reproductions of fine quality, and in-
creased the variety of postcards, portfolios, and illustrated catalogs
available to the public. A new edition of the General Information
booklet, which is of great assistance to visitors and may be obtained
without charge upon request at the Information Rooms, was issued
during the year.

Publishers of large collotype reproductions of paintings from the
Gallery collections have been gradually adding to their lists, and the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

8 new reproductions completed during the year make a total of 23
large reproductions offered for sale in the Information Rooms.

CONSTRUCTION OF NEW GALLERIES

In keeping with recommendations of the committee on the building
and a resolution of the Board of Trustees, it was decided to proceed
with the finishing of six new galleries, in order to make available addi-
tional exhibition space now required.

Accordingly, a contract was entered into for the completion, with
funds donated for the purpose, of galleries numbered 24, 25, and 26
in the west end of the building, in which will be exhibited recent ac-
quisitions of paintings and sculpture of Italian schools, and galleries
numbered 538, 54, and 55, in the east end of the building, for exhibiting
paintings of French and British schools. These galleries will be fur-
nished in a manner similar to adjacent gallery rooms, and it is con-
templated that the work will be completed in the autumn of 1945.

RETURN OF WORKS OF ART FROM PROTECTIVE STORAGE IN BILTMORE, N. C.

It was decided by the Board of Trustees that the works of art in
protective storage at Biltmore, N. C., during the period of danger
of air raids, should be returned to the National Gallery of Art, and
this return was effected on October 17-18, 1944.

The works of art were brought back to Washington by motor van,
under police protection, through the States of North Carolina and
Virginia, and the District of Columbia, and the trip was accomplished
without damage to any of the works of art. The storage rooms at
Biltmore House were closed, and the sum of $10,199.85, which was
the unexpended balance in the working fund furnished to the Na-
tional Gallery of Art for maintenance of the evacuation center, was
returned to the Public Buildings Administration.

In this same connection, it may be noted that the air raid protective
measures in effect in the Gallery building have been discontinued.

ACQUISITIONS
GIFTS OF PAINTINGS AND SCULPTURE

During the year the Board of Trustees received from Samuel H.
Kress and the Samuel H. Kress Foundation 80 important Italian,
French, and Dutch paintings and 26 pieces of sculpture, to be added
to the other gifts of paintings and sculpture now in the Gallery.

On September 25, 1944, the Board of Trustees accepted the portrait
of “Chief Justice Harlan F. Stone” by Augustus Vincent Tack from
Duncan Phillips, to be placed in the Board Room. On the same date
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

the Board of Trustees accepted the portrait of “Joseph Dugan” by
Thomas Sully from Herbert L. Pratt. The Board of Trustees, on
November 17, 1944, accepted the painting “Both Members of This
Club” by George Bellows from Chester Dale, and on January 2, 1945,
the Board accepted two portraits, “Mrs. Chester Dale” and “Chester
Dale,” by George Bellows, from Chester Dale, the latter to be in-
stalled in the Founder’s Room. A copy of a painting entitled “Ma-
donna and Child with the Magdalen and Saint Jerome” by Matthew
Pratt, after Correggio, was accepted on February 12, 1945, by the
Board from Clarence Van Dyke Tiers for the study collection, and on
May 21, 1945, the Board accepted from Mrs. Huttleston Rogers the
painting “The Lackawanna Valley” by George Inness.

GIFTS OF PRINTS AND DRAWINGS

The Board of Trustees on September 25, 1944, November 14, 1944,
November 18, 1944, May 2, 1945, and June 22, 1945, accepted as gifts
a total of 1,740 prints and drawings from Lessing J. Rosenwald, to
be added to his former gifts of prints and drawings. Also on Sep-
tember 25, 1944, the Board accepted the original drawing “Shadows”
by Kerr Eby from Kerr Eby, and the drawing “Prairie Titlark” by
John James Audubon from Miss Martha Hogan. On November 16,
1944, the Board accepted nine sheets of drawings by George Cruik-
shank from Dr. Clements C. Fry, two drawings, “Seated Figure” and
“Standing Figure” by Lancret, and “Sheet of Sketches” by Lancret,
from Myron A. Hofer, a mezzotint of Reynold’s “Lady Betty Comp-
ton” by Valentine Green from David Keppel, and two drawings, “Seth
Hastings” and “James Campbell,” by Saint Memin, from Herbert
L. Pratt, Jr. On May 14, 1945, the Board accepted an engraving by
FE. Mandel after Raphael’s “The Small Cowper Madonna” from David
EK. Finley, and an engraving of Raphael’s “The Alba Madonna” by
B. Desnoyers from David Keppel. On June 22, 1945, the Board
accepted two drawings, “Danseuse vu de Dos et Trois Etudes de Pieds”
by Degas and “Deux Avocats” by Daumier, and one print, “Le Stryge”
by Meryon, from Myron A. Hofer.

SALE OR EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART

The Board of Trustees accepted the offer of Samuel H. Kress and
the Samuel H. Kress Foundation to exchange the sculpture “Madonna
and Child” by Andrea Sansovino for the painting entitled “A Pagan
Rite” by Giovanni Bellini; and the sculpture “Profile of a Woman”
by Pierino da Vinci for the painting “Portrait of a Man” by Nicolas
de Largilliere. The Board of Trustees also accepted the offer of
Lessing J. Rosenwald to exchange an engraving by Schongauer en-
titled “The Eagle of Saint John, the Evangelist,” and an etching by
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ob

Hirschvogel entitled “Landscape with Buildings,” for a similar en-
graving and a similar etching, now included in the Rosenwald collec-
tion at the National Gallery of Art, and bearing the same titles and by
the same artists.

LOAN OF WORKS OF ART TO THE GALLERY

During the year the following works of art were received on loan:

Particulars Artist
From Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.:
Le Chevalier Louis Huseba de Montour_____- Carle Van Loo.
The) Sicard David Children___-__--=.. 52. Thomas Sully.

From Mrs. Jean de Bekessy, Washington, D. C.:
The Duchess of Parma and Her Daughter
ANS en Ea ee ae ea LO ae 2 J I St, See Jean Marc Nattier.
From Myron A. Hofer, Washington, D. C.:

Gainsborough.
: A ‘ Guys.
Nine sprints: ang dra wingsee = ee Reynolds,
Whistler.
From David Keppel, Washington, D. C.:
Sketch ofeAMMe waaay sili ae ela ea aedlew eee at lat George Bellows.
FIG PIO Re arr Se SU ea de eit BE ey ea ea Robert Nantueil.
From Robert Rosenwald, Jenkintown, Pa.:
ATISH GEV BUA tS tt se eae eae Toulouse-Lautrec.
PANIIT Ge ee Vie al 8 a te rt ON ae George Bellows.
ETO CLpAN ea Ste Sears i tit Le ee Si iy Hugene Delacroix.
From Arnold Knauth, New York, N. Y.:
ColonelshpesiSargent#—. 2. 2 ee eee John Singleton Copley.
From Stanley J. Mortimer, Jr., New York, N. Y.:
Portrait bust of a member of the Order of
Sanvlaco es toe ee Ea ea ee After the manner of Leone
Leoni.
Portrait bust) Of asm ane ose ees ener ee Attributed to Tullio Lom-
bardi.
Madonnakand (Child aaiisr as ee eres Attributed to Ghiberti.
From Duncan Phillips, Washington, D. C.:
Macbeth and the Witches_.____-__-________ A. P. Rider.
From Lieutenant Frederick R. Pratt, Washing-
ton, D5 @s:
Georzeawashington= 220) napeyes fetta as Gilbert Stuart.
Battle between the United States and the
Macedonia mics) Riser Titi ww lees ates’. Thomas Birch.
Battle between the Wasp and the Frolic____- Thomas Birch.
From Lessing J. Rosenwald, Jenkintown, Pa.:
Ecce Homo III (Christ Presented to the
People). = sees cb OU eT EEL ak ENR Rembrandt.
Eece Homo VII (Christ Presented to the
People) beams ir) ee aay ee Rembrandt,

From museums and private collectors in Europe:
154 paintings of the French school of the late
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries and

101 French drawings.
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

LOAN OF WORKS OF ART BY THE GALLERY

During the fiscal year 1945, the Gallery loaned the following works
of art for exhibition purposes:

Particulars Artist
To the Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Il.:
Mrs. Richard: Vates=2.-2 2 Sa ee Gilbert Stuart.
To the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond,
Va.3
Nineteen ;paintings: =.) eee Gilbert Stuart.
To the Century Association, New York, N. Y.:
Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes_-___---_ Augustus Vincent Tack.
Chief Justice Harlan FW. Stone____-___-__-__ Augustus Vincent Tack.
To the Museum of Art, Providence, R. L.:
Mrse onrehard) “Wates 22s oa se Gilbert Stuart.
To the White House, Washington, D. C.:
George; \Washington2 23 as eae ee Rembrandt Peale.
Allies Day; Mayo lOlvses =e 2 Childe Hassam.

To the United States Department of State—Blair
Lee House, Washington, D. C.:
Daniel Webster == 2" 2 eee ee P. A. Healy.
Seven prints from the Rosenwald collection.

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED

During the year the print “Saint Jerome beside a Pollard Willow”
by Rembrandt, lent to the Gallery by W. G. Russell Allen, was
returned to him.

EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945:

American Battle Art paintings—Revolutionary War to World War I, from
museums and private collections, from July 4 to September 4, 1944.

American portraits from the Gallery’s collection, from September 5 to Novem-
ber 18, 1944.

Paintings of Naval Medicine from the Abbott Laboratories and the United
States Government, from September 10 to October 18, 1944.

Paintings and drawings of the United States Coast Guard by United States
Coast Guard combat artists, from September 17 to October 18, 1944.

Wartime paintings of flyers, planes, and world-wide combat operations of the
Army Air Forces, by Army Air Forces artists, from October 15 to November 10,
1944.

Nineteenth-century etchings and drawings by Legros from the collection of
George Matthew Adams, from October 15 to November 12, 1944.

Highteenth-century prints and drawings from the Widener collection, the Dr.
A. W. S. Rosenbach collection, and the Mrs. Irwin Laughlin collection, from
November 19, 1944, to January 14, 1945.

French drawings from the French Government, the Myron A. Hofer collection,
and the Harris Whittemore collection, from November 19, 1944, to May 8, 1945.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

Italian eighteenth-century prints from the Gallery’s collection, from February
28 to May 21, 1945.

Religious prints and drawings from the Gallery’s collection, from May 9 to
June 19, 1945.

Prints and drawings from the Gallery’s collection and the Myron A. Hofer
collection, from May 9 to June 19, 1945.

Paintings of The War against Japan by American artists in the Pacific areas,
from the Treasury Department, with the cooperation of the Army, Navy, and
Marine Corps, and Life Magazine, from May 27 to June 19, 1945.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945, the following drawings,
water colors, and prints were placed on exhibition:

Index of American Design.—When the Index of American Design was trans-
ferred from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, N. Y., where it has been
on loan, it contained 16 special traveling exhibitions which had been arranged by
that institution. The National Gallery of Art has subsequently added four trav-
eling exhibitions to this number. Exhibitions from the collection have been
shown at the following places during the fiscal year just ended: Worcester Art
Museum; Metropolitan Museum of Art; Ohio State Museum; John Herron Art
Institute; Rhode Island State College; Children’s Museum, Washington, D. C.;
Little Gallery, North Canton, Ohio; Kanawha County Public Library; Baltimore
Museum of Art; University of New Hampshire; Pasadena Art Institute; and
Union Gallery, University of Wisconsin.

Rosenwald prints.—Special exhibitions of prints from the Rosenwald collec-
tion were prepared and circulated during the past fiscal year. These exhibitions
were held at Cheltenham Art Center, Elkins Park, Pa.; the Print Club, Philadel-
phia ; Philadelphia Museum of Art ; John Herron Art Institute, Indianapolis, Ind. ;
Philadelphia Art Alliance; Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn.

CUSTODIANSHIP OF FRENCH EXHIBITION MATERIAL

The Board of Trustees, on February 1, 1945, relinquished its custo-
dianship of, and transferred to the Provisional Government of the
French Republic in the United States, all works of art and exhibition
material sent to the United States under the auspices of the former
French Government for exhibition purposes at various places in the
United States, including the World’s Fairs in New York, N. Y., and
San Francisco, Calif.

VARIOUS GALLERY ACTIVITIES

During the period from July 1, 1944, to June 30, 1945, a total of
51 Sunday evening concerts were given in the East Garden Court of
the Gallery. The concerts were free to the public and were attended
by capacity audiences. The National Gallery Sinfonietta, under the
direction of Richard Bales, played 11 concerts, with well-known guest
artists appearing occasionally. The Gallery’s second American
Music Festival of works of American composers was held on four Sun-
day evenings in March 1945.
AQ) ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

The Sunday night suppers for servicemen continued during the
year and were enjoyed by approximately 1,700 service men and women.
Funds to defray the cost of the suppers were contributed by members
of the Gallery staff and by friends of the Gallery.

The film “National Gallery of Art” was made available during the
year to 17 individuals and institutions.

The Inter-American Office has continued during the year to carry
out the Latin-American art program of the Department of State
through the exchange of exhibitions, the distribution of art materials
and publications, and the assembling of information on Inter-Amer-
ican art activities. Major exhibitions were organized and sent to
seven countries in Latin America.

With the cooperation of the Library of Congress, the Inter-Amer-
ican Office edited the directory to Latin-American art activities orig-
inally prepared by the Archive of Hispanic Culture, for publication
in the forthcoming issue of the American Art Manual for the years
1942-45. The Inter-American Office has also compiled a list of circu-
lating exhibitions of Latin American art in the United States, which
will be available for distribution in the early autumn of 1945.

A total of 188 special permits to copy paintings in the National
Gallery of Art were issued during the fiscal year 1945, and during
the same period 75 special permits were issued to photograph paintings.

CURATORIAL DEPARTMENT

The curatorial work during the fiscal year consisted of installing
new gifts, particularly the additional items of the Samuel H. Kress
collection, and reinstallation of the evacuated works of art returned
from Biltmore, N. C.; work on the new Gallery catalog and the photo-
graphic record of the Gallery collections; assisting the American
Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historie
Monuments in War Areas by providing information on damaged and
looted works of art in war areas; assisting in the publication of the
book “Masterpieces of Painting from the National Gallery of Art,”
edited by Huntington Cairns and John Walker; collaborating in the
publication of the book “Drawings for Ariosto by Fragonard”; com-
pletion of a “Handbook of the Widener Collection of Decorative
Arts”; completion of one catalog and three pamphlets in the series
dealing with important works in the collection; and the cataloging of
the Richter Photographic Archives and the Strauss collection of photo-
graphs. Seven members of the staff contributed 14 articles to peri-
odicals, and three members of the staff lectured 13 times on six subjects.

During the year approximately 1,903 works of art were submitted
to the Acquisitions Committee (including 1,740 prints from the Rosen-
wald collection) with recommendation regarding their acceptability
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Al

for the collection of the Gallery; 46 private collections were reviewed
in connection with offers to the Gallery of gifts or loans; 128 consulta-
tions were held concerning more than 250 works of art brought to the
Gallery for expert opinion; 116 written and 107 verbal replies involv-
ing research in the history of art were made to inquiries; and 8 visits
were made outside the Gallery to view works of art for expert opinion.

RESTORATION AND REPATR OF WORKS OF ART

With the authorization of the Board and the approval of the Direc-
tor and Chief Curator, the necessary restoration and repair of works
of art in the Gallery’s collection were made by Stephen S. Pichetto,
Consultant Restorer to the Gallery. All work was completed in the
Restorer’s studio in the Gallery with the exception of several works
of art requiring attention before they could with safety be shipped to
Washington, D. C., and two paintings on which the work was of such
a delicate and complicated nature that it had to be done in Mr. Pi-
chetto’s New York studio.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The various programs conducted by the educational department con-
tinued to be popular. The Gallery tours of the collection attracted
more than 15,000 people, and nearly 27,000 attended the two 10-minute
lectures given daily on the “Picture of the Week.” ‘This latter attend-
ance is an increase of 5,000 over the fiscal year 1944. Illustrated lec-
tures on 57 special topics were given in the auditorium by members
of the educational and curatorial departments and by guest speakers.

LIBRARY

A total of 1,035 books and 299 pamphlets and periodicals were pre-
sented to the Gallery; 9 books were purchased by the Gallery; 3,020
photographs and 45 slides were presented as gifts; 22 books, 68 pam-
phlets, and 357 bulletins were acquired through exchange, and 20 sub-
scriptions to periodicals were made.

PHOTOGRAPHIC DEPARTMENT

During the year the photographic laboratory of the Gallery made
9,498 prints, 632 black and white slides, and 1,625 color slides.

OTHER GIFTS

During the year gifts of books on art and related material were
made to the Gallery library by Maj. Paul Mellon, Mrs. Jesse Isidor
Straus, Col. and Mrs. John Nicholas Brown, Capt. Cyrus R. Miller,
the National Gallery of Canada, the Carnegie Institute, David E.
Finley, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Samuel H. Kress, and A. G. Gallo-
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

way. Gifts of money during the fiscal year 1945 were made by Rich-
ard Bales, Mrs. Florence Becker, Mrs. Dexter Brown, Mrs. Elizabeth
Coolidge, Mrs. David E. Finley, Sr., David E. Finley, Macgill James,
The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, Mrs. Lee War-
ren, and Mrs. Gertrude Clark Whittall.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit is being made of the private funds of the Gallery for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1945, by Price, Waterhouse & Co., public
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination
of the accounting records maintained for such funds will be submitted
to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

¥. L. Brewin, Acting President.
Dr. ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Sim: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1945:

APPROPRIATIONS

For the administration of the National Collection of Fine Arts by
the Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary
employees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling »
expenses, and other necessary incidental expenses, $17,900 was allotted,
of which $5,998.45 was expended in connection with the care and
maintenance of the Freer Gallery of Art, a unit of the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts. The balance was spent for the care and upkeep
of the National Collection of Fine Arts, nearly all of this sum being
required for the payment of salaries, traveling expenses, purchase of
books and periodicals, and necessary disbursements for the care of
the collection.

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The twenty-second annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Com-
mission was held on December 5, 1944. The annual meetings sched-
uled for the two preceding years were canceled owing to crowded
transportation and hotel facilities.

The members met at 10:30 a. m. in the Natural History Building,
where, as the advisory committee on the acceptance of works of art
that had been submitted since the last meeting in 1941, the following
action was taken:

ACCEPTED FOR THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Oil painting, ‘Roses,’ by John F. Weir, N. A. (1841-1926). Gift of Miss A. M.
Hegeman.

Oil painting, “Mist in Kanab Canyon, Utah,’ by Thomas Moran, 1892. Be-
quest of Mrs. Bessie B. Croffut.

Four oil paintings: “Water Carriers,’ by Frank Duveneck; “Portrait Group
of Mrs. Hawkins and Family,” by Sir William Beechey; ‘Rome and the Cam-
pagna,” by Richard Wilson; and “Lady and Two Children,” by George Frederick
Watts. Bequest of Rev. F. Ward Denys.

Oil painting, “Clearing after September Gale—Maine Coast,’ by Howard
Russell Butler, N. A. (1856-1984). Henry Ward Ranger bequest.

Oil painting, “Return from the Farm,” by Elliott Daingerfield, N. A. (1859-
1932). Henry Ward Ranger bequest.

Oil painting, “Self Portrait,” by Will H. Low, N. A. (1853-1932). Henry Ward
Ranger bequest.

43
44. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Oil painting, ‘“New Year’s Shooter,’ by George Luks (1867-1933). Henry
Ward Ranger bequest.

Oil painting, “The Sermon,” by Gari Melchers, N. A. (1860-1932). Henry
Ward Ranger bequest.

Miniature, water color on ivory, “Unknown Lady,” by David Boudon. Gift of
Bernard H. Cone.

Miniature, water color on ivory, “Robert Oliphant,’ by Raphael Peale. Bequest
of Mrs. Bertha E. Jaques.

Miniature, water color on ivory, “Elizabeth Oliphant” (sister of Robert), by
James Peale. Bequest of Mrs. Bertha E. Jaques.

Miniature, water color on ivory, “Samuel Love, Jr., of Salisbury Plantation,
Virginia,” by Robert Field. Bequest of Admiral Richard Graham Davenport.

ACCEPTED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Pastel, “Portrait of Mrs. Frank B. Noyes,” by Juliet Thompson. Gift of
Frank B. Noyes.

Oil painting, “Portrait of Gen. George B. McClellan,” as a small child, by an
unknown artist. Gift of Mrs. George B. McClellan.

Opaque water color, “A Bodhisattva, Cave 4, Bagh,’ by Sarkis Katchadourian.
Gift of Neshan G. Shamigian.

Original plaster statue, ‘Alexander Agassiz,” by Paul W. Bartlett. Gift of
Mrs. Paul W. Bartlett.

Bronze, ‘Head of Christ,” by Filomeno Melgarejo. Gift of Vice President
Henry A. Wallace.

Two Italian cabinets. Gift of Mrs. Frank B. Noyes.

Two blue vases. Bequest of Miss Ida Howgate.

Japanese lacquer serving dish, Tokugawa period. Gift of Dr. Edwin Kirk.

Large Celadon vase and a pair of Ming vases. Gift of Milo Elson Emmerson.

ACCEPTED FOR THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Oil painting, “Thomas A. Edison Listening to His First Perfected Phonograph,”
by Col. A. A. Anderson. Gift of Dr. Eleanor A. Campbell.

Oil painting, “Portrait of Dr. Charles Greeley Abbot,” by Nicholas R. Brewer.
Gift of the artist.

The members then proceeded to the offices of Dr. Wetmore, Acting
Secretary of the Institution, for the further proceedings, and the meet-
ing was called to order by the vice chairman, Prof. Frank Jewett
Mather, Jr., as acting chairman.

The members present were: Prof. Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice
chairman; Dr. Alexander Wetmore (ex officio); and Gifford Beal,
David FE. Finley, Paul Manship, Edward W. Redfield, and Mahonri M.
Young. Ruel P. Tolman, curator of the division of graphic arts in the
United States National Museum and acting director of the National
Collection of Fine Arts, also attended.

The following resolutions on the deaths of Messrs. Lodge, Borie,
and Keppel were submitted and adopted:

Whereas, the Smithsonian Art Commission has learned of the death on Decem-

ber 29, 1942, of Mr. John E. Lodge, a member of the Commission since 1921, and
Chairman of the Executive Committee since 1941; therefore be it
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

ResolWwed, That the Commission desires here to record its sincere sorrow at the
loss of Mr. Lodge. His wide experience and exceptional knowledge of the art
of the Far Hast, his keen judgment of the quality of works of art, and his helpful
interest in the affairs of the Commission will be sadly missed.

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the Commission,
and that the Secretary be requested to inform the family of Mr. Lodge of this
action.

Whereas, the Smithsonian Art Commission has learned of the death on May
11, 1948, of Mr. Charles L. Borie, Jr., a member of the Commission since 1926,
and its Chairman since 1935; therefore be it

Resolved, That the Commission desires here to record its sincere sorrow at the
passing of Mr. Borie, an eminent architect, whose productions are an enduring
monument to his genius. He was ever ready with helpful advice in formulating
the policies of the Smithsonian Art Commission and the National Collection
of Fine Arts. His influence in the general promotion of the art interests of
this country will be greatly missed.

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the Commission,
and that the Secretary be requested to inform the family of Mr. Borie of this
action.

Whereas, the Smithsonian Art Commission has learned of the death on
September 8, 1948, of Dr. Frederick P. Keppel, a member of the Commission
since 1932; therefore be it

Resolved, That the Commission desires here to record its sincere sorrow at the
passing of Dr. Keppel, who, as the head of the Carnegie Foundation of New York,
has exercised a profound influence in the promotion of art in the United States, and
whose broad outlook and keen judgment have been of great value to the Smith-
sonian Art Commission. His wisdom and his genial personality will long be
missed.

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the Commis-
sion, and that the Secretary be requested to inform the family of Dr. Keppel of
this action.

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the name
of Archibald G. Wenley to succeed Mr. Lodge, Robert Woods Bliss
to succeed Dr. Keppel, and George Hewitt Myers to succeed Mr. Borie.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Paul Man-
ship, chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman; and Dr.
Alexander Wetmore, secretary.

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the reelec-
tion, for the usual 4-year period, of the following members whose
terms expired on the dates stated: (1942) Herbert Adams, Gifford
Beal, Gilmore D. Clarke; (1943) Louis Ayres, James E. Fraser,
George Harold Edgell, Frank Jewett Mather, Jr.; (1944) David E.
Finley, Edward W. Redfield, Paul Manship.

The following were elected members of the executive committee for
the ensuing year: David EK. Finley (chairman), Herbert Adams, and
Gilmore D, Clarke. Paul Manship, as chairman of the Commission,
and Dr. Alexander Wetmore, as secretary of the Commission, are ex
officio members of the executive committee.

676212—46——4
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Seven miniatures, water color on ivory, were acquired from the
fund established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden
Myer, as follows:

46. “Mr. Bennett of Revere Street, Boston, Mass.,” by Henry Williams (1787-
1830) ; from Sherman Riley, New Haven, Conn.

47. “William Mather Smith,” by Archibald Robertson (1765-1835) ; from Mrs.
Dora Lee Curtis, Arlington, Va.

48. “Mrs. William Mather Smith (nee Helen Livingston),” by an unknown
artist; from Mrs. Dora Lee Curtis, Arlington, Va.

49. “Unknown Lady,” by Alfred T. Agate (1812-1846) ; from Miss Elizabeth A.
DuHamel, Washington, D. C.

50. “Mrs. Thomas Wilson,” by Walter Robertson (before 1765-1802); from
Mrs. Dora Lee Curtis, Arlington, Va.

51. ‘John Church Hamilton,” (?) by Alfred T. Agate (1812-1846) ; from Miss
Hlizabeth A. DuHamel, Washington, D. C.

52. “Dr. John Binsse,” (?) by Louis Binsse de St. Victor (?); from Harry
Lorin Binsse, New York City.

DEPOSITS

Two plaster life masks, “Capt. Charles Francis Hall (1821-1871) ,”
by Clark Mills (1810-1883), and “Joseph Francis (1801-1893) ,”
by Theodore A. Mills (1839-1916), were deposited by the United
States National Museum (division of ethnology).

LOANS ACCEPTED

A silver tankard was lent by Ensign Edward Shippen, U. S. N. R.,
through his father, Dr. L. P. Shippen, on December 13, 1944.

An oil painting, “The Nativity,” by an unknown artist, was lent
by St. Paul’s Church, Washington, D. C., on January 25, 1945.

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS

An oil painting, “Portrait of George Washington Carver,” by
Betsy Graves Reyneau, was lent to the Harmon Foundation, Inc., on
September 21, 1944, to be included in an exhibit of portraits of leading
Negro citizens shown at the Detroit Institute of Arts from October
10 through October 22, and to continue on tour in different parts of
the country.

An oil painting, “Thomas A. Edison Listening to His First Per-
fected Phonograph,” by Col. A. A. Anderson, was lent to the Mint
Museum of Art, Charlotte, N. C., on September 25, 1944. (Returned
November 10, 1944.)

A framed oil sketch, “Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its
Way,” by Emanuel Leutze, was lent to the Detroit Institute of Arts
to be included in their exhibition, “The World of the Romantic Art-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

ist,” December 29, 1944, to January 28, 1945. (Returned February 6,
1945.)

A plaster bust of George Washington, by Houdon, was lent to the
Field Photographic Branch, Oflice of Strategic Services, Department
of Agriculture, for photographic purposes, on January 2, 1945.
(Returned January 2, 1945.)

Three water colors by Walter Paris, entitled “In Monument Park,
Colorado,” “Landscape,” and “Florida Village,” and one photograph
of the artist, were lent to the Lyman Allyn Museum, New London,
Conn., to be included in its thirteenth anniversary exhibition,
“Men of the Tile Club,” March 11 through April 23, 1945. (Re-
turned April 28, 1945.)

Five oil paintings, “Lower Ausable Pond,” by Homer D. Martin;
“La Wachere,” by Theodore Robinson; “Moonlight,” by Albert P.
Ryder; “September Afternoon,” by George Inness; and “At Nature’s
Mirror,” by Ralph A. Blakelock, were lent to Howard University,
Washington, D. C., to be included in the Festival of Fine Arts, May
3 through June 14, 1945. (Returned June 15, 1945.)

Two oil paintings, “Fired On,” by Frederic Remington, and “Indian
Summer Day,” by Max Weyl, were lent to The White House June 7,
1945, the former to be hung in the Executive Office, the latter in
President Truman’s study, second floor.

An oil painting, “Portrait of Andrew Jackson,” by R. E. W. Earle,
was lent to The Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore, Md., June 11,
1945, to be included in their Andrew Jackson Exhibition, June 15
to July 15, 1945.

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Three original bronzes, by Antoine Louis Barye, entitled “Panther
Surprising Civet Cat,” “Stork on Tortoise,” and “Seated Hare,” lent
by Leonard C. Gunnell, September 25, 1934, were withdrawn by Mrs.
Gunnell on October 10, 1944.

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY

A total of 407 publications (255 volumes and 152 pamphlets) were
accessioned during the year. Of this number, 122 volumes and 46
pamphlets were added by purchase, and 54 volumes of periodicals
were bound. The other accessions were publications received by ex-
change, gift, or transfer. The Parke-Bernet auction catalogs (priced)
accounted for 85 volumes and 42 pamphlets among the purchases.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held:
July through August, 1944.—A selection of 57 oil paintings and 1
bronze, from the William T. Evans collection of American paintings.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

October & through 29, 1944.—Exhibition of 96 portraits, by Enit
Kaufman, called “The American Century.”

November 3 through 26, 1944.—The Seventh Metropolitan State Art
Contest, held under the auspices of the D. C. Chapter, American
Artists’ Professional League, assisted by the Entre Nous Club.
There were 215 exhibits, consisting of paintings, sculpture, prints,
and metalcraft, by 121 artists.

December 14, 1944, through January 14, 1945—Exhibition of 78
miniatures by 45 artists, by The Pennsylvania Society of Miniature
Painters. Reprint of catalog was published by the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts.

January 4 through 28, 1945—Exhibition of 135 water colors of
Latin America, by Carl Folke Sahlin, Art Director of the Pan Amer-
ican League of Miami, was sponsored by the Pan American Union.
A catalog was published by the Pan American Union.

February 2 through 25, 1945—Exhibition of 66 paintings by
modern Cuban painters, was sponsored by the Cuban Ambassador
and the Pan American Union. A catalog was published by the Pan
American Union.

March 4 through April 1, 1945—Exhibition of 89 paintings and 6
pieces of sculpture by members of the Society of Washington Artists.
A catalog was published by the Society.

April 10 through 30, 1945—Exhibition of the 82 drawings pre-
sented to the United States by the French Republic in 1915.

PUBLICATIONS

ToLtMAN, R. P. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts for the year
ended June 30, 1944. Appendix 38, Report of the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the year ended June 80, 1944, pp. 39-48.

WENLEY, A. G. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30,
1944. Appendix 4, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ended June 30, 1944, pp. 44-50.

Respectfully submitted.

R. P. Totman, Acting Director.
Dr. A. Wermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the twenty-fifth annual report on
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1945:

THE COLLECTIONS
Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:

BOOKBINDING

45.15. BEgypto-Arabic, 14th century. Two covers with a flap. Brown leather with
blind and gold tooling, on pasteboard. 0.871 x 0.275 (single cover).

BRONZE

44.57. Chinese, Chou dynasty, 4th-3d century B. C. Hook, with hinged handle.
Decoration in relief and incised to receive inlay, traces of which remain.
Olive-green patina. 0.228 x 0.098 over all.

45.30. Chinese, Sui dynasty, dated in correspondence with A. D. 609. Buddhist
ex-voto: The Buddhas Gautama and Prabittaratna. Surface gilded;
areas of green patina and earthy incrustations. Dedicatory inscription,
dated. 0.218 x 0.141 x 0.055.

45.31. Chinese, period of the Six Dynasties. Buddhist statuette: Bhaisajyagura
(Yao-shih-fo). Surface gilded; green and reddish patina on worn areas.
0.127 (height).

CALLIGRAPHY

45.16. Arabic (Egypt?) 8th century. Parchment leaf from a Qur’dn. Text in
black kifi script set against a washed-out blue background. An illumi-
nated band between two siiras on the reverse. 0.283 x 0.398.

45.17. East Persia, 10th century. Parchment leaf from a Qur'an. Text in black
naskhi script, with red vowel-marks. 0.204 x 0.302.

45.18. Arabic, 14th century. Fragmentary paper page from a Qur’dn, With a
black thulth, text, and the word Allah in gold. 0.178 x 0.361.

45.19- Arabic 8th-9th century. Two parchment leaves from a Qur’dn. Text

45.20. in black kifi script with red vowel-marks; a sira@ heading in gold.
45.19, 0.194 x 0.257; 45.20, 0.194 x 0.258.

CERAMICS

44.47. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Ying-ch‘ing ware. Bowl with slightly everted
lip and Slightly concave foot. Body of white porcelain, covered with
a pale, transparent blue glaze filled with minute bubbles. Decoration
inside incised in the body; principally comb marks. 0.070 x 0.175.
45.1. Chinese, Ming dynasty. Potiche with short, straight neck sloping slightly
inward. Body of hard, white clay, glazed in white, deep blue, turquoise
blue, aubergine and brownish yellow in local areas outlined with slip
edges in relief. 0.305 x 0.345.

49
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

45.2. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty. Ch‘ien Lung period (A. D. 1736-1796). Vase,
ovoid, with low, spreading foot and flaring lip. Body of fine-grained,
hard, white clay, covered with a high-fired, pale buff glaze. The decora-
tion in famille rose enamels, gold and iron red over glaze. Six-character
mark in gold seal characters under the base. 0.203 x 0.096.

45.8. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty. Ch‘ien Lung period (A. D. 1736-1796). Vase,
with wide shoulder and short neck. The body is of fine-grained, hard,
white clay, with a pale gray, crackled glaze, coated on the outside with

? transparent green enamel. 0.151 x 0.084.

45.5. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty. Yung-chéng period (A. D. 1723-17386). Bottle-
shaped yase; two handles on the neck. The body is of thin, white
porcelain with a transparent glaze. The outside, except for the handles
and foot, is coated with pink enamel, delicately painted in famille rose
enamels with chrysanthemums, fruit, and butterflies. Four-character
mark on the foot. 0.122 x 0.075.

45.10. Chinese, 1ith-12th century. Sung dynasty. Tz‘ii-chou type. A large
jar, with a wide mouth and two strap handles; bold foot ring. The
body is of buff-colored, porcelanous stoneware. The shoulder and
strap-handles are covered with a delicate, applied ribbing under a
lustrous brown glaze having a minute gray speckling; the lower
body with a shiny brown glaze roughened by adhesions. Possibly
from Ch‘ing-ho hsien. 0.286 x 0.276 (diameter).

44.49. Persian, 1]th century. So-called Aghkand ware. Bowl with a narrow

flat rim and low ring foot. Body of fine-grained, fairly hard, reddish-
buff earthernware. The decoration, a design of a cock in scrolls, is
incised in the white covering slip and colored green, yellow, and brown
in local areas under a transparent glaze. 0.098 x 0.276 (diameter).
(Illustrated. )

45.8. Persian, 13th century. Rayy. Bowl, standing on a low basal ring. The
body is of soft, grayish clay covered with a cream-white glaze upon
which a figural decoration is painted in polychrome, in so-called minai
technique. 0.085 x 0.203.

MANUSCRIPT

44.48. Persian, 16th century (A. D. 1524), Safavid period. Herat. Anthology,
containing selections from the works of Jalal ad-Din Rumi, Nizami,
Sa‘di, and Sanaé‘i, bound in gold stamped and tooled leather. Nasta‘lig
script, written by the calligraphers Shaikh Mahmud, Mir ‘Ali Husaini,
Sultan Muhammad Nir (attr.), Muhammad Qasim b. Shadi-Shah, and
Sultan Muhammad Khandan. Three colophons. Frontispiece by
Bihzid (see Painting, 44.48A). 0.250 x 0.170 x 0.022.

NEAR EASTERN METALWORK

45.138. Persian, 6th-Sth century. SAsinian type. A bronze ewer with a pear-
shaped body on a high foot; slender handle terminating in stylized
antelope heads. Dark green, glossy patina with areas of red. A small
repair on one side. 0.437 x 0.165.

45.14. Veneto-Islamic, middle of the 16th century. Waterbucket with bail
handle (satl). The outer surface of the body and the handle and a
border along the inside upper edge are decorated with engraving and
silver inlay. The inside is engraved and gilded. 0.322 (with handle
raised) ; 0.197 (with handle down) ; 0.300 (diameter). (Illustrated.)
Secretary's Report, 1945.—Appendix 4 PEATE!

44.49

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
Secretary's Report, 1945.—Appendix 4 PLATE 2

45 41

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51

45.6. Persian, 17th century (A. D. 1683-1684). A brass astrolabe: a northern
instrument fitted with a shackle for suspension equipped with a cord;
a rete or ‘ankabit, four six-partite tablets, an alidade, a pin, and a bolt.
Surface ornament chased and engraved. Dated and signed by the
maker, Ustad Muhammad Zaman. 0.176 x 0.129 (diameter).

PAINTING

44.51. Chinese, Sung dynasty. By Mao I, fl. ea. A. D. 1165. Swallows and a
willow tree: a fan painting in ink on silk. Signature and two seals.
0.250 x 0.247 (diameters). (IUustrated.)

44.52. Chinese, Sung dynasty, 10th century. Mountain landscape: an album
painting in color and ink on silk. One seal; two fragments of seals.
0.275 x 0.220.

44.58. Chinese, Sung dynasty, 12th century. Style of Li T‘ang. Winter scene;
with a man on a water buffalo carrying a ring-necked pheasant; willow,
bamboo, and ilex (?). An album painting in color and ink on silk.
Two half seals. 0.235 x 0.245.

44.50. Chinese, Yiian dynasty. Attributed to Chao Méng-fu (A. D. 1254-1322).
Three horses. Ink and slight color on silk. 0.267 x 0.219.

45.382. Chinese, Yiian dynasty, dated in correspondence with A. D. 1347. By
Chao Yung. A horse and a groom in a red coat. A scroll painting in
color and ink on paper. Signature and seal plus 25 seals and one
inscription. 0.817 x 0.735.

45.27. Indian, Mughal, second half of the 16th century. School of Akbar. The
emperor Babur receiving the capitulation of Kabul in 910 H (A. D.
1510). “Work of Mahesh. Portraits by Basawan” (contemporary
attribution). Painted in colors and gold on paper. Text in nasta’liq
script. 0.834 x 0.202.

45.28. Indian, Mughal, second half of the 16th century. School of Akbar. The
abduction of a princess by sea. Painted in colors, gold and silver
(oxidized) on paper. A small area of text in nasta’liq script. 0.174 x
0.119.

45.9. Indian, Mughal, 17th century (ca. A. D. 1620). School of Jahangir. A
political allegory symbolizing the peace of the world. It represents the
two great rulers, Jahangir of India and Shah ‘Abbas of Persia, standing
in mutual embrace upon the forms of a lion and a lamb crouched upon a
terrestrial globe, and surrounded by a golden nimbus. Painted in colors
and gold on paper as an album picture. Inscriptions. 0.238 x 0.153.

45.9A. The above picture is mounted within a floral border, painted in colors on
a gold ground. Signed and dated: Muhammad Sadiq 1160 H (A. D.

1747).

45.29. Indian, Mughal, early 17th century. School of Jahangir. The world of
animals. A wash drawing in pale tints. 0.284 x 0.117. Persian, early
14th century. Mongol (11-Khan) period. Two leaves from a Mandfi
‘al-Hayawdn, with a text written in black and red naskhi seript; one
title in blue angular kifi script, outlined in red. Paintings in color
and gold.

44.54. Twoowlsinatree. Paper: 0.242 x 0.199. Painting: 0.117 x 0.078.

44.55. Two doves in a rocky landscape. Paper: 0.262 x 0.207. Painting: 0.086 x
0.019.
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

44.56. Persian, middle 14th century. Mongol (Il-Khan) period. Leaf from a
Shahnadma: Rustam slays Ashkabus and his horse. Color and gold.
Text in black naskhi script; title (verso) in red naskhi. Paper :
0.290 x 0.202. Painting: 0.083 x 0.152. Persian, first half of the 14th
century. Mongol (1l-Khan) period. Six miniatures from a Shahnama,
painted in opaque color and gold. The paintings, minute in size and
exquisitely executed, are as follows:

45.21. Khusraw Parwiz greeted by an old astrologer before his hermitage. 0.059
x 0.120.

45.22. The death of the Simurgh. 0.048 x 0.120.

45.28. The div Akwan about to throw the sleeping Rustam into the sea. 0.058 x
0.120.

45.24. Rustam encamped within sight of the hosts of Turan. 0.068 x 0.120.

45.25. Siyawush, while hunting with Afrasiyab, cleaves an onager in two.

0.048 x 0.120.
45.26. Piran stays the execution of Bizhan at the foot of the gibbet. 0.048x
0.120.

45.7. Persian, Mongol (Inju) period (A. D. 13841). Shiraz school. Illustration
from a Shahndma: the hero Rustam rolling away the great boulder from
the mouth of the pit where Bizhan is imprisoned. Color and slight gold;
red background above ground; black background in the pit. Paper leaf:
0.352 x 0.301. Painting: 0.148 x 0.238.

44.48A. Persian, 15th-16th century. Herat school. By Bihzad. An old man

anda youth in a mountain landscape: a circular composition (shamsa)
within an illuminated border, mounted as a frontispiece to the Anthol-
ogy, 44.48. Color, gold and silver (oxidized) ; surface slightly worn.
Signature and inscription. 0.082 (diameter).

SCULPTURE

44.46. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty, Sth-9th century. Image of a seated Buddha,
molded in dry lacquer. Traces of color on the robe and of gilt on the
flesh parts. Hands and long ear-lobes broken off. 0.995 x 0.725 x 0.567.
45.4. Chinese, Yiian dynasty, 13th-14th century. Image of a Bodhisattva, molded
in dry lacquer. Traces of blue, gold, and green paint and of gold leaf.

Slightly damaged and repaired. 0.583 x 0.431 x 0.567.
45.11. Chinese, T’ang dynasty, Sth-9th century. Figures of two horsewomen,
45.12. playing polo, carved in wood. Remains of polychrome painting and
a white priming coat. Slight damages. 495.11, 0.361 x 0.142 x 0.361.

(Illustrated). 45.12, 0.867 x 0.136 x 0.360.

SILVER

44.58. Chinese, 8th-9th century. T‘ang dynasty. Ladle, with a seven-lobed
bowl; the surface covered with delicate engraved ornament. 0.312
(length).

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
acquisitions, of other objects submitted for purchase, and to general
research work within the collections of Chinese, Arabic, Persian, and
Indian fine arts; the preparation of material for publication and re-
visions of earlier work. Reports, oral or written, were made upon
oriental objects belonging to other institutions or submitted for ex-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53

amination by private owners, to the total number of 1,918 objects and
110 reproductions of objects. Written translation of 132 oriental
language inscriptions were made on request. Docent service and
public lectures given by staff members are listed below.

WAR WORK

In addition to their regular curatorial work, a large part of the
time of two members of the staff was given to work for other Gov-
ernment agencies directly concerned with war work. One of these
members was detached from the Gallery to work at the Office of War
Information 4 days a week for a period:of 6 months. Other work,
involving the correction and revision of official Government publica-
tions on China and Japan, was done at the Freer Gallery, where also
working space and assistance was given to a group of four persons
from the American Committee for the Protection and Salvage of
Artistic and Historic Monuments in War Areas, working on the proj-
ect for Korea. Several individuals from branches of the armed
services were assisted in special studies and given 122 photographs.
Fifty-eight photographs of Chinese objects in the collection were pre-
sented to a representative of the National Library of Peiping.

Repairs to the collection can be summarized as follows:

Chinese: paintings; remounteds* - 20 tt abe) dE ee 243
Tibetan, painting: remounted. 52 22S ns a ee) 1
Chinese lacquer figure repaired_________________ oe a el ey Fe 1
Chinese stone sculpture repaired__-__-________-______________ 1
Ohinese wood sculpture repaired sess ss 1
Persianwmanuscript page repaired eas. — sees eke eee 1

Changes in exhibition totaled 1,373, as follows:

American painting Ms Lik Why Eee Dike Betas 5 Oe st 95
Arabic arts:
Bookbind ings)... Ee PU he OE Ras 6
MAT US Cri PES ee oie aE ene Osa eae sts eat TR Pei 45
Paintings: 22. ul bale. aires eee. Oreste el Ce eee ae 16
WiOOGsCAT VIN Gxt. enn SUN RRee Sol 2ieiide Tinie i
APIBCHIAT MINANTSCL APES ssc eer ny eer II St Bi Ny tas 8
Chinese arts:
Bamboo Carveds4 202+ eer Sa) tyne OL ot he ie ee wees. 4
ey) ASLONZ eS Sees sea Pe Opie Suits Hatten are Seals are ee 200
Ceramitcss a Seen teh oe BER ie ey 148
Goldsand'silver-giltes—- BU LIae0 irk ih ieee eee aeeehieae dt: 21
VACC a cee ed Se 2 oe te ee Se RE 328
a CQUeEl 24 =~ eee ee ne ee Oe eT 1
1 ipo) Kee EE eens ed RL REE ee AA A Ee 4
Painting ses OR, OLE ER eT Ee 40
Stonensculp tune. lee see EE 26
MasteChristian spainitin gga ee 6
Eyl Ay SEOME MS CU GULL Ce ear ee Ree Re 1

GEPECI AIM ATIUISC TP CS pare eee he em a a 4
54

The Gallery has been open to the public every day except Christmas
Day and Mondays up to Monday, January 29, 1945, on which day it

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Indian arts:

Manuscripts $212.42 s— 2 ee RE eee el a eee 14
Paintings 2 22-23 Ss ae eee ee ee eee 75
Sculptures=*.—. == Sa ce Be en ne 8
Tslamie:*metal work:= 222-2 a ee ee ee ee eee 82
Korean” pottery ==22225- 222 eee Se a eo 24
Near Hastern“potterysi 2a 2 Sees ee eee 66
Persian arts:
Bookbindings 25 Ses ok A ee a ee 2 eee ee 8
NEaTUSCEIN IS = 22-8 ee Ae he eee 22
Paintings 2e so Bees Se ee Se A ee 138
Silvers Soa Se Bee Re eee ee Skee eee ee A ee ee 4
Syrian class= o. te. 2 wend te eo wee ee a ees eee 16
ATTENDANCE

began to be open to the public 7 days a week.

The total number of visitors coming in at the main entrance was
72,149. Thirty-seven other visitors on Mondays previous to January
29 made a grand total of 72,186. The total attendance on weekdays
The average weekday attendance
was 148; the average Sunday attendance, 586. The highest monthly
attendance was in April, with 7,981 visitors; the lowest, in December,

was 41,671; on Sundays, 30,478.

with 3,611 visitors.

There were 1,412 visitors to the main office during the year; the

purposes of their visits were as follows:

Hors peneral information ==-— "= 2 ss0 a eee 349
Torsee: members! of- the stattoo2* = sy. Sees Sie See ee 527
To'read tin: the libraryso2 22222 ae ease eee oe - 216
To make tracings and sketches from library books_-_-----__--- 5
To see: building: and installations===>--= = eee 12
To make photographs’ and’ sketches_=—2=_ === 222 eee 15
To see exhibition galleries on Monday__-------__---___-___-- 5
To examine or purchase photographs and slides____---_----_--- 336
To ‘Submit objects’ for examination] ee ee 228
To ‘see objectS in: storage -— 2 = sts aS 263
Washington Manuseiiptss-2a-eee eee 23
Far Eastern paintings and textiles___________.____--_- 53
Near Hastern paintings and manuscripts--____--_--__ 37
Mibetany painbings =< =e eee ee 1
Indian paintines and manuseriptS2.= = 2 eee 7
American paintings: 222 s2 sos een ee. ee ee 55
Whistler prints 22222 206 oo ee ee ee 4
Oriental pottery, jade, bronze, lacquer, and bamboo___ 67
Gold Treasure and Byzantine objects__________--_____ i
JAY) .Sculpture@se2 432 Ata Se ee eee ee ae 2 8

Syrian and other glass=- 2222 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

2
DOCENT SERVICE, LECTURES, MERTINGS

By request, 4 groups met in the study rooms and 4 groups in the
exhibition galleries for instruction by staff members; total, 191

persons.
Illustrated lectures given by staff members were as follows:

October 29, 1944_________ _. National Gallery of Art. “Chinese Porcelains,”
by Mr. Pope.
November 10-18, 1944______ Cleveland Museum of Art. “The Character of

Islamie Art’; “The Islamie Hxhibition (cur-
rent)”; “Life and Literature in Persian
Miniature Painting”; “Persian Figural Tex-
tiles of the 16th and ivth centuries”; by Dr.
Httinghausen.

J eaaumenresye aly 1G aye Freer Gallery auditorium. The Thornton So-
ciety of Washington. “James MeNeill
Whistler and the Peacock Room,” by Miss
Guest.

Hebruary 27, 194522 e Museum group of the Special Libraries Asso-
ciation meeting in the Y. W. C. A. hall, 614 B
Street. “Persian Painting,” by Dr. Htting-

hausen,

iManchy24 O45 ia es Chinese Art Society of America, New York.
“Chinese Ceramics,” by Mr. Pope.

April AS eos =. TF University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. ‘‘Per-
sian Art: A Survey,” by Dr. Httinghausen.

Aprile lO 194 he eT Minneapolis Institute of Arts. “Persian Minia-
tures,” by Dr. Ettinghausen.

May 2a iG45ee 22h Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Col-

lection of Harvard University, Washington,
D. C. “The Metamorphasis of the Persian
Miniature,” by Dr. Ettinghausen.
June Dip W945. oes ee The Arts Club of Washington. ‘arly Chinese
Bronzes and Jades,”’ by Miss Guest.
The Extension Service of the United States Department of Agri-
culture held a meeting in the auditorium on January 5, 1945.
Several official visits away from the city were made by staff members
upon request as follows:
Mr. Wenley to examine collections of Chinese art objects at the
College of William and Mary, and at the Art Institute of Chicago.
Dr. Ettinghausen to assist at the installation of a Near East exhibi-
tion at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
Other official visits made by staff members were to examine objects
offered for sale in New York, to attend special exhibitions there, or to
engage in some project of research.

PERSONNEL

Richard Ettinghausen appointed associate in Near Eastern art
September 1, 1944.
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Eliza Maud Hayward appointed clerk-stenographer (CAF-4)
September 6, 1944.

Bertha M. Usilton appointed librarian September 25, 1944.

Grace G. Barnett, librarian, resigned on October 19, 1944.

Joseph H. Boswell, sergeant of the guards, who had been at the Freer
Gallery from September 1923 until he retired at his own request on
June 30, 1943, died at his home December 8, 1944.

E. Harriet Link, clerk-stenographer (CAF-5), transferred to the
American Red Cross as hospital staff aide, for service abroad, February
19, 1945.

John A. Pope, detached from the Freer Gallery to go on active duty
as Captain, U.S. Marine Corps Reserve, April 7, 1945.

Jewell A. Kidd appointed clerk-stenographer (CAF-5) May 7, 1945.

Grace T. Whitney worked intermittently at the Gallery in the Near
Kast section between October 24, 1944, and June 15, 1945.

Other changes in personnel are as follows:

Appointments: Odell M. Brantley, guard (CPC-4), November 5,
1944; Rufus R. Thompson, guard (CPC-4), by transfer from Smith-
sonian Institution night force, January 24, 1945; Lynn V. Black.
guard (CPC-4), April 12, 1945.

Separations from the service: Florence E. James, intermittent at-
tendant, September 24, 1944; Chauncey H. Houdeshel, guard
(CPC-4), March 8, 1945; Emil L. Zorn, senior mechanic (CPC-7),
by voluntary transfer to the Bureau of Aeronautics, Navy Depart-
ment, February 1, 1945; James W. Burns, guard (CPC-4), retired
on account of disability May 31, 1945.

Respectfully submitted.

A. G. Wentey, Director.

Dr. A. Wrermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of June 27, 1944, which pro-
vides “* * * for continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii and the excavation and
preservation of archeologic remains, * * *”

During the fiscal year emphasis on activities concerned with the
war effort and with Latin America has continued. It is hoped that
as the need for war studies becomes less, the Bureau may soon resume
its normal functions.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau, left Washington for
Mexico on January 29, 1945, to continue the work of the Smithsonian
Institution-National Geographic Society archeological project in
southern Mexico. From February 24 to March 6 a reconnaissance
trip was made in the vicinity of Tapachula, Chiapas, during which a
number of archeological sites were located. ‘Two of these, at Caca-
huatan and at San Geronimo, contained carved stone monuments.

From March 6 to May 24 excavations were conducted at the site of
Piedra Parada, Chiapas, 12 miles north of the town of Ocozocoautla.
Most of the work was conducted on a large earth mound which cov-
ered a complex stone-masonry structure, but a number of excavations
were also made at other points in the site. Previous to inaugurating
this work, and at intervals during its progress, trips were made to a
number of limestone caves in the vicinity, all of which had been used
as places of offering and contained large quantities of ceramic re-
mains. The material from the caves belonged to the same relatively
early period as that from the mound site.

From May 28 to May 31 a new and large site of the La Venta cul-
ture was discovered as a result of information received from Juan
Del Alto, of Coatzacoalcos. It is located on the Rio Chiquito in
southern Veracruz, near the small village of Tenochtitlan, on lands
known as San Lorenzo. The site contains two large mound groups
and a considerable number of carved monuments, including the two
largest colossal heads of La Venta type yet discovered. Unique fea-

57
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

tures at the site are a stone aqueduct and a stone fount in the form of
a swimming duck, decorated with water symbols.

Dr. Stirling returned to Washington on June 17, 1945.

Dr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, prepared during the fiscal year
12 articles on American Indian linguistic subjects. Outstanding
among these is one on the Guarani language of South America, pro-
duced through collaboration with Dr. G. 'T. Bertoni, and one on the
Quechua language, written with the help of Prof. J. M. B. Farfan of
Lima, Pera. A large proportion of Dr. Harrington’s time throughout
the year was spent in translating letters and documents in obscure lan-
guages for the Office of Censorship.

During the fiscal year Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., archeologist,
continued to work on the material obtained from the Lindenmeier site
in northern Colorado—the location where a group of so-called Folsom
men camped during the closing stages of the last glacial period—
expanding his studies to include comparisons with artifacts from
other sites attributable to early archeological horizons in the New
World. In this connection he prepared a manuscript “The New
World Paleo-Indian” for publication in the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution for 1944, an article “A Deep Burial on the
Clear Fork of the Brazos River” for the Bulletin of the Texas Archeo-
logical and Paleontological Society, and a paper “An Early Texan”
for the Scientific Monthly.

In March 1945 Dr. Roberts was designated as liaison officer between
the Smithsonian Institution and the Committee for the Recovery of
Archaeological Remains—a group representing the Society for Amer-
ican Archaeology, the American Anthropological Association, and
the American Council of Learned Societies—which was organized for
the purpose of providing ways and means for the recovery of ma-
terials that may be lost through the construction of dams and the flood-
ing of large areas along many of the river systems throughout the
United States. Dr. Roberts attended all meetings of this Committee,
presenting the Institution’s viewpoint and assisting in the drafting of
plans for carrying out such a recovery program. Dr. Roberts devoted
considerable time during the latter months of the fiscal year to a study
of the maps and project reports of the Corps of Engineers and the
Bureau of Reclamation for the dams which they plan to construct,
and to research in the archeological literature relating to these areas
in an effort to determine the districts where sites will be inundated and
where provisions should be made for survey and excavation projects.

In accord with the Smithsonian Institution’s policy of cooperation
with the Library of Congress, Dr. Roberts annotated four books on
anthropological subjects for the United States Quarterly Book List.
He also continued to serve as a member of the Institution’s Personnel

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

Utilization Committee and as a part of this work prepared a manu-
script for a handbook “Smithsonian Institution—Information for
Employees.” In addition he was the general department represent-
ative on the Efficiency Rating Review Board for the Smithsonian
Institution, and attended the United States Civil Service Commis-
sion’s Fourth Annual Institute of Efficiency Rating Boards of Review
in June 1945,

On September 22, 1944, Dr. Roberts was appointed Assistant Chief,
and during absences of the Chief served as Acting Chief of the Bureau.

Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr., ethnologist, continued his work in con-
nection with the Ethnogeographic Board. As in the previous year,
he handled requests for information on geographical and other sub-
jects which came to the Board from the Army, Navy, and other war
agencies. When Dr. Wm. Duncan Strong resigned as Director in July,
Dr. Collins was made Acting Director, and at the first Board meeting
thereafter, in December, he was appointed Director.

At the invitation of the sponsoring committee, Dr. Collins attended
a meeting held in Montreal in September for the purpose of organizing
the Arctic Institute of North America. The purpose of the Institute
is to initiate, encourage, and support scientific research in Alaska,
Canada, and Greenland, on the premise that studies in many fields of
science will be required as the basis for efficient planning for the de-
velopment of the Arctic and sub-Arctic regions of North America.
As one of the governors of the Arctic Institute, Dr. Collins attended
several meetings in Montreal, at which plans for the operations of
the organization were formulated.

During such time as was available, Dr. Collins continued his re-
searches on the archeology of the Eskimo and related problems.

Dr. William N. Fenton, ethnologist, for the fourth successive year
continued to devote a large part of the year to activities arising from
the war effort. As research associate for the Ethnogeographic Board,
six reports on Area Studies in American Universities were completed
and issued in mimeograph form; others are in manuscript. These
reports cover a survey of Army training programs undertaken in 1944,
and again considerable time was spent in travel to the universities while
observing the programs and interviewing teachers and trainees. The
reception that greeted reports already distributed indicates that they
are not without some usefulness.

Scientific activities, although still of necessity somewhat curtailed,
picked up toward the end of the year. Dr. Fenton was reelected
secretary of the Anthropological Society of Washington, and was
appointed to the Board of Editors of the Journal of the Washington
Academy of Sciences, to serve for 3 years. Field researches on the
Iroquois were resumed. Through a grant from the Viking Fund of
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

New York, Dr. Fenton visited the Six Nations Reserve near Brantford,
Canada, between April 23 and May 19. The Archive of American
Folk Song, of the Library of Congress, again furnished recording
equipment, enabling Dr. Fenton to make complete sound recordings
of the chants of the Iroquois Condolence Council, previously un-
collected, Chanters for the Dead, and several social dances. While in
Canada, Dr. Fenton visited Toronto to consult with anthropologists at
the University concerning a postwar plan for Iroquois studies, and
certain specimens were studied at the Royal Ontario Museum of
Archaeology.

In addition to reports issued by the Ethnogeographic Board, sey-
eral book reviews, notes, and articles were contributed to scientific and
literary journals. A series on “Place Names and Related Activities
of the Cornplanter Senecas” appeared during 1945 in the Pennsyl-
vania Archaeologist. The Northwest Ohio Quarterly carried a “Com-
mentary on Samuel Crowell’s Account of Seneca Dog Sacrifice near
Sandusky (1830).” A second paper, by J. N. B. Hewitt, “Some
Mnemonic Pictographs Relating to the Iroquois Condolence Council,”
was completed by Dr. Fenton in the field and accepted for publica-
tion in the Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences, being
in proof at the close of the fiscal year. Considerable progress may be
noted on a related manuscript, which is a field report on “A Cayuga
Condolence Cane with Pictographs Denominating the Founders of
the Iroquois League,” a project that was undertaken in 1943 for the
Cranbrook Institute of Science.

Near the close of the fiscal year, Dr. Fenton visited Harrisburg,
Warren, and Philadelphia, Pa., for the purpose of furthering
ethnological studies among the Cornplanter and Allegany Senecas in
cooperation with the staff of the Pennsylvania Historical Commis-
sion, local historians in northwestern Pennsylvania and southwestern
New York, and the University of Pennsylvania.

In connection with projected research in the prehistory of river
valleys, Dr. Fenton prepared a plan for “An Anthropological Survey
of the Allegheny River Reservoir Area of New York and Pennsyl-
vania.”

Dr. H. G. Barnett, anthropologist, has devoted his efforts during
the fiscal year to studies concerning the general problem of cultural
change. Data bearing on this problem were obtained in the past in
the field from various Indian communities and are supplemented by
diverse historical sources such as regional histories, diaries, pioneer
reminiscences, missionary accounts, church records, and a host of ofli-
cial reports on Indian investigations and reservation administration.
The Indian communities involved include those of the Yurok and
Hupa in northern California, the Siletz and Klamath in Oregon, and
the Yakima, as well as several smaller groups around the southern
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

end of Puget Sound, in the State of Washington. Two publications
are contemplated. It is expected that one of them, now in prepara-
tion, will be completed at an early date.

Dr. Gordon R. Willey, anthropologist, spent a large part of the
fiscal year in editorial work on the Handbook of South American In-
dians, translating and revising manuscript material and selecting
and preparing illustrations. He also began and completed the study
of several large collections of archeological specimens from south
Florida. These collections, now in the United States National Mu-
seum, came from sites in Palm Beach, Broward, and Dade Counties,
and were excavated by Gene M. Stirling and Lloyd C. Reichard, rep-
resentatives of the Bureau of American Ethnology, during the years
1933-19386, as a part of the Federal Relief program in archeology.
The field operations were conducted by Mr. Stirling and Mr. Reichard,
and their notes, drawings, and photographs were used by Dr. Willey
in the preparation of the final report, entitled “Excavations in South-
east Florida,” which will be published in the Yale University series
in anthropology. The manuscript totaled approximately 50,000
words, and included several tables, 8 line drawings, maps, and 17
collotype illustrations.

During the last few months of the fiscal year, a part of Dr. Willey’s
official duties were given over to preliminary preparations for archeo-
logical research in Peri. This projected program calls for a co-
operative investigation of the Virt Valley of northern Peri. Colum-
bia University, Yale University, and the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy are the proposed participants. Actual research and results of
research will be undertaken and published separately by the partici-
pants; collaboration will be in the form of common service functions,
such as field laboratories, transportation, and aerial photography.
The work is planned for the spring and summer of 1946.

INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

The Institute of Social Anthropology was created in 1943, as an
autonomous unit of the Bureau of American Ethnology, to carry out
cooperative training in anthropological teaching and research with
the other American republics. As the Director, Dr. Julian H.
Steward, was instructed in the official order establishing the Institute
to report to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, there is
presented here his report to Secretary Wetmore.

The Institute of Social Anthropology, carrying out a program of
cultural and scientific cooperation with the American republics under
a grant transferred from the Department of State, continued under
the directorship of Dr. Julian H. Steward. Dr. Alfred Métraux,
Assistant Director, was transferred to the War Department on April

2, 1945, to accept an assignment for work in Europe. Miss Ethelwyn
676212465
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Carter served as secretary throughout the year. Dr. Henry J. Bru-
man, cultural geographer, who had been on leave of absence since July
17, 1944, resigned on June 30, 1945.

In Mexico, the Institute was represented by Dr. George M. Foster,
Jr., anthropologist, and Dr. Roland D. Brand, cultural geographer,
cooperating with the Escuela Nacional de Antropologia of the In-
stituto Nacional de Antropologia e Historia. From August to De-
cember they taught at the Escuela, and from December to June they
supervised a party doing field research among Tarascan villages in
Michoacan. The field party consisted of students from Mexico and
from several other American republics.

In Pert, the Institute was represented by Dr. John P. Gillin, an-
thropologist, until his resignation January 31, 1945, to resume his
teaching duties at Duke University. Dr. Gillin spent approximately
6 months making a study of Moche, a north coast Indian community.
Mr. Harry Tschopik, Jr., anthropologist, joined the staff of the In-
stitute on January 1, 1945, and was assigned to the field office in Lima,
Pert. In cooperation with the Museos Histéricos, under the direc-
tion of Dr. Luis Valearcel, he supervised a field party consisting of
representatives of the Museos Histéricos in making a cultural survey
of the central Highlands of Pert in the region of Hudnuco.

An agreement was concluded with the Escola Livre de Sociologia e
Politica, of Sao Paulo, Brazil, for cooperation in teaching and re-
search in the social anthropology of Brazil. Representatives of the
Institute of Social Anthropology are to be detailed to Brazil at a
later date.

Arrangements for cooperative work in Colombia remained
uncompleted.

Publication Number 1 of the Institute of Social Anthropology,
“Houses and House Use of the Sierra Tarascans,” by Ralph L. Beals,
Pedro Carrasco, and Thomas McCorkle, was made available for dis-
tribution. Publication Number 2, “Cherdn, a Sierra Tarascan Vil-
lage,” by Ralph L. Beals, was received in galley proof from the printer.
Publication Number 3, “Moche, a Peruvian Coastal Community,” by
John P. Gillin, and Publication Number 4, “Cultural and Historical
Geography of Southwest Guatemala,” by Felix Webster McBryde,
were sent to the printer.

Of the $61,132 originally allocated by the Department of State to
the Institute of Social Anthropology for the fiscal year 1945, $3,500
was transferred back to the Department of State and $2,500 trans-
ferred to the Handbook of South American Indians for the purchase
of an extra 600 copies of volume 8 to be distributed by the Department
of State. From the remaining amount, $51,418 was actually obli-
gated, making a saving of $3,714.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

In June 1945 the Smithsonian Institution accepted a grant of $2,500
from the Office of Inter-American Affairs to be allotted to Dr. Gre-
gorio Hernandez de Alba of Bogota, Colombia, for work on the
anthropology of Colombia.

HANDBOOK OF SOUTH AMERICAN INDIANS

Work continued on the Handbook of South American Indians.
Volume 1, “The Marginal Tribes,” was received in page proof and
volume 2, “The Andean Civilizations,” in galley proof from the
printer; volume 3, “The Tropical Forest Tribes,” and volume 4, “The
Circum-Caribbean Tribes,” were completed and sent to the printer;
and volume 5, “Comparative Anthropology of South American In-
dians,” is in the final stages of preparation.

Mrs. Lucille E. Levine, stenographer, resigned on April 10, 1945,
and Dr. Gordon R. Willey was transferred to the Bureau of American
Ethnology from the roll of the Handbook of South American Indians
on August 17, 1944.

For the completion of the Handbook of South American Indians,
$6,000 was transferred from the Department of State. An additional
$2,500 was authorized by the Department of State to be transferred
to the Handbook to purchase 600 extra copies of volume 8 for distri-
bution by the Department of State from the amount originally allo-
cated to the Institute of Social Anthropology. Of this total amount,
$8,482 was actually obligated.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

Because of lack of funds, no special researches were conducted
during the fiscal year.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editorial work of the Bureau continued during the year under
the immediate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. There were
issued one Annual Report, one Bulletin, one special publication, and
one paper in the Institute of Social Anthropology series, as follows:

Sixty-first Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1943-1944.
9 pp.

Bulletin 142. The contemporary culture of the C4hita Indians, by Ralph L.
Beals. xii+244 pp., 20 pls., 33 figs., 1 map.

List of Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, with index to
authors and titles. Revised to June 30, 1944. 68 pp.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 1. Houses and house use of the
Sierra Tarascans, by Ralph L. Beals, Pedro Carrasco, and Thomas McCorkle.
87 pp., 8 pls., 20 figs.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

Bulletin 137. The Indians of the Southeastern United States, by John R.
Swanton.

Bulletin 143. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward,
editor. Volume 1: The Marginal tribes. Volume 2: The Andean civilizations.
Volume 3: The Tropical Forest tribes. Volume 4: The Cirecum-Caribbean tribes.

Publications distributed totaled 11,570.

In addition to the regular work, the editorial staff of the Bureau
continued work on the publications of the Institute of Social Anthro-
pology.

LIBRARY

There has been no change in the library staff during the fiscal year.
Accessions during the year totaled 204. There has been a large in-
crease in gifts, both spontaneous and on our request. Aside from one
large gift which came to us as a unit, both types of gifts are double
the number received during the previous fiscal year. Exchanges also
much increased over last year and material is beginning to come in
from the various countries of western Europe now that postal service
is once more established. Several foreign serial sets have been
brought up to date by missing numbers supplied, sometimes in long
runs, so that our serial sets are in a very good position, considering the
disturbed conditions of the past 5 years.

The routine of accessioning and cataloging new material has been
kept up to date, and the checklist for the supplement to the last edi-
tion of the Union List of Serials was checked for new entries and
errors and returned to the editor.

ILLUSTRATIONS

During the year E. G. Cassedy, illustrator, continued the prepara-
tion of illustrations, maps, and drawings for the publications of the
Bureau and for those of other branches of the Institution.

COLLECTIONS

Collections transferred by the Bureau of American Ethnology to
the Department of Anthropology, United States National Museum.
during the fiscal year were as follows:

oe

168052. Collection of spoons and fishhooks from Indians of the northwest Pa-
cific coast of British Columbia and southeast Alaska; also a bone skin
scraper from the Alaskan Eskimo. From the estate of David I. Bush-
nell, Jr.

168260. Collection of arrows, skin quivers, and headdresses from the Hupa
Indians, Humboldt County, Calif., collected by BE. G. Johnson.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

Accession
No.
168929. Ethnological specimens collected by J. N. B. Hewitt from the Iroquois
Indians of the Six Nations Reserve, Grand River, Ontario, Canada,
and by James Mooney from the Cherokee of North Carolina.

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the
North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mexican
peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various speci-
mens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them furnished
for their owners.

Personnel.—Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, who retired on June
30, 1944, was tendered an appointment to the honorary position of
collaborator on July 4, 1944. This action was taken in recognition of
Dr. Swanton’s long and distinguished services to the Bureau. Dr.
Gordon R. Willey was appointed on August 16, 1944, as anthropolo-
gist, by transfer from the staff of the Handbook of South American
Indians. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., was appointed Assistant
Chief of the Bureau on September 22, 1944.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Sriruine, Chief.

Dr. A. Wermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1945:

There was allocated for the expenses of the Service $28,166, an
increase over the amount for the last year of $2,029.

The Institution no longer enjoys the use of the franking privilege
in transmitting packages through the mails, that privilege to Govern-
ment departments having been discontinued. This change in the reg-
ulations of the Post Office Department has increased considerably the
work in the Exchange office as well as the cost of distributing packages
formerly sent under frank but now requiring postage.

The number of packages passing through the Service during the
year was 386,758, a decrease from last year of 21,006. The weight of
these packages was 211,160 pounds, a decrease of 32,020 pounds. For
statistical purposes this material is classified as follows:

Packages Weight
Received Received
aad from cone from
abroad abroad

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad_-- 202" 444 i222 =e 22 100; 802) |S
Publications received in return for parliamentary docu-

3

United States departmental documents sent abroad_-__- C1 P43 ft eee ee oe 49):004 ise pa
Publications received in return for departmental docu-

MENES:2> «53 ssl S es ke. EE ee a SAE 22s s cece 879) |s.22252-5555 3,121
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent

abroad. Meee FP ee eae Oe ee Pees ees 40;5192 Ine: Sees AG: 764 | oo eee
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications re-

ceived from abroad for distribution in the United

[Ce eee De ees eee AL} ESS See 10, 146
Motel ossss2 hai scae cS at bode Seca csacee 379, 874 6, 884 196, 570 14, 590

Grand totals. <2 22 oon ds cen gece use asaeneeceu 386,758 211,160

Packages are forwarded abroad partly by freight to exchange
bureaus for distribution, and partly by mail direct to their destina-
tions. The number of boxes shipped abroad was 983, an increase over
last year of 334. Of these, 462 were for depositories of full sets of
United States governmental documents. The number of packages
sent by mail to foreign countries was 61,038.

mane 66
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

Although the war in Europe ended in the latter part of the fiscal
year, it has not yet been possible to resume the regular sending of
consignments to the liberated countries. However, the Institution
was able to forward through the Office of War Information the boxes
that had accumulated here for France (182), Italy (134), and Belgium
(107). It also succeeded in sending through the United States Des-
patch Agent in New York, Howard Fyfe, the accumulations for
Sweden (111), Palestine (28), and Egypt (12). Regular shipments
to these countries, however, have not yet been started. The countries
to which consignments are being forwarded regularly remain the same
as at the close of last year, namely:

Eastern Hemisphere:
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Republic of Ireland.
Portugal.
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
Africa.
India.
Australia.
New Zealand.
Western Hemisphere: All countries outside of the United States.

Shipments to other countries will be resumed at the earliest date
practicable.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
for transmission abroad through the Service is 93 (56 full sets and 37
partial sets). The partial set for the National Library of Peiping
has been changed to a full set. The depository for Mexico has been
changed as indicated in the list.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Direccién de Investigaciones, Archivo, Biblioteca y Legislacién Hx-
tranjera, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SourH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
SourH AUSTRALIA; Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
VicroRIA ; Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
BELGIUM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.
Braz: Instituto Nacional do Livro, Rio de Janeiro.
CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
OnTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.
QuEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
68 ' ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

CHILE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking
PEIPING: National Library of Peiping.
CoLoMpBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
CuspA: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Eeyrr: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
IUsToniA: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Reichstauschstelle im Reichsminsterium fiir Wissenschaft, Erziehung
und Volksbildung, Berlin, N. W. 7.
PrussiA: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
Hungary: Library, Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
InpiIA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
Iraty: Ministero dell’Educazione Nazionale, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
Larvia: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.
LEAGUE OF NATIONS: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departamento de Informacién para
el Extranjero, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NORTHERN IRELAND: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of Nov-
way.)
Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.
POLAND: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.
PoRTUGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
RuMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.
Spain: Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Avenida de Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.
SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
TURKEY: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education,
Istanbul.
UNION oF SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
UNION oF Sovier SocraList Repusiics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115.
UKRAINE: Ukrainian Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries,
Kiey.
Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YUGOSLAVIA: Ministére de lV’ Education, Belgrade.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.
BouiviA: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

Minas GrEeRAES: Directoria Geral e Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
BriTrIsH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA;

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Hdmonton.

BriTisH COLUMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PrRIncE EpwaArp Istanp: Legislative and Publie Library, Charlottetown.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.

CryLon: Chief Secretary’s Office, Record Department of the Library, Colombo.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo.
EcuApor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Hartr: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:
Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:

BENGAL: Library, Bengal Legislature, Assembly House, Calcutta.

BIHAR AND ORISSA: Revenue Department, Patna.

Bompay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-

ment, Bombay.

Burma: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,

Rangoon.

PunJsAB: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
IRAN: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.
TraQ: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
LiperIA: Department of State, Monrovia.
MALTA: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Home Affairs, St. John’s.
Nicaracua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PANAMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PARAGUAY: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asunci6én.
SALVADOR:

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
THAILAND: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
VaTicAn City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad 60 copies each of the Congressional
Record and Federal Register. The Bibliothéque du Senat, Paris, was
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

added to the list during the year. The countries to which these jour-
nals are now being forwarded are given in the following list:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDEBAL REGISTER

ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informaci6n Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
Boletin Oficial de la Reptblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruccion
Ptiblica, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA :
Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SoutH WALES: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
BRAZIL:
Biblioteca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
AMAZONAS: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Manfos.
BAHIA: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sao Salvador.
Espirito SANTO: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rio GRANDE Do Sut: “A Federacao,” Porto Alegre.
SERGIPE: Biblioteca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracajt.
SAo PAvLo: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Sao Paulo.
BRITISH HonpuRAS: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CusBA: Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque du Senat, Paris.
GREAT BRITAIN: Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.
GUATEMALA: Bibiloteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
HAaitr: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
Honpurss: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
InpIA: Legislative Department, Simla.
IrIsH FREE STATE: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
MExIco:
Direccién General de Informacién, Secretaria de Gobernaci6n, Mexico, D. F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES : Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CHIAPAS: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoAaHuILA: Periédico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
CoLIMa : Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
DvuRANGO: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
GUANAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
GUERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JALIscoO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
Lower CALIroRNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicHoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY il

Mexico—Continued.
MoreELos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
NayakiT: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nuevo LEON: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
PUEBLA: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QUERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Secci6n de Archivo, Querétaro.
San Luts Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
SINALOA: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacén.
Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
Tapasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Sessién 3a, Ramo de Prensa, Villa-
hermosa.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TLAXxCALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
VeRACRUZ: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departmento de Goberna-
cién y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucaTAn: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Peru: Camara de Diputados, Lima.
UNION oF SOUTH AFRICA:
Capt oF Good Hore: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
Uruauay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

The French Service of International Exchanges, located for many
years at 110 Rue de Grenelle, Paris, is now under the direction of the
National Library at 58 Rue de Richelieu.

There is given below a list of bureaus or agencies to which consign-
ments are forwarded in boxes by freight when the Service is in full
operation. To all countries not appearing in the list, packages are
sent to their destinations by mail.

LIST OF AGENCIES

BELGIUM: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de
Belgique, Bruxelles.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking.

CZECHOSLOyAKIA: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de )As-
semblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

DENMARK: Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen V.

Ecypt: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasiirngatan 24,
Helsinki.

France: Service Francais des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale.
58 Rue de Richelieu, Paris.

GrrMany: Amerika-Institut, Universititstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 721 North Circular Road,
Willesden, London, N. W. 2.
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

HuncAky: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

InpIA: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

Iraty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero dell’Educazione Nazionale,
Rome.

JAPAN :International Exchange Service, Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park,
Tokyo.

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal
Library, The Hague.

New SoutH WatgEsS: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

PoLAND: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortUGAL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Ministére de la Propagande Nationale, Service des Hchanges Inter-
nationaux, Bucharest.

SouTH AUSTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicién de Libros y Revistas para Biblote-
eas Putblicas, Ministerio de Educacién Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.

SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Centrale
Fédérale, Berne.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TURKEY: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving, Istanbul.

UNION oF SoutH ArricA: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town,
Cape of Good Hope.

Union oF Sovier SociAtist Repustics: International Book Exchange Depart-
ment, Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, Moscow, 56.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

YucGositavia: Section des Echanges Internationaux, Ministére des Affaires
Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
H. W. Dorsey, Acting Chief.
Dr. A. WeTMoRE,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1945:

The Congress appropriated $334,651 for the operation of the Zoo for
the fiscal year. Of this amount, $296,277 was expended for all
purposes, including $35,562 for overtime pay of employees under the
legislative provision that put overtime into effect this year. This
leaves an unexpended balance of $38,374 subject to minor corrections
when a few outstanding bills are finally settled. The saving was
largely on salaries because of the impossibility of filling vacant
positions,

During the war the Zoo has been able to accomplish its primary duty
of maintaining an exhibition collection of live animals, and to main-
tain it at as high a level as ever before in its history. Owing to short-
age of manpower, certain phases of the care of the Park were neces-
sarily neglected, and no special improvements were made. The
personnel has been fully occupied in maintaining and keeping in order
as far as possible the grounds and buildings. An attempt is being
made at the present time to increase the staff to prewar numbers.

The United States Marshal’s Office has continued to turn over to
the Zoo quantities of food condemned for some reason as unfit for
human consumption but satisfactory for consumption by certain
animals. The managers of some of the larger vegetable stores con-
tinue to put aside trimmings for the Zoo, which gives certain of the
animals a supply of fresh vegetables and reduces considerably the cost
of maintenance.

The Zoo officials have cooperated as far as possible with the various
Government agencies, including the War and Navy Departments, and
continue to supply facilities for art and biology classes and to furnish
information to the public.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

The most immediate need of the Zoo is an increase of personnel.
During the war more than 20 percent of all positions have been vacant.
The actual care of the animals has not been neglected, but very little
work has been possible in connection with the care and maintenance

73
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

of the buildings and grounds. Prior to the war, when the personnel
had 1% days off during the week, the Zoo was short-handed. Now
that there is such an accumulation of work, this condition is much
more noticeable, and when the 40-hour week goes into effect it will be
even worse.

A large backlog of work exists in connection with the restoration
of the Park buildings, fences, and other structures. Also, the Park
has always been insufficiently policed. A force of 14 policemen is
not large enough to patrol an area of 175 acres and to guard the Gov-
ernment buildings and property now in the Park.

The office building now in use is a historic structure built about
1805 but of which little is known prior to 1827. It was used as a
residence from then until 1890, when it was taken over by the Park as
an office. It is obsolete for an administration building. The fire
hazard is considerable and our records and our library are not safe.
The barn and garage adjacent to the office building is an ancient frame
structure. Modernization of these two buildings would greatly facil-
itate the work of the office.

It is hoped that the Zoo may continue the building program that
was interrupted by the war and replace with modern structures the
old unsanitary monkey house, lion house, and antelope house.

VISITORS

There is an increase in the number of visitors, including schools and
excursion parties, and it is expected that this increase will continue
owing to greater interest in the Zoo and to easier transportation
facilities.

A tabulation of cars parked in the Zoo during the fiscal year 1945
shows the following percentage of visitors by States:

Percent Percent
Washington, D.;|CLeese- seenxs! 36 Norths Garolinasss22 421) _ al 1:3
Marylend 455 te 248. BING WY JOTSOV ce sclachute bie pets 1,2
n/t rat ok; en RE a SE ee 16.3 omy Galiformiay.- = sees 115
Pennsyl vated. —2 ee Bio. AOMO= seo ln ee eee staal
ING Wy, YO oan eee ee 2.3

The cars that made up the remaining 12.95 percent came from every
one of the remaining States, and from the following territories and
countries: Canal Zone, Hawaii, Alberta, Ontario, Quebec, Cuba,

Mexico.
NUMBER OF VISITORS

Ub ee ea De OA OOO HCD TUM TY ae ee eee eee 188, 800
AUEUSire srs 20 SOPs eit TOO OOO MNATCh = sae amen ee een: ae 248, 700
Septeniben teen ok ec. arpa p rey 18%, 100} (Aprile ON Sans Sint “Lew Os 275, 164
Ogtoner saps) hte alan nrg 200, 500; Maycci sj wriree edt bs ae — 159,650
INGMOMm Dera 2s ne a [SVAN 52.0 fob el eee a Ren eee © 185, 200
IDDCCEHIDOI = seer ee 85, 900

JanUalrye esos oe 72, 700 Totalee soe eee 2, 355, 514
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

NUMBER OF GROUPS FROM SCHOOLS

Number Number
of groups in groups

Washington, yDsqi@ss-s2 lai eae ee Le 45 1, 904
Miany bal dts <1 oan emer re ul SS ee ee 29 1, 301
Wir im ignt netfee A eh de ge 27 884
Bennsylvania) 22 552) ieee ae ee A 1 20
Northy Carolin ay jie iie 2 2 as. 5 tho ye es 1 18

Potely 2 eee abn pea ea Les ak 103 4,127

ACQUISITION OF SPECIMENS

A few animals are now coming into the market, and the Zoo has
been able to add a number of interesting specimens. Chief among
these are a collection of attractive West African monkeys and a few
birds from South and Central America.

GIFTS

Many interesting specimens have been presented to the Zoo during
the year. Among these were a pair of Solomon Islands cockatoos,
a red-sided lory, a cardinal parrot, and a Pacific swamp hen presented
by Maj. Gen. R. G. Breene, U.S. A.; and black-striped and pretty-faced
wallabies from R. A. Bryant, Jr., of Coronado, Calif. Mrs. Erika
Cook Bascom brought with her from the Gold Coast a pigmy galago
and two green fruit pigeons, rare in captivity. From Sefior don
Alejandro Caballero Gamboa of San José, Costa Rica, came a collection
of brilliant cage birds, sent through Luis Marden of the National
Geographic Society, who also presented a trio of Costa Rican turtles.

James Landis, of the Foreign Economic Administration, was pre-
sented by the Government of Saudi Arabia with a pair of the rare and
beautiful antelope, Orya beatrix, which he sent to the Zoo.

George Ballou of Bethesda, Md., continued to donate various mam-
mals and birds collected during his field work in the south.

DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

Alderson, Wendell, Marshall Hall, Md., black widow spider.

Allard, H. A., Arlington, Va., opossum.

Andrews Field, Washington, D. C., white-tailed deer.

Andrews, Maj. M. B., Arlington, Va., white-lipped tamarin.

Ansel, Willits, Annapolis, Md., nine-banded armadillo.

Anthony, Frank. Arlington, Va., Cooper’s hawk.

Ballou, George, Bethesda, Md., short-tailed shrew, two diamond-back rattlesnakes,
two cottonmouth moccasins, six black snakes, cotton rat, mud snake, six garter
snakes, two indigo snakes, two blue racer snakes, chicken snake, turkey vulture,
five deer mice, meadow mouse.

Bartsch, Paul, Washington, D. C., pilot black snake.

Bascom, Mrs. Erika Cook, Washington, D. C., galago, two green fruit pigeons.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Beasley, W. M., Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Bell, Mrs. E. H., Alexandria, Va., two Pekin ducks.

Bell, J. R., Washington, D. C., three shaft-tailed finches, three spice finches, three
canaries, five society finches, four zebra finches, strawberry finch, olive Cuban
finch.

Breene, Maj. Gen. R. G., U. S. A., cardinal parrot, South Pacifie swamp hen,
two Solomon Islands cockatoos, red-sided lory.

Bresnahan, Polly, Peggy, and Tom, Washington, D. C., two Pekin ducks.

Browning, Charles, Jackson Heights, N. Y., box turtle.

Bryant, R. A., Jr., Coronado, Calif., three wallabies.

Butts, Earl D., Alexandria, Va., long-tailed skunk.

Case, Mrs. George W., Bethesda, Md., horned lizard.

Chittick, Peter, McLean, Va., red bat, three fence lizards.

Cochran, Doris M., Washington, D. C., 2 cascade frogs, 25 local minnows, wood
turtle.

Cole, James C., Washington, D. C., 72 goldfish.

Colfield, L., Washington, D. C., six golden pheasants.

Conner, Capt. T. E., U. 8. A., hairy armadillo, grison.

Constantinides, George, American Embassy, Lisbon, six chameleons.

Cook, Robert, Washington, D. C., black snake.

Davis, Watson, Washington, D. C., keeled green snake.

Denley, Charles, Washington, D. C., blue-eared Manchurian pheasant.

de Ybarrondo, Mrs. Mova, Washington, D. C., two Pekin ducks.

Dickenson, Philip, Bethesda, Md., four tree toads, snapping turtle.

Dixon, Mrs. Daniel, Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Dowell, Mrs., Colmar Manor, Md., blue peafowl.

Drain, D. R., Belvoir, Va., catbird.

Drown, C. H., Berwyn, Md., red fox.

Druid Hill Park Zoo, Baltimore, Md., two spiny-tailed lizards, bald eagle.

Duffey, C. H., Red Lodge, Mont., three peach-faced love birds.

Dunlap, Capt. 8. B., Washington, D. C., two Muscovy ducks.

Dutton, John B., Chevy Chase, Md., opossum and young.

Elliot, Maj. W. E., Arlington, Va., black widow spider.

Ennes, Richard, Washington, D. C., water snake.

Etheridge, James H., Washington, D. C., two nine-banded armadillos.

Ewin, Mrs. James L., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Fernandez, Mrs. Raymond, Washington, D. C., three Pekin ducks.

Fish and Wildlife Service, Billings, Mont., hybrid Canada goose x blue goose.

Fish and Wildlife Service, Brigham, Utah, eight green-winged teal.

Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, D. C., through Fred Orsinger, Aquarium,
38 golden orf, 5 carp, 50 yellow perch.

Foster, C. W., Fairfax, Va., alligator.

Frantz, Jean H., Bethesda, Md., two Pekin ducks.

Frye, Mrs. Jack, Falls Church, Va., two skunks.

Gamboa, Alejandro C., San José, Costa Rica, two Costa Rican chlorophonia, two
blue-hooded euphonia, euphonia, blue honey creeper.

Garrison, Mrs. W. B., Washington, D. C., yellow-headed parrot.

Gatti, Stephen A., Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Gibson, Nolan, Washington, D. C., two barred owls.

Gillmer, Lt. Commander L. C., Annapolis, Md., gray squirrel.

Gude Bros. Co., Washington, D. C., alligator.

Hamlet, John N., Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, D. C., long-eared owl,
turtle, raven, flag ground squirrel.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY tb

Hardy, David, Catonsville, Md., copperhead snake.

Hart, Mrs. J. F., Berryville, Va., turtle.

Heard, W. A., Jr., Washington, D. C., two Texas ground squirrels.

Hepburn, Charles, and Neal, William, Washington, D. C., smooth-scaled green
snake.

Hoeke, Mrs. W. L., Washington, D. C., four grass paroquets.

Hume, Thomas L., Washington, D. C., three Pekin ducks.

Hutchinson, Fred, Washington, D. C., blue racer snake.

Irwin, Mickey, Bethesda, Md., Muscovy duck.

James, C., Cedar Hill Bird Farm, Landover, Md., South American thrush.

Jarvis, W. O., Washington, D. C., pigeon.

Johnson, Mrs. Philander, Rockville, Md., mourning dove.

Johnson, Robert, Washington, D. C., 4 frogs, salamander, 2 green snakes, banded
water snake, garter snake, 12 green frogs, blue racer snake.

Jorgensen, Lorraine, Washington, D. C., two Pekin ducks.

Joslyn, Mare, Bethesda, Md., Pekin duck.

Justice, Mr. (?), (address not recorded), double yellow-headed parrot.

Kent, William and Wallace, Washington, D. C., two red-shouldered hawks.

Krug, J. A., Washington, D. C., spider monkey.

Kulick, M/Sgt. F. R., U. S. A., rhesus monkey.

Kurfess, Ensign J. F., Washington, D. C., Florida banded water snake.

Lanning, Mrs. John, Cottage City, Md., four barn owls.

Lavengood, Mrs. T., Washington, D. C., double yellow-headed parrot.

Lee, Richard H., Washington, D. C., five alligators.

Lewis, Anna W., Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Lewis, Mrs. M. D., Chevy Chase, Md., three mallard ducks.

Littlepage, Mrs. James H., Washington, D. C., garter snake.

Locke, Otto Martin, New Braunfels, Tex., four nine-banded armadillos.

Louis C. Herring & Co., Orlando, Fla., two African clawed frogs.

Maiker, Mrs. R. W., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mann, William M., Washington, D. C., mole.

Marcow, Michael M., Washington, D. C., white alligator.

Marden, Luis, San José, Costa Rica, three Costa Rican turtles.

Mauer, James R., Linden, Md., four Pekin ducks.

McDermott, Henry J., Takoma Park, Md., five canaries,

MeNish, John, Chevy Chase, Md., black snake.

Meikle, Mrs. J. C., Washington, D. C., two Leclancher’s buntings.

Meyer, H. E., Miami, Fla., two green racer snakes, blue-tailed skink, anolis.

Michael, L. S., Arlington, Va., black widow spide):.

Miller, Gerrit S., Washington, D. C., two box turtles.

Miller, Luther, Chevy Chase, Md., three Pekin ducks.

Mitchell, Mrs. John W., Silver Spring, Md., ring-necked snake.

Naval Air Base, Washington, D. C., chain king snake.

Neri, Joseph, Washington, D. C., four ring-necked doves.

Ogus, Dr. William I., Washington, D. C., yellow-headed parrot.

O’Rouke, Margaret A., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Patten, James, Washington, D. C., anolis, Cumberland turtle.

Payne, Mr. and Mrs. J. M., Washington, D. C., two horned lizards.

Petroskey, E., Washington, D. C., two angora rabbits.

Poiley, Samuel, National Institute of Health, Washington, D. C., two rice rats.

Powers, Lt. Arthur J., U. S. A., 6 pilot black snakes, 4 water snakes, 2 garter
snakes, 3 hog-nosed snakes, 10 copperhead snakes, ring-necked snake, De Kay’s
snake, 20 water snakes.

676212—46—_6
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Quilitch, Robert, Arlington, Va., alligator.

Racey, Mrs. E., Washington, D. C., nine flying squirrels.

Rayfield, Earl, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Renwick, John M., Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Richtmyer, Mrs. Nelson, Bethesda, Md., two mallard ducks.

Robertson, Pat, Alexandria, Va., monkey-face owl.

Rose, Arnold W., Leesburg, Fla., rattlesnake,

Rose, Mrs. B., Washington, D. C., two grass paroquets.

Royer, John, Bethesda, Md., mole snake.

Ruppert, Raymond, Jr., Washington, D. C., eastern skunk.

Ruthling, Paul, Santa Fe, N. Mex., 37 tiger salamanders.

Sale, F. B., Washington, D. C., ring-necked dove.

Saudi Arabia, Government of, through James Landis, Foreign Economic Admin-
istration, 2 Arabian oryx.

Schad, Donald C., Baltimore, Md., cooter turtle.

Schaefer, Frank J., Middleburg, Va., ocelot.

Shelby, F., Hillside, Md., two bull snakes, water snake, garter snake.

Sherwin, A. J., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Shipp, Ralph, Washington, D. C., black snake.

Shosteck, Robert, Washington, D. C., three fence lizards, blue skink.

Smith, Mrs. D. C., Washington, D. C., domestic mice.

Smith, Virginia, Roanoke, Va., spiny-tailed iguana.

Sparrough, Mrs. Ethel, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Spinks, Dr. and Mrs. William H., Washington, D. C., two cooter turtles.

Stabler, Albert, Jr., Silver Spring, Md., long-tailed fowl, two red jungle fowl.

Surridee, W. R., Washington, D. C., box turtle.

Tallant, Montague, Manatee, Fla., coachwhip snake.

Terbough, John, Arlington, Va., conch.

Thomas, Chauncey S., Washington, D. C., sea turtle.

Thompson, Bobby Jane, Brookmont, Md., mallard duck.

Thompson, Roger L., Washington, D. C., alligator.

Timmons, Mrs. B. N., Washington, D. C., white rabbit.

Timmons, Manly B., Troy, S. C., pilot black snake, pilot snake, corn snake, hog-
nosed snake.

Trueblood, W., Andover, N. H., two wood turtles.

Turner, H., Washington, D. C.. hog-nosed snake.

Upton, Elizabeth, Lanham, Md., cottontail rabbit.

Valenzuela, Mrs. Rosario, Washington, D. C., western mockingbird.

Wenley, J. J., Hyattsville, Md., great horned owl.

Windsor, Mrs. C. C., Washington, D. C., opossum.

Wilson, Mrs. T. W., Norfolk, Va., rhesus monkey.

Winton, L., Washington, D. C., weasel.

Wooten, Edgar A., Buckeye, Ariz., horned lizard.

Worley, Leonard, Washington, D, C., opossum.

Zoological Society of San Diego, Calif., seven boa constrictors.

BIRTHS

Notable among the births was a hybrid gibbon, Hylobates agilis X
Hylobates lar. The mother discarded the baby after nursing it for a
time, and from then on it was raised by hand. At the present time
it is over 11 months old and one of the most popular attractions.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

On March 4, 1945, there arrived the first giraffe to be born in the
Zoo. This female is the offspring of a pair obtained in 1937 by the
National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution Expedition.
One of our two pairs of chinchillas, the first ever exhibited in the Zoo,
gave birth to a litter of three young, and the other pair one young.

Added to our list of hybrids was a baby monkey, the mother a white-
faced capuchin, the father probably a brown.

The births and hatchings are listed below:

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name Number
Ammoiragus lervia-...---.-22.-- Aoudad... 2. cher fae Seg? ee eh 3
Ateles vellerosus2. 2-22 Mexican spider monkey___--________- 1
ALU SROQUS ae ds ee toy a tags det Oe JACKS) OGRA s Rate ares a ay 2
Pabpagaurus. - =.= ae eae ees Gan he i ee ei tre Pet at. 1
BYSONS BIRO 1a he cicsest ve. gdh ce Aumorican bis@Nein. can osteo oe ore oh as
Bop taupe 220) cemren pie es British)Park, cattle. = 2 -4t oa o8 en oF 2
Bos tinriisy sie cet pie 7 West Highland cattle. ....-......._-- 1
Cebusicanucinus. 22. ok Capuchinjmonkey = ).- crys ees eS 1
Chinchilla lanigera.... =... 242-22 (China chil eg os eel) i yas 4
Choeropsis liberiensis__-_._-.--2=% Piscmy) hippopotamus. 5222222225222 -- 1
Darah remiy hp lied DDE Fo\ eae (er) ee ee a ee 1
Damakd ara ieee ey eis ay White,fallowideensie2- J. —- +. 2 peat 2 < 2
Dolichetus patagonicus__-------.-- Patagonian cavy2-2ee2d 2522252552052 2
BITS CONCOLOT 6. 325-2 Bch a need al AP a aad ea 2
Da TDSC GY F711) © AR Og ae ppt Blacketeopard.t.ser 242 ee 1
Preles: tigvig Ser... deren seme hen aie d Beno aleticens 1 fe 22.) kobe ecaeme nn seperna 6
Giraffa camelopardalis___-._-_---- CG eR a a ks 2 te 18 2
idanalennecnues® 22 oer. ose IMERIMNOS ELS rats te ee es 2
Hippopotamus amphibius__---__-- Fippopotamius? $f) 2.221418 Sho 20 ver 1
Hylobates lar pileatus X Hylobates
ageus.G& SVT. FAA LAI Hybrid gibbonlT £4. S22. Kl 2TAwg 1
Lamargiomar.<!) so 0pase seen n> Teheran ee Se ei 9 vgs S22 gt ho oe 2
Lama piosenek Yad) OF (oh lp Ala OE 3 LEY 2 Se ee ee 1
Thalogateeugenits oo eee ek ey Damaiwallaby 2222 siKeyossesaeseolas 1
Muocastor ‘coypus eee Nano nth Coy pate tes ee nade 227) epee 1
Odocoileus virginianus_____----_-- Mirpinia’ deer__ 2. eweorelemiqiahe 1
Onesfelts geoyrajuess 2252 sS=5.'s2 Geoffroy’s cat. _ 222. a saeban 2
Quis: aries 202 MARR Rail ee ota Th oe Woolless sheep: == .-s2aetseulLenvewas 2
Quis curopacusaenei ata Waly: eeelle Miouflon 2) 2 32) = sheets area 1
Poephagus grunniens___-_-------- Vibe ee SUR sae es as ep 2
Pseudois nayaursene ed sort ports) Bharal or blue sheepss2ice: e2eak=sas0 1
Taurotragus oryroccwweeed .ort aha! land... dae svlewey supplrneel 1
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus mid-
dendotfi, 22s... wdallew. Mybrid bear..222252+24sseus slonelyd’d 1
Urocyon cinereoargenteus__--._---- Gray foxes... 2h. erie nein li 4
BIRDS
Chenopes arate... 2... ..sLan0ee. Blaeksswenes [Sevier 1
Pulieavamenicana. 5. 2--=4--- PRINGIICRMLCOOES 2 sensei SES Se ae 2
Larus novaehollandiae_ _-_--------- SVC RUM oe ps ee ahs 5
Taeniopygia castanotis___.-------- MEO Ry HOCH ee eee ene 11

DUST TEAOFUNSs Cee ee eee ee eee Ring-necked dovez2-2-.----+-_------- 2
SO ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Statement of accessions

. Mam- P : Amphib- : Inverte-

How acquired Wikis Birds | Reptiles tans Fish brates Total
IPTOSCNLAG 52 io oe oes sae eee 76 143 162 62 155 4 602
Born‘or hatched* ~~~ 2552322" 58 PA” | glove pote Sie i |-dE laelal  pl| Beai theaters 100 179
Received in exchange____._..__ 8 4 KO) ee ee ee ee ee ee ae 42
Porchasenss sss eee 18 48 65 6 DON eee eee ee 193
Deposited! 2. aes eee 18 2 Ci hentccee oll S51 el - ol ES cone 26

Motalen.... Masses 178 218 263 68 211 104 1, 042
Summary

Animals-on hand Joly 4) 194424. CEU Oe 30h Bee 3b 2 es RO RY 2, 435

Accessions'.during-thetyear Ss Butts OU fORA 2. seas moo a nn BOUTS 1, 042

Total number of animals in collection during the year______-______ 3, 477
Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, or return of ani-

mails “on depositys stele EN AS Se ee ke es ee a een ane 854
Inv collection7on* une oO 1945 eee oe ee he ee ee 2, 623

Status of collection

Class Species | Individuals Class Species | Individuals
Miammals > ee< 2 ie.ae s 209 GZ 7MPIISGCTS: Se oe ka 1 100
Sees a eee eS 322 O00 nl CATACH OIGS #22 ee 1 2
Fveptiless.. Apc ees 105 447 |_|
Asm phibians==22--- eso 21 120 Totals. eee 686 2, 623
Bish sere $o5 iit = Jee 27 368

A list of the animals in the collection follows:

ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 30, 1945

MAMMALS
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphiidae:
Didelphis virginiana___.---------- Opossum... _._. artsy _wtals 3
Phalangeridae:
eax letaurus breviceps.____--i 2-228 Lesser flying phalanger_______----
Petaurus norfolcensis.._.--- = =~... Australian flying phalanger_-_-__-_-~ 2
Macropodidae:
Dendrolagus inustus__-.---------- New Guinea tree kangaroo-__---- 2
Dendrolagus inustus finschi__------ Finsche’s tree kangaroo__~_--_--- 3
Det ny OR 71 § 1) ger eS PRE RAE Great gray kangaroo_____-__--_-- 1
Thylogale eugentt___.-------_---- Dama wallaby..__._.-...__. 00 3
Wallabia.dorsalis...... 1 = ROL Black-striped wallaby__._-------- 1
Phascolomyidae:
Vompatus ursinus....-<......2.-— Flinders Island wombat__-------- ,
INSECTIVORA
Soricidae:
Blarine brevicauda__..----.-.---- Shert-tailed shrew... -.--=

WCULODUS AQUCLICUS == == see ee NMiGIG* 220 Feces oe ee ae eee 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

CARNIVORA
Felidae:
Acinonys jubatus. (==> eseieey Cheetah. °° swine, ptionea ety
Felis aurata_..._ 1 “38H Bhi Ty Golden cat. sant suueteusy see
Felis chaus___. -~2 ie beapeta tie ie. Jungle cates Skraeas ney
DCIES COR EOLON eo ee Pumalinisel _(Almneenen. py,
Felis concolor patagonica__.------- Patagonian puma) eae
Felis concolor X Felis concolor
DOLEGONICN nn ee North American X South Ameri-
can pumas as, cAviecw saat
He tS. LO area rere terre IO. Dif O reser re = PE TS _OS TE
2 JAZUSELIMATOCIUNY DBAS _O IA
Helis On eaS~ 2eie ee —atyat ain ee Jaguar Sevan HVoHowHs HAs
Felis. pardalts.... 21tAl DOLGOD 18s) Ocelote a ——- SPINS BYP TOD DWI
‘ Indian leopard —- 20-2 App
tebe riomsarssiaee gE ee Indian leopard. __-_--~--_--
Felis tigris_._____ «90d. cavelern: Y. Bengal tiger. ercwotgtedh wayne cies
Felis tigris longipilis.__-_-------_- Siberian tiger. sssovelnyepatete}s yh
Felis tigris sumairae.__ - +994. fia Sumatran tiger ___cseetses irl
Lyne rufjus...----- 2... 4994-eelot Bay lynx... s.eseteue_poteonl gd
1 DTC 01 eee ene des Ue Bobcats . seschiene: . entowiodt
Neofelts nebulosas._- 2 went Dede EL Clouded leopard 2) echwehivue 2.
Onctfelis geoffroyt- ead boloeton /! Geoffroy’s cat... =.268%0 2eiopaeys
Oncilla pardinoides__...--.----_-- Lesser tiger cat... 2 iajsin 44 yet
Viverridae:
Arctictis binturong. lool ll = vl Lk BinGunon gas SO ST
Crvettictss. cwetia.... 2 SOU BBO g_ African -civet. 22S Bes
Myonazx sanguineus..-.------__-- Dwarf.¢ivet =... RIAs BURY)
Paradoxurus hermaphroditus___-- ~~ Small-toothed palm civet________-
Hyaenidae:
Crocuta crocuta germinans___-_--~- Kast African spotted hyena____--_-
Canidae:
Cants latrans...4. 24 235 Coyote: = 95 og
Canis latrans X familiaris____-_-- Coyote and dog hybrid_________-_-
Canis lupis nubtlus_...-....-G094 PRINS WOME, 5 ee = ab
Canis igen nui us. ioe 25 ee exas red wolf. ..-2-.1... 3e8oreL
Cuon javanicus sumatrensis____--__ Sumatran wild dog___.--_______-
Dusicyon culpaeus..=.-~.-..--==-- South American fox_______-___--
Dusicyon (Cerdocyon) thous______- South American fox_..2. +222 2-22.
Nyctereutes procyonoides_________- Racoon, dog... =. tea b= tein’).
Urocyon cinereoargenteus....___-_- Gray fox...- 3) -.. ablyeys pipteabens 1
Via ICE AUR ste ects an hse A Reg fox 245. 255 ne aa eae lee a,
Procyonidae:
Nasua noricaytcore levies rn bei T- Coatimundi. 2 vg Sake gD
INGBUGSUCISONO 52 hil see eyo he 2 Nelson’s coatimundi.____.___- 4.
TOLOS PLOWUS = ie ek ee ee Fon Kajou see einen ak
RACOOH A oy eae ek Mie! ck a
Procyon loton = hee ee Black raccoon. ye ek
Raccoon (albino)
Bassariscidae:
Bassariscus astutus__...-..--..--- Ring-tail or cacomistle_._._______

81

— aT ee OO Rt

iS

SPOR EP NP HKH WON WWN RO

— me et DD

CON KH HB HOH He

me I Or 00 & dD
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Mustelidae:
Gita epee fat eee Grison sof 22 toe setter eee
Grisonella huronaz....----------- Grison.. 3532. Sse bone hb
Lutra canadensis vaga_..-_--_---- Blorida otter... DIOVid Bi
Lutra (Micraonyz) cinerea__------ Small-clawed otter_.....___._____
Martes (Lamprogale) flavigula hen-
TUCK. AS Aa Asiatic. marten sini aia ren sii
Meles meles leptorhynchus_-------- Chinese badger_2<¢ = towne, - ris.
Melittora) capensie sro 02014. 2420 Rate. 2... UD omen,
Mephitis mephitis nigra____------- Sian >: Se re ere
Mustela eversmanni__.----_------_ Ferret... pat sttgt
Mustela frenata noveboracensis___-_- Wessel. 2 55 2 ee ee
Tayra barbara barbara___--_------ VL (ivan. 2 oo" Sees o eee
Tayra, barbara sentlis..._.___- etna Gray-headed tayra____._._._____-
Ursidae:
Euarctos americanus___...-..----- PAsek DeaP hn 242 ee
Huarctos thibetanus__.__..-..---_-- Himalayan: bear.2 o.<.22 i 2
Helarctos malayanus__....-_------ Malay or sun bear_____-_-___-__-
Melursusursinus. 285 Pee Sloth bear... 2oNont2 j21pe ssi,
Thalarctos maritimus___..___-_--- Polar-bearq. ane en BEST SHY
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus
middendor fii... LaS00a1 Wn Hybrid bear... 22010 2 eh
Tremarctos ornatuss2i hea. 202 ee). Spectacled bearer 220 speleiQ),
Uraueiarctos 2... 201 JORle ree. European brown bear____________
Ursus arctos meridianalis_______-_- Caucasas brown bear_______-____-
Wrens gyaes <>. sere oes teh Alaska Peninsula bear___________-
Ursus middendorffi__....-.-.----- Kodiak bear... -s¥eu2s ates
Ursus sikens7s. =. 2a Bee Sitka brown béafscc.202-7nis WL
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
Zalophus californianus________---- Sem lisnte tee ee ae ee
Phocidae:
Phoca vitulina richardii_._._.-_.--- Pacific harbor seal---°" eo
PRIMATES
Lemuridae:
Lemur mongoz_._...--..-----.---- Mongoose lemur___.._-----------
Callitrichidae:
Callithriz jacchis. 2.2L. 22L2-. White-tufted marmoset_____-_-_--
Callithriz penicillata.__.._._._.__--- Black-tufted marmoset__________-
Leontocebus rosalia__...._._------ Lion-headed or golden marmoset--
Saimiridae:
Saimirt sctureus_.o._..--.-------. Titi or squirrel monkey ----------
SALE BPR ewe JU Titi or squirrel monkey ---_------
Cebidae:
Alouatta palliata mexicanus__-_-- --- Howling monkeyoose. Oe Set
PAOLUSTET LOTT OOLUG 2 am ea See Douroucouli or owl monkey_-___---
Ateles geoffroyt vellerosus___..__--- Spider monkey 2s et
Cetwe-anelia ===> - OSU See Gray capnehiivc. ss. 522555
Rebus Capucsius. ... .2 525 2 White-throated capuchin--_-_-___--
Cebus fatuellussudonn 30 _e2- ae Weeping capuchin__--_____-_--_--

Lagothriz lagotricha__-.---------- Woolly monkey <2 2222-.2-2-8==-

— ke De

KY Db NW OR ee

—

m PD bo OTe
CO
ies)

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Cercopithecidae:
Cercocebus torquatus atys_.-------- Sootmmangabey.. 1 2
Cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus_-- Vervet guenon______--____-_-_-_ |
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus_-_---- Creenssuienon oe ince oo = 6
Cerconthecus cephisy 2 af Moustached guenon___________-- 1
Cercopithecus diana. 2-22-22 =. Diana monkey ou =. 2 ee 3
Cercopithecus diana roloway------ Roloway monkey. 22.2022 2. 1
Cercopithecus neglectus_._--------- DeBrazzais guenon___.......-——- 2
Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista.__ Lesser white-nosed guenon____--_-- 3
Cercopithectts 8p 2-2 ese = West African guenon___________.- 1
Gymnopyga maurus._------------ Moor monkey... ..G520 ee ee 1
MT CemCasfUSCOlGs Sens ern n= Japanese monkey___.-_---------- 2
WV deaca 278 Mordags. - 2. oo os Javan macaque... ...--.. 21a! 5
Macaca-mutaittai 282808 (23109) _ Rhesus:-morkey2 Ui 2258. Bins) 9
WVIO COCOMREMEStUNG mae eae ee Pig-tailed monkey_______-____.--- 2
Macaca philippinensis__---------- Philippine macaque____-___-___-- 1
Macaca.sinica____ 14 o9ne baieage. Toque or bonnet monkey___-_---- 1
WMacacm speciostee = ooo. oe cee Red-faced macaque-_-_------------ 1
Mandrittus sphing.. bio a Wiser 2 ee Oe ee ee 1
EDU COMMUNISM Onin ae ates CUE ines see She ceo ey 1

Hylobatidae:
FI ylovates agulis. cee senso aaat at Sumatran gibbon... -4.2-4-- 1
Hylobates agilis * Hylobates lar

pilewtus. 228 eo Ue eal Ryrid. gibbon. 0. oo sae 1

iylabates haolotke Nc alee ewen ee. Hoolock gibbons. .=22..2..seehive 1
Hylobates lar pileatus_..--.------- Black-capped gibbon__._____-.-_- 1
Symphalangus syndactylus___----~- Siamanc gibbons o2. 46 eee a. 1

Pongidae:
Pan troglodytes Pe ere ges fe Chimpanzees oj 2 eee bw Ls 2
Pan troglodytes verus____-.-.--_-- West African chimpanzee_________ 3
Pongo Wigmacus eee Bomeéan orangutan. =<. 22 2a > 2
Pongo pygmaeus abelit_.__.------- Saniatran orangutan ._2-- 2222 1

RODENTIA

Sciuridae:
Callosciurus finlaysoni__...._----- Lesser white squirrel.___.._------ 2
Citellus tridecemlineatus.___------ 13-lined ground squirrel_________- 1
Cynomys ludovicianus...--------- Plains prairie doz-2252o2 >see 75
Glaucomysivolans__ 2 ee Diving squirrel we ee eee 14
Mariiota@anonat ooo rte Woodchuck or ground hog___-__--- 2
USCIBINULSRCUETUE Se So cc ote ne cinerea Abert’s squirrels 22 203 ee eee ee 2
TAMAR SGIOIUA oe astern chipmunk — To eee 1

Heteromyidae:
Pamodonis: 00.004 2 aon ge ae ee Ord kangaroo Tate oe ee 3

Cricetidae:
Mesocricetus auratus__...-------- Golden hamsters ieee 528 ats 13
Microtus pennsylvanicus_.-------- Meadow Mousese oo 1
Neotoma floridana attwateri____-_-- Round-tailed wood rat___-----_-- 6
Oryzomys palustris... .-— =. er TRACE Ovis 22. 5 eae tet 2
Peromyscus crinitus auripectus__-_-- Golden-breasted mouse_____-_---- 1
Peromyscus leucopus_._---------- White-footed or deer mouse___-__-- 1
Sigmoden hispidus.... - =. a- = sa507- (Ove ia) 1 1 ee PS 4
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Muridae:
ace musculus: - sons eee White and other domestic mice____
Ratiue norvegicus. - -2 2228 VOL a2 White and pied colored rats_____--
Hystricidae:
Acanthion brachyurum__---------- Malsy porcupine.) . ~~ aes
Atherurus africanus. —- 202222 see West African brush-tailed porcu-
DING Seas ee ae aa ee cee a eee
TAS Ie GLE QUD So I re me African porcupine. - aa
Thecurus crassispinis sumatrae____- Thick-spined porcupine- --_-------
Myocastoridae:
WM YOCRSTOT COUDUS = pe et COY DU: oases oe eee eee
Cuniculidae:
Cuniculus paca virgatus_--.------- Central American paca__---_.----
Dasyproctidae:
Dasyprocta croconota prymnolopha_. Agouti.--------.-----------.---
Dasyprocta punctata___--_-------- Speckled agouti_-_-__-----------
Chinchillidae:
Chinchilla chinchilla_....~- ~-'--__- Chinchilla. SE
Caviidae:
Maga porcellua- 5205-342 24en >. Guinea pig......._-.. . . RN ago
Dolichotis patagona_-_-_------------ Patagonian cavy.— 2: $22 #2209.
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Oryctolagus cuniculus___---------- Domestic rabbitsaiue =s! 2sintel 2
ARTIODACTYLA
Bovidae:
Ammotragus lervid_- -.--44- === Aoqudad. === - a ae nett Cpe 5)
Anoa depresstcownzs ANORS 25225) kee eee
Anoa quarleisi-fergusoni_--------- Mountain anoa 2.20 eee
ar0ne GOUNUS 2. os a cee C11) 7 eR Re ES iol ih ed eb 8
a age Se Te ieee bison. on ees
ies pce on ANDINO: 'DISONGs 1225 -se oe
Bos tngicus 2 os. de ee FN 0) | ea oe me nee ce eR
UESGSWOOUUT US pg OE eg os a Rexas longbomsteer. 3- == ee
PSG RTA a ee et West Highland or Kyloe cattle_--_-
PBOSMQURUS 2 = Se ae ict es oe ae Bribish Park Cathe sae = nee
Gaprasibiracs 2. n= wn a DG k see eee Se es
Cephalophus maxwellii_._.-------- Maxwellis duiker:— 25. 22.2 22 oe
Cephalonhus-miger oe ee TEA EY Si Dt) <a aa
Cephalophus nigrifrons___..------ Black-fronted duiker__.._--_-----
Hemitragus jemlahicus_-_..------- Lh ES becuse ya
Oreotragus oreotragus__----------- South African klipspringer_-_------
OO TTT 2 ea a ae eA RE TEED, Arabian oryx...---..- =...
Oryx beisa annectens___.-.-------- Tbean beisa oryx #28 sy sor eee.
Oereartes 2 = 22 2 ORO Woolless or Barbadoes sheep-_-----
Gore-curopidis. 222 Pas DusCws Mouflon oun wapnon Sarees o.
Poephagus grunniens___.___-__--- VYak~-~. 2222-5 Ue BS
Psendovse nayaur S| DSeANC- ONO Bharal or blue sheep-------------
puncerog caper. 2). 20 _ DNOOPS NANT _ African -buffalostie) 22082 ma

Paurorrague oTyt= 222222 8 BON _ Bland += 222 22.2 SSSestk open.

15

WNNOWNNNHONHE EE ROR RE ORE HO
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Cervidae:
ATi sTaxris eee: ae l ese AmisudGera2 nee many. - 5 ss we
Cervus) canadensis... — 2. =- ----- === Atmerieanvellk. 94428 sees
Certusielaphus eens re: oko soe BSUTS 0 22 AE ee Nell AN
Hallowideer tess cose ek
Dems dom... =. -ghteniie <sia72 on fallow dear. eos
Maniacs mecvestee 2s seas am Rib-faced or barking deer____-_--~-
Odocoileus virginianus__---------- Wirginiaideer: 225 02 52202 au ee
Sika manchuricum.-..--=-=---=--- Dybowsky déer_. 2-2-2 =: 2225-524
Sitka nippon._..-2...2.=.. BRIue2 Japanese: deer. 2-2. ne
Giraffidae:
Giraffa camelopardalis_____----_-- Nubian-Pirsite ls iiss eaisouED
Girafia reticulata: 22222 e Oe? Reticulated pirates Pe) Le Oyee
Camelidae:
Camelus Cacinianuse- 22 Son BACtrigm, CAINE eae Os FRI eee we
Camelus dromedarius_-.---------- Single-humped camel_____-----_--
LGM glam tea nee ee a2 eee Elamae Sie eae
Lama glama guanico= . = 22222225 Guanacotmigie. 2) osdyoune nt See
Lame pacos=*s==<==4 nS SIRARREEE ACE Alpaca: =+s22ssee2 ee ow
Vicugna vrcugna.. = 22 3- >. eee Waeuna. 22222522: _ 22. tARhiieorn
Tayassuidae:
PECOTY GNGuUlarusee 2 oe NS MAS eee Collared peccaryets 222s hes see
Suidae:
Babirussa babyrussae Se! oe ee IB aise ee ae teeta nly oie 8 ae ig
Phacochoerus aethiopicus aeliani._.._ East African wart hog-----------
Hippopotamidae:
Choeropsis libertensis___---------- Pigmy hippopotamus- - ----------
Hippopotamus amphibius_ -_------- Eppapotamus 22008. Sa
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
Equus burcheilit antiquorum- --- - -- @hapman's zebra... 2-22 oe
PAAUILS GR CUNER oe a Pai 8 (TENS PSIZCORR o-oo ee
Equus grevyt X asinus..---------- Hepra-ass MyM 2 ae
Equus grevyt X caballus.._..c.cc.... Zebra-horse hybrid__------------
GRIER MILLIE oo eee ree ee ee Asiatic wild ass or kiang______--_-_-
TEA UUSLON GO Cia ee ea ae oe Oiigver n= eae ee oc ee eg
EO UUS ED ie CANO LS Ky a Mongolian wild horse_-_---------
BB BWYAD oye 27 haa doe alt scp etl Mountaintze brass. eee ee
Tapiridae:
Acrocadsaindicat tS Sed St FORE Asiatientapir= «c+. 2223 SNe Wanye”
Papinavienvesrig 2s South American tapir__--__----- 2
Rhinocerotidae:
Rhinoceros unicornis__.---------- Great Indian one-horned rhino-
COTO Me cs ae a ga a
PROBOSCIDAE
Elephantidae:
Elephas maximum sumatranus- ~~ -- Sumatran elephant____-__._--_--

Loxodonta africana oryotis......_._. African elephant...__.__.---..--

bh by ote WH

Cet OND

nN
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

EDENTATA
Choloepodidae:
Choloepus didactylus__.....-.----- Two-weu mGul-------
Dasypodidae:
Chaetophractus villosus___..------- Hairy armadillo___..__.___-
Huphractus sexcinctus.._-—.- - - -.< Six-banded armadillo__-_ _-_-_-
BIRDS
CASUARIIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Casuarius bennetti papuanus___---- Papuan cassowary-_---------
Casuarius casuarius aruensis____--- Aru CAaSSOWATY «= ~ = =. 24-2<~-
Casuarius uniappendiculatus occi-
CLE, a ae ee a mee eee 5 ae om Island cassowary---.-------
Casuarius uniappendiculatus uni-
ODPENdiCMlahe ss owe ene One-wattled cassowary-- ----
Rheidae:
Rhea american 22) soc eee th Conimon' rhea. 2225222544
Dromiceiidae:
Dromiceius novaehollandiae___-_---- Common ‘emu. .-=-=.-.- 22-353
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
Anienodyties forsterta so et Emperor penguin___--_-----
Spheniscus demersus___.---------- Jackass penguin______-__---
Spheniscus humboldti__.-.-------- Humboldt penguin.____-_---
TINAMIFORMES
Tinamidae:
Eudromia elegans_.....---------- Crested tinamou or martineta
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Pelecanus conspicillatus___.__------ Australian pelican___-_-----
Pelecanus erythrorhynchus__------- White DeliOei
Pelecanus occidentalis__......----- Brown pelican: <<. ..-_...-
Pelecanus onocrotalus._......------ European pelican___-.-.-----
Phalacrocoracidae:
Phalacrocoraz auritus albociliatus._. Farallon cormorant--------------
Fregatidae:
Prepata arsel 2. ot a ele. Lesser frigate bird =. 3 *2- = 5.
CICONIIFORMES
Ardeidae:
PPRER NEOUS. Co See e sss aee Great blue heron--_---------
Ayden wcciientali¢ 2+ 2itse ss sene Great white heron_-_-_-----
PENG sco cc a wcweoeetouss Snowy epret locos! Lal
Pippi taerlea..<ocsscccccetces Little blue heron_----------
Hydranassa tricolor ruficollis-_ - ~~ -- Louisiana heron_..---------
Notophoyx novachollandiae_-_---_-_-- White-faced heron_-_-_------
Nycticoraz nycticoraz naevius-_---- Black-crowned night heron--_
Cochleariidae:

Cochlearius cochlearius_......----- Boatbill heron=— = 2=---2=. =

to Pe

NO oro bd

—
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

Ciconiidae:
Dissouraepiscopua..2. 6 9. t232 Woolly-necked stork___-.-------- 1
Rbts) conereu@sece-he 22 ls Malay stork... <n ee 2
Leptoptilus crumeniferus_—-------- Miaraboussssee on a5 — 5 ee 1
Leptoptilus dubiuss..223.-. ~~. 22 Indianjadjutantusssese22— es 1
Leptoptilus javanicus.-...-------- esseriadjutants) ==. ae 2
Mycteria americana.-_------------ Woodvibisue) 5 one a ae 1

Threskiornithidae:
Ajata‘ajajalteedees seetesecs2 Spoonbillt..._ .- eet et tee caeel4 5
Guore Glb@d 226 Us asesu qeesaeeS Whitetibis: 224s So htew ass te eo 8
Guara alba X G. rubra___-------- Hybrid white and scarlet ibis-_ --- 1
Gara puuriE 252 Ses Sasa See Searletibiss fee fae. SE ae 1
Threskiornis aethiopica_-_--------- DaereC Dist 2b beh slay Seetek, 1
Threskiornis melanovephala__.----- Black-headedibisiww oss 4
Threskiornis spinicollis_..---.---- Straw-necked ibis_....._._.--...-- 2

Phoenicopteridae:
Phoenicopterus chilensis....------ Chilean flamingoew2 jas seen ee 2
Phoenicopterus ruber...---------- Cuban flamingos”? 22-4 4ae6 25829 3

ANSERIFORMES

Anhimidae:
Chaunatcrtstatge 2 ee Crested’ screster—— — === 55252255 7

Anatidae:
ATT Spoons aS ee Widod ugk oe Cit nts we oe es +
Anas. brasilienst§. 2 ~4-—-4--< 4-2 Brezitian tesla. ee cee 2
Anas domestica... 3-2 =~ Se eae Pela GW Gk. Se ge ee a 20
Anas platyrhynchos__.----------- Mallard’ @uck. == ° = oe Se 56
Anas rubripes. --- 22 oe eee BISCK Quek. 2 ve a ci ee 7
Aneer albifrons -~-—- 22 = oe American white-fronted goose----- 1
Anser cinereus domestica__.------- Toulouse #oo0ses==- 24-52 -4- = 3
Anseranus semipalmata__--------- Australian pied goose__-.-------- 2
Branta canadensis <2 222 22255220 Canada 'go0se: 2 2242. 2-44> 325 eae 35
Branta canadensis hutchinstt___.--- Hutehin’s goose.) 22 wo 4
Brania canadensis minima__--_---- @ackling roose.. 2. ee ee 8
Branta canadensis occidentalis ___-_- White-cheeked goose__-_-_-------- 27
Branta canadensis X Chen caeru-

Ld Jeet | tee en OEY PETE ya Hybrid Canada goose K blue goose. 2
Catninasmoschata twee = a Muscovyiducko S=s= 2 ae 13
Casarcatearieqatae 72 ee eee Paradiserducks42 U2 Maks Sires 1
Cereopsis novaehollandiae_-_------- Cape Barren goose____--_-------- 1
Chenratlanticassnss see ee es Snow Zoosel tae ee hae oe 2 2
Chenrcneniiescens= cose eee Biuergoosers= seer eens Se eee 2
Ghenopisvairatam st hee Bae eas weer a hae a 4
Chloephaga leucoptera__._--_------ iMarellan’ goose: 052503 2
CGygnopsis cygnoidess=- =.= == Domesticigoosess22 22 = 5-2 ees 2
Cygnus columbianus__...--------- Whistling. swan._....\oin.el soa.) 2
Cygnus melancoriphus_.-_-.------ Black-necked swan____-_-___---- 1
Cygnusiolors .. 7 OPa RY Tene Mute swatting Yass... eTsinne soy. 5
Dafila.acuta Loss. belicvinsagl Pintail..22. 2cweee. ci... sues _wuls 8
Dafilarsninictude sate oe Chilean pintalse foo k. =. 1
Dendrocygna arborea_.-.--------- Black-billed tree duck._.....----- 3
Dendrocygna autumnalis_--------- Black-bellied tree duck_____-_---- 2

Dendrocygna viduata_.-.--------- White-faced tree duck___._____--- 4
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Anatidae—Continued.

Dendronessa galericulata______-__- Mandarin duck-2 5°22 =e ee
Mareca americana 22-22 ee Vsidngie-3255 -<-4 5 ee
Ree wiints of oss sAee ieee hesser sea: > foe eee ee
Martie enlinyie Sor ss ens eon ne ee Ring-necked duck\"~"\2<_ 22
Netiton carolinense<-_ ~~ = $2 _ Tae Green-winged teal___-_---__-__-_
Weta formuenits 22 one See Barkal tealew reese eee
Nwroce ap. 2 =L. 232202. -.. ee Hybrid duck___.__._ #8) jie
Nyroca valisineria_...-.-.-------- Canvasback.duckz222=-5i2 DipLe
Philacte canagica__-...--.--_---- Emperor. g008@-.2252222.D012 SIDUs
Querquedula discors_------------- Blue-winged teal-___-_----__----
FALCONIFORMES

Cathartidae:
GUTROTlLES OUT Cen ee HUTKeY~ “VUlbUne = ete eee ee
Cargguns miraiueovs = 2s 2 ose oe ae Black vulture... -....298Dimgeos
Gymnegyps californianus_.___._--- California condor____---_--------
Vuliur-gryphus..- Se Poet a Andean. condor 22222 cy liwenzess

Accipitridae:
PRUCREO DDTOGUS Sa oe ed-tatied hawk... -.2 5.52. 3
Buteo lineatus elegans________----- Southern red-shouldered hawk- - _~
Buteo lineatus lineatus_.___--.---- Red-shouldered hawk_-----------
Buteo melancleucus...._-.---.---- South American buzzard eagle____
IBULEON LOU DLS ye no ene nee Broad-winged hawk_-_-----.-_----
Buteo poecilochrous__.------------ Red-backed buzzard —~ - ~~ = 1'> 2222
Gypohierax angolensis___-_---__-- ish=eatine vulture ==
GUD SLE DCL ane ee eee Ruppell’s vulturé>_-~ ©. Se
Haliaeetus leucocephalus_____.-_-- Baldgenviessrrss2 ssa
Holiastur'tndus- =- =. Brahminy kites 22" 2= == se eee
Harp OQianpyerss = = ee Harpyjeaplerct) 2 o's. cyawine Ieee
Hypomorphnus urubitinga_-_------ Brazilian eagles ~*~ eee
Milvago chimango__-------------- Chariton ~ > = +> saree ee eee
Milvus migrans parasitus _ ~~ _--_--- African yellow-billed kite______-_~-
Pandion haliaetus carolinensis _ - — - Ospreyvoriish bawks ooo] See as
Parabuteo unicinctuss 2 2 2k One=bandedshawk= 22 ----2s2oes5
Toryortrachenowge ta s2 os i African eared vulture- _--------+-

Falconidae:
Cerchneis sparverius__...--------- Sparrow hawk... 1.605305 ose
Daptrius americanus. -—.---+-——.--2 Red-throated caracara_-_-_----__--
Falco peregrinus anatum____.----- Duck hawk... ..-. == cettsatia- ns
Polaborud plancus na = aceon: ae fe South American caracara______-_--

GALLIFORMES

Cracidae:
Craz jasciolaia.____ deve pallid Crested curassow__-_--_- -----_-
Craz rubra. ..._.cavze Haden a2 Panama curassow__-_-----------
Craz sclaters._...._-___ ke 30M Sclater’s curassow....-.-2-2-..--

OW mm SB OR ee

ie re DCR NOD ee NR —

— ee OO OF

— tet
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

Phasianidae:
\Argusianus Gr gus ois os ee ere Argus pheasant=-<2-- 22 oe 2
Callipepla squamata___.---------- BCAlGG/ GUAT EO ee kee 7
CET CUS WWOTUTE RU is ets Cheer pheasant. s.ccce cece 2
Chrysolophus amherstiae_--------- Lady Amherst’s pheasant_________ 1
Chrysolophus pictus_-....-------- Golden) pheasants — <2 =e nee mew 5
Colinus cristatus._....2..2.------ Crested) quails 5 0s ee ee 2
Colinus Hdgwayiao232 she 2 = Masked quail oes yi) ouch ano et 2
Colinus virginianus. = {002 2 Sle. Bob whites eeew ma) se Pay _Vera vase eh 2
Crossoptilon auritum_-....------- Blue-eared pheasant_.._........- 1
Gallus gallus... Sloe itinen Redjungle fowls os. 3. 2
Gallus gallus. ee Jnalliebeaif. Hybrid red jungle fowl X bantam
fOWle scabs: eee twee hae. 4
Gallus lafayettiirs Jeowiriey erie alo. Ceylonese jungle fowl____________ 1
Gallas Spe’ oes bine wane bhi Bantam chickenkasit.4s..2 9425. 1
Gall wets ph tae rae eae Le ald ead ay HightingOwleee eee 1
CEUTA GS Se EE a lia Sg ee a Wong-tatledtiowles 2s soe ee 2
Gennaeus albocristatus__________-_- White-crested kaleege___________- 2
Gennaeus nycthemerus_-__---_---- NIlVverpHEASAN is eek ee ee 5
Htrerophasis sipinhott= - -. 2-2. =- Swinhoe’s pheasants. 22.2222 2
Lophophorus impeyanus_--------- Himalayan impeyan pheasant_____ 1
Lophortyz californica vallicola_-__--- Walle y ‘aja ane a ae eee 2
Lophortyz gambellt_..~._-.-_.---~ Gambesiquai ee cca 2
ROVOVCTUSLGts pee eee ee BEESLEY 1054 aime ak lap ear alc ao 5
. Ring-necked pheasant___._______-- 6
UE ie ii in peas a eS ease ring-necked pheasant- _-_-__ 1
Phastanus versicolor... --.---. =~ Green Japanese pheasant_________ 1
Polyplectron napoleonis____------- Palawan peacock pheasant______-_- J
WUTIMGLICUS TCCUCRUS © San 2 cy tie an Reeéve’s pheasant___._-......-___ ]
Numididae:
Acryllium vulturinum__....-------- Vulturine guinea fowl________-_--_ 1
Numi: Spesn& pee es ee Guines fowl: oY 2.40. 245 ope 2
GRUIFORMES
Rhinochetidae:
Rhinochetos jubatus___._---------- 0G 4 Re ee par ee een ne CpRey 1
Gruidae:
Anthropoides paradisea__----___-- Stanley or paradise crane__-_-.__-- 1
Anthropoides virgo__-.__-_-------- Demoiselle crane. === .2-.-222se4 2
Balearica pavonina._........----- West African crowned crane-_ -____- 2
Balearica regulorum gibbericeps.... East African crowned crane. ----- 1
Grus leucauchettinnece foten ys eee White-naped crane_-—.-...---4_ 1
Grus leucogeranus._...----_------ Siberian crane 224 soy sos 2
Rallidae:
Amaurornis phoenicurus_-__-.---- White-breasted rail________.___.- 2
Fulica americana_.-....--------- American coot. -- SSe24 Soe S 6
Gallinula chloropus cachinnans_.-_-- Florida gallinule_..._.......-.--- 3
Gallinula chloropus orientalis_ -__-- Sumatran gallinule___-__.___-_-- 1
Limnocoraz flavirostra__---------- African black rail___.-- as5ns: >=5- 3

Porphyrio poliocephalus_-_--------- Gray-headed porphyrio______----- ]
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Cariamidae:
Catmmacrisiaial cite... ee Cariama or seriama__-__-_-------
CHARADRIIFORMES
Haematopodidae:
Haematopus ostralegus__---------- European oyster catcher____---_--
Charadriidae:
Belanopterus chilensis...--------- Chilean lapwing 3s eee nn eee
Laridae:
Larus argentatus..39/)_ 2 2_ ae, Herring, gulls... suring aulinkd
Larus delawarensis.__.-..-------- Ring-billed. gull___.___asMnon euoct
Larus. dominicanus.<<c2. oboe ielp ull. 2550 ae
Larus. glaucescens UsfLs S292) eo Glaucous-winged gull____._____--
Larus novaehollandiae._---------- Silver gull... ~~... 42 se loey
Glariolidae:
Glareola pratincola___-.---------- Collared pratincole_-------------
COLUMBIFORMES
Columbidae:
OO TALT AU MITE TC en ca me cep Triangular spotted pigeon _- ----__--
Columba widen o = aces = pe ee Domestic: pigeon _— = _-_-=----— =
CALM TAND TATA ILS OES. Spot-winged pigeon_____------_--
DBP IG 71 1 alta itn ipa fet” Green imperial pigeon___--_---_--
Gallicolumba luzonica__-_--------- Bleeding-heart dove__-----------
GGUEG CFIA Sine a a ee Be Sclater’s crowned pigeon_________-
LESTER Ti 911 1 a I RS 98 cle Victoria crowned pigeon____-____-
DP OPLOLEA CO COB SURGE oo cae ho est ce ne CASSIN MODVEG..<.oc42e tees e eee
LODGING PUOONI oe oe cue M Scaled pigeon... see ne ae ee
Muscadivores paulina_.__.-__------ Celebian imperial pigeon________~_
Streptopelia chinensis___._._.----- Asiatic collared dove________-_---
Streptopelia chinensis ceylonensis___ Lace-necked or ash dove_-----__--
Streptopelia tranquebarica____.---- Blue-headed ring dove__--__--_---
TW TON: COLUG sees West African fruit pigeon________-
PUrliT TISOTUUB ia ea ee eee Ring-necked dove__-___.__.-_---
Zenaida auriculata___-.=222- 21. South American mourning dove_-_-_
Zenaidura macroura_._...-------- Mourning dove..........-.<. ae
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:
Agapornis DUUATIG.-..-- eee Red-faced love bird_____.___-----
‘AMOZONG Aestwwa. nee Blue-fronted parrot_._........-_--
‘Amuazong aloijrons sss one) one White-fronted parrot___._______-_-
Amazona auropalliata______..---- Yellow-naped parrot_______------
Amazona ochrocephala________---- Yellow-headed parrot_-__-___-_--
Amazone oratrigz...- lf 222 S22 ae2. Double yellow-headed parrot___--_-_
Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus___.... Hyacinthine macaw_-_--__--------
Ara. ararauna. . 2 oileg danas. Yellow and blue macaw_-______--
ATE MACHO scos2stat eld _-aeekeé. Red, blue, and yellow macaw- -_-_-_-_
Ara milstarsaaysioied babsaversie. Mexican green macaw__--______-_-
Aralngaieuone= . 22 a Cuban iconure2 2). = eee
Calyptorhynchus magnificus____---- Banksian cockatoo___-__--_------

Carncopers nigra... co 2c25 25S. Lesser vasa parrot....... 2-22...

Lal el ell eel SO ed
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Psittacidae—Continued.

Cyanopsitiacus spizi_..........--- Spi SWMAaCaW...... 5-5 eno a,
Ducorpsis sanguineus_...--------- Bare-eyed cockatoo._______-.-_--
Eclectus pectoralis__....-------=~ Helectusiparrotwse es 0k ee
Eolophus roseicapillus_.....------ Roseate cockatoo........-+..-~=<-
Kakatocalbaaee oye ee ee Wihitecockatoos ecko
EC GKGLO6 GUO NS an ele te Solomon Islands cockatoo_---__-_
iMakaloevwalertta.- 2) oe eee oe a Large sulphur-crested cockatoo____
Kakatoe leadbeateri__...-.-------- Leadbeater’s cockatoo___.__.___--
Kakatoe moluccensis.__..--------- Great red-crested cockatoo--_-_--___
Kakatoe sulphurea_..__..----.---- Lesser sulphur-crested cockatoo- -
Loriusidomicellas. 2222 25 l 2 ose Raj ahilory a2 a. we a ae
Lorius, garruluge cite 9. ie pte et DRY 20 il (2) a1) Renee po
Gortusoratugs 23h eee Red=sidedilory8 22522250 sca see
Melopsittacus undulatus___.-.----- Grass paraquet. 20s se
Myopsitia monachus__.-_--------- Quaker paroquet-_-_.._-.-.-.-..
Nandayus nanday..-- 2 = Nanday paroquet..-...--2 42 6
Nestor notabtlie.: = 2st ee 1 RR Ss et a 2 os ee
Pionites xanthomera___...-------- Amazonian caique___..__.__._-_--
Peitiaculaeupairiass .o2< —.—< <i Red-shouldered paroquet________-_
Psitiaculal kramer. 2252-4 Kramer’siparoquet. i.)
Psittacula longicauda___...------- Long-tailed paroquet___________-_
Tanygnathus muelleri__..._..------ Murceller’s parrot. 2-2: 442
CUCULIFORMES
Cuculidae:
Eudynamis scolopaceus----_-_---- KOE) ocr reece SOS FRAO).
Musophagidae:
Turacus livsingstont... . .-- -- -- Livingston’s turacou______..-.___
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Tyto alba pratincola__._-....----- Barn: OWle 22 c69e a. ae
Strigidae:
Bubo virginianus.— oo Great horned owl.._-- . -s2n2ueo2
Ketupa ketupwioivo_voiiawwalie f_ Malay-fish owl__2ooen ce owe,
UNGICLEG IU CLEC ame teen ea ae Snowy owl... - -.-.._-/- eee
O}U8° 03102 SE SUS. Screech owl... 2592. Sw
SURE VON OLVAT TC =e tne neater. Barred owl=. 225-222-522 eRe
COLIIFORMES
Coliidae:
alarm Sri ee Be Ss Streaked mouse bird or coly__-_--_
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
Dacelo gigas. i322 .. -2ekte5- gabe d Kookaburra!) sepaechus su heu
TIGUIGYOM SARC a rr Ss Sacred kingfisher! 922... =. 2 seehin
Momotidae:
Momotus lessoni__..------------- Motmo tis<-= eee ee ee ee

MBDnNnWNR KE KSB OK BSE NN KKH NW DY We SS
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

PICIFORMES
Ramphastidae:
Aulacorhynchus sulcatus sulcatus... Groove-billed toucanet----------- 1
Pieroglossus aracari___----------- Black-necked aracari__.-.-.------ 1
Pteroglossus torquatus—~_-- --—- ~~ ATSCari toucan= 2 ase 1
Ramphastos carinatus____--------- Sulphur-breasted toucan_-_---.---- i
Ramphastos piscivorus__---------- OCo tOuCkn se 1
Capitonidae:
Semnornis rhamphastinus--------- Toucan-billed barbet__...-.------ 2
PASSERIFORMES
Cotingidae:
Rupicola peruviana sanguinolenta.- Scarlet cock of the rock-------~_- 2
Corvidae:
Callocitia formosesse = Stil ss 22s Tonos LA bal be eet tel bal torres ban 1
GCresa*chinensis. 2 ~~ 2-- = Chindse cmsat==-- sss. ee 2
Cissilopha yucatanica___---------- Yucatan:bluejay.-------2---> 5
COrUleaniinige 20" One ON Se Seen White-brested crow-_-----_--=---- 2
Corvus brachyrhynchus___--------- ANIBTICRaN CLOW S222 ee eee ee 6
Corvus coraz principalis___..------ Northern ravens soos) see eee 2
CONNELCOTIAG RO eee ee ae HOOGeR CrOma Ss = eee. eee eee 1
Corvusvcryptoleucius.-—* 7 eS White-necked raven___---------- 1
Cornmnnepicns eos 2 ee iacianverow= "Css ooo eee 3
Cyanociiagerisiala. =... ..<5-=-- SITS) i ee oemeeny eee Le SSS 1
Cyanacoraz chrysops.__.-.- 224292 WIPHHOD AY fens oe oe 1
Cyanocorax mystacalis_.....------ Moustached jay..--.------seebils 1
Cyanopica. cyan... ~ -=------A8e2b Azure-winged pie___-.--..-.----- 2
Gymnorhina hypoleuca__---------- White-backed piping crow_-_-_----- 3
Pica pica hudsenicn. 2-2 = = 3 American marpicz = == 2 ose ae ae 11
Groctaed. coeruleg@ =... .=-=-=2-==--- Formosan red-billed pie_--------- 2
Uracissa occipigie......=.-.=-.~- Red-billed blue magpie___-.------ 1
Paradiseidae:
Ailuroedus crassirostris_-.-------- Australian, cathind_...----.-o-—= 1
Epimachus fastuosus. 22 SES Sickle-billed bird of paradise ------ 1
Ptilonorhynchus violaceus - - - - ----- Satin, bowerbird.-~.----------eebi: 1
Pycnonotidae:
Pycnonotus analis_....----------- Yellow-vented bulbul_------_---- 1
Timaliidae:
Letothriz luteus.__..~.~ es. deen Pekin, robin... --=----- -esas-8iettt 3
Mimidae:
Melanotis caerulescens__..-------- Blue cathird . 222-5 aoe 1
Mimus polyglottus leucopterus_-_---- Mexican mockingbird_----------- 1
TGCOSLOMUL SUI an nee ee Brown thrasher..-- --- >" ==- soe 1
Turdidae:
Garrulazr pectoralis picticollis-_ ----- Chinese collared laughing thrush__ 1
Hylocichla mustelina_..---------- Wool tenusll.--.- <-pascee aoe 1
Merula migratorius__.._..-.------ Pease TOI... 2225. s25---ese= 1
LE TET Sie GT) 1 te lad Pt acee a eE: Bonaparte’s thrush-----.-------- 1
Turdus rufiventris_..--.---------- Argentine robin... 229. S205k. 2
Sturnidae:
Creatophora cinerea__..---------- Wattled ‘starling-..----=-..23:-. 1
Galeopsar salvadorii____---------- Crested starling-- = to noe 1
Graculipica melanoptera___-------- AVG Stet enone See 1
Drurmtue OUulgOrUus..- cools coca Starling 2 2) caacc open eta eemaaeae 2
Cc
J)

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Ploceidae:
Diatropura procne____..---------- Gignt, whydab... _..-sasebyn eh 4
Lonchura leucogastroides_____----- Bengalee. 4.2.05 s2iyinvassi: geno. 2
Munia:. maja-<—.29s sees ADIT White-headed munia____________- 2
Munia.malaccas-eee bstidewellsy_ Black-throated munia____________ 1
Munia. oryzivoratiepee sec bels_ Java,sparrow..._.~ =. seeeisls eee 5
Munia:punciulatussees. 22suien S_ Rice bird or nutmeg finch_-______- 1
Ploceus baya..—-...__ aoe). Baya weaver..s2seees selaseiyee SL 3
Ploceus:antermedius— 2228S Black-cheeked weaver___----_---- 5
Ploceus rubiginoesys. . <2... ea ee Chestnut-breasted weaver-_-_-__-_-- 1
Poephila acuticauda. 22-2222. 0. 4- bong-tailed! finch 322. 42425020) 5 1
Quelea sanginirostris intermedia___. Southern masked weaver finch___. 2
Steganura paradisea_.._..--------- Paradise whydah.......298pighe a
Taeniopygia castanotis__._____---_- Zebra finch 2219 it Salata yong bb. 6
Coerebidae:
Cyanerpes cyanea > 22 ae DBO Blue honey creeper__-_-_-------- 1
Icteridae:
Agelarus, assimiligino2 Seam A Cuban red-winged blackbird_--_-- 2
Cassiculus melanicterus___--__-_-- Mexican,.caciquesuiuios pase beu) 1
Gymnomystaz mexicanus_________- Giant,.oriole. .Bib)s ili pri bono). 1
Tcterus bullockt--2U 200079 PAG2. Bullock’s troupialis'201 22 iubeuw) 2
Teterus tcterus.22 0929972 Taye ‘TProupiala <q. Beata Ayana) 1
Molothrus bonariensis__-____-__ ~~ Shiny, cowbird {uiidieods sul boss) 1
Notiopsar curdesua! 12 DSBOUsOnoi 3 Chilean-blackbirdewso) 2o2c vee Wl) 2
dmupialis deplippy- = 220. 2 eee Malitany ‘starlings ee 2 +
Thraupidae:
Chlorophonia occipitalis callophrys.- Central American chlorophonia.___ 2
Panga Uiaeniatie se eee ee Orange tanager’ =< 2~ 5 ae 1
Ramphocelus dimidiatus_----_-_-- @rimson,tanager... ....- 2-88 2us 1
Ramphocelus flammigerus.._--_-_-- Yellow, tanager taneous 2uook m3
Ramphocelus icteronotus__._-.--_-- Yellow-rumped tanager________-- 2
Tanagra musica elegantissima___-_-- Blue-hooded euphonia________---- 2
Thraupts: can@=s222 2S US B_ Blue tanagerius lieu. Sutanosysg a. 2
Fringillidae:
Amandava amandava___---------- Strawberry fineh_... ....u.agties 11
Carpodacus mexicanus____.__----- Mexican house finch.2...2.5---- 4
Coryphospingus cucullatus_______ ~~ Red-crested finchuv212+-<2 22222 2 2
Cyanocompsa argentina___._____-- Argentine blue grosbeak________-- 2
Drea G1 hs 1 Fh Diucaifineh 2502 2.2 Le eee 1
Erythrura psitiacea___._.---.-.--- New Caledonian parrot finch____-- 1
Lophospingus pusillus___.___.____- Black-crested finch] — 2-222 542255 3
Melopyrrha nigra... es Cuban’ bullinch. 2 23) Se ae 1
PPGTOATIG CUCUUMG na oa ete ey at Brazilian cardinal. 2= ase ano 2
Paroaria gularis nigro-genis_____-- Black-eared cardinal_._.._______- 3
asserting CMmo0engie eee! Lazuli bunting= 2.2. 5502.0 eae 4
Passenina cyanen 2s eo Indigo: bunting eee ate 2
Passerina leclancherit_- Leclancher’s bunting____________- 2
Passerina versicolor. 72 Blue bunting»2527 ee Se PL. 6
Ira iglusfraticeti see ss a Mourning finehwixs | eae tiire 2
Phrygtlus gayixes. YOUN) Opogtn dg Gay’s gray-headed finch__________ 2
Serinus canarius__. 222i be Canary 222s SOME BETO. 4
Sicalis: flaveolass2222 12st Ole Mysto: finch. o3uaeoln ge eyso 1
Sicalis:luteola..-22i 00m _lauwem oe. Saffron finch ......Ialae 2wanse yd. 2

676212—46——-7
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Fringillidae—Continued.

Stealis-minor._...~< CG gst Jacek Lesser yellow finch____-_._..____
Spinus uropygialis__._....-------- Chilean siskinievsovews) well
Sporophila aurita__.-_-_--------- Hick’s seed-eater..._.._. nue neu
Sporophila gutturalis______---_-_- Yellow-billed seed-eater____._____
Marts olivacea.__. 8 JSIAGA AVA Mexican grassquit._......-....--
Volatinia jacarini___..._.-_---_-- Blue-black grassquit...._._.____-
Zonotrichia capensis____._-__----- Chingolo._.__.___._.. teed saseelS.
REPTILES
LORICATA
Crocodylidae:
Alligator mississiprenstsa-u ss peeiake ANNO ATOR. | = ote oe
PALEGULOTAS LCIUS UG yates Chinese alligator... . ...--~-<cctiin
Caiman lattrostrigzes2 s22ee4 ee Broad-snouted caiman. _--__---_-
Caiman’ sclerops=. 222% 22: a3 See Spectacled caiman__-_-___-...--.
Crocodylas actus 2900 yo S4-eedle American crocodiles =... ----=-+-
Crocodylus cataphractus__--------- Narrow-nosed crocodile____.-_-_-
Crocodylus niloticus... -stiie4 32050. JATTICAN CTOCOMIIG Sa ee
Crocodylus palustris_....._.---.-- ““Toad’’ crocodilé_. (2: 34 ka
Crocodylus porosus_- = 2 tiasea Salt-water crocodile.__..._-..--_-
Crocodylus rhombifer__.--.------- Cuban crocodiles. i. 3-..2obeb
Osteolaemus tetraspis___--...----- Broad-nosed crocodile___--_..___-
SAURIA
Gekkonidae:
(GOTO GEOR OS nrc per et a te CEOKO) coe Neils sss eee eweew be ie.
Iguanidae:
Anolis carolinensis_.....--------- False “chamelean/7.) —. {oo
Basiliscus vittatuae: baac esse yz Banded basilisk. .u+ <1 1.25
Tquana tguand tes feel Common.jewanes- 33 ee
Phrynosoma cornutum__--.------- Horned lizard. _- — .— a-na -seeceue SD
Sceloporus undulatus__.-_-------- Pine or fence lizard__._. nh fee
Anguidae:
Ophisaurus ventralis___.__-------- Glass snake or legless lizard_____-
Uromastixz acanthinurus___-------- North African spiny-tailed lizard__
Helodermatidae:
Heloderma horriduwm.-_-.---------- Mexican beaded lizard____.____--
Heloderma suspectum_.----------- Gila-monster===2202 U5 Dia
Teiidae:
Cnemidophorus sexlineatus__.__---- Six-lined race runner___-_-----_--
Tupinambis nigropunctatus___----- Bidek (ef hS 2 eee ee
Scincidae:
Egernia cunninghami___---------- Cunningham’s skink._--__----..-
Eomeces fastiatupe tate atin Blue-tailed skinks.-  —- ~. =.= ee
Tilhiqua ecincoides . « .- etnies Blue-tongued lizard__._-___------
Varanidae:
Varanus komodoensis_...-.------- Komodo dragon. -. ~ iene. ooh cad.
Veranus monitor.....-.-.-v=sea) Indian monitor... suiteneseeise
Varanus niloticus. eee ah Wile monitor. - ~~~ aly.28-.te

Varanus salvator_.__- 22 222222 Sumatran monitor.” 24-44-2255.

Noe eS ND Pe Pp
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

SERPENTES
Boidae:
Constrictor constrictor_..---------- Boa.constrictoriicsius Yonmalnons D.
Constrictor imperator...---------- Central American boa____-_______
Eiptcrates cenchris..2 2211 Segoe. Rainbow- boas. DsHsegsy pshwied.)
Efpicrates .crassusaicgg ncn Wires. Salamanta. wayne! suleipotn
Epicrates siriatus. 2.2522 4sus222= Haitian boa...2-25+22..s9ebieis
Python moluruss2.2222 231 SIS. Indian rock python____-_-______-
Python reqiugs ss 222-22 5UT Dees Ball ‘python’ 225... {Ute ayaa)
Python revieulatusa 22239) SY. Regal’ python... pie. seme)
Tropidophis melanurus_..-------- Cuban, boase.= ./) Na awtk seee.)
Colubridae:
Coluber constrictor). 4.8 Bee. Black snake. <=... Srsbnay_ ations
Coluber flagellums2— 25. S22 Coachwhip: -oosifuieus sus yioss)
Cyclagras. gigas 4522 “ARs BIO) Cobra de Paraguay__-__--_____--
Diadophis punctatus_-...--------- Ring-necked snake_-_____--_____--
Drymarchon corais cowpert.._------ Indigoisnake S22 yey Svseepain
Blaphe: Gurtdid 2s S_ Corn snake.—. Sia 509 suieeiesS
Elaphe-obsoletai Gives LIA wa Pilot snake... 2800o Binishises.
Elaphe quadrivittata__-.---------- Yellow chicken snake____________
Natriz piscator..-~SUGsT2 Aetu Water snake... Daou? Byahaa
Natriz septemvittata..._....------- Queen or moon snake____________
Nairig sp.-~- = "2 SOG abun ht, Water-snake........ 9220 sane.
Natria spi U2 ULE FOG_ Mee Indian water snake_--__.________
Opheodrys vernalis____----------- Smooth-scaled green snake_______-
Pituophis. catentfer... 220 AA. Western bull snake_--L52. 222 22
Pituophis catenifer annectans__-___- San Diego gopher snake__________
Pituophis melanoleucus_-_-------- Bullisnake......220:2 Toe shikaa yy!
Piyas mucosusio)_ O01 pelo Rat snake. PO OT
Storerza.dekayol. 20821 Bienes De. Kay’s snake sade vinites y_
Thamnophis ordinoides___-_------ Western garter snake____________
Thamnophis sirtalis_.--.--------- Garter.snake._.... 206) Bh
Elapidae:
Nagja.melanoleuca. 2 oo ears Miest Afriean cobra... 2.2 2222 —
INES [1 BEE fe RSE IS ROA Ys a niclianvCOOTa= te ee mo
Onryvelte julgiaus. 245) 20 uo Noes Greenutree snakes 26202 you
Crotalidae:
Agkistrodon mokeson___.--------- Copperhead snake________..____-
Agkistrodon piscivorus___.-------- Waterimoccasin= 2. oot ee eee
COLOME ey OLE OE Se ne cee te ee Texas diamond-backed rattlesnake_
Crotalus horridus horridus________- fimber rattlesnake... 2022-2 soo!
Crotalus terriicus nec South American rattlesnake___-____
TESTUDINATA
Chelyidae:
Chelodina longicollis_....._.__-__--- Australian snake-necked turtle____
IBQIraChemys NOSE. once aoe South American side-necked turtle_
Hydraspis sp_)- o-074-nebige. eee FL South American snake-necked turtle
Hydromedusa tectifera___-.------- Snake-necked turtle.__._____._.__
Platemys platycephala_..-.------- Flat-headed turtle.__.......-.22-
Platysternidae:
Platysternum megacephalum-.--__--- Large-headed Chinese turtle_____-
Pelomedusidae:
Pelomedusa galeata__........--_-- Common African water tortoise. _-_

Podocnemis expansa_.-.-.-------- South American river tortoise...

No)
On

= e De = O OO bh

—
SOM HEHE HOH MWR ROWE

— eS

wna

mM OD ww
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Kinosternidae:
RAamisterhny BP -=..asceaneiooeaees Central American musk turtle_____
Kinosternon subrubrum-._--------- Musk turtle: .s>setsxsssn2g=b250%
Chelydridae:
Chelydra serpentina_------------- Snapping turtle. ee Pes seeeth
Macrochelys temminckii_--..------ Alligator snapping turtle_________
Testudinidae:
Chrysemys marginata_-_----------- Western painted turtle.__________
Chrysenwys. picta. .-..--ascisee- Hast Painted turtle... -<-s¢o= -2
Clemmys guitata....__ 4222 Janet Spotted turtle... .a:i¢h¢52t55 4 oe
Clemmiys insculpta_._- -2ed_cadets Wood turtles veepels-. 2i4- eh
Cyclemys amboinensis__ =. ..-=-=2 Kura kura box turtle... ._ ssaheet.
Fnnys blandingi._..- -sA22s4cni& Blanding’s turtleseridexs- andes
Geoclemys subtrijuga_.------------ Siamese field turtle._______._____
Geoemyda manni__-_------------- Costa Rican terrapin.__._________-
Graptemys barbourt__------------- Barbour’s turtlezias459-24ee te.
Malaclemys centrata__--------.--- Diamond-back turtle___-.________
Pseudemys concinna___------------ Cooter 2-0 « sets Bee
Pseudemys elegans__------------- Cumberland terrapin____________-
Pseudemys ornata.. 2222.42 2220s 2 Central American water turtle____
Pseudemys rugosa_.-----.-------- Cuban terrapin’... 42-2): =p
Terrapené carolina. goose 22. saa Box ‘turtle-?_- Soe Mewetiess sitet
Perraneie major... =~ sen ete Florida box turtle_——--- <2. =Las¥
Terrapene sp seb setens pebl Mexican box turtle. == — 4: =-asu.
Testudo denticulata.__.-----..----- South American land tortoise _ ____
Testudo elegans deco: Nic! cove ten Bf star tortoise... ~ -o)ieste- 4222s u
Testudo ephippium___------------ Duncan Island tortoise______.___-
Testudo hoodensis..___- syne ey Hood Island tortoise__-..-._-___-
Testyde torntert...--- ~ebewe 22 Soft-shelled land tortoise________-
Testude vicinal. 2 = ler. a’ee Tack Albemarle Island tortoise____-__-_-
Trionychidae:
Aviida terog.. ... .-adansopicelty Soft-shelled turtle. _._-----------
Amyda treunguts 2.69... ==2< 222-25 West African soft-shelled turtle__-
AMPHIBIA
CAUDATA
Salamandridae:
Triturus pyrrhogaster__...-------- Red salamander: «= co
DL PRUT US COPD BUG a ei a eas ANG DOW fogs en ee
dy eT TE MTT AT 5 i lS A ees Common salamander-_---____-_-_--
Amphiumidae:
Amphiuma means__-...--.------- Blind eel or congo snake_-_--____--
Ambystomidae:
Ambystoma maculatum----------- Spotted salamander_-____-.-__----
Ambystoma tigrinum-_-_----------- Axolotlh 2.7 5 .o25s eee
SALIENTIA
Dendrobatidae:
Dendrobates auratus___..--------- Arrow-poison frog---..----------
Bufonidae:
Bufo americanus__.___..--------- Common. toadvanounws. S22
Buje enpiaia ons sscsesschesce= Sapo de 'concha: s-= =. - / 2220s
Bufo-marinas22 22s) 2222 ese Marine tonditeuest sete
Bufo peltocephalus__-...-------.- Cuban giant toad_-....2ve22ene2
Ceratophrydae:

Ceratophrys ornata___.---.------- Horned.frog..~ 2229539 lwo.

We We NNN PH OF RF NW PNT OR R&D NTO & tr

18
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 97

Hylidae:
Fae PORPN SH OIA RY IT eae ee fog SRO NE EE Cricket f7og8 . ci foe le Apel 5
Pala crucijen. eh ee es Mreererops t re oek SF aul ae 7
Pipidae:
PEP ONGMETECON ts nie ee DUrinant toads eet et eee 2
Ranidae:
Hana catesbevangs2 24225) J25 ek Bullfrogter sees pk Ae tape) es 4
Rana clamuanst ase se A a Green) finog. 2739768. t6ek fete wa ee 3
cana acer nital7s . <5 tn eae eon West African bullfrog___________- 1
RARE DIDIER. nee a ee ee te | Leopard SOG, 24 elk oe at oe 15
Rana sylvalicane es ee ee WWOOGETO 28 6 og es 3
ENO PUSMALVIC = Sara a ees African clawed frog_.__.__.----_- 5
FISHES
Aequidens portalegrensis___.__-_-_-_-- Blue acaras sores ene weirs ek 1
Aphysemion australe__ == So Eyre-taillea ssh. Moen j
Barous Cverchit sn aw! Yel, MASA. it Atak Clown’) bara GL Ae ee 8
Barbus 0ligalents naa ey ee a Se See ee TE Oe 3
ESOMDAL SRS US TIVOLN TOLLS oct ee ye eee ES a ey ME Na ge els oe Sl 2
Betta spe. ee OR ene Fighting fisheye te" eee 19
Carassius auiralis: Beets ht Be 0 Goldfish 01a Ge Waite. Sa eel 120
Ciuchlasoma festivus <2 or 2 bie st Bandeditacaral ofO) “alert kT 1
Corydoras melanistius = 22 beet eek Armoredverthsn 4. 220s Us Ue te 1
Conjdords spurt ek V0 Atk. OLE Dy Catfishyol, 08. 2 Wf) _ one 2
Dantornnalabaricus se. eepee lee oe Blues@anie spl 0 eet oe ve rreec. oe 7
iagiareriges. ee ee ee ee a PSL OVES FOE | Dae prep upghe aA sepa ihe laete ih 10
Gymnocorymbus ternetzi_......._-.---- POLACKAUCUIA Ona! col Aua Mire hag eevee 4
Hemigranimus Sp 5208 ck eee eee Tetra Buenos Aires__.....______- 2
Hyphessorbrycon innesi___.....-.----- Neon ‘tetra fish! Je a 2k 3
Kryptopterus bicirrhis___..._..-._--_-- Glass catfish: 2W_ StLecr pay 2 EL 3
Devistes 7 elicula¢us.. == ee Guppy..2-5_-—. eae cet Bee 100
Lepidostren paradora.__ 2. 2 South American lungfish. _-______ 2
MiacrOpod us ep eee eo a | La Paradise ashe errr Samiti. oo ae 20
Mollienisia sphenops sp__------------- Victory molly: “eho aie oe 8
Plaiypeceiust io 2s 2Ok SOU BM, oP Red mons A408 FO Meas 20
Platypoecilus maculatus__.__-._---_-- Black wag-tail moon__._________- 8
Platypoecilus maculatus_.__..__-------- Goldplaties. 0. 44.220 sf) 482. 12
iecastnne las apes a8 Sis) AR BE UM Armored eathishs 2. vies 5 1
Proptopterus annectens______-.------_- African luingfish== 2 2203 Si see. 2
Prerophiyitum seatures) slo” oe Se. Angelis (2028 See x aegec Lame k tase 1
Serrasalmus ternet2t_-. 2-22 ek Piranha or cannibal fish___.______ 1
Trichogaster leeri__....__._---- Newane _ Blue:gouramis2siek -- 2-27) _ eee 1
: P Swordtail..4.9 coor .2h 8s 3
MEDD se a ae {avanit SwOrdtall 3. Jes oe 12
ARACHNIDS
Baxgpelma@ spe 4 bei eo t yes Peele Parantula_ 2. s4sdeass tduwutes 2
INSECTS
Binteralsp 52s e eres 2s koe ee oe Giant cochroxeh= sve ae sae enon 100
Respectfully submitted.
Weer W. M. Mann, Director.

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the op-
erations of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended
June 380, 1945:

The work of the Astrophysical Observatory is conducted on funds
received largely from appropriation by Congress, amounting for the
fiscal year 1945 to $44,140, and in part from private sources. There
are two divisions:

(1) DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

This division has its headquarters in Washington, and maintains
three field stations for solar observations, at Table Mountain, Calif.,
Tyrone, N. Mex., and Montezuma, Chile. In Washington the di-
vision occupies frame buildings in an enclosure about 15,000 square
feet in area just south of the Smithsonian Building. The frame
structures have served for many years as the offices and laboratories
of the division. During the fiscal year 1945 extensive alterations and
repairs were made which provide greatly improved facilities for the
work of the division.

Work at Washington.—In the first half of the fiscal year a large part
of the time of Mrs. Bond, Mr. Hoover, and the Director was given
to a compilation of all solar-constant values for the period October
1939 to January 1945. This compilation is an extension of the great
table (table 24) of volume 6 of the Annals of the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory. The extended table summarizes the important factors
employed in the reductions and also gives the preferred solar constant
for each day of observation in the 2114-year period July 1923 to
January 1945. Inasmuch as this period includes three sunspot
minima (July 1923, September 1933, May 1944), and thus covers a
complete double sunspot period, it became of interest to study all these
results to determine what relationship exists between solar constants
and sunspot numbers. A paper summarizing this study (Smithsonian
Misc. Coll., vol. 104, No. 12) shows a diametrically opposite relation-
ship between solar-constant values and sunspot numbers in the two
halves of the double sunspot period. It is important to discover in
the succeeding cycle of sunspots whether this complex relationship
will repeat itself. If so, the prediction of solar variation as given in

98
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 99

volume 6 of the Annals (fig. 14) and referred to in the 1944 report will
require some modification, since that curve did not include considera-
tion of sunspot effects.

Dr. Abbot and Mr. Hoover constructed and tested a new sensitive
radiometer which Mr. Abbot plans to use with the aid of the Mount
Wilson 100-inch telescope to study the distribution of energy in the
spectra of stars of various types. Definite progress was made in the
design of the instrument, and in the control of static charges, which
in the past have been most troublesome.

At the request of the United States Weather Bureau, two pyr-
heliometers belonging to the Bureau were repaired and recalibrated.
Also a silver-disk pyrheliometer was built, calibrated, and sold at
cost to the Bureau.

Dr. H. Arctowski has continued his studies of the effects of solar-
radiation changes upon atmospheric circulation and related atmos:
pheric problems. A paper summarizing this work is in preparation,

Work in the field.—Observations at the three field stations were
maintained in spite of the continued manpower shortage. Great
credit is due the directors of the stations for carrying the heavy ob-
serving load under difficulties. Owing to the serious illness of Mr.
Moore, director of the Tyrone station, that station was closed for
8 weeks in the spring of 1945.

War work.—Two sets of experiments were carried out at the request
of the Military Planning Division, Office of the Quartermaster Gen-
eral, to determine the surface temperatures attained by various sam-
ples of military clothing under conditions similar to those of actual
use in the field. For this purpose we employed a special thermo-
electric device developed some years ago at the Observatory for the
measurement of skin temperatures.

In June 1945 a contract was signed with the Office of the Quarter-
master General, under the terms of which the Observatory is to make
a detailed study of radiation received from sun and sky at Camp Lee,
Va., in connection with a series of tests being made at Camp Lee.
The preparation of instruments for this study was in progress at
the close of the fiscal year.

(2) DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

(Report prepared by Dr. Earl S. Johnston, Assistant Director of the Division)

During the early part of the year research connected with war
projects was terminated. This work dealt mainly with problems of
deterioration of cloth, cardboard, and electrical wire insulation by
molds and by ultraviolet light. Contact with these projects is still
maintained by Dr. Johnston, who was designated liaison representa-
tive of the Institution with the Tropical Deterioration Steering Com-
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

mittee which comes under the National Defense Research Committee.
He also represents the Institution as a technical adviser to the Navy
with reference to emergency rescue equipment, which section is now
under the United States Coast Guard.

The termination of this emergency work has permitted the resump-
tion of the Division’s regular research program. Two of our labo-
ratory rooms have been equipped with apparatus and facilities for
the continuation of our studies on photosynthesis and on the wave-
length effects of light on growth. It has been found necessary to
rebuild much of the CO, measuring apparatus and to carry out exten-
sive tests before our fundamental problems could be taken up. These
steps are now in process of completion, and four preliminary experi-
ments on wave-length balance and plant growth have been carried
out. Two other general problems have been pursued: (1) Influence
of light on respiration of the grass seedling, and (2) course of devel-
opment of the grass seedling as influenced by environmental factors
with special attention to the role of radiant energy.

It has been noted previously (Weintraub and Johnston, 1944) that
brief illumination of etiolated barley seedlings resulted in a marked
increase in rate of carbon dioxide evolution. In attempting to gain
information on the mechanism of this effect a study has been made of
the reducing sugar content of the plants as influenced by light; no
significant change in sugar content was found under the experimental
conditions employed. In the course of this work it became necessary
to devote considerable time to a study of methods of sugar analysis as
applied to plant tissues; some of the findings have been published.
Experiments are now in progress on measurement of oxygen consump-
tion concurrent with the carbon dioxide production.

The investigation of grass seedling development has proceeded along
several lines. In addition to effects of radiation itself, a study is being
made of the role of some other environmental factors such as tempera-
ture, nutrient supply, and aeration. Additional data have been ob-
tained regarding the action spectrum of mesocotyl inhibition in oats
over a wide range of light intensities; at low intensities a second maxi-
mum occurs in the neighborhood of 620 my. It is hoped that work on
the isolation of the photoreceptive pigments can be resumed shortly.
Comparison of the effectiveness of red and of violet light has been
made for several other species representing a majority of the tribes of
grasses ; the responses of all species have been found to be fairly similar
to that of Avena, thus greatly extending the generality of the earlier
results of Weintraub and McAlister (1942). The influence of light
on elongation of the grass coleoptile also is being studied; the results
to date have demonstrated a marked effect of temperature on the
response of this organ to light which causes inhibition at lower tem-
peratures but an apparent stimulation at higher temperatures.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 101

PERSONNEL

On June 30, 1944, Dr. C. G. Abbot, for many years Director of the
Astrophysical Observatory, retired from administrative work. L. B.
Aldrich was appointed Acting Director, and on April 16, 1945, he suc-
ceeded to the post of Director. It is a pleasure to record that Dr.
Abbot remains at the Observatory as research associate and that his
advice and help continue to be available to the staff.

As of June 1, 1945, L. B. Clark, expert glass blower and technician
of the Division of Radiation and Organisms, was placed in charge of
the construction of instruments and equipment for both divisions of
the Observatory.

PUBLICATIONS

During the fiscal year the following publications on the work of the
Observatory were issued :

Assot, ©. G., Weather predetermined by solar variation. Smithsonian Mise. Coll.,
vol. 104, No. 5, July 1944.

Apsor, C. G., On the 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipitation. Smithsonian
Misc. Coll., vol. 104, No. 9, February 1945.

AvprRIcH, L. B., Smithsonian pyrheliometry and the Andean volcanic eruptions of
April 1932. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 104, No. 6, July 1944.

AULpDRICH, L. B., Solar radiation observations and yoleanic dust. Nature, vol. 154,
No. 3914, p. 588, London, November 1944.

WEINTRAUE, R. L., Radiation and plant respiration. Bot. Rev., vol. 10, No. 7, July
1944.

WEINTRAUB, R. L., Chemotherapeutic egents from microbes. Ann. Rep. Smith-
sonian Inst. for 1943, October 1944.

WEINTRAUB, R. L., and Prick, LEONARD, Influence of various substances on sugar
determination by copper and ferricyanide reagents. Smithsonian Mise. Coll.,
vol. 104, No. 10, March 1945.

Respectfully submitted.
L. B. Aupricn, Director.
APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945:

In use and also in growth the library continued to reflect the prog-
ress of the war during the year just past. As the Army and the Navy
moved toward the final objective, occupying territory concerning
which they had earlier made a thorough search for significant infor-
mation, the reference use of the library by the war agencies notice-
ably decreased. The same reason, too, accounts largely for the drop
in the number of loans to outside institutions from 1,363 in 1944 to
840 in 1945. Foreign accessions, on the other hand, took an upward
turn late in the year, especially after VE-day, and the number of
pieces received through the International Exchange Service was 200
more than in the preceding year, while increasingly larger numbers of

publications had begun to come from abroad by mail. It is espe-
- cially gratifying to note here that some of the European learned so-
cieties and museums had been able to continue publication of im-
portant series straight through the years of the enemy occupation of
their countries.

While its more obvious direct use by the personnel of the war agen-
cies declined, there was no falling off in the demand for the library’s
less direct and conspicuous but no less important war service by the
members of the scientific and technical staff of the Institution, many
of whom were continuously busy with war projects requiring their
special knowledge. Most of this work was not different in kind from
the usual peacetime business of supplying the books and information
needed by research workers in making scientific investigations, and
no exceptional methods or procedures had to be used to do it. Now
and then, however, ingenuity and resourcefulness were taxed to meet
an out-of-the-ordinary or specially pressing requirement, sometimes
to the temporary disruption of established routine.

A forecast of the approaching end of the war was the return to
Washington in 1944 of the rare books and manuscripts that had been
removed to Lexington, Va., for safekeeping in 1942. The Institu-
tion is deeply indebted both to Washington and Lee University and
to the Library of Congress for providing the ideal conditions under

102
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 103

which they were housed and protected during the years of their evacu-
ation. The McCormick Library, in the stacks of which the Univer-
sity so generously gave them storage space, is a fine new fireproof
building, and the Library of Congress was so kind as to extend to the
Smithsonian material the 24-hour guard service which it maintained
over its own material similarly stored there. More fortunate pro-
vision for the safekeeping of the Institution’s irreplaceable books and
manuscripts could not have been made, and nothing was lost or in-
jured in any way.

Not a part of its official business, but a willingly accepted wartime
obligation, was the library’s agency in receiving and distributing the
popular books and magazines which members and friends of the Insti-
tution continued to bring in for men and women in the service. The
table in the main hall of the Smithsonian building was kept well
supplied with “take away” reading matter, and many books were
turned over to various service centers in the city.

ACCESSIONS

The first evidences of the returning tide of foreign publications came
so late in the year that their number and kind did not greatly affect
the picture of the accessions for the year as a whole, especially as
there had been a small but continuous falling off of serial publications
from abroad in the months before. The accessions division handled
altogether 25,914 incoming publications. Of these, 3,878, mostly
documents not required in the work of the Institution, were sent di-
rectly to the Library of Congress, while duplicates received as gifts
or in exchange, and some other publications not needed for immediate
use, were either given to other Government libraries or were kept in
reserve. All the rest were cataloged, entered in the current periodical
records, or assigned to sectional libraries for filing in pamphlet
collections.

Of the volumes received, 1,863 were purchased. The exigencies of
current peacetime scientific publication usually make it difficult to
stretch the book budget far enough to include older works needed to fill
gaps in the Institution’s working collections of reference books.
Narratives and reports of early voyages and travels are especially
important to the work of both the National Museum and the Bureau
of American Ethnology, containing as they do much direct or incidental
information about the animals, plants, and peoples of the regions
visited, while many of the older books on natural history, art, crafts,
industries, and inventions are constantly required for reference by
the different departments of the Museum and the National Collection
of Fine Arts. This year, as last, it was possible to buy a few of the
104 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Institution’s desiderata in these and related fields when they came into
the book markets. Among them were Henri Beraldi’s “Les Graveurs
du XIX ° Siécle,” 12 volumes, Paris, 1885-92; George Dixon’s “A
Voyage Round the World, but More Particularly to the North-West
Coast of America, Performed in 1785, 1786, 1787, and 1788,” London,
1789; W. Vincent Legge’s “A History of the Birds of Ceylon,” Lon-
don, 1880; Urey Lisiansky’s “A Voyage Round the World, in the
Years 1803, 4, 5, & 6, Performed by Order of His Imperial Majesty
Alexander the First, Emperor of Russia, in the Ship Neva,” London,
1814; Samuel Palmer’s “A General History of Printing, from the
First Invention of It in the City of Mentz,” London, 1733; Leo
Schidlof’s “Die Bildnisminiatur in Frankreich im XVII, XVIII, und
XIX Jahrhundert,” Vienna, 1911; J. P. Williamson’s “English-
Dakota Vocabulary,” Santee Agency, Nebr., 1871; Francis Willugh-
by’s “Ornithologie,” London, 1676; William Wood’s “Index Ento-
mologicus,” new and revised edition, with supplement by J. O. West-
wood, London, 1854.

GIFTS

Space does not permit the separate listing of the 3,893 books and
papers which members and friends of the Institution so generously
gave to the library during the year. Among them were many items
that greatly enriched the collections, notably two gifts of more than
200 publications each, on photography, some of them old and rare,
which were presented to the division of photography for its sectional
library by George R. Goergens, and by the firm of Fuller & d’Albert.

Separates and reprints of their papers are always most welcome
gifts from scientific investigators, and our divisional libraries on
special subjects are largely built up of such contributions. In spite
of the wartime difficulties of publication and transmission, the year’s
record of the receipt of literature of this sort includes the names of
individual donors from most of the countries of North and South
America, and from Great Britain, Portugal, Egypt, Turkey, South
Africa, Australia, and New Zealand.

EXCHANGES

The Institution’s policy of exchange of publications has always been
a liberal rather than a rigid one of equivalents, and many of its own
publications are sent out without expectation of any return in kind
at all. This policy has greatly benefited the library, for it has almost
invariably been reciprocated generously by the institutions on the
exchange list. During this last war year of paper shortage and small
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 105

editions, the library has had reason to feel especially grateful to the
issuing institutions who have sent us voluntarily, or upon request,
many needed publications over and above the hundreds distributed
regularly in routine exchange.

CATALOGING

Current cataloging according to the plan of work adopted last year
was well kept up, and it was even possible to do a little recataloging
of some of the older, inadequately cataloged material most in demand.
The union catalog was considerably improved, and work on it was
simplified by adopting some clarifying and labor-saving devices in
its arrangement, and by withdrawing from it old donor cards and
other extraneous records which were serving no present useful
purpose.

There are still many thousands of volumes of older accessions in
the different bureau libraries and in special collections that are not
represented in the union catalog at all, and a large number of them,
especially those in the Museum library, are not adequately cataloged
in the unit catalogs of the bureau libraries themselves.

Since its founding, almost a hundred years ago, the Smithsonian
Institution is so fortunate as to have acquired exceptionally rich col-
lections of literature in certain special fields of its interests, notably
in anthropology, zoology, botany, and geology, in addition to the pub-
lications sent as part of the Smithsonian Deposit to the Library of
Congress. Provision for the cataloging of this and other material,
mostly in the different bureau and sectional libraries of the Institu-
tion, has always lagged so far behind its inflow, through the years,
that the large accumulated “backlog” of work to be done on it might
almost be termed permanent. Certain it is that it cannot be satisfac-
torily reduced within any predictable future time except by a staff
of competent catalogers engaged to do it as a special project.

But only when the library finally has a complete catalog of all the
Institution’s books, so that it is possible to know exactly what and
where they are, can it be the scholarly tool and can its staff give the
fully effective service that contemporary scientific and technical
research requires,

DUPLICATES

The resources of the library’s large collections of duplicates and of
other publications on subjects not pertinent to the work of the Institu-
tion continue to be drawn upon by other Government libraries, and
many parts needed for the completion of sets of scientific serials
have been supplied to them. More than 6,000 of these publications,
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

too, were sent to the Library of Congress to be used for the rehabilita-
tion of destroyed libraries.

PERSONNEL

Changes in personnel were the appointment of Miss Mary L. Fleet
on October 16, 1944, to be in charge of serials and binding in the Mu-
seum library, succeeding Miss Elizabeth G. Moseley who had resigned
on August 31; and the appointment on September 18 of Miss Leona
Haviland as a cataloger. By transfer from the division of insects
Miss Mathilde M. Carpenter was attached to the library staff on
August 31 as biological aid in charge of the sectional library of the
division of insects. On October 9 Mrs. Carmen G. Randall, who
had been under temporary appointment as library assistant, was
transferred to the temporary position of senior bindery aid. Miss
Beatrice E. Smith served as a cataloger under temporary appointment
from June 30 to August 31, 1944.

NEEDS

Relief for the serious overcrowding of the shelves in all the build-
ings is the library’s most urgent need, and the whole matter of the
physical condition and arrangement of all its branches and parts
with relation to policies and provisions for their growth and adminis-
tration in the future needs detailed and careful study.

STATISTICS
Accessions
holding holdin
oldings oldings
Volumes June 30, Volumes June 30,
1945 1945
Astrophysical Observatory National Zoological Park-____- 34 4,121
(including Radiation and Smithsonian Deposit at the
Orpanionis) cf Jigs 207 11, 715 Library of Congress (includ-
Bureau of Americanj,Eth- ing the Langley Aeronauti-
mology22: 8. 2 rsh eee 204 34, 205 ral baibrary)©. 229 to F | 723 576, 173
Freer Gallery of Art________-- 230 16,866 || Smithsonian Office__________- 187 31, 680
National Collection of Fine —_— >
ATES Se Uy tat et iis 407 10, 155 Totes. 22: JL ALR 4,844 | 1918, 460
National Museum___-.___--_- 2, 852 233, 544

1 Neither incomplete volumes of periodicals nor separates and reprints from periodicals
are included in these figures.

Exchanges
NWewsexchanves-arnanced 2. 26 ae ee 218
56 of these were assigned to the Smithsonian Deposit.
SSOOVIEITI GS 1, TL OCOLY CCl as ere i ee eee Oe te ee ee 6,671
782 of these were obtained to fill gaps in the Smithsonian Deposit
sets.
Cataloging
Volumestand pamphlets cataloged: 2222-2. = eee 6,512

Cards'filed in:catalogs and jshelilists—= "= eee 35,625
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107

Periodicals
Periodical. parts entered sc. os ee ee 12,359
3,340 of these were sent to the Smithsonian Deposit.
Circulation
Loans of books and, periodicals:22s-455-4)0) 2b ce. se 10,833

This figure does not include the very considerable intramural
circulation of books and periodicals assigned to sectional libraries
for filing, of which no count is kept.

Binding
Volumes:sent, to; the bindery® 2222s a a ee 2, 589
Books repairedyat chevlnstitwblome see 2 es ee eee a el ee 1, 149
Respectfully submitted.

Lema F. Cuarn, Librarian.
Dr. A. WEermorr,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publica-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government branches
under its administrative charge during the year ended June 30, 1945:

The Institution published during the year 6 papers in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections; 2 papers in the War Background
Studies series; 1 Annual Report of the Board of Regents and pam-
phlet copies of 23 articles in the Report appendix; and 2 special pub-
lications. It also reprinted 2 volumes of the Smithsonian Miscella-
neous Collections, 17 War Background Studies papers, and 3 special
publications.

Owing to the paper shortage, the Secretary’s Report for 1944 was
not printed as a separate pamphlet, but was mimeographed, in con-
densed form, for the use of the Board of Regents. This report, in-
cluding the financial report of the executive committee of the Board
of Regents, will form a part of the Annual Report of the Board of
Regents to Congress for the year ended June 30, 1944.

The United States National Museum issued 18 Proceedings papers;
1 Bulletin; and 1 separate paper in the Bulletin series of Contribu-
tions from the United States National Herbarium.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued one Annual Report, one
Bulletin, one special publication, and one paper in the Institute of
Social Anthropology series.

There were distributed 141,635 copies of the publications, including
24 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl-
edge, 14,420 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections, 19,686 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Annual
Reports, 56,245 War Background Studies papers, 3,812 Smithsonian
special publications, 33,264 volumes and separates of National Mu-
seum publications, 11,570 publications of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, 6 publications of the National Collection of Fine Arts, 8
publications of the Freer Gallery of Art, 160 reports on the Harriman
Alaska Expedition, 23 Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 889
reports of the American Historical Association, and 1,528 publica-
tions of the Institute of Social Anthropology.

108
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 109
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS
There were issued six papers in this series, as follows:

VOLUME 104

No. 5. Weather predetermined by solar variation, by C. G. Abbot. 44 pp., 24
figs. (Publ. 3771.) July 3, 1944.

No. 6. Smithsonian pyrheliometry and the Andean voleanie eruptions of
April 1982, by L. B. Aldrich. 5 pp. (Publ. 3772.) July 3, 1944.

No. 7. The feeding apparatus of the biting and sucking insects affecting man
and animals, by R. HE. Snodgrass. 113 pp., 39 figs. (Publ. 3773.) October 24,
1944,

No. 8. A new shipworm from the Panama Canal, by Paul Bartsch. 3 pp.,
1 pl. (Publ. 3774.) Septensber 7, 1944.

No. 9. On the 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipitation, by C. G. Abbot.
2 pp. (Publ. 3800.) February 8, 1945.

No. 10. Influence of various substances on sugar determination by copper
and ferricyanide reagents, by Robert L. Weintraub and Leonard Price. 17 pp.,
9 figs. (Publ. 3801.) March 28, 1945.

The following volumes were reprinted:

VOLUME 79

World Weather Records, assembled and arranged by H. Helm Clayton. First
Reprint. xii+1199 pp. (Publ. 2913.)

VOLUME 90

World Weather Records, 1921-1930, assembled and arranged by H. Helm
Clayton. First Reprint. xvii+616 pp. (Pub. 3218.)

WAR BACKGROUND STUDIES

In this series the following papers were issued :

No. 20. China, by A. G. Wenley and John A. Pope. 85 pp., 25 pls., 10 figs.
(Publ. 3770.) July 27, 1944.

No. 21. The Aleutian Islands: Their people and natural history. (With keys
for the identification of the birds and plants), by Henry B. Collins, Jr., Austin
H. Clark, and Egbert H. Walker. 181 pp., 21 pls., 8 figs. (Publ. 3775.) Feb-
ruary 5, 1945.

The following War Background Studies papers were reprinted:

No. 1. Origin of the Far Hastern civilizations: A brief handbook, by Carl
Whiting Bishop.

No. 2. The evolution of nations, by John R. Swanton.

No. 8. The peoples of the Soviet Union, by AleS Hrdlitka.

No. 4. Peoples of the Philippines, by Herbert W. Krieger.

No. 5. The natural-history background of camouflage, by Herbert Friedmann.

No. 6. Polynesians—explorers of the Pacific, by J. BE. Weckler.

No. 7. The Japanese, by John F. Embree.

No. 8. Siam—land of free men, by H. G. Deignan.

No. 9. The native peoples of New Guinea, by M. W. Stirling.

676212—46——_8
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

No. 10. Poisonous reptiles of the world: A wartime handbook, by Doris M.
Cochran.

No. 11. Egypt and the Suez Canal, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.

No. 12. Are wars inevitable? by John R. Swanton.

No. 18. Alaska: America’s continental frontier outpost, by Ernest P. Walker.

No. 14. Islands and peoples of the Indies, by Raymond Kennedy.

No. 15. Iceland and Greenland, by Austin H. Clark.

No. 16. Island peoples of the western Pacific: Micronesia and Melanesia, by
Herbert W. Krieger.

No. 17. Burma—gateway to China, by H. G. Deignan.

No. 18 on “The Peoples of India,” by William H. Gilbert, and No. 19 on “The
Peoples of French Indochina,” by Olov Janse, were issued so near the end of
the previous fiscal year that no reprints were necessitated.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1943—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1943 was received from the Public Printer
in October 1944:

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
the operations, expenditures, and conditions of the Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1943. xi+609 pp., 141 pls., 64 figs. (Publ. 3741.)

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publs. 3742-
3764) :

Solar radiation as a power source, by C. G. Abbot.

Some biological effects of solar radiation, by Brian O’Brien.

The sea as a storehouse, by E. F. Armstrong.

Progress in new synthetic textile fibers, by Herbert R. Mauersberger.

Petroleum geology, by William B. Heroy.

The 1942 eruption of Mauna Loa, Hawaii, by Gordon A. MacDonald.

New metals and new methods, by C. H. Desch.

Oceanography, by Henry C. Stetson.

The ocean current called “The Child,” by Eliot G. Mears.

Maps, strategy, and world politics, by Richard Edes Harrison and Robert
Strausz-Hupé.

The natural-history background of camouflage, by Herbert Friedmann.

Dangerous reptiles, by Doris M. Cochran.

The plants of China and their usefulness to man, by Egbert H. Walker.

Natural rubber, by O. F. Cook.

Lessons from the Old World to the Americas in land use, by Walter Clay
Lowdermilk.

Areal and temporal aspects of aboriginal South American culture, by John
M. Cooper.

Origin of the Far Eastern civilizations: A brief handbook, by Carl] Whiting
Bishop.

Contours of culture in Indonesia, by Raymond Kennedy.

The Arab village community of the Middle East, by Afif I. Tannous.

Chemotherapeutic agents from microbes, by Robert L. Weintraub.

Sulfonamides in the treatment of war wounds and burns, by Charles L.
Fox.

The yellow fever situation in the Americas, by Wilbur A. Sawyer.

Some food problems in wartime, by George R. Cowgill.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 111

Report for 1944.—The Report of the Secretary, which included the
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
and which will form part of the Annual Report of the Board of
Regents to Congress, was not printed as a separate pamphlet, but was
mimeographed, in condensed form, for the use of the Board of
Regents.

The Report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press
at the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between July 1, 1939, and
July 1, 1944. 18 pp. March 1945.

Classified list of Smithsonian publications available for distribution May 1,
1945, compiled by Helen Munroe. 50 pp. (Publ. 3802.) May 1945.

The following special publications were reprinted :

National Aircraft Collection, by Paul Garber. Fifth Edition. 48 pp., illus.
(Publ. 3685.) March 1945.

Brief Guide to the Smithsonian Institution. Sixth Edition. 80 pp., illus.
April 1945,

A field collector’s manual in natural history, prepared by members of the
staff of the Smithsonian Institution. 118 pp., 66 figs. (Publ. 3766.) June 1945.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 18 Proceedings papers, 1 Bulletin, and 1 separate
paper in the Bulletin series of Contributions from the United States
National Herbarium, as follows:

PROCEEDINGS : VOLUME 94

No. 8177. Parasitic copepods in the United States National Museum, by Charles
Branch Wilson. Pp. 529-582, pls. 20-34. July 10, 1944.
Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-vi, 588-598. December 1, 1944.

VOLUME 95

No. 3179. A collection of birds from northern Guanacaste, Costa Rica, by
Alexander Wetmore. Pp. 25-80, pls. 3-6. July 7, 1944.

No. 3180. Studies in Neotropical Mallophaga (III) [Tinamidae No. 2], by
M. A. Carriker, Jr. Pp. 81-235, figs. 1-29. October 10, 1944.

No. 3181. The fishes of the family Characinidae from Venezuela, with descrip-
tions of seventeen new fornis, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 235-367, figs. 30-56.
September 6, 1944.

No. 3182. New genera and species of oriental and Australian plant bugs in the
United States National Museum, by Tsai-Yu Hsiao. Pp. 369-396, fig. 57. August
5, 1944.

No. 3183. New species of buprestid beetles from Trinidad, by W. S. Fisher.
Pp. 397-409. July 22, 1944.
T2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

No. 3184. The Fulgoroidea, or lanternflies, of Trinidad and adjacent parts of
South America, by R. G. Fennah. Pp. 411-520, pls. 7-17. May 24, 1945.

No. 8185. Summary of the collections of amphibians made in Mexico under
the Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship, by Edward H. Taylor and
Hobart M. Smith. Pp. 521-618, figs. 58-61, pls. 18-32. January 30, 1945.

VOLUME 96

No. 3186. Review of the spider monkeys, by Remington Kellogg and HE. A.
Goldman. Pp. 1-45, figs. 1-2. November 2, 1944.

No. 3187. A revision of the American clingfishes, family Gobiesocidae, with
descriptions of new genera and forms, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 47-77, pl. 1.
December 30, 1944.

No. 3188. New beetles of the family Eucnemididae from Central America and
the West Indies, by W. S. Fisher. Pp. 79-98. May 8, 1945.

No. 3189. New lanternflies (Fulgoroidea) from South America, by R. G.
Fennah. Pp. 95-104, pls. 2-3. May 9, 1945.

No. 3190. The genus Fundella Zeller: A contribution toward a revision of
the American pyralidoid moths of the family Phycitidae, by Carl Heinrich. Pp.
105-114, pls. 46. May 18, 1945.

No. 3191. A new genus and two new species of percoid fishes from New
Guinea, family Centropomidae, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 115-121, figs. 3-4.
March 6, 1945.

No. 3192. Three new sciaenid fishes of the genus Ophioscion from the Atlantic
coasts of Central and South America, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 123-187, figs.
5-8. April 25, 1945.

No, 3193. The ichneumon-flies of the genus Cryptanura Brullé, mainly Tropi-
cal American, by R. A. Cushman. Pp. 139-176. May 23, 1945.

No. 3194. Neotropical lanternflies of the genus Phrictus in the United States
National Museum, with descriptions of four new species, by John 8S. Caldwell.
Pp. 177-184, pls. 7-10. May 16, 1945.

BULLETINS

No. 185, part 3. Checklist of the coleopterous insects of Mexico, Central Amer-
ica, the West Indies, and South America, compiled by Richard E. Blackwelder.
Pp. i-iv, 348-550. May 21, 1945.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM

VOLUME 29

Part 2. Mexican phanerogams described by M. E. Jones, by C. V. Morton.
Pp. 87-116. Asteraceae described from Mexico and the Southwestern United
States by M. E. Jones, 1908-1935, by S. F. Blake. Pp. 117-187. May 21, 1945.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the Bureau has continued under the immedi-
ate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. During the year the
following publications were issued :

Sixty-first Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1943-1944.

9 pp.
Bulletin 142. The contemporary culture of the Céhita Indians, by Ralph L.
Beals. xii+244 pp., 20 pls., 33 figs., 1 map.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 113

List of Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, with index to
authors and titles. Revised to June 30, 1944. 68 pp.

INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

Publ. No.1. Houses and house use of the Sierra Tarascans, by Ralph L. Beals,
Pedro Carrasco, and Thomas McCorkle. 387 pp., 8 pls., 20 figs. January 4,
1945.

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

BULLETINS
137. The Indians of the Southeastern United States, by John R. Swanton.
148. Handbook of South American Indians: vol. 1, The Marginal tribes; vol. 2,

The Andean civilizations; vol. 3, The Tropical Forest tribes; vol. 4, The Cireum-
Caribbean tribes.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

No. 2. Cherdn: A Sierra Tarascan village, by Ralph L. Beals.

No. 3. Moche, a Peruvian coastal community, by John Gillin.

No. 4. Cultural and historical geography of Southwest Guatemala, by Felix
Webster McBryde.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are trans-
mitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided by the
act of incorporation of the Association. The following reports were
issued this year:

Annual report of the American Historical Association for the year 1942. Vol-
ume 3, The quest for political unity in world history.

Annual report of the American Historical Association for the year 1943.
Volume 1, Proceedings.

The following were in press at the close of the fiscal year: Annual
report for 1943, volume 2 (Writings on American History), Annual
report for 1944, volume 1 (Proceedings and Guide to American His-
torical Review, 1895-1945) ; volume 2 (Calendar of the American Fur
Company’s papers, 1831-1849, Part 1).

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Forty-seventh Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, October 16, 1944.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Annual Reports to Congress and the various publications of the Gov-
114

ernment bureaus under the administration of the Institution were vir-
tually used up at the close of the year.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

coming year ending June 30, 1946, totals $88,500, allotted as follows:

Smnithsonian sinstitutionoieie ls to ee ee) Soe sony $16, 000
Nationali(Museuma. #20 - SE. Aish sl eit fae 43, 000
Bureau of American Hthndlopyee ss 17, 480
National Collection ,of Wine “Arts. 2-8 ee 500
Internk#tional AUxChanges= so eee at ne eee ee, ee 200
National Zoological "Parke soe a ee ee 200
Astrophysical Observatory S220 ese Rg eS Se ee 500
American, Historical, Association22=- 2) 2" 2 ee 10, 620

ow la CT A ae ES Be ad Age 88, 500

Respectfully submitted.

W. P. Trur, Chief, Editorial Division.

Dr. A. Wermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

The appropriation for the
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1945

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together
with a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Govern-
ment bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d.—
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim,
freights, insurance, etc., together with payment into the fund of the
sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the lifetime of Madame
de la Batut, brought the fund to the amount of $550,000.

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general
work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest, plus
savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present
year.

ENDOWMENT FUNDS
(Income for unrestricted use of the Institution)

Partly deposited in U. S. Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested in stocks,
bonds, ete.

Income
Investment present year
Parent Fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings) --_--- $728, 861. 07 $43, 700. 66
Subsequent bequests, gifts, etc., partly deposited in the U.S. Treasury and
partly invested in the Consolidated Fund:
Avery, Robert S. and Lydia, bequest fund____........-.-------------- 51, 245. 40 2, 129. 04
MNGowMent(rom Gites eae k ree enn ken cveL ew ee ea se eo 292, 397. 35 10, 118. 80
FADO DES. De GUC ft dee Naame. eo EE SN Te 500. 00 30. 00
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund__..........._-__--- 4, 022. 71 139. 23
MamiLOned ANS DEQ MOSUTUN Gs = ieee eee eee ae see oe eee 2, 903. 78 163. 98
iRfenrya Caroline, bequest fund eons cn esc So eee ee er aoe 1, 209. 71 41. 87
Hodgkins}/bhomasG. (general) pitta osce sens komen ne eee sone eee oee 146, 230. 09 8, 006. 25
RNGESy William gones, bequest fund a= hese cas se ee a 1, 063. 20 61.78
Sanford George! He, memorialitunds.. 2252 oo 2s 22) 8 ee a 1, 990. 41 96. 82
Witherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund______...--------------------- 129, 080. 31 4, 467. 40
Special fund, stock in reorganized closed banks_-_.-...-..--.--..------- 1, 400. 00 70. 00
632, 042. 96 25, 315. 17
ROUGE  acn scene kee vee ot oa pr ee eh aa 1, 360, 904. 03 69, 015. 83

115
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions to date,
are listed below, together with income for the present year.

Investment |J2come pres-

ent year
Abbott, William L., fund, for investigations in biology. _-.__-___----_-_-_- $104, 891. 63 $3, 534. 38
Arthur, James, fund, for investigations and study of the sun and lecture on
S8MC. =. .--=---2 5-44. + He ee ee ee ee ee ies eee nae 40, 002. 69 1, 384. 47
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna
of countries other. than the United, States. .*.----=25---_-.--._- 2-2. -2-- 50, 112. 54 1, 734. 36
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird___----___- 24, 082. 45 833. 48
Barstow, Frederick D., fund, for purchase of animals for the Zoological
Cie. Gea Ba ay ee eae ae See eS TS es eee eee eae 760. 86 26. 34
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield collection
GOITER ET RS states mere ee ee er re ee NS a oe eee 38, 256. 02 1, 324. 02
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection and pro-
motion of researches relating to Coleoptera__________-_---_---------__-_-- 9, 174. 28 317. 52
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea
COUeCctION Of BEMIS 80d MHONUSKS) =- == -- seeen ee e e ee 28, 167. 08 974. 85
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, fund, for preservation and exhibition of
photographic collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr_____----------__-__-- 507. 43 17. 56
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of
lighting objects... + <= - seasdeees Ase eaten ee eee ae ee ee eet 6, 573. 76 227. 51
Hitchcock, Dr. Albert S., Library fund, for care of Hitchcock Agrostologi-
Cale reareyee sas se sree eee ee ee ey eS ee See es 1, 478. 29 51. 16
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge
in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air___..__.-___...______- 100, 000. 00 6, 000. 00
Hrdliéka, Ale’ and Marie, fund, to further researches in physical anthro-
pology and publication in connection therewith___...--._..-_._-----___- 21, 061. 75 311. 70
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove______..-__-------_-----_--_-- 19, 145. 79 662, 62
Long, Annette and Edith C., fund, for upkeep and preservation of Long
collection of embroideries, laces, etc....----------..------.-----+--------- 543.13 18. 80
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of art for
the use and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts_____._.-____- 18, 960. 17 656. 20
National Collection of Fine Arts, Julia D. Strong bequest fund, for benefit
of National Colleetionof;-ine Arts 1-2 422582223 el eee eee ie 10, 600. 31 346. 11
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell
collection.- 21%. 1.28. fee A. oy re deck ee ee ae bh reek. 7, 414.19 256. 61
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institution
when principal shall.amount,to $250,000. - 28-3222 spe} eid 96, 268. 43 4, 008. 96
Rathbun, Richard, Memorial Fund, for use of division of U. S. National
Museum containingiCrystacea-.- = .+__f 4+. Ban et ee $10, 282. 15 $355. 86
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of Asher
REVERIE ete SRS er ee eh ae Pa eee Oe ae 2 ee 30, 055. 94 1, 388. 70
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling collection
OP IMINICLSIS ee a pe ee eect |b a gel ee peta nee 120, 716. 53 4,177.93
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and
CLLQIISGE Vm are ae ee Oe Re Sd ee ee 93, 927. 33 3, 252. 52
Smithsonian employees’ retirement fund_-_--.___--._-___-_--_2_2.____----- 64, 656, 17 2, 237. 71
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and library____- 17, 937. 03 620. 79
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for development of
geological and paleontological studies and publishing results thereof_ _ __- 430, 367. 55 13, 460. 66
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust__.._......--.--.--..--.------- 50, 118. 79 2, 517. 96
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria___.__-..--.------ 761. 25 26. 35
POUR Beets ee tS oe I Gh hl eh ee es re a ee 1, 396, 223. 54 50, 725, 13

The above funds amount to a total of $2,757,127.57, and are carried
in the following investment accounts of the Institution:

U. S. Treasury deposit account, drawing 6 percent interest____--___ $1, 000, 000. 00
Consolidated investment fund (income in table below) -_-___-- 1, 454, 957. 73
Real estate mortgaves,..etes.-- =~. DOU! leaped anos His 3 4 250, 815. 01
Special funds, miscellaneous investments___.__-- --- --§ 51, 354. 83

Tota pay ass tntseesnonence sake pywseees s/s iO) NOIR ot Sri Lal Od

CONSOLIDATED FUND

This fund contains substantially all of the investments of the Insti-
tution, with the exception of those of the Freer Gallery of Art; the
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE LIZ

deposit of $1,000,000 in the United States Treasury, with guaranteed
income of 6 percent; and investments in real estate and real estate
mortgages. This fund contains endowments for both unrestricted
and specific use. A statement of principal and income of this fund
for the last 10 years follows:

Fiscal year Principal Income rence” Fiscal year Principal Income abate
1936) = eee $723, 795. 46 | $26, 836. 61 Sule |LOSS Soe See $1, 093, 301. 51 | $41, 167. 38 3. 76
TIO Y ferent mnatestengrs 738, 858. 54 33, 819. 43 gla ad Wb SY 9 carr 1, 270, 968. 45 46, 701. 98 3. 67
1038-2 J sseeeee 867, 528. 50 34, 679. 64 42000 ||, SO4SSe2 eke 1, 316, 533. 49 50, 524. 22 3. 83
1939s: eee 902, 801. 27 30, 710. 53 BuO y||j1944 8 = 1, 372, 516. 41 50, 783. 79 3. 69
UO40 bese ees 1, 081, 249. 25 38, 673. 29 CPC Y lal lia 2” iia a 1, 454, 957. 73 50, 046. 67 3. 50

CONSOLIDATED FUND

Gain in investments over year 1944

Investments made from gifts and savings on income__________--____ $63, 858. 97
Investments of gain from sales, ete., of securities________----___-__ 18, 582. 35
TN fea en hn 5 I pin ee Le Ral see eae eS 82, 441. 32

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects of
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler,
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for the
construction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his
will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities to
the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment fund for the
operation of the Gallery.

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by
20,465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis & Co. As this stock advanced in
value, much of it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the fund
now amounts to $5,864,061.73, in a selected list of securities classified
later.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are under the following
headings:

Court. andsoround sium ds ee $656, 922. 55
Court and grounds maintenance fund_-_-___--___-____ 164, 994. 12
GUE ATE To Leta Ee ey aa Te Mee SUL a Pe 668, 523. 81
Residuany Vegcacy Lume 1 ore Semana ete 4, 373, 621. 25

(Rotale S22 = ess ee 5, 864, 061. 73
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Statement of principal and income for the last 10 years

Fiscal year Principal Income tet
118) Bi MAI Me i hve 2 es Ahi be 08 chap Ma ha cg a ape $4, 651, 867.07 | $259, 420. 73 5.39
5 FMR IE SE Cas ee a eT A eA ark RO Ue as 4, 881,986.96 | 280, 969. 53 5.75
Tin oe Oi re i Ri eal, RETO ae (ou: eet 4,820, 777.31 | 255, 651. 61 5. 30
TELS Rag ae apes RAMS PONT URES UE) Pre =O 5,075, 976.76 | 212, 751. 78 4.19
TT: tes Spee eeaone Muapeeekttne iad ppeeiaheae ccs, eee ne 6, 112,953.46 | 242, 573.92 3,96
LY Paes (Oe Cape One MeN 9: | es 6, 030, 586.91 | 233, 079, 22 3. 86
1049% 1) SAY IT DTI Es Fe AT BC 5, 912,878.64 | 241, 557.77 4.08
(iY Ee: San an tama Mla Rts aise De aN wea a, Ts na oie ed 5, 836,772.01 | 216, 125.07 3.70
eas PDE, AD BE ASE? Pete 4 Thad Fei Aak Wy, | eee 5, 881,402.17 | 212,395. 27 3. 61
1 URAC Lee GSR Fe laa eed we Tr alpen A | ae ene 5, 864,061.73 | 212, 552, 69 3. 62
FREER FUND
Loss during present year from sale, call of securities, ete_-----_-_ $17, 340. 44

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purposes___-___-------------__-- $1, 360, 904. 03
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en-

GOWwMen t=. oan 3s ee eee ee ee ees 1, 396, 223. 54

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment___ 2, 757, 127. 57

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes____-_____--_----__ 5, 864, 061. 73

Total invested endowment for all purposes_____-_--_-___- 8, 621, 189. 30

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as

authorized in the United States Revised Statutes, sec. 5591____ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or

market value at date acquired) :

Bonds (19 different groups) —_.--..---_-__-___-= $711, 260. 57
Stocks, (48 different, 'groups) ——--2.— 22-2 =s-<2 858, 132. 48
Real estate and first-mortgage notes_____-____ 180, 296.14
Wninyested) capital 2-2 ee 7, 4388. 38

—_———_._ 1, 757, 127. 57

Total investments other than Freer endowment__-_-____-- 2, 757, 127. 57

Investment of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired) :

Bonds (36 different groups) —-----__--_____-_ 3, 039, 890. 60
Stocks (50 different groups) -——------------~- 2, 779, 031. 83
Real estate first-mortgage notes_________--- 4, 000. 00
Uninvested!“(capital.- 2.5 41, 189. 30

5, 864, 061. 73

‘Total investments =e 2! i ee ee ee 8, 621, 189. 30
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

119

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING

FISCAL YEAR 19457

Cash balance on hand June.30;1944008 22 ee eee
Receipts:
Cash income from various sources for general
work of the Institution22s2 2232 aes $88, 398. 91
Cash gifts and contributions expendable for
special scientific objects (not for investment) — 7, 343. 27
Cash gifts for special scientific work (to be in-
V.CSTCG!) = ee See em neem oR hepatitis pee lea ica 10, 150. 00
Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment and from mis-
cellaneous sources (including refund of tem-

DOLLY, 11 VTA CES) pet eee ele sa RN ee 154, 112. 47
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.

(forminyestment)) 22 <2 eet ees ae 362, 791. 36

Total receipts other than Freer endowment_____---___

Cash income from Freer endowment___------~ 212, 552. 69
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.

(for investment) 2.202 wks eee Seaver ies 1, 425, 529. 25

Total receipts from Freer endowment____--___-____-~-

PLS Esai ae ana a eee ee
Disbursements :

From funds for general work of the Institution :
Buildings—care, repairs, and alterations__ 8, 220. 00
Hurniture andyiixtures2- 22s eae 251. 98
General administration-___.___.________ = 23, 721. 92
UTD Ye Sar ype i a ae 2, 832. 60
Publications (comprising preparation,

printing and distribution) _---____-_______ 20, 964. 34

Researches and explorations_-___-_-----_ 17, 397. 14

From funds for specific use other than Freer
endowment:

Investments made from gifts and from say-
ine SvOMUMMTe OM Cl. = 42 sar ui ls Pe 37, 313. 60

Other expenditures, consisting largely of

research work, travel, increase and care

of special collections, ete., from income

of endowment funds, and from cash gifts

for specific use (including temporary

ACV ANIC CS) a 2 es eee Re AT Re EE SORA 121, 478. 77
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
of securities; cte==2 225 see eee 349, 971. 04

Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on

bonds), purchaseds:2s22 2s ss eee 8, 781. 25

$719, 314. 48

622, 796. 01

68, 387. 98

512, 544. 66

1This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative

charge of the Institution.
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Disbursements—Continued.
From Freer endowment:
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries,

field’ ;CXPeNSCSs Clee sa ee ee $58, 013. 42
Purehase of art objectS:2-=-=-+ > = 164, 177. 12
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale,

call of securities, ete— 2222 1, 390, 671. 18

Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on

bonds\; purchased = 2 et 26, 179. 98
$1, 639, 041. 70
Gash balance’ June’ 80; 19452-2-- 2-2) Ree es ee 760, 218. 09
MO tals: a ee: Renee Es eee Le ee ee 2, 980, 192. 43

Included in the above receipts was cash received as royalties from
sales of Smithsonian Scientific Series to the amount of $26,564.20.
This was distributed as follows:

Smithsonian Institution Endowment Fund_--------~---------- $11, 803. 85
Smithsonian Institution Emergency Fund__--~---------_-----_- 2, 950. 96
Smithsonian Institution Unrestricted Fund, General__---_--____ 8, 852. 89
Salariegt (sided sec DCN OIMID SUEY) ONG BAG ARNE 2, 956. 50

26, 564. 20

Included in the foregoing are expenditures for researches in pure
science, publications, explorations, care, increase, and study of collec-
tions, etc., as follows:

Expended from general funds of the Institution:

Publication ee eer ethers pares res $20, 964. 34
Researches and explorations______------------ 17, 397. 14
$38, 361. 48
Expenditures from funds devoted to _ specific
purposes:
Researches and explorations____--_--_----~- 24, 939. 07
Care, increase, and study of special
collections.__......-. V4 Iold bee wie ee 9, 129. 85
Pri licartig rns cte eek ha mee the ore hn alter 7, 681. 92
a 41, 750. 84
Total. -— USE  _ E _OT AUO LOO} 1 iat 80, 112. 32

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been continued
during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to
$469.79.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from
the following:

American Malacological Union, toward publication of bibliography and short
biographical sketch of Dr. W. H. Dall.

Mr. Conrad Chapman, work on bamboo collections.

Office of Inter-American Affairs, for researches in anthropology of Colombia,
by Dr. Gregorio Hernandez de Alba.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE LAL

Miss Mary Jane Rathbun, memorial fund to Richard Rathbun.
Viking Fund, for researches among the Iroquois Indians.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues are
deposted to the credit of the same account. In many instances deposits
are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are with-
drawn and deposited in the U. S. Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the
Institution.

The following annual appropriations were made by Congress for
the Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1945:

SAALESM amd TUX PeNSCSe tee see eal er A | Ae ee ee $1, 224, 090. 00
Nationale Zoological Park. Ds ©2222 2325 a Bi ae 334, 651. 00
Cooperation with the American Republics (transfer from State

BMH) ep ears Ga @ ra t)) |e a tee Btls ne Es ae a Sc 67, 432. 00

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is given
below:
SEPTEMBER 26, 1945.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BoArp OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. O.

Strs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945, and certify the balances
of cash on hand, including Petty Cash Fund, June 30, 1945, to be $762,118.09.

We have verified the records of receipts and disbursements maintained by the
Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in the
custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
records and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945, together with the authority
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expenditures
and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each
trust fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.

We certify the Balance Sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1945.

Respectfully submitted. WILLIAM L. YEAGER,

Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.

Freperic A. DELANO,
Vannevar Busu,
CLARENCE CANNON,

Executive Committee.
‘

(2) AN meniemon inet Tar TNO tess

ihetoayules fC qa es! berouyta Of bret tebrooat didi asT erat ‘Tiel eat
Pree Pee 6c. 8 ammthal alooporl'ed? yrome vodorseae4 wt Dal goigtt |

| be oA Ter baliyts | dosds Yd ‘shnae soni ILA
978 250) “a fle itp 9ee badin od? to wemeasgl ot uo noltdiaal,
i POLLV ECE .dauoogeoutes od) To Jiber old 0) beizoqab
-iltie a8 ssa be dotivston to s9qeidetiod MOP Sadat heoal ota

wiping Btw ed Tht) ai betizoqeb bae nwetb

alt to ebin't ‘anilitiq” Eyib mney) Gisid ‘eodal: ot Hogg, acres edT

10%, dagmnolh yd shatmenew, acotleryorwqga Sauna sy iovo lich ont og
cra oe whe —— ov iatetalnbe edt wba aurowd tnerummevon ers
BEA P ney ieosit axl ae diya tend titre
catia ule | Sean aan ie a ehas
baselaaall ole sielioa Aaleetll Berit OMG Fri fot
Thin was Siatodbietiuded. tetenwe) dilkteasdt austell od) div pees:
00. Be 2. mle Ke LUSTOUMETS eRe a" (fro tsecpteecene-- osaitagales
ihren lataivitags spainogdtinm@-oss. to sibus.odl) too ia dah

evi’ Wait, 4oeredral
ie BE weapoarest ie
Aree yo aod srr) avril
Five vidoe the “ Darian MOMMIES, ADINOPRNE os et yas “fy paw
(RO Bharoo ns alt, Day hhuat, eta OM aLQueTah: OF sangeiay pats.
aout D8) Agi test . Geer OF onnk holes uey Lee oly 0% noltaittanl aattiog
ary th sovg nes Ober vf soul ,bowt dasD yeF guiiwion! baad no dans Oo
Sade Gactasel ar einsrive liad) bas orely Wo ebtonet 9d) DOR? ovad oF
mbit itd. Wied ad titv, ssacked auved ad)le- taoqee geod? ban nolininaal
edd Mince dwisirttiaod oeti ul yfittens arlt-ad sattymve ont Lie Boniinaxs send oW
iricost food oft diiw «rag 0} med) barn ‘heed oft to chords
Ty wigheber ads iy getiieou inka to SicodtPdafaie adi) boreqites oad 8W
7 Petia Divert Josiiesrge at mod? bacot bon abies
ul) Sostanessn to? wadneiintelhgaievoo eriwor Ne Beiter oad BW
cihretiiue Sus uttine redlreyet MeO PWS aT babi ise¢ lavelt «i) getinh woltgittenl
a sacri horbaoowt » nobivilians edt aidiw cod? honda) oved bow solved

Whiletions ~ ety or med? Darokt baa
nie dilw nolsistiten! act ‘wo eicrtron ods hotter ‘ban bartetazs otha Sar
) ~ “tg reared

wtf hin fees gfodwu.n. dies fave AbxOset ben Javosne lo edoad ont Bayh eee
ariuMee of Jay yt tanh asta Bol, ylirolee sup, aed hes

seeapsrtbes baa, shawl, aver me bey Pim, et Naa RA
dainty Wun (ated def Usa Yoo! hold tto no! RP SANS byeridt ett Sah GAS Bee
$00 UAL 0% onl ta an dolioahinal od! YH noltibaed ~
Ty ttOett ok met eadto fully acknowledges - foP ead ier ylintioogtegin

ipebetarcgad, otidu4 bol\rved
: Pestle xllirtoocaath
Rap wk renew. Arar may wAtad Of -& Otay SM
hia om i
Hyihe GOLUAIO

te Cyne HEROS.
hen ‘at ¢ _ tov weiGnntte fo ealliropalegy vf Oabrantiigy

\panetioweD asthe 6 bn

7

GENERAL APPENDIX
TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1945

123
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Genrrat Aprenpix to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1945.

124
OUR REVOLVING “ISLAND UNIVERSE” AND ITS
SPIRALING COUNTERPARTS?

By WILLIAM T. SKILLING

Professor of Astronomy, retired, San Diego State College, San Diego, Calif.

[With 2 plates]

Our earth is an infinitesimal part of a great whirlpool of stars called
the galaxy, or Milixy Way. Not only are the sun, moon, and planets
of the solar system moving as a very small unit that drifts with the
rotation of the galaxy, but all the visible constellations of the sky are
so close to us that they, too, are our fellow travelers in one small part
of this cosmic eddy. Only recently has the tremendous velocity of
our galactic rotation been measured and found to be 170 miles a second,
in the direction of the constellation Cygnus.

On account of the smoothness of our travel and the freedom from
any sharp turns in our course we do not feel this motion any more than
we do the lesser speed of the revolution of the earth about the sun at a
mere 1814 miles a second. It is not the motion but abrupt changes in
motion that we feel when riding in an automobile or train, and the
earth makes no such changes in speed. The curve that the earth fol-
lows in its motion about the sun, 93,000,000 miles away, is so gradual
that in each second the earth departs only one-ninth of an inch from
a straight line while going forward 1814 miles. Only by observing
other moving bodies and the so-called fixed stars are we able to meas-
ure or even perceive our annual motion, and it is little wonder that
astronomers have been slow in observing the vaster sweep of the whole
solar system and its relatively near neighbors around a center that is
2 billion times as far away as the sun.

Soon after the beginning of this century the great Dutch astronomer
Kapteyn, as a result of his studies in his native Holland, announced
the discovery of two “star streams” flowing in particular directions.
It has long been known that stars have some motion with respect to
one another. But this previously known star motion, including that
of the sun, was looked upon as being wholly at random. Kapteyn

1 Reprinted by permission from the Scientific Monthly, vol. 60, No. 2, February 1945.
676212—46—__9 125
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

was the first to show any systematic drifts of great numbers of stars
in any particular direction.

Gustaf Strémberg, at the Mount Wilson Observatory, examined the
motions of various classes of stars and uncovered some surprising
facts. His analysis of the motions of certain stars that the spectro-
scope showed to have very high velocities, 50 miles a second and up,
proved that their directions are by no means at random. They seem
to be leaving a particular part of the sky because the sun and its
planets are moving toward that region.

The most rapidly moving stars, Strémberg found, are those far-dis-
tant groups, each consisting of many thousands of closely associated
stars, which are called globular clusters. There are about a hundred
of these clusters.

Thus, these and other men were finding beads of knowledge that
eventually had to be strung together to show their relationship. The
first to do this was Bertil Lindblad, of the Swedish observatory at
Stockholm. He explained the apparent motion of high-velocity stars
by fitting them into a theory of galactic rotation. He showed that if
we assume the whole Milky Way system of stars to be revolving, then
what otherwise appear to be peculiar and unaccountable motions of
stars become natural consequences of that revolution. He likened our
system of a billion or more stars to the spiral nebulae that can be seen
far beyond the limits of the Milky Way and suggested that each of
these nebulae is itself a distant island galaxy, seen as a blur of light
because we are unable to distinguish any but the brightest individuals
among its millions or billions of component stars.

Lindblad’s suggestion was not new, but he was the first to form a
complete theory. As far back as the time of Sir William Herschel our
system of stars was being likened to the spiral nebulae. Herschel, with
the large telescope that his patron George III had enabled him to
build, could see many hazy patches of light that he shrewdly guessed
might be star systems. The name “island universes,” applied to these
suppositional galaxies, became common at that time.

Herschel’s telescopes were not powerful enough to resolve these
nebulous objects into separate stars, but he predicted that all such
clouds might one day be shown to consist of stars. With his largest
telescope he had already proved that some objects which his smaller
instruments showed only as glowing spots were really star clusters.
What could be more natural than that with means more abundant,
even, than those supplied by King George, telescopes might be made
that would break up into stars even the most distant spots on the sky?

This very reasonable guess of Herschel’s has since been found to be
partly at fault, for the spectroscope, of more modern times, shows in-
disputably that some of the nebulae are gaseous and that some are
OUR REVOLVING “ISLAND UNIVERSE”—SKILLING 127

made of gas and dust clouds mixed. But both the spectroscope and
the modern telescope give evidence that many others are, as Herschel
suspected, composed of stars. In addition, more recent knowledge of
their distances shows that gaseous nebulae or those composed of il-
luminated dust clouds are within our own stellar system whereas those
that are composed of stars are outside of that system. Hubble calls
them “extragalactic nebulae” to distinguish them from true nebulae.
Shapley, of the Harvard College Observatory, calls them simply “gal-
axies.” This word indicates their likeness to the stellar system but
does not distinguish them from it as the prefix “extra” does.

The name by which these outside galaxies are popularly known is
“spiral nebulae.” Both parts of this name are in error for some do
not have the spiral form and none of them are mere clouds, which
“nebulae” implies. Nevertheless, a spiral form is the most striking
characteristic of those that do possess it. The name “island universes,”
pretty well suggests their nature, but it violates the usual meaning of
the word “universe.” Thus all names of these outside star systems seem
to be open to criticism.

But what evidence exists to support Lindblad’s theory that our
galaxy is one of these spiral nebulae? First, there is the evidence de-
duced from their distances.

The spiral nebulae lie at such great distances that the surveyor’s
parallax method used for nearer stars fails utterly to give any idea
of their location. However, their distances had to be known, at least
approximately, before it could be definitely decided whether they are
separate systems beyond our stars or only outlying parts of our galaxy.
Happily an exceedingly powerful indirect means of measurement was
discovered by which Hubble, of the Mount Wilson Observatory, learned
that the distance to a spiral in the constellation Triangulum is about
three-quarters of a million light years. Another still more conspic-
uous one in Andromeda was found to be at practically the same
distance.

The method employed by Hubble makes use of a certain kind of star
known as a Cepheid variable, a number of which had been discovered
in the spirals. These stars are exceptionally bright intrinsically and
can be seen at a great distance. As far away as these variable stars
ean be clearly seen their distances can be calculated, for their period
of change from maximum brightness to maximum again is a key to
their real brightness, and this, in turn, is a key to their distance.

A curve can be drawn (from table 1, for example) showing the
relation between period and brightness, and from the curve the actual
luminosity of a star of any period can be found. Then by simply com-
paring this real brightness with the brightness that the star seems to
have, as measured with a photometer, the star’s distance can be found.
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

(If there is obscuring matter between us and the star its dimming effect
must be found and allowed for before the comparison of real and ap-
parent brightness is made.)

TaBLE 1.—Brightness of Cepheid variables of different periods

s Number of times brighter
Period in days: than sun

Mb cog rreegilt dois watotly otetnel dors afienl onl 350

PO LR cE NO PGE LOLLY AIO ERIN 5 550
16 [BPs BOTT IOS RITE SQ SUO FX OIE V as ni Fo 830
Migilate add _odiconagdil rtigd? notanibat brow ais 1, 500
RP, a ee rete nan. aprenta nma tet He 2, 500

The two nearest of the spiral nebulae were in this way found to be
so distant as to be well separated from the outermost stars of our
galaxy. The estimated distance from side to side of the Milky Way
system is about 100,000 light years. Seven or eight such systems
could be laid side by side in empty space between our stars and those
of the great nebula in Andromeda, one of our two nearest neighbors,
before the gap would be bridged.

A second point of similarity between our galaxy and the spiral
nebulae is size. The sizes of extragalactic nebulae, as found from
their angular diameters and distances, approach nearly enough the
size of the stellar system to warrant their being classed with it rather
than with even the largest of our own star clusters or star clouds, such
as are seen along the Milky Way.

Third, the similarity of our star system and the spiral nebulae is
shown in the flattened shape of each (plate 1). Herschel, with un-
limited patience, counted stars in all directions and found that the
stellar system is “shaped like a grindstone,” to use his own compari-
son. More recent counts amplify Herschel’s discovery by showing
that the sun and the solar system are not centrally situated in our
galaxy. To the naked eye or with a small telescope there seem to be
about as many stars in one direction as in another in the plane of the
Milky Way, but with a telescope that will penetrate to greater depths
many more stars can be seen in the direction of Sagittarius than in
that of Auriga. The reason is that we are far out from the center in
Sagittarius toward the “anticenter” (the point opposite the center)
near Auriga. Measurements of a different kind place us about two-
thirds of the way from the center of the circumference. But still we
are nearly in the plane of the Milky Way.

Finally, the motion of our galaxy is similar to the motion of the
spiral nebulae. It is now definitely known that the spirals are rotat-
ing. For this belief is there not strong presumptive evidence in the
appearance of the spiral nebulae? There seems little doubt that they
have acquired their flattened pinwheel appearance (plate 2) from
rotation about a center, for a group of stars would in time collapse to
their common center if it were not for the centrifugal effect of motion
OUR REVOLVING “ISLAND UNIVERSE”—SKILLING 129

that counterbalances the inward pull of gravitation. If this appear-
ance were not sufficient proof of the rotation of the spirals, there are
spectroscopic observations to show it. V.M. Slipher, at the Flagstaff
Observatory, and more recently Dr. Hubble, at the Mount Wilson
Observatory, have used the spectroscope upon nebulae in much the
same way it is used in measuring the velocity of rotation of a planet.
Using spiral nebulae that do not have their flat side directly toward
us, the slit of the instrument was set as nearly as could be upon the
equator of the spiral, perpendicular to the axis of rotation. The
resulting spectral lines slant because of the approach of one side of
the light source and the recession of the other side. Slipher and
Hubble agree that there is motion in the direction we should expect;
most of the material of the nebula is at the more condensed central
part, and as this turns, the two arms projecting from its opposite sides
are left trailing behind.

At our great distance from the spirals the angular motion is too slow
to be observed with certainty on direct photographs of the nebulae,
even with pictures taken several years apart. Perhaps photographs
of the next century when compared with those taken by this genera-
tion of astronomers may show changes in the position of stars of these
galaxies.

There can be no question as to the rotation of spiral nebulae; what,
then, is the evidence that our system of stars is like them? Some of
the extragalactic nebulae that are not spiral show no sign of motion.
If our galaxy turns, how would the motion of its stars be observed to
show whether or not they are revolving about a common center?
Lindblad was unable to make any direct measurement of our galactic
rotation. The position of the earth within the galaxy is an unfavor-
able one for observation of its rotation. So Lindblad’s approach to
the problem was to explain, insofar as possible, all observed motions of
the stars of the galaxy (as they appear to move with reference to our
sun) in terms of a great rotation.

Lindblad interpreted the apparent motion of the so-called high-
velocity stars as being caused by our more rapid rate as we and they
revolve, all in the same direction, around the center of the stellar
system. ‘These slow “high-velocity stars” seem to be headed backward
with respect to the true direction of all the stars. They seem rapid
because they lag behind so rapidly.

But why would not stars equally distant from the center of the
galaxy all move equally fast? For comparison, it is well known that
a comet travels very slowly while going around the end of its long
elliptical orbit that is farthest from the sun. Then it gains great

“speed through years spent in falling closer. Halley’s comet, for
example, went about 35 times as fast in 1910, when it was making the
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

quick swing around its “perihelion,” as it is moving now, during the
1940 and 1950 decades, when it is out beyond the orbit of Neptune.
As the comet falls back toward the sun it will regain its speed. Even
the earth, which has an orbit nearly but not quite circular, goes faster
in December than in June because it is then 3 percent nearer the
central sun. It is partly due to this greater velocity of the earth that
winters in the Northern Hemisphere are a week shorter than sum-
mers. If their orbits were exactly circular around the sun, all bodies
at equal distances from it would go at the same velocity, whether they
were planets, comets, baseballs, or grains of sand. Stars would behave
in the same way in going around their attracting center.

In the great rotation of our galaxy most star orbits around the
common center are nearly circular, and therefore any two stars fairly
close together, say within a hundred light-years of each other, move
at nearly the same velocity. The sun isa typical star and has a nearly
circular orbit. The difference between the velocity the sun actually
has and what it would have if its orbit were exactly circular is found
by comparing its motion with the average for all stars in its vicinity.
This variation from the average velocity is called solar motion. It is
12 miles a second, as was found by several observers. The variation of
the rate of any star from the velocity it would have if its orbit were
circular can be similarly found. ‘These variations in the velocities of
stars caused by differences in the shapes of their orbits are often spoken
of as their “peculiar motions,” to distinguish them from the variations
in velocities caused by differences in distance from the center of the
galaxy.

Although an occasional star is found to have a velocity with respect
to the sun greater than 50 miles a second, it is never going in the
direction of the sun’s revolution around the galactic center. It is
always a slow star that we are overtaking. No stars have been found
that run as much faster than the sun as some of them run slower.
The reason is that they would be thrown out of the galaxy by centrif-
ugal effect if they did. Neighboring stars can go a little faster than
the sun, but they cannot go much faster. If a star should pass us
with a velocity as much as 30 or 40 miles a second greater than that
of the sun, we could bid it farewell, for such a motion would carry
it out of the stellar system beyond the gravitational control of the
stars.

In this way the puzzling stream of “high-speed stars” was ex-
plained by Lindblad in simple terms of gravitation. They are really
low-velocity stars at the slow end of eccentric orbits, and we, and
other stars of fairly uniform speed, are overtaking and passing them.
These eccentric stars will in time fall in toward the center, regaining
speed, but now they are lagging badly behind.
OUR REVOLVING “ISLAND UNIVERSE”—SKILLING 131

And the extreme high speed of globular clusters of stars, as much
as 170 miles a second, simply means that these clusters are not part
of our galaxy at all, or at least do not rotate with it, and the observed
velocity is really our own speed of travel with the galaxy as we go
rapidly past the stationary clusters.

Soon after Lindblad’s explanation of “high-velocity” stars and other
phenomena of stellar motion, a Dutch astronomer, Oort, developed
a direct method of studying the rotation of the galaxy by using the
velocities of many stars at known distances from us. He worked out
a comparatively simple means of using such measurements to learn

Center of Galaxy
Ficurre 1.—Intragalactie velocities, showing relative velocities of sun (S) and
stars around the galactic center. Short arrows represent components of
motion of stars toward or from the sun, as shown by the stars’ spectra.

a great deal about the stellar system and our position in it. His plan
of procedure has been used since then by a number of astronomers,
who have applied it to various classes of stars. Notwithstanding the
great difficulty of making the required measurements the different
workers have arrived at very similar results.

Oort’s plan is based on the fact that revolving bodies controlled
by a central attractive force move at unequal speeds depending on
differences in distances from the center (fig. 1). The different veloci-
ties of planets revolving around the sun illustrate this. Pluto, the
outermost planet known, travels at 3 miles a second; Jupiter, nearer
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

the sun, at 8.1 miles; the earth at 18.5; and Mercury, nearest the sun,
has an average speed of nearly 30 miles a second.

Our solar system of sun and planets has practically all its mass
at the center; 996% percent of it resides in the sun, only one-seventh
of 1 percent in the planets. Being so constituted, the rate of motion
of a planet at any known distance from the center is very simply
calculated by means of Kepler’s great discovery of more than 300
years ago, his law of “harmonic motion.”

The rate of motion (and the period) of a star at any given dis-
tance from the center of the stellar system is not so easily found,
for the mass of the system is more widely distributed. There is
no great central star dominating all else. If the distribution of
material in the stellar system were quite uniform throughout, with
no concentration of stars toward the center, the whole flattened
Milky Way system would rotate as a wheel, and we could detect no
motion at all unless we could observe some outside landmarks, such
as extragalactic nebulae, that do not revolve with the stars.

Actually, however, the stars of our galaxy are sufficiently con-
centrated near its center to give measurably different stellar veloci-
ties. Yet the galaxy is so large and the difference of velocity as
seen from the earth so small that our greatest telescopes are needed
to observe the relative motion; even with the largest telescopes we
cannot observe individual stars of our system as far away as the
center of the galaxy, and only with difficulty can star velocities be
measured as far as one-fourth the distance to the galactic center.
Since Oort’s method of detecting and computing the rotation of the
stellar system depended upon measuring their relative motion, his
work had to be based upon observations of the most distant observ-
able stars. But even these are relatively close in terms of the dimen-
sions of the galactic whirlpool.

Because the closest stars that can be used in obtaining data for
Oort’s method had to be more than 1,000 light-years distant from us,
Plaskett and Pearce of the Dominion Observatory, Victoria, B. C.,
worked with those very hot and white giants of classes O and B.
Rigel, lying at the foot of Orion, is one of these and is one of our
brightest-appearing stars, but being only about 500 light-years away
is too close to be used in Oort’s method. However, stars of this type
can easily be seen at much greater distances with such a telescope
as the one at Victoria.

Others have used those reddest of all stars, the N type, which aver-
age several hundred times the brightness of the sun. The so-called
planetary nebulae are stars surrounded by gas, which makes them ex-
ceptionally luminous. The peculiar, brilliant gas, supposed to have
been thrown out by some violent explosion long ago, can be seen at
OUR REVOLVING “ISLAND UNIVERSE” —SKILLING 133

astonishing distances. But in some respects the best stars of all to
show rotation of the galaxy are the Cepheid variables, the stars that
gave distances to the spiral nebulae as mentioned above. Joy, at the
Mount Wilson Observatory, has studied about 150 of these, dis-
tributed mainly along the Milky Way. ‘The results thus obtained
are very dependable because of the unusually reliable manner, ex-
plained above, in which their distances can be determined.

Motions of these stars could theoretically be measured in two ways:
by getting the angular distance they travel across the sky in a cer-
tain length of time—their “cross motion”—or by finding the speed
in miles a second by which they come closer to us or move farther
away—“radial motion” or “motion in the line of sight.” The spectro-
scope will measure this line-of-sight speed. The lines of the spectrum
of an approaching or receding star are shifted a little toward the blue
or the red end of the spectrum as a result of the motion. This is
often called the Doppler shift. The greater the speed of the star
the greater the shift.

Cross motion is not useful in studying galactic rotation, as many
years must elapse between the taking of two photographs of the
stars to show any appreciable change in their positions. But the
spectrum of a star can be photographed in a few minutes (or hours,
depending on its dimness) and the star’s radial velocity is found
immediately.

The general principle of Oort’s method may be readily understood
by considering the solar system. A planet, such as Venus, when
nearest the earth and directly between us and the sun has cross
motion because it goes faster than the earth, but it has no radial
motion that would be indicated by the spectroscope because it is keep-
ing parallel to the earth’s orbit and so is not changing its distance
from the earth. Likewise Mars when nearest the earth on the opposite
side from the sun is not changing its radial distance, although it has
cross motion because it moves slower than the earth.

If we assume another planet a little in advance of the earth, or
behind it, in the same orbit, the hypothetical planet would show
no radial motion. The spectroscope would show it as a stationary
object. But in all other directions except these four—toward the
center, away from the center, straight ahead, or straight behind—
planets would appear to be coming closer to us or getting farther
away from us, and the spectroscope could measure this speed of
approach or recession.

So it is with the stars. Those directly ahead of us or behind us
in our revolution about a common galactic center, and those toward
the center and away from the center, show no motion in the line
of sight to be measured by the spectroscope. (This would be true
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

except for the special motions already mentioned, usually slight,
for which correction can be made.) All other stars—all that are not
in these four directions—both those farther from the center of the
system than we are and those closer to it, have more or less apparent
motion in the line of sight. Those having the greatest motion are
the stars halfway between the points of no motion. Therefore, at
45° along the Milky Way to each side of the center of the stellar
system and at 45° each side of the anticenter maximum radial motion
is indicated by the spectroscope.

Hence, spectroscopic measurements of radial velocities of stars along
the Milky Way will show where the center is, around which the stars
revolve. It must be at one of the points of zero radial velocity, and
halfway between two points of maximum velocity. It is found to be
in the Milky Way in the direction of the great star clouds of Sagit-
tarius and Scorpio. The anticenter (180° from the center) is in the
Milky Way where the constellations of Taurus, Auriga, and Gemini
meet. A third point of interest is the one toward which the solar sys-
tem is moving. It is in the Milky Way also, and naturally is at right
angles to the line leading to the center. It is located in Cygnus, near
the star Deneb.

The distance to the center, as well as the direction to it, can be found
from the star velocities given by the spectroscope. The principle upon
which this is done may be briefly stated. A star at the same distance
as the sun from their common center of revolution would, if fairly
near the sun, be almost in the tangent to the sun’s orbit (that is, 90°
from their common center). But if the star is 6 or 8 thousand light-
years ahead of the sun, it would have turned in toward the center
several degrees from the tangent at the sun. At 1,000 light-years
distance it would be seen about 1° off the tangent, or 89° from the
center instead of 90°. Cepheid variables were measured out to a dis-
tance of about 8,000 light-years from the sun. The direction to a star
at that distance with no radial motion is not quite the same as the
direction to a closer star with no radial motion. There is a measurable
angle which gives the curvature of the sun’s orbit. (See fig. 1.)
Joy’s result with Cepheids and the results of others using different
classes of stars agree very well in giving about 33,000 light-years as
the distance of the solar system from the galactic center in Sagittarius.

The diameter of the whole stellar system has been estimated at about
100,000 light-years; hence our place in the system is about two-thirds
of the way out from the center toward the edge of the Milky Way,
in the direction of the constellation Auriga and away from the con-
stellation Sagittarius.

Another interesting value growing out of these spectroscopic meas-
urements is the velocity of sun and stars around the great central
nucleus of star clouds.
OUR REVOLVING “ISLAND UNIVERSE”—SKILLING 135

The result actually given by the star’s spectrum is the component
of velocity directed toward or away from the observer. (See fig. 1.)
The maximum value of this line-of-sight velocity is called Oort’s con-
stant because it figures so prominently in the method devised by Oort
for studying galactic rotation. It isa constant quantity for any given
difference in distance to stars along the Milky Way: for each additional
1,000 light-years in any of the four directions of maximum radial mo-
tion, the radial motion increases about 314 miles a second. Thus, for
a star at 8,000 light-years from us the spectroscope should show a
velocity of about 28 miles a second. Using the well-known laws of
gravitation, this value can be related to the speed of rotation of the
galaxy. Oort worked out an equation in which his “constant” would
be one of the known terms, the distance to the center another known
term, and the velocity of the sun the unknown term to be found.

Based upon the above principles various observers have arrived at
somewhere near 170 miles a second as the velocity of the sun and its
planets in their revolution around the center. Most of the stars that
are near enough to be visible to the naked eye move at about the same
speed, and that is why a great telescope is needed to study the revolu-
tion of the galaxy.

Knowing the velocity of the sun and its distance from the center
it is a mere matter of arithmetic to find its period of revolution around
the center. The radius of the orbit is 33,000 light-years, each light-
year being nearly 6 trillion miles. The period found proves to be in
the neighborhood of 200 million years.

Geologists place the age of the earth at around 2,000 million years,
basing their estimate on the chemical analysis of rocks containing the
radioactive element uranium and a peculiar kind of lead into which
it very slowly changes at a known rate. The relative amounts of the
two metals show when the rock was formed. From these figures it
would seem that the sun and earth have had time for only about 10
revolutions around the distant center of the stellar system since the
earth was formed and solidified.

Slow and difficult as it has been to work out and prove this theory
of galactic rotation, the theory simplifies astronomy by relating to one
another various puzzling facts about motion that are hard to under-
stand one by one. Such matters as “star streaming,” “asymmetry of
motion,” and “high- and low-velocity stars,” are more easily explained
together than separately. In this respect the rotation theory has, in a
measure, paralleled the heliocentric theory of the solar system by
which Copernicus explained such riddles as “retrograde motion” of
planets.
dan nl aig Sena
x te ame ph cargo 21.83%, 903. chemipitiodion Somiigla
: oe yc pare divolay ; ‘nlgia-hovanil-aialt ko delerninmixntiodT

A ak at oct. she oan ar 4
mare enesee 5

‘ me bat ey aali ape | +
= Work bluode, i omens old ey mort opr 0008 tam ta

“Bape nas ae abba aes | |

vil to oitatos to beagayent. ot) betalgs od, .mocasehit

“Bigow* antago?” Bid Motclye sri (FLOKT8 LIPO, Heiyo Dern

bauol ed. 93 749), oun, add arate, att Laplivolere era tbtisgitets
ti boviqtp ovad crowds, eupiaey gelqinatsgavoderadtendqy baal
Ba bos 163, add to xii rol an ieee ud poseaaeaa
Teed 233 ite oil to 3eoM, sistaeo.of} basous, ceiuledan
‘enmng ork. dnods, dn, oon: baakegnads «dal diet ed-ody
“Hike vor ol) ‘ehuda of: babags, ei aqonaslod :kesr meager

Yehabs atld ‘mozt, oomsieil adi bap cum alt;
~ hutsions wouduloven i poaiage ibn 0: pierhepe were tne
ead ‘doge PILIY: bee o}t Yo entbenedthe asaneocedts
AL, od of re Bat boron th valite.soillindd qlussix girisdeaigag
in the ee i Mion. 008; to hoorkioddgishsds

NE1BaY. golly ign, S008, banorna 49, h109; tian needa

odd gainiginos,toloos to at saan oan aged |

ibidw Bai. gal to bail isiluceg & bug e | vidonoibr
“oil Yo ou ol wodl,. “218% avroxal te eae. Acnetetianes Si
3 27unge, ore mo cee’ ann dao off} srodve abe

Of suo qlao, 34 Hip bed evad sina bas rueol dedi verggenhiinaw
“BAS pode. fa Hn 932 962 20 sohmen. dental a neo

ctny with yu rage ubsitthilos

‘Yloed piild oy 9% 1054 Bea 19, H49%, ot, gond.esduti 2

‘fib of ‘paialen rd: Tmosowen pitilgais wrosdd 9 z
-robqus of vind 7g A an ating
Xo" bein ant orsicas
bags ule ete

fend ‘Gros
t moses aR io@ ad ii
“goioat abatgo

Speaniegn “estar

hel vt P sbireg! dike grow my rit oF thine POR cenopie mae 8
fOreA4 os | velocity @F Son and eters aiatl the great enter
} is f ere ns a} ns

mons r9dlogs, tataoq:e4) oF epegtathedd seco ee |

(A10JVATOSGO UOS[IAA JUNO ay} Jo Asaynog) *Axeyes ano uYIM—punossoI0J 9} UL O18 sieqs [RNPIAIpU ey, “ABA AYIA ano ul sqyta
‘OOUBISIP JBIIS B UOT] UO-aspo Woes JI BINGOU SI} o[quIased P[NOM AXBIes INO s apqnoqd

“VOAWONGNY NI 61 A H VINGSEN AvVyldS 3HL

YAP oy} O} Spuodsos109 puew v[Nqou oy Jo oud oy UT ysnp Aq posned si oul] [e1WUeD YAVp OUT,

| 3Lw1d Bur[PYS— “Cho | “Woday ueraosyquis
(‘AIOIBAIISGO WOS[TIAA JUNO vq) Jo Asaqmnoy) IM O00
1 pus ‘puodas B sof ¢/ JNOQG*B st sulusny jo p WINUIXBUL SIT “YO s[[e} pesds yoIq a 108
}RESUapUOd JO syulod S41 Jo AuBUl Jo poads [BUOI{BIOI ayy adoososjoodS ay} YITM auNsReUT OF STOUT
PIS VY ALBUM apIsINo 9y4 WLOIJ FI das P[Noo 9M JI BINGeU SIq) o[quleses A[QBqoid prnomM AxB]es INO

Oe, + "“puodas B so[IU YOT FNOGB 7B SN says 1ddeR Bing ajoyM
ILOS BOOM JI JT SB SajBIOIB[NGsu ogy, “t
S$ JO oul, OY) OF .e PerTy st ouRld si]

"WOMINONVIYNL NI €€ W VINSAN WHYldS AHL

St UOT RIOI JO UC
‘aspe oy} 0} NO ABAJ/BY 10jM90 9) WO) |
. { SBy 4 OS

AS-—"Srél ‘yaoday ueluosyzIwig

G. aly lel
MEDICAL USES OF THE CYCLOTRON 1?

By F. G. SPEAR, M. A., M. D., D. M. R. EH.

Strangeways Research Laboratory, Cambridge, England
Member Scientific Staff, Medical Research Council

[With 4 plates]

The idea of transmutation seems to have arisen among the
Alexandrian Greeks in the early centuries of our era, and to have been
transmitted to western Europe by the Arabs. The alchemy of the
Middle Ages was something more than the pretended art of turning
base metals into gold by the philosopher’s stone: it was a phase in the
development of systematic chemistry. In the sixteenth century
Paracelsus gave it a new direction by declaring that its true object was
not the making of gold but the preparation of medicines, and this led
to increasing attention being paid to the investigation of the proper-
ties of substances and of their effects on the human body (1).

It was not, however, until 1896 that the dream of the alchemists was
realized with the discovery of the “natural” radioactivity of uranium
by Becquerel (2), when the first genuine transmutation was recognized.
Within two years Madame Curie discovered radium, with a radioac-
tivity (in the pure state) several million times that of uranium (8).
This “gave an impetus to the systematic chemical examination of ura-
nium minerals and soon led to the detection of several new radioactive
bodies” (4). Almost as soon as they were discovered their effects on
the human body were studied, and the consequence to physics, medi-
cine, and later to industry of the discovery of radioactivity has been
immense, but the distribution of the radioactive material has been
much influenced by international conditions during the (nearly) 50
years since radium was discovered. Half the world’s supply of radium
at the time of the last war was taken by industry, and its value rose
to 100,000 times that of gold (5). This philosopher’s stone, presented

1 Based on a paper read on April 29, 1944, before the Midland Branch of the Institute
of Physics at Birmingham. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of Scientific Instru-
ments, vol. 22, No. 2, February 1945.

2 Numbers in parentheses refer to bibliography at end of paper.

137
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

to the world for nothing by the Curies (6), was now selling at a very
high price.

But away from the distractions of the world of industry the first
successful “artificial” disintegration of ordinary chemical elements
was made by Rutherford in 1919 at Cambridge by passing alpha par-
ticles through nitrogen which produced scintillations on a screen when
the absorbing matter present was greater than that which corresponded
to the ordinary range of alpha particles (4). Rutherford concluded
that the scintillations were due to particles ejected with great speed
from the nitrogen nucleus by impact of an alpha particle, and sug-
gested that these particles were hydrogen nuclei or protons. Evidence
of the capture of an alpha particle by the nucleus of the nitrogen atom
was obtained by Blackett (7) a few years later by photographing al-
pha-ray tracks in a Wilson expansion chamber. In 1934, Joliot and
Curie (daughter of Madame Curie) gave the first chemical proof of
artificial transmutation and of the capture of the alpha particle (8).

The alpha particle, with its two positive charges, has twice the
potential barrier to surmount in order to penetrate an atomic nucleus
as a single charged particle, and consequently search was made for a
means of accelerating hydrogen nuclei or protons carrying a single
positive charge. Most investigators used high voltages for the pur-
pose, but among those interested in the subject was E. O. Lawrence,
born 2 years after the discovery of radium, who saw a paper by the
German physicist, Wideroe, describing a method for energizing ionized
particles by hollow cylindrical electrodes in a tandem pair, each elec-
trode being connected to the leg of an oscillating high-frequency cir-
cuit. Lawrence conceived the idea of raising the efficiency of the
system, without increasing the length of the apparatus to unmanage-
able proportions, by giving the particles a circular motion by employ-
ing a powerful magnetic field within which a hollow electrode was
fixed. A design for “a magnetic resonance accelerator for ions” was
made, and a model of the apparatus tried out. It worked, and was
given the nickname of “cyclotron” (9). With a linear accelerator and
an oscillating current of 40 kv., 30 tandem electrodes would be required
to achieve an ion energy of 1.2 mev.; 150 revolutions in the cyclotron
with an oscillating current of only 4 kv., however, produces ions of
equal energy (10). The result has been a succession of cyclotrons (see
table 1) built at the University of California, Berkeley, by a team
which were said “not to know the meaning of a regulated existence .. .
as day and night the work went on” (10).

_ 8A single hollow D-electrode was used in the early apparatus; later a pair of D-shaped
electrodes, now a characteristic feature of cyclotron design, were used.
MEDICAL USES OF THE CYCLOTRON—SPEAR 139

TaBLE 1.—The Berkeley cyclotrons

1 2 3 4
a b
Kek€_OS

Date (begun) .-___._---------- 1929 1932 1936 1939 1940
PIOUS 2 2 ee Physics Radiation Crocker Distant

laboratory laboratory laboratory hilltop
Magnet:{tons) 22. #eteere oe) 1 80 190 4, 000
Pole diameter (inches) _-_______- 11 Zhe Dal 2 60 184
Energy of particles (mev.)--____ 1. 25 4 8 316 4100
Beam fini sy feet): aie aes Sas Sik ye ee OE en cay et 1 5 4140
Water protectionjlieet) seu. see e-eece 2 5 s- senses Ss 5 25

Pinter
3 For deuterons; 21 for neutrons.
4 Conjectural, apparatus under construction,

Each apparatus was bigger than its predecessor and capable of
producing greater quantities of radioactive material (pl. 1, fig.1). In1
day (1940) as much radio sodium, as measured by gamma-ray activity,
could be made as would correspond with 100 mg. of radium. For an
initial cost of some £10,000 (prewar of course) and with annual run-
ning costs of, say, £2,000, a cyclotron could yield energies of 8 million
electron-volts or the energy equivalent of gamma radiation from
100,000 g. of radium (11). But while the cost was trivial compared
with that of radium, the size of the apparatus was becoming consid-
erable and much additional space was required for the devices neces-
sary to protect those who came near the machine at ‘work. When one
looks at a cloud-chamber photograph (pl. 1, fig. 2) “and realizes that
it represents the ionization which occurs in a layer of one’s body
about a thousandth of an inch thick every one-hundredth of a second,
the amount of ionization present in the body of anyone standing near
the cyclotron becomes impressive” (12). Stage by stage the technical
difficulties of these huge machines were surmounted, and the scientific
investigations begun. A study of the properties of artificial radio-
active substances is now proceeding apace, and alongside this, work
has begun on their effects on the human body.‘ This paper is con-
cerned with the constructive applications of the new discovery to
medicine and the way in which the cyclotron can be used in “the
preparation of medicines.”

Not long before the United States entered the war, the designer of
the cyclotron was described to an American audience in these words:
“Lawrence and his collaborators are providing medicine, biology, and
physics with agents that should revolutionize our knowledge of the
structure of the world and everything that lives in it” (13). The

*This work is being directed by Lawrence’s medical brother (J. H. Lawrence) at the
Crocker laboratory, built, equipped and staffed for the sole purpose of studying and
developing the biological applications of the cyclotron (No. 3 of table 1) housed in the
building (10).
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

harnessing of atomic energy resulting from the artificial disintegra-
tion or transmutation of elements could indeed transform the world
in a manner beyond the dreams of the old alchemists. Against the
background of world war and the sinister possibilities that can be con-
jured up, it is to be hoped that the future results of “atom smashing”
will not be merely destructive but rather for greater social integration
and the increased welfare of mankind (14).

THE CYCLOTRON AS A MEDICAL INSTRUMENT

The physics of the cyclotron have been described in other papers
in this Journal and elsewhere (9, 15). It was first designed for use
in the domain of atomic physics, but it has provided medicine and
biology with two new tools for research, viz, a beam of very pene-
trating uncharged particles or neutrons® and an array of artifi-
cially radioactive substances which can be used in two different
ways. They can be administered in quantities so small that their
presence can be detected only by sensitive physical apparatus, and
in this high dilution no biological effects of the substance can be
observed with the means at present available. The progress of the
radioactive atom through the organs of plant, animal, or man can,
however, be followed by physical detectors, and yields information
otherwise unobtainable. Illustrations of the use of these “tagged
atoms” or tracers in biological and clinical research will be given
later.

In larger quantity, radioactive substances can be administered so
that the radiation they emit is used in some localized region of
the body to produce definite biological changes—usually destructive
ones such as the elimination of unwanted cells. The problem in this
case is to localize the radioactive substance in the particular region
required. This is not always so difficult as it might seem at first
sight. Selective absorption of certain substances in particular
organs has been familiar for a long time. And since virtually all
the known elements can now be made artificially radioactive, it is
possible to select the most suitable element for the purpose required
and then proceed to make a radioactive compound in the composi-
tion of which it is included. The length of life of the artificial
product is the limiting factor and that cannot be predetermined.
This therapeutic administraton of radioactive substances is a more
difficult field of research than metabolic studies with tracer sub-
stances, and progress must of necessity be slower and less spectacular.
But already it is possible in certain instances (see later) to achieve
as much by the internal administration of a radioactive element in

5 The cyclotron is the most efficient but not, of course, the only means by which neutrons
can be produced.
MEDICAL USES OF THE CYCLOTRON—SPEAR 141

the patient’s own home as could previously be done by a series of
exposures to X-radiation which is a much more exhausting experi-
ence for the patient and requires either in-patient accommodation
or at least frequent visits to the clinic or hospital. Radioactive
elements prepared by the Berkeley cyclotron are distributed (usually
by airplane) to various parts of America for use in hospitals and
laboratories. In 1942 there were 13 cyclotrons in the United States
and 9 planned or in building. There were 10 in other countries,
including 3 in England.

The neutron beam provided by the cyclotron is thousands of times
more powerful than any other method at present can furnish. Neu-
trons ionize in a different manner from that of gamma- or X-rays,
and, since ionization and biological action are linked, the biological
action of neutrons on normal and diseased tissues constitutes a new
and wide field of research.

These three uses of the cyclotron in biological research will now be
considered in greater detail.

TAGGED ATOMS IN TRACER SUBSTANCES

Radioactive or tagged atoms are used to enable the investigator
te see where the rest of his material is going—in just the same man-
ner as tracer bullets are used in antiaircraft or other gunfire (16).

The method was used first by Hevesy (17) in 1923 when he em-
ployed radium D as a tracer for its isotope lead, and later radium
E for bismuth in his studies on plant metabolism. These substances
are not, however, those normally used by plants, and were admittedly
foreign substances introduced into the plant’s economy for experi-
mental purposes. The great advantage of the artificially produced
radioactivity is that substances can be selected which are natural to
the plant’s metabolism. One radioactive atom in a million is sufficient
for the progress of the substance to be followed with extreme ac-
curacy by physical detectors and at this dilution no biological effects
of the radioactivity can be detected. By “tagging” atoms of a sub-
stance natural to the plant or animal under observation it is possible
to discriminate between the added compound and similar compounds
already present in the system. This is a conspicuous advantage over
ordinary methods of chemical and biochemical analysis where added
substances are indistinguishable from those already present.

It is possible to make radioactive isotopes of all the stable ele-
ments, and these isotopes behave identically with the commonly ob-
tained element both chemically and physiologically. The two differ
only in the fact that the artificial product is physically detectable
by its radioactivity in whatever chemical reactions it takes part. A
list of some of the more commonly used radioactive elements is given
in table 2 (18).

676212—46——_10
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

TaBLE 2.—List of radioactive elements which are being used in biological and medical

investigations
[See ref. 18]
Radioactive element: Type of radiation Half-life
1 a aE ee eee B— 30.0 years.
LS cea pt slag ta sy B+ 21.0 minutes.
6Gibttetool ot eM ne page B-— 1,000.0 years.
pa ne at ge oe a B+,7 9.93 minutes.
RUN Ger eee RAR SAS BERR E B+ 3.0 years.
11 Nas s 8c. te. 43s _ eae 8 B-, vy 14.8 hours.
A 2 Ss eee Ot eg aay) Pee ae B-, 7 10.2 minutes.
A Se ei re Tg De al ip or WEL B-— 14.3 days.
NeOets 2 Owpettne tee seat: Lee B-— 88.0 days.
mOlspat aioe ah. 28 Wy ED B-,y 37.0 minutes.
Pp TRAP AARAS AIA Rb 5! CED AD PB B-,yY 12.4 hours.
gp Oo oe _ eer: ta tate. ces B-,y 180.0 days.
apie Mae tk oe eee DE K, 7 310.0 days.
osFe*? ee oe ee eee ee B-, “"y 47.0 days.
o7O% srt poser ewes td. Ine ne K; 7;,¢-; B+ 270.0 days.
pC Es Os es ORR Bi a B—, B+, K 12.8 hours.
SYAiC ee, Sa ee ee) One ees B+, k, y, e— 250.0 days.
sgAs fis slew acnes Jaafar B—, B+, K, v 26.8 hours.
TAS See Stas Che. SEE B-—, B+, 7 16.0 days.
yo) 5 ee an i oe ore eee B-,7 34.0 hours.
37 Rb: EE SE AE Te BM ah B-— 18.0 days.
grees 1 _ Ds ee ae ais B- 55.0 days.
ga ery koe B-,Y 8.0 days.
giieters adh alctana54. Bee K, a 7.5 hours.

Tracer substances have proved of great value in studying metabolic
process in plants and animals, but it must not be supposed that their
introduction has supplanted ordinary chemical methods which still
have a recognized place and use. A new tool is not necessarily the
best for all purposes.

An ingenious device is used at Berkeley for the preparation of
radioactive substances simultaneously with the production of neu-
trons for other purposes. The substance to be activated, e. g., red
phosphorus, is introduced into the vacuum chamber of the cyclotron
on probes so arranged as not to interfere with the bombardment of
the beryllium target and the emission of neutrons from the target
chamber (19). The cyclotron vacuum has, however, to be broken
when the probes are inserted or withdrawn at intervals of several
days.

Various methods are used for the detection of tracer substances:

(a) Measurement of uptake.-—An animal is fed with a radioactive
substance and after a given time is sacrificed. An assessment is then
made of the radioactivity of any or all the organs of its body. The
process is repeated with other animals of the same species killed after
different intervals. The assessments of radioactive material are then
plotted against time on a graph, the quantity of material being given
as a percentage of substance originally administered found per gram
of tissue examined. It is, of course, not necessary to use the whole
organ in every case; a weighed portion may be used instead, and in
MEDICAL USES OF THE CYCLOTRON—SPEAR 143

some cases a piece can be taken from the animal under anesthesia
without killing it.

(b) Autophotography—the tracer substance is administered and
after the predetermined time the animal is killed or a portion of an
organ removed (biopsy) under anesthesia. The tissue is sectioned as
for microscopic purposes and some of the sections are stained with
colored dyes and others placed upon photographic plates. The areas
of fogging, which correspond to radioactive deposits, are compared
with the almost identical stained preparations and the distribution
of the tracer substance studied qualitatively. In this method the
sections used for fogging plates are impregnated in the final stage of
preparation with collodion in place of the parafiin customarily used
in histological work. For large organs, such as one of the long bones,
the autophotograph can be compared with an X-ray picture of the
same part (e. g., see pl. 3, fig. 2). Very thin substances—the leaf
of a plant, for example—do not need to be sectioned on a microtome
but can be placed direct upon the photographic plate (pl. 2, fig 1).
The fogging of the plate is due to the emission of the beta rays from
the tracer substance, and the best photographic results are obtained
when something like 210° beta particles per sq. cm. strike the film
during the exposure period.

(c) Geiger counter—A method involving the sacrifice of the subject
under examination is obviously not applicable to hospital practice!

For the detection of tracer substances in human subjects a prepara-
tion is chosen which emits gamma radiation (e. g., radio iodine).
After administration, a Geiger counter, placed on the surface of the
body (16, 20) over the organ to be investigated, records the radio-
activity due to tracer present (pl. 2, fig. 2). Radio iodine is made by
the deuteron bombardment of metallic tellurium, and has a half-life
of 8 days. It emits both beta and gamma rays.

(d) Double tag—An ingenious modification of the autophoto-
graphic method is occasionally used. By using the unstable H* in
the preparation of the dyes fer staining it is possible to combine
color change and radioactivity in the same preparation.

By such methods it has been possible to show the selective absorp-
tion of various activated substances in particular tissues; a variation
in absorption in different states of activity of living tissues due either
to normal circumstances in health or abnormal conditions imposed
by disease; and even a variation in different parts of the same cell (21)
which can be examined after disintegration of a mass of cells by the
ultracentrifuge which separates the central and heavier nuclear mate-
rial from the surrounding and lighter cytoplasm.

The amount of tracer substance taken up depends on the total con-
tent of the same (inactive or natural) elements in the tissue at the time
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

of administration of the tracer element, the rate of turn-over of the
material in the organ concerned, and whether or not new tissues are
being laid down, 1. e., active cell multiplication, is going on at the time.

Radio sodium, an emitter of gamma rays, given to a patient by the
mouth as common salt, can be detected by means of a Gieger counter
within 2 minutes of administration, in the fingertips. The ele-
ment ,;,Na** has a very short half-life of 14.8 hours, and less than 10
percent is eliminated from the body within the period of measurable
activity.° It is excreted by the urine and sweat glands.

Radio tron fed to cows appears in the milk within 24 hours. It is
taken up selectively by the red corpuscles of the blood and by bone
marrow, and in anemic animals the uptake is over 50 times that of
normal animals. Its absorption depends on the organism’s need for
iron and it is best administered in a series of small doses as the per-
centage uptake is greater under these conditions. It used to be thought
that the iron content of the body was regulated by excretion, but
observation with radio iron has shown that just as much iron is
excreted by anemic dogs as by healthy ones.

Radio iodine is taken up rapidly and in large quantity by the
thyroid gland, which absorbs 5,000 times as much as other tissues.
The concentration of radio iodine (8- and y-ray emitter) can be
raised in animals to a level which leads to the complete destruction
of the gland, yet the action is so localized that the adjacent parathy-
roid gland is unaffected (pl. 3, fig. 1). The activity of the unhealthy
thyroid gland varies markedly according to the nature of the disease
affecting it. In a state of overactivity (hyperthyroidism) the uptake
of radio iodine is rapid, and this is followed by a rapid loss of the
element. Loss of glandular activity is reflected in a very small uptake
of iodine. It is possible to classify different types of disease of the
gland by the radio-iodine uptake. In malignant disease of the thyroid
its cells, unfortunately, lose their capacity to take up iodine, so that
it is unlikely that cancer of this gland can be treated by the adminis-
tration of radio iodine.

Radio carbon has been used in the study of plant metabolism and
quite revolutionary discoveries have been made, especially as regards
the capacity of plants to reduce carbon dioxide. Others besides the
chlorophyll-producing plants can reduce carbon dioxide, and the
latter, contrary to general belief, are able to do so in complete dark-
ness though the activity is less than one-twentieth of that in sun-
light. It takes 100 minutes for radio carbon to be built up into the
plant solids. Barley can synthesize sugar from radio carbon in 2

*In designating a specific isotope of an element, the total mass is written as a super-
scription on the right of the chemical symbol and the atomic number as a subscription on
the left.
MEDICAL USES OF THE CYCLOTRON—SPEAR 145

hours. Perhaps the neatest way to manufacture “tagged” sugar, since
chemical synthesis of sugar is a difficult process, is by the action of
bacteria in reducing carbon dioxide made with radio carbon.

Radio calcium and radio strontium are taken up selectively by bone,
especially in regions where active growth is taking place. Radio
strontium, with a half-life of 55 days, is preferable to radio calcium
whose half-life is 180 days and cannot be prepared in the same high
concentration as radio strontium. The two elements belong to the
same group of the periodic table and have similar chemical and
physiological properties. A striking illustration of the deposition
of radio strontium in growing bone is shown in plate 3, figure 2. Five
hundred millicuries of the element were given to a child 2 days before
amputation of the leg for a cancerous growth. An autophotograph
of a longitudinal section of the leg, compared with an X-ray photo-
graph on the same scale, shows the deposition of the radioactive ele-
ment in the tumor cells (malignant. growth) and in the epiphysial
line (normal bone growth).

Radio phosphorus is taken up by bone, bone marrow, spleen, lymph
nodes, and liver as well as by certain cancerous growths (sarcomata).
Its use in the treatment of blood diseases is described in the next
section.

Tracer substances are also being used to study the metabolism of
insects and in some interesting studies in comparative morphology.
Organs supposed to be homologous in different species can be tested
for their uptake of certain radio elements and their activity compared.
True homologues deal similarly with a given radio element.

THERAPEUTIC ADMINISTRATION OF RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCES

Since it was known that some substances are selectively absorbed in
animals and man, the question arises whether this fact can be used for
therapeutic purposes. The idea of intracellular radiation opens up
quite a new field of radiation technique. X- or gamma radiation, as
normally applied, reaches the cells upon which it is directed by passing
through layers of normal cells whose resistance to the radiation consti-
tutes a limiting factor in the dosage attainable. The rays also have a
constitutional effect known as radiation sickness, which may assume
serious proportions. There is now a large range of artificially radio-
active substances which are absorbed by cells and emit their energy
from within the cell boundary (22a). They are all temporarily radio-
active with a wide range of radiation energy from soft beta rays to
high-energy gamma rays, and they can be administered with far less
danger of producing radiation sickness.

Radio iodine has been used in a few cases of thyroid disease but is
unlikely to be of use for malignant growths in the gland. The heavy
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

homologue of iodine, known as element 85, was first prepared at Berk-
eley and has similar properties.

The administration of radio strontium is still in the early experi-
mental stage. It is selectively absorbed in bone.

The furthest developments have been made with radio phosphorus
which has now been used therapeutically on a relatively large scale.
Radio phosphorus, ;,P*%?, is prepared by the bombardment of red phos-
phorus with high-speed deuterons (heavy hydrogen nuclei). In the
reaction, the proton is repelled and the neutron captured, so that the
stable red phosphorus ,;P** becomes the unstable isotope ;;P* which
breaks down spontaneously to stable sulfur ;.S** with the emission of a
beta ray which can be detected physically. The half-life of radio
phosphorus, i. e., the time during which its energy is reduced to one-
half by the break-down of its unstable atoms, is 14.3 days. It is usu-
ally used as the compound Na,HPO,, disodium hydrogen phosphate,
in a dilution of 15 mg. per cc. or the equivalent of 0.4 millicurie of Ra
when freshly prepared.

Ordinary phosphorus occurs in all living tissues. A phosphorus
atom spends, on an average, about 2 months in the body of a rat before
it is excreted. But its speed of movement in different organs of the
body varies widely. For example in muscle the uptake, “turn-over,”
and elimination is rapid and the concentration of phosphorus at any
given time low. In bone, on the other hand, the turn-over is slow
and local concentration high. In growing tissues the uptake is more
rapid than in adult. Radio phosphorus is taken up selectively by
bone and bone marrow, spleen, lymph, and liver, and by proliferating
cells anywhere both normal and malignant. In the case of bone, the
rate at which radio phosphorus is deposited in normal, rapidly grow-
ing and cancerous tissue is a function of the activity of the enzyme
alkaline phosphatase (22 ¢). But the results show an individual vari-
ation in the actual amount deposited, and a variation for different
parts of the same tumor in the case of malignant growths, i. e., when
autophotographs are made the fogging of the plates is uneven.

There are certain human blood diseases characterized by the over-
production of blood cells, either the white (leukemia) or the red
(polycythemia), and since radio phosphorus is selectively absorbed
in the lymphatic tissues and bone marrow where the overproduction
occurs, this element has been tried therapeutically in the treatment of
these diseases with encouraging results. The uptake of radio phos-
phorus in leukemia is greatly in excess of that in a normal healthy
animal or person, and in a concentration which reduces, at least tem-
porarily, the great excess of white blood cells (fig. 1). Ifthe trouble is
an overproduction of red cells, their reduction is effected by a concen-

MEDICAL USES OF THE CYCLOTRON—SPEAR 147

tration of the salt in the bone marrow, where red cells are manufac-
tured, without disturbing the normal number of white in circulation.
The presence of cancer (sarcoma) “screens” both kinds of blood cells
so that doses of radio phosphorus which would normally have affected
the blood-cell count have no such effect if a tumor is present, as the
radio phosphorus becomes concentrated in the tumor cells (pl. 4,
fig. 1).

CK CHRONIC MYELOS LEUK

\
\
AY
tite t RBC ly Ditisiecweke
ome, oomeosmee bt OS Terr ere ee ee ee eee

WBC IN 1000

A
\
\
\
\

NOV.

NOV 28 JAN.I5 JUNE IS

Fieure 1.—The effect of radio phosphorus in reducing the excessive white-cell
count (Ww, B. c.) in a ease of leukemic disease of the blood (22a). The red-cell
count (R. B. c.) is practically unaltered.

Radio phosphorus was first used therapeutically in 1936, when it
was found that its beneficial effect on certain blood diseases resembled
that following X-radiation. It is still early to judge its usefulness,
but it is clear already that artificial radioactivity is at least as good
as the X-radiation treatment and far less inconvenient for the patient.
Neither is a certain cure, but considerable periods of relief are often
obtained before the blood shows abnormality again. It is possible
that better results will be obtained by a combination of (external)
radiotherapy and (internal) administration of radio salts, but it will
take some time to determine what is the best form in which to give
the combined treatment.

MEDICAL AND BIOLOGICAL EFFECT OF NEUTRONS

The bombardment of beryllium by deuterons in the cyclotron pro-
duces a yield of high-energy neutrons which is of sufficient intensity
for radiotherapeutic trials. For this purpose the cyclotron (No. 20
of table 1) was made more “presentable” from the patient’s point of
view by being enclosed in a shell of white-enameled woodwork which
concealed the entire apparatus and the protecting screens of wax and
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

water (pl. 4, fig. 2). A small hole was left through which a canalized
beam of neutrons emerged. The attempts began in 1938, and caution
was needed because of the danger of serious damage to normal tissue.
Cancer patients were chosen, however, whose condition was hopeless
from every other point of view. This was perhaps hardly a fair test
of the usefulness of a neutron beam in medicine, and it was not to be
expected that the results would be in any way spectacular. ‘To begin
with, 24 patients, all in the advanced stages of their disease, repre-
senting hopelessly incurable cancer, received cautiously administered
doses, the magnitude of which was determined in a purely arbitrary
fashion (10). Because of the fixed limitations of space, at first only
lesions confined to the head and neck could be treated. These experi-
ments served to supply information concerning skin tolerance, depth
dosage, and the nature of the primary response of tumor tissue.
Later on, with an improved lay-out, a larger number of patients were
given neutron irradiation, and these provided a wide diversity of
tumors including sites other than the head and neck. So far the
results have not been too good (table 3). But neutrons have already
caused the disappearance of a malignant growth (23), though no such
case is regarded as a cure until several years have elapsed since treat-
ment. Compared with the results of X- and gamma radiation of
cancer, neutrons have not so far proved better, but they have been
useful in a few instances where X-rays had been tried and failed. It
will obviously take time to discover what is the best way in which to
give them, e. g., what should be the total dose, intensity, number of
exposures, over-all time, the precise method of combination with other
types of radiation, and so on.

TABLE 3.—Some effects of neutrons on cancer

[See rof. 2351

Number of patients

Effect
During treat- Bung auc:

ment ceeding 3

months
Gomplete regressions a. nee se se ae oe tet aren cat sendsseraensaeaeeccas 20 26
Partial: regression: 2.24. << 225 9 5 ee eee ee eee sees oe 57 53
Nojregression 320) i82e= Fox - SESkk SERA en cae ne conta seanacaaeeaece 43 24
Roecurrencein treated area---<_ =~ 4 - SB oe ae cetera 0 3
GAC. = Eke ENIR De eS RS a OO Nee ee cea s eee oannee 0 8
Incomplete information 2.3 2 2322) oho ea ee ae ae a ee eee 0 6
120 120

A great deal of experimental work has been going on besides the
relatively few therapeutic trials which have been made, and the
biological effects of neutrons on a variety of tissues have been studied
and the results compared with those produced by other types of pene-
MEDICAL USES OF THE CYCLOTRON—SPEAR 149

trating radiations, both at Berkeley and elsewhere (24). There
is, however, as yet no accepted physical unit by which neutron and
X- or gamma-ray dosage can be directly compared. If intensity
of radiation is measured in ion pairs per centimeter, then neutron
intensity is a thousand times that of gamma rays.

At Berkeley the unit dose of neutrons is measured by means of a
Victoreen ionization chamber and the dose is described as 1 “n-unit”
when the Victoreen (calibrated for X-rays) records 1 roentgen.’
Measured in these terms, it is reckoned that 1n is equivalent to about
2.5 r. (25). The crucial question, however, is whether neutrons can
bring about desirable biological reactions which cannot be obtained
with other types of radiation. Investigations on the effects of neu-
trons on cancerous growths in animals as well as human beings were
being made, up to the outbreak of war, to test this point. It is
possible that best results will eventually be obtained by combining
neutron irradiation with other forms of treatment. It is already
clear that there are differences in the biological action of neutrons
and X-rays, and effort must now be directed to exploit these dif-
ferences to the advantage of radiotherapeutic treatment.

Neutrons are very penetrating. When “cross-fire’ methods are
used 30 to 40 percent of the dosage comes from the opposite side.
Much work needs still to be done on the comparative effects of slow
and fast neutrons (26) and the exclusion of neutrons from regions
where they are not wanted.

In spite of their penetrating abilities neutrons are more easily
absorbed by such light elements as water, wax, and especially borax
than by heavy elements such as lead or platinum, though blocks of
lead are used in canalizing the beam for medical and biological
experiments (27). The demand for cyclotron time was so heavy
when apparatus 26 (table 1) was in full running, that it was decided
to build a new and bigger machine (No. 3 of table 1) to be reserved
for medical and biological work. Before this aparatus was completed
plans were begun for the giant cyclotron on the hills behind the Uni-
versity campus. It was decided that protection would be a serious
problem with this machine and that it would be best to isolate it as
far as possible from other laboratories. Even with cyclotron 20
there was unavoidable interference by penetrating neutrons with
delicate physical apparatus in nearby laboratories, particularly in
the chemical department adjacent to the cyclotron building. The
cyclotron team arranged a special signal to warn their neighbors that
neutrons were about to be liberated in their neighborhood; it was

7A roentgen is the unit of dosage used in X- and gamma-ray therapy and is defined as the
quantity of X- or gamma radiation such that corpuscular emission per 0.001293 g. of air
produces in air ions carrying 1 e. s. u. of electricity of either sign.
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

possible to detect neutrons several miles away. The war has inter-
rupted much of the peacetime research of the medical cyclotron, but
a remark by Prof. Sir J. J. Thompson, of Cambridge, at Winnipeg
shortly after the discovery of radium applies equally well to the prod-
ucts of the cyclotron: “It is imperative, lest we should be passing over a
means of saving life and health, that the subject should be investi-
gated in a much more systematic and extensive manner than there
has yet been either time or material for” (18).

Looking down on the Berkeley campus of the University of Cali-
fornia, said to be the largest educational center in the world, across
the great expanse of San Francisco Bay, with its artificial island of
400 acres and with two of the greatest bridges in the world, the scene
is now dominated by the vast circular observatory-like building, 165
feet in diameter and 90 feet high, erected on a hilltop to house the
latest cyclotron. As we think of the human activity behind all this
achievement the motto on the California State Capitol seems peculiarly
appropriate—“Bring me men to match my mountains.”

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

It is a pleasure to acknowledge here the many kindnesses shown me
by Prof. E. O. Lawrence, Dr. J. H. Lawrence, and the staff of the
Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley; I
am also grateful to them for permission to use illustrative material
from published papers.

1. (@) Waite, A. E. Hermetic and alchemical writings of Paracelsus. Elliott
and Co., London, 1894.
(6) Stoppart, A. M. Life of Paracelsus. Rider and Son, London, 1915.
2. BECQUEREL, H. Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci., vol. 122, pp. 420, 501, 559, 689, 762,
and 1086; vol. 123, p. 855, 1896.
3. Curie, P., Mme. P., and B&imont, G. Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci., vol. 127,
p. 1215, 1898.
4. RUTHERFORD, E., CHADWICK, J., and Exzis, C.D. Radiations from radioactive
substances, pp. 7, 288-284. University Press, Cambridge, 1930.
5. Editorial, Radiography, vol. 3, p. 183, 1937.
6. Curie, Eve. Madame Curie (translated by Vincent Sheean), p. 204. Heine-
mann Ltd., London, 1938.
. BLAcKETT, P. M.S. Proce. Roy. Soc., vol. A 107, p. 349, 1925.
. Jotiot, F., and Curr, I. Nature, vol. 133, p. 201, 1934.
. (@) Lawrences, BE. O., and Livineston, M.S. Phys. Rev., vol. 40, p. 19, 1932;
vol. 45, p. 608, 1984.
(b) Lawrence, E. O., and Cooksry, D. Phys. Rev., vol. 50, p. 1131, 1936.
(c) LAWRENCE, BE. O., et al. Phys. Rev., vol. 56, p. 124, 1939.
10. (a) Hopvcrs, F. J. Radiography, vol. 39, p. 440, 1942.
(0) Kerst, D. W. Nature, vol. 157, p. 90, 1946.
11. Editorial, Radiography, vol. 6, p. 93, 1940.
12. Kuri, F. N. D. Gen. Electr. Rev., June 1987, p. 264.

oon
13.

14.

15.

16.

ure

18.

19.

20.
21,

22.

23.

24,

25.

26.
27.

MEDICAL USES OF THE CYCLOTRON—SPEAR Pi.

PrenpERGRASS (at the Caldwell Lecture, 1941). See Amer. Journ. Roentgen.,
vol. 48, p. 283, 1942.

Cf. Scort, I., LAWRENCE, E. O., and Lanemurir, I. Molecular films, the cyclo-
tron and the new biology. Rutgers University Press, New Brunswick,
N. J., 1948.

(a) Cocxcrort, J. D. Journ. Sci. Instr., vol. 16, p. 37, 1939 (Cambridge
cyclotron) ; vol. 21, p. 189, 1944. (A survey of the design and performance
of the cyclotron and betatron.)

(b) AxrpeRsoLp, P. C. Radiology, vol. 39, p. 518, 1942 (Berkeley cyclotron).

Hamitton, J. G. Radiology, vol. 39, p. 541, 1942. (This paper includes a
good bibliography.)

HeEveEsy, G. Biochem. Journ., vol. 17, p. 489, 1923.

(a) LAWRENCE, J. M. Amer. Journ. Roentgen., vol. 48, p. 283, 1942.

(b) SeaBorc, G. T. Rev. Mod. Phys., vol. 16, p. 1, 1944. (Bibliography of
600 references. )

(a) Witson, R. R., and Kamen, M. D. Phys. Rev., vol. 54, p. 1031, 1938.

(b) Witson, R. R. Phys. Rev., vol. 58, p. 408, 1938.

MaRINELLI, L. D., and GoLtpscHMIDT, B. Radiology, vol. 39, p. 454, 1942.

(a) MarsHax, A. Science, vol. 92, p. 460, 1940.

(b) MarsHaxk, A. Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 25, p. 275, 1941.

(a) Lawrence, J. H. Radiology, vol. 35, p. 51, 1940.

(0) Low-Beer, B. V. A., LAWRENCE, J. H., and Stone, R. 8. Radiology, vol.
39, p. 573, 1942 (with a good bibliography).

(c) Woopwarp, H. Q., and Kenney, J. M. Amer. Journ. Roentgen., vol. 47,
p. 227, 1942.

(a) Srone, R. S., LAWRENCE, J. H., and AEBERSOLD, P. C. Radiology, vol. 35,
p. 332, 1940.

(b) Stones, R. S., and Larxin, J. C. Radiology, vol. 39, p. 608, 1942.

(a) Zirkie, R. E., and Lamps, I. Amer. Journ. Roentgen., vol. 39, p. 613,
1988.

(6) Gray, L. H., Mottram, J. C., Reap, J., and Spear, F. G. British Journ.
Radiol., vol. 18, p. 871, 1940.

(c) Cf. MarsHaK, A. Radiology, vol. 39, p. 621, 1942.

(d@) Oscoop, BE. E., AEBERSOLD, P. C., Err, L. A., and PAcKHAM, E. A. Amer
Journ. Med. Sci., vol. 204, p. 372, 1942.

(e) Spear, F. G. British Journ. Radiol., vol. 17, pp. 348 and 374, 1944.

AEBERSOLD, P. C., and LAWRENCE, J. H. Amer. Rey. Physiol., vol. 4, p. 25,
1942.

Cf. Gray, L. H.,and Reap, J. Nature, vol. 152, p. 53, 1948.

AEBERSOLD, P. C. Phys. Rev., vol. 56, p. 714, 1939.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Spear PLATE 1

LORRI AE cena

1. CLOSE-UP VIEW OF THE MEDICAL CYCLOTRON (NO. 3 OF TABLE 1).

Showing the 5-foot glow produced when the 16-mev. beam of deutrons is allowed to escape into the air
through a thin aluminum foil window which permits passage of the beam but maintains the vacuum
in the cyclotron. The beam flares at the end of its path because the deutrons slow down, scatter more
easily, and ionize more heavily (15b). A steel plate placed in the beam was melted (14). (Reproduced
by permission from Radiology.)

2. WILSON CLOUD-CHAMBER PHOTOGRAPH (1/100 SEC.).

Showing the intensity of the ionization a few feet from the cyclotron (No. 2b of table 1) when producing
neutrons,
od

c

ALV1d

CASOLOIPBY ULOI, WOTSSTULL
} WLlO1y po
} ISUIBSB po

ad Aq poonp
Bul
BOK) V
(91) QGNV15D
QIONAHL 3SHL AG dN NANMVL ANIGO!] OIOVH AO
INAWSYNSVAW SHL Y¥OS GAAOIdDWA ANOINHOSAL AHL “2

01dexy)
“W183 94

“OUIPO! Opel |}
Jojop

a:

(i
od Aq poon “(ST ‘91) U
soyd OIpel JO WOMONpoOIjUr ayy IOWB S

oy} ULOIy WO}
oy} 07UT sno

“INV 1d OLVWOL SO HdVYHSOIGDVHOLNY “|

seadg —Cr6| *‘yuoday uetuosyWWG
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Spear PLATE 3

1. PORTION OF THYROID GLAND.

Left, stained section showing oval parathyroid gland on right (16). Right, automicrophotograph from
the same tissue block showing fogging of plate in region of thyroid gland but absence of any deposit of
radio iodine in the parathyroid gland (18). (Reproduced by permission from the American Journal of
Roentgenology.)

2. X-RAY PHOTOGRAPH (LEFT) AND AUTORADIOGRAPH (RIGHT) OF A SECTION OF
AMPUTATED LEG FROM A YOUNG PATIENT PREVIOUSLY GIVEN RADIO STRONTIUM
LACTATE (18).

The strontium has been taken up by cancer (osteosarcoma) cells in the leg bone (indicated by arrow in
X-ray picture) and by the growing portion (epiphyseal line) of the normal thigh bone (16). (Reproduced
by permission from the American Journal of Roentgenology.)
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Spear PLATE 4

1. AUTORADIOGRAPHS OF TWO MICE CARRYING SUBCUTANEOUS BILATERAL
LYMPHOSARCOMATOUS TUMORS.
The animal shown on left was given strontium and that shown on the right radio phosphorus 5 days before

the photographs were made (18). The result shows the selective deposition of strontium in bone and
phosphorus in the cancer cells. (Reproduced by permission from the American Journal of Roentgenology.)

2. COUCH FOR TREATING PATIENTS ALONGSIDE CYCLOTRON 2B (TABLE 1)

Surrounding water tanks and wax blocks concealed behind white-enameled plywood. The appearance
of the apparatus is in striking contrast to that shown in figure 1 of plate 1. (From a photograph pro-
vided by Dr. P. C. Aebersold.
DRINKING WATER FROM SEA WATER*

By Lr. Compr. W. V. Consoxazio, U. S. N. R.
Lr. N. Pacn, U. 8. N. R.
and
A. C. Ivy, PH. D., M. D.

Naval Medical Research Institute
National Naval Medical Center, Bethesda, Md.

[With 2 plates]

Early in the winter of 1942 the Naval Medical Research Institute
became interested in the problem of prolonging survival after ship-
wreck. At this time the problem of procuring drinking water on life
rafts was in a confused state. Several methods had been developed
and many proposed, yet no coordinating agency existed to evaluate
the methods developed, or make recommendations for those proposed.
It was clear that in order to make progress in the problem of survival
an agency for coordinating the available data was necessary. Also
a need had arisen for answers to certain questions pertaining to the
practical and physiological aspects of the problem.

The “Drinkability of Sea Water” (1)? was first investigated be-
cause factual evidence on its effects was lacking and various rumors
were extant. It was soon learned that sea water was not potable,
since greater dehydration occurred with its use than without. This
was due not only to the large amount of water required to excrete the
salts of sea water, but also to the loss of water by vomitus and diarrhea
which frequently followed when the sea water was consumed at a too
rapid rate. In fact, it was found that for every volume of sea water
drunk, approximately two volumes of fresh water were required to
prevent electrolyte imbalance in the body.

Shortly after the experiments with the potability of sea water had
been completed, work was instituted to test and develop methods for
procuring potable water, to produce a physiological and practical
ration, and to provide means for the protection of survivors from the
elements, rain, heat, cold, sun, and sea.

1 Reprinted by permission from United States Naval Institute Proceedings, vol. 70, No. 8,
Whole No. 498, August 1944.
2 Figures in parentheses refer to bibliography at end of article.

153
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Several methods for preparing drinking water from sea water on
life rafts were in a partial state of development. However, no method
approached practicability for life-raft use even though available infor-
mation intimated as much. In fact, few investigators realized that it
was a long step from the successful employment of a method under the
ideal conditions of the laboratory by skilled laboratory technicians
to its use under the trying conditions on a life raft by an inexperienced
individual. ‘Those responsible for the evaluation of the various sug-
gestions and devices pertaining to survival at sea soon realized how
little knowledge was available and how much had to be learned about
the entire problem.

Several methods for producing potable water from sea water had
reached a state of development sufficient to merit consideration for
life-raft use. The first four methods described below are based on
physical devices for producing potable water.

1. The Visscher body still—This still consisted essentially of a
vacuum pump to reduce pressure in the system and of a small boiler
strapped about the body to utilize body heat for fuel to distill fresh
water from sea water. Condensation of the water vapor was achieved
by immersing a coil and collecting bottle in sea water.

The still had much in its favor, though the disadvantages out-
weighed the advantages. It required the expenditure of a significant
amount of muscular energy to maintain the reduced pressure; in
northern latitudes, a partially fasting individual could ill afford to
lose the body heat required for the evaporation of the water. Sec-
ondly, considerable machine tooling and engineering were involved
in the production of a special vacuum pump which was to be subjected
to the corrosiveness of sea water The weight and volume ratios
(water produced per unit of weight or of volume occupied by the
apparatus) were very poor. Finally, the loss of any one part made
the still useless,

2. Safety fuel still (2)—“Canned heat” was used as fuel to distill
the sea water and the cool sea water was used to condense the water
vapor. The smallest model of this still, though possibly suitable for
large lifeboats, was much too bulky and heavy for life-raft use. Fur-
thermore, the still was affected by wind, wave, and rain as well as the
corrosiveness of sea water. Considerable manipulation and intelli-
gence were required for operation and, contrary to available data, the
still did not produce enough water on a weight-volume ratio to recom-
mend its use. It had many more parts than did the Visscher still so
the possibility of the still becoming inoperable through loss of a part
was greater.

3. Armbrust cup (3).—This method differed but little from a
method developed during the last war, whereby the moisture of the
DRINKING WATER FROM SEA WATER—CONSOLAZIO, ET AL. 155

breath was condensed in a wet felt-jacketed metal container. The
calculated efficiency peak for such a method is but 15 milliliters of
water per hour and even with a tight-fitting mask and a highly effi-
cient condenser this degree of efliciency was never reached in labora-
tory and field tests. Under experimental conditions a maximum of
5 milliliters per hour was attained and no subject was found who could
tolerate the device for 8 hours. Another limiting factor was that the
device required quantity production from an already overtaxed metal-
working industry.

4. Delano solar still (2), (4).—The source of heat for this still is
solar radiation. The sunlight passes through a transparent plastic
window and is absorbed by black toweling which backs up the plastic
sheet. The toweling is kept wet with sea water, and the evaporating
moisture condenses on the plastic window and drains into a reservoir
at the bottom of the still. Under ideal conditions the apparatus was
capable of producing 300 milliliters of water a day, but it was much
too fragile for life-raft use. In fact the models tested in the labor-
atory required continual repair. Another disadvantage was that the
apparatus had to be oriented to the sun. On a cloudy day, there-
fore, the efficiency of the still fell off markedly. In view of these
disadvantages and its bulk, the canned water, then available, was to
be preferred.

Since all the above devices were unsatisfactory, chemical methods
of treating sea water presented possibilities.

5. Goetz method (1).—This method was one of the earlier chemical
methods and one that received considerable publicity for the reason
that the ratio of water produced to the volume of chemical employed
was of the order of 14to1. It required little manipulation—sea water
was scooped into a plastic bag into which was dispersed a small pack-
age of silver and barium oxides. The chlorides of sea water were
precipitated as silver chloride, the sulfates as barium sulfate, resulting
in a solution of approximately 0.3 N alkali which caused the magnesium
in sea water to precipitate as magnesium hydroxide. The precipitate
was allowed to settle and was then clamped off in the bottom of the
bag leaving a cloudy supernatant fluid. Into this was stirred a cake
of citric acid which neutralized the sodium hydroxide to sodium ci-
trate. Thus the end result was the conversion of the approximately
3 percent sodium chloride of sea water into approximately 3.3 percent
sodium citrate.

The limiting factor in the use of this water was that the sodium
citrate was converted by the human organism into sodium bicarbonate,
with a resultant severe alkalosis. The kidneys, in order to rid the body
of this excess alkali excreted an excess of water, which led to more
severe dehydration than if the water had not been drunk. Though
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

the water was better than sea water, the combination of induced alka-
losis and dehydration condemned the method.

6. Aquamax method (5).—This relatively simple ion exchange
chemical method was limited by the fact that the weight and volume
ratio of water produced to chemical employed was too low for con-
sideration. Chemical analysis of the water produced permitted its
recommendation as drinking water, but no physiologic studies were
made. Development of a field kit would have lowered the ratio still
further.

7. Red Jacket (6)—This method was similar in principle to the
Aquamax method. The factor that limited its use was the low weight
and volume ratio. A field kit was developed which had much to rec-
ommend it for simplicity, but the added weight of the kit resulted in a
much lower water ratio.

8. British Permutit (7) and American Permutit (2), (8), (9).—
These methods were very similar and were in fact originally exactly
alike. A silver and barium zeolite was employed, which upon inter-
action with the salts of sea water caused the precipitation of silver
chloride and barium sulfate and sodium and magnesium zeolites. The
chemical was loosely packaged into a small cartridge, and a number
of the cartridges were packaged into a bakelite processing container.
The container, shaped in the form of a cylinder, had two removable
lids. On one end a filter was placed over a screwed-down cap with a
protruding teat. At the other end a screw cap with a rubber vent
allowed the formed gas, but not the water, to escape. Sea water was
scooped into the container to an inscribed mark, and the contents of a
cartridge were added. The top lid was screwed on and the contents
shaken for 20 minutes. The processed water was removed by sucking
on the teat at the bottom.

Although the original Permutit methods produced excellent water,
the ratio of water produced to chemical employed was almost as poor
as those of the previously mentioned methods. They had, further-
more, not been considered practical for life-raft use for a number of
reasons. First, it was less trouble and expense to package canned
water. Second, the method of processing was complicated; the parts
at times required mechanical tools for disassembling, especially the
screw caps. Third, the method of removing the drinking water was
much too difficult. Fourth, the resistance in the filtering system was
frequently too great for a man to suck out the water.

9. Naval Medical Research Institute method (2), (10), (11).—Dur-
ing the last part of 1942 a new chemical method for the preparation
of drinking water from sea water was discovered by Spealman (12).
Basically, the method consisted of adding silver oxide to sea water
and filtering off the precipitated silver chloride and magnesium hy-
DRINKING WATER FROM SEA WATER—CONSOLAZIO, ET AL. 157

droxide. Uric acid was then added to the filtrate, precipitating so-
dium urate which was filtered off.

The method was developed at the Naval Medical Research Institute
with field application primarily in mind. Two simple plastic bags
and two filters were designed so that minimum space was occupied
by these processing devices. The silver oxide was dispersed into the
sea water contained in one of the plastic bags. The contents were
then filtered into the second bag and the uric acid was dispersed into
the filtrate. A final filtration into the first bag, which had been rinsed
with sea water, produced potable water. The time required for the
complete operation was approximately 30 minutes. The produced
water, from a physiologic standpoint, was excellent but the taste al-
though not objectionable was slightly brackish.

The method produced 7.4 volumes of water per unit volume of
apparatus, a high ratio. The weight ratio, 5.6 of water to 1 of appara-
tus, also represented a very substantial improvement over other
methods.

The standards for drinking water for life-raft use had initially been
set empirically to meet the Treasury Department standards (13).
These standards were unnecessarily exacting for water that was to
be used for emergency purposes as they were adopted by the Treasury
Department on June 20, 1925, for drinking water and culinary water
supplied by common carriers in interstate commerce. The attempt to
meet these impractical and unphysiological standards was unfortu-
nately one of the prime factors in limiting the chemical methods since
the exacting demands lowered the weight and volume ratios.

The first approach to the problem of increasing the efficiency of the
chemical methods was to determine how much salt could be left in
drinking water. Two groups of men were placed on a semistarvation
regime (14) (15) and allowed 500 milliliters and 1,000 milliliters of
water per day. One half of each group had its water slightly salted
(0.3 to 0.4 grams of sodium chloride per 100 milliliters), the other
half drank distilled water. The men drinking distilled water excre-
ted between 3 and 4 grams of sodium chloride daily. The group
drinking 500 milliliters of slightly salted water conserved 100 milli-
liters of water per day more than the comparable 500-milliliter group
that drank distilled water. The group drinking 1,000 milliliters of
slightly salted water conserved 230 milliliters of water per day more
than the group that drank 1,000 milliliters of distilled water. By al-
lowing 0.3-0.4 percent salt to remain in drinking water a consider-
able reduction was made in the daily water requirement. Further-
more, considerable reduction was made in the chemical required for
producing potable water.

676212—46——11
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

It was evident, too, that a further gain in weight and volume ratio
could be made if the sulfate ion in sea water was not removed. Cur-
rent opinions arising from Treasury standards emphasized that sul-
fate in drinking water should be at a minimum (250 parts per
1,000,000) owing to the suspected cathartic action of the sulfate ion.
In order to elucidate this point, experiments were conducted with
men placed on a semistarvation regime, who drank 500 milliliters to
1,000 milliliters of water per day prepared from sea water by the
Naval Medical Research Institute method (15). In this experiment
all the magnesium but none of the sulfate was removed. Ill effects
were not observed and all the sulfate ingested in the water (50
ME/liter) was found to be excreted in the urme. The evidence showed
clearly that this quantity of sulfate was completely absorbed from
the intestinal tract and was not retained by the tissues. Under these
circumstances it could not act as a cathartic.

As already mentioned, the Permutit method was a single-step
chemical method. Its weight and volume ratios as originally em-
ployed, however, were extremely poor. It was demonstrated that if
the above adjustments in final chloride and sulfate content were made
and if a simple field kit were developed, the ratio of water produced
to apparatus employed could be increased to a point where it would
be superior to any other available method. The original low weight
and volume ratios were due to conformance to Treasury standards
which were not in accord with field requirements, and to the absence
of a practical field kit.

The following recommendations were consequently transmitted to
the Permutit Co.:

1. A collapsible processing container should be developed embodying the prin-
ciples worked out by the Naval Medical Research Institute and the National
Carbon Co., since this container had little volume or weight and was better
adapted to life-raft use.

2. The chemical should be formed into highly compressed briquets to con-
serve space.

3. Sodium chloride should be left in the drinking water to a concentration of
0.3-0.4 percent to increase the weight and volume ratio of the chemical and aid in
conservation of body water.

4. The sulfate need not be removed to further increase the weight and yolume
ratios.

5. A lightproof and waterproof method of packaging as developed by the In-
stitute and the Reynolds Metal Co. should be employed since it not only offered
excellent protection against exposure to water and light but added little to
weight or volume.

These recommendations were immediately adopted and prepara-
tions were made for raft trials, since it now had become obvious that
all the laboratory work done would be of no avail if the findings were
not proved to apply to actual field conditions.
DRINKING WATER FROM SEA WATER—CONSOLAZIO, ET AL. 159

The modified Permutit method resulted in a briquet of silver zeolite
slightly smaller than the size of a package of cigarettes. One had
but to drop a briquet into a collapsible bag containing sea water. The
new processing bag contained a built-in filter with a sucking tube just
below the filter. With a little manipulation the briquet was disinte-
grated whereupon the chemicals proceeded to react with the salts as
described. Twenty minutes of manipulation removed as much of the
salts as was necessary to produce potable drinking water. The pre-
pared water was drunk by sucking on the protruding tube at the bottom
ofthe bag. To do this required 3 to 5 minutes.

In February of 1943 the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery authorized
the Naval Medical Research Institute to conduct sea trials under simu-
lated conditions of survival on life rafts in the Gulf of Mexico. The
primary objective was the testing of various methods of producing
drinking water from the sea. The secondary objectives were ob-
servation of the suitability of a new tablet ration, methods for preven-
tion of sunburn, and, in general, of the performance of life rafts and
equipment, such as signaling devices, water-collecting devices, fishing
gear, and clothing, as well as a study of available space and the physi-
ologic phenomena of shipwreck survival such as water requirement, in-
cidence of seasickness, and conservation of body water. The following
water-making devices, all in a rather well-developed state, were tested :
the Naval Medical Research Institute method, the Permutit method as
modified by the Naval Medical Research Institute, the Delano solar
still, and the Safety fuel still.

From July 7 to 11, 1943 (2), 21 men,‘ ages 19 to 44, spent 97 hours on
a restricted regime with the daily fluid intake limited to 500 milliliters,
and a dietary intake of approximately 330 calories in the form of tablet
rations in which chewing gum and vitamin concentrate were included.

Sixty-one of the 96 hours, including 2 nights, were spent floating in
rafts 10 to 20 miles offshore in the Gulf of Mexico, near Pensacola, Fla.
The remaining time was spent on the escort vessel. Rafts included
Navy one-man parachute rafts, Navy four-man rafts, and a special
seven-man raft supplied by Transcontinental and Western Airlines.
Each was captained by one of the staff members of the Naval Medical
Research Institute.

* Plans for these sea trials were made with the cooperation of the Liaison Committee
on Emergency Rescue Equipment of the Office of the Coordinator of Research and Develop-
ment of the U. S. Navy.

4The following were the men who volunteered as subjects for the foregoing raft trials:
Lt. P. H. Futcher (MC), U. S. N. R., Lt. W. V. Consolazio, H-V (S), U. S. N. R., Lt. N.
Pace, H-V (S), U. 8. N. R., J. D. Blackburn, PhM1c, T. C. Watson, PhMic, C. N. Crouse,
PhM2c¢, N. L. Krueger, PhM2c, J. N. Shaner, PhM2c, C. N. Saracco, AMM2e, L. L. Nullmyer
AMM2c, M. C. Wallace, AOM1ic, S. Olexen, AMM2c, H. A. Schramm, AOM3c, J. B. William,
AMM3c, M. H. Smith, ARM38c, Lt. (jg) D. V. Kirchberg, A-V (N), U. S. N. R., Lt. (jg)
G. E. Pantano, A-V (N), U. S. N. R., Dr. D. Blaine, U. S. P. H. S., Lt. A. L. Budlong,
U.S.C. G. R., W. G. Henry, W. H. Hall, J. J. Walters.
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

With the exception of the seven-man raft, all rafts were to depend
for their drinking water on the particular type of water-making device
delegated to each raft, e. g., one raft contained four Delano solar
stills. The seven-man raft was to depend on the Safety fuel still for
its water supply; other water-making devices were supplied to this
raft for test purposes only. When the water produced was below
500 milliliters per day per man, the deficient quantity was supplied
to the individual from the water supply of the escort vessel.

Water volumes produced by the various methods tested were meas-
ured and logged by the raft captain. He noted also whether the other
occupants of the raft were able to carry out their assigned methods
from printed directions, and what difficulties were encountered,
if any. No assistance was rendered by the raft captain unless the
subject could proceed no further.

On the early morning of the first day all subjects went over the
side of the escort vessel and into their designated rafts. Water-
making devices were broken out whenever the time rose for producing
water, except for the solar stills which were in operation as soon
as the individuals could get their appliances together.

Of the original 21 individuals starting as subjects, 3 had to be
removed on the second and third days, owing to seasickness. All but
3 of the remainder also suffered from seasickness but became adapted
by the end of the second day.

The following requisites relative to water-making devices were
noted:

1. A method for field use must be made extremely simple since the effects of
exposure to cold, water, heat, sun, hunger, and thirst, plus the added factors
of lack of sleep and seasickness leave men in a poor mental and physical condition.

2. The method employed should require little time for its operation or manipula-
tion and few directions. It was found that the individuals tended to employ
the warm daylight hours for catching up on lost sleep.

3. The device employed should have a minimum of parts and all parts should
be well secured to the person or to the raft.

4. The device employed should be of rugged construction and resistant to
corrosion.

5. The complete kit should occupy very little space in the raft since space was
at a premium.

As expected, the method of first choice was found to be the Permutit
method as modified by the Naval Medical Research Institute. It
required fewer directions and less time, attention, and manipulation
than any of the others. Several minor faults were found that were
corrected later.

1. The closure on the plastic bags was made more secure.

2. The filter was bonded into the bag to prevent leaks caused by sharp particles
of chemical being trapped in between the filter and bag which, upon kneading,
caused pinhole breaks in the bag.
DRINKING WATER FROM SEA WATER—CONSOLAZIO, ET AL. 161

3. The sweetish taste, about which complaints were made during the raft trials,
was found to be imparted to the water by the Vinylite plastic bag caused by
the lubricant employed in the manufacture of sheet Vinylite. The taste was
eliminated by heating the finished fabric to 160° F. to evaporate the solvents
and lubricants employed.

The method of second choice was the Naval Medical Research
Institute method. This method, involving two stages, required double
the time, attention, and manipulation of the Permutit method. How-
ever, it still possessed the advantage of higher weight and volume
ratios.

The third choice was the Safety fuel still, to which there were
however, many objections. It occupied an excessive amount of space
in the seven-man raft, the igniting flints quickly became corroded
and useless, and corrosion also affected the still itself. The lighting of
the fuel was a serious problem, especially in high seas and high winds,
the burning fuel gave rise to fumes irritating to the already physically
upset subjects.

The solar stills were not even considered for use. They were
continually in a state of disrepair. In fact, of the original five
employed, none were in working order after the third day. They
required ‘continual attention and always had to be oriented to the
sun. The maximal water production was of the order of 150 milli-
liters per day. They had to be carefully put away at night so that
no damage might come to them in the crowded raft.

The comparative data on all the water-making devices tested on
the life rafts are presented in table 1.

TABLE 1—Summary of comparative data on water-making devices tested on life

rafis
<a eters ver: Vol- Unpackaged
d Degree} tion ay | UmMe
Bye f re- | WateT | Vater
of we : pro-
Process water | Manip- quired duced, 220: al : Remarks
ula- by duced Weight
autos tion | oper- ier per er ratio
ator tiga hour
Permutit as modified by 20 +- + 480 960 | 5.76 5.44 | Simplest method to op-
the Naval Medical Re- erate.

search Institute. d
Naval Medical Research 20; ++ --e 950 950 | 7.44 5.56 | Not difficult to operate

Institute. on raft.
Safety fuel still_...._.__- 1400) ast | 9 - 762 762 | 3.33 5.56 | Subject to elements.
Too many parts.
Too bulky.
Solar still, Delano_______ Bt Be 4 8 +++4+l4++++ 54 5 - 28 1.52 | Very fragile. Tedious

in operation.

Owing to the fact that the chemical had been compressed to the
maximal degree consistent with disintegration on use, the Naval Medi-
cal Research Institute method produced considerably more water by
volume than any of the other methods tested. Greater compression
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

of the chemical was, therefore, recommended to the Permutit Co. It
was pointed out, however, that too much pressure made the briquets
indispersible and, therefore, useless. Fortunately, an earlier observa-
tion at the Naval Medical Research Institute permitted much greater
compression than had formerly been possible. If an inert chemical
which swells to 6 to 12 times its original volume when exposed to water
is added to the briquets, it acts as a disruptive agent. This develop-
ment was incorporated into the new Permutit brigquets, and proved
very successful. The result has been that an exceptionally small briquet
can now be manufactured which, within a minute after being added to
sea water, crumbles and falls apart into very small] sandlike particles.

Table 2 presents the water analysis of the major constituents of the
drinking water produced by this process,

TABLE 2.—Salt content of water produced by the Permutit method as modified
by the Naval Medical Research Institute

Typical sea Treated

Ion 5 water water
PSI DC LTTE 1 OR | EN IRS a EET ee eeS pea ES RTs DO. .: <penete nee treND PEP. oem ? 435 80
Mapnesium =F 235. Pgs) Wilh lye FE ery Win ie ineey er 96 5
Ciloride 34) ee ek ee ee ee eee Cot ee 495 40
Salfates:2:_ Bayer oe) ie Sete ip Bit a ig Peo Pee 47 47

All values are maximal and are expressed as ME/liter.

Briquets with the latest modifications are now in mass production
and are being packaged in a can exactly the same shape and volume as
the standard Navy water can. This design was chosen by the Naval
Bureau of Aeronautics in order to minimize changes in the parachute
back pad and parachute type raft. Calculation from the figures given
in table 1 shows that the new briquet yields the following ratios as
compared to packaged water:

Demineral-

¢ Packaged
izing equip- ae
ment water
Weightratios occersce 4 se sercclecorests coe eee bee eeedeevrereerl 5.4 0.7
Volume atin =o 8 Pee Seow Urs Se PS SSO re Oe Jail 0.5

This can, filled with water, occupies a volume of approximately
700 milliliters and weighs approximately 512 grams, containing a
volume of water of 340 milliliters. The same can, containing demin-
eralizing equipment, has a total weight of approximately 800 grams
for a total volume of approximately 700 milliliters. The demineraliz-
ing equipment will have a potential supply of 3,000 milliliters of
water, a gain of approximately nine times the available water for
the same given space. The man-days of available water (500 milli-
DRINKING WATER FROM SEA WATER—CONSOLAZIO, ET AL. 163

liters per day) for the same volume of space is 6 man-days for demin-
eralizing equipment as against 0.7 man-day for packaged water.
Directions are stamped on the processing bag in waterproof ink.
The directions were written in very simple English so that they might
reach all types of unindoctrinated individuals.
The following are the printed directions as stamped on the proc-
essing bag:

1. Serew plug in outlet tube at bottom and fill bag to line with sea water.

2. Add briquet. Tightly roll top of bag down toward buckle and strap securely.

3. Allow briquet to stand in contact with water for a few minutes. Then
gently knead bag with hand for 10 minutes until entire briquet is broken into a
fine powder.

4. Shake bag occasionally for at least 20 minutes more, so that desalting
material is kept in thorough contact with the water.

5. Now suck clear filtered drinking water through drinking tube.

6. After sucking out all water, rinse bag in sea water to remove used-up
desalting material,

These developments have led to the adoption of the Naval Medical
Institute modification of the Permutit method by the Naval Bureau
of Aeronautics, the Army Aviation Corps, and various private air-
lines operating with the Army and Navy, and it is now being con-
sidered by the War Shipping Administration for possible use on
transports and freighters.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

(1) Naval Medical Research Institute: Project X—100, No. 1.

(2) Ibid.: Project X-127, No. 2.

(3) Ibid.: Project X—100, No. 12.

(4) Ibid.: Project X-100, No. 24.

(5) National Institute of Health: Confidential Report of July 16, 1942.
(6) Naval Medical Research Institute: Project X-100, No. 4.

(7) Ibid.: Project X—100, No. 14.

(8) National Institute of Health: Confidential report of January 25, 1943.
(9) Naval Medical Research Institute: Project X—100, No. 15.

(10) Ibid.: Project X-100, No. 2.

(11) Ibid.: Project X—100, No. 10.

(12) Spealman, C. R., Science (in press).

(13) Public Health Reports: Vol. 40, No. 15, 1925.

(14) Naval Medical Research Institute: Project X-100, No, 6.

(15) Ibid.: Project X—100, No. 7.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Consolazio, Pace, and Ivy PEATE: |

ADDITION OF DESALTING BRIQUET TO PROCESSING BAG CONTAINING SEA
WATER.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Consolazio, Pace, and Ivy PLATE 2

1. KNEADING DESALTING MATERIAL WITH SEA WATER

2. DRINKING DESALTED SEA WATER FROM TUBE AT BOTTOM OF PROCESSING BAG
PLASTICS AND METALS
COMPETITORS OR COLLABORATORS ??

By G. K. ScrisNEer

President, Boonton Molding Co.,
Boonton, N. J., and Past President
of the Society of the Plastics Industry

[With 2 plates]

Any attempt to compare plastics and metals on a competitive basis
is difficult because of the versatility of both groups of materials. It is
in the same class with the ancient discussions of which is the more
valuable man on a baseball team, a good hitter or a good pitcher.
Both are necessary to a well-rounded team. Our team in this case com-
prises all the materials of engineering that are making possible the
present and future scale of living for all of mankind.

The general idea that plastics will in some way be competitors of
metals (especially light metals) in the postwar world may be true to
a certain extent, but the areas of overlapping will be found to be
comparatively small. In the first place, plastics are not a tonnage
industry as practically all metals are. Even magnesium, the newest
candidate among the metals, is being produced at something like
double the entire output of plastics. If the automotive world sud-
denly decided that plastic cars were actually here and tried to swing
into production, it would put the chemical industry in an impossible
situation. Three hundred and fifty thousand tons of plastics (the
present production for parts) would not go very far, and the tanks,
retorts, and piping required to jump plastics production up to any-
thing approaching the tonnage required would be a real headache.

Even in the competitive area, the rivalry is not general. Molded
plastics compete with metal chiefly when metals are die-cast, sand-
cast, or machined. Laminated plastics are competitors with metals
when the latter are considered in sheets, formed or machined. Resin
coatings compete with metals used as plating mediums. These are the
three principal occupants of the twilight zone where plastics and
metals overlap.

1 Reprinted by permission from Metals and Alloys, vol. 20, No. 2, August 1944.
165
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Outside this area the two types of materials are mutually exclusitve—
each supreme in its own right. Plastics cannot be used where con-
tinuous heat above 400° F. will be applied. Plastics lack the surface
hardness of most metals, although many plastics seem to be better
under abrasion than many metals. Again, if only a small space is
available and the cross section therefore limited, metals are invariably
chosen because they provide the requisite strength.

SOME BROAD DISTINCTIONS

Plastics are beyond the competitive reach of metals where (1)
satisfactory electrical insulating quality is required; (2) a material is
needed that will waterproof textiles so as to leave them flexible enough
to use as raincoats, shower curtains, and the like; (3) transparency
is required; (4) a material is sought that is suitable for protection
against ordinary heat conduction in such simple applications as coffee-
pot handles, gas-stove handles, electric-iron handles and thousands
of like parts; (5) the material must feel warm and comfortable to the
touch, so that one’s skin won’t freeze to it in cold weather, and must
not get too hot to handle in very hot weather; and (6) a choice of
built-in colors is desired.

If those were the sole bases of comparison between plastics and
metals, metals would already be at the start of a long decline. How-
ever the problem cannot be settled so simply in favor of either side.
Let us go back to the two most important fields where the choice may
be difficult—formed metals versus molded plastics and sheet metals
versus sheet plastics, and see if it is not necessary to draw some finer
distinctions.

To begin with, not all metals can be formed with equal ease. As
with plastics, compromise is usually invoked. A certain alloy steel
may be ideal as to service quality but to get it in the shape needed might
involve so much cost as to make its specification unwise. If some
bright engineer found an airplane propellor design that needed a
metal so hard to work that it would cut the entire propeller production
of the country to one-tenth its present rate, it is unlikely that the
advantages accruing from its use would be considered enough to
justify the loss of production.

Molded plastics need rather expensive steel molds, but so do metal
die-castings. Sand-cast metals offer a cheaper approach, but may —
leave too much machining to be done to get the needed accuracy.
Plastics molded parts seem to fit into a middle band of accuracy. If
the part is really rough and a sixteenth of an inch means nothing, a
sand-casting is certainly indicated; if the tolerances, however, are
less than 0.001 inch, carefully machined metal is a better choice; be-
PLASTICS AND METALS—SCRIBNER 167

tween these two sections is where molded plastics may have an even
chance.

Other things being equal, the greatest. advantage plastics have to
offer the prospective buyer is built-in color, and its twin brother, sur-
face permanence. In the case of plastics neither corrosion nor elec-
trolysis will alter what was bought and paid for.

Die-cast or stamped metal is most certainly indicated when thin
sections must be rigid or bear any appreciable strain. Strong, thin
plastic parts can easily be made in limited shapes by using reinforce-
ments of laminates or fiber stocks, but they will not be rigid. On the
other hand, plastics can carry threads very nicely, as nicely indeed as
metals if there is enough “meat” around the thread to prevent its
cracking out.

ENGINEERING FACTORS IN SELECTION

Basically the first factor determining the choice of plastics or
metals is the available space or volume of the part. If it is relatively
small, plastics are almost automatically out unless their use is de-
manded by one of the six “exclusives” mentioned earlier.

After the space factor comes cost. All plastics cost more than
metals, on a pound basis. The saving grace for plastics comes from
the advantage of their low specific gravities. (See table 1.) Even
magnesium at 1.80 is higher than the average range of 1.06 to 1.50 for
plastics. Perhaps, indeed, a correction of the usual strength values
for the specific-gravity effect may bring plastics up into the range of
the engineering metals. Unfortunately, to make any showing at all
for plastics we must choose the very best plastics material, and be
careful to select one of the weaker alloys for comparison.

On this basis, for instance, let us make some tensile-strength com-
parisons. (See table 2.) Chrome-moly steel and stainless steel run
around 180,000 pounds per square inch, aluminum alloy 62,000, and
magnesium alloy 46,000. One of the strongest plastics we have is
Pregwood, impregnated plywood. Pregwood’s tensile strength is
30,000 pounds per square inch. Other “strong” plastics are paper
laminate at 12,500 pounds per square inch, canvas laminate 9,500, and
wood-flour-phenolic molded parts 8,500. It is evident that plastics
offer no competition in direct comparisons of this type.

Now suppose we set up our system of handicaps based on dividing
the strength figures by specific gravity so we can determine specific
tensile strength or tensile strength per pound. (Again see table 2, in
which the materials are listed in their order of merit in this respect.)
Immediately one of the plastics contestants, Pregwood, moves up to
third on the list at 23,000, behind magnesium alloy at 25,400, and
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

stainless steel at 23,600. Chrome-moly steel comes in at 22,900, alu-
minum alloy at 22,100, and then a terrible drop to paper laminate at
9,400, canvas laminate at 7,100, and wood-flour-phenolic, molded, at
6,200.

This comparison shows that if the competition be confined to sheet
materials, the plastics stand up fairly well in tensile strength by
weight, but the moment it centers about really shapeable forms by
bringing in the moldable group, the plastics lose position rapidly.

TaBLe 1.—Some plastics and metals compared as to light weight (lightest at the top
of the list)

é Specific grav-
Materials'and characteristics ities
Formica Pregood No. 100. Impregnated compressed wood_---------- 1. 30

All laminations parallel. Classed as a high-strength product.
Water absorption 6 percent maximum.

Formica canvas laminate-phenolic. Grade C___________-__---_-_-- 133
Cotton fabric, 4 ounces per yard. Tough.
Water absorption 0.3 percent.

Formica paper base laminate-phenolic. Grade X__.---------------- to
Primarily for mechanical applications.
Water absorption 4 percent.

Bakelite wood-flour-phenolic BM-120. Best all-around molding

com posilionet0.3. 2yuta: irarct eee ont ee ag 4 to ato Ee 1. 36
Water absorption 0.3 percent.
Bakelite macerated canvas phenolic BM-3510________-___---_-_------ 1. 38

High-production, high-impact molding.
Water absorption 1 percent.

Formica glass mat base phenolic. Grade MF_--------------------- 1. 50
Basically for electrical purposes.
Water absorption 0.35 percent.

Formica asbestos fabric base laminate. Grade AA_.-__--_----------- 1. 80
Strength, toughness, minimum dimensional changes.
Water absorption 1.5 percent.

Magnesram alley CA Mea) oe ate een eee eae 1. 81
Alumimum elloy (24 SD)ielc . teed - yas 9d} eeoads. tz2usn- aye -2eb 2. 80
Stainless steel oo a2 os a2 eee Mie Se ee ee 7. 85
Chrome-mnoly Steels sete es Se ee nee en eee 7. 85

With respect to compressive strength the steels are strongest; with
some of the plastics better than some of the other metals, as can be
seen in table 3. When the specific gravity correction is applied, how-
ever, all the plastics (except Pregwood, now) rate higher than the
metals. Therefore if compressive strength is the determining factor
in a specific design, plastics (some form of thermosetting phenolic or
urea) will serve the purpose best pound for pound.

Similar data on modulus of elasticity in tension, which is a measure
of a material’s rigidity, are given in table 4 and show clearly that the
metals are outstanding in this respect, even on a per-pound basis.
And beyond that, on shear strength, impact strength, and flexural
strength there is just no point in presenting tables, no matter how they
might be corrected for comparative weights, for the plastics are
woefully inferior to metals in these respects.
PLASTICS AND METALS—SCRIBNER 169
THE CASE FOR PLASTICS

Faced by this story of comparative performance, why don’t plastics
fold up and leave the field of engineering materials entirely to the
metals? In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, when a plastic material
is faced with a really severe service application of an engineering na-
ture it does fade right out of the picture—unless the stronger metal
has its own handicap (such as poor resistance to corrosion or even
electrical characteristics) that may be even more serious than the
mechanical deficiency of the plastic.

Fortunately for plastics there are enough applications for which any
material will have enough strength if it can be dropped six times from
the height of a table to a concrete floor without breaking. Certainly
if you can design around compressive strength, almost any kind of
thermosetting plastic material, except plywood, will give the best re-
sults on a pound basis. Under tension, plywood is right up in the
front fighting it out with the leaders in the metal world on a pound-
for-pound basis, asking no quarter and giving none. That is the
reason the famous Mosquito bombers are made of plywood (actually a
different kind of wood for each part of the structure, birch in one spot,
boxwood in another, etc.).

Plastics have a few outstanding service qualities where these pre-
viously mentioned measures of strength are not all-important. One
of these is abrasion resistance. Ammunition chutes of laminated
phenolic outwear steel. Plastic gears are not only quieter but wear as
well as steel. Under impact plastic sheets won’t dent and gradually
deform before failure, but will just break all of a sudden, while metal,
although it will not fail completely, will get battered out of any usable
shape. Plastics will dampen vibration better than metals, too, which
means less noise, or the avoidance of synchronous beats set up in other
parts of a machine.

TABLE 2.—Comparison of strength/weight properties of plastics and metals

Tensile/ Ratio
specific |(magnesium
gravity | alloy=100)

E Specific Tensile
Material gravity | strength

Magnesium alloys 225. Jk I A ed 1,81 46, 000 25, 400 100
Sininloamstanl: = Bey a ee pe ed Peete ae ee 7. 85 185, 000 23, 600 93
Bregwoodttld 2 Oth cred ys Fe eee 1. 30 30, 000 23, 000 90
@hromp-molyrsteel 20. ei eee 8 es Fo 7.85 180, 000 22, 900 90
Alominaum alloys tsi Dy eee ea 2. 80 62, 000 22, 100 87
apervaminagte ps2 ree rie 1 pe kt a 1.33 12, 500 9, 400 36
Glass fabric Idminate. Fi 12004 OU 1.50 14, 000 9, 300 36
Canvas fabric laminate 0% tel: spc. el 1, 33 9, 500 7, 100 28
Wood-flour-phenolic, molded__.___________.___-_-----_---- 1.36 8, 500 6, 200 24
Asbestos paper laminate 2... 22 ee bee ee 1.80 , 000 5, 500 21
Impact phenolic, molded_.___.__..-__-_-------2-2-----e 1. 38 7, 500 5, 400 21
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

TABLE 38.—Compressive strength/weight values of plastics and metals

Compres- Rati
Compres- sive oe
Material pes siv strength/ cra ll
gr strength | specific Hea
gravity

@anvas lamirziate j. 2.135 bae oe Te ee ease 5 ee 1.33 38, 000 , 000 100
Paper tlaminate:=< 220 Wild Geiss SABI 2M 1. 33 35, 000 26, 000 93
Glsssiahric laminates: Tint S32 te 24 eee ee 1.5 40, 000 26, 000 93
Impact phenolic; molded24 .324_ 27) eke 2 AON. 1. 38 35, 000 25, 000 89
Wood-flour-phenolic, molded_-._-.__._._.--_-_-----_-__----- 1. 36 30, 000 22, 000 78
Asbestos laminate.) * 2 >. 3204 Sev OU Vee 1.80 38, 000 21, 000 75
IVs oTiOs INGO Y 22st noe eee ee 1.81 35, 000 19, 300 69
@hrome-moly. steel... 23 2 do ee 7.85 150, 000 19, 100 68
Siaiwlessictcels ake wee ee een cee ee 7.85 150, 000 19, 100 68
Auminnm alloy 222. SUV Ps Oe ele 2.80 40, 000 14, 300 51
BrerwnpG eso. Aes ee ens eee ae 13 15, 000 11, 000 39

Sheets of plastic cannot be drawn to new shapes as easily as metals,
but usually when odd shapes are wanted they can be created in plastics
before making the sheet itself; in other words, sheets of metals are raw
materials suitable for a great deal more working than sheets of plastics.
The plastics man starts one step back of the sheet, uses the same basic
material and pre-forms it to the desired shape instead of into the
sheet itself.

There is one unfortunate characteristic of plastics that occurs also
in metals but not so badly, and that is creep. Creep (cold flow in this
case) is the constant change in dimension under stress. The thermo-
plastic plastics are strongly subject to it and therefore are avoided for
stressed service; in the thermosetting materials creep is present but
unless the material is used with practically no factor of safety it may be
cliscounted entirely.

CLASSES OF PLASTICS

In any comparison of plastics and metals it should be remembered
that there are many types and forms of “plastics.” All plastics are
divided into thermosetting and thermoplastic types. The first group,
the themosetting, are somewhat like concrete in their internal action.
As raw materials they will first soften under heat and then harden.
Practically no further softening will take place right up to the charring
point. A part once molded wrong might as well be scrapped, since the
material canot be used overagain. (Like all technical statements, that
one must immediately be qualified. It has been reported that the H. J.
Heinz Co., of 57-variety fame, developed a liquid that would soften
a completely cured phenolic part, than which there is no more com-
pletely set item thinkable, so that the part could be manipulated by
hand, and would come back to its original hard state when dried. Also,
some of the airplane companies on the west coast have a process whereby
PLASTICS AND METALS—SCRIBNER val

they can shape within certain limits laminated structures that have
been considered completely cured. With those reservations our defini-
tion of thermosetting is still good.)

The thermoplastic materials, the other general class of plastics, are
those which have the quality of softening under heat and hardening
when cool; a simple analogy in this case is paraffin.

The thermosetting group are usuable on an average up to around
300° F.; some will go to 400° F. The moldable materials that go above
those figures are based on cement binders as a rule and are not classed
as plastics. Thermoplastic materials, as a rule, are not rated much
above 130° F. although the laboratories promise some that can be
boiled, for production in the near future.

There is one outstanding characteristic about metals that we who
handle plastics regard with wistful envy. The word “metals” covers a
number of different materials and everybody accepts that fact without
question. So does the word “plastics,” but few people seem to recog-
nize that fact. Perhaps an illustration will make significance of this
statement clearer: ;

Suppose the hardware stores stocked ordinary house gutters of two
or three different kinds of plastic materials, and that John Doe decided
to buy one and bought the cheapest he could find—to be specific, one
made of cellulose acetate. Onan August day in Philadelphia it would
probably sag from the heat and become useless. The odds are that he
thought of the gutter as “plastics” rather than as an acetate plastie,
and when it proved unsatisfactory he would simply condemn all plas-
tics and decide never to buy another plastics gutter.

On the other hand, suppose he bought a cheap black iron gutter and
in 3 or 4 months that gutter rusted out. Again the odds are that he
would merely scratch his head and admit that he should have known
better and bought a copper gutter in the first place. He definitely
would not have condemned metal gutters.

The moral is that we to whom plastics are bread and butter have
been lax in educating the public to the fact that there are a whole series
of plastic materials, each of which has a different set of qualities, so
that if a wrong application is made of one of the series (and there are
bound to be mistakes made) the whole class of plastics will not be con-
demned. We should begin that education with engineers and then
try to make it filter down to the general public. Unfortunately, even
some engineers disparage plastics generally because they made a mis-
take in the choice of one of the line.
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

TasBLe 4.—Moduli of elasticity in tension and specific gravities of plastics
and metals

; Specific Modulus of A
Material gravity elasticity Modulus/S.G. aa
Stainless'eteel-< ...-... 2... - . peed eee 72.85) |: 30'K110 $s. ee G8) Ke LO Soy 2 eee oe Se 100
@hrome-moly: steel=.. 2 = 5-2-4 1260 | tee ane Be OK AU se a eae Gage 98
Aluminumijalloy.cnr oo) ise eed 2/80; 1/1042. a2 o> Sh Xe OiPe st been oy peels vn 98
Magnesium alloy____-__-__-- pepe peor 1281 I 6bs2n = one Bod sy 0 Je alee a 94
Propwoad <> treet foe own Fee ated 1930) | idee =. -22-2et a BA KIO WE fae 4 Fie 75
IPSDErRAND ALON. 3-2 oe ee eee DA 2 JS H 1 tere ei: Ses Mepis cea ae a 59
Glass fabric laminate__________.._-_-_-_-- ABD ti . reccss sees L400 BF oe on ee 35
Impact phenolic, molded_____-_-_---_---- 1. 3806-2 eon g EES 2S |! i a ae ners 34
Canvasilaminate« . Sere. se else sz 1.93 yb 02624 nee et: hb pati oe 29
ASneSTOSHAMINGLO. 2-5-8 fect ace eee TSO len. oc ee ONE KG Ge eee 22
Wood-flour-phenolic, molded_-.._---_---- 1G) 0:86! of. eke | 0.70 x 10 8 = 18

SPECIFIC MATERIALS

A recitation of many branches of the plastics family tree may help
to clarify the possibilities of future applications and their relations
to metals. The two basic classifications of thermosetting and thermo-
plastic are merely behavior classifications. First let us remember that
plastics are the children of organic chemistry—permutations and
combinations of the five elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen,
and chlorine, with minor assistance from many others.

The top division among plastics would group them into rigid
and nonrigid, rigid plastics being those which require substantial
force to deform, and which show only a moderate deformation under
the stress of usage. This would probably mean an elongation in ten-
sion of less than 100 percent and possession of appreciable flexural
strength. This is the general class of materials meant when we
talk about plastics. The materials that lie outside the rigid group are
the elastomers such as the Bunas, Butyl, Thiokol, Neoprene, and the
like.

The rigid plastics may then be divided into three general groups,
the thermosetting resins, the thermoplastic resins, and the cellulosic.
Even after that break-down we should perhaps recognize a fourth
and straddling group of “natural” plastics to accommodate such
materials as lignin, casein, cashew nuts, redwood, coffee, and such.

Among the thermosetting resins there are phenolformaldehydes
(commonly called phenolics), phenolfurfural, urea formaldehydes,
and melamine formaldehydes. They are all furnished to the molder
or laminator in a preliminary state of chemical change and are com-
pleted or cured by the heat applied in the forming operations. A
chemical reaction takes place in the mold so that when they come
out of the mold or laminating press they are different chemically
from the materials that went into the presses. Each will maintain
its new identity indefinitely if properly treated.
PLASTICS AND METALS—SCRIBNER 173

The thermoplastic group is the one that constantly fills the head-
lines and carries most of the glamour today. It is the one that fur-
nishes the shoe soles, the shower curtains, the transparent food pack-
ages, and so on. In it are the acrylates of bomber-nose fame, styrene,
polyethylene, nylon, vinylidene chloride, and the vinyl family—a
most versatile group of chemical relatives who can do almost any-
thing, including belonging to either the thermosetting or thermo-
plastic class at the command of the chemist in charge.

Then comes the cellulosic section, made up of cellulose acetate, cellu-
lose nitrate (the forefather of them all, but a frequent problem be-
cause of its inflammability), cellulose acetate butyrate, and ethyl
cellulose, one of the latest comers. These are not resins, but com-
pounds. Each has been loaded down with a lubricating agent, of
which the chemist has a list of a couple of hundred at his fingertips.

Finally there is that catch-all class, the naturals. Nature uses
the same general formula that the plastics industry uses. All things
inanimate that grow consist of a filler (cellulose) and a binder (some
sort of lignin). That binder has tempted the chemist mightily ever
since plastics became good headline materials. Coffee, soy beans,
cashew nuts, walnuts, redwood, all have been found to have possi-
bilities. All seem to contain something resembling aldehydes or
phenols in their composition. They have been successful in coatings
and in large sheets for wall boards but the basic formula is not con-
sistent enough to show any particular promise in molding.

If the field of competition between plastics and metals is small, the
question naturally comes up as to whether metals and plastics should
merely pass each other by with a nod. Definitely not. The main use
of plastics today and in the future is complementary to metals.

Plastics must add to metals the characteristics that metals lack,
and they are already doing just this in many surprising ways. Plas-
tic quick-drying varnishes put the automobile into the low-price class
it had to hit if it wanted volume. Remember when it took weeks to
finish a repaint job? Busy weeks too, on the part of the painter,
weeks spent in rubbing down successive coats and careful drying in
between. Now the dipped or spray sections are dried progressively
in tunnels. Imagine, if you can, thousands of cars per day under the
old system.

_In automobile hardware we have the ideal illustration of the com-
bination of desirable qualities in metals and plastics—die-cast zinc
alloy cores for door handles covered with thermoplastic colors, warm
to the touch and everlasting, the strength and rigidity of the die-
cast metal counteracting the tendency of the plastic to droop in heat
or under too much pressure. Business machines of all kinds have

metal bases for rigidity, metal gears for small, strong sections, and
6762124612
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

plastic parts for complications and housings. Plastics can handle
electricity but welcome metal for protection and for the boxes that
are fastened to the wall. Airplanes have hundreds of plastics parts,
where the light weight really does a job, but combined with metals
where metals are helpful from the strength standpoint. The list of
such combinations is endless.

I recently saw an all-plastic alarm clock, a completely illogical try
if ever there was one. The combined cost of molds and molded parts
would have placed the selling price at four or five times that of any
much better metal clock. And yet there are good reasons for clock
cases finished in plastics. Color, the low cost of intricate shape,
warmth to the touch, ete., in combination with the basic metal design
make a salable article.

In considering plastics as design materials, therefore, please re-
member two things: First, there are many plastics, just as there are
many metals; if one plastic does not prove the answer to your problem,
look around a bit and see if there isn’t another that is more logically
suited. Second, include plastics in your design thinking as a com-
plementary material to your metal experience; investigate every pos-
sibility of combining a metal and a plastic to utilize the best features
of each.

The very fact that plastics production is only 350,000 tons per year
compared to the relatively enormous production figures of metals (90
million tons of steel, 1 million tons of aluminum, etc), tied to the
widespread discussion of plastics in the public press and in engineer-
ing magazines like this must mean only one thing: no material with
that small a volume could get around enough on its own steam in the
last 5 years to make the impression that plastics have already made;
the explanation is that the most important applications of plastics
have been in combination with their bigger brothers, the metals.
(0D

WONBINSUT BoOlUIO ASOWINOD) ‘“ofl[ 9dIAJOS 9AOIdMIIT 04 sospa
[B10UL YIM poulquIod SI [elieyeuUI ay} SJoT[odoid oyu epeUr UY A,

“SOILSW1d YAHLO AHL NVHL HLONAYLS

ShlISNa SNS sala are IO season SANOD
—SNOILVNINYW] GOOM GASNA-NISSY—AGOOM2D3AYd °2

10 (AS Ze3 | |

(‘diog uvusegq vessouuay, AseyIn0g *syuemodurOD 3ulInsveul
[B19W 94} JO UOISIOaId 94 SUTJOIYe UO’ PUBY S,10}¥1edo 9Y4 JO YBeY 9} SJUeAeId
AYATYONPUO [eULIOYy} MOT 9SoyM “OIYSeId o4TU,T, JO poploul-UOroolUT ST B[PURY UL

“YHOLVYEVdIWNOD ONILVOION] 31GVLeOd SIHL S| NOILvVY¥Osv1I
“109 SOILSVTId-GNV-SIVLAW 3SO AIdWVYXQ LNATIIS9DXO NV °}

IWUuAaINC—"ChZI ‘VIOdaNT UPIUOSUITUIC
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Scribner PLATE 2

1. INJECTION-MOLDED FIBESTOS PLASTICS PARTS ARE COMBINED WITH METALS
IN THIS TANK WINDSHIELD ASSEMBLY.

Courtesy Monsanto Chemical Co., Plastics Division.)

2. THESE AIRCRAFT PULLEYS, FAIRLEADS, PROPELLER SUPPORTS, AND CABIN
AIR CONTROLS ARE FABRICATED FROM LAMINATED PLASTICS.

(Courtesy Bakelite Corp.)
THE MINERAL POSITION OF THE UNITED STATES
AND THE OUTLOOK FOR THE FUTURE*

By ELMER W. PEHRSON

Chief, Economics and Statistics Branch, Bureau of Mines

The experience of the past 5 years again has awakened the national
conscience to the importance of our mineral resources. The devastat-
ing effectiveness of modern weapons made from metal and propelled
by mineral fuels, the mineral shortages that have at times threatened
serious repercussions on the battle front, the scarcity of the modern
conveniences to which we have become accustomed, and fuel and gas-
oline rationing have brought home with emphasis the tremendous im-
portance of minerals in modern life. Without its mineral resources
the United States would be restricted to an agricultural-type economy
capable of supporting considerably less than the 135,000,000 people
now living within its borders at a standard that is the envy of the
world. These same resources permit the 7 percent of the world’s
population residing in the United States to do 40 percent of the world’s
work. The fact is that we owe our industrial and military power to
our great mineral resources, the equal of which has not yet been de-
veloped in any other like area of the globe.

Possession of such wealth is of course an outstanding national asset,
but it is one that also could have serious implications for the future.
This arises from the fact that unfortunately mineral deposits are ex-
haustible, from which it follows that the faster we grow in industrial
strength and military potency—a growth made possible largely
through increased mineral output—the faster we liquidate the very
basis of our power. That power must be sustained not only to assure
our economic well-being but also to permit us to discharge effectively
the greater responsibility in international affairs that will come to us
in the postwar years. It is in keeping with the times, therefore, if
tonight we endeavor to appraise our present mineral position and ex-
plore the outlook for the future, and, in view of the epochal decade in
world affairs that lies ahead, it is essential that we do this with realism
and candor.

1 Presented before the New York Section, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical
Engineers, February 19, 1945. Published by permission of the Director, U. S. Bureau of
Mines. Reprinted by permission from Mining and Metallurgy, April 1945.

175
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

There has been considerable public discussion of late that indicates
a wide divergence of opinion as to where we stand with respect to
future mineral supply. From some quarters we hear that the United
States is about to become a “have-not” nation and about to experience
the evil consequences such a situation would entail. Others claim
that we are still a treasure house of stored-up mineral wealth, the
surface of which barely has been scratched. It is believed that the
data to be eet this Coe slaw the conclusion that neither

PaRAPR mye: >
BERGER SSESES:
KORARKEs OBR
COPE

cade WLW
SHRREBRTRVINE
CCP ear.
SREDZ Aa
rN WAT

1880 1885 1890 1895 1900 pee 910-1915 1920 1925 1930 1935 1940 1945]

o

on

+

w

n
a
<
ar
=
re)
ra
ue
ro)
iw
Zz
1 O
=
=
mo

Le)

Figure 1.—Trends in value of mineral production in the United States, 1880-1944.

of these viewpoints is correct and that we are far from exhaustion of
those mineral resources that are basic to our industrial economy. How-
ever, exhaustion is well advanced in a number of important subsidiary
minerals so that we can no longer drift along with the easy-going
philosophy that the earth will provide. The time has come when we
must recognize the true situation and do something about it.

EXPANSION OF MINERAL PRODUCTION RAPID

The vigorous manner in which the United States has forced the
earth to yield its mineral treasure is attested by figure 1, which shows

MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—PEHRSON 177

the growth of mineral production from 1880 to 1944. During this
period the annual output rose from less than one-half billion dollars
to eight and one-half billion, a sixteenfold increase. During the first
two decades of this period there was a relatively slow rise in produc-
tion, but with the turn of the century a rapid advance set in which
was further stimulated by World War I and the succeeding boom
period. Since 1900 mineral production in the United States has ex-
ceeded that of the entire world prior to that time. This period ter-
minated with the collapse in the latter part of 1929 following which
there was a precipitous decline to 1932 and a substantial recovery
thereafter which was carried to an all-time record production in 1944
by the war. It will be noted that since 1915 the production of mineral
fuels has achieved outstanding significance, this being due largely to
the rapid rise in petroleum production and the accompanying growth
of automotive transportation. Metals have ranked second in im-
portance in recent years, with the nonmetals other than fuels holding
third place. The importance of metals in war is clearly indicated by
the peaks experienced in both war periods.

Aside from these direct contributions to the national income, the
mineral industries have employed hundreds of thousands of workers.
In 1900 it is estimated that 500,000 persons were gainfully employed
only in the extraction of minerals. By 1923 employment had reached
a peak of 1,080,000, following which there was a decline to about
660,000 in 1943. Increasing mechanization and other improvements
in mineral technology have greatly increased the output per worker
so that compared with 1923 it was possible in 1944 to obtain a third
more output measured quantitatively, with a third less workers. The
processing of minerals and the services required by the mineral indus-
tries give employment to several hundred thousand more workers.

Figure 2 compares the growth of the physical volume of mineral
production with that of agricultural and industrial production and
population from 1900 to 1944. It will be noted that prior to 1940
mineral output and industrial production were closely correlated and
increasing faster than the growth in population. Expansion in agri-
cultural production, on the other hand, more nearly approximated
the population trend. Since 1940 there has been great disparity be-
tween the mineral and industrial trend lines. This is due to several
factors, among which are the greater use of imported minerals, which
is reflected in the industrial indexes, but not in the mineral indexes
used in constructing the chart, and in part by the fact that the mineral
index does not include certain commodities such as aluminum and
magnesium, production of which has increased greatly during the war.
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Figure 3, which shows the dollar value of imports and exports of
minerals and mineral products, indicates that we have been generous
in making our minerals available to the rest of the world. Foreign
trade figures include some semifabricated products the dollar value

INDEX NUMBERS 1935-39 AVERAGE = 100

120
r Agricultural production ree

100 ifr “VW j v
Population ae. AN

+

—j

80} fe vw

0 | | :
1900 1905 1910 1915 1920 1925 1930 1935 1940 1945 |}

Figure 2.—Comparison of growth of physical volume of mineral production with
that of agricultural and industrial production and population, 1900-44.

of which per unit of mineral is relatively high compared with that of
raw materials. The values shown in the chart, therefore, are not
directly comparable with those given for mineral production.

NEED FOR APPRAISAL OF MINERAL RESERVES

The unprecedented rate at which we have been depleting our min-
eral resources and the difficulties encountered in obtaining sufficient

—_——
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—PEHRSON 179

minerals to sustain the war program have focused attention on the
need for reviewing and clarifying national mineral policy. This in
turn has indicated the need for an appraisal of reserves, for such data
obviously are a prerequisite to an understanding of the mineral prob-
lem. As a contribution to this objective the Geological Survey and
the Bureau of Mines began a study of available information on min-
eral deposits with a view to preparing estimates of national reserves.
This work has been under way for over a year and an initial report
will be completed shortly. I am indebted to Dr. W. E. Wrather,
Director of the United States Geological Survey, and Dr. R. R. Sayers,
Director of the United States Bureau of Mines, for permission to use

Ww
a
a
=)
=
o
oO
rs
°o
w
za
°o
=)
4
=

1giO 1915 1920 1925 1930 1935 1940

Figure 3.—Value of United States imports and exports of minerals and mineral
products exclusive of advanced manufactures, 1900-43.

a preliminary summary of the study. The estimates were prepared
by geologists and mining engineers in the two Bureaus, and to them
must go full credit for the results that have been obtained. Those
of you who have struggled with the problem of evaluating the re-
serves of a single mine can readily appreciate the problems involved
in appraising the reserves of the entire country. The Geological Sur-
vey, since its creation in 1880, and the Bureau of Mines, since 1910,
have been gathering information on our mineral industries, and fol-
lowing the passage of the Strategic Materials Act in 1939 there has
been extensive activity in exploring deposits of “strategic” minerals.
The analysis of these data and the preparation of the estimates have
required much painstaking research and careful analysis as well as
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

the exercise of sound and objective judgment. While acknowledging
this outstanding contribution of my colleagues, I must absolve them
of any responsibility for the comments herewith as to the national
significance of the estimates, as these represent largely my own views.

It would be easy to avoid the responsibility of estimating national
mineral reserves on the grounds that there are so many unpredictable
and unforeseen factors involved in the occurrence and discovery of
mineral deposits that it is futile to be specific on a quantitative basis.
However, despite the limitations in estimates of this kind, I believe
it is helpful to have well-informed men make available their opinions
on the magnitude of our reserves as such information provides a
practical basis for discussion. Moreover, many basic decisions on
national policy will have to be made by our leaders within the next
few years, and those decisions can be made more wisely if the objective
judgment of experts is available. The data to be presented this
evening represent only the highlights of the reports prepared by these
men. They should be used with the understanding that reserve
estimates are subject to change even under the best of conditions,
particularly when attempted on such a broad scale. The estimates
therefore represent preliminary figures only.

BASIS OF RESERVE ESTIMATES

In attempting this appraisal of our mineral position major emphasis
has been placed on those reserves that are available under present
economic conditions and technologic practices. They may be referred
to broadly as “commercial” reserves. Future supply-demand relation-
ships and prices as well as progress in mineral technology are not sus-
ceptible to precise determinations. Consequently the economic and
technical factors involved in estimates of commercial reserves, in addi-
tion to the geological factors, must be analyzed in broad terms. The
data available do not permit detailed estimates within various narrow
price ranges. In general, the estimates may be considered as repre-
senting reserves available at good prewar prices, although some of
them are predicated on moderately higher prices.

Company reports and other public statements on mineral reserves
frequently include only such quantities as are practically assured on
the basis of engineering data. They, therefore, present an extremely
conservative appraisal of potential mineral supplies and are apt to be
misleading if they are not used in proper perspective. To present a
more realistic picture of our mineral potential, the Survey-Bureau
specialists have for most commodities evaluated commercial reserves
on the basis of measured, indicated, and inferred ore, using the official
definitions that have been established for these categories. Notable
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—PEHRSON 181

exceptions are petroleum and natural gas, for which it was felt that
available data did not permit estimates of inferred reserves with any
acceptable degree of accuracy.

UNCERTAINTY OF FUTURE DISCOVERIES

In appraising the significance of present estimates of commercial
mineral reserves, consideration must be given to the possibilities of
discovery not contemplated in the inferred ore included in the esti-
mates. We may start with the assumption that the potential mineral
areas of the Nation have been heavily prospected and most of the sur-
face deposits or those whose presence is indicated by superficial
phenomena already have been found. This assumption is substan-
tiated by the decline in new discoveries. During the past 2 years, much
attention has been given to the failure of petroleum discoveries to keep
pace with the rapid rate of depletion. The rate of discovery of
metalliferous deposits has been declining at an alarming rate for half
acentury. It is significant to note that no major metal-producing dis-
trict comparable to Butte, Bisbee, Homestake, or the Coeur d’Alene
has been brought into production in the United States since the active
development of the Picher-Miami lead-zine deposits of the Tri-State
area about 1916. There have been few important copper discoveries
in the present century. Most of the large deposits producing today
were known before 1900. The largest discovery since then has been
the United Verde Extension mine at Jerome, Ariz. The production
from this property was relatively insignificant in terms of national
needs, the entire output in the 20-odd years the mine operated having
amounted to only a half-year supply at normal rates of consumption.
It is true that new mines have been developed, but the large ones were
the result of the application of improved technology to deposits whose
presence had been known for many years, and the small ones in the
aggregate contribute but a small part of the national requirements.
Future additions to the national reserve will depend largely on the
success achieved in utilizing known low-grade deposits not available
economically at present and the discovery of deep-seated or concealed
deposits, the presence of which is not easily discerned. Progress in
converting submarginal resources into commercial reserves can be
made through research to improve methods of extracting and process-
ing minerals and to reduce costs. Higher prices also can be an im-
portant contributing factor.

Progress in the field of new discovery depends upon the success at-
tained in developing effective and economical methods for finding
deposits not recognizable from surface indications alone. Substantial
quantities of ore occurring under heavy cover have been found by
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

underground exploration conducted in active mining areas, and geo-
physical methods guided by intelligent, detailed geologic advice have
been very successful in locating petroleum deposits. Further de-
velopment of concealed resources by a combination of these methods
is anticipated but the days of easy and accidental discovery are about
over. Prospecting by geophysical methods is costly, and as the old
mines play out, underground prospecting ceases in the well-established
producing districts. Additions to known or inferred reserves of most
minerals, therefore, depend on technologic progress and the success
of exploration that is carefully planned and scientifically executed.

EXHAUSTION OF GOMMERCIAL RESERVES AS OF 1944

fee Percent of original total remcining CJ Percen! extrocied

Magnesium

Nitrogen

Bituminous Coal
and Lignite

Salt
Phosphate Rock
Potash
Molybdenum
lron Ore
Natural Gas*
Anthracite
Sulfur

Fluorspor

Petroteum™

Copper

Zinc

Tungsten

Manganese a =
lee ay SUT Si
(pre-war grade)

vowdim
Chromium

Gold

teed

Silver

Mercury

Antimony

Ficure 4.—Chart showing proportion of estimated original commercial reserves
(measured, indicated, and inferred) of certain minerals in the United States
remaining as of 1944.

The effects of these programs on our mineral reserves obviously can-
not be evaluated with assurance at this time and opinion varies widely
as to the probable outcome. New deposits undoubtedly will be found
as will extensions to known ore bodies not contemplated in present esti-
mates of inferred ore. In general, however, I am inclined to believe
that the risks and costs involved are too great to warrant the assump-
tion that our present estimates will be increased greatly through future
discovery. In any event, it is evident that the outlook does not justify
determination of national policies solely on the expectation of large
additions to our commercial reserves through the discovery of new
deposits.

RESERVES COMPARED WITH PAST PRODUCTION

To indicate the approximate degree of exhaustion that has occurred
to date the estimates of remaining reserves are compared in figure 4
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—PEHRSON 183

with the original reserve, which was determined by adding the total
production through 1948 to the reserve estimates as of January 1,
1944. The chart includes 25 of the major industrial minerals for
which reasonably reliable estimates can be made. It does not include
building materials, with which the United States is amply supplied,
nor does it include some important minerals of which the United
States is notably deficient, such as tin and nickel.

Outstanding features of the chart are the relatively favorable po-
sition in coal and the fertilizer materials, and the relatively depleted
state of our metallic reserves. There has been no exhaustion of the
original reserve of magnesium and nitrogen, the supplies of which
are virtually inexhaustible, because of the abundance of brines and
ocean water from which we obtain magnesium, and of air from which
we extract nitrogen and other valuable elements. Air and water are
two minerals whose importance should not be overlooked although, of
course, they present no reserve problem. At the other extreme is
mercury, of which it is estimated that only 3 percent of the original
commercial reserve remains. This metal presents an interesting il-
lustration of the relation of production and price. Production reached
a peak as far back as 1877, when the United States was supplying most
of the world. Since the last war we have been heavy importers yet the
stimulus of high war prices—over four times those of 1877—has
brought forth a surprisingly large output in the last few years. The
percentages shown for natural gas and petroleum are based on proved
reserves only, which tends to exaggerate the depletion that has taken
place in these industries. The exhaustion indicated for antimony,
manganese, and chromium are of nominal significance only in view of
the fact that domestic resources have not made important contribu-
tions to national requirements as will be shown later. Somewhat more
significant is the situation shown for tungsten, vanadium, and bauxite,
although we also have been large importers of these materials in the
past. The position of iron ore is a matter of some concern from the
long-range view because of its essentiality to our industrial structure.
Of more immediate concern is the depleted state of our copper, lead,
and zinc resources and it is also apparent that we have drawn exten-
sively on our commercial reserves of gold and silver.

RESERVES COMPARED WITH PREWAR CONSUMPTION

Figure 5 shows the estimated commercial reserves of various min-
erals in terms of years’ supply at the average annual rate of consump-
tion from 1935 to 1989. The data should not be interpreted as indi-
cating that production large enough to meet the prewar rate of use
could be sustained for the periods indicated. Many of the minerals
shown are not now being produced in quantities equal to domestic
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

requirements, and as depletion progresses the maximum or optimum
rate of production declines for reasons that need not be discussed here.
The availability of those minerals that are essentially byproducts,
such as antimony and silver, is further restricted by economic and
technologic factors that control the rate of production of the other
minerals with which they are associated. Nine of the 33 minerals
shown on the chart are available in quantities equivalent to more than
a 100-year supply at the prewar rate of use. Only four fall within
the 25-to-100-year supply bracket, while eight qualify in the 5-to-25-
year group. The reserves of the remaining 12 are small, representing

COMMERCIAL RESERVES COMPARED WITH 1935-39 ANNUAL RATE OF USE

GERM Veors supply remaining 1944

YEARS
PEP OO n190 OVER
100

Nitrogen Indefinite

Magnesium Indefinite

Salt Indefinite
Bituminous Coal

and Lignite 4,300

oe
°
oe

Phosphate Rock:|

Molybdenum

422

Anthracite

Potash

.
1

Iron Ore

Sulfur

re F
o
WwW

Noturat Gas”

Years
° 20 40 60 80 0

Fluorspor esa 40
Copper Pay 34
zine MB
Petroleurt El 10
Codmium Hi 16
B..

8 12

a,

Bouxite | 3

Tungsten
Platinum
Mercury
Asbestos
Manganese

Gold Chromite

Leod Nickel

Silver Tin
industrial
Diamonds

Quartz

Vanadium | 7 Crystals

r ] Flake
Antimony #4 Graphite

Years

i.

lo

lo

® Based on proved reserves only
NOTE ~ Figures indicate quantitative significance of estimated reserves only They do not imply that the reserve could sustain consumption
at the assumed rote for the full period shown.

FieurE 5.—Commercial reserves of certain minerals as of 1944 expressed in
terms of years life at average annual rate of consumption 1935-39.

less than a 5-year supply. The significant point is that if we make
a division at the 35-year level, a period but little more than the usual
interval between wars, 21 of the 33 minerals fall below the line, and
this group includes petroleum, copper, lead, and zinc in the production
of which we have led the world for many years.

The rate of production the remaining reserves can support in the
future is no less important than the size of the reserve. Production
of those minerals of which we have over a 100-year reserve could be
expanded to meet any demand that can reasonably be expected. Mod-
erate expansion of postwar production of sulfur, fluorspar, and natural
gas over prewar peak rates doubtless could be accomplished if justified
by economic conditions. It is doubtful if copper production could be
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—PEHRSON 185

expanded much over present rates and a decline is anticipated in a
decade. The production of petroleum already is reported to have
reached or exceeded optimum rates and any increase in output at this
time would be at the expense of efficient recovery. For the remaining
minerals shown on the chart decreasing rates are likely within a rela-
tively few years.

SUBMARGINAL RESOURCES

The foregoing analysis indicates that some of our “blue chip” min-
eral resources have been depleted to a critical point. This raises a
question as to the possibilities of developing our submarginal resources,
the order of magnitude of which is shown in figure 6. In this chart

ORDER OF MAGNITUDE OF SUBMARGINAL AND HIGHLY SPECULATIVE RESOURCES
Supply based on average annual rate of consumption from 1935-39

OVER SOO YEARS I00TOSOOYEARS 25 TOIOO YEARS 5 TO 25 YEARS LESS THAN 5 YEARS
Iron Ore Bauxite Flake Graphite “Asbestos Antimony
Magnesium Manganese Petroleum Cadmium Industrial Diamonds
Nitrogen Molybdenum Copper Lead
Phosphate Rock Vanadium Chromite Platinum
Potash Fluorspar Quartz Crystals
Salt Gold Tin
Sulfur Mercury

Mica (block)
Nickel
Silver
Tungsten
Zinc

NOTE - The availability of these resources is highly speculative or remote because of uncertainties in basic estimates,
high costs of recovery, or technologic problems involved in their utilization. They do not include commercial
reserves.

FIGURE 6.—Rough quantitative appraisal of submarginal and highly speculative
mineral resources in the United States as of 1944.

an attempt has been made to show the years-supply equivalent of sub-
marginal and highly speculative resources. The availability of these
resources varies considerably but on the whole is remote because of
uncertainties in basic estimates, high costs of recovery, or technologic
problems involved in their utilization. Although they represent a
substantial potential national asset and offer a fertile field for research
most of them must be considered as largely unavailable under any
economic conditions that can be anticipated, at least in the next quarter
century.

Comparison of this list with figure 5 reveals that with few notable
exceptions submarginal reserves are roughly proportionate to com-
mercial reserves. No estimates of submarginal resources of coal are
available, but in view of the large known quantities of commercial
coal, such estimates would be of academic interest only. Noncom-
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

mercial resources of nitrogen, magnesium, and salt for practical pur-
poses may be regarded as limitless and also of academic interest at
this time. Potential reserves of phosphate rock, molybdenum, potash,
iron ore, and all forms of sulfur are significant because they assure
ample supplies of these important raw materials for many years to
come if we are willing to pay the price for them. The large sub-
marginal resources of bauxite, manganese, and vanadium afford a
measure of safety against possible shortages of these strategic ma-
terials in future emergencies and eventually may even provide peace-
time industries. The bauxite in this category is largely high-silica
and high-iron ore that cannot compete with high-grade foreign ores.
Tn addition to this off-grade bauxite there are large quantities of other
minerals to supplement our submarginal resources of raw materials
for the production of aluminum. Flake graphite is available in fairly
large quantities but it is of low quality compared with foreign ma-
terials. Its use would be costly and the products made from it inferior.
The position of petroleum on the chart is based on the statement of
Wallace E. Pratt that the ultimate production of the United States
should total at least 100 billion barrels. Obviously this must be re-
garded as highly speculative. From the long-range view, the sub-
marginal resources of the other minerals appear to offer only moderate
expectations of an improved reserve position in the future. This
group includes such important materials as copper, lead, zinc, tin,
nickel, and chromite.

Because of the many uncertain factors involved and the limited in-
formation available on submarginal resources, the foregoing con-
clusions must be regarded only as a very rough indication of the
possibilities that are apparent at this time.

OUTLOOK FOR THE FUTURE

With this appraisal of our mineral resources in mind we may ex-
plore the outlook for the future in more detail. Coal is the priceless
ingredient that protects the industrial health of the Nation; it is the
Nation’s number one asset, although our agricultural friends might
dispute this assertion. Iron ore certainly ranks second among the
minerals, and because of the widespread use of the internal combus-
tion engine we must accord petroleum third place. These three min-
erals being of outstanding importance merit special consideration.

Coal.—The five great centers of industrial and military power have
developed around large coal resources. The United States, England,
Russia, Japan, and Western Europe are the principal coal-producing
regions of the world and owe their position in world affairs largely
to that fact. Coal is essential in the production of steel and mechanical
power and these are the primary requirements for industrial develop-
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—-PEHRSON 187

ment. The United States is fortunate in having the largest reserve in
the world, but the tremendous contribution of coal to the Nation’s
welfare is too little appreciated by the public, which is prone to regard
the coal industry as an occasional source of annoying labor-manage-
ment disputes and disagreeable fuel shortages. We have no serious
difficulties of supply in sight, although the reserves of high-grade
coking coals are none too plentiful and may present some problem in
the not-too-distant future. Our disposition to take coal for granted
because of the magnitude of the reserves is illustrated by the fact that
little reliable information is available on our coking-coal reserves de-
spite the fundamental importance of the commodity. The same
apathy confronts the conservationist who views with alarm the 30- to
40-percent average loss of coal sustained in mining. Some of this loss
is unavoidable, but much could be prevented if economic conditions
in the industry permitted. Conservation can also be promoted through
further progress in the technology of coal use, and some have ques-
tioned the wisdom from a national viewpoint of consuming limited
reserves of high-grade coking coals in noncoke uses. If we are to
turn to our coal resources for liquid fuels in the future, the rate of
exhaustion probably will more than treble, and the need for conserva-
tion will be correspondingly greater.

While we have used up a substantial part of our anthracite, our
basic position in coal is outstandingly good, although it would seem
that a wiser Nation would use its reserves a little more prudently
even though the day of reckoning on shortages is centuries away.

Iron ore.—Iron ore ranks second to coal in national importance only
because experience indicates that steel-making slightly favors the coal
areas. Four of the five great centers of industrial power have out-
standing iron resources. Japan is notably deficient and has attempted
to overcome this weakness through aggression and commercial expan-
sion. The United States is well supplied with iron ore, although the
reserves do not match those of coal by a wide margin. It is estimated
by Ernest F. Burchard of the Geological Survey and Albin C. Johnson
of the Bureau of Mines that the reserves of iron ore of present com-
mercial or usable grade total 5,478,000,000 long tons, of which about
a third is classed as inferred ore. Total production through 1943 was
2,613,000,000 tons so that 68 percent of the original reserve, based on
present estimates, still remains. Opinions differ as to the price at
which this ore is available but it is believed that it can safely be as-
sumed that virtually all of it could be mined at prices that have pre-
vailed in the past or at moderately higher prices. In addition to this
commercial reserve there is a potential reserve of 63,000,000,000 tons
of submarginal ore, the utilization of which will depend on tech-
nologic advances and economic conditions.
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Figure 7 shows the geography of the reserves, production, and con-
sumption of iron ore. The importance of the Lake Superior district
as a source of supply is obvious. Its proportion of commercial re-
serves, however, 1s considerably less than its share of current produc-
tion, which fact indicates that the relatively more favorable reserve
position in the southeastern and northeastern regions will bring forth
a somewhat larger proportion of production in those areas in the
years to come. The concentration of iron-ore consumption in the
States bordering the Great Lakes may be expected to continue with
minor modifications for many years. The steel industry in this region
is soundly based on the proximity of coal and iron ore and a tremen-
IRON ORE-PRODUCTION, CONSUMPTION, & RESERVES

LONG TONS

PERCENT DISTRIBUTION

PRODUCTION ~1943 | CONSUMPTION -1943
101,248,000 Tons 100,457,000 Tons

Lake Superior

Southeastern

Northeastern

Western

Central & Gulf

COMMERCIAL SUBMARGINAL
RESERVES RESERVES
400,000,000 Tons 68 000,000 Tons

PERCEuT
%0

Lake Superior

Southeastern

Northeastern

Western

Centra! & Gulf

Alaska

Figure 7.—Geography of iron-ore production, consumption, and reserves.

dous consuming industry has been built around it. Further develop-
ment of northeastern iron ores will cause little if any change in the
geography of steel production. Moderate expansion on the seaboard
seems probable. The expansion that may result from the favorable
reserve position of the southeastern States and the postwar operation
of the new plants in the West will have only limited effects on the
present pattern of steel production. The situation in the more distant
future will depend on national policies which probably will be de-
termined by the success achieved in developing the low-grade ores of
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—-PEHRSON 189

Minnesota. It seems probable that the huge iron-ore resources of that
region will continue to be the outstanding source of iron ore for the steel
industry of the United States.

Figure 8 shows the past production of pig iron and iron ore and
an appraisal of the possibilities during the next quarter century. The
forecasts for 1970 were based on an analysis of the probable demand
for steel assuming that per-capita consumption in 1970 might lie be-
tween 0.60 and 0.73 short tons. These represent increases of approx-
imately 25 and 50 percent over the predepression rate of 0.48 tons.
With a population of 156,549,000 in 1970 steel requirements would

PUY);

o
z
fo)
e
w
o
oO
(ra
°
z
°
3
a
=
'
2
2
-
°
=]
ra}
°
«
a

0
1s00 §61S05 1910

Ficure 8.—Production of iron ore and pig iron in the United States, 1900 to
1944, and estimated range of production to 1970.

be between 94,000,000 and 115,000,000 short tons, the lower figure ap-
pearing to be the most acceptable estimate. At the normal operating
rate of 75 percent of capacity, plant requirements would be between
125,000,000 and 150,000,000 tons. The present installed capacity is
93,500,000 tons.

Pig-iron requirements in 1970 were computed on the assumption
that there would be a slight increase in the use of scrap and a cor-
responding decrease in the ratio of pig iron to steel. The latter was
estimated at 65 percent in 1970 compared with 68 percent during the
past decade. On this basis pig-iron requirements in 1970 would be
between 61,000,000 and 74,500,000 short tons. The present capacity
is 67,500,000 tons according to the American Iron and Steel Institute.

During the past 10 years the ratio of iron-ore production to pig-iron

production has been 1.72 to 1. Assuming this ratio will continue and
676212—46——13
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

that imports will remain at the same proportion as in the past, the
iron-ore requirements in 1970 total between 95,000,000 and 115,000,000
long tons. Maximum production to date was 105,526,000 tons in 1942.

While the total iron-ore reserves appear to be ample to meet domestic
requirements for a prolonged period, we shall soon be confronted with
a major problem because of the exhaustion of the direct-shipping ores
of the Lake Superior district, found chiefly in the Mesabi Range in
Minnesota. This ore represents the cream of our resources because
the deposits can be mined cheaply and the ore used directly in the blast
furnace without prior treatment. Direct-shipping ores of Minnesota
account for 50 percent of the total production of the country. At the
1942 rate of extraction the remaining tonnage represents only 17-years’
life, and the rate of production will begin to decline in the near future.
The problem is made more acute because 90 percent of the production
of these high-grade Minnesota ores come from the open-pit mines that
contain only 57 percent of the reserves. Exhaustion of these mines
is therefore rather imminent. Declining rates of production at the
open-pit mines can be offset only in part and for only a few years by
increasing the output of direct-shipping ore from underground mines
and concentrates. The total estimated reserves of commercial-grade
ore in the Lake Superior district is equivalent to less than 25-years’
life at the current rates of production. It is therefore obvious that
if the district is to continue to supply large tonnages, development of
the low-grade ores must be started in the near future.

The open-pit mines provide great flexibility in production because
mining can be stopped completely if necessary with low maintenance
costs and little adverse effect on production capacity, and it can be
increased quickly in periods of heavy demand. During the present
war this resource has been of inestimable value in making possible
our enormous steel output. ‘The impending loss of this facility is
thus a matter of major national interest because it has served as a
gigantic stock pile which has supplied the needs of the Nation in times
of heavy demand and national emergencies. If we are to become
dependent on our lower-grade ores we shall have to build large plants
totreatthem. Such plants provide rigid limits on production capacity
and if surplus capacity is maintained to meet peak demand, deprecia-
tion and obsolescence on a large scale will have to be reckoned with.

Failure to develop the low-grade ores of the Lake Superior district
eventually would lead to dependence on foreign sources of supply.
In view of the large tonnages required, the maintenance of shipments
from foreign sources in time of war would present a major problem
of national defense. Because of this and the high essentiality of steel
in war, it would seem unwise for the United States to allow its self-
sufficiency in iron ore to fall to dangerous limits. Presumably to
maintain our present position would justify some extra cost to the
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—PEHRSON 191

public, but the consumer cannot be expected to assume an unreason-
able burden on this account.

Our position in iron ore presents a problem for the near future,
but it is confidently expected that American ingenuity and enterprise
will solve it in a satisfactory manner.

Petroleum.—To forecast future trends in domestic production and
consumption of petroleum taxes the ability of the most ambitious
crystal-gazers. The difficulty arises in trying to reconcile the extraor-
dinary growth of this industry with the relatively limited reserves
reported to be available. The American Petroleum Institute estimates
known or proved reserves at approximately 20 billion barrels. Last
year we produced 1.7 billion barrels of crude oil so that the reserve is
equivalent to about a 12-year supply at the 1944 rate of extraction.
Most experts anticipate the discovery of more oil, but few of them
venture a guess as to how much or at what rate. Wallace E. Pratt’s
estimate of an ultimate yield of at least 100 billion barrels already
has been mentioned. On this basis we have a total speculative reserve
of 70 billion; 30 billion barrels have been produced to date. Even this
quantity of oil, however, provides only about a 40-year supply. For-
tunately our chemical brethren have devised methods of making
petroleum products from abundantly available raw materials so that
in the long run we need not worry about shortages. For the time being,
however, your daily newspaper gives evidence that current supplies
are far from ample to meet all demands although all military and
essential industrial and civilian needs are being met.

I shall not discuss the present situation other than to call attention
to the concern expressed by some authorities over the declining rate
of discovery. In discussing this problem in a hearing on synthetic
liquid fuels conducted by a Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on
Public Lands and Surveys in August 1943, William B. Heroy, then
Director of Reserves for the Petroleum Administration for War, pre-
sented an analysis of discovery experience from 1936 to 1942. During
this period, despite increased geophysical work and wildcat drilling
by the industry, the number of new fields reported increased from
162 to 348 but the total estimated proved and possible new reserves dis-
covered declined over 75 percent; the quantity per field declined from
14.8 million to 1.5 million barrels. In the latter year crude oil produc-
tion averaged 3.8 million barrels per day. After pointing out that there
were divergent opinions on the outlook for future discoveries, Heroy
stated that, in his opinion, the facts did not warrant a defeatist atti-
tude, but that the public and the industry should realize the bonanza
days of oil discovery, for the most part, belong to history.

Unless there is improvement in the rate of discovery, it would ap-
pear that production may be expected to decline in the near future.
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Against this is the ever-increasing demand for petroleum. The per-
capita consumption has increased from less than half a barrel in 1900
to 12.1 barrels in 1944, with the upward trend continuing at a rapid
rate. No prediction of future trends can be made with assurance be-
cause of the uncertainty as to various pertinent factors. It is believed
in some quarters that the use of automobiles was approaching satura-
tion before the war, and that the increase in per-capita consumption
of motor fuel should taper off. This use normally accounts for about
45 percent of the oil consumed, the remainder being used largely for
heating purposes. Higher prices that would most certainly result
from a decline in crude-petroleum supplies would have pronounced
effects on the use of oil for heating and might influence the market
for motor fuels. The expectation of a sharp falling-off in the rate
of increase in per-capita consumption seems reasonable in the near
future but its quantitative significance cannot be appraised. At the
1944 rate 011 demands in 1970 with the anticipated 13 percent increase
in population would be 1.9 billion barrels. This would seem to be a
minimum expectation.

Presently known petroleum reserves would not permit production
to meet even the minimum demand 25 years hence. Thus if future
discoveries fail to remedy the situation we are faced with the need
for developing supplemental sources of supply. Under peacetime con-
ditions substantial quantities of 011 could be obtained from the Carib-
bean area and if necessary from more distant sources. This would
seem to be the most economical solution of the problem. If for any
reason foreign supplies were unavailable we can turn to other domestic
sources. Secondary recovery from depleted oil structures has begun
already and could be increased considerably at higher prices. Syn-
thetic liquid fuels offer a feasible though more costly solution. For
this purpose natural gas offers the cheapest source of these products
for the immediate future, but the supply is relatively small. Tar
sands, oil shale, and coal (including lignite), also are available, and
in the aggregate represent an enormous reserve. The largest though
not necessarily the lowest cost source of synthetic liquid fuels is coal.
According to Dr. A. C. Fieldner, Chief of the Fuels and Explosives
Branch of the Bureau of Mines, synthetic motor fuel can probably
be made from coal at 18 cents per gallon in large plants under normal
conditions. He believes that costs of 12 to 15 cents are possible after
industry has fully developed the techniques. Present costs of pro-
ducing gasoline from crude petroleum are approximately 5 cents per
gallon.

The higher costs of synthetic petroleum products doubtless will
necessitate many changes in industries now using the natural oils.
This together with the public need for low-cost gasoline probably
will cause a shift to imported petroleum in advance of large-scale
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—-PEHRSON 193

development of synthetic fuels if our domestic petroleum reserves fail.
As with iron ore, large-scale dependence on foreign sources for such
a strategic commodity is objectionable from the standpoint of national
defense. Insurance against shortages in future emergencies could
be provided by setting aside proved oil fields as a national petroleum
reserve. The minimum requirement in the event of a decline in do-
mestic oil production is the establishment and maintenance of a syn-
thetic fuel industry of sufficient size to provide a nucleus of proved

on
z
se)
e
bE
a
te)
=
oO
wu
°
no
a
2
<
oa
=
3°
x
-

oats
y; N
71913-1919 “S

CENTS PER POUND

fe)
1915 1917 1919 1913 1915 i9i7 1919 1913 1915 1917 1919
1940 1942 1944 1936 1940 1942 1944 1958 1940 1942 1944

Figure 9.—Comparison of mine production and prices of copper, lead, and zine
in the United States during World War I and World War II.
technology and experienced personnel which could be expanded in an
emergency. Congress has taken the initial step in this direction by
authorizing the Bureau of Mines to establish large demonstration

plants for the production of synthetic liquid fuels.

Our position in petroleum may be summarized as uncertain with
moderate dependence on imports a distinct possibility in the near
future. This need not be regarded as threatening to the national
security because feasible measures can be taken to provide against
future shortages in time of war.

Copper, lead, and zine occupy a significant position among the
minerals of secondary importance to the basic national economy. The
United States has had virtual self-sufficiency in these metals for many
years. However, our resources were unequal to the demands of this
war and large imports have been required in recent years. Figure 9
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

compares prices and mine production of copper, lead, and zine during
the two World War periods. Despite the fact that the demand has been
very much larger in World War II, the output of copper and zinc has
been only moderately higher and that of lead substantially lower than
in World War I. This record can be ascribed in part to various causes
such as manpower and equipment shortages, the fact that the indus-
tries had not fully recovered from a protracted depression, and in-
sufficient price; but there is wide agreement that the ore-reserve
situation was the principal contributing cause. That depletion is well
advanced in these industries is an inescapable conclusion from the
record and the present knowledge of remaining reserves.

Copper reserves as of 1944 have been estimated ? at 20,000,000 short
tons of recoverable metal under conditions prevailing at that time.
Since they include some reserves available only at premium prices
they may be considered as a generous appraisal of commercial reserves
under normal conditions. Twenty-five percent of the tonnage is
classed as inferred. It is estimated that production could be main-
tained at the rate of 1,000,000 tons per year for nearly 10 years fol-
lowing which there would be a gradual decline to exhaustion. Sub-
marginal resources have been estimated at 10,000,000 tons of copper
contained in 1.25 billion tons of material.

Estimated reserves of 6-cent lead* under prewar operating con-
ditions were only 5,000,000 short tons in 1944, of which only a third
was classed as measured and indicated. Under emergency conditions
the total reserve including the 6-cent lead, was estimated at only
6,600,000 tons. Peak war production in 1942 was 27 percent below
the all-time peak established in 1925.

The quantity of zinc available at 6 cents in the reserves estimated ®
as of 1944 was 11,200,000 tons of recoverable metal, more than half of
which was in inferred ore. Under emergency prices the total reserve
was believed to contain nearly 17,000,000 tons.

Production of lead and zinc may be expected to decline within a
few years. Zinc has been particularly affected by depletion in the
Tri-State district, which produced over 400,000 tons or 55 percent of
the total output of the country in 1926, and contributed only 200,000
tons or 27 percent of the total in 1943. A substantial part of the dis-
trict’s output during the war has required premium prices, and an
abrupt drop is anticipated with a return to peacetime conditions after
the war. Without exception, all the important lead-producing dis-
tricts that contributed to the record output of 1925 produced con-
siderably less lead in 1942.

2 Cannon, Ralph S., U. 8. Geological Survey, and Mosier, McHenry, U. S. Bureau of Mines.
3 Wstimates for lead and zine by BH. T. McKnight of the U. S. Geological Survey and
BH. F. Fitzhugh, Jr., of the U. S. Bureau of Mines.
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—-PEHRSON 195
POSTWAR SELF-SUFFICIENCY

The discussion up to this point indicates that unless new reserves are
developed we are facing some changes in our “have” and “have-not”?
status in minerals. These are only relative terms, however, and con-
sequently do not necessarily connate affluence or poverty. The United
States has been the most self-sufficient nation of the world in minerals
yet it has always had important deficiencies. Figure 10 shows the
status in 33 principal industrial minerals in the 5-year period 1935 to
1939. Manganese, chromite, and nickel are indispensable in our in-

U.S. SELF-SUFFICIENCY IN PRINCIPAL INDUSTRIAL MINERALS, 1935-39

HERB Ratio of production to consumption
PERCENT RCENT
20 S00 80 1 © 20 408 60 190 o 2 BK 0 100
OVER fe a a a ae a a a a
100

Platinum
Metals

lock mico Mi

Antimony

290 Zinc

Molybdenum

Fluorspor (GitieeaNismos wear

Magnesium

Barite

Phosphate Rock MadmiMaie La sttnsenn San

Lead Manganese

adoderoa oA A aaa) |
cadmium EMME )Nicker PENT AR
Chromite Fic de il ca]
Potash Tin
ee“ Sicmon
101 Bauxite Diamonds PS ROH]
Vanadium Crystals
Tungsten Graphite
Figure 10.—Production of principal industrial minerals in the United States
expressed in percentage of domestic consumption, 1935-39. Building materials

(stone, cement, lime, etc.) for which the United States is self-sufficient, are
not included.

Sulfur

Petroleum Nitrogen

Copper

Bituminous Coal faery
and Lignite

Mercury

Anthracite

Salt

Natural Gas

Iron Ore

dustrial structure, yet we have imported almost all our needs for
decades. These deficiencies and others that may develop need cause
little anxiety as to national security provided proper steps are taken
to buttress our defense against shortages in time of war.

We have been able to export part of our production of the first nine
minerals listed in the column at the left. The tenth mineral, natural
gas, is not exported to any extent. We are a net importer of most of
the metals. On the basis of available reserves and probable postwar
domestic requirements we can continue to export for some time all but
two of the minerals we shipped abroad before the war. An import
status for copper and petroleum is anticipated within a decade. Do-
mestic reserves or installed capacity could support for various periods
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

an improved “have” status for iron ore, barite, nitrogen, potash, and
possibly fluorspar if such status were desirable. On the other hand,
greater dependence on foreign sources of zinc, lead, cadmium, mercury,
bauxite, vanadium, tungsten, platinum, and block mica is indicated.
Little change can be anticipated in the remaining commodities which
are chiefly imported. Submarginal resources of our deficient minerals
that give us a potential “have” status under emergency conditions and
at high prices are those of bauxite, manganese, vanadium, flake graph-
ite, chromite, nickel, and mercury. As previously noted, our sub-
marginal resources of manganese, vanadium, and off-grade bauxite,
and other aluminous minerals are relatively large in terms of prewar
consumption rates.

MINERAL POLICY CONSIDERATIONS

From the foregoing analysis, and assuming our appraisal of do-
mestic resources to be reasonably correct, it is apparent that our de-
pendence on foreign sources for supplies of certain minerals will be
greater in the future than it was before the war. The question thus
arises as to the significance of these changes and what alterations in
national policy should be made to meet them. Time does not permit
discussion of all policy aspects of the mineral-supply problem so I shall
confine my remarks to a brief discussion of those involving national
defense, assurance of peacetime supplies, . . . and conservation.

National defense.—A major responsibility of the Nation is to main-
tain its ability to defend itself from aggressors, and to this should be
added, in anticipation of postwar international political cooperation,
the assurance of its ability to carry out such responsibilities as may
be assigned to it. As our self-sufficiency declines, our military power
is adversely affected, and the problem of strategic minerals becomes
more acute. Thus, the need for large-scale stock piling is of utmost
importance; because stock piling is a device for supplementing our
domestic resources, the stock piles should be made up largely from
foreign materials, for that is the only way we can add to our basic
mineral resources. It is the surest way of guaranteeing our basic
security in minerals in time of need. It has been suggested that, in
view of the impending “have-not” position in certain minerals, we
should shut down our mines and preserve the resources remaining in
the ground for future emergencies. From a theoretical viewpoint this
argument has appeal, but from a practical standpoint the cost is too
great. It imposes too severe a burden on the present generation by
asking it to swap a bird in the hand for only one crippled bird in the
bush to be saved for the use of future generations. The program
would result in resource waste because much of the unmined portions
of deposits now developed probably never could be recovered after
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—-PEHRSON 197

a prolonged shut-down. Also, the abrupt curtailment of mining would
present a serious social problem in readjustment of the population that
would be stranded in isolated mining areas. Huge capital losses would
be incurred. For these reasons, the proposal does not seem to merit
serious consideration.

Our national security cannot rest entirely on stock piles. Experi-
ence since 1939 clearly demonstrates the fallibility of even the experts.
They cannot foresee with certainty the magnitude or duration of an
emergency. For this reason we need a second line of defense to provide
against mistakes in stock-pile planning. Our marginal and submar-
ginal resources can give us that additional insurance. Exploration for
new deposits should be carried on vigorously and methods for process-
ing these materials should be perfected and plans made for emergency
production. It is not unreasonable to expect that such a program
might lead to the development of new peacetime industries. Our large
deposits of manganese-, vanadium-, and aluminum-bearing materials
offer interesting possibilities.

The program just outlined is essentially the same as that recom-
mended to Congress by the Army and Navy Munitions Board in its
recent report on strategic materials.

While the accumulation of stock piles from foreign sources should
be a basic requirement for national defense, a large-scale stock-piling
program could also provide a reservoir into which domestic materials
might be placed in times of depression with resultant economy to the
Nation and benefits to the mining communities. Consider the advan-
tages that would have accrued had we kept a reasonable measure of
employment in the mining areas during the depths of the depression,
and stock-piled the surplus production for future use. Not only would
the effects of the depression in the mineral-producing areas have been
less severe, but we would have had a substantial inventory that would
have eased greatly the procurement problem of the last few years.

Peacetime supplies.—Stock piling will provide for the defense of
the Nation but will not assure adequate supplies of minerals at rea-
sonable prices during peacetime. There are several ways in which the
Government can be helpful in attaining the latter objective. A fun-
damental requirement in dealing with this problem is more detailed
knowledge of the extent of our reserves. Our studies have revealed
many inadequacies in basic information necessary for the quantitative
appraisal of resources. The United States Department of the Interior
plans to remedy this situation. The mining industry can be very
helpful by making available to the Government the vast amount of
information of this type in company files. We realize that such data
frequently must be regarded as highly confidential and the reluctance
of some producers in the past to make them available is readily under-
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

stood. This reluctance is gradually disappearing, and it is hoped
that in the postwar years the mining industry will continue to be as
generous in supplying data as it has been during the war. By so doing,
the best interests of all are served. Policy decisions are made in Wash-
ington that affect your industries. These policies are usually formu-
lated on the basis of available facts. If the full facts are not available,
errors of judgment can be made. Obviously the wisest decisions on
policy are possible only if all the facts are known.

An objective appraisal of recent experience suggests that prospect-
ing and exploration are reaching marginal limits so that the ex-
penditure of private funds in the search for new mineral deposits
is becoming more difficult to justify. This suggests that the Govern-
ment should assume some of the risk involved in keeping our mineral
development going. The Geological Survey and the Bureau of Mines
are planning extensive postwar projects to assist in accomplishing
this objective through a systematic geological and exploration pro-
gram designed to develop information that will help mineral pro-
ducers plan exploration programs and provide a reliable inventory of
our mineral resources. This program will in no way interfere with
the activities of private enterprise but, to the contrary, will provide
it with basic data that will permit the mining industry to carry on its
search of new mines more effectively.

The Government’s exploration program should be supplemented by
extensive research and testing to develop new and cheaper methods of
bringing our larger marginal resources into commercial production
and to provide substitute materials for those that play out. I want to
make it clear that I am not referring to hothouse industries that can
exist only at the expense of the public treasury or the consumer. New
peacetime industries can survive only if they are based on sound tech-
nology and economics.

The Government also has a responsibility to encourage the importa-
tion of those minerals essential to our industry, and which cannot
economically be produced at home in sufficient quantities. Through
fact-finding and diplomatic services the Government can assist Amer-
ican capital to engage in foreign mineral development. It should
support American enterprise abroad to see that it is permitted to oper-
ate with reasonable security and under conditions that are fair to all
parties concerned. Such a policy is fully compatible with a respected
membership in the family of nations because it results in the develop-
ment of resources and employment abroad while supplying us with
useful raw materials; it also permits constructive use of our surplus
capital.

[Hprror’s Note.—Author’s discussion of tariff policy has been deleted in this
reprint, ]
MINERALS OF THE UNITED STATES—PEHRSON 199

Conservation.—A review of our mineral position requires some gen-
eral comment on conservation. History shows that as a nation we talk
a great deal about conservation but are unwilling to put up much cash
for it. In the lush days of our industrial growth, we were little con-
cerned about the extravagant use of resources to achieve low-cost
production. Now that we are beginning to feel the effects of exhaus-
tion perhaps a more far-sighted view may prevail. Some waste of
resources occurs through lack of techniques with which to do the job
of producing and using minerals better. Much progress has been made
along this line through research and the efforts of our profession.
Research and engineering and the scrap-metal industry should be
recognized as the greatest conservational forces at work today, and
the Nation owes a debt of gratitude for their accomplishments. Fur-
ther progress in these lines may be expected. On the other hand in-
creasing labor costs and taxation are decidedly anticonservational.
Painstaking efforts to reduce costs to permit mining of marginal ores
by technical improvements can be wiped out by wage and tax increases.
Yet the latter are inevitable consequences of our social progress. I
see no easy answer to this conflict of objectives.

Cooperation between Government and industry can do much to
smooth out the economic factors that are the cause of most of the
harmful waste in the utilization of mineral resources today. Elimina-
tion of the extremes of competition, the stabilization of prices and pro-
duction, and some controls to prevent frivolous uses of scarce minerals
that are of strategic importance to the Nation will promote conserva-
tion and at the same time improve the economic condition of the indus-
try. We gained some experience along this line in coal and petroleum
before the war and a lot more during the war. If we can maintain
this teamwork in the postwar years conservation can be achieved on a
worth-while scale. In view of the rapid rates at which we are ex-
hausting our mineral deposits, such conservation is very much in order,
but its ultimate effect on our basic mineral position will not be highly
significant. Our best hope for substantial improvement in those min-
erals where exhaustion is near lies in research on our submarginal
resources and in taking the risk of prospecting for concealed deposits
that now lie hidden in the earth’s crust. These measures should be
carried on vigorously, but while we hope for successful accomplish-
ment we should also take measures to facilitate the procurement of
more of our mineral requirements from foreign sources.
—!

oe a oe |

rath, SUBIR YAHAS, Of a.
neg a8 a. ee a
om mot. beid PQ.
a php ot ale petcs epi ad to. | 2
Sbict ae'l eroraya OF i Lay

pa ty Ie Id Ae ea tan de dy ot dosed
2 Dios ia tae lee Baise

: Ros sy me As aera os) ag,

“gh, pdapmne g aiad} a), obstituns to Wah #9", windy
191 Paes od. VRE aon poeddat BeaT YONG,
eae va nbfoab , Aa8, fokemed, beg eben waa, |
set laareteny to ya far tog qoubay ot atte aus
BPE RTO Z hy bea anes i He iy Fries cary ea d
I, PRON, Laidos, mH ©, BACUT: pean, aldalivent 41, z9itAl ads.
iiako had titaeido 0 49 initigoo. aitlt 3, ARETB URED ft. 998
ot Omen “ob ap ‘Geabak Aga dasecetayof) sreaw tact HAR 202.1
af, an dena, 29, aie of, are, dqalt gagtont 97 COD, ads i¥o, pia
aniotloh . .zabe bet eaviujoas ip baaausisn fo sofjasilite ont at steer Mt

ery Regt Fe oitesilidase, alt sisi saan t0 rane 241 tog
aleroains anne to seat etipiayii), taajag, 9) sloggon ant PG eo »
MATRA shone g Ae Josday, odd od a9rtg. tociant otgatarita
BUDGE iS Yo, costae of¢ttoni999. odli,azongni o6id tage, st nlane .
aysplor: bag tsooat. anil ist ecole somairaqica aftoa he he al
pit le neo ew, tf, RW: ad? parieh atom. eh. fae
ry no bavtistoe, ot Gaia ROM BY Te40%, 2189% 2A NGS 2 OL vey epee: aids
729 928 OW) oh hw da eo)nn biqes he fo wait an olaoz, ality. inom
soir Berets Ayteanon dota izogah Ste bate
tilzid.ed tog, ree eg leva ira ofaed tH9 Ao toll sti
sak. qgodg 1 seen a Jane 20 oqost wel 7
inakgtacelue 7419 so) Corgoned, at 2! \a08 al, A esadgs loa 1 A
mie halasogon, 3h. SH ORO Ht Mair 31) pitiala, al Mi |
ost inet, gomuregor seo F; oo testa, & Stipe, aki, sob “ih ¥es
sleilgaone, Lsteemoue, anh, ogo ay, alld, a alae be

ho, Aa rua adpsiliial oo} posuigepst, bean eee
Bhat hip | asides eel ae OP, ATR EP OR

aah «> Witeea: Ly iri} pisxypmae atiean While supply. us withe
Gin) coo wocices algo preemie Corel ruckie nis of ur ipaboe
we pel, oe whi) ne Ta

(Firca'y ~vinthor es ai es out taxig iy hn bi arwrind iy ain

ee eee

oe - 7 oni t i Cie
JAPANESE EARTHQUAKES?

By N. H. Heck

[With 3 plates]

INTRODUCTION

In these days of global warfare, and in anticipation of a world-wide
view in the future, there is need of more geographical and geophysical
knowledge. So outstanding a feature as earthquakes in Japan cannot
be disregarded. Much has been written on the subject by Japanese
seismologists and others, and by two Englishmen—John Milne (1850-
1913)? and, more recently, Charles Davison. Milne, who went to
Japan in 1876 to aid in the establishment of that country’s new educa-
tional system, became interested in earthquakes and began investiga-
tions, which were taken up by Omori and others. Many of his
writings were based on direct observation; otherwise, nearly all in-
formation, including Davison’s, is from Japanese sources. Since from
Milne’s time onward Japan has been treated as an earthquake labora-
tory, much material has been published, part of it in foreign lan-
guages, and especially in English.* However, nowhere is there a brief
comprehensive discussion of the principal Japanese earthquakes.

There is a general impression that Japan is more subject to major
earthquakes than any other area of similar extent. Imamura ° states
that there have been 300 great earthquakes during the period of re-
corded history. Of these he lists 59 from 1596 to 1935 inclusive, for
which statistics and at least partial descriptions are available. Some
of the entries may be debatable and some of the statistics may be
doubtful, but since they represent all kinds of earthquakes and asso-
ciated occurrences they are made the basis for the present discussion
and are listed in table 1.

1 Reprinted by permission from the Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America,
vol. 34, No. 3, July 1944.

2See Mrs. Lou Heury Hoover, John Milne, seismologist, Bull. Seism. Soe. Amer., vol. 2,
pp. 2-7, 1912.

*The founders of seismology, Cambridge, England, 1927; The Japanese earthquake of
1923, London, 1931; Great earthquakes, London, 1936.

4In preparing the present paper, I have drawn upon various bulletins of the Imperial
Earthquake Investigation Committee, Tokyo, and of the Earthquake Research Institute
of Tokyo Imperial University ; also The great earthquake of 1923 in Japan (in English),
compiled by the Bureau of Social Affairs, Home Office [Tokyo], 1926.

5 Imamura, Theoretical and applied seismology, Tokyo, 1937.

201
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

TasLte 1.—Destruciive Japanese earthquakes, 1596-1943

No.| Yr. Mo. Day i sane, denen Deaths Locality and remarks
° °
1} 1596 IX 4| 33 1 ee eee 700 | Oita. T. Urya-zima subsided.
2| 1596 IX 5 85 136 | ieee 2,000 | Husimi.
3 | 1605 II S| 82:5 188 [2-3 .Seese 5,000 | Tokaido, Nankaido, Saikaido. Great T.
4/1611 IX B71 seta 14) We cates 3,700 | Aidu. Inawasira subsided.
5 | 1611 XII 2] 40 YE | eee eee oe 3,000 | Hokkaidoand Sanriku. Great T.
6 | 1614 XI 26 | UB7..8 ee Mess etc co Many | Takata in Etico.
7 | 1633 III Li} #85565 9189)6))_22255----.- 150 | Odawara
§| 1649 VIT 29| 35.5 140 |......ieet3 Est. 200 | Tokyo.
9] 1659 IV 21} 37.5 140 406 39 | Vicinity of Aidu and Nasu.
10 | 1662 VI 16 | 35.5 136 5, 500 600 | YAMASIRO and OomMI.
11 | 1662 X 30} 31.5 132 3, 800 20 | HyuGa and OosuMI.
12 | 1666 II 1 37 VSS | case stone 1,500 | Takata.
18 |} 1676 VII 12{| 34.5 132 133 7 | Tuwano.
14 | 1694 VI 19 40 139.5 2, 760 394 | S. Nosiro in UGo.
15 | 1703 XII 31] 34.5 140 20, 162 5, 233 oe Pen., SAGAMI and Musasi. Great
16 | 1704 V 27 41 139. 5 1,314 58 | North of Nosiro.
17} 1707 X 28 | 32.5 136 29, 000 4,900 | Same places as No.3. Great T.
18 | 1711 III 19 | 35.5 133 500 4 | MIMASAKA, INABA, HOKI.
19 | 1714 IV 28 36.5 138 300 66 | Oomati in SINANO.
20 | 1729 VIIL 1 37.5 137 791 5 | Noto, Sapo.
21 | 1751 V 20 37.5 138 9, 100 2,000 | Takata.
22 | 1746 III 8 41 141 7, 192 1,335 | Hirosaki.
23 | 1792 V 21 | 32.5 130 12, 000 15, 200 HUE; le Eruption Unzen-dake. T,
ee p. 216.
24 | 1793 II 8] 41 140 164 12 | W. Tugaru, Adigasawa. Smal] T.
25 | 1802 XII 9 38 138 1, 150 20 | Sabo.
26 | 1804 VII 10 89 140 5, 500 333 | Kisakata.
97 | 1810 IX 25 40 140 1,129 59 | Oga Peninsula.
28 | 1828 XII 18 37.5 139.5 11, 750 1, 443 | Sandyo in Etico.
29 | 1830 VIII 19 35 186) Up aceeaasens 280 | Kyoto.
30 | 1833 XII 7 38.5 139 1,013 42 | Uzen, Sapo. T.
31 | 1847 V 8} 37 138 34, 000 12,000 | SINANO, ETIGO.
82 | 1853 IIT 11 35.5 139.5 8, 300 79 | Odawara.
33 | 1854 VII 9} 35 136 5, 000 1,352 | Ica, IsE, YAMATO.
34| 1854 XII 23] 33.5 138 60 000 3,000 | Tokaido, Nankaido. Great T.
35 | 1854 XII 24 32.5 134 (1) (1) Great T.
36 | 1855 XT 11 36 140 60, 600 6,757 | Tokyo.
37 | 1858 IV 9 36 137.5 709 203 | Northern part of Hipa.
38 | 1872 III 14 35 132.5 5, 000 600 | Hamada in IwaMI.
39 | 1889 VII 28] 31.6 1381 239 20 | Kumamoto.
40 | 1891 X 28 | 35.5 137 142, 177 7,273 | Mino, OwakRl.
41 | 1894 III 22 | 42 145.5 i beige Sapte Nemuro, Hokkaido. T.
42 | 1894 VI 20; 36 140 90 24 | Tokyo.
43 | 1894 X 22} 38 139 6, 006 726 | Syonai.
44 | 1896 VI 15| 39 148.5 106, 170 27,122 | Sanriku. Great T.
45 | 18968 VIII 31 40 141 6, 911 206 | Senhoku, UGo.
46 | 1905 VI 2 34 133 59 11 | AKI.
47 | 1909 VIII 14] 35.5 137 976 41 | Near Ancgawa, OomI.
48 | 1911 VI 15] 28 131 422 12 | Kikai Island.
49 | 1914 I 12] 81.5 Il 120 29 | Sakurijima, eruption; casualties omitted.
50 | 1914 III 15} 39.5 140 640 94 | Senhoku, Uco.
61 | 1922 XII 8 | 33 130 76 27 | Simabara, HIzEN.
52 | 1923 IX 1} 35 139. 5 576, 262 99, 331 | Kwanto. T.
63 | 1924 I 15 | 35.5 189.5 1, 273 14 | Central SAGAMI.
54 | 1925 V 23 | 36 135 3, 333 395 | E. TAZIMA.
55 | 1927 IIT 7 36 135. 6 16, 025 3,017 | TANGO.
56 | 1930 XI 26 | 35 139 8, 099 259 | Northern Inv.
57 | 1931 IX 21] 36 139 115 13 | Northwestern Musasl.
68 | 1933 III 3 | 38.5 148 4, 086 2,986 | Sanriku, Great T.
59 | 1985 VII ll 35 138 115 13 | Siduoka.
60 | 1936 XII 27] 34.4 139.2 300 3 | Nii Jima.
61 | 1939 V 1| 40 140 295 29 | Near Akita.
62 | 1943 IX 15 | 35.5 134 (2) (4) Tottori.
63 | 1944 XIT a 33 1ST: eee wc kectelowosoenoaeus Off Kii.

1 Effects not separated from No 34.

? Unknown.

(Explanation: Latitude and longitude are onlyf or the purpose of finding epicenter in fig. 4. Number of
houses destroyed and deaths include those by earthquake and those by fire and tsunami due to earthquake.
Names of provinces into which Japan was long divided are in capitals and small capitals, and their locality
is obtained from fig. 1. Names ending in -aido refer to ancient circuits or groups of provinces, the names
indicating direction from Kyoto, the ancient capital. T=tsunami.)

Four earthquakes are added to bring the list up to date. This
limited selection might lead to the conclusion that there are no earth-
quakes in other areas, but such is not the case. If we accept the figures
JAPANESE EARTHQUAKES—HECK 203

LSS J
{ 7 Sinano
NAN
GOR “_ Tango f\
Ki j[Inabarpazimea ! i
hana (

wt) Ait!
"<< Tanba [&);Qomi 7 4Owari/ Lg

ht a
Fa —— MMikawa/
i sh ‘ : Mikawa,
(3) &

5S Totomi
:
1

ics

e

+o
‘

° ie i? eur
AIP Sef

a
el\/
s

£
a

As
~

‘Bi
s
mel

FicuRe 1.—Map of Japan giving names and boundaries of the different provinces.
Southern part. .

in table 1, the deaths have exceeded 200,000 and the number of build-
ings destroyed directly by earthquake or indirectly by fire or tsunami
(a convenient Japanese word for tidal wave, or seismic sea wave due
to earthquake) totals about 1,200,000. These figures, whether accurate
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

or not, give a picture of great destruction. The losses are in part due
to the density of population: Japan is the only country in which two
large cities with a combined population in excess of 6,000,000 are
subject to the same earthquake hazard. However, Japan’s seismic
activity is likely to be overemphasized because (1) of the many per-

42°

40

) F

Pa Tw A,

' eee eee IMs
/ Vv vw i Shimotsukel
“T Etchu J i \ 1

_. / » Kotsuke 4

Re % \

3 \

ie al Ly,
j Sinano \Lo

36°

146° 138° 14> ag Wa

Fieure 2.—Map of Japan giving names and boundaries of the different provinces.
Northern part.
JAPANESE EARTHQUAKES—HECK 205

sons to make reports, (2) of a statistically minded government, and
(3), in recent years, of an extensive network of seismographs. Guten-
berg,® after careful investigation, has reached the conclusion that the
main Japanese islands and adjacent seismically active sea bottom are
probably no more seismic than some other areas of equal extent, but

SHALLOW SHOCKS
CLASS eo 3S CLASS bX
CLASS eX Class dx

INTERMEDIATE SHOCKS Y
OEEP SHOCKS ¥

OCEAN OEPTHS

4000 m —- €000m -~—-~

FIGURE 3.—Map of epicenters, Japan to Kamchatka. (Courtesy Geological Society
of America. )

he considers that the seismicity of certain local areas in Japan reaches
a peak rarely, if ever, exceeded elsewhere. In Japan there have been
examples of every kind of earthquake except one—that occurring at
times in eastern North America, felt over a vast area but usually at
only moderate maximum intensity.

GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION

Distribution according to depth.—This is so complex that the fol-
lowing statement, based on Gutenberg (see footnote 6) and figure 3,

*B. Gutenberg and C. F. Richter, Seismicity of the earth, Geol. Soc. Amer., Spec. Pap.,
No. 34, 1941.

676212—46——_14
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

though essentially correct, is an oversimplification. The classification
of Gutenberg will be followed: shallow earthquakes have a depth of
less than 36 miles; intermediate, between 36 and 180 miles; and deep,
more than 180—the greatest known, 420 miles. The more destructive
Japanese earthquakes are shallow or in the upper portion of inter-
mediate depth.

A belt of shallow earthquakes paralleled by a narrow belt of inter-
mediate earthquakes extends from Kamchatka to central Japan,
whence it follows the island groups toward the Marianas. Another
belt of shallow and intermediate earthquakes extends from Kyushu
Island toward Formosa and the Philippine Islands. <A broad belt of
deep-focus earthquake epicenters crosses the Sea of Okhotsk to the
southern part of Sakhalin, paralleling the Kurile Islands. Opposite
Hokkaido and northern Honshu, the deep-focus belt is in the Japan
Sea or inside the adjacent Asiatic coast. This almost joins a belt
nearly at right angles to it which, beginning with a large group of
shocks on the continent, follows southward across the Japan Sea and
Honshu and then parallels to the westward the shallow and inter-
mediate belt extending toward the Marianas. The southwestern belt
has no deep-focus earthquakes until the Philippines are reached.
There is no need of further detail. It should be stated that deep-
focus earthquake waves must have great intensity to cause serious
destruction, because the waves have already traversed a considerable
distance before reaching the earth’s surface.

Geographical distribution of destructive earthquakes.—On account
of the high seismicity, discussion will be confined to Japan proper
(the four islands of Hokkaido, Honshu, Shikoku, and Kyushu) and
adjacent submarine areas, and to Formosa. The Japanese earthquakes
which have made the greatest impression are those originating on
the western side of the Tuscarora Deep from off Hokkaido to opposite
Tokyo, the great Mino-Owari earthquake of 1891, and those of the
Kwanto region (named for an extensive plain which includes Tokyo
and Yokohama). However, other parts of Japan have suffered earth-
quake catastrophes. For the sake of convenience, a number of princi-
pal areas will be listed and then characteristic earthquakes of each
will be discussed, particularly those which have some striking feature.

DESTRUCTIVE EARTHQUAKES BY REGIONS

Region I. Submarine area west of Tuscarora Deep. Shocks causing little direct
damage produce great tsunamis.

Region II. Submarine region off southwestern Japan, Idu to Kyushu and ad-
jacent islands. Great damage both from earthquakes and tsunamis.

Region III. Kwanto region, named for great plain. Shocks highly destructive
in region of great cities. Tsunamis secondary.

Region IV. Central Japan. Mino-Owari, Kyoto, and Tazima-Tango areas.
Visible fault slips in severe earthquakes. No tsunamis.
an

JAPANESE

IRTHQUAKES

676212—46 (Face p. 206)

ONG ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITTITION. 1945
ae

JAPANESE
EARTHQUAKES

Ficure 4—Map of epicenters of important Japanese earthquakes.

676212—46 (Face p. 206)
oR ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITTITION. 1945
JAPANESE EARTHQUAKES—HECK 207

Region V. Japan Sea coast of Honshu, except Tazima-Tango. Earthquakes
generally less severe than in regions I-IV. Tsunamis small.
Region VI. Interior of Honshu, not included in regions III and IV. Character

ized by landslides.

Region VII. Kyushu Island. Shocks usually associated with volcanic activity.

Region I. Submarine, west of Tuscarora Deep.—Only 4 of the 63
great earthquakes are in this region; but this is not a complete picture.
Omori states that from the year 416 to about 1900 there were 23 great
tsunamis in regions I and II, and he found that of 257 shocks felt over
an area of more than 25,000 square miles, recorded from 1885 to 1905,
145 were in the same region. Imamura lists 15, some moderate, in
region I, from the year 869 to 1933. This supports his statement that
region I is the breeding ground of big earthquakes and that the ad-
jacent Sanriku coast is never free from the danger of destructive
tsunamis. Those of 1896 and 1933 will be described. The former
was the greater one, but the 1933 tsunami received the most thorough
scientific investigation ever given to this phenomenon.

The 1896 earthquake was felt from Hokkaido to the Kwanto region,
but no important damage was caused. ‘The shock was slow and undu-
lating. About 20 minutes later, a wall of water 10 to 20 feet high
at most places rushed in, and, as people were celebrating a holiday on
the beaches, thousands were swept away and drowned and many vil-
lages were laid flat. The waves reached a height of nearly 100 feet
at one place and 75 feet at a number of others. However, the damage
was nearly as great for a wave of 20 feet as for greater heights. Fish-
ermen who were well offshore failed to recognize anything unusual and
were greatly surprised on their return homeward to find the sea strewn
with house wreckage and corpses. The wave was recorded by the
tide gage at Sausalito, Calif.

The great variety of height of wave was studied for the 1933 earth-
quake. The circumstances for the arrival of the wave were the same
as those in 1896, though it had less amplitude. The height over the
deep Pacific Ocean was estimated at 3 feet, and the wave length at 60
to 600 miles, which has much to do with recording at a distance. The
wave was recorded by tide gages in California and the oscillations were
noticed at Iquique, Peru, 9,000 miles from the place of origin. On the
coasts of Honshu and Hokkaido the usual height was 7 to 15 feet,
but there were maximum heights of 96 feet and 75 feet at several places.
In one bay the height was 10 feet at the entrance, 26 feet halfway up
the bay, and 75 feet at its head. Off one of these bays a motorboat
capable of a speed of 12 miles an hour could not make headway. The
explanation of the increase of height lies in the V-shaped character of
the bay. The wave in some places arrived as a flood, resembling a
very high tide, and at others it arrived as a vertical wall like a great
breaker—with high horizontal acceleration. Usually a withdrawal
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

of the sea preceded the arrival. It appears that usually there was
only one great wave; but not always, and the later wave might be
greater than the first. The Japanese have classified their exposed
harbors on, the basis of the type of tsunami to be expected. (PI. 1,
fig. 1.)

Region II. Submarine, offshore, Idu to beyond Kyushu.—Of the
earthquakes of table 1, eight were in this region, but the remarks in-
troducing region I should be noted. ‘The earthquake of 1703 possibly
belongs to region II, but it is properly assigned to region III because
of its relation to the Kwanto earthquake of 1923. Prior to 1596 there
were great submarine earthquakes in region II; one in 684 which
caused notable damage in the vicinity of Koti on southern Shikoku,
where low ground containing two villages sank beneath the sea, and
one in 1361, accompanied by a tsunami which caused damage at Osaka.
Of the earlier shocks of table 1, that of 1605 caused heavy loss of life.
Special attention is given to three earthquakes, one in 1707 and two
in 1854. The latter were only a day apart but in very different loca-
tions. However, in some places the effects were separated with diffi-
culty. There were strong shocks in 1936 and 1944.

The 1707 earthquake was among the greatest known in Japan.
Houses were damaged or destroyed in 26 provinces and the tsunami
swept the coast from Kwanto to Kyushu Island. Near Koti in south-
ern Shikoku the wave was 91 feet high. The waves not only swept
the outer coast, but entered the Inland Sea (between Shikoku and
Honshu), leaving wreckage. A great wave rushed into Osaka Bay,
causing great havoc. Two rivers enter the bay at Osaka after travers-
ing the central part of the city, and there are therefore many bridges.
More than 1,000 craft of various sizes were swamped and sunk, but
many were carried by the wave, damaging bridges as they swept along.

Of the two earthquakes of 1854, the first was off Totomi Sea and the
second off Shikoku. The tsunami from the first shock consisted of
three waves in the harbor of Shimoda on the southern end of Idu
Peninsula, causing the foundering of the Russian frigate Diana and
of many Japanese vessels, which gave the harbor a bad repute.

The situation at Osaka was of special interest. The first shock,
about 8 a. m. December 23, was felt strongly, but the tsunami was
only moderate. Many persons decided to spend the night outside
their houses, and some took refuge on boats and vessels. Two hours
after the second shock, which occurred about 5 p. m. on the 24th, a
tsunami arrived which was 10 feet high in the outer harbor and 20
feet in the port. More than 1,500 vessels were damaged or completely
wrecked and, as in 1707, some were swept along by the wave, damag-
ing 25 bridges. As there is no high land to which one may flee in
Osaka, and as similar waves sometimes accompany typhoons, the

JAPANESE EARTHQUAKES—HECK 209

building of a great breakwater has been considered, but an effective
one is scarcely practicable. The earthquakes of 1911 and 1936 may
have produced large tsunamis, but, since they occurred off small
islands, the damage occasioned was not great. The submarine shock
of 1944 was stronger than the destructive 1923 earthquake.

Region III. The Kwanto region.—This region, named for a great
plain which covers most of the region, includes the Idu Peninsula west
of Sagami Bay. For the years from 818 to 1930, Imamura lists 28
destructive earthquakes, including 9 of those listed in table 1. The
persistence of destructive earthquakes in the region for more than
1,900 years is evidenced by a series of horizontal lines of drill holes
in a cliff on a recent inlet of Sagami Bay near Misaki. The holes
were made by a marine borer which operates only between high and
low water. The lowest row indicates an uplift of 17 feet in 1703; the
next, of about the same amount in 818; and a less definite one which,
on fairly good evidence, is assigned to about A. D. 33. In 1923 the
uplift was about 6 feet. In the earthquake of this year, and probably
in the others, there was lowering elsewhere, indicating block tilting.
This is probably the clearest example of successive uplift to be found
anywhere.

The 1703 earthquake was submarine, with its origin south of Boso
Peninsula (east of Tokyo Bay). There was a tsunami of some vio-
lence over a moderate length of coast, possibly due to sea-bottom
changes which at that time could not be measured. The earthquake
was destructive in nine provinces. There was uplift at many places
along the coast, and some previously outlying reefs became dry land.
The loss of life and property damage was heavy, but not so great as
it would have been under the conditions of industrialization of 1923.

The earthquake of 1855 was noteworthy in that, though it was local
in extent, its epicenter was nearer to Tokyo than that of 1923 and
therefore it caused important damage. Many fires were started when
charcoal braziers were upset by the earthquakes, but most of them
were brought under control though a square mile of the city’s area was
burned. The shock was of very short duration.

Books have been written about the earthquake of 1923, generally
known as the Kwanto earthquake (pl. 1, fig. 2; pl.2). An elaborate re-
port of the engineering features, published in Japanese, was translated
into English by the American Society of Civil Engineers; but the
translation has not been published, though it is available at the So-
ciety’s library in New York. Only a bare outline of the principal facts
of the earthquake can be given. The epicenter of the first main shock
was in the middle of Sagami Bay, where the changes that took place
were great, though perhaps not so great as the comparative hydro-
graphic surveys taken before and after the event seem to indicate.
210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

There were numerous severe aftershocks, and one on the following
day about 40 miles to the eastward was nearly as great as the main
shock. Soon after the main shock a tsunami swept Sagami Bay and
the adjacent coasts. Its maximum height was 36 feet, though 10 to
16 feet was more common. These heights scarcely correspond to the
reported great displacement in the epicentral region. In some places
uplift of the land reduced the effect of the tsunami.

The shock occurred just as the noon meal was being prepared, and
people rushed from their houses, abandoning overturned stoves. The
fallen wooden houses, and drugs, chemicals, and gasoline, amply fed
the flames. A total of 134 separate blazes were counted, and these
soon joined in a single conflagration. A fully efficient fire department
could have done little, as the earthquake had put the water system out
of order. There was a shifting wind, reaching a velocity of nearly 50
miles per hour, and the conditions set up tornadoes. It is said that
40,000 persons died in one group in an open city square. That no one
escaped has been attributed to fires in possessions of the refugees, but
there is reason to believe that many deaths were due to lack of oxygen
in the air. A similar cause of death has been suggested in the burning
of Hamburg, Germany. In Tokyo, an area of 7 square miles was
burned and only 15 percent of the buildings escaped. Many of those
lost were government and business buildings, libraries, art galleries,
and museums, so that the loss of irreplaceable books, records, and
objects of all kinds could scarcely be evaluated.

Yokohama was only 40 miles from the epicenter, as against 57 for
Tokyo, and the damage from earthquake was 10 times as great. Three
square miles, or half the total area of the city, was burned. The loss
from fire was 60 percent of the buildings, but the earthquake damage
accounted for 20 percent more, leaving only 20 percent undamaged. In
a town near the epicenter 95 percent of the houses were thrown down.

Damage to structures and public utilities will be briefly described.
It was estimated that 18,000 factories were destroyed. Large buildings
in Tokyo stood the shock fairly well. About half the tall stacks fell.
Bridges suffered severely; wooden bridges were burned, and some
steel spans were thrown off the piers, or were distorted when slides or
mud flows moved the abutments, shortening the distance between them.
Many of the bridges carried pipes and electric lines, and so the effective
damage was increased. Fallen bridges prevented the escape of refu-
gees. A total of 2,270 vessels, mostly of small size were lost.

More than 400 miles of railway were damaged by vertical or hori-
zontal ground displacement, with damage to tunnels and culverts.
Streetcars and generating systems were damaged by fire and landslides.
In Tokyo, 56 miles of canals were damaged by slides. In Yokohama,
4,800 feet of breakwater settled 8 feet or more and the 1,800-foot land-
JAPANESE EARTHQUAKES—HECK P11

ing pier suffered severely. Off Yokosuka, part of the breakwater sank
18 feet. Eleven lighthouses were destroyed.

Damage to the water systems included effects of landslides and shift-
ing of underground conduits. This was the more serious since the
use of water carts increased the danger of epidemics of water-borne
diseases; but fortunately that danger was fairly well avoided. Re-
placing of house services was a major task since pipes were broken and
pulled apart. The tanks of the gas works were generally uninjured,
but the distribution systems were badly wrecked. A number of ex-
plosions occurred in large pipes where gas was trapped. It required
7 months to make replacement complete. Sewers were chiefly affected
by breaks at watercourses or where sewers met. Many manholes were
damaged.

It will be seen that damage was caused by earthquake waves, by slip-
ping or cracking or sliding of the ground, by fire, and by tsunami.
Evidently, a major earthquake is an effective agent of destruction.

A phenomenon of unusual interest occurred in a town in the Boso
Peninsula. In an old rice field filled with water, the teachers in a
nearby school saw two fissures 130 feet long spurting muddy water to
a height of 10 feet, repeating like a geyser six times before ceasing.
The only comparable actual observation of the same phenomenon was
in the Bihar, India, earthquake of 1934. Only rarely has the effect of
earthquake on ground water been actually observed.

There were great landslides on several peninsulas (pl. 1, fig. 2). A
village of 700 people was buried under an immense avalanche of soil
and rock. During the last week in September there were 1,256 after-
shocks of all degrees of intensity.

In the northern Idu earthquake of 1980 near Ito and Awami, on the
west shore of Sagami Bay, 7,000 buildings were damaged and several
hundred lives were lost; but this is relatively minor for the region.
There were 2 notable features, swarm earthquakes and luminous
phenomena. The main earthquake occurred on November 26. A seis-
mograph at Misaki, 31 miles away across the bay, recorded 3,684 after-
shocks of a wide variety of intensity from February 18 to April 11.
The greatest number, 209, and the strongest shock, which was some-
what destructive, occurred on March 9. After a pause, the shocks
started again on May 7, and attained their greatest frequency about
the middle of the month. Few occurred after May, and all stopped
in August. The number recorded in the two series reached 6,000, of
which about 4,900 were felt at Ito. During March, additional seismo-
graphs were installed and positions and depths of epicenter were
studied. Early in November, the shocks started again. Great num-
bers occurred, the greatest in a single day being 690 on November 25.
Yi be ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

On November 26, 236 were recorded in a single hour, but on the day
of the great earthquake there were very few.

The Tanna tunnel (nearly 5 miles long) on the railway from Tokyo
to Kobe was under construction and the fault on which slipping oc-
curred had already been crossed. The west side of the tunnel where
it crossed the fault was shifted about 8 feet southward and 2 feet down-
ward. Otherwise no damage was done, though in a village directly
over the tunnel 55 percent of the houses were thrown down. Seismo-
grams showed that for periods of 1 second or less the amplitudes above
were two to four times that in the tunnel, while for periods of 4 or
5 seconds there was no difference in amplitude.

Triangulation before and after the earthquakes showed that the
movements were in opposite direction on both sides of the fault by
similar but not equal amounts. From 1896 onward, many lines of
precise levels were run in the region. In the vicinity of Ito there
were two levelings before and two after the principal earthquake. It
was found difficult to find the relation between the vertical changes
and earthquake occurrence.

The reports of luminous phenomena in connection with this earth-
quake, totaling 1,500 over an area of about 7,300 square miles, seem
to confirm similar reports in regard to certain Sanriku earthquakes.
They started a short time before the main earthquake (about 4 a. m.)
and continued for an hour in the epicentral region. Some lights were
like rays of the sun, some like searchlights, and others like fire balls.
They were colored from red and yellow to blue. Some of them were
brilliant. Although, in Japan, they have usually been attributed to
luminous microscopic organisms in the sea disturbed by earthquake
or tsunami, the explanation is not wholly satisfactory.

Region 1V. Mino-Owari, Kyoto, Tazima-Tango.—Imamura lists 14
shocks in the Mino-Owari region from 745 to 1918, and 18 in the Kyoto
region from 701 to 1830 (none thereafter), and none before 1926 in the
Tazima-Tango region. Of those listed in table 1 there were 8 in
the entire region. The only shocks requiring detailed discussion are
the Mino-Owari of 1891, the Tazima of 1925, and the Tango of 1927.
The Mino-Owari was the greatest, though similar shocks in 745, 1185,
and 1586 were probably severe.

The 1891 earthquake occurred south of the center of a long fault or
series of faults which extended in a northwest-southeast direction
across Honshu near its narrowest width. The visible fault slips ex-
tended for 40 and probably for 70 miles. They were generally en
échelon, with a maximum vertical slip of 20 feet and a maximum hori-
zontal slip of 13 feet.

This was one of the greatest of Japanese earthquakes. It was too
early for cities of the region, such as Nagoya, to have become indus-
JAPANESE EARTHQUAKES—HECK 213

trialized, but various types of structures having a design, borrowed
from vies countries, which ignored earthquakes, were destroyed.
The region is pinnae agricultural, one of the most important rice-
raising districts of Japan, and in spite of its few cities the population
density was second only to the Tokyo- -Yokohama region, being 778
per square mile. The intensity is evidenced by the loss of 140,000
houses, only a few of which were destroyed by fire. Along some of the
highways every house wasdown. (PI. 3, fig. 1.)

The area of greatest destruction covered 4,300 square miles. The
rice culture required many roadways and ditches and there was heavy
damage to them and to embankments. A number of bridges suffered,
some spans being thrown off the piers. An area of three-fourths of a
square mile subsided so that a river mouth was blocked and the land
became swampy. In one place the faulting resulted in complete de-
struction of a village, a half acre of land being turned over so that
nothing remained but clods and upturned roots. At another place two
persimmon trees in a garden were shifted, without damage, so that the
direction between them changed from east-west to north-south. Build-
ings were damaged as far away as Osaka. There were great land-
slides in the mountain region to the north. The number of after-
shocks at Gifu in 2 years was 3,365, of which 10 were violent and 97
were strong. From these data Omori derived his well-known curve
of decline of frequency of aftershocks. From fallen stone lanterns
he estimated the maximum acceleration at 0.4 g. Earthquakes have
been few in this region since the aftershocks ceased. Since the
epicenter was distant from the sea, this was one of the very few great
Japanese earthquakes that was unaccompanied by a tsunami.

The Japanese Government centered at Kyoto from 794 to 1868.
The records kept make it. certain that Kyoto and its port, Osaka, have
had no great earthquakes in their vicinity. From 1480 to 1820 the
most important were in 1596 (No. 2 in table 1), and in 1854, south of
Lake Biwa. <A destructive earthquake in 1899 at Osaka is mentioned
by Davison. It should be said here that yet other destructive earth-
quakes are obviously expected by the Japanese, since the imperial
palace at Kyoto, where the emperors are crowned, was strengthened in
recent years. A prominent Japanese seismologist expressed such a
view to the writer at Osaka in 1926. The damage at Osaka due to
earthquakes in region II must not be overlooked.

The Tazima, 1925, and Tango, 1927, earthquakes strictly belong to
region V, but they are remote from others in that region and are near
the rest of region IV, and the Tango earthquake bears some resemblance
to the shock of 1891. The Tazima earthquake originating in Tuiyama
Cove on the coast of the Japan Sea was destructive, damaging 7,500
houses and causing more than 400 deaths, but its chief interest lies in
214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

the fact that no destructive earthquakes were listed earlier for that
place. The same is true for the Tango region. A hydrographic sur-
vey revealed no change in depth of the adjacent sea bottom.

The Tango earthquake of 1927 caused 10 times as much damage as
the Tazima earthquake, and in the epicentral region the severity was
of the first rank, the acceleration being estimated at 0.5 g. Though
Tango was a center of the silk industry, the population was not so great
as that of Tazima and this reduced the losses. The earthquake was
remarkable for the short interval of 3 seconds from the time it was first
perceived until it exerted a force sufficient to throw down buildings.
There was no time to escape, and many of its victims were crushed.
The town of Minoyama established a record even for Japan: only 10
out of 998 buildings survived, and 1,122 persons were killed. Fires
were started from 15 centers, and no action was at once taken to put
them out.

The earthquake was associated with visible fault slipping, which was
studied with great care. The Gomura fault extends from the coast
to the southeast, and, partly discontinuous, its fault slips, en échelon,
for a distance of 11 miles, having a maximum horizontal change of
about 9 feet. The greatest vertical change observed was only 27 inches.
There was evidence from repeated hydrographic surveys that the fault
extended seaward with greater vertical change than on land. The
Yamada fault, nearly at right angles to the Gomura fault, is visible
for 4.7 miles, but probably is 18 miles long. Its maximum vertical
change was 28 inches. There was some permanent uplift of the coast.
The epicenter of the aftershocks were studied in relation to block fault-
ing. The height of the tsunami was about 5 feet. The deduced
acceleration was 0.4 or 0.5 g.

Region V. Japan Sea coast of Honshu, except Tazima-Tango.—Only
the earthquakes listed in table 1 will be considered, and they will be
divided into three subgroups (A-C) for geographical convenience.
Preseismic tilt is characteristic of many of these earthquakes, and this
was the more readily detectable because the occurrences were near a
shore with a maximum tidal range of about 1 foot.

A. North of latitude 39°. Included here in order of descending lati-
tude are the earthquakes of 1793, 1704, 1694, 1810, 1939, 1914, and 1804.
The western Tugaru earthquake of 1793 was noted for preseismic tilt.
The land rose 3 to 6 feet, 4 hours before the earthquake. The ex-
traordinary ebbing of the tide that accompanied this was regarded as
warning of a tsunami. The inhabitants rushed to higher ground.
Then came a violent earthquake, and the people, fearing landslides,
rushed back to the beach, so that some were drowned by the tsunami
even though it was moderate and otherwise did little damage. There
JAPANESE EARTHQUAKES—HECK 215

was a permanent uplift over a distance of 12 miles, with a maximum
of 10 feet.

The 1804 Kisakata earthquake—Mount Tyokai had an eruption a
few years before and was still active, but without apparent relation to
the earthquake. Before the shock the Kisakata Lagoon afforded pic-
turesque scenery with a radius of a mile and an average depth of 614
feet. A permanent uplift of 10 feet eliminated the lagoon. At Kotaki,
21% miles to the southeast, there was subsidence of 414 feet, which
altered the course of astream. The other shocks listed were without
special features, except that the one of 1939 was characterized by land-
slides and fissuring. Tsunamis, if any, were insignificant.

B. Latitude 39° to Toyama Bay. In this group are included the
earthquakes of 1833, 1894, 1802, 1614, 1729, 1751, and 1666. In the Sado
earthquake of 1802 there was quite heavy damage, but the special fea-
ture was the preseismic tilt. The earthquake occurred at2 p.m. At
the town of Ogi an extraordinary ebbing of the tide was noted about
10 a. m., a slight shock occurring at that time. The land rose about
314 feet, and as in the 1793 earthquake a tsunami was expected, but it
did not arrive. The permanent uplift of about 614 feet was noted at
Ogi and the distance over which there was uplift was nearly 15 miles.

C. Meridian 134° to the tip of Honshu. In this group are included
the earthquakes of 1948, 1711, 1872, and 1676. The earthquake of 1943
appears to have been severe and felt over a large area. According to
first reports by radio, many persons were buried in the debris at Totori
and there was minor damage at Kobe, Osaka, and Hiroshima. These
reports of damage were later denied, but seismograph records at a
distance confirmed the first reported intensity. In the Hamada earth-
quake of 1872 there was an uplift of the shore amounting to 614 feet,
30 minutes before a widely felt shock. Fishermen began to gather
stranded fish and shells on a bared narrow bar joining the shore with
an islet. Immediately after the shock they rushed to higher ground
and escaped the moderate tsunami which followed. On one side of a
line through Hamada there was permanent upheaval to a maximum
of 614 feet, and, on the other side, depression amounting to 314 feet,
the total distance affected being about 12 miles. There were foreshocks
with noise 4 or 5 days before the earthquake, and two on the same day.

Region VI. Interior of Honshu.—The list includes the earthquakes
of 1766, 1896, 1611, 1659, 1828, 1714, 1847, 1858, and 1905 (on the In-
land Sea). The Sinano earthquake of 1847 was featured by thou-
sands of landslides and many villages were buried. The largest of
these slides blocked the river Saikawa, forming a lake 17 by 214 miles
at its widest point. At the end of 19 days the dam gave way and
everything along the banks of the lower valley was swept away,
including 4,800 houses and 28 persons. In the Hida earthquake of
216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

1858 there was a similar occurrence. The detritus dammed the river
Zyogwanzi; the dam held for 49 days and then broke, flooding the
lower valley for 70 miles and drowning 148 persons. Other shocks
listed for region VI have no known features of special interest.

Region VII. Kyushu Island.—The list includes the earthquakes of
1596, 1792, 1889, 1922, and 1914. In the earthquake of 1596 the island
of Urya-zima near Oita, with an area of 114 square miles, sank beneath
the sea to a depth of 30 to 40 fathoms, two-thirds at once and the rest
later. In 1792 there was a great eruption of the voicano Unzen-dake.
This began in February. On May 1, possibly as a result of an earth-
quake, there was a great avalanche which produced great water dis-
turbance with heavy loss of life. It is possible that this should not
be listed as a severe earthquake. In 1914 there was a great eruption
of the volcano Sakurijima. The strongest earthquake, on January
12, was probably of volcanic origin though unusually severe for such
a shock. Buildings of soft material and fence walls were thrown
down. The other shocks listed for region VII were probably of
volcanic origin.

FORMOSA EARTHQUAKES

Formosa has suffered severely from earthquakes, largely because
of the type of buildings, heavy but weak. Omori has listed 18 shocks
including 2 to 5 of the list from 1655 to 1906. In the shock of 1862
more than 1,000 persons were killed. In 1867 a wave swept the harbor
of Keelung, northeast of Formosa; great Jandslides occurred. In
the earthquake of March 17, 1906, there was fault slipping 6 feet ver-
tical and 6 feet horizontal. (See pl. 3, fig. 2.) There were sand
eruptions and cracking of the ground. The shock of April 14, center-
ing 10 miles from the March earthquake, was not accompanied by
surface slipping.

TasLe 2 .—Destructive earthquakes in Formosa, 1771-1943

aoe Houses Deaths

destroyed Locality and remarks

Isigaki-zima T.
Kagi

agi.
Keelung T.
Toruku, Kagi.
Kagi.
Kagi, Ensuiko.
Horisya.
Taityo, Sintiku.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

For explanation of terms, see table 1, p. 202.

SOME LESSONS FROM JAPANESE EARTHQUAKES

The Japanese have long wished to predict earthquakes, probably
never more than now. They have studied crustal movements by re-
JAPANESE EARTHQUAKES—HECK PAWS

peated triangulation and leveling, long-continued and preseismic tilt,
and all kinds of periodicities. The earthquake of 1930 in northern
Idu indicates how difficult it is to correlate crustal movement with
earthquakes. A case has been made from occurrences in earthquakes
of the Japan Sea coast for preseismic tilt, from 30 minutes to 5 hours
before the earthquake. The study of periodicities has not brought
significant results, except that there is an interval of several cen-
turies between major earthquakes of any region. The outstanding
examples of great success and great failure in prediction are credited
to Omori. After the California earthquake of April 18, 1906, he
predicted that the next great shocks in the circumpacific belt would
occur in South America and Alaska. On the same day, August 16,
1906, there were great earthquakes in Valparaiso, Chile, and the Aleu-
tian Islands. In the spring of 1923, Omori expressed the view that
there would be no great earthquake in the Kwanto region for many
years, and the great shock came on September 1.

The Japanese have gone in strongly for earthquake-resistant struc-
tures, and miscellaneous measures have been taken.’ Heights of
buildings have been restricted, simple structures insisted on, and water
supply that is not likely to be affected by earthquakes has been es-
tablished in Tokyo at least. The effectiveness of these measures has
not been tested, and the description of the 1923 shock has brought out
many things to guard against.

7 Willard Price, Unknown Japan, Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 82, pp. 225-252, 1942.
qe _ Bava mira maxleuryiionn ey a ives f

9 i ee

=! - 7
: a
— OS en er Seg,

Gates

Whe! pases

SW BoM ataina eoantowsss oleiinie pacthevaeepatse -
~29 asd ead vend te peneoinata tat: pchsrgrate som at nad |
BOY lie oe an ia bait ba .
colada 2 5 ak tte: ligt (row) 26D TUNED oa ene:
ger Segt eh ate edt aS "thy eg te oan t i alge wo |
inf Hix Dey. roe es haut if hi ACTEM 5 yroat ene iy n

thie: exethquake 6% March 17,196, there wae Gughe dipatna pian
‘ead nad & feet horteontel (See oh te Hg. ay Vhas.ieacisle

IHaeS tnd cracking of the coon: ietheak cl Pope TA, vai
gr 20. ipilew from tia Mae " costing was not, acon Srbahaete 7
iapface slipping, | .

Tala 8 -+estreatl(te erty én Pont atta,

ee

| per
iu Ve | Mes tne | ae
;
j : i 4 " )
hi Rev.) BY | eet Dh a
‘ i fy! Ta ; ; we
o 5) ee ae i rede f
ted fet | ed oe
‘o = . iv } M Ae Loonies
| ip. , .
eRe eo es
~— — - re. socio omaal WE b d@ phat ipar Pa eae tS anne
Ree ancy wcutboet of temnecece satie 1, D, Dh

>
iy
SiMe LESRONR PROM iA? ANSE since ,

The dspaacce have Iofig wished So predien aacthpstiag ‘pabatal :
never mors than ucw. They haya studied erautel movanents by aa
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Heck PeAsIsE

1. FISHING VESSEL LEFT IN STREET BY TSUNAMI.

(From Bulletin of the Earthquake Research Institute, Tokyo Imperial University.)

2. STREAM BLOCKED BY ROCK SLIDE, EARTHQUAKE OF 1923.
(From ‘The Great Earthquake of 1923 in Japan,’’ compiled by the Bureau of Social Affairs.)

Csileyy [Blog Jo neoing of} Aq pofiduro0d ,“uBder Ul EZ6T JO ayeNbyWeY yor oy,L,, W017)

“€Z61 “OAMOL NI 3YI4 GNV SANMVNOHLYVA AS 13357 SNINY

P?H—'C6l *qaoday ueruosy Ug
Smithsonian Report. 1945.—Heck PLATE 3

1. DAMAGE IN SUBURB OF NAGOYA, MINO-OWARI EARTHQUAKE OF 1891.
(After Kikuchi.)

2. SLIP ALONG FAULT IN FORMOSA, EARTHQUAKE OF 1906, 6 FEET VERTICAL AND
6 FEET HORIZONTAL.

(After Omori.)
CONQUEST OF THE NORTHWEST PASSAGE BY R. C. M. P.
SCHOONER “ST. ROCH”?

By J. Lewis Rosrnson

Geographer, Bureau of Northwest Territories and Yukon Affairs, Ottawa

[With 12 plates]

The search for the Northwest Passage forms an intriguing chapter
in the history of Canadian exploration. The stories of early naviga-
tors who faced the dangers of polar pack ice in tiny wooden sailing
ships, traveling, with doubtful compasses, along uncharted coasts, are
accounts of hardship, courage, and perseverance. The fruitless quest
for a route north of the North American mainland to the wealth of the
Far East resulted in the exploration and charting of most of the
numerous Arctic islands of Northern Canada. As more and more
knowledge of this inhospitable region was obtained through explora-
tion, the trading incentive behind the search for a northwest route
waned in the light of geographic facts which showed the route to be
commercially impractical.

In the sixteenth century Europe began to look toward the new
continent to the west, and expeditions from England, Spain, Portugal,
and France groped their way along the unknown coasts. At first this
new land mass was regarded chiefly as a barrier, of little value in itself,
blocking the route to the fabled riches of the East. Exploration was
interested in a way around or through it, and in 1576 Martin Frobisher
first entered the eastern Arctic seeking such a route. John Davis, who
followed Frobisher’s lead, reached Baffin Bay before the end of the
century and noted several westward openings on the barren rocky coast.

Exploration in the early seventeenth century was sidetracked by the
broad opening of Hudson Strait, and many years were spent in defining
the limits of extensive Hudson Bay. The failure of several expedi-

1 Article prepared at the Bureau of Northwest Territories and Yukon Affairs, Lands,
Parks, and Forests Branch, Department of Mines and Resources, Ottawa, based on inter-
views with and reports from Staff Sergeant (now Subinspector) Henry A. Larsen of the
Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and published by permission of the Commissioner, Royal
Canadian Mounted Police. Reprinted from the Canadian Geographical Journal, vol. 30, No.
2, February 1945, by permission of the publishers and the Administration of the Northwest
Territories, Ottawa, Canada.

219
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

tions to find openings west of Hudson Bay dampened interest in the
search in this direction, and for a time exploration was neglected.

After the Napoleonic Wars, expeditions from the British Navy
renewed the search for a northern route through the sea reported north
of America. Edward Parry entered Lancaster Sound in 1819 and
twisted through eastward-moving ice floes as far as Melville Island
before freezing his ship in for the winter. The next season ice choking
the channel to the westward prevented further progress, and Parry
returned to England. In 1821 Parry tried the southern route through
Hudson Strait and Foxe Channel, and reached the entrance to Fury
and Hecla Strait before being stopped by ice. Later attempts to pass
through this strait also failed, and it has not yet been navigated by
other than Eskimo mariners. Further exploration by John Ross,
beginning in 1829, confirmed the existence of Boothia Peninsula ex-
tending north from the mainland of Canada and discouraged all hopes
for a passage through this region. Since Ross did not see Bellot Strait,
the strategic opening to the west, it was believed that Somerset Island
was part of this long barrier peninsula.

In 1845 Sir John Franklin led a British naval expedition into Lan-
caster Sound, and, after being stopped by ice in Barrow Strait, win-
tered at Beechey Island, the southwestern corner of Devon Island.
The next year he continued westward and was lost, never to be seen
again. Despite the fact that 16 rescue expeditions entered the Arctic
from both the east and the west, discovered 6,000 miles of new coast
line in their search, and covered about 40,000 miles by winter sledge
trips, Franklin’s fate remained a mystery until M’Clintock brought
out some clues in 1859. This extensive search well illustrated the
vastness of the Canadian Arctic. Many famous explorers, whose
names are now commemorated on our maps, traveled widely by small
boat in summer and by sledge in winter, and their mapping brought
forth the first definite outlines of the Arctic islands. All their ac-
counts lay stress on the short navigation season after the land-fast
ice breaks up, on being obstructed by extensive masses of pack ice
moving eastward from the Arctic Ocean through the many channels of
the Arctic islands to Baffin Bay and the North Atlantic, and on an
early freeze-up followed by a severe winter, with sledges as the only
means of travel.

In 1854 the long-sought Northwest Passage was finally traversed by
Captain M’Clure and part of his crew. They abandoned their ice-
bound ship north of Banks Island in 1853 and sledged eastward to meet
Captain Kellett at Dealey Island. The next spring M’Clure sledged
to Beechey Island and was brought out from there by ship. When
the news that the difficult route had been found was combined with
geographic information which was reported on ice and navigation

eo |
orthwest Pass

|

r

Mar of anddes teden be "30 Kock" in cotapleting tre

Puves &

2s FOOT 2S ee

wy

ees MEGEs

ort Br

Lay
bant

5

rs nter :
Co Ait

UND
cube meuviLte 50

10-

gWalker Bay
REN 1c TOIRIA

Lat, SMR aR I Fs ]
2 cial % S ne

: ‘? Ae v/ oe
3 7 <4 bee me foe Pa A oO

ee

Y go ae
Z\ a XK —

- e.8

ROUTES OF THE ST. ROCH

IN THE

NORTHWEST PASSAGE

1940 - 42... 1944....... SLEDGE PATROL

SCALE OF MILES
9. too

Map of routes taken by “St. Roch” in completing the Northwest Passage.
Ficvne 1,

676212—46 (Face p. 220)
nize of agufea debe? hed “#r, feck” in WAS A
Pisgvee 3.

ne Os ee |
NORTHWEST PASSAGE—ROBINSON 221

conditions by the many expeditions, enthusiasm for the Northwest
Passage declined among explorers. In the meantime, commerce now
knew safer and more dependable routes to carry the world’s merchan-
dise, and no longer encouraged interest in the Passage.

The Northwest Passage, which had brought so many ships to de-
struction in the ice during three long and arduous centuries of polar
exploration, remained unconquered by any one vessel until the be-
ginning of the present century. In 1903, Roald Amundsen, Norwegian
Arctic adventurer, entered Lancaster Sound in a small 47-ton vessel,
the Gjoa, and took a route southward into uncharted Peel Sound, be-
tween Somerset and Prince of Wales Islands. He navigated as far as
southeastern King William Island, where his party spent two winters
at Gjoa Haven (Petersen Bay), studying terrestrial magnetism near
the North Magnetic Pole on western Boothia Peninsula. In leaving
the Arctic, Amundsen sailed westward through Queen Maud and Coro-
nation Gulfs but was caught in the ice near Herschel Island, where
he passed his third winter in 1906. Next summer he and his crew con-
tinued westward, becoming the first persons to navigate the Northwest
Passage successfully from east to west in a single ship.

Within the modern period the Hudson’s Bay Co. has experimented
with the use of the northern route to bring supplies to its far-flung -
northern trading posts. In 1928 the H. B. C. schooner Fort James,
drawing 9 feet of water, entered the western Arctic from the east
through Lancaster Sound and Peel Strait and brought supplies to the
Gjoa Haven trading post on King William Island. After spending
two winters there the Fort James returned to the eastern Arctic via
the same route. This was the first commercial use of part of the pas-
sage, but when the Fort James was sent to the western Arctic in 1984,
she traveled via the Panama Canal.

In 1937 the Hudson’s Bay Co. icebreaker Nascopie, carrying the
Canadian Government Eastern Arctic Patrol, opened the trading post
of Fort Ross at the eastern end of Bellot Strait, and here met and
exchanged freight with the small H. B. C. schooner Aklavik, which
came up from King William Island. Thus Bellot Strait, which had
five times defied Captain M’Clintock and his Fox in 1858-59, became
the meeting place between the eastern and western Arctic on the
Northwest Passage. Shallow seas along the western section of this
route, however, limited the size of boats to small schooners like the
Aklavik, causing the route to be of little economic value, and the
scheme was dropped in 1940.

The ship which was to make history in the Northwest Passage, the
R. C. M. P. schooner St. Roch, was built in 1928 and entered the western
Arctic around the Alaskan coast. In the following years the 80-ton
two-masted vessel traveled along the western Arctic coasts and islands

6762124615
222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

as a “floating police detachment,” carrying supplies and doing routine
patrol work without fanfare, through the same difficult ice conditions
which had cost so many ships and lives among the early explorers.
These hardy adventurers were able to brave only one or two winters
in the Arctic, but the sturdy St. Roch has spent 11 of her 16 years
frozen into the ice of some Arctic harbor. In 1928-29 she wintered at
Langton Bay. Four successive winters, 1930-34, were spent at ‘Tree
River, in Coronation Gulf, and three winters, 1935-37 and 1938-39,
were passed frozen in at Cambridge Bay. Aided by modern equip-
ment and radio communication, the R. C. M. P. boat has been perform-
ing feats of Arctic ice navigation equal to those history-making voy-
ages of less than a century ago. But to Staff Sergeant Henry A.
Larsen, who has been the unassuming captain of the schooner during
all these years, this difficult work of navigation and long winter dog-
sled patrols are the usual routine in maintaining law and order in the
Canadian North.

On June 238, 1940, the St. Roch left Vancouver, British Columbia,
beginning the historic voyage which was to make the 80-ton schooner
the first ship to complete the elusive Northwest Passage from west to
east. The voyage northward through the Inside Passage and across
the North Pacific to the Aleutians was uneventful. The St. Roch
entered Bering Sea through Unimak Pass and anchored at Akutan
Harbor to check her engines and fill the fresh-water tanks. The
schooner continued to Dutch Harbor in the Aleutians on July 8 to
load a supply of fuel oil for the diesel-powered engines. Adverse
weather, with strong winds, rain and fog, was met in crossing Bering
Sea and, after stopping at Teller Harbor for a day, the St. Roch passed
through Bering Strait in a dense fog and entered the Arctic Ocean
on July 17.

On July 23, the St. Roch rounded Point Barrow spit and met the
first loose-scattered ice floes. By evening the blocks had become more
numerous, and the St. Roch began the familiar task of slowly “working
the ice”—twisting and turning from one lead to another opening, edg-
ing around large floes and pushing aside small blocks, drifting with
the pack and waiting for a lead to appear; Larsen and the St. Roch
had been doing this patient work in partnership since 1928. Progress
was slow and it became apparent that this was going to be a bad year for
ice along the northern Alaskan coast.

Ice conditions are unpredictable in the Arctic, and are greatly de-
pendent upon prevailing winds. The polar pack ice, which moves in a
general clockwise direction in the Arctic Ocean, presses southward
against the Alaskan coast. In years when prevailing winds are east-
erly or southerly, the ice is moved westward and leaves an open strip
along the coast; but northerly winds will pack the floes against the
NORTHWEST PASSAGE—ROBINSON 223

shore, impeding or blocking passage. Although this northern route
was formerly used by whalers, many were lost during bad years, and
since 1986 only the H. B. C. schooner Fort Ross, in addition to the Sz.
Roch, has entered the western Arctic via this route. Small schooners
have more success along the Alaskan coast because they can travel close
to shore inside of the ice which grounds in the shallow coastal water.
The only large ship to attempt this route, the H. B. C. icebreaker
Baychimo, after a few successful trips was caught in the ice off Point
Barrow in September 1931, and abandoned.

For 18 days the St. Roch struggled in the pack ice, east of Point
Barrow. During much of this time the schooner had to be continually
tied up to large floes for protection, and movement was mainly con-
cerned with preventing the ship from being crushed. The weather was
constantly foggy, further curtailing chances to see leads. At one time
the St. Roch was able to anchor close to shore near Beechey Point, but
as the ice began to close in again Larsen had to put the schooner back
into the pack to avoid being shoved ashore. It was then moored to a
grounded floe for 2 days so as not to lose distance by being pushed
westward during a furious northeasterly gale. On August 2 the police
vessel resumed working eastward and reached Cross Island before be-
ing caught once more. Northwest winds jammed the ice against the
shore and pressed hard against the boat, so that on August 10 Larsen
had to start blasting the ice in order to work free. After each blast the
schooner charged into the opening and finally reached open water near
shore. Thereafter good progress was made eastward, although the
vessel scraped bottom several times. Barter Island was passed on the
morning of August 11, and very little ice was encountered between
there and Herschel Island.

After loading coal and other supplies, the St. Roch left Herschel
Island on August 18 and crossed Mackenzie Bay to Port Brabant (Tuk-
toyaktuk or Tuk-tuk) . From this harbor the police schooner contin-
ued her normal routine patrol work of carrying supplies to the various
R. C. M. P. detachments in the western Arctic. Bad weather, fog, and
strong winds caused several delays in the eastward trip to Coppermine
and Cambridge Bay, and it was not until September 16 that the

schooner returned to Coppermine with her freighting duties finished.
Captain Larsen had originally hoped to proceed through the North-

west Passage via Prince of Wales Strait between Victoria and Banks
Islands after completing the freighting work, but the delays caused
by ice and bad weather discouraged any such attempt so late in the
season. A decision was then made to winter either on Banks Island
or at Walker Bay on central west Victoria Island, and to be ready to
navigate the Passage early the next summer. The St. Roch, therefore,
left Coppermine on September 19 and went to Holman Island and
thence to DeSalis Bay, Banks Island.
224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

September 25 was spent in examining the enormous harbor and
surrounding country at DeSalis Bay, but when Larsen noted high
ridges of rock and gravel pushed up along the shore, indicating heavy
ice pressure during break-up in the spring he considered it unwise to
winter here. Since no other good harbors were known in the area, the
St. Roch sailed for Walker Bay, where the explorer, Collinson, had
wintered in 1851-52. The vessel had a total of 5,240 miles to show for
a season’s work when she was anchored in the southeastern part of
this bay.

A continuous strong east wind blew during most of October and
prevented Walker Bay from freezing over until October 30. It was
the latest freeze-up known in this area, and, if Larsen had had any
way of knowing that it was to be so delayed that year, it is possible
that he might have been able to make his way immediately through the
Passage to the eastern Arctic. The vagaries of Arctic weather are un-
predictable, however, and what is done in one year may not be possible
in another. After the schooner was frozen in, a framework was con-
structed and the deck was completely housed over with canvas.

During the winter of 1940-41 the St. Roch detachment made several
normal patrols through the area, visiting native camps to investigate
Eskimo conditions and welfare, registering vital statistics and fire-
arms, and generally carrying out the many other duties of the R. C.
M. P. in supervising this vast Arctic region. As is customary, travel
was by Eskimo dog team and sled, and the nightly shelter was a snow
house of their own construction. Short patrols totaling 990 miles were
made to Holman Island for mail, to Minto Inlet, to Prince of Wales
Strait and inland on Victoria Island. One especially long patrol of 41
days, covering about 600 miles, was made for the purpose of visiting
the prosperous Eskimo camps on the western side of Banks Island.

During the spring, when days became longer, the vessel and equip-
ment were scraped and painted and all machinery was examined and
overhauled. The ice in the harbor began to break up in July, but west-
erly winds kept Walker Bay blocked with floes for some time. On July
31, Larsen decided to try to work his way out, and, after much maneu-
vering, finally reached the trading post and mission at Holman Island.
Here duty intervened, preventing the schooner from attempting the
Passage through Prince of Wales Strait. A native boy had been ac-
cidently shot and needed to be taken to hospital at Aklavik. Large and
numerous ice floes, foggy weather, and a storm off the mainland coast
made progress slow, and the harbor at Port Brabant was not reached
until August 5. Whereas Amundsen Gulf had been free of ice until
very late in the preceding year, during the summer of 1941 floes jammed
the northern part of it throughout the whole season. Thus does the
natural environment limit planning in the western Arctic.
NORTHWEST PASSAGE—ROBINSON 225

Supplies were loaded into the St. Roch at Port Brabant on August 8,
and the vessel left for Coppermine to fulfill her freighting duties.
Scattered ice, rain, and fog made travel to Baillie Island difficult, while
large unbroken floes extending eastward to the horizon forced the
schooner to travel along the shallow shores. Open water was finally
reached in Dolphin and Union Strait, and the vessel arrived at Cop-
permine on August 12. Coronation Gulf favored the St. Roch with
good weather and open water, and she anchored in Cambridge Bay
early on August 16.

Since the detachments had now been given their year’s supplies,
Larsen decided to continue eastward and attempt the Passage around
King William Island and through Bellot Strait. On August 19 he
left Cambridge Bay, but strong westerly winds, rain, and fog were
ill omens. Larsen was forced to anchor in the shelter of Lind Island
and was held there until August 24. The compass was now useless,
owing to the proximity of the Magnetic Pole, and navigation through
island-studded Queen Maud Gulf was by experience and seaman’s
“sixth sense.” The St. Roch proceeded cautiously toward Simpson
Strait, south of King William Island, taking soundings continually,
since no vessel of her draught (1214 feet) had ever been in these
waters. Because Simpson Strait is narrow and full of small rocky
islands, Larsen sent the motor launch ahead to sound a course. The
bottom was uneven, with depths averaging from 6 to 8 fathoms, and
with several shallow places of 3 fathoms. On August 26 the vessel
remained at anchor during a thick fog. The next day she proceeded
carefully and reached Gjoa Haven (Petersen Bay) in the afternoon.

The seafaring policemen left this trading post on August 30 and
were soon inching their way through shoal water and strong tide
rips in Rae Strait. A northwesterly storm, accompanied by hail and
snow, forced the schooner to the coast in the shelter of Mount Mathe-
son, on the eastern tip of King William Island. Here she pitched and
rolled for a day before proceeding northward, with one man con-
tinuously sounding with the lead and another at the masthead on
the lookout for shoals. East of Matty Island large shoals, which rose
abruptly from 10 to 214 fathoms, forced the schooner to seek deeper
water.

In the narrowest part of James Ross Strait, northeast of Matty
Island, the St. Roch was stopped by a solid wall of grounded ice
extending from shore to shore. Since the vessel was not built or
powered to break such a barrier, she was anchored nearby to wait
for the tide to change direction. Early in the evening the ice began
pushing southward in a strong current. The only shelter available
was in the lee of a small rocky islet only slightly larger than the
schooner herself. A snowstorm shut off visibility, and throughout
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

the night the St. Roch, with both anchors out, was continually battered
and pushed by grinding ice blocks, and the little company on board
did not know whether they were still near the islet or were caught in
the ice. The morning of September 2, however, found them still there
and undamaged, and when a south wind began pushing the ice north-
ward they moved along with it.

On September 3, improved weather allowed the St. Roch to proceed
northward between the coast and the ice. The low land was now
snow-covered, and when visibility became poor the white shore could
not be distinguished from the grounded ice. During the day the wind
changed to the west, gradually moving the ice closer to the coast.
It became apparent that there was a definite danger of being caught
and crushed. Fortune was with the valiant ship, however, for Pasley
Bay, a long inlet, erroneously shown on the charts as a broad bay,
appeared ahead, and the St. Roch was forced into it.

The next morning its crew made a trip to a nearby hill to look
westward over the ice of Franklin Strait and M’Clintock Channel.
It was jammed against the coast as far as could be seen, and extended
in a jumbled mass to the horizon. In the afternoon large floes began
to shove into the inlet, and the St. Roch had to move farther in. Soon
the ship was completely surrounded by heavy ice and could no longer
maneuver. On the morning of September 6 the ice carried the vessel
against a shoal in 114 fathoms, turned the schooner twice, listed it to
alternate sides, and then pushed it completely over the shoal, dragging
two anchors and 90 fathoms of chain.

Heavy snowfall and variable winds continued, and the St. Roch
remained locked in the ice until September 9, when deep water was
found in an opening close to the shore. On September 11 the ice
movement ceased. New ice soon formed rapidly in the open places,
and the whole inlet froze over solidly. As it was now impossible to
escape, the ice was cut away from the ship, which was anchored far-
ther off-shore so as not to be grounded in the spring. Preparations
were then made to spend the winter in Pasley Bay, close to the North
Magnetic Pole on Boothia Peninsula, and the news was radioed out-
side. The schooner had traveled 1,660 miles during the summer.
The season was still early by normal standards, and Bellot Strait and
the Northwest Passage were only 100 miles away, but the fickle Arctic
had again frowned on the St. Roch.

The stranded R. C. M. policemen had an important task to perform
during the winter of 1941-42. In the taking of the census of the
Canadian Arctic areas, their job was to meet as many as possible of
the Canadian Eskimo in this little-visited region. In order to do this
Larsen traveled by dog team to the trading post at Fort Ross in early
December and obtained information as to the location of the native
NORTHWEST PASSAGE—ROBINSON 227

camp sites in the area. In early January Constable Chartrand pa-
trolled to King William Island to prepare a fish cache for the long
spring census trip, and also to bring back additional winter clothing
made by the natives for the detachment. Toward the end of February,
Sergeant Larsen and Constable Hunt, having picked up a native guide,
left their winter headquarters on the St. Roch for an epic patrol which
was to cover 1,140 miles and extend over a period of 71 days. They
traveled north to Fort Ross and beyond to Creswell Bay, then south-
ward along the east coast of Boothia Peninsula to the mission at Pelly
Bay. After spending Easter there, they traveled westward to Gjoa
Haven, King William Island, where both were laid up for 14 days with
influenza. This illness curtailed the patrol, and they returned to the
St. Roch on May 6.

The winter weather at Pasley Bay was quite different from any other
that Sergeant Larsen had known previously in the Arctic. Continued
fog and snowfall with variable winds made visibility poor, while
sudden changes in temperature from 30 below zero to zero and back
again within a short time made it difficult to become acclimated. As
summer approached it became apparent that the ice was not going to
break up early in this region. It was still packed solidly outside the
inlet, and pressure ridges, 50 to 100 feet high along the coast north of
Pasley Bay, showed the results of enormous ice forces. Since the ice
was to remain that year there was virtually no navigation season for
the west side of Boothia Peninsula during the years 1941-42.

The St. Roch and police crew spent 11 months at Pasley Bay. On
August 4, fresh water draining into the harbor loosened the ice and
allowed them to move out of the inlet. On the shore behind they left
a new cairn and grave. On February 13, Constable Chartrand had
had a sudden heart attack and died almost immediately; his death
was the only tragedy of the trip.

Captain Larsen navigated shoreward of the main pack ice and made
15 miles northward along the coast before being stopped by a solid
mass of floes. He then put the vessel into a small lead extending
westward to await a break-up. The opening closed, however, and the
schooner was caught and held there helpless for 20 days. On several
occasions, while they were beset, severe pressure lifted the boat high in
the ice and threatened to turn her over. At these times charges of
black powder were set off near the vessel to relieve the pressure, while
the police crew worked with ice chisels to keep free the propeller and
rudder. An easterly wind carried the schooner farther and farther
away from the coast. :

On August 24 a strong northerly gale split the ice and opened a long
lead south from one of the rocky Tasmania Islands. It took two
anxious days for the S¢. Roch to break through the short distance to
228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

the lead and then to follow the twisting, grinding opening to the
safety of a deep anchorage among this small group of high islands.
A strong current set back and forth through the islands, with the
regular 5-foot tide, and on August 29 Larsen decided that the leads
looked promising. They worked northward to Dixon Island and then
found easier going to Bellot Strait.

With the Northwest Passage practically in their grasp, tragedy
almost struck the St. Roch and crew in Bellot Strait. The western
end of the strait was free of ice, but the tide was changing direction to
the eastward as the vessel entered. The ice from Peel Sound was
carried in behind them. Half-way through the strait, Larsen sud-
denly saw that an ice jam had formed ahead from shore to shore. They
could not turn back and were headed for a large, thick, grounded floe.
Then, just as they were about to crash and be wrecked, a smaller floe
hit the larger one and broke off its southern half. The next moment
the St. Roch’s prow went into the widening crack and she drifted for-
ward between the two floes.

The St. Roch left Fort Ross on September 2, surrounded by moving
floes, and worked north in Prince Regent Inlet, with young slush ice
already forming. The Nascopie, on the Eastern Arctic Patrol, was to
have entered this inlet later in the month, but although she had reached
Fort Ross successfully for five previous years, she was stopped this
time by the ice which was already threatening the St. Roch. The
hurrying schooner entered Navy Board Inlet and stopped at the Pond
Inlet post on Northern Baffin Island to discharge stores and coal for
the police detachment and to pick up Constable Doyle. On September
10 it left this eastern Arctic post and traveled through numerous
bergs and storms southward along the Baffin Island and Labrador
coasts.

After stopping at Labrador, Newfoundland, and Sydney, Nova
Scotia, the St. Roch and crew arrived in Halifax on October 11, hav-
ing traveled 2,840 miles en route during their third summer season.
The historic news that the St. Roch was the first ship to complete the
west-to-east voyage through the Northwest Passage in Northern Can-
ada was then released. The trip of 2714 months bettered Amundsen’s
time, and, with improved weather and ice conditions, it might well
have been less. To Staff Sergeant Henry A. Larsen this historic feat
was an achievement of which to be proud, but nothing about which to
become excited. He and his police crew had been traveling around
amid the ice floes of the western Arctic in good and bad seasons for 14
years and had conquered the Passage as a side activity while success-
fully carrying on with their other police duties. Larsen discounted
his long winter patrols by Eskimo dog team and sled as something
which the R. C. M. Police are doing every winter throughout the
Arctic in keeping contact with our migratory Eskimo population.
NORTHWEST PASSAGE-——ROBINSON 229

During the 1943 navigation season the St. Roch had a change of
scenery while patrolling the eastern Arctic detachments. She entered
Hudson Strait after most of the ice had gone, and had little trouble
in sailing around in this new region with no ice impediment except the
huge bergs met off the eastern Baffin Island coast. The eastern Arc-
tic, however, is not always so friendly.

During the spring of 1944 the S¢. Roch was provided with greater
engine power, one mast was removed, and she was fitted with the
luxury of a new gyrocompass. The R. C. M. P. were going to patrol
another route through the Arctic islands as part of Canada’s work in
maintaining sovereignty over these barren, uninhabited islands, and
the partnership of Larsen and the St. Roch was scheduled for another
history-making voyage.

On July 22, 1944, the St. Roch left Halifax, but developed engine
trouble which forced her to put in to Sydney. She left there on July
26, but had to moor again at Curling Cove, Newfoundland, to make
further engine adjustments. On July 28, she put to sea once more,
and thereafter had no further engine difliculties. Numerous bergs
and thick fog were found off the Labrador coast, but Larsen navi-
gated around icebergs just as efliciently as he worked through floes.
Cape Chidley, the northern tip of Labrador, was passed on August 2,
and the next day the patrol was greeted with the familiar sight of
pack ice off Hall Peninsula, Baflin Island. The ice was broken, but
tightly packed, and progress was impossible, so Larsen swung over
to the usual open water off the Greenland coast on August 4. On
August 6 he turned westward toward Baffin Island, and again met
pack ice and fog slightly south of River Clyde. For several days the
gyrocompass had been unreliable, and would suddenly change 10° to
20° ; finally it had to be ignored as useless. Larsen’s navigation from
then onward was by sight, experience, and the wavering magnetic
compass.

In trying to work through the ice to travel near the coast off River
Clyde, Larsen found that the land-fast ice had not yet broken up and
he had to stay offshore. His difiiculties were further increased by an
amazingly strong mirage effect which made the leads diflicult to pick
out. Progress was stopped on August 9 by floes that were very large
and unbroken, although only about 2 feet thick. Bylot Island was
glimpsed through a thick fog that evening, but the St. Roch remained
moored to a large floe off the entrance to Pond Inlet until August 12,
when she slipped forward and anchored off the post settlement.

Detachment supplies were unloaded at Pond Inlet, and the police
picked up a native, his family and 17 dogs. The Eskimo was quite
willing to adventure into the unknown, and so, in case the St. Roch
should be forced to winter, he was taken along to hunt food and aid
m winter traveling with his dog team. The expedition left Pond
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Inlet on August 17 and, proceeding up Navy Board Inlet, crossed
Lancaster Sound to Devon Island. A strong southerly gale off Cape
Warrenden caused the St. Roch to pitch a great deal before shelter
was found in the lee of a large flat-topped iceberg. There it cruised
back and forth until the storm subsided.

The St. Roch arrived at the former R. C. M. P. post at Dundas
Harbor, Devon Island, on August 18, and found the unoccupied
buildings in good condition. The patrolling schooner and police
crew left the next day and followed along the high, cliffy coast until
they came to a good harbor in a little-known 7-mile inlet (either
Stratton Inlet or Burnett Creek). Here they found ruins of an
Eskimo culture of several centuries ago; after building a cairn and
depositing records of their visit, they departed. That evening
(August 19) the first snow fell, heralding the coming winter.

Larsen and the St. Roch continued westward, but the coast line was
usually hidden by frequent heavy snow squalls. The weather cleared
near Maxwell Bay, Devon Island, and they saw a steep-walled coast
with no beach and a flat-topped upland. <A few bergs could be seen to
the south, but otherwise Prince Regent Inlet was free of ice. On
August 20, they arrived at historic Erebus Bay, Beechey Island.

Beechey Island is actually connected to Devon Island by a low spit
which is dry at low tide. A narrow lowland at the base of the former
high-cliffed “island” was the site of the winter quarters of several early
Arctic explorers. Within recent times the site had been visited by
one of Otto Sverdrup’s sledge parties in 1902, by A. P. Low in 1904,
by Captain Bernier in 1906 and 1908, and by the C, G. S. Arctic in
1923. Numerous police patrols from Dundas Harbor, and also the
Beothic, carrying the Canadian Government Eastern Arctic Patrol
in 1927 and 1928, called there to keep a watchful eye on the historic
ruins. Except for part of the keel and a bit of planking, all that was
left of the yacht Mary, placed there in 1850 by Sir John Ross, was
the mast, which was stuck in the sand. Only ruins remained of the
cache called Northumberland House, left by Commander Pullen of
the H. M. S. North Star in 1854. <A further search of the island re-
vealed nothing of historic interest. Since the land was barren and
desolate, with no fresh-water supply, the St. Hoch proceeded from
Beechey Island on the morning of August 22,

Wellington Channel was clear of ice as far as could be seen to the
northward, but the first floes were met drifting eastward at Corn-
wallis Island. Larsen followed leads through the tightly packed floes,
staying inside of the line of Griffith, Somerville, and Brown Islands,
along the Cornwallis Island coast. Several walrus were seen in
this area, and four were shot and brought on board to be used as
dog feed. At other times, along the way, seals were shot to feed the
NORTHWEST PASSAGE—ROBINSON 231

team of hungry Eskimo dogs. Since the ice was packed solidly to
the south, Larsen turned north along Cornwallis Island as far as Cape
Airy, where he found leads pointing westward toward Bathurst Is-
land, the south shore of which was obscured by a heavy snowstorm.
Despite being turned and buffetted by the ice, the St. Roch main-
tained a forward course, and Cape Cockburn was reached about noon
on August 23. Here solidly packed floes blocked further progress.
The tide set to the east, and the St. Roch was carried 20 miles back to
Ackland Bay before anchoring close to shore. Larsen’s difficulties
were further increased by the failure of his magnetic compass, which
had pointed fixedly at the bow of the schooner for several days. For
the remainder of the voyage he had only his Admiralty charts and an
amazing sense of direction upon which to depend as navigation aids.
Even the sun was hidden by continuous snowstorms.

Early in the morning of August 24 the St. Roch once more slipped
along the coast to Cape Cockburn and anchored, while a party went
ashore to look for Captain Bernier’s cairn. No trace of the cairn
could be found, but numerous bear tracks in the area suggested that
these curious animals might have scattered it. Larsen left an
R. C. M. P. cairn near a conspicuous rock on the south side of the
point and placed a record of their visit inside it for historical ref-
erence. From this high cape it could be seen that Viscount Melville
Sound was filled with ice to the horizon. The ice was broken but
tightly packed, and was pushed against the islands by a strong south
wind. Ice was also being carried southward by currents through
Austin Channel, west of Bathurst Island.

Since he could not proceed westward, Larsen decided to try a route
north of Byam Martin Island. He experienced a great deal of
trouble near Graham Moore Bay on western Bathurst Island, owing
to the St. Roch’s drifting southward with the current each time she
was stopped by the ice. After patiently working back and forth from
one small opening to another, shoving the floes when possible, or let-
ting them drift by, the St. Roch made the north coast of Byam Mar-
tin Island on the evening of August 25. Here Corporal Hunt and a
party went ashore to build a cairn and leave a record of the patrol.
Because of a heavy snowfall, no observation of the surrounding land
could be made, but fresh caribou tracks were seen.

August 26 began with clear weather and a fresh westerly wind.
After rounding the northern tip of Byam Martin Island, the expedi-
tion found open water to the westward. Melville Island was soon
sighted, near Consett Head, and the men saw a herd of 12 musk oxen
grazing on the grassy lowland. Other herds of musk oxen were seen on
the tundra farther south, proving that these protected animals, part of
the remnant of the species, had survived on their isolated sanctuary.
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Except for a long patrol by the late Inspector A. H. Joy of the
R. C. M. P. to the island in 1929, no white man has visited Melville
Island since Stefansson’s party in 1917.

South of Griffith Point, Melville Island, where a cairn was built,
the St. Roch was forced to travel slowly, owing to shoal water of 4
to 8 fathoms for 2 miles off the coast. At midnight the expedition
anchored off Palmer Point, with still no ice in sight, and another rec-
ord was deposited. An excellent harbor north of the point was ex-
amined the following morning, when thick weather discouraged fur-
ther sailing. At noon on August 27 the weather cleared, and they
approached Dealey Island, where the huge cairn, topped by three
barrels on a post, could be seen for miles at sea. The party went
ashore and examined the large cache left by Captain Kellett of the
H. M. S. Resolute in 1852-53. The walls of the cache were still stand-
ing, but there was no roof and most of the contents had been de-
stroyed by the weather and marauding bears. The skeletons of two
bears found nearby suggested that they might have been poisoned by
consuming some of the spoiled food. Some of the barrels contained
clothing, sea boots, flour, chocolate, peas, beans, and tea; all were in a
soggy, rotten condition. Some of the iron cans and tanks contained
hardtack and canned meats and vegetables, but most of them had
been broken into and the contents had spoiled. On the beach close
by the men found two broken rifles and a case of ammunition left by
Captain Bernier in 1909.

They left Dealey Island on the morning of August 28, and traveled
along the low coast to Winter Harbor, about 30 miles to the south-
west. Winter Harbor was chosen by Captain Bernier as the winter
quarters for his Canadian Government Expedition of 1908-09, and
was visited again by him in 1910. The storehouse built by Bernier in
1910 was still in fair condition, although almost empty, and from a
rafter hung a bottle containing the record left by Inspector Joy who
had last patrolled there in 1929. Numerous tracks of musk oxen,
caribou, and wolves were noted around the harbor, but only one old
bull musk ox was seen.

After depositing a record at Parry Rock, Larsen and his crew left
Winter Harbor on August 30 and had a clear run 30 miles to the
south before meeting heavy ice. Due to mist and rain, they moored
to a large floe to await visibility and replenished their fresh-water
tanks from pools on the ice. Early the following morning they began
working their way through the heaviest ice yet encountered, as it
pushed eastward from the Arctic Ocean through M’Clure Strait.
Several times heavy fog, which obscured leads, prevented progress,
and they were gripped by the general counterclockwise revolving
motion of the churning, growling ice. Soundings of 50 and 93
NORTHWEST PASSAGE—ROBINSON 233

fathoms were obtained during the crossing of the strait. They drifted
throughout September 1, but toward evening of September 2, after
they had worked forward again, the fog lifted and a cape loomed
ahead. Larsen did not know which coast of Prince of Wales Strait
the cape marked, but decided to turn eastward. The cape proved to
be Peel Point, and he soon realized that he was in Richard Collinson
Inlet. Since there was much ice in the inlet and more pouring in
behind the boat, Larsen did not consider it wise to explore the inlet to
its head, and so turned around and retraced his course to Peel Point.

The St. Roch entered Prince of Wales Strait on September 3 in
bright, clear weather. No ice blocked the passage and good time was
made to the southward. Holman Island was reached in midafternoon
of September 4, and the exciting news that the vessel had come through
the Northwest Passage was given to the amazed Hudson’s Bay Co.
manager. Although many explorers had spent years in unsuccessfully
trying to work through the eastward-moving ice, it had taken Larsen
and the St. Roch only 18 days from the time they entered Lancaster
Sound until they were at Holman Island in the western Arctic.

Larsen received instructions from Ottawa to proceed outside to
Vancouver and to complete the coast-to-coast voyage if he could.
After he left Holman Island on September 5, heavy ice gave difficulty
all across Amundsen Gulf and forced the St. Roch to proceed slowly
close to the shallow shore of the Canadian mainland west of Cape
Parry. On September 8 she was freed of the ice off the harbor at
Port Brabant, but ran aground trying to enter it in the dark. Larsen
backed her off and was able to get in just in time to ride out the worst
storm ever known at this place. Two days later, when the storm
abated, the entrance to the harbor was completey changed and Larsen
erected new markers. The ice was packed solidly in Mackenzie Bay
by the northerly hurricane, and it appeared that the St. Roch would
have to winter at Port Brabant. On September 17, however, Larsen
decided to attempt the crossing, and, after making slow progress
through the heaviest ice seen during the voyage, successfully reached
Herschel Island. The Eskimo family and dogs from Pond Inlet were
left here, along with a large share of the St. Roch’s coal and other
supplies.

The history-making “Mounties” left Herschel Island on September
21, as the harbor was beginning to freeze over, and met more heavy ice
and fog along the Alaskan coast. With their goal so close, the cruel
Arctic weather was teasing them by making their progress more and
more difficult, but the St. Roch and her determined crew were not to
be denied this time, and their experienced captain countered every aim-
less movement of the ice. The last of the polar pack was left behind
near Wainwright Inlet, Alaska, and the remainder of the voyage
934 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

became merely a matter of reaching port. Stops were made at King
Island in Bering Sea and Akutan Harbor in the Aleutians.

After they left the Aleutian port on October 4, a violent 2-day
storm and heavy swells on the North Pacific provided but a fitting
finish to an exciting historic voyage. ‘Toward evening on October 16,
the St. Roch came into Vancouver Harbor with all flags flying and a
large white banner proclaiming the successful trip through the North-
west Passage. Three hundred and sixty-eight years after Martin
Frobisher first attempted to enter the Arctic, seeking a northern route,
the R. C. M. P. schooner St. Roch became the first ship to complete the
Passage in a single year from east to west, with a total elapsed time
of 86 days. As Captain Larsen expressed it:

We were lucky and had the breaks. No one ean predict ice or navigation condi-
tions in the Arctic. What we accomplished this year might be repeated the next,
or it might be many years. Much would depend upon the type of vessel used,
and the ice conditions of that particular year. Our voyage showed that the

Northwest Passage can be traversed in a single year, but does not prove that
this could be accomplished every year.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Robinson PLATE 1

1. R. C. M. POLICE SCHOONER ‘‘ST. ROCH’’ LEAVING THE HARBOR. HALIFAX,
JULY 1944.

2. CAPTAIN AND CREW OF THE “ST. ROCH’’ AT THE END OF THE FIRST HISTORIC
VOYAGE, 1940-42.
Left to right: Const. W. J. Parry, cook; Const. P. G. Hunt, deckhand; Const. E. C. Hadley, wireless oper-

ator; Staff Sgt. H. A. Larsen, master; Const. F. 8. Farrar, mate; Const. J. W. Doyle, deckhand; Corp.
M. F. Foster, engineer; Const. G. W. Peters, 2d engineer.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Robinson PLATE 2

1. **ST. ROCH’’ FROZEN IN AND COVERED OVER IN WINTER QUARTERS.

2. LOADING A BASKET-SLED FOR WINTER PATROL TO ESKIMO CAMPS.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Robinson PLATE 3

1. CONSTABLE PETERS AND ESKIMO GUIDE ENCAMPED ON PRINCE OF WALES
STRAIT.

2. SNOW HOUSES IN ESKIMO WINTER CAMP.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Robinson PLATE 4

1. HEAVY. IGE REOES PACKED SOEIDEY-

2. ‘“‘ST. ROCH’’ STUCK IN ICE OFF BOOTHIA PENINSULA.
Smithsonian Report. 1945.—Robinson REAnE 5

he

1. NATIVES FROM THOM BAY, BOOTHIA PENINSULA, IN WORKADAY CLOTHES

2. NATIVE WOMEN OF BATHURST INLET IN HOLIDAY ATTIRE.
“MOId 9) UO Sayed [90qS
oy) D10N “ool 84) UL sIBod a sep posemepun si [[NY UapooM JoFT “SdWYD OWIMSF

‘S°N ‘XVSINIWH LY MOOGANC Ni ,,HOOY “1LS,, *Z ONILISIA ‘TIWY 1 SHL NO N3SYV ‘VY “H “LOS SAVILS “|

9 31V1d UOsUIGOY— CpG | *yrodayy ueruosyyWSG
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Robinson Pica. 7

1. THE TWISTING INLET AT LAKE HARBOR.
“St. Roch” called here in 1943

ro

2 PICTURESQUE PANGNIRTUNG FIORD, THE LAST STOP OF *‘ST. ROCH’’ ON HER
1943 PATROL.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Robinson PLATE 8

on \e

1. CAPTAIN AND CREW OF ‘‘ST. ROCH’’ BEFORE THE RECORD-MAKING 1944
VOYAGE.

Front row, left to right: Const. James Diplock, Huntsville, Ont.; Corp. G. W. Peters, Winnipeg, Man.
Corp. P. C. Hunt, Victoria, B. C.; R. Johnsen, Vancouver, B. C.; Staff Sgt. H. A. Larsen, Victoria,
B. C. Back row, left to right: Const. M. G. Owens, Winnipeg, Man.; G. Dickens, Chatham, N. B.;
Frank Mathews, Fort Abass, Nfld.; Wm. Cashin, Dartmouth, N.S.; Ollie Andreasen, Victoria Landing.
Peters, Hunt, and Larsen made the first trip, 1940-42

2. PASSING GLACIERS AND ICECAP ALONG BAFFIN ISLAND COAST OF NAVY BOARD
INLET
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Robinson PLATE 9

1. CAPE BOUNTY, MELVILLE ISLAND, ON THE 110TH MERIDIAN.
The British Admiralty offered a reward of £5,000 for the first passing of this point.

2. APPROACHING BEECHEY ISLAND.
Historic Erebus Bay to right behind cliff
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Robinson PLATE 10

1. THE CAIRN AND RUINS AT BEECHEY ISLAND ARE ON THE FORELAND TO THE
LEFT BELOW THE CLIFF.

2. CORPORAL PETERS, CONSTABLE MCKENZIE, AND CONSTABLE ANDREASEN
STANDING BESIDE FRANKLIN MEMORIAL TABLET ON BEECHEY ISLAND.

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Robinson PLATE 11

1. LARGE CACHE BUILT BY CAPTAIN KELLETT, 1852, TO HOLD SUPPLIES FOR
FUTURE EXPEDITIONS.

Note empty tins left by Kellett’s expedition.

2. INSIDE OF KELLETT’S CACHE ON DEALEY ISLAND.
Most of contents now destroyed,
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Robinson

REET SLES IT EE

ARRIVAL OF THE ‘‘ST ROCH'’ IN VANCOUVER, B. C., AFTER SUCCESSFULLY TRAV-
ERSING THE NORTHWEST PASSAGE FOR THE FIRST TIME INA SINGLE YEAR
THE NEW ENGLAND HURRICANE OF SEPTEMBER 1944?

By CuHakies F. Brooks and ConrRAp CHAPMAN

Harvard University
Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory, Milton, Mass.

A great hurricane in the Puerto Rico-Bahamas region is always
a menace to New England. If the storm, instead of striking inland or
recurving out to sea in the usual way, heads up the Atlantic Coast
with increasing northward velocity, the danger becomes imminent.
For this to occur, there must be a broad northward current at heights
of 2 to 5 miles and an ample supply of warm, moist air to maintain
its energy.

The 1944 storm developed under general atmospheric conditions
not unlike those prevailing at the time of the 1938 hurricane At 4
p.m. (E. W. T.) on September 8 the presence of a tropical disturbance
was announced from San Juan, P. R., and on the 9th a badly shaken
reconnaissance plane found that it was an intense storm at about 21°
N., 60° W., which later reconnaissance proved to be a fully developed
hurricane moving west-northwestward.2 From September 9 to 11,
while the storm was slowly approaching the Carolinas (some 1,000
miles distant), two prongs of tropical-maritime air were pushing
northward, one from the central Gulf coast, carrying a small hurricane
with it, the other from the Bahamas, forming a low over Hatteras.
Caught between these, a wedge of high pressure over the Appalachians
declined during the 12th and 13th. Meantime, the anticyclone that
had covered the eastern United States on the 9th joined the Bermuda
high and thus built a pressure ridge,‘ favoring on its west side the
northward movement over the coastal waters of large volumes of
tropical air.

1 Reprinted by permission, with revisions and additions, from the Geographical Review,
vol. 35, January 1945.

2 Brooks, C. F., Hurricanes into New England, Geogr. Rev., vol. 29, pp. 119-127, 1939.
(Reprinted, with revisions, in Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1939, pp. 241-251, 1940.)

3[Summer, H. C.]. The North Atlantic hurricane of September 8-16, 1944, on back of
Daily Weather Map, Oct. 31, 1944, U. S. Weather Bureau, Washington, and with addition
of four photographs of damage at Atlantic City and a chart of the tracks of the hurricanes
of 1815 and 1821, in Month. Weather Rey., vol. 72, pp. 187-189, September 1944. (Small-
scale maps of the isobars of the storm were published for 11:30 p. m. September 13,
and 5:30 and 11:30 a. m. (BH. W. T.) September 14 on the back of the Daily Weather
Map, October 6, 1945. For reference to map of 6:30 p. m. September 14, see footnote 8,
below.) This is an extensive discussion with track map and tables, including comparison
with the 1938 hurricane.

4A similar pressure ridge in 1938 is shown in figure 1 of the article cited in footnote 2.

235
936 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

300 MILES
300 KILOMETERS

ri
1, SEPT.

~
GEOGR. REVIEW, We
JAN. 1945 80 Os

65

Ficure 1.—Tracks of the hurricanes of 1815, 1821, 1988, and 1944 (origins not |
shown). Date positions are those at 7 a.m. The tracks of the storms of |
1938 and 1944 differ a little from those heretofore published, for the following
reasons: With regard to that for 1938, Mr. I. R. Tannehill, the chief hurricane
expert of the Weather Bureau, and author of “Hurricanes: Their Nature and
History” (5th ed., Princeton, 1944), wrote (personal communication, late
1944) : “It seems to me that it would be better to place the center of the hur-
ricane at about the 74th meridian as it passed Hatteras. Pierce’s maps (The
meteorological history of the New England hurricane of September 21, 1938,
Month. Weather Rev., vol. 67, pp. 237-285, figs. 12 and 18, August 19389) would
indicate that at 4 p. m. on September 21, the radius of the area covered by
the 29.60 isobar had increased considerably, whereas the radius of the area
covered by the 29.30 isobar would have diminished somewhat, judging by
reports to the westward. It seems more reasonable to assume both had in-
creased in this interval, I think you are right that some of our charts show
the center a little too far to the westward as it passed Hatteras, but it seems
to me that a position about midway between the two (near 74° W.) would

NEW ENGLAND HURRICANE—BROOKS AND CHAPMAN 237

On the 13th, at 4:30 a.m. (KE. W. T.), the storm was centered near
latitude 27.8° N., longitude 74° to 75° W., about 380 miles off Florida,
moving northwest at 10 to 12 miles an hour (fig. 1). At 2:30 a. m.
on the 14th it had just passed the point of recurvature and had begun,
though still slowly (20 miles per hour), its march northward with
the upper current. Seven hours later, now advancing more rapidly
(about 30 miles per hour), its center passed close east of Hatteras,
where the barometer stood at 27.97 inches (947.2 millibars) and gusts
were estimated to reach 140 to 150 miles an hour.

THE HURRICANE IN FULL FORCE AT CAPE HATTERAS, ITS FIRST
LANDFALL

We are indebted to Reverend F. B. Dinwiddie for an exceptionally
complete account of the meteorological features of this great hurri-
cane as it approached, passed over, and receded from Cape Hatteras.
Reverend Dinwiddie deserves great credit for making such a record
under the conditions of a storm of such exceptional violence. In view
of the fact that the storm reached its first land at Cape Hatteras and
was still very much in possession of its full tropical characteristics,
these observations seem worth presenting in some detail. They reveal
unexpected complexities in the great whirl.

The storm’s approach was observed from Nag’s Head, on the outer
barrier beach, but its full fury was noted from a less hazardous location
at Wanchese, 8 miles to the southwest. The advance edge of the cirri-
form overflow from the storm was already in sight at 8 a. m. the 13th,
while the center was still 500 miles to the south; and by noon the sky
was half covered with cirrostratus which showed a halo from 12 to
5 p. m., when altostratus became dominant.

Heavy cumulus swelled up here and there during the morning while
the sun still shone. A peculiar squall, estimated at 40 miles an hour,
came very suddenly at noon, with no lower clouds in the vicinity and
no change from the steady south-southeast wind direction. Reverend
Dinwiddie rather plausibly wonders if it could have been the result
of penetration from the upper air stream in advance of the storm,

be more nearly correct.” With regard to the track of the 1944 storm, observa-
tions at Avon, N. C., presented by Rev. F. B. Dinwiddie, where the wind,
even on this outermost barrier beach, 10 miles north of Cape Hatteras, went
from easterly to westerly via north, as the center passed, indicated that the
center was to the east, instead of to the west (cf. Sumner, loc. cit. footnote 3,
ch. 1, and Wood, F. B., A flight into the September 1944 hurricane off Cape
Henry, Va., Bull. Amer. Meteorol. Soc., vol. 26, p. 154, fig. 2, May 1945). The
center must have been close, however, perhaps only 5 or 10 miles away, because
the wind became gentle for 114 hours. Farther north, the track published by
Sumner and Wood is some 20 miles too far west where it crosses southeastern
New England.
676212—46——16
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

augmented by storm overflow the sudden descent of which was induced
by convection. The wind had been increasing in velocity during the
morning, from 10 to 20 miles an hour between 8 and 11, apparently
owing to the increasing involvement of the wind higher and higher up
as the depth of the convective overturning increased. With cloudi-
ness cutting off most of the sun after noon, however, the wind again fell
back to its 10 miles an hour morning value by 3 p. m.

TABLE 1—Summary of personal journal of F. B. Dinwiddie during hurricane at
Wanchese,' N. C., September 14, 1944

Wind
Time Pressure (sea level)

(E. W. T.) (inches) Estimated Rain and clouds
Direction i velocity
m.

—_—— | | |

Hurricane period during approach of center, 115 minutes

865249 2.24 QRiO4r ce sp ey _ oe NE x Eviii.is 70D Score Heavy rain.
2 7 ee D7 oT ot) fa ee SRS: | ES AE SEE Se) pee ee eee ee
PC Sa OR RO! exe a. Lessee eres ce epee Fe) fees
9:20 Ge beteds 30.53 esses a ee ST ENE-.____....| 85 gusts_.._- Very h in
BO. Seer LOS Mache cae done |] (HUN Belize! 85 gusts_._-- ery heavy rain.
fe ladies 38.43) Fastest drop{ Nias haa Riemambomy Ne pasa
OMOrsaceAss.e rl ee eee Pe ee ee ee SD 953i R26 wee
tas: ates gee abi. wie fd) SNE SRDS (SS BTS 100 See se
10:05esg7- 22226. DBL sete Aco peses Sere eS 100-120__-._- First pronounced lulls in wind.
Passing of the center, 75 minutes
1010-e2-2c3-2 7 | ee ee ee eee ee OES oy a Rain slackening.
by. ole Sea Se pra fh 1S eae ieee Sa Shifting to N_-| 80..---.-----
10:30 620! -27 ZBiO0\o a} Boo |, pl asssee ob cos W097 yess Moderate rain,
sinck ae ky | Intermi brigh
10:85cc0-2214 2 28:00 sox. chet lice doce cz ---- TOS EL Teron of ack rain, s ntermittent bright
P . at 4 dark spots for 50 min-
10402 .F on.) 4 . 4 28.00\ 99 00 in Ne eh ee 30-40. ..----- utes but no clear
Use espe a 28.01f for 35-40\| N------------- OU ae No rain _.) 8Ky.or high
10:60: .c2i 3-120 28.00] minutes. |\-ss-caesrn7 nn apc No rain} No rain} clouds visible.
175 ee 27.99 : IN’ XaWeons oe (311 Joe eee Norainp for 20} 10/10 stratus
10:69 £2 f= ceen=# 23102) 4 op Pye hte cheese. sere tele Norain} min-} throughout.
1 1) Ub J) eres Bi cera 28.01 INN Weeo-see Tpit especie No rain) utes.
0 {vee oe 28 0622s. «once <|=--- eee Overs seus Moderate rain
TIO, | es ea ae 28.000 2 4 32S EM a IE eve eee eee 80-100_------ Rain squalls, intermittent bright
spots.
Hurricane period after passage of center, 105 minutes
ae Pb. raw ag betes Continuous heavy rain, dark sky.
28 383

2 tastes rise
28.50

t pats hy 0
12;0sers: 2f. 33 PBOv SA Bess 552k WIN Wie. 222: 140 os SSe Very heavy rain
NA), Deeecseser eee POR paper peer pepe WEN Waretcrns 140-150_----- Worst wind;j}Severest part of
worst rain storm 35 min-
INZ.2223 ke 206 4384 Se le. eee AES TS et ala (el ee No slackening of} utes.
wind, rain
Final phase of diminishing wind.
Thi ez. B ae3s3 29, 0lws a. 3. 373.4823 WNwWiect UL. ZORS6. 20 e Light rain; scuds lifting; very abrupt
ab are view ei decrease of wind and rain.
IO! 22022 oe ae = Benes VV Sects en OU semen mas = “20-9:
Preeti 2 i Gaui bf Oi ead Sh > Ne eu First blue sky in|!‘30°2:00 sprays
pf Ds gd Som ft. high
stoppe s 4
BS: 42 2 UN FANS eee Wax Nee BAILS | Oo sau Edge of Cs. bank in zenith.
4795 4....=4 264k h B48. ck Sb Weole2t0 e | ee os Ss Be 3/10 cloudy; bank receding in N. x E.
6:40 eA A 1S ee eS ee ae ey Eee ae
Es fel ea BO OSe cote eet epee- W ose eee tes i a a i le te F Clear.

1 Wanchese is on the west shore of an island in Pamlico Sound, about 40 miles north of Cape Hatteras
and 6 miles from the coast of the opean ocean.
1 Retrogression of barometer.
NEW ENGLAND HURRICANE—BROOKS AND CHAPMAN 239

Though the sky became completely covered with altostratus before
sunset, there were breaks during the evening, and, indeed, mostly clear
sky overhead at midnight, an hour before light showers began. Dis-
tant lightning was visible at 10 p.m. ‘The wind had slowly swung to
southeast at 9 p. m., but by 10:30 had gone to east, as the pressure,
steady all day (around 29.75 inches, 1,007 millibars), began its un-
broken descent. By 1 a. m. the wind had gone to east-northeast and
increased to 20 miles an hour.

At 5 a. m., when the center was within 150 miles, the barometer
began to plunge (from 29.57 inches, 1,001 millibars) and the wind be-
gan to reach gale force and increase rapidly (estimated average, 30
miles an hour at 5). Steady rain commenced before 6. Details of the
next 13 hours are presented in table 1.

OBSERVER’S NOTES WITH REGARD TO THE TABLE

Observation of wind direction not guaranteed within 10° or 12° because
observed from unfamiliar location in clearing surrounded by woods. ‘The
observer is certain, however, that throughout the entire period of strong winds,
the wind direction failed by as much as 30° or more of achieving a 180° shift
such as might be expected in a storm of this type.

Wind velocities given were estimated from the stronger intervals varying from
several seconds to more than a minute, so that they would represent a combina-
tion of values from 5-minute averages up to fastest miles and gusts, depending
on the length of each blast of wind. We should think our 5-minute maximum
between 12:50 and 1 p. m. was not less than 90 miles an hour, for the wind
during the climactic period seemed sustained at the extreme level with compara-
tively little fluctuation and no respite, until the amazingly sudden relief came at
1:10 p. m., when the 70-mile wind seemed like a breeze by contrast.

OBSERVER’S INTERPRETATIONS

I was especially impressed with the evidence suggesting an abnormally large
central area of no rain and reduced wind. At Avon, N. C. [10 miles north of
Cape Hatteras and 10 miles nearer the center than the Weather Bureau Station,
Hatteras], the rain stopped for about 1% hours as the center passed. The wind
dropped to a gentle breeze. It shifted to West by way of North, so the track of
lowest pressure passed east of this point. At Wanchese [15 miles farther from
the center] the rain stopped for about half an hour while we were inside the
28.00-inch [948-millibar] isobar. This would suggest a vast eye perhaps 50 miles
or more in diameter whose center could have been east of the coast at all times.
Our wind also diminished during this period, to a minimum of about 25 miles an
hour.

The winds of hurricane force were limited to the area inside the 29.00 [-inch,
or 982-millibar] isobar and outside the 28.00 [-inch, or 948-millibar] isobar. If
my data are anywhere near correct ... the storm did not exceed a speed of 30
miles an hour along its track until it was past the latitude of Cape Henry, Va.
We estimated our wind gusts reached 140 miles an hour during the latter half
of the storm, which was considerably more violent than the first part, when the
strongest wind seemed to be about 100 miles an hour. [The isobars were more
or less egg-shaped, and farther apart (less gradient, less wind) ahead of the
storm than to the side or rear.]
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Our greatest hour’s pressure fall was 0.5 inch [17 millibars], and the greatest
hour’s rise was 0.57 inch [19 millibars]. During one 10-minute interval the
pressure rose 0.17 inch [6 millibars]. The steepest gradient I could measure
was that extending from Elizabeth City, N. C., to the [margin of the eye at the]
storm center at 11:35 a. m., a pressure difference of 0.90 inch [80 millibars] in
88 miles, which on a map drawn for 3-millibar interval would place the isobars
less than 4 miles apart. [Apparently within the 28.90-inch (979-millibar) iso-
bar the pressure gradient decreased little if any outward from the center. Con-
sequently, the maximum wind occurred at about the time of passage of the
979-millibar isobar, which was some time after the passage of the center for the
stations practically on the track (Hatteras, 1 hour 40 minutes; Wanchese, 2
hours), but virtually at the time the center was nearest for stations at or beyond
the 60-mile distance of the 979-millibar isobar from the center (Hlizabeth City,
N. C., and Norfolk, Va., 5 minutes difference; Cape Henry, 12 minutes).]

THE STORM NORTH OF HATTERAS

The transformation from a slowly moving completely tropical
storm to a rapidly moving cyclone with middle-latitude features was
now in progress. Cooler, drier air from the land curving around the
rear tended to make the pressure rise more rapidly behind, while the
warm sea air flowing in ahead made it fall more rapidly in front.
Cool air on the northwest also had increased the northwestward pres-
sure slope aloft, thereby accelerating the general current that later
carried the storm; and energy from the tendency of the colder, denser
air to underrun the warmer, lighter air mass offset in part the de-
creasing receipt of tropical vapor as the storm entered cooler latitudes.

The combined effect caused a still more rapid increase in the speed
and a change of direction of the cyclone, at first toward the north-
northeast, parallel to the coast to northern New Jersey, then toward
the northeast, across Long Island east of Suffolk Airport. The cen-
ter traveled the 400 miles from Hatteras to Long Island in 11 hours.
The barometer at Suffolk fell to 28.42 inches, and gusts reached 100
miles an hour.

At Bridgehamton, about 18 miles east of Suffolk Airport, the center
also passed on the east. Ernest S. Clowes writes: *®

There was a distinct “calm center” from about 10 to 10:30 p. m., E. W. T. The
lowest barometer occurred soon after 10, and for about half an hour the wind was,
I’d say, around 10 to 15 m. p. h., with the sky mostly clear and starlit though
with occasional smart showers, very brief. The wind was variable but mostly
NB. to N. At 10:45 I estimated the wind as 65 m. p. h. from NW. The rain-
fall for the storm, 5 to 11 p. m., was 2.78 in.

The center continued moving northeastward, at 35 to 40 miles an
hour, passing between Fishers Island and Block Island, across Rhode
Island (between Westerly and Point Judith, East Providence), south-
eastern Massachusetts (East Wareham, Taunton, Brockton, South

5 Personal communication.
“eZ
=

>
Ex:

cee |

1x

|
a |

f

:

ee eS Le
‘ ‘
H =
|
Seen eee ears a
;
z
;

+
Ss =
:
; .
2) at 1 7
€ " a < > ‘
¥
\ eyes ee =
t
—
=.
wd
te iiieal

© ne
t 7 : i
bade ate ss +e i
poe | ae 8 eg + pureed a8
Wg Lee: 2 Se Be ee “
M 9 | | > hs i a
| 5 a ea ee
oe Ta ee, RM) uae | TORR. \ j ees L oe q on | 4
-_ Ma ) oe ee Hew anor aee ot } _— ; om - re : ++ : ~ - -
“tyes fo the ape tte tel
a | d  -, ; { | by : {
de i wee oe ta ee ee ee
rh 2 oh 7 ay r 1 nO 1 Wye
Alig i ? f str g i J i
me ii ; i i { 4 i | A j
7 & wayt a) . ee wh pe
10 aes 8: ees eee
ye a L be ‘ i x ét 1 i { F |
Ber ¢ 7 ; | i 4 : 4
~ j : — sree
Xr ic AG
: . ’ a slice ear
‘ 4 , J 7 +
: a ? n i -
we » & i >
} a Te , 2-4 { <i a eal
‘ nA 4

‘Greuee eriaohogonte MiiR-nath odtity

he ¥ ee re ty i thee ey
fed , Ow nad) oe ptt nt Ob; LDC Ly pee ag

se AL ANFRONOD
oo teed epitts
vi perme. nat f
ane uf rein Lorca Ce ina ith waa sly INI
> OW 1) aA iqgnet nthe ETT, a astny i Osa apa ae
ee Pes 051905 ng ‘tach Leary stiwrtesy
es i whe: * He sal an
ah ex i atid rr stbon bers
ve te allenic ail WAAL: tee hea
cia Oke: 0 wowtth, aang ve

bolihuirenes anldonrtet: —.
nian acini tome tht ff Bit;
pontine aEsy "

; hes oe
[ow = peta p

] : ‘ — a
Muon oe &
—_ ' ‘ — (Dichter OE oS eens t—
5 rs

Powe oe
sa

v *

= ;
snow en ms gre :

tee ee te A et - mx = ’

Bo it iy : q meres ‘a : * * ot =u
» p #\ Pere =. 7h sees || 46 ae Fae
a le ie So, 4 m.. | 7
7 a 4 i.

— tts pan, *> re,

eae tae Da J dace ap mn lle a

— ———
z
= La
i . , Z 74s) car Th mae ® esuntl
- ar inte “oe ‘9 olf Th 4 “eh wa hal bam, fel ie) rey) > eer ise
ia : ts - : ‘ , ; : *
ble = t Y
z . bee 4 y
4 ’ ot4e4 itick. Zt! .
‘ 2 a! ae
Sak A Ewa eh aligee
‘ z 7 ¢ ‘ ee
a it 3 t Jt ~ -_
~ is “4 t a
: ‘ ' 7
DOR en ee Ee .
_
a => +i ’ i =? ih) ' ‘ :
hs , ; % * 0%
{ Hit? FuGG ) 7 7
: 4 % e "
antral aot eabaw
vast aed se 9d
2 in rn 4 Qtennenr = y ewes € - a } 1
ete ty! serra && Fo US os oe '- ree ?

P ‘f a e
wihiaee ford) & deol
sateoreydonrmds

it aisgty tits ih 2 Ls Alt ma eit

‘at vay 4 ous ag gestae bs ears 3] gOreeg-: "9 sal ifanc) mo
e,

12 18 00 06 | 18
SV TDSO OCC CSOD 5HIDGOSOSTOOTTTIODIODOVW®

30
5 30
Sotid of feet Ny Ss
gee Wn u/> Seema nt ? rte
10 ‘ia ae % ' —— aon 0
22 AVEO DD 4 Op ao .y8 -- \ ? nike = Ey ton ssncirang fo
= STSSELSASE a Sa ea SS Spe Spat eee enews Seer o

ca tan ein Zza STS

iS aes Rae ee
See ae
eoeeeesaeeeni @ENPdacRR Ree eee
Stee 2488 eH mit berl

ee

i ie a
= j Sere a= m
E : eee
| pea died PEPER
50 Bima! Td

Ficure 2. (by John H. Conover).—The hurricane of September 14-15, 1944, as observed and recorded at the Blue Hill ieee
Observatory, Milton, Mass. (635 feet above sea level). The track of the center of lowest pressure passed about 10 miles south-
east of Blue Hill, and the observatory was within the central zone of lighter wind for more than an hour.

Symbols used on United States weather maps are employed for the hourly cloudiness, the circle with a cross in it representing sky
obscured by cloud so low as to envelop top of Blue Hill, and the others graphically depicting roughly the amount of sky cover.
The cross-sectional cloud diagram is based on observed forms, heights obtained by range finder, and directions and velocities by
nephoscope. The arrows indicate direction of movement as if the top of the chart were north. The same applies to the arrows
for half-hourly wind direction, immediately below the cloud diagram. A zigzag arrow represents lightning, and a symbol some-
what like an “R” with such an arrow included represents a thunderstorm. The wind velocities are the 5-minute averages by 3-cup
anemometer. Pressure is from the record of a mercurial barograph, rainfall from a weighing rain gage, and temperature and
humidity from a thermohygrograph, all with open scales.

This hurricane weather diagram for a storm with center passing nearby on the east is to be compared with a similar diagram for a
storm (1938) with center passing at some distance on the west. (See Ann, Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1939, p. 246, fig. 2.)

676212—46 (Face p. 240)
wosw aa peeps Pete m

“LPRE a seat a eee te Sa

baenenihropetoaaepeeyreenbeninegoinge gosto inpre arsine oer
sole ate the Ba abuatuora doar sei) siibiae, _

wr et—<dd_ hace poe!
: a f rn ; ‘

4

B} ine :
NEW ENGLAND HURRICANE—BROOKS AND CHAPMAN 24]

Weymouth), Massachusetts Bay, the southeast tip of Maine (Kast-
port), lower New Brunswick (Pennfield Ridge, Blissville), and Sum-
merside and Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island,° and then across
Newfoundland. It finally merged into an extratropical cyclone
southeast of Greenland. The “eye” of the storm, with its lull and
starlit skies, was seen as the center passed Providence at 12:20 a. m.
on the 15th; at South Weymouth at 1: 15 a. m. (also at Milton, 10 miles
from the track) ; at Rockport at 2 a.m.; and at 4:30 a. m. as it skirted
Portland, where the wind dropped from 30 to 10 miles an hour. The
central area of light winds was diffuse and extensive, reaching more
than 30 miles to the left of the path of lowest pressure.

Details of the storm, as carefully observed and recorded in detail
by open-scale automatic instruments at Blue Hill Meteorological
Observatory, are presented in figure 2, to indicate its features after
some weakening and stretching as it got into middle latitudes.

FORECASTING THE COURSE

Predicting the course a tropical hurricane will take if it moves
into higher latitudes requires constant attention. The factors are
not to be fitted into a simple formula. They are, chiefly, surface and
upper air pressures, pressure gradients, and related wind fields; tem-
perature and moisture gradients; and, if over land, the roughness
of the terrain.*’ These control the movement of the atmosphere in
which the hurricane is carried along and also the storm’s supply of
energy and frictional drag; they thus determine the speed, direction,
and force of the storm.

As early as the 12th the probability that the storm would enter
New England was thought to be high. Upper-air observations
showed a closed cyclone at 10,000 feet over the Southeastern States;
from this, one might have expected the hurricane, after going ashore,
to curve back toward the north-northwest or northwest, somewhat
as the 1938 storm did. But on the 18th the arrival of colder air in
Canada, with its more rapid decrease of pressure upward than in
the warmer air, steepened the northward pressure gradient aloft,
thereby opening the upper-air cyclone and making the wind at 10,000
feet turn southerly in the Middle Atlantic region and southwest to
west-southwest over the North Atlantic States. This indicated that
the storm would recurve rather sharply and follow a northeast. to
east-northeast. direction, passing, perhaps, just south of New Eng-
land. On the morning of the 14th it was evident from the shift of
the winds aloft more to the south that the arc of recurvature would

°@. H. Noyes of the Boston office of the U. S. Weather Bureau, to whom the authors
are indebted, has compiled a schedule of the position of lowest pressure.

7See Wexler, Raymond, The filling of the New England hurricane of September 1938, Bull.
Amer. Meteorol. Soc., vol. 20, pp. 277-281, 1939.
242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

be flatter and that the center of the storm would go ashore over
eastern Connecticut or Rhode Island and pass near Boston.

In forecasting, the winds at 10,000 feet were considered fairly
definitive, though some weight had to be given the wind at 20,000
feet in view of the great vertical extent of the storm, which, accord-
ing to Major Wexler’s estimate (see fig. 3) reached 48,000 feet.
Range-finder measurements on the cirrostratus over Blue Hill, Mass.,
in advance of the storm indicated some 36,000 feet.

Cloud observations, which at such times are the quickest and easiest
way of following rapid changes in the upper and middle winds, were
made assiduously all day on the 14th at Blue Hill (see fig. 2) and
were reported at frequent intervals to the Boston Weather Bureau.
A comparison of these with similar observations made at Blue Hill
on September 21, 1938, throws an interesting light on the direction,
speed, and other aspects of the 1944 storm. For instance, in 1938
the clouds were mostly from the south at about 60 miles an hour,
drifting in the fast general current in which the storm was moving
rapidly straight northward. In 1944, at about 1 p. m. on the 14th,
cirrostratus and cirrocumulus, with a fine halo, emerged from behind
a breaking layer of low clouds. They were from the southwest at
close to 100 miles an hour. These were on the advanced edge of the
vortex and were traveling much faster than the center at the surface.
Four hours later the base of the sheet of ice crystals had fallen to
18,000. At that level, already well within the whirl of the hurricane,
the wind was from the south at 37 miles an hour. The observer, a
few hundred miles northeast of the surface center, thus measured the
directions and speeds of clouds on a cross section of the vortex. This
last was probably inclined forward to the northeast and spread out
aloft over a vast region.

A DARING FLIGHT INTO THE HURRICANE

A view of the storm from the air as it passed Virginia was under-
taken by three intrepid Army Air Forces weather officers, Col. F. B.
Wood, Maj. Harry Wexler, and Lt. Frank Record. Their observations
of clouds, rain, and vertical currents did not fit into conventional text-
book patterns. Colonel Wood describes the flight of the airplane
virtually to the center of this terrific storm; * and Major Wexler at-
tempts to coordinate these observations into a reasonable dynamic
structure.2 The results of his efforts which he worked out in diagram-
matic form are reproduced from his article in figure 3. The most

8 Wood, F. B., A flight into the September 1944 hurricane off Cape Henry, Va., Bull.
Amer. Meteorol. Soc., vol. 26, pp. 153-156, May 1945. Includes weather map for 1830 h.
September 14 and a map of the flight.

9 Wexler, Harry, The structure of the September 1944 hurricane when off Cape Henry,
Va., Bull. Amer. Meteorol. Soc., vol. 26, pp. 156-159, May 1945. Includes generalized map,
and a cloud, rain, and circulation cross-sectional diagram.
NEW ENGLAND HURRICANE—BROOKS AND CHAPMAN 243

(SFGT ‘F Sg ‘Sct “d “9g 10OA “O0g *JOLON}OPY “IOUT ‘T[Ng WorJ psonpordey) ‘BA ‘Aauay ed¥y passed 4 se ‘FPGL ‘FL Joquiajdeg Jo suvoysny
94} JO JuUBIPSND JsoMqINOS 94} Ul ULV puB ‘spNozd ‘MOT}B[NdDITD By} JO UOTVS sso.10 TeIppy— (10 “Vv ‘1eTxeM Arie ‘feyy Aq) § guaDI

S-N
aN- MS : H ————+]
fp em 88 sol b 3 See ee a

Asuay 8do9 (pja14 49607) (P1814 Burjjog)
3A31 V3S & STC peur D ek ~—. " FRAT rs Tr De FRR ET PUTS ee eam

0000!

000'02

oOd'oe

ood'or

o00'0s
000s

0o0'09 : 13348! HOH
4334 NI 1HOI3H
244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

surprising observation was the strong and persistent descent of air
observed at a height of a mile in the southwest quadrant of the storm
near the outer limits of the rain area, This was evidently in partial
compensation for the terrific ascent of large volumes of air around
the central core.

FORCE AND EFFECTS OF THE HURRICANE

During the 14th, peak winds at the surface were generally 75 to 90
miles an hour and showed little evidence of weakening. Variations
between different points could not be related to changes in the strength
of the storm as a whole, because of differences of exposure and distance
from center. The highest wind velocity recorded was 134 miles an
hour at 12:20 p. m. on September 14 at Cape Henry, Va. Maximum
(5 minutes) wind velocities equaled or exceeded all previous records
at Hatteras, Cape Henry, Atlantic City, New York, and Block Island.

However, the wind on the left of the storm when it reached New
England was appreciably less than had been expected, as a result of
friction over the rough terrain, the greater proportion of land air in
the circulation, the cushioning effect of the cooler night air, and the
more rapid advance of the center. These effects were slightly reduced
by the increase in energy due to the greater contrast between the
density of the cooler air over the land and that of the warmer air over
the ocean. The wind on the right, however, retained practically
its full force, since it came straight in from the sea. The increasing
southeast-northwest general pressure gradient added somewhat to the
wind on the right of the vortex and offset to a certain extent the ten-
dency of the wind to decrease as the cyclone weakened.

Between its emergence from the Tropics and its arrival in New Eng-
land the storm lost some of its original force. This was not true of
the hurricane of 1938, because then the much greater difference in the
temperature on the east and west sides (the land air was much cooler)
created potential energy that compensated in large measure for the loss
in latent heat,!® and the storm, being well out to sea, did not lose so
much energy by friction with the land en route. The east-west
diameter of the storm at the surface (inside the isobar of 1,005 milli-
bars) was 520 miles on the 14th, and 420 miles on the 15th.

A further weakening, between the time when the storm entered
New England and that when it reached the Gulf of St. Lawrence,
is shown by the record of lowest pressures: 28.34 inches at Block
Island and 28.31 at Point Judith, R. I.; and 29.19 at Summerside and
29.18 at Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island.

The tropical air that preceded the storm brought the first of the
heavy rains to New England on the night of the 12th. These were

1° Pierce, C. H., The meteorological history of the New England hurricane of September
21, 1938, Month. Weather Rev., vol. 67, pp. 237-285, 1939.
NEW ENGLAND HURRICANE—BROOKS AND CHAPMAN 245

heavier along the south shore of Connecticut, and decreased more or
less uniformly northeastward to Maine. They continued, intermit-
tently, through the following 48 hours, extending both northward and
northeastward into Canada, much less uniformly, and giving no indi-
cation of the future course of the hurricane.

The cyclonic “wringer” produced the usual hurricane rains. But in
a rapidly moving whirl the convergence and consequent ascent and
resulting rainfall are much the greatest in the left front quadrant,
especially when this alone of the whirl is over land, whereas the right
or “dangerous” quadrant receives hardly any. For instance, the hurri-
cane rainfall at Hartford, on the left of the track, was 4.3 inches,
whereas at Nantucket, about the same distance to the right, it was 0.11
inch. Providence, nearer the center, but still to the left, got 4.7 inches,
of which 314 came in 2 hours, with a southeast wind averaging 34
miles an hour. In the 1938 hurricane also, the precipitation on the
left of the track was very heavy, in marked contrast with negligible
rainfall on the right.

Hurricane tides, which are a great danger on the coast and some
miles up from the mouths of rivers, were not very serious in 1944,
because the arrival of the storm on the south coast almost coincided
with low tide. Increases in height that can be attributed directly to
the hurricane are, approximately: Boston, 2.5 feet; Woods Hole, 7
feet; Newport, 8 feet; Providence, 9 feet ; New London, 6 feet. Maxi-
mum tides (normal high tide plus hurricane tide) during the 1938
hurricane were: Sandy Hook, 8.2 feet; along the Connecticut coast
and shore of Narragansett and Buzzards Bays, 12 to 25 feet; Point:
Judith, 18 feet; Providence, 17.6 feet; Fairhaven, estimated 25 feet;
Fall River, estimated 18 feet.”

Much more damage was done by the surf than by the wind, because
of the reach of nearly a thousand miles from the position of the storm
off Florida to the Long Island and southern New England coast.
‘Thanks to the long advance warning of the Weather Bureau, small
craft and most other shipping had had time to seek shelter. Not all
vessels, however, could do so. The Vineyard Sound lightship found-
ered at her post, with a loss of 12 lives. She was later located in 11
fathoms of water, the mooring chains intact, at a considerable distance
from her Cuttyhunk station. Evidence of the force of the surf is
found in the diver’s report: masts and funnel were sheared off flush
with the deck.

The American Red Cross estimates the havoc wrought by the 1944
storm between North Carolina and Massachusetts as follows: 46
persons killed and 338 injured, 921 houses destroyed and 24,168

1 Courtesy of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey.
14Tannehill, I. R., Hurricanes: Their nature and history, 5th ed., p. 43, Princeton,
1944,
946 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

damaged, 1,641 other buildings destroyed and 16,832 damaged, 131
boats destroyed and 635 damaged.* In addition, heavy marine casual-
ties directly related to intensified patrol and other war exigencies
amounted to 344 men and 5 vessels.

From other sources * the property damage for the 1944 storm may
be placed at $100,000,000, as against $300,000,000 for the 1938
hurricane.

One or two examples of damage may be noted. At Nantucket the
Coast Guard Station was washed away. At Newport, with a maxi-
mum wind velocity of 84 miles an hour at nearby Quonset, more trees
were destroyed than in 1938. The 1944 storm passed 50 to 100 miles
nearer the shores of North Carolina, Virginia, Delaware, and New
Jersey than the 1938 one. That is why those coasts suffered so much
more damage this time.’®

But for the experience gained in the 1938 hurricane and the lessons
it taught, the 1944 storm would have cost more lives and created far
more havoc.

A hurricane observing and warning service has been set up in the
North Atlantic States. More attention has been paid to the direction
and velocity of the middle and upper levels of the air stream in which
a hurricane may be traveling. Cloud movements as indicators have
been more carefully studied at weather stations in recent years. An
important development in this connection is the tracing of balloons
by radio—both by radar and by radio direction finding. This method,
known as “rawins,” made possible the determination of all winds aloft
in the vicinity of the several stations possessing the necessary equip-
ment. This method is invaluable ahead of the storm, where low clouds
usually obscure the higher ones. A radiometeorograph network for
deep atmospheric soundings has been extended. A special teletype
system has been installed, and other necessary improvements have been
made.

The Weather Bureau is to be congratulated on the accuracy of its
forecasts and on the wide dissemination of timely warnings by radio
and other means while the danger lasted, thereby saving many lives *
and much property.

143 Courtesy of North Atlantic Area, American Red Cross, New York. According to the
American Red Cross, quoted by Sumner, op. cit. (footnote 3), the 1938 storm killed 494
and injured 708. It destroyed 936 houses and damaged 8,019, and destroyed 3,564 other
buildings and damaged 7,120; 2,605 boats were destroyed and 3,369 damaged.

14Day, R. L., in an article on the hurricane published in the Franklin Journal, Farming-
ton, Maine, October 10, 1944; and Sumner, H. C., op cit.

% The great destructiveness of this storm is vividly revealed in “Hurricane,” a picture
booklet of 52 pages published by The Standard-Times, New Bedford, and The Cape Cod
Standard-Times, Hyannis, Mass., 1944.

16 One such survivor, Dr. Victor Conrad, whose scientific curiosity was nearly his undoing,
has described the deep, booming sounds of the black hurricane night and the effects of
physical features in varying the destructiveness of sea and wind at Hyannis, Mass., in
“Some Remarks upon the Destructive Effects of the Hurricane, September 14-15, 1944,

observed at Hyannis, Cape Cod, Massachusetts,’ Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union, vol. 26,
No. 2, pp. 217—219, October 1945.
CONSERVING ENDANGERED WILDLIFE SPECIES?

By Hartiry H. T. JACKSON

In Charge, Biological Surveys
Fish and Wildlife Service, U. S. Department of the Interior

[With 138 plates]

Most of us are familiar with such expressions as “gone like the dodo,”
or “as extinct as the dodo.” The dodo was a huge, grotesque, aberrant
member of the pigeon tribe, reported to have first been discovered in
1497 by Vasco da Gama on the island of Mauritius. For many years
it carried the appropriate scientific name Didus inepius, for of all
birds it was most inept to meet the competition with humans that was
to confront it. About the size of a swan, ungainly, pot-bellied, wings
so aborted that it lost the power of flight, ground-nesting and laying
only a single egg, and unsuspicious to the point of stupidity, it fell an
easy prey to the crews of Dutch ships that visited Mauritius during
the first quarter of the seventeenth century and to the Dutch who
settled the island in 1644, By 1693 the dodo was extinct. Likewise, a
closely related bird species, the solitaire of Rodriguez Island, became
extinct about the middle of the eighteenth century. These are striking
examples of what has happened to many species in the history of the
world fauna, sometimes, as in these cases, with known cause, but more
often with cause unknown. It is regrettable to have to record the
passing of any wildlife race, even though the form may be of only
esthetic or educational value. Once a type becomes extinct, it never
reappears. It behooves us to care for what we have.

POSSIBLE CAUSES OF WILDLIFE REDUCTION AND EXTINCTION

Many factors have probably been involved in the extinction of
animals. In the geologic past before the advent of man we might
theorize on the causes of such extinctions not attributable to man.

1 Based on a lecture delivered on January 15, 1941, to the class in wildlife conservation
of the Graduate School of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. Reprinted by permission,
with additional illustrations, from Transactions of the Wisconsin Academy of Sciences,
Arts, and Letters, vol. 35, 1943. The photographs are from the files of the U. S. Fish
and Wildlife Service, unless otherwise indicated in the legend. All maps were prepared by
Mrs. Katheryn Tabb, of Biological Surveys, Fish and Wildlife Service.

247
948 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Since man’s appearance on the scene in recent times, with one or two
possible exceptions all cases of wildlife extinction can be lodged in his
own hands. Factors other than man’s behavior may have resulted in
heavy local, or often perhaps widespread, losses in wildlife, but have
rarely endangered the existence of the species. It is difficult in most
cases to determine the exact cause or causes of an extinction. Often it
appears that it may be one factor, or again it may be several. Extinc-
tion in every case was probably brought about at first by gradual
depletion of the population and through local extirpation. When the
population becomes reduced to a danger point, extinction may come
with unexpected rapidity. Dislike the assertion as we may, in recent
times the human species has been the prime factor in the extermination
of other species.

Man.—Man has aided in faunal destruction by the injudicious com-
mercialized use of wildlife. In order to realize this we have only to
look back on the days when barrels of wild ducks, shore birds, and
pigeons were regularly sold for little or nothing at market, and
thousands of big-game animals were killed only for the hides which
were sold as a cheap source of leather. The plume hunters went by
the board just in time to save the snowy heron and reddish egret, which
they had all but exterminated. The whaling and sealing industries
operated for many years without restriction.

Hunting and trapping, although for the most part now well under
regulation, have taken heavy toll of certain species. Poaching, illegal
hunting, and lack of protective laws still menace certain forms of
game animals, and some of our more important fur animals have
lacked sufficient protection. The apparently inborn urge on the part
of some outdoor men to shoot every conspicuous and large living form
of wildlife created a serious situation for rare species and one that can
be controlled only by conservation education. Extension and im-
provement of travel facilities in more recent years have increased
pressure on wildlife.

Drainage, cultivation, stock raising, and other necessary artificial
changes of wildlife habitat have endangered many species. Most of
these environmental changes could not have been avoided, yet often
wildlife received no consideration when it should have been given a
place in the picture.

The introduction of exotic species has often proved to be detrimen-
tal to native forms, through either predation or competition. There
need be mentioned here only such instances as the introduction of the
mongoose, a predator, into the West Indies and Hawaii, and game
animals such as the rabbit into Australia, the American gray squirrel
into England, the red deer into New Zealand, and the nongame bird,
the European starling, into the United States, where it competes for
CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON 249

nesting sites with hole-nesting birds such as the crested flycatcher and
the bluebird.

Natural environmental and ecological changes.—Most of the natural
environmental changes that adversely affected species so as to hasten
their extirpation probably were climatic. Some of the major climatic
changes resulted in the glacial periods, or at least were associated with
glaciers, the general effects of which on the flora and fauna are known
to most students of biology. Glaciers caused the breaking up of the
geographic range of species into discontinuous distribution areas,
sometimes so small as to endanger the existence of the species.
Changes of climate associated with glaciation so affected the remnant
population of many species as to be their death knell, and in the
late Pleistocene glacial deposits are found the remains of many of
these species, and even genera, which became extinct at that time.
Glacial lake transformation, from fresh-water lake to acid lake, to
sphagnum bog, and to spruce woodland, completely changed environ-
mental conditions, often to the elimination of some species. Other
ecological transformations changed the environment and with it the
wildlife population. Volcanic eruptions might well have caused com-
plete annihilation of local forms of wildlife, as for example the blow-
ing off of the top of Volcan Santa Maria, Guatemala, in 1903, and
the Mount Katmai, Alaska, eruption in 1912. The eruption of Mount
Pelee, Isle of Martinique, Lesser Antilles, in 1902, quite possibly ex-
terminated the Martinique solitaire, an interesting and unique song-
bird.

Weather.—Weather conditions, aside from those changes per-
manently effected by change of climate, may have adverse effects on
wildlife. Severe windstorms may, by creating clearings in the forest,
actually improve local environment for some wildlife species, yet a
storm of the same intensity on a marsh or a sandy area may destroy
much of the wildlife. It is probable that the Cape Sable seaside spar-
row, found only on the salt marshes of southwestern Florida, was wiped
out of existence by the Florida hurricane of 1937. The devastating
effects of drought on wildlife are fresh in our minds from conditions
created by drought in waterfowl nesting areas of the Northwest less
than a decade ago. Cold or wet seasons, especially during a breeding
season, may often reduce populations, sometimes to the danger point.

Struggle for existence.—The “struggle for existence” is an old evo-
lutionary term, more or less hackneyed; nevertheless, overspecializa-
tion may place a species at a disadvantage in competition with forms
less specialized and better able to meet competition and changed en-
vironment. Gigantism, a type of specialization, may of itself have
been a factor in the disappearance of many of the gigantic reptiles
and mammals of past ages.
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Disease—Evidence clearly indicates that diseases have at times
been important factors in reduction of populations of wildlife. Dis-
eases and parasites, however, disseminate more freely in dense popu-
lations, so that the effect is to produce population fluctuations, or
cycles. Beyond this initial reduction of such populations, disease is
probably not as a rule an important factor in the extermination of a
species.

WILDLIFE SPECIES THAT HAVE BECOME EXTINCT

Although our own country in the past has abused its wildlife popu-
lation to the extent of exterminating several species, and has been
negligent in many ways in preserving vanishing forms, it has not been
alone in this. Before considering extinct North American animals,
let us glance at the headstones of the graves of some of the foreign
species. No attempt is made here to compile a complete list of extinct
animals of foreign countries, and only some of the more noteworthy
or conspicuous are included.

In Europe, such an important mammal as the aurochs, ancestral
stock of some of our domestic cattle, which inhabited large areas of
central and southern Europe, and also northern Africa, passed into
the realm of vanished species in Poland in 1627. A few years later
the tarpan, an ancestor of the domestic horse found on the steppes of
southeastern Russia, became extinct, although a close relative,
Przewalsky’s or the Mongolian wild horse, still exists in small num-
bers in Mongolia.

In Asia, Pere David’s deer that formerly inhabited parts of North
China is extinct in the wild state. At the time of the Boxer Rebellion
in 1900, some 200 animals, all that remained in China of this species,
held in captivity in a park near Peking, were killed for food. For-
tunately, a few animals had previously been sent by the Duke of Bed-
ford to England, where about 50 are now maintained at Woburn.
Steller’s sea cow, a huge manatee 30 feet long or more and weighing
upward of 3 tons, first brought to the attention of science in 1741, met
its doom in 1768 in supplying oil and food for man. This huge
manatee inhabited Copper and Bering Islands and possibly other
islands in Bering Sea. The Pallas cormorant, an interesting fish-
eating bird of the Commander and other Bering Sea islands, became
extinct in 1852.

Among wildlife species that have been exterminated in Africa, the
first to go by the acts of modern man was the blue antelope, or
blaaubok, which disappeared in 1799 from South Africa. From
South Africa also there disappeared about 1875, through hunting,
the quagga, which resembled a donkey with zebralike stripes on its
cape and neck only. Burchell’s zebra became extinct in South Africa
CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON 251

some 25 years later. In northern Africa, in the mountains of the
Algerian Sahara, the red gazelle has probably vanished for all time.

Turning now to Australia and the South Sea Islands, those giant
flightless birds, the moas, disappeared from the feathered fauna of
New Zealand islands, probably between A. D. 950 and 1350. Un-
doubtedly the last remnants vanished through the agency of man,
although ancient Maori tradition and legends refer to the moa as
burnt up by the “fires of Tamaten” in times long past, which may refer
to its destruction by volcanic action. Archey (1941) recognizes 19
species of these birds belonging to 6 genera. In Australia itself the
little plains rat-kangaroo has not been seen since 1848, and the mar-
supial anteater vanished in 1923,

Many forms of wildlife have become extinct in the Western Hemi-
sphere. Some of the earlier of these to vanish were insular forms,
such as Gosse’s macaw from Jamaica, about 1800. The Cuban tri-
colored macaw became extinct in 1864, chiefly through utilization for
food. The history of Guadeloupe Island, one of the Leeward Islands,
portrays the extinction of three bird species, the yellow-winged green
parrot, the purple Guadeloupe parakeet, and the Guadeloupe macaw.
Strangely enough, an island of like name in the eastern Pacific Ocean,
Guadalupe Island, has witnessed the extirpation of the Guadalupe
caracara and probably the Guadalupe towhee and the Guadalupe rock
wren.

Several races of mammals formerly inhabiting North America—
in fact, parts of the United States—have passed into the ranks of the
vanished. The big dark buffalo of the northeastern United States,
the Pennsylvania bison, was last known in Pennsylvania in 1801.
The Maine giant mink, nearly twice the size of our ordinary minks,
that lived along the seacoasts of Maine and Nova Scotia, became ex-
tinct in 1860. ‘The eastern puma, or cougar, was gone by about 1885.
Of our grizzly bears, the first to disappear was the Texas race (1890),
followed shortly by the Plains grizzly (1895), and the Tejon grizzly
of the arid southwestern region of California (1898). Although the
taxonomic status of the grizzly bears is not entirely clear, it is, never-
theless, certain that many races of these mammals are recognizable and
that many of these have disappeared. Among these extirpated forms
may be mentioned the California grizzly bear (1922), Sacramento
Valley grizzly, California coast grizzly, Arizona grizzly, Black Hills
grizzly, Navaho grizzly, Mount Taylor grizzly, Utah grizzly, and
Chelan grizzly. Even such an insignificant mammal as the Gull
Island meadow mouse could not escape extinction when its habitat on
Great Gull Island, at the entrance of Long Island Sound, New York,
was covered by earth moved in grading the island for fortifications
some time before 1898. Another inconspicuous small mammal, the
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

252

*S09B1G poyUQ oq} UT Ssiveq A[zz1a3 Jo eFuvl Jusseid puv ssuvi JOWIOY—'T AAO

JONVY IN3S3Ud ESS
JONVY Y3WYuOs C7}
-uvaa A1ZZ1u9
CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON 258

Amargosa meadow mouse, known only from a small tule marsh at a
spring near Shoshone, eastern Inyo County, Calif., had vanished by
1916 after the marsh had been burned several times and used for a
pasture. The largest of our elk, the Merriam elk of Arizona and
New Mexico, was exterminated by 1900 or before. The Audubon or
Badlands bighorn sheep of the Dakotas and eastern Montana was
last known alive about 1914, and it is quite probable that the lava beds
or rimrock bighorn of southeastern Oregon and northwestern Ne-
vada has gone. No longer will any stockmen need to worry over dep-
redations of the big Plains wolf, which ceased to exist about 1980.

Within the borders of the United States, five forms of birds are
now certainly extinct, namely, the great auk (1844); the Labrador
duck (1875) ; the passenger pigeon (last native wild bird, 1908; last
survivor in captivity, which died of old age in the Cincinnati Zoolog-
ical Gardens, September 1914) ; the heath hen, or eastern representa-
tive of the prairie chicken, was last seen alive on March 11, 19382,
and can be said to be extinct in 1933; and the Carolina paroquet about
1935, or previous thereto. ‘Two other species are probably gone, the
Eskimo curlew, of which there have been only very indefinite and
unsatisfactory records for recent years, and the Cape Sable seaside
sparrow, probably wiped out of existence by the tropical hurricane
of southern Florida in 1937.

ENDANGERED WILDLIFE SPECIES

We shall not go into details as to the status of all foreign vanishing
and endangered wildlife, but we should know at least a few of the species
that are in a more precarious condition in continents other than our
own. Europe, through private and public game preserves, has been
able to care for most of its wildlife species. The eagle owl has been
persecuted and is in some danger, and the white stork, though at least
up to the time of World War II well protected in Europe where it
nests, has been depleted in numbers through being killed for food by
natives in its African winter home. The European brown bear is
becoming exceedingly rare, and the ibex and chamois are in danger,
as is also the European beaver. The wisent, or European bison, became
so reduced in numbers that it has been crossbred with the American
bison and domestic cattle of old-lineage strain in an effort to retain
some semblance of the species. Even these may now be wiped out
through economic strain of wartime conditions.

We have already mentioned the status of Przewalsky’s horse in
Asia, but in that continent the ancestor of the donkey, the kiang, is
so reduced in numbers as to be nearing the danger line. Other Asian
mammals in danger of extirpation include the seladang, a huge wild
ox of India; that large deer, the Malayan sambhur; and the three

6762124617
254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

species of Indian rhinoceroses—the Asiatic two-horned, the Indian
one-horned, and the lesser one-horned. The last named has most
likely already vanished. Many of the species of pheasants especially
need attention if they are to be saved, and the Argus pheasant is
actually endangered.

Africa, long known as the continent of many species of remarkable
antelopes and other big-game animals, has maintained, particularly
through the British and Belgian Governments, extensive game pre-
serves, and as a rule has offered protection to wildlife. In spite of
this effort to save the fauna, however, a few species have become ex-
tinct and several others are vanishing. No less than a dozen species of
antelopes are endangered, among them the beautiful inyala, now prob-
ably limited to about 200 individuals in Kruger Park. The Bubal
hartebeest of North Africa has become scarce, and the Cape hartebeest
is reduced to about 40 animals. In the case of the bontebok of South
Africa, 23 were driven in 1929 into an enclosure of 1,800 acres set up
as Bontebok National Park. Of these animals, 16 survived and there
has been some increase, half-domesticated. There are not over 60
bonteboks alive today. The blesbok, a closely related antelope, is in
about the same status as the bontebok. Other African antelopes in
danger of extirpation include the white-tailed gnu, the giant sable
antelope, the giant or Lord Darby’s eland, the gemsbok, and the addax.
The rare and unique okapi, modified forest giraffe of the Congo for-
ests, is decreasing in numbers. Other mammals in serious danger in
Africa include the Abyssinian ibex, mountain zebra, white rhinoceros,
hippopotamus, South African elephant, and gorilla. Among several
African birds endangered is the unique shoebill stork.

Australia, the land of marsupials and many strange animals, is on
the verge of losing more of its unique species. Special legislation
prohibiting the taking of certain fur animals and forbidding even the
exportation of the fur or any part of the animal may save some of
these species. Especially in danger is the koala, often nicknamed
the “teddy bear,” and the gray wallaby, one of the larger kangaroos.
The estimated population of koalas in Australia decreased from
250,000 to 1,100 in a few years before the establishment of a preserve
for the species on Phillip Island, Victoria, about 1938. In February
1942 there were 590 koalas in this colony. The hairy-nosed wombat
and the Tasmanian wolf, or thylacine, are both nearing extermination.
It is doubtful if the beautiful lyrebird can be saved. The hawk parrot,
as well as several other parrot species, are on the way to oblivion.

In South America protection may have come too late to save in its
native habitat the now rare fur bearer, the chinchilla, as well as the
guanaco, wild ancestor of the domesticated llama, and the vicuna,
native wild ancestor of the domesticated alpaca. Three species of the
CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON 255

ostrichlike bird, the rhea, are near the vanishing point in South
America, as are the bell bird and the steamer ducks, flightless ducks of
Tierra del Fuego.

North America, where our interests more naturally center, has a
long list of endangered wildlife races, at least 50 in number, of which
all except one or two marine forms occur in the United States or its
Territories. Several of the grizzly bears have already gone, and
within the States it would seem that Yellowstone National Park and
Glacier National Park offer about the only real hope for their preser-
vation. Black bears as a group are reasonably safe, yet the Florida
black bear is reduced to less than 500 and is decreasing in numbers.
That frosty-gray bear of the black bear group, the glacier bear of
Alaska, is so scarce as to face extinction. Its remote and almost inac-
cessible habitat may save it.

The fisher, the marten, and the wolverine have all been trapped so
extensively for fur that they are almost gone from the United States
and have been reduced to the danger point everywhere in North Amer-
ica. ‘The black-footed ferret, formerly found on the plains with a
geographic range almost coinciding with that of the prairie dog, was
never a common mammal, but has become rarer and rarer, until now
it is seldom reported. The southern sea otter was a few years ago
believed to be extinct, when unexpectedly a small herd was discovered
south of Carmel, Monterey County, on the coast of California. This
herd now numbers about 300 animals or more, though recently tending
to become scattered. It is protected and guarded carefully, and with
proper management the race may be saved from extinction.

The unsuspecting little kit fox of our western plains was not only
easily trapped for its fur but also frequently was caught in traps set
for coyotes and other animals. No restrictions seem to have been
placed on killing it, with the result that what was once a common
mammal is now rare, and in many regions extirpated. The timber
wolf of the Northeastern States could hardly be expected to withstand
settlements and civilization and has almost succumbed to the inevitable.
In fact, all the large wolves of the United States are endangered.
The eastern puma, or cougar, has been exterminated. Among the
other cougars, the Florida subspecies is the most endangered, there
being probably less than 25 individuals left.

Several of our seals are so reduced in numbers as to cause serious
concern for them. The Guadalupe fur seal of the west coast of Mexico
has reached too low a population for its safety, and may even have
vanished, and both the West Indian monk seal and the Pacific monk
seal have become rare and reduced to local habitats. That oddity of
seals, the elephant seal of the Pacific coast, has shown some recovery
during the past decade, but is still in a precarious condition. On the
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

North Atlantic coast, the beautiful hooded seal has been hunted for
oil and fur until it, too, is in danger. The Pacific walrus, while in
some danger, is not reduced to the vanishing stage, as appears to be
the case with the Atlantic walrus.

We correctly think of the white-tailed deer as our most abundant
big-game animal, yet the Pacific white-tail is down to about 1,000 ani-
mals, and was supposed to have a much lower population until Dr.
Victor B. Scheffer (1940) gave an account of a herd at the mouth of
the Columbia River. The key deer, inhabiting a few of the lower
Florida keys, is very rare, local in distribution, and probably does not
number more than 40 individuals. It was reduced by the hurricane
of 1937, and has been overhunted and subjected to poaching until only
a few remain.

When the mad rush for gold was on in California during the middle
of the nineteenth century, the great valley of California, the combined
valleys of the San Joaquin and the Sacramento Rivers, abounded in
a small elk with simple antlers, the California valley or tule elk. It
soon became scarce. A remnant was protected on the Miller and Lux
Ranch, Buttonwillow, Kern County, Calif. In an effort to save these
animals, which may have reached a total of 350 or 400 animals in 1921,
some were transplanted in Yosemite and Sequoia National Parks. In
1933 all of these, and several from the Buttonwillow herd, were trans-
ferred to a reservation with good elk-pasture features in Owens Valley.
Today there probably exist not over 150 of these elk, nearly all in
Owens Valley, though a few may still survive on the Buttonwillow
Ranch.

The last woodland caribou seen in Maine were near Mount Katahdin
in 1908. They had disappeared from New Hampshire and Vermont
about the middle of the nineteenth century. Fifteen occur in northern
Minnesota, only two of which are native, the others being from stock
brought in from Saskatchewan. In Canada, also, the woodland cari-
bou is vanishing, and in many regions where it was once common it is

now gone. The eastern moose, while not in so much immediate danger

as the woodland caribou, is nevertheless rapidly approaching a pre-
carious situation.

All our bighorn sheep should give us cause for worry. Two forms
are in especial danger. The Sierra bighorn may be reduced to less
than 75 animals, and the Texas bighorn, at one time thought to be
extirpated, is reduced to some 125 animals scattered in 6 or 8 mountain
ranges, and its fight for survival in competition with domestic sheep
and goats and in the face of illegal hunting is almost hopeless unless
reservation provisions are offered it. The desert bighorn has, we hope,
been saved by the establishment of national refuges for its preservation
in Arizona and Nevada.
CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON 257

Unique among all mammals, the odd-looking musk ox, which re-
sembles somewhat a miniature shaggy-haired buffalo and combines
certain features of the cattle tribe on the one hand with those of the
sheep on the other, is dwindling in numbers. Although formerly
occurring in the barren grounds from northern Alaska to eastern
Greenland, it is at present found native only on the east coast of Green-
land and in Arctic barrens directly north and northwest of Hudson
Bay as far as about latitude 83°. Even within these ranges musk
oxen inhabit only certain areas, and there are immense expanses where
none occurs. Attempts are being made by the Canadian Government
to colonize the species in the Dominion. Of an initial stock of 34 musk
oxen brought by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service from
Greenland, via Norway and the United States, to Alaska in 1930, and
held at the United States Biological Survey Experiment Station, Fair-
banks, for study and acclimatization, 4 animals were introduced on
Nunivak Island National Wildlife Refuge in Bering Sea in 1935 and
27 in 1986. This herd had increased to more than 100 animals in 1941,

Stories and legends about mermaids originated in superstitions about
those peculiar aquatic mammals, the dugongs and the manatees. In
their present distribution, dugongs inhabit only parts of the Eastern
Hemisphere, whereas the three species of manatees occur only in the
Atlantic coastal waters of America from Florida to Brazil. The
manatees are harmless mammals that feed on aquatic vegetation. All
may be included in the endangered list, but the status of the most
northerly form, the Florida manatee, is especially critical. Ample
legal protection, it would seem, is afforded the animal, but laws are not
always enforced, and many individuals are wantonly shot. Sudden
drops in temperature to freezing, or two or three nights of freezing
weather, often kill manatees.

Even some of our smaller game mammals need especial protection
if we expect to continue them as a part of our American life. The
northeastern fox squirrel and the mangrove fox squirrel are both at
such a low population as to be near the vanishing point.

With their high value for oil and other commercial products, all the
large whales face probable serious reduction in numbers. Three
species are now at the danger point. The gray whale, found offshore
in the North Pacific and at one time important in the whaling industry,
is so reduced in numbers that only a few are procured annually. The
bowhead whale, some 50 feet long and with massive, heavy head, for-
merly occurred throughout the oceans near the North Pole. It be-
came extirpated in the North Atlantic some 50 years ago and is now
limited to a sparse population in Bering Sea and toward the northeast
thereof. The North Atlantic right whale, another massive whale
that produced a heavy yield of oil and whalebone, was so eagerly
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

sought by whalers in the North Atlantic that it has been reduced al-
most to extirpation. This species has long ceased to be an item of
commercial importance. The Whaling Treaty Act of 1936 should
tend toward conservation of whales. Nevertheless, during 1937-38
there were 54,664 whales killed, a yearly high for all time. Of these,
46,039 were captured in the Antarctic region. What effect World War
II has had on whales and the whaling industry is problematic.
There was need for whale products in war industries, but there was
also demand for the use of ships employed in whaling for other war
purposes. Moreover, the risk in whaling during war times tended to
curtail the industry.

There are many North American birds that are in a more or less
precarious situation as to their future existence. Some of these, such
as Leach’s petrel, reddish egret, Franklin’s grouse, southern white-
tailed ptarmigan, sage hen, golden plover, and upland plover, it would
appear are holding their own, or possibly are on the uptrend, though
once greatly reduced in numbers and hard pressed. Others are in the
more precarious class. The great white heron population of extreme
southern Florida shows no appreciable increase, although protection is
afforded these birds on the Great White Heron National Wildlife
Refuge, where about half of all birds dwell. In October 1938 Alex-
ander Sprunt, Jr., counted a total of 585 great white herons; in Febru-
ary 1941 Harold L. Peters counted 551, of which 290 were on the
Great White Heron National Wildlife Refuge. The roseate spoonbill,
beautifully colored and grotesque of bill as the name implies, is possi-
bly in more danger as a nester in the United States than the great white
heron, though actually at present more birds exist. It is found in the
same general region of Florida as the great white heron, but has a
supplementary chance for survival in a larger colony in Texas. There
are also a considerable number of the birds in Mexico. The Florida
nesting birds are decreasing in numbers. The Texas nesters have
increased, but are in constant danger of destruction through oil
development.

Another strictly American bird being preserved by refuge manage-
ment is the trumpeter swan, the largest of American waterfowl. For-
merly nesting from northwestern Iowa and central Nebraska north-
westerly to central British Columbia and Alberta, it is now limited
during the breeding season to the vicinity of Yellowstone National
Park, Wyo., and the Red Rock Lakes National Wildlife Refuge, Mont.,
- and to a refuge at an undesignated locality in western Canada. At
each of these breeding areas, the birds are being carefully guarded. In
the Yellowstone-Red Rock Lakes regions there has been an increase
from 33 birds in 1934 to 211 birds in 1941. In Hawaii, the nene, or
Hawaiian goose, has faced destruction by man and the mongoose.
259

CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON

'S81B1G PoqIUQ 8q} UI SUBAS JoZodUINIA] JO osuBI SUIpsIeIq JUSSeId PUB 9SUBI SUIPSIIq JOWI0O.¥—Z Aun,

-JONVY LN3S3Yd KSSS
“BONVY YaWYOs CC]
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

There may be 100 or more of these dry-land geese in captivity, but the
species is probably reduced to about 25 individuals in its native wild
state. The Laysan teal is another of the duck-and-goose tribe con-
fined to Laysan Island southwest of Hawaii. It is at an extremely low
ebb, and though inhabiting a national bird refuge, it may pass into
history at any time, if it has not already gone. There were only 14
birds left on the island in 1923.

Many of our birds of prey, even though actually beneficial species,
have been shot on sight as harmful, or considered legitimate targets
on which to test marksmanship. Practically all species of this group
have been reduced in numbers. Probably the most seriously en-
dangered is the California condor, masterful airman of graceful flight
and grandeur, and man’s benefactor as a destroyer of carrion. The
California condor formerly ranged west of the Sierra Nevada from
Washington to Lower California, and in the days of the “forty-niners”
was not rare. It is now reduced to not more than 70 individuals, most
of which make their home in a comparatively small isolated valley in a
range of mountains in southwestern California. ‘Two other birds of
graceful flight and beauty and both of harmless habits, the white-tailed
kite of the southwestern United States and the Everglade kite of
Florida, are extremely reduced in numbers. The whitetail is probably
in less danger than the Everglade, since its present distribution is more
extensive and it is known to nest in several scattered colonies. The
Everglade kite, however, is known to nest in the United States only in
the vicinity of Lake Okeechobee, Fla., where there are only a few
pairs of birds.

Three of our gallinaceous birds are approaching the vanishing point.
None of the existing races of prairie chickens is in any too satisfactory
a position, and one of them, Attwater’s prairie chicken, is reduced to
approximately 8,000 birds inhabiting scarcely more than 5 percent of
the former range of the race. The population of these prairie chickens
has been reduced not only by hunting but also by general agricultural
and grazing practices, and by excessive rainfall during the nesting
season. The masked bobwhite, formerly occurring in fair numbers
within the United States near the Mexican border, has become extir-
pated except for local colonies in Sonora, Mexico. From this meager
Mexican supply an effort has been made to restock the species in
Arizona and New Mexico. The eastern wild turkey, the native wild
turkey of our Atlantic coast colonists, has all but disappeared as a
pure-strain wild turkey. A few of them still inhabit the region of the
lower Santee River in South Carolina; under the auspices of the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 15 birds from this region
were placed on Bull’s Island, South Carolina, a national wildlife
refuge, in 1939-40. This stock has increased, and will provide another
CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON 261

flock of pure-strain wild birds. Elsewhere there are birds that show
characteristics of the original native stock, but a large portion of the
population shows crossing with domestic turkeys.

The whooping crane, a white bird nearly man high, formerly oc-
curred during migration from the Atlantic coast south to Georgia and
west to the foot of the Rocky Mountains, was known to nest from
Iowa and Nebraska north and northwest to Hudson Bay and Mac-
kenzie, and wintered in huge flocks in the Gulf States. Being big and

Re parcieh or RE Po lappi :

ihncy

\
ATTWATER'S PRAIRIE CHICKEN

FORMER RANGE
GB PRESENT RANGE

Figure 3.—Former range and present range of Attwater’s prairie chicken in Texas.

conspicuous, and an inhabitant of the open places, it afforded “some-
thing to shoot at” for the unprincipled gunner who was out only to
kill. It was reduced to a low population of possibly not more than 25
individuals by about 1925, and even today there are almost certainly
less than 100 living. They no longer nest in the United States, and
the wintering flocks sojourn chiefly in Texas. Each winter a few visit
the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge in southern Texas, 26 individ-
uals having been observed there during the winter of 1940-41. The
Florida sandhill crane, a grayish bird smaller than the whooping
crane, confined to only a few nesting localities in Florida and one in
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Georgia, is dwindling in numbers and can be saved only by diligent
protection.

Several shore birds are becoming scarce, even though provided
protection through the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The last specimen
record of an Eskimo curlew for the United States was in Nebraska
in April 1915, though a bird was collected in Argentina in January
1925. One was reported as a sight record from Hastings, Nebr., April
8, 1926. There are no reliable records since then, and the species is
probably gone. Of other shore birds, the Hudsonian godwit seems
to be nearest the vanishing point. It nests on the Barren Grounds
from Alaska to Hudson Bay, and migrates to South America where
it winters. It became greatly reduced during the game-marketing
days of the eighties and nineties and has never been able to recover.

The largest and most magnificient woodpecker of the United States,
the ivory-billed woodpecker, is now reduced to a few individuals.
Probably all these, and certainly most of them, are in a heavily forested
tract in Louisiana. Dense forests of large trees are essential for the
existence of the ivorybill. Unless its Louisiana home can be saved
from the lumberman’s ax, the ivorybill is doomed. And with the
urgent war call of “Timber! Timber!” the outlook for retaining this
species in our fauna is not hopeful.

Three of our small passerine birds have approached the danger line.
One of these, the dusky kinglet, a midget bird of Guadalupe Island,
Lower California, may now have followed other vanished birds on
that island. Bachman’s warbler of the southeastern United States,
always in recent times a rare bird, barely maintains its population,
and in general appears to be on the decline. The Ipswich sparrow, a
species related to the savanna sparrow, has a breeding range restricted
to small Sable Island, Nova Scotia, and in winter is found from there
south along the sand dunes of the Atlantic coast to Georgia. On
Sable Island it nests only near the beach. Wave action from severe
storms may at any time destroy its nesting habitat.

Both the American crocodile and the Mississippi alligator have de-
creased in numbers in their habitats in the swamps of the Southeastern
States. The crocodile never occurred within our United States bound-
aries proper except in extreme southern Florida. It differs from the
alligator in its longer and slenderer body, its much more pointed
snout, and longer teeth. Both the crocodile and the alligator have
been hunted for their hides for use in leather manufacture. Many of
them have also been wantonly killed out of sheer prejudice and hatred
for an ungainly reptilian with an unfriendly appearance. The catch-
ing of the young of both species and their sale as pets to be transplanted
to a more northern climate unsuited to them has killed hundreds.
The crocodile is almost a relic of the past in the United States. The
alligator, under proper protection, will probably stay with us.
CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON 263

Of our highly edible fishes, two species of sturgeons, the common
and the lake, have been so reduced in numbers, largely by commercial
fisheries, that they have not only become of little commercial impor-
tance but are in actual danger of extinction. The status of Lake
Superior whitefish, to many of us the grandest of all table fish, is
almost the same as that of the sturgeons. And on our eastern coast,
the thousands of Atlantic salmon that formerly, early in summer,
ascended many of the New England streams to spawn, now migrate
only by hundreds to one or two rivers, more notably the Penobscot.

SOME SPECIES THAT HAVE RECOVERED

Dark as the picture is for many of the wildlife forms mentioned,
there is a light of hope for saving some of them if appropriate action
is taken. Examples we have of wildlife species that have recovered
after being on the verge of extinction offer that illumination. The
American bison roamed the prairies and plains of the United States
and Canada in herds that in pioneer times certainly aggregated more
than 50,000,000 animals. By the close of the nineteenth century, the
population had probably reached its low at a total of about 800 animals.
The American Bison Society estimated 1,917 living animals in 1908.
Shortly afterward, through the efforts of that Society, the National
Bison Range was established under the administration of the Bio-
logical Survey on land formerly a part of the Flathead Indian Reser-
vation, Montana. It was stocked October 17, 1909, with 37 bison,
all but one from a private herd at Kalispell, Mont. This was really
the beginning of the up-building of the American bison population.
Today there are more than 6,000 bison in the United States, mostly
confined to ranches, parks, and refuges, and another possible 30,000
on refuges in Canada, a total of not less than 35,000. Nineteen bison
from the National Bison Range were introduced into the Big Delta
region, near Fairbanks, Alaska, and had in 1941 increased to more
than 200 animals. In this region they are given free range. Modern
civilization and agricultural practices in most localities in the United
States no longer make possible the free-ranging of vast migrating
hordes of big-game animals. We can, nevertheless, save a species
from extinction, as witness the bison.

That peculiarly American mammal, the prong-horned antelope,
through protection in refuges and by management and hunting con-
trol, has increased from a low of about 30,000 in 1920 to 240,000 in
1943. And the American elk, or wapiti, by transplantation of indi-
viduals of the Rocky Mountain subspecies, mainly from Yellowstone
National Park and the National Elk Refuge in northwestern Wyoming,
has been reestablished in many localities where it formerly dwelt. A
few bands of elk have even been established in localities outside their
ancestral distribution, including herds of Rocky Mountain elk in south-
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

western Utah and Nevada, and tule elk in eastern California. The
combined populations of all forms of elk have increased in the United
States from a low of near 20,000 in 1905 to more than 225,000 in 1943.

The action taken to conserve the Alaska fur seal is an outstanding
example of what can be done to save an animal from extinction and to
restore a valuable natural resource.

Briefly outlined, the history may begin with a fur seal population of
more than 4,000,000 animals in 1867, when the United States pur-
chased Alaska. Commercial exploitation, with its associated pelagic
sealing, or taking of seals at sea, and its almost unrestricted killing
of seals, rapidly reduced the population. By 1911 the population
had been reduced to 125,000 seals, less than the annual kill in some pre-
vious years. On December 15, 1911, a convention for the preserva-
tion and protection of fur seals was entered into by the United States,
England, Canada, Japan, and the Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-
lics. Pelagic sealing by the nationals of each country was abolished.
Management of fur seals on the breeding rookeries was left chiefly to
the nation having jurisdiction over the locality. The United States,
therefore, had charge of the great seal rookeries on the Pribilof
Islands, probably involving more than 85 percent of the breeding
stock. Provision was made for each of the nations to turn over to other
nations of the convention a percentage of the seal skins taken on its
shores. Under this protection, the seal herds increased to about
2,300,000 in 1941, and under managed cropping 800,000 fur seal pelts
were harvested in 20 years, from 1921 to 1940. The convention, how-
ever, was terminated on October 23, 1941, Japan having withdrawn
after 1 year’s notification of her intention.

There are several species of birds that have made recovery after
being near the border of death as a species. Possibly among the most
notable of these are the American egret and the snowy heron. Both
of these species were nearly wiped out by plume hunters who sought
the adult birds during the breeding season in order to procure feathers
for millinery purposes. The American egret, transcontinental over the
southern United States, has now become a common bird, and it would
seem may have extended its breeding range northward beyond its
ancestral range. The snowy heron, although not showing the rebound
of its sister heron, is nevertheless no longer in serious danger. That
most beautiful of all American ducks, the wood duck, has also in-
creased from a low population to one sufficient to insure, with ample
protection, the continuance of the species.

METHODS OF PRESERVING SPECIES

The most important factor in preserving wildlife species is self-
control by man so he will no longer be the most destructive animal.
265

CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON

"803818 P2710 94} Ul Fle Uvay10ury 9y} Jo esuvi JUsseid puv asuvI JOWIOG—F TnL

JONVY LNIS3Yd Iw
SONVY Y3aWYuOs [_]!
LLIdVM YO 473 NVOINANV!

676212—46——_18
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Such control is making progress, though often against the inclina-
tions of the man who sees in wildlife only an easy means for imme-
diate self-gain without regard to his own future or that of the fol-
lowing generations. General methods of conservation are now well
formulated. Possibilities for improvement naturally will present
themselves. The essential thing is to act when we know what should
be done. Federal, State, and County governments and national and
local organizations all have a hand in this work. When a widely dis-
tributed species is endangered, however, it becomes a national prob-
lem, and as such should be entrusted to our national wildlife agency,
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.

Adequate organization is needed to administer funds and work
projects, to supervise activities, to enforce legal protective acts, and
to manage wildlife and wildlife areas.

Legal protection, both Federal and State, is a necessity. The
many State fish, game, and other wildlife laws are not familiar
in detail to most of my readers, but we all know there are many such
serving a useful purpose. Among national laws there is the famous
Lacey Act (act of May 25, 1900, 31 Stat. 187—18 U.S. C. 895) regu-
lating interstate commerce in wild birds and other animals. A similar
law passed in 1926 applies to interstate transportation of black bass.
The bald eagle, our national bird symbol, has been given legal pro-
tection (act of June 8, 1940, 54 Stat. 250). Other Federal laws have
provided for national wildlife refuges or the protection of wild ani-
mals and birds and their eggs, and Government property on Federal
refuges.

The range of many species of wildlife, particularly during migra-
tions, may cover territory of more than one nation, or species may
inhabit international waters. When such is the case and protection
is necessary, resort is made to treaties among the nations involved.
A convention covering the essential reasons for acting and the ob-
jective and means of accomplishment is entered into by the nations.
An enabling act is then necessary for enforcement of the convention
by each nation. Thus Migratory Bird Treaty Act (act of July 3, 1918,
40 Stat. 755, as amended by act of June 20, 1936, 49 Stat. 1555—16
U.S. C. 703-711) and the Migratory Bird Conservation Act (act of
February 18, 1929, 45 Stat. 1222, as amended June 15, 1935, 49 Stat.
381—16 U. S. C. 715) are enabling acts to enforce the “Convention
between the United States and Great Britain for the Protection of
Migratory Birds in the United States and Canada,” as signed in
Washington on August 16, 1916, ratified by both the United States
and Great Britain the same year, and proclaimed on December 8,
1916. A “Convention between the United States of America and the
United Mexican States for the Protection of Migratory Birds and
CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON 267

Game Animals” was signed at Mexico City, February 7, 1936, rati-
fied by the United States on October 8, 1936, and by Mexico on Febru-
ary 12, 1937, and proclaimed on March 15, 1937 (50 Stat. 1311).

Among other important treaties relating to wildlife is the Whale
Treaty. The “Convention for the Regulation of Whaling” was signed
by representatives of 26 countries, including the United States, at
Geneva on March 16, 1932, and was approved for ratification by the
United States Senate on June 10, 1982. The enabling act put the
treaty into effect on May 1, 1936. An enabling act may give authority
for action, but may neglect appropriations for operations. Such is the
case with the Whaling Treaty Act. The important Fur Seal Treaty
has heretofore been mentioned.

On October 12, 1940, in the Pan American Building at Washing-
ton, D. C., representatives of 13 American republics signed the “Inter-
American Convention on Nature Protection and Wildlife Preserva-
tion.” Since then others have approved, and now 17 have signed
the pact. When this treaty is completed and in operation, it should
aid materially in the protection of many forms of wildlife, more es-
pecially birds, such as some of the curlews and plovers, that might
migrate between the two continents.

Permanent refuges, sanctuaries, parks, primitive or wilderness
areas, or Whatever you may call them, carefully selected and main-
tained as the optimum habitat for the species, are essential for the
preservation of endangered wildlife. By refined definition the terms
“refuge,” “sanctuary,” “park,” and “primitive area” have distinct and
different meanings. Sometimes a refuge is called a preserve, reserva-
tion, or range. Often, however, in actual usage in proper names, any
one name may apply to an area established for the preservation of
nature, including wildlife, or primarily for saving a species. The old
adage “What’s in a name?” here applies. All of them serving for
wildlife preservation, we find such names as the Wichita Mountains
Wildlife Refuge in Oklahoma; the Desert Game Range in Nevada;
the Thelon Game Sanctuary in Canada; the Yellowstone National
Park in Wyoming; the Kruger National Park in the Union of South
Africa; the Pare National Albert in the Belgian Congo; and the
Sierra Primitive Area in California.

Frequently, in order to insure suitable environment, a refuge is
established in an area including the remnant of a species, and from
that remnant as breeding stock effort is made to increase the popula-
tion. Several refuges in the United States have been established in
this way, such as the Sheldon National Antelope Refuge and the
Charles Sheldon Antelope Range, Nevada, for prong-horned ante-
lopes; the Red Rock Lakes National Wildlife Refuge, Montana, for
trumpeter swans; the National Elk Refuge in Wyoming, and the
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

National Great White Heron Refuge in Florida. Often transplanta-
tion of stock to a suitable area is necessary. ‘This was the case in the
establishment of bison on the National Bison Range, Montana; musk
oxen on the Nunivak Island National Wildlife Refuge, Alaska; bison,
elk, and prong-horned antelopes on the Wichita Mountains National
Wildlife Refuge, Oklahoma; and eastern wild turkeys on Bull’s Island,
South Carolina.

Improvement of habitat, always based on research as to the needed
environment, may change living conditions of a small population of
a species so as to be the determining factor in its preservation. Arti-
ficial means thus applied for wildlife restoration should tend to restore
the natural environment of the species or create adaptable substitutes.
The means are many and include various types of water restoration ;
change in vegetative types used by wildlife for food and cover; crea-
tion of nesting sites; and control of predators and parasites, often
necessary when a wildlife type is nearing the vanishing point.

Domestication and crossbreeding have been suggested as having a
place in saving an endangered wildlife species, but these methods
should be employed only as a last resort. Species so treated for many
generations, such as the dog, the cat, the horse, the water buffalo, the
ox, the sheep, the chicken, the turkey, and others, have all lost the
characteristics of the wild ancestral stock and developed into many
varieties. Fur farming may save the silver fox, a color variation of
the red fox, but in so doing it may so change its characteristics through
rearing that the native type would vanish. In order to save the Euro-
pean bison, or wisent, it has been crossbred with an old-lineage strain
of domestic cattle in Germany and with the American bison in the
Ukraine, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

REFERENCES AND COLLATERAL READING

ALLEN, GLOVER M.

1942. Extinct and vanishing mammals of the Western Hemisphere, with
the marine species of all oceans. Spec. Publ. American Committee
for International Wild Life Protection, No. 11, 620 pp., illus,

ANONYMOUS.

1940. The status of wildlife in the United States. Rep. Special Committee
on Conservation of Wildlife Resources, 76th Cong., 3d sess., 457 pp.,
74 pis.

1942. Text of federal laws relating to the protection of wildlife. Fish and
Wildlife Service, Circ. 12, 30 pp.

ARCHEY, GILBERT.

1941. The moa: a study of the Dinornithiformes. Bull. Auckland Inst. and

Mus., No. 1, 145 pp., illus. May 29.
BARBOUR, THOMAS, AND PoRTER, MArGaret D.

1935. Notes on South African wildlife conservation parks and reserves.
Spec. Publ. American Committee for International Wild Life Pro-
tection, No. 7, 34 pp., 3 pls.
CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON 269

Bearp, DANieL B., LINCOLN, FREDERICK C., CAHALANE, VICToR H., JACKSON,
Hartiey H. T., and THOMPSON, BEN H.

1942. Fading trails: the story of endangered American wildlife. xv+-279

pp., 20 pls. Macmillan Co., New York. September 1.
BrouwEg, G.

1938. The organization of nature protection in the various countries. Spec.
Publ. American Committee for International Wild Life Protection,
No. 9, 112 pp.

DE ScCHAUENSEE, RODOLPHE MEYER.

1941. Rare and extinct birds in the collections of the Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol.
93, pp. 281-324.

ELLIOTT, CHARLES N.

1940. Conservation of American resources. xi-+672 pp., illus. Turner E.
Smith Co., Atlanta.

Ey, ALFRED, ANTHONY, H. E., and CARPENTER, R. R. M.

1939. North American big game. 533 pp., illus. Charles Scribner’s Sons,
New York.

GABRIELSON, I. N.

1938. What can we do about our rare and vanishing species? Sci. Amer.,
January, pp. 4-8.

1941. Rare and vanishing species. Wildlife Conservation, chap. 13, pp.
184-193. Macmillan Co., New York.

GARRETSON, MARTIN S.
1938. The American bison. 254 pp., illus. New York Zoological Society.
HARPER, FRANCIS.

1945. Extinct and vanishing mammals of the Old World. Spec. Publ. Ameri-
can Committee for International Wild Life Protection, No. 12, 850
pp., illus.

HONE, ELISABETH.

1933. African game protection: an outline of the existing game reserves and
national parks, with notes on certain species of big game nearing
extinction, or needing additional protection. Spec. Publ. American
Committee for International Wild Life Protection, No. 3, 45 pp.

1934. The present status of the muskox. Spec. Publ. American Committee
for International Wild Life Protection, No. 5, 87 pp., 4 pls., 2 maps.

HornNaDAay, WILLIAM T.
1913. Our vanishing wild life. 411 pp., illus. Charles Scribner’s Sons, New
York.
Hoy, P. R.
1882. The larger wild animals that have become extinct in Wisconsin.
Trans. Wisconsin Acad. Sci., Arts and Lett., vol. 5, pp. 255-257.
HUusBBAcCK, THEODORE.
1937. Principles of wild life conservation. 24 pp. Game and Gun, London.
JACKSON, Hartiry H. T.

1944, Big-game resources of the United States, 1937-1942. U. S. Dep. Inte-

rior, Fish and Wildlife Serv., Res. Rep. 8, 56 pp., illus.
KELLOGG, REMINGTON.

1940. Whales, giants of the sea. Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 77, No. 1, pp. 35-90,

illus. January.

676212—46——-18
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Kies, C. H. M. H., Heynsius-ViIRuLY, MRs., and VAN HEuRN, F. C.

1936. Nature protection in the Netherlands Indies (a translation from sup-
plement to Contrib. No. 10, Nederl. Comm. Internat. Natuurb.).
Spec. Publ. American Committee for International Wild Life Pro-
tection, No. 8, 73 pp.

LEHMANN, VALGENE W.

1941. Attwater’s prairie chicken: its life history and management. North

American Fauna No. 57, v-+-65 pp., 15 pls. U.S. Dep. Interior.
Lucas. FREDERIC A.

1891. Animals recently extinct or threatened with extermination, as repre-
sented in the collections of the U. S. National Museum. Rep. U. S.
Nat. Mus. for 1889, pp. 609-649, illus.

McATEE, WALDO LEE.

1911. Our vanishing shorebirds. U.S. Biol. Surv. Cire. 79.
MERSHON, W. B.

1907. The passenger pigeon. Outing Publ. Co., New York.
Moorg, R. T., and Barr, ARTHUR.

1941. Habits of the whitetailed kite. Auk, vol. 53, pp. 4538-462.
MUNROE, GEORGE C.

1945. Endangered bird species of Hawaii. Journ. Honolulu Auduben Soc.,
vol. 5, No. 12, pp. 75-79 (to be continued). June. (Mimeographed.)

O’MALLEY, HENRY.

1930. Fur-seal industry of Pribilof Islands, Alaska. U. S. Dep. Commerce,

Bur. Fisheries, Economic Cire. No. 71, 15 pp., illus.
OspBoRN, HENRY FAIRFIELD, and ANTHONY, H. E.

1922. Close of the age of mammals. Journ. Mamm., vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 219-237.

November.
Poueu, RrcHaRp H.

1937. An inventory of threatened and vanishing species. Trans. Second

North American Wildlife Conference, pp. 599-604.
SCHEFFER, VICTOR B.

1940. A newly located herd of Pacific white-tailed deer. Journ. Mamm.,

vol. 21, No. 3, pp. 271-282. August.
SEToN, Ernest THOMPSON,

1929. Lives of game animals. 4 vols., illus. Doubleday, Doran and Co.,

New York.
SHOEMAKER, HENRY W.

1917. Extinct Pennsylvania animals. Pt. 1, The panther and the wolf.

134 pp., illus. Altoona Tribune Publ. Co., Altoona, Pa.
SURBER, THADDEUS.

1940. The vanished and the vanishing wild life through the years. Con-
servation Volunteer, vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 26-29. Minnesota Dep. Con-
servation, St. Paul. November.

Warp, JOHN HB.

1940. The passing of the lyre-bird. New York Zool. Soc. Bull., vol. 63,

No. 5, pp. 146-152, illus. October.

The above titles represent only a few of many writings on endangered species
and their conservation. Others are to be found in the publications of scientific
and conservation organizations, such as the following:

American Bison Society, New York Zoological Park, New York, N. Y.
American Committee on International Wildlife Protection, New York Zoological
Park, New York, N. Y.
CONSERVING WILDLIFE—JACKSON ZE1

American Ornithologists’ Union, Dr. Lawrence E. Hicks, Secretary, Ohio State
University, Columbus, Ohio.

American Society of Mammalogists, Dr. Emmet T. Hooper, Secretary, University
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

American Wildlife Institute, Washington, D. C.

Comité Belge pour la Protection de la Nature, Brussels, Belgium.

Emergency Conservation Committee, 734 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Fish and Wildlife Service, U. S. Department of the Interior, Chicago, Il.

National Audubon Society, 1006 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y.

National Park Service, U. S. Department of the Interior, Chicago, I].

Office International pour la Protection de la Nature, Brussels, Belgium.

Society for the Preservation of the Fauna of the Empire, Hertford, England.
i650, Maines psc deo vor br then : “eis RIO eS ” aa tea
UUleworin HARI edooEl AP: sain Ms a

per Pies. “Aine tabi Coden kerb shay opeerery iat Sani +"

| teotien, Na. By Te Ye0  santyatilanW ote iiteat

TRS WAM et astehgtos —— iia MSD tals cotony At i

‘ 7-a8.

banigstt ror palsies aoe: mbar “8 Dt |
MoArr. Wario Lent wa
19ik. Our vahobing ehbrehite £5 itol Boren 7G, vise deal
Wvaenor, P, B
(XT. The pavenger claves. pti Publ Sim, Mew ‘ark.
Moun, 34, sed Basen, Agriye ss
MP Bator oF th Whit alia Bale Auk, 7H G., pn ade
Mouser, Urn #1
v0 Bolengerud sieht ese of Prewel’. Jeuro. digmpieia Aubidile Cie
; Cok Na. YE we. TD co ceetinied). Dhak Chieenerapbed 1
iPMaccas. Tiens'
40 Tor sebst tudnbers of Pritilet Vilinds, Sisetip. UR Hep Corkerneraly
tun. Sivhortes, Bemcaale Cec! Reo TT 6 pe. Hee
(mpc, Flere Paris, ot Answers, Ww, &
YO, hoe ad the wep cf pasta. “Reure Merwe. dh QM iD. Bin Bi.

Re ares heal.

‘

Pores, Retisen Hh. :
La jvectors of Chrteseut end wuaulsting specie Trees Sega
Nosh Americsn Willis Conderenon, po tieRe
Sarcasm, Viens Bb, ¥ AP ay
/ GAN A aereiy located tend of Pale whtte‘e\iee Geom tone Sig,
ett, Nn 2, op WE-NS-, . ASE.
un, Tue: Taare.

Om. Liven et gna dnioals. > wile, Gam. Tvahledagh, Doria aad On,
to ge 2 lie Pee ; » PS
PO oe re %,
Ta. Raainet Peainaptonnd scudenaley Ay ome phate a. ou

184 Pix Rives Altogaa oxi Pyuth (es, aati 339 a
she a: A}

=

ii el

1>7L. Tha vertevert aud the neareps wild ite drow: ‘the:
JRO’ OD!E derty Valws yer en, i a ED. ae Honora

eervatinn 4. Pes “Sea i -
Witte, Joun ; :
tii ‘Tae passe of cin rehired . Mew Yack, Book,
Mant tna, ite OMepies, © 7
bli iets ve, (ham repsoenal oath a Hew ot sees wer titaael vi
nial. § Lt) Sommvatdan, Cerys arate De tomel ty the’
ee) wires a) otgnnlhations, mgh an the Sonia’ /.

has: 2 fitout Wactary, tow Yeek Rookopical Dirk, B
Atertieey Conusitiee on bitggsationnt Wudlite Pra
> Bree. Yew Tork, K. FT
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Jackson PLATE 1

* 1. AQUARELLE OF THE DODO.

(Attributed to Charles Collins, ea. A. D. 1736. Original drawing from the Taylor White Collection in
the Blacker Library of Zoology, McGill University, Montreal, Canada. Reproduced from color plate
in An Introduction to the Literature of Vertebrate Zoology, by Casey A. Wood, Oxford University Press,
1931.)

4 RE
—

a "

ee

te

ae

aw )

2. PRZEWALSKY’S HORSE, OR A NEAR RELATIVE, IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL
PARK.

(Photograph by Ernest P. Walker.)
Smithsonian Report, 1945.— Jackson PLATE 2

1. PERE DAVID’S DEER.

(Copy of color plate (1V) by J. Huet accompanying the original description by Alphonse Milne Edwards
in Archives du Museum d’Histoire Naturelle de Paris, 1866.)

2. GRIZZLY BEAR IN THE WILDS IN NORTHWESTERN WYOMING.

(Photograph by Frederick K. Vreeland.)
c = CA CN ‘YIOX MON ‘AUBdULOD
“LE61 LSNONY SuIysqng SuyynO “WoysIPY "A “AM AG ‘WoosIg JosUsseg oy, W017)

“SSVW ‘GYUVASANIA S.WHLYVW ‘NSH HLVAH LSV71 AHL “2 “SNOSJ9DId YAONASSVd ‘1

uosxpef—"¢p6| ‘qoday ueruosy IHS

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Jackson PLATE 4

144

= +. :

1. A PAIR OF EUROPEAN BISON, OR WISENT. LANGSJO, SWEDEN, ABOUT 1924

(Photograph from Swedish Traffic Bureau.)

2. WHITE-TAILED GNU IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
(Photograph by Ernest P. Walker.)
Smithsonian Report, 1945.— Jackson PLATE 5

eg eee al
ae. ee ON

1. FEMALE VICUNA, SUCRE. BOLIVIA, JULY 1943.

(Photograph by Raymond M. Gilmore.)

2. BLACK-FOOTED FERRET ON CROW INDIAN RESERVATION, MONT., NOVEMBER
1927.

(Photograph by E. Cates.)
Smithsonian Report, 1945,—Jackson PLATE 6

1. A YEARLING PACIFIC MONK SEAL, OCEAN ISLAND, HAWAII, APRIL 1923.

(Photograph by Alexander Wetmore.)

2. PACIFIC WALRUS, ALASKA
(leg [RUOIVN 9} TI0SsO A ‘OIpNis Oysog mol Ydeis0j0qq)

“SUA /S) “AINWD CONIYdS MOTTIIM 3NO7
‘HYVd WNOILVN ALINASOA “H19 SJINL VINYOSAIIVD 2 ‘XOd LIM AHL AO SAILW1I3SYN 3SO1D v ‘*xO4 1YHeSag ‘1

3LV1d uosypef—*¢p6| ‘j4odeyy ueruosy WG
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Jackson PLATE 8

1. DESERT BIGHORN, OR NELSON'S MOUNTAIN SHEEP.

A middle-aged ram at Boulder Canyon Wildlife Refuge, Nev.

2. MUSK OX.

Middle-aged bull in pasture at the former Biological Survey Experimental Range, College, Alaska, prior
to shipment of the herd to Nunivak Island, June 19, 1935.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Jackson PEATE 9

TRUMPETER SWAN, RED ROCK LAKES NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, MONT
Smithsonian Report, 1945.— Jackson PLATE 10

1. CALIFORNIA CONDOR IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

(Photograph from National Zoological Park.)

2. WHOOPING CRANES, ARANSAS NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, TEX.
Smithsonian Report, 1945,—Jackson PLATE 11

1. AMERICAN CROCODILE IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.
(Courtesy of Ernest P Walker.)

2. AMERICAN BISON BULL ON RIVER BAR ON BISON RANGE ABOVE JARVIS
CREEK, ALASKA, AUGUST 1939.

Bison were introduced into this part of Alaska and are doing well.
“QEBL ‘VIDYHOAD ‘135YH9F NVOIMANY ‘1

“"VHSVIV ‘GYVMSAS YVEN ‘319v9g A1VG VHSV1V <

ey

cl 3LV1d uosyoe{—"Cp6| ‘qyuoday URTUOSY IIIS
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Jackson PLATE 13

1. ALASKA FUR SEAL ROOKERY, PRIBILOF ISLANDS, ALASKA.

2. PRONG-HORNED ANTELOPE AT WATER ON THE CHARLES SHELDON ANTELOPE
REFUGE, NEV.
*

ih “0 Bile . a

y an
LIVING WITH THE BOLL WEEVIL FOR FIFTY YEARS

By U. C. Lorrin ?

Division of Cotton Insects
Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine
Agricultural Research Administration
U. S. Department of Agriculture

[With 10 plates]

“Anthonomus grandis, the evil spirit that dwelleth amongst us” was
the text used by Dr. W. D. Hunter in describing to a Texas colored
congregation the recently established boll weevil that was destroying
the cotton crop on which they depended for daily bread. This red-
dish-brown snout beetle (pl. 1, fig. 1), measuring about one-fourth
inch in length and one-third as wide, is a native of Mexico or Central
America that existed in obscurity on the wild and small plantings
of cotton until it immigrated to the United States a little more than
50 years ago. Since the boll weevil reached the abundant food supply
provided by the almost continuous fields of cotton in the South, it
has become the No. 1 cotton pest and has affected the economic and
social welfare of more Americans than any other insect.

The boll weevil was first described in 1843 by the Swedish ento-
mologist Boheman from specimens received from Vera Cruz, Mexico,
and was next mentioned in the literature in 1870 by the German ento-
mologist Suffrian as occurring in Cuba. Nothing was known of its
food plants or habits until 1880, when the United States Commissioner
of Agriculture received a communication from Dr. Edward Palmer
describing the serious damage to cotton and specimens of weevils
collected near Monclova, Coahuila, Mexico.

The first report of its occurrence in the United States came to the
attention of the United States Department of Agriculture in the fall
of 1894 from Brownsville, Tex., where the weevil had crossed the
border before our frontiers were as well protected by quarantines as
they are today. Investigations that fall by Dr. C. H. T. Townsend
of the then Division of Entomology showed that the boll weevil was

established in several southern Texas counties and had probably been
——_———
*Mr. Loftin died January 16, 1946.

273
974 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

present since 1892. He reported briefly on the life history and habits
of the boll weevil, recommended the destruction of cotton stalks to
kill the overwintering weevils, and the establishment of a noncotton
zone to prevent further spread. At that time the value and practi-
cability of pest eradication was not recognized by the public, and
no steps were taken to deport this undesirable alien.

By 1895 the boll weevil had spread northward to San Antonio and
eastward to Wharton, Tex., and was causing such serious damage
that Dr. C. W. Dabney, the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, upon
recommendation of Dr. L. O. Howard, Chief of the Division of Ento-
mology, appeared before the Texas Legislature urging the enactment
of a pest law and the creation of a noncotton zone to prevent further
spread into the Cotton Belt, but unfortunately this legislation failed
to pass. The spread continued, particularly to the north and east
(fig. 1), the weevil reaching Louisiana in 1903 and crossing into
Mississippi in 1907. When the Mississippi River failed to halt the
advance of the boll weevil, it was realized that all the eastern part
of the Cotton Belt would soon become infested. In 1916 the boll
weevil reached the Atlantic seaboard in Georgia and by 1922 (31 years
after crossing the Rio Grande from Mexico) had become established
nearly to the northern limits of cotton production and in more than
600,000 square miles of the Cotton Belt. Its advance was largely by
flight and local movement of unginned cotton and cotton seed to and
from the public gins, and there are but few authentic records of iso-
lated establishment ahead of the general line of spread. In the late
summer boll weevils for unknown reasons take to the air and disperse
in all directions. This migration by repeated short flights enabled
the boll weevil to move forward from 60 to 160 miles per season.
Although several States and the Federal Government had quaran-
tines and regulations to prevent spread through the movement of
infested cotton products, it is remarkable that the boll weevil moved
across the Cotton Belt mainly under its own power. That spread
with infested cotton or seed can occur is shown by the accidental
establishment of the boll weevil in Haiti in 1982.

Careful surveys made each fall by Federal and State entomologists
to determine the new areas infested furnish a complete record of the
progress across the Cotton South (fig. 1). The more rapid and exten-
sive spread toward the east and north than to the west is due to the
hot, dry climate from the western third of Texas and Oklahoma west-
ward and the cold winters of the extreme northern edge of the Cotton
Belt.

PANIC FOLLOWED THE BOLL WEEVIL

As the boll weevil moved in its relentless march across the Cotton
Belt, the damage it caused threatened to ruin the cotton industry. To

275

THE BOLL WEEVIL—LOFTIN

appreciate the chaos caused by the weevil, it must be remembered that

southern agriculture and industry depended almost entirely on the

‘sa7B1g poeJlUuQ 94} Jo veiw Sufonpoid

>

103109 puB ‘[[AOOA [[Oq 94} JO pvordg—T aan,

681
Y7 2061-2681

one crop—cotton—and that losses of from one-third to one-half of

the yield occurred for the first few years in each newly invaded area.
276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Farmers, merchants, and bankers were bankrupted; farms and homes
in whole communities were deserted; labor and tenants were demoral-
ized and moved to other sections; and a general feeling of panic and
fear followed the boll weevil as it moved into locality after locality.
It became the theme of numerous verses and folk songs, and the
“Ballad of the Boll Weevil” as sung by the Texas Negroes in the nine-
ties was the basis of the early “blue” songs. The boll weevil became
known, by name and reputation at least, to every man on the street
and affected every home—something tangible that was responsible for
crop failures as well as their other troubles.

THE FIGHT AGAINST THE BOLL WEEVIL

Research to reduce the losses from the boll weevil was started by
the then Division of Entomology in 1894 shortly after the first infesta-
tion was reported in Texas and has continued to the present time, with
only a short interruption from 1898 to 1900, when the State of Texas
made a special boll weevil appropriation and all work on this pest was
handled by the State entomologist. As other States became threatened
with invasion, Congress made a special boll-weevil appropriation to
enable the Bureau of Entomology in 1901 to discover, if possible,
means of preventing spread into adjacent States. Dr. W. D. Hunter
was placed in charge of the work, a post he filled with distinction until
his death in 1925. Many entomologists later became associated with
the Federal and State investigations of the boll weevil, and their con-
tributions to various phases of the work are too numerous to mention
individually. The work was enlarged in 1902 and a laboratory estab-
lished at Victoria, Tex. In 1904 the appropriation of $250,000 made
to enable the Secretary of Agriculture to fight the ravages of the boll
weevil was the largest amount ever appropriated for any insect up to
that time. The Bureau of Entomology had already found that changes
in cultural practices of cotton reduce weevil losses, and part of the
money was made available to the Bureau of Plant Industry to demon-
strate to cotton growers how to produce cotton under boll-weevil con-
ditions. These large-scale demonstrations were so valuable to the
cooperating growers that the Farmers’ Cooperative Demonstration
Work has developed into what is now the Federal and State extension
services,

As the boll weevil spread into new territory, the laboratory was
moved from Victoria to Dallas, Tex., in 1905 and another laboratory
established at Tallulah, La.,in 1909. Since that time field laboratories
have been established at various strategic places in the Cotton Belt
to study local features of the boll-weevil problems. New problems are
still constantly arising.
THE BOLL WEEVIL—LOFTIN 277

Early investigations showed that the crude insecticides and methods
of application then available would not control the boll weevil and
that earliness of maturity offered the best hope of evading damage by
producing a crop of cotton before the weevils became abundant late
in the season. Special attention was devoted to improving cultural
practices and varieties of cotton. Changes along these lines were based
on sound agronomic principles and are now generally used by grow-
ers, often without the conscious realization of their value in weevil
control. After 20 years of continuous effort, an effective insecticidal
control was developed and by the combined use of these direct and
indirect methods of control every grower can prevent excessive weevil
losses. Numerous mechanical devices, concoctions, and secret reme-
dies have been proposed by people from all walks of life, many of
whom had never seen a boll weevil, and growers spent millions of
dollars on these worthless methods. The State of Texas offered a
$50,000 prize for an efficient remedy for the boll weevil and a great
deal of time was spent by research workers testing the numerous com-
pounds offered without finding any of real value. The numerous
“boll-weevil conventions” held throughout the south are another
unique chapter in boll-weevil history.

The boll weevil during the past 50 years has affected the agriculture
and economics of the South in so many ways that only a few phases
can be discussed. Among other things, the boll weevil helped in the
diversification of crops and production of livestock. So despite the
hardships caused by the boll weevil and the toll still taken from the
cotton growers, some benefits have occurred, and in recognition of
this fact the citizens of Coffee County, Ala., erected a monument on
the town square of Enterprise, “In profound appreciation of the boll
weevil and what it has done as the herald of prosperity” (pl. 1, fig. 2).

The literature on the boll weevil has become voluminous. Some of
the early publications of the United States Department of Agriculture
were in Spanish, German and French for the different nationalities
of American cotton growers. The many bulletins, circulars, and
posters of the Department of Agriculture, State experiment stations,
and extension services of the infested States and the innumerable
articles and cartoons in newspapers have made the boll weevil one of
the most publicized insects. The contributions to the development and
use of control methods for the boll weevil by many State and Federal
entomologists, agronomists, cotton breeders, extension workers, and
others provide an excellent example of the value of cooperative and
continued research on a complex problem.

LIFE HISTORY OF THE WEEVIL AND NATURE OF ITS DAMAGE

The cotton square or unopened floral bud is the principal food of
both adults and larvae of the boll weevil, though bolls are also severely
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

damaged and the adults occasionally feed on the tender foliage. The
sharp mandibles on the tip of the snout are used to puncture or drill
through the unfolded corolla of the squares and the carpel walls of the
bolls for feeding and egg laying (pl. 2, figs. 1 and 2). The feeding
punctures are usually larger and deeper than those for oviposition, but
both produce sufficient injury to make the bracts “flare” or open up,
the square to turn yellow, and usually shed or fall from the plant,
resulting in the loss of a potential boll of cotton. Weevils prefer small
bolls with tender carpel walls, though bolls of upland cotton are not
safe from weevils until 20 to 30 days old and those of sea island cotton
are attacked until they mature and open. The pearly-white eggs are
placed deeply within the cavities in squares or bolls and are difficult
to find, but the egg punctures are sealed over with a gummy secretion
that enables a careful observer to distinguish them from feeding punc-
tures. The eggs hatch in 3 or 4 days into white, wrinkled grubs about
¥%; inch in length. After feeding from 7 to 12 days, depending on the
temperature, the larvae pupate within the square or boll in which they
develop. The pupal stage lasts for 3 to 5 days, the adults cut their way
out, and are ready to lay eggs after feeding for 3 or 4 days. Thus
with an average life cycle of 20 to 30 days, a laying capacity of 100 to
300 eggs per female, and 3 to 7 generations per season, an enormous
population of weevils develops by fall. Small bolls are shed in the
same way as the squares, but large bolls remain on the plants. The
lock or carpel of the boll in which a larva feeds fails to develop prop-
erly, the lint is cut, stained brown, and is partially or completely
ruined. When several larvae develop within a boll, as often occurs
when food is scarce, the entire boll may be ruined (pl. 3, fig. 1). The
winter is passed in the adult stage, largely under weeds or woods trash
within or near the cotton fields, in haystacks, spanish moss, or any
place that affords protection from the cold (pl. 3, fig. 2). However,
some adults overwinter within the pupal cells in old bolls, especially
in the drier areas of the Southwest. Weevils require a longer period
to develop in bolls than in squares, but the adults are more robust and
better adapted to survive the winter than those developing in squares.

The fact that cotton is the principal host plant of the boll weevil
simplifies control. Adults will feed occasionally on okra and other
plants of the same family as cotton (Malvacea), but the only records
of breeding in plants other than cotton are from althea (Hibiscus
syriacus) and the so-called Arizona wild cotton (Gossypium thur-
bert). A few weevils have been reared from the seed pods of
althea growing in weevil-infested cotton fields, but Thurberia is
readily infested. Althea is an ornamental shrub extensively grown
in the south and a potential host if boll-weevil eradication should
be undertaken by noncotton zones (Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 27, No.
THE BOLL WEEVIL—LOFTIN 279

4, August 1934). Thurberia occurs in the United States only in
the mountains of southern Arizona and New Mexico, where it is
too hot and dry for the boll weevil to become established. However,
a variety of the boll weevil more resistant to arid conditions, known
as the Thurberia weevil (Anthonomus grandis thurberiae Pierce), is
well established in Thurberia in central Mexico and Arizona and
in cotton on the west coast of Mexico. The Thurberia weevil prob-
ably reached the United States long before the boll weevil, but no
cotton was grown in the area and it was of no importance at the
time. Cotton production extended westward to escape boll-weevil
damage, and the Thurberia weevil transferred to cotton when planted
near its habitat. The first Thurberia weevils were found in fields
near Tucson, Ariz., in 1920. It differs from the boll weevil in hav-
ing only one generation a year on Thurberia and in the adults’ pass-
ing the winter only within the dry seed pods of Thurberia or bolls
of cotton. Although the Thurberia weevil readily attacks cotton
and develops two or more generations a year, it does not become
abundant enough to cause serious damage to cotton grown under
irrigation. The habit of the adults’ remaining within the pupal
cells until emergence is stimulated by moisture has become so thor-
oughly fixed that it was not changed by experimentally maintaining
Thurberia weevil on cotton for 10 years, and at the end of the ex-
periment an irrigation of the field for planting cotton caused all
the adults to emerge and perish before squares became available for
food. Carefully controlled biological tests have shown that the
Thurberia weevil will interbreed with the boll weevil, and it is
feared that if it should become established where the boll weevil
occurs, a more vigorous hybrid strain of cotton-feeding weevil might
result. The natural climatic barriers have prevented the boll weevil
from moving westward and a quarantine requiring treatment of cot-
ton moved from the Thurberia weevil area has maintained the gap
between the two insects.

CULTURAL MBTHODS

Changes in cultural methods that hasten early maturity of the
crop were developed and adapted rapidly after establishment of
the boll weevil in south Texas. One of the recommendations of the
first entomologist to investigate the boll weevil—the early destruc-
tion of the cotton stalks—has been proved by later research to be
biologically sound. Early fall destruction of the stalks removes the
food from weevils, stops the late season breeding and build-up in
numbers, and causes the adults already present to enter hibernation
in a semistarved condition that increases the winter mortality. That
the earlier the stalks are cut the more effective this method of control
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

has been proved by placing weevils in hibernation cages at different
dates to simulate depriving them of food under field conditions. In
a long series of experiments at Tallulah, La., no survival occurred
when weevils were installed in cages during the first week in Sep-
tember, while the highest survival (2.55 to 2.92 percent) was from
installations during the last half of October and first half of Novem-
ber, the period when the frost normally kills cotton and weevils
enter hibernation under natural conditions (U. S. Dep. Agr. Techn.
Bull. 486).

Numerous agronomic practices, such as thorough preparation of the
seed bed, the use of commercial fertilizers, early pianting, frequent and
thorough cultivation, that stimulate rapid growth and maturity are of
great value in evading damage. Perhaps no recommendation aroused
more controversy than early planting, because many people believed
that late planting would permit the overwintered weevils to emerge
from hibernation and die before squares became available for food.
Numerous experiments and actual farm experience have definitely
proved the fallacy of this reasoning, and planting as early as the
danger of frost has passed is now almost universally practiced. An
outstanding contribution by agronomists was the discovery that delay-
ing thinning until the plants were several inches tall and leaving the
plants thick in the drill suppressed the formation of vegetative
branches and stimulated early fruiting. These modifications in cul-
tural practices and changes to new varieties have changed the early
fields of from 5,000 to 6,000 large, heavily branched cotton plants per
acre that fruited until late in the season to 10,000 to 15,000 smaller
and more upright plants that produce fewer bolls per plant but more
bolls per acre in a much shorter time. Many of these improvements
in cultural methods and increase in yield would have occurred in the
normal course of events, but the aid given cotton growers in fighting
the boll weevil has done much to overcome the traditional slowness of
the South in adopting changes.

EFFECT OF BOLL WEEVILS ON COTTON VARIETIES

The types and varieties of cotton grown in the boll-weevil infested
areas have undergone material changes which have aided more in
reducing weevil damage than is generally realized. The first changes
in varieties to meet weevil conditions increased the production of short-
staple, inferior cotton which became difficult to market. This surplus
of low-grade cotton still plagues the industry, and the lack of markets
has stimulated the development of improved varieties with better
staple. Cotton is a perennial but has grown under cultivation for
centuries as an annual. The plant has the peculiar habit of producing
squares and bolls in successive zones, as the fruiting branches form on
THE BOLL WEEVIL—LOFTIN 281

the main stem and vegetative branches. Fruiting of wild cotton nor-
mally continues during the rainy season and throughout the growing
season on cultivated cotton so that bolls are present in various stages
of development from those newly formed to those reaching maturity
in 45 to 60 days. Cotton is also very prolific in fruiting and normally
produces about three times as many squares as the plant can support.
If adverse conditions, such as boll-weevil damage, cause excessive
shedding and prevent the setting of a normal crop of bolls, plants
persist in their efforts to produce the seed-bearing bolls until killed by
frost and thus provide food for the boll weevil over a longer period.
Prior to the advent of the boll weevil there was sufficient time in the
southern part of the belt to permit the cotton plant to grow large in
size and mature bolls on the later branches. It soon became evident
that late bolls were totally ruined, and producing a crop became a race
against the boll weevil. The better varieties of medium- and long-
staple cotton grown at the time of the weevil invasion were large,
vigorous-growing productive plants but late in maturity, and these
were rapidly replaced by the short-staple varieties of inferior quality
grown in the shorter seasons in the northern part of the belt that
offered the one advantage of early maturity. Many of the famous old
varieties passed out of existence and many of the so-called varieties
that were brought in were sold under a multitude of names and added
to the confusion.

The 131 cotton varieties listed as grown in the United States in 1896
(U. S. Dep. Agr., Office of Exp. Stat. Bull. 33) increased to 608 so-
called varieties in 1910 (U. S. Dep. Agr., Bur. Plant Ind. Bull. 163)
and in addition some 385 other varieties had come and gone in the 14
years. According to C. B. Doyle, of the Bureau of Plant Industry,
Soils, and Agricultural Engineering (unpublished manuscript), only
10 of the 608 varieties listed in 1910 were extensively cultivated in
1942, and many of the 700 newer varieties appearing since 1910 are
no longer being grown.

A desirable variety of cotton for growing under boll-weevil condi-
tions should be early maturing, of determinate growth that sets and
matures its crop quickly with little or no late fruiting, productive,
and with high-quality, uniform lint. Combining these characteristics
is difficult, but geneticists have aided in evading weevil damage by
developing varieties that set a full crop and mature the bolls in a much
shorter period than those formerly grown. A fairly large number of
varieties will always be needed to produce the various types of lint
required for the numerous needs which cotton fulfills and that are
adapted to the diversified climatic and soil conditions of the 19 cotton-
producing States. Varieties are becoming better and fewer in num-
ber, and in 1942 over 6 million acres, or about one-third of the total
acreage, was planted to 64 varieties in one-variety communities.
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

In discussing the progress made in developing improved varieties

after the coming of the boll weevil, Ware states in the 1936 United
States Department of Agriculture Yearbook,
Considerable impetus was given to cotton breeding about this time, largely through
the discovery that many of the early-maturing cottons were of inferior quality
and that their production was resulting in the loss of special markets which had
been using the better cottons of pre-boll weevil days for many years. ... The
greatest improvement has taken place in the medium staples, 1%. to 1444 inches,
inclusive. In 1928, only 39 percent (of the United States crop) was of these
lengths, whereas in 1935 this had increased to 50 percent of the crop. On the
whole there has been an increase in the average staple length of the entire crop
of approximately 149 inch.

The time required for setting and maturing a crop of bolls has been
so shortened that it is approaching the practical limitations to which
it can be carried, and more attention is now being given to varietal
resistance to boll-weevil attack. None of the numerous species, varie-
ties, or strains of cotton has been found immune to boll weevils. At-
tempts have been made at various times to discover a resistant cotton
in the native home of the boll weevil, and studies have been made of
some of the characters which contribute to resistance, but this impor-
tant problem has not received the attention it deserves. Among other
plant characters that have been studied in their relation to weevil
damage are the shedding of the infested squares and small bolls,
proliferation, pilosity, thickness of boll walls, and toughness of carpel
lining. The mortality of immature weevils in shed forms is consid-
erably higher than in those hanging on the plant owing to exposure
to higher temperatures and attack by ants and other predators on the
soil surface. The effectiveness of heat in killing the grubs is greatly
reduced by shading of the plants late in the season or by abundant
moisture, but the mortality often reaches 50 percent after 3 or 4 days’
exposure to 95° F. or above. Small plants with few lateral branches
and “open” foliage afford less shade and are desirable characteristics
of some varieties. Proliferation, or the development of numerous ele-
mentary cells in the square and boll, was observed as early as 1902
(U.S. Dep. Agr., Bur. Ent. Bull. 59) to kill from 10 to 15 percent of
the developing weevil forms by mechanical crushing, but it seems to
be present to about the same extent in all upland varieties. Pilosity
of stalks and leaves varies greatly among varieties from almost gla-
brous sea island varieties to 300 to 400 hairs per square centimeter in
some upland cottons but has not been found to hinder the movement
of adult weevils over the plant as previously supposed. However,
pilose leaves cause better adherence of calcium arsenate, especially
when applied to dry cotton, and thus indirectly aids weevil control to
some extent. The thickness of the boll walls and toughness of the
THE BOLL WEEVIL—LOFTIN 283

carpel lining offer some resistance to weevil puncture, but no varieties
have been found with bolls that weevils cannot pierce.

DEVELOPMENT OF INSECTICIDAL CONTROL

The insecticides and methods of application available to entomolo-
gists 50 years ago were very limited. Most of the insecticides then in
use were applied as sprays with crude machinery and gave poor or no
weevil control. Early tests showed that paris green, which had re-
cently come into use, killed some of the adults, but the control was
not sufficient to materially increase yields. Lead arsenate in paste
form was later found to kill some of the weevils but could be applied
only as a spray, which was not very practicable for cotton. Various
other materials were likewise found of little value, and for 20 years
the search for an effective insecticide for the boll weevil was unsuc-
cessful. In 1908 Wilmon Newell, entomologist of the Louisiana Crop
Commission, stimulated new interest in insecticidal control by intro-
ducing lead arsenate in powder form for dusting cotton for boll-weevil
control. This dust gave better weevil control than any material pre-
viously tested, but the results were erratic and it was never exten-
sively used. However, his work was responsible for the development
and later extensive use of insecticides in dust form for many insects.
The next important step in insecticidal control of weevils came in
1916, when B. R. Coad, of the Bureau of Entomology, found that
keeping the cotton plants thoroughly covered with an arsenical dust
throughout the growing season would kill adult weevils and that
calcium arsenate was the most effective of the many materials tested.
Calcium arsenate was then a new material that had been tested in a
limited way for fruit and shade-tree insects but was not available in
commercial quantities. Extensive experiments were started to im-
prove its chemical and physical properties and methods of application
for weevil control. In the 1917 experiments the increase in yields
from fields dusted with calcium arsenate were so outstanding that in
1918, 35,000 acres of cotton were dusted under Bureau of Entomology
supervision. Specifications were developed and manufacturers were
aided in making calcium arsenate to meet the rapidly increasing de-
mands. Much of the early calcium arsenate was of poor dusting
quality and caused serious burning of the plants, and much effort was
expended by the Bureau and State experiment stations during the fol-
lowing years in overcoming these defects. Grower response was imme-
diate, and over 3 million pounds of calcium arsenate were used for
weevil control in 1919, 10 million pounds in 1920, and 60 to 70 million
pounds have been manufactured annually during recent years.
284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Entomologists were stationed at strategic points in the weevil-
infested areas to conduct demonstrations in cooperation with State
and Federal extension workers to teach growers the principles of
weevil control. The discovery of the effectiveness of calcium arsenate
against the weevil came shortly after World War I, when the weevil
had spread over most of the belt, damage was at its maximum, and
cotton was selling at a high price. The immediate problem was not
to interest growers in using calcium arsenate but in using it correctly.

Since the boll-weevil grubs feed entirely within the squares and bolls
and cannot be reached by poisons, control is directed against the adults.
They too feed externally only slightly, and it is more difficult for them
to obtain a lethal dose than the foliage-feeding insects. Adults sup-
plied with water were found to live longer than those without water,
and it was assumed at first that adults were killed entirely by drinking
poisoned water. Later studies showed that weevils could be killed by
crawling over dry surfaces dusted with calcium arsenate because they
continually touch the tips of their snouts to the surface and suflicient
quantities of the tiny dust particles adhere to the moist mandibles to
cause death. Ordinary sprays are deposited in larger particles which
adhere more closely than dusts and have never given as good control.
The method by which weevils obtain a lethal dose of poison and the
fruiting habits of the cotton plant indicate that the entire plant must.
be kept thoroughly covered with calcium arsenate dust. As cotton
produces more blooms than the plant can carry to maturity, it is not
necessary to begin dusting until the weevils cause more shedding than
would normally occur. The danger point, when dusting should begin,
was first placed at 10 to 15 percent of the squares punctured for feed-
ing or oviposition but later raised to 20 to 25 percent for cotton growing
in fertile soil. The infestation usually varies from field to field, but
the punctured squares are easily seen, and counting 100 or more squares
per field at frequent intervals provides a reliable index of weevil
abundance and the need for control. From 4 to 6 applications of
5 to 8 pounds of calcium arsenate dust per acre at 5-day intervals are
usually suflicient to bring the weevils under control and produce a full
crop, though one or more later applications for boll protection may be
needed when infestations are heavy. At first it was thought neces-
sary to dust with calcium arsenate when the plants were wet with dew,
but later experiments showing that effective applications may be made
at any time of day when the air is calm have reduced the drudgery of
night dusting. Many other improvements and adaptations to varying
local conditions have been gained from continued experimentation,
but the basic principle of keeping the plant thoroughly covered during
the critical fruiting period or until the weevils are brought under
control remains unchanged. ‘The improved varieties of determinate
THE BOLL WEEVIL-—LOFTIN 285

growth that set a crop of bolls in a shorter period have helped reduce
the time that protection is needed. Calcium arsenate does not kill all
the weevils on the plants, nor is that necessary ; it only affords sufficient
protection to maintain a favorable balance between the production and
shedding of squares so that a normal crop can be produced.

Another method of application of calcium arsenate that has been
used in the Southeastern States is to smear the upper leaves of the small
plants before squares are formed with a mixture of calcium arsenate,
molasses, and water by means of a homemade rag mop, or “mopping”
as it is called. The presquare applictions of sweetened poison kill
some of the overwintered weevils but the weakness of this method is
that a large percentage of the early emerging weevils die naturally
before squares are available for food and approximately one-third of
the total weevils always emerge from hibernation after squares are
large enough for oviposition and the molasses mixture is no longer
effective. A large series of experiments at many localities has shown
that sufficient weevils emerge late enough to cause serious loss when
conditions are favorable for weevil multiplication and that presquare
applications alone cannot be depended upon for control.

Continued search for new insecticides has shown that calcium ar-
senate is still the most effective of the hundreds of materials tested
against the boll weevil, including the recently discovered and much
publicized DDT. It has a number of disadvantages as well as ad-
vantages. It is the cheapest of all the arsenical insecticides, has good
dusting qualities, and the commercial calcium arsenate now available
seldom injures the cotton plants. However, it does cause injury to the
germination and growth of some crops, particularly legumes, on cer-
tain light, sandy soils of the Southeastern States when used in large
dosages or over a period of years for boll-weevil control. It also de-
stroys the natural enemies and causes an increase of the cotton aphid
following several applications for control of other insects. In some
cases the losses caused by the build-up of aphids largely offset the
gains from weevil control, though in recent years it has been found
practicable to overcome this by adding nicotine or derris to the calcium
arsenate dust. The proper use of calcium arsenate for weevil con-
trol often means the difference between a profit and a loss in cotton
production. Field plots at Tallulah dusted with calcium arsenate for
weevil control annually during the past 25 years averaged 300 pounds
of seed cotton per acre, or 30 percent increase in yield, and at Florence,
S. C., the 12-year average gains have been 283 pounds. Similar results
have been obtained at numerous other localities, with gains of from
one-half to a bale of cotton per acre not uncommon where heavy weevil
infestation occur on cotton growing on productive soil. It is generally
not economical to spend from $3 to $5 per acre per season for weevil con-

6762124619
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

trol on cotton having a potential yield of less than one-third bale per
acre if no weevils were present or where the expected gains are less
than 100 pounds of seed cotton per acre. Unfortunately there is a
large acreage of cotton in this category, though the restriction on
acreages during recent years has tended to reduce the use of low-
production land for cotton.

While no exact data are available on the amount of calcium ar-
senate used for weevil control, a large proportion of the calcium
arsenate manufactured is used on cotton, and it is estimated that the
2 million acres or more dusted annually for boll-weevil control in-
creases the growers’ profit by many times the total of $3,500,000 spent
by the United States Department of Agriculture on boll-weevil re-
search since the work was started in 1894. Despite the benefits derived
from the use of calcium arsenate, it is not the perfect insecticide for
boll-weevil control. An inexpensive material is needed that is more
toxic as a stomach poison or that will kill boll weevils by contact and
not cause an increase in aphids or injury to soil.

DEVELOPMENT OF DUSTING MACHINERY

Coincident with the rapid expansion in the use of calcium arsenate,
it was necessary to develop methods of application. No suitable dust-
ing machines were available, and assistance was given manufacturers
in improving the efficiency of the existing models and testing new
models at the Tallulah laboratory. The possibility of using airplanes
for cotton-insect control was suggested by the work of the Ohio
Experiment Station in distributing lead arsenate against the catalpa
sphinx in 1921. The first airplane tests against cotton insects were
made in the fall of 1922 through the cooperation of the Air Service of
the United States Army in furnishing planes and personnel (Dep.
Agr. Bull. 1204). In the first flights calcium arsenate was dropped by
hand from the planes for control of the cotton leafworm, but it soon
became evident that it would be necessary to develop methods of dis-
tributing insecticides evenly and at controlled rates. Research by the
Bureau of Entomology in cooperation with the then Bureau of Agri-
cultural Engineering during the next few years developed specifica-
tions for hoppers and distributing apparatus that would effectively
dust a 50- to 75-foot swath for weevil control (pl. 4, figs. 1 and 2). The
use of airplanes for weevil control and later for other cotton insects
rapidly expanded and soon became an important factor on the larger
plantations. Dusting by airplanes is more rapid than from the ground,
as one plane can cover from 750 to 1,000 acres a day, an important
factor when it is too wet to use ground machinery or when large
acreages are to be covered quickly. Most of the airplane dusting is
done by commercial operators by contract per pound of insecticide or
THE BOLL WEEVIL—LOFTIN 287

per acre dusted. The cost usually ranges from 25 to 75 cents per
acre-application and compares very favorably with ground applica-
tions. At present a number of commercial companies maintain an
estimated 200 planes equipped for crop dusting at the instant call of
growers, and some of the larger commercial dusters have entomologists
with each dusting unit who make infestation records and advise
growers when to dust. The use of airplanes for boll-weevil control
was the basis for the later developments and use for control of mos-
quitoes and of various insects attacking commercial vegetable crops,
orchards, and forests, as well as for spreading grasshopper poison
bait, seeding rice and cover crops, application of fertilizers, chemical
defoliation of cotton, and other agricultural uses. A more recent
development is the use of concentrated sprays whereby 1 to 3 gallons
of concentrate can be finely atomized from a plane to cover an acre
of forest or crop land. Airplane spraying has been successfully used
in freeing large areas of disease-carrying mosquitoes and other insects
and for forest- and crop-pest control. Application of insecticides by
airplanes is spectacular but at the same time entirely practical, eco-
nomical, effective, and the most convenient method ever devised for
treating large acreages.

For the smaller growers the entomologists and engineers have
worked with manufacturers in developing ground machinery of
various types, prices, and capacities for dusting any size acreage at
4- or 5-day intervals (pl. 8). The rotary-type hand gun (pl. 5,
fig. 1) will take care of the dusting of 8 acres of cotton; the saddle
gun, 40 to 50 acres; the two-nozzle traction machine (pl. 5, fig. 2),
40 to 60 acres; the four-nozzle traction power cart machine, 75 to 150
acres; the power-operated multiple nozzle cart machine (pl. 6, fig. 2),
200 to 800 acres; and the tractor-operated machines with five to eight
nozzles (pl. 7), still larger acreages (U. S. Dep. Agr. Farmers’ Bull.
1729).

LOSSES CAUSED BY WEEVILS

As is usual with insects introduced into a new environment, the losses
caused by the boll weevil were more severe during the first years while
the insects were becoming stabilized and control measures developed.
Estimates of the damage have been made by the Bureau of Agricul-
tural Economics each year since 1909, based on the reports of thou-
sands of volunteer farmer crop reporters and are probably the most
accurate records available for any insect. The losses show a general
increase as the weevil spread across the Cotton Belt, reaching a maxi-
mum of over 30-percent reduction from full yield for the United States
in 1921 (fig.2). Since that time the cyclic peaks of the damage curve
have been lower and the general trend has been downward, especially
in recent years. However, in spite of the progress that has been made
288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

in control, the boll weevil is still taking an enormous toll of about one
bale of every seven produced. This annual loss of over a million and
a half bales of cotton, together with the seed, is valued at some
$200,000,000 at average farm prices. Since the boll weevil causes
more damage in the United States than in any other country, the
American grower is at a disadvantage in a highly competitive world
market. It is not feasible of course to prevent all this loss to a
low-value-per-acre crop like cotton, but it is estimated that more than
half of the losses now caused by the weevil can be economically pre-
vented by the more general use of control measures.

PERCENT
30

ee cower eee

peewee ee etos we mecee

0
i910 1915 i920. =: 1925 i930 1935 1940 1945

FicurE 2.—Boll-weevil damage 1909-1945. Percent reduction from full yields
as reported by crop correspondents.

The weevil damage is most severe in southern and eastern Texas,
Louisiana, and the central parts of Mississippi, Alabama, and Georgia
where the winters are comparatively mild, the rainfall abundant, and
there are large areas of favorable hibernation quarters. The winters
in the northern part of the belt usually kill sufficient hibernating
weevils to hold the damage down, so that little insecticidal control is
needed. Part of the extreme southern areas where the soils are of
low production capacity have found it more profitable to change to
other crops than to compete with the boll weevil. The present acreage
planted to cotton in Florida is less than 10 percent of the pre-boll-
weevil acreage. Sea island cotton is the finest quality of cotton and
was a profitable industry in Florida and the coastal plains of Georgia
and South Carolina before the boll-weevil invasion. It fruits over a
long period, the bolls are soft, and subject to weevil attack until they
open. Production has practically ceased, owing largely to weevil
damage. Weevil damage is partly responsible for the expansion of
cotton production in west Texas and Oklahoma, where the hot, arid
climate prevents the weevil from becoming abundant, and in the irri-
gated sections of New Mexico, Arizona, and California, where the boll
weevil has never become established. There is evidence that the boll
THE BOLL WEEVIL—LOFTIN 289

weevil is becoming better acclimated to adverse climatic conditions,
though the extent to which this occurs is obscured by animal rein-
festation of the border areas by migrating weevils.

FACTORS INFLUENCING WEEVIL DAMAGE AND USE OF CALCIUM
ARSENATE

The great variation in damage from year to year and from region
to region depends largely on the number of weevils entering hiber-
nation in the fall, the winter survival, and weather conditions dur-
ing the growing seasons. Fortunately a large percentage of the
weevils fails to survive the winter, for with such a high rate of
reproduction it would be unprofitable to raise cotton in much of
the infested area. Survival in cages (pl. 9, fig. 1) simulating natural
conditions seldom exceeds 10 to 15 percent under most favorable con-
ditions; the 15-year average at Tallulah, La., was only 1.22 per-
cent in an area where weevil damage is high. Spring emergence from
hibernation begins when the daily mean temperature reaches about
60° EF. or about the same time cotton begins growth, and continues
for 2 or 3 months, so that some of the weevils are certain to find
squares available for oviposition. Hot, dry weather during the sum-
mer kills large numbers of weevil larvae and pupae, while cool, wet
weather during June, July, and August is favorable for multipli-
cation so that a heavy survival does not necessarily result in heavy
damage, or vice versa. Nevertheless information on the relative
number of weevils surviving the winter from year to year helps
growers in planning control and manufacturers in supplying the
insecticides that may be needed. Information on the numbers enter-
ing hibernation is obtained by fall examinations of trash and spanish
moss from woods adjacent to cotton fields, and on the survival by
spring examinations in the same vicinities. This information is
supplemented by determining survival of weevils in hibernation
cages in different sections of the Cotton Belt and the overwintered
weevils that appear on small plants in the spring. During the war
growers and others have also been furnished current weekly infor-
mation on the seasonal weevil infestation obtained by a survey of
insect abundance conducted cooperatively by State and Federal
agencies.

Many of the more successful growers use calcium arsenate as a
regular part of cotton production, but much educational work is
needed in acquainting more growers with the value of weevil con-
trol and when and how to apply insecticides most effectively. Nearly
half of the total cotton is produced by small growers who average
less than 10 bales per farm. They often lack the necessary finances
for dusting machinery and insecticides. The variation in weevil
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

damage from year to year always arouses the hope that this will
be a light weevil year and a crop can be made without dusting.
Other growers have used calcium arsenate improperly or used it
when not needed and failed to make a profit. Also before the acre-
age-adjustment program was inaugurated it was a common practice
to plant extra acres of cotton for the boll weevil and to harvest
what the weevils left. The use of calcium arsenate also increases
with the price of cotton. In 1931, when farmers received about 6
cents per pound for cotton, the production of calcium arsenate in
the United States was 26 million pounds, while in 1942, when cot-
ton sold for about 19 cents per pound, the production of calcium
arsenate increased to 68 million pounds. The average yield for the
United States was 211 pounds of lint per acre in 1931 and 272 pounds
of lint per acre in 1942.

The cotton-insect survey conducted during the past 3 years fur-
nished the most complete picture of current weevil conditions that
has ever been obtained. About 25,000 infestation records were ob-
tained each season through the cooperation of volunteer farmer crop
reporters, 4-H Club members, vocational agriculture teachers and
students, county agents, Federal and State entomologists, and others.
This information was tabulated and interpreted by experienced en-
tomologists at weekly intervals as an aid to State and extension
entomologists in advising growers of the need for weevil control and
industry in distributing insecticides to the areas where most needed.
Besides furnishing information on the current need for weevil con-
trol at the time when damage could be prevented, the survey was
of permanent educational value in teaching farmers and future
farmers to recognize damage and the value of control. The 4-H
Clubs have added insect reporting to their list of projects for which
credit and certificates are awarded to participating members.

RECENT TRENDS IN WEEVIL CONTROL

After 50 years of boll-weevil damage, cotton continues to be the most
important cash crop in the South and is the most important source of
income for 114 million farm families and hundreds of thousands of
others employed in the ginning, marketing, manufacturing, and dis-
tribution of cotton and cotton products. The American cotton indus-
try is now facing serious competition from increasing production of
foreign cotton and increased use of synthetic fibers. It is generally rec-
ognized that the future depends on decreasing the cost of production
and improving the quality of cotton. Both of these objectives can be
aided by better insect control (pl. 9, fig. 2; pl. 10, fig. 1) and the State
and Federal programs are being reorganized to emphasize insect and
THE BOLL WEEVIL—LOFTIN 291

disease control as one of the major needs in the more economical pro-
duction of cotton.

The importance of early fall destruction of cotton stalks in reducing
the fall build-up of weevils has been recognized but not as generally
used as it should be because of the difficulties in getting cotton picked
before frost. The recent development of chemical defoliation of cotton
plants may overcome this obstacle and have far-reaching effects on boll-
weevil control. Dusting with 20 to 30 pounds of calcium cyanamide
per acre causes the leaves, squares, and small bolls to wither and fall
from the plants (pl. 10, fig. 2) and the large bolls to open normally
within 3 or 4 days just as a frost does. The removal of the leaves re-
duces the trash adhering to the lint, improves mechanically harvested
cotton by a full grade, increases the amount that can be picked by hand
or mechanically, and permits the harvesting of the entire crop at one
operation instead of the two or three pickings formerly required to
avoid weather damage to lint. Picking by hand represents one-third of
the cost of cotton production, and chemical defoliation removes one of
the greatest difficulties in the development and successful use of me-
chanical cotton pickers. Calcium cyanamide is a nitrogenous fertilizer
and is beneficial to the soil. Its use as a chemical defoliant expanded
rapidly during the wartime labor shortage and has already swept
across the belt from South Carolina to California. The favorable
response to chemical defoliants has started research for other mate-
rials to meet the increasing demand.

The numerous inquiries from returning World War IT pilots indi-
cate a great expansion in the use of airplanes for pest control. In
the past the planes used for dusting have been converted small pas-
senger models, but with the recent advances in aeronautical engineer-
ing, specially designed aircraft with greater carrying capacity, ma-
neuverability, safety and other features better adapted for pest con-
trol than those now in use may be expected. Improvements in ground
equipment such as the recent tractor-attachment dusters are keeping
pace with the increased trend of mechanization of cotton culture and
reducing the cost of equipment and labor for weevil control. The new
methods of applying insecticides in the form of liquefied gas or thermal
aerosols and concentrated sprays are additional weapons for testing
against the boll weevil.

The recent progress in developing many new materials for insect
control has stimulated renewed research for a better insecticide than
calcium arsenate for the boll weevil. DDT is not the answer for the
boll weevil, but if further experimentation confirms the preliminary
results, some of the new synthetic insecticides such as benzene hexa-
chloride may be the beginning of a new era in boll-weevil control.
pg FOS oosiau: pee ATA AAO BES peg

ory Lgoimornss wae ARPT adi te suo ps
Lines =

Ratsbber ai ® 13 ‘eRe male Ns oe et hu hele

Per ae

eb | es & rit Ak a0 F fyodg. ‘are oe

2 spel io me 4 rahe: ak T,. jerk gu
Bobb aubrey avs PUOVISN .

i |

BART antsiots9, ty pirat

cn ro hae ad &

“ene t qo. ‘of ;

Sei onld * Je ca sig - ee oath
pags’ visi a Keatquros High aed he

ry, bE inked Bo Aviql of f i sa pe eee

$e , 4B ‘dot, otiiae att o RoiiesTin ee

” oF bert pot as ot fauls 40.0713 o.be 7 10)
to Pees iphort ua ear ash adieowbiow
ha to sn0 sie ae oleh Tolan a gmt
ons Yo 923 Lane 1iR. boa, a a ie pda
qosalits sot Gx207 Tig ns i> eros a6
“ab ba ain iy Nea paigal & ee eos li. 1
roy SESE hearts Ai
a £1 ae : ree Sasa of aoned, goes not dled sd
ieee ou ths aapae inaeeas sittaifotel Lotcseda a}
_ hasta, wareng toa}
“ast asec { Th Ty ‘BG 1) W. anursustas akoyt golbupa LNT AORIRY
: al _ feaines Joey, 304 ROR quiz 49: era) ails, Mi, MOREY ZA, phi
‘ “2h. {nme balvavaoa ppd. syad gaceub: i beau epmalg pelt
‘ teenage tp naitits 9598.0 pouKebe.jasog; ott Aliee .
OT MHD GGIN, BASLATAD. liv, exyaie, barra
99? dead, 19k dale e.39 tak eri -jutdo, basa

aarti ii eigeose19 vorqunt yaheqxe aif YR oer

hea 2 #11) ins orton to pea et to pean hoesazoat ol

Grait att ertttios fiva5 oF tor EAE Bre spyiteatat fois a te
batt oils “0 eng hs enpit'to es i a4
agtithad? ote cht NN Baia

ethers employ i cu Mooi, 2 raat 38)
ibe a ela a ea i oe
The ahi. aatiad £08"
*aMRON aa ireetiS att Te
Ser tthdne ty |
“text airoxned de

aided hos eT
6nd Fe ars Pyaoprante gre bmg ron

poset
CeLy ‘aingny ‘oinqiysuy dU, ATOg VUlege[Y u1o1 Ydevisojoyg)

WIV ‘ASIYdySLNA “TWAaaM 10g AHL OL LNAWNNOW “Zz (G39Y8V1N>F) TIAFSaM 110g Lindy ‘tL

| 3Lvw1d uljjo7]—‘ce6| ‘j40dayy uetuosuqIUC
110g “SSAYNLONNd ONIGSS4S
NOLLOD NO ONIGSESSH (GSA9YNVINA WASSAM 1108 2 ONY 99359 ODNIMOHS 3yVNOS NOLLOD Ga9VWVG ‘1

¢ SLY 1d UNJOT—Cp6| “Woday URIUOsYyyIUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Loftin PLATE

1. BOLL COMPLETELY DESTROYED BY LARVAE.

2. WEEDS AND WOODS ADJACENT TO COTTON FIELDS PROVIDE FAVORABLE
HIBERNATION FOR WEEVILS.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Loftin PLATE

1. AIRPLANE DUSTING COTTON FOR BOLL-WEEVIL CONTROL

2. FILLING THE HOPPER OF AN AIRPLANE WITH CALCIUM ARSENATE.

Planes carry from 300 to 500 pounds of insecticide.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Loftin PLATE 5

1. HAND DUSTERS.

2. TWO-ROW TRACTION DUSTER.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Loftin PLATE 6

1. AN EARLY-MODEL CART DUSTER DEVELOPED FOR DUSTING COTTON FOR BOLL
WEEVIL.

*&

Pie

2. A FIVE-NOZZLE POWER-OPERATED CART DUSTER.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Loftin

PLATE 7

TRACTOR DUSTER WITH EIGHT NOZZLEs, WITH BOOMS FOLDED FOR

PASSING
THROUGH GATES.
‘Iojsnp puey Aarejor pue Joysnp WOrjor snp 19M0d 4189 ‘Ioysnp 1039814 ‘ouRB[dire 24S 07 4
{ p uo! } {oI WoT

“NOILVYSdO NI SYALSNG AO SAdAL LNSAYSSSIG AO Hd VYHSDOLOHd YIV

“Ch6| ‘oday uetuosyyiwg

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Loftin PLATE 9

1. TYPE OF HIBERNATION CAGES FILLED WITH SPANISH MOSS, CORNSTALKS,
OR OTHER SHELTER MATERIAL USED FOR STUDYING WINTER SURVIVAL OF THE
BOLL WEEVIL.

2. FIELD SHOWING THE DIFFERENCE IN YIELD OF DUSTED AND UNDUSTED
| COTTON.
Plot on left was dusted with eight effective applications of calcium arsenate plus 1 percent nicotine-sulfate;

plot on right was not dusted. Yield averaged 1,335 pounds of seed cotton per acre in dusted cotton and
392 pounds in the undusted cotton.

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Loftin PLATE 10
eh

& s

1. INDIVIDUAL PLANTS SHOWING INCREASE IN BOLLS FROM BOLL-WEEVIL
CONTROL.

Left, dusted plant; right, undusted plant,

2. CHEMICAL DEFOLIATION OF COTTON.

Note absence of squares and small bolls, and mature bolls beginning to open. Photographed September
26, 1944, about 6 weeks before frost.
THE INDISPENSABLE HONEYBEE

By JAMES I. HAMBLETON

Division of Bee Culture
Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine
U. S. Department of Agriculture

[With 4 plates]

Of all the insects in the world probably no one species is more widely
distributed than the honeybee. Its habitat ranges from Alaska to
the Tropics. It is found in all intervening places in that great stretch
of latitude—in the mountains, in the sultry valleys below sea level,
in the deserts, plains, in fact wherever flowering plants occur. Honey-
bees are not indigenous to all continents of the world, but they have
become introduced and established essentially in all parts occupied
by man.

If the statement seems too strong that the honeybee is more widely
distributed than any other of our common insects, it can be said con-
servatively that the product of the bee is the most widely produced of
man’s food. Even such common foods as wheat and milk are not so
universally known.

Honeybees were busily engaged in making honey and beeswax before
the advent of man. Honey and wax of the bee were waiting in readi-
ness for our earliest ancestors at the beginning of their evolutionary
climb. In time they learned of the sweetness of honey and that wax
could be employed for many purposes. For centuries honey was the
only sweet, and it and beeswax were regarded so highly by the ancients
that they wove into their religious ceremonies in one way or another
frequent references to honey, wax, and bees. Symbols representing
various phases of bee husbandry are found in the earliest recorded
histories. Man throughout his existence has been closely associated
with the honeybee.

Honey and beeswax were used in the payment of taxes and as
indemnity. Conquered tribes and peoples paid off reparations in
the form of honey and wax. To the present day beeswax plays an
important part in the rites of the church. A beehive forms the
central motive of the great seal of the State of Utah.

293
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

In spite of this close association, which goes back untold centuries,
the honeybee has not acquiesced to man’s influence in the same manner
as have the domestic animals of our present day. In truthfulness it
can be said that there are no domesticated honeybees. The life and
the habits of the honeybee are the same today as when man first dis-
covered that the product of these well-armed insects was worth risking
life and limb. The social life of the bee with its complex division of
labor and its various sexual forms have largely defied all effort to
change its nature better to adapt it to man’s use. The free nature of
the bee and its insistence on mating in the wide open spaces have
been the chief stumbling blocks in efforts to improve or to domesticate
the honeybee. The sexual development and the mating habits of bees
are so different from that of the domestic animals that essentially
nothing has been done through selection and breeding to improve the
honeybee. As an illustration of this difference the male bees, the
drones, are produced parthenogenetically; that is, the drone has no
father but he can boast of a grandfather. Queens can give birth to
male bees without mating and, even when they are mated, the mating
has no effect on the male offspring.

Research workers have delved into the early records of man and
written volumes on the antiquity of beekeeping; but, since the intent
of this article is to acquaint readers with some facts of man’s current
dependence on bees and how they are handled, it will be necessary to
leave the romantic past in favor of the equally romantic true story
of today.

There is more to beekeeping than meets the eye. To the average
person it has to do with the production of honey and beeswax. Other
than those who have had actual experience in keeping bees, most per-
sons have little conception of how they can be handled and made to
work for their owners. There is little mystery about the production
of most of our common foods. There is no mystery about the source
of milk, butter, and eggs, and the production of fruits and vegetables
and their route to the ultimate consumer are matters of everyday
knowledge. On the other hand how can bees—wild, undomesticated
insects—be directed to produce honey and beeswax? How are these
products taken from the bees? Is it necessary to put honey through
a manufacturing process before it is ready for consumption ?

There was a time when beekeeping was thought of simply in terms
of honey produced, but times have changed. Beekeeping now has a
much more important part to play. The value of bees as agents of
cross-pollination far outweighs the monetary value of the annual out-
put of honey and beeswax.

Why do we hear so much about pollination these days? Is it a
new fad or fancy, or is there some basic reason for emphasizing this
THE HONEYBEE—HAMBLETON 295

subject? In grandfather’s day and before his time this subject was
seldom mentioned. The land was rich; there was little soil erosion,
and for the most part the production of farm crops was satisfactory.
As demands for agricultural products increased, farming operations
enlarged, and with this came many new problems, one of which was
pollination.

Sex plays as important a part in the plant kingdom as it does in the
animal kingdom, but in a less obvious manner. Many plants contain
both the male and the female elements on the same plant. This is true
of all the grasses. Corn, wheat, barley, rye, oats, Kentucky bluegrass,
and other grasses all belong to the great grass family. Pollen from
the male part of the plant must come in contact with the female ele-
ment if seed is to result. The corn tassel bears the male element which
is the source of millions of tiny pollen grains. The long fine silks
which protrude from the ends of an ear of corn are a part of the female
element, one silk being attached to each newly formed grain. For this
to develop to full size it is essential that a grain of pollen come in con-
tact with the end of each silk. When this happens, the pollen germi-
nates and sends a long tube down throughout the length of the silk
through which the male germ migrates and eventually unites with the
female cell. Without this union the ear of corn would be abortive
and produce only a misshapen naked cob.

Because of the extraordinary number of pollen grains, it has been
estimated that an acre of corn will produce in the neighborhood of
300 pounds of pollen. There is more than enough to go around, so
that each strand of silk is assured its grain of pollen. Grass pollen
is light in weight, easily blown about and carried by wind currents.
All grasses are wind pollinated.

Let us look at another kind of plant—one with a more conspicuous
flower than is usually found in the grasses—an apple tree for example.
Kach apple blossom contains both the male and the female element.
For an apple to develop, a grain of pollen must fall on the stigma of
the flower. The apple, however, like many other flowering plants,
will not produce fruit with its own pollen. The blossom of a Jona-
than apple must receive pollen from an entirely different variety of
apple. This introduces an interesting complication. Apple pollen
is heavy and sticky; it cannot be carried by the wind. How then is
pollen from one tree brought to another which may be many yards
away? There is only one answer—through the medium of insects
which live on nectar and pollen.

The mode of reproduction, that is, seed or fruit formation, is slightly
different from that of the apple in plants belonging to the cucumber
family. Plants such as watermelon, cantaloupe, pumpkin, and cu-
cumber, instead of having both sexual elements in the same blossom,
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

contain two kinds of blossoms; one is all female and the other is
all male. Here again pollen must be carried from the male flower to
the female. Since pollen from these plants is also sticky and heavy,
the indispensable services of pollinating insects is apparent.

There are still other types of plants in which a single plant pro-
duces only male flowers, while another plant of the same species bears
only female flowers. The wild persimmon and holly are good illus-
trations of this type. Since the wind cannot be depended upon to
disperse the pollen adequately, insects again come into the picture.

There are approximately 50 cultivated crops grown in the United
States that require insect pollination. In addition to those already
mentioned, there are many other important plants—for example,
alfalfa, sweetclover, red clover, alsike clover, white Dutch clover—
which must have each tiny flower visited by an insect in order to
produce seed and thus perpetuate themselves. Pollinating insects are
either essential or highly desirable in the production of seeds of many
vegetables, such as carrot, onion, cabbage, cauliflower, and Brussels
sprouts, to name only a few.

Insect pollination is a “must” in our present-day agriculture, but
why is it more important today than it was 30 or 40 years ago?

There was a time in the history of agriculture, and not so many
years ago either, when it was not uncommon to hull 6 to 10 bushels of
red clover or alfalfa seed per acre. It is only rarely that such produc-
tion is experienced today—in fact, the average yield of both these
crops for the United States is slightly under 1 bushel per acre. Yet
alfalfa and red clover grow just as well and blossom as profusely as
in bygone days. But why has seed production fallen so low? Could
inadequate pollination be one of the contributing factors?

There was at one time in this country an adequate population of
native insects to take care of all pollination needs. These are insects
that maintain themselves and raise their young largely on pollen and
nectar. Their whole livelihood depends upon their flower-visiting
habits. As farming operations expanded, the nesting sites of many
of these insects were destroyed. Where the population of native in-
sects could adequately pollinate a 10-acre field of clover or alfalfa,
the same number of insects fell woefully short when the acreage
jumped to several hundred acres. Since most plants have blooming
periods of short duration, it is only logical that the numbers of pol-
linating insects be stepped up in proportion to the increase in acreage
if seed yields are to be adequate and profitable. We have gone ahead
increasing acreages manyfold but have made no effort to provide a
proportionate increase in the number of pollinators.

Many factors have contributed to the decline of native pollinating
insects. The plowing and clean cultivation of large tracts of land
deprive these insects, many of which build their nests in the ground,
THE HONEYBEE—HAMBLETON 297

of their natural nesting sites. Rail fences which were so diflicult to
keep clean of vegetation afforded ideal places for these insects to nest.
The picturesque rail fences have been replaced largely by well-kept
wire fences, thus driving the pollinating insects farther and farther
away from the crops which the farmer can grow profitably only when
these insects are within flying range of his fields.

Forest and brush fires have further decimated our population of
beneficial insects. The tremendous increase in the use of arsenicals is
taking a huge toll of native bees, as well as of honeybees, whose
essential help we are only now beginning to appreciate.

The honeybee, the most numerous of all pollinating insects, is not
native to the United States. It was brought to this country by the
early settlers and became known to the Indians as the “white man’s
fly.” It is now thoroughly at home in its new habitat. Swarms that
escape from commercial apiaries make their way very nicely in the
protection of a hollow tree or in the hollow pillars of our front porches,
a place, incidently, where they are not always welcome.

The honeybee, being exclusively a flower-visiting insect, does its
share in pollination. It is estimated that honeybees are responsible
for over 80 percent of all pollination effected. When swarms of bees
escape and go to the woods they are subject to the same hazards as
the native bees. Consequently their population in a wild or native
state isnot building up. This leaves the only stable source of pollinat-
ing insects in the hands of beekeepers.

The decline in seed and fruit production is serious in those crops
that require insect pollination. Utah at one time was our principal
alfalfa-seed-producing State. In its best year, 1925, Utah produced
close to 25 million pounds of alfalfa seed. This figure has fallen
steadily until the current annual production is less than 4 million
pounds. Red clover and other legumes are in the same plight. A
good stand of red clover as we see it in almost any locality carries
enough blossoms to produce 10 or 11 bushels of seed per acre. The
average production for the country is 0.9 of a bushel. Pollination is
inadequate to say the least.

Pollinating insects have certain human characteristics. They will
not fly farther for food than they have to and always select the richest
and best source. Sweetclover is a favorite food plant of honeybees
and of most other pollinating insects. It secretes an abundance of
rich nectar. The flowers are small and the bees can easily obtain
nectar and pollen from them. In contrast, it is more difficult for bees
to obtain pollen from the alfalfa blossom, and ordinarily it does not
produce so much nectar as does sweetclover. When fields of the two
plants are grown in the same locality, the bees will work on the sweet-
clover in preference to the alfalfa. This preference is so conspicuous
that for a given acreage there may be 1,000 bees on the sweetclover
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

to 1 on the alfalfa. Under such circumstances it is almost impossible
to produce a crop of alfalfa seed, since every tiny blossom of alfalfa
must be visited by an insect if seed is to result.

Neither farmers nor agricultural experts have paid much attention
to how the growing of one crop in proximity to another affects the
activities of pollinating insects. Sometimes the natural flora is more
attractive to bees than are the cultivated crops. Under such circum-
stances the farmer is bound to reap a thin harvest.

Is there any remedy for this? More attention can be paid to the
sequence in planting crops that compete for the visitation of pollinat-
ing insects. Plant breeders could well afford to give consideration
to breeding for factors that make plants more attractive to insects.
Farmers can also leave protective nesting sites for the wild pollinating
insects. ‘They can keep bees of their own or, better still, encourage
beekeepers to establish permanent apiaries within flight range of their
fields.

Bumblebees are among the most efficient of all pollinating insects.
With their long tongues, considerably longer than those of honeybees,
they are especially valuable in the pollination of red clover, which has
a deep corolla from which honeybees can obtain nectar only with difli-
culty. Bumblebees are not so plentiful as they used to be. The use
of insecticides and other farming practices threatens to extinguish
these useful insects. It is still the favorite sport of all farm boys
to fight bumblebees and rob their nests of a few thimblefuls of hard-
earned honey. Why must the farmer continue to destroy one of his
best allies—one who can contribute so significantly to bumper crops
of clover seed, fruit, and melons?

By and large the most immediate remedy for inadequate pollination
is through the intelligent use of honeybees. This is the only pollinat-
ing insect that can be moved from place to place and installed in fields,
when and where they are needed. Unfortunately, most farmers do
not want hives of bees on their premises. Once in a while a farm
animal or hired hand is stung or the owner himself may be the victim,
with the consequence that bees are ordered off the place. What a sad
state of affairs it is that beekeepers actually have to pay rental to
farmers for small out-of-the-way pieces of land upon which to place
their beehives. This is one reason why apiaries are not a common
sight as one drives through the country. The beekeeper has to place
his hives far from the farm buildings and from good roads. In such
locations the hives are subject to pilfering, and it is costly for the
beekeeper to manage them properly. If farmers understood the part
that bees play in more bountiful fruit crops, surely they would
welcome beekeepers with open arms. That day must come!
THE HONEYBEE—HAMBLETON 299

At the moment the important agricultural job of providing polli-
nation, inadequate though it may be, is dependent on the market price
of honey. Queer relationship indeed! In volume of business done the
production of honey cannot compare in importance with most branches
of agriculture. Beekeeping is widely scattered. Almost every county
numbers a few beekeepers. Because of the cost of transportation
over so wide a territory, it is difficult to concentrate large quantities
of honey for commercial distribution. The color, flavor, and con-
sistency of honey vary depending upon where and from what it is
produced. Buckwheat honey of our Eastern States has a strong flavor
and is almost black; that from fireweed in the Pacific Northwest is
water-white and mild in flavor. This great variation imposes a
problem to food packers who like to maintain uniform and standard
packs of whatever they merchandise. As a consequence, much of
the honey is sold by producers directly to local consumers. Not more
than 25 or 30 percent of the honey produced in the United States
finds its way to large honey-packing plants. Another reason why
commercial processors of food may not be so interested in honey is
that it requires little or no processing. Honey can be made no better
than it is when it comes from the beehive. For these and other reasons,
this very delicious food is not advertised nationally. The price of
honey is not stabilized or backed by large financial corporations. The
vagaries of the market seem always to hound the beekeeper, and on
top of it all his product has to compete with highly advertised manu-
factured foods, such as jams, jellies, and sirups. Whenever the price
of honey falls, there is a lag in enthusiasm for beekeeping and the
number of colonies is reduced. While this results in less honey per
capita, perhaps not too serious a matter, what is more important is
that fewer honeybees are available for pollination. Consequently,
the production of many crops seemingly far removed from beekeeping
is adversely affected.

Growers of orchard fruits have learned that bees are necessary for
a full set of fruit, and many of them rent colonies from beekeepers
to place in the orchard during blossoming. One would suppose that
such an arrangement was as beneficial to the beekeeper as to the fruit
grower, but this is not necessarily the case. Apple-blossom honey is
almost unheard of. Colonies of honeybees shortly out of winter quar-
ters are not populous enough early in the spring to make honey from
apple blossoms. Colonies have to be strong and populous before they
can make more honey than the bees require for their immediate needs.
Fruit blossom is good for the bees to build up on, but they seldom if
ever make honey from it. Also many bees are poisoned through
spraying operations and so more and more beekeepers are reluctant
to move bees to the orchards even when paid for it.
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

As yet, growers of such crops as onion, carrot, and legume seed
have not realized the necessity of inducing beekeepers to place colonies
close to such fields. Beekeepers receive no compensation for the
pollinating work which their bees do. The sale of honey, therefore,
carries the whole burden of keeping bees available for pollination.
The time is probably not far distant when wise men will see the neces-
sity of stabilizing and improving the honey market or else work out
an equitable means of compensating the beekeeper for his contribution
to crop production.

With the realization that many branches of agriculture cannot sur-
vive without the cooperation of a widely scattered and healthy bee-
keeping industry, more and more persons are becoming interested in
trying their hand with bees. A few words of advice may not be amiss.

There is already a big brotherhood of beekeepers. ‘The exact num-
ber of persons keeping bees in the United States is not known, but it
is estimated to be in excess of 500,000. Of these, probably less than
5,000 depend on beekeeping as a principal means of livelihood. Five
hundred colonies are considered to constitute a full-time job, while
the largest operators will manage up to 10,000 colonies. The other
operators are amateurs, back-lot beekeepers, and many who are in
beekeeping as a part-time job, keeping from 50 to several hundred
colonies. The production from the 5,466,000 colonies kept in the
United States in 1945 was in excess of 225 million pounds of honey.

Almost every State has an active beekeepers’ association, and in
many places the beekeepers are organized on a county basis. In addi-
tion there are numerous bee clubs of one kind or another. A wide-
awake group of city beekeepers meets monthly in the heart of New
York City. A beginner will find many kindred spirits and persons
with whom to compare notes.

To be successful with bees one must like to work with them; capital
alone is not suflicient to insure a successful business. Partnerships
in which one party furnishes the capital and the other the knowledge
are rarely successful in beekeeping. It is mostly a one-man business.

A successful beekeeper is a person to be envied. At all times he is
his own boss. During the summer months he works as hard as any-
body, but after the harvest he can relax. Even during the height of
the active season a good operator can take a few days off to attend
a beekeepers’ meeting or engage in a fishing expedition. The bees
do not require the daily attention that other types of livestock demand.

In a good season a well-managed colony should produce close to
100 pounds of honey. Under expert management and in a good
honey-producing locality, several hundred pounds per colony are
often harvested. At the same time and place, but poorly managed,
a colony may not obtain enough honey to carry it through the winter.
THE HONEYBEE—HAMBLETON 301

It is essential that the colonies be kept in proximity to an abundant
source of nectar. This may be one-quarter mile to 1 mile away from
where the colonies are actually situated. Acres of nectar-secreting
flora should be within the flight range of the bees.

While there may be literally hundreds of species of flowers upon
which the bees work for nectar or pollen or both, in any given locality
there are usually not more than two or three plant sources from which
the bees can make more honey than they require for their own keep.
Thus there are in the United States, perhaps, some three dozen or
so species from which 90 percent of the commercial honey is derived.
The clovers, including alfalfa, stand high in the list of principal
honey plants. Red clover is an exception in that it seldom furnishes
the beekeeper with extra honey. Other important sources are orange,
tupelo, buckwheat, basswood, cotton, fireweed, star-thistle, sourwood,
gallberry, and mesquite. Within limited areas, there may be other
plant sources of a local nature that enable the beekeeper to obtain a
surplus of honey.

Since beekeeping is so unlike gardening or taking care of livestock
of any kind with which most of us at one time or another have had
limited experience, a person who contemplates a career as a beekeeper,
on either a large or a small scale, should not start with more than two
or three colonies. This will keep the investment in bees and equipment
low and gives the beginner some concrete foundation for deciding
whether or not to go on.

There are some 250 beekeepers scattered through the southern
States and California who specialize in furnishing bees to beginners
or to established beekeepers who wish to enlarge their operations. Two
or three pounds of bees and a queen are shipped by express or mail in
wire-screen cages. The cost for a 3-pound package with a laying
queen is approximately $4 to $4.50 and contains sufficient bees, from 11
to 12 thousand, to constitute a nucleus of a colony. If the new unit is
established early, that is during fruit bloom, it may develop into a
sufficiently strong colony to produce a worth-while crop of honey the
first season. A beginner, however, should feel satisfied if he gets his
new pets in good shape to produce a crop the second year.

The hive equipment will run from $10 to $15 per colony, depending
upon the type of hive and the amount of extra equipment purchased.
A study of the catalogs of manufacturers of bee supplies will help in
making a proper selection.

A beginner should wear a veil when learning to handle bees. A
timid or nervous person would find assurance in a pair of bee gloves.
It is seldom that bees sting through clothing and so no special equip-
ment is needed to protect the body. It is advisable to tie string around
the trouser legs and a lady might feel greater freedom from fear
if she wore slacks.

6762124620
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

All beekeepers, no matter how skillful they are in handling bees, re-
ceive occasional stings. To the inexperienced, the reaction may at
first be rather severe with considerable swelling and itching, but a
season’s work with bees usually results in the development of some im-
munity against the venom.

In a short time one should learn to handle bees with confidence and
seldom receive a sting. The beginner soon learns that bees are cross
and irritable on cold and cloudy days and that it is best to open the
hive when the weather is warm and the bees are busily engaged in
the fields.

Each colony has its own individuality. One may be quiet and
gentle, while its next-door neighbor may be of a hot temperament.
The gentlest bees are not always best for honey production, but on the
other hand there is little pleasure in working with a colony that is
ever ready to sting—no matter how much honey it produces.

It must be kept in mind that bees are undomesticated animals. The
average life of a worker bee during the active season of flight is only
about 6 weeks, so that little or nothing can be done to train them to do
what their owner wishes. By the same token there is no chance for
the bees to learn who their master is. An expert beekeeper can go
into a strange apiary and handle the bees with as much assurance
and confidence, and as good results as can the owner himself. It is
essential, therefore, to learn a few of the fundamental principles that
affect the reaction of bees. There are books and magazines galore de-
voted exclusively to the subject of helping the beekeeper master the
principal manipulations.

Beekeeping is not all sweetness and honey. Like other types of live-
stock, bees are subject to several kinds of diseases. Some of these are
confined to brood (the young unemerged bees), and there are other
diseases that affect only the adult bees. Since some of the diseases are
contagious, careful check should always be kept of the colonies to see
that they are healthy.

Each colony contains but one queen—the mother of all the bees; her
importance to the welfare of the colony cannot be over-emphasized.
If the queen should fail because of age—and a queen may live 2 or 3
years—or because of illness, the population of the colony goes down
rapidly and may become so weak as to perish. The same persons who
furnish bees to beginners also supply extra queens, so that a new queen
may be obtained in short order to replace a failing one.

The greatest mistake that beginners make is in not giving the bees
sufficient hive space in which to do the work that they can do. Oftena
beginner, in an effort to keep his investment low, will try to maintain
the bees in a single-story hive. A good queen that can lay 1,500 eggs
a day and maintain this rate for days at a time requires at least two

THE HONEYBEE—HAMBLETON 303

hive bodies. These should be considered the sacred property of the bees
themselves from which the beekeeper is not to remove any honey. Dur-
ing rainy spells and periods when it is too cold for the bees to fly they
must have their daily food. Large reserves of honey should be on
hand at all times. Honey that the bees make in addition to that stored
in the two hive bodies the beekeeper can claim for himself.

The nectar as brought by the bees into the hive may contain upward
of 80 percent water, whereas honey contains only about 18 percent.
This excess water has to be removed by the bees. For this purpose,
comb space is required, so that the watery nectar may be spread over
as large a surface as possible to hasten evaporation; thus more combs
are necessary to make the crop than are required to hold the ripened,
finished honey.

A colony of bees should never be allowed to fill the hive completely
while the honey crop is being made. Shortly before every comb is
filled with brood, pollen, or honey, a colony, sensing the end of its job,
makes preparation to swarm. In this preparation there is a decided
let-down in the storage of honey. Swarming is objectionable from
this standpoint.

A colony swarms simply because its living quarters are inadequate—
too crowded. The old queen and the majority of bees old enough to
fly leave the hive. If the swarm is not captured, the bees light off
to the woods, find a hollow tree or a cavity in the wall of a dwelling
and build a new home. In the parent hive will be left all the young
bees, brood, and a number of queen cells from which one or more new
queens will emerge. One of these will eventually head the newly
formed colony.

The bees that fly to the fields for nectar and pollen do not deposit -
the nectar in the cells of the hive. They turn the nectar over to young
house bees—bees too young to fly—and it is these house bees that do
all the work from that point on in converting the nectar into full
mellow-ripe honey. The combination of the young and old bees is
essential to produce a crop of honey. When a colony swarms, this
very essential teamwork is destroyed. For best honey production
every effort should be made to control swarming.

There are other pitfalls in beekeeping beside diseases and swarm-
ing. A weakened colony of bees, like a weakened animal, is preyed
on by enemies. A colony that is not strong enough to keep its house
clean becomes infested with wax moths which, if not tended to, will
destroy the combs. A colony too weak effectively to guard its entrance
to the hive is subject to attack by bees from stronger colonies. Not
only will the robbers carry away the honey, but they will leave in
their wake many bees killed in the last defense of their home. Col-
onies are often weak because they lack sufficient food. Honeybees do
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

not hibernate as do most other insects. They are in a semiactive state
within the hive throughout the long winter, and food in the form of
honey must be available to them at all times.

In spite of these drawbacks there is more on the credit side of the
ledger. It is not necessary to give bees attention daily. There are
periods of weeks or months at a time when they require no looking
after. Three or four hours to a colony throughout the year is ample
to do all the work necessary. In the spring, and when the honey
crop is in the making, a few minutes at the right time does more good
than working with the colony for hours at the wrong time. This
applies especially to heading off preparations for swarming.

Beekeeping is a challenge to one’s ingenuity as well as nerve. Col-
onies are individualistic, and this has to be taken into consideration in
managing them. A person who keeps bees always has an eye to the
weather, knowing how sensitive these creatures are to changes in
temperature, sunshine, and wind velocity. One’s interest in the plant
world is immediately stimulated by watching the blossoms upon which
bees work.

Taking honey from the hive is not the least joy of working with the
the bees. No honey tastes so good as that produced by one’s own
effort. There is also the satisfaction in knowing that through your
efforts and patience the fruit trees of your neighbors bear more bounti-
fully and that as the busy bees wing their way to surrounding pas-
tures, gardens, fields, and orchards they are enriching the entire coun-
tryside. They provide a function for which there is no substitute and
give their keeper a food which man with all his skill has not been able

to duplicate.

“Ystiod 0} eAly OY} UIOIy UAATIP o1B SOMOIP oY) |B] 9YI UT

JO 90q 9[8U ay} SI 9UOIP OY,

“STENPIATPU! 000‘09 JoquInu AvUT aATY sno[ndod eB Ul pus AUOTOD B Jo yINq oy}

“WOSBIS GATOR OY} SULINP dATY oy UI p

arpuny [B1aads aq ABUT 9J0y} GOI
dn aY8UI seaq JoyIOM ayT, ‘Seeq J0qI0 OY} [Te 0} Joyjour st uaenb ay,
“ANOYC ANY 'N3SSaN® ‘A3qG YayNYONM

u0j2/qQuiefjJ—"cp6| ‘I40dayy ueruosyzIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1945.— Hambleton PEATE 2

'
\
'

1. THIS WELL-KEPT BACK-YARD APIARY IS A PAYING SIDELINE. IT IS BOTH
ATTRACTIVE AND PROFITABLE.

2. A BACK-YARD APIARY COMFORTABLY TUCKED AWAY FOR THE WINTER }

“‘BIUIO[I[BO PUB SoeIBIg WINYINOS 9y) UIOIy auIOD saeq asevyoRd
ISOJA’ ‘“Sooq JO spunod ¢ puB eenb suo Jo sjsisuod aseyoRd yoRg

SRS fel
“WYVMS WY ONIENLdVvD NI NOSSA7] V “NMO MAN YISHL OL WAHL LYOdSNVYL OL NVW
S3SAIS03YM NOILVYANSEDSD YAONNOA AHL AO YSEWAW V “2 “SSHYdxXy AHL YOS ONILIVM SAS AO SADVHOVd 1

A RD a

€ 3iv1d uoja/quiepj—"cp6] *qaoday urluosyytWG

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Hambleton
= St Sen
_ f Z”

Py te

a ke

PLATE 4

: sl
cot Sat Pe

1. A SWARM THAT HAS BEEN CUT FROM THE LIMB OF A TREE

Placed at the entrance to the hive, the bees enter of their own accord,

As soon as a]l bees have entered,

the hive may be moved to a permanent location,

2. WORKING WITH BEES IS PLEASANT, CLEAN, AND

ALWAYS OUT OF DOORS.
THE IMPORTANCE OF PLANTS!

By WILLIAM J. RopBins

Professor of Botany, Columbia University, and Director of the New York
Botanical Garden

Nothing I have to say here is new; all of it has been known for many
years, some of it for a century or more. Yet I believe that the repeti-
tion from time to time of facts of fundamental import has its place.
Even scientists can on occasion review with profit the broad signifi-
cance of the material on which they spend their lives. One group of
facts of the character I mention concerns the place occupied by plants
in the life of man and the economy of nature.

PLANTS THE BASIS OF LIFE

Plants are the basis upon which all other life depends. In the last
analysis they supply us with all the food we eat, they maintain the
oxygen content of the air and they are the primary source of those
important accessory foods, the vitamins. Without plants we would
starve to death, die of suffocation, and expire from a combination of
deficiency diseases. In addition, plants are the chief means by which
the energy of the sun is and has been in ages past caught and stored
for us in usable form. Without plants fire would be unknown because
there would be no wood or coal or petroleum to burn, and electricity—
except as a natural phenomenon—would be at most limited to areas
freely supplied with water power.

The essential relation of plants to the food we eat, the air we breathe,
and the energy we dissipate with such reckless abandon is based on
two of their characteristics. These are their ability to store the energy
of the sun’s rays in sugar, starch, cellulose, oils, fats, and other con-
stituents of the plant body, and their ability to construct from simple
and elementary substances types of chemical compounds necessary for
the existence of animals, including ourselves.

1 Address of the vice president and chairman for 1943 of the Section on the Botanical
Sciences, American Association for the Advancement of Science, Cleveland, September 1944.
Reprinted by permission from Science, vol. 100, No. 2603, Nov. 17, 1944.

305
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

The first of these powers, limited from a practical standpoint to
plants which possess the green pigment chlorophyll, is the familiar
process of photosynthesis in which the plant transforms water obtained
from the soil and gaseous carbon dioxide from the air into sugar and
oxygen. In the course of photosynthesis, which occurs only in the
light, energy from the sun is stored in the product sugar and in the
starch, wood, oils, and fats, or other organic substances constructed
by living things from this sugar. The energy we obtain by burning
coal, lignite, peat, and petroleum was stored by the activity of plants
in the dim past. It represents our capital stock of usable energy and
once dissipated cannot be recovered. The energy in wood, sugar, plant
and animal oils and fats released by burning or by the metabolism
of living things is that part of the sun’s energy stored in our time.
This can be regenerated within a reasonable period by the activity of
plants now growing. Other sources of power, water power, wind
power, power from the tides, are minor in comparison with the energy
which has been and is being stored by the photosynthesis of plants.

The major features of this essential process were discovered and
elaborated by Joseph Priestley, Ingenhousz, Boussingault, and others
over a period of about 100 years beginning in 1771 and are taught in
every course in botany and biology. The details of how chlorophyll
works are, however, still unknown, and the basic and essential character
of the process is not yet a part of our national thinking. If it were,
the small group of men who are attempting to discover how photosyn-
thesis occurs—that is, how plants store the sun’s rays—would receive
more encouragement and assistance than they do, and in the discussions
of the future of synthetic rubber made from petroleum we would see
some consideration given to the wisdom, from the long view, of using
petroleum in quantity to make something which can be produced from
the air and water by the activity of plants.

Perhaps the significance of photosynthesis for our mechanical age
could be more clearly grasped if it were possible to prepare a balance
sheet on the world’s store of available energy and the rate at which it
is being dissipated. This cannot be done. We can say that the coal
and petroleum burned annually represents a net loss of potential
energy, and we can also say that in time, though not in what time, we
will have to depend upon the energy fixed annually by plants unless
some other source at present not at our command, for example, atomic
energy, is discovered and methods for its utilization devised.

How much energy is fixed annually by plants? Abbot has esti-
mated that the energy given off by the sun amounts to the equivalent
of 4X 10% tons of coal annually, of which the earth intercepts a small
fraction, the equivalent of 210" tons of coal. According to Berl,
plants fix each year 2.7X10" metric tons of carbon, which is the

IMPORTANCE OF PLANTS—ROBBINS 307

equivalent of somewhere near 3X10" tons of coal. If these figures
are approximately correct, then about 0.15 percent of that part of the
sun’s energy which falls on the earth is caught annually and stored
by plants.

Riley has estimated the photosynthetic efficiency of the world as a
whole to be 0.18 percent and that of the land areas 0.09 percent.

Another set of data leads to somewhat the same conclusion. Tran-
seau calculated that 1.6 percent of the sun’s energy was utilized by a
field of corn in Illinois during the 100 days of its growing season.
Since for much of the rest of the year a cornfield lacks vegetation
it would appear that something less than 1 percent of the sun’s energy
annually reaching corn land in Illinois is fixed. In some parts of the
Tropics and other sections of the world where vegetation is active
the year round this proportion would be larger; on the other hand, in
the Arctic and in deserts it would be much less. We may be justified,
therefore, in assuming that the annual energy fixation of plants ap-
proximates the equivalent of 310" tons of coal.

This astronomical figure is at first sight quite comforting, par-
ticularly when we learn that in energy value it is over 200 times the
coal and oil burned in 1938. The difficulty is that most of this an-
nual income is not used. Wood, alcohol produced in fermentation,
and plant waste play but a minor part in furnishing heat or me-
chanical energy because of their inconvenience, expense, or lack of
adaptability to modern machinery. We depend at present upon coal
and petroleum, the world’s capital stock of available energy, to supply
the amount required for this mechanical age.

Berl has reported a method by which motor fuel equal in many
respects to petroleum can be produced from cellulose, starch, sugar,
and other carbohydrates, thus offering the possibility of replacing our
stock of usable stored energy by utilizing part of the current day-to-
day income. Carbohydrates only can be used by Berl’s method;
lignin, protein, oils, and fats are unsuitable as crude materials. How-
ever, if all the carbohydrates in all the plants were used as Berl sug-
gests, and this is obviously impracticable, we would have but 6 times
the present annual consumption of petroleum and less than 2 times
the equivalent of the annual world consumption of petroleum and
coal. If all the world used coal and petroleum as we did in this
country in 1942, the total energy fixed by plants would be but 25 times
that dissipated and all the carbohydrates made each year would yield
about one-third the amount the world would need. We can only
guess what these figures would be if we knew the energy consumption
for the war years of 1944 and 1945.

Two years ago the National Science Fund asked a representative
group of outstanding scientists to list the problems with which scien-
308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

tific research should be concerned in the postwar era and on which
special emphasis should be placed. Future sources of energy stood
third on the list. Its importance was surpassed, in the judgment of
these men, only by the analysis and study of human behavior and the
general field of medical problems.

I shall not linger long on the second characteristic of plants so nec-
essary for the existence of other life on this planet; that is, their
ability to construct from simple and elementary substances types of
chemical compounds essential for animals. Their capacity for mak-
ing sugar from carbon dioxide and water, constructing amino acids
from inorganic nitrogen and organic-carbon compounds, and for
synthesizing vitamins enables us to live. Plants are able chemists and
there is no substitute for them.

PLANTS AND RESEARCH IN SCIENCE

It would seem perhaps appropriate to terminate a discussion of
the importance of the plant kingdom after having pointed out the
essential relation of plants to our sources of energy and the de-
pendence of all life on their existence. However, plants do more
than fill our stomachs, warm our bodies, and help us to go quickly
from here to there. For example, plants are useful for the inves-
tigation of problems in science. For this purpose they have cer-
tain advantages. They can be grown in large numbers, and we
have no compunction in destroying them in quantity if it is desirable
for the purposes of the research. Their firm, well-delineated cell
walls, general structure, and methods of reproduction make them
well adapted to the investigation of certain kinds of problems, and
their infinite variety in morphology and physiology offers oppor-
tunity to select an organism best fitted to serve as experimental
material for attack on a particular question.

The study of plants played a major part in the development of
our knowledge of cells and the formulation of the cell theory. Cells
were first. described by Robert Hooke in 1665 from charcoal, cork,
and other plant tissues. The discovery of the nucleus is generally
ascribed to Robert Brown, botanist, who made his announcement in
1831. The first careful description of cell division we owe to the
botanist Hugo von Mohl, who introduced the term “protoplasm” in
its present sense. Chromosomes were figured by the botanist Anton
Schneider in 1873 and first adequately described by Strassburger
in 1875.

In many other directions we find that research with plants has
led to fundamental discoveries. The investigations of Payen and
Persoz in 1833 on the diastatic activity of germinated barley opened
the door to the field of enzymes. Mendel’s laws, the foundation of

IMPORTANCE OF PLANTS—ROBBINS 309

our understanding of heredity and genetics, were discovered by
experimenting with peas. ‘The idea of hormones was first pre-
sented by the botanist Sachs in 1880. The essential nature of the
so-called minor essential mineral elements, for example, manganese,
copper, and zinc, was demonstrated by Bertrand and his coworkers
for the black mold Aspergillus niger considerably before their im-
portance in animal nutrition was recognized. The discovery of the
nature of virus diseases to which belong the agents responsible for
smallpox, yellow fever, influenza, poliomyelitis, virus pneumonia,
foot and mouth disease, hog cholera, rabies and many other afflictions
of man, animals, and plants began with experiments by Iwanowski
in 1892 on the mosaic disease of tobacco and was completed by
Stanley in 1935 by the isolation from tobacco afflicted with mosaic
of the active agent as a nucleoprotein of high molecular weight. The
influence of day length on reproduction was demonstrated for plants
by Garner and Allard some years before the correlation of repro-
ductive activity in animals and day length was investigated.

Perhaps nowhere is the importance of work with plants for scien-
tific objectives of general application demonstrated better than that
which has been carried on with yeast. Pasteur’s investigations on
fermentation contributed in a major way to the germ theory of dis-
ease and to his later discoveries in the field of medicine. Investi-
gations on the chemical changes induced in carbohydrates by yeast
have had an immense influence on our knowledge of respiration and
the intermediary metabolism of carbohydrates in animals, including
man. At least two vitamins, pantothenic acid and biotin, were
discovered from a study of yeast.

Many other examples could be cited illustrating the importance
of research on plant material. What I have said, however, will suf-
fice to show that the study of plants has given us in the past, as
it will in the future, concepts of general significance in biology, a
knowledge of principles applicable to other living things, including
ourselves.

RECREATIONAL VALUE OF PLANTS

I scarcely need call your attention to the recreational value of plants.
The opportunity to enjoy flowers, shrubs, and trees acts as an antidote
for the artificiality and tension of city life, relieves the drabness and
monotony so frequently associated with existence in a small town or
in the country, and satisfies a deep-seated desire in all of us. It can-
not be expressed in units of value, though it has been recognized in art,
poetry, architecture, and design since the beginnings of recorded his-
tory. Isee it evidenced by the thousands of films exposed by a part of
the million or more people who visit the New York Botanical Garden
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

annually; by the letters which come to my desk from those who feel
impelled to tell me “the great pleasure it is to wander through flower
gardens and conservatories and to spend quiet, peaceful, restful hours
in the grounds,” to quote from one of them; by the nearly 150,000
people who in 1938 attended the International Flower Show in the
Grand Central Palace in New York City between Monday noon and
the succeeding Saturday night with an admission charge of $1.10; by
the universal interest in gardening and the numerous organizations
associated with it, garden clubs, Rock Garden Society, Iris Society,
Dahlia Society, Herb Society, Rose Society, Begonia Society, Succu-
lent Society, and so on; by the elaborate gardens maintained by the
wealthy and the plants raised on window sills in country kitchen and
city apartment.

Someone has said that gardening and a love of gardens are essential
components of a full, sane, and rounded life, and traflic with the soil
and the green things that grow from it is one of the noblest and most
healthful associations man may adopt. To own a bit of ground, dig
it with a spade, plant seeds and watch them grow is a most satisfying
thing, and fondness for such activity often comes back to a man after
he runs the round of pleasure and business. As Henry Ward Beecher
once wrote, every book which interprets the secret lore of fields and
gardens, every essay that brings us nearer to an understanding of trees
and shrubs and even weeds is a contribution to the wealth and happi-
ness of man.

A garden gives the possessor fruit, vegetables, and flowers; it also
teaches patience and philosophy, pacifies and heals the body and the
mind. This is recognized in the employment of gardening in occupa-
tional therapy by hospitals and prisons, a practice which has been
used successfully and is increasing. This was not always so. Oscar
Wilde, writing of his own experience in an English jail, said:

But neither milk-white rose nor red
May bloom in prison air

The shard, the pebble and the flint
Are what they give us there

For flowers have been known to heal
A common man’s despair.

At the New York Botanical Garden some years ago we received an
anonymous gift of money from an individual who stated that it was
sent because the opportunity of enjoying the plantings in the Garden
had prevented self-destruction. If one person was impelled to express
his appreciation in this fashion there must have been many others less
articulate or with smaller need who have felt the influence of plants in
times of stress. I believe that in the brave postwar world many are
now planning, gardening will be recognized and given an important
place because of its occupational and spiritual values.

IMPORTANCE OF PLANTS—ROBBINS 311

May I add a word of caution. We need nothing but our senses to
enjoy the beauty of flowers, but the deeper satisfaction of knowing
them and growing them requires a breadth of knowledge and expe-
rience surprising to the uninitiated. So long as any man out of
employment is considered to be a capable gardener, and seed catalogs
are looked upon as adequate texts, gardening is likely to be a series of
disappointments which only the persistent will survive. Gardening
as a profession requires training, practice, and a body of special infor-
mation, as other professions do, and the amateur, whether individual
or corporate does well to look to the professional for guidance and for
help. The Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew and at Edinburgh as well
as similar institutions on the continent have long recognized gardening
as a profession and have conducted courses of instruction in theory
and practice. In this country few institutions have as yet concerned
themselves with this aspect of education, though in the postwar period
there is going to be a considerable need for it.

ECONOMIC IMPORTANCE OF PLANTS

Everyone recognizes the economic importance of the common field
crops, wheat, oats, and corn, of the vegetables and fruits, and of lum-
ber. These are items in our everyday living. Not everyone realizes,
however, how many other products are obtained from plants. They
are the source of linseed oil, corn, and coconut oil, turpentine, lacquer,
varnish, and resin, coffee, tea, and other beverages, perfumes, flavor-
ings, and spices, drugs and insecticides, paper, cordage, and clothing,
cellulose for artificial silk, and a hundred other useful products. The
plant-extractives industry alone, including drugs and flavorings, prob-
ably amounts in the United States to between 100 and 160 million
dollars annually. It took a war, a war which cut us off from normal
supplies, to make us appreciate how much our economy and our com-
fort and convenience depend upon many of these plant products from
distant places. Rubber and quinine are two of the most generally
known, but there are many others, for example, the sponge of the luffa
gourd, the insecticide pyrethrum, chicle for chewing gum, the drug
ergot, agar agar, and cork. And yet in spite of the varied materials
we now obtain from plants the potentialities of the plant world are
but partially explored. What might be called economic botany is
largely an inheritance from our untutored ancestors who obtained
their information over the centuries by trial and error. Very little
systematic effort has been made to explore the plant kingdom with the
idea of exploiting products as yet unknown or unused. The wide con-
tacts brought through this war to hundreds of thousands of our young
men, many of them already trained in science, may result in new and
important uses for plants. The opportunity exists because not only
312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

are familiar plants incompletely investigated, but there are consider-
able areas of the earth botanically unexplored and thousands of species
of plants still unknown to science. Any one of them might become
as important to us as Penicillium notatum.

I cannot close this discussion of the economic aspects of plants with-
out referring to their importance in disease and decay. It is not my
intention, however, to discuss bacteria, yeasts, and molds as causes of
disease in other plants and in animals and man, nor to elaborate on
their relation to decay except to call attention to the importance of
the fungi in rotting wood and cloth, molding food, short-circuiting
electrical instruments, and deteriorating optical equipment in the
Tropics. Although those of us who live in the Temperate Zone are
acquainted with the fungus rots of telephone poles, railroad ties, and
house timbers and the minor losses from mildewed curtains or moldy
food, we have little conception of the destructiveness of molds in the
moist Tropics. Their control is a matter of major concern.

Another way in which plants contribute to our economic system is
through the association of micro-organisms in the formation of various
products, for example, cheese which depends upon the activity of the
lactic acid and other bacteria and various molds; beer, wine, and other
fermented liquids produced by yeast; sauerkraut, vinegar, soy sauce,
and many others less well known or desirable. Bacteria, yeasts, and
molds as we learn to know them better are increasingly used for pro-
ducing specific chemical compounds which are beyond the skill of the
laboratory worker or which can be made more cheaply by the micro-
organism. Alcohol, acetic aid, acetone, glycerine, citric acid, gluconic
acid, and riboflavin are some of these compounds. The most recent
and illustrious addition to this list is, of course, penicillin.

“Botany,” said Thomas Jefferson, “I rank with the most valuable
sciences whether we consider its subjects as furnishing the principal
substances of life to man and beast, delicious varieties for our tables,
refreshments from our orchards, the adornment of our flower-borders,
shade and perfume of our groves, materials for our buildings or me-
dicaments for our bodies.”

Jefferson wrote these words in 1814. Priestley had but recently
demonstrated that plants produce oxygen; the uniqueness and impor-
tance of photosynthesis was still to be recognized; coal and petroleum
were still to be developed; vitamins and amino acids, the relation of
plants to them and their importance in animal nutrition were un-
known; rubber was a plaything; the relation of bacteria and molds to
disease and decay was still to be discovered and penicillin was a long
way in the future. Thomas Jefferson estimated the importance of
plants on the basis of the knowledge about them available in 1814.
What would he have said today ?

FUNGI AND MODERN AFFAIRS!

By J. RAMSBOTTOM, O. B. E.

British Museum (Natural History)

It is a little surprising that fungi should have received so little con-
sideration from academic botanists, for they are more numerous in
species and in individuals than is the rest of the plant kingdom. They
are classed in the vegetable kingdom, for with the old divisions, plants,
animals, and minerals, there is nowhere else for them. But they are not
plants in the ordinary sense of the word as they have no chlorophyll and
there is no evidence that they were derived from organisms so provided.
A great amount of research has been carried out during the last half-
century to ascertain the precise methods by which green plants build up
carbohydrates; but comparatively little attention has been paid to the
manifold and diverse physiological processes by which fungi obtain
their nutriment. In their search for food, fungi play many parts in the
drama of Nature and in modern affairs.

To many the word fungus conveys the idea of something mysterious
or foreboding: to others mushrooms and toadstools. J. Bauhin
appeared to combine the two ideas when he derived the word from
funus (funeral) and ago (to put in motion), a derivation which John
Ray considered appropriate even if possibly not correct.

What is a mushroom? ‘The term is often loosely applied to those
larger fungi which are edible, it being assumed that only the field
mushroom and possibly one or more of its near allies are safe to eat; the
rest, assumed to be poisonous, are grouped together as toadstools. But
the assumption puts the facts the wrong way round, for there are less
than a dozen species which are in any way poisonous; the vast majority
are harmless. It would be illogical to speak of even the 300 or more
edible species as mushrooms and the others as toadstools; it seems
preferable to call all agarics “toadstools,” restricting “mushroom” for
the species of the genus Psalliota: in this way, moreover, some of our
insular and peculiar prejudice against them might be toned down.

1 Substance of three lectures delivered at the Royal Institution on February 15, 22, and
29, 1944. Reprinted by permission, with additions by the author (enclosed in brackets),
from Nature, vol. 153, May 27, 1944.

313
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Toadstools have been eaten from the earliest times. There is no ref-
erence to them in the Bible, but classical writers leave us in no doubt
that fungi were well known as peculiar organisms of strange growth, so
well known indeed that they were the subject of puns. Accidents
sometimes occurred and, as these seem to be specially noted, it has been
assumed by some that the use of fungi as food was regarded as too
dangerous to be indulged in. What is more probable was that fungi
were a common food, but accidents were especially noted because of the
difficulty of distinguishing between wholesome and poisonous species.
It was comparatively simple to get a knowledge of what plants and
fruits are safe to eat for they are easy to recognize again, they are last-
ing, and, even if annual, they are constant in their time and place.
Consequently they all had names. Fungi, on the other hand, are diffi-
cult to describe, and the fleshy ones are of irregular occurrence and of
short duration. For this reason we find rules for distinguishing be-
tween edible and poisonous species rather than names and descriptions.
Many of these rules are still current—“peeling,” and the nonblackening
of a silver spoon being the most widely believed, and this throughout
Europe, possibly owing to their being repeated in the old herbals. All
are utterly worthless, even dangerous. There is only one real test.
Many have tried it, and as there are numerous records of experiments
which ended in disaster, we have a mass of evidence which relieves us of
the necessity of personal trial.

It is only in Great Britain that toadstools are rejected as food.
Eighty years ago, five or six species were on sale in Covent Garden
Market; but later only the mushroom, wild or cultivated, was displayed.
It is hard to account for the British prejudice against them. It has
been suggested that it is because of our high standard of living, or
alternatively because of the absence of well-wooded country: but these
do not explain the fear most people have of them.

In Continental countries with hard and long winters, fungi are dried
and pickled and form a staple food while the frosts last; they also serve
in place of meat during religious fasts. In all Continental countries
fungi are sold in the markets, and many towns have special fungus
markets. Usually there is some sort of control, and the number of
species allowed to be sold varies from half a dozen to more than 300.

Though in Great Britain the chief use of toadstools is as appetizing
additions to other dishes, they have a certain food value. There is
need of more precise information on this, for many of the old analyses
led to extravagant claims. Darwin recorded that the Terra del Fue-
gians eat no vegetable food except Cyttaria and a few berries, whereas
Lettow-Vorbeck recounts that when, during the East African cam-
paign of the War of 1914-18 the difficulties with food had reached a
most embarrassing stage, the German troops were able to carry on

FUNGI AND MODERN AFFAIRS—RAMSBOTTOM 315

owing to finding enormous quantities of edible fungi which were to
them as manna was to the children of Israel.

There are a number of species which have always had a good repu-
tation as edible, which moreover are easy to identify and which cannot
readily be confused with any poisonous forms. For those not making
a special study of the subject, it is advisable to learn to recognize some
of these, rather than to experiment with others about which all that is
known is that they are not among those regarded as poisonous.

The most deadly poisonous species is Amanita phalloides (including
the two white varieties or closely allied species A. verna and A. virosa).
It is responsible for practically all the recorded deaths from fungus
poisoning and the death rate is more than 50 percent—indeed, it has
been put as high as 90 percent. There is a characteristic period of
quiescence after the fungus is eaten, on an average 12 hours, though
it may beas long as 40. Death may occur on the first day, but is usually
on the third or fourth day. There are apparently four poisons con-
tained in this species: Amanita haemolysin (phallin), a glucoside
readily destroyed by heat and digestive juices; Amanita toxin with a
complicated and indefinite chemical structure; and, according to the
work of F. Lynen and U. Wieland (1937), phalloidin, which is quickly
acting though destroyed by heat, and an additional slower-acting
toxin. Death through eating the cooked fungus is apparently due to
the heat-resistant Amanita toxin. [H. Wieland and B. Witkop in 1940
showed that phalloidin is a hexapeptide with the probable formula

CsoHss0,N,S

and in 1941 Wieland and R. Hallermayer stated that Amanita toxin
which they called Amanitin has the character of a weak acid and con-
tains peptide-like groupings; the formula is

, Cs3Has (or 47)O12N;S.

There are only three poisons present, the report of a fourth being due
to impure preparation confusing the findings.] Cures have been re-
ported by the use of a “sérum antiphalloidien” prepared at the Pasteur
Institute; by intravenous injection with 20 percent glucose solution ;
by intravenous injection with 10 percent sodium chloride solution; by
administering the finely chopped-up stomachs of three rabbits and the
brains of seven.

Amanita mappa, formerly considered as very poisonous, is edible
but not worth eating. Amanita muscaria, which contains muscarine,
mycetoatropine, and choline, does not cause death in healthy people.
The symptoms of poisoning usually simulate alcoholic intoxication,
though there are occasionally gastro-intestinal disturbances. Amanita
pantherina produces similar sympoms.
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

The remaining species which are in any way dangerous, raw or
cooked, are Lepiota helveola, Entoloma lividum, Inocybe patouillardi,
Boletus satanas and Gyromitra esculenta, though some other species
are very indigestible and consequently may cause disturbance.

Claviceps purpurea (ergot) is a poisonous fungus of another group.
The two different types of ergotism, the convulsive and the gangrenous,
are now well known. Five alkaloids have been isolated from ergot:
ergotinine, ergotoxine, ergotamine, ergotaminine, and ergometrine.
As its name suggests, ergotosterol was first extracted from ergot; ?
histamine also. The use of ergot in childbith is mentioned by Lonicer
in 1582 in the first record of the fungus. At present ergot is the only
fungus which figures in the British Pharmacopoeia.

Fungi, being without chlorophyll, have a physiology which in many
ways Is more animal-like than plant-like. Obviously there are two
main sources of food, living organisms and dead organic material.
Fungi make use of both—they parasitize all kinds of living organisms,
and there is no sort of organic matter not liable to attack. But though
they are responsible for the greater part of plant diseases and they
cause destruction to stored products of every kind, the changes they
bring about are not all to our detriment as living organisms. They act
as scavengers reducing dead material into substances available for
plant life, and moreover prevent the cluttering up of the earth’s sur-
face. The action of soil fungi on plant material was overlooked when
untreated jute sandbags were filled with sand and even ordinary earth
at the outbreak of the present War. ‘The modern compost heap is a
contrivance to bring about the breaking down of similar cellulose sub-
stances.

Forest trees are subject to attack by larger fungi as well as by micro-
scopic forms. Timber from such trees is unsuitable for most purposes
and, moreover, if not properly seasoned, may continue to rot. Fallen
logs and stumps have a characteristic flora, and several of the species
occur on wooden fences, gateposts and similar structures; Lentinus
lepideus, for example, attacks wood pavement blocks, telegraph poles,
and railway sleepers.

If wood is to be preserved, it must be kept dry or treated with some
fungicide. The chief agent of destruction of structural timber is
Merulius lacrymans, the dry-rot fungus: there are other fungi causing
dry rot, but the damage they produce is trivial. If timber is properly
seasoned and then kept dry by ventilation so that it never contains as
much as 20 percent moisture, the fungus will not attack it; otherwise
damage is almost certain. At the present time, the amount of dry rot
in London calls for serious attention. It is easy to understand how

?Ergotoxine has been shown to contain three different alkaloids with their isomers.
In addition, ergobasine and its isomer ergobasinine have been isolated, together with an
isomer of ergometrine.

FUNGI AND MODERN AFFAIRS—RAMSBOTTOM 317

houses which have been severely bombed are liable to have their timber
affected, but blasts have cracked water pipes with a consequent seepage
of water through the walls; leaves and other rubbish have caused over-
flows which run down the walls; shelters have been constructed so
that ventilation and even watercourses have been interfered with; ven-
tilation bricks have been stopped up to prevent entrance of gas; or
sandbags which became rain-sodden propped up against walls, often
over air bricks; houses left unattended, with no heat and leaky roofs;
water tanks and pipes bursting, water taps left running in requisi-
tioned buildings—all have played their part in bringing about a good
deal of unnecessary waste. Furthermore, there is need for some sci-
entific control over new housing plans or we shall have a repetition
of the troubles which affected whole building estates after the War of
1914-18.

In addition to causing diseases of trees, microscopic fungi cause
disease not only of crops but also of wild plants. The most striking
point about the flora of bombed sites is the rapid appearance of special
fungus parasites, as for example Bremia lactuce on groundsel. The
idea that disease is a result of civilization is very attractive to some
minds—but is entirely false.

Fungi are the main causal agents of disease in plants. The losses
in different crops vary normally from 2 to 50 percent; figures for
the United States for wheat, oats, and barley in 1935 due to rust alone
were estimated at 277, 185, and 53 million bushels respectively. There
are many ways of combating fungus attacks, the most obvious being
the use of fungicides. Much depends upon having a thorough know]l-
edge of the life history of the parasite as well as that of the host plant,
for then the fungus can be tackled at its most vulnerable stage.

Some varieties or races of plants are immune to the strain of fungus
parasite common in the neighborhood, and much work has been done
in the attempt to breed immune races. But it is frequently overlooked
that there is often as much variation in the parsite as in the host. Thus
the problem of producing a wheat immune to black stem rust theoreti-
cally necessitates the building up of a resistance to 177 physiological
races, though, practically, only the local strains present in any one area
need be considered.

Less than a century ago, when the parasitic nature of many diseases
was beginning to be suspected, fungi were thought to be responsible for
many human affections. This was a consequence of Schoenlein’s dis-
covery in 1839 of the fungus causing favus, which was immediately
followed by Lagenbeck’s describing the fungus of thrush, and soon
afterward by Gruby’s description of ringworm. With the gradual
recognition of the predominance of bacterial diseases and the abundant
problems they presented, mycology, except for the obvious dermato-

phytosis and actinomycosis, has not received the attention due to it,
676212—46——21
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

especially in Great Britain. Many of the ringworm group are able to
live parasitically on domestic animals; some are known to live sapro-
phytically on organic debris, and others have been reported as capable
of infecting living plants. Athletes’ toe (Z'richophyton spp., E'pi-
dermophyton) has become increasingly common in Great Britain dur-
ing the past few years and is prevalent in certain sections of the fight-
ing services. But there are many less obvious diseases which have been
studied principally in France and America. That they exist elsewhere
is shown by the recent recognition of histoplasmosis (Histoplasma
capsulatum) in Great Britain. The symptoms of this disease are pro-
tean; they may simulate kala azar or pulmonary tuberculosis—and
the prognosis is bad. A recent discovery by C. W. Emmons that small
desert rodents constitute an important natural reservoir of Coccidi-
oides immitis, the cause of coccidioidal granuloma, is of importance.
This disease has been known for about half a century in North and
South America and was thought to be soil-borne. The Medical Re-
search Council has recently appointed a committee to report on the
situation of medical mycology in Great Britain.

Animals other than those domesticated are also lable to fungal dis-
ease. Insects particularly are affected, whole groups of fungi being
entomogenous; as, for example, the Laboulbeniales with about 120
genera and 1,500 species, so well monographed by Thaxter. Moreover,
it has been shown recently by C. Dreschler that there are a number of
species, Entomophthoracee and Hyphomycetes, which parasitize nem-
atodes, amcebee and other small soil inhabitants.

The extent of the damage by fungi to stored products of all kinds
is only gradually being realized. The losses in textiles have received
most attention and the investigations of the conditions in which cotton
and wool become mildewed are influencing the practices of manufac-
ture. The methods of preserving foodstuffs—sterilization, canning,
pickling, and so on—are chiefly to prevent mold attack, though they
also protect them from bacterial contamination.

The outward and visible sign of specific differences in fungi is
morphological as in green plants and animals, but this should not mask
the fact that a given species growing under definite conditions always
acts in the same way and brings about the same results. Can we so
harness any species that it will produce results useful tous? What has
Nature herself done in this direction ?

Armillaria mellea is a common toadstool which causes a good deal
of disease in trees but is also able to live saprophytically. It spreads
by means of rhizomorphs, strands of compacted mycelium which look
somewhat like flattened, branched, and anastomosing black leather
bootlaces. If these encounter potato tubers, they reduce them to
mush in 2 or 8 days. On the other hand, if the rhizomorphs meet the
tubers of the Japanese saprophytic orchid Gastrodia elata, they pene-

FUNGI AND MODERN AFFAIRS—RAMSBOTTOM 319

trate for only a certain distance and are then held in check. An un-
infected tuber sends out a dropper and the process is repeated each
year until a tuber is formed which is too small to grow. An infected
tuber, however, sends out a dropper which produces an inflorescence
the following year. It is obvious that the orchid obtains nutriment
from the rhizomorphs, which presumably act as conducting strands.
It may be that in some such reversal of parasitism we have a clue to
the origin of the more typical mycorrhiza or fungus-root. Orchids
are the classical example of obligate symbiosis, the seeds not normally
germinating unless infected by the fungus present in certain cells of
the roots. In modern methods of commercial orchid growing, either
the seeds are infected artificially with the appropriate fungus, or its
action is replaced by sowing sterilized seeds on a medium containing
sugar.

Forest trees have a layer of fungal hyphz surrounding many of
the absorbing rootlets, the fungi concerned being mainly of the toad-
stool type. Many perennial plants also have mycorrhizas, but it is
not yet certain which fungi are concerned: the usual appearance is
suggestive of Phycomycetes. Similar associations with fungi occur
throughout the plant kingdom.

The association of fungus and alga has resulted in the large homo-
geneous class Lichens.

Many insects have internal yeasts: indeed, these are supposed to
have played a definite part in the evolution of some insect groups. A
more obvious harnessing is that of the leaf-cutting ants of South
America which, as first described by Bates and amply confirmed since,
cultivate fungi of the toadstool type in their fungus gardens. An
association in which the fungus seems to be less in subjection is that of
bacteria and yeast which are active in various fermented drinks—
Mexican tibi, koumiss, kephir, leban, tea cider, ginger-beer plant—
some fermenting sugary liquids, others milk.

In addition to these combined masses, which are usually in the form
of grains, man in his early history noted that fruit Juices or other
sugary fluids underwent a change if left for some time: honeycomb
washings became mead, grape juice became wine. These much-appre-
ciated changes, the work of yeasts, were not to be left to blind chance,
and in the course of centuries the conditions controlling the changes
and finally the reason for them became known. Nowadays distillers,
brewers, many wine growers and cider manufacturers no longer rely
on some general supply or on casual wild yeasts, but maintain pure
cultures of special strains of the appropriate species which have proved
to give the best results in the conditions of production. Here we have
the breaking down of organic matter by fungi to give a desired result.
It must be stressed, however, that a fungus acts only in a certain way
in definite circumstances.
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Pasteur’s classical researches on fermentation were a direct outcome
of the misfortunes that befell France after the war of 1870. It is sur-
prising how often an odd fact he mentioned more or less incidentally
has been followed up by later investigations. Thus during the War
of 1914-18, German scientific men turned their attention to Pasteur’s
observations that proteins could be synthesized by yeasts from inor-
ganic nitrogen, including ammonium salts. The fact that yeast,
including brewers’ yeast, contains a high percentage of protein had
long been known and attempts were made to utilize the surplus
quantities from brewers until the production of beer was cut by 60
percent. In 1915, Hayduck announced that he had discovered what
he called “mineral yeast” as a contaminant at a pressed-yeast factory.
This yeast, which is non-sporing and was afterward called Zorula
utilis, gave much better yields of protein than did other yeasts and,
moreover, produced little alcohol. A yeast product was put on the
market, but large-scale production apparently could not be carried
on because of lack of sugar.

With the outbreak of the present war, the possibility of a shortage
of protein had to be faced, and the problem was allotted to A. C.
Thaysen and his colleagues at the Chemical Research Laboratory.
Eventually they decided that Zorula (Torulopsis) utilis was most
likely to prove satisfactory. As the situation developed, it was realized
that the postwar feeding of ravaged Europe would be one of the major
problems, and that for some time vitamin B deficiency would be an
additional danger. An analysis of dried 7orwla utilis showed that, as
well as 45 to 50 percent of a protein only slightly less nutritive than
a good animal protein, this “food yeast” contains the whole known
range of water-soluble B vitamins. Further, it mixes readily with
water and with milk and can be used in all sorts of ways. Large-scale
manufacture is to be carried out in Jamaica where molasses is abund-
ant—200 gm. of molasses give 50 to 60 gm. of food yeast. The Colonial
Development Fund has granted £150,000 for the erection of the plant
and it is estimated that food yeast can be marketed at 6d. per pound.
Many other parts of the Empire are considering erecting plants for
the benefit of the local population. It is understood that in Germany
the yeast is again being used with hydrolyzed wood as the source of
sugar.

At Teddington, a strain of 7. utilis was developed which will grow
better at tropical temperatures than would the normal form. It gives
a quicker yield and has less variability in size. Later, a giant strain
(v. major) was produced by acting on the cells with camphor: the
biochemical activities are identical, the variety is stable, its cells are
more readily separable and its generative time is considerably less.

Another observation by Pasteur was that in ordinary yeast fermen-
tation a small percentage of glycerine is always produced. During

FUNGI AND MODERN AFFAIRS—RAMSBOTTOM 321

the War of 1914-18, the Germans were short of glycerol for making
explosives. Neuberg, in 1911, had begun to publish his studies on the
stages leading to alcohol formation by yeast. When experimenting
on aldehyde fixation with sodium sulphite, there was a large increase
in the percentage of glycerol. Connstein and Liidecke successfully
applied this to large-scale production; many will remember the wild
guesses that were made at the time concerning the source of the en-
emy’s glycerine. They produced 1,000 tons a month by the method,
the average yield being 20 to 25 percent of the sugar used, and in
addition large quantities of alcohol and acetaldehyde were obtained
as byproducts. It has been said that it enabled the Germans to carry
on the war for another 12 months. The Americans, hearing that gly-
cerine was being produced by yeasts, succeeded in devising a couple
of similar processes. H. Raistrick and his colleagues, after 1918, used
a modified sulphite process at Nobel’s factory at Ardeer and increased
the yields of glycerine in the fermentation liquor to 35 to 40 percent
of the weight of sugar fermented. Subsequent improvements in the
methods of recovery of glycerine from the fermentation liquors have
reduced the cost of fermentation glycerine to a figure comparable with
that of soap lye glycerine.

One of Pasteur’s statements, “We are convinced that a day will come
when molds will be utilized in certain industrial operations, on account
of their power of destroying organic matter”, * in spite of its definite-
ness, was generally disregarded. However, his favorite pupil, van
Tieghem, established the importance of molds in the biochemical field.
He investigated the method of production of gallic acid from heaps of
vegetable matter containing tannin—gall nuts, sumach, tea, ete—
watered and allowed to go moldy. He showed in 1867 that the mold
principally concerned is Aspergillus niger. 'The present-day method
of production is to inoculate clear tannin extract with this fungus.

It was not until 1893 that the first real advance was made, when
Wehmer described the production of citric acid by two species of
Penicillium (Citromyces) grown in nutrient sucrose solutions con-
taining calcium carbonate. It has been found that a number of molds
produce citric acid, but the one used on a commercial scale is Asper-
gillus niger. In 1922, Italy produced about 90 percent of the world’s
supply of calcium citrate from citrous juices, but within 8 years the
export had practically stopped because of the commercial production
by molds—10,000,000 pounds annually in the United States alone.
There is now an International Citric Acid Agreement.

The process is a surface fermentation of a nutrient sucrose solution,
with a comparatively large amount of mineral acid which prevents
the growth of bacteria and most molds. The solution is seeded with

3 Pasteur, L., Studies on fermentation. English translation, p. 261, 1879. I am
indebted to Dr. J. Yuill for directing my attention to this.
322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

spores of Aspergillus niger, and as these germinate the surface becomes
covered with a frail pellicle which rapidly develops and, by the end
of the fermentation (8 to 12 days), becomes a fairly thick and deeply
intricately folded mat but still quite white. Most of the sugar has by
then disappeared from the solution, its place being taken by citric
acid practically unaccompanied by other organic acids: the solution
is much more acid than good lemon juice. Some of the sugar, how-
ever, is converted into fungus starch and some into dextrin. The
standard way to recover the citric acid from the fermented liquor is
to add milk of lime and heat nearly to boiling point, then filter off the
difficultly soluble calcium citrate and wash with hot water.

Another process in which Aspergillus niger is used is the produc-
tion of gluconic acid, the calcium salt of which is of importance in
pharmacy. Here the best results are obtained from well-aerated sub-
merged growth, which is most economically accomplished by using
rotatory drums.

Molds are able to build up their normal cell constituents from an
amazingly large and varied series of carbon compounds. Moreover,
as seen with Aspergillus niger, the same species of mold, when growing
in slightly different conditions, can produce different substances.
Citric acid, oxalic acid, gluconic acid, ethyl alcohol, and mannitol,
which may be regarded as the break-down products of the original
sugars, are formed by many species.

There are, however, many substances which are built up by mold
growth, and for the most part these are highly specific products of
a single species, or of a few related species. The chief worker in this
field has been Raistrick, who, following on his work on glycerol pro-
duction, has been engaged with numerous collaborators in investigat-
ing the general biochemistry of molds. The scheme followed has been
to use glucose as the sole source of carbon in a synthetic culture me-
dium—usually Czapek-Dox medium. In this long-continued and pro-
ductive research, about a hundred substances previously unknown to
science have been prepared and many of them synthesized. It may
well be that some of these will be found useful in some way or other,
but their present interest is chiefly in giving us a picture of what hap-
pens inside the cell. Mold pigments, simple quinones, polyhydroxy-
anthraquinones and hydroxyxanthones, simple benzene compounds,
chlorine-containing metabolic products, derivatives of tetronic acid
(stimulants of bacterial growth), antibacterial and antifungal sub-
stances are included in the products.t It is a matter of phylogenetic
interest that the lichen acid physcion (parietin) is formed by 16 species
or strains in the Aspergillus glaucus series.

‘A wide range of these special chemical compounds was exhibited.

FUNGI AND MODERN AFFAIRS—RAMSBOTTOM 323

To understand the magnitude of work of this kind one has to take
into consideration that in a given species there are strains some of
which are more active, some less; further, that the results differ accord-
ing to the chemical constitution of the medium and the physical condi-
tions of growth.

Ever since fungi and bacteria were grown on artificial media, it has
been observed that in mixed cultures one organism may have no
apparent effect on the growth of the other, or it may influence it either
favorably or unfavorably. This favorable effect (synergism) may be
considered as an aspect of symbiosis; the unfavorable (antagonism) as
an aspect of the struggle for existence.

Antagonism is gradually becoming recognized as a factor in plant
disease. The fungi which abound in the soil include some species
which are able to become parasites and cause destructive root rots.
Chemical and physical conditions of the soil determine the amount
of a given species, but they also act on the other fungi present, one or
more of which may have an antagonistic reaction toward the parasite.
Thus the mold 7richoderma viride, common in the soil, has an
antagonistic effect on the growth of the tree parasite Armillaria mellea.

The phenomenon of antagonism has been brought strikingly to
public notice following an observation by A. Fleming in 1928. When
studying the growth of Staphylococcus on solid media in Petri dishes.
he noticed that the colonies underwent lysis in a zone surrounding a
growth of Penicillium which contaminated one of his cultures. He
grew the Penicillium in broth culture, and found that the filtrate was
some two or three times as effective as pure carbolic acid in stopping
the growth of Staphylococcus.

For convenience the name “penicillin” was used in place of the rather
cumbersome phrase “mold-broth filtrate.” Fleming showed that peni-
cillin had a specific action on certain bacteria (Staphylococcus,
Streptococcus, Pneumococcus, Gonococcus and the diphtheria bacil-
lus), but that others (B. colt and B. influenza) were not affected.
The first practical application of penicillin was the isolation of the
insensitive Pfeiffer’s bacillus, which in the respiratory tract is usually
associated with organisms highly sensitive to penicillin. But Fleming
also stated that penicillin had no poisonous effect and that “it may
be an efficient antiseptic for application to, or injection with, areas
infected with penicillin-sensitive microbes.” In 1931, he prophesied
that “it is quite likely that it, or a chemical of a similar nature, will
be used in the treatment of septic wounds.” In the following year
Raistrick and his collaborators grew the Penicillium (which Thom
identified as P. notatuwm) in a synthetic medium consisting solely of
glucose and inorganic salts, and defined the optimum conditions of
324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

growth. They acidified the medium slightly, extracted with ether,
and on removal of the ether obtained the antibacterial substance in a
crude form and to it restricted the name “penicillin.” It was found
to be extremely labile. A very definite step had been taken * and sul-
fonamides were not yet discovered. It remained for H. W. Florey and
his collaborators to reveal the outstanding therapeutic properties of
penicillin. Florey worked first with lysozyme, another of Fleming’s
discoveries, and in the search for other antibacterial substances pro-
duced by micro-organisms, E. Chain and Florey turned their atten-
tion to penicillin. A culture of Fleming’s fungus was obtained and
the penicillin was extracted with amyl acetate. Shaking out the amyl
acetate with a buffer solution and evaporating the buffer solution gave
a substance which was at first thought to be pure penicillin because it
proved to be so active. The results of the clinical trials published in
1940 showed that it possesses unique therapeutic properties which,
moreover, because of its nontoxicity, make it of outstanding value in
the treatment of war wounds. But the penicillin used in these chemical
experiments was only about 1 percent pure. Several workers here
and in the United States are engaged on research in purifying penicil-
lin; a crystalline sodium salt has been obtained which is a hundred
times more active than the first extractions. It is capable of inhibiting
the growth of certain bacteria at a dilution of about 1: 50,000,000.
Penicillin is a complex acid of which the exact structure is not yet
known.

[When the first trials had shown that penicillin was likely to prove
of enormous value in the treatment of war wounds, the problem was
to obtain the necessary amount. Florey, in the autumn of 1940, urged
the United States to take up the production and, whatever the reason
for this, it is certain that no such effort as that of American scientists
and manufacturers could have been made here at that period. New
strains of Penicillium notatum were sought for, new media devised,
and additional therapeutic trials were carried out. Production was
eventually such that all the needs of the fighting forces could be met.
Over 90 percent of the penicillin used during the war was of American
origin. Very extensive research on the structure of penicillin has been
carried out both here and in the United States, but although more than
one kind of penicillin has been mentioned, the complicated chemistry
of this remarkable substance still remains to be revealed. |

Until recently, all the Penicillium notatum used, both in the labora-
tory and in large-scale manufacture, was from Fleming’s original

5“Another point which shows what practical results may be expected from such re-
search is that penicillin, a metabolism product of Penicillium notatum, is nonirritant and
nontoxic, but has a strong though different antibacterial power.” Presidential address
to Section K of the British Association, Ann. Rep. British Assoc., 1936, p. 215.

FUNGI AND MODERN AFFAIRS—RAMSBOTTOM 325

isolation. It was indeed a strange chance which led to the contamina-
tion of a laboratory culture by an apparently uncommon mold (origi-
nally described from decaying hyssop in Norway); and that the
laboratory should be that of one who was curious in antibiotic phenom-
ena and who, convinced of the value of his discovery, kept not only
the original plate but also maintained the mold in culture. Further,
it was fortunate that the original Oxford isolation of crude penicillin
contained little if any toxic substances, with the result that Florey
and the Oxford team were so soon able to announce almost undreamed-
of achievements. ‘This general freedom from association with harm-
ful products incidentally has also characterized home-grown cultures
of penicillin.

Penicillin is the most active bacteriostatic substance so far known;
but the difficulty of obtaining sufficient quantities and its unstable
quality have led to the search for similar mold products, and has also
stimulated general research. There are many such products known,
but few are sufficiently nontoxic for use. Flavicin from Aspergillus
flavus and gigantic acid from A. giganteus are most similar to peni-
cillin in their chemical and biological properties.

Raistrick and his colleagues have tested many of the compounds
they had isolated and all new substances which were obtained. The
product of the fermentation of Penicillium patulum (originally iso-
lated from sheep dung in France) was considered promising and was
sent to W. E. Gye, who is studying the effects of various substances on
cancer cells. As he was suffering from a cold, he used it on himself
with most satisfactory results. Extended trials show that it is able
to cure a promising number of cases of one form of the common cold.
It has since been shown that patulin is identical with clavacin and
clavatin obtained from Aspergillus clavatus, and claviformin, from
Penicillium claviforme and Aspergillus giganteus. It is not surpris-
ing that the same chemical substance should be formed by several
fungi—indeed, this is what one would expect. What is of greater
interest is that it is also produced by Penicillium expansum. Van
Luijk in 1938, studying the diseases of grasses caused by species of
Pythium, found a difference in plants grown in sterilized and non-
sterilized soil. He isolated a number of fungi from the soil and
from the air and tested their influence on the growth of Pythiwm.
He found that Penicillium expansum was the most markedly anti-
biotic, and adopting Fleming’s procedure, obtained sterilized filtrates:
these inhibited the growth of Pythiwm debaryanum at dilutions of
1:1,280. He did not isolate the antifungal substance, which Anslow,
Raistrick, and G. Smith (1943) have shown to be patulin. When
the fungus was added to garden soil infected with Pythiwn, seedlings
remained healthy instead of damping off.
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Here we seem to have a linking up of different lines of research
in such a way that we may expect considerable progress. The recogni-
tion of the chemical constitution of a substance produced by a common
soil fungus which suppresses the growth of a plant pathogen suggests
that greater precision may soon be given to many of the older observa-
tions on fungal antagonism of various kinds. Incidentally, it may
also have some bearing on the question of natural compost versus
chemical fertilizers. There is a difficulty in establishing the growth
of antagonistic organisms in the soil; this can be done only by modify-
ing the conditions, and an obvious way to do this is to add manure
or compost which favor fungal growth. That the matter is not quite
so simple as it appears at first sight, however, may be judged from
the fact that Barnum in 1924 showed that the filtrate of cultures of
Penicillium expansum caused wilting in certain herbaceous plants
placed in it.

No more than mention can be made of the production by fungi of
fats, ethyl alcohol, lactic acid, vitamins, and enzymes, or of the im-
mense fermentation industries of the Orient.

THE INTRODUCTION OF ABACA (MANILA HEMP)
INTO THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE?

By H. T. Epwarps

Principal Technologist, U. S. Department of Agriculture

[With 10 plates]

The story of plant exploration and introduction furnishes material
for one of the most interesting chapters in the history of world agri-
culture. For centuries, explorers and scientists have collected and
brought back to their home countries seeds and plants from foreign
lands. The purpose of this work has ordinarily been to obtain plant
material that might be utilized either for the improvement of agri-
cultural industries already established, or, in some instances, for the
establishment of entirely new industries.

Many of the details relating to seed and plant introduction projects
have never been recorded, and the history of this work will never
be written in its entirety. The value of any one particular plant
introduction, or the ultimate effect which such an introduction may
have had in relation to the development of agriculture can never be
fully determined. In some instances the dollars-and-cents value of
a new plant or a new industry may be approximately estimated.
There are other cases in which the fact that a plant product has been
available at a time when it was urgently needed was a matter of far
greater importance than its monetary value. Under the emergency
conditions which exist during a world war there are certain “critical”
or “strategic” materials which must be obtained, if possible, with but
little consideration of their cost. Abaca fiber, which furnishes the
raw material for certain manufactured products required in military
operations, is an outstanding example of a “strategic” plant product.

This fiber, which is known in the Philippine Islands as abaca and in
trade circles as Manila hemp, is used for the manufacture of so-called

1 Eprror’s Notn.—Readers of this paper will be interested to know that the author has
omitted one important detail: it was Harry T, Edwards himself who anticipated during
World War I future wartime interferences with abacé importations, advocated production
in tropical America, personally made the shipment of living plants from Davao to Panama
and then followed up the project until his retirement in 1945, when the results of his
work were apparent in the substantial quantities of abaci made available.

327
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Manila rope. It is the product of a plant that resembles in appearance
the common banana plant to which it is closely related, and is an
exceptionally strong and light material that is highly resistant to
the action of salt water. More than a century ago the discovery was
made that for making strong and durable cordage, and particularly
marine rope, there is no other plant fiber in the world obtainable in
commercial quantities that is equal in quality to abacé. The use
of this fiber was established in Massachusetts about 1820, and Manila
rope soon became standard equipment on every ship that sailed the
Seven Seas. At the time of the entry of the United States in World
War IT no entirely satisfactory substitute for abaca was obtainable,
the entire supply of this fiber had been cut off by the Japanese occu-
pation of the Philippine Islands and the Netherlands Indies, and
the requirements of the war effort necessitated an immediate increase
in the production of many different types of abaca cordage. Fortu-
nately, the introduction of abaca into Tropical America had provided
in part for an emergency of this character. Many years before the
outbreak of the war abacaé plants had been brought to Panama by the
United States Department of Agriculture. Preliminary experimental
work had been completed by an American plantation company, and
a large supply of planting material was available. It was possible,
therefore, to start immediately the large commercial plantings of
abaca in Central America that by 1945 had furnished more than 20
million pounds of this urgently needed rope fiber—a quantity of fiber
sufficient for the manufacture of more than 3,000 miles of 6-inch rope.

THE PANAMA ABACA PROJECT

During World War I persons familiar with the world fiber situa-
tion, and also with conditions in the Orient, had seen an element of
danger in having the production of the entire world supply of abaca
fiber confined to limited areas in islands of the western Pacific, prin-
cipally the Philippines. It was clearly evident that in the event of
a world war in which these islands might be occupied by enemy
forces, and the Pacific sea lanes even partially closed, the United
States’ one source of supply of this essential raw material would be
entirely eliminated. This theoretical situation became an actuality
at the time of Pearl Harbor. Furthermore, there had been the defi-
nite possibility that the continued spread of diseases of the abaca
plant, which had already destroyed relatively large areas of abacd
in the Philippines, might result in the near future in a decreasing
production of Philippine abacé fiber. With the exception of the
Province of Davao, where the growing of abacd was efficiently con-
ducted by Japanese plantation companies, there had been for some
years a declining production of this fiber throughout the Philippine
Islands.

ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 329

Investigations of this situation, made by fiber specialists of the
United States Department of Agriculture, led to the conclusion that
studies should be made of the practicability of introducing abaca
into Tropical America. At that time there was no general under-
standing of this problem, the then future happennings of World War
II seemed unlikely to occur, and the advisability of attempting to
bring abacd to the Western Hemisphere was questioned. The intro-
duction was made, however, and in 1925 abaca plants were brought
from the Philippine Islands to the Republic of Panama and the so-
called Panama Abaca Project was established. For many years there
was no marked change in the situation in the Orient, supplies of
Philippine abaca fiber continued to be available, and this project in
Panama led a somewhat precarious existence. At times it was almost
abandoned, but abaca is a hardy plant and the few plants that had
been brought to Panama continued to live. The few persons who
were interested in this project continued to believe that in course of
time there would be need for Western Hemisphere abacé. That time
arrived on December 7, 1941, and 6 days after Pearl Harbor the com-
mercial development of abacé production in Central America was
actively under way.

FIBER NOMENCLATURE

The term “hemp” has become in the fiber industry almost a synonym
for the word “fiber.” In numerous instances fibers entirely different
in type and obtained from plants having no close botanical relation-
ship are known as hemp. In the fiber trade these many different
hemps are distinguished by the name of some town or city from which
they are, or have been, exported. Sisal hemp, for example, is not
hemp and is no longer exported from the port of Sisal in Yucatan.
This situation has resulted in confusion and in many errors in sta-
tistical data. The fiber that is commonly known as Manila hemp or
Manila fiber is not hemp, and relatively small quantities of this fiber
are now shipped from Manila. The word “abaca,” which is of Malay
origin, is used in the Philippines to designate this fiber and also the
plant from which it is obtained. The increasing production of abaca
fiber in countries other than the Philippine Islands has led to a more
general use of the word “abacd,” and it appears probable that this
fiber, when produced in the Western Hemisphere, will be known both
in the trade and elsewhere as abaca fiber.

THE ABACA PLANT

The abacé plant, Musa tewtilis, is a perennial growing from short
rootstocks. A mature abac4 plant or “mat” consists of a group of
stalks from 6 to 15 feet in height, which are formed by the broad over-
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

lapping leaf stems and which bear at the top large spreading leaf
blades from 3 to 6 feet long and about 12 inches wide. The fiber is
obtained from the outer portion of each successive leaf stem. The
color of the stalk ranges in the different varieties from a light green to
dark purple or nearly black. When mature, a flower stalk about 2
inches in diameter is pushed up through the center of the abaca stalk,
bearing at the top flowers which are followed by green fruits similar
to small bananas but filled with black seeds. Abaca plants grown from
seeds ordinarily do not come true to type, and the usual method of
propagation is by the use of rootstocks or suckers. Abaca requires a
warm, moist, tropical climate, and a deep, fertile, and well-drained
soil.
ABACA FIBER

In the classification of fibers, abaca is included in the group of so-
called hard fibers, which are obtained from the leaves and leaf stems
of plants. Abaca is a multicelled long fiber consisting of cylindrical
strands of fibrovascular bundles. Philippine abaca fiber of “excellent”
cleaning is ordinarily from 6 to 12 feet in length, white to light ochre
in color, lustrous, strong, and of clean, even texture. Western Hemi-
sphere abaca fiber, which will be machine-cleaned, will range in length
from 4 to 6 feet and will be somewhat less uniform in color than the
Philippine fiber. It will have, however, the same basic qualities of
exceptional strength and resistance to the action of salt water that
are characteristic of Philippine abacaé. The combination of strength,
durability, and water resistance makes abaca the most valuable known
fiber for marine cordage. It is also extensively used for transmission
and hoisting rope, well-drilling cordage, and for many other purposes
where exceptional strength and durability are required.

HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

The documents of the Venetian, Antonio Pigafetta, who was one of
the companions of Magellan in the first circumnavigation of the globe,
include a description of the Island of Zubu (Cebu). This is followed
by a list of “Words of those heathen people,” which includes the fol-
lowing: “For the cloth with which they cover themselves—Abaca.” In
1686 Capt. William Dampier, an Englishman, visited the Island of
Mindanao, and the records of this voyage contain a description of the
production and use of “plantain” fiber. There is also a reference to
plaintains of another variety, possibly abaca, on that island which are
full of black seeds. There are occasional references to the use of
abaca fiber by the Spaniards in the Philippines during the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries, and in 1820 a sample of abaca fiber was
brought to Salem, Mass., by John White, a lieutenant in the United

ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 331

States Navy. After 1824 this fiber began to be used very extensively
in Salem and Boston. Apparently the first commercial shipment of
abac& from the Philippines was 41 tons exported in 1818. The ex-
ports increased to 276 tons in 1825, and 8,561 tons in 1850. Fifty years
later, in 1900, abaca exports from the Philippines were 89,488 tons.
From 1900 to 1908 abacé represented more than 60 percent of the total
value of all Philippine exports.

ABACA IN THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

Abaca fiber is produced in the Philippines under a wide range of
conditions. In the hill country of southern Luzon, the Visayan
Islands, and northern Mindanao, there are thousands of Filipino
farmers who have small plantings of abaca and who clean the fiber
with the crude stripping knives that probably were used centuries ago.
When abaca is planted under these conditions, a small area of forest
land is cleared and the rootstocks or suckers are set out in holes that
have been dug with a bolo (machete). There is no cultivation except
a partial cutting down of shrubs and grass when the abaca is har-
vested. The crop is harvested irregularly and at the convenience of
the owner. The fiber is cleaned with the antiquated hand-stripping
apparatus, dried in the sun, and ordinarily is sold to a local Chinese
middleman. As there is no uniformity in the stripping knives, large
quantities of fiber of inferior quality are produced.

During the period of Spanish occupation of the Philippines fairly
large abacaé plantations were established. ‘The methods used on these
plantations, although an improvement on the native cultivation, were
relatively primitive. Abaca was planted in rows, but essentially the
same method of planting was used. The periods of harvesting were
more regular, but there was no cultivation of the fields and the fiber
was cleaned by hand-stripping. For the work of stripping the fiber
and clearing the fields, the workers usually received approximately
one-half of the product. The owners of these plantations were fa-
miliar with market conditions, and more attention was given to the
production of fiber of good quality.

In 1904, a few years after American occupation of the Philippines,
an agricultural survey was made of the District of Davao in southern
Mindanao and the information obtained by this survey was published.
At that time large areas of unoccupied government land were available
in Davao, and the climatic and soil conditions of this region were
exceptionally favorable for abacaé. Several small abacdé plantation
companies were organized in Manila, and a number of Americans went
to Davao for the purpose of establishing abacé plantations. This
development marked the beginning of a new era in the production of
abacé. The American planters, realizing the imperfections in the
332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

old abacd industry, began to investigate and experiment. The dif-
ferent varieties of abacd were studied and the superior varieties were
used in these new plantings. New systems of planting were intro-
duced and the “camotes” (sweetpotatoes) which had formerly been
planted in the abaca fields were replaced with legumes. These and
many other improvements resulted in yields of abaca that were re-
garded as impossible by the old abaca planters in the northern islands,
and in a quality of fiber that soon attracted the attention of manufac-
turers in foreign countries. At that time there was a shortage of
labor in Davao, and it was extremely difficult to obtain the large num-
ber of laborers required for stripping the fiber. For many years
numerous unsuccessful attempts had been made to perfect a machine
for cleaning abaca fiber, but it was not until about 1921 that the so-
called Hagotan and Universal machines were placed on the market
by an American firm in Manila. These machines, which are a modi-
fied and improved form of the old hand-stripping method, were
promptly adopted by the Davao planters, and by 1941 practically all
the abaca fiber produced in Davao was cleaned with these machines.

Some years after the establishment of American abaca plantations
in Davao, a Japanese businessman, a Mr. Ohta, came to Davao from
Manila. A Japanese abacd plantation company was organized, and
from that time onward there was a steady and rapid growth of Jap-
anese interests in the Davao abacé industry. The Japanese plantation
companies apparently had abundant capital and were able to bring
laborers to Davao from Japan. Large areas of government land were
leased to the Japanese, and two or three large holding companies con-
trolled the operations of numerous smaller companies. The Japanese
Davao Planters’ Association effectively coordinated all the efforts of
the Japanese in Davao. The investigational work, which had been
started by the American planters in Davao, was expanded and im-
proved by the Japanese. Scientists were brought to Davao from
Japan, and experiment stations and laboratories were established.
The net result of these operations was that at the time of the entry of
the United States in World War II the Province of Davao was pro-
ducing approximately one-half of the entire output of Philippine
abaca fiber, and something like 85 percent of the entire Davao produc-
tion was controlled by the Japanese.

BARLIER ABACA INTRODUCTIONS

Complete records of the attempts that have been made to grow
abac4 in countries other than the Philippines are not available, but
many such attempts have been made. With but few exceptions these
experiments were unsuccessful, and in consequence many persons

ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 333

familiar with abac&é were of the opinion that this plant could be
grown successfully only in the Philippine Islands. As abaca can be
propagated from seeds, and as the seeds are readily available and
easily transported, it is probable that this method of propagation
was used in most of this experimental work. The fact that abaca
usually does not come true to type when grown from seeds was either
unknown or failed to receive consideration. There are reports of
abaca introductions into India, the Andaman Islands, New Guinea,
the Federated Malay States, Ceylon, Fiji, the Solomon Islands, and
the West Indies, but the commercial production of abaca fiber did not
become an established industry in any of these countries.

A short time after American occupation of the Philippine Islands
the Office of Fiber Plant Investigations of the United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture attempted the introduction of abaca into the
United States. In April 1901, a consignment of seeds of four differ-
ent varieties of abac&é was received in Washington from an abaca
planter in the Island of Negros. These seeds were planted in the De-
partment greenhouses in Washington and also in Florida, but none of
them germinated. Early in 1902 abaca seeds that had been received
from the Philippine Bureau of Agriculture were sent to Puerto Rico
for planting, but none of these seeds germinated. In October 1902, a
second lot of seeds received from the Philippine Bureau of Agriculture
were planted in Washington and 89 seedling plants were obtained.
These plants were distributed early in 1903 to Jamaica, Trinidad,
Puerto Rico, the Hawaiian Islands, and Florida. It was subsequently
reported that the plants sent to Puerto Rico and Florida were growing
well, but apparently they ultimately disappeared.

This introduction work was continued, but from six different lots of
Philippine abaca seed received in Washington during the period from
1904 until early 1911 not a single plant was obtained. In March 1911,
abacd seeds of the Maguindanao variety, which had been carefully
packed in charcoal in tin mailing tubes, were received from the Philip-
pine Bureau of Agriculture. These seeds were planted in the Depart-
ment greenhouses in Washington, and from this planting about 1,200
seedlings were obtained. A distribution of these plants was made to
Cuba, Puerto Rico, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Mexico, and the
Hawaiian Islands. It appears that with one or two possible excep-
tions all these plants were later destroyed or abandoned. Abaca plants
now growing at the Agricultural Experiment Station, Mayaguez, P. R.,
are said to have come from this distribution. In 1925, two or three
“mats” of old abaca plants of the Maguindanao type were found in a
somewhat isolated place near Almirante, Panama, and it is possible
that these plants came from the introduction of Maguindanao seedlings

made in 1912.
676212—46——-22
334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

TWENTY YEARS BEFORE WORLD WAR II

The occupation of the Philippine Islands and the Netherlands East
Indies by the Japanese early in 1942 eliminated for the time being,
insofar as the Western Hemisphere was concerned, the entire world
supply of abaca fiber. In view of the happenings of this period, it is
of interest to observe the manner in which this situation was foreseen
20 years earlier by a fiber specialist in the United States Department
of Agriculture. The following statements relating to this subject are
portions of an official government memorandum prepared in November
1921:

The problem of establishing the production of abac4i on a commercial scale in
Tropical America is one that has been considered for many years. With the
changes that are taking place in the industrial situation in the Philippine Islands,
and with the uncertain political status of that country, this problem of making
adequate provisions for an assured future supply of abaca fiber is one that must
sooner or later receive attention. During the past 2 years I have had occasion
at different times to discuss this subject with several of the prominent cordage
manufacturers in this country. These men regard the present abac& situation
with considerable apprehension, and strongly urge that an attempt be made to
establish a source of supply of this fiber in Tropical America.

The existing abacd situation.—The average annual consumption of abaca fiber
in the United States for the past 12 years has been approximately 72,000 tons.
This amount is about one-half the total world production of this fiber. The
principal uses of abac4 fiber in the United States are for the manufacture of the
Lest grades of marine cordage, well-drilling cables, and transmission rope. This
fiber is also used for a great variety of other purposes, including the manufacture
of binder twine and various kinds of cordage. For purposes where exceptional
strength, a marked degree of elasticity, or resistance to the action of salt water
are required, there is no other known fiber that is a satisfactory substitute for
abacd. An adequate supply of abaca fiber is essential to the continued operation
of the American cordage industry. An adequate supply of Manila rope is a
highly important factor in the maintenance of the United States Navy and the
merchant marine, in the production of mineral oil, in the construction of buildings,
and in many other industries. The entire world supply of abac& fiber, with the
exception of a few hundred bales, is now produced in the Philippine Islands.
During the past 3 years 99.5 percent of the total supply of abac& fiber consumed
in the United States has been obtained by direct shipment from the Philippine
Islands.

Elements of danger in this situation.—The existing abac& situation is a striking
instance of having “all of our eggs in one basket,” with that basket on the oppo-
site side of the world, and with no action being taken to remedy or even modify
these conditions. The essential elements of danger in this situation are as
follows:

1. In the event of war with any nation having a strong navy, the United States
would presumably lose control of the Philippine Islands for a considerable period
of time, and its supply of abaci would be entirely cut off at a time when there
would be urgent need for an abundant supply of this fiber.

2. When the United States relinquishes political control of the Philippine
Islands, our future supply of abac& will be highly uncertain. It is a fact of no
small significance that the Japanese within the past few years, have obtained

ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 335

control of a large part of the abac&i holdings in the District of Davao, which
leads all provinces in the Philippines in the production of the best grades of
cordage fiber used in the United States. It is also of interest to note that the
Chinese control a large portion of the trade in abaci.

38. The Government of the Philippine Islands has but limited facilities for
eradicating, or even controlling plant diseases. Within recent years diseases
of abac&i have been causing an increasing loss, and as the production of abacai
is confined to a limited number of provinces and islands one of these diseases
might easily spread throughout the entire abaci-producing area. The fate of
coffee, coconuts, and bananas in certain regions of the Tropics shows very clearly
what may happen at any time to abaca in the Philippine Islands.

The logical remedy.—If it is admitted that there is an element of danger in
the United States’ being dependent on the Philippine Islands for its entire supply
of abacaé fiber, the logical remedy for this situation is to establish a source of
supply of this fiber in some country other than the Philippines. While abaca
has never been produced on a commercial scale in Tropical America, there appears
to be no reason why such production is not practicable. The climatic and soil
conditions in portions of Panama, in certain other parts of Central America, and
in the Vega Real of Santo Domingo are quite similar to the conditions found in
the abaca provinces of the Philippine Islands. It is known that abaci has made
a luxuriant growth in Panama, and that certain species or varieties of Musa,
producing fiber of fairly good quality, are now being grown in the Vega Real
region. With the adoption in the District of Davao in the Philippine Islands
of a simple, but fairly satisfactory, machine for cleaning abac&é, and with the
progress that has been made during the past year with other machines for clean-
ing this fiber, there is every reason to believe that abac& produced in Tropical
America could be cleaned with machines.

Procedure recommended.—As the results thus far obtained in propagating
abacé from seeds have been generally unsatisfactory, it is believed that the estab-
lishment of this industry on a commercial basis in Tropical America will involve
the importation from the Philippine Islands of suckers of several of the best
varieties of abacéi. Before making any definite arrangements for the importa-
tion of abacéi suckers, it would be advisable to obtain detailed and accurate data
regarding the climatic and soil conditions, areas available for abacé planting,
attitude of the local planters toward this project, and any other useful information
pertaining to the localities where it is proposed to plant abacaé. It is recommended
that such an investigation be made, which would serve as a basis for future work.

The recommendation that a preliminary investigation be made of
conditions in the Canal Zone and the Republic of Panama was approved
in December 1921. This was the beginning of the project that made
it possible on December 12, 1941, 5 days after Pearl Harbor, for rep-
resentatives of the Government, the United Fruit Co., and the cordage
manufacturers to meet in conference in Washington, and by the follow-
ing week to have the commercial development of the abaca projects
in Central America actively under way. The history of the whole
project is one of many difficulties and some failures but ultimate

success.
ABACA IN CENTRAL AMERICA

Unlike some of the other hard-fiber crops, abacé is rather exacting
in its climatic and soil requirements. An abundant but not excessive
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

supply of moisture and a fertile, well-drained soil are essential to the
normal development of this plant. In considering, in 1921, the intro-
duction of abac4 into Tropical America, it was necessary to determine
not only where nurseries might be established but also where the con-
ditions were favorable for subsequent plantation development, and
for the purpose of obtaining this information preliminary surveys
were made in the Canal Zone and in certain regions of the Republic of
Panama. It was found that on the Pacific side of the Canal Zone and
in adjoining areas in Panama the climatic conditions are unfavorable
for abacaé because of the long dry season. On the Atlantic side of the
Canal Zone there are small areas where abacé nurseries might have
been established, but these areas were too small for plantation opera-
tions and the topographical conditions were unfavorable. In the
production of abac4 under a system where the stalks are moved from
the fields to a central cleaning plant about 96 percent of the material
transported is waste. In a rough hilly country the transportation
costs are excessive, and it is not practicable to operate large planta-
tions under these conditions.

In the Province of Bocas del Toro in the Republic of Panama, which
adjoins southern Costa Rica and is about 160 miles west of the Atlantic
end of the Panama Canal, a large estate of the United Fruit Co. ex-
tends inland from the town of Almirante. As experimental work
with so-called abaca had been conducted at this place during 1920 and
1921, an investigation was made of conditions at Almirante. On ar-
rival at Almirante it was learned that small quantities of fiber had
recently been produced and submitted to a firm of fiber merchants in
New York for examination. It was reported that this fiber was
greatly inferior to Philippine abaca, and the opinion was expressed
that this was another demonstration that abaca fiber of satisfactory
quality could be produced only in the Philippine Islands. Samples
of this fiber were examined and it was found that insofar as quality
was concerned the New York report was correct. It developed, how-
ever, when the plants from which this fiber had been obtained were
inspected that these plants were a type that is sometimes referred to
as “bastard” abaca, and possibly were the progeny of seedling plants
that were sent to this region many years ago. These same plants, had
they been grown in the Philippine Islands, would have produced fiber
no better in quality than that which was obtained at Almirante.

The natural conditions of this region are rather similar to the condi-
tions found in the Province of Davao, which is the leading abacé
province in the Philippine Islands. A heavy and relatively well-
distributed rainfall, and a fertile, well-drained soil are the basic re-
quirements of this plant. Furthermore, large areas of abandoned
banana lands on which abacé might be grown were available on this

ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 337

estate. As abacd is a close relative of the banana plant, and as prac-
tically all the bananas at Almirante had been destroyed by the virulent
“Panama” disease, the disease situation was threatening, but it seemed
unlikely that any location for experimental work with abaca could be
obtained in Central America that would be entirely free of this dis-
ease. As the management at Almirante was definitely interested in
the project and offered to cooperate in any experimental work that
might be undertaken, it seemed advisable to make tentative arrange-
ments for the establishment of an abaca nursery at this place. The
next step in the project was to obtain from the Philippine Islands the
plant material required.

OPPOSITION IN THE PHILIPPINES

There were both political and business interests in the Philippine
Islands opposed to the exportation of abaca plant material. When
it became known that consideration was being given to experiments
with abac4 in Panama, the three chambers of commerce in Manila,
including the American Chamber of Commerce, presented a joint
resolution to the Governor General requesting that the exportation
of abaca plant material to any regions other than the United States
and its possessions be prohibited. The Director of Agriculture in
the Philippines, in an exceptionally strong and logical statement,
advised against the enactment of any legislation of this character,
and for the time being no further official action was taken. The
agitation continued, however, and finally resulted in the enactment
by the Seventh Philippine Legislature of a law prohibiting the
exportation from the Philippine Islands to foreign countries of
seeds of abacé and its derivatives. This law was approved by the
Governor General on December 1, 1925, but fortunately some 3
months earlier a large consignment of abaca plants that proved
successful had been shipped from Davao to Panama.

INTRODUCTION OF 1923

Early in 1923 an unsuccessful collection of about 350 rhizomes of
four varieties of abacé had been obtained in Davao. These plants
were dug on the plantations in Davao early in March, and received
rough handling on the small interisland boat during the period of
shipment from Davao to Manila. They were received in Manila
during the middle of the hot season when conditions were unfavor-
able for the transportation of material of this character. The rhi-
zomes were dipped in a lime sulfur solution under the supervision
of a government plant pathologist, inspected by the plant inspectors,
repacked, and shipped to the Canal Zone. Seven weeks elapsed
from the time the plants left Manila until they arrived in the Canal
338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Zone where they were taken to the Plant Introduction Gardens at
Summit. On examination it was found that all the plants were
dead, that they contained large numbers of active nematodes, and
that there were indications of root borers. On being advised of
the condition of this shipment, the United Fruit Co. issued instruc-
tions that no further abaci plant material from the Philippines
would be received, and that they would not be in a position to
conduct any further experiments with abaca.

INTRODUCTION OF 1924

In view of these circumstances it was considered inadvisable to
attempt for the time being any more direct shipments of abacé
plant material from the Philippines to the Canal Zone or Panama.
It was thought, however, that a few small sucker plants might be
brought to the United States and grown in the greenhouses of
the Department of Agriculture at Glenn Dale, Md. In May 1924,
about 25 small abaca suckers were collected in Albay Province, in
the southern part of the Island of Luzon, brought to Manila, and
shipped from Manila to Seattle, where they were disinfected at the
plant quarantine station, repacked, and forwarded to Washington.
The few plants that were still alive when they finally reached Wash-
ington ultimately died.

INTRODUCTION OF 1925

Although these experiences were somewhat discouraging, it was still
believed that it was entirely practicable to obtain in the Philippine
Islands “clean” abacé planting material, and to ship this material to
Panama if direct transportation from Davao to the Canal Zone could
be obtained and if arrangements could be made for the handling of this
material after its arrival. During the latter part of 1924 it was learned
that a plant pathologist of the United Fruit Co., who was familiar with
conditions both in the Philippines and in Panama, would visit the
Philippine Islands early in 1925 for the purpose of collecting banana
plants for shipment to Panama. It was suggested that abacé plant
material be collected and prepared under the supervision of this path-
ologist, and that a second attempt be made to make a direct shipment of
abaca plants from the Philippines to the Canal Zone and Panama.
This suggestion having been approved, preliminary arrangements for
carrying out this project were than made in Washington. As the
abaca varieties in Davao are considered to be superior to the varieties
found in the northern provinces, and as this province was free, or rela-
tively free, of abacd diseases at that time, it was planned to obtain in
Davao the abacé plants for Panama.

ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 339
THE TRANSPORTATION PROBLEM

In order to make direct shipment of these plants it was necessary to
arrange for the routing of a ship from Davao to the Canal Zone, and
this proved to be a difficult problem. It was hoped that an Army or
Navy transport might be used for this purpose, but this was considered
to be impracticable. The matter was finally brought to the attention of
the vice president of the United States Shipping Board, who was most
cooperative and offered to furnish all possible assistance. It was tenta-
tively arranged that if sufficient commercial cargo could be obtained in
Davao to cover the expense of a call at that port, a ship would be routed
from Manila to the Canal Zone via Davao, and the Manila agent of the
Shipping Board was instructed to furnish assistance in making neces-
sary arrangements. One of the larger American cordage companies
that had an agency in Davao agreed to furnish the required cargo, but
the opposition of commercial interests in Manila together with changes
in the Shipping Board agency in Manila served to complicate this situ-
ation. In theend the Shipping Board in Washington cabled the neces-
sary instructions, and on August 20 information was received at the
plantation where the plants had been collected that the S. S. Ethan
Allen would arrive the following morning. In the meantime this large
shipment of plant material had been prepared with only a fair prospect
that it would ever leave the Philippine Islands.

COLLECTION AND PREPARATION OF PLANT MATERIAL

As statements had been published in the Manila press that the estab-
lishment of abaca production in Panama would ultimately ruin the
Philippine abaca industry, it was somewhat questionable what might
be the attitude of the Davao planters regarding this project. On
arriving in Davao, conferences were held with the two leading Ameri-
can abaca planters, and the reasons for the project were explained in
detail. No attempt was made to minimize the fact that the commercial
production of abacaé in Tropical America might, in course of time,
adversely affect the Davao abaca industry. It is greatly to the credit
of these patriotic and far-sighted men, Henry Peabody and Charles
Harvey, both of whom had given the best part of their lives to the
development of their plantations, that first consideration was given to
the needs of their country rather than to their own personal interests.
They not only offered no objections to the shipment of abaca plants
from Davao, but furnished a full measure of assistance and cooperation
in the work of collecting and preparing this material. Both of these
men died 20 years later in Japanese prison camps, at a time when
millions of pounds of marine rope, made possible because of their
patriotism, were being used in the war with Japan.
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Conditions in Davao were by no means ideal for work of this char-
acter. In 1925 the abaca plantations were widely separated over a
large area on both sides of the Gulf of Davao, which is about 90 miles
long, and there were but few miles of road in the entire province.
No one of the plantations or districts had all the varieties that it was
desirable to obtain, and it was essential that the collection be brought
together and prepared at one place. The site finally selected for this
work was the Culaman Plantation Co. in the municipality of Malita
on the southwestern coast of the Gulf of Davao. A small number of
plants of the varieties Libuton, Tangongan, and Sinaba, that had been
collected in other localities, were sent to Malita.

On arrival at Malita a survey was made of the different areas from
which it was proposed to obtain plant material. No evidence was
found of abaca diseases, but in the older fields most of the abaca
rhizomes were badly infested with root borers and it was evident that
great care would have to be taken in the preparation of this material.
This involved a careful examination of each rhizome and the cutting
out of all sections where root borers were found. It was somewhat
doubtful how many of the rhizomes would survive this heroic treat-
ment, which was to be followed by the long period of storage during
shipment across the Pacific. For this reason it was considered ad-
visable to prepare a collection of growing plants. During June and
July some 400 rhizomes, suckers, and buds were planted in a miscel-
laneous assortment of all the old oil cans and boxes that could be
found on the plantation. Although more than one-half of the crated
rhizomes were alive when the shipment reached Panama, the grow-
ing plants furnished the bulk of the planting material. The limited
supply of packing material available on the plantation included ex-
celsior, old newspapers, and small quantities of sphagnum and char-
coal. All these materials were used in different methods of packing
the rhizomes, and in addition 3 tins of seeds were packed in charcoal,
and several bunches of fruit containing seeds were shipped in cold
storage. The shipment when finally completed included 1,438 items
of plant material, packed in 279 containers, and represented 6 differ-
ent varieties of abaca.

ACROSS THE PACIFIC

Malita is an open roadstead and has no docking facilities for large
ships. For several days before the arrival of the than Allen there
were indications of stormy weather, which would have entirely dis-
rupted the plans for loading this shipment of plants. August 21 was
a fine day, however, and the #than Allen arrived with a lighter in the
early morning. The loading of the 190 heavy boxes and cans of
growing plants from the small plantation dock to the lighter and

ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 341

from the lighter to the ship, without damaging the plants, was a diffi-
cult job and it was after nightfall when this work was completed.
The Ethan Allen sailed from Malita for the Canal Zone via Honolulu
at 7:45 p.m. August 21, 1925, and 42 days later, on the morning of
October 3, arrived at Balboa.

The conditions on a heavily loaded cargo ship are not favorable for
the transportation of a large shipment of growing plants. The more
essential requirements with respect to stowage space are good ventila-
tion, light—sunlight if possible, protection from heavy winds and salt
water, and some degree of accessibility as the plants must occasionally
be watered. To obtain all these conditions in any one place on a ship,
particularly during stormy weather, is practically impossible. The
places available on the Hthan Allen for the stowage of plants were
the boat deck, on top of the hatches on the after well deck, and in the
poop cargo space which opens off the main deck aft. The shipment
of abacé plants was divided into three parts; the boxes of plants
planted in sphagnum were placed on the boat deck; the heavy boxes
and cans of plants planted in dirt on the hatches, and the crates of
rhizomes in the poop cargo space. This arrangement would have
been satisfactory with reasonably favorable weather conditions, but
as strong head winds and high seas were encountered immediately
after leaving the Gulf of Davao, and as these continued throughout
the greater part of the voyage, it became necessary for a time to move
all the material into the poop cargo space.

Between Honolulu and Balboa it was necessary during a storm to
close entirely this cargo space, leaving neither light nor ventilation.
In the course of the storm some of the crates shifted and were thrown
on the boxes of growing plants. As heavy seas were washing over the
main deck, in spite of all precautions that could be taken a small
amount of salt water entered the cargo space. It was impossible to
determine to what extent this salt water reached the plants, but their
condition and rapid growth during the following 2 weeks indicated
that but little damage had been done. The supply of fresh water was
limited, but enough was obtained for essential watering of the plants.
Throughout the entire voyage not only the ship’s officers, but also the
members of the crew, furnished all possible assistance. On several
occasions when the weather became threatening the deck crew turned
out during the night to move boxes of plants or close the cargo space.

TRANSSHIPMENT OF PLANTS

On arrival at Balboa, the ship was boarded by the local representa-
tive of the Federal Horticultural Board, who accompanied the ship-
ment through the Panama Canal to Cristobal, and from Cristobal to
the plant quarantine station of the United Fruit Co. at Flat Rock on
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Columbus Island. It had been intended to leave a part of this ship-
ment in the Canal Zone, but a preliminary inspection indicated that
the safest method of handling these plants would be to first take them
all to the quarantine station at Flat Rock where they could be un-
packed and inspected. This was done and subsequently a portion
of the plants were brought back to the Plant Introduction Gardens
in the Canal Zone.

In Cristobal the plants were transshipped to the S. S. Parismina,
which sailed the following day for Bocas del Toro. On the morning
of October 5, the shipment was unloaded into lighters at Bocas del
Toro, was transferred to the quarantine station at Flat Rock in the
afternoon, and was unloaded on the rocky beach during the late after-
noon and evening. In a rough sea that was encountered during the
short trip from Bocas del Toro to Columbus Island, one of the lighters
broke loose from the towing launch, and a large part of the shipment
was very nearly lost at this time.

CONDITIONS AT FLAT ROCK

The plant quarantine station is located in an isolated place on
Columbus Island, about 6 miles by sea from the small town of Bocas
del Toro. This station had been in operation only 3 months, and but
little work had been done other than the construction of a relatively
small plant cage. This cage furnished space for the planting of
less than 15 percent of this shipment of abac4é plants. As no work
animals or implements other than spades were available, it was neces-
sary to clear and spade an area outside the cage of sufficient size for
planting about 800 plants. The conditions with respect to moisture
were very unfavorable, and as there were no facilities for watering the
plants, it was questionable how many of them might survive.

With the 8 laborers that were available 3 days were required to move
the 279 heavy cases of plant material a distance of about 500 yards
over a very rough trail from the beach to the plant cage. While this
was being done, the work of clearing and spading the plot outside the
cage was started. All the large crates and boxes were unpacked and
the rhizomes were classified according to their condition as “good,”
“doubtful,” and “bad.” Of the total shipment of 1,438 plants, more
than one-half appeared to be in good condition and about 73 percent
were alive. The planting work was finished 5 days after the plants
were landed on Columbus Island. It proved to be very fortunate
that a large number of growing plants were brought from the Philip-
pines to Panama, as many of the rhizomes that were alive when they
were unpacked at Flat Rock failed to grow. Three months after
this planting was made there were about 500 growing plants in the

ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 343

nurseries at Flat Rock. These plants soon began to sucker freely,
the nurseries became crowded, and a small field planting was made.

REMOVAL TO THE MAINLAND

In May 1926, about 8 months after the abaca was planted at the
quarantine station on Columbus Island, all the plants remaining in the
nurseries were removed to the mainland and a planting of approxi-
mately 1 acre was made on Farm Nine of the Almirante Division of
the United Fruit Co. From the progeny of the plants grown on this
1 acre nearly 29,000 acres of abaca have since been planted in four
countries of Central America.

By 1926 it was thus considered that abac4 was at least temporarily
established in Tropical America, and a planting of even 1 acre made
possible the study of some of the problems relating to this plant and
fiber. It was necessary to determine the degree of suitability of the
climatic and soil conditions of this region for abaca, the resistance of
this plant to diseases and insect pests, the relative value of the different
varieties, the systems of planting and cultivation that might be used,
and the quality of the fiber that might be produced. It was hoped that
by selection and breeding, new and improved varieties of abacé might
be produced. J.H.Permar, a plant breeder in the service of the United
Fruit Co., who had received the abaca plants on the day of their arrival
at Bocas del Toro, and who had nursed them through the critical period
on Columbus Island, continued in charge of this work. For a period
of about 15 years and until large commercial projects were developed,
Mr. Permar directed the abacé work in Panama. Had it not been for
his unbounded faith in abaca as a crop for Tropical America, together
with his intelligent and persistent effort, it is very doubtful if this
work would have been continued.

THE PANAMA PLANTINGS SHOW DEFINITE PROMISE

Within a year after the planting was made at Farm Nine, it became
clearly evident that the climatic and soil conditions of this region are
exceptionally favorable for abacé. The plants at Farm Nine, although
they had not yet reached the flowering stage, were larger and more
luxuriant in their growth than plants of the same age and variety
grown under the most favorable conditions in the Philippine Islands.
In the earlier stages of this development disease hazards gave promise
of being very serious. Many of the young plants became infected with
the “Panama” disease which, under similar conditions, would have
completely destroyed the closely related banana plants. Fortunately,
however, abaca proved to be highly resistant to this disease, which prac-
tically disappeared as the abaca became adjusted to its new environ-
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

ment. After a period of 18 years, although an occasional young or
weak abacd plant developed “Panama” disease, the menace was not
serious for the greatly needed wartime production.

A so-called Abac4 Garden containing plots of all the different varie-
ties was established at Farm Nine. Hybridization work was started
in 1927 and continued through 1928. Seventy-four combinations had
been made between the different varieties, and some of these new hy-
brids were very promising. Subsequently, during the years when the
abacaé project was temporarily abandoned, it became necessary to dis-
continue this work, but it was later resumed. A preliminary series of
fiber-cleaning tests were conducted during the latter part of 1927,
Although no mature abaca stalks were available at that time, and the
laborers who did the cleaning were entirely inexperienced in work of
this character, fiber of very promising quality was obtained. Samples
of this fiber that were subsequently tested at the National Bureau of
Standards in Washington had an average breaking strength equal to
that of good grades of Philippine abaca fiber.

With a fairly large supply of propagating material available, two
25-acre field plantings were made during 1928 in locations having
somewhat different soil conditions. Five different varieties of abaca
and four different planting systems were used. The luxuriant growth
of abaca in this region indicated that a wider spacing than the 10 by
10 feet, which is the usual Davao system, would be necessary. In
making these plantings, the practices followed were essentially the
same as those used for bananas. This procedure seemed to be advis-
able because all the local labor is familiar with the methods used in
planting and cultivating bananas. The abaca in these fields made an
excellent growth, and the plants when 1 year old compared favorably
in size and quality with abacé plants grown under similar conditions
in the Philippine Islands.

By 1929, so well had these early plantings succeeded that considera-
tion was being given by the United Fruit Co. to further expansion, and
to the need for information on which to base commercial development.
One of the small Hagotan fiber-cleaning machines was obtained from
the Philippine Islands, and in August 1929 about 1,000 pounds of
Panama abaca fiber were shipped to Boston, Mass., for manufacturing
tests. The tensile strength of the rope manufactured from this fiber
was slightly higher than common Manila rope. A few months later
a number of abacd stalks were shipped from Panama to Paterson,
N. J., for cleaning tests with a sisal-fiber-cleaning machine. It was
demonstrated that abaca could be cleaned with this machine, but the
fiber obtained was not of satisfactory quality.

During the early part of 1930 estimates covering the cost of estab-
lishing and developing a 1,000-acre abacd planting in Panama were

ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 345

prepared. At that time the industrial depression was well under way,
the future of the world fiber markets was uncertain, and the outlook
was not sufficiently favorable to justify further expansion of the abaca
plantings. As there was no improvement in these conditions, all the
work with abacé at Almirante, except an occasional cleaning of the old
fields, was discontinued for a period of nearly 6 years.

THE INTERIM PERIOD

The prospects for any immediate resumption of the work with abaca
in Panama were far from bright at this time, but an effort could still
be made to maintain a continued interest in the project. In June 1931
the United Fruit Co. extended an invitation to the Cordage Institute
and the United States Department of Agriculture to send a commis-
sion to Panama for the purpose of inspecting and reporting on the
abaca situation at Almirante. This inspection was made during July,
and in a subsequent communication from the manufacturers to the
United Fruit Co. the following statement was made:

The manufacturers are now convinced that abacé will grow in Panama and
are very much impressed by the luxuriant growth of the plants and the quality of
the fiber. How it should be cleaned, the cost of necessary machinery and equip-
ment, what markets are available, the probable price obtainable, the competi-
tion it must meet, and other similar questions are all for round-table conference.
The committee are whole-heartedly interested in this experiment and are pre-
pared to cooperate with the United Fruit Co. to the fullest extent.

Although this inspection did not result in any immediate develop-
ment of abacé production in Panama, it served to stimulate an interest
in this project, and it furnished the cordage manufacturing industry
first-hand information that proved subsequently to be of great value.

Several different factors contributed during the early part of 1936
to a revival of interest in the Panama abaca project. The improve-
ment of general industrial conditions had resulted in a corresponding
improvement in the fiber market. In the Philippines, the Japanese
were steadily increasing their control of the abaca industry, and the
advisability of establishing in the Western Hemisphere a secondary
source of supply of this fiber was becoming increasingly evident. The
possibility of using Central American abaca fiber as a paper material
was receiving the attention of United States paper manufacturers.

In April 1936 representatives of the United Fruit Co., the Cordage
Institute, and the United States Department of Agriculture, conferred
in Washington on means by which abaca production in Panama might
be established on a commercial basis. Tentative plans were prepared
for a cooperative project under which the United Fruit Co. would
agree to plant and maintain 1,000 acres of abaca and install necessary
machinery and equipment, and the cordage manufacturers, acting
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

through the Cordage Institute, would agree to buy all fiber produced
during a period of years at a price that would make it possible to
write off the investment. It was estimated that this project would
cost about $250,000. The work of assembling additional data both
on the plantation and in the cordage industry was started; and, at a
meeting of the Cordage Institute held in September, it was voted to
cooperate in this project. Several conferences were subsequently held
in New York and Boston, and in November the United Fruit Co.
decided to proceed with this work without any contract from the
manufacturers other than a guarantee that the product of 1,000 acres
would be purchased at the prevailing market price for comparable
fibers.

PROGRESS DURING THE PREWAR PERIOD, 1937 TO 1941

Karly in 1937 two representatives of the United Fruit Co. visited the
Philippine Islands to study the conditions under which abaca fiber
was being produced in that country, especially to obtain detailed infor-
mation concerning the different methods of cleaning the fiber. It
was the opinion of the engineer who made this study that the results
obtained with the large fiber-cleaning machines in use at that time on
two of the Davao plantations were unsatisfactory, and that it might
be possible to build a machine of an entirely different type that would
produce a better quality of fiber. The work of designing and con-
structing this so-called water-knife machine was started, and a field
planting of 1,019 acres of abacé was made at Almirante during the
second half of 1937. The two 25-acre plantings that had been made
in 1928 furnished a supply of propagating material adequate for this
new 1,000-acre planting.

With this relatively large area of abac4, it was then possible to con-
duct certain lines of experimental work relating to the production
of fiber under commercial conditions. As approximately 96 percent
in weight of the abaca stalk is waste material, the transportation of
the stalks from the fields to a centrally located cleaning plant is a
serious problem. In the production of bananas, mules are used for
transporting the bunches of fruit from the fields to the spur-railway
line; and it was found that abaca stalks cut into 6-foot lengths, which
are known as junks, could be moved in the same manner and at a
moderate cost. The acreage production of bananas has been mate-
rially increased by the use of a system of pruning, which is the removal
from each “mat” or hill of bananas of all but a limited number of stalks.
Experimental work in pruning abac4 indicated that considerably in-
creased yields could also be obtained with this crop. While these field
experiments were under way, several shipments of abaca stalks were
made from Almirante to Boston where experimental work was being
conducted in the cleaning and processing of the fiber.

ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 347

In 1939 a second field planting of 1,000 acres was made, and the
water-knife machine was completed and installed on the plantation at
Almirante. Twenty bales of fiber that had been cleaned with this
machine were shipped to the United States for manufacturing tests.
This fiber was found to be of fairly acceptable quality, but continued
operation of the machine under plantation conditions demonstrated
the fact that it did not have sufficient cleaning capacity for profitable
use in the commercial production of fiber. Plans were prepared for
remodeling this machine, and the construction of a new machine was
started in the United States.

In the meantime a large acreage of abacé had matured at Almirante
and no means of cleaning the fiber were available. It was decided,
therefore, to construct and operate at Almirante about 20 of the small
Hagotan machines that are used on the Davao abaca plantations in the
Philippine Islands. It was not expected that the use of these small
machines would be the final solution of the fiber-cleaning problem in
Panama, but it would at least furnish a means of salvaging a portion
of the abaca stalks that were rotting in the fields. These machines
were installed at Almirante early in 1940, were operated for nearly a
year, and several fairly large shipments of fiber were made to the
United States. This fiber was of different grades and qualities but,
in general, was of a quality entirely acceptable to the cordage manu-
facturers. It was determined, however, that because of high labor
costs the cleaning of abaca fiber with these small machines would not
be practicable in Panama. From an educational point of view this
cleaning project was definitely worth while, as it served to demonstrate
to all the larger cordage manufacturers in the United States that when
cleaned by the same method there is no essential difference between
abaca fiber produced in the American Tropics and that obtained from
the Philippine Islands.

The first 11 months of 1941 was another depression period in the
Panama abaca project. Two thousand acres of abaca had matured and
were ready for harvesting, and no satisfactory method of cleaning
had been developed. It had been found that the use of the small
machines for the commercial production of fiber was not practicable
and the use of these machines had been discontinued. ‘The new water-
knife machine had been installed and operated at Almirante, but this
machine was still in the experimental stage of development. In the
meantime war clouds were gathering and stock piles of Philippine
abacd fiber were being accumulated in the United States. It was evi-
dent that there was urgent need for positive action with respect to the
development of abac4 production in the Western Hemisphere, but with
conditions in the Orient still in the “pending” stage neither the Gov-
ernment nor commercial interests were prepared to take this action.
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

THE WAR PERIOD

The status of the Panama abaca project was immediately and com-
pletely changed by the happenings at Pearl Harbor on December 7,
1941. The supplies of abacaé available in the United States at that
time were entirely inadequate to meet the probable requirements for
this fiber, and the prospective occupation of the Philippine Islands by
the Japanese meant that our main source of supply of abacdé would be
cut off for an indefinite period. Under these circumstances the need
for developing the production of this fiber in Tropical America could
not longer be questioned.

Two days after Pearl Harbor the Interbureau Coordinating Com-
mittee on Special Fiber Crops, of the United States Department of
Agriculture, met in conference for consideraiton of different aspects
of the Panama abaca situation. One of the members of this com-
mittee was authorized to discuss this matter informally with repre-
sentatives of the Office of Production Management, the Cordage Insti-
tute, and the United Fruit Co. for the purpose of determining what
action might be taken. In December 12 a conference was held by
representatives of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, the De-
fense Supplies Corporation, the Department of Agriculture, the
United Fruit Co., and the Cordage Institute. It was proposed at
this conference that the United Fruit Co. should immediately pur-
chase a Corona fiber-cleaning machine that was available in Costa
Rica and move this machine to the plantation at Almirante, that plans
should be prepared for the planting by the United Fruit Co. of ap-
proximately 10,000 acres of abaca in Panama and 10,000 acres in Costa
Rica, and that with the approval of the Office of Production Manage-
ment this project should be financed by the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation. The necessary contracts covering this work were sub-
sequently prepared, but without waiting for the approval of these
contracts, instructions were cabled to Almirante, the machine was pur-
chased and moved, and planting operations were started.

The casual observer who may have occasion to watch the discharge
of a cargo of Central American abaca on a dock in New York, probably
has but little conception of the difficulties that had to be overcome
before this fiber could be produced. The conditions under which the
abacaé plantations were established in Central America have been well
described in an article published in Cord Age magazine, September
1944, from which the following is quoted:

When the plantations were started shortly after Pearl Harbor, there was lack
of knowledge in the cultivation and processing of the fiber. The only abacaé
grown in this hemisphere was that produced by the experimental plantation
operated by the United Fruit Co. in Panama, with root stock provided by a far-

sighted member of the United States Department of Agriculture, who had brought
the stock from the Philippines.

|
ABACA (MANILA HEMP)—EDWARDS 349

There was scarcity of labor in Central America due to other competing war
projects. There was scarcity of machinery, materials, and supplies which were
required in substantial quantities for these large-scale enterprises. The demands
upon the limited quantities available in the United States were practically
unlimited.

There was scarcity of shipping and submarines were taking a large toll. There
was congestion on our railroads and docks holding up deliveries. These diffi-
culties and the fact that it takes approximately 2 years to grow abacé from
the time of planting made the problems of producing this essential fiber before
eur stockpile ran out almost insuperable.

The Central American countries were scraped clean for materials and labor.
Unable to receive machinery and equipment from the United States, there was
much ingenious improvisation. Machetes were made out of steel rails, fan
belts were made out of rope, second-hand irrigation pipe was used to drill wells
for water supply.

In establishing these plantations it was necessary to make elaborate soil sur-
veys to select the proper sites. Hundreds of miles of land were surveyed by
engineers to take topography necessary for drainage systems and to lay out plan-
tations and railroads. It was necessary to fell and underbrush the dense jungle
vegetation.

Approximately 7,000,000 heads of seed (rhizomes), approximately 27,000 tons,
had to be dug from the experimental plantation in Panama, transported to ports,
shipped to the various countries where plantations were established, and hauled
from ports of these countries inland to the plantations. This had to be done
with as little delay as possible in order to preserve the seed, a difficult problem
with scarcity and irregularity of shipping and inadequate inland transportation.

Because of the rapid growth of vegetation in the tropics, much labor had to
be used to clear competing vegetation during the early growth of the plants.
Hundreds of miles of drainage had to be dug and cleaned to carry off excess water,
destructive to abaca roots.

Roads and bridges had to be constructed through the jungle growth to provide
passage for mules carrying seed to the plantations and later the stalks to the
railroads.

Elaborate railway and tram systems were established to transport the stalks
to the factories and the fiber from factories to the railways.

Large factories to extract the fiber from the stalks had to be constructed and
machinery designed and manufactured to carry out large-scale production, con-
sisting of decorticators, crushers, driers, balers, and auxiliary machinery.

By April 30, 1945, approximately 29,000 acres of abaca had been
planted and were under cultivation in the four countries of Panama,
Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Honduras. A large part of this acreage
was in production and as abaca is a perennial, production was expected
to continue for some 10 or 12 years without replanting. Five large
fiber-cleaning plants had been installed by 1945 and were in operation.
During three war years, more than 20,000,000 pounds of abaca fiber
had been produced and practically all of it had been shipped to the
United States and manufactured into rope. In the meantime the pre-
war stocks of Philippine abaca had been largely, or entirely, exhausted,
and the Nation’s one source of supply of this fiber was Central America.

6762124623
ere live Aiesodels aiken: on aepnaben yal shsaotatnnle See Aa

“ent due Yat oF bai autdjeqe aimee emer qe
“aga deci bed aid {ist of thu haw a

ORE | REA TRS OT ROUT EA
InW teva qaiiia of outs mlnonth Serta: gh todai to qlotno ps al

eral ay ‘fod 5 sul ca Bese ‘call ante

“ih seat’ aeftavilob-git gu lbied “eames iat nol
coat: Botts Ovior} 0} Saabe S! pa Lap tgaal woalad ji ies
pritbd iBelaltaness ee eosidont na Prete poe Or

Ma Der  oldaroqpaah lag ides valli

sodat tas alatrotem 10 aialy bi $ BH, 00
Siw Siedy noted ot Dit} oes ‘ba outdoor aries
cm afi Iodide 6° yin Seta etow. egtodoght  notivalvonqenl atolgegs
altbiw edb 08 bei abe ees ee Lays lo hio Shab ae

tha ys at “e

ya Lovsriua etow hol, So. pollens) Yo 8 ee ey)

pri coors cman. <hdotesicfah ives ‘inset (0009055 oa mrigom
.#hiog, 01 harodgast, ppraced 4! noiteionly Imusattzogee odd, m0, aub\adi at
‘beluga bas otlaildetzs ores anotiaicslg ous aq hitapoy la F, 989 08 |
‘anom od of art Pith “enotiniislg Si ‘paalai sainauya guadl 40 id ,
sashdoad Siete prt bits otisesig ot T8dt6 ‘nf otdieedd en’ yale!
Laotatiogeasds Lasictsthupehad) fas griqd ita Yo ythist rapa aie

OF Ded wide! dover! zoiget sift ol, solpmogey Qo, diprotd, higen odd Ao sagan

#ianiq, od3 to dymosg zines, od} anizeh soll etemay gulieqenas palo ot hegarad

qwse W 0979 fo WAR. 03 hou Baty | bos gob oat of bad ee nie Se
| evii

ahivesq ‘ei diworg” BhanHt J) gtoddy Dotouitadoy od oF Had woghind its abeosk~
ait.on 2dlata bil} T46toh Bien enoliaistat si oo Desa qiitcu asioir ed Sonal
' if Preinetion AS

ae old broqgans as Qa pode! tWatas 19%, ecsoteyn anes, bag. % ce de

“psadbiadl Soade do’ 26198'000,60 Ylstendibtiygs staat 08 by
 ognptee RHE 16 dot, ayah AD SeabaoH: bak saith a

ggtel ovid | goitnalqor sod zeae SL TO/OF ditiod!

enw et 6ti3 of ‘eelteiopl, aot oe ey
pad Beene. $4°33 ‘Phe sattade sift onéhY Yoditl ‘gity 151
‘nos “woijoupony oi Adee BL Yoo Ye OP" borax shina net ote

Tat
tad
‘ sronidosar wuntlizgaohan qetled jatoith erode! wnoteothonsh oo gatte

ecisnaT XO eseittirts sot sy AT roi THES ssbitih oy

Detsqxs Bew consaborg loiiiareg at bf inde et bith’ oi} bt “a :
_ojtsiego tnt srow Bits GLUk ye bollwtentt stead batwanarg carne
‘ged esd ¥0° peng Nisei fisdt wtor einve 18%
atdot Kegqdide ned di Yo Jie’ yfastosiq bus a 199
-erq ob omitgsen edt al..qereiaijhorstostanam bes :
-botesarday gloria t0 pylagria! toed bad honda sciguid a ala nosed

“aoisonith Teeth ety sadit aif 6 Yana Renae ros Hobe 4 ifs

s/f tpt yy ef Me Fae! CWrod Cine. Ot Mee

a. eo 7% fae i EN Seale

Sti

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Edwards PLATE 1

1. FIELD OF ABACA IN ALBAY PROVINCE, ISLAND OF LUZON.

Note the jungle surroundings. Although grown and processed under primitive conditions, large quantities
of abaca fiber of excellent quality have been produced in southern Luzon. (Photograph courtesy Philip
pine Bureau of Agriculture.)

2. FIELD OF ABACA IN DAVAO PROVINCE, ISLAND OF MINDANAO

The Davao abaca plantations, with efficient management and modern methods of cultivation, produced
in the prewar period large yields of fiber of superior quality. This field on the O. V. Wood plantation
furnished many of the plants that were shipped to Panama (Photograph courtesy Philippine Bureau
of Science.)
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Edwards PLATE 2

1. CLEARING LAND FOR AN ABACA PLANTING IN DAVAO PROVINCE.

One of the many difficult problems of the planters is the removal of the large trees on land that is to be

planted to abaca. Note the method of felling above the buttresses of this tree.

Ma

Paar
cS
ae

2. A RECENTLY CLEARED AND PLANTED ABACA FIELD IN DAVAO PROVINCE.

This field has been cleared of virgin forest, the brush and trash have been burned, and the abaca rhizomes
have been planted.

0 Ee nee OE Oe TE OE OE LE ES ae OEE EEE CeO "COONS a Sa
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Edwards PLATE 3

1. “TUXYING’’ ABACA.

The first operation in cleaning abaca fiber by the hand-stripping process is the removal of the fiber-bearing
outer layer of the overlapping sheaths of the stalk. These fibrous ribbons are known as tuxies. (Photo-
graph courtesy Philippine Bureau of Agriculture.)

2. STRIPPING ABACA FIBER.

The native method of cleaning abaca fiber in the Philippines is by pulling the tuxies under a knife (usually
serrated) that is pressed down against a block of wood by means of a spring pole. (Photograph courtesy
Philippine Bureau of Science.)
v

31LV1d

NI

Yoel

“ADNIAOYNd
VOVEY ONILYOdSNVY L

sp

IeMy

»)

a

“Ch6l yodsy UeIuOsy IWS
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Edwards PLATE 5

1. TRANSPORTING ABACA FIBER IN SOUTHERN LUZON.

In the coastal regions, or in places where there are roads. abaca fiber may be taken from the farms to the
nearest market town in carabao carts. (Photograph courtesy Philippine Bureau of Science.)

2. TRANSPORTING ABACA FIBER IN DAVAO PROVINCE.

On the larger plantations in Davao Province, the bultos of abaca fiber are usually moved from the
plantations to the markets with motor trucks, (Photograph by the author.)
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Edwards PLATE 6

——

Abaca fiber delivered by the producers at the presses and warehouses is sorted into different grades before

1. GRADING ABACA FIBER IN DAVAO PROVINCE. |
being baled. (Photograph by Ralph McFie.)

2. INSPECTING ABACA FIBER.

All abaca fiber exported from the Philippine Islands is graded acco-ding to established officia standards,
and is examined by government inspectors before exportation. (Photograph courtesy Philippine Bureau
of Agriculture.)
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Edwards PLATE 7

_——

1. FIELD OF ABACA IN CHANGUINOLA DISTRICT, PANAMA

These plants, which are about 9 months old, are a part of a 1,000-acre planting of abaca made in 1937.
(Photograph courtesy United Fruit Company.)

2. FIELD OF ABACA IN CHANGUINOLA DISTRICT, PANAMA.

These plants, which are about 18 months old, are in the same field shown in the previous picture. (Photo-
graph courtesy United Fruit Company.)
aie

8 31iV1d spaeMpy—"Cp6| “Woday uetuosyzWS
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Edwards PLATE 9

1. INTERIOR OF A FIBER-PROCESSING FACTORY, PANAMA.

The abaca stalks are first crushed into a ‘‘blanket,’’ which then passes through the decorticating machine.
The cleaned fiber passes through squeeze rolls, is then artificially dried, and finally is baled. (Photograph
courtesy United Fruit Company.)

2. ABACA DECORTICATING MACHINE.

The crushed abaca stalks as they pass through the decorticating machine are carried over curved meta
plates, and the fiber is cleaned by a scraping process which removes all pulp and waste material. (Photo
graph courtesy United Fruit Company.)
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Edwards PLATE 10 |

1. CROSS SECTION OF ABACA STALK.

The abaca stalk, except for the central core, is made up of a series of overlapping sheaths, each one of which
was originally the stem of a leaf. The fiber is obtained mainly from the outer portion of these sheaths.
(Photograph courtesy United Fruit Company.)

2. COIL, SECTION, AND CROSS SECTION OF MANILA ROPE.

This three-strand, one-half inch diameter Manila rope, which is made from Philippine abac& fiber of high
quality, has ample strength and durability for all general purposes. (Photograph courtesy Plymouth
Cordage Company.)
GROWING RUBBER IN CALIFORNIA!

By H. L. Perry

Assistant to the Director, Emergency Rubber Project
U. S. Forest Service, Los Angeles, Calif.

(With 4 plates]

Back in 1852 a physician and amateur botanist named Bigelow, who
was attached to the Mexican Boundary Survey, collected a plant
specimen new to him in the Big Bend section of Texas and sent it
to Prof. Asa Gray of Harvard for identification. It was a low shrub,
something like sagebrush, with grayish-green foliage and small,
yellow, composite flowers. It was also new to Gray, so he named it
Partheniwm argentatwm and described it.

But the plant was not new to the natives of that section and north-
central Mexico, where it grew freely. They called it guayule
(y-06-leh) and had long since discovered that its bark contained a
gum which when extracted could be molded into a ball that bounced.
It is said that whole communities engaged in mass chewing of the
bark for the purpose of making play balls.

The gum was rubber, and rubber was beginning to find ever
greater demand in the United States. When the Centennial Exposi-
tion opened at Philadelphia in 1876 the Mexican State of Durango—
in the best chamber of commerce tradition—sent a guayule exhibit
in an effort to interest Yankee capital, but the idea failed to take
hold. In 1888, a New Jersey rubber firm, apparently under a misap-
prehension regarding the true nature of the guayule plant, sent an
emissary to Mexico to procure a quantity of “guayule bark.” The trav-
eler found guayule to be a 2-foot-high shrub, but he was out of touch
with his firm so he took a chance and shipped home 100,000 pounds
of the entire shrub. His bosses were thoroughly disgusted, but they
laboriously peeled the stuff, boiled the bark, and extracted what
rubber could be recovered by that means. The only bright spot in
the whole business was the fact that the rubber was found to be of
excellent quality.

1 Reprinted by permission, with additional illustrations, from the Journal of Forestry,
vol. 42, No. 5, May 1944.

351
352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

EXPERIMENTS IN EXTRACTION

As a matter of fact, it was the extraction difficulty that was holding
back development of a guayule rubber industry. Unlike the hevea
tree, where the rubber-bearing latex is contained in perpendicular
tubes which flow when severed, guayule latex is stored in unconnected
small cells so that tapping the plant releases an inconsequential amount
of the fluid.

The Indians chewed the bark, thus freeing the rubber and ag-
glomerating it in the mouth, but it was only after years of experi-
mentation with chemical extraction processes that anyone thought of
duplicating the chewing process on a large scale. Wm. A. Lawrence,
a chemist who had been employed by some American capitalists to
study the problem, and who also spent a couple of years searching
for a chemical solution, finally hit upon the mastication process. The
common “pebble” or “ball” mill of the mining industry was found
to be virtually made to order for guayule milling, and by 1904 the
guayule rubber business was firmly established in Mexico.

A mill was also built at Marathon, Tex., about 1909, and operated
sporadically over a period of several years. It was dismantled in
the twenties because the accessible shrub supply had run out, but it
is interesting to note the truth of the old copybook maxim, “circum-
stances alter cases’—the Emergency Rubber Project has just com-
pleted harvesting some 2,400 tons of shrub there, regardless of in-
accessibility. Since the quantity did not justify building a mill there,
the shrub was shipped to Salinas, Calif., and processed in the project’s
plant. It added about one-half million pounds of badly needed natural
rubber to the nation’s dwindling stock pile.

EXPERIMENTS IN CULTIVATION

The principal guayule operator in Mexico early began to wonder
about the fate of the industry once the wild-shrub supply should
become exhausted. The plant is native only to the high, arid plateau
country from the Pecos River down through north-central Mexico,
where the average annual rainfall varies from perhaps 8 or 9 to 12
or 15 inches, and where plant growth is slow and reproduction scant
and uncertain. Guayule may live for 40 or 50 years, and it is said
that the average age of shrub harvested is about 15 years. It is a
poor competitor, hence grows only on sites not pre-empted by other
plants, such as eroded hillsides and ridges. Thus the plant occurs
in rather sparse stands in scattered patches, and on the open range
is not potentially a crop such as to intrigue a prudent husbandman.
Various attempts to improve reproduction by seeding, and even
by rough tillage of the soil, proved fruitless.

\
|
|
GROWING RUBBER IN CALIFORNIA—PERRY 353

So the company decided to try domesticating the plant. It em-
ployed a young botanist, Dr. W. B. McCallum, and told him to go
ahead.

McCallum started out on the company’s property in Mexico. The
revolution broke out in 1912, however, and after the contending forces
had chased each other across his experimental plots a few times
the researcher pulled out in disgust for southern California. He
settled first at Valley Center, and here, too, the project has just
finished harvesting shrubs planted in 1913-1914. He shortly decided
to grow the crop under irrigation, however, and moved to southern
Arizona. He finally concluded that this was a mistake, but during
the several years he was there McCallum set out experimental plots
from northern California through southern Arizona, New Mexico,
and southwestern Texas. On the basis of these plots he finally decided
that the Salinas Valley of California was the place and in 1925 moved
his headquarters there. In 1931 a mill was built and during the next
10 years some 4,500 acres of guayule were grown and milled.

During that period of nearly 30 years, Dr. McCallum had con-
siderably improved the productivity of guayule. On its native range
the plant exists in almost countless varieties or strains, some very
good and others exceedingly poor. By a process of selection he weeded
several hundred strains down to a dozen or less of good producers. Of
these, four form the mainstay of production, possessing among them
certain other attributes required to meet varying conditions of site.

He also worked out methods for propagating the plant and growing
it, and other employees of the company designed machines for seeding
the nurseries, setting out plants, collecting seed, and harvesting shrub.
The so-called Stevenson plan of controlled exports from the Orient
had forced the price of rubber up to a high in 1925 of $1.23 per pound,
which made of guayule a potential gold mine.

With the abandonment of the cartel and the coming of the depres-
sion rubber prices sank to a disastrous low of 3 cents in 1933,
which effectively ranked guayule with the other bursted bubbles of
history. Some guayule fields were burned or plowed up by the con-
tracting farmers, but those who held on came out fairly well since the
price rose again as the market regained equilibrium. The New York
price of plantation rubber was 221% cents at the time of Pearl Harbor.

THE GOVERNMENT STEPS IN

With true scientific detachment Dr. McCallum kept plugging along
through thick and thin. When the war broke out and the Government
began casting about for every possible source of rubber, he had in
storage 23,000 pounds of seed from his prize strains.
354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

It was this seed that the Government was principally after when
the deal was made to take over the Intercontinental properties. The
deal had been in the making even before the outbreak of the war.
Representative John Z. Anderson of California had introduced a bill
on June 12, 1941, for that purpose, but nothing came of it. When war
was declared he reintroduced it and on March 5, 1942, it became law.
It provided for purchase of the Intercontinental properties and pat-
ents in this country and the growing of 75,000 acres of guayule. The
company received $1,721,235.

With the signing of the Guayule Act there was launched an epic of
construction activity that I am sure has not been topped during the
history of this country’s war effort. The time was already at hand
when the guayule seed must be sown and there were no nurseries in
which to sow it.

Under the dynamic hand of Maj. Evan W. Kelley, sent from his post
as regional forester at Missoula, Mont., to head up the job, and the
organizational genius of Paul H. Roberts, erstwhile director of the
Midwestern Shelterbelt Project, that situation was soon remedied.
In the face of almost incredible difficulties in respect to procuring
material and help, 600 acres of nursery land were leased, leveled,
equipped with overhead irrigation, buildings, and windbreaks, and
seeded. A thousand-man labor camp was constructed and equipped,
and 905 acres of fields were planted with stock ready for transplanting
in a small nursery operated by the company. And over all was the
necessity for recruiting, often sight unseen, a corps of men who knew
nothing about guayule but could nevertheless be trusted to go ahead
largely on their own without disastrous consequences.

The author can record all these heroic achievements with perfect
modesty; he was not there until they were nearly finished. But the
record speaks for itself. The 23,000 pounds of seed got into the
ground in time, and in due course, while everyone hung breathless
over the beds, emerged as some 300 million healthy plants. Carpen-
ters on the camp job kept one jump ahead of incoming laborers, and
the organization—mainly by virtue of the 7-times-a-week “breakfast
conference”—managed to correlate its myriad activities into some
semblance of homogeneity. Salinas is a small town, so personnel
lodged wherever it was lucky enough to find room, and the project’s
offices were at one time scattered out in 14 places, including cottages
on the edge of town.

HANDLING THE NURSERY CROP

When the guayule plants came up in the nursery beds, weeds came
too, and since the young rubber plants start slowly, there was a giant
weeding job on hand. Some 3,000 people were engaged in that back-

GROWING RUBBER IN CALIFORNIA—PERRY 355

breaking activity at the height of the campaign, half of them women
and girls recruited from the town and surrounding country. Weeds
are killed in the nurseries with oil sprays now, but there was no time
to experiment then.

All this frenzied activity subsided somewhat once the nursery crop
got established, but not for long. The 700 acres of guayule fields taken
ever from the company, plus that spring’s plantings and even the
nursery beds, began to ripen seed. The company had developed a
mechanical picker, but it was wasteful of seed so again a large labor
force was recruited and put in the fields with brushes and trays col-
lecting seed. When it became obvious that a larger quantity of seed
than had been expected was going to be harvested, Congress raised the
75,000-acre limitation on the planting program to 500,000 acres,
and once again the project went into a high-speed nursery-building
program.

With the hope that a crop of seedlings could be grown during the
winter, two groups of nurseries, each comparable in size to the Salinas
lay-out, were constructed in southern California. In order to have a
completely realistic unit of measurement in connection with nurseries
a standard “bed” was established, being 4 feet wide and 400 feet long.
Thus, the Salinas nurseries contained 12,000 beds, while those at Indio
and Oceanside contained 9,900 and 11,100 respectively. Later, a
6,000-bed nursery was built in the San Joaquin Valley, one of 3,000
beds near Las Cruces, N. Mex., and two of 1,500 beds each in the Salt
River Valley of Arizona and the lower Rio Grande Valley in Texas.
We had a total at one time of 45,100 beds, sufficient to produce stock
for an annual planting program of about 200,000 acres, assuming
that the southern California nurseries could be double-cropped. For
the benefit of those who may have difficulty in thinking in terms of
“beds,” these nurseries occupied a net area of about 2,000 acres, all
equipped with overhead irrigation.

REVISIONS IN PROGRAM

It will be noted that a good deal of this latter discussion has been
in the past tense. Actually, some of this acreage was never seeded,
some of it has been dismantled, and doubtless more of it will be. In
the spring of 1943 the rubber director advised the Secretary of Agri-
culture that in his opinion the rubber situation no longer justified
diversion of highly productive farm land to guayule, and later, by
arrangement between them, the program was curtailed to a total field
acreage of about 32,000, that being the amount of land then planted
or on which the Government had commitments which could not be
released,
356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

There were a number of reasons for this action. Anxious to pro-
duce rubber as quickly as possible, the project had settled on a policy
of leasing only good land, mostly irrigated, and rental] values of such
land had soared under the impact of war demands for food. Since
the project plan called for 10-year leases, it wanted to get the land
at rates not too greatly reflecting the war boom, and getting into
agreement with landowners on that basis was difficult. Dissatisfac-
tion resulted, which found expression in questioning whether
guayule was of greater value in the war effort than the food crops
which could be grown on the land.

In the meantime, the synthetic rubber program had developed better
than probably anyone had dared hope for, and the winds of the Pacific
conflict had begun to veer around in our favor, holding out hope that
the Japanese might be driven out of the rubber plantations earlier
than previously expected. Altogether, the rubber director felt that
the guayule program should be suspended at the existing level, but
held in a “stand-by” position in case anything should happen to require
resumption later on, and the Secretary naturally was constrained to
accept his judgment in the matter.

Later, the rubber director requested that the program be resumed
on a modified scale to produce 20,000 long tons of rubber per year,
but by that time Congress had gotten out of the mood. The House
Appropriations Committee refused to approve the expansion, taking
the stand that the added rubber production could not be realized
before the probable end of the war.

So at this writing the Emergency Rubber Project has simmered
down to the growing out and eventual processing of some 32,000 acres
of guayule, growing in five districts in California—the Salinas Valley,
upper San Joaquin Valley, lower San Joaquin Valley, Sacramento
Valley, and southern California. In addition about 120 indicator plots
and other experimental plantations are scattered from northern Cali-
fornia through the Southwest to the Gulf of Mexico.

GUAYULE AS A RUBBER PRODUCER

Now a word about guayule as a rubber producer. As noted previ-
ously guayule rubber has been on the market for 40 years or so in com-
petition with hevea rubber, though it normally sells for about 20 per-
cent less. The reason for this is that the resins in the plant become
mixed with the rubber in the milling process, the resin content running
from 16 percent to 20 percent or higher, depending on the age and
other characteristics of the shrub. While means of deresinating the
rubber are well known, the producers have never had any incentive to
do so; the product has found a ready market for purposes where the

GROWING RUBBER IN CALIFORNIA—PERRY 357

resin is not disadvantageous, and to deresinate it would merely reduce
the volume so as to counterbalance the increase in price.

Getting the best returns from guayule under cultivation is subject to
a considerable array of variables. Harvesting and milling costs de-
pend largely on the amount of shrub that must be processed to obtain a
pound of rubber, and big shrub with high rubber content is an elusive
combination. It is when growth slackens or is suspended because of
lack of moisture, cold weather, or some similar circumstance that rub-
ber percentage begins to rise. The theory is that the carbon fixed by
the leaves is largely used up in growth and seed production when
environmental conditions are favorable for those functions, but when
conditions are unfavorable and growth and flowering slow down or
stop, the plant, continuing to assilimate carbon, seeks to store it in some
appropriate form. The compound chosen happens to be the pure
hydrocarbon, rubber.

Thus, if you attempt to force the plant too hard, as by irrigation, you
get a magnificent shrub, but one containing a low percentage of rubber.
The reason Dr. McCallum chose the Salinas Valley for guayule grow-
ing is that there is an invariable alternation of wet winter and spring
with a long, dry summer and fall, thus automatically affording the
conditions necessary for both plant growth and rubber deposition. On
unirrigated land there, the optimum rotation, from an economic stand-
point, appears to be about 5 years, and at that age a good field may
produce up to 1,800 pounds of rubber per acre.

Under irrigation, where unseasonable rainfall does not interfere,
this rotation may be shortened by properly manipulating the irriga-
tion water. Under the stress of the original program it was planned
to grow it only 2 years under irrigation, spacing the plants closely
(28 inches by 20 inches) to obtain optimum volume on the land. This
rotation is not considered economically sound, though actually there
has never been sufficient information collected on the behavior of the
plant under irrigation to justify definite pronouncements on the
subject.

RESEARCH PROGRAM

That subject is being studied now, and incidentally one of the bright
spots of the program is the fact that a magnificent job of research is
being done on it. While the operational phases of the project are
under the direction of Paul H. Roberts, who succeeded Major Kelley
when Kelley returned to his post at Missoula in 1943, the Bureau
of Plant Industry, Soils, and Agricultural Engineering has a corps
of scientists under the able leadership of Dr. A. C. Hildreth following
almost every imaginable line of investigation in connection with the
plant itself; and the Bureau of Agricultural and Industrial Chemistry
358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

has a large pilot plant and laboratory seeking better methods of rub-
ber extraction, under the direction of F. Macdonald.

Dr. W. G. McGinnies of the Forest Service heads a division which
has made an almost foot-by-foot survey of the probable range of the
plant, determining and classifying the areas adapted to its culture, and
studying the behavior of indicator plots. T. P. Cassidy of the Bureau
of Entomology and Plant Quarantine has made an intensive study
of the plant’s insect relationships. Other members of the organiza-
tion have invented or improved cultural machinery, including a new
and simple seed-collecting machine which enabled the project to har-
vest more than one million pounds, rough weight, last season.

Past research in plant improvement has been confined almost en-
tirely to selection among varieties and strains, but the geneticists are
now tackling actual breeding up of the plant. It has certain peculiari-
ties that promise to challenge their ingenuity, but there is every reason
to suppose that the plant is susceptible of considerable improvement.
It is very choosy about its site requirements; it demands a friable,
well-drained soil and contracts various fungous diseases if conditions
are unfavorable. It also does not like temperatures much below freez-
ing. These characteristics greatly restrict its range, of course, and
the scientists are investigating the possibility of increasing its toler-
ance in those respects.

RUBBER-EXTRACTION PROCESS

The rubber-extraction process is virtually the same one the industry
started out with 40 years ago, and while it recovers a satisfactory pro-
portion of the rubber from the shrub, it is cumbersome and expensive
and also mixes with the rubber foreign substances that the processors
would very willingly dispense with. Briefly, the milling process is
about as follows.

After being dug or pulled out of the ground, the shrub is cured
in the field 2 or 3 days, then baled and stored till needed. In the mill,
it is chopped up and the chips dried down to about 15 percent moisture
content. It is then crushed, mixed with water, and fed into a series
of pebble mills. These are revolving tubes lined with rough silica
bricks and about one-third filled with flint pebbles. The pebbles cas-
cading down the wall thoroughly macerate the material in the slurry,
freeing the rubber from the fiber. The slurry is then discharged into
a vat, where the water-logged wood sinks and the rubber floats and
is skimmed off. After certain other cleansing operations the rubber
is dried and pressed into 100-pound cakes.

The mill at Salinas, which is capable of handling about 30 tons of
shrub in 24 hours, cost some $207,000 to build in 1931. There is not

GROWING RUBBER IN CALIFORNIA—PERRY 309

much doubt that the chemists and engineers will considerably improve
this process and they may revolutionize it.

Nothing has been done about possible byproducts so far, though
there are some interesting possibilities. A number of essential oils
have been extracted from the plant experimentally and it is rich in
resins. The bagasse, or woody pulp which remains after extraction,
is sometimes used as fuel in the mills, but it may have higher uses than
that. It is too finely ground in the pebble mills to be much good for
paper, but a very good-looking hard board has been made experi-
mentally by mixing the resinous leaves of the plant with it and sub-
jecting it to heat and pressure. No data are so far available regarding
its properties or practicability of manufacture, but certainly there
will be a vast amount of the raw materials if guayule is ever grown
on a commercial scale.

THE FUTURE OF GUAYULE

And that brings us to the question of the future of guayule, once the
Japanese have been ousted from the rubber plantations of the Orient.
Can it compete with the East Indies product? And how about our
enormous new synthetic industry? Only a grade-A prophet would be
qualified to speak with any certainty on that subject. There are too
many unknown quantities. But here are a few considerations to
speculate on.

1. No one knows yet the cost of producing guayule rubber on a
commercial scale. While the Intercontinental Co. grew a few thousand
acres of it over a period of several years, both for its own account and
under various forms of contracts with farmers, there is not a sufficient
volume of accurate records upon which to base a reliable cost figure.
One thing is reasonably certain—it cost more than East Indies rubber
did before the war, but balanced against that is the virtual certainty
that the researchers will radically improve guayule cultural and pro-
cessing methods and probably the plant itself. Incidentally, they
already have improved the quality of the product, so that the industry
has come to prefer guayule rubber turned out by the Salinas mill.

2. It is uncertain what the plantation rubber situation will be after
the war. Since the Japanese have no use for the entire normal output
of the plantations they may clear off part of them for other purposes,
or at least neglect them and let them revert to jungle. Or they may
try to destroy them in a “scorched earth” attempt before they leave.

In any event, a rubber-starved world is going to require an enor-
mously abnormal amount of the substance for a while at least, which
of course will tend to hold the price up. There does not seem to be
much prospect for any very cheap rubber from abroad, for some time
at least.
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

3. The speed with which the synthetic rubber industry has been
developed ranks among the major miracles of our war effort, but there
are some flies in that ointment, too. The principal one is that no one
has so far been able to compound a true synthetic rubber, and the
substances which are being used to substitute for the natural product
lack some of its virtues. Normally about 72 percent of the rubber used
in this country goes into tires, and the synthetics are not as good as
natural rubber for that purpose. Mixing the two helps a lot, and even
German tires captured today assay a goodly percentage of natural
rubber.

On the other hand, synthetic rubber is better for some purpose than
the natural product, so there will always doubtless be a market for a
certain quantity of it regardless of the availability of crude. Specific
cost figures have not yet been released, but its proponents freely
predict that it will eventually get onto a competitive basis with
plantation crude. Then, too, the chemists are working desperately
to improve their product and there is always the chance that they
may develop a synthetic equal in all respects to natural rubber. The
fact that the Germans have not done so in 30-odd years of experi-
mentation is by no means proof positive of its impossibility. There
is a lot of money and human ambition tied up in this huge, if still
embryo, industry, and you can wager that a tremendous struggle will
be made to avoid having to junk it after the war.

4. When the war is over, one school of thought will be certain that
we must never again become dependent upon a rubber supply thou-
sands of miles over the sea. But another will be equally insistent that
we must buy rubber from the East in order to sell goods there. Which
will be the stronger no one now knows. British thought on the subject
seems to foresee 2 compromise whereunder both ends will be served.
We would buy some rubber from the plantations but also maintain
sufficient domestic production to provide for a quick expansion to
self-sufficiency if necessary.

WHAT PRICE GUAYULE?

So what price guayule? Standing between a 750-million-dollar
synthetic colossus on the one hand and a million-ton-per-annum hevea
giant on the other, it is apt to be trampled under foot unnoticed. And
yet, there is an excellent chance that it may be one of those rare stones
capable of killing several economic birds at one fling. There is no
doubt about the quality of the product, and in conjunction with our
best synthetics it could serve all our rubber needs. We would have
a source of rubber, to quote the Baruch report, “which could not be
lost to us short of conquest of American territory.” We would have

GROWING RUBBER IN CALIFORNIA—PERRY 361

a new, tough, drought-resistant crop for a section of the country which
can very handily use just such a new cash crop in normal times. We
would have a new industry for the employment of American labor and
capital.

Maybe none of those considerations will be strong enough to pre-
vail against the natural urge of a ration-weary nation to cut all specu-
lation and head for the shortest road back to normal stock piles.
Whatever else is done, though, it would seem to be the part of common
sense at least to continue a strong program of guayule research, and
on a sufficient scale to test its possibilities under conditions of com-
mercial production. There is still a vast deal to be learned about
guayule, in fact we are only at the threshold of the subject. Rubber is
one of our really dangerous national deficiencies and we ought not to
overlook any bets where it is concerned.

POSTSCRIPT

A great deal of water has gone over the guayule dam during the
relatively brief time since the foregoing was published, in May 1944.
Another high peak and another very low valley have been added to
the already extremely eccentric chart of the Emergency Rubber Proj-
ect’s history.

Early in 1945 the natural-rubber situation became so acute that a
committee from the rubber industry surveyed the guayule fields and
recommended the immediate harvest and milling of the entire crop,
regardless of its immaturity. I’our new mills were to be built by the
Government and operated under contract by the Firestone Tire &
Rubber Co.

Preliminary work on the new program was well under way when the
Japanese war ended. On the theory that natural rubber from the
Orient would shortly start flowing to America again, and considering
the admittedly uneconomical nature of the proposed expansion, work
on it was stopped. For the time being the project reverted to its orig-
inal plan to continue with an orderly harvesting of the crop, but in
the general clean-up of outmoded war projects it was decided to wind
up its affairs and clear the remaining 27,000 acres of land for return
to the owners.

Thus is spotlighted the national security values of guayule. While
it happened that events broke in such a manner as to make it seem
desirable to not harvest some 85 percent of the guayule crop, if the
war had continued even a little longer there is no doubt at all that
the rubber in it would have been worth almost its weight in gold.

Another event of great potential significance to guayule culture was
the introduction in Congress of what is known as the Poage bill. In
362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

1944 a House Committee headed by Representative Poage of Texas
made a study of the project and guayule growing in general. The re-
sult was introduction of legislation designed to promote guayule grow-
ing and processing by private enterprise. The bill, which passed the
House but at this writing (December 1945) is still pending in the
Senate, provides for a support price of 28 cents per pound for do-
mestically produced guayule rubber for a period of 10 years. The
benefits are restricted to a total of 400,000 acres during the period, and
to 100 acres per grower per year. It also provides for continuing re-
search in connection with guayule and other rubber-bearing plants.

While guayule development seems to be stalemated in this country,
for the time being at least, the project gave impetus to its development
elsewhere in the Western Hemisphere. The Continental-Mexican
Rubber Co., oldest and largest of the wild-guayule operators in Mexico
has launched a large guayule-culture program, using initially
50,000,000 plants supplied by the Emergency Rubber Project. A
smaller cultural project in Mexico was started by the General Tire &
Rubber Co., which built a mill there during the war. Argentina
bought 5 tons of guayule seed from this Government, and is negotiat-
ing for the purchase of seeding and transplanting equipment.

So our humble desert shrub, after thirty-odd years of rather dif-
fident knocking, seems at last to have gotten its foot into the door of
the Western Hemisphere’s rubber business. Whether or not it will be
able to stay remains to be seen, but at least its chances have been vastly
improved by the intensive research to which it has been subjected
during the life of the war-born Government project.

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Perry PLATE 1

1. FIVE-YEAR-OLD GUAYULE SHRUB GROWN UNDER CULTIVATION ON NON-
IRRIGATED LAND IN THE SALINAS VALLEY, CALIF.

When harvested, the entire plant is dug about as shown, since rubber occurs in both the aerial parts and
roots. This specimen is somewhat larger and more symmetrical than the average field plant.

2. SEEDING A GUAYULE NURSERY.

The seeder drops the seed on top of a finely prepared bed and then flows a ribbon of sand over them to hold
them in place. Guayule plants have trouble emerging if covered with soil. The beds are 4 feet wide and
are served by overhead lines spaced 10 beds apart.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Perry PLATE 2

ee

1. A 2-YEAR-OLD IRRIGATED GUAYULE FIELD IN THE SALINAS VALLEY OF
CALIFORNIA.

Note the profuse blossoming, a characteristic of the plant when supplied with abundant water.

eiiawie tote op au ee ete
ae bets

2. CULTIVATING A YOUNG GUAYULE FIELD IN KERN COUNTY, CALIF.

The plants are in their first growing season.

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Perry PLATE 3

1. GUAYULE GROWING WILD IN THE SEMIDESERT PLATEAU COUNTRY OF NORTH-
CENTRAL MEXICO, AND THE BIG BEND SECTION OF TEXAS.

A number of rubber mills have operated in this territory for the past 40 years.

2. USING AN OIL SPRAY TO KILL WEEDS IN A CALIFORNIA GUAYULE FIELD.

Diesel oil is emulsified with water and applied at high pressure. The spray kills or injures the weeds, but
does not damage the guayule.
re a > =

LG JUOISISUOD SOUL pues jsoq Jo [ny puswy Bo} uMOp
j ‘oynAens prim jo SUIB.IYS PIIPUNY [BIBAGS YALA pojBys apy

oOUL oVUL possaid st 4]

Z161 SONIS WVHYSDOY8d HOYNVSESSYM SINAVNS NYW
TAIWIW SHL WOus SAWOD LI SV YEEENY SINAVND Zz -ANO V NO G3INYVD SVH OHM 'WNTIVDOW “Ga Mud ‘1

v = Lv1d AdI9 J “Crél *‘yuoday uUeIUOSY IWC
THINKING ABOUT RACE?

By S. L. WASHBURN

College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York

Recently the subject of race has been lifted from comparative ob-
scurity to the headlines. Nazi racists have asserted the fabulous su-
periority of one race, while the Japanese have claimed pre-eminence
for their quite different physical type. On the other hand, people ap-
palled by Nazi misuse of the idea of race have made nearly as absurd
claims about the nonexistence of varieties of Homo sapiens. For ex-
ample, a recent paper started by claiming that there are no differences
of functional importance between living races, and proceeded in the
same paragraph to proclaim the value of dark pigmentation to people
in the Tropics.

It is extremely difficult to try to give an unbiased presentation when
emotions are involved. Therefore in this paper I have tried to present
ways of thinking about race rather than any particular classification.
I hope that the methods outlined will aid the reader in evaluating any
racial system and will help to clarify ideas concerning race.

In the first place, as has been repeatedly stated, races are groups
which are distinguished on the basis of inherited anatomical charac-
ters. Race has nothing to do with language, religion, nationality, or
social habits. Race is an expression of nature (inheritance), not
nurture (learning). Tozzer (1931) ? has given an excellent account,
well worth the attention of anyone wanting more information on this
fundamental point. Psychological differences between races are
probably nonexistent, according to Klineberg (1935) who has made
an exhaustive study of this subject.

Since racial classification is an anatomical conception, one might
think that anatomy would play a large part in discussions of race.
Actually the extent to which race has been discussed recently with
almost no mention of anatomy is surprising. For example, Kline-
berg (op. cit.) in the section of his book devoted to the biological

1 Reprinted by permission from Science Education, vol. 28, No. 2, 1944.
2? References to the literature are cited at the conclusion of this article.

363
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

approach to race, pays little attention to fossil man, the antiquity
of races, or the work of any recent anatomists.

The danger of discussing race without really trying to understand
the anatomy of the situation is that one’s examples will be irrelevant
and one’s logic faulty. As an example of faulty reasoning take the
current statement that there are no important differences between races
because all races intergrade. This is like saying that there are no
differences in intelligence because there is a continuous distribution
from the lowest to the highest IQ.

The best way to understand race is by a direct approach to the facts
(Cobb, 1943), that is, to the study of fossil man, comparative anatomy,
and the purposes and methods of classification. It is with these that
this paper deals.

THE NATURE OF RACIAL CLASSIFICATIONS

The descriptions of the various races may be regarded as a series of
guidebooks to the anatomy of man. Following the guidebook analogy,
the content of the whole series of books equals present knowledge of
comparative human anatomy. Since the subject matter of this series
of books is continuous, the beginning and end of each volume is arbi-
trary, being determined by convenience. This guidebook series is
a useful way of sorting and cataloging anatomical information, and
the descriptions which the books contain were written to answer
questions which arose in man’s quest for knowledge and understanding.

The practical value of the anatomical descriptions which the books
contain will become clearer as they are used. For example, we find
that the volume entitled “Europeans” is especially useful because
there are over 700 million people to whom this guide applies. The
volume on “Mongoloids” includes over 600 million people. ‘These two
guidebooks alone describe two-thirds of the people in the world, and,
therefore, they are the most useful ones we have. There is another
book called “African Negro” which covers some 100 million. Then
there are a number of slim volumes which describe types anatomically
distinct enough so that it is useful to have separate guidebooks for
them, but which are not numerous. Two such volumes would be called
“Australian-Melanesian” and “Bushman-Hottentot.”

Still there would be a great many people for whom no guidebook
is available. Some of these are put in appendices or special chap-
ters. Some have been shifted about when new information showed
that they would fit better in a different volume. Migrations and sub-
sequent crossing are creating new situations which the old volumes
did not cover. The guidebooks, of course, will need constant revision
to keep them up to date.

THINKING ABOUT RACE—WASHBURN 365

The usefulness of racial descriptions depends on the fact that the
majority of the people in the world can be easily classified. There
are intergrades between the types, but these people are less numerous
than those to whom the descriptions apply. It should be remembered
that classifications are not objective orderings of pure knowledge but
are made by men for some purpose. Racial classifications are made by
men who are trying to understand human anatomy. Since anatomi-
cal classifications have been made by many men in different periods,
a brief account of the history of attempts to classify man will prove
useful. In each era we will be concerned with purposes and methods
rather than nomenclature, because the names of races are only sym-
bols for describing results.

The earliest racial classifications were the result of the discovery
that there was a variety of different kinds of men living in different
parts of the world. These long antedate Darwin and the rise of evolu-
tionary thought. Since these classifications were based on pictures
and what travelers saw, they were superficial and used such traits as
color and hair form only. Scientists saw that the populations in
various parts of the world were different and sought to give a few
characters by which the different peoples could be recognized. The
purpose of these classifications was to give a key to the varieties of
man. The method was to group like with like as any keen observer
could do without special training. Since the vast majority of people
believed in special creation and since the races of the world were so
incompletely known that they appeared discrete, the races were de-
scribed as separate species.

The second stage in the history of anatomical classifications arose
in the latter part of the nineteenth century under the influence of
Darwinian evolution. The purpose of the classification of this period
was to describe the evolutionary history of man. The method was
that of detailed anatomical comparisons. Bodies of individuals in
different parts of the world were dissected. Great osteological col-
lections were built up. It soon became apparent that words like “tall,”
“short,” or “broad” led only to confusion, so various systems of meas-
urement were introduced. These became the basis of modern physical
anthropology.

This second era marks enormous advance over the first from the
standpoint of both ends and means. However, the scientists of this
era knew nothing of genetics or of parallel or convergent evolution,
and few fossil men had been discovered. Also before the use of radio-
active minerals, the geological time scale was very short. The age
of the world was supposed to be only a few thousand years.

The present era is hard to characterize briefly, because it is difficult
to keep a perspective on one’s own time. The main differences between

6762124624
366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

this and previous eras lie in the abundance of all sorts of data and the
kind of theoretical approach made possible by advances in biology
and related sciences.

The primary aims of recent classifications are the same as those of
the earlier ones. The first is to describe various people of the world in
superficial terms. The purpose of this sort of description is to destroy
intellectual isolationism. One wonders how many of our soldiers in
the Far East had any idea of Polynesians, Melanesians, or aboriginal
Australians before they went there. Some of these people seem very
different and queer when one meets them for the first time. The best
way to keep one’s perspective is to have a good idea of the different
races before being plunged into the midst of a foreign people.

Granted that it is desirable for citizens in a democracy with commit-
ments all over the world to have some idea about the physical characters
of the peoples of the world, how is this end to be accomplished? It is
impossible to consider each of the 2 billion persons in the world.
Therefore some system of sampling is necessary. It happens that
mankind does divide into great groups, so that a relatively small num-
ber of individuals may substitute for the entire group. One Bushman
looks more like the next Bushman than either looks like a European or
a Mongolian. There isa great variation in each group. Races inter-
gerade and mix. Nevertheless, at present there is no other practical
method of obtaining some superficial acquaintance with what mankind
is like from a physical point of view. The racial classification is a
simple sampling system which allows a student to become familiar with
the superficial physical characters of 2 billion people in a remark-
ably short period of time.

Existing races are the products of evolution, and a second aim of
classification is to determine the relations of various races to fossil men
and ultimately to other primates. The methods necessary for this
purpose are very different from those which were adequate for the first.
An understanding of comparative human anatomy is essential. Since
fossils consist of bones and teeth only, knowledge of these parts is
particularly important. Studies of the different proportions of the
body are best carried out according to biometric methods. Genetics,
particularly of the blood groups, is playing a larger and larger part in
studies of the living.

The utility of the classification which has resulted from intensive
anatomical and metrical studies is very great, and only a few examples
can be cited here. It has made possible the determination of man’s
place in nature with an ever-increasing accuracy. It has served as an
aid in historical reconstructions, as in determining the way in which
the New World and Oceania were populated. It is of constant use in
the anatomical laboratory where subjects of different races are dis-

———

THINKING ABOUT RACE—WASHBURN 367

sected. For example, the facial muscles of the European, African
Negro, and Mongolian are quite different (Huber, 1931). This is so
much the case that the student following the description of the Euro-
pean, which is in all the textbooks, may becgme confused when dissect-
ing non-Kuropeans. There are numerous differences in the muscles
and other soft parts, as summarized by Loth (1931), and in the pro-
portions of the body and the skeleton (Martin, 1928). Pelvic shapes
differ, and this has a practical application in obstetrics (Caldwell,
Moloy, D’Esopo, 1934 and 1938). Limb proportions differ enough to
affect the sizes of uniforms (Davenport and Love, 1921). Steggerda
(1942) has shown the advantage of using separate height, weight, and
age tables for different racial groups.

The more global our national interests become the more use will be
found for knowledge of the anatomical characters of races. When
there are more medical schools in China or Africa, undoubtedly
anatomy textbooks will be written which apply more directly to these
peoples.

In summary, the comparative anatomist or physical anthropologist
cannot operate without racial classifications because these bring order
out of the otherwise meaningless range of human variation. How-
ever, these are anatomical classifications which are used for anatomical
purposes. Since the ends are anatomical in nature, the methods used
are anatomical. There is no thought of leaping from anatomy to
intelligence, language, or religion. <A scientist takes the most direct
route possible. If one wants to know about intelligence, intelligence
should be measured, not cranial capacity. If one wants to know about
language, language should be studied, not head form. One gets out of
a mill only what goes in, although the form may have changed. When
anatomy goes in, only anatomy comes out.

THE ANTIQUITY OF RACH

How shall we regard the races of man? Have they been relatively
independent for millions of years or are they modern? It used to be
thought that the races represented relatively fixed types, some of which
were much more closely allied to the apes than others. If any of the
living races is particularly primitive, it should be traceable far back in
prehistoric time. How far back can the major living races be traced ?

The skeletal remains which belong to the living races are found
back through the Neolithic period (Polished Stone Age, earliest
agriculture). Prior to that the situation was different. In Europe
the round-headed people appeared near the end of the Old Stone
Age. In Africa none of the early skeletal remains is typically Negro.
In Asia Mongoloids seem to belong to late geologic time, but data are
exceedingly scanty. As we go back in time, the picture is one of
change.
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

The appearance of the modern races only a few thousand years ago
is so sudden that theories have been developed to account for it. This
sudden appearance may be partly illusory. Skeletal remains are all
that are available, and the soft structures, which are not preserved, may
have been more differentiated. Also data are lacking from vast areas,
and so earlier representatives of the modern racial types may yet be
discovered in these places. It has been argued that the races must be
very old to account for the degree of difference seen today, but rather
than follow logic alone let us see what the men were like who lived in
the latter part of the Old Stone Age.

In Europe (several remains of the Aurignacian period), in Africa
(Boskop, Springbok), in Java (Wadjak), and in Australia (Talgai,
Cohuna),? there have been discovered skulls and skeletons which all
belong to the species of modern man, Homo sapiens. Their limb bones
are typically modern. They had, on the average, larger jaws, teeth,
and brow ridges than living men but were not beyond the range of
variation of living races. Here there is definite evidence of modern
man spreading out over the world before the living races are recog-
nizable. All these fossils seem to be of approximately the age of the
latter part of the last Ice Age, 20 to 50 thousand years ago. Of course,
dating is subject to great error. At least it can be said that they are
much older than the earliest finds that can be assigned to living races,
and much later than the groups of ancient men to be considered.

In the Americas the evidence of early modern man is not as clear
as in the Old World. The earliest finds (Minnesota, Lagoa Santa,
Punin; see Roberts, 1943) differ from the later ones, and evidence seems
to be accumulating that the men who first entered the New World
some 25,000 years ago were a long-headed early type of modern man.

Here is a commonly accepted hypothesis which will cover the main
facts of the last phases of man’s evolution. Somewhere in the Old
World about 50,000 years ago a generalized type of modern man de-
veloped. Variations of this type spread out over the Old World and,
somewhat later, into the New. The groups that spread were small
parties of hunters. It has been estimated that there were not more
than 7 million people in the whole world at the hunting and gathering
stage of cultural evolution. Therefore, these groups lived in extreme
isolation. This isolation made an ideal setting for the development
of the local varieties which are called races today.

Kach of the major racial groups is characteristically located in one
area of the world. The Whites, originally, were located in Europe,
the Mediterranean area, and the Near East. The center of Negro de-

?See Keith (1915 and 1931) for descriptions of these fossils. Hooton (1931) gives
useful short accounts of fossil men, and the new edition of ‘Up from the Ape,” now being
prepared, will include all the important recent discoveries.

THINKING ABOUT RACE—WASHBURN 369

velopment seems to have been in the Congo and West Africa. The
Bushmen occupied South Africa and formerly a good deal of East
Africa as well. The Australian-Melanesian group occupied Australia,
New Guinea, and adjacent islands. The Polynesians were late comers
to the island area (the era of the great migrations seems to have started
about A.D. 800). The Mongoloids were located in Eastern Asia and
migrated into the Americas where they probably absorbed the earlier
type of Upper Palaeolithic man.

If such an hypothesis is correct, as many scientists think, the area
where the greatest mixing has occurred and which is hardest to classify
should be the most central one, that is, India.

Dispersal followed by the establishment of local varieties has been
called adaptive radiation. It has been shown to apply to numerous
mammalian groups and seems to apply equally well to man (Howells,
1942). However, after the dispersion of modern man, the development
of agriculture and the enormous subsequent increase in population soon
changed matters. Childe (1939) has written a most stimulating book
on the relation of civilization to population. The population of the
world increased from some 7 million in the hunting stage to over 2
billion at the present time. As far as race is concerned, the result of
this enormous increase has been the loss of biological isolation (How-
ells, op. cit.). Small numbers and isolation seem to be necessary for
the establishment of new types. These conditions changed greatly after
the introduction of agriculture and disappeared with the fabulous in-
crease in population which followed the industrial revolution.

At present the characters of world population are being determined
largely by mixture and differential birth rates. It is hard to see how
new racial types can form under present conditions. It should be
noted that the later phases of human evolution introduced new factors.
While the earlier phases of man’s biological progress can be treated
just like those of any mammal, the later demand a knowledge of social
factors. It is for this reason that social and biological scientists must
cooperate in the study of man.

Granting that there was a dispersal of a rugged, generalized, mod-
ern man, from what type of man was he derived? There is no question
upon which there is less agreement among students of human evolu-
tion. Some maintain that the modern type is of great antiquity
(Galley Hill, Swanscombe skulls lend support to this view). Others
fee] that modern man is recent. The prevalence of other more primi-
tive types until the latter part of the Ice Age, and the sudden spread
of modern man at that time corroborates this hypothesis (to which the
writer leans). However, there seems little doubt that the earlier
Neanderthal men (Galilee, Ehringsdorf, Skhul 5, Steinheim; see
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Weidenreich, 1943), and the Sinanthropus and Pithecanthropus types
are ideal morphological ancestors for modern man.

These ancient men differ markedly from modern man. They have
much larger and more massive faces, lower foreheads, smaller average
cranial capacity, and their limbs show characteristic differences.
Whereas the early Homo sapiens fossils, if alive today, probably could
pass unnoticed in the New York subway, one of these ancient men
would draw the attention of everyone. They were quite beyond the
range of variation of modern man. However, they were true men.
They had large brains (compared to those of apes), human faces and
teeth, and human limb bones. They walked upright as we do, and in
their morphology are infinitely closer to modern man than they are
to any ape.

Ancient man spread out, just as early modern man did. His remains
have been found in Europe, Russia, China, Java, Palestine, and Africa.
Apparently, ancient man never reached the New World or Australia.

To which of the living races are these ancient fossils particularly
closely related? Tonone. The major races gained their individuality
long after the time when the earliest representatives of modern man
lived. Before these earliest modern men there is a morphological gap,
perhaps bridged by a skeleton from Palestine.

If any of the modern races is particularly primitive, its remains
should be found in early strata and should be proportionately more
numerous in more ancient deposits. The only one of the modern races
of which this would be at all true is the aboriginal Australian. The
Wadjak, Cohuna, Talgai series of fossils seems to offer connecting
links between early modern man and the Australian. Also of living
men the Australian seems to have more in common with generalized
early Homo sapiens, although the living Australians have evolved
along lines of their own. They simply seem to have changed less than
the others. Even the aboriginal Australian is definitely a modern man
and lacks the peculiarities of the face and limb bone which character-
ize ancient man.

Since the existing races have a common ancestor in early modern
man and since racial differences cannot be traced back even as far
as ancient man, what possible purpose is there in comparing living
races directly to the apes? Let us see how long a history of com-
mon ancestry the living races have compared to the time they have
been separate. Most students of human evolution feel that man must
have had an independent course of evolution since at least the end
of Miocene times. Many (Clark, Gregory, Hooton, Keith, Osborn,
Wood-Jones) would add millions of years to this. Early modern
man lived from 25 to 50 thousand years ago (considering the Pliocene
period to have lasted 6 million years, the Pleistocene 1 million, and
Recent 25 thousand). Let us be generous and say that the races

THINKING ABOUT RACE—WASHBURN Stl

were distinct for 50 thousand years, although all known skeletons of
definite racial affiliation are not over 25,000 years old. Taking a
minimum for the length of time that man has been separate from
the apes, and a maximum for that during which the races have been
distinct, the time during which all living people have shared a com-
mon human ancestry is a hundred and forty times that during which
any race has been independent. To put the matter conservatively,
every living race has had at least 100 times as much of its human
ancestry in common with all the other races as it has had alone. Since
what divergence has taken place is all after the attainment of essen-
tially modern morphology, it is hard to see how any of the living races
can be considered significantly more primitive than the others. None
of them is close to ancient man, let alone the apes. All are very mod-
ern products of the slow process of evolution.

The genealogical tree which appears in many textbooks is com-
pletely misleading. In this tree the races appear to have been sep-
arate for a very long period of time, for most of the Pleistocene period.
In fact separate races are indicated as old as any definitely dated
skeleton of man. Then, too, the time scale is completely misleading.
The Pleistocene is indicated as longer than the Pliocene and the Plio-
cene than the Miocene. Omitting time or using a changing time scale
is very confusing, and is such a frequent feature of genealogical trees
that it deserves special mention. Only one of eight trees which I
have before me keeps the time scale even approximately correct. The
effect of seeing such a tree is that the student gets the impression that
the races have been separate for approximately one-third of human
history. If this were true, there would undoubtedly be great differ-
ences between them. One should never use a chart on which the
scale changes or is omitted, because the student inevitably gets the
wrong idea. It is impossbile to put both the divergence of the
human line from the ape and the differentiation into modern races
on any single chart. If the time from the divergence of human and
ape stems to the present be represented by an ordinary pack of 52
playing cards placed end to end, all racial differentiation would be
on less than half of the last card. This is one of the most important
facts of human evolution, and the use of genealogical trees with
changing time scales, on which the importance of all late events is
exaggerated, has obscured it almost completely.

The practice of comparing individual races directly to the apes
should be abandoned, It is usually done with the best intent to show
that, although the White is more like the ape in one character, the
Negro is in another. But what this practice actually does is to keep
alive the idea that it is reasonable and scientifically defensible to
compare living men with living apes for the purpose of arranging
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

races in some hierarchical order. What meaning have these compari-
sons when the races have nearly all their ancestry in common?

Unless it could be proved that the living races differed greatly in
their relations to ancient man, it is pure waste of time to compare
them individually to the apes to determine which is the most primitive.
It is sound biological practice to compare closely related animals
first. In order to determine the relation of a Shetland pony to a Shire
horse, no one would compare each to Hohippus. It is reasonable to
compare living men to apes to determine how great is the anatomical
divergence between mankind as a whole and apes. Similarly, a
modern horse might be compared to Hohippus to see how great a
change there had been in horses since Eocene times.

Different characters are appropriate when discussing different
stages in man’s evolution. Since racial differences are small and
recent, they are of no use in discussing remote phases of human
evolution. Misunderstanding of this point has caused so much con-
fusion that it is worth giving two illustrations. Long-headedness is
often spoken of as being a primitive character. Since some gorillas,
particularly from the Cameroons (Randall, 1943), are round-headed,
it has been argued that long-headedness is not primitive. Now early
modern man was long-headed, and the round-heads, which appear
later in the fossil record, seem to have been derived from the early
long-heads. A character which changes so rapidly is of no use for
comparisons with gorillas. Note that the word “primitive” changes
its meaning constantly. One speaks of primitive characters meaning
those of (1) early modern man, (2) ancient man, or (3) apes, and in
each case the characters are different. How vitally a little knowledge
on this point is needed is well illustrated by a pamphlet which was
published recently. The authors wished to prove the unity of the
human race. One of the two illustrations which they picked was the
number of teeth. The human dental formula is the same as that of
the apes and Old World monkeys. The other illustration (the num-
ber of bones and muscles of the foot) is equally irrelevant. The unity
of the living races is proved by the anatomy of modern man, not by
characters which are shared with hundreds of nonhuman primates
and had their origin at least as far back as the basal Oligocene.

If the fossil record showed that the groups which are now recog-
nized as races had been separate as early as the Oligocene period, then
the dental formula would be a relevant consideration. The interpre-
tation of the fossil record is the crux of all thinking concerning the
antiquity of race.

In summary, the most direct and important evidence there is on
the antiquity and relations of races comes from the fossil record.
This evidence is being augmented constantly by new finds. Therefore

THINKING ABOUT RACE—WASHBURN 373

we are sure that the continued study of fossil man will give clearer
insight into this problem.

THINKING ABOUT RACIAL PROBLEMS

Up to this point I have tried to present a view of racial classifica-
tions which stresses ends and methods, and have tried to interpret the
fossil record to give a perspective on the antiquity of races. Naturally,
in a short paper it is impossible to do more than indicate a point of
view.

I do not believe that an understanding of the anatomy of race
will settle the social problem of racial discrimination. I agree en-
tirely with Benedict (1940) that this is only one part of the more
general problem of social discrimination, Nevertheless, if racial
classifications are to be discussed at all, it is necessary to try to under-
stand them first, and then to evaluate. Making serious errors is the
price which one pays for discussing race, without trying to understand
the anatomical situation. One can imagine Nazi biologists laughing
with delight if pamphlets containing misstatements are translated
and sent to Germany after the war. There is no easier way to discredit
a whole point of view which one does not like, than finding one or
two glaring errors. Therefore, if we are to discuss racial matters
with the Nazis, we had better be right.

The following section of this paper is devoted to the analysis of a
series of problems which have risen repeatedly in recent discussions
about race. In each section my aim will be to try to clarify thinking,
not to supply final answers.

HEAD FORM AS AN INDICATOR OF RACE

It has been said recently that the form cf the head (cephalic index)
is useless as an indicator of race. This is claimed because both
broad- and long-heads appear in Negroes, Mongolians, and Whites.
Now instead of taking an absolutist point of view, let us consider
the history of Europe for a moment. The early men were long-
headed. The migrations of round-headed people came from the east.
Some of these migrations are historically documented and recently
Candela (1942) has shown how certain ones explain the distribution
of blood-group B in Europe. The shape of the head is one, and only
one, of the anatomical features in which these migrants differed from
the earlier peoples. In considering the changes which have taken
place in the population of Europe, the cephalic index is useful. From
the pragmatic point of view, it is quite irrelevant whether the index
is useful in any other problem. We are not trying to prove whether
the cephalic index is good or bad in an absolute sense, but are merely
asking whether this index aids in unraveling a small part of the
complex history of Europe.
374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

There is nothing magical about the shape of the head. Sometimes,
along with other characters, it is useful in racial classification. The
point which should be stressed is that head form is not good or bad in
an absolute sense, but useful or not useful, in a particular situation.
Without knowing the situation, one cannot judge.

The pragmatic point of view is essential both in judging single
characters and whole classifications. For example, it has been said
that racial classifications mean very little because the races intergrade
so that all people cannot be classified. From the practical point of
view, the question is whether enough people can be easily classified so
that racial classification is useful.

GENETICS, PHENOTYPICAL AND GENOTYPICAL CLASSIFICATIONS

Geneticists and others have suggested that the classification of man
should be based on the primary units, the genes. The classifications
we have now are based almost entirely on phenotypes, that is, adult
structure.

It should be remembered that, as mentioned previously, the classi-
fication of adults is now useful to anatomists and many other people.
The obstetrician cannot wait until the genetics of pelvic type is known
before making a delivery.

Since at the present time there is no genetic classification of man,
the main question seems to be whether future knowledge of gene-
frequency distributions will substantiate present classifications. My
belief is that it will, as far as the major groups are concerned, but that
subraces which do not breed true and are found only in mixed popula-
tions will never be reconciled with genetic theory. The blood groups
are the only traits whose mode of inheritance is known and which have
been studied extensively in many parts of the world. The distribution
of the blood groups shows marked regional differences. For example,
group O is very frequent among American Indians, and group B
among the Chinese. That the same genes are present in all races but
in different frequencies seems probable. Only the future will tell, and
the sooner the genetic information is available, the better for all.

THE MEANING OF THE WORDS “RACH” AND “SPECIES”

Some writers have tried to settle racial problems by substituting
another word or words. This represents the opposite pole from that
stressed in this paper. We have already seen that “primitive” may
have a variety of meanings. After all, words are only symbols, and
it is ends and methods which are the framework of science. If people
want to use other words instead of “race,” of course they have a right
to do so. The danger is that changing words may appear to solve
problems, when it only obscures the fact that we are doing the same
things as before. The word “race” has as many different meanings

THINKING ABOUT RACE——-WASHBURN ai

as there are methods used to sort races. Some groupings are based
on much knowledge and some on very little. Some are undoubtedly
nonsense from any point of view. Vocabulary can be multiplied
prodigiously to try to reflect each change in method, or we can simply
say that the meaning of the word in any given case depends on the
operations performed in the creation of that race. The operational
point of view (Bridgman, 1936) keeps one’s attention constantly on
knowledge and methods, and off distinctions that have only a verbal
basis.

The importance of emphasizing operations actually performed is
well shown by the word “species.” It has been stated recently that
all living men belong to one species because all the races can inter-
breed. Now at least as early as 1863 (Zuckerman, 1933) it was known
that groups of monkeys classed in different genera would interbreed.
If one pauses to think that the primates have been classified in
museums and anatomical laboratories, it is obvious that tests of fer-
tility cannot have been one of the operations actually performed. The
species of primates are natural groups which are distinct, that is, every
individual can be classified as belonging to one. Species are the
smallest natural groups about which this is true, because, since sub-
species (races, varieties) intergrade, many individuals fit equally well
in more than one group.

Existing races of man are called “races” and not “species” because
their characteristics intergrade. If there were no intergrades between
Bushmen and Europeans and if they were classified in some museum
using the same methods used for monkeys, they would be put in sep-
arate species. As the classificatory system is now used, lack of inter-
gradation, and not inability to breed, is the characteristic actually
used. The history of how the idea of interspecific infertility arose
is worth considering because it shows the necessity for the operational
point of view. Species of monkeys were seen living in the same
locality and no hybrids were found. Since it was assumed that any
monkey would mate with any other (which is not true), the fact that
no hybrids were found proved that species were not able to interbreed.
Therefore species were thought to be mutually infertile groups. So
a conclusion, which is now known to be false, because a criterion of
a group which actually was defined entirely differently. If species
had been defined in terms of what people did in separating them,
inability to cross would never have been considered a specific char-
acter for primates.

METHODS OF CLASSIFICATION AND PURE RACES

All races of man are mixed, and within any racial group there are
always individual variations. After all, even monkeys of the same
subspecies collected in the same locality vary considerably (Schultz,
376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

1926, 1937; Washburn, 1942), so there is no reason to expect greater
homogeneity in man. In the primates as a whole, there appear to be
no pure races in the sense of types, such as some strains of laboratory
rats or mice, which are held constant by inbreeding and removal of
any deviating individuals. The human situation is more complex than
that of other primates because human wanderings and migrations
have been so much more extensive. Also human social habits, such as
trade, war, and slavery, introduce an entirely new set of factors.

Mixing has played a much greater part in the physical history of
man than it has in the evolution of nonhuman primates. In this sense
it is correct to say that there are no pure human races.

However, the word “pure” has been applied to races created by two
different methods, and it is very important to keep these methods sep-
arate in one’s thinking. For example, let us consider the construction
of the races frequently called “pure” aboriginal Australian and “pure”
Nordic.

In the case of the Australian aboriginal, “pure Australian” means
the Australian black as he is observed to be, without obvious mixture
with other races. The characteristics of the type are derived from the
study of the population. The range of variation in each character is
charted. The children belong to the same group as their parents, that
is, the race breeds true within the limits of the parental population.

“Pure Nordic” means a group of people who are tall, long-headed,
blond, blue-eyed, and who have the numerous other traits which are
attributed to this race. Do Nordics breed true, that is, will the chil-
dren of Nordic parents be Nordic? The children may be too short,
too round-headed, too dark-haired or dark-eyed to be classed as Nor-
dics. From this it is clear that the group which has been selected as
pure Nordic is pure in phenotype only. How was the Nordic race
created? Individuals were seen with the characteristics attributed
to the race, and then the pure race was postulated, and the observed
situation described as the result of mixture. In the case of Nordic the
meaning of “pure” lies in the operations performed to construct the
race, that is, in the creation of an imaginary type, which is not found.
In the case of the aboriginal Australian, “pure” means a population
which exists, which is studied directly, and which is without obvious
admixture. This does not mean that there never was any crossing,
but simply that our methods cannot detect any.

The descriptions of some races, such as the Australian, are based on
the study of populations. Other races, such as the Nordic, are created
by selecting individuals from a population and then describing the
selected group.

The great interest in racial purity has taken attention from the
fact that some of the mixed races cannot even be demonstrated as
actual groups of living, breeding human beings. Each race is worth
THINKING ABOUT RACE—WASHBURN BLE

no more consideration than the operations which created it. Whether
we call the Australian race “mixed” or “pure,” the same operations are
used to create our description. Whether the Nordic race is called
“mixed” or “pure,” it is still an arbitrarily limited creation of the
imagination. Only when one studies how races are created and in
what situations these concepts are useful, does the vast difference be-
tween Australian and Nordic become apparent. The crucial point is,
not that the Nordic race is mixed, but that there is no evidence that
there ever was a group of human beings who had the characters of
Nordics, and who passed these traits along to their children.

The first step in racial analysis is to find out whether there is a self-
perpetuating group of human beings who actually have the characters
of the race. The second is to see what methods were used to describe
and delimit the race.

It is only by knowing how particular races are described that one
can decide which ones are useful categories and which are useless.
Below is an analysis of one race.

Race: Pure Nordic.
Location: Nowhere.

Method: Imagination.
Result : Nonsense.

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

The conclusions of this paper may be briefly summarized as follows:

1. Racial classification is an anatomical concept and is useful for
anatomical purposes.

2. The fossil record shows that the living races are extremely mod-
ern from a biological point of view, having had most of their human
ancestry in common.

3. Keeping purpose and method constantly in mind removes much
of the confusion which exists in current thought about race.

4. To understand race, a knowledge of human biology is necessary.
Because words are only symbols, a knowledge of the things symbolized
is imperative for proper understanding. It is here that the science
teacher has a great contribution to make in both fact and method.

LITERATURE CITED
Benepict, R.
1940. Race: Science and politics. Modern Age Books, New York.
BRIDGMAN, P. W.
1936. The nature of physical theory. Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton,
CALDWELL, W. E., Motoy, H. C., and D’Esopro, D. A.
1934. Further studies on the pelvic architecture. Amer. Journ. Obst. and
Gynecol., vol. 28, No. 4, pp. 482-498.
1938. Studies on pelvic arrests. Amer. Journ, Obst. and Gynecol., vol. 36,
No. 6, pp. 928-960.
CANDELA, P. W.
1942. The introduction of blood-group B into Europe. Human Biol., vol. 14,
No. 4, pp. 413-443.
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

CHILE, V. G.
1939. Man makes himself. Oxford Univ. Press, New York.
Coss, W. M.
1948. Education in human biology: An essential for the present and future.
Journ. Negro Hist., vol. 28, No. 2, pp. 119-155.
DAVENPORT, C. B., and Love, A. G.
1921. The medical department of the United States Army in the World
War. Vol. 15. Army Anthropology, Statistics, pt. 1.
Hooton, HE. A.
1931. Up from the ape. Macmillan Co., New York.
HowE tts, W. W.
1942. Fossil man and the origin of races. Amer. Anthrop., n. s., vol. 44,
No. 2, pp. 182-193.
Huser, E.
1931. Evolution of facial musculature and facial expression. Johns Hopkins
Press, Baltimore.

KEITH, A.
1915. The antiquity of man. (Rev. ed., 1929.) J. B. Lippincott Co., Phila-
delphia.
1931. New discoveries relating to the antiquity of man. Williams & Norgate,
Ltd., London.

KLINEBERG, O.
1935. Race differences. Harper & Bros., New York.
LorH, PB.
1931. Anthropologie des parties molles. Masson et Cie., Paris.
Martin, R.
1928. Lehrbuch der Anthropologie. 2d ed. Gustav Fischer, Jena.
RANDALL, F. E.
1943. The skeletal and dental development of the gorilla. Human Biol.,
vol, 15, No. 4, pp. 307-337.
ROsBeEktTS, FRANK H. H., JR.
1943. Evidence for a Paleo-Indian in the New World. Acta Americana,
vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 171-201.
ScHuttz, A. H.
1926. Studies on the variability of platyrrhine monkeys. Journ. Mammal.,
vol. 7, No. 4, pp. 286-305.
1937. Proportions, variability and asymmetries of the long bones of the
limbs and the clavicles in man and apes. Human Biol., yol. 9, No.
3, pp. 281-328.
StreccrrDA, M.
1942. Significance of racial factors in physical measurements of normal
and defective children. Amer. Journ. Mental Deficiency, vol. 46,
No. 4, pp. 464466.
Tozzrr, A. M.
1931. Social origins and social continuities. Macmillan Co., New York.
WASHBURN, S. L.
1942. Skeletal proportions of adult langurs and macaques. Human Biol.,
vol. 14, No. 4, pp. 444-472.
WEDENREICH, F.
1943. Neanderthal man and the ancestors of Homo sapiens. Amer. Anthrop.,
D. s., VOl. 45, No. 1, pp. 39-48.
ZUCKERMAN, S.
1933. Functional affinities of man, monkeys and apes, Harcourt, Brace
& Co., New York.

ray
Pama

- 7 z 7
s ee ;

aaa:

rat

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Shetrone PLATE 1

PRESENT-DAY IRRIGATION IN THE SALT RIVE

‘The prehistoric irrigation project covered aa
PRESENT-DAY IRRIGATION IN

Phe prehistoric irrigation project covered the eentral portions

THE

SALT RIVER VALLEY

SOUTH-CENTRAL ARIZONA

of the same area

;

Ay aoe
PISERVAI

CALIFORNIA

SALT RIVER PROJECT

@ TUCSON
™.
™.
ARIZONA ~~

hy)
SHOWING LOCATION OF ~*~
SALT RIVER PROJECT er AS eee

MEXICO
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Shetrone PLATE 1

PRESENT-DAY IRRIGATION IN THE SALT RIVE
The prehistoric irrigation project covered the
A UNIQUE PREHISTORIC IRRIGATION PROJECT?

By Henry C. SHETRONE

Director, Ohio State Archaeological and Historical Society
Columbus, Ohio

[With 5 plates]

Intentional diversion of water from its natural channels, for the
purpose of irrigating regions of inadequate rainfall, is widespread
in time and space. Usually, however, it is thought of as something
of an innovation and as of more or less local significance.

Inhabitants of humid areas are likely to underestimate the very
constderable portion of the earth’s surface where the natural supply
of moisture is insufficient to meet the needs of agriculture and other
human economic requirements. In the United States alone virtually
one-half the land area, westward from its longitudinal center, is
arid or semiarid, as are vast areas in Mexico and South America.

Much of the Old World, particularly those countries adjacent to the
Mediterranean and in the Near East, where ancient civilizations orig-
inated and flourished, are arid and desertlike. The valleys of the
Tigris, the Euphrates, and the Nile are classical examples of the
dependence of life on the natural or induced overflow of these great
river systems,

The importance of water—and the tragedy of too much or too
little—are reflected in the early literature, both sacred and profane,
from the time of the Babylonian poet-philosophers downward through
the centuries. An outstanding record of excessive rainfall is that
of the Noachian flood ; a minor example may be found today in the rain
belt where someone, perhaps with a picnic in prospect, hopes that
tomorrow may be fair! In between, the annals of virtually every
people contain legends of floods and consequent devastation. Because
of insufficient rainfall Moses, leading the Children of Israel back
to the homeland, smites the rock, that they may drink; and the Arab

1 Address of the retiring president of the Ohio Academy of Science, delivered at the
annual meeting of the Academy held in Columbus, Ohio, May 5, 1944. Reprinted by
Permission from The Ohio Journal of Science, vol. 44, No. 5, September 1944.

379
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

sheik bespeaks the compassion of Allah in the matter of the failing
desert spring.

The crude methods of conserving water for domestic and agricultural
use employed by present-day Pueblo Indians of the arid southwestern
United States are a matter of common knowledge. Natural springs
and water holes are seasonal sources; rivers which carry water through
the year serve those living adjacent thereto; but by far the greater
number of inhabitants must conserve rainfall and storm water from
the mountains and the high mesas in natural depressions, converted
into reservoirs by means of dams and other artificial modifications.
While in some instances ditches Jead from these to nearby fields and
gardens, the Indian women usually must carry water in jars for hand-
irrigation of their meager crops. Archeological investigation has
shown that, with few exceptions, surprisingly similar methods were
employed in prehistoric times in the same general area.

This paper, however, is concerned with the historic aspects of
irrigation only as a frame or background for an even more romantic
phenomenon—prehistoric irrigation in the New World!

Although a matter of record, it is not generally known that in south-
central Arizona, long before the discovery of America, the native
aborigines had perfected an impressive system of irrigation, which
made possible the successful practice of agriculture over a period of
several centuries. This system has been referred to as a “million-
dollar project, constructed with nothing more than rude stone hoes
and wooden digging sticks.”

Residents of Ohio and adjacent parts of the Middle West, where
the civilization of the so-called Mound Builders has been made known
through exploration of their ancient tumuli, may not find this so
incredible; but to many persons, accustomed to thinking of all pre-
historic peoples as mere savages, the phenomenon is certain to be some-
thing of a surprise.

A glance at the map of the southwestern United States will serve
to set the stage for the human drama which now unfolds itself. It will
be noted that the State of Arizona, youngest of the American common-
wealths, is bounded on the north by Utah and Colorado; to the east is
New Mexico, and to the south is old Mexico. The great Colorado
River, beyond which is California, forms Arizona’s western boundary.

Traversing the State from northwest to southeast are southern ex-
tensions of the Rockies, and the high plateau where today live the
Pueblo Indians and where in ancient times lived their predecessors, the
prehistoric Pueblos and the so-called Basket Makers. To the west
and south of the mountains is the Arizona desert region of scant rain-
fall, where, because of its much lower altitude, relatively high temper-
atures prevail.

PREHISTORIC IRRIGATION PROJECT—SHETRONE 381

In south-central Arizona is the city of Phoenix, capital and metrop-
olis of the State. From the mountains and high plateau toward the
east come two rivers—the Salt from the northeast and the Gila from
the southeast. They converge just west of Phoenix and find their way,
as the Gila River, to the Colorado and the Gulf of California.

The State of Ohio sometimes is referred to as the land of the Mound
Builders; the valleys of the Salt and the Gila, particularly the region
of which Phoenix is the hub, may with equal justification be referred
to as the land of the Canal Builders! Here we have the double phe-
nomenon of an area of considerable extent, by nature arid and unin-
viting, which, for several centuries in prehistoric times, was made to
“blossom as the rose”; which then reverted to its natural aridity;
and now, once again, has become one of the more fertile and productive
regions of the continent!

The visitor to Phoenix need walk but a short distance outside the
city limits to come upon one or more ancient irrigation canals. Accom-
panied by a guide familiar with the terrain, he will be able to trace a
number of others, and will learn that prior to their partial obliteration
by present-day agriculture, some 125 miles of main irrigation canals
were existent in the Salt River Valley and perhaps half that mileage
in the valley of the Gila. Many of these measure as much as 30 feet
between their crowns and reach depths of 10 feet or more. Even at
this late date some of these may be traced for as far as 10 miles.

The canal system in the Salt River Valley consisted of several inde-
pendent units, or main canals, each with many branch canals and
ditches. Intakes of the main canals were far enough upstream to pro-
vide sufficient ‘‘fall” for successfully irrigating their respective areas.
The lateral branches, most of which long ago were obliterated through
erosion and silting, must have aggregated hundreds of miles.

An aerial survey of the valleys of the Salt and the Gila was effected
in 1930 through the cooperation of the Smithsonian Institution, the
United States Army, and certain authorities in Arizona. This aerial
reconnaissance, during which the region was accurately photographed
and mapped, was followed by a ground survey under the direction of
Phoenix city archeologist, O. S. Halseth. As a result of this dual
survey, what admittedly is the only true irrigation culture in pre-
historic America has become a matter of record.

This brief outline of prehistoric irrigation and agriculture in
Arizona should elicit a desire on the part of the reader to learn
something of the people responsible for their development. Who
were the ancient Canal Builders? Spanish padres and adventurers
from old Mexico, who came into the region toward the close of the
seventeenth century, perhaps were the first white men to ask this
question. Naturally, they sought the answer from the native Indians,

6762124625

382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

the Pimas, resident in the district, and received the reply, ““Ho-ho-
kam!’ meaning nothing more nor less than “those who have
vanished.” The canals and the adjacent ruins already were aban-
doned and ancient as far back as Pima tradition carried.

Thanks to archeological researches sponsored by the University of
Arizona, the city of Phoenix, Gila Pueblo of Globe, Arizona, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, and other agencies, the erstwhile
forgotten annals of the Canal Builders in great part have been
recovered and recorded. This is particularly true of the material
aspects of their culture.

As indicated by their numerous irrigation canals, the Hohokam
peoples were agriculturists. In and adjacent to the Salt River Valley
there are the ruins of some 20 ancient farming communities, each
with its central communal adobe structure, with perhaps half that
number in the valley of the Gila. The most impressive of these ruins
in the Gila drainage is the noted Casa Grande, now preserved as a
national monument,

Outstanding in the Salt River Valley is Pueblo Grande, a part of
the park system of the city of Phoenix, located just east of the city
limits. Here the enterprising capital city of Arizona has erected an
anthropological laboratory in which is housed a museum of the
Hohokam culture, workrooms and laboratories, accommodations for
visiting anthropologists and students, and living quarters for the
director of the laboratory, who also has the title of city archeologist.
During the months of February and March 1944 the author had the
pleasure of being a guest at the laboratory, with unusual opportunity
for studying the Hohokam culture at first hand.

A brief description of Pueblo Grande ruin and its adjacent farming
community will serve as an index to the culture as a whole, which
is quite homogeneous throughout the area of its occurrence.

The ruin of the Pueblo Grande community structure, adjacent to
the laboratory, is a more or less rectangular truncated mound of
earth and stone, some 150 feet in width and 300 feet in length with
an approximate height of 30 feet. It has been partially excavated by
Director Halseth and his associates and students, and proved to
consist of a large number of rooms or compartments of varying sizes.
The walls and partitions are constructed of flat stones and boulders
imbedded in adobe clay, with roofs of logs, poles, brush, and adobe.
Enclosing the structure, and built from similar materials, was a high
wall. Entrance to the resulting compound presumably was by means
of ladders. The structure and its compound served the community
as a granary and storehouse for their corn, beans, squash, and other
products and possessions, and as a safe retreat from marauding
tribesmen from outside their borders. The great size of the structure
PREHISTORIC IRRIGATION PROJECT—SHETRONE 383

and its many rooms are accounted for by the fact that adobe construc-
tion was at best only temporary or semipermanent, and required
frequent repairs, abandonment of certain parts, and the building
of new units.

Outside the compound and adjacent thereto were the cultivated
fields, comprising many acres. Here, too, the people lived, their
domiciles being merely crude shelters of poles and brush, their floors
somewhat below the surface of the ground—a type of domicile known
to archeologists as pit houses.

It would be unfair to judge the culture of the Hohokam peoples
solely by their unassuming dwellings, for it should be remembered
that in the mild climate of their country they could be, and were,
people of the great outdoors. Their amazing system of irrigation
canals and the resulting agricultural development, together with
their pretentious communal centers and their ceremonial ball courts,
are sufficient to place them on an advanced plane of culture; nor
should one overlook their admirable development of the minor
domestic arts. While little of a perishable nature has survived the
destruction wrought by time and the elements, their utilization of
clay, stone, shell, and other time-resisting materials, is in keeping
with their major accomplishments, The potteryware of the Hoho-
kam, particularly, is exceptional, and many fine examples of pots,
jars, vases, and bowls, of pleasing form and decoration, have been
recovered. Equally impressive, if not as artistic, are the numerous
metates and manos, for grinding corn and other grains and seeds,
while their stone axes are among the finest known. Beads, pendants,
bracelets, and necklaces of shell and other materials are much in
evidence, and turquoise occurs sparingly. Chipped flint projectile
points and knives, while often of good workmanship, are much less
abundant than in the Middle West, obviously for the reason that the
Hohokam were mainly agricultural and only moderately dependent
on wild game for food. Tobacco pipes are of very infrequent occur-
rence, aS contrasted with Ohio, where large numbers are found in
the ancient mounds and burial sites. Tobacco doubtless was ordi-
narily smoked as cigarettes.

While archeologists specializing in the culture are virtually agreed
that the Hohokam came into the Salt and Gila Valleys at or slightly
before the beginning of the Christian Era, there is no definite evidence
as to their origin. There zs some evidence of affinity with the lesser-
known Mogollon and Cochise cultures to the south, and of contact with
the Pueblo peoples to the north, but the full significance of these re-
mains undetermined.

Fortunately, however, the approximate period of their occupancy
and the probable time and cause of their disappearance from their
384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

homeland in Arizona now are known. The techniques employed in
discovering and recording a major part of the story of the Hohokam
peoples, after the lapse of centuries, not only is a romance in itself, but
is an example of the efficiency of the methods of archeology as well.
Here, briefly, is the story.

Earlier in this paper it was stated that the Hohokam are believed to
have come into south-central Arizona around the beginning of the
Christian Era. At this point it may be stated that they disappeared
from the region around A. D. 1400, some three centuries prior to the
arrival upon the scene of Spanish explorers and adventurers from old
Mexico. For the evidence on which this chronology is based, we must
turn momentarily to another region and another people—the Pueblo
nations of the high plateau and canyons.

Here in a region of evergreen forests, the ancient ruins of the
Pueblo peoples actually have been dated by means of tree-ring counts,
a technique developed by Dr. A. E. Douglass of the University of
Arizona. Details of this immeasurably important development can-
not be given in the limited space of this paper. It is one of the ro-
mances of American science. (See bibliography.) Suffice it to say
that most of the major ruins and scores of minor ones in the Southwest
now have been dated by this method, and that the chronology of the
region has been carried back to the first century A. D.

As a result of the tree-ring method of dating, those ruins in forested
areas adjacent to the Hohokam country show significant changes
through the centuries in types and decorations of potteryware and in
virtually every aspect of their material culture; and since there was
more or less of trade and barter as between the two areas, the finding in
a Hohokam site of a Pueblo pottery vessel of, let us say, the period of
A. D. 1000, is suggestive to say the least. Multiply such individual
instances by any reasonable number, and at least a near-contemporane-
ity is the result. Although the Hohokam country is virtually lacking
in large trees, through such analogy and comparison its ruins are
dated.

Finally, when all evidence of Hohokam activity ceases, and no fur-
ther objects known to pertain to other cultures appear in their ruins,
it is logical to assume that their career as a people was ended. Such
conditions are found to obtain not much later than A. D. 1400.

The disappearance of so advanced a people from a region which
they had converted into an admirable place of residence was due to
two major causes. One of these is disclosed in a brief consideration
of the present-day situation.

In the 1870’s Mormon settlers appeared in the Salt River Valley
and began clearing out ancient irrigation canals and constructing
others. In the ensuing years this initial enterprise has grown by
PREHISTORIC IRRIGATION PROJECT—-SHETRONE 385

leaps and bounds, with some 400 square miles of terrain, requiring
annually 1,000,000 acre-feet of irrigation water, now under cultiva-
tion. Thus the land of the ancient Canal Builders once more has
come into its own, and the Salt River Valley—the Valley of the
Sun—with its great citrus groves, date orchards, farms which pro-
duce as many as three crops annually, and subtropical plants and
flowers growing in great profusion, is indeed an oasis in the desert.

In view of the fact that this transformation is due entirely to irri-
gation, it may appear contradictory to suggest that irrigation was
the principal cause of the downfall of the Hohokam peoples. The
Salt River Valley is underlaid with a “volcanic pocket” of clay or
marl which is virtually impervious to water. According to estimates
of the Salt River Waters Users Association, one-fifth of the total
irrigation water enters the ground as seepage, and builds up the
water table at the rate of from 3 to 5 inches each year. During the
period from 1870 to 1920, when irrigation was much less intensive,
one-third of the area under irrigation was rendered unfit for cultiva-
tion as a result of accumulated seepage and attendant alkalinity.
Under present-day intensive irrigation, the entire area, within a
comparatively short time, would be little short of an alkaline bog.
This threat now is averted by periodic flooding to eliminate alkali
and by using a battery of electric pumps for the purpose of removing
surplus water—some 800,000 acre-feet annually.

The ancients had no drainage facilities, pumps or otherwise, The
result was inevitable; surplus water and alkalinity, water-logged soil,
and dwindling productivity. This is evidenced by the fact that
exploration of the Pueblo Grande ruin demonstrated that the floors
of granaries and storerooms had repeatedly been elevated in an effort
to keep them above the water-logged surface of the ground.

An additional situation, which may have been the coup de grace
of Hohokam survival, was the constant threat from marauding
nomadic tribesmen from the plateau areas. It is known that from
early historic times the agricultural peoples of the valleys were fre-
quently raided by the Navajo, the Apache, and other predators who
made bold to reap where they had not sown, and there can be but
little doubt that the peaceful Hohokam peoples, throughout their
sojourn in their chosen country, were forced to contend with similar
hostile incursions. Faced by such handicap, and seeing their once
fertile acres gradually transformed into water-logged and alkaline
wastes, it was inevitable that their numbers must decline to the point
where a few hungry stragglers either found refuge with other tribes
or passed entirely from the picture.

Today there remain only the old canals and the ruins of once
impressive communal structures—mute evidences of a people who
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

had carried the human experiment, through trial and error, to a level
which must command the admiration of all discerning men; a people
who, but for a natural calamity with which they could not cope, and
because of the rapacity of unscrupulous and hostile neighbors, might
have borne the torch of civilization to undreamed-of heights. The
construction of a million-dollar irrigation system, representing a
high degree of engineering skill, attests to their energy, strength,
courage, and initiative.

Our culture of today is complex, while theirs was simple; but who
would venture to say that ours is “higher” or better? We, as were
they, are still beset with the threat of natural calamity, and by “man’s
inhumanity to man.” The first of these is nothing as compared to
the latter, which precipitated all mankind into a holocaust such as
the world never has known, the aftermath of which conceivably
might be more disastrous than the titanic struggle itself.

The only criterion which justifies an assumption that one culture
is higher or better than another, is proof that it provides a larger
measure of cooperation, usefulness, spirituality, morality—and
human happiness!

A BRIEF BIBLIOGRAPHY
Irrigation:
General
Newell, Frederick H. Irrigation in the United States. New York, 1902.
Arizona :
Halseth, Odd S. Prehistoric irrigation in central Arizona. The
Masterkey, Los Angeles, 1932.
Halseth, Odd S. Prehistoric irrigation in the Salt River valley.
Bulletin 296, Univ. New Mexico, 1936.
Schroeder, Albert H. Prehistoric canals in the Salt River valley,
Arizona. American Antiquity, vol. 8, April 1943.
Tree-ring Dating:
Douglass, A. E. Tree rings and chronology. Bull., vol. 8, No. 4, Univ.
Arizona, 1937.
Douglass, A. E. Southwestern dated ruins, V. Tree Ring Bull., vol. 5,
No. 2, 1938.
Hohokam Culture:
McGregor, John C. Southwestern archeology. New York, 1941.
Various authors in Medallion Papers. Globe, Ariz.
Southwestern Archeology:
Kidder, Alfred V. An introduction to the study of Southwestern
archeology. Andover, Mass., 1924.
McGregor, John C. Southwestern archeology. New York, 1941.
For earlier references, see Handbook of American Indians. Bur, Amer.
Ethnol. Bull., Washington, 1910.
CUI9STBH *S PPO Aq Ydess0}0y 7)
“AATIVA YSAIY LIWS 4O NOILOSS GALVSINYINN 4O 3dVOSGNV7 AVSIdAL

-

2 aALV1dd : 2U04324S—"Ch6 ‘quodayy ueriuosy WG

= = — —— = = Pn ak = ———— — —— ——— — —— ae —+- =

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Shetrone PLATE 3

VIEW OF MOUNTAINS FROM APACHE TRAIL, EAST OF PHOENIX.

Upper course of Salt River, source of irrigation water, seen through the gap. (Photograph by Odd 8.
Halseth.)
“‘Wes[eH “S ppo Aq ydeis0j04 q)
“*XINSOHd SO LSVF LSNEf ‘IWNVD NOILVSINY| DINOLSIHAYd VY AO NOILOAS

vy ALVvdd auomaYS—"Cp6| ‘Oday URTUOSYAIUIC

Cydes[tH ‘8 ppo Aq Yydess0j}0y4 4)

QayO1dxyg ATLYVd ‘SNINY SJONVYD O183aNd AO NOILOAS TIVWS

G 31V1d auosjayS —"Ch6] *‘quoday URIUOSY IWS
CONCEPTS OF THE SUN AMONG AMERICAN INDIANS’

By M. W. Strerine

Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology
Smithsonian Institution

[With 6 plates]

Webster’s dictionary defines the sun as “The luminous heavenly
body, the light of which constitutes day, and absence of the light of
which constitutes night.” Astronomers might object that this rather
oversimplifies the subject, but it has the advantage, at least, that primi-
tive people all over the world would agree with it.

The American Indian was concerned much more with the effects of
the sun than he was with the nature of the sun itself. Apparently the
average man did little if any thinking about the matter. He accepted,
vaguely, explanatory information as given in myths. Such incon-
sistencies and conflicts as might appear to a person of another culture
did not bother him since most of it was in the realm of the super-
natural. He interpreted the universe just as it appeared tohim. The
earth was a flat disk covered with a hemispherical blue dome or firm-
ament which fitted over it like a bell jar. Attached to it or moving
across it like flies on a ceiling were the various heavenly bodies. These
as a rule were personified.

We might infer from the sun myth of the California Indians that,
because Coyote stole the sun and put it in a sack which he carried off
on his back, the sun was considered to be of a size that a man could
carry. However, in the same myth, when Coyote paused to dig up
a worm, Mount Diablo was formed by the back dirt. In fact, in Indian
myths generally, there is a rather complete abandonment of all dimen-
sional concepts. As supernatural beings, the cricket can engage in
combat with the elk on equal terms.

We all remember the childhood pastime of asking “How big does the
moon (or the sun) look to you?” ‘Does it look as big as a dime or as
big as a dinner plate?” We judge size by eye, only through compari-
son with some object of known size, so that the sun and the moon in

1The thirteenth Arthur lecture, given under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution
January 17, 1945.

387
388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

their detached and distant positions in the sky defy mere man’s ability
to guess. Even though we have been told that the sun is almost a
million miles in diameter I doubt very much that it looks that big
to most of us. Certainly it did not to the American Indian. Nor did
it look to him as though it were 93,000,000 miles away.

The astronomer with his optical instruments and mathematical cal-
culations has given us the explanation of a vast universe with widely
separated bodies pursuing their orderly and intricate orbits and pro-
ducing a series of predictable and explainable results, which to the
unaided eye are not always what they appear to be. Most of us who
are laymen accept these statements on faith and dismiss the general
subject of the universe on the grounds that it is all too remote to be of
intimate concern to us, except for that portion of our own planet which
furnishes the stage for our activities. Insofar as the sun fits into the
universal scheme, we also accept academically the assurances given us
that the seasons, the growth of plants, weather and other phenomena
are the result of the apparent motion of the sun. The average man
among the American Indians felt much the same way about it. He
accepted on faith what his mentors told him and as a rule did not bother
to check the information. The main difference between us lies in the
details of the information we receive.

It has probably not occurred to many of us that the periodicity of
the sun producing such fundamental time units as the day and the
year has developed with us a time consciousness which is all out of pro-
portion to that of most Indian tribes. It was not typical of Indians
to count the passing years and no Indian unless very young knew his
age in years. We must except from this general statement, however,
some of the tribes of Middle America. Perhaps it would be better for
us if we were not so aware of our ages. One often hears, with reference
to Indians, such pat expressions as “So many winters had passed over
his head,” or that a man was “so many winters old.” Such expressions
came into being only after contact with the whites.

What the Indians of North America would say was “I was so big
when such and such an event took place,” such as a famine, a war, or
other conspicuous happening. Among the Hupa of California, age is
judged by the amount of wear on the teeth. Instead of speaking of
age in terms of time units, a Hupa would say, his second teeth have
just come in, his teeth are worn smooth, or his teeth are worn to the
gums. This method was universally applicable since before the com-
ing of the whites the Indians seldom lost their teeth through decay
or other causes, and among California tribes, eating acorn meal
leached through sand and ground in stone mortars produced con-
spicuous wear on the teeth,

In short, the tribes north of Mexico, because of a lack of pre-
occupation with time units as marked by astronomical phenomena,

INDIAN CONCEPTS OF THE SUN—STIRLING 389

failed to develop a feeling that the passage of time was worth record-
ing. The so-called historical calendars, annals, winter counts, notched
sticks, and the like are concerned with the recording of events in a
vague historical sense and are not really time reckoning. Moreover
they were simply intended as memory jogs to a few individuals and
were not understood by the people in general.

To some tribes, such as the Nootka of Vancouver Island, the sun
evidently looked like a disk. Apparently this was true of the Aztecs
and other Mexican tribes who in stone carving and metallurgy repre-
sent the sun asa disk. ‘To other groups it appeared round like a ball,
as among the Californians and some Panamanian tribes who carved
representations of the sun in the form of a sphere. To others who
thought of the firmament as a solid dome-shaped roof, the sun ap-
peared to be a round hole through which the light came. A similar
idea, like that held by some of the southern Californian tribes, is
that a round spot was cleaned off on the sky by the finger of some
mythical character, much as one might clean a spot on a dirty window
pane letting the hght through.

Many tribes thought of the sun as the actual person of a deity, while
others thought of it as an inanimate luminous object controlled by
the deity, but not being the deity itself. Therefore when the sun god
is mentioned among some Indians it refers directly to the sun, while
among others it refers to the deity who controls the sun. The thought
of the sun as an inanimate object is not as common as the other, and
curiously enough is held by the more primitive groups such as some
of the California Indians, where the sun is bandied about by various
mythic animals like a loose football.

The sun is probably the most universally venerated deity among the
aboriginal American Indians. Nevertheless there are many tribes
where the sun is considered of very minor importance. On the other
hand there are many groups who regard it as their principal deity. In
general the sun is most venerated among the agricultural tribes, and the
more highly advanced the group, the more important does the sun be-
come. ‘Thus the peak of sun worship is found among the Inca, the
Maya, and the Aztecs, and the sun deity partakes much more of the
nature of an abstraction than is the case among the more primitive
tribes.

The moon, among many Indian groups, is regarded as a powerful
being, yet frequently wielding an influence that is evil or dangerous,
whereas the sun is usually beneficent. In most cases the sun is
masculine and the moon feminine, but this is far from being a uni-
versal concept. The Eskimo, the Cherokee, and the Yuchi, to name
a few, regard the sun as the woman and the moon asthe man. In the
southwestern part of the United States among the Pueblo Indians and
neighboring tribes, and also in southern Alaska and British Columbia,
390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

both the sun and the moon are regarded as masculine. When the
sexes differ, the sun and moon are usually considered as man and wife,
and the Tlingit of the Northwest Coast explain the sun’s eclipse as due
to a visit of the wife to her husband. In a myth, which curiously
enough is common among the Eskimo and the Cherokee and also occurs
in South America, the sun and moon are brother and sister, guilty of
incest.

In the Southwest and parts of the Pacific Coast of North America
the sun and moon are conceived as material objects borne across the
sky by carriers, and the yearly variations of the sun’s path are ex-
plained by mechanical means—poles by which the sun bearer ascends
to a sky bridge which he crosses and which is as broad as the ecliptic.

Though the sun is so generally regarded a great deity, he is seldom
supreme, since almost invariably both the sun and moon are created
beings who appear after man has already been accounted for, thus
requiring the native theologian to account for a higher and more
abstract being who created them.

Myths that concern the sun vary in detail not only among the differ-
ent tribes, but often with individuals from the same tribe who recount
them. Nevertheless these stories fall into several definite patterns,
some of which are of remarkably wide distribution. In some instances
even minor details are preserved in a myth which may extend to both
American continents. Some of the more important of these are:

1. The almost universal North American tale of the hero or
heroic brothers, usually twins, whose father is the sun.

2. The Phaethon myth, common in the Northwest, in which the
mink is permitted to carry the sun disk and, as a consequence,
causes a great conflagration.

3. The related legend of the creation of the sun, which, until
it is properly elevated to a safe distance above the earth, over-
heats the world.

4. Tales of the theft of the sun, which are variants of the
world-wide Promethean story of the theft of fire.

By way of illustrating the nature of these tales I will give a few
which are typical of the patterns I have mentioned.

THE ORIGIN OF THE SUN AND MOON

Practically all the Californian peoples who discussed the origin
of the sun and moon regarded them as something which was obtained
or made only after man himself had come into existence on earth.
They did not think of the sun as a primeval object, existing from the
very beginning. In central California the presence of the sun was
usually accounted for by a theft story, the sun being possessed by

INDIAN CONCEPTS OF THE SUN—STIRLING 391

people far off and being stolen from them for the benefit of the tribe
relating the story. In southern California the sun was made usually
from clay or spittle. The Californians were in no sense sun wor-
shipers, and that luminary played a very unimportant part in their
religious beliefs. Moreover, they gave very little attention to the
yearly movements of the sun, and most tribes did not take special note
of the time of the solstices, although these could easily enough have
been determined by simple observations. By some tribes in central
California, such as the Yuki, the sun was conceived of as a deity who
was the patron of doctors who cured rattlesnake bites.

Of even less importance than the sun in California was the moon.
The Maidu had a tale about the restriction of the movements of the
two luminaries to night and day. In northwestern California there
was the interesting belief that the waning of the moon was due to its
being eaten by Lizard in the sky. The Luisefio thought that the first
people raised the sun into the sky with a net.

Some of the California tribes believe that the souls of the dead
ascend to the sky where they take up their abode and become stars.
There are many different versions among the different groups as to
how this final abode is reached. One tells of the soul ascending with
the rising sun until the meridian was reached, thence proceeding to
the milky way which was the pathway to the other world (Gifford
and Block, 1930).

The Dieguenio of southern California explain the sun in their crea-
tion myth:

In the beginning there was no land. There was nothing but salt water, the
great primeval ocean. Under this water lived two brothers who always kept
their eyes closed because of the salt water which would blind them if they
opened their eyes.

After a time the oldest brother, Chaipakomat, rose to the surface of the water
and looked around. He saw nothing but water. Soon the younger brother came
up but on the way he opened his eyes and the salt water blinded him, so that
when he did reach the surface he could see nothing and therefore returned to
the deep.

The older brother decided that there should be someting in the world beside
water, so he first made little red ants. He made so many of them that they
filled the water very thickly with their bodies. This made land.

Then Chaipakomat caused certain birds with flat bills to come into being, but
because there was no sun or light these birds got lost. So Chaipakomat took
three kinds of clay, red, yellow, and black, and made a round flat object. He
threw this up against the sky and it stuck there. Soon it began to give a dim
light. Today we call this the moon. But Chaipakomat was not satisfied, for
the light was poor. So he took some more clay and made another round flat
object and tossed that up agaisnt the other side of the sky. It also stuck there
and sent forth a very bright light. We call this the sun. (Gifford and Block,
1930.)

In another version Chaipakomat formed the sun by spitting on his
finger and rubbing a clean spot on the sky.
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

The Owens Valley Paiute have a story about Cottontail, the rabbit,
and the sun. The sun was too hot, so Cottontail decided to try and
change it. He traveled east to find the place where the sun emerged;
he crossed ridge after ridge but always the sun came up beyond. Fi-
nally he reached a great sea, here he saw Sun emerge from the water,
shaking himself. Cottontail grabbed Sun as it came from the water
and by covering it with a slice of fresh liver, cooled it off somewhat.
Now the sun is not too bright. (Steward, 1943.)

The Kato sun-theft story is as follows:

Coyote slept with his head to the east and his forehead grew very warm.

“I dreamed about the sun,” he said when he awoke.

Then Coyote decided to get the sun and bring it back for the people. He set
off. On the way he met three mice, and he took them with him for dogs.

“My heart is glad because I found you, my three dogs,” he told them.

When they arrived at the house where Coyote knew the sun was, he instructed
his dogs.

“The sun is covered with a blanket and tied down in the middle of this house.
I am going in and shall sleep there tonight. When all are asleep you must come
in and chew off the straps that hold the sun. Leave, however, the straps
with which I am to carry the sun. When you are through, poke me with your
noses.”

Coyote then went into the house.

“IT do not want food, grandmother,’ he said to the old woman of the house.
“T will sleep.”

“Yes,” said the old woman, and gave him a blanket.

Covering his head in it, Coyote began to sing: ‘“‘You sleep, you sleep, you sleep.”
Soon the woman fell asleep. After a while the mice came and poked Coyote.

“We have finished,” one of them said.

So Coyote got up, took the sun, and carried it off. Mole saw him do this
and he ealled out: “He is carrying off the sun,” but no one heard him for his
mouth was too small. Then Lizard saw him. He took up a stick and beat on
the house of the old woman, ecailing: “He is carrying off the sun.”

The old woman heard this time and she got up and started to chase Coyote.

As she neared him she called out to him: “Why did you take it? I was fix-
ing it.”

“You were hiding it,’ Coyote called back. “Turn into a stone where you are
standing.”

At these words of Coyote the woman turned into a stone. Then Coyote took
the sun and cut it up, and from it he made the moon, the stars, and the sun.
As he made them he told them when they were to appear.

To the morning star he said: “You shall come up just before day.” To the
sun he said: ‘‘You shall come up in the east in the morning, and go down at
night. You shall be hot.” To the moon he said: “You shall travel at night.
You shall be cold.”

The people were very grateful to Coyote for what he had done and they
brought him many presents upon his return. (Gifford and Black, 1930.)

According to the Pomo, formerly the sun did not shine and every-
thing was dark.

When the people went hunting or traveled they had to carry torches for light.
People were much disturbed because they could not tell which end of the day
was night and which was day.
INDIAN CONCEPTS OF THE SUN—STIRLING 393

Lizard once went hunting with his torch far to the east, until one time he saw
a little light. He reported this to the people but was not believed. Various
animals were sent to investigate but all failed, until the Dove returned and
reported finding a village far to the east where the sun was kept and it was
daylight all the time. An expedition was sent to steal the sun. After many
difficulties they succeeded in releasing the sun from the sack in which it was
sewed. 5

The people then started to roll the sun along toward their village but the Sun-
people pursued and fought with them, with the result that arrows were shot in all
directions and fell everywhere. That is the reason why you can find arrowheads
scattered all over the country now. They all came from this war.

When they had taken the sun about halfway home, they tried to put it up in the
sky. All of the different kinds of birds tried this. Dove tried first, then others.
Finally, the Crow brothers succeeded in hanging it up and it stayed there. The
Crows were able to hang the sun up in the sky, because they were able to go
without water for a longer time than any of the other birds. (Barrett, 1933.)

This story of the sun is told by the Achomawi.

One time Sun conceived the great idea of rolling along on the ground instead of
in the sky. So she fell down from the sky just about sunrise.

But Mole saw what Sun was trying to do and he ran and caught hold of her.
He held her up as high as he could, while he shouted in a loud voice for the people
to come and help him.

All the people came running when they heard Mole’s excited voice. With much
shoving and pushing they helped Mole shove Sun up into the sky again. Otherwise
today we would not have Sun in the sky, but instead she would be rolling along on
the ground. It was from holding up Sun that Mole’s hands are bent so far back.

The Maidu say that

a long time ago, in the days before Indians lived on this earth, a brother and sister
lived together far away to the east. They were Sun and Moon. Instead of rising
every day and traveling over the world as the people wanted them to do, they
remained within their house, which was made of solid stone. Many people were
sent to try and see if they could make the two rise but all failed for they could not
even enter the house built of solid stone. At last Gopher and Angleworm went.

When they arrived at Sun and Moon’s stone house they stopped to consider how
best to enter. Angleworm made a hole in the ground, boring down outside and
coming up inside the house. Gopher followed, carrying a bag of fleas. Once
inside, Gopher opened his bag and let half of the fleas out. The fleas began to
bite Sun and Moon, making them move around. Then Gopher let out the rest of
the fleas. These made life so miserable for Sun and Moon that they decided to
leave the house.

Sun said to her brother: “Both of us cannot travel together. Do you wish to
travel by day or by night?”

Moon replied, “You try traveling by night.”

So Sun tried it; but the Stars all fell in love with her, and she could not travel
because of their attractions. Sun then went back and told her brother that he
must go by night. This he agreed to, and has done ever since. Sun traveled by
herself in the day. (Gifford and Block, 1930.)

Many Northwest coast tribes have their versions of the theft of the
sun. Among the Kwakiutl it was said that

at first all was darkness and living was very difficult and uncomfortable for the
people. This was because a certain chief who lived in a cave had the sun and the
moon in a box which he kept tightly closed in his cave under a great mountain.
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

The people tried in many ways to get the box but all efforts failed until Raven
through trickery changed himself into a small leaf in a spring where he had
observed the chief’s daughter came regularly for water. She dipped up Raven and
swallowed him when she took a drink. Raven then turned into an infant and was
given birth by the girl in her father’s cave. Raven turned out to be a very fretful
and disagreeable child constantly erying for the box which contained the sun and
moon. At last the exasperated chief gave it to him to play with and he at once
quieted down and became very cheerful. Of course when the chief fell asleep,
Raven ran off with the box. He was pursued but escaped. When he returned
with the box containing the sun, the people called him a liar, but he opened the
lid a little and everyone was dazzled by the brightness ana urged him to tone it
down. So Raven placed the sun in the sky where it is bright enough to light the
world but not too bright. The moon was also hung in the sky to light up the night.

The place of sunrise, according to the Bella Coola, is guarded by
the Bear of Heaven, a fierce warrior, inspirer of martial zeal in man;
and the place of sunset is marked by an enormous pillar which supports
the sky. The trail of the sun is a bridge as wide as the distance be-
tween the winter and summer solstices; in summer he walks on the
right-hand side of the bridge, in winter on the left; the solstices are
“Where the sun sits down.” Three guardians accompany the sun on
his course, dancing about him; but sometimes he drops his torch, and
then an eclipse occurs.

Not many Pacific coast tribes have as definite a conception of the
sun as this, and, generally speaking, the orb of day is of less impor-
tance in the myths of the northern than in those of the southern stocks
of the Northwest. It is conceived both as a living being, which can
even be slain, and as a material object—a torch or a mask—carried
by a Sun Bearer. One of the most widespread of Northwestern legends
is a Phaethon-like story of the Mink, son of the Sun, and his adventures
with his father’s burden, the sun disk.

A woman becomes pregnant from sitting in the Sun’s rays; she gives birth
to a boy, who grows with marvelous rapidity, and who, even before he can talk,
indicates to his mother that he wants a bow and arrows; other children taunt
him with having no father, but when his mother tells him that the sun is his
parent, he shoots his arrows into the sky until they form a ladder whereby he
climbs to the Sun’s house; the father requests the boy to relieve him of the
sun burden, and the boy, carelessly impatient, sweeps away the clouds and ap-
proaches the earth, which becomes too hot—the ocean boils, the stones split, and
all life is threatened, whereupon the Sun Father casts his offspring back to earth
condemning him to take the form of the Mink.

In some versions the heating of the world results in such a conflagra-
tion that those animal beings who escape it by betaking themselves
to the sea are transformed into the men who thereafter people the
earth.

The Huron of the Great Lakes area thought that the earth was
pierced and that when the sun went down it entered this hole and
remained hidden until the next morning when it came out at the other
end.

INDIAN CONCEPTS OF THE SUN—STIRLING 395

Kclipses were interpreted as good or bad auguries depending on
the place in the sky at which they happened to be. One darkening
of the sun was supposed to have happened because the Great Turtle,
which holds up the earth, in changing its position brought its shell
before the sun and thus cut off the light.

Among the Mohawk and some of the Huron, eclipses were believed
to be due to the Great Frog Monster swallowing the sun. Under such
circumstances the Indians had to organize impromptu ceremonies and
by dint of the beating of drums, howling, and in general making as
much noise as possible, force the frog to disgorge. Thus far these
methods have always been successful.

The Huron also believed that if an individual failed to perform
the winter rites required of him through dreams, the sun would
be held back, i. e., the coming of spring would be delayed.

The Canadian Iroquois had a legend that when the sun should make
his daily rounds for the benefit of man it was also decided that the
sun of the daylight should rule the earth.

In addition, it was resolved that times should change; that there
should be winter months and summer months, thirteen in all, and
each should be given a name.

“There is a tree, composed of the languages of the nations of the
earth, standing where the sun emerges.

“When the sun flies along where the tree stands he dances, saying,
‘I will take care of the people living towards the West.’ Then he
climbs the sky. When in the middle of the sky he stops for awhile
to rest and repeats what he said on emergence and continues dancing.

“In the evening at sunset, he says ‘I am glad to have done my duty’
and sinks below the ground.”

The idea of the sun standing still for awhile at the zenith is found
among many tribes from coast to coast.

In ceremonies among the Iroquois, the moon is always addressed
as “our grandmother” and the sun as “our elder brother.”

The Algonquians have a series of myths in which various deities
engage in a celestial ball game. The Golden Eagle is the leader of the
benign gods and the Bear the leader of the underground people. The
Eagle always wins. This game symbolizes the eternal conflict be-
tween day and night, the ball itself being the sun. The day is the
perpetual conqueror.

There is also a story of the Menominee in which Tchakabech, a
kind of Indian Jack-and-the-Beanstalk, climbs to heaven on a vine
and snares the sun in a net. During its captivity there was no day
on earth, until a mouse cut the strands of the net with his teeth, releas-
ing the sun and restoring the day.
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Among many of the Pueblo tribes of Arizona and New Mexico, the
sun is very important. Typically, when the first people emerge from
the underworld they find the world is dark. This is very inconvenient
so a culture hero or the war twins are sent out to look for the sun
and, having found it, to place it properly in the sky and plot its
path. The Pueblo Tndinris believe that at the winter and the summer
solstices the sun remains motionless for 4 days each, during which
time he rests in one of the two houses that exist for this purpose at
each end of his path. It is also believed that for a short time at mid-
day the sun stands still in its path across the heavens. In myth this
is explained when his course across the sky is interrupted when he
permits his twin sons to carry his shield.

In Hopi myth, Sun had to be helped to move on across the sky by
killing a child, and his transit is still dependent on someone’s dying
every day at morning, noon, and evening. Sun has two houses for
daily use. In the morning he “comes out standing to his sacred place.”
In the evening, he “goes in to sit down at his other sacred place.” The
fartherest point on the horizon that he reaches at sunrise or sunset,
the northernmost point in summer, the southernmost point in winter,
is the “house” where he remains 4 days before turning back to winter
or to summer.

In no Pueblo myth except at Oraibi is Sun described as a creator.

The Hopi hold special ceremonies on observing the solstices for the
purpose of slowing up the sun on its way toward winter, and hastening
it on its way toward spring.

Eclipses are viewed with fear as portents of evil. One year there
was a lunar eclipse on the eve of the day the school children at Santa
Fe were to return to Taos. The Governor of Taos telegraphed the
school] authorities to postpone the children’s journey, and it was post-
poned for a week. (Parsons, 1939.)

The Natchez were one of the civilized tribes of the lower Mississippi
Valley for whom, fortunately, we have rather complete data before
the native culture broke down under the impact of European civiliza-
tion. They were mound builders and their beliefs and customs re-
sembled more closely those of Mexico than any other group north of
the Rio Grande, and probably resembled the beliefs of the former
occupants of the great mound groups of the southeastern area gen-
erally.

The Natchez believed the universe to be filled with spirits in human
forms who differed in power, the most powerful of all being a sky
deity who lived in, or was connected with, the sun. Here we find our-
selves a step in advance of the usual northern concepts regarding the
sun.

The Sun clan was considered to be descended from this sky deity
and hence had a divine right to the unusual honors and regard lavished

INDIAN CONCEPTS OF THE SUN—STIRLING 397

upon it, while, as head of the Sun people, the great chief was the
representative of the deity on earth and was to be treated accordingly.
In other words, the Natchez state was a theocracy. The Supreme
Being resided in the Sun. The son or near relative of the Supreme
Being, having come to earth, taught men religious customs, estab-
lished the government, then retired into a stone which continued. to
dwell with the people in the innermost sanctuary of the temple, and
his descendants ruled in his place. The great chief, supreme ruler of
the Natchez, lived in the temple and was revered as a demi-god.
Charlevoix, who lived among the Natchez, gives us this description:
Every morning as soon as the Sun appears, the great chief comes to the door
of his cabin, turns himself to the east, and howls three times, bowing down to
the earth. Then they bring him a calumet, which serves only for this purpose.
He smokes, and blows the smoke of his tobacco toward the Sun; then he does
the same thing toward the other three parts of his world. He acknowledges no
superior but the Sun, from which he pretends to derive his origin. He exercises
an unlimited power over his subjects, can dispose of their goods and lives, and
for whatever labors he requires of them they can not demand any recompense.

Le Petit gives us a similar account.

The sun is the principal object of veneration to these people; as they cannot
conceive of anything which can be above this heavenly body, nothing else appears
to them more worthy of their homage. It is for the same reason that the great
chief of this nation, who knows nothing on the earth more dignified than himself,
takes the title of Brother of the Sun, and the credulity of the people maintains
him in the despotic authority which he claims. To enable them better to con-
verse together they raise a mound of artificial soil on which they build his cabin,
which is of the same construction as the temple. The door fronts the east, and
every morning the great chief honors by his presence the rising of his elder
brother, and salutes him with many howlings as soon as he appears above the
horizon. Then he gives orders that they shall light his calumet; he makes him an
offering of the first three puffs which he draws; afterwards raising his hand above
his head and turning from the east to the west, he shows him the direction which
he must take in his course.

Next to the sacred stone, the holiest object in the temple was the
eternal fire, which was supposed to be derived directly from the sun.
The tender of this fire had one of the most responsible duties in the
nation since, if it were allowed to go out, the very nation itself would
be extinguished. (Swanton, 1911.)

The Southeastern tribes in general had similar ideas of the sun and
of the relationship between the sun and fire. Adair, an early traveler
among the Creeks, records an interesting episode that he witnessed at
a Creek ceremony. A Creek having become intoxicated, reeled into
the fire and roared, foamed, and spoke the worst things against the sun
that their language could express. He upbraided him with ingrati-
tude for having treated him so barbarously in return for his religious
offerings, affirming he had always sacrificed to him the first young
buck he had killed in the New Year; he had always offered him when

676212—46 26

398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

at home some of the fattest meat, even when he was on short allow-
ance, on purpose that he might shine on him kindly. “And,” he added,
“now you have proved to be like an evil spirit, by biting me who was
your constant devotee, and are kind to those accursed nothings (the
white people) who are laughing at you as a rogue and at me as a
fool, I assure you that I shall renounce you from now on, and instead
of giving you fat meat you shall get water. I am a respected warrior
and as such I scorn to lie—you shall therefore immediately fly above
the clouds.”

The psychology here is all aboriginal and fits in with the Natchez
belief as described. The connection between the ceremonial fire and
the solar fire is apparent.

Since our American Indians are of remote Asiatic origin, it is inter-
esting to note that many of these ideas of the sun are still to be found
in Asia. For example, the ancient religion of Japan is known as
Shinto or “the way of the Gods.” It is essentially a worship of nature
gods, especially the sun, and not of ancestors as has sometimes been
erroneously stated.

This ancient worship of nature gods was long thrust into the back-
ground by Buddhism, the moral teachings of which contrast with the
absence of ethical teaching in Shinto.

However, since Japan recently started her campaign of conquest
there has been a general return to Shintoism as better suited to a
militaristic people. It is interesting to read what Sir James Frazer
wrote more than 20 years ago:

The old faith still retains a certain hold on the mind of the people, manifesting
itself particularly in that adoration of the Sun which appears to have been from
the earliest times a salient feature of the national religion. The absence of a
moral code in Shinto is acknowledged by modern native commentators, who
account for it by the innate perfection of the Japanese nature, which renders such
outward props of morality superfluous. It is only, they insinuate, the inferior
races, such as the Chinese and Europeans, whose natural depravity requires from
time to time to be corrected by the preaching of sages and reformers.

Of all the Shinto deities (kamis), the most eminent is the Sun Goddess, the
personification of the physical sun. She is described as the Ruler of Heaven
and as unrivaled in dignity. She wears royal insignia, is surrounded by ministers,
and is spoken of in terms appropriate to personages of sovereign rank. From her
the Mikados claim to derive their descent and authority. Yet she is hardly
what we understand by a Supreme Being. Her power does not extend to the sea
and to the Land of Darkness (yomi), the Japanese Hades. The commission
to rule the Heaven was conferred on her by her parents, and did not by any
means convey despotic power. Important celestial matters are determined,
not by her, but by a Council of the Gods. The heavenly constitution, like its
earthly counterpart, on which no doubt it was modeled, is far from being an
absolute monarchy.

The ordinary Japanese name of the Sun Goddess is Ama-terasu no Oho-kami,
“the Heaven-shining Great Deity”.

INDIAN CONCEPTS OF THE SUN—STIRLING 399

Partly under cover of a name which is less intelligible to the multi-
tude, the tendency has increased to throw the solar nature of the god-
dess into the shade and to conceive of her simply as a general Provi-
dence at the expense of other divinities. In this way she has made a
distinct advance to the dignity of a supreme monotheistic deity.
(Frazer, 1926.)

We find, therefore, among the American Indians, that the tribes of
simple hunting, fishing, and seed-gathering cultures regard the sun
as of distinctly minor importance. In some instances the sun is
looked upon as an inanimate object, the pawn of various minor deities.
In other cases, usually in tribes of slightly higher culture, the sun is
personified as a male or female being whose presence and activity is
accounted for in myth, and is usually linked with the moon. Seasonal
phenomena are but loosely connected with the sun and calendrical ideas
are crude and very limited.

Among the more advanced nonagricultural people, such as the tribes
of the Northwest Coast and the Eskimo, concepts of the sun are simi-
lar, but astronomical observations are made, the solstices are observed,
and the calendar is more developed and systematic.

The Pueblo tribes of the Southwest States, a well-advanced agricul-
tural group, represent the next stage. Here the sun becomes very im-
portant but is still secondary to a few other deities such as the Corn
Goddess. Signs may be seen, however, of the beginnings of a higher
conception of the sun as a sky god with such customs as the presenta-
tion of newborn children to the rising sun. Astronomical observations
are rather advanced. Much significance is attached to the solstices and
the seasons, and the connection of the sun with life and growth is well
recognized.

The Natchez, probably reflecting Mexican ideologies, regard the
Sun God as the Supreme Being, but with many lesser deities also
recognized, the visible sun being the residence of the personified Sun
Deity. The Sun Priest, human representative of the Sun on earth,
is a lineal descendent of the Sun and as such is treated as a deity.
The eternal fire symbolizes the Sun and man’s dependence on it for life.

The high civilizations of Middle America are typified by the Aztecs
and the Incas. Here again the sun is the Supreme God, but the abstract
concept of the god is not so much confused with the visible sun, which
is regarded more as a symbol than a godhead. Thus, a typical Inca
prayer to Huiracocha, the Sun God, says “Oh Huiracocha, whatever
form thou hast, wherever thou might be!”

The Aztecs had a similar abstract idea of the Sun God.

The Aztecs and their neighbors developed, along with the increasing
importance of the sun, an elaborate calendar system. Among the Maya
this achieved a greater perfection than it had in Europe at the time
of the discovery of America. This calendar was used by the priests
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

to select lucky and unlucky days, and their astronomical observations
were so accurate that they were able to foretell eclipses. Among all
these tribes there was a tendency to transfer the attributes of other
nature gods to the sun as the Sun God grew in importance.

However, it is interesting to note that as between the Aztecs and the
Inca, ritualistic attitudes toward the sun differed widely. In each
instance we have a picture of polytheism in the process of turning into
monotheism through increased recognition of the vital role played by
the sun in the life and affairs of man.

The next stage in this process is where the astronomical sun is more
or less completely divorced from the god which developed from the sun,
to become a supreme god of life, culminating in the recent stages of
civilization where the mechanistic or astronomical concept of the uni-
verse supplies the explanation of the heavenly bodies, and the god
idea is completely separated from immediate connection with them.

In one sense this completes a curious cycle, since otherwise it is only
among the most primitive tribes that we find the sun regarded as an
inanimate object.

Among the American Indians this cycle was never completed, but
reached its greatest advance among the Middle American agricultural
civilizations.

The range of ideas concerning the sun varied from the naive idea
that it was a ball of fire, convenient, but not essential, to man, to the
elaborate astronomical concepts of the Maya, who, while they did not
understand the true nature of the universe, nevertheless observed so
accurately the movements of the heavenly bodies that they had worked
out the periods of the sun, the moon, and the planets more accurately
than any other people in the world up to their time.

It would be interesting, though futile, to speculate on what their
achievements might have been had not European civilization inter-
vened.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
ADAIR, JAMES.
1775. The history of the American Indians. London.
BARRETT, S. A.
1933. Pomomyths. Bull. Public Mus. City of Milwaukee, vol. 25.
FRAZER, Sin JAMES GEORGE.
1926. The worship of nature, vol. 1. New York.
GIFFoRD, E. W., and BiLock, G. H.
1930. Californian Indian nights entertainments. Glendale.
PARSONS, ELSIE CLEWS.
1939. Pueblo Indian religion. Univ. Chicago Publ. Anthrop., Ethnol. Ser.
STEWARD, JULIAN H.
1943. Some western Shoshoni myths. Bur. Amer. Ethnol, Bull. 136, Anthrop
Pap. No. 31.
SWANTON, JoHN R.

1911. Indian tribes of the lower Mississippi Valley and adjacent coast of the
Gulf of Mexico. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 43.

ee ee e-_ ee

|
|
|
|
|
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Stirling PLATE 1

-

S

DIEGUENO GROUND PAINTING REPRESENTING THE UNIVERSE.

The sun (10), new moon (8), full moon (9), Milky Way (6), world’s edge (7), Pleiades (17), ete. (After
Gifford and Block.)
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Stirling PLATE 2

| SOR ERE
-
f a

ee ee

AZTEC SACRIFICE TO THE SUN, FROM THE CODEX FLORENTINO.
(After Vaillant.)

Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Stirling PLATE

MIXTEC GOLD ORNAMENT REPRESENTING THE VERTICAL UNIVERSE.

Top, ball court symbolizing the sky; next, the sun disk; then the moon; and at the bottom, the earth
monster,
“MO[[OA PolUTed PUB o[ BULLY] Sl UOOUL oY) ‘pod pojured pue o[BUL st UNS oY],

“NOOW ONV NMS AHL AO SONILNIVd VNOOY

vy ALV1d BulpwggG—'Cp6| ‘W4odayy ueluosy UG
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Stirling PLATE 5

ACOMA SAND-PAINTING ALTARS.

Upper, the universe. The rim is painted blue and represents the sky; the upper crescent contains the sun
moon, and stars; the arc is the Milky Way; the bird figure is the Earth Goddess.
Lower, Ant Society altar with symbols of the sun, moon, and stars.
Smithsonian Report, 1945.—Stirling PLATE 6

a3

THE UNIVERSE AS REPRESENTED BY THE FLOOR AND FOUR WALLS OF AN ACOMA
KIVA.

The floor (in center) is the earth and the four walls are the four quarters of the sky.

HUMAN PROBLEMS IN MILITARY AVIATION?

By DETLEV W. Bronk

Professor of Biophysics and Director of the Johnson Research Foundation,
University of Pennsylvania; Coordinator of Research, Office of the Air Surgeon,
Headquarters Army Air Forces

One of the memorable experiences of this war is to stand at eve-
ning in the great court of Trinity College, Cambridge, outside Isaac
Newton’s rooms, and watch the flying forts return. Against the soft
English sky they move in stately formation, seeming to proceed
slowly because of their great height. Their silhouettes, floating by
the hundreds through the wisps of clouds, move one with admiration
for man’s mechanical genius that has driven his machines into the
skies, against the force of gravity.

A little later, in the gathering dusk the fortresses roar down the
runways of their scattered fields, and the machines are revealed as
mere instruments of human crews. Waist gunners sit casually in their
openings, waving as they pass; bombardiers are in their transparent
cages; pilots taxi their ships to rest. They are men returning from
a mission made doubly hazardous by enemy action and the dangers of
an environment unnatural toman. These are the crews who make the
majestic armadas of the air a symbol of man’s new freedom from
natural limitations, gained by courage and by science.

The history of aviation is a long record of man’s restless urge to
exceed the physiological restrictions of his body. It first appears
in mythology and ancient literature as a desire for the birds’ freedom
from the gravitational tie to earth. Yet, when in 1783 man was at
last freed from his earth-bound life, he was but started on the con-
quest of his limitations. Each new power provided by the physical
sciences has placed new stresses on the human body and has carried
man into environments to which he has not been adapted by the slow
process of evolution.

The first of these limiting conditions appeared soon after the pioneer
balloon ascent. For by 1803 the science of aeronautics had so far pro-

1 Read April 20, 1944, in the Symposium on Wartime Advances in Medicine. Reprinted
by permission from Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, vol. 88, No. 3,
September 1944.

401
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

gressed that Robertson, the French physicist, succeeded in reaching
an altitude of 22,000 feet, where he experienced an overpowering
sense of iudificconce “There,” said he, “the scientist is no longer
sensitive to the glory and passion of discoveries, and it is only by the
aid of a little fortifying wine that he succeeds in finding intervals of
mental clarity and power.”

Driven by the urge for greater range of action, man’s ingenuity
devised means for ascent to ever higher altitudes, until in 1862
Glaisher, the English meteorologist, and Coxwell, his ballon engineer,
reached the limits of human survival. They went to a reported alti-
tude of 29,000 feet, but Glaisher was unconscious, and both would have
perished haa not Coeeells paralyzed though he was, seized the valve
cord in his teeth and belated the gas by if ee nodding his head.
On recovering consciousness, Glaisher voiced man’s faith in the power
of science to break the bounds of human limitations: “I certainly
shall not take it upon myself,” said he, “to set the limits of human
activity and indicate the point, if it exists, where nature tells the
aeronaut: ‘You shall go no further.’ ”

His confidence was soon justified, for it was but a few years later
that Paul Bert, the physiologist, discovered the cause of man’s failure
at high altitudes and prescribed the means for overcoming this restric-
tion on human flight. Two causes were suspected: the reduced baro-
metric pressure and the lower volume concentration of oxygen in the
atmosphere. Both of these factors are now known to be a hazard
to the airman, but the cerebral symptoms then described were shown
by Bert to be the consequence of too little oxygen in the inspired air.
This he proved by placing a man in a large metal chamber, in which
he could be subjected to one or the other of the two conditions.

From that time on, the vital dependence of the brain upon an ade-
quate and continuous supply of oxygen has been well recognized. The
recent development by my colleagues—Davies and Brink—of an elec-
trochemical method for measuring the concentration of oxygen among
the nerve cells of the intact cerebral cortex emphasizes this essential
need. By exact measurements, it is now possible to gain a clearer un-
derstanding of the brain’s requirement for oxygen and the factors
which regulate the supply of this essential element. Pertinent to this
discussion is our observation that as the recording electrode is moved
to points on the cortex farther and farther from a blood vessel, the
concentration of available oxygen decreases steeply until, at a point
25-50 microns from a vessel, the concentration may be less than a
tenth of that in the arterial blood. This steep gradient of concentra-
tion insures effective diffusion of oxygen to the cells, but their avid
consumption keeps the reserve supply at a low level. In consequence
of this, a deficiency of oxygen in the blood is quickly followed by a

HUMAN PROBLEMS IN AVIATION—BRONK 403

precipitate drop in the oxygen surrounding the cells. Rapid failure
of nervous function then ensues.

To protect the cells of the brain against this danger, the human
organism possesses a remarkable system of reflexes. When the oxy-
gen concentration in the blood flowing to the brain declines, certain
nerve cells are stimulated to action, and that action causes an increase
in the rate and depth of respiration. Thus more oxygen is again
supplied to the blood flowing through the lungs. The heart rate is
also accelerated, and more blood is sent to the brain in order to main-
tain the necessary diffusion of oxygen out to the nerve cells.

Even in the early days of flight, such a sequence of events was
observed to be a natural protection of an airman against one of the
dangers of high altitude. For in 1804 Gay-Lussac reported that his
heart rate and respiration were progressively increased during the
course of a balloon ascent. But as the aeronauts ascended to higher
altitudes, where the oxygen was less plentiful, the physiological pro-
tective mechanisms were ultimately inadequate. To supplement these
natural powers of adaptation, it was, accordingly, necessary to provide
some means for increasing the oxygen delivered to the lungs. To do
this, Paul Bert simply provided small containers of oxygen, with tubes
which could be inserted in the mouth.

For 50 years this simple expedient satisfied the needs of airmen,
excepting the few who went to unusual heights. But now the strategy
and tactics of aerial war make operations above 30,000 feet a routine
event, and new problems have arisen. At those altitudes, the oxygen
in the atmosphere is so low that care must be taken to seal the nose
and mouth against the outside air, lest the oxygen drawn from the
reservoirs be too much diluted. To accomplish this, facial masks have
been designed which open to the air through a valve only during
expiration. It is thus possible to deliver pure oxygen to the flyer.

If this be done for the 10-man crew of a bomber on a 6-hour mission,
hundreds of pounds of oxygen tanks are required. This, in turn, re-
duces the gasoline and bomb load by a corresponding amount, and the
airmen, although physiologically protected, accomplish less on their
military mission. To make the most effective compromise between
human necessity and strategic efficiency, it is, accordingly, desirable to
supply just enough oxygen to satisfy the requirements of each indi-
vidual under any condition of altitude or bodily activity—just that
and no more.

The natural indicators of what this need is at any moment are the
nerve cells of the respiratory centers, which regulate the rate and
depth of respiration. Their action can, in turn, be made to control the
flow of oxygen to the aviator’s mask, by placing in the supply line a
regulating valve which is activated by the suction created by each
404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

inspiration. To gain further economy, oxygen from the tanks is mixed
with outside air so as to utilize the oxygen available in the atmosphere.
In order that this dilution be not too great at the higher altitudes, the
mixing occurs through an aneroid-controlled valve. It will be obvious
that the safe and economical design of such equipment depends upon
precise physiological knowledge concerning the rate of oxygen supply
required by the human organism, the individual variations in this
requirement, the additional oxygen needed at any altitude, the tolerable
inspiratory and expiratory pressures and the effects of varying degrees
of work on the respiratory demands. Our modern oxygen supply sys-
tems are, accordingly, the products of close cooperation between the
physiologist and the engineer. With this equipment, men now go
safely to 38,000 feet.

There new limitations appear, for the barometric pressure at those
altitudes is so low that insuflicient oxygen goes into the blood passing
through the lungs, even though pure oxygen be delivered to the mask.
Unless this situation is overcome, new aircraft designs and engine
superchargers are not usable in outreaching the range of enemy anti-
aircraft fire. To satisfy the human requirements at these great heights,
oxygen must be delivered under a pressure sufficiently high to load the
blood adequately.

Two methods are now available for accomplishing this. One is to
design the oxygen regulator, valves, and mask so that a pressure can be
maintained greater than that of the ambient air. The other is to seal
the aircraft cabin and keep the interior at sufficient pressure by means
of a mechanical compressor. The first is a temporary expedient. The
latter is an ideal solution, for it gives the crew adequate oxygen with
complete freedom of movement, unencumbered by mask and tubes lead-
ing toa reservoir. The sealed aircraft enclosure has the further con-
siderable advantage of providing warm surroundings for men who
must quickly go from a temperate or tropic climate to regions where the
temperature is 40° F. below zero. With such pressurized cabins the
engineers have at last restored to fliers their natural environment,
while taking them to altitudes unsuitable for life.

One of the most dangerous hazards of high-altitude flight is the
insidious character of the symptoms of beginning oxygen want. Asthe
early balloonists described them, they are lack of mental clarity or even
a sense of well-being that masks the danger of imminent catastrophe.
It is, therefore, not feasible to rely upon the judgment of an airman as
to when he is in need of his supplementary oxygen supply, unless he be
thoroughly familiar with his physiological requirements and the means
for satisfying those demands.

In order to forestall such dangers, the Army Air Forces and the Navy
have during this war instituted altitude training programs for instruct-

HUMAN PROBLEMS IN AVIATION—BRONK 405

ing every pilot and air crewman in the basic physiological principles
that relate to life at high altitudes. In the Army, 60 modern replicas
of Paul Bert’s “altitude chamber” have been erected at 45 airfields.
Under the direction of some 200 aviation physiologists, student fliers
in groups of 10 or 20 are placed in these chambers for several hours,
while the atmosphere is made to resemble that which they will later find
at 35,000 or 40,000 feet. Under careful supervision, they experience the
effects of inadequate oxygen and are taught to use the equipment avail-
able in combat aircraft for providing the additional oxygen they will
require. Finally, the “chamber flights” are supplemented with lectures
which give the physiological basis for the practical demonstrations.
Forty-five thousand men a month have been given such instruction, in
what is probably the largest medical training program ever developed
to overcome an occupational hazard. This is an essential part of the
training that fits the crews to fly the great bombing missions over the
Nazi’s European fortress.

The problems I have thus far discussed differ only in degree from
those encountered 50 years ago in slow-moving balloons. The high
speed which gives to modern aircraft a unique tactical advantage now
confronts the flight surgeon with quite new problems. For the air
crews not only ascend into an unnatural environment, but they do so
with terrific speed. Climbing at a rate of 80 feet a second, an airman
in 6 minutes reaches an altitude of 6 miles, where the barometric pres-
sure is but one-third that at sea level. This sudden change in the pres-
sure acting on the body unbalances the equilibrium of gas pressures
within its cavities and tissues. The painful inward pressure on the
ear drum when the eustachian tube cannot be opened is a familiar
experience of all who have flown. But only the military aviator going
quickly to 30,000 or 40,000 feet knows the excruciating pain caused by
the sudden liberation of gases from solution in the blood or other body
fluids.

It has recently been shown that during these sudden changes of
pressure minute gas nuclei on the surface of cells or on the inner walls
of blood vessels rapidly expand in size, growing with the nitrogen,
carbon dioxide, and oxygen that is liberated from the surrounding
fluid as it is decompressed. As bubbles of gas are thus formed and
grow, some lodge in small terminal vessels where they obstruct the
flow of blood. Nerve endings may thus be deprived of oxygen and
pain results. Or regions of the brain are likewise put out of action,
with widespread and serious consequences.

I must hasten to add that this widely accepted explanation of the
cause of the pain of decompression sickness is not conclusively estab-
lished. The theory has, however, served a useful purpose, for it has
led to a practical and fairly reliable method of prevention. Assum-
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

ing that the bubbles are largely composed of nitrogen—that being
the most plentiful source of gas within the body fluids—it was sug-
gested that the supply of nitrogen for bubble formation could be
reduced by breathing pure oxygen for some time before a flight.
Nitrogen in the tissues is thus replaced by oxygen. Because the oxygen
is consumed by cellular metabolism, and because its tension in the
blood rapidly falls when a little is removed, it is less potent as a
source of bubbles. This has been proved experimentally, and the
practice of breathing oxygen before a flight or on the climb to altitude
is now a proved means for preventing decompression pains.

Ultimately these symptoms will be unknown, for, in the sealed-cabin
aircraft of the future, compressors will maintain the pressure constant
throughout a flight to any altitude. In the meantime, engineering
science has given fliers machines which overtax their physiological
powers of adjustment. To make possible the tactical employment of
these aircraft in long-time, extremely high-altitude photographic
reconnaissance or in rapid-climb bombing flights, the discovery of the
preoxygenation procedure has been a great boon.

There is another notable instance in which the accomplishments of
the engineers have exceeded the capabilities of the flier. Two of the
primary requirements for good fighter craft are high speed and great
maneuverability. These are the characteristics which enable them
to excel in plane-to-plane combat, to evade the heavier fire-power
of larger craft, and to give effective protection to our bomber missions.
Engineers and metallurgists worked for years to develop these planes
that would withstand the centrifugal forces of high-speed turns, but
during that time there were no corresponding improvements in the
physiological mechanisms of the men who were to utilize these new
machines.

A normal heart and circulation will deliver enough blood to the
brain when the body is erect or recumbent, and will meet the needs
during sudden changes in posture. Nerve messages, from pressure-
sensitive nerve endings in the walls of the carotid artery and in the
arch of the aorta, promptly report to the nerve centers regulating
the heart and blood vessels a drop in blood pressure in the vessels
supplying the brain. The effect of this is an accelerated heart rate
and a constriction of peripheral vessels. Thus the circulation of the
brain is again increased. But the cardiovascular system and this reflex
control were not evolved for pumping blood made five to ten times as
heavy by a suddenly applied centrifugal force.

Under these conditions, blood accumulates in the lower extremities
and in the viscera. The result is an inadequate supply of oxygen to the
nerve cells in the brain. “Gray-out,” then “black-out,” of vision are
the first effects. If the centrifugal force be sufficiently great, and

HUMAN PROBLEMS IN AVIATION—BRONK 407

prolonged for some seconds, loss of consciousness will follow. In less
severe maneuvers there may be no obvious symptoms, but the often-
repeated reduction of cerebral blood flow causes fatigue, irritability,
and inefficiency. To help the human body meet these stresses imposed
by the swift combat planes, belts and suits have been devised which aid
the heart, by preventing the pooling of blood in the lower parts of the
body. Without such devices the plane is but a futile object, unsuitable
for use. A pilot may execute maneuvers that cause repeated black-out
with no evidence of permanent damage, but he is a relatively ineffective
fighter under those circumstances.

Aircraft maneuvers which are quite inadequate to produce such
cerebral effects exert forces on the human body which make unreliable
the normal sensory mechanisms concerned with posture and position.
The force which holds the plane in a banked turn, or in a loop, also
acts upon the gravity receptors, the tension receptors in the muscles
and the tendons, and the sensory mechanisms in the semicircular canals
which detect rotation. These sensory pathways are then stimulated
by the resultant of this machine-exerted force and that of the earth’s
gravitational field. Because the sensory mechanism is unable to re-
solve these two components of the stimulating force, a true sense of
orientation in space is lost. The false sense of position must then be
corrected by visual reference to the earth. And so, when clouds or
darkness interfere, the pilot becomes incapable of maintaining a de-
sired course relative to the surface of the earth. “The night is come;
be then the night obeyed” was accordingly the rule of aerial combat
in the First World War, as it was for the foot-soldier in the Homeric
battle between Hector and Ajax.

Finally, however, the causes of man’s inaptitude for directed flight
without visual contact with the earth were recognized. It was then
possible to devise instrumental aids to the senses, and flight through
clouds and darkness became safe and commonplace. Once again the
physiological characteristics of the flier had limited his full utilization
of the aircraft; once again medical scientists defined the need, and
physicists provided instruments such as the artificial horizon, the
bank-and-turn indicator, and the gyroscopic compass to supplement
the senses. And so, the scope of human flight was once again increased.
But, as we shall see, still more human problems were thus created.

The development of instruments that make possible flight by night
has greatly extended the tactics and strategy of aerial war, for it
enables the airman to utilize nature’s most effective form of camouflage.
Unfortunately, this advantage is also available to the enemy, and this,
then, requires a keen ability to see through darkness the dim form of
an enemy aircraft. Physicists are already at work extending the
range of night vision through radar, but in the meantime men fly and
fight with the aid of their natural vision.
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

To watch a night mission return to blacked-out Britain or to see
hundreds of gliders sweeping into unlit cornfields during an airborne
maneuver, is to appreciate how unnatural such duties are to the boy
who has grown up with an electric-light switch at his finger tip and
a flashlight in his pocket. Even the flight surgeon has had to recall
forgotten facts concerning the mechanism of night vision: the fact
that the cone cells of the retina, which are used in day vision, do not
respond to dim lights; that the rod cells, which are used in night
vision, are located in the peripheral regions of the retina, so that one
sees a dim object best by looking a little away from it; that the sensi-
tivity of the rods is destroyed for some time by a bright light, and is
least affected by red of all the colors. The translation of these prin-
ciples into tactical practice is an important element in the success of
night operations.

A first step toward this end was a revision of lighting practice on
airfields and in aircraft. Dark adaptation following prolonged expo-
sure to bright light requires about half an hour, and until then night
vision is below normal. Accordingly, a pilot who goes quickly from
a lighted room into combat is relatively blind and under a severe
handicap. He is likewise at a disadvantage on looking from his
lighted instrument panel out into the darkness where enemy planes
are hidden. To protect the airmen against these hazards, the Air
Surgeon has recommended that lights to which the fliers are exposed
shall be red in color, whenever that is possible. As has been said,
this makes possible cone vision without affecting the subsequent sensi-
tivity of rod night vision.

A more far-reaching effort to improve human efficiency in night
combat is the establishment of a night visual training program. Fol-
lowing the pattern of the altitude training program, the Army Air
Forces have developed a course of instruction which will familiarize
the airmen with basic physiological principles relating to night vision;
will warn him of the harmful visual effects of unnecessary light, of

diets inadequate in vitamin A, and of insufficient oxygen. To thisis (

added several hours of directed practice in the detection and identifi-
cation of faintly illuminated objects. We have reason to believe that
it is thus possible to improve visual performance in night operations
by as much as 30 to 40 percent.

Just prior to our entrance into the war the National Research Coun-
cil sponsored a survey of the sensitivity of rod vision in a group of
several thousand military personnel. The results confirmed Hecht’s
laboratory findings that, within a normal population, some individuals
are 15 times better fitted by their retinal characteristics for night
observation than the poorest, and 5 to 10 times better than the average.

HUMAN PROBLEMS IN AVIATION—BRONK 409

It is, accordingly, possible to select, with appropriate tests, the indi-
viduals who are naturally qualified for exacting night duty, and to
eliminate the unfit.

This is but an instance of one of the most important responsibilities
of the flight surgeon in a technological war. By nature all men are
not equal; the more exacting their tasks, the more important does it
become to select those best fitted for specific duties. And so the med-
ical services of the Air Forces have during the last 30 years developed
searching tests to determine the physiological fitness of an individual
to meet the stresses of aerial combat. But even these fail at times
to reveal some subtle incapacity, and we have accordingly added to
those tests certain realistic examinations under actual conditions of
environmental stress. Such is the observation in an altitude chamber
of each prospective airman for abnormal reactions to high altitude.
If he reacts unusually to mild lack of oxygen, he may be rejected; for
temporary emergencies arise with even the best oxygen supply equip-
ment. Or an individual who is especially susceptible to pain during
decompression is limited to low altitude operations.

Beyond these more obvious physiological characteristics of his con-
stitution are the mental, emotional, and temperamental aptitudes of
the candidate. The demands of constant attention to exacting opera-
tions, the frequent necessity for quick decisions of vital importance,
and the constant threat of disaster place a severe nervous strain on
an airman. Those who are considered to be incapable of withstanding
these stresses are eliminated. But even those who must be judged
mentally normal ultimately face severe threats to their endurance.
To ease their strain, the medical examination of airmen has been
broadened to include a psychological assessment of a candidate’s intel-
lectual qualifications and his special aptitudes. Thus, the fitness of an
individual for the highly technical work of aerial war is judged by an
appraisal of the man as a whole—physically, mentally, and tempera-
mentally. The chances of his success in his job depend upon the accu-
racy of this appraisal. Even more important to the flight surgeon
is the fact that the chances for good mental health are better if the
man is given the work for which he is best fitted, and the danger of
accidents or sickness is less.

In a series of psychological research units each trainee is carefully
assessed by interviews, written examinations, and psychomotor manip-
ulative tests. Those who demonstrate good judgment, facility in learn-
ing eye-hand coordinations, and a high degree of emotional stability,
with qualities of leadership, are preferred as pilots; accuracy of motor
coordination in the execution of precise manipulations and a quick
reaction time meet the requirements for a bombardier; an interest in
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

mathematics and logical, precise habits of thinking suggest assignment
as a navigator.

That the psychological examining stations are referred to as “re-
search units,” indicates the exploratory and experimental nature of
this program. Criteria for acceptance into air-crew training and for
assignment to specialized duties are frequently reviewed, so that the
predictions shall be as accurate as possible. To accomplish this, the
tests are constructed so as to meet the needs of the operations for which
men are being selected. And the predictive accuracy of the tests is,
from time to time, checked against subsequent performance, by assign-
ing groups of men to duties without taking into consideration the psy-
chological evaluation of their aptitudes.

The evidence gained from one large, typical group demonstrates the
extraordinary value of this program of selection and classification.
From among those of this group who had been judged by the psychol-
ogists to be best qualified for the duties of a pilot, only 4 percent were
eliminated by the flight instructors during primary pilot training,
whereas 78 percent of those who had been considered unsuitable by
the psychologists were “washed out” by the instructor. There was a
similar accuracy of prediction for the subsequent performance of navi-

gators and bombardiers. Also of medical significance is the value of |

this selection in the reduction of flying accidents. The 15 percent
considered least qualified for pilot duty, on the basis of the psycho-
logical tests, had three times as many accidents during pilot training
as had those cadets who had been judged to be the 30 percent best
fitted for their duties.

I have dwelt at length on the human problems created by modern
combat aviation. To these I might add certain others which arise from
the wide-flung system of the Air Transport and Troop Carrier Com-
mands. Quick movement from the Arctic to the Tropics subjects men
to sudden changes of climate; forced landings in remote places taxes
man’s capacity to survive in strange and isolated environments; swift

transportation of many troops favors the spread of geographically |
restricted diseases. But each problem has been met by the application _

of medical and physiological knowledge, and from this swift trans-
portation has come a new advance in the practice of military medicine,

The same planes that carry weapons of destruction and personnel !

to the battlefields bring back the sick and wounded, quickly and safely.

Within a few hours after injury, a man may be hundreds of miles |
behind the lines in the security of a well-established hospital, where he |

is able to receive the best of modern medical and surgical treatment.

The improvised surgery of the field station and the slow agony of |
hospital trains that tortured the body of the wounded and the patience |
of the tactician, concerned with his supply lines, may soon be only |

HUMAN PROBLEMS IN AVIATION—BRONK 411

memories of the past. For in 1943 the Army Air Forces evacuated
by air 173,527 sick and wounded patients (a figure that is not to be
confused with announced battle casualties) with only. 11 deaths in
flight. This amazingly low death rate of 0.006 percent is effective
refutation of those who doubted the medical feasibility of the Air
Surgeon’s farsighted proposals in 1939 for the creation of air evacua-
tion squadrons.

An important element in the success of this undertaking has been
the employment of air transport cargo planes and troop carrier planes,
rather than specially assigned aerial evacuation planes. By using
the return flights of the cargo and transport aircraft, equipped with
removable litters, planes have been conserved, and, what is more im-
portant, our aerial ambulances have been available wherever there
is action. Once again, aviation has reshaped the strategy of warfare
and has given new advantages that reduce the sufferings of combat.

Few will be as bold now in predicting the future course of military
aviation as was the founder of the American Philosophical Society
in 1783, when he watched Pilatre du Rozier make the first balloon
ascent. “This new invention may possibly give a new turn to human
affairs,” said Benjamin Franklin. “It may convince sovereigns of
the folly of wars, since it will be impractical for the most potent
of them to guard his dominions. Five thousand balloons capable
of raising two men each could not cost more than five ships of the line;
and where is the prince who can afford so to cover his country with
troops for its defence as that 10,000 men descending from the clouds
might not in many places do an infinite deal of mischief before a
force could be brought together to repel them.” Franklin’s forecast
may still prove correct, and the great aerial assaults of today may
indeed “convince sovereigns of the folly of wars.” If that comes
to pass, it will be the greatest of aviation’s notable contributions to
human welfare.
_ , ivan ia aoe a oe : : '
a ANN saeeyeO Ne, wn z inet "whe
y "1 oe ha oat hs - aa
hetobveared ect he mare vat) BhObo a8 ote ‘dene
_ od atdortistided? ough 2) ediusiing hobayow bae oie’
»* mth" Bil mse d Deeley rhitees (apknvent oltred: rligee sey

gvidiTa: oi dosage ADO to wren ititiety wot! viarinnctn 3i
tie ade to nig dadiberc oy pr seches ‘orl! Sr Hb

al}, hi To aeror aitor bs
pa pass ding Subbaiees sink aaah itita waa 1h drone Yadertoga
| aorahyoieerqadn brie edttehy qi rrodantn nate dra fndeld
durian yt wooly noarmavo tehwe Beirgiekd yllaauge nally
dive: box inp witearrin yet ante bie ogtar bar Habis

wsdl vane were ‘oldattiys ia nog ht esti tatd af Cate: A
atereaw toryeieiievsd boqedseromtnethaives ithige gon 54
Thdmoo to eg ihcoltind silt anibor sails eau orany bie Won rr 4
Venting ter seriogetsted alt gieiibeney itiewiolt Picd an ade tiie
' qinion® Labdiiiqgevotid rs betw dy nly Yo Veh wa ew Be He
| ndollad: dan 4) slot YONGE Pb sal hod awe ade hie
mare od erin) wrod wav iy weidiazcdy yaar AGE Aan HoH i" .
to erptsmvor anntnenligainl Cristie) tisapie ‘ia eat
| iaticne dons erred fibitonteint 6e poe 9? sania eriw” te XY wr
SHdacsesnoollad Hrseived) very Batatttitesdia eit! ‘pining! ol} id
| arte Ads acfitle Gi Haidt Sin wade YOR bios’ ‘Sue Hatt Ow? gn
Sates deri oii serves ous bie ars Otte Sontag onl tah’ noel ‘f
abroby- oth init wiibmowsh tract O00, Or werkt ta" soaotah ed? YP Baye
i fede? Yoirtdaiin 7 lesb otiniat aa ob soni ynnod tu Seite silgi
Jesh) eatin ny hives Laeger’ oy HoH RO Miguosh se sgh 7
: Yue Yabo To delubden [nhrew dholy' ody bas" rysbasa wroay | ita ‘
,  dornos Sneed oer to Yih od t6 “Btigistevo8* Boal +oF*

} .
OS ,

et Neitelt Na i69 ofauvett a nctthire to Seat dsy ‘och wh tw? ie on
. hein ikbmaiies ‘npiatlot P
ass) nf + Uri Bien. vate uathy sad. tut ot ifr

int OF wy reve : , eh. Sey ics" atm ahi

d dinike Esti} hk problem ase been Tort by thy wpe

te uble. to veoalve the heat of snodety comdical and sour gyi
:. vorevaed sarrery. of the field rtation andefhe:
jaysital trams thet octane, 2 s body of the eon del ange ‘i

Pihe Unetiewr, concaned with ie supply lines, amy :

Re. Di tovuad Fonwwlediee, ancl Poon. tive ss wit ee .
‘ t : : y Fi

etal ey! aes. bo ( meer meivations of fa pea Low of hers ai :
ha battiofokude Wels beck the GoW aad werendedicanbaliee wi a !
sv " : |

Ns A. fiw hot ar LA WEY, BRIT) They ba hat ndroga i f
» - . . a » a {

jeuk Chit Lines 24 fie BOOKER CT OO Wrel-ee HLyShie i} a rs }
2

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES?

By Epwin J. Coun
Department of Physical Chemistry, Harvard Medical School

[With 1 plate]

Our understanding of the circulation of the blood followed the rapid
development during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries of our
knowledge of anatomy. William Harvey (1578-1657) studied at
Padua where the Chair of Anatomy had been held successively by
Vesalius, by Realdo Columbus, by Gabriele Fallopio, and by Fabricius
of Aquapendente, the latter carrying on the tradition in Harvey’s time.
Returning to England, Harvey continued his studies and published his
great work “De Motu Cordis” in 1628.

Our understanding of the cellular composition of the blood followed
the development of the microscope. Leeuwenhoek (1632-1723), fasci-
nated by the phenomena revealed by the lenses he ground, achieved
magnifications with the aid of which he described the blood corpuscles
first in the frog and then in man.

Comparably, our understanding of the molecular composition and
the multiple functions of the blood is following the beginnings in the
nineteenth century and the rapid development in the twentieth of pro-
tein chemistry. Just as the development of the microscope made it
possible to distinguish the cellular elements of the blood, so advances
in the methods of protein chemistry are making it possible to distin-
guish a large number of substances dissolved in the blood, each with
different physicochemical and physiclogical properties. The separa-
tion and concentration of these substances make possible a new mastery
and give promise of a new therapeutic control of the composition and
the functions of this complex body fluid.

Blood has always been accorded a unique status in the minds of men.
It was early associated with the seat of the soul. The Bible distin-
guished repeatedly between the tissues and the blood. Association
with the spirit of man is further attested by the large number of ex-

1From American Scientist, vol. 33, No. 2, 1945 (reprint from Science in Progress, Series
IV, April 1945), and here reprinted by permission from The Society of the Sigma Xi and
Yale University Press.

676212—46

27 413
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

pressions in which special attributes of men are associated with the
nature and quality of their blood. One said of a nobleman or of a
criminal that it is “in his blood”; of the calm and calculating that he is
“cold blooded”; of the well-born “blue blooded”; of the closeness of
family ties “blood is thicker than water.” The scientific evidence, as
we shall see when we consider the viscosity of blood, is adequate to
prove the latter contention, but despite the great advances that have
recently been made, it is not yet possible to distinguish chemical attri-
butes of the blood which could form the basis for the other expressions,
residues of the folklore of blood.

When Mephistopheles demands of Faust that he sign the compact
pledging his soul in blood, Goethe has Mephistopheles explain to the
protesting Faust that “blood is a juice of rarest quality.” Goethe’s
Faust appeared at the beginning of the nineteenth century. Mar-
lowe’s Doctor Faustus goes less far in freeing blood of its biblical and
medieval mysteries by ascribing to it peculiar properties as a juice
or body fluid. ;

The mysteries that have always been ascribed to the blood have
not been entirely solved by modern science. Blood performs more
functions than we have learned to ascribe to the substances in it that
we recognized. We now recognize many substances in the blood
whose functions are not yet understood. We may hope, however,
to resolve these mysteries by increasing our knowledge of this “juice
of rarest quality” which is the circulating fluid of the body.

THE RED CELLS AND THE RESPIRATORY FUNCTION OF THE BLOOD

This circulating fluid contains cellular elements of various kinds.
Most important among them are the erythrocytes or red cells and the
leukocytes or white cells. The red cells perform the respiratory func-
tion of the blood; the composition and functions of the white cells
are less well known but are generally associated with phagocytic
activity.

The circulating blood is in equilibrium with all the tissues of the
body. Anatomists had explored the distribution of arteries, capil-
laries, and veins, and Harvey demonstrated the circulation of the
blood propelled by the heart through this complex system. Nine-
teenth-century physiology recognized and investigated the interchange
between the various tissues and the blood which Claude Bernard
called the milieu intérieur, or internal environment. Considered from
the point of view of respiration, the blood carries oxygen to the tissues
and removes carbon dioxide and other waste products from them. The
mechanism for oxygen transport is not only situated within the red
cells but can be associated with certain specific proteins that they
contain.

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 415

Proteins are among the largest known molecules. All living tissue
contains proteins and the complexity of the protein molecule is such
that its synthesis in the laboratory is not yet envisioned. However,
it is synthesized in processes of biological growth, and the shape
and functions of the tissues may be thought of as depending in large
part upon the shape and structure of the proteins of which they are
composed.

The protein within the red cells, which gives blood its color and per-
forms its prime respiratory function, is hemoglobin. Proteins are
largely composed of nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen organ-
ized in the more than 20 different amino acids which are the building
blocks of proteins. Hemoglobin contains hundreds of amino acids
held together by chemical combination, with loss of water, of the
amino and carboxyl groups which all possess. The synthesis of pro-
tein in the body is balanced by hydrolysis of these same links which
thus confer lability as well as specificity of structure upon these vast
protein molecules.

Hemoglobin performs its specific respiratory function by virtue of
a relatively small prosthetic group, attached to the molecule but
readily separated from it, which is not composed of amino acids but
of iron in a configuration of pyrrole rings. The iron in this configura-
tion has a high avidity for oxygen, combines with it, and is the means
of its transport. The prosthetic group containing the iron is called
heme, the protein part of the molecule globin.

Let us examine the relative masses of the oxygen needed by the
tissues and the various component parts of the mechanism which the
body employs for its transport. The atomic weight of oxygen is 16
and of iron 55. Each iron atom combines with an oxygen molecule,
that is, 2 oxygen atoms. The iron, however, is part of the heme group
with a combining weight close to 700. The heme is attached to the
globin, each iron to a unit of 16,700 equivalent weight. Iron-contain-
ing proteins concerned with respiration in muscle, known as myo-
globin, are of this size, but the hemoglobin of the blood stream has
a molecular weight of at least 33,400 and generally of 66,800, in the
former state combining and transporting 2, in the latter 4, oxygen
molecules. The molecule devised by nature for the efficient transport
of oxygen to the tissues thus has a mass roughly 500 times that of the
oxygen molecule to be transported.

Why is the hemoglobin of the blood stream contained within cell
walls? The proteins which perform comparable respiratory func-
tions in many forms of life are free in the fluid part of the blood.
The proteins dissolved in the fluid part of the blood of animals rarely
exceed 10 percent, those dissolved in the fluid or plasma part of the
blood of man, 7 percent. This figure may be contrasted with the 30
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

percent of hemoglobin contained in the red blood cell. Were this
concentration of hemoglobin free in the blood stream, it would bring
about a redistribution of many other components than oxygen. It is
the way of the body, or appears to be to those concerned with the
study of its mechanism, to evolve processes which in enhancing the
efficiency with which certain functions are performed do not inhibit
others.

The function of transporting oxygen by the hemoglobin within the
red cell involves a complex mechanism permitting maximum combina-
tion with oxygen in the lungs and release of oxygen in the tissues. As
carbon dioxide increases, the hemoglobin unloads the oxygen which it
has transported. Another protein, an enzyme, carbonic anhydrase,
accelerates and renders more efficient this process. In addition, the red
cells contain other enzymes, including a catalase and a phosphatase.
The presence of these enzymes suggests the nature of certain of the
chemical reactions which are involved in the internal economy of these
cells. These vital processes also appear to limit the life of the red blood
cell. For the life of the red cell, estimated to be roughly 3 months in
the blood stream, is limited in the blood bank, under even the best
methods of preservation at present known, to approximately a month.

No other part of human blood has so significant a function in trans-
porting oxygen to the tissues, in permitting the very great activity and
high order of mammalian respiration. Therapeutically, therefore,
when there is great blood loss from a wound, when a major operation is
to be performed, or when the anemia which frequently occurs in con-
valescence from wounds must be combated, red blood cells must be sup-
plied in amounts adequate to restore the oxygen-carrying capacity of
the blood.

On the other hand, the lability of the red cells renders it difficult
to develop a reserve of whole blood which can be transported to the
theaters of operation at great distances and stored indefinitely against
the uneven needs of a military campaign. There are, moreover, many
functions of the blood other than those of oxygen transport. These
can be supplied by other parts of the blood, the more labile red blood
cells being conserved for therapy for conditions in which they alone
suffice.

PLASMA AND THE PLASMA PROTEINS

Blood is readily separated into cellular and noncellular parts by
centrifugation. The heavier cellular elements are easily thrown to the
bottom when the bleeding bottle is spun in a cup centrifuge. The
supernatant fluid is clear, amber colored, and is called the plasma. The
separated red cells occupy something less than half the total volume; the
plasma, the body fluid in which they are suspended in nature, some-

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 417

thing more than half the volume. The proportion of the blood oc-
cupied by the red cells varies somewhat from individual to individual.
If the red cells are too few in number, the condition of anemia obtains;
if they are too concentrated, the viscosity of the blood is increased, and
an extra burden is imposed on the heart in forcing the blood through
the circulatory system.

Shock as observed in military medicine generally results from a
rapid decrease in the volume of circulating blood due to the loss of
blood and plasma proteins externally and into damaged tissues. It
is most frequently treated, or prevented, by injection of plasma protein.
The injected proteins, insofar as they cannot readily pass through the
kidney, increase the body’s reservoir of plasma proteins and, insofar as
they do not readily transverse the capillary walls, increase the plasma
volume by drawing water from the tissues into the blood stream, and
by holding it there.

The maintenance of the fluid balance between the blood and the
tissues is one of the functions of the plasma proteins. While they are
like hemoglobin in their general organic structure, their special proper-
ties and their functions differ widely from hemoglobin or globin.
Moreover, there are many different kinds of plasma proteins, each serv-
ing a different function. The function of controlling the equilibrium
between the water and the electrolytes in the blood and in the tissues is
largely performed by the smaller proteins of the blood stream, known
as the albumins, although all dissolved colloids will, of course, exert
some osmotic effect.

Osmotic pressure is the force exerted by the dissolved molecules so
large that they cannot pass through the pores of the membranes that
contain them. The walls of the blood vessels are the retaining walls for
the plasma proteins. Oxygen, water, electrolytes, sugars, and other
small molecules readily pass these walls. But normally the plasma
proteins do not, nor do they pass the kidney and appear in the urine.
A variety of conditions influence the permeability of membranes to
dissolved molecules. Besides the size and shape of the molecules, these
include the charged state of the membranes as well as of the molecules
and the nature of their surface groups. ‘The limiting condition for
passage through a membrane is, however, the size of the pores and the
size of the dissolved molecule.

The plasma proteins vary in mass and in length. A1Jl that have been
adequately studied, however, have closely the same diameter, ranging
from 33 to 88 angstrom units (an angstrom unit being 10° cm.). The
albumin molecules are the most symmetrical of the plasma proteins,
being approximately four times as long as their diameters. (See
table 1.)
418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

TasLE 1.—Relative dimensions of NACL, glucose, hemoglobin, red blood cells, and
the various plasma proteins

Approximate dimensions

(Angstroms)
Equatorial

Length of diameter of Viscosity Molecular

ellipsoid ellipsoid coefficient weight
Sodium ion 1.9 1.9 a 23
Chloride ion 3. 6 3.6 y 35. 5
Glucose 9. 5 6. 5 4 180
Hemoglobin 118 28 of, 39, 000

155 32 ‘age 68, 000

Red blood cells 24, 000 86, 000 f MY:
Serum albumin 150 38 5. 8 69, 000
Serum y-globulin 320 35 8.5 156, 000
Fibrinogen 900 33 70 500, 000

Among plasma proteins certain of the globulins are twice as long
as the albumins, and the protein that forms the matrix of the blood
clot, fibrinogen, is a rod-shaped molecule 6 times as long as albumin.
Fibrinogen is almost 30 times as long as its diameter. Its solutions
are therefore extremely viscous, viscosity being a function not of the
size of molecules but rather of their asymmetry. Fibrinogen is present
in the plasma, however, to only 0.24 to 0.3 percent, representing 4 to 5
percent of the plasma proteins. By contrast, the albumins represent
55 to 60 percent of the plasma proteins, are by far the most soluble,
and their solutions are the least viscous.

Elementary considerations indicate different ways in which the size
and shape of the plasma proteins influence the blood. The osmotic

RELATIVE DIMENSIONS OF VARIOUS PROTEINS

Scole

100K No” CI” Glucose

Hemoglobin Serum Albumin Serum ¥%-Globulin

Fibrinogen

Ficurre 1.—Relative dimensions of yarious blood proteins. If the serum albumin
molecule were the length of this page, a red cell would be the size of a football
stadium. A value of about 6,000,000,000,000 is obtained for the weight of Ava-
gadro’s number of red blood cells, which are therefore about a billion times the
weight of a serum albumin molecule. Values: hemoglobin, 68,000; serum
albumin, 69,000; serum and globulin, 156,000; fibrinogen, 500,000. Scale models
and many of the estimates by Oncley.

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 419

pressure is, as a first approximation, a function of the number of dis-
solved molecules to which the membrane is impermeable. Since the
blood vessels are impermeable to the normal plasma proteins they exert
sustained osmotic pressure. Since these proteins cannot pass through
the membranes their presence in the blood stream holds water in it in
an amount roughly proportional to their concentration, more exactly
to their effects on the osmotic pressure.

Should an increase in permeability of the blood vessels occur which
is sufficiently great to allow plasma proteins to escape into the tissue
spaces, fluid will also pass into the tissue spaces. Commonly such a
change in permeability occurs where there has been a severe burn or
injury and usually is not sufficiently great to permit many red cells to
leave the blood stream. As a result, there is an increase in red cell
concentration (often measured in terms of a hematocrit reading), an
increase in viscosity, and a decrease in the volume of circulating plasma,
This diminution of blood volume ultimately results in poor peripheral
circulation and hence inadequate oxygen transport, while the in-
creased viscosity makes it more difficult for the heart to move the re-
maining blood through the blood vessels. This condition may be over-
come by injecting into the blood stream molecules which will not
readily leave it and which, by exerting osmotic pressure, will pull
water back into the blood stream, decrease viscosity, and permit a
return to normal circulation of the blood with the transport of oxygen
to the tissues and the fulfillment of the other physiological functions
of the blood.

The diameters of all the plasma proteins are so nearly the same that
a change in permeability that will permit one type of protein to pass a
membrane will generally permit all to pass. The amounts of each
protein type that will pass will, however, now depend upon other
factors controlling permeability. Thus the longer molecules will on
the average leave the blood stream less readily than the more sym-
metrical albumins. The electrically charged conditions of the mole-
cules will also play a role. The albumins bear the largest negative
charges, and a species of globulins, known as the y-globulins, precisely
because of their low negative electrical charge in neutral solutions,
the lowest.

The plasma proteins that leave the blood stream and appear in the
urine or in the tissue spaces, under a variety of conditions, might be
expected to reflect all these influences. It has been repeatedly noted
by various investigators under various conditions that the distribution
of proteins lost from the blood is far more nearly constant than the
composition of the plasma under pathological conditions. It is more
nearly characteristic of normal than of pathological plasma. Gen-
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

erally it is the albumins and the y-globulins that appear to be lost
more readily than either other globulins of larger net charge or
fibrinogen. The significance of this observation is twofold. On the
one hand, it reflects the conditions that obtain when proteins leave
the blood stream, on the other the replacements that must be made if
normal composition of the blood is to be restored by therapy.

Although the smallest plasma proteins of largest net charge, the
albumins, and the largest globulins of smallest net charge, the
y-globulins, leave the blood stream most readily, it is the albumins
which have the largest effect in controlling the equilibrium in water
and electrolytes between blood and the tissues. The y-globulins rep-
resent but 11 percent of the plasma proteins, the albumins five or more
times that much. The molecular weight of the y-globulins is two or
more times that of the albumins. On the basis of mass alone, there-
fore, the y-globulins—which as we shall see are the bearers of the
immune properties of the blood—contribute less than one-tenth as
much as the albumins to maintaining the volume of the blood. This
calculation neglects the greater contribution of the albumins which
depends upon their greater net charge. Indeed, albumins are respon-
sible for nearly 80 percent of the osmotic activity of the blood.
Accordingly it is the albumins in plasma which are in large part
responsible for the therapeutic value of plasma in the treatment of
shock.

The fact that fibrinogen leaves the blood more slowly than albumin
may be associated with its greater length. On the whole, molecules
of the same diameter should pass an inert membrane inversely as their
length. The presence of fibrinogen in the blood in small amount
must be associated with its special functions, which we shall examine
later in connection with the clotting of the blood. Its osmotic con-
tribution is negligible but its contribution to viscosity is enormous and
this effect might be deleterious were fibrinogen present in large amount.
Under these circumstances, it brings about clumping of the red cells
as do many other highly asymmetric molecules.

If substances other than the plasma proteins are injected into the
blood, their fate also appears to depend upon their dimensions. Saline,
glucose, and most substances that have thus far been suggested as
blood substitutes have diameters less than 20 angstrom units and,
unless they are very asymmetrical, leave the blood stream rapidly.
They thus exert temporary, but do not have sustained, influence in
maintaining blood volume.

Asymmetric molecules appear to leave the blood stream more slowly
and may even accumulate in the blood stream as evidenced by their
influence on the clumping and sedimenting of red cells. Such mole-

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 421

cules increase the viscosity of solutions and may well bring about
abnormal distribution of plasma proteins. It is by no means certain,
therefore, that the retention of foreign substances of this kind in the
blood stream is beneficial.

From a physicochemical point of view, it is possible to understand,
at least as a first approximation, certain of the phenomena of plasma
loss. Since all the plasma proteins have about the same equatorial
diameter, any change in the permeability of a membrane which would
permit one plasma protein to diffuse through it should permit any
of them to do so. Under these circumstances, the amount of plasma
protein of each type to diffuse should be an inverse function of their
length. Consequently for a given change in permeability there will
be a greater loss—and therefore a greater need for replacement—of
albumin than of the globulins or fibrinogen.

Clearly there is a principle guiding the amount of any plasma com-
ponent that may wisely be used in replacement therapy, namely, the
amount that will tend to reestablish rather than to derange the normal
concentrations of the various physiologically significant plasma com-
ponents.

CHEMICAL FRACTIONATION OF THE COMPONENTS OF PLASMA

The highly specialized structure of the plasma proteins indicates
that each has a special function and that their colloidal properties,
which alone have thus far been considered, are but superficial manifes-
tations of their intrinsic nature.

The proteins, as their name implies, are “of the first importance,”
and this importance extends equally to the structure of cells and to
the processes of life. The role of these nitrogen-rich substances in
the nutritional cycle of plants and animals has long been appreciated.
Indeed, the elementary composition of “blood albumin” and “blood
fibrin” were being studied by the group of chemists that collected
around Liebig just over a century ago, and in 1841 Denis, a French
scientist, communicated to Liebig the separation of blood proteins into
albumins and globulins.

Though less labile than cells, proteins also are labile. The molecules
that occur in nature were until recently not readily separated, purified,
concentrated, or dried, without change of structure or loss of function,
by the conventional methods of chemistry.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

422

-ape ‘suing ‘yxo0y49

TA ‘TII
y £-Al
Or ¥ €-Al
AI III
Z-Iil ‘I
AI
Al
Ul
‘sixe[Ayqdoid so[svoy cZ 8 9 II
ate g : Al
P “ST :;° é-IIl
*Suidnoiz pool 9¢ $Z € T=]
“4uese 01} 84}sOouleYy
s@ ulqumol1yy
pus weoy unqiyy ie 06 € é-Ill
*soyngiysqns
[Banp sv suyYy ULIqIy < IZ 9 I
“BlIULd
-uroyordod Ay “eur pS €'T SP A

“UOISNJsuBd} ][90
pel 10 poolq eo AA

pnpoid
09 49d

ujajoid

“ub Jaq FUT RELY. @

suse d mol}
JO 4eq} Soul} WoTOUNY | -OBIj UT UTOy
9ATJOB JO 10}}BI}ZUIINOD | -old Bmselg

OSM [BoFUT[O PoysTIqEIsy

uoT0BIj BuIse[d
Ul poeyBlj}MeDT0g

sououlloy d1do1jopeuo0ry

suouoY d1do1j,01AUT,

ueso0ulsuejzied A
sourAzue

10430 pus oseyeydsoyg

eutAzue d1yATOULIqly

SuI[NQo[s-D

sulnqoys g

sulpnqops-4

GO qguow;du0g
/

I
sul
-nqo[s Ssuridnoiz poolg

urq

-u101g} §=‘urquroryyorg

uasOUlIqL

ulqo[soulN FT

uorouny
0} pojzefol uyojoid [edjourg

poo]g 2204YM— Ss ATAV

£10} B[NBIY

41odsuvi}z pus
worynyjos prdry

pus oyeipAyoqieg

[soIso[ounuUIWTy

UOI}B[NSBOD Pool

eUIN[OA pooTq Jo
UOI}B[NSaL IIYOUISE,

A107 811dsax]

uoljouny [edjouyig

(surayord %y
Sulureyu0d
poojq jo %gqg)
VNSV Id

(arqo|souley
WOE Zururezaoo
poolq jo %GF)
STTHO daa

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 423

The methods of the nineteenth century have been largely supplanted
by recent developments in the preparative chemistry of the proteins
and upon two of these are based the preservation and accumulation as
against military needs in distant theaters of operation of the plasma
proteins separated from the blood collected by the American Red Cross.

The first of these methodical developments is the drying of proteins
from the frozen state. Proteins coagulate at elevated temperatures and
in the presence of the organic solvents generally used in drying ordi-
nary chemicals. Likewise, denaturing changes often take place when
proteins are dried at ordinary temperatures. A body of investigation
has demonstrated, however, that such changes are minimized when
protein systems are first reduced to the frozen state and water then
removed under reduced pressure by sublimation. The dried plasma
which has so successfully been used by our Armed Forces in every
theater of operation is rendered stable by this technique. The plasma
is reconstituted just before use by addition to the dried powder in one
bottle of the diluent transported in another bottle in the same package.
All but the most labile components of plasma may be preserved by
this process, whereas all but its colloidal attributes are lost if liquid
plasma is preserved for long periods of time even at low temperatures.

TABLE 3.—Distribution of proteins of plasma’

Grams Grams protein per liter of

protein plasma in fractions

per liter

plasma I II+III IV Vv VI
Protein 60. 3 4.3 16. 3 9. 7 29. 6 0. 6
Albumin 33. 2 0. 2 0. 7 1.0 29. 0 0. 3
a-Globulin 8. 4 0. 2 1.8 5. 4 0. 6 0. 3
8-Globulin 7.8 0.8 6. 2 3.1 . 33
-Globulin 6. 6 0. 5 6. 0 0. 2 ats
Fibrinogen 2 4.3 2.6 1.6 ;

1 Cohn, Oncley, Strong, Hughes, and Armstrong.
1 Estimated by electrophoresis. The amount of clottable protein is always lower and probably more
reliable. See Edsall, Ferry, and Armstrong.

The second development has made possible the quantitatively repro-
ducible fractionation of plasma by new chemical methods which on the
one hand are susceptible to the large industrial scale that has been
necessary to process the blood of over one and one-half million Red
Cross donors, on the other to yield as final products plasma proteins of
unimpaired function.

The potential value of all the different proteins of human plasma
demanded that this process be inclusive in the sense that all components
be separated and concentrated. The present process separates the
plasma into five fractions. (See fig. 2.) Fraction I is rich in fibrino-
gen. Fraction II consists of y-globulins, which are the chief bearers of
immunity in the blood. (For convenience in manufacture, Fraction
II + III, which contains essentially all the y-globulins, is first sepa-
494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

rated as one and then subjected to subfactionations.) Fraction ITI-1
contains those euglobulin components of plasma, the isoagglutinins,
which interact with the red cells according to their specific blood
groups and which, therefore, can be used in the typing of blood.
Fraction III-1 is also rich in certain lipo-proteins containing all the
carotenoids and a large part of the cholesterol. Fraction III-2 is

PLASMA PROTEINS
THEIR NATURAL FUNCTIONS AND CLINICAL USES

4 a
PObRoteinemia: *

Fiacure 2.—Plasma proteins: their natural functions, clinical uses, and separation
into fractions. (Courtesy of Science.)

largely 8-globulin and contains components important in blood co-
agulation, among them thrombin, prothrombin, and a fibrinolytic en-
zyme. Fraction IV contains the remaining £-globulins and most of
the «-globulins. Of these «-1 is further separated into Fraction IV-1.
Fraction V contains between 85 and 90 percent of the albumin. The
mother liquors in Fraction VI contain about 1 percent of the total

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 425

proteins. The yields of the proteins in the various fractions are given
in table 3.

The fractionation of plasma into its component parts according to
this process developed in the Department of Physical Chemistry of
the Harvard Medical School has been carried on in seven commercial
laboratories under contract with the United States Navy. The albumin
of plasma represents by far its largest component and is concentrated
therefore in its largest fraction, V. Whereas there is evidence of the
existence of more than one albumin, this fraction appears homogeneous
in the ultracentrifuge and in the electrophoretic apparatus at neutral
or slightly alkaline reactions. The standard of purity specified in the
Navy contracts for the production of this blood derivative permits 2
percent of globulin. Electrophoretic analyses reveal the constancy of
the product under the conditions of industrial production.

Human serum albumin has been still further purified by crystalliza-
tion, and study of the crystallized albumin that we have prepared has
demonstrated that the very high thermal stability and low viscosity
of our standard preparations are indeed ascribable to the albumin,
instability largely to globulin and lipid impurities.

Normal human serum albumin can be prepared in far larger amounts
and with higher yields if further purification by crystallization is
not superimposed upon the process. The standards of purity deter-
mined upon for the albumin now being delivered to the Navy in large
amounts were chosen so as to assure freedom from untoward reactions
with maximum efficiency in large-scale production.

Serum albumin was developed in order to attain a blood derivative
which could be distributed in solution ready for immediate emergency
use. It has been made available as a 25-percent solution to render the
package as compact as possible for transport. Osmotically more than
four times as concentrated as plasma, 25-percent albumin is no more
viscous than whole blood. The package developed by the Armed
Forces for the standard 25-percent albumin solution occupies one-sixth
the space of the osmotically equivalent plasma package.

ALBUMIN AND THE CONTROL OF THE BLOOD VOLUME

That the value of plasma in controlling the volume of the blood
depends upon its osmotic activity is beautifully demonstrated by the
studies that have been carried out on the osmotic pressure of plasma
and of albumin solutions. These measurements yield a molecular
weight of 69,000 for albumin and an average weight of about 170,000
for the 40 percent of the protein which is not albumin. Each gram
of albumin is equivalent to 1.2 grams of plasma protein or to 20 cubic
centimeters of the current Red Cross citrated pooled plasma. The
volume of fluid held in the blood stream by each gram of albumin should
be about 18 cubic centimeters (table 4).
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

TaBLE 4.—Osmotic effect of concentrated human serum albumin in increasing
blood volume

Increase in blood

Conditions of measurement volume per gram
albumin
cc.
Estimated from osmotic pressure ! 18
In experimental hemorrhage ? 17
In clinical shock, after 4-1 hour 16
In clinical shock, after 1-86 hours 4 23

1 Scatchard, Batchelder, and Brown.

2 Heyl, Gibson, and Janeway.

3 Warren, Stead, Merrill, and Brannon.

4 Cournand, N oble, Breed, Lauson, Baldwin, and Richards.

The results of these osmotic-pressure measurements may be com-
pared with the clinical findings of three groups that have made inde-
pendent studies on the value of albumin for transfusions, especially in
shock. All have determined the water drawn into the blood stream
following injection of albumin in man. One group reported that “the
average increase” in blood volume (1 hour after injection) “was 17.4
cubic centimeters per gram although there was considerable variation
between individual experiments.” Another reported that “the albumin
injected into the circulation is largely retained, providing no further
bleeding or exudation of plasma occurs. It is still remaining in the
circulation at the end of 6 hours. The albumin retained holds in the
blood stream amounts of fluid approximately comparable to its osmotic
activity. Thus, in our series, 1 gram of albumin retained resulted
in an average increase of plasma volume of 23 cubic centimeters.” The
third group concluded that “the plasma volume increased 600, 800, and
900 cubic centimeters in the patients receiving 50 grams of albumin.
The average increase in volume was 16 cubic centimeters for each
gram of albumin.” These three carefully controlled clinical investiga-
tions yielding respectively 17.4, 23, and 16 cubic centimeters drawn
into the blood stream of patients per gram of albumin injected must
be considered in excellent agreement with the expectation from the
osmotic-pressure measurements of 18 cubic centimeters per gram of
albumin which forms the basis for the osmotic equivalence of the two
blood derivatives, plasma and albumin, being dispensed to the Armed
Forces.

a- AND 8-GLOBULINS AND THE HORMONES, ENZYMES, AND
LIPO-PROTEINS OF THE BLOOD

Although the albumins of plasma play far more important roles
than the globulins in the control of blood volume, the diverse globulins
also perform functions for which they appear to be uniquely designed.

—————

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 427

The number of such globulins is far larger than our present physico-
chemical criteria for their characterization. Moreover, certain of them
appear to be present in very small amounts—amounts, however, ade-
quate to perform their natural functions. In diseases in which there
is a deficiency of any of these proteins, however, it would appear to
be of the utmost value to have them available, separated from the
plasma and concentrated as specific therapeutic agents.

The blood of man is rich in lipid as well as in protein material. Only
a small amount of this lipid is present in an emulsified state; most of
it is held in solution in more or less labile combination with the
various plasma proteins. Among the lipids that are readily dis-
tinguished are cholesterol, carotenoids, phosphatides, and cerebrosides.
Of these the carotenoids are found concentrated with certain B-glob-
ulins in Fraction III (see table 2) which is also rich in cholesterol.
Cholesterol, phosphatides, and cerebrosides have also been found con-
centrated with «-globulins in Fraction IV. Here our study of plasma
proteins is leading us to a study of the plasma lipids, not as organic
chemicals separated from blood by methods which destroy the structure
of the lipo-proteins but in the state in which they exist in nature.
Their separation and purification as protein complexes should make
possible investigation of their function and an increasing understand-
ing of their role in the economy of the body.

The economy of the body is controlled by a group of messengers,
hormones, secreted and liberated by various glands. These hormones
also find their way into the blood stream and some of them have been
identified, although they are present in but very smallamount. Among
them is the thyrotropic hormone which appears to be closely related to
that secreted by the anterior pituitary gland. The gonadotropic hor-
mones secreted by this gland have also been identified in one or another
plasma fraction. As our survey of the hormones in the blood expands
it should be possible not only to concentrate and recognize more of
them but also to make them available as concentrates should they prove
to have any valuein therapy. Their human origin should make it pos-
sible to use hormones derived from man when those derived from
animals lead to sensitization following repeated injection.

The economy of the body is aided also by a series of enzymes whose
specific function it is to accelerate chemical reactions. The blood
stream contains many such enzymes. A cholinesterase and phos-
phatase clearly have functions related to the cerebrosides and phos-
phatides of the blood stream. Phosphatides of more than one kind
have been recognized both within and without the red cell. There are
lipases and proteolytic enzymes and the number of these is not yet
clearly defined. One, the fibrinolytic enzyme, will serve to illustrate
a principle that applies to others. The blood stream carries not only
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

components necessary to form a clot instantly at a bleeding surface,
but also this enzyme capable of dissolving the clot.

FIBRINOGEN, THROMBIN, AND THE CLOTTING OF THE BLOOD

The clotting mechanism of the body is indeed complex. The struc-
tural element of the clot is the long rod-shaped fibrinogen molecule
which is dissolved in the plasma. Its aggregation and separation as
the fibrin clot are carried out by the globulin, thrombin. When throm-
bin and fibrinogen are mixed in vitro, a clot immediately occurs.
Thrombin, however, does not exist free in the blood stream but as
a precursor substance, prothrombin, readily transformed into throm-
bin in the presence of calcium by tissue extracts known as thrombo-
plastins.

The various parts of this complex mechanism may be separated and
concentrated and made available in various forms. By controlling the
conditions of the reaction between fibrinogen and thrombin, structures
of a wide variety of properties can be obtained. Clots of one type are
clear, gelatinlike, elastic, and friable, do not readily synerize with
loss of fluid, and adhere to surfaces on which they are formed.
Clots of another type are opaque, doughy, and scuff-resistant, syner-
ize readily, become dense with loss of fluid, and do not adhere to under-
lying surfaces. Clots of intermediate properties can also be made.

For surgical use in human patients, clots may be prepared from
fibrinogen and thrombin to meet the particular specifications chosen
for each type of application, and may be formed in situ in or over
wounds. Clots whose properties have been controlled in this way
have been used in pyelolithotomy and in a technique for skin grafting.

Just as the asymmetry of certain synthetic polymers is responsible
for the remarkable mechanical properties of industrial plastics, the
fibrinogen molecule endows products of this human protein with re-
markable mechanical properties. Among these products is fibrin film.
Fibrin film may be prepared from fibrinogen and thrombin as a
strong, rubbery sheet which can be stretched reversibly from two to
three times its original length. This material can be made in various
shapes and thicknesses, and in the form of seamless tubing. Its
mechanical properties can also be varied from a soft, rubberlike elas-
ticity to a parchmentlike consistency.

The mechanical properties of the soft, rubbery films (as shown by
their stress-strain curves) bear a marked similarity to those of the
elastic ligament of the neck, the ligamentum nuchae. The tough films
with delayed elasticity resemble rather wool or hair in their mechanical
properties. It may be possible to imitate, with different types of fibrin
products, still other natural structures of the body.

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 429

The fine structure of fibrin film has been shown to involve pores
which in one type are of the order of 60 angstrom units in diameter.
Hemoglobin molecules in solution pass through these pores readily,
but plasma globulins are partially and fibrinogen molecules completely
retained.

The mechanical properties of certain types of fibrin films make them
suited for use as dural substitutes and in the prevention of meningo-
cerebral adhesions. The duration of their persistence in the body can
be adjusted by suitable treatments. They have been used in neuro-
surgical operations and appear to be an excellent material for these
purposes, patients having been followed for as long as 15 months with-
out the appearance of unfavorable sequelae. Other types of fibrin
film and of fibrinogen plastics are being tested for other surgical
applications.

For stopping the flow of blood, in surgical procedures, thrombin is
the only component of the clotting mechanism which must be supplied.
For the most effective use of thrombin in hemostasis, however, it
must be applied with a matrix which can hold the thrombin in the
bleeding area until clotting is completed. A porous matrix soaked
in thrombin solution can accomplish this mechanical result. Fibrin
foam is such a matrix formed from human fibrinogen and thrombin.
It effectively controls bleeding from oozing surfaces and from veins,
even very large ones. Though not recommended for brisk arterial
hemorrhage, it has proved very effective in neurosurgery in controlling
hemorrhage from the dura, from tumor beds, from dural sinuses, and
from large cerebral veins. In general surgery it has been reported
effective, in a small number of patients, in controlling hemorrhage
from the cut surface of the liver and kidney, in jaundiced patients,
in thoracic operations, and in stopping bleeding in hemophilia.

In the dry state fibrin foam is a porous material composed of strands
of fibers separated by air spaces of macroscopic size. It readily ab-
sorbs water, saline, or thrombin solution, and can be used in conjunc-
tion with a sulfa drug or with penicillin. The physical properties
of the foam, as of the film, can be varied by controlling the conditions
of manufacture. Since fibrin foam is prepared completely from
human proteins and is rapidly absorbed with minimal tissue reaction,
it is left in place, thus preventing recurrence of bleeding. It is easily
handled in the operating room, and, like serum albumin, is immediately
available for use in emergencies.

The fractionation of plasma, having made available fibrinogen,
thrombin, and the fibrinolytic enzyme in physical states such that they
can be employed in a wide variety of products, opens a new chapter,
not only in the large number of surgical uses which are emerging but
also in our fundamental understanding of the relation between the

676212—46——28

430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

properties of the protein molecules and of the structures that can be
prepared from them under controlled conditions.

In 1899 the late Sir William Hardy left the field of histology and
developed colloid chemistry in the belief that fundamental advances
in our knowledge of the structure of living tissue would have to await
advances of our knowledge of the molecules of which it is composed.
The time would appear to be at hand when the knowledge of the pro-
teins which Hardy next studied had reached a point where their study
in the solid state could form the basis of a new chemical morphology.

THE BLOOD-GROUPING GLOBULINS (ISOAGGLUTININS) OF HUMAN
PLASMA

The dangers of transfusion with human blood have largely been
eliminated by our increasing knowledge of specific differences in the
red blood cells of different individuals. Landsteiner reported in 1900
the presence of agglutinogens in red cells and the corresponding
isoagglutinins in human sera. Our present classification of blood
types and of red cells distinguishes groups O, A, B, and AB. Other
studies have revealed in addition subgroups of type A and AB cells,
among them A, cellsand A,B cells. The proportion of the individuals
in a population belonging to each blood group is approximately as
shown in table 5.

The cells of group O blood are not agglutinated by either anti-A or
anti-B serum. The blood of such donors is therefore recommended for
whole-blood transfusion in military medicine, since no reaction
normally occurs regardless of the type of the recipient.

The sera of O type blood as well as of A and B type blood contain
isoagglutinins, however. If the plasma of O blood is mixed with the
proper proportion of B cells, the anti-B isoagglutinins are removed,
leaving the plasma rich in anti-A isoagglutinins. The plasma, or
serum, of group B bloods is of course also rich in anti-A isoagglutinins,
the plasma or serum of type A blood in anti-B isoagglutinins.

TABLE 5.—Distribution of population among blood groups

[Computed from various sources for the population of the United States]

Group of red blood Approximate fre- Blood-grouping globulins present in plasma !
cells quency percent
O 45 Anti-A, Anti-A;, Anti-B.
B 10 Anti-A, Anti-Aj.
Ay 31 Anti-B.
Ao 10 Anti-B.
A,B DAG None
A;B 1.0 None

1 Omitting certain rare isoagglutinins,

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 431

Despite the presence of these isoagglutinins in serum or plasma
individuals of all blood groups may be transfused with a pooled serum
or plasma. The plasma is rendered safe partly by neutralization
within the pool. The specific A and B substances have recently been
injected in more or less pure state and shown to increase the titer of
the recipient’s plasma isoagglutinins.

The isoagglutinins of the plasma are euglobulins which are ex-
tremely insoluble in the absence of salt near their isoelectric points.
Readily separated and concentrated over thirtyfold with respect to the
group-specific serum or plasma from which they are derived, they can
be used in the typing of whole blood. Indeed they may be prepared
with such high titers and avidity for red cells of the opposite type that
gross clumping observable to the naked eye is brought about in a matter
of seconds. The blood-grouping globulins are also being prepared
from Fraction II+III of group-specific plasma derived from the
blood of Red Cross donors and are beginning to be used by the Navy
for typing when whole-blood transfusion is indicated.

THE IMMUNE PROPERTIES OF THE y-GLOBULIN ANTIBODIES OF
NORMAL AND CONVALESCENT PLASMA

Many of the antibodies to the variety of infectious diseases to which
man has been exposed are y-globulins. These substances have in the
last few years been concentrated and extensively studied not only chem-
ically but also immunologically. The antibodies to many of the
common infectious agents to which the population contributing the
blood had been exposed have been found. Indeed the large number
of blood donors in the Red Cross blood-donor program has made statis-
tical deduction valid and demonstrated that a population shows
heightened immunity following an epidemic of a special disease, such
as the recent influenza epidemic.

The possibility of utilizing the y-globulin antibodies derived from
pooled normal plasma in the prophylaxis and therapy of any infectious
disease depends upon two factors: first, the concentration of specific
antibody in the blood of the adult population, which in turn is depend-
ent on previous exposures and on the persistence of these bearers of
immunity in the body and their distribution between blood and tissues;
and second, the amount of antibody necessary to protect an individual
against the infection by passive immunization.

The concentration over the pooled plasma thus far achieved by our
fractionation process is approximately twenty-five-fold if we compare
plasma with the concentrated solution of immune globulins being made
available to the Armed Forces, and through the Red Cross, to public
health agencies. As a result titers of certain antibodies, though not
necessarily of all, are comparable to those of the corresponding con-
432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

valescent sera. ‘Therefore, in the prevention or treatment of any dis-
ease where the value of convalescent serum has been demonstrated, the
effectiveness of a concentrate from pooled normal plasma should be
investigated. If convalescent serum, or hyperimmune serum is frac-
tionated, still higher antibody titers may be obtained in the concen-
trated y-globulins, and their possible value in special cases must also
be considered.

The concentrated antibodies, separated from the pooled plasma of
a population, offer a means of characterizing the state of immunity of
that population as a permanent public health record. Were such rec-
ords systematically collected and available, it might prove possible to
follow the course of epidemics much as the course of a comet may be
followed by the photographic records of the skies recorded by modern
observatories. Not infrequently the first faint trail of a comet has
escaped detection and the origin and course have been understood only
because astronomers now map all of the heavens systematically at all
times. The systematic collection and preservation as dry white
powders of the concentrated antibodies of diverse populations might
comparably simplify the analysis of the course of certain epidemics.

TaBLE 6.—Average concentration of various antibodies in solutions of normal
human serum y-globulins (Fraction II)

Concentration

Antibody! referred Lo
plasma
Typhoid agglutinin, H 19
Mumps, complement fixation 20
Influenza A, complement fixation 18
Influenza A, Hirst test 10
Influenza A, mouse protection 23
Diphtheria antitoxin 25
Streptococcus antitoxin 22
y-Globulin by electrophoresis 25

1 Titrations of Enders.

Not all of the antibodies concentrated from human plasma will be
of value in the control of disease. However, in the case of measles,
where most susceptibles that are exposed are likely to contract the
disease, the concentrated antibodies have been employed with great
success, either to assure complete protection or by the use of a smaller
dose to modify the severity of the disease thus providing a lasting im-
munity with slight risk of those complications which make measles a
serious illness. The record of the use of the y-globulin antibodies in the
prophylaxis of measles is given in table 7.

In the case of many diseases those bearers of immunity which are the
antibodies of the blood stream cannot be made available in amounts
large enough, or injected soon enough to prevent the onset of the dis-

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 433

ease. In others the incidence of the disease in susceptibles is so small
that it would be necessary to immunize passively an entire population
in order to offer protection to the one in a thousand who might con-
tract the disease. The blood donors for such an undertaking might
not always be available, whereas blood donors conscious of the con-
tribution that they were making to the control of other diseases could
clearly always be counted on in a society that has contributed as has
ours to the blood donor program.

TABLE 7.—Effect of serum y-globulin antibodies in measles prophylaxis

Season Epidemic POS of No measles gaulld, ya
Percent Percent Percent
1942 Philadelphia !
and Baltimore 891 69 28 3
1942-43 Boston? 281 59 aii/ 4
1943-44 Scattered % 111 41 51 8
1943-44 New York 4 814 78 20 2
Total 2, 097 70 27 3
1 Stokes, Maris, and Gellis. 3 Stokes, Gellis, Janeway, and others.
2 Ordman, Jennings, and Janeway. 4 Rutstein, Greenberg, and Frant.
SUMMARY

The natural functions and therapeutic uses of blood.—Blood is a
complex tissue consisting of a fluid part, the plasma, in which cells of
various kinds are suspended. Most important among these are the
leukocytes or white cells, and the erythrocytes or red cells.

The plasma also is complex. It is an aqueous solution of salts, carbo-
hydrates, and lipids, the latter, for the most part, present in combina-
tion with certain of the diverse protein molecules which are the chief
plasma constituents.

The various components of the blood stream have such complex
interrelations, on the one hand with the tissues, on the other with the
external environment, that we may well stress the few systems where
an understanding of the mechanism is emerging.

Transport of oxygen by the hemoglobin concentrated in the red
blood cells—The red blood cells have as their prime function the
transport to the tissues of oxygen and the removal from the tissues of
carbon dioxide and other waste products. The oxygen is transported
in combination with the hemoglobin concentrated within the red cell.
Other proteins, notably carbonic anhydrase and a complex enzyme
system, represent its less copious protein components.

When there is great blood loss from a wound, when a major opera-
tion is to be performed, or when the anemia which frequently occurs
in convalescence from wounds must be combatted, red blood cells
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

should be supplied in amounts adequate to restore the oxygen-carrying
capacity of the blood.

Maintenance of blood volume by the proteins of the plasma, espe-
cially by the albumin.—Plasma, the fluid part of the blood, consists of
over 90 percent water and 7 percent protein. Of the proteins, ap-
proximately 58 percent is albumin, 14 percent a-globulin, 13 percent
B-globulin, 11 percent y-globulin, and 4 percent fibrinogen.

Plasma is used in military medicine in combatting shock and in the
treatment of burns. In burns there is often so large a loss from the
body of the diverse components of the plasma that their replacement
is necessary. In shock the function of the plasma is largely to restore
or maintain the blood volume so that circulation may remain normal.
The proteins dissolved in the plasma maintain the volume of the blood
by virtue of the osmotic pressure exerted largely by the albumin.

Albumin, the most copious of the plasma proteins, exerts the largest
osmotic pressure and thus the largest effect in maintaining blood
volume. Its solutions are also the least viscous and for this reason
their injection should impose the smallest burden on the heart. A1-
though the smallest of the plasma proteins, albumin does not traverse
the blood-vessel walls in appreciable amounts under normal conditions.

Storage and utilization of the proteins of the plasma in equilibrium
with the tissues —The mechanism of control of the blood volume in-
volves the impermeability of the normal blood vessels to the plasma
proteins. If plasma proteins are injected in a normal person in excess
of need, certain of them leave the blood stream without appearing in
the urine and are presumably utilized as a source of energy or new
protein or are stored in the tissues. The injection of concentrated
serum albumin into the blood stream of a normal man is followed
by a rapid redistribution of protein between the blood stream and
the tissues. Further investigations are necessary to determine
whether this is regulated by colloid osmotic pressure, by subtle changes
in the permeability of the blood vessels, or specifically for each species
of plasma protein. Clearly there is interaction between the various
plasma proteins in the blood and the tissues in health and disease.

Solution and transport of the lipids of the blood in more or less
labile combination with a- and B-globulins.—Lipids of diverse kinds
are dissolved and transported in the blood, largely in combination,
more or less labile, with proteins. Fibrinogen, y-globulin, thrombin,
and albumin are poor, but «- and @-globulin fractions are rich in lipid
material, The separation and further purification of these fractions
should increase our understanding of their chemical nature, phys-
iological function, and uses in therapy.

Regulation of bodily function by hormones and enzymes of the
blood.—The hemoglobin of the red cells, the albumins and _lipo-

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 435

proteins of the plasma, are present in large amounts. The enzymes,
which regulate chemical reactions within the blood, and the hormones,
many of which have their origin in the various glands of the body
and vary in concentration from time to time, are present in but small
amount. Their regulatory functions generally involve other glands
or tissues in the body than those in which they originate. The poten-
tial value of each in therapy is as a specific concentrate.

Coagulation of the blood by conversion of prothrombin to thrombin
and fibrinogen to fibrin clots, fibrin films, or fibrin foams.—The
mechanism by which the loss of blood from a wound or cut surface
is limited involves a series of proteins. Of these but two are essen-
tial to form the blood clot; thrombin, present in the circulating blood
as a precursor prothrombin, and fibrinogen, the long asymmetric mole-
cule which is the structural element of the clot.

Fibrinogen and thrombin are both separated in large amounts as
products of plasma fractionation. Fibrinogen can be prepared as a
thermosetting plastic or combined with thrombin in the form of
foams or films.

Fibrin films resemble natural membranes in many respects and have
been employed as a protective layer for the central nervous system in
the repair of dural defects.

Fibrin foam and thrombin has proven a valuable hemostatic agent
in neurosurgery, especially in the treatment of head injuries in this
war.

Grouping of the blood by means of the isoagglutinins separated
as cuglobulins.—The blood of a donor to be used in transfusion must
not be agglutinated by, or cause agglutination of, the blood of the
recipient. The plasma contains isoagglutinins, proteins, which when
separated from type-specific blood have been concentrated over thirty-
fold with respect to the plasma and utilized in the grouping of blood
for transfusion.

Immune properties of the blood concentrated with the y-globulins
and made available for prophylaxis or modification of measles.—The
bearers of the immune properties of the blood are proteins, for the
most part y-globulins. The plasma collected by the American Red
Cross that has been fractionated yields albumin, fibrinogen, and
thrombin, the blood-typing globulins and the y-globulins as protein
concentrates. y-globulin, as distributed to the Armed Forces and to
public health agencies, through the American Red Cross, is concen-
trated twenty-five-fold with respect to plasma and has been found
to contain a large variety of the antibodies to the diseases common
to man.

The studies that have been completed thus far have demonstrated
the value of this concentrate in the prophylaxis or modification of
measles.
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Preservation of the concentrated antibody globulins of the blood
as a public health record of the course of epidemics.—Although the
concentrated antibodies separated from the pooled plasma of a popula-
tion will not have value in the prophylaxis or treatment of many
diseases, they characterize the state of immunity of that population as
a permanent public health record.

The chemical, clinical, and immunological investigations on blood
and its derivatives which have been carried forward during this war
have resulted in contributions to clinical medicine and surgery, to im-
munology and epidemiology, to protein chemistry, and to the methodies
of the production and control of biological products. They are open-
ing new vistas in our understanding of natural products and natural
systems.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work was originally supported by grants from the Rockefeller
Foundation and from funds of Harvard University. It was aided
early in 1941 by grants from the Committee on Medicine of the Na-
tional Research Council, which included a grant from the American
College of Physicians. Since August 1941, it has been carried out
under contract, recommended by the Committee on Medical Research,
between the Office of Scientific Research and Development and Har-
vard University. The insight of my many fellow members in this
department has been immeasurably aided by many colleagues—chemi-
cal, clinical, immunological, and pathological—members of this or
other universities, of the Armed Forces, of committees of the National
Research Council, of the American Red Cross, and of commercial
laboratories with Navy contracts for plasma fractionation, who
labored with us. Indeed, it would be impossible to list here the very
large number of individuals and agencies who have collaborated in
this work.

REFERENCES
A. Blood.

Our present knowledge of the respiratory function of the blood is based so
largely on the work of the Schools of Physiology in Cambridge, England (J.
Barcroft, The respiratory function of the blood, Cambridge Univ. Press, Cam-
bridge, 1914), and in Cambridge, Mass. (L. J. Henderson, Blood, a study in
general physiology, Yale Univ. Press, New Haven, 1928) that reference is
made to these volumes for the earlier literature. Our knowledge of carbonic
anhydrase also comes from the Cambridge School (F. J. W. Roughton, Phys.
Rey., vol. 15, p. 241, 1985), and from the Connaught Laboratories where it has
been recently crystallized by Seott (D. A. Seott and A. M. Fisher, Journ. Biol.
Chem, vol. 144, p. 371, 1942). “The mammalian red cell and the properties
of haemolytic systems” are discussed by E. Ponder (Gebruder Borntraeger,
Berlin, 1934; and more recently in Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Quantitative
Biology, vol. 8, 1940), and in a review by Higgins (Ann. Rev. Physiol., vol. 3,

p. 283, 1941). A great deal of new knowledge has been gained in this war
but has not yet been made available.

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 437

“A plan for collection, transportation and administration of whole blood and
of plasma in warfare” (DeGowin and Hardin, War Medicine, vol. 1, p. 326, 1941)
reviews the earlier experience on blood transfusion.

The technique of blood preservation and of rotating blood banks has recently
been summarized in a bulletin prepared by the Medical Division of the Office
of Civilian Defense (OCD Publ. 2220, March 1944).

B. Dry Plasma.

D’Arsenval and Bordas (Compt. Rend. Seances Acad. Sci., vol. 142, p. 1058,
May 1906) introduced the use of low temperature for condensation of water
vapor with a high vacuum for drying of easily alterable substances such as
starches and albuminoid substances. In 1934 Elser (U. S. Patent 1970956, 1934)
and in 1935 Elser, Thomas, and Steffen (Journ. Immunol., vol. 28, p. 433, 1985)
described a process and apparatus for desiccating liquid and semisolid biological
substances by means of high-vacuum low-temperature condensation.

Since 1935, Flosdorf and Mudd (Journ. Immunol., vol. 29, p. 389, 1935; vol. 34,
p. 469, 1938), and Flosdorf, Stokes, and Mudd (Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., vol.
115, p. 1095, 1940) have published a series of papers on drying from the frozen
state. Important contributions have since been made by Greaves and Adair
(Journ. Hyg., vol. 39, p. 418, 1939), Hill and Pfeiffer (Ann. Intern. Med., vol. 14,
p. 201, 1940), Strumia and McGraw (Journ. Lab. and Clin. Med. vol. 28, p.
1140, 1943), and Strumia, McGraw, and Reichel (Amer. Journ. Clin. Pathol.,
vol. 11, p. 480, 1941). The use of dry plasma had been extensively investigated
by Strumia, Wagner, and Monaghan (Ann. Surg., vol. 111, p. 623, 1940; Journ.
Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. 114, p. 1837, 1940), Strumia and McGraw (Journ. Amer.
Med. Assoc., vol. 116, p. 2378, 1941), and others before this war.

C. The Physical Properties of Plasma Components.

The molecular weights and shapes of the plasma proteins are discussed by
Svedberg and Peterson (The ultracentrifuge, Oxford Univ. Press, Oxford, 1940),
Oncley (Journ. Phys. Chem., vol. 44, p. 1103, 1940; Chem. Rev., vol. 30, p. 433,
1942), Tiselius (Biochem. Journ., vol. 31, pp. 318, 1464, 1937; Trans. Faraday Soc.,
vol. 33, p. 524, 1987), Cohn (Chem. Rev., vol. 28, p. 395, 1941; Trans. and Stud.,
Coll. Physicians [Philadelphia], ser. 4, vol. 10, p. 149, 1942), and most recently
by Cohn, Oncley, Strong, Hughes, and Armstrong (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23,
p. 417, 1944).

Electrophoretic analyses of the plasma proteins in health and disease are
given by Tiselius (Trans. Faraday Soc., vol. 33, p. 524, 1937; Biochem. Journ.,
vol. 31, p. 1464, 1937) and Tiselius and Kabat (Journ. Exp. Med., vol. 69, p. 119,
1939), Svensson (Kolloid-Zeitschr., vol. 87, p. 181, 1939), Longsworth, Shedlovsky,
and MacInnes (Journ. Exp. Med., vol. 70, p. 399, 1939), MacInnes and Longs-
worth (Science, vol. 89, p. 488, 1989), Longsworth and MacInnes (Chem. Rev.,
vol. 24, p. 271, 1939; Journ. Exp. Med., vol. 71, p. 77, 1940), Luetscher (Journ.
Amer. Chem. Soc., vol. 61, p. 2888, 1939; Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 19, p. 318, 1940;
vol. 20, p. 99, 1941).

D. The Fractionation of Plasma.

During the last century there have been innumerable investigations on the
separation of one or another of the components of plasma. Two classical papers,
both of which appeared in 1905, are by Hardy (Journ. Physiol., vol. 33, p. 251,
1905) and Mellanby (Journ. Physiol., vol. 33, p. 338, 1905). Then came some
important contributions from Chick and Martin (Journ. Physiol., vol. 40, p. 404,
1910; vol. 43, p. 1, 1911; vol. 45, pp. 61, 261, 1912-13), and from Sgrensen (Proteins,
Fleischmann Laboratories, New York, 1925). Much of the earlier literature on
this subject not specifically referred to in this communication is considered by
Cohn (Physiol. Rev., vol. 5, p. 349, 1925; Ann. Rev. Biochem., vol. 4, p. 93, 1935;

438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Harvey Lectures, No. 124, 1938-39), Tiselius (Nova Acta Soc. Sci. Upsal., vol. 4,
p. 7, 1930), Sgrensen and Haugaard (Compt. Rend. Trav. Lab. Carlsberg, vol. 19,
No. 12, 1983), Butler and Montgomery (Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 99, p. 173, 1932),
Butler, Blatt, and Southgate (Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 109, p. 755, 1935), Kydd
(Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 107, p. 747, 1934), Hewitt (Biochem. Journ., vol. 30,
p. 2229, 19386), Stenhagen (Biochem. Journ., vol. 32, p. 714, 1988), Philpot (Nature,
vol. 141, p. 283, 1938), Green (Journ. Amer. Chem. Soc., vol. 60, p. 1108, 1988),
Fahey and Green (Journ. Amer. Chem. Soc., vol. 60, p. 3039, 1938), Longsworth
(Journ. Amer. Chem. Soc., vol. 61, p. 529, 1939), Kekwick (Biochem. Journ., vol.
33, p. 1122, 1939), Blix (Zeitschr. Ges. Exp. Med., vol. 105, p. 595, 1989), Svedberg
and Pedersen (The ultracentrifuge, Oxford Univ. Press, London, 1940). More
recent references describing the fractionation of plasma to yield its diverse
components as products for clinical appraisal are Cohn, McMeekin, Oncley,
Newell, and Hughes (Journ. Amer. Chem. Soc., vol. 62, p. 3386, 1940), McMeekin
(Journ. Amer. Chem. Soc., vol. 62, p. 3393, 1940), Cohn, Luetscher, Oncley, Arm-
strong, and Davis (Journ. Amer. Chem. Soc., vol. 62, p. 3396, 1940), Cohn (Chem.
Rey., vol. 28, p, 395, 1941; Trans. and Stud., Coll. Physicians [Philadelphia], ser. 4,
vol. 10, p. 149, 1942; Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc., vol. 88, p. 159, 1944), and Cohn,
Oncley, Strong, Hughes, and Armstrong (Journ. Clin. Inv. vol. 23 p. 417, 1944).

#. Serum Albumin.

The chemical properties of albumin are also discussed by Cohn (Chem. Rev.,
vol. 28, p. 395, 1941), and by Cohn, Oncley, Strong, Armstrong, Ferry, and Hughes
(in Mudd, S., and Thalhimer, W., Blood substitutes and blood transfusion, chap.
20, Charles C. Thomas, Springfield, Ill., 1942), its osmotic pressure by Scatchard,
Batchelder, and Brown (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 458, 1944), and its clinical
use by Janeway, Gibson, Woodruff, Heyl, Bailey, and Newhouser (Journ. Clin.
Iny., vol. 23, p. 465, 1944), Janeway (Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. 126, p. 674,
1944), Newhouser and Lozner (U. 8. Nav. Med. Bull., vol. 40, p. 796, 1942), Stead
and Ebert (in Mudd, S., and Thalhimer, W., Blood substitutes and blood trans-
fusion, p. 185), Heyl, Gibson, and Janeway (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 22, p. 763,
1943), Woodruff and Gibson (U. S. Nav. Med. Bull, vol. 40, p. 791, 1942),
Kendrick, Reichel, and McGraw, (Army Med. Bull., vol. 68, p. 107, 1943) Janeway
(in Mudd, S., and Thalhimer, W., Blood substitutes and blood transfusion, chap.
21), Luetscher (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 365, 1944), Cournand, Noble, Breed,
Lauson, Baldwin, Pinchot, and Richards (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 491, 1944),
and Warren, Stead, Merrill, and Brannon (Journ. Clin. Iny., vol. 23, p. 506,
1944).

F. Fibrinogen and Thrombin.

The proteins concerned in the blood coagulation mechanism have been discussed
by a number of authors. Recent reviews are given by Eagle (Medicine, vol. 16,
p. 95, 1937), Ham and Curtis (Medicine, vol. 17, p. 413, 1938), Wohlisch (Ergebn.
Physiol., vol. 43, p. 174, 1940), Ferguson (Ann. Rey. Physiol., vol. 2, p. 71, 1940),
Taylor, Davidson, and Minot (Nelson New Loose Leaf Medicine, vol. 4, Thomas
Nelson & Sons, New York), Seegers(Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 136, p. 103, 1940),
Seegers and McGinty (Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 146, p. 511, 1942), Neurath, Dees,
and Fox (Journ. Urol., vol. 49, p. 497, 1943), and Edsall, Ferry, and Armstrong
(Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 28, p. 557, 1944). The purification and properties of
prothrombin have been studied particularly by Mellanby (Proc. Roy. Soc. London,
vol. B 107, p. 271, 1930) and by Seegers (Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 136, p. 103, 1940).
Recent studies on the purification of thrombin have been carried out by Seegers
and McGinty (Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 146, p. 511, 1942) and by Milstone (Journ.
Gen. Physiol., vol. 25, p. 679, 1942).

BLOOD AND BLOOD DERIVATIVES—COHN 439

The fundamental studies on fibrin clots and fibrin films have been carried
out by Ferry and Morrison (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 566, 1944), their use
in the surface treatment of burns by Hawn, Bering, Bailey, and Armstrong (Journ.
Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 580, 1944), in the repair of dural defects by Bailey and
Ingraham (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 597, 1944), and by Ingraham and Bailey
(Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. 126, p. 680, 1944). Fibrin foam was developed
as a hemostatic agent by Bering (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 586, 1944). Its
use in neurosurgery has been described by Ingraham and Bailey (Journ. Neuro-
surg., vol. 1, p. 23, 1944), by Bailey and Ingraham (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23,
p. 591, 1944), and by Woodhall (Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. 126, p. 419, 1944).

G. Blood-grouping Globulins.

The classical work on blood grouping is by Landsteiner (Centralbl. Bakt., vol. 28,
p. 357, 1900; Wien, Klin. Wochenschr., vol. 14, p. 1182, 1901). Blood-grouping
technique has recently been considered in detail by Schiff and Boyd (Blood group-
ing technique, Interscience Publishers, New York, 1942), and blood groups and
transfusions by Wiener (Blood groups and transfusion, 3d ed., Charles C. Thomas,
Springfield, Ill., 1948). For the separation and concentration of isoagglutinins
from group specific human serum or plasma see Thalhimer and Myron (Journ.
Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. 118, p. 370, 1942), Pillemer (Science, vol. 97, p. 75, 1943),
and Pillemer, Oncley, Melin, Elliott, and Hutchinson (Journ. Clin. Iny., vol. 23,
p. 550, 1944), and for their appraisal see DeGowin (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23,
p. 554, 1944).

H. y-Globulin Antibodies (Immune Globulins).

The earlier literature on “The chemistry of antigens and antibodies” is
reviewed by Marrack (Med. Res. Counc., Spec. Rep. Ser., No. 280, His Majesty’s
Stationery Office, London, 1938). The most recent investigations upon the chemi-
cal properties of the y-globulins are considered by von Mutzenbecher (Biochem.
Zeitschr., vol. 266, pp. 226, 250, 259, 19383), McFarlane (Biochem. Journ., vol. 29,
pp. 407, 660, 1175, 1209, 1935), Kekwick (Biochem. Journ., vol. 32, p. 552, 1938),
Kabat and Pedersen (Science, vol. 87, p. 372, 1988), Heidelberger (Cold Spring
Harbor Symposium on Quantitative Biology, vol. 6, p. 369, 1988; Chem. Rev.,
vol. 24, p. 323, 1989), Kabat (Journ. Exp. Med., vol. 69, p. 103, 1939), Cohn,
McMeekin, Oncley, Newell, and Hughes (Journ. Amer. Chem. Soc., vol. 62, p.
8386, 1940), Cohn, Luetscher, Oncley, Armstrong, and Davis (Journ. Amer. Chem.
Soc., vol. 62, p. 83396, 1940), Cohn (Chem. Rev., vol. 28, p. 395, 1941; Proc. Amer.
Philos. Soc., vol. 88, p. 159, 1944), Cohn, Oncley, Strong, Hughes, and Armstrong
(Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 417, 1944), Williams, Petermann, Colovos, Goodloe,
Oncley, and Armstrong (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 433, 1944), the concentra-
tion of certain antibodies in globulin fractions derived from human blood plasma
by Enders (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 510, 1944), and the use of the y-globulin
antibodies in the prophylaxis and treatment of measles by Stokes, Maris, and
Gellis (Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 531, 1944), by Ordman, Jennings, and Janeway
(Journ. Clin. Inv., vol. 23, p. 541, 1944), by Janeway (Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc.,
vol. 126, p. 674, 1944), and by Greenberg, Frant, and Rutstein (Journ. Amer. Med.
Assoc., vol. 126, p. 944, 1944).

‘souserd uUdISOULIGY ‘J ‘sug aqy ‘9 -seqn} alqy ‘p ‘ureoy Unqy ‘do SUOTIN[OS UL (JUSTIA) uIqmo1g} pue (Jol) Ussoutiqy *q ‘eyBys Arp oq} Ul (JUS) UrquIo1y) pue (Qjo[) Usso0ulIqYy ‘eB

“NIGWOYHL GNV NSSONTYSIA

4LVW 1d UuyoO)—"Cp6| ‘J4Oday uerluosyztwg
THE MICROBIOTICS?

By JoHN N. McDonNELL, D. Sc.?

Although very new and little understood, the microbiotic drugs pre-
sent one of the most striking developments in the history of the health
sciences. Within half a decade, an entirely new therapeutic concept
has been instituted. An important new group of efficacious drugs has
been made available to the medical profession for the eradication of
disease.

Many scientists believe, however, that the surface of this new sub-
ject literally has only been touched. The microbiotic drugs, and cer-
tainly those best known at this time, have far greater possibilities than
are appreciated at present.

NOMENCLATURE

From a technical viewpoint, the term “microbiotics” is a misnomer,
when applied to the group of chemotherapeutic agents derived directly
from micro-organisms. Other descriptive names have been proposed,
such as “antibiotics” and others. None of these names is adequate, but
for the present they are accepted.

Since the days of Pasteur and Koch in the infancy of bacteriology,
the use of the biological products has been the accepted mode of therapy
in the prevention and treatment of diseases caused by pathogenic bac-
teria. Serums and vaccines, toxins and toxoids, and antitoxins have
been developed containing, or designed to create, natural antibodies
by means of which a patient may be immunized or protected against a
pathogenic bacterial infection, or by means of which an infectious dis-
ease may be successfully treated. In the past, these natural products
have satisfactorily served to reduce the incidence and mortality of cer-
tain contagious bacterial and virus-caused diseases. However, they

1 Reprinted by permission from the American Journal of Pharmacy, vol. 116, No. 11,
November 1944, with revisions by the author.

2 Chief, Research and Statistics Unit, Drugs and Cosmetics Branch, Chemicals Bureau,
War Production Board, Washington, and Director of the War Production Board’s Civilian
Penicillin Distribution Office in Chicago; Assistant Professor in Pharmacy, Philadelphia
College of Pharmacy and Science; Editor of American Professional Pharmacist and of
El Farmaceutico ; Format Editor, Medical Times.

441
449 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

have been ineffectual against many conditions and in particular against
diseases caused by protozoa.

CHEMICALS IN THERAPY

The application of chemical agents to the combatting of disease,
of course, is no new development. To a degree, chemicals had been
included in the armamentarium of the “medicine man” since time
immemorial. The magnifiicent charlatan, Paracelsus, was the first
real exponent of chemicals in therapy. Little was contributed to this
field of medical science for hundreds of years, until the discovery of
the alkaloid, quinine, in cinchona early in the last century by the
pharmacists Pelletier and Caventou, and the isolation of emetine
from ipecac. These substances were the first chemical agents effective
against the plasmodium of malaria and against amebic dysentery.
They represented the beginnings of “chemotherapy,” differing from
“chemicals in therapy.”

CHEMOTHERAPY

Chemotherapy had its true beginning in 1870, when the Frenchman
Laveran traveled to Africa in search of a chemical substance which
would prove of value in the treatment of trypanosomal diseases such
as malaria and sleeping sickness. Choosing arsenic from among the
heavy metals, Laveran successfully developed the arsanilates, and
for his biochemical discoveries was the recipient of the 1903 Nobel
prize. Ehrlich and Robert Koch went further in his researches. From
their work came salvarsan and neoarsphenamine. These were the
first potent agents against the protozoan disease, syphilis.

Other than the discovery of the arsenicals there were no striking
advances in chemotherapy until Hoerlein’s researches in 1910, in the
use of certain sulfonamide-substituted azo dyes. Even he failed to

recognize the value of his discovery.

THERAPEUTIC INDEX

It must be remembered that the value of a chemotherapeutic agent
against disease is determined by what is known as the therapeutic
index. Pharmaceutical research workers use the mathematical ratio
of “high killing power on bacteria or protozoa causing disease” as the
numerator of a fraction, the denominator of which is “low toxicity or
killing power on animals and patients.” Thus many chemicals would
be effective against pneumococci of pneumonia or in combatting the
organisms causing some other disease, but at the same time they would
probably kill the patient. The higher the killing power against micro-
organisms and the lower the toxicity, the better the drug.

THE MICROBIOTICS—McDONNELL 443
SULFONAMIDE DRUGS

Until Domagk, 25 years later, experimented with one of the azo
dyes developed by Hoerlein, the value of the sulfonamides in the treat-
ment of bacterial infections lay undiscovered. The story of the sulfa
drugs is now well known, and the layman is fairly familiar with
sulfanilamide, sulfathiazole, sulfadiazine, and even with those not
so well known. Many hundreds of different sulfa drugs have been
developed and tested in laboratory and clinical trial, but only a few
superior ones have been approved and chosen for production. Those
which have been employed in the fight against disease have caused a
material change in health care and have added nearly a decade to the
life span of man.

What is well understood by medical and pharmaceutical workers,
and now appreciated even by the general public, is that the “sulfas”
are by no means harmless; they are more or less toxic in nature.
Some individuals are sensitive to them, showing toxic reactions when
they are administered, while it is also possible for a patient to develop
this sensitivity. In addition, there are not infrequently individuals
who prove resistant to the drugs. In other words, there is a per-
centage of cases of many of the customarily sulfonamide-amenable
diseases where the infection is resistant to sulfonamides. Also, the
“sulfas” are not of value in the treatment of protozoan infections.

The primary overenthusiasm for the sulfonamides has subsided,
and we now fully appreciate their proper place as potent, efficacious
specifics, While they are not a general panacea for all bacterial dis-
eases, they are exceedingly useful against a selected group of infections.

The search for other and better drugs went on, with the emphasis
upon those which have as their mode of action a direct toxic effect
or metabolic inhibitory effect on the offending organisms.

ANTIBIOTIC CONCEPT

Through the years there existed another concept of antibacterial
action in the treatment of disease. As long ago as 1877, when Pasteur
and Joubert conducted their immortal experiment on anthrax, they
had observed that cultures of anthrax ceased to grow when accidentally
contaminated by air bacteria. They also observed that sheep sur-
vived when infected with this contaminated culture. This was the
first evidence that a substance produced by one micro-organism is
capable of arresting the growth of another. Even though Pasteur
called attention to this apparent principle, he failed to pursue it
further.

At one time it had been believed that the soil was the source of all
infections and epidemics. Koch’s experiments in 1881 on the survival
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

rate of bacteria showed that pathogenic organisms die out rapidly
in the soil, due to some unknown factor present in soil.

The potentialities of antagonistic mechanisms among the micro-
organisms were appreciated by Cantani, who in 1885 endeavored to
treat certain diseases by means of known cultures of saprophytic
organisms.

PYOCYANASBE

Later, many other antibiotics were discovered, including extracts
from Bacillus pyocyaneus. Pyocyanase has been known since the
early nineties, although it was never deemed very effective. It was
never obtained in crystalline form, and was employed chiefly in ex-
perimental studies, although in Germany since 1930 a pyocyanase
ointment has been available for local application on skin lesions
resulting from anthrax.

The last step in the series of basic researches which preceded the
advent of the recent antibiotic studies was when Vaudremer at-
tempted to treat tuberculosis with Aspergillus fumigatus cultures.
His unsuccessful work followed preliminary laboratory in vitro tests
which had given great promise.

ACCIDENTAL DISCOVERY

Our story really begins, however, in 1928 in the bacteriology labora-
tory of St. Mary’s Hospital, in London. During the routine exam-
ination of some culture plates Prof. Alexander Fleming observed en-
tirely by accident a contaminating mold which caused lysis of the
staphylococcus organisms nearby. He had observed a phenomenon
which had been ignored by countless bacteriologists before and since.
Fleming subcultured the mold in broth and found that a strong anti-
biotic, nontoxic to animals, passed into the broth from the mold. The
broth apparently possessed marked inhibitory, bactericidal, and bac-
teriolytic properties. Fleming coined the name “penicillin” to des-
ignate a filtrate of the broth culture of the particular organism which
he incorrectly identified as Penicillium rubrum. The term “penicil-
lin” has been retained, and while medical dictionaries recommend the
pronounciation as “pen’-iss-lin,” the majority of scientific workers
prefer to use “pen-i-sill-in.”

After a year’s study, Fleming established the specific activity of
penicillin against various gram-positive micro-organisms highly
pathogenic to man, including the streptococci, staphylococci, gon-
ococci, pneumococci, and meningococci. He had also discovered that
the filtrate was ineffective against many gram-negative cocci and
bacilli.

THE MICROBIOTICS—McDON NELL 445
IDENTIFICATION

In 1982 other British workers, Clutterbuck, Lovall, and Raistrick,
verified Fleming’s experimental reports and with the cooperation of
the noted American mycologist Thom, correctly identified the mold
as P. notatum Westling. Fleming continued his studies but contented
himself with reporting that it did not disturb human white blood cells,
and that it appeared to have some value for local treatment of derma-
tologic infections. He employed the filtrate chiefly to inhibit con-
taminants in the isolation of organisms insensitive to penicillin, such
as Hemophilus influenzae.

Clutterbuck in 1932 attempted to isolate the active principle from
the penicillin filtrate but failed, and with Fleming’s reluctant agree-
ment concluded that the substance was too labile. Thus, except for
occasional use as a differential culture, Fleming’s discovery lay dor-
mant for 10 years.

LYSOSYME

In 1929, the year of Fleming’s first report, another British investiga-
tor, Howard Florey, and his associates at Oxford began work on lyso-
syme, an antibiotic substance discovered 7 years before by Fleming,
and ultimately crystallized in 1937 by Roberts. During the next dec-
ade Florey continued his progress, firmly convinced that somehow an
antibiotic would be discovered that would be nontoxic to man yet of
value in the treatment of infections. The mechanism of these sub-
stances was not clearly indicated, but the principle upon which they
acted was generally accepted. Florey studied many organisms but to
no avail until 1938 when he directed his attentions to penicillin.

SOIL BACTERIA

During this period, other equally striking work had been conducted
in the United States. In the course of studies at the Rockefeller
Institute for Medical Research in New York on the virulence of dif-
ferent types of pneumococci, Dubos in 1938 completed a successful
search for a specific bacterial enzyme which by decomposing the
capsular polysaccharides of the organisms would render the pneu-
mococci avirulent. He believed that micro-organisms existed which
would attack other unrelated microbial cells, assuming that all organic
matter added to the soil eventually is decomposed by soil micro-
organisms. Dubos hoped that living cultures added to soil would
develop selective flora capable of attacking certain bacterial species.
He was successful in isolating such a material, and prepared from it
three active substances inhibitory to gram-positive organisms. They
were tyrocidine, gramicidin and gramidinic acid.

676212—46 29

446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

TYROTHRICIN, TYROCIDINE, AND GRAMICIDIN

Tyrocidine hydrochloride was first termed graminic acid. A crys-
talline neutral substance was found to be gramicidin, while gramidinic
acid later was found to consist of gramicidin and tyrocidine, and was
called by the term now employed, “tyrothricin.” All were markedly
bactericidal in vitro against gram-positive micro-organisms but
tyrothricin and tyrocidine were also effective against organisms of
the gram-negative group.

Gramicidin proved to be most effective, but caused serious toxic
reactions. However, the highly bactericidal effect of gramicidin when
injected into experimental animals previously inoculated with cul-
tures of various organisms revived interest in Fleming’s penicillin.

Accordingly, Florey, the biochemist, and his Oxford associates, men
whose names have since become renowned for their outstanding work,
began the systematic study of the new substance, penicillin. Abraham
and Chain, and Heatley, all chemists, together with Lady Florey, a
physician of competence who was the major contributor to studies on
local use of penicillin, all reported on phases of the work.

THE CULTURE

The crude fluid first prepared as an extract of the culture broth of
penicillin showed remarkable properties. One part in several hundred
thousand and even up to one in a million dilution inhibited growth in
vitro and in vivo, of a number of organisms. It was apparent that
here was a potent new agent with, to quote Florey in 1941, “. . . the
bacterostatic power . . . as great as, or greater than, that of the most
powerful antiseptics known, such as the heavy metal compounds, the
acridine derivatives, etc.” The causative agents of anthrax, gon-
orrhea, pneumonia, meningitis, gas gangrene, and a host of other
diseases and infections one by one yielded to this new miraculous

substance.
PROBLEMS

As yet, the product was not ready for use in the treatment of disease
in humans. Two problems confronted the research workers. How
should the active substance be extracted? How should it be stand-
ardized ?

The identification of the physical and chemical nature of the active
principle could await the satisfactory resolution of these two earlier
perplexing problems, even though the analysis and synthesis of the
principle was a task which was of terrific magnitude.

THE OXFORD UNIT

A test for potency was ingeniously worked out by Heatley, under
Florey’s direction. Fleming’s original serial dilution method, similar

THE MICROBIOTICS—McDONNELL 447

to that employed in usual bacteriologic procedures, was empiric and
unsuited for exacting work. A modification was developed, using
porcelain cups set on agar plates. Heatley defined the unit of peni-
cillin antibacterial activity for the cup method as that amount of
penicillin which when dissolved in 1 cc. of water gives a zone of
inhibition 24 mm. in diameter, or the amount by serial dilution which
when dissolved in 50 cc. of broth completely inhibits the growth of
a test strain of S. aureus.

The unit of penicillin was accepted by most workers and was named
in honor of Florey. However, the latter modestly disclaimed the trib-
ute and proposed instead the now generally accepted “Oxford unit,”
after its place of discovery. This term is still in use in this country,
but because its measure is so small, about 0.6 microgram of penicillin,
and because so many are represented in usual therapeutic procedure
and industrial production, the British have invented the term “mega-
unit” to indicate 1 million Oxford units.

In this country and in England over a score of research labora-
tories are collaborating in a study of penicillin assays under United
States Pharmacopoeial and Food and Drug Administration sponsor-
ship, in order to develop standardized and improved methods.

EXTRACTION

The first method of production employed was the bottle process,
where bottles, flasks, or trays were used, requiring thousands of con-
tainers to yield any appreciable quantities of the broth culture. This
was the sure method and the one employed by all producers in their
early programs. Other methods developed later in this country were
the trickle method, where inoculated broth flows over stones or chips
as an adaptation of the quick vinegar process, and the bran process,
where sterile bran is inoculated by cultures, and the penicillin extracted
later.

Penicillium notatum grows under both surface and submerged con-
ditions, although different strains are used for the differing processes.
The submerged or deep-tank method which is responsible for most
of present-day production allows the penicillium-inoculated sterile
broth to be aerated for the period of the fermentation cycle, in 1,000-
gallon tanks or larger.

The solution to the problem of extraction, which had impeded prog-
regs for over a decade, was discovered soon after the unit was developed.
It involved the passing of impure acid penicillin broth (pH 2 to 3)
from a watery solution into an organic solvent such as ether, chloro-
form, or amy] acetate, and the subsequent passage of the purified agent
again into water, shaken with alkali. This principle, by appropriate
cycling and with the aid of further steps in purification with acti-
vated carbon, followed by the snap-freezing and desiccation procedure

448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

employed in processing blood plasma, still holds in industrial practice,
with some modifications from plant to plant.

CLINICAL TRIAL

A minute quantity of partially purified penicillin was finally ob-
tained, and in England on February 12, 1941, the first human patient
was treated. The response was dramatic and extraordinary, even
beyond the optimistic hopes of the research team. However, just as
its full powers were in evidence, the supply of the drug became ex-
hausted ; the patient had a relapse and died. Additional supplies were
prepared, and by June half a dozen other patients had been treated,
even though the Oxford workers had considerable difficulty in finding
subjects. Those eventually turned over to the penicillin team were
generally moribund, the most difficult of all possible conditions, where
the attending physicians believed that the experimentation could not
hurt the patients for whom all hope had already been abandoned.
Every one responded, although twice at the peak of success the drug
supply again ran out and the patients died.

AMERICAN INTEREST

Faced by all kinds of operational difficulties, shortage of manpower,
lack of equipment, and a wide general apathy to their reports, the
English research workers remained undaunted. Under the auspices
of the Rockefeller Foundation, they came to America, and Florey and
Heatley presented their appeal for technical and industrial help to
the National Research Council in Washington early in July of 1941.
Through the summer months of that year Florey and his associate
worked under grants from these bodies and with the research and
production staffs of several enterprising American pharmaceutical
and chemical houses. They gained the cooperation of Coghill and his
co-workers of the United States Department of Agriculture Experi-
ment Station at Peoria, experts in the fermentation field. They were
able to develop new culture methods and to find ways of increasing
yields. Florey returned to England in September of 1941 to devote
his efforts to the improvement of the purification process. Heatley,
his fellow worker, remained in this country for a year and assisted in
the planning of the first small program of production.

The results obtained in these early months’ experiments were even
more startling than Florey and Heatley had dared to predict or to
hope. American research workers under the direction of the Office
of Scientific Research and Development found that their observations
more than bore out the early promise of the drug. With renewed en-
thusiasm, larger-scale production of the drug was planned.

—

es

THE MICROBIOTICS—McDON NELL 449

In the interim the United States was plunged into war, but nothing
was allowed to interfere, and the development work proceeded

unabated.
CLINICAL STUDIES

The first patient to be studied in this country under the extensive
research program which has been in force since was treated with
penicillin on March 14, 1942, in New Haven, Conn. An advanced
case of hemolytic streptococcus septicemia, the response was imme-
diate. A few months later, when additional small quantities of the
drug made available from the laboratory-scale production began to
provide ample evidence of the almost miraculous powers of this new
therapeutic agent, the several cooperating pharmaceutical firms came
to the War Production Board with appeals for priority assistance to
obtain the exceedingly critical equipment and materials needed for
their new pilot plants, which were the next step from research to
industrial production.

Approximately 50 different chemical and other substances are re-
quired for the preparation of inoculum, culture media, recovery, and
testing. Among these are lactose, starch, talc, activated carbon, sev-
eral acetates, ether, chloroform, lime, sulfuric acid, and a byproduct
of starch manufacture, corn steep liquor. Several of these substances
are consumed now in quantities totaling millions of pounds a year.
The containers and tanks, piping, gages, and meters, vacuum and
pressure pumps, refrigeration and sterilization apparatus have repre-
sented millions of dollars’ worth of wartime critical material. How-
ever, immediate cooperation was extended, and one of the most dra-
matic stories of war production was under way.

COMPLEMENT

Penicillin is not a panacea or a cure-all. It is an effective thera-
peutic agent and a complement to the sulfonamide drugs. It has some
advantages over the latter, but may never replace them. However,
medical history will record the coming of penicillin as an impor-
tant milestone, for this safe drug has proved effective against many
pathogens which heretofore proved immune to chemotherapy, and
against infections which had shown an all-too-high lethal rate de-
spite amenability to available therapeutic measures. The list of
such organisms and infections is impressive and broader clinical
investigation will find even greater importance for the new drug just
as it is discovering numerous infections against which it is valueless.

ADVANTAGES

Four theoretical advantages of penicillin over the sulfonamides,
however, are: (1) it is more potent in inhibiting growth of organ-
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

isms; (2) its bacteriostatic power is influenced to only a minor extent
by the number of organisms; (3) it is not antagonized by break-
down products of tissue autolysis or by exudates (pus); and (4) it
is nontoxic.

Penicillin is dramatically effective against a host of killers: Menin-
gitis, pneumonia, tetanus, anthrax, osteomyelitis, syphilis, empyema,
cellulitis, diphtheria, gas gangrene, relapsing fever, actinomycosis,
puerperal sepsis, and many others. In the treatment of war wounds,
penicillin first proved its worth on the bloody sands of North Africa,
whence came the early reports to our Army medical staff which
prompted them to experiment with it. Out of these studies came
the Army’s demand in 1943 for penicillin—and as much of it as it
was possible to produce! Since then penicillin has earned for itself
the equivalent of the Congressional Medal of Honor, for thousands
of servicemen’s lives have been saved by its wonderful powers, and
countless crippled and infected bodies quickly restored to health and
usefulness, From the mysterious but important realm of war medicine
penicillin emerged as a miracle drug for soldiers and sailors and for
civilians alike. However, penicillin is by no means the only successful
or promising antibiotic.

CLASSIFICATION OF ANTIBIOTICS

There are many antibiotics. While it is a simple matter to classify
antibiotic substances after their chemical structure has been clarified,
certain criteria have been developed to enable workers to properly
evaluate these agents. The criteria, according to Waksman, are:
(1) the organism that produces the substance; (2) the toxicity of the
substance and its chemotherapeutic activity; (3) the selective effect
of the material upon specific bacteria (this is termed the bacterio-
static or antibiotic spectrum); (4) the chemical nature of the sub-
stance (long before the active substance is isolated, microbiologists
have a fairly good idea as to its general character) ; and (5) the mode
of action of the substance upon bacteria.

Since an organism may produce several different antibiotics, and
in turn several different organisms produce the same type of anti-
biotic, duplication has been discovered. For instance, a dozen organ-
isms produce penicillin, while clavacin, patulin, and claviformin from
different organisms are the identical substance.

Aside from the several known isomers of penicillin, there are a
number of other antibiotic agents which deserve mention. Of those
which have been mentioned to any extent in the literature, only a few
are worthy of comment here.

——————E—

THE MICROBIOTICS—McDONNELL 451
TYROTHRICIN

Tyrothricin, the combination of gramicidin and tyrocidine, is a
highly complex chemical of varying composition obtained from cul-
tures of the aerobic, spore-forming soil bacteria, Bacillus brevis strain
BG. Its chemical structure is C,,H.3N,O,, or CrsHiosNi4O15. Avail-
able as a commercially marketed product, it is used in diluted isotonic
solution by instillation, irrigation, or wet dressing. It may be intro-
duced into the body cavities such as the pleural cavity, sinuses, mas-
toid, and urinary bladder. It is exceedingly toxic in the blood-
stream and is not indicated for parenteral injection or oral use.
Tyrothricin has been found to be of particular value in treatment of
indolent ulcers, abscesses of skin and mucosa, mastoiditis, certain in-
fections of eye, nasal sinus, and pleural cavity, empyema, postopera-
tive infections, and osteomyelitis. It has been found most effective
against certain species of staphylococci, streptococci, and similar
organisms.

GLIOTOXIN

Gliotoxin was crystallized several years ago, before penicillin, from
Gliocladium fimbriatum, Aspergillus fumigatus, and Trichoderma
species. It is effective against both gram-positive and gram-negative
organisms but is too toxic for therapeutic use. Its chemical formula
is C,3H,,0,N,S,. Gliotoxin has been found to be effective against the
staphylococci, streptococci, and Diplococcus pneumoniae.

FUMAGACIN, FUMAGATIN, AND ASPERGILLIC ACID

Aspergillic acid is a substance derived from Aspergillus flavus, hav-
ing the chemical structure of C,,H,,.N.O, without sulfur in the mole-
cule. It has a limited range of effectiveness against both gram-
positive and gram-negative bacteria.

Fumagacin, or helvolic acid as it is also called, is similar in action
to penicillin. It has an indefinite chemical formula with either 32 or
53 carbon atoms, and is lacking in both nitrogen and sulfur. Being
water-insoluble in nature and less active, it is less valuable even
though it is generally effective against gram-positive organisms, sim-
ilar to the action of penicillin. It is derived from Aspergillus fumi-
gatus. Also obtained from the same organism is fumagatin, C;H,O,,
which has limited sensitivity and therapeutic value.

OTHER KETONE COMPOUNDS

These ketone antibiotic compounds have been crystallized and ob-
tained in pure form. Several others are of lesser significance, such

A52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

as penicillic acid (C.H,.O,) from P. cyclopium and P. puberulum;
kojic acid (CgH,O,) ; puberulic acid (C,H,;O,) ; and puberulonic acid
(CsH,O¢).

CLAVACIN

A significant ketone antibiotic is clavacin, which has many aliases,
such as patulin, claviformin, and clavatin. Obtained from Aspergil-
lus clavatus, P. patulum, and P. claviforme, it has the formula
C,H,O,. Great enthusiasm was evidenced at one time in Great Britain
because of its reported value against both gram-positive and gram-
negative organisms and for its apparent action upon the secondary
organisms which complicate the common cold. Later experimental
use by other workers failed to substantiate the early expectations that
it would prove a specific for the common cold, but the subject is still
an open one with many authorities, according to Raistrick.

Chaetomium cochliodes is the source of chaetomin, which has also
been isolated but never purified. It has limited usefulness but may
ultimately prove of more value. Citrinin, C:;H.,O;, is a quinone
from P. citrinum and from other species of Aspergillus. It is not as
active as the other antibiotic agents and is more toxic.

ACTINOMYCIN

Of the various species of organisms from which antibiotics may
be developed, the actinomyces are the most promising, for over one-
fifth of all these species are capable of producing antibiotic substances
of some type.

One of the most promising of the group is actinomycin A. Ob-
tained from A. antibioticus, it is a pigmented ring compound with
the formula C,,H;.N;0,,. Although it is toxic to animals, its com-
plex nature provides possible avenues of approach whereby the
chemist may substitute in the formula and bring about a reduction in
toxicity and a further increase in physiologic activity.

Various actinomyces species produce actinomycetin, a polypeptid
of indefinite composition which is comparatively nontoxic but of only
limited activity. It acts more or less as a proteolytic enzyme.

NOTATIN

Penicillin B, notatin, and penatin are terms used to describe a glucose
aerohydrogenase from P. notatum. It has only slight activity and
specificity against a limited number of organisms. None of this entire
group of antibiotics, with the exception of penicillin and tyrothricin
concentrate, have achieved sufficient recognition to warrant com-
mercial production for therapeutic use.

THE MICROBIOTICS—McDONNELL 453
STREPTOTHRICIN AND STREPTOMYCIN

However, another new antibiotic which is already in the clinical
research stage of development is streptothricin. This substance is
derived from A. davendulae and is effective against both gram-positive
and gram-negative organisms. It possesses the properties of an or-
ganic base. Streptothricin is antimicrobic rather than merely anti-
bacterial for it has shown value against various pathogenic fungi and
higher forms. In addition to equaling the value of penicillin against
gram-positive organisms (with the exception of streptococci), it has
a significant value against such gram-negative organisms as the colon-
typhoid and salmonella groups.. Other than use in the treatment of
infected wounds and burns, it has a limited future.

Streptomycin, a closely related compound, is similar in activity and
has been shown to have far less toxicity. Developed by Waksman
and his associates at the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station,
streptomycin is derived from cultures of Actinomyces griseus. It has
shown remarkable properties in combating both gram-positive and
gram-negative organisms, particularly against hitherto resistant bacil-
lary conditions of the latter group. This new drug has been studied
by Herrell and Heilman, of the Mayo Clinic, and by Reimann and
others at Pennsylvania.

Effective against Alebsiella pnewmoniae, Friedlander’s infection,
mixed bacillary and salmonella infections, and in particular against
B. tularense of tularemia, streptomycin has proved exceedingly valu-
able in the eradication of Fberthella typhosa in typhoid fever. In early
reports based on laboratory in vivo experiments and on remission of
lesions in clinical treatment of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections,
streptomycin has been found to be a valuable agent. It has also given
early promise in treatment of veterinary infections such as fowl
typhoid and brucellosis.

Streptomycin is not a replacement for penicillin, but will be a valued
supplement to that drug and to the sulfonamide chemotherapeutic
agents. It has great promise as a therapeutic agent of the future.

As far as the related antibiotics are concerned, three substances are
now recognized as valuable in the treatment of human infections. One
is derived from soil bacteria, the other two from molds. Tyrothricin
has sufficient value to be retained as a therapeutic agent for immediate
nontissue penetration contact bactericidal action, particularly for op-
erational usage. Streptomycin is already proved of value for its effec-
tiveness against the gram-negative organisms. Penicillin will still
remain the drug of greatest promise, at least until some as yet undis-
covered substance appears to displace it.
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

PENICILLIN THERAPY

To return to the subject of penicillin, a pertinent fact concerning
its action is that, just as certain sulfonamide-fast bacteria are sensitive
to penicillin, so there has been reported evidence of organisms which
are persistently resistant to penicillin. The cause may be natural,
acquired by prolonged contact, or due to small colony variants. So
far as is known, no cases have been reported yet where sulfonamide-
fast organisms have proved resistant to penicillin, and vice versa,
which is gratifying.

Any list of pathologic conditions and states in which penicillin was
known or believed to be effective must of necessity be considered incom-
plete. Certainly present research programs and the results which
will be gained from usage of the drug will undoubtedly broaden its
field of indications. It is already evidenced that where it is equally
as efficacious as other measures, including sulfonamides, economic
factors and mode of administration govern usage.

A concise and helpful report on indications for penicillin was pre-
pared in 1944 by Dr. Chester Keefer, chairman of the committee on
chemotherapy of the National Research Council, and consultant to
the Office of Scientific Research and Development, for the War Pro-
duction Board’s Office of Civilian Penicillin Distribution. Based on
accumulated experience, it was found that penicillin was the best
therapeutic agent available for the treatment of certain conditions,
as follows:

All staphylococcus infections with and without bacteremia: Acute and chronic
osteomyelitis, carbuncles—soft tissue abscesses, meningitis, cavernous or lateral
sinus thrombosis, pneumonia—empyema, carbuncle of kidney, wound infections—
burns, and endocarditis.

All eases of clostridia infections: Gas gangrene, malignant edema.

All hemolytie streptococcie infections with bacteremia and all serious local
infections: Cellulitis, mastoiditis with intracranial complications, i. e., men-
ingitis, sinus thrombosis, etc., pneumonia and empyema, puerperal sepsis, peri-
tonitis and endocarditis.

All anaerobic streptococcic infections: Puerperal sepsis.

All pneumococcic infections of meninges, pleura, endocardium. All cases of
sulfonamide-resistant pneumococcie pneumonia.

All gonococcie infections, especially those complicated by arthritis, ophthalmia,
endocarditis, peritonitis, epididymitis. All eases of anthrax; chronic pulmonary
suppuration in which surgical treatment is contemplated. All meningococcic
infections failing to respond to sulfonamides. All cases of bacterial endocarditis
due to susceptible organisms.

Originally listed in a second group, where penicillin has also been
found effective, but its position not definitely defined, were syphilis,
bacterial endocarditis, and actinomycosis. It is now generally recog-
nized that syphilis and bacterial endocarditis are proper indications

THE MICROBIOTICS—McDON NELL 455

for penicillin therapy. Recently added was diphtheria, especially in
horse-serum-sensitive patients.

Keefer listed in a third group certain conditions of questionable
value, in mixed infections of the peritoneum and liver in which the
predominating organism is of the gram-negative flora, such as rup-
tured appendix, liver abscesses, urinary-tract infections and in rat-bite
fever due to streptobacillus moniliformis.

Penicillin was contraindicated (meaning that the drug was of no
value and where administration might cover up symptoms or forestall
other proper therapeutic measures, not that any danger was present
from toxicity) in the following cases because it is ineffective:

All gram-negative bacillary infections: Typhoid—paratyphoid, dysentery, H
coli, H. influenza, B. proteus, B. pyocyaneus, Br. melitensis (undulant fever)
P. tularense (tularemia), B. friedlander.

Tuberculosis, toxoplasmosis, histoplasmosis, acute rheumatic fever, lupus
erythematosis diffuse, infectious mononucleosis pemphigus, Hodgkins’ disease,
acute and chronic leukemia, ulcerative colitis, coccidiomycosis, malaria, polio,
myelitis, blastomycosis, nonspecific iritis and uveitis, moniliasis virus infections,
cancer.

ADMINISTRATION

Penicillin must be administered in rather large doses at first to create
a satisfactory blood level, and for parenteral administration repeated
administration is required thereafter at 4-hour intervals or continu-
ously because it is readily excreted and only sparingly absorbed. The
drug is inactivated to some extent when administered orally. How-
ever, it has been reported that if large enough quantities are given
orally, adequate blood levels may be attained. Various methods of
protecting orally administered penicillin have been successfully dem-
onstrated and products such as tablets and lozenges are available.

Penicillin is supplied in ampuls and vials of 100,000 or 200,000
Oxford units each, and when kept at refrigeration temperature will
retain its potency for over 2 years. Inasmuch as penicillin is soluble,
it may be dissolved in small amounts of sterile, distilled, pyrogen-
free water, or in sterile, normal saline solution. When large-unit sizes
are being used in hospitals, the contents of the vial should be dissolved
so that the final concentration is 5,000 units per cc. This solution
should be stored under aseptic conditions in the ice box. Kirby and
others have reported that solutions will retain their potency for several
weeks and even when kept at room temperature it was found that
potency remained for more than a week.

For intravenous use the dry powder is dissolved in sterile physio-
logical salt solution in concentrations of 1,000 to 5,000 units per cc.
or higher, for direct syringe injection. It may be dissolved in sterile
saline or 5 percent glucose at 25 to 50 units per cc. for constant intra-
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

venous therapy. For intramuscular injection the total volume of indi-
vidual injections should be small, i. e., 5,000 units per cc. of saline;
for topical application, solutions, in salt solution of 250 units per cc.,
with the volume increased to 500 units per cc. where resistant or intense
infections appear. The powdered form is irritating to wound sur-
faces and should not be used.

Romansky and Rittman reported on the use of a sterile mixture of
4 percent beeswax in peanut oil as a base for penicillin. This prolongs
and increases absorption, maintaining penicillin levels for as long as
8 hours. Greater economy and effectiveness may be attained by such
measures if they prove practical. Cholesterol is also used.

_ There are three common methods of administration for penicillin:
intravenous, intramuscular, and topical. Subcutaneous injections are
painful and should be avoided. Repeated intramuscular injection may
be tolerated less well than repeated or constant intravenous injections,
but frequently the intramuscular route is the method of choice.

The dosage of penicillin varies from one condition to another, and
depending upon the patient. The objective is to bring the infection
under control as quickly as possible.

PROCESSES

The production of penicillin by several basic processes has been
engaged in by over a score of industrial firms. In all these, pure cul-
turing and aseptic handling is essential. Where contamination occurs
the penicillium fails to produce penicillin. From seed-culture stage
to large-volume production, either by flasks or deep-tank method, is
a step which has tasked the ability of the entire industry. The details
of the processes vary from one process to another and need not be
discussed here. Suffice to say that the final product is a sterile, dry,
yellowish powder. It is a relatively pure product, marketed for use as
the sodium or calcium salt. Pure penicillin is a white crystalline
substance, and does not require refrigeration.

POTENCY

The present penicillin product has a potency of more than 1,200
Oxford units per milligram, and it is rapidly approaching chemical
purity, the potency for which has recently been agreed upon, at the
meeting of international experts on penicillin in London under League
of Nations sponsorship, as 1,666 Oxford units per milligram. It has
been observed that the purer the product the less likelihood of reac-
tions, and while some of the pure salt has been prepared, mostly for
use as a reference standard, clinical trial has not yet determined
whether any therapeutic value is lost in the complete purification

THE MICROBIOTICS—McDON NELL 457

process. It is expected that a pure crystalline penicillin salt will
eventually be marketed.

Recent work on penicillin has indicated that there are at least four
types of penicillin: penicillin F (British I), penicillin G (or IL),
allopenicillin (III) or factor X, a more stable, more readily crystal-
lizable and perhaps more clinically effective substance, and a factor K,
or penicillin K. Wintersteiner isolated pure crystalline penicillin,
but the search for its chemical identity and for methods of syntheses
was shrouded in wartime secrecy.

PRODUCTION

The dramatic story of the battle for production of penicillin also
had to await the end of the war for the telling. Only 400 million units
of penicillin had been produced experimentally prior to June of 1943,
and little more than 20 billion units during the balance of the year.
Twelve months later, 20 tremendous plants located from coast to
coast were pouring out increasing quantities of the drug. They
represent an investment of almost 30 million dollars in critical equip-
ment and materials. During the month of October 1944 over 200
billion units were produced—in 1 month well over 10 times the total
production of all of last year, yet the total product weighed not much
more than 10 avoirdupois pounds. (By March 1946 the monthly pro-
duction reached 2,000 billion units.—Author’s note.)

RELEASE

At first most of the material available was supplied directly to the
armed services, with only limited amounts of penicillin released for
domestic civilian use and small quantities for urgent foreign needs.
During the months prior to April of 1944 small quantities of peni-
cillin had been allocated by the War Production Board to the Office
of Scientific Research and Development for a program of clinical
research under the direction of Dr. Chester Keefer of Boston, and the
treatment of urgent cases.

On May 1, 1944, the War Production Board had available a small
surplus of penicillin over and above military and research require-
ments, and under the direction of the Drugs and Cosmetics Branch and
the Penicillin Producers’ Industry Advisory Committee, a program
of allocation for civilian hospitals was inaugurated. The Office of
Civilian Penicillin Distribution of the War Production Board was
organized by the writer as Director, and was located in Chicago. A
limited supply of penicillin was released for use in accordance with
the recommendations formulated on the basis of the clinical experi-
ence by OSRD and NRC workers. The method was to distribute to
458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

over 1,000 selected hospitals serving as depots in the United States,
Alaska, Peurto Rico, Hawaii, and the Virgin Islands. These received
quotas for each month, and from this supplied their own needs and
those of the nearby hospitals and practitioners. The list was ex-
panded to include over 2,700 depot hospitals. On March 15, 1945,
sufficient stocks had been accumulated and production levels created,
and on that date penicillin was released by the War Production Board
for distribution through normal trade channels to the professions
for general use.

The cost of penicillin, when first quoted, was $20 per vial of 100,000
units, and that was acknowledged to be far below actual cost. Now
it reaches the civilian hospital at less than 65 cents per vial, and is sup-
plied to the armed services at a much lower cost. No doubt the price
will go much lower as the present production goals are neared.

CONCLUSION

Today penicillin is an accepted essential in the armamentarium of
materia medica of the physicians in America. The search for newer
and better therapeutic agents in the field of antibiotics continues un-
ceasingly. From the research laboratories and manufacturing plants
of American pharmaceutical and chemical industry has come an amaz-
ing record of achievement which ranks with the great scientific and
industrial advances of all time in the history of the United States and
of the world. It has been an unsurpassed contribution to the healing
professions and to the welfare of mankind.

—

A BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION’S PART IN WORLD WAR II*

INTRODUCTION

With the onset of World War II, so many new agencies were created
to cope with problems facing the Government and the Army and Navy
that for a time the chief concern of the Smithsonian was to find its
place in the scheme of war activities, and how best to make its re-
sources count in the Nation’s total war effort. Many research organi-
zations with physical and chemical laboratories were immediately
called upon for aid in urgent wartime investigations, and their prob-
lem was mainly how to accomplish promptly all that they were asked
to do. At the Smithsonian, where the sciences dealt in—chiefly
anthropology, biology, geology, and astrophysics—were of less obvious
war usefulness, and where the facilities consisted of museums, art gal-
leries, and small laboratories, staffed by highly specialized scientists
in the disciplines just mentioned, the problems were to find its field of
war service and to make its resources known.

The Secretary of the Institution, sensing this situation shortly after
Pearl Harbor, met it by appointing a War Committee to canvass the
Institution’s possibilities and to recommend specific lines of action. As
a result, a large part of the effort of the staff was diverted to work con-
nected directly or indirectly with the war, and the Smithsonian Insti-
tution was found to be an essential cog in the great war machine in
Washington. Although its role was inconspicuous as compared with
those of the large war agencies, nevertheless it was found to offer serv-
ices not readily available elsewhere—services whose lack might well
have led to costly mistakes and delays. The war was to an unprece-
dented degree a war of science, utilizing not only the physical sciences,
but also anthropology, biology, and geology—branches of science
with which the Institution is particularly concerned. Its staff of
highly trained specialists in these and other fields, as well as its loca-
tion near the nerve centers of the Army and Navy and the other war

1 Prepared by a committee appointed by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
Dr. Alexander Wetmore, consisting of Carl W. Mitman, Head Curator of Engineering,
U. S. National Museum, and Webster P. True, Chief of the Editorial Division, Smithsonian
Institution, in accordance with the request of the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt,
through the Bureau of the Budget, that all agencies prepare an objective statement of
their participation in the war effort.

459
460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

agencies, made the Institution a ready source of quickly needed tech-
nical information and hence a valuable arm of the war services in
Washington.

A brief résumé of Smithsonian war work will not only serve as an
archival record, but might also conceivably be of value in connection
with certain postwar activities.

WAR COMMITTEE

The Secretary’s intent in creating a War Committee was that it
should serve as the agent and the rallying point of the entire stafi
of the Institution. The personnel of the committee was selected to
represent the various phases of Smithsonian interests. The chairman,
Carl W. Mitman, represented engineering and industries; the secre-
tary, William N. Fenton, anthropology; Herbert Friedmann, natural
history ; Loyal B. Aldrich, the physical sciences; and Webster P. True,
the publication and information branch of the Institution. The com-
mittee’s instructions were brief and unencumbered by a multiplicity
of detailed directions. It was given the responsibility of doing a job
and left free to do it in whatever manner the turn of events indicated.
In effect, its sole purpose was to receive suggestions, canvass possi-
bilities on its own initiative, and recommend actions that would pro-
mote the effectiveness of the Institution in the war effort.

The administrative simplicity of this method of adapting Smith-
sonian activities to wartime needs enabled the War Committee to cut
red tape and act promptly on all proposals from within the Institution
or from without. Of course, its authority was limited to the making of
recommendations to the Secretary, but it attempted through the word-
ing of its recommendations to produce a simple “yes” or “no” decision.
If the decision was “yes,” the committee kept in close touch with the
approved project and aided whenever possible in promoting its success.

The War Committee proceeded as follows: Recognizing that it
was merely the agent of the entire staff, it first invited suggestions
from every member as to how best he or the Institution as a whole
could serye in the Nation’s war effort. It next sifted the suggestions
and considered first those that appeared to be widely recognized as
desirable and suitable. Each project approved by the committee was
submitted to the Secretary as a separate recommendation to avoid
complicating the decision on approval. When suggestions from the
staff were all in hand and given full consideration, the committee it-
self made a systematic canvass of the Institution’s resources, facili-
ties, and outside contacts to be sure no possibility of action had been
overlooked.

The main principles guiding the committee in its consideration of
possible activities were four: They should be of definite war value; they

SMITHSONIAN’S PART IN WORLD WAR II 461

should fall within the Institution’s capabilities and resources; they
should be as far as possible along the lines of its normal work in order
to avoid complete disruption of its unavoidable curatorial and re-
search duties; they should avoid duplication of work being done or
proposed by other agencies.

The committee made 23 definite recommendations for action to the
Secretary, and most of these were approved and carried out. A few
were rejected for administrative reasons, and 2, although approved in
principle, were not made effective because of lack of agreement among
those whose cooperation was necessary for their development.

In May 1944 the committee came to the conclusion that all possible
means of making the Institution useful in the war had been canvassed
and advertised, and it therefore asked to be dissolved. In a letter ex-
pressing appreciation of the value of the committee’s work, the Secre-
tary assented.

The headings that follow are not the individual recommendations of
the War Committee, but are the topics under which the Institution’s
war work falls.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ARMY AND NAVY AND OTHER WAR
AGENCIES

Probably the Smithsonian’s most effective contribution to the war
was its ability to answer urgent calls from the Army and Navy for
information in a variety of fields—mainly anthropology, biology,
geology, geography, physics and astrophysics, engineering, textiles
and fibers, and woods. Many of the requests were for information
that had only an indirect war connection, but others led straight to
the fighting fronts and had a direct bearing on the progress of the
war. Among these latter requests were calls for means of identifica-
tion of various kinds of disease—bearers, such as mosquitoes, rats, and
mollusks; for reports on geography, peoples, and other features of
areas ahead of the actual fighting; for transliteration of Chinese and
Japanese names on maps of war areas; for preparation of a survival
manual for aviators and other personnel stranded in unfamiliar
areas; and for many other items of equal importance.

These calls for technical information had begun to reach the Insti-
tution even before the creation of the War Committee. Recognizing
the interest and importance of keeping a record of this war service,
the committee formulated a standard card on which each staff mem-
ber was asked to enter the agency making the request, the name of the
inquirer, nature of the information wanted, whether or not it could
be furnished, and the name of the staff member. These cards as re-
ceived by the committee were kept constantly under lock and key, as

676212—46——30
462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

the character of some of the inquiries could in the wrong hands provide
clues to future military operations.

The inquiries were handled in various ways, but in general, staff
members were left free to deal directly with the official making the
inquiry in order to avoid administrative complications and the in-
evitable delays resulting therefrom. When the staff member called
knew the answer to only one phase of the problem, he supplemented
his information by referring the inquirer to others on the staff who
had the knowledge needed to complete the story. Other requests
came to the staff through the Ethnogeographic Board, discussed later
in this statement, through Army and Navy liaison officers, and through
the War Committee. As inquiries were answered to the satisfaction
of the Army, Navy, or war agency officials, the Smithsonian’s re-
sources of specialized knowledge became more widely known, and
requests for information steadily increased in number.

The number of recorded requests from Army, Navy, and war
agencies for the war years was 1,509; the number of such requests
for Smithsonian publications containing needed technical or other
data was 1,186—a total number of 2,695 calls upon the Institution’s
resources. Furthermore, many calls for one reason or another did
not get recorded, so that the real total would go considerably higher.
Such statistics, of course, serve only to show the volume of the Smith-
sonian’s contribution in this field, not the time or effort expended, or
the value of the work. Many calls were for “spot” information and
could be answered immediately; others required a varied amount of
research; and many led to detailed written reports with illustrations.

It would serve no useful purpose to list here all the recorded re-
quests for information; instead there will be tabulated merely the
more or less popularized headings under which they have been roughly
classified, with an example or two under each to show their great diver-
sification. These headings, with examples, are as follows:

Anthropology, General
Examples: Information on the current political situation in Peru with special
reference to Axis espionage—for a war agency.
Request for the anthropology laboratory to make two busts of an average
youth of 19 for use in designing naval aeronautical equipment.
Ethnology
Examples: Data on the language and ethnology of the people of the islands
off Formosa—for the Army.
Description and pictures of native Burmese houses—for the Army.
Physical Anthropology
Examples: Information on the scientific concept of race for use in an anti-
Axis progaganda motion picture designed to neutralize fallacious racial
ideas—for a war agency.
Methods of distinguishing physical features of Japanese and Chinese for
use in pamphlet to be distributed among troops—for the Army.

SMITHSONIAN’S PART IN WORLD WAR II 463

Astronomy
Examples: All available data on astronomical “seeing” in various parts of the
world—for the Navy.
Intensities of moonlight and twilight—for the Army.
Biology, General
Examples: Information on marine life of western Alaska—for the Army.
Conference on the application of our knowledge of marine organisms
to certain war problems—for the Navy.
Birds
Example: Information on homing and migration. Specimens of hawks for
class use in training men as to hawks that destroy pigeons—for the Army.
Fishes
Examples: Data for report on what should be in a fishing kit for life rafts—for
the Army.
Data on poisonous fishes and on the distribution of sharks—for the Navy.
Insects
Examples: Numerous conferences on insect vectors of disease—for Army and
Navy.
Information for a list of insect pests of importance to troop movements
in Europe—for the Army.
Mammals
Examples: Distribution and identification of Asiatic rats—for the Army.
Physiology of diving mammals—for the Navy.
Mollusks (including Shipworms)
Examples: Numerous conferences on shipworm problems—for the Navy.
Numerous conferences on mollusks that serve as intermediate hosts for
Oriental parasites—for Army, Navy, and a war agency.
Fouling Organisms
Example: Numerous conferences on organisms that foul ships’ bottoms and
their identification—for the Navy.
Plants
Examples: Numerous conferences on poisonous and edible plants of the
Pacific war area—for the Army and Navy.
Identification of quinine-producing plants and others of medical impor-
tance—for a war agency.
Reptiles
Examples: Data on poisonous snakes of New Guinea and adjoining islands—
for the Army.
Information on sea snakes occurring neaar South Pacific islands—for the
Army.
Boats
Examples: Sources of photographs of types of small craft in legitimate trades
off Atlantic coast—for the Navy.
Lists of names of animals and birds, and Indian names for use in naming
Naval vessels.
Camouflage
Examples: Criticism and revision of list of plants to be used for camouflage
purposes in coastal installation—for the Army.
Photographs for use in camouflage instruction—for the Army.
Cork, Fibers, and other Strategic Materials
Examples: Information on types of fibers for cordage—for the Army.
Rattan substitutes in West Africa—for the Navy.
464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

Editorial Service
Examples: Request to check manuscript of training manual for botanical
information—for the Navy.
Editing and supervising compilation of a glossary of Chinese geographical
and topographical terms on maps—for the Army.
Hngineering
Examples: Construct mapping device in engineering laboratory—for a war
agency.
Photographs of helicopters and autogiros—for the Army.
Georgraphy
Examples: Numerous requests for information, conferences, reports on geo-
graphy, weather, peoples, ete., of many Pacific war areas.

Geology, General
Example: Suggestion of training centers in areas in the United States with
physiographic features of certain foreign countries—for the Army.
Mineralogy
Examples: Information on selenium resources—for the Navy.
Information on optical fluorite and ealcite—for a war agency.
Health
Examples: Lectures to class in tropical medicine at Army Medical School.
Information on what is most needed for medical relief to Russia—for a
war agency.
Library Service
Examples: Much specialized bibliographic assistance to Army and Navy
investigators.
Personnel
Examples: Request for the name of a qualified expert to direct production
of cordage fibers in Latin America—for a war agency.
Names of Arctic, Tropic, and Desert specialists—for the Army.
Photography
Example: Conferences on underwater photography—for the Navy.
Physics
Example: Information on ultrasonics—for the Navy.
Survival
Examples: Information on food sources in the Indo-Pacific area—for the
Army.
Means of subsistence for stranded aviators in China and Mongolia—for
the Army.
Technology
Example: To make experimental delayed time devices—for the Army.
Translation
Examples: Translation of 1,400 Chinese place names on a map—for the Army.
Translation of 257 pages from Japanese—for a war agency.
Wood Technology
Examples: Numerous identifications of foreign woods for war purposes—for
Army and Navy.
Information on proper grouping of true mahogany and African mahogany
in lumber schedules—for a war agency.

These examples were chosen more or less at random from the record
cards under the various headings and serve only to show the scope of
the questions asked by Army, Navy, and war agencies. For some of

SMITHSONIAN’S PART IN WORLD WAR II 465

the headings there are hundreds of recorded inquiries, whereas for
other topics with which the Institution is known not to be particularly
concerned, only a few appear. The four subjects that show the largest
number of inquiries are biology, anthropology, geography, and wood
technology.

GEOGRAPHIC ROSTER

The War Committee, shortly after its appointment, realized that
the first step toward a utilization of Smithsonian resources in the war
effort would be a systematic record of the geographic and other special-
ized knowledge of all members of the staff. A questionnaire was sub-
mitted to each member asking him to list his travel and field experience,
his knowledge of languages, and his available photographs of regions
other than the United States. This material was tabulated on cards
by areas of the world, and to it was added the individual’s personal
history and his special knowledge. From the card file, a report was
prepared under the title “Roster of Personnel, World Travel, and
Special Knowledge Available to War Agencies at the Smithsonian
Institution.”

At the time the report was completed, the Ethnogeographic Board
(discussed in the next section) was being organized. As the Board
was to serve as the clearinghouse for just such information, the Smith-
sonian roster was turned over to it, serving as the nucleus for its larger
file of such data. Dr. William N. Fenton, a member of the War Com-
mittee who had prepared the Smithsonian roster, was designated by
the Secretary to serve as research associate of the Ethnogeographic
Board, and he at once proceeded to expand the roster to include per-
sonnel of the Department of Agriculture and other personnel records
that were available, The file grew steadily until it eventually covered
some 4,500 specialists whose knowledge covered every part of the
globe.

The Director of the Board was enabled through this file, indexed by
names and countries, to locate promptly upon request from the Army
and Navy persons with special information, maps, photographs, and
knowledge of languages of any particular foreign region. Army and
Navy officers and civilians representing the war agencies used the
file constantly.

ETHNOGEOGRAPHIC BOARD

The Ethnogeographic Board was originally proposed by the Na-
tional Research Council as a means of bringing together in one place
all the known resources of specialized and regional knowledge so
urgently needed by the Army and Navy, particularly in the early days
of the war. The Smithsonian War Committee, hearing of the plan
and recognizing in it an extension of the service the Institution itself
466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

was rendering, recommended to the Secretary that the Institution
take a part in sponsoring the Board and offer immediately partial
financial support and office space in the Smithsonian Building. The
offer was promptly made with the result that the Institution joimed
with the National Research Council, the American Council of Learned
Societies, and the Social Science Research Council in setting up the
Ethnogeographic Board with offices in the Smithsonian Main Hall.

The six members of the Board were chosen jointly by the four spon-
soring institutions. They served as a policy-making body and acted
in an advisory capacity to the Director, who conducted the business of
the Board. The Director selected was Dr. William Duncan Strong,
who obtained leave from Columbia University to accept the wartime
post. Three members of the staff of the Smithsonian Bureau of
American Ethnology were assigned to assist the Director, and the
specialized knowledge of the entire Smithsonian staff was available
to him. Army and Navy liaison officers were in constant touch with
the Board.

As a separate history and analysis of the work of the Board has
been written, no detailed account will be given here. It will only be
stated that the Board proved almost immediately to fill a vital place
among the Washington war agencies. Besides making available to
the Army and Navy the great regional file of specialists able to assist
in the solution of problems relating to all parts of the world, the Board
produced on request numerous special reports on particular regions
for use in planning military operations, and served as a real clearing-
house for “spot” information in many different fields.

By July 1944 the most urgent needs of the armed forces for regional
and related information had been met, and at that time Dr. Strong
went back to Columbia University to resume his duties as professor
of anthropology. The Board was kept in operation and continued
to fulfill its function on a reduced scale under the guidance of Dr.
Henry B. Collins, Jr., of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

WAR RESEARCH WORK

Although the Institution has no large laboratories that could be
used for extensive war investigations, nevertheless its smaller Jabora-
tories and shops and the specialized knowledge of its personnel were
made available for whatever researches were requested by Army and
Navy officials. For example, the facilities and staff of the Astrophys-
ical Observatory, including the Division of Radiation and Organ-
isms, were occupied for a considerable time with research on the heat
radiation properties of various cloths, pigments, and other materials
used for war purposes, and on the deterioration of impregnated cloth,
cardboard, and other materials used by the Navy. A number of spe-
cial instruments were developed and constructed for the Navy, and

SMITHSONIAN'S PART IN WORLD WAR II 467

considerable work was done on the problem of a simple, portable de-
vice for obtaining drinking water from sea water.

In geology, one staff member was in the field continuously through-
out the war years directing an investigation, in cooperation with the
United States Geological Survey, of Mexico’s resources of strategic
minerals. Another member took part in an economic survey of the
ore and mineral deposits of northern Mexico, and later investigated
Devonian stratigraphy in Illinois in connection with oil resource
studies.

Much of the work in the field of biology was in the nature of con-
tinuous assistance to war agency personnel through identification of
specimens, instruction in various fields of medical biology, conferences
on recognition and control of harmful organisms, reports on the oc-
currence and identification of strategic plant material, and other simi-
lar activities.

In anthropology, staff members prepared a number of reports and
articles involving research on the native peoples of various war areas
at the request of Army and Navy intelligence officers. Studies of Arc-
tic clothing were made for the Army Quartermaster Corps, based on
the extensive collections of Eskimo garments in the National Museum.
For use in the design of oxygen and gas masks, data were worked
out and supplied to the Army on the variations of the human head
and features.

These are but a few of the war research problems investigated by
the Smithsonian, but they will serve to show the type of work the
Institution was qualified to do. The problems came in various ways:
Through personal contacts with Army and Navy officials, through the
War Committee or the Ethnogeographic Board, or through direct
approach by the agencies with urgent problems to solve. Technical
assistance was also given by making laboratories and personnel avail-
able for the working out of mechanical problems. Thus, the engi-
neering laboratory and its staff worked on several devices that were
under study by the National Inventors’ Council, building models and
mock-ups for test purposes.

INTER-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

With the outbreak of war came the realization that Western Hemi-
sphere solidarity was not only desirable but essential to the safety of
the countries of both continents. It became an urgent duty of the
United States Government to take the lead in promoting good will,
cooperation, and a feeling of unity among all the American republics.
The Smithsonian Institution was qualified to take part in such a pro-
gram through its long years of friendly contact with scientists and
scientific institutions in South and Central America, Mexico, and the
West Indies, and its continuous program of field explorations in those
468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

regions. The units of the Institution most concerned with inter-
American cooperative work were the National Museum, the Bureau
of American Ethnology, and the Institute of Social Anthropology.

All the field work of the National Museum during the war was
diverted to Latin America. Expeditions during the war years in-
cluded an investigation of ancient skeletal collections in Peru; a wide-
ranging reconnaissance of Mexico’s resources of strategic minerals; a
study of the geology of Sonora, Mexico, as a basis for the location of
mineral deposits; field researches in Brazil on mammals that serve
as hosts of vectors of transmissible diseases; conferences with museum
staffs in Brazil, Uruguay, and Argentina on problems concerning
crustaceans and other invertebrates; collecting and identifying
plants of little-known regions of Venezuela; studies of the plants and
mammals of Colombia; exhaustive researches on the snakes of Mex-
ico; collecting and studying the insects of Colombia and Jamaica; and
a comprehensive investigation of the fishes of Venezuela as a scientific
aid to that country. Another phase of the Museum’s inter-American
work was the identification of large lots of biological material received
through scientific and medical organizations and private individuals
in the other American countries. The Museum also made available
for the use of visiting scientists from the other American republics its
laboratory, study, and library facilities. A wartime publication proj-
ect of the National Museum is the very large checklist of coleop-
terous insects of all the Western Hemisphere to the south of the United
States. The first three parts of this work have been printed and the
remaining parts are in preparation. When completed, the checklist
will be an indispensable tool for all entomological workers im those
regions.

The Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, M. W. Stirling,
has for several seasons conducted archeological expeditions to south-
ern Mexico under the joint sponsorship of the National Geographic
Society and the Smithsonian Institution. Many interesting and im-
portant discoveries have been made, the collections going to the Na-
tional Museum in Mexico City. The Mexican Government has
evinced much interest in the expeditions and has facilitated the work
whenever possible. The Bureau is publishing the monumental
“Handbook of South American Indians,” a project undertaken by the
Smithsonian Institution as a part of the State Department’s program
of inter-American cultural cooperation. Under the editorship of Dr.
Julian H. Steward, the Handbook progressed steadily, and at the end
of 1945 volumes 1 and 2 were in type, volumes 3 and 4 were in the
hands of the printer, and the remaining volume was practically com-
pleted. The preparation of articles on the various groups was kept
on a truly cooperative plane, as 50 percent of the contributors to the
Handbook were scientists of the other American republics.

SMITHSONIAN’S PART IN WORLD WAR II 469

Dr. Steward also provided the initiative for the formation of two
other agencies designed to improve cultural relations among the var-
lous countries of the Western Hemisphere, namely, the Inter-Ameri-
can Society of Anthropology and Geography, and the Institute of So-
cial Anthropology. The first of these, founded with the assistance
of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, was organized for the
purpose of bringing together the scholars of the Western Hemisphere
who are working on problems of the cultures, both aboriginal and
contemporary, of the Americas. The Society, supported entirely by
dues of the members, has a membership of more than 700 representing
nearly every country in the Hemisphere. A journal entitled “Acta
Americana,” with articles in English, Spanish, and Portuguese, re-
cords the activities of the Society and the findings of the individual
members.

The Institute of Social Anthropology is a joint project of the Smith-
sonian Institution and the State Department’s Interdepartmental
Committee on Cooperation with the American Republics. Set up as
an autonomous unit of the Bureau of American Ethnology and fi-
nanced by the State Department, the Institute cooperates with institu-
tions in other American countries in training personnel to carry out
anthropological research through university instruction and field
work. One of the cooperative programs of the Institute is with the
Escuela Nacional de Antropologia of the Instituto Nacional de An-
tropologia e Historia of Mexico. This program involves teaching
anthropology, cultural geography, linguistics, and related subjects at
the Escuela and field research among the Tarascan Indians of the State
of Michoacan in Mexico. Another project is under way in Peru and
yet others are being formulated. The Institute has already issued
two publications bearing on its work and two others are in the hands
of the printer.

Other examples of Smithsonian wartime efforts to improve cultural
relations with the other American republics are the doubling of its
exchanges of scientific and governmental publications with those
countries through its International Exchange Service, and the show-
ing of a number of special exhibitions of the work of Latin-American
artists by the National Collection of Fine Arts, another branch of the
Institution.

It will be seen that these Inter-American projects are for the most
part extensions of the Institution’s normal activities in research, ex-
ploration, and other fields. The emphasis was placed on building
good will with our neighbors to the south, and whenever possible the
work was planned on a cooperative basis so that the peoples of the two
continents might feel that they had an equal interest in the furtherance
of cultural activities.
470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

WARTIME PUBLICATIONS

The outstanding wartime service of the Institution in the field of
publication will be found in its new series entitled “War Background
Studies.” With the war reaching to remote parts of the earth, par-
ticularly in the Pacific region, and with many of the Institution’s
scientific staff knowing these areas through first-hand experience and
study, the Smithsonian found itself in an excellent position to make
this specialized knowledge of direct use in connection with the war.
It was decided to restrict the series largely to the Pacific area, as it
was felt that the countries of the European theater of war were too
well known to need further discussion in such a pamphlet series.

The series was begun with a general paper entitled “Origin of the
Far Eastern Civilizations,” in which the prehistory and early history
of the Far East form a backdrop for the peoples of today. This was
followed by a series of papers on the peoples, geography, history,
natural history, and other features of the Soviet Union, the Philip-
pines, Polynesia, Japan, Siam, New Guinea, Alaska, the East Indies,
Micronesia and Melanesia, Burma, India, French Indochina, China,
and the Aleutian Islands. These were interspersed with papers on
general topics related to the war, such as “The Evolution of Nations,”
“Are Wars Inevitable?” “The Natural-history Background of Cam-
ouflage,” “Poisonous Reptiles of the World,” and two on special war
areas not in the Pacific region, namely, “Egypt and the Suez Canal”
and “Iceland and Greenland.”

As soon as the new series became known the papers were in wide
demand, especially from Army and Navy units and individuals, for
whom the series was primarily intended. The papers were at first
distributed free to all applicants, but it became apparent that the
Institution’s limited printing funds would not permit the continuance
of this unrestricted distribution. After July 1944 civilians requesting
copies were asked to pay approximately cost price, but Army and
Navy personnel continued to get them without charge.

When Army and Navy intelligence and education officials became
familiar with the contents of the War Background Studies, they began
to order special printings of the various papers for orientation and
educational use within the armed forces. At the end of the war more
than 400,000 copies had been thus used in addition to the Institution’s
own distribution of over 225,000 copies, a total of over 625,000 books,
Through various sources it has been learned that the series was used
by the Army and Navy in orientation courses, in military government
schools, and in general educational programs among the military and
naval personnel; by civilian agencies, as textbooks in university
courses, as the basis for lectures and club discussions, and in numerous
libraries as a part of their special war literature service.

SMITHSONIAN’S PART IN WORLD WAR II 471

With the realization that many thousands of Army and Navy per-
sonnel were stationed in far-away areas not actually in combat zones,
the Institution compiled and printed a Field Collector’s Manual in
the hope that its study and use might provide a welcome recreational
activity. The pocket-size manual gives detailed instructions as to
the preparation and preservation of specimens of mammals, birds,
fishes, insects, and many other things that might come under service-
men’s attention. A thousand copies were given to both Army and
Navy to acquaint them with its contents, and more copies were later
acquired by both services.

Many Smithsonian publications issued prior to the war proved to
be of direct war usefulness, particularly its series of tables—physical,
meteorological, and mathematical—which for many years have been
in constant use in laboratories and research centers. Several thousand
copies of the Meteorological Tables were requested by Army and Navy
officials. Two Smithsonian papers were especially useful to Army
and Navy medical units, one on the feeding apparatus of biting and
sucking insects affecting man and animals, and another on the mollus-
can intermediate hosts of the Asiatic blood fluke. Several hundred
copies of each of these papers were required by the armed services.

MISCELLANEOUS WAR SERVICES

The Smithsonian library is one of the largest collections in the
world of the proceedings and transactions of scientific societies and
organizations. During World War II, in which science played so
large a part, there was constant library research by many officials of
the Army, Navy, and civilian war agencies, and in the resources of
the Smithsonian library were found answers to many urgent scientific
problems. The library staff aided such investigators to the limit of
its ability and enabled them to find many elusive bits of information
needed to complete the picture of world-wide operations. Special
bibliographies were compiled by the library staff, and many specially
needed works were located. A mimeographed statement on the re-
sources of the Smithsonian library was distributed through the Eth-
nogeographic Board to key men in the Army, Navy, and war agencies
to facilitate the finding of source material.

In addition to the wartime activities at the Institution itself, its
administrative officers also served on governmental boards and com-
mittees, thereby making their experience available to an ever-widening
circle. The Institution was represented in this way on the National
Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, the Public Buildings Adminis-
tration, the National Resources Planning Board, the Interdepart-
mental Committee on Cooperation with the other American republics,
and others.
472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1945

The Institution put on a number of special wartime exhibits, includ-
ing several representing the war activities of our allies, one of identi-
fication models of Allied and enemy aircraft, several regional exhibits
covering areas involved in the war, one showing the development of
modern weapons, and one illustrating life-saving and rescue equipment
used by the Navy.

In the matter of special services to members of the armed forces, the
Institution’s efforts included the opening of its buildings all day
Sunday for the benefit of the many servicemen in and around Washing-
ton; the furnishing of free postcards in color to servicemen, with
writing and mailing facilities available for their use; and servicemen’s
guided tours on Sundays through the Museum exhibits in cooperation
with the U. S. O. and under the supervision of Frank M. Setzler, Head
Curator of Anthropology of the National Museum.

SUMMARY

After the outbreak of war, as it became apparent that the Smith-
sonian Institution was not to be assigned definite war duties, the
Secretary planned a deliberate effort to make its resources of the
greatest possible usefulness in the prosecution of the war. He ap-
pointed a War Committee, which canvassed every facility of the
Institution and recommended lines of action. A roster of the geo-
graphical and specialized knowledge of every member of the staff was
compiled. Thousands of requests for technical information from
Army and Navy were handled, both directly by the Institution’s
staff and through the Ethnogeographic Board, a clearinghouse set up
jointly by the Smithsonian and three other agencies. Members of the
scientific staff undertook a number of war research projects, and the
engineering laboratory assisted the National Inventors’ Council in
working out certain inventions. The Institution took an active part
in the Government’s program of improving cultural relations with the
other American republics. A number of publications having a direct
war bearing were issued, the most outstanding being the new series
of War Background Studies, of which the Army and Navy used over
400,000 copies. Other wartime activities included special library
service to war agencies, service on wartime committees, special war
exhibits, and special features for members of the armed forces. No
particular administrative problems were involved in the Smithsonian’s
war activities, as most of them were merely extensions of its normal
peace-time work. It is the hope and belief of the Institution that no
possibility of war service was overlooked and that the Smithsonian’s
contributions were of measurable value in the Nation’s all-out war
effort.

INDEX

A
Page
Abaecé (Manila hemp), The introduction of, into the Western Hemisphere

LOLLY ERIN SI) 5 ec EEN eR SE EER Cott hse hres ee eet wel 327
EAD DOLNO HAT CSG Saas see ae Se ee Oe Se i See ere 5, 7, 15, 17, 99
Accessions, Bureau of American Wthnology__-_---_-=-_--=--2_--= =) +) 64

Mreer Gallery of AnGeke Ree re eines ee he ae ee 49
ESAT Ye esa aes AR ee NS ee Sa ee eben ol 103
NationaleCollection: Of, Mine Ariss. oe 5 eRe ease ee _ 48, 46
National Gallery of Art-_.__________ Sores sorption yt ted lee 35
ON S21 Bit Se VT a er nT ae po
INationaléZoological Barks =2S2222 25 So ee hrs ssers enn ea ae eee 75
PN GEWCRESE VI & (ey 6] 01 5) 6 emer POLAT epee a a peel caesar ey A 45
Agministrative accountant (Thomas HY Clark) 2s22222 2292 see ye Ee 16
Administrative Assistant to the Secretary (Harry W. Dorsey) _--_________ 1
AGIMIniStLativie Stair ace 2. oe See ee ae ae ae 4
Aldrich, Loyal B., Director, Astrophysical Observatory_______________ 5, 15, 101
Anderson, Clinton P., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institu-

ELON) es eee SRT 5 ee Sees Sen ees er ee eee 1
Andrews, A. J_------- sa ae ne ee 12
Annual Report, American Historical Association__-___________-__-_____ 1138

BureauiOr American conOlogsy=s22 25. ann ar tS ee eee ie
Waughters, of, thevAmericanmrevolution soo eee eee 113
NMLNSOnian TNS ltUOneS= Eee aes ee See ee er See. eee 110
WAST) LACEY OG U2 U0) 11a a ip eek eRe pepe evi rw th 121
ASETOPOYRicdL. (ODSCLVELOLY oo ee ee ee eet en ee 98
IMStituteoLr Social ANthropologyenss— ee eee 62
intermational xchange (SeLvice>—2----- ee ee ee 66
National Collection: of Hine “Arts S298 arr eee eee 43
NationalmGallery (of Art. === = S23 te Sel ot are SRE eUssaes eee 33
METRO E NOTA VINA CES Ue 21
NabionalyZA0o0logically, Park 2-2 2t.35 oe ere oe a ee eee 73
1 21 i) 9 EP aN Ua anne Tae os Lhe nl ag 113
PE RING 5 RE a pe Oe 99
PATENT CCE sr C ELE GO CTCL te sce we cee a 18
Assistant Secretary of the Institution (John E. Graf)_---__________ 2 ae sO
ASTEODDYSICalWObDServatory == ee ed a ee 5, 15, 98
AppropriationNuls)iviedsy has seipessr tory ELeNQaHt _Hotmetsiey 98
Division. of Astrophysical. .Research..-..__~--_____..._.. 14 3 wil 98
Division of Radiation and.Organisms____________________._ 4 _i ie 99
Personnel . ...-=22.s-2.-..-.{wolietign!_atlt te Jagger) sangre 1 101
Publications ss22255006 252 0 ses el eo Bi 2 101
75) a eo ae as SOE meneney ene | Oe eee | > 98
SR ac i a ie a i ie ah a 5

474 ANNUAL REPORT, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 1945

Page
Astrophysical Research, Division Of. .-.-.-- 2 =. ee ee 5, 98

Attorney General of the United States (Tom C. Clark, member of the
Institution) = 22 28 es See ee ee ee ee eee eee ee a
(Awl rAdme pet 2) its yt ey ee Se te Oe es eee 2
PAE OR gr QUIS a ain et it Lt RR ee oe et eet 8 eee 45

B
Bales, Richard q. 2 2+ iota tad ie Asso eet beh pene 39
Barkley, Alben, W,.. (regent ofthe Institution)... --._.-_% ._- 3 Sere 1,16
1g 7 ee ee eee eee eee ee 2
URSA CG Coos EN Gane we a ee a ae eee es 4, 14, 60
LEN (sree lie. 2474 7d ELE AB RES LOD WO ESCER LE bie eo 28 TELS A a Bh 2,3
masslen (si§2 223} sin ie ee he ole Tae See aie See 3
Beach, +Fessien Ge 3 2 ha ns Na see age eens Ee oe 3
Beal: SG ito 22 Ese ee as at Se ee 44, 45
Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, Vice President, National Gallery of Art___ 4, 32,33, 42
MeL ea ee as a Se acs ee ee 3
1 ETL apr at 21) a eRe me ee me A OA i LAUD SRI OR Ate a 2 2 ea ae 2
FSCELOM I. Grog Tes 22s = te BE a A eh a ee 58
Heele welder: es Wy estar he a ee oe 2
RLISH SO ECODEE UW iOO0N =o oe ee a ee ee 17, 45
Blood:and blood ‘derivatives:(Cobm)e. 2 i ee ee 413
Boardvoft Resents,cThes sities ys Eek Peete ae eee ee 16
Members'!2? 20a eke ete ae be ee see Ve nels 2 1, 16
Proceed in eies 249 he ee a ae ge ee 17
Boll weevil, Living with the, for fifty years (Loftin)____________________ 273
MEPOTEC WET Rye CO LELOL YS Le ree ee ee ee 98
BOrhollaD: Fo Rubin-detlas © 2 .sOtetkn tise Ai pe hawer es Tis) se hae eee 27
Beries Charles ls jr sess _ tee iee) | PE Ts es ee ee eee 12, 17, 45
Boss; .Norman.)H=2~ 2-2 0s 5. cen ee ee eh ee ak es a 3
MSG VATA, As Gs Sp Sa Se 3
PES SUED CLS ROL EVI NN MO) ee Sa AO ee 62
Bronk, Detlev W. (Human problems in military aviation)_______________ 401
Brooks, Charles F. (The New England hurricane of September 1944) _____ 235
BLOW 2A bg. Seen ees 2 tt ee aye Ae el SEA eee ca te ee 2
Bruce, David KW a as a 4, 32, 33
eroman: SCNT aoe ce ke ns eh a Oe 62
VEST ege 2 aye 6 WAS Ge ake a Pa ee Ri ARS Me RS pene. Mahe Tyas Arh rut BBA 505 4
EUCLA tt Ah) G29 i al acti Dele lh pst Bad eu aenenchneliaa — Winall metry Sot 5 2
Bulletins, Bureaw of American Mthnology. 2-212 ee eee 112
National: Museumiihes cost itm eee ee ea eer 29, 112
Bush, Vannevar (regent of the Institution) _-_-_--___________________ ga Ay ts 1
Cc

Cairns, Huntington, Secretary-Treasurer and General Counsel, National
Gallery of Art.___-____.._._._.-...._~._ Astesgeatt jenlpyteasin ds Sn _saletut 4, 32
walawell; J. Ro RE Seg eee YR oes tt we Bt Ra eee 2
Cannon, Clarence (regent of the Institution)_____________________ 4,16,,07, 121
Warey; \, Charles -s--5 1" 6s oe hl dee i he, No) ore nee 3
CT) ae eS | On i ee heme ee we ween ep ete 28
Sarter, OMtne lw yn ase ee eee 62

Carwithen, Mrs: B./T. (personnel officer) 2-2-3 eee i
|

INDEX 475

Page
Cassedy!’ Hdwint Gage Be aie) Boa elt -cobperdtuyrtyd Se. et EE ghey 4, 64
@entennial:‘celebrations26-3) 2242501 Se arin rh 18
Chancellor of the Institution (Harlan F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United
SS Tred te) Seat lla rk ke a el ey ere ee 1, 16, 17
Chapin Hdward A> -) =. KB weed) gee tierelvny 227
Chapman, Conrad (The New England hurricane of September 1944) ___-- 235
TASC TATE TI CG sates ince Sareea i a Nh es eS eo enpeeees ee 2
Chief Justice of the United States (Harlan F. Stone, Chancellor of the
JmStitution)-st+-sseeseneces tL eon fe treey 1, 4, 16, 17, 32
lark /*Avstinv i sese~ aed ee ee ee ein PASI
Clark) Bennett-'Champs-s2) 22 aati Kipp alnevop Tap 16
Clark, Leila F. (Librarian of the Institution) _____________--_____________ 1, 107
lark My elamd Bike sateen RS Le eae i ree eg 5
Clark,”Robert Sterling: 2-222... se rsologaititn ss fatgoh Sou etey shies 3
Clark, Thomas F. (administrative accountant) —~-_---___-____-_-_------ 1,4
Clark, Tom C., Attorney General (member of the Institution) -~--___-____ 1
@larke> Gilmore: iD 294 sass ee te oe Jes 45
OSS ENT: SATAN UBD BSS ye Nee eae hae a ee he 2
Cohn, Edwin J. (Blood and blood derivatives) ___-__------_--___--_-_--~ 413
Collings Een tye B isd Parent et oe eee ek 4, 9, 14, 59
Commas Jian ass ple oe els sl Ret Aas 27
MOORTIMTO TOT Chg Te Te a eo RE aes 4
Compton, Arthur H. (regent of the Institution) __________--_-----______- HW br §
@Wonvere Pauli S saan a ee ee 2
Conserving endangered wildlife species (Jackson) ----_-_----_--------_-- 247
Consolazio, W. V. (Drinking water from sea water) ----__-------------_~- 153
Contributions from the National Herbarium___----__-_--__-_---___-__- 29, 112
NSS ONE; Oa aman car ne wl nt er i Se ee 2
Wooper,. Byron-JNs = s=2--2e==s4 ss SI Te Ot eee a 28
Wooper, Gustav Arthur=-=-2.-+2-4-.<sese2see-eeeee ee batebionnn: 2% 3, 28
Cox, Edward HE. (regent of the Institution) ~...--___--__+-+--_-=Ls---__-- 1,16
@ross;- Whitman = 22-222 4.444 2-+2---52<sseesben= ee be eee) 3
Gushman, Joseph Ac<--2+s20=s=222--55 000? 2pehiwohae welaoedilay A 2
Wushman;- Robert -Aws 2s er = a TO ere 2,
Cyclotron; Medical’ uses ‘of ‘the(‘Spear) 20014. -_ Shae bleh bow somites 1387
D
Wales Chester= 2s ae ee ec ee a eee 4, 32, 33
Davisweanvey, N. (regent of the Institution) =2--- = 2. eee 1, 16,17
Delano, Frederic A. (regent of the Institution) ~-_-_-__-___----_____ 1, 6) LT121
Meignan; Hi G=asa---2-4-222sestenene nee ce eee sce eee AL 2
Director, Astrophysical Observatory (L. B. Aldrich) ~-------------_---__ 98
Director of the National Museum (Alexander Wetmore) ---~---------__~ 1,31
Dorsey, Harry W. (Administrative Assistant to the Secretary, and Acting
Chief, International Exchange Service)..2====+=======—-=++.+-=..- 8262 1,13; 72.
Dorsey, Nicholas W. (Treasurer of the Institution) _-_-_--_-_-_-__-_-_____ 1
Drinking water from sea water (Consolazio, Pace, and Ivy) ------------ 153
E
Hdcells GeorseHarold2=s20- = ses Sessa SS ae ee eee 45
Haitorial Division, Chiet (Webster &. True) 22222292 ==> "2s —es eee 1

HMamingson MRAyYMONG S= s=2 set ere. eee ae ee ere 29

476 | ANNUAL REPORT, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 1945

Page

Edwards, H. T. (The introduction of Abaci (Manila hemp) into the
WesterniHemisphere) — 2.) st ee 327
Hildet.RoebéertiA jTraitecl Yotl') aang OA nen l  PPY_ toes ie St Be Boe 2,12
PS AME 2 3: kee es De ee ee a ee 2
Endowment; reer. Gallery of Art__.._.. = ee 117
Smithsonian tedsseieret Ae weenie dl fests oh sete BA 8 eS eee 115
establishments gene Be ee ee eee 16
BEthnogevgraphiésBoatd_ 01s)! s2e fee bis o¢528 botleth ote Bo pete 9
Ethnology? Bureau_of Americans... 2255222522222 sss Sosa ates 4, 13, 57
Collections 22 +2 Mh Ae dence soe eke. 2a eee 64
Editorial work:and publications. ——- = se ee 63, 112
Handbook of South American Indians_-_.-+--- + -24-~-~+--+2----_. 63
UD aS Trea La Gn a i a a a 8 ee et 64
Institute: .of Social. Anthropology...-===-==2++=2<+<+ -sothpet ope 61
Library. £225. 3-233 88 = ee ees oe pH eerie hn 8 eee 64
Miscellaneous .42ei tiie}. a44 Ay qodescer) daa das kh wept Oe 65
‘Personnel sae 3 ee ee eee Benes 2 On ee ee 65
TROON EE as an a a a ee a eee 57
Special . researches. ——~=-— = 4 sober rp Bee tf er A Oe ee 63
SEAM fo = 3 ak er a eo 4
Systematicresearches=- =< 2-5 es ee 57
Pttinehasen, .. FUicb srs se 4, 18, 55
Executive Committee of the Board of Regents___--__-.---_____---__--__ A, 122
Reportie ets 28 28 23 pee a te ee as ee 115
Appropriations =. 4eoesbee Fo} etree RE ee yee eee ee Set oe 121
Audit: 2-+ 22.222 4et eee sag ery hee tee bl ode Oe teat 12]

Cash balances, receipts, and disbursements during fiscal year
DPA SEY a a a Sh te ee 119
Classification of investments <<.) == 2 2 Kee 118
Consolidated fund =-=---sss222ss22e2esecsec eee ee Oe 116
Freer Gallery.of Art fund..22ias3te+s2s! 24+ 32 pews) eet gle
Gifts:and. bequeStS =<: 2s ee eee ee ag she 120
Smithsonian, endowment fund=—---.--..-==+- = 4 ane eee 115
Summary. of endowments=*. 2) 20. es a ce A yes Saas 118
Explorations and field work, Astrophysical Observatory___-__------___- 99
‘Bureau. of American ‘Ethnology .-- -2-222222-2 22-222 eee 57
National Museum. 22=4-e2222<2 246 22 eee See 27

F

Bartan5.IM. B_____..------- fasten! oft 85 tonnes hehe ig 58
air ehil aD Gai ka a ae eee ee 2
Wenton,..W.. .N---—---~~--—L asic bh 90 eet pep) tp be de 4, 14, 59, 60
Winances.__.__-_--_.~ 4ssese3 Yh aalveee lt 8K epee LE ta esa oft en ems 18
Finley, David E., Director, National Gallery of Art_.-____-_-_~_ 4, 32, 33, 44, 45
Wish, Marie P..-....-.--.-=_--=.-- . 4452s B eee eda wih teen eeenge eh Be 2
Misher, A. K-22. 2 Ce oe ete at Ee es Barly 2 ee 3
Misher,W.. Kou2)- eer) hes 9996. otee berg) ete pes eet ete oe 3
Forrestal, James V., Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution) --__ 1
Proshiag) We Se 08 Re i cts rerenlereeeta terri ee 3
mMoster, George Mew2=2 2222 ccct eee Cee eee 62
Wraser, James“). 2) oo pe ee ee pe 45

INDEX 477

Page
Breer G alllenyeroiZA Tet te a a es EO 4, 13, 49
PYTHON ANCORSE Se Sele oe ee a al al eR) Raven ee 54
Changes-in, exhipitions £2 2 OU gies Sees te ev eared ee eel eo an 53
Collections a6 a1 eee ee ee SE Oe ES 49
Docentiservice; lectures mectinesus wis ewe ee ee 55
Mndowinentic ea ke SES yet se saree; Ute A 117
CES ORT OL pe ie ee eh lee 5a ee eh rt en eee ee 55
RepATSTOuENe COLlECtIONEG2 20 ots a ek ee eee Nees 53
ERO OT tye ee ere LO ee tT a ye 49
SS tee fifeg emer a Es es BES iS tile etre hE Le pee ee Se OO a ee 4
RYN PTR NV CE Keenee SASS 6 oo SES 8 Ne OE Fel Rin in ee Oe ee 53
WOTKSOT Stati. CINDELSea2e ~ se Be ee ee 52
pied mann WE ener (ses 2a 2 ho pe ay i it ge, En ee 2
Hunewandsmnodern attains (Ramsbottom) =2 22s See eee 313
Ry temrowardes=2 == sh ln Sr ae eae SN eee nr a 67
G
Garber eaull Was ee ee eater ete i ld et 3
GaurcehvarViaTearet, Wl sos Cee ee es ee Se 5 ee ee ee ee 32
Gassyeh Hee as. a 8 5
(Crain On WC WiSs ee = eres te eee a Sat ee ene 3
(Ginza ay BU NESS2) 0V Ee del (as eae a aes eee ee ee Se ee ee ee 4
George. Walter sh. (regent of the Institution) === 2 = See ahals
Coline OU GPs awe Ae ee See Se ols ee ee ee eve 62
Gilmore; *@harless W222. 2 2 2 ee BE ey ee ee ee ae ee 3
Gril Onery envi On Oh Mie os sh A ee ee 2,12
Eo clarna avr fH pA a i Ng tee he es SE he ee 3
Graf, John H., Assistant Secretary of the Institution________________ As 1 a7, BO
Calley cil de C Bette ies ee eS es. es se ee eee 3
Greene ee harlesc iiss: seks eS eS oe ee ee pee ane 2
Guest, Grace Dinham, Assistant Director, Freer GallenyiofteArti== == aaa » 4, 55
H
Hambleton, James I. (The indispensable honeybee) _-___-________________ 298
Handbook of South American Indians222= 2222) see 63, 113
Efarrington, Onn Ree. 22082 so oe a ee ee 4, 13, 58
HeckAIN Er. (japanese earthquakes) —2-2 222) 2222 ee ee 201
en Gerson wh), Pe so Se oe LL ee ee 3
OSS GANG Wie se i ee oe ee ee 3
Fai eh tOWely Gens ee ee 4
ulleeames H-.(property clerk) 2-2) 2. 5 3 te ee 1
ELofmmann,.. William: Wyss 2 -—= 2 28 Se es 2, 12
Honeybee, The indispensable (Hambleton) ~_----___-__-________=_______ 293
ioover, William TH 32 ao et ee ee ee 5, 98, 99
TODS + At aAl) © se: Se = re re re ee 2
IO WATO 1.1 Sie 1 a ea IS Bl ee es eee ee 2
EVOWell vA Brazier ses 2 ae ae ss ees Be ee a eee 2
I
Ickes, Harold L., Secretary of the Interior (member of the institution) ____ 1
Instituce of) Social Anthropolosy2en22 2.2 22 ee ee ae 4, 10, 14, 61

676212—47——_31
478 ANNUAL REPORT, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 1945

Page
intemational Wxehange Service__-.. 2 oe ee 5, 14, 66
ADDIODEIE COM). ssa e os einer 2 ee) NE a Sere ie ee 66
Foreign depositories of governmental documents__________-__________ 67
Morelenzexchangve arenciess so as eae een ee ee val
Interparliamentary exchange of the official journal__________________ 69
Packages passing through the Service-_.__--__ =. = ska 66
WRepOr te Aas se cent ee ee 66
“Island universe,” Our revolving, and its spiraling counterparts (Skilling)__ 125
Iyy, A. C. (Drinking water from sea water)... -- 153
J
Jackson, Hartley H. T. (Conserving endangered wildlife species) _________ 247
James, Macgill, Assistant Director, National Gallery of Art__--__________ 4, 32
Japanese earthquakes. (Bleck Asmat FO ie ey, 201
UTES as Wh Eien oo eso on Ne ante ere sn amen ae erenl ty ee 2
ohnsom) 2): es <9 kn ee ee dee la a 2
Johustons Marl, So 73 ne ey ee 5, 99
ULC GN, (2); ee ae ne ae ee cere Serkan ) Se 2
K
MecHoge REHM StON. 28 oe ceed ead Se ~ a ie 2
Meppel Hregerck oP =. “4n~ Fes ses hss Sed eee eee ee 12,17, 45
Peter ecrny Vid Pi eumiy bee msn ee Siac OE TE a AU ee oe 4
SUED US WOPtH Pe ot 7 es rie eo hae ee 2
Kress, Samuel H., President, National Gallery of Art-__--__________ 4, 32, 33
ere r eH Wo — ois am Spree Sees aa in ew eaten enn eee 2
L
Weouard himery, Cassis es o's A Aen ee a 2
Bevan, Haaclihe SN asa 6 ok) Pe eee as ( se see 63
Lewton shred erick Wasa 82 es nt yee ea 3
Librarian, of the Institation (Gheila a. Clark)... oe 1
TIDTALy 2. ate} hs. Bee Te 19, 102
VA CECSST ONS = 2 ‘tie ee were reee > TAUB NE at Re a 2 ee ee 103
OEM ev) oe a ett a Re re i om = ere AED I 105
L100) 01 hoe) ie ee te lip a Neier st Ae deren ee Akt S Ne ot 105
Hxchanges_____ sp Ny psig Ne id LILI lk Laat ee at 104
GET ES Sinn i is a on Ries Fenn nes seer eee Se 104
DCCC wee & ar ee Senta in Stine eee eee 6 dl Nee niee ane Sin ee 106
PGPSONI Gmc So aa ee ere phe nnn bey me ae sates se Seem in ie 4 a AD 106
Reporte: 2-05 0 enon 5 en nn ee eee wae ABD ELROD) I er 102
NLA GESTICS 25 ao he ee en tn se soi ae eae wen nce SRI. ae 106
TOGRC,- DORN Win. sa er ne sow mn a SO es Se ee he 12, 17, 44
Loftin, U. C. (Living with the boll weevil for fifty years) -._____________ 273
M
MacGurdy,. George: Grantiery 27 [oa ev Jory ee Se A ee 2
Mann, William M., Director, National Zoological Park____________________ 2, 5
Manning» Cathebine Ta. 2. ek eh a 3
Manship; ,Parahitti sii) 295 20190 yo 8) AGIOS 8 Sad SVE ORI el th 12, 17, 44, 45
Marshall, William- Bex-2-s2- 9 sssssess5 see UT Se 3

Mather, Frank Jewett, ‘Jr. s4- 0 eee ee 12, 44, 45

INDEX 479

Page
SIMiersi WW. Re ee 2
McAlister, Edward Dos. -.---.__----=-22+-+ 5-22 --sa2 ea Se 5
McBride, H. A., Administrator, National Gallery of Art----------------- 4, 32
Me@lure HW. Asis 2 be eee See Se 3
IMcGray, Porter Aj. 98 0a Se eee 32
McDonnell, John N. (The microbiotics) --_------------------------------ 441
MeNary,.Charles L___--__-_--__-__------------+--==--==------ = 3-=== 16
embers ot the Insbitublon. |e ee eee 1
Mictraux Alfred 2-22 =. 22 5. se ee ee 28, 61
Microbiotics, The (McDonnell) ---------------------------------------- 441
Military aviation, Human problems in (Bronk) ~---------~--------------- 401
Miller, Gerrit S) Jricin22 2-4) se on eee eee Se eee 2
Miller, Robert T________---__----_-------=--------=----—-=------------ 2, 28
Mineral position of the United States and the outlook for the future,
lhe (Pehrson) =-----— =) = +s = 175
Miscellaneous Collections, Smithsonian____-_-_-_____-_----------------- 109
Mitman, Carl W__-------------------------—---------===--=-------=—— as 3
Moore, J. Percy_-_--------------------------~------------=---=----=== 2
Morgenthau, Henry, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the
TOES R ET OU ECON 81) a 1, 4, 33
Morris, Roland S. (regent of the Institution) -----___-_____------------- 1,16
Morrison, Joseph P. H---------------------------------------—---==--- 2, 29
Morton, Conrad V__-_--~------------~-----------------====-=----====-= 2
Myers, George Hewitt_______-----------------------------------====-== 17, 45
N
National Collection of Fine Arts__--_____---~------------~---—--------- 4,12, 43
Appropriations_______--------------------—----------------------- 43
Catherine Walden Myer fund, The---_--------------------------- 46
Deposits___-—_--___ --§_____--- -—__- = 46
Loans accepted____----------------------------------=-----=------ 46
Loans to other museums and organizations_—__--~_---~----------_--- 46
Publica tions ee eee ee ee 48
Reference library__-----------------------------—-~--------------- 47
Report____-=------------------------~-=----------- === == == === =-=-- 43
Smithsonian Art Commission___-_____--~-------------------------- 43
Special exhibitions____--__-_------------_---___------------------- 47
Withdrawals by owners_-----------------------------—------------ 47
National Gallery of Art------------------~-------------------------- 4, 12,32
Acquisitions___------__------------------------------------------= 35
Acquisitions committee______-----------__-----_------------------- 33
Activities, various___-__-_--_-----------------------~-------------- 39
Appropriations _____---------------------------------------------- 33
JAC Teli an C2 ee ee 34
Audit of private funds of the Gallery_-----------------__----_---- 42
Gonstruction of new galleries=——9 = ==— === 35
Curatorial department—--—-_---_-________________-__-__-__>—_-_- 40
Custodianship of French exhibition material--___-_---______--__-- 89
Educational program=——_—_—-—----=—__ 41
BEKO C TIE LVe) COTUTIUL CC a ee 32
TED SeI BU OH ECONO VS 88
Expenditures and encumbrances__--~~--------____----------------- 33
LT ATL GONG OTT LC Ce ee 33
480 ANNUAL REPORT, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 1945

National:Gallery of Art—Continued. Page
Wbibrainy<- bos bee oe ee ee 8 41
Loan/of.worksiof-art.by-the: Gallery2-2-.-=--- =. ee ae 38
Loan.of works of artite. thetGallerys2uette 4 ee es ee heh eee 37
loaned works:ofsanth retubned = 38
Oficials-ss-ntt ee Ane hu 1 eet A Bee 4,32
OrgcanizationszanGd-stafl=s = + oh finite int it deh ee 32
Othenigifts Ss ee Se hee tee eee ee 41
Photographic department.) 2 ta a gr ee 41
blieatlonS=2s2 ses ten Fier eo te SESE eto oa 34
PERG PGR Gp a ee Se 8 eT aT eee 32
Restoration and. repair of workssoflart. 222 ess Sei eee 41
Return of works of art from protective storage in Biltmore, N. C______ 35
Sale orsexchange.Of wOLKSuO heals eee 36
Traveling <exhibitions 2. 90). [in Setese. juliet) add Yo Apa es 39
UBT S ECCS ss ere a re ln Se et he tS?

National Museum 22. sel A ee ee ere nha fa ea)
ACIMOIDIS (LA GLY CG iS Cai. soy ee ee oe 4
ADPPLODriatl ONS ss. eas ae Se ale ee ee 21
Changes? invorganization and! stat = 99 2s es ee ee eee 30
Collections 2.24 32 See bk ee ee eee 22
Explorations: and held “work. tpi ss st Sr eer hae 27
Miscellaneousito-3 tee aes ete ee 3 ee ree eee 29
MiuSGUI sin Swart Clee faces 2 5 ee ye ee 21
Publications 2-22-2222. anette oe 29
Re On (ELS Ase noe ns eat Oe ae ee ae ee ee ee 21
SGlENEMC STAT Se a he EA AD A ed ee ee eee 2
Special ERD GS aa as a es eS ee eee 29
WAL STEOTS ONS eS ee es Se ee ee ee ee 29

National Zoologicaly, Park. =P te 8 ee bs a ae ee eee Hild. to }
A COUISILIONIOLSPeCIMeN Sin ee aa ee 2 eee 75
Animals phe Park June oO. 1945 =o eee 80
AN DLODiIaA GON =o = ae ee ee ee ee eee 13
SUT GS as a 2 tea ee as te ee, se 78
DMonorsyand: their. Siete ee be) ee ee 75
Gai iS est ee a ek Sa Ee et et ae ee od ee 75
INGCdSORsthesZi002. 2 2a 2 ese bea Se Re een ee (Ce
ROOT Gps a a eee ed ws) ae AOR 2 73
Statementuoteaccessions== 202 22722 es se eee eee 80
Statussof collection 22222 2) 2. aN ee ee ee a eee 80
ViSiCO TS oS: ee ee 8 3 nD ee a en 74

New England hurricane of September 1944, The (Brooks and Chapman)_-- —_ 235

TING wwe aA aa ee ee a eee 2

Northwest Passage, Conquest of the, by R. C. M. P. schooner St. Roch

GRObiNSON) 2 ea Bek Bee Se ee ee eee 219
oO

CO YE) OVS CE) obge) Gh? 0 ie] CS A ar ee ne ee Seca cer ea ape pan ene pes ct 4,111

Officialssol-thesinstitution==22 3 Se a ee ee i:

OURO re a ee ee hee eee ee ee eee ee eee 4

GimstadseAc \ sew ters: Ban = oe See ewes ee ee eee 3
INDEX 481

P

Page
ace we Ne (Drinking swater frOMlsead  wielter) a een ee 153
Palmer eM We@lens 223 2. a Ne 8 he ee eee ees 4, 63, 112
PalmereEneCodore Si. 2292.2 5 ts. ee De ee ee eee 3

Pehrson, Himer W. (The mineral position of the United States and the
OWULOO fom the future Rate Se ee a ee ee 175
Perkins, Frances, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) ________ al!
Berryhill (Growing rubber ini California) i222 ae ee 351
LSI Ayo tehy 1g ee eee ee oT es NU OL ere ae Va ue LP 3
Rensonnelvomcerny GMinsi sel © air waltln@ may) | eee eae eee 1
al OSD) a Caine Wh RL ree Gas OS oe ee ee 4, 32, 33
PACH ELLONgS CON CMM Sai 4 tes eA ol ee eee 41
PIG CLC TMEV CT Tie wl sede fans wt ees ey Soe ey Wd ee Ey A 3
Biintss Lhe simporntances of (ROpDING)) sa es ee ae 305
Plastics and metals—competitors or collaborators? (Scribner) ~_________ 165
PERCEIVE, ANS Se ane ES ere ee ae ry ee eee 4.135050

Postmaster General of the United States (Frank C. Walker, member of the
HENS LUO M)) es 2 Se Fe et oe oS ac he Eee 1
Prehistoric irrigation project, A unique (Shetrone)_—-___________________ 379

President of the United States (Harry S. Truman, Presiding Officer ex
OMnicioyor the; INSEGU COM) |= = = see SS ee ie ee ee iL

Presiding Officer ex officio (Harry S. Truman, President of the United
IS) ESTES) Seat oe re can Sr me ere - Seg. Wy ped Ape ay ee ee ye uth cere Fe 1
nice me MeON ARG 2002 tent So Payee ie te ee ts at ds ee 5
BniCeymaV a LeErnOUses GO Ok one pe ae ee 42
Proceedings of the National Museum=====— 23222. ee 7k es i
Eropentyeclentke «(eames (Eb. EU) 2a ee ee ee 1
BES VM LD 2 ts TS we eee 19, 108
Allotments =forsprintine= === 2—. see Se eee Be i RUE ne 113
American) ENStorical Associaton yeRepOnRtSmas 22a. =e eee 113
AS trophy SiGale ODSCL Va tO y= se ee eR 101
EU Aue O tee AT E61 Cem Ey EEN) 0 yes ea ce 63, 112
BASTVNT UL UREN CO Ui Ss tee ag et he 112
PSC tS i oe aeons A a eg Rain es wx eu Na
Daughters of the American Revolution, Report___________-_________ 113
DIS tT WOM S 2 eee ee Se Se el rae ne tl ee ee aM KN ic)
NS ELUTE Ofer S OGLE Aura tT: ODO 0 Lye es a ee G2 as
INELO MAME ONL ECEOMETO Lf THETIC ANTS ES ee ae we 48
iINational Gallery Of: cATG. = == es ee 34
INaiionalMUuSCUMIES 2228 te oe 8 oe ee ee 2Oretelall
iy 10 23 ty 1 WS ame ne ene a OR a Se UP es Me 112
Contributions from the National Herbarium——___-____________ 112
Proceed gS ee ee eee eee See Pasi ms 111
SmithSonani=. == 2 So ee a ea eee 109
‘Amma: Reports: =.= eee ee ee eee ee 110
Miscellaneous Collechons===5 == a= === eee peters 2. wren crustinees 109
Speciale publications == = 2 Ses es ee eee ee 111
BVA G47 RS 21 CLOT OULTN CL m5 ts CUS a a 109

R

Races hhinkineg AnoUL. (Washburn) === — eS eee 363
VAC D OM AN Ae OLA T SAS Di vil SHO TNO ee 5, 99

Ramsbottom. J. (hungi and moderny altars) ==. — eee ee 313
—<

482 ANNUAL REPORT, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 1945

Page
Reperholt: sBoi Osa eS a ae ee ee 3
Redfield} Edward!-We 24. - 3 23 ees beth pes! rt ealo maa 44, 45
Reece B: Carroll-(regent.ofthe Institution) —-—-2 = eee ees aft
TROEGCU PAY CB 2oE eS BON ee ee a ee Byer ie Bee. F: 3
ReesideJ. Besyriisia bor edt ho monic [tion bye ale eo Me ae 3
Regents\of-the Instittition-— == se he ee eee 1, 16
Rehder; Harald :AWi 22 Jel 2 do wai Sy. ind Le Senge eye eee oe 2
Reichard Lloyd ©. 28 24 Laos a i eerie ae beri eee 61
RicerVArthvreRe tated eo Ses oe ee ee 2
Robbins, William J. (The importance of plants) _--—---2 2 2230s ee 305

Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr., Assistant Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology
4, 13, 14, 17, 58, 59
Robinson, J. Lewis (Conquest of the Northwest Passage by R. C. M. P.

sSchooner-St.-Ro0ch) #82 8 tl SIO | SO Se elon eee 219
Rohwert;-Ss-Acwac3 Sau ie 2 A ee OuF th To is OTD arr ie Sea ee 2
FR OTILOV OF UU iV 1 ease ee a 27
Roosevelt; iPresident® 2 2s 2) bisa aii Pvt eee ret eh Ea apy ee 16
Rosson; Hilizabeth: Wi+2——---+ 4s =. te ee ee ee et ee 2
Rubber “in: ‘California, ‘Growing (Perry) Seoul 2 ahs es ee ie 351
Russelli' dy. “hownsend ee Wey Fete rs ee) ee 2
FRUSSEl]; Toolset a ee 28

s

SGHaMer: SW De ae a ee 3
Sehmitt. Waldo. (i=. = ee ee ee ee ee 2
Nehultz; sdveonard (bs. eae eee ie ee ee ee 2, 28
Sehwanrtz AB On) aim a ee ee ee 2
Scientific stall 22.28. 2 ee ee ee 2
Scribner, G. K. (Plastics and metals—competitors or collaborators?)--___ 165
Searle--Harriet. RiChanGSOn = 2.2 ss eee ee ee ee 2
Secretary of Agriculture (Clinton P. Anderson, member of the Institu-

TUN) ees a a a aes ee 1
Secretary of Commerce (Henry A. Wallace, member of the Institution) --- il
Secretary of the Institution (Alexander Wetmore) _-_--__--_____----__ 1, 4, 20, 32
Secretary of the Interior (Harold L. Ickes, member of the Institution) —--_ at
Secretary of Labor (Frances Perkins, member of the Institution) —----_- 1
Secretary of the Navy (James V. Forrestal, member of the Institution) —_~ 1
Secretary of State (Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., member of the Institution)

1, 4, 32
Secretary of the Treasury (Henry Morgenthau, Jr., member of the

TVS GHG CLO) a 1, 4, 32, 33
Secretary of War (Henry L. Stimson, member of the Institution) --____-- il
Setzlenr,Wirsumn ky Mie 2 oe ee ae ee ee 2
Shame: i. ESTO ess es Se ee 2
Shepard, Dona) dig) saa Se ee 32
Shetrone, Henry C. (A unique prehistorie irrigation project) --------_ 379
MHOC eR AC. oe ee ee ee 3
Sinclair: \Ghanlesy Cee ee a ee ee 4
Sirlowis; J; ARussell— <= 2a a ee ee ee eee 3

Skilling, William T. (Our revolving “Island Universe” and its spiraling
counterparts) 226 = 225255 oe er a see 125

INDEX 483

Page

SMaltasoniany Art, COMMISSI ONG == amen a ee 12, 17, 43
Memberso.— 22 28 sk a Sees NS ee ee Oe 45
ODS re ho a ee ee ee a 45
IBTOGCEGIN Ps ee 2a ok nT Se GE Ce, A De 2d 43
RESO LIUELOT ES a ee eB AS re Le hk rapes foils Geer 3 ei 44
Works of art accepted for the National Collection of Fine Arts___--___ 43
Works of art accepted for the National Portrait Gallery_-____--__ 44
Works of art accepted for the Smithsonian_____.__________________ 44

Smithsonian Institution’s part in World War II, A brief summary of the-__ 459

Spear, a. G.. (Medical uses of the) cyclotron) 222222 se) eee 137

Special exhibits, National Collection of Fine Arts_______________-____ 47
WNationaliGallerny,ofcAnte sa. 22. 25-9 ee ee 38
Nationale Museum 22 =o a ee ee ee 29

Npecialepublications  Smithsonian= 22222 see ee eee 111

SCATULON GH Wie ee ea Eye 8 en ee a eh 3

ECA Sam EOS Clee ere rine a PE eA ON We a ee ee 16

Stettinius, Edward R., Jr., Secretary of State (member of the Institution)___ 1,4

Stimson, Henry L., Secretary of War (member of the Institution) __-__ 1

SS Gre iT Many TN Vir ee 2 DS a ee ed ee 61

Stirling, Matthew W., Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology__---___--_ 4, 13,
18, 57, 58, 61, 65
(Concepts of the sun among the American Indians)_~--__________ 387

SEV CT SOE etsy UNINC eS Dp a da ih se 2

Steward, Julian H., Director, Institute of Social Anthropology____ 4, 9, 10, 14, 61

SS eV cuits bem Do eal) Eh) Se Ree ee ete CU ae ee ee DA |

Stone, Harlan F., Chief Justice of the United States (Chancellor of the

BRATS ge GUT C1. 108) ee ee ee eR a ee A AG Mimo
ScLoneaaWalliaim Onn Cantas sea ee eS) ee ee eee ee 9
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution________ 11
Sun, concepts of the among the American Indians (Stirling) ----_-__-______ 387
Somaneonrd Oli she ae eee ee ee 2 ee eee 4
SAREE Shy YG a a Sa 4

T
SREP ARS LON eee Wa be NS 3
Tolman, Ruel P., Acting Director, National Collection of Fine Arts____ 3, 4, 44, 48
Treasurer of the Institution (Nicholas W. Dorsey) ----_-----____________ 1
irnesaVVepster:e. (Chief, editorial division) 2222-5 = === ss ee a maleate
Truman, Harry S., President of the United States (Presiding Officer ex

oficionor thes Institution)))2 26. WS eee 1, 16

Scho pikweaneye Pea = seas oe ee ee eee eee 62
Vv

\ YEU GEST M LS LC We ee ee ee Le 62

VUE ATW Wiese oP 2 2 eo Se a es See ee B}

Vice President of the United States (member and regent of the Institution) _ ak

Visitors:

Pam reerGalleryOf (Atte a2 oe 92 ee ee ee ee eee ee 54
Navional Gallery? Ob CAT(. (Seer 2 eee ee eee 34
National yMuseum= = 2222 oo So eee ee ee ee ee eee 29
NationalyZoolosical: Bark. 22! 2 sta eS a ae eee 74
484 ANNUAL REPORT, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 1945

Ww

Page

Walcott, Frederic C. (regent of the Institution) ___-__-_-______-___________ abs sa lrg
Walker vl opertsH.2 as = a ee eee 2
Walker, Ernest P., Assistant Director, National Zoological Park ______ 5
Walker, Frank C., Postmaster General (member of the Institution) _____ im:
Walker, John, Chief Curator, National Gallery of Art__-__-_-___-_--_--_-__ 4, 32
Wallace, Henry A., Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution)__ 1, 16
War. Backeround Studies, ‘Smithsonian. =) =] ee eee 109
Wartime activitiesi lies Sess 2 ee ee ee eee 9, 459
Washburn. Sl... (Lhinkine about race) = a ee eee 363
Waticins,. William /.No22 5-520 5s. Bee ey ee eee 3
Wedel,-Waldo+R2-22222222 2222202. See ee eee 2
Weintraub, Robettlls 222025 2 Se ee ee eee eee 5
Wenley, A. G., Director, Freer Gallery of Art__-___-_-_--------_- 4,17, 45, 55, 56
Wetmore, Alexander, Secretary of the Institution_________ So 22 Ea id
2, 4, 12, 17, 18, 20, 29, 31, 32, 44, 45

White, Wallace H., Jr. (regent of the Institution) _________-________ 2 = AS,
Wihitebread,.\Charleski2 Se oo eet et eee eee 3
Wilding, 0Ay Wie nee es Se eee 4
WVAlleyGordonek. =a le CM nis tee ee ee ee ee eee 4, 14, 61, 63
Wilson Mil ded) (S222 3-2-3 2) Se ee eee 22

y

Weaver Willidtm Uus222 05-22 2 3 nS ee eee 121
Young. Mahonri (Mire 2 22s ae a re ee ee 44

=

il

tT

ml

ne
——
z
wr
om
waa
a
Lewd
hy

ee

at
“or
—-
—_
—
—
oat
—
‘ed,
as
—
or
_—_
—_
-
—
=
~~

—
’
x
—_
—
a
a
a
_—
an
~
—
—
sas as
—s
—

wt

_—
~—

-
—
a >
t
yr is
“*
as
s-
¢
mn r¥
> -
-
7 -
ot —
_— a
a
=

rs
J

oo;

ee
) ES ES Sel
eS abate ‘
$ :
— a
hee, —_ = Ever
ae mn a
pink ~
BS —) oot
kt + aft :

rid ers wort ~
—— 2 — “ad
nl vat, pana 5 “ae ee
Pitan rod, : S
pam et ce is
ay pala — -—
= nin, eae " Ten
net ee
ase shes J %
Co es ane gee Gaaeer
frre prt 4 RR
anes > =
no bess
~
zs
—
n ‘

Pray
é
ras
,
4,
Hh,
—
=

—

oi

—

or

use

wr
be
wie
: «
ome
S *
whey > — - =
r *
1 ~
axl beg .
.
~
si ' ~
+ 4
‘
‘ :
'

.
vis
i A *
: Pa 4
$
gt
ye ¥
ee u
+
3 ‘
ay ae
a % .
m t ae
r oh . “ is
ae ep D
x 4 ad
x :
. sing
a woe
Be A Ln -
‘ oi ~ oh,
is .
€
, wth
. ‘ rt gd
nots done ne ote
“
S ‘ x.
Y
. a
r

iti,

ems

si
e
nie
i
ae

*
ie
.
i
é
“

sS
>
Te
~
e
~
as
s *
hy
S)
@
——

'
at ~
4
™ Pinner
Re. ie

%
