53

; eH x Sit
Be Sintap nce
Pea, > Sh be
The United States

National Museum

Annual Report for the Year Ended
June 30, 1952

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Untrep States Nationat Museum,
Unper Direction OF THE SMITHSONIAN INstTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., October 15, 1952.
Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1952.
Very respectfully,
Remineron Ketxoee,
Director, U. S. National Museum.
Dr. A. WEeTMorE,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

rr
Annual Report of

the Director

United States National Museum
Contents

Page

INTRODUCTION atc: ch criss avis ae cefola (i ae Lap iany So a aneres ene Aca eeu eee 1
IBwblicationSins gals hereon ek ee sei eee Se emcee ities et ae Oa ae 7
RN Sea Ot GS ape cst stesso aa ae met ual le seaiah dade SoRARUI ooeToO RUPE ty neo av 7
DEPART MEN TROROANTEHROPOLOG Yas tie aan en acne asinine 8
DEPARTMENT ORS OOUOGY ect Ah a. Aone o8: fae eee te ee 18
IDEPAR TIME NIT SOR OO DAN Ys tae omen clnce- cence eto neuen 28
DEPARTMENT. OF) GHOLOGY 503 a les. eres gu wine eel ee hoe) ee eee 34
DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES. .......... 43
DEPARTMENT OF MEMISTORY = S30 5 ee ee ee ee 50
INGCESSIONS He cieen cnt ocean ah ateries vot Hediheey Weyer ait evs Ata Gane a 54
PuBLIcATIONS BY MEMBERS OF THE STAFF ..........2.2.. 97
PuBLICATIONS IssUED BY THE MusBuM .............. 102

IV
Introduction

It has been said in a previous report that the function of the United
States National Museum is to make available to the Nation the collec-
tions entrusted to it for safekeeping. This it does by exhibiting
selected items and by organizing the remaining, and vastly larger,
part of the collections into a great reference library of material
objects. The effective performance of both these functions, it has
been pointed out, depends on that essential element in the work of a
successful museum, research.

Research—Orderly Inquiry

Research, that is, orderly inquiry aimed at discovering and inter-
preting facts, is not confined to the laboratory. It is as much a prod-
uct of one man at his books or before his work table, or simply seated
in contemplation under the heavens, as of a team of scores of spe-
cialists representing many disciplines and using elaborate equipment
and techniques. In the natural and cultural sciences as in other
fields (the cultural sciences here may be said to embrace the study of
man and his works—with emphasis on the products of his technology
and the household arts), this orderly inquiry follows a regular pro-
cedure: facts are gathered by observation and planned search; they
are evaluated and their. relationship determined; where possible,
conclusions or basic laws are derived; the results of the investigation
are published for the use of others.

By far the greater effort and time in most investigations are spent
patiently observing and recording facts. A spectacular achievement
crowning years of unpublicized labor may delude some into overlook-
ing this, but no such delusion assails the scientist or historian who
spends his life at these tasks. Nonetheless, he accepts the prospect
willingly, fully aware that success in research is almost without excep-
tion built upon the work of others.

In the National Museum research naturally enough starts with the
assembling of the great collections (see tabulation, p.3). These have
been growing for more than a hundred years as a result of the expedi-
tions of its staff, and through extensive deposits made by other Gov-
ernment agencies, private institutions, and individuals. From every
part of the world have been gathered cultural objects, plants, animals,
and minerals. Deposited in the National Museum as the institution
best able to make them available to the Nation as a whole, they create
a unique research facility for those who seek a better understanding
of man, his culture, and his environment.
2 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

Research on an object in the collections makes use of the accom-
panying documentation that tells where, when, how, and by whom it
was collected, with whom it was associated, or by whom and how it
was devised. The object is further identified, it is classified and de-
scribed according to the category to which it belongs, and its scientific
or historical significance is, if possible, determined. Information
such as this, assembled for a whole group of objects, provides a basis
for further theorizing and evaluation, and leads to the establishment
of broad general facts, or to the development of fundamental laws
or conclusions.

A multitude of skills and disciplines are brought to bear. For ex-
ample, the research required to arrange, or classify, plants or animals
according to taxonomic principles leads the curator, a taxonomist, to
draw on all aspects of the biological sciences in establishing valid
phylogenetic relationships. The geologist dealing with minerals finds
himself at once a chemist and a physicist, or he may combine his know]-
edge of the earth with a knowledge of botany or zoology. The his-
torian who deals with technology is as much engineer as scholar. The
specialist in any of the several fields of anthropology may comprehend
and use subject matter in half a dozen overlapping fields.

Traditionally the progress of research has varied from field to field
because investigators the world over have quite naturally given first
attention to the subject most evident or available, or about which infor-
mation was in most demand. In the natural sciences relatively more
has been done on mammals and birds than on insects, and relatively
more on insects and fishes than on marine invertebrates, of which whole
groups of creatures remain relatively unknown. A similar situation
prevails in the cultural sciences, treatment of which as formal dis-
ciplines is of recent origin. Archeology, ethnology, and physical
anthropology, for instance, date from the midnineteenth century, while
recognition of the history of technology as a division of history is
even more recent. Workers in these fields, as well as coping with
the task of correlating and organizing existing information, must
overcome the many obstacles to the development of complete and
reliable new data.

Typical Research Investigations

The scope of research in the natural and cultural sciences covered by
the National Museum is best illustrated by examples of recent work in
progress or published by its professional staff.

The excavation and study of a large Cheyenne village in South
Dakota produced archeological evidence important in interpreting the
role of the Indian tribes before and during the period of early historic
ANNUAL REPORT—INTRODUCTION

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS,
JUNE 30, 1952

Department of poten et Bed Cy CeCe a eek Aare 754, 897
Archeology. ... . Bee te ee 516, 571
Hthnology pe cree eee see 186, 890
Ceramics. ... Pan, 9, 156
Musical nig maar Ae ae 2, 440
Period art and textiles. . . . 2, 756
Physical Anthropology. ..... 37, 084
Wenarimentiofebotany. ys 0.) sae el ee ee cee be 2, 493, 896
Phanerogams. ......... 1, 612, 332
CGTASSESMI Eta Rates al ar vere ote en 337, 870
IHG TTA Ses eh ks yo Sak bea ty eA trae bos 197, 868
Cryptogams ... oy ee 345, 826
Department of Binsin snil Industries: v2 eae 166, 562
Crafts and Industries ...... 61, 287
EMPINCCTING aeecs: led bs ew scene. te 32, 553
Graphic Arts. ... iA, 49, 848
Medicine and Public Health th ed de 22, 874
Department of Geology . . . spiser eae cadb dS py mies 3, 936, 817
Mineralogy and Peinallaiay sdiceicaks 261, 766
Invertebrate ae ead and
Paleobotany .. . naan es 3, 637, 864
Vertebrate Patcontelony Miptatio Ne 37, 187
Department of History: pyc 9. bee) Kes 645, 359
Civil BETistOnyspespeceen! koiecnps cearves 37, 114
Militaryaristonyes- en eac ace one 28, 941
INGEN IS GSOIAy Sb Ba lola oe 4,413
IN(TAMISTANAYHKES 6 G&G bo to on oo oc 62, 763
Philatelys 0) 2: Ree a BS Teweha iS a 512, 128
Department of Besos Sahib et ad Shoe act div Zon 1865 963
Nia aS eho a ta tes ey alone te Secs 263, 161
DIRGS Meese siete a ret ean recat 467, 557
IReptileseaccs es arcs ecw pen ete 140, 142
Mishes Aue eee ithe kM ars EAM LEED 1, 519, 118
Insects, )iw) Gs ohh a ah hangehcabt a ple a FOSS 4910
Marine Teertchanton DT vile BI oc 1, 265, 864
INTOINISK See teen ee ea ak eter.) often 9, 363, 778
FVelminths Pe citiccce once vice. i a 44, 979
Helmodermss 7.) 3 ae ee 188, 454

Tota Mustum CouLEcTIONS. ..... . 30, 184,494
4 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

colonization. Field investigations in the lower Amazon Valley are
supplying similar evidence on the development and migration of
aboriginal cultures in that area. Changes in the material and social
culture of the Plains Indians following their acquisition of the Euro-
pean horse were shown in an ethnological monograph recently com-
pleted. A report on another study, this one in physical anthropology,
demonstrated that the adaptive correlations and ecological rules ap-
plying to warm-blooded animals in the wild state also apply to man,
who is presumed to be domesticated. Measurable success was attained
in tracing and interpreting interacting changes in the material culture
of Taiwan (Formosa) as they affected the economic status, family life,
and tribal organization of the inhabitants.

Reports were prepared on mammals recently collected in northern
Australia, in Arctic America, and in the eastern United States, and
also on the evolution of the specialized breeding and guiding habits of
the honey guides, an African family of birds. Revisionary studies of
two families of fishes were completed for the second volume of a faunal
report on the fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands, while an-
other study clarified in a noteworthy way the involved synonymy,
classification, and relationship of the frogs of southeastern Brazil.

Biologic, taxonomic, and biometric data on the molluscan fauna
of the Gulf of Mexico, the deeper waters of which constitute one of
the biologically lesser-known areas, were summarized in a monograph
of the mollusks of those waters. Studies centering on the classifica-
tion of insects have accumulated more information on the ladybird
beetles, rove beetles, humus beetles, and hairstreak butterflies. The
adaptation of copepods of the family Notodelphyidae to a commensal
association with tunicates, ascidians, and mollusks, together with
other bionomic details, was reviewed in a monographic description of
the American forms of this group of marine invertebrates.

In a continuing series of studies of Pacific Island plants, regional
revisions were completed for several families occurring in Fiji and
adjacent archipelagos. Similar contributions were made to the
knowledge of the family Gesneriaceae in Trinidad and Tobago and
of the family Bromeliaceae in Colombia, Brazil, and Bolivia. An im-
mediate economic use was found for the latter of these studies, made by
a Museum specialist at the request of the Rockefeller Foundation and
the Servico Nacional de Malaria, of Brazil, since the bromeliads are
air plants that in some instances are water holding and, hence, breed-
ing places for malarial mosquitoes.

Full geological details of the birth and growth of a volcano were
presented in a report on the Volcan de Parfcutin, in Michoacan, México.
Chemical analyses of uranium minerals and studies of their crystal-
ANNUAL REPORT—INTRODUCTION 5

line structure added details to the knowledge of that important sub-
ject. A paleontological monograph now in preparation on North
American lower Middle Ordovician brachiopods is contributing to
knowledge of the classification of these invertebrates and their cor-
relation with Ordovician forms. The interpretation of vertebrate fos-
sils collected by field expeditions in the Lower Eocene horizons of the
Green River Basin of western Wyoming materially advanced exist-
ing knowledge of the correlation of these horizons, which are now
recognized as being within the Knight formation.

The mechanical development of the halftone screen, which wed-
ded photography to printing, was traced from its invention in 1852
in a report that noted the influence of the halftone screen on many
facets of American life. The historical development of significant
machines, devices, and products related to the growth of American
technology is being traced in studies in progress; these include the
sewing machine, the camera, American plows of the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries, and electric meters. Another study, of second-
ary woods used in colonial furniture, is providing a new technique
for identifying early pieces.

Further documentation of the relics and memorabilia of George
Washington and other historically prominent Americans produced
factual details of the lives and times of these individuals. Explora-
tion of ancient shipwrecks in the Florida Channel and the recovery
of material ranging from cannon barrels to teapots added to the
knowledge of ships and trade of the American colonial period and
increased the store of early objects precisely dated in use. Progress
on the preparation of catalogs and histories of the stamps and coins
in the collections is adding measurably to the available information
on these subjects.

Research—Professional Responsibility

Each member of the curatorial staff of the National Museum has
a professional responsibility to advance through research the know]l-
edge of materials under his charge. This knowledge aids him as
curator in classifying and arranging these materials. It aids him in
answering the hundreds of questions daily asked by the public and in
preparing interesting, meaningful, and informative exhibits for the
visitors of all ages who throng the public halls. It enables him, as a
scientist or historian carrying out the mission of the Smithsonian
Institution, to contribute his share to the broad reservoir of scientific
information on which the life of our country so greatly depends.

To the question, Why are these contributions to knowledge so
important? the reply must be that all knowledge is useful, though
6 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

not always for the same purpose or at the same time. To declare,
on the basis of its present usefulness, that one or another area of
investigation is the more valuable is to hazard a judgment before all
evidence is assembled, as well as to encroach upon a basic freedom—
freedom of inquiry. The curator himself may indeed be measured.
His diligence, his accuracy, his thoroughness may be assayed. His
judgment may perhaps be questioned if he chooses to glean facts after
the field has been harvested and his services are needed on the thresh-
ing floor. But it must be remembered that again and again in
research the grain of fact at first overlooked later has proved worth
the whole harvest twentyfold. As a professional devoted to building
up detailed mastery of his chosen field, the curator knows where and
how to glean further knowledge from it.

Here the meaning of the term “professional” as applied to the
‘museum curator comes into full focus. In the professional disciplines
more is involved than the mastery of a body of specialized knowledge.
Other areas of human endeavor require such mastery yet are not
classed as professions. ‘The essence of professionalism—and many un-
fortunately ignore this fact—is to be found in the strong sense of high
purpose and personal responsibility and the strict intellectual integrity
that motivate the individual and guide him in the use of his specialized
knowledge. These qualities and his concern for facts, his urge to seek
them and to inquire into the nature of things, to do research—all these
mark the museum curator and are the measure of his stature. Asa
professional he is a stronghold of individual initiative and responsi-
bility in a world threatened by the ant heap of collectivism.

The Museum seeks these qualities in its professional staff and,
finding them, places on the individual the high responsibility of carry-
ing out necessary research in his particular field. For the most part
it is needed only to give him administrative support and to make
certain that his efforts do not overlap or duplicate the work of others.

SPECIMENS ACCESSIONED, IDENTIFIED, AND DISTRIBUTED—
FISCAL YEAR 1952

Trans-
Gifts to fenel Loaned for
Submitted Exchanged educa-  toother study to in-
for with other tional Govern- vestigators
Received in identifi- Identified instilu- institu- ment and insti-
Department accessions cation on request tions tions agencies tutions
Anthropology . 4, 852 8, 664 8, 664 393 240 0 5, 224
Zoology. . . . 251,290 87,238 33,291 4,848 2,195 161 50,355
Botanwvaeey ie 62,476 17,250 14,809 8, 266 388 0 26,224
Geology. . . . 279,968 18,977 18,966 3,993 4,278 0 5, 407
Engineering and
Industries. . 1, 688 939 935 2 4 0 124
History. ... 7,130" 940394") 7340304 2 3 il esses

Toran . 607,354 117,457 111,059 17,499 7,108 172 106,690
ANNUAL REPORT—INTRODUCTION @

Serving thus, as the needs of the collections demand and the degree
of public support permit, he assures the continuing flow of infor-
mation, vital to the successful functioning of the Museum, that can
only arise from competent research. The effectiveness of this pro-
cedure, followed in all the great museums and research institutions of
the free world, is demonstrated by the published results.

* * * * * * *

In the light of these remarks, the following report will be seen to
measure both the accomplishments of the Museum staff and the public
support accorded the Museum in carrying out its mission.

Publications

In addition to an Annual Report, the National Museum issued 26
publications based on work in the national collections, including 1
in the Bulletin series, 24 papers in the Proceedings, and 1 in the Con-
tributions from the National Herbarium. The titles of these are
listed on pages 102 and 103. At the close of the year four bulletins and
one Proceedings paper were in press.

Members of the staff, their research associates, and collaborators
published through the Museum and in the scientific journals and else-
where a total of 138 books, articles, and reviews involving their special
field of interest in the national collections. These were distributed as
follows:

Subject Publications Subject Publications
Anthropolosyey ss eee): 20) FEN SEORY cos ae ay riia else Go Seb oleh a oeie 9
IBOLATIVA Hata = hia caee aye foe ates els QD | LOOlOLY: ss. ois: io laiteuled = ol ais sch el as 64
Engineering and Industries.... 1 ———
Geoloeveieye wee cree oles SEE 19 POC AMAED VEO S tes tankless 138

An additional number of articles, also based wholly or in part on
the collections, are published annually by the many scholars, re-
searchers, and visitors who use the Museum’s services.

On February 29, 1952, Gladys O. Visel retired as assistant editor
of the National Museum, after serving the Institution for 3414 years.

Funds Allotted

From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the opera-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal
year 1951-52, the sum of $821,960 was allotted to the United States
National Museum. Of this allotment $780,260 was used for salaries
and expenses required for the preservation, increase, and study of the
national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and
geological specimens, as well as materials illustrative of engineering,
industry, graphic arts and history. The remainder, $41,700, was used
for printing and binding.
Department of Anthropology

(FRANK M. SETZLER, Head Curator)

The department of anthropology has made continuing progress on
the long-range program of modernizing several of the large exhibi-
tion halls, of consolidating and providing additional documentation
for the collections. In particular, a complete revision of the Latin
American archeological hall was undertaken, and the entire gallery
devoted to the exhibition of ceramics was revised to show ceramics of
the world with emphasis on early English and American glass and
ceramics.

Highlighting the research completed by the staff was the presenta-
tion for publication of a monograph, “The Horse in Blackfoot Indian
Culture,” based upon 11 years of field work and research, by Associate
Curator John C. Ewers. Altogether, members of the staff completed
over 25 articles, 21 of which have been published.

ACCESSIONS

Among the important gifts received during the year was a well-
documented wampum belt of the eighteenth century, originally pre-
sented to Wyandot Indian chiefs by the Seneca Indians, a division
of the Iroquois Confederacy. With its symbolic message, which may
be interpreted as “Sit down here, accept hospitality, and be at peace,”
it served as a token of peace and friendship concluding the wars be-
tween this tribe and the Wyandot (Huron), who, just prior to their
removal in 1842, lived along Lake Erie near Sandusky, Ohio.

In the early 1880’s a large section of the original wampum belt was
presented by Kitty Greyeyes, widow of Chief John W. Greyeyes, to
Huldah H. Bonwill in appreciation of her services as a Quaker mis-
sionary and teacher among the Wyandot. Said the Indians to her,
“We often think how you work for us. We can’t pay you. You
keep this.” Later she gave the belt to a leader among the Quaker
Indian missions, Joseph S. Elkinton of Philadelphia, whose grand-
son, Howard W. Elkinton, presented the belt to the Museum 110 or
more years after peace had been secured.

During the examination of an archeological collection assembled
many years ago by the well-known agriculturist Dr. O. F. Cook, a
beautifully carved and painted Inca kero (wooden beer cup) was dis-
covered. Around the entire outer surface is depicted the rope-dance
ceremony in honor of the coronation of the Inca emperor Huascar

8
ANNUAL REPORT—ANTHROPOLOGY 9

(1525-1532). This well-preserved royal Inca object, together with
other Peruvian objects, was presented by Robert C. Cook, the son of
the collector.

Through a bequest from the late Mrs. Emily V. Taylor the national
collections were enriched by a noteworthy Philadelphia high chest,
er highboy. This example of one of the most sophisticated phases
of our colonial American culture is outstanding in that it embodies
characteristics of design and workmanship unusual in the Philadel-
phia highboy form of the period 1760-1770.

Archeology.—Well-documented archeological material from the
eastern United States, especially Virginia, North Carolina, Maryland,
and the District of Columbia, has been lacking. The accessioning
of 3,881 type specimens of potsherds and arrowheads from this area,
a welcome addition to the collections, was made possible by the gifts
of eight different collectors: Dr. B. C. MeCary, Dr. C. A. Michael,
Dr. C. G. Holland, and Asa Gray Phelps, of Virginia; Drs. T. Dale
Stewart and Clifford Evans, of the U.S. National Museum; Frederick
Ange, of North Carolina; and the Natural History Society of Mary-
land.

Ethnology.—The post-World War II period has brought to the
Museum new and valuable ethnological materials from distant places
and from peoples whose cultures hitherto were poorly represented.
Such an area is southeastern Asia and its great outlying islands of
Sumatra and Java, the source of an outstanding gift from Mr. and
Mrs. Robert C. Pierson, Jr. Consisting of a complete theater set of
130 appurtenances of the puppet show, wayang, which they obtained
from the puppet-master, dalang, in the Sundanese village of Tjiawi,
West Java, it also includes orchestral instruments, gamelan (gradu-
ated brass gongs and xylophones mounted on frames, a bowed rehab,
cymbals, and tubular wooden drums), that provide the musical ac-
companiment to the narrative of the master as he manipulates the
carved wooden puppets. Through these, costumed and painted to
represent traditional epic characters, the dalang—in asides—com-
ments freely on current events, local gossip, or world politics.

Brig. Gen. R. A. Osmun presented a collection he obtained from
natives of northern Burma and Assam during World War IJ, includ-
ing two short-ranged weapons used in shooting birds, a crossbow from
Burma, and a pellet bow, with clay pellets, from Assam. Mrs. Hoff-
man Philip gave a collection of religious objects, weapons, jewelry of
silver filigree, and accessories of dress, collected in Abyssinia by her
husband, the late Honorable Hoffman Philip, while in the diplomatic
service.

In the collection representing the colonial aspects of western
European cultures is an interesting group of objects associated with
10 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

English usage of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, pre-
sented by John Smithson and John Smithson, Jr.: A George II silver
tankard by Harvey Price of London (1731), a George III basting
spoon, a traveler’s silver wine cup made in Paris about 1750, and two
English silver luster teapots. Among the 17 specimens added to a
previous gift from Mrs. Lura Woodside Watkins are examples of
the earliest types of pressed glass made in Cambridge, Sandwich, and
Pittsburgh.

Physical Anthropology.—The largest accession this year repre-
sents a transfer of 78 human skeletons selected from 106 burials from
two Indian cemetery sites, now inundated by the John H. Kerr
Reservoir, on Buggs Island in the Roanoke River near Clarksville, Va.
This collection gains in scientific interest because very few Indian
remains have been recovered in the area.

EXHIBITION

Considerable attention was given to modernizing some of the
anthropological exhibition halls and to installing special exhibits
illustrating recent accessions.

In collaboration with the National Collection of Fine Arts a special
exhibition of aboriginal bark paintings and decorated ceremonial
objects entitled “Art and Magic in Arnhem Land, Australia,” was
opened in the foyer of the Natural History Building in the presence
of representatives of the Australian Embassy and the National Geo-
graphic Society, cosponsors with the Smithsonian Institution, of the
international expedition to Arnhem Land in 1948. <A portion of this
exhibit will be used to inaugurate the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibi-
tion, an undertaking of the National Collection of Fine Arts.

In close cooperation with the anthropological laboratory, the staff
in physical anthropology prepared exhibits illustrating new speci-
mens or demonstrating anthropological techniques. Among these
was one that illustrated the traditional skull-painting practiced by
the aborigines of Arnhem Land and another, the techniques used by
staff anthropologists in creating the Indian busts in the Museum
collection.

In a special archeological exhibit, the close similarity of certain
decorative techniques and surface treatments of pottery from the
eastern United States and the aboriginal Jomon period culture of
Japan was demonstrated. This exhibit, prepared under the general
theme of “Parallel Invention or Diffusion—A Ceramic Approach,”
was later permanently installed in the Old World archeology hall,
with other examples of Jomon period ceramics.

Under the direction of Associate Curator Clifford Evans, a plan
for revising the entire Latin American archeology hall was formu-
ANNUAL REPORT—ANTHROPOLOGY 1l

lated and undertaken. As a result, the hall is being divided into
culture area alcoves and the exhibits are being correlated in a mean-
ingful presentation that reconstructs the cultures of the major arche-
ological periods of Latin America: Mesoamerican, subdivided into its
two major regions, the Maya, with its glyphic writing, and the Valley
of Mexico, with its Aztec pictographic writing; circum-Caribbean;
tropical forest and marginal; and Andean. Of the total of 30 cases
in the new floor arrangement, 3 have been completely modified by the
cabinet shop, 4 partially completed, and exhibits for the Maya section
of the Mesoamerican alcove are ready for installation. This work,
involving the shifting and storing of many thousands of specimens,
some quite large, has advanced rapidly, thanks to the cooperation of
the maintenance and operations division and the efforts of Museum
Helpers Eugene P. Greer and Robert C. Jenkins.

The division of ethnology collaborated with the divisions of engi-
neering, and crafts and industries, in arranging an eight-case display
of tools and handicrafts for the fall meeting of the Karly American
Industries Association, including exhibits on whaling and the art
and life of the whaleman, and also a collection of 138 woodworking
tools lent by Frank H. Wildung.

The series of special exhibits interpreting the growing collections
of European and colonial American period art, ceramics, glass, home
furnishings, and the productions of outstanding early American
master craftsmen and silversmiths, was continued on display in the
foyer of the Natural History Building and will be enlarged to include
the productions of additional outstanding colonial craftsmen.

The arrangement and selection of specimens in the ceramics gallery
were revised by Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins in order to
display some of the many recent acquisitions of glass and ceramics
and to make possible a more comprehensive presentation, particu-
larly in English and American wares.

For the revised Pueblo exhibit illustrating the daily life of these
people the anthropological laboratory completed an exhibit con-
sisting of a ground plan of a Zufhi pueblo mounted on plywood, a
scale model showing construction of a Zuni pueblo roof, and mounted
photographs depicting the interior of a pueblo, a room elevation, and
cornfield scenes. This is coordinated with a new one-unit exhibit
of Zuni pottery, consisting of 16 representative vessels, that was
installed by Associate Curator John C. Ewers to replace the former
disproportionately large alcove exhibition of 375 vessels. The student
interested in more than a representative display of Pueblo pottery
may examine at first hand the large classified collections in the refer-
ence series.

Two noteworthy specimens of historical wampum were placed on
display with other historic relics of the western Indians: The recently
12 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

acquired wampum belt treasured by the Wyandot as a symbol of their
peace with the Seneca; and an Iroquois wampum mace, consisting of
six strings of tubular wampum beads cut from the shell of the clam
Venus mercenaria.

CARE OF COLLECTIONS

The constant attempt to obtain additional documentation on the
early collections received 100 or more years ago is occasionally richly
rewarded. A search for information on a sizable collection of
ethnological materials from the American Indian, Oceania, Asia,
and Africa, accessioned in 1866 under the name “J. Varden,” led to the
discovery, in the Smithsonian archives, of the original catalog of John
Varden’s Washington Museum. From this catalog it was learned that
a number of these objects had been assembled by him for what became
in 1836 the first museum in the city of Washington. These were
transferred to the National Institute in 1841, and later, to the Smith-
sonian Institution, making this one of the earliest documented collec-
tions in the Museum, many of its specimens having been preserved
for more than 110 years. John Varden, who founded the Washington
Museum, later became the first curator of the National Museum
and died in 1865.

As a part of the long-range program of modernizing exhibits many
thousands of specimens are being removed from the exhibition cases
and are being incorporated in the reference series, where they are
available to students and other investigators, much as are books in a
reference library or documents in a historical archive. The study
collection of glass and ceramics was removed from the inaccessible
storage bins beneath the exhibition cases, sorted by Assistant Curator
R. A. Elder and Museum Helper George McBryde over a period of 4
months and replaced in specially constructed drawers. Reclassifica-
tion of the study collections from the Plains Indians, begun in the
early spring, was nearing completion at the end of the year. Re-
organization and consolidation of the North American archeological
collections by Museum Helpers Eugene P. Greer and Robert C. Jen-
kins, under the direct supervision of Associate Curator Clifford Evans,
permitted the elimination of those objects showing no evidence of
workmanship, or lacking adequate documentation. During the first
6 months of the fiscal period, 9,949 lots of such specimens, useful to
illustrate types or categories of artifacts, were removed from the col-
lections and set aside for use as gifts to schools, children’s museums,
and for similar educational purposes, after which the attention of
the staff was devoted to reorganizing the Latin American archeologi-
cal collections, a task that will occupy them for many months to come.
ANNUAL REPORT—ANTHROPOLOGY 13

In the division of physical anthropology steel racks were installed
to house a large portion of the drawers of human skeletal material,
and plans for similar treatment of the remaining section of the study
collection were approved. The long-range project of providing the
division of ethnology with a standard type of insect-proof storage
case, initiated in 1925, was substantially completed.

Through the cooperation of the Leatherwork Division, U. S. Bu-
reau of Standards, a method was devised for the softening of animal
skins in old and brittle Plains Indian specimens. The anthropologi-
cal laboratory cleaned and restored parts of the Museum collection of
old paintings of Indian subjects; however, the main task of Prepara-
tors A. J. Andrews and J. E. Anglim centered around the moderniza-
tion of the anthropological exhibits and assisting the staff in building
numerous special exhibits for the foyer.

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

In cooperation with the National Geographic Society, the Smith-
sonian Institution undertook to locate, survey, and photograph giant
human and animal effigies along the Colorado River near the town of
Blythe, Calif. Head Curator Frank M. Setzler and Richard H.
Stewart, assistant chief of the photographic laboratory of the Na-
tional Geographic Society, thanks to the excellent cooperation of
Flight B, 4th Air Rescue Service, U. S. Air Force, were able to locate
not only three giant effigies outlined in the desert gravels 15 miles
north of Blythe, but also two sites heretofore unreported—one near
Topock, Ariz., and a large site east of Ripley, Calif., on the Arizona
side of the Colorado River. Subsequent research indicated that these
unusually large effigies may have been created as a shrine commemo-
rating a mythological hero, “Elder Brother,” by a branch of the
Yuman-speaking group of Indians. A recorded myth and a descrip-
tion of a comparable effigy, obtained by Dr. Frank Russell some 50
years ago among the Pima Indians, 200 miles east of the Colorado
River, and published by him in the twenty-sixth (1904-1905) annual
report of the Smithsonian Bureau of American Ethnology, gives a
clue to the possible origin. These effigies were probably made some
time between 1540 and the middle of the nineteenth century. An
article describing these investigations was submitted to the National
Geographic Magazine.

At Washington University in St. Louis, Frank M. Setzler spent
several days working with Dr. Mildred Trotter on the analysis of
hair samples collected from Arnhem Land aborigines. He later ex-
amined an archeological site at Cambridge, Md., that has produced
types of prehistoric artifacts unusual for this section of the country.
2

220236—52

14. UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

The burial site was found to lie beneath a 40-foot sand dune which
has formed along the banks of the Choptank River. In January 1952
he was chosen President-Elect of the Washington Academy of
Sciences.

Neil M. Judd, associate in anthropology, continued his researches
resulting from the archeological investigations he directed for the
National Geographic Society in Chaco Canyon, N. Mex., and during
the year he edited and submitted a monograph by the late Dr. Kirk
Bryan, of Harvard University, entitled “The Geology of Chaco
Canyon, New Mexico, in Relation to the Life and Remains of the
Prehistoric Peoples Who Inhabited Pueblo Bonito.” As the year
ended, Mr. Judd was engaged on a report of the excavations at Pueblo
del Arroyo.

Dr. W. W. Taylor, collaborator in anthropology, directed six
field trips in connection with the Pueblo ecology survey in the Four
Corners district of Arizona, Utah, Colorado, and New Mexico. This
work was done under permit from the Secretary of the Interior and
the Navaho Council. Although a number of archeological sites were
located, some of considerable promise for general work, it became
apparent that the sites for this specific program are not to be found
in the Kayenta region of the Four Corners district. He continued his
work on a monograph of the cave excavations in Coahuila, México.

Physical Anthropology.—Dr. T. D. Stewart, curator of physical
anthropology, completed or advanced 15 different projects, some of
which have been in progress for some time. Among the new projects
the following are noteworthy:

At the suggestion of a Lincoln scholar, Dr. M. A. Shutes, he under-
took to appraise Lincoln’s physical dimensions, particularly those
yielded by original casts of life masks of his head and hands taken by
the sculptors Volk and Mills in 1860 and 1865, respectively, and now in
the Museum collections. Nearing completion was a summary, brought
together for handy reference, of information available for the identi-
fication of skeletal remains in medicolegal cases, to which have been
added observations, based on the large Museum collections, relating to
the determination of age. In August, Dr. Stewart presented a paper
on physique and environment at a conference on anthropological
sciences, celebrating the four-hundredth anniversary of the founding
of the Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos de Lima in Pert.
His paper stressed the difficulties inherent in studying by means of
traditional techniques those changes in the human body attributable to
environmental factors. The measurements that he had taken on the
Indians in highland Guatemala a few years ago were used to illustrate
this point.
ANNUAL REPORT—-ANTHROPOLOGY 15

His diagnosis and description of some pathological bones from
Tinian in the Marianas Islands in the western Pacific, collected by
Dr. Alexander Spoehr of the Chicago Natural History Museum, re-
vealed the presence of yaws. Coming from an ancient site, these
bones apparently constitute a very early example of prehistoric yaws.
In the course of studying another lot of bones, those from Conkling
Cavern, N. Mex., thought to be among the oldest human skeletal re-
mains thus far recovered on this continent, Dr. Stewart decided that
an objective test of their antiquity was needed. Accordingly he
secured some of the associated Pleistocene-type animal bones from
the Los Angeles County Museum, which had supplied the human
bones, and arranged with Dr. F. J. McClure, of the National Institutes
of Health, to make comparative tests for fluorine. The results, al-
though not as conclusive as desirable, do not refute the antiquity im-
plied by the stratigraphy and association.

During the first half of the fiscal year the associate curator, Dr.
M. T. Newman, was occupied in providing additional documentation
for the collection of plaster-of-paris busts and face masks representing
the different races of the world, after which he continued the collection
of detailed data on the native Australian skeletal material from Arn-
hem Land. In April Dr. Newman delivered a lecture before the Phila-
delphia Anthropological Society, entitled “The Racial Anthropology
of the Aboriginal New World.” This dealt largely with the demon-
stration that many of the adaptive correlations and ecological rules of
biology apply to man as well as to other warm-blooded animals. An
abstract of this lecture is being published by the Philadelphia Anthro-
pological Society. In addition, he was able to start a study of the
large, well-preserved and documented Indian skeletal series from
Mobridge, S. Dak., from which he hopes to clarify protohistoric popu-
lation movements in the northern plains.

Ethnology.—Curator H. W. Krieger has in preparation a manu-
script on La Isabela, Dominican Republic, which will provide a record
cf the settlement based on Spanish primary sources, supplemented
with geographical and archeological data obtained through field
work at the site in 1945, 1947, and 1952. During his latest visit to the
Dominican Republic, where he represented the Smithsonian Institu-
tion at the Fifth Interamerican Congress of Municipal History, in
Ciudad Trujillo, he again examined La Isabela—established by Chris-
tcpher Columbus in December 1493, on his second voyage—a settle-
ment that symbolizes to Hispanic America what Jamestown signifies,
historically and culturally, to Anglo-America. He continued work
on his report on the Smithsonian Expedition of 1947 to Indian village
sites associated with the first voyage of Christopher Columbus and con-
16 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

solidated data on the aboriginal tribes of the West Indies accumulated
since the inception in 1928 of the Smithsonian’s anthropological proj-
ect in that area. Progress was made with classifying the collections
obtained and in preparing the manuscript summarizing the results.
He also plans a monograph of the Indians of the Antilles. During
the year he was elected associate member of the Junta Nacional de Ar-
queologia y Etnologia and the Sociedad Colombista Panamericana, of
the Cuban Ministry of Education, Habana, Cuba.

Associate Curator John C. Ewers submitted for publication a mono-
graph, “The Horse in Blackfoot Indian Culture,” based upon a pro-
gram of research extending over 11 years. At the invitation of the
Newberry Library, Chicago, he participated, in March 1952, in a con-
ference of scholars of American Indian ethnology and Indian history
to discuss methodological problems in ethnohistorical research. The
award of a Neosha grant enabled him to spend 2 months in the field,
during which time he studied and photographed the extensive collec-
tion of Blood and Piegan Indian collections in the Denver Art Mu-
seum, then visited the Blood Reserve, Alberta, Canada, and the Black-
foot Reservation, Mont., to interview elderly Indian informants.
Photographs of the remarkable series of ceremonial headdresses and
other equipment used by Blood Indian women in the buffalo dance
ceremony of the Matoki Society served as an introduction to the inves-
tigation of the history, organization, paraphernalia, and procedures of
that little-known society whose ceremony was witnessed and briefly de-
scribed by Prince Maximilian of Wied in 1833, and which still survives
among the conservative Blood Indians. On his return, Mr. Ewers
examined the collection of Blood Indian materials at the Chicago
Museum of Natural History.

Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins continued his study of
colonial archeological materials, particularly the simple pottery types
found at Jamestown and Kicotan, Va. He also made brief studies of
Gallatin glass in the Museum collections and of the Washington
glassworks, both for publication in Antiques.

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood generously devoted much time to the
documentation of the collection of colonial arts and furnishings given
by her and the late Dr. Arthur M. Greenwood in 1951.

Archeology.—F ollowing the completion of his field investigations
for the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys in the Oahe Reservoir along
the Missouri River in Stanley County, S. Dak., Curator Waldo R.
Wedel undertook an analysis and description of the collections made.
In the spring he spent several days at Princeton University examining
archeological collections, dated by carbon-14 at cirea 5000 B. C., from
the Horner site near Cody, Wyo. He also participated in the Ninth
Plains Archeological Conference in Lincoln, Nebr. At year’s end Dr.
ANNUAL REPORT—ANTHROPOLOGY 17

Wedel was again in the field, representing the Smithsonian Institu-
tion on a joint excavation project with Princeton University at the
Horner site near Cody, Wyo. Dr. Wedel was reelected president of
the Anthropological Society of Washington.

Associate Curator Clifford Evans presented for publication “A
Ceramic Study of Virginia Archeology,” a sequence of aboriginal
culture development, both spatially and temporally, that provides a
structural framework for future archeological work in the region. A
related study on projectile points and blades, prepared by Dr. C. G.
Holland of Virginia under his direction, appears as an appendix to
the manuscript. Dr. Evans delivered two papers on aspects of the
subject at the Eastern States Archeological Federation and the Amer-
ican Anthropological Association meetings. He and Dr. Betty J.
Meggers continued their collaboration in the analysis and interpre-
tation of archeological materials excavated in 1948-49 for the Depart-
ment of Anthropology, Columbia University, by the Lower Amazon
Expedition in the Territory of Amapa and on the Islands of Mexiana,
Caviana, and Marajo. In connection with the preparation of this
monograph they studied South American archeological collections in
the Chicago Natural History Museum and the American Museum of
Natural History.

Research by visiting investigators.—During the year 4,280 people
conferred with members of the staff in the department offices and
laboratory. Of this group over 300 scientists made use of the collec-
tions for their specific research, coming for this purpose from all parts
of the United States, México, and South America, as well as from such
widely separated places as Bangkok, Thailand; Zagreb and Belgrade,
Yugoslavia; Taipei, Formosa; Sweden; Canada; Tokyo, Japan;
Paris, France; and Australia. These contacts make possible a highly
valuable exchange of anthropological services that benefits both the
outside investigator and the Museum staff.
Department of Zoology

(HERBERT FRIEDMANN, Acting Head Curator) *

The year’s accomplishments are fairly evenly divided between com-
pleted researches and extensive improvements and reorganization in
the care of the collections. The latter aspect of the department’s work
was made possible by the receipt of new storage cases and drawers.
To single out for special mention just a few of the many researches
brought to the stage of manuscript completion during the year, the
following illustrate the current scientific work of the department:

NortTH AMERICAN COPEPODS OF THE FAMILY NOTODELPHYIDAE

A monographic account by Paul L. Illg, formerly associate curator of marine
invertebrates.

Urocortmp MoLiusKs or CuBA

A large monograph devoted to the systematics and distribution of this large
family of Cuban mollusks, representing the culmination of many years’ work,
by Paul Bartsch, associate in mollusks.

THE Honry GUIDES

A monograph of this family of African and Asiatic birds, with particular
emphasis on the problems they present in the phylogeny and evolution of be-
havior patterns, by Herbert Friedmann, curator of birds.

AMERICAN SEA SHELLS

A popular, illustrated book primarily designed to help the amateur students
and collectors of shells, by R. Tucker Abbott, associate curator of mollusks.

There were issued during the year over 300 publications wholly or
in part based on material in the national collections. Members of
the zoological staff were authors, either solely or jointly, of many of
these.

The number of specimens added to the zoological collections was
somewhat larger than in the preceding year and much larger than that
in 1949-50.

The resignation, to enter university work, of Paul L. Ilg, associate
curator of marine invertebrates, leaves a serious gap in the staff of
specialists on marine invertebrates.

ACCESSIONS

Accessions received during the year totaled 251,290 specimens of
all groups of animals. This material, from a world-wide range of
localities, added greatly to the usefulness and significance of the col-

‘Vice Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, Head Curator of Zoology, on leave during June 1952.
18
ANNUAL REPORT—ZOOLOGY 19

lections, and not only filled many gaps, but also brought to the
Museum much type material and many specimens of reference value
and, in some cases, of exhibition interest.

While the major accessions are listed under the divisional group-
ings, it may be pointed out that the investigations, continued from
the preceding year, of the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service vessel
Oregon in the Gulf of Mexico, under the leadership of Stewart
Springer, brought to the Museum further valuable and diverse collec-
tions of fishes, crustaceans, and other marine invertebrates from the
deeper waters of that area. Similarly productive was the Blue
Dolphin expedition, commanded by David C. Nutt, along the coast
of Labrador. One long-range collecting operation came to a close as
M. A. Carriker, Jr., working under the W. L. Abbott fund, com-
pleted the field work for an ornithological survey of northern Colom-
bia. A new 3-year collecting project was instituted, a survey of the
birds of Northern Rhodesia, by Maj. Edward H. Haydock, a resident
of that country.

Accessions proving to be of particular interest and importance in-
clude the following:

Mammals.—The Army Medical Service Graduate School’s survey
of Mount Kinabalu, North Borneo, resulted in a fine collection of 579
mammals, including many species and subspecies previously unrepre-
sented in the Museum. From the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
were transferred some 685 specimens, including material needed for
an adequate exhibition group of Alaskan sea otters. With the aid
of the Office of Naval Research, Dr. Henry W. Setzer collected 141
mammals from the Arctic slope of Alaska; through the Spencer F.
Baird fund was purchased a notable lot of 183 specimens collected
in Labrador by Dana P. Snyder.

Birds.—Through the W. L. Abbott fund, M. A. Carriker, Jr., con-
tinued work in Colombia, sending in 1,073 skins, 9 skeletons, and 8
eggs from that country, while from Panama Dr. A. Wetmore and
W. M. Perrygo obtained 675 skins, 9 skeletons, 5 specimens in alcohol,
9 eggs, and 1 nest. American Consul Donald W. Lamm sent 379
skins from Mozambique; the Public Health Service, through Dr.
Laurence Irving of the Arctic Health Research Center, 302 skins from
northern Alaska; Father Antonio Olivares presented 675 skins from
Colombia ; the National Geographic Society, 75 skins from Venezuela;
the Musée du Congo Belge presented a pair of the rare Congo peacock
Afropavo congensis; and the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service depos-
ited 1,196 skins of North American birds.

Reptiles and amphibians.—A valuable lot of 75 specimens from
Mount Kinabalu, North Borneo, was received from the Army Medical
Service Graduate School; and from the Naval Medical Research Unit
20 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

No. 3, a collection comprising 1,165 reptiles and amphibians from
Egypt and adjoining countries. M. B. Mittleman presented 2 types
and 4 paratypes of new species of salamander, and Ottys Sanders
donated 1 type and 6 paratypes of a new species of toad.

Fishes.—Dr. E. A. Lachner gave a collection of 16,417 fishes from
the eastern United States. In addition, assisted by W. T. Leapley, he
collected for the Museum 15,037 fishes in southeastern United States.
Dr. George Moore, Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College,
sent as an exchange 5,115 named fresh-water fishes from the Arkansas
and Red Rivers. These, with the two lots received from Dr. Lachner,
form a highly valuable and useful addition to the Museum’s series
of North American fresh-water fishes. By exchange from the Mu-
seum of Comparative Zoology were received many valuable specimens,
including 104 holotypes, cotypes, and paratypes. A number of other
institutions and individuals contributed type specimens to the total
of 1 holotype, 60 cotypes, and 47 paratypes.

Insects.—Approximately 6,000 miscellaneous insects were collected
for the Museum by O. L. Cartwright, about two-thirds of them Cole-
optera, largely from the grounds of the Inter-American Institute of
Agricultural Sciences, Costa Rica. This sample of the fauna of the
region is of importance, since the Museum is frequently called upon
by members of the staff of the Institute for identifications of their
local insects. A second important accession was a collection of about
4,300 neotropical bugs, both Homoptera and Heteroptera, donated by
Drs. Luis F. Martorell and John S. Caldwell. Again, its importance
hes in the fact that the Museum is being called upon more and more
by South American workers for identifications, and therefore needs
to have its neotropical collections strengthened in all groups. With
the increasing interest shown in the far north, the Museum needs also
to enlarge its collection of Arctic material; therefore, the collection of
nearly 2,000 insects from Alaska made by Dr. R. I. Sailer and trans-
ferred by the Department of Agriculture is noteworthy.

Marine invertebrates.—A gift from Mrs. J. Paul Visscher and her
children brought approximately 11,000 barnacles and other marine
invertebrates, as well as publications, notes, and lantern slides from
the collections of the late Dr. J. Paul Visscher. Dr. A. S. Pearse
presented 23 barnacles, 290 copepods, including 22 type lots, and 26
isopods, including 1 type lot, all from Texas. Dr. E. A. Lachner col-
lected 2 shrimps and 247 crayfishes from the southern United States.
From the Hopkins Marine Station, Pacific Grove, Calif., were re-
ceived 631 slides of ostracods, including considerable type material.
The Arctic Research Laboratory of the Office of Naval Research,
through Dr. J. Bohlke, transferred 1,410 specimens of marine in-
vertebrates from Point Barrow, Alaska. Dr. Stillman Wright do-
nated 533 lots of copepods and other fresh-water plankton from
ANNUAL REPORT—ZOOLOGY 21

South America. The Division of Oceanography, U. S. Navy Hydro-
graphic Office, transferred more than 290 specimens of planktonic
invertebrates from the Atlantic Ocean. In addition to these, at least
a dozen other accessions contained type material.
Mollusks.—Outstanding was the gift from Pedro de Mesa of 4,400
land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks from the Philippines, the most
important collection of Philippine mollusks received in 30 years.
From Mr. and Mrs. James A. Grigg came 1,380 marine mollusks,
largely from Western Australia, a region hitherto poorly represented
in the collection; from Mrs. F. K. Hadley, the holotype and 74 para-
types of Zerebra hoffmeyert Abbott, from the Philippines; in ex-
change from the Museum of Comparative Zoology, a total of 2,543
specimens, including 40 lots of paratypes; from Leslie Hubricht, 24
paratypes of new species in the family Polygyridae, from North Caro-
lina, described by him; in exchange from I’Institut Francais d’Afrique
Noire, Dakar, through Dr. P. L. Dekeyser, 169 marine mollusks from
French West Africa, an area poorly represented in the collection;
from Dr. Joseph P. E. Morrison, 22,000 mollusks collected between
1934 and 1951 in the area from Pennsylvania to Virginia, west to
Missouri, the largest accession received this year; from Dr. Mario
Sanchez Roig, 65 recently described land mollusks from Cuba, in-
cluding 9 lots of paratypes; from Mr. and Mrs. John N. Sennott, 45
marine mollusks from the Gulf of Mexico, including the holotypes
of 4 new species described by H. A. Rehder and R. T. Abbott; from
Sozon Vatikiotis, 264 marine mollusks from the Red Sea, a welcome
addition from this rich but inadequately represented area; and from
the Zoological Institute, Kyoto University, through Dr. Tadashige
Habe, 55 rare marine mollusks from Japan, of which 18 lots are
paratypes of species recently described by him.
Helminths.—Among 11 accessions received during the year, 4 were
of great reference value, as they contained type material: From W. F.
Johnson and J. K. Copsey, the holotype of Opisthadena bodegensis,
from California; from Prof. T. O. Odlaug, the holotype of the trema-
tode Brachylaemus condylurae, from Minnesota; from Oregon State
College, the holotype and 4 paratypes of Proteocephalus salmonidi-
cola; from Dr. H. J. Van Cleave, 5 paratypes of an acanthocephalan,
Neoechinorhynchus prolicus, from Oklahoma.
Echinoderms.—Outstanding among the 12 accessions received dur-
ing the year, totaling 347 specimens, is a lot of 26 specimens from the
Gulf of Mexico, transferred by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

EXHIBITION

The program of modernizing the outmoded synoptic displays con-
tinued. Two groups of North American mammals, the Virginia deer
22 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

and the puma, were remodeled and provided with new rock and plant
accessories and the cases equipped with internal illumination. The
skilled use of monochrome back drops and accessories in these pro-
duces an acceptable approximation of the more costly panoramic back-
ground of the habitat type of display. In addition to these two com-
pleted cases, Exhibits Preparator W. L. Brown and his staff under-
took the renovation of the North American bear group, and made
substantial progress on another, the Alaskan sea otters. Work was
also started on an exhibit of the large colonial nest of the palm chat
Dulus dominicus, of Hispaniola.

The exhibit of deep-sea fishes was improved by the repair of some
specimens. Among other changes, a very large reticulated python,
a ball python, and 4 local species of snakes were placed on exhibition ;
and an alligator and 6 pronghorn antelopes were removed from dis-
play; 7 birds were mounted and added to the exhibition collections;
the frog and lizard exhibits in the hall of comparative anatomy were
rearranged; and considerable work was done on the labels and light
boxes of the habitat group cases.

CARE OF COLLECTIONS

The receipt during the year of an unprecedented quantity of new
storage cases and trays made it possible to accomplish a great deal in
the care of the study collections. Notable progress was made in merg-
ing the bird collections of the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service with
those of the Museum. This involved rearranging about 60,000 birds
in some 850 cases. The merging is now complete from the lowest
groups up through the pigeons (Columbidae), as well as in a number
of families beyond this point in the systematic series. The rear-
rangement of the mammal collection progressed through the families
Canidae, Procyonidae, and Mustelidae. As larger cases are released
by the merging of the bird collections, further rearrangements of
the mammals are contemplated.

Routine processing and cataloging of the reptile and fish collections
continued. To conserve space and equipment in the fish collections,
small cataloged lots from the same locality were combined in larger
single containers, these small lots being first placed in shell vials
plugged with cotton to preserve their identity. Also, large speci-
mens are being tagged and placed together in large containers, and
large jars are being replaced by smaller ones where possible. A
new type of monel-lined storage tank was installed, each half of
which accommodates the contents of three earthenware crocks but oc-
cupies only two-thirds the space.
ANNUAL REPORT—ZOOLOGY 23

In the insect collection, the Megaloptera, Neuroptera, Raphidioidea,
and Mecoptera were entirely rearranged, and the overhauling of the
collection of Collembola was completed.

Under the direction of F. M. Bayer, associate curator of marine
invertebrates, the collection of sea anemones was arranged alphabeti-
eally. In other portions of the invertebrate collection the shifting of
specimens from unsatisfactory bottles to safer ones continued.

All the mollusk types have now been segregated, integration of the
collections of West Indian land shells and those of the mainland and
neotropical areas was completed, and all the Old World land-shell
collections were similarly merged.

As usual, a considerable part of the time of the taxidermists was
devoted to making up and renovating skins and cleaning skeletons.
In all, the skins of 19 turtles were prepared, 56 bird skins were made
up and 188 others degreased and remade, and 14 mammals were
skinned and made up and 27 others remade. Skeletons prepared in-
cluded 109 skeletons and 1,828 skulls of mammals, and 172 complete
skeletons, 19 partial ones, and 4 skulls of birds. The collection of
District of Columbia butterflies was cleaned and fumigated.

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

Mammals.—Associate Curator David H. Johnson continued work
on two major reports, one on the mammals of the Arnhem Land Ex-
pedition of 1948 and the other on mammals of the Pacific Ocean
area, based mainly on specimens collected during World War II;
and he undertook a third involving a study of collections made in the
summer of 1951 on Mount Kinabalu in cooperation with the Army
Medical Service Graduate School.

Associate Curator Henry W. Setzer returned from his field work
on the Arctic slope of Alaska early in the year, and completed most
of the report on his collections in the form of a manual of the mammals
of the area. He initiated a complete survey of the mammals of
Alaska at the request of and in cooperation with representatives of the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service who are at the University of Alaska,
and he continued his study of the mammals collected by U. S. Naval
Medical Research Unit No. 3 in Egypt and the Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan and also his revision of the American shrews of the genus
Cry ptotis.

Assistant Curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., continued his major
study of Arctic mammals, completing the work on the lemmings
and hares and making progress on other groups, the project being
approximately 50 percent complete. He made systematic studies
24 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

of the flying squirrels, the pine mice, and the pipistrelle bats, and
made progress on his studies of the mammals of Labrador and Guate-
mala. In June he sailed from New York as a member of an expedi-
tion sponsored and led by Laurence K. Marshall, of Cambridge, Mass.,
for several months of field work in the Kalahari Desert region of
South-West Africa.

Birds.—In addition to publishing several book reviews and papers,
Curator Herbert Friedmann completed the manuscript covering the
families Ploceidae, Icteridae, and Thraupidae for the second volume
of the “Distributional Check-List of the Birds of Mexico,” and pre-
pared the manuscript for the ranges of the Ploceidae, Icteridae,
Thraupidae, and part of the Fringillidae for the fifth edition of the
American Ornithologists Union “Check-List of North American
Birds.” He completed a chapter for a book on current ornithological
research, “Recent Revisions in Classification and Their Biological
Significance,” and with Dr. A. L. Rand of the Chicago Natural His-
tory Museum began a study of the birds of Gaboon. The draft of his
monograph of the African honey guides was completed.

Associate Curator H. G. Deignan made excellent progress on his
critical catalog of the type specimens of birds in the Museum, and
on his check-list of the birds of the Indochinese region. During the
year he published 6 papers on Oriental and Australian birds, and
prepared several as yet unpublished manuscripts on additional species.

Dr. A. Wetmore devoted most of his research time to studying the
Panamanian and Colombian collections and published 9 papers in con-
nection with these and other studies.

Reptiles and amphibians.—Associate Curator Doris M. Cochran
devoted a large segment of her time to research on the frogs of west-
ern Brazil, a supplement to her paper on the frogs of southeastern
Brazil, the manuscript of which has been accepted for publication.
During the year she published a paper describing two new Brazilian
frogs.

Fishes.—Curator Leonard P. Schultz and Associate Curator Ernest
A. Lachner continued the preparation of volume 2 of “The Fishes of
the Marshall and Marianas Islands,” undertaken in conjunction with
the atom-bomb experiments. This extensive work, which has occupied
nearly all of the research time of the curator since January 1946,
and that of the associate curator since February 1949, thus far has
involved the study of 69 families embracing 231 genera and 598 species.
Volume 1 is now in publication and volume 2 is far advanced; 2 big
families having been completed this year, leaving only 3 large families
and about 3 small ones uncompleted. During the year Dr. Schultz
published 4 papers and submitted for publication 4 others.
ANNUAL REPORT—ZOOLOGY 25

Dr. Lachner published 1 paper and submitted manuscripts of 3
others. With William T. Leapley, museum aid, he undertook ecologi-
eal, life history, and taxonomic investigations of fresh-water fishes
through the Piedmont sections of the southeastern and south-central
States, collecting over 15,000 fishes as well as various other zoological
specimens.

Insects.—Curator E. A. Chapin continued his revision of the Coc-
cinellidae of the Andean region of South America, devoting most of
his time to the Colombian fauna, although considerable work was
done on the much less rich Chilean species.

Associate Curator R. EH. Blackwelder, whose study of the generic
names of the beetle family Staphylinidae was in the final stages of
publication, has two projects in progress, the bibliography and index
to his check-list of the coleopterous insects of México, Central America,
the West Indies, and South America, which is nearly completed, and
his classification of the beetle family Staphylinidae, of which two
sections out of a possible eight are in preliminary form.

Associate Curator William D. Field continued his investigations
of the butterfly family Lycaenidae, working on three groups or sub-
genera, of the genus 7hecla. A new classification of the subfamily
Theclinae is expected to emerge from this work. He also undertook
a study of three small genera of pierids, with special reference to the
South American species.

Associate Curator O. L. Cartwright continued his investigations on
the scarabaeid subfamily Aphodiinae. Two generic revisions for the
Western Hemisphere, one of Psammodius and another of Ataentus,
arein progress. The latter is of some economic importance, inasmuch
as many of its species serve as intermediate hosts for worms parasitic
in higher animals.

Associate Curator Grace Glance continued work on a species of
Collembola which shows certain unusual structures for the family
Tsotomidae.

Marine invertebraies.—Curator F. A. Chace, Jr., published his
study of a number of species of decapod and stomatopod Crustacea
and completed a short manuscript on the stomatopod fauna of the
Gulf of Mexico for inclusion in a volume on the biology and ocean-
ography of that area. He brought to the final stages of completion
his manuscript on the porcellanid crabs of West Africa and started
the introduction to the chapter on the Malacostraca and an illus-
trated key to the North American fresh-water shrimps, both of which
are to appear in the revised edition of “Fresh-water Biology” by
Ward and Whipple.
26 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

Paul L. Illg, before resigning as associate curator, completed his
monograph of the North American copepods of the family Notodel-
phyidae.

Associate Curator F. M. Bayer completed four manuscripts on octo-
corals, and also one on the alcyonarian fauna of the Gulf of Mexico
for the volume on the biology and oceanography of that area.

C. R. Shoemaker, associate in zoology, devoted much of his time
to the identification of amphipods and to a report on the amphipods
of the waters off Point Barrow, Alaska.

Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea, con-
tinued studies preliminary to a monographic report on the North
American copepods of the genus Diaptomus, as well as studies on
other fresh-water copepods from Alaska.

As usual, the work of the division was greatly aided by the volun-
teer specialists, listed below, who kindly identified material of various
groups.

Dr. Albert H. Banner: Mysid and{|Mr. Leslie Hubricht: Amphipod crus-

euphausiid crustaceans. taceans.
Mrs. Norman C. Benson: Fresh-water | Dr. Libbie H. Hyman: Flatworms.

sponges. Dr. Paul L. Illg: Copepod crustaceans.
Mr. E. L. Bousfield: Barnacles. Dr. R. W. Kiser: Cladoceran crusta-
Dr. B. G. Chitwood: Nematode and ceans.

nematomorph worms. Dr. Karl Lang: Tanaid crustaceans.

Dr. Wesley R. Coe: Nemertean worms. | Dr. M. W. de Laubenfels: Sponges.
Dr. Elisabeth Deichmann: MHolothu-} Dr. J. G. Mackin: Isopod crustaceans.

rians. Dr. Marvin C. Meyer: Leeches.

Dr. Ralph W. Dexter: Branchiopod| Mr. Stanley Mulaik: Isopod crusta-
crustaceans. ceans.

Dr. Walter K. Fisher: Poeobioid, echiu- | Dr. Raymond C. Osburn: Bryozoans.
roid, and sipunculid worms. Dr. George H. Penn: Crayfishes.

Dr. John S. Garth: Crabs. Dr. EH. Lowe Pierce: Chaetognaths.

Dr. Olga Hartman: Polychaete worms. | Dr. Edward G. Reinhard: Rhizo-

Dr. Joel W. Hedgpeth: Pycnogonids. cephalan crustaceans.

Dr. Dora P. Henry: Barnacles. Dr. J. H. Stock: Pycnogonids.

Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.: Crayfishes.

Mollusks.—Curator Harald A. Rehder finished a paper summa-
rizing current knowledge of the mollusks of the Gulf of Mexico, and
collaborated with R. Tucker Abbott, associate curator, on a paper
describing new species and subspecies of mollusk from the Gulf of
Mexico. He devoted some time to his study of the genus Distorsio
and to some interesting Caribbean species in the family Muricidae.

Associate Curator Joseph P. E. Morrison completed his studies on
the Cypraeidae of Bikini, and did considerable work on the Conidae
of the same area. He continued his studies of the families Ellobiidae,
Pleuroceridae, and Thiaridae. In June, he left to spend 3 months
in the field on Raroia Atoll, in the Tuamotu Islands, on an expedition
sponsored by the Pacific Science Board.
ANNUAL REPORT——ZOOLOGY 27

Associate Curator R. Tucker Abbott published two shorter papers
describing new species and did considerable work on the Neritidae of
Bikini. He made substantial progress with his account of American
sea-shells.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, associate in mollusks, completed his large mono-
eraph of the Urocoptidae of Cuba.

Research by visiting investigators.—Approximately 2,500 persons,
of whom more than 200 were professional biologists or serious stu-
dents, visited the offices and laboratories seeking information or the
identification of specimens, consulting the staff and the literature, and
examining the study collections. The wide range of interests covered
is shown by the following partial list of scientists, other than those of
Government agencies, who used the collections.

Dr. Emmet T. Hooper, University of Michigan. Central American squirrels.

Dr. Dioscoro S. Rabor, Silliman University, Philippines. Bats of the Philippine
Islands, of the genus Dobsonia.

Mr. Bashir HE. Allouse, Iraq Natural History Museum, Baghdad. Persian zoology
and its literature.

Dr. Oliver L. Austin, Jr., Cape Cod, Mass. Japanese and Korean birds.

Sefior Ramon Aveledo H., Caracas, Venezuela. Venezuelan birds.

Dr. Laurence Irving, Arctic Health Research Center, Anchorage, Alaska. Arctic
Alaskan birds.

Dr. Abelardo Moreno, University of Habana, Cuba. Birds of Cuba.

Dr. Frank A. Pitelka, University of California. Alaskan birds.

Dr. Myron K. Gordon, American Museum of Natural History. Mexican fishes.

Dr. Carl L. Hubbs, Scripps Institution of Oceanography. Various fish groups.

Dr. George S. Myers, Stanford University. South American fishes.

Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., University of Virginia. North American ecrayfishes.

Dr. L. B. Holthuis, Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden. Decapod
crustaceans of the Pacific.

Dr. A. S. Pearse, Duke University. North American parasitic copepod and
isopod crustaceans.

Dr. Marian H. Pettibone, Johns Hopkins University. Arctic polychaete worms.

Dr. Freydoun A. Afshar, Department of Mines, Teheran, Iran. Mollusks of the
family Tellinidae.

Dr. S. Stillman Berry, Redlands, Calif. Marine mollusks of California and the
Gulf of Mexico.
Department of Botany

(Jason R. SwALLEN, Head Curator)

The botanical collections have been enriched by significant material
from diverse regions, some of which have been very poorly represented
in the herbarium. Accessions increased almost 40 percent over last
year, and exceeded those of any year since the organization of the
department. Continued emphasis on curatorial work has improved
the usefulness of the collections and increased the efficiency with which
they can be consulted. The research of staff members is reflected in
the 22 papers completed and submitted for publication, while 85 ad-
ditional papers, based in part on material in the National Herbarium,
were published by other investigators.

ACCESSIONS

A number of important or noteworthy collections were received
by the department. Received in exchange were 515 specimens from
the Instituto de Botanico, Universidad Nacional de Tucuman, Tucu-
man, Argentina, collected by H. Sleumer in Patagonia, a region
poorly represented in the National Herbarium; 659 specimens from
the Botanical Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.,
consisting of 5 fascicles of the “Herbarium Flora SSSR” and various
collections from western Siberia; 1,187 specimens from the Division
of Botany and Plant Pathology, Department of Agriculture, Ottawa,
Canada, composed of miscellaneous Canadian plants; 982 specimens
from the University of California, mostly from California, collected
by Annie M. Alexander and Louise Kellogg; 2,072 specimens of un-
usual historical interest from the Conservatoire et Jardin Botaniques,
Geneva, Switzerland, mostly phanerogams and cryptogams from
Switzerland ; and 800 specimens from the New York Botanical Gar-
den, collected in Nyasaland by Dr. L. J. Brass.

Gifts included 1,419 specimens from the Arctic Institute of North
America, collected by L. A. Spetzman in Alaska; and 1,133 plants of
Florida from the Archbold Biological Station, Lake Placid, Fla.,
collected by Dr. L. J. Brass. Among those received as gifts with
names requested were 1,436 specimens from the Museo de Historia
Natural “Javier Prado,” Lima, Pert, collected by Dr. Ramén Ferreyra
and associates; 602 specimens (some in exchange) from the New York
Botanical Garden, collected in Venezuela by Dr. Bassett Maguire,
containing many novelties and material of critical or little-known
species; and 692 plants (some in exchange) from the University of

28
ANNUAL REPORT—-BOTANY 29

California, collected by Dr. H. L. Mason, S. G. Smith, and others in
Colombia.

For the Museum, E. P. Killip collected 1,367 specimens, mostly
from the Florida Keys and Cuba, and Dr. E. H. Walker collected
6,356 plants in the Ryukyu Islands and Japan on his botanical survey
of Okinawa and adjacent islands.

The important accessions of interest primarily to the individual
divisions were the following:

Phanerogams.—As a gift, identifications requested for some, 1,494
specimens of Colombian plants collected and presented by Oscar L.
Haught, representing the most recent results of his productive field
work in South America; 1,054 specimens received in exchange from
the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University, many of them col-
lected in the West Indies by Dr. R. A. Howard; presented by the
Charleston Museum, 5,800 European plants of the Kuntze Herbarium,
containing many specimens of historical interest.

Grasses.—Collected for the Museum by Jason R. Swallen, 1,764
grasses of Honduras; in exchange, 400 specimens of Kuropean grasses
from the Botanic Garden, Gothenburg, Sweden, and 200 African
grasses from the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England, the latter
including some types; as gifts for identifications, 249 specimens from
the Instituto Ecuatoriano de Ciencias Naturales, Quito, collected in
Keuador by Dr. M. Acosta Solis; 771 specimens, including many dupli-
cates, of rare or critical grasses of Hawaii and other islands collected
by and received from Otto Degener; and 173 Chilean specimens
from Dr. H. Gunckel, Santiago, Chile, collected by him.

Ferns.—Gifts with names requested, 114 Mexican ferns from the
Chicago Natural History Museum, collected by Dr. Margery Carlson ;
108 specimens from South America, collected by Dr. Rosa Scolnik,
Cordoba, Argentina; and 94 specimens from México, collected by
Hernando Sanchez M., México, D. F.; in exchange, 67 ferns from Gold
Coast, Africa, from Dr. C. D. Adams; as a gift from Dr. Charles L.
Gilly, 83 specimens from México; as a transfer from the Herbarium

of the National Arboretum, 567 specimens from Colombia and
Ecuador.

Cry ptogams.—In exchange, 1,020 lichens and mosses from Sweden,
received from O. Kjellmert; 347 marine algae, including a number of
types, received from the Allan Hancock Foundation; 313 miscellane-
ous specimens from Texas and California, received from Southern
Methodist University; 212 specimens from the Arnold Arboretum of
Harvard University, collected by Dr. A. C. Smith in Fiji; and 207
marine algae from the University of California; collected for the
Museum by C. V. Morton, 232 miscellaneous specimens from Minne-
sota and California; as a transfer from the Herbarium of the National
Arboretum, 1,000 bryophytes of India, collected by Walter Koelz.

225236—52 8
30 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

CARE OF COLLECTIONS

The maintenance of the collections and the processing of new mate-
rial continued normally, although more was accomplished than in
preceding years. The major activities are summarized in the follow-

ing tabulation:
1950-51 1951-52

Specimensmmountedeas-emacceeee erect eee eer: 33, 488 37, 886
Specimens srepaired eyyai1o cto <ioclovoiers ouuetons clei cte rete etoleie elevayeie’s 7, 592 4, 566
Specimens stamped and recorded...................... 32, 104 40, 225
Specimens incorporated in herbarium................-. 32, 617 47, 406
Photozraphs MoO uMbe days erie ois eiesiete cele stele rele ieielelekerelele 1, 754 1, 851

There were 968 types segregated from the general herbarium or
selected from recent accessions and incorporated in the type herba-
rium, which now contains 52,768 specimens, as follows: Phanero-
gams, 37,579; grasses, 9,759; ferns, 3,090; cryptogams, 2,340.

The Hitchcock and Chase Library was increased by 124 publications
on grasses, making a total of 6,976. The grass species index now con-
contains 78,007 entries, 196 having been added during the year. Thir-
teen fruits were added to the special collection of the division of
phanerogams, which now consists of 1,061 specimens.

The custom of fumigating the herbarium twice a year has seemed
more frequent than necessary, and for the last two years the collections
have been fumigated only once a year. Since no insect damage or in-
festation has been noted, the latter schedule will be continued, with a
resulting saving of material and greater convenience to the staff and
visiting botanists. All incoming specimens are fumigated at once.

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

Phanerograms.—Continuing his studies of Pacific Island plants,
Dr. A. C. Smith submitted for publication five papers in his series on
this subject, including regional revisions of the families Cunoniaceae,
Kuphorbiaceae, and Elaeocarpaceae for Fiji and some adjacent archi-
pelagos, as well as miscellaneous notes on other families.

Dr. L. B. Smith continued his work on separate accounts of the
family Bromeliaceae in Colombia, Bolivia, and Brazil, his major effort
being directed toward the completion of keys to the 550 Brazilian
species. His research in the genus Begonia, in collaboration with Dr.
Bernice G. Schubert, has continued with the publication of one report.
The manuscript of a treatment of the genus Xyris in Colombia, a joint
project with Dr. Jestis M. Idrobo, has been completed, and studies of
the Colombian Violaceae are being continued in collaboration with
Dr. Alvaro Fernandez.

From February to May, he carried on field work in eastern Brazil,
visiting States from Para to Santa Catarina, to study the family
ANNUAL REPORT—BOTANY 31

Bromeliaceae in relation to malaria control. The field work was
made possible by the cooperation of the Rockefeller Foundation and
various Brazilian institutions, notably the Servico Nacional de Ma-
laria, the Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” the Museu Nacional, the
Jardim Botinico do Rio de Janeiro, and the Instituto de Botanica de
Sao Paulo. The herbaria at these institutions, as well as those of the
Museu Goeldi and Instituto Agrondmico do Norte at Belém, were
found to be rich in specimens of the Bromeliaceae. A study of this
material added over 1,000 citations to the manuscript of the Brazilian
Bromeliaceae now in preparation, and contributed toward a better
definition of the species and knowledge of their distribution.

At the opening of the year, Dr. E. H. Walker was engaged in field
work in the Ryukyu Islands under the auspices of the Pacific Science
Board, which is conducting a scientific investigation of these islands
for the Department of the Army. He made extensive botanical collec-
tions on the southern Ryukyus, in Japan, and on Okinawa. In
addition to enriching the national collections, his trip provided con-
tacts that will lead to the receipt of further collections. It also laid
the groundwork for the establishment of a herbarium at the Uni-
versity of the Ryukyus and permitted the preparation of a report on
the plants and vegetation of Okinawa. After his return on Sep-
tember 30, he devoted much time to arranging his collections, writing
a paper on his trip, and continuing his documentation of a manuscript
flora of Okinawa prepared by resident botanists. He also engaged
in preparing a booklet on the important trees of the Ryukyu Islands.
While in Japan, he examined herbarium material in Tokyo and Kyoto
for the furtherance of his study of Japanese Myrsinaceae. To the
Natural History Society of Thailand he submitted for publication
a contribution toward a bibliography of Thai botany.

EK. C. Leonard continued his studies of the family Acanthaceae,
submitting for publication the second part of his comprehensive
revision of the Colombian species; the third and last part of this
project is far advanced, the final groups of the family now being
under study. A monotypic new genus of the family from Costa Rica
was described and the manuscript submitted for publication. He
also completed and published jointly with Dr. H. A. Allard a paper
discussing the floristics of the Canaan and Stony River Valleys of
West Virginia.

Velva E. Rudd’s revision of the American species of the genus
Aeschynomene is aproaching completion, the entire manuscript being
ready for final consideration after maps and other figures are pre-
pared.

E. P. Killip, research associate, spent several months on the Florida
Keys continuing his intensive collecting for the Museum and his
32 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

special study of the flora of Big Pine Key. Subsequently he traveled
to the west coast before returning to Washington, making small col-
lections at selected localities.

Grasses.—In October and November, Jason R. Swallen spent several
weeks collecting in Honduras, principally in the Departments of
Morazin and El] Paraiso. Through the courtesy of the director,
Dr. Wilson Popenoe, and Dr. Louis O. Williams, he was the guest
of the Escuela Agricola Panamericana, Teguicigalpa, Honduras,
founded and operated by the United Fruit Company. His field
studies of grasses in such diverse habitats as pine forests, open grass-
lands, and cloud forests, will help in classifying critical groups,
especially Panicum, and in facilitating the identification of rather
large lots of grasses collected in the region in recent years and sent to
the National Museum for study. He completed work on several of
the larger and more complex genera for his manuscript on the Gram-
ineae for the flora of Guatemala, which is being published by the
Chicago Natural History Museum. Two of his papers on the Gram-
ineae were published, one in the “Flora of the Charleston Mountains”
by Ira W. Clokey, and the other in the “Arizona Flora” by T. H.
Kearney and R. H. Peebles.

Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, spent considerable time re-
vising the herbarium collections of Digztaria in the light of the recent
monograph of the genus by Dr. J. Th. Henrard. She also continued
special studies on various genera of South American grasses. Her
paper describing new species of Thrasya and Ichnanthus from Ven-
ezuela was published.

Ferns.—The principal research of C. V. Morton has been on the
ferns of Honduras and Guatemala, countries for which he has been
preparing ferns floras in cooperation with the Escuela Agricola Pan-
americana and the Chicago Natural History Museum. His account
of the ferns of Arizona, appearing in the “Arizona Flora,” was pub-
lished during the year, as were three other short papers, one describ-
ing a new species of Danaea, one recording a species of fern new to
the United States, and one making new combinations in the genera
Equisetum and Pellaea. He also read proof on his account of the
ferns and fern allies of the northeastern United States and Canada,
scheduled for publication in the coming year.

Cry ptogams.—Paul S. Conger continued his studies of the diatoms
of Chesapeake Bay and his revisional work on Rhizosolenia eriensis
and allied forms.

Research by visiting investigators.—Two investigators who have
spent a year or more studying in the National Herbarium have com-
pleted their work: Dr. Ramon Ferreyra, of the University of San
Marcos, Lima, Peri, who has returned to Pert; and Dr. Hui-Lin Li,
ANNUAL REPORT-—BOTANY 33

of National Taiwan University, Taipeh, Taiwan, China. Dr. Jesis
M. Idrobo, of the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota, Colombia,
is continuing his studies of the flora of Colombia. ‘There were 68
botanists who made use of the collections of the National Herbarium
in connection with their research projects, in addition to over 700
persons who visited the department briefly, usually seeking informa-
tion of various kinds. Mycological specialists have made continued
use of the Lloyd Herbarium and other units of the fungus collections
which are maintained in cooperation with the Bureau of Plant Indus-
try, Soils, and Agricultural Engineering at Beltsville, Md. In par-
ticular, studies have been made in the Polyporaceae and Xylariaceae,
families which include many wood-rotting forms of economic impor-
tance. The collections have been consulted frequently by members
of the stafis of other Government agencies, particularly of the Bureau
of Plant Industry, Soils, and Agricultural Engineering, the Forest
Service, the Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Geological Survey.
Department of Geology

(W. F. Fosuac, Head Curator)

The increase of the geologic collections has again been very satis-
factory, largely as a result of an effective program of field work and
the acquisition of desirable material through gifts of valuable col-
lections of type and described specimens. The increase in the num-
ber of visitors interested in the study of collections, and the wide
variety of appeals for material for study reflect the importance of the
extensive collections as a reservoir of potential scientific information.

In addition to the increase in the purely scientific value of the col-
lections, the exhibition series, particularly the minerals and gems,
continue to show a marked improvement in quality. Changes in
both the vertebrate and mineral exhibition halls have greatly
improved the effectiveness of the exhibits.

The scientific achievement of the staff has shown satisfactory ad-
vancement, and several important projects are now nearing
completion.

ACCESSIONS

Mineralogy and petrology.—A total of 730 speciments in 105 acces-
sions was added to the collection of the division. Five new species
not formerly represented were received from the following donors:
scholzite from Prof. H. Strunz, priderite from Prof. R. T. Prider and
Mr. K. Norrish, viséite from Ohio State University, through Prof.
Duncan McConnell, gumucionite from Julio F. Gumucio, and wherry-
ite from Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Bradley. New species received in
exchange were: rosieresite, weibyite, and ambatoarinite.

Among the many fine specimens received as gifts during the past
year the following are noteworthy: autunite, Portugal, from Charles
F. Davidson, Director, Atomic Energy Division of the Geological
Survey of Great Britain; uvarovite, California, from Mrs. William
S. Robertson; terlinguaite, México, from David Gallagher; andalusite,
Maine, from Benjamin B. Burbank; stilbite, Pennsylvania, from Joel
Shappirio and Omer Raup; garnet, Georgia, from G. W. Withers;
monazite, New Mexico, from Dr. Oscar B. Muench; mareasite, Mis-
sissippi, from Mr. S. Mahurin; beryl, Uganda, from John 8. Al-
banese; jasper, North Dakota, from Peter Zodac; monazite, Maine,
from Leo Neal Yedlin; uraninite, New Hampshire, from Prof. Benja-
min M. Shaub; kaersutite, Arizona, from Edward T. Schenck; corun-
dum, Madagascar, from Leroy M. Otis; allanite, California, from Dr.

34
ANNUAL REPORT—GEOLOGY 35

George Neuerburg; and tsumebite, Arizona, from the University of
Arizona through Prof. John W. Anthony.

Through the Roebling fund 71 specimens were obtained. Out-
standing among these are a large colorless gem spodumene crystal
from Brazil, two fine-quality lilac colored spodumene (kunzite) crys-
tals and a cut gem of this same material from California, a fine topaz
crystal from Colorado, and huge bournonite crystals, altering to
bindheimite, from Austria. Also received through the Roebling fund
were several etched masses of gem quality beryl from Brazil, from
one of which a fine, flawless, light green oval gem weighing 578 carats
was cut for the Museum by Comdr. J. Sinkankas.

Among the unusual specimens obtained through the Canfield fund
are a magnificent pink octahedron of fluorite on smoky quartz from
Switzerland, a large wolframite crystal on cassiterite from Bolivia,
and excellent vanadinite specimens from México.

A fine cat’s-eye chrysoberyl from Ceylon was a gift of Mrs. C.
Drage in memory of her father, Dr. Frank Wigglesworth Clarke, for
many years honorary curator of minerals in the National Museum.
A spessartite garnet gem of orange-brown color from Brazil, weigh-
ing almost 54 carats, was purchased through the Chamberlain fund.

Two unusually large idocrase crystals from Olmsteadville, N. Y.,
were received in exchange from Elmer Rowley.

Dr. Stuart H. Perry continued his interest in the meteorite collec-
tion by donating five meteorites, including the following three new to
our collections: Dayton, Montgomery County, Ohio; Loreta, Baja
California, México; and Keen Mountain, Buchanan County, Va.

Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—Many important
accessions came to this division through gifts, exchanges, transfer
from other government agencies, or as collections made in the field
by members of the staff. The gifts brought in 19,716 specimens, the
transfers totaled 253,607 specimens, the exchanges aggregated 4,487
specimens, and 861 specimens were collected for the Museum, mak-
ing a grand total of 278,671 specimens for the year.

Important gifts include 75 type specimens of Foraminifera from
Trinidad, from Dr. P. Bronnimann; 14 type specimens of Cretaceous
Foraminifera and 39 type specimens of Paleocene Radiolaria from
Dr. D. L. Frizzell; 600 slides of Recent Foraminifera from Dr. F. B.
Phleger, Jr.; 58 type specimens of Foraminifera from the Lower
Cretaceous of Algeria, from Dr. A. ten Dam; 309 Jurassic ammonites
from Arabia, from the Arabian American Oil Co. through D. M.
Brown; 1,000 Ordovician, Devonian and Mississippian invertebrate
fossils from Guy Campbell; 51 slides of type specimens of Devonian
ostracods from Iowa, from Lee B. Gibson; 150 specimens of inverte-
brate fossils from Mr. and Mrs. G. C. Higgins and Mr. and Mrs. A. L.
36 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

Bowsher ; 2,500 specimens of invertebrate fossils from the Ordovician,
Devonian, and Upper Paleozoic, from New Mexico Bureau of Mines
and Mineral Resources through R. H. Jahns; 750 specimens of Penn-
sylvanian invertebrate fossils from north-central Texas, from Daniel
Jarvis; 100 specimens from the Permian of México, from Dr. W. A.
Kelly; 100 specimens of Silurian, Devonian, and Pennsylvanian
brachiopods from Oklahoma, from J. T. Stevens; 60 specimens of
Upper Cretaceous bryozoans from Kunrade, Holland, from Ehrhardt
Voigt; 24 specimens of Jurassic brachiopods from Africa, from
Maurice H. Wallace; 1,400 specimens of Middle Cambrian trilobites,
mostly type and figured specimens, from Dr. Franco Rasetti; and 90
type specimens of Mississippian crinoids from Dr. L. R. Laudon.

Gifts from the Springer fund contain many crinoid types among
the 228 specimens purchased. As in previous years the Walcott fund
made possible the detail of several field parties. Material accessioned
as gifts from this fund during the year include goniatites collected
in the Glass Mountains, Tex., by Dr. G. A. Cooper and A. L.
Bowsher; Upper Paleozoic fossils collected by A. L. Bowsher
and W. T. Allen in Pennsylvania and Ohio; crinoids collected by
A. L. Bowsher and Dr. Edwin Kirk of the U. S. Geological Survey in
Alabama and Tennessee; foraminiferal and molluscan samples col-
lected by Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., and Dr. David Nicol in eastern
Virginia; and invertebrate fossils collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper in
the Southern Appalachians.

Transfers from the U. S. Geological Survey include 1,800 type
specimens of Ozarkian and Canadian cephalopods described by A. K.
Miller, the late Dr. E. O. Ulrich and other collaborators.

Vertebrate paleontology.—Of considerable scientific interest in
vertebrate paleontology is the collection of about 270 specimens of
small mammals secured by Dr. C. L. Gazin, under a grant from the
Walcott fund, from various lower Eocene and lower Oligocene de-
posits of western Wyoming.

Mention should also be made of four small collections of fossil verte-
brate remains transferred to the National Museum from the Smith-
sonian River Basin Surveys, made by Dr. T. E. White from various
localities in North and South Dakota, Texas, and Montana. These
finds include a Cretaceous mosasaur and a Paleocene pantolambdid
from the Dakotas, and a representative collection of Oligocene and
Miocene mammalian materials from the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area
in Montana.

New acquisitions of lower vertebrate fossils include the partial
skull of one of the rare marine crocodiles, purchased through the
Walcott fund, and a small collection of well-preserved fish remains
from the Gondwanic rocks of the Parané Basin of Brazil, transferred
ANNUAL REPORT—GEOLOGY of

by the U. S. Geological Survey. A noteworthy gift by Mrs. R. Lee
Collins from the materials collected by her late husband included the
type of the Cretaceous turtle Zoxochelys weeksi; remains of a Miocene
sailfish, Acanthocybium solandri; and jaws of a Pleistocene bear,
Euarctos sp.

EXHIBITION

The renovation of the mineral hall, begun during the previous year,
was completed. Five cases of special exhibits, one each for calcite,
fluorite, silicates, and carbonates; one for molybdates, sulfates, and
borates; and a sixth relating to the geography of minerals, were
installed. A special display entitled “What is a Mineral?” was also
installed at the entrance to the mineral hall to introduce the exhibits.
In it a mineral is defined and some of the principles of mineral and
crystal formation are illustrated by large and striking specimens. The
Dr. James Douglas collection of azurite and malachite from the famous
mines of Bisbee, Ariz., was moved to a new case, more effectively
supplementing the general collections.

For the hall of vertebrate paleontology, drawings and layout for
two new-type cases were completed for exhibits depicting the “Nature
of Fossils” and the “Kinds of Vertebrate Fossils,” and diorama panels
for one of these cases were prepared. Also, extensive repairs were
made to the popular papier maché model of the stegosaurian dinosaur,
the interior framework of which was beginning to collapse.

CARE OF COLLECTIONS

The majority of the collections in the division of mineralogy are
in good condition, and the progress of routine care has not slackened.
The project of designating a specimen of each mineral species by a dis-
tinctive mark as a standard of that species, to be kept inviolate, has
been continued. In the lapidary shop, 62 meteorites were cut, polished,
and etched; 367 rocks, ores, and minerals were cut and polished; 128
thin sections were prepared; and 156 plaster bases for exhibition speci-
mens were Cast.

In invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany type specimens have
been segregated from all collections in the immediate care of the divi-
sion, except for the brachiopods, which have been awaiting accumula-
tion of sufficient drawers to house them. The gastropod, pteropod,
cephalopod, and ostracod type collections have been checked for miss-
ing specimens, and are now in good condition; the types in the Pale-
ozoic part of the paleobotanical collections are being segregated as
time permits; and preparation of a finding card catalog of the strati-
graphic collections was started. Associate Curator A. R. Loeblich, Jr.,
38 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

has integrated nearly all of the Cushman collection of Foraminifera
with the national collection, and all slides are now stored in flat-file
steel cabinets. Much progress has been made in covering slides with
full-length glass cover slips and aluminum holders, and in remounting
many hundreds of slides, including types, that were in poor condition.
This important collection is now completely available to researchers
in this field.

In vertebrate paleontology attention has been focused on the lower
Tertiary, or Paleocene and Eocene, collections, and during the past
year large collections from Gray Bull lower Eocene of the Big Horn
Basin and Knight lower Eocene of the Green River Basin have been
identified, cataloged, and arranged in the general study series. Asso-
ciate Curator D. H. Dunkle completed the rearrangement necessitated
by the segregation of type specimens from the collections, and made
progress on documenting the older fish collections. He finished cata-
loging the late Paleozoic ray-finned fishes, identified and labeled the
Eocene teleostean genera Lrismatopterus, Amphiplaga, Asineops, and
Trichophanes, currently under study, and commenced sorting on an
ordinal basis the undistributed portion of the large Springer collec-
tion of late Paleozoic sharks. The laboratory of vertebrate pale-
ontology continued to devote much of its time to the preparation of
the material of the giant ground sloth A/egatherium, secured by field
parties in Panama in early 1950 and early 1951.

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

Mineralogy and petrology.—The study of the development of
Paricutin Volcano, México, was submitted by Head Curator W. F.
Foshag to the U. S. Geological Survey for publication. The study of
Mesoamerican jade objects in the collections in Guatemala, begun
under a cooperative project of the Instituto de Antropologia e His-
toria, Guatemala, and the Smithsonian Institution has been con-
tinued. Chemical analyses show that in spite of a wide range of
color and optical properties, the mineralogical nature of the jade is
quite uniform. A byproduct of the study of the archeological jades
of Guatemala is a sutdy of the natural system jadeite-diopside being
carried out by Dr. Foshag, Associate Curator G. S. Switzer, and
Joseph Fahey. New analyses and new optical data will add much to
this important group of minerals. Drs. Foshag and Switzer con-
tinued their annual summary of the diamond industry, publishing
the results for the year 1950 and accumulating the statistics for 1951.

Dr. Switzer continued his comprehensive study of the uranium
minerals, a project being carried out for the U.S. Geological Survey at
the Museum because of the excellent reference collections at hand.
ANNUAL REPORT—GEOLOGY 39

He completed a reinvestigation of the obscure radioactive mineral
guadarramite, which was shown to be ilmenite, and a crystallographic
study of some complex fluorite crystals from México, and continued
work on several other projects, including a reexamination of the rare
and complex mercury mineral mosesite. He added 250 X-ray powder
diffraction patterns of minerals to the reference catalog of these
photographs. In order that these patterns be entirely reliable, the
nature of the specimen must be authenticated, a determination that
frequently involves some detailed investigation.

Associate Curator Henderson continued his investigations of the
composition and classification of iron meteorites. Reexaminations
were made of the following irons: Pittsburgh, Pa.; Breece, N. Mex.;
Ballinger, Tex.; Yenberrie, Australia; Morita, México; Tombigbee,
Ala.; Soroti, Uganda; and Cincinnati, Ohio. A study was also com-
pleted of the relationships and distribution of cohenite inclusions in
iron meteorites.

Dr. Stuart H. Perry, associate in mineralogy, is engaged in pre-
paring his seventh series of photomicrographs of iron meteorites.

Dr. John P. Marble, associate in mineralogy, continued his inves-
tigations on the absolute measurement of geologic time. As chair-
man of the Committee on the Measurement of Geological Time, of the
National Research Council, he prepared the annual report of the
committee, which includes, as usual, his comprehensive annual an-
notated bibliography of articles referring to this subject. He sub-
mitted to the National Research Council his report to the Commis-
sion on Atomic Weights, International Union of Chemistry, entitled
“Natural Variations in Isotopic Ratios of the Chemical Elements.”

Frank L. Hess, associate in mineralogy, continued his investiga-
tions of the origin of igneous nodules of the type commonly called
“thunder eggs.”

Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—Curator G. A.
Cooper completed the generic and specific description for his study
of Chazyan and related brachiopods. A total of 268 plates was pre-
pared to illustrate this report, which treats about 900 species and more
than 150 genera. He completed the description of the Permian
brachiopods collected from the vicinity of El Antimonio in Sonora,
México, a work that will include a section on the fusulinids by Dr. C. O.
Dunbar of Yale University, and another on the gastropods by Dr.
J. B. Knight, and he also completed a short paper describing Cam-
brian and lower Ordovician silicified brachiopods from the Arbuckle
limestone of Oklahoma. In the latter half of October, Dr. Cooper
joined Dr. B. N. Cooper of Virginia Polytechnic Institute in a study
of sections in the Southern Appalachians, an expedition that termi-
nated Curator Cooper’s field work on the Chazyan and related brachi-
40 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

opods. This party was particularly interested in determining facies
relationships of the nonmarine Ordovician beds on the east side of the
Appalachian Valley to the marine beds on the west side. In May Dr.
Cooper and Prof. H. B. Whittington of Harvard University spent
4. days in the vicinity of Staunton, Va., searching for localities that
might yield good silicified trilobite material.

During the year Associate Curator A. R. Loeblich, Jr., spent much
of his research time in generic revisions. Nine papers, involving a
revision of 17 genera were prepared, in part with Helen Tappan
Loeblich, and submitted for publication in various journals. In addi-
tion, his studies of the Foraminifera of the Recent Arctic and of the
American lower Cretaceous are nearing completion. In August he
collected foraminiferal samples from uppermost lower Cretaceous
and basal upper Cretaceous beds in northern Texas, and in November,
with Associate Curator Nicol, he collected foraminiferal samples and
mollusks from the Miocene (St. Mary’s) formation in eastern Virginia.

Associate Curator A. L. Bowsher completed his field work for the
study of Mississippian bioherms and stratigraphy of the Mississippian
rocks of New Mexico, and is bringing to completion his paper on
actinocrinitid crinoids. Accompanied by Museum Aid William T.
Allen, he collected from Mississippian, Pennsylvanian, and Permian
strata in the Sacramento Mountains, N. Mex. During this trip the
party assisted members of the New Mexico Bureau of Mines. In late
October, with Dr. Edwin Kirk of the U. S. Geological Survey, he
spent about 10 days in Alabama and Tennessee collecting Mississip-
pian crinoids. In April, with Museum Aid W. T. Allen, he collected
Mississippian and Pennsylvanian fossils in northern Ohio and western
Pennsylvania. This trip was made to obtain material for comparison
with New Mexico faunas.

Associate Curator David Nicol published one paper on pelecypod
systematics and taxonomy and has five others in press. He is now
studying the systematic position of the pelecypod genus Pliocardia
Woodring with the idea of perfecting its classification.

Research Associate J. Brookes Knight has in press his study of
gastropod reclassification and is devoting himself to a study of the
Permian snails and to supervising the work of three graduate students
who are helping him to prepare the chapter on Paleozoic gastropods
for the “Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology.”

Associate in Paleontology R. S. Bassler expects soon to submit his
large manuscript on the Bryozoa to the committee for the Treatise.

Vertebrate paleontology.—In a field trip during the summer of
1951, Curator C. L. Gazin continued his investigation of and made
further collections from the lower Eocene Knight formation in the
Green River and Bridger Basins of southwestern Wyoming and se-
ANNUAL REPORT—GEOLOGY Al

cured collections from lower Oligocene deposits in the Wind River
Basin. The collections from the Knight lower Eocene, added to those
of the seasons of 1941, 1948, and 1949, were the basis for a detailed
study of the Knight faunas he completed during the year. Included
in the study, in addition to the large collection made for the Smith-
sonian Institution, were materials in the American Museum and at
Princeton University from this formation. The report on this investi-
gation, which has been submitted for publication shows that there are
four faunal horizons for fossil Mammalia in the original Wasatch, two
in the Knight proper, one in Knight beds interfingering with Green
River, and one in the Almy formation underlying the Knight.

Associate Curator D. H. Dunkle continued two long-range projects ;
a study of the Eocene Green River shale fauna, undertaken in col-
laboration with Dr. Bobb Schaeffer of The American Museum of Nat-
ural History, and the problems of the late Mesozoic origins of the tele-
ostean orders of fishes. The first involves morphological study of each
of the 36 specific members of the fauna, their taxonomic revision, re-
view of geographic and geologic distributions, and an ecological analy-
sis. The fauna is ideal for monographing on broad objective and
subjective bases because large series of complete and beautifully pre-
served specimens are available. Current work is centered on the genus
Asineops, the seventh of 15 genera to receive preliminary study. The
second project has as its objective the determination of the phyletic
lines connecting the late Mesozoic holostean ray-finned fishes with the
descendent Tertiary and Recent Teleostei. To date a three-dimen-
sional skull of the primitive teleost Leptolepis has been serially
sectioned by the “peel method” and a wax reconstruction is in process
of completion. At the present time he is engaged in developing a tech-
nique for etching suitable materials in acetic acid. In addition, he
completed brief studies on some fragmentary remains of the arthro-
diran fish Dinichthys terrelli Newberry, from the central] mineral re-
gion of Texas, and on new Jurassic occurrences of fishes in México, and
he made excellent progress on manuscripts dealing with new records of
Permo-carboniferous fishes in Brazil and with the morphology of the
Devonian arthrodire Dinicthys herzeri Newberry. During October
1951, he enjoyed a brief opportunity to examine reported Mexican oc-
currences of Cretaceous fishes at Xilitla, San Luis Potosi, and Tlaxi-
aco, Oaxaca, and to study collections at the Instituto de Geologia in
México, D. F.

Research by visiting investigators.—Dr. Teng-Chien Yen, a prin-
cipal investigator for the Office of Naval Research, continued his
studies of nonmarine fossil mollusca of Mesozoic and Tertiary age,
with emphasis on their paleoecological environment, from the Rocky
Mountain region.
42 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

As in past years, many investigators from this country and else-
where were aided by the staff or used the Museum collections. Dr.
T. W. Amsden, Johns Hopkins University, continued his study of
Silurian (St. Clair) brachiopods from Arkansas. Dr. Franco Rasetti
of the same university continued his studies of Cambrian trilobites and
is a frequent visitor to the Museum laboratories. Dr. Norman D.
Newell, American Museum of National History, is monographing
a large collection of Permian pelecypods in the National Museum.
Dr. John Hoskins, University of Cincinnati, has been loaned a large
collection of fossil wood from the lower Mississippian rocks of Ken-
tucky. Dr. Harry B. Whittington, Harvard University, is preparing
a monograph on the silicified Ordovician trilobites collected by Dr.
G. A. Cooper near Strasburg, Va. Dr. Erwin Stumm, University of
Michigan, is preparing a monograph on Devonian trilobites of Michi-
gan partly on National Museum materials. Dr. H. V. Anderson, Lou-
isiana State University, worked in Foraminifera at the Museum.
J. B. McLean, Jr., Alexandria, Va., visits the Museum to study collec-
tions and confer with the scientists. Dr. Ivar Hessland from Sweden
spent several days on two occasions at the Museum studying Paleozoic
ostracods.
Department of Engineering
and Industries

(Frank A. Taytor, Head Curator)

Improvement of exhibits, increases in the help given to students
and inquirers, advances in the care and organization of collections,
and solid progress in the study programs marked the year. The
special exhibits of textiles, the established monthly exhibits in photog-
raphy and the graphic arts, the Photography-in-Science competition,
and the exhibits arranged for the meeting of the Early American
Industries Association, afforded a full schedule of special events.

Edward C. Kendall, a specialist in the history of agriculture and
industry, was appointed associate curator in charge of the sections of
manutactures and agricultural industries. William E. Bridges, mu-
seum aide, entered military service.

ACCESSIONS

Crafts and industries.—Two fine examples of labor-saving ma-
chines that served the farmer before the general mechanization of
farms were received. From Arden Wilson came a crank-operated
fanning mill for separating chaff from grain and hulls from beans,
used in West Virginia about 75 years ago; and from Warren Ham-
mond, a 2-row, hand, corn planter dated about 1860. To the collec-
tion of modern fabrics were added examples of wool-back fabrics,
from William Skinner & Sons, and fabrics illustrating fiber blending
for better fabric performance, from Goodall-Sanford, Inc. A beau-
tiful round tablecloth nearly 11 feet in diameter, made of linen
eyelet lace and hand-made filet medallions, was received from the
estate of Lena L. Jones. Edna Plummer presented 3 examples of
hand-netted lace, and Mrs. Helen F. McMickle gave 8 pieces of Ameri-
can embroidery and drawn work of the eighteenth and nineteenth cen-
turies. The section of wood technology received from the United
States Forest Products Laboratory a collection of 17 woods of the
United States and México, authenticated by herbarium material, and
§ new wood products resulting from laboratory research. Joseph
L. Stearns presented 25 authentic woods of Indo-China.

Engineering.—An oil engine made before 1878 by George B.
Brayton, American inventor and engine manufacturer, was presented
by Brown University at the suggestion of Professor Emeritus Wil-
liam H. Kenerson. The engine, purchased of Brayton by the Uni-
versity about 1878 to drive an arc-light dynamo, is a 1-cylinder,

43
44 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

kerosene-burning beam engine, weighing about 1,500 pounds. It
developed 214 horsepower at maximum performance. Brayton man-
ufactured gas and oil engines for sale, and experimented with
the use of them for the propulsion of boats and a street car. Stephen
C. Van Fleet presented a collection of early radio apparatus includ-
ing a complete 10-watt transmitter of 1922-23, a Jenkins Radio-
visor of 1930, and a See-All television scanner. Eight scale models
of early American automobiles were presented by A. J. Koveleski,
bringing the total of models received from him to 16. A Cleveland
motorcycle of 1918 was received from Russell and Richard Fiedler.
Robert B. Applebee and Ralph E. Cropley continued to send additions
to the collection of illustrations and notes on watercraft.

Graphic arts.—A series of stones and prints to illustrate the making
of a lithograph, made by the artist Russell T. Limbach at the request
of the National Museum, was acquired for use in the exhibited col-
lections. Several notable prints were purchased through the Dahl-
green fund. Included are two niello prints of the fifteenth century,
“Christ on the Cross” and “Portrait of a Pope.” Goldsmiths, to ob-
serve the progress of their work in engraving on gold or silver, made
these niello prints by filling the engraved designs with a black
substance from which an impression on paper could be obtained by
rubbing. These prints foreshadow line engraving and are of historical
interest in the development of the graphic arts. The Dahlgreen
fund purchase includes “Mountain Landscape,” a wood cut by Ernst L.
Kirchner; “Three Holy Kings,” a wood cut by Karl Schmitt-Rottluf;
and “Tightrope Walker,” a dry-point by Max Beckmann. These
artists were outstanding exponents of German Expressionism, an im-
portant influence in printmaking after World War I. Received from
Dr. Lowrain McCrea was his original cystoscope camera. Dr. Doris
M. Cochran presented a field photographer’s outfit of the nineteenth
century, including among its 52 pieces a Prosch shutter, a candle-
burning safe light, and a dryplate camera. Mrs. Ella K. Ferguson,
granddaughter of John R. Schorb, reputed to have been the first
American commercial photographer, presented 5 tintypes, 3 daguerreo-
types, 2 ambrotypes, 3 prints, and a glass plate negative, all Schorb’s
work.

Additions to the print collections include “Awakening,” an engray-
ing by Gabor Peterdi, and “Furnace,” a wood engraving by Charles
Quest, both purchased through the Dahlgreen fund, and “Winter,”
a lithograph by Russell T. Limbach, the gift of the artist. Notable
gifts to the photographic print collection include 15 prints by Wood
Whitesell and 14 prints by A. Aubrey Bodine, including his “Oyster
Dredging During Squall,” for which he received international recogni-
tion.

Medicine and public health.—Dr. Arthur O. Morton presented a
keratometer or ophthalmometer, purchased in 1907, which he believes
ANNUAL REPORT—ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES 45

is one of the oldest instruments of its kind used in the United States.
Made by Pfister and Streit, Bern, Switzerland, it is designed to meas-
ure the curve of the cornea of the eye by measuring the amount of
corneal astigmatism.

EXHIBITION

A major objective of the exhibition program of the department of
engineering and industries is to reduce the number of items on display,
so that it will be possible to highlight the more significant ones and to
emphasize the contribution that each represents. Significant ad-
vances have been made by all divisions in this respect.

Crafts and industries.—Spinning wheels for flax and wool, with
accessories for the preparation of the fibers used, were reexhibited
in renovated cases against a background of colorful old textiles, creat-
ing what is in effect a new exhibit. Other new exhibits include one
showing fiber blending for improved fabric performance and the
method of weaving wool-back fabrics, and another of a series of
original early plows presenting a graphic chronology of American
plows. Also arranged were such special exhibits as “Two Hundred
Years of Textile Design,” a loan from the Scalamandré Museum of
Textiles; a collection of authentic eighteenth- and nineteenth-century
printed fabrics, all American subject designs, lent by Elinor Merrell;
and “Victorian Slumber Throw,” a group of silk crazy-patch quilts
from the Museum collection. A display of early American baskets
and one on early American textile design were prepared in connection
with the fall meeting of the Early American Industries Association.
These two are now permanent exhibits.

Engineering.—The models and accessories in the cases lining the
walls of the automobile and transportation halls were reexhibited in
renovated cases. By painting the interiors a lively color, replacing
wooden shelves with glass, and installing more readable labels a con-
siderable improvement was made in the over-all appearance of these
cases, which form the background for the large original automobiles,
locomotives, and carriages standing in the halls. In the communica-
tions gallery an interesting grouping was achieved with a commer-
cially licensed radio station of 1922 and a recently received amateur
station of the same date, while eight other cases were renovated and
provided with individual lighting. A new exhibit of early phono-
graphs concisely states the contributions of Edison, Bell and Tainter,
and Berliner, and notes the early use of the phonograph as a dictating
machine. Single-case exhibits, one of American combination locks
and another of development models of old wood-screw-making ma-
chines, were prepared for the annual meeting of the Early American
Industries Association, and were later placed in the tool gallery.

Graphic arts.—The methods and techniques of lithography were
displayed in a new exhibit based on material prepared by Russell T.

225236—52 4

46 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

Limbach and a start was made on a companion exhibit tracing the
history of this art. Several other cases were temporarily reworked
in the same gallery. The new special exhibits gallery of the section
of photography, completed this year, has proved quite successful as
a small gallery for the exhibition of photographic prints, and offers
hope for the effective use of otherwise unpromising space in the old
building. Contributions of Niepce, Daguerre, and Talbot to the de-
velopment of photography are shown in the first unit of the revision
of the exhibits devoted to the history of photography. A special ex-
hibit on photogrammetry was prepared for the annual convention of
the American Society of Photogrammetry.

SPECIAL EXHIBITS—DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS

GRAPHIC ARTS
1951

Fuchs and Lang
Collection
John C. Rogers

Gabor Peterdi
Charles Quest

Sid Gotcliffe

Rudolf Weissauer
José Guerrero

W. L. Choi

I. J. Sanger
Milton Hirschl
Masterpieces of

Lithographs from the perma-
nent collection
383 wood cuts and drawings

37 intaglio prints

30 wood engravings and wood
cuts

85 linoleum cuts and _ litho-
graphs

27 linoleum block prints

20 etchings and monotypes

22 wood engravings

37 prints

24 various prints

Various prints from the perma-

July 16-September 3

September 4—-September
30

October 1—October 28

October 29—November 25

November 26-January 6

1952
January 7—-February 3
February 4-March 2
March 3—March 30
Mareh 31-April 27
April 28—May 25
May 26-June 22

Printmaking nent collection
PHOTOGRAPHY
1951
A. Aubrey Bodine 95 pictorial photographs July—Septem-
ber
Wood Whitesell 59 pictorial photographs September
Harry K. Shigeta 50 pictorial photographs October
The National Speleological So- 62 pictorial photographs November
ciety, 4th International Salon
National Photographic Society, 55 monochrome prints and December
1951 Annual Salon 73 color transparencies
1952
Popular Photography Magazine 108 pictorial photographs January
Traveling Salon
Edward Bafford 85 pictorial photographs February
Gottlieb A. Hampfler 50 pictorial photographs March
Herbert B. Woodling 40 pictorial photographs April
José Ortiz Echague 76 carbon fresson prints May, June
ANNUAL REPORT—ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES 47

CARE OF COLLECTIONS

About 9,000 samples of woods were cut down in size, die-stamped,
and redistributed in the process of reducing the bulk of the woods
collection, and improving the ease of using it while retaining all of
the scientific value of the collection. About 200 mats were made for
prints in the graphic arts collections, and the storage space and equip-
ment in the office area was reorganized and improved. Many objects
in the exhibited collections and others acquired or brought from stor-
age were cleaned, repaired, and restored. A commercial mildew in-
hibitor used in house paint appears to be controlling mildew and
fungus in stored collections. It is mixed with the preservative oils
applied to leather and wood parts.

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

Crafts and industries.—William N. Watkins, curator and wood
anatomist, assisted the staff of Colonial Williamsburg in an investi-
gation of the origins of early furniture pieces through study of the
woods of which they are made. The study of the secondary woods of
furniture appears likely to become an important technique in furniture
authentication, and promises to create a new and continuing demand
upon wood anatomists for identifications. Mr. Watkins visited the
U.S. Forest Products Laboratory to observe the use of machine records
equipment in the identification of woods and to arrange exchanges of
material for the woods collections.

Assistant Curator Grace L. Rogers continued her work on the history
of the sewing machine and made a number of extended investigations
into textile history and practices, including those needed to produce
the revised exhibit of spinning wheels and the exhibit, “Victorian
Slumber Throw.”

Associate Curator Edward C. Kendall made good progress on his
investigation of the evolution of American types of plows from
early European ones, a subject of which little apparently is known.
Mr. Kendall has also succeeded in discovering the source of a collec-
tion of nearly 400 plow models which came to the Museum in 1910
from the Department of the Interior. Through his efforts it was
learned that at least several such collections, one of which is now at
Cornell University, had been constructed at the Landwirtschaftliche
Hochschule Hohenheim, in Germany, in the 1860’s, and that appar-
ently they were made under the supervision of Prof. Ludwig Rau,
who in 1881 published a catalog of such a collection. Oddly enough
a copy of this catalog was eventually found in the library of the Bu-
reau of American Ethnology among some books bequeathed to the
48 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

Smithsonian Institution in 1887 by Charles Rau, onetime curator of
archeology in the U. S. National Museum.

Engineering.—Associate Curator Kenneth M. Perry continued his
studies leading to the publication of a descriptive catalog of the elec-
trical meters in the collections.

Associate Curator S. H. Oliver examined the large collection of
letters, clippings, catalogs, and illustrations relating to the history of
transportation and engineering left to the Institution 48 years ago
by J. Elfreth Watkins, onetime curator of transportation. The ma-
terial was sorted, evaluated, and distributed to reference files or to
interested sections of the Institution. During a vacation trip to Eu-
rope he studied techniques of preserving and exhibiting engineering
relics in the following museums: Deutsches Museum, Miinchen; auto-
motive museum of the Daimler-Benz Aktiengesellschaft, Stuttgart;
Musée de la Voiture, Compiégne; Musée Royal de l’Armée, Bruxelles;
and The Science Museum, London.

Graphic arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen continued the preparation of
his history of all photomechanical methods of printing pictures, such
as letterpress halftone, photogravure, photolithography and collotype,
a study that will include a descriptive catalog of the collections.
His preliminary study of the halftone screen, published last year,
was revised and enlarged for reprinting.

Associate Curator Alexander J. Wedderburn progressed in his
study of the history of the camera, visiting the George Eastman
House, Inc., and the Museum of Modern Art for aid in this work.
A draft of the first section, “The Camera Obscura, 300 B. C.-1802,”
was completed.

Research by visiting investigators.—In all, the staff received about
1,600 visitors to the offices, about 2,500 letters, and about 3,000 tele-
phone calls, seeking information and identifications. More than
1,800 photographs were sold, lent, or given to publishers, writers,
collectors, schools, museums, and historical societies. In providing
this service, the staff assisted inquirers in the use of the files, in select-
ing and ordering prints, and in the providing of correct titles. Among
the many individuals who made important use of these facilities
were Howard I. Chapelle, whose “American Small Sailing Craft,”
recently published by W. W. Norton and Company, Inc., is based in
part upon his continuing study over a very long period of the unique
group of contemporary models of small craft in the watercraft col-
lection; Dr. Domingo Corro, chief of the wood section, Museo Argen-
tino Ciencias Naturales, Buenos Aires, who examined the wood col-
lections and discussed further study and cooperation; Helen Com-
stock, research editor of Antiques, and E. Milby Burton, director
of the Charleston Museum, who are investigating the secondary
ANNUAL REPORT—ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES 49

woods used in colonial furniture, being particularly interested in
the range of species and separation of the woods; Daniel Tower,
recently appointed curator of the Old Slater Mill Museum, who
spent several days studying the textile collections and discussing
museum problems with Miss Rogers; Lady Tansley, of Grantchester,
Cambridge, England, who is sponsoring a needlework organization
in her country, and who spent two days studying quilts and other
early American needlework; Baron René de Kerchove, who dis-
cussed the preservation and eventual publication of Commandant L.
Audemard’s remarkable manuscript and colored drawings of Chinese
junks, placed in the Baron’s care; Mrs. Hope Easton, at the time
associate editor of Reader’s Digest, who spent several days examining
the collections and files for little-noticed chapters of the history of
invention; Harold W. Cramer, who continued to examine and restore
time and combination locks from the collection, afterward photo-
graphing them in operation for a motion-picture history of Amer-
ican locks; and Vernon Dameron, director of education of the Edison
Institute, who discussed with the staff the function of extension
services of technological and craft museums.
Department of History

(MENDEL L. PETERSON, Acting Head Curator)

The major activities of the past year have centered around the
modernization of all the exhibition halls and storage areas in which
the history collections are housed. ‘The first of these, the hall of naval
history, was opened in June and its favorable reception by visitors
to the Museum is indication of the need for further efforts in this
direction.

The division of naval history has expanded its activities with a pro-
gram of study of early shipwreck sites in the Florida Keys. This
research conducted by the curator, Mendel L. Peterson, promises to
produce valuable information on seventeenth- and eighteenth-century
ships and naval armament from hitherto untouched sources.

ACCESSIONS

Among the more than 7,000 specimens added to the collections
during the year, an outstanding item was a chest of drawers once
owned by Jonathan Edwards, New England scholar and theologian
(1703-1758). This chest, in fine condition and with all of the original
brasses, came as a gift from Miss Louise Taylor Andrews. The
transfer from the Department of the Navy of models of the Bon
Homme Richard, Frigate Constitution, Sloop Kearsarge, Cruiser
Olympia, Cruiser Brooklyn, Destroyer Manley, and Heavy Cruiser
Wichita make the collection of ship models exhibited in the hall of
naval history one of the finest in this country. Coming as a bequest
from General of the Army John J. Pershing were his saddles and
horse equipment. Also received was the General’s library of some
1,800 volumes, a gift from his son, Francis Warren Pershing. To the
numismatic collections were added 12 medals awarded to the Amer-
ican artist Edmund C. Tarbell (1862-1938), received as the gift of
his heirs. Transferred from the Treasury Department was the Rev-
erend Hugh Miller collection of 544 Oriental coins and 110 Korean
amulets, containing many pieces that have never been described.

The philatelic collections were increased by transfers from the
U. S. Post Office Department, and gifts from agencies of other
governments. Important gifts from individuals included dies used
(1853-1870) by George F. Nesbitt and Company in the production of
early United States envelopes, the gift of B. H. Homan, Jr., of
New York City. The philatelic library was increased by important

50
ANNUAL REPORTS—HISTORY 51

material received as gifts from the Essay-Proof Society, the Bureau
Issues Association, Scott Publications, Inc., the Collectors Club of
Washington, and Malcolm MacGregor.

EXHIBITION

As part of the department-wide program of exhibit improvement
carried on during the year, the interiors of the wall cases in the
costumes hal] were refinished, in preparation for the installation of a
renovated exhibition of American period costumes, and interior light-
ing was installed in the case in which the Bradford miniature house
(period 1900-1914) is displayed. The hall of naval history was com-
pleted with the installation of the collection of naval prints, paintings,
photographs, ship models, and related objects. It was formally dedi-
cated on June 19, 1952, at a special ceremony attended by high
officials of the Department of the Navy. This exhibition illustrates
the development of the United States Navy from its beginning to
the present day. Tentative plans were laid for a similar hall of
military history, to be set up in cooperation with the Department of
the Army. Installation of the Paul A. Straub collection of gold
coins continued. Work on the exhibit of orders and decorations was
completed, all of them having been cleaned, relabeled, and arranged
according to country and class. To the philatelic exhibits were added
displays of such materials of special interest as postage stamps used
in decorative art, processes of postage stamp production, “free” franks
of the Presidents and the widows of Presidents, and an exhibit of
models illustrating the carrying of the mails. During the year an
exhibit of ship cancellation covers and models of related ships was
installed.

CARE OF COLLECTIONS

The regular program of protection of specimens against insect, dust
and light damage continued. To protect the manuscripts of the
Adams-Clement collection, which are exhibited in cases exposed to
bright natural light, Associate Curator Margaret W. Brown selected
Libbey-Owens-Ford “golden plate glass,” which disperses the ultra-
violet rays that cause inks to fade. The necessary glass was graciously
given to the Museum by the manufacturer. Extensive cleaning and
repair of ship models and paintings exhibited in the hall of naval
history was accomplished as these specimens were installed. Tech-
niques for restoring and preserving objects recovered from sea water
were developed in connection with the marine exploration being car-
ried on in Florida. The process of cleaning and preserving silver
coins recommended in 1948 by Dr. William Bloom, of the U. S. Bu-
52 UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

reau of Standards is being used with marked success; none of the
specimens so cleaned and lacquered show any tendency to tarnish.

Specimens in the philatelic collections widely scattered among the
storage units have been brought together and collated in new stock
books by Assistant Curator Franklin R. Bruns, Jr. A complete set of
Scott specialty albums was donated by Gordon Harmer of Scott Pub-
lications, Inc.

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

Acting Head Curator Mendel L. Peterson continued his long-range
studies of the development of the United States vessel of war and the
evolution of the United States naval uniform, producing under the
latter project a paper, “The History of the Navy Cross,” scheduled
for publication in Zhe Numismatist for September 1952. His research
led to the identification of one of the shipwrecks investigated in 1951,
the British 44-gun Frigate Looe, which ran aground February 5, 1744.
Results of this investigation will be published early next year. He
also engaged in an extensive study of the early shipwreck sites in the
Florida Keys area under a grant from E. A. Link, of the Link Aviation
Corporation, who is personally participating in the field work. Two
projects directly related to this marine exploration in Florida were
initiated. The first involves the markings and decorations of muzzle
loading cannon, the barrels of which are often the most prominent
and important objects found on shipwreck sites and form a means of
determining the size of the vessel, its nationality, and period. During
the year Mr. Peterson investigated the cannon collections of the U. S.
Military Academy, the Mariners’ Museum, and the Naval Gun Factory.
This investigation will be continued by him in the collections and
archives of museums in London, Paris, Leyden, Madrid, Seville, and
Copenhagen. The second of these projects involves the restoration
and preservation of objects recovered from sea water, a subject of
which no adequate study appears to have been made in this country.
Objects of iron, particularly of cast iron, after being immersed in
sea water for prolonged periods often disintegrate upon drying out.
Asa result many objects of importance have been lost to the historian
after recovery. Laboratory experimentation on removal of sea salts
and reduction of oxidized layers has resulted in the development of a
routine which promises to be completely successful. Mr. Peterson also
continued his investigations of military small arms and of the uni-
forms and insignia of the U. S. Army.

Stuart M. Mosher, associate curator of numismatics, continued his
important project of reattributing and rearranging the 62,768 speci-
mens in the national numismatic collections.
ANNUAL REPORTS—HISTORY 53

Margaret W. Brown, associate curator of civil history, continued
her revision of the “Catalog of Washington Relics in the U. S. Na-
tional Museum,” and prepared a special study of the George Washing-
ton memorial medal that will be published during the coming year.
Her paper on the medals awarded to Carrie Chapman Catt was pub-
lished in The Numismatist. She read the final proofs of her book
“The Dresses of the First Ladies of the White House.” Data on the
Adams-Clement collection obtained by Miss Brown in a trip to the
Adams house at Quincy, Mass., will contribute to the value of the cata-
log to be prepared on this material.

Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., assistant curator of philately, published
seven articles and one book during the year. ‘Two other articles were
accepted for publication. In addition, he continued his research on a
number of subjects, including Liberian postal history, a catalog of the
National Museum philatelic collection, and a catalog of the Michel
collection. During the year he was appointed editor of the American
Philatelic Congress, and was made honorary member of the Bureau
Issues Association.

Research by visiting investigators.—Among outside investigators
working on the collections in the division of military history were Lt.
Col. Farber of Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio; Lt.
Col. Berkley R. Lewis, Ordnance Department, U. S. Army; and
John J. Styers, close-combat expert of the U. S. Marine Corps.
James C. Risk of the U. 8S. Department of State, an authority on
orders and decorations, under the supervision of the curator of numis-
matics completely reworked the museum collections of decorations, re-
attributing and documenting each piece. Mrs. EK. M. Nelson of the
American Home Economics Association worked on the civil history
collections. H.D. Mitchell, editor of the Costa Rican Philatelist, made
use of the National Philatelic collections and assisted in the reclassifi-
cation and remounting of the Costa Rica stamps and postal stationery.
Capt. Robert Scherer continued his work on the postal stationery of
Iceland.
Accessions
During the Fiscal Year 1951-52

(Except when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented or were
transferred, in accordance with law, by the Bureaus of the Government)

AssottT, Dr. Donatp P. (See Hop-
kins Marine Station.)

ABS30TT, GERTRUDE, ESTATE OF, Phila-
delphia, Pa.: (Through Fidelity-Phila-
delphia Trust Co.) Wooden walking
stick used by Napoleon Bonaparte at
St. Helena (189643).

AxpBpoTt, Gorpon C., Taxco, México:
16 volumes of The Photo-Miniature,
and 1 volume of Camera Notes (191685,
exchange).

Apgott, Dr. P. H., Wad Medani, Su-
dan: 2 fresh-water shrimps and 165
miscellaneous beetles and bugs from
near Yambio, Sudan (193967).

ABBOTT FUND, W. L., Smithsonian In-
stitution: 1,073 bird skins, 9 bird skele-
tons, 6 sets of bird eggs (8 eggs), 5
mammals, 1 salamander, 10 mollusks,
and 9 plants from Colombia, collected
by M. A. Carriker, Jr. (192963) ; 675
bird skins, 1 bird nest, 9 bird eggs, 9
bird skeletons, 5 birds (alcoholic speci-
mens) ; 2 mammals; 18 mollusks from
Panama collected by Dr. A. Wetmore
and Watson M. Perrygo (194285).

ABE, TOKIHARU, Tokyo, Japan: 2 eels
(193254).

ABRAHAM, HENRY, Brooklyn, N. Y.: 2
scale models of Baltimore & Ohio mail
cars (193828, 194607).

AprRitis, JoHN J., Shoreham, N. Y.:
United States flag of period 1890-91
(194251).

ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF
PHILADELPHIA, Philadelphia, Pa.: 1
plant (182632); spotted babbler (192-
815, exchange); 1 ovenbird (192855,
exchange) ; (through J. A. G. Rehn) 6
grasshoppers from Old World (191778) ;
7 ants (192608, exchange) ; through Dr.
A. A. Olsson) 1 right valve of pelecypod
from St. Marys Miocene formation,
Urbanna, Va. (192655, exchange).

AczéL, Dr. Martin, Tucumin, Argen-
tina: 24 fruit flies from Neotropics
(193760, exchange).

Abas, Dr. C. D., Achimota, Africa:
67 ferns from the Gold Coast (194373,
exchange).

AGRICULTURE, U. 8. DEPARTMENT OF,
Washington, D. C.—Bureau of Plant
Industry, Soils, and Agricultural Engi-
neering: 1 grass from Wisconsin

54

(192070) ; 191 miscellaneous cultivated
grasses (192090) ; 94 plants from Co-
lombia (192287) ; 284 plants collected
in Columbia and Ecuador by Cinchona
Project (192923, 193090) ; 120 grasses
of Turkey, cultivated at Ames, Iowa,
collected by A. F. Dodge (193081) ;
1,200 plants from Tingo Maria, Perti
(198748) ; (through Dr. Etlar L. Niel-
sen) 267 grasses (192922). National
Arboretum: 7 plants from Colombia
(192707) ; 1,000 bryophytes collected in
India by Walter Koelz (194368) ;
(through Dr. W. A. Archer) 567 ferns
from South America (192866). Bureau
of Animal Industry: (Through Dr. Rex
W. Allen) 4 kangaroo rats from New
Mexico (194247). Bureau of FEnto-
mology and Plant Quarantine: 12 land
mollusks from Guatemala and New
York (191442, 194588) ; 5 land mollusks
from Trinidad, British West Indies, and
Saipan, Mariana Islands (191870) ; 29
land mollusks from Massachusetts and
North Dakota (192143, 192252); 3,000
miscellaneous insects from Texas col-
lected by Ashley B. Gurney (198229) ;
20 plants collected in Belgian Congo
by J. M. McGough (194759) ; 370 flies
from Africa (194899); (through C. FE.
W. Muesebeck) 2 amphipods, and § iso-
pods from France and Venezuela
(192602) ; land snail from Brazil
(192645); 54 land and fresh-water
mollusks, 3 insects, and 1 leech from
Thailand, collected by Mrs. Ernestine
B. Thurman (193790); 19 land and
fresh-water snails from the Hawaiian
Islands and North Dakota (194183) ;
61,200 miscellaneous insects from all
over the world (194904) ; (through Dr.
Reese I. Sailer) 1,949 miscellaneous in-
sects, 9 snails, and 1 crustacean from
Alaska, collected by Dr. Sailer during
June and July, 1951 (192202). Forest
Service: 12 plants from Alaska
(191484) ; 1 phanerogam type specimen
(191998) ; 17 woods of the United States
and México, authenticated by herba-
rium material at Forest Products Lab-
oratory, Madison, Wis. (193094); 8
samples of wood products showing re-
sults of research at Forest Products
Laboratory (194852). Soil Conserva-
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

tion Service: 2 grasses from British
Guiana collected by P. A. Chan Choong
(191001) ; 3 grasses from Alabama and
Louisiana (192172, 198744).

AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL COL-
LEGE OF Texas, College Station, Tex.: 14
grasses from Texas (192844, 194006).

AJELLO, F.., New York, N. Y.: 11 model
railway and baggage cars; 14 pieces of
track (193515, loan).

ALABAMA POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE, Au-
burn, Ala.: 1 grass from Alabama
(192001) ; (through J. S. Dendy) land
snail from Alabama (192467).

ALBANESE, JOHN S., Newark, N. J.:
7 minerals including beryl from Ugan-
da, tourmaline and actinolite from
Kenya, prehnite and zeolites from Scot-
land, and travertine from the Hawaiian
Islands (192096).

ALpRICH, Dr. JoHN W. (See U.S. De-
partment of the Interior, Fish and
Wildlife Service.)

ALEXANDER, Dr. C. P., Amherst, Mass. :
147 eraneflies from all over the world
(194803).

ALLARD, H. A., Arlington, Va.: 398
plants collected in Virginia and West
Virginia (193346).

ALLEGHENY COLLEGE, Meadville, Pa.:
9 plants from Florida (194210).

ALLEN, J. FRANCES, and LITTLEFORD,
Ropert A., College Park, Md.: 40 ma-
rine mollusks from Maryland (194111).

ALLEN, J. M. (See Cora Thomas.)

ALLEN, Perry B., Brentwood, Md.:

Meerschaum cigar holder in case
(193988).
ALLEN, Dr. Rex W. (See U. 8. De-

partment of Agriculture, Bureau of
Animal Industry.)

ALLEN, Rosert P., Tavernier, Fla.:
255 land and marine mollusks from
West Indies and Yucatin (191924) ;
156 marine, land, and fresh-water mol-
lusks; 12 crabs from Oriente Province,
Cuba (194048).

ALLEN, Rosamond, South Duxbury,
Mass.: Full dress uniform chapeau
owned by Maj. Gen. Joshua Lawrence
Chamberlain during the Civil War
(191253).

ALLEN, Mrs. Sara WILDER, Tilton,
N. H.: Pair of lady’s bronze kid slip-
pers; pair of lady’s bronze kid and
cloth boots, period of the last quarter
of the nineteenth century (192011).

ALLEN, Dr. Victor T., St. Louis, Mo.:
sample of anauxite from Ione forma-
tion, Mokelumne River, Amador Coun-
ty, Calif. (192470).

ALLISON, W. B., Meridian, Miss.: 3
plants collected in Mississippi (193387).

ALVERSON, Dayton L. (See U.S. De-
partment of the Interior, Fish and
Wildlife Service, and University of
Washington.)

50

AmANo, TeTSuwo, Neha, Okinawa:
306 plants collected in the Ryukyu
Islands (193252, 193618, 194660).

AMERICAN MUsEUM OF NaTURAL HIS-
tory, New York, N. Y.: 1 paramela-
conite (194600, loan); (through Mont
A. Cazier) 20 beetles from Bahamas
(192977, exchange) ; 103 beetles from
Bahamas (193751) ; (through Dr. Fred-
erick H. Rindge) 5 moths from south-
western United States (193630, ex-
change).

AMERICAN NUMISMATIC ASSOCIATION,
New York, N. Y.: (Through Vernon
L. Brown) 147 coins of foreign coun-
tries, acquired for addition to the
Moritz Wormser Memorial Collection
(191905, loan).

AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE, New
York, N. Y.: (Through Elton L. Puffer)
Approximately 12 gorgonians, 19 brittle-
stars and 11 starfishes from Texas
(192765, 194404).

AmMSDEN, Dr. T. W., Baltimore, Md.:
11 brachiopods from the Silurian of
western Maryland (194855).

ANpbERSON, Mrs. E., Washington, D. C.:
Indian bullet pouch (194784).

ANDERSON, Capt. H. V., Alexandria,
Va.: 40 Recent Foraminifera from
Louisiana (193575, exchange).

ANDREWS, Dr. Jay D. (See Virginia
Fisheries Laboratory.)

ANpREWS, LOUISE TAYLOR, Warren,
Ohio: A walnut chest of drawers
owned by Jonathan Edwards (1703-
758) (1933805).

ANGE, FREDERICK, Wilson, N. C.: 52
potsherds and arrowheads from village
site near Plymouth, N. C. (193149).

Anonymous: Adjustable double-end
wrench, ca. 1856 (192969); 1 bird
(194470, found in the collection) ; 248
bird tongues and tracheae in alcohol
(194549, found in the collection); 8
partial bird skeletons, 6 eggs, and 1 nest
(194595, found in collection).

AnTHONY, Prof. JoHN W.
versity of Arizona.)

ARABIAN AMERICAN Ott Co., New York,
N. Y.: (Through D. M. Brown) 309
Jurassic ammonites from Saudi Arabia
(194620).

ARCHBOLD BroLocIcAL STATION, Lake
Placid, Fla.: 2 grasses from Florida
(192842); 1,183 plants collected in
Florida by L. J. Brass (193936).

ArcnEerR, Dr. W. A. (See U. S. De-
partment of Agriculture, National Ar-
boretum.)

Arctic INSTITUTE OF NorTH AMERICA,
Washington, D. C.: 1,419 plants col-
lected in Alaska by L. A. Spetzman
(191650).

ARIZONA, UNIVERSITY OF, Tucson,
Ariz.: A grass from Arabia, cultivated
in Arizona (192687); (through Prof.

(See Uni-
06

John W. Anthony) tsumebite from
Morenci, Ariz. (194103).

ARKANSAS, UNIVERSITY OF, Fayette-
ville, Ark.: 4 grasses from Arkansas
(193145) ; (through Dr. Jonn A. Seal-
ander) 2 cotton mice from Cedar Glades,
Ark, (192585).

ARKANSAS STATE COLLEGE, State Col-
lege, Ark.: 2 grasses from Mississippi
(191270) ; 920 plants collected in Arkan-
sas and Mississippi by Prof. Delzie
Demaree (191314, 193159, 193669) ; 152
grasses from Arkansas (193082).

ARMSTRONG, Mrs. JAMES, Washington,
D. C.: 2 antique linen scarves long in
possession of donor’s family (194281).

Arp, Lt. Col. Davin M., Washington,
D. C.: Skull of grizzly bear from British
Columbia (192501).

ASANO, Dr. KiYosHI, Sendai, Japan:
5 foraminifers from the Tertiary of
Japan (191683) ; 4 Recent Foraminifera
from Hokkaido, Japan (1938919, ex-
change) ; foraminifer from Tertiary of
Japan (193508, exchange).

ASCHEMEIER, CHARLES R., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Gray fox from Lanham, Md.
(193258).

ASLAKSON, Comdr. Cari I., Cocoa,
Fla.: 327 marine and land mollusks
from Florida, Bahamas, and Puerto
Rico (191458, 194881).

AUCKLAND INSTITUTE AND MUSEUM,
Auckland, New Zealand: 81 grasses
from New Zealand (192248) ; 548 plants
mostly collected in New Zealand
(192289, exchange).

AUFFENBERG, WALTER, Gainesville,
Fla.: Type blacksnake from Florida
(194523).

AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT TRADE CoM-
MISSIONER, OFFICE OF THE, New York, N.
Y.: (Through H. P. McClintock) George
VI Australian postage stamp (192850) ;
(through R. Hazzard) 39 Australian
stamps including single issues and
blocks of four (192988, 192953, 193720,
194184).

BarrorD, EDWARD, Towson, Md.: 85
pictorial photographs for special exhi-
bition during February 1952 (193391,
loan); 6 Bromoil process prints
(194044).

BatLtEy HortoriumM, Cornell Univer-
sity, Ithaca, N. Y.: 17 grasses from
México (189305, 192927) ; (through Dr.
H. E. Moore, Jr.) 7 Mexican ferns
(192696).

BartEy, Dr. Norman 4.,,
Mass.: 8 bugs (1937538).

Barr, CHArtes R., Penney Farms,
Fla.: 3 color photographs of the plant
Izia (192652).

Baird, Maser E., Silver Spring, Md.:
1 worm from a water bug from Silver
Spring (193907).

Boston,

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM,

1952

Bairp FUND, SPENCER FULLERTON,

Smithsonian Institution: 183 mam-
mals from Labrador (193834, pur-
chase).

Baskoy, Dr. A. D. (See Oregon

Fish Commission.)

BALL, Dr. CARLETON R., Washington
D. C.: 2 plants from California
(192840).

BALTARS, EpwWarp, Baltimore, Md.:
24 plants from Maryland (198938).

Barposa, Dr. FREDERICO SIMOES. (See
Instituto Aggeu Magalhiées.)

BARNARD, Dr. KEPPEL H. (See South
African Museum.)

BarNagp, Dr. Tom, London, England:
27 slides of Jurassic Foraminifera
from the Dorset Coast of England
(198491, exchange).

BARNES, VENTURA, Jr., Mayagtiez, P.
R.: 44 birds and 2 mammals from
Venezuela (191717).

BARNEY, ALICE PIKE, DAUGHTERS OF,
Paris, France: (Through Mrs. Laura
Dreyfus-Barney) 10 specimens of ec-
clesiastical and secular art consisting
of brocaded and embroidered Italian
and Spanish clerical vestments, a silver
chalice, Sheffield-plated vessels, and
a Spanish dagger, from the Dreyfus-
Barney collection (191430).

BartiLEy, FLoyp, Circleville, Ohio:
141 plants from Ohio and West Vir-
ginia (192813).

BartscH, Dr. Pav, Lorton, Va.:
fardinal, hairy woodpecker, winter
wren, cedar waxwing, and junco from
Virginia (192767, 194550) ; a star-nosed
mole from Lorton (194882).

BaTcHELDER, Mrs. PHirie, Rumford,
R. 1.: A silk “erazy patch” quilt with

hand-painted, flower designs, made
about 1880 (192928).
BaTcHELLER, Mrs. Hitanp G. (See

Jessie McElroy.)

BatTIGNE, RENE, Washington, D. C.:
4 folios composed of 4 etched illustra-
tive plates and 4 plates of lettered text
by Prinner, excerpted from Prinner’s
hand printed version of the Hgyptian
religious work, “The Book of the Dead”
(198747).

BAUGHMAN, J.L. (See Texas Game,
Fish and Oyster Commission. )

Baxter, Prof. G. P., Cambridge,
Mass.: (Through Dr. John P. Marble)
A schroeckingerite (dakeite) specimen
from Red Desert, Wyo., and 1 of leucite
from Mt. Vesuvius, Italy (192179).

BEAL, R. S., Jr., Berkeley, Calif.: 18
beetles including a holotype from
United States (192942).

BrEAMER, Dr. R. H., Lawrence, Kans. :
4 leafhoppers (191417). (See also
University of Kansas.)
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

BEAVERS, JAMES, Alexandria, Va.: 1
black widow spider with her young
from Virginia (193756).

Beck, Mrs. R. G., Escondido, Calif. :
98 marine mollusks from Cholla Bay,
Sonora, México (191780, exchange).

BrEcK, WILLIAM M., Jr. (See Florida
State Board of Health.)

Brecker, J., Porto Alegre, Brazil: 42
bugs from Brazil (193956).

BELKIN, Dr. JoHN N., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 14 pinned and 18 slides of mos-
quitoes including holotypes and allo-
types of 5 species from Solomon Islands
(192990).

BELL, Epwin L., Champaign, Il.: Ap-
proximately 50 ticks from the United
States (194902).

Benn, JAMES H., Washington, D. C.:
1 sponge from Hdisto Island, 8. C.
(192879).

Bennett, F. L., Spearfish, 8. Dak.:
A grass (191627).

BEQUAERT, Dr. JosEPH. (See Har-
vard University, Museum of Compara-
tive Zoology.)

Bercer, ANTON, Vienna, Austria: 2
minerals from Germany and Hungary
(194795, exchange).

BERL, HERBERT, Washington, D. C.: 5-
mark watermarked postage stamp of
Germany, 1906 (191902).

BERLAND, Dr. L. (See Muséum Na-
tional d’Histoire Naturelle.)

BERMUDA BIOLOGICAL STATION, St.
George’s, Bermuda: (Through Dr. W. H.
Sutcliffe, Jr.) 130 miscellaneous inverte-
brates from Bermuda (1927386).

BERMUDEZ, Dr. P. J., Caracas, Vene-
zuela: 6 type Foraminifera from the
Oligocene of Cuba and Eocene of Mis-
sissippi (194415).

BERNARD, Mr. and Mrs. MAovrIcg,
Paris, France: 5 bows and 9 arrows ob-
tained in 1941 by donors from a chief
of the Uaymira (Waimiri) Indians
from the upper Camanat River Terri-
tory of Amazonas, Brazil (191669).

BeERsE, C. B., Washington, D. C.: 14
Israeli stamps (194606).

BERTOVITCH, MATHEW, Masontown,
Pa.: A phanerogam (191387).

BIANCHI, Fred A., Honolulu, T. H: 4
thrips from New Caledonia (194775).

BIDEAUX, RIcHARD, Tucson, Ariz.: 2
minerals: bisbdeeite and shattuckite
from near Bisbee, Ariz. (194766, ex-
change).

BicELow, Dr. HENRyY B., and
SCHROEDER, WILLIAM C., Cambridge,
Mass.: Drawings for 106 figures pub-
lished in Vol. 1 “Fishes of the Western
Atlantic,” Memoir Sears Foundation for
Marine Research, 1948 (194596).

Bices, Rev. H. BE. J., Bromley, Kent,
England: 78 marine, land, and fresh-

57

water shells from Iran, Egypt, and Tur-
key (193505, exchange).

BisHor MUSEUM, BERNIcE P., Hono-
lulu, T. H.: (Through Yoshio Kondo)
45 land mollusks from the Marshall Is-
lands (193117, exchange;) (through
Dr. C. H. Edmondson) fragments of a
hydroid and of 8 species of octocorals
from Java (194646).

Bisson, THEODORE, Seattle, Wash.: A
micrometer (millimeter) caliper
marked “Palmer” (191799).

Brack Hit~ts TEACHERS COLLEGE,
Spearfish, 8S. Dak.: 13 plants collected in
México by M. S. Hallman (193671).

BLACKMAN, EHEpear C., Falls Church,
Va.: Fossil Miocene whale skull col-
lected by donor north of Calvert Beach,
Md. (194203).

Buair, JOHN, University, Miss.: 10
shrimps (192071).

BLAKESLEE, Capt. THEODORE KE. (See
Department of Defense, Department of
the Army.)

BLANDFORD, NED, McLean, Va.: 2
minerals: prehnite from Fairfax
Quarry, Centerville, Va.; bertrandite
from Beryl Mountain Mine, South Ac-
worth, N. H. (192777, exchange) ; an
epidote specimen from Virginia Lime &
Marble Company Quarry near Montville
on Goose Creek, Loudon County, Va.
(194791).

BLASDELL, Mrs. ELSIz Vocrs, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Necklace of glass beads
and one of Millefiori medallions and
colored beads, (191995).

BuizzArRp, Mrs. JAMES.
Speleological Society.)

BLUME, Prof. Dr. WERNER, Goettingen,
Germany: 350 mollusks (194501, ex-
change).

Bopine, A. AUBREY, Baltimore, Md.:
95 pictorial prints for special exhibition
during July and August, 1951 (191505,
loan) ; 14 pictorial prints as follows:
“Oyster Dredging During Squall,” Bal-
timore Harbor,” “Ocean Ballet,’
“Mainsail—D oris Hamlin,’ “Ocean
City, Md. Sunrise,” ‘Gloucester,’
“Crossing Niggerhead Shoals,” “Row-
ing at Ebbtide,” “Pittsburgh Train-
yard,” “The Little White House,”
“Chesapeake Bay Skipjack,’ “LLawvale
Street Snow,” untitled backlighted
bowsprit and untitled night harbor
scene (192494).

BOuHLKE, Dr. J. (See Defense De-
partment, Department of the Navy,
Office of Naval Research, and Stanford
University. )

BouaFFil, Dr. Dante §8., New York,
N. Y.: 8 new stamps of Italy, Trieste,
San Marino, and the Vatican (191767) ;
17 postage stamps of Italy (192416,
192660, 192932, 193482, 194637).

(See National
58

Bonp, A. M., Laurel, Md.: A star-
nosed mole from Laurel (193500).

Borp, Numa Louis, Oran, Algeria:
Approximately 200 mollusks and 1
echinoderm from Algeria (191880).

Borrero H., Jost Ienacro. (See In-
stituto de Ciencias Naturales.)

BoTaNic GARDEN, Gothenburg, Swe-
den: 400 European grasses (193619, ex-
change).

Botanic GARDENS, Sydney, New
South Wales: 197 plants from Aus-
tralia (192773, 193978, 194758, ex-
change).

Boucotr, ARTHUR J., Arlington, Va.:
11 meteorites from various localities of
the world (191631, exchange) ; 6 casts
of Devonian brachiopod types from
Canada, 2 brachiopod specimens from
Upper Devonian of Canada, 4 from Cre-
taceous of New Jersey, 1 from Eocene
of New Jersey, and 2 from Spain
(192654).

BourquIN, FERNANDO, Buenos Aires,

Argentina: 15 moths from Argentina
(193355).
Bowes, FREDERICK, JR., Stamford,

Conn.: 2 Canadian International Phila-
telic Exhibition meter markings
(192414). (See also Pitney Bowes,
Inc.)

BowsHer, Mr. and Mrs. ArtHour L.
(See Mr. and Mrs. G. C. Higgins.)

Brasson, Mayor KIMBERLY, New
York, N. Y.: 2 red deer from Germany
(190818).

BraDBurY, JOSEPH W., Stratford,
Conn.: A woven panel with Javanese
Wyang figurines and designs in batik

(191667).
BRADLEY, JOHN D. (See British Gov-
ernment, British Museum (Natural

History).)

Bradley, Mr. and Mrs. J. W., Los
Angeles, Calif.: A wherryite and lead-
hillite specimen from the Mammoth
Mine, Tiger, Ariz. (191410).

BRAMLETTE, M. N., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 70 Foraminifera from the Ter-
tiary of California (191394); 12 type
Foraminifera from the Miocene of Cali-
fornia (194787).

BRANHAM, Mrs. HucH, Fort Myers
Beach, Fla.: 3 marine mollusks includ-
ing a paratype of a new subspecies
from Campeche Bay, México (191911).

BrATTER, Hersert M., Washington,
D. C.: Chinese brass footwarmer
(191879).

BreENCKLE, J. F., Mellette, S. Dak.:
33 United States ferns (191272).

Briceno-Maaz, Dr. T., Barcelona,
Venezuela: 2 caterpillars and 1 adult
moth from Venezuela (192639).

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

Brinck, Dr. JostaH, (See U. S. De-
partment of the Interior, Geological
Survey.)

Brices, JOHN C.
versity.)

BrigHaM YOUNG UNIVERSITY, Provo,
Utah: (Through Dr. B. F. Harrison)
85 plants from Utah (194249).

BRITISH GOVERNMENT, London, Eng-
land.—British Museum (Natural His-
tory): 198 Chilean and Patagonian
gnats (194486, exchange) ; (through Dr.
Helen Muir-Wood) 244 Carboniferous
and Mesozoic fossils chiefly from Eng-
land (189969, exchange); (through BE.
B. Britton) 4 beetles from Trinidad and
México (191638, exchange); (through
Norman Tebble) 1 polychaete worm
(192738) ; (through Dr. N. B. Marshall)
5 type fishes (194292, exchange) ;
(through John D. Bradley) 2 moths
from Africa (194418, exchange);
(through Dr. F. van Emden) a weevil
larva from Europe (194878). Com-
monwealth Institute of Entomology:
(Through Dr. F. van Emden) 4 flies
from Malaya (194308). Royal Botanic
Gardens, Kew, Surrey: 200 duplicate
grasses mostly from tropical Africa
(191492, exchange); 1 grass of the
type collection of Hyparrhenia edulis
(191987, exchange) ; 33 tropical Ameri-
ean plants (193253, exchange).

Britt, JOHN J., New York, N. Y.:
Sport shirt with stamp designs, and key
ring with tab containing reproduction of

(See Stanford Uni-

the i1-cent British Guiana stamp
(193270).

Britton, ©. B. (See British Govern-
ment, British Museum (Natural His-
tory).)

BroapD, A. Carter. (See Duke Uni-
versity. )

BrRONNIMANN, Dr. P., Point-a-Pierre,
Trinidad, B. W. I.: 51 type and figured
specimens of a foraminiferal genus from
Kocene of Trinidad (192322) ; 89 Arena-
ceous Foraminifera from the Tertiary
of Trinidad (193493, 194480).

Brooks, Haroip K., Providence, R. I.:
A Devonian starfish from New York,
with six rays (191409, exchange).

BrotTzEn, Dr. F., Stockholm, Sweden:
25 Foraminifera from the Cretaceous of
Sweden (193622, exchange).

Brower, A. E., Augusta, Maine: 48
Lepidoptera from Maine, and 1 from
Massachusetts, including 6 types
(194307).

Brown, D. M.
ean Oil Co.)

Brown, Vernon L. (See American
Numismatic Association.)

Brown, WirLt1amM L., Burwood, Vic-
toria, Australia: 108 ants from Aus-
tralia (192423).

(See Arabian Ameri-
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

Brown Funp, E. J., Smithsonian In-
stitution: (In cooperation with Smith-
sonian Institution) 60 birds from south-
ern Algeria collected by J. Laenen
(191553).

BROWN UNIVERSITY, Providence, R. I.:
A Brayton oil engine of 1878 or earlier
(192653).

Bruner, 8S. C., Loma Linda, Calif.:
127 bugs and 53 beetles from Cuba
(175718).

Bruns, FRANKLIN R., Jr., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 4386 miscellaneous covers,
seals, stamps, envelopes, souvenir
sheets, and other philatelic material
(191687, 191778, 191774, 191904, 192099,
192782, 192783, 192784, 192936, 192937,
193079, 193109) ; 1 ceramic stamp box
with reproduction of $1.00 Trans-Mis-
sissippi stamp ; 3 ceramic ash trays with
reproduction of $1.00 Trans-Missis-
sippi stamp (192988, loan) ; 2 framed
original drawings: designs submitted
for U. S. Honorable Discharge stamp,
and Matilda Newport issue of Liberia,
1947 (193102, loan); 1 silver bowl,
known as the “Barry Bowl,” donated by
Col. Hans Lagerloef for the best news-
paper stamp column contest, won for 3
years by New York Sun, Franklin R.
Bruns, Jr., stamp editor (193166, loan) ;
4 trophies from the Lagerloef “Barry
Bowl” newspaper contest, 1941-43; 4
Centenary Exhibition Award plates;
and S. P. A. 1948 Foreign Essays trophy
(193167, loan) ; 259 assorted revalued
postal cards, stamps, first day covers,
and souvenir sheets (194615, 194888).

Butt, F. K., Pinopolis, S. C. ; 60 fresh-
water mussels from Lake Moultrie, near
Pinopolis (192822).

BuLtis, Harvey R., Jr. (See U. S. De-
partment of the Interior.)

Bursank, BENJAMIN, B., Bath,
Maine; Andalusite from Smalls Falls,
near Madrid, Maine (193944).

BurNHAM, CHARLES, Brooklyn, N. Y.:
First day covers for Brooklyn and Bal-
timore and Ohio stamps (194635).

Burns, Dr. A.N. (See National Mu-
seum of Victoria.)

Burr, Lt. Col. JoHn G., Washington,
D. C.: 11 uniforms and uniform acces-
sories belonging to Brigadier General
Edward Burr and donor (194886).

BurkovuGHS, Paut H., Concord, N. H.:
2 graftonite specimens from the Rug-
gles Mine, Grafton, N. H. (192324,
exchange).

Buser, Mrs. Epwarp, Jr., New York,
N. Y.: First day cover bearing Swiss
“Lunaba” souvenir sheet, special cachet
and cancellation (192933).

BusuHey, Prof. Crinton J., Upland,
Ind. : 40 land snails from Grant County,
Ind. (194092).

59

Byas, WALTER J., WaShington, D. C.:
275 land and fresh-water mollusks from
northeastern Oklahoma (194906).

Bynum, Vircinia Dare, Charlotte,
N. C.: A miniature china doll, late nine-
teenth century (193677).

CALDWELL, Dr. JoHN S. (See Dr.
Luis F. Martorell.)

CALIFORNIA, UNIVERSITY OF, Berkeley,
Calif.: 22 plants collected in Brazil by
Dr. Amaro Macedo (189794) ; 982 plants
and 207 miscellaneous marine algae
from North America collected by Annie
M. Alexander and Louise Kellogg
(191485, 191488, exchange) ; 692 plants
collected in Colombia by H. L. Mason,
S. Galen Smith, and associates
(192052); grass from California
(193347) ; 23 plants from El Salvador,
collected by J. M. Tucker (194395) ;
(through Dr. Paul D. Hurd, Jr.) fly
from California (194905).

CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES,
San Francisco, Calif.: 54 grasses
(192774, exchange) ; grass trom Cali-
fornia (193485); (through Dr. E. S.
Ross) 100 ants from New Guinea and
44 from India (191906, exchange).

CALVERT, Dr. PHILIP P., Cheyney, Pa.:
1 dragon fly (191557, exchange).

CAMBRIDGE, Sgt. PuHtip, Cardiff,
South Wales: 280 Tertiary and 42 Re-
cent mollusks from western Europe
and Germany (192971, exchange) ; 250
Cenozoic mollusks and barnacles from
France, Holland, and Denmark and
unwashed foraminiferal material from
the island of Sylt and Holland; 125
Cenozoic and Cretaceous mollusks,
Worms and echinoderms; approxi-
mately 5,000. Recent mollusks from
Iingland, Germany, and Holland
(194293, exchange).

CaMERON, Mrs. Duncan, Washing-
ton, D. C.: 4 pieces of nineteenth cen-
tury hand-made lace consisting of a
three-cornered bobbin-made black silk
shawl, Chantilly, France; black silk
scarf (mantilla), Barcelona, Spain; 2
cream color scarves (mantillas) of
lacis net lace, Spain (191670).

CaMINITa III, Lupwic, Arlington,
Va., and WALTER L. RHINEHART, JR,
Falls Church, Va: 25 fishes from Bur-
don’s mill pond, west of Rehoboth
Beach, Del. (191496).

CAMNITZER, Dr. GrorcE, New York,
N. Y.: German “cover” of 1692
(191772).

CAMPBELL, Guy, Corydon, Ind.: 50
brachiopods from the Harrodsburg
limestone at Bachman’s quarry, Lanes-
ville, Ind. and 60 corals from the
Jeffersonville formation from the Falls
of the Ohio, Jeffersonville, Ind.
(191898) ; 1,000 Ordovician brachiopods
60

from the Bromide formation of Okla-
homa (193221).
CAMPBELL, Howarp. (See New
Mexico Department of Game and Fish.)
Camras, Dr. SypNry, Chicago, IIL:
4 flies (191698) ; 74 flies from South

America and Africa (193228, ex-
change. )
CANADIAN GOVERNMENT, Ottawa,

Ontario.—Depariment of Agriculiure:
223 grasses from Canada (191482,
192171, 192812) ; 1,187 plants and 13
grasses from Canada (1938917, 194291,
exchange) ; 2 plants collected by P. F.
Bruggemann in Canada (194874) ;
(through Dr. Eugene G. Munroe) 8
moths from North America (187662,
gift-exchange) ; (through H. G. James)
23 flies from Canada (192425) ;
(through Dr. J. F. McAlpine) 5 flies
from Canada and Lapland (193758,
exchange). Fisheries Research Board
of Canada: (Through Dr. J. C. Med-
eof) 20 marine clams from New Bruns-
wick, Canada (191710); 5 marine
mollusks from St. Mary Bay, Nova
Seotia (192991) ; a rock with burrows
of a mollusk from 40 fathoms off Nova
Seotia (194884). Geological Survey of
Canada: (through Dr. J. Jeletzky) 6
easts of type specimens of Mesozoic
ammonites from Europe and Canada
(193948) ; (through Peter Harker) 3
easts of a type Mississippian brachio-
pod from Nova Scotia (194200) ;
(through Dr. D. J. McLaren) 55 De-
vonian brachiopods from northwest
Canada (194040, exchange).

CANFIELD Funp, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: Tellurium, México, and _ pitch-
plende, Erzgebirge, Germany (191500) ;
11 vanadinite specimens from San Car-
los Mine, Chihuahua, México (191504,
192410) ; pink fiuorite octahedron on
smoky quartz from Galenstock-Rhone-
gletscher, Switzerland (191931) ; crys-
tal of apatite from Valle Aurina, Bol-
zano, Italy (192734); topaz crystal
from Amelia, Va. (194002) ; allophane
specimen from Magdalena Mine, Kelly,
N. Mex. (194191); 2 specimens of
wolframite with cassiterite from
Liallagua, Bolivia (194394).

CANTRALL, Dr. Irvine J., Pinckney,
Mich.: 28 Neuroptera from Michigan
(194222).

CAPRILES, Prof. J. MALDONADO, Maya-
guez, P. R.: 2 bugs, type specimens,
from Puerto Rico (194223).

CARBINE, W. F. (See U. S. Depart-
ment of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife

Service.)
CARBONELL, Dr. C. S8., Montevideo,
Uruguay: 21 decapod crustaceans
(192880).

Carey, Capt. CHARLES, Washington,

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

D. C.: 385 water color paintings of
groups of American, French and Hes-
sian uniforms of the American Revolu-
tionary period (191689).
CARNEGIE MUSEUM.
Geographic Society.)
CARPENTER, Capt. WALTER N., Fort
Myers, Va.: 48 marine mollusks from
Yemen and Andaman Islands (192507).

(See National

CARRASCO, ANITA. (See Mrs. An-
tonio Franco.)

CARFER, CHARLES E., Jr. Falls
Church, Va.: Japanese Peace Treaty

stamp (1938672).

CARVALHO, Dr. J. Paiva, Sio Paulo,
Brazil: 24 shrimps from Sado Paulo
State (193287).

CASTIGLIOLA, JULIUS. (See Depart-
ment of Defense, Department of the
Navy, Hydrographic Office.)

Castro, Dr. MAnvurnL P., Buenos
Aires, Argentina: 4 mosquitoes
(194484).

CASWELL, GEORGE A., Rochester,

N. Y.: 2 septarian nodules from ravine
near Bristol, N. Y. (193349).
CAWTHRON INSTITUTE, Nelson, New

Zealand: (Through Bruce B. Given)
66 Australian wasps (198832, ex-
change).

Cazier, Dr. Mont A. (See American
Museum of Natural History.)

Cuace, H. P., Lomita, Calif.: 4 ma-
rine mollusks from near San Pedro
(198394).

CHAMBERLAIN FUND, FRANCES LeA,
Smithsonian Institution: An 18.87
carat opal from Ceard, Brazil
(192097) ; spessartite garnet from Bra-
zil weighing 53.82 carats (198219).

CHaPIN, Dr. Epwarp A., Washington,
D. C.: A diopside specimen from mar-
ble quarry near Montville, Va.
(191891) ; 9 fresh-water mussels from
New York and West Virginia (192022) ;
8 amphipods collected at Turkey Run,
Va. (193840).

CHAPMAN, Mrs. EvEtyn P., Newfield,
N. J.: 2 ecards with “U. S. Treasury
Defense Bond Flag City” cancellation
(192418).

CHAPMAN, JAMES G., San Francisco,
Calif.: 10 fossil wood specimens from
Arakawa River, northwest of Sendai,
Japan (193576).

CHAPMAN, PrrcivAL W., Norwich,
Conn.: i1-cent and 2-cent ‘platens’
used for the embossed stamped enve-
lope of the Plimpton issue, 1874-86
(198029).

CHARLESTON MuvsruM, Charleston,
S. C.: 6,122 European plants from the
Kuntze Herbarium (194411).
| CHASE, VirRGINIUs H., Peoria, Ill.:
Alga from Illinois (193024) ; 38 grasses
| (198886).

ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

CHatTTIN, Mrs. KE. D., Hollywood, Fla. :
Uniform worn by a student nurse at
Passaic General Hospital, Passaic,
N. J., 1897 (192873).

CHEN, Dr. CHIN-WEN, Taipei, Tai-
wan, Formosa: 4 Polychaetes (191586).

CHESAPEAKE AND POTOMAC TELEPHONE
Company, Washington, D. C.: 1 co-
axial cable display board and 1 model
500 telephone desk set (191676).

CHESAPEAKE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORY,
Solomons Island, Md.: (Through R. S.
Scheltema) 21 amphipods (193074).

CuIcaco NaTuRAL History MUSEUM,
Chicago, Ill.: 89 plants from Maryland
(191882) ; 3 plants collected in Colom-
bia (191406); 183 phanerogams, in-
cluding many isotypes, collected in
Venezuela by J. A. Steyermark
(191997, exchange); 114 ferns from
México and 23 plants collected by Dr.
Margery Carlson (192152, 192175) ; 21
plants collected in Heuador by J. A.
Steyermark (192592); 127 miscellane-
ous eryptogams and 6 algae (192769,
193250, exchange) ; through R. L. Wen-
zel) 62 grasshoppers, crickets, roaches,
and mantids from Iraq and Iran
(191776) ; (through Dr. Sharat Roy)
several fragments of the Benld,
Macoupin County, Illinois, meteorite
(192594); (through Dr. Marvin
Weller) 11 topotypes of a Pennsyl-
yanian gastropod from Illinois
(193823) ; (through Loren P. Woods)
8 fishes collected in Bermuda (193924,
exchange).

CHICOPEE MANUFACTURING CORPORA-
TION oF GEORGIA, New York, N. ¥.: An
exhibit showing the manufacture of
Lumite, a new synthetic textile
(194475).

CHILD, Sarcent B., London, England;
Fuller’s spiral slide rule, 1879 (179682).

CuHor, W. L., New York, N. Y.: 22
block prints for special exhibition
(193626, loan).

CHOUKE, Dr. Kenar §., Philadelphia,
Pa.: 2 small calipers for taking meas-
urements of eyes (192280).

CreotLaA, Dr. FRANCESCO. (See Insti-
tute and Museum of Geology.)

CLARK, CHESTER WELLS, Washington,
D. C.: A silk patchwork table cover
made about 1860 by the donor’s grand-
mother in Warlville, Ill. (191408).

CiaRK, Col. Hueene §., Jr., Sand-
wich, Mass.: Stomatopod crustacean
from Cape Cod Bay (193078).

CriarkK, Mrs. Leta Forees, Ruta D.
Forsprs, and Mrs. PuHyrlis Forses
CLARK, Washington, D. C.: Ceremonial
adz from the island of Mangaia, Hervey
Island Group (192949).

CraRK, Mrs. PHyLiIs Forers.
Mrs. Leila Forbes Clark.)

225236—52——_5

(See

61

CraRK, W. K., Greenfield, Mass.:
Skulls of a killer whale and a grizzly
bear from Alaska (194864).

CLARKE, J. EF. Gates, Washington,
D. ©.: 9 butterflies from Virginia
(192103) ; 194 miscellaneous insects
from England (192305) ; 210 specimens
of Hymenoptera from England
(192500) ; 12 moths and a bat from
West Virginia (192793, 193169).

CLEMENTE, Dr. Lrororpo S.
University of the Philippines.)

CLENCH, WILLIAM J. (See Harvard
University, Museum of Comparative
Zoology.)

Crinton, Mrs. C. R., Washington,
D. C.: 2 marine mollusks from Aca-
pulco, México (192509).

CLoup, Dr. Preston E., Jr. (See U.
S. Department of the Interior, Geologi-
cal Survey.)

CocHRAN, Dr. Doris M., Washington,
D. C.: 52 items for photographic col-
lection (194768).

CocKEeYy, Comdr. RicHarp K., Falls
Church, Va.: 7 prints by Berndt, Goethe,
Grevedon, Piranesi, Seiller, Watson, and
Ztindt (191413).

Corr, Dr. A. C., JR., Knoxville, Tenn. ;
15 ants (paratypes) from New Mexico
(194107, exchange).

CoLr, HzrRa D., Nyack, N. Y.: 2 enve-
lopes with ‘Paid 3” in small circle, post-
marked Washington, D. C., each with
oval “Smithsonian Institution” stamped
corner card in lower left (191903).

CoLE, THe CHILDREN oF Mr. & Mrs.
MARCELLUS, Washington, D. C.:
(Through Mrs. William Overstreet)
Needlepoint tapestry depicting Saint
Patrick (194282).

COLEMAN, CHARLES, Mountain Valley,
Ark.: 1 quartz crystal from Mountain
Valley (194598).

COLEMAN, GEORGE L., Dayton, Ohio:
104 marine mollusks from Florida

(See

(194003).

CoLEMAN, RIcHARD W., Berkeley,
Calif. : 35 pupae of flies from California
(192498).

Cottins, Mrs. R. Les, Knoxville,

Tenn.: (Through Dr. Harold HE. Vokes)
Type specimen of Cretaceous turtle
from Tennessee; remains of Miocene
sailfish from Virginia; and Pleistocene
bear from Tennessee (194897).

Cotom, Dr. G., Soller, Beleares, Spain:
19 Foraminifera from the Hocene of
Spain and the Oligocene of Germany
(192863, exchange).

CoLoraDO, UNIVERSITY OF, Boulder,
Colo. : 4 grasses from Colorado (192705,
194005) ; a grass collected by Dr. Wil-
liam A. Weber on Mount Evans, Colo.
(192092).
62

CoLoRADO AGRICULTURAL AND MECHAN-
IcAL Cottece, Fort Collins, Colo.:
Plant from Colorado (191722).

Comi1tra, GABRIEL W., Seattle, Wash. :
10 copepods from Amchitka, Alaska
(191456) ; a collembolan and a coccid
beetle from Alaska (191357).

COMMISSION ON THE RENOVATION OF
THE EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington,
D. C.: 4 wooden mantels, marble mantel,
baseboard and wooden panels from Hast
Room, and 18 boxes of bricks from the
White House (194918).

COMMONWEALTH SCIENTIFIC AND IN-
DUSTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION, Can-
berra, Australia ; 341 plants collected in
Australia by R. A. Perry (193572, ex-
change).

CoMPAGNIA SAMMARANESE PER 11 CoM-
MERCIO Estero S. A., Rome, Italy: 2
first day covers of the Verdi set and the
Tree set of Italian postage stamps
(193104) ; 1 first day cover of the 100-
lire “Flood Victims” stamp (193272) ; 3
first day covers—Italy Milano Fair,
Sports Stamp Exhibit, and 12 lire on 13
lire (1946386).

Connor, Dr. Louis G., Washington,
D. C.: 5 wrought-iron tools used by the
Chinese rug maker (192164).

CONSERVATOIRE ET JARDIN BOTANIQUES,
Geneva, Switzerland: 2,072 botanical
specimens (190539, exchange).

Cook, Roserr C., Washington, D. C.:
1 painted Inca kero and 2 Ecuadorian
negative painted jars collected by the
late O. F. Cook during trips to Latin
America in period 1890-1930 (191882).

Cooper, Dr. K. W., Princeton, N. J.:
330 wasps from Central America
(194869, exchange).

Cooper, WALLACE T., Arlington, Va.:
a fish (191497).

CopsEY, JAcK JH.
Johnson.)

CORBALLY, CHARLES J.
Vy. Taylor.)

CorBETT, WILLIAM P., Plainfield, N. J.:
Marine mollusk from Kyoto, Japan
(194489).

Correa, Mr. and Mrs. Luis F., Wash-
ington, D. O.: 90 marine mollusks from
Acapuleo, México (191508).

CORNELL UNIVERSITY, Ithaca, N. Y.:
22 plants collected in Alaska by Chris-
tine Heller (193345, exchange) ; 2 De-
vonian crinoids (194102, exchange) ; 46
lichens collected in Washington by Drs.
B. I. Brown and W. C. Muenscher
(192401, exchange).

Cortés, Ratx, Santiago, Chile: 4
paratypes of new Chilean flies (193357).

CoruM, WIttiAM, Springfield, Mo.:
Khaki uniform coat and breeches worn
by an enlisted member of the 1st Aero

(See William F.
(See Emily

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM,

1952

Squadron during World War I
(191592).

CorynpoN Museum, Nairobi, Kenya.
(Through E. Pinhey) 109 miscellaneous
dragon flies, grasshoppers, ete., from
Africa (192224).

CRISTOBAL, Dr. UBALDO Lopez. (See
Instituto de Sanidad Vegetal.)

CRISWELL, CLARENCE, Pass-a-Grille
Beach, Fla.: 2 tokens commemorating
the visit of American Numismatics As-
sociation Secretary, Lewis M. Reagan,
to the St. Petersburg Coin Club
(194884).

CROASDALE, Dr. HANNAH, Hanover,

N. H.: 304 lichens from Alaska
(192987).
CrocKER, Rosert H., Washington,

D. C.: 1 Nazi flag (194381).

CrossSLeEy, D. A., Jr., Lawrence, Kans. :
9 mites including 2 holotypes from
Texas (192332).

CrounsE, Mrs. Avery F., Minne-
apolis, Minn.: 1 cacheted envelope
marking 15th anniversary of Minne-
apolis Women’s Philatelic Society
(192496).

CroweELt, R. M., Durham, N. C.: 5
slides of mites from North Carolina
(192306).

Crown AGENTS FOR THE COLONIES,
Washington, D. C.: (Through A. J. EB.
Davis) 31 British Colonial stamps
(1916938, 194621) ; 13 Montserrat post-
age issue in decimal currency, and com-
plete Fiji Health semipostal set
(192182); 5 postage stamps of the
Windward Islands with ‘‘New Consti-
tution 1951” overprint (192183) ; 1 Tris-
tan da Cunha overprint on St. Helena,
and 14 Falkland Island pictorials, Jan-
uary 2, 1952 issue (192935).

CUNNINGHAM, Rorert O., Lorton,
Va.: Barred owl and catbird (194036,
194892).

CURBISHLEY, Davin L., Trenton, N. J.:
2 pottery pipe bowl fragments (194469).

CURVELLO, Dr. WALTER. (See Museu
Nacional.)

DAHLGREEN FUND, Smithsonian In-
stitution: “Awakening,” engraving and
relief etching by Gabor Peterdi
(192779) ; wood engraving “Furnace,”
by Charles Quest (193389); 2 niello
engravings, 1 drypoint by Beckmann,
1 wood cut by Kirchner, and 1 wood
cut by Schmidt-Rottluff (194218).

Dairy, Dr. WittiAm A., Indianapolis,
Ind.: 110 fresh-water algae (194871,
exchange).

DALMAT, Dr. Hersert T., Guatemala,
Guatemala: 4 blackflies from Guate-
mala (193957).

Darton, Brig. Gen. ALBERT C., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Coat made from the skin
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

of a buffalo killed by “Buffalo Bill”
(191694).

DanieEt, Brother, Medellin, Colombia :
1 plant from Colombia (193620).

DARLINGTON, Dr. P. J. (See Harvard
University, Museum of Comparative
Zoology.)

pA Rocua, Prof. Dias, Cear4, Brazil:
15 shrimps (194262).

DarraH, Peter F., Arlington, Va.:
Civil War mortar projectile (191686).

D’AscENzo, NicoLa, Philadelphia, Pa.:
2 erystals—garnet, Siberia, and wil-
lemite, Franklin, N. J.; 2 cut stones—
4-ray star aquamarine, Brazil, weight
11.21 carats, cat’s-eye diopside, Aus-
tria, weight 12.82 carats (193348, ex-
change).

DASHWOOD, R. JULIAN, Cook Islands:
25 marine mollusks from Mauke, Cook
Islands (192488).

DAVENPoRT PuBLIc MUsrtuM HERBA-
RIUM, Davenport, Iowa: 11 grasses from
Iowa (192451).

Davinson, CHARLES F., London, Eng-
land: 4 autunites from Poco Norte,
Reboleiro, Portugal (194896).

Davies, LEwis, Durham, England: 38
blackflies from Europe (193913, ex-
change).

Davies, T. H., Birmingham, Eng-
Jand: 2 lengths of the first locked-coil
wire ropes made by Telford Clarence
Batchelor (187464).

Davis, A. J. E., Washington, D. C.: 6
postage stamps: Brunei, Sarawak,
Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika and Cey-
lon (193239). (See also Crown Agents
for the Colonies.)

Davis, BERNARD, Philadelphia, Pa.:
U. S. Betsy Ross first day cover, and
souvenir program of Betsy Ross first
day sale (193271); hand-painted tie
with stamp designs; 4 cuff links: re-
productions of 1 penny 1880 stamp of
Great Britain, 4-cent green 1883 stamp,
10-cent 1847 stamp; match box cover
with reproductions of Swiss stamps in
eolors (193545, loan).

Davis, Don R., Oklahoma, City, Okla. :
A moth (194771, exchange).

Davis, Wayne H., Morgantown,
W. Va.: Nashville warbler (193521).

Dawson, Dr. B. Yate. (See Univer-
sity of Southern California, Allan Han-
cock Foundation.)

Dawson, R. W., Minneapolis, Minn.:
11 flies from North America (194616).

DE CHAMPLAIN, Rey. A. A. (See Le
Séminaire de Rimouski.)

DEFENSE, DEPARTMENT OF, Washing-
ton, D. C—(Through Dr. Walfrido de
Leon) 690 mosquitoes from Philippine
Islands (193353). Department of the
Air Force: (Through Capt. Lester L.
Strickland) 10 rodents and 1 shrew

63

from Clark Air Force Base, Luzon,
P. I. (194863). Department of the
Army: 12 assorted confiscated weapons
(191635); 6 German, Japanese, and
Russian machine guns and Japanese
barrage mortar used in World War II
(194887) ; (through Capt. Theodore E.
Blakeslee, Second Army Area Medical
Laboratory) plant from Maryland
(191657); (through Col. George W.
Hunter, III, Fourth Army Area Medi-
eal Laboratory) 90 fresh-water mol-
lusks from Korea and Japan (191805) ;
24 fresh-water mollusks from Texas
(194670) ; (through Capt. Hilton H.
Earle, Jr., Sixth Army Area Medical
Laboratory) 24 fresh-water mollusks
from Washington (192489); (through
Lt. Col. W. J. La Casse, 35th Station
Hospital) 589 mosquitoes from Japan
(192791) ; (through Lt. John E. Scan-
lon, Far East Research Medical Unit)
55 miscellaneous insects and spiders
and 200 flies from Japan (192989,
194920); (through Headquarters
Fourth Army Area Medical Labora-
tory) 2 mosquito larvae from Marshall,
Tex. (194272). Army Medical Service
Graduate School: 579 mammals, 4 birds
and 18 skins, 75 reptiles and amphib-
ians, 19 fishes, 3 invertebrates, 91 in-
sects, 16 plants, and 20 trematodes,
from Mount Kinabalu and vicinity,
North Borneo (191755) ; 6 rodents from
Malaya (192947) ; (through Col. Robert
Traub) 43 slides of fleas collected in
various parts of the world (191418); 8
batflies from Africa and Orient
(192109) ; 3 bats from Covington, Va.
(193230). Office of the Quartermaster
General: (Through Louis M. Roth) 3
mosquitoes from laboratory colony at
Quartermaster Research and Develop-
ment Laboratories (192105, 192301).
Department of the Navy: (Through Dr.
Martin W. Johnson) 1 giant spiny lob-
ster larva from the Marshall Islands,
collected in connection with “Opera-
tions Crossroads” Bikini Survey, 1946
(191794). Hydrographic Office:
(Through Mrs. Helen Hayes) 38 Sea-
snakes from the Persian Gulf taken
‘by the USS Maury (192057);
(through John Lyman, William H.
Littlewood, and Julius Castigliola) 117
deep sea fishes, 16 mollusks, and ma-
rine invertebrates from Atlantic Ocean
(192867). National Naval Medical
Center: (Through Dr. L. W. Teller)
63 insects from Indo Pacifie (194485).
Nawal Medical Research Unit No. 8,
Cairo, Egypt: (Through Dr. Harry
Hoogstraal) 14 batflies from Africa
and Orient (192108) ; 23 land mollusks
from the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan
(194004); (through Dr. Robert WB.
64

Kuntz) a large collection of reptiles,
amphibians, 50 mammals, 1,758 fishes,
and approximately 500 mollusks from
Egypt collected by Dr. Kuntz and
others (192185); 16 isopods from
Yemen, Arabia (198516). Office of
Naval Research: 600 plants collected
in Alaska by P. F. Scholander and as-
sociates (191626); (through R. F.
Lynch) 250,000 Mesozoic and Tertiary
fresh-water mollusks from western
United States, collected by Dr. Teng-
Chien Yen during summers 1949 and
1950 under Navy contract (192975) ;
(through Dr. Ira L. Wiggins) 296 ma-
rine invertebrates and 8 mollusks frem
Point Barrow, Alaska, and vicinity
(191241) ; (through Dr. J. Bohlke) ap-
proximately 1,410 marine invertebrates
from the vicinity of Point Barrow,
Alaska (193719); 21 lots of sponges,
and 25 copepods, including types, from
the vicinity of Point Barrow, Alaska
(193842). (See also Smithsonian In-
stitution, U. S. National Musewn, col-
lected by members of the staff).

DE Fez SANcHEzZ, Dr. Srro, Valencia,
Spain: 450 land and fresh-water mol-
lusks from Spain (193765, exchange).

DE FRANCA, Dr. VALDEMAR C. (See
Ministerio da Viacio e Obras Publicas.)

DEGENER, OTTo, Waialua, Oahu, T. H.:
1,047 plants from Hawaii and Canton
Island (192291, 194375) ; (through Dr.
C. H. Edmondson) a hermit crab and
3 barnacles (191239).

DEIGNAN, Herreert G., Washington,
D. C.: Woodthrush (194755).

Dekeyser, P.L. (See Institut Fran-
ceais d’Afrique Noire.)

DE LAUBENFELS, Dr. M. W., Corvallis,
Oreg.: 1 sponge (192206).

DE Leon, Dr. WaAtrripo. (See De-
partment of Defense and Manila Public
Health Research Laboratories.)

DE MESA, PEpRO, Manila, P. I.: 67
land, fresh-water, and marine shells
from Japan (119208); approximately
4,400 land and marine mollusks from
the Philippine Islands (158159).

Drenpy, Prof. J. S. (See Alabama
Polytechnic Institute.)

DE OxtvetrRA, Dr. S. J., Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 4 paratypes of marine midges
from South America (192335).

Drsnie“tp, Hon. McKinriry A.
Republic of Liberia.)

DE Souza Lopes, Dr. H., Rio de Ja-
neiro, Brazil: 4 marine mollusks from
Brazil (193502); approximately 150
mollusks, mainly marine, from Brazil
(194022, exchange).

DrspecHer, Mrs. Ciara §., Orlando,
Wla.: (Through Ann Singleton) 4
photographs of General John J. Persh-
ing and staff made on the day of their

(See

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

arrival in France, June 1917 (193107).

DETROIT, UNIVERSITY OF, Detroit,
Mich.: (Through Carl B. Obrecht) 46
mosquitoes from the United States
(194901, exchange).

DEUTSCHES ENTOMOLOGISCHE INSTI-
TUTE, Berlin, Germany: (Through Dr.
Willi Hennig) 52 biting midges, mostly
from Europe (193757, exchange).

Dewitt, Dr. WILLIAM B. (See Fed-
eral Security Agency.)

Dickinson, May, Washington, D. C.:
2 hornet. nests from United States

(192816).
DICTAPHONE CORPORATION, Bridge-
port, Conn.: (Through L. A. Engel)

Dictaphone Time-Master, 1952, for tem-
porary exhibit (194477, loan).

Dirks, Dr. G. H., Baltimore, Md.:
433 miscellaneous beetles from Pert
and Bolivia (192830, exchange).

Dr Maccro, ANDREA, Washington,
D. C.: 1 red-shouldered hawk (192169).

DosprovoLtny, Dr. CHARLES G., Recife,
Pernambuco, Brazil: (Through Dr.
Ralph W. Imlay) 7 marine and fresh-
water mollusks from near Recife
(192992).

Doncr, HENRY, Scarsdale, N. ¥.: Ap-
proximately 1,500 marine mollusks
from the Bahamas and the Dominican
Republic (192428).

Doper, Dr. H. R.
eurity Agency.)

DouGalL, KATHERINE P., Washington,
D. C.: Tan spun silk wedding dress
worn by Mary Virginia Adler in 1851
when she married William H. Dougal,
and white Canton crepe shawl brought
to Mrs. Dougal by Captain Cadwalader
Ringgold from Commodore Perry’s first
trip to the Orient in 1853 (192709).

Downes, Dr. J. Antony, Glasgow,
Scotland: 89 biting midges represent-
ing 17 species frem the British Isles
(191649).

Drage, Mrs. C., Glion, Switzerland:
(Through Charles Mason Remey) A
eat’s-eye chrysoberyl ring, presented in
memory of donor’s father, Dr. Frank
Wigglesworth Clarke (191679).

Drake, Dr. C. J., Ames, Iowa: 4
shorebugs and 11 stink bugs (191777,
194778, exchange) ; 14 bugs from Méx-
ico (192792, exchange).

DRAKE, Rosert J., Albuquerque, N.
Mex.: 83 land and fresh-water mol-
lusks from Northern México and Texas
(189417). (See also University of New
Mexico. )

Drane@a, TeD, Miami, Pla.: 8 marine
mollusks and 2 pieces of cloth dyed
from animals of these mollusks from
Costa Rica (193722).

DreEyrus-BarNeEy, Mrs. LAURA.
Daughters of Alice Pike Barney.)

(See Federal Se-

(See
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

Droocer, C. W., Utrecht, Nether-
lands: 319 Tertiary Foraminifera from
the Island of Aruba (191678, ex-
change) ; 33 foraminiferal slides from
the Tertiary of the Hodna Mountains
of Algeria (193509, exchange).

DunHovnik, Dr. J. M., Ljubljana,
Yugoslavia: 10 minerals and ores from
Stari Trg and Idria, Yugoslavia
(191662, exchange); (in cooperation
with the Roebling Fund) 11 ores and
5 minerals from Yugoslavia (194647,
exchange).

DUKE UNIVERSITY, Durham, N. C.: 3
grasses from North Carolina (192286) ;
(through A. Carter Broad) 10 newts
from North Carolina (193022).

Dumas, ALEx, Boston, Mass. : 2 United
States stamped envelopes with Smith-
sonian Institution rubber handstamps in
upper left corners, one franked with
1-cent Interior Official stamp and used
between 1873 and 1879, and the other
with a 5-cent blue Garfield stamp, used
Jan. 18, 1889, to Hawaii with “Ship”
backstamp (193829).

DuUMBAULD, Capt. C.
Christi, Tex.: 7 marine
Panama (194692).

Dun, Dr. G. S., Keravat, Territory of
Papua and New Guinea: 100 land snails
from the Territory of Papua and New
Guinea (191711).

Duncan, Mrs. Grace BoaceEss, Chel-
tenham, Md.: Approximately 1,000 land
and fresh-water mollusks from West
Virginia, Virginia, Ohio, and Tennessee ;
marine mollusks from Cuba, together
with 4 erustacea (194617).

Dvorak, D., Arlington, Va.: Bulgar-
ian folk costumes, domestic loom work
consisting of two embroidered and ap-
pliqued striped woolen skirts and a nar-
row belt margined with white porcelain
beads originally acquired in Bulgaria
by donor (192281).

Hans, Dr. RicHarp B. (See Texas
State Department of Health.)

EARLE, Capt. Hizton H., Jr. (See De-
partment of Defense, Department of the
Army.)

East AFRICAN ‘TSETSE RESEARCH,
Shinyanga, Tanganyika, Hast Africa:
10 tsetse flies from Africa (193628).

HATTON, BERRIEN. (See Haton Chemi-
eal and Dyestuff Company.)

HATON CHEMICAL AND DYESTUFF CoO.,
Detroit, Mich.: (Through Berrien
Eaton) Medal issued hy donor to com-
memorate the 250th Anniversary of the
founding of Detroit (191576).

EcoLe p’ AGRICULTURE, Rimouski, Que-
bec: 28 grasses from Canada collected
by Dr. Ernest Lepage (192274).

Epmonpson, Dr. C. H. (See Bernice
P. Bishop Museum and Otto Degener. )

M., Corpus
shells from

65

EpMUNDSON, Dr. WALTER F. (See In-
stitute of Inter-American Affairs. )

Epwarps, B. A. B., Perth, Australia:
200 book lice from Australia (194861,
exchange).

Epwarps, E. H., Golden Valley Ga-
tooma, Southern Rhodesia: 2 honey
guides from Southern Rhodesia
(191351).

EGERTON, MARIE, Lanham, Md.: 2 fish
lice from locally caught fresh-water
fish (193687).

HIsENACK, Dr. A., Reutlingen, Ger-
many: 50 Foraminifera from the Ordo-
vician and Silurian of Estonia and Got-
land (193943, exchange).

ELKiINs, EB. E., Brooklyn, N. ¥.: A
sculptured blue rayon ‘“‘Cipex” tie with
postal marking device (193264, loan).

HuKins, J. C., Dallas, Tex: 4 assas-
sin bugs (194564, gift-exchange).

ELKInTON, HowArpD W., Philadelphia,
Pa.: A Wyandot Indian wampum belt
given to Huldah H. Bonwill by Kitty
Greyeyes, widow of the Wyandot Chief,
John W. Greyeyes, ca. 1880 (194468).

ELxis, T. KENNETH, Hot Springs, Va.:
7 copepods and 26 amphipods (191311).

ELLSworTH, JOHN, Dayton, Ohio:
Shoulder-sleeve insignia of the United
States troops in Trieste (193025).

Emmons, Dr. ArtHuR B., 2d, Boston,
Mass. : Original model of Emmons’ “pel-
viphore” (192087).

ENGEL, L. A. (See Dictaphone Cor-
poration. )

Erp, RIcHARD E., Washington, D. C.:
A fluorescent calcite specimen from
Cave Stone Company quarry, Norris-
town, Ind. (194857).

ErpMANn, Donatp S., Puntarenas,
Costa Rica: 10 marine and land mol-
lusks from Costa Rica (192025).

Bscueta AGRICOLA PANAMERICANA,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras: A plant from
Costa Rica (191002); 515 plants col-
lected in Central America, mostly Hon-
duras, by L. O. Williams and associates
(191383, exchange) ; 7 phanerogams and
76 ferns from Honduras (191474,
191888) ; 10 plants (191642) ; 89 grasses
from Honduras (191654) ; 2 plants col-
lected in Honduras by Dr. Louis O. Wil-
liams and A. Molina (192091); 429
plants from Honduras (194037, ex-
change); 1 plant collected in Costa
Rica by Paul H. Allen (194554).

Evans, Dr. CLIFFORD, Jr., Washington,
D. C.: Archeological materials (mostly
potsherds) collected by Dr. and Mrs.
Evans from village site, Weldon, N. C.
(198087) ; 784 type samples of aborig-
inal pottery from various archeological
sites in Virginia, collected and obtained
by donor in 1949-1950 (1938088).
66

EXXPERIMENTAL PLANTATIONS, INC.,
Chicacao, Suchitan, Guatemala:
(Through Dr. B. A. Krukoff) 21 plants
from Guatemala and Costa Rica
(192910, 194250) ; 5 plants from México
and Costa Rica (193742).

FABIAN, DOMINICK, Portland, Oreg.:
United Nations first day cover with
handwritten greetings on face (192663).

Farts, R. H. M., Montreal, Quebec:
First day cover bearing single copies of
4 Canadian Postage Stamp Centenary
adhesives (192326); envelope franked
with block of 4 Canadian Royal Visit
stamps, and with Royal Train special
postmark (192661).

FarRier, Maurice H., Raleigh, N. C.:
1 daddy longlegs spider from North
Carolina (192184).

FARSHING, Don, Washington, D. C.:
Die proof, in black, of the rejected Con-
federate Veterans’ design by August
Dietz, autographed by the designer
(192419).

Fassett, Dr. NORMAN C., Cambridge,
Mass.: 55 grasses from El Salvador
(191481).

FATOULLAH, K.
Lazar. )

FATOULLAH AND LAzAr, New York,
N. Y.: (Through K. Fatoullah) A Korea
“Italy” Revised Flag souvenir sheet and
block of four stamps (194634).

Faust, Dr. ERNEST CARROLL, New Or-
leans, La.: 16 fresh-water snails from
Louisiana (192110).

F'AYERWEATHER, Mrs. CHARLEs S., Co-
lumbia County, N. Y.: Baby dress, mid-
dle nineteenth century; child’s dress
and bonnet, approximately 1890; dress,
period of 1830; collection of shoes of the
nineteenth century (12 specimens)
(192468).

FEDERAL SECURITY AGENCY, Washing-
ton, D. C.—Pubdlic Health Service: 35
mammals from northern Paraguay, col-
lected by Charles H. Wharton in 1950
(192574); 6 mammals and 4 birds
(192089, 192909) ; (through Dr. W. L.
Jellison) 12 beetles, 26 bats, 5 land
mollusks, and a crayfish from Montana
(168661, 191128, 194568, 194572); 46
alcoholic specimens of mammals from
Montana, Oregon, and Idaho (188199,
191815) ; 1 coyote skull from Idaho
(191254) ; 13 northern wood frogs, 2
birds, 4 shrews, and 14 fresh-water
snails from Alaska (191607, 192269,
192613, 192671) ; 373 flies from western
United States and Alaska (193681) ;
79 reptiles and amphibians from west-
ern United States (194129); 31 bats
and 1 reptile from United States; 6
mammals and 1 reptile from Assam
(194587); 1 crayfish and 35 insects

(See Fatoullah and

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

from Montana, also 200 blackflies from
Manchuria (194875); (through Oscar
V. Lopp) approximately 50 fresh-water
snails from Mobile, Ala. (189232) ;
(through Dr. John N. Wilson) 295
fresh-water mollusks from the Snake
River drainage, Idaho (191781);
(through Dr. William B. DeWitt) 2
fresh-water snails from Brazil
(191909) ; (through Dr. Laurence Iry-
ing) 820 birds and 3 shrews from
Alaska (192131, 194657) ; (through Dr.
Robert Rausch) 11 mammals, a Stel-
ler’s jay, and 14 fresh-water mollusks
from Alaska (192185, 192207, 194514,
194922); 1 bear and 2 barren ground
grizzlies from Alaska (192426, 193178) ;
(through Dr. Everett L. Schiller) Hol-
boell’s grebe, and a Richardson’s owl
from St. Lawrence Island, Alaska
(192553) ; (through Betty Locker) 21
small mammals from Oregon and
Montana (192838); (through Dr. Paul
Woke) 225 bugs reared in laboratory
of National Institutes of Health
(193922); (through Dr. Louis J.
Olivier) 5 fishes and approximately 150
mollusks from the Dominican Republic
(1940389, 194420) ; (through Dr. H. R.
Dodge) 28 flies from Florida (194305) ;
(through Mrs. Mildred Wilson) 27
copepods including type specimens
(194838).

FEENEY, Rt. Rev. Msgr. THomas J.,
Davenport, Iowa: 1 parasitic wasp
(192141.)

FENNELL, C. M., San Francisco,
Calif.: 2 crabs from Japan (192050).

Ferereuson, Mrs. Etta K., Fort Lawn,
S. C.: 5 tintypes, 3 daguerreotypes, 2
ambrotypes, 3 paper prints, and 1 glass
plate negative (194769).

FIDELITY-PHILADELPHIA TRUST Co.
(See Estate of Gertrude Abbott.)

FIEDLER, RUSSELL and RICHARD,
Washington, D. C.: A 1-cylinder Cleve-
land motoreycle (192292).

Frevp, Dr. Henry, Washington, D. C.:
239 plants collected in Florida by Yusuf
Lazar and donor (194551).

Frevtp, Dr. HENRY, and LAzAR, YUSUF,
Washington, D. C.: Approximately 1,500
land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks,
18 reptiles, 100 insects, 18 echinoderms,
and 236 marine invertebrates from
Florida (194800).

Fine, CAROLE ANNE.
Photography.)

FIscHTHAL, Dr. JAcos, Endicott,
N. Y¥.: 2 helminths from Michigan
(193875). (See also Harpur College.)

FLANNIGAN, Epwarp A., Phoenix,
Ariz.: A Navy boat cloak owned by Lt.
Louis Vastine Housel, during the Civil
and Spanish-American Wars (191230).

(See Popular
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

Futnt, Dr. Lewis. (See Louisiana
State University.)

FLoRIDA, UNIVERSITY oF, Gainesville,
Fla.: 185 plants collected in New
Zealand by John H. Davis (192402, ex-
ehange); 2 plants from Florida
(194286, 194700); (through George K.
Reid, Jr.) 362 fishes from Cedar Key,
Fla. (193301, exchange) ; (through Dr.
Martin M. Muma) 25 lady bugs and 14
beetles from Florida (194563, 194946).

FLoripa STATE BOARD OF CONSERVA-
TION, Tallahassee, Fla.: (Through Rob-
ert M. Ingle) 2 crabs from Apalachi-
cola Bay, Florida (189488).

Frorma Strate Boarp or HEALTH,
Jacksonville, Fla.: (Through William
M. Beck, Jr.) 4 midges from Florida
(192014).

Fiona State UNIversItTy, Tallahas-
see, Fla.: 5 grasses from Florida
(193452) ; 79 mollusks from Florida
(193763); (through Dr. J. Adger
Smyth) 4 shrimps and 1 amphipod from
Alligator Harbor, Fla. (192634) ;
(through Dr. Harold J. Humm) ap-
proximately 37 marine invertebrates

and 3 Foraminifera from Alligator Har- |

bor and vicinity (193075).

FLowers, Dr. 8S. (See University of
Utah. )

Forbes, Rory D.
Forbes Clark.)

FORESTRY COMMISSION OF New SouTH
WALES, Sydney, N. 8S. W.: (Through
P. Hadlington) 30 beetles from Aus-
tralia (1923834).

FosHae, W. F., Washington, D. C: A
votive painting from the Church of San
Juan Parangaricutiro, Michoacin,
México,
(194796).

Foster, MuLrorp B., Orlando, Fla.: 6
plants collected or cultivated in South
America (192000); 7 cultivated plants
(193298).

Foster, RicHarp W. (See Harvard
University, Museum of Oomparative
Zoology.)

Foster, Mr. and Mrs. Wim.iam J.,
Falls Church, Va.: 5 pyrite nodules
from Queens Hill Quarry, Cass County,
Nebr. (193824).

Fow erg, JAMES A., Philadelphia, Pa.:
240 fresh-water mollusks from Tennes-
see and Virginia (193311).

Fox, Dr. Irvine, San Juan, P. R.: 10
black flies and 12 mosquitoes from
Puerto Rico (194419, exchange). (See
also University of Puerto Rico.)

Fox, Joun A., New York, N. Y.: 3-
cent embossed envelope of 1863 with
Smithsonian Institution corner imprint
(194611).

FRANCLEMONT, J. G., Washington,
D. ©.: 22 moths col! ected in District of

(See Mrs. Leila

depicting Paricutin volcano |

67

Columbia and vicinity (193168); 38
butterflies from Dare County, N. C.
(194772).

Franco, Mrs. Antonio, San Fran-
cisco, Calif.; (Through Anita Car-
rasco) 9 photographic prints by the late
Dominic Chiesa (193304).

FREDERICK, L. E., Longview, Wash.:
An agate “thunder egg” from Oregon
(191648, exchange).

FREEMAN, H. Avery, Garland, Tex.:
2 moths collected in Arizona (193958).

FREEMAN, Prof. Otis W., Cheney,
Wash.: A 197-gram specimen of Water-
ville, Washington, meteorite (194599).

FREEMAN, Dr. Reino, Carbondale,
Tll.: 2 mites collected in leaf litter in
Minnesota (192303).

FREIHOFER, WARREN C., Berkeley,
Calif.: 12 fresh-water mollusks from
EHeho Lake, Eldorado County, Calif.
(194866).

FRIEDMAN, D. (See State of Israel.)

FRIEDRICH, Dr. Hans, Bavaria, Ger-
many: 208 land mollusks from Bavaria
(194110, exchange).

Freyrag, Dr. G. F., Tegucigalpa, Hon-
duras: 87 land and fresh-water mol-
lusks from Honduras (191877).

FRmDAL, K. H., Jr., Tremonton, Utah:
2 Middle Cambrian trilobites from Utah
(192819).

FRizzeit, Dr. Don L., Rolla, Mo.: 14
type specimens of a foraminifer from
the Lower Cretaceous of Texas and 39
type radiolarian specimens from the
Paleocene of Missouri (191682).

Fryer, Le Roy (deceased):
(Through Peters, Wemple, Daly and
Pritchard) An Astral lamp with glass
shade fitted for electric light (191429,
bequest).

Futks, T. Irvine, Gaithersburg, Md.:
An iron hinge which was procured by
James DeSellum at the site of the Presi-
dent’s House in 1814 after it was
burned by the British (191636).

FULLAWAY, Davip T. (See Territory
of Hawaii.)

Funpaci6n Micurnt Litto, Tucuman,
Argentina: (Through Nicolas Kusne-
zov) 13 ants from Argentina (192604) ;
728 ants from Argentina (192945, ex-
change).

GALLAGHER, Dave, Grand Junction,
Colo.: A mineral from Huahuaxtla,
Guerrero, México (193950).

GALLITELLI, Dr. HB. Montanaro, Mo-
dena, Italy: 5 foraminiferal samples
from the Tertiary of Italy (188552, ex-
change).

GALTSOFF, Dr. Paut 8S. (See U. S.
Department of the Interior, Fish and
Wildlife Service.)
68

GARDINER, LISLE §., Tiller, Oreg.: A
mineralized wood specimen from Ore-
gon (192916).

GARDNER, Dr. JuLia A., Washington,
D. C.: 85 land and fresh-water mol-
lusks from Texas (192605). (See also
Dr. Kotora Hatai.)

Geary, Maj. J. M., Seattle, Wash.: 5
waterboatmen from Alaska, first record
for the New World and new to our col-
lection (1938393).

GrorcIa, UNIVERSITY oF, Athens, Ga.:
411 plants mostly collected in Georgia
(194099, exchange); 2 grasses from
Georgia (194287); (through Dr. Don-
ald C. Scott) 357 fresh-water fishes
from Georgia (194760, exchange).

GEsLIN, Dr. LEoPoLD, Oran, Algeria:
Approximately 38 marine mollusks, 2
arachnida, 6 crustacea, and 2 echino-
derms from Algeria (191355).

Gigson, Dr. Cotvin L., Guatemala,
Guatemala : 39 horseflies and 1 parasitic
fly from Guatemala (194417).

Gipson, LEE B., Chicago, Ill.: 51
slides of Upper Devonian ostracods
from Iowa (193679).

GitL, Dr. EpMUND D., Melbourne, Aus-
tralia: 1 sample of Devonian limestone
from Australia (191681, exchange) ; 42
Paleozoic invertebrate fossils and
plants from Australia and Tasmania,
and 28 Tertiary mollusks from Victoria,
Australia (194597, exchange).

Girt, Minna P., Washington, D. C.:
Lady’s parasol with carved ivory han-
dle, period of the late nineteenth cen-
tury (192009).

GILLASPY, JAMES E., Berkeley, Calif. :
3 wasps (192939).

GILLy, CHARLES L., Sr., New York, N.
Y.: 83 Mexican ferns collected by HE.
Hernandez and donor (194870).

Gints, Brother, Caracas, Venezuela:
136 plants collected in Venezuela
(191277).

GinsBuRG, Isaac. (See U. S. Depart-
ment of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife
Service, and Royal D. Suttkus.)

GIVEN, Bruce B. (See Cawthron In-
stitute.)

GLENN, MurrAy O., Magnolia, Ill.: 34
moths from Illinois (191704, 193307).

GLENNY, Frep H., Columbus, Ohio: 2
African herons (192650).

GOFFERJE, Dr. C. N. (See Museu Pa-
ranaense. )

GorpBeRG, Louis, Norwich, Conn.: 1
pair of metal ice skates and 2 pairs of
wood, metal, and leather-strap ice
skates (192176).

GOLDSTEIN, Dr. Marcus S., Silver
Spring, Md.: Face molds and miscel-
laneous photographs of Comanche In-
dians (192167). (See also New York
University. )

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM,

1952

GooDALL-SANFORD, INc., New York, N.
Y.: 14 fabrics and 7 fiber samples de-
picting ‘Fiber Blending for Better Per-
formance” (191448).

GoopMAN, Mrs. Maurice S., Washing-
ton, D. C.: White linen dressing robe,
night gown, petticoat and combing
jacket, period of 1875 (192934).

GoopricH, Dr. H. B. (See Wesleyan
University. )

GoopricH Co., B. F., Akron, Ohio:
(Through Ray F. Stratton) Tractor tire
and single tube automobile tire
(194728). -

Gorpon, Dr. MacKenzin, Jr. (See
Department of the Interior, Geological
Survey.)

GorcaAs MEMORIAL LABORATORY, Pan-
ama, Panama: (Through Harold Tra-
pido) 2 rice rats from Panam4 (192250).

GoTCLIFFE, SIp, New York, N. Y.: 35
prints for special exhibition during De-
cember 1952 (192780, loan); 1 wood
cut, “Dredge,” by donor (193388).

GouRLAY, Dr. W. BaLrour, Cambridge,
England: A plant collected in Chile
(193092).

GRAHAM, INEz, Palm Beach, Fla.: 2
skulls from Indian mound near Palm
Beach (191468).

GRANT, RALPH M., Alexandria, Va.:
2 Japanese swords (194770).

Grantz, ARTHUR. (See U. 8S. Depart-
ment of the Interior, Geological Sw-
vey.)

GRAU, GILBERT, Hollywood, Calif.: 33
marine mollusks (193359, exchange).

GRAVES, Dr. WILLIAM WASHINGTON
(deceased), St. Louis, Mo.: Original
model of Graves’ “Arcometer” (192551).

GREEN, Norvin B., Louisville, Ky.: 1-
cent postcard, last day of use, and 2-
cent posteard, first day of use (194610).

GREENBERG, NORMAN H)., Washington,
D. C.: Jasper boulder from Pierce Mill,
Rock Creek Park, Washington, D. C.
(193826).

GREENBURG, ALBERT, Tampa, Fla.: 1
fresh-water mollusk from Java
(192607).

GREENFIELD, Ray, Honolulu, T. H.:
Approximately 15 copepods, 15 amphi-
pods, 18 isopods, and 3 crabs (191550).

GREENWOOD, WILLIAM, Lautoka, Viti
Levu, Fiji: 70 plants collected in Fiji
(192406, 193216).

GRessitI, Dr. J. L.
Research Council.)

(See National

GrirritHs, Dr. HENry J. (See Uni-
versity of Minnesota.)
Grieg, Mr. and Mrs. JAmes A.,,

Queensland, Australia: Approximately
1,380 marine mollusks, mainly from
Australia (191782, exchange).

Gritt, Dr. RuporF, Vienna, Austria:
4 foraminifers from the Cretaccous
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

and Tertiary of Austria (194296, ex-
change).

GRoDNER, Rogert M., Durham, N. C.:
75 fresh-water mussels from Neuse
River, near Raleigh, N. C. (193170).

Gross, Dr. ALFRED O., Brunswick,
Maine: A green heron from Barro
Colorado Island (191759).

GUERRERO, Jos#, New York, N. Y.: 20
etchings and monotypes for special ex-
hibition during February 1952 (193495,
loan).

GuFrEy, IpA, Washington, D. C.: 14
specimens of Mexican, Spanish and
Chinese art presented in memory of
Pauletta Guffey (194781).

Guisk, Dr. JEAN. (See Museum Na-
tional d’Histoire Naturelle.)

GuILp, WILLIAM, St. Petersburg, Fla.:
2 fresh-water mollusks from an
aquarium in St. Petersburg (194928).

GUIMARAES, Dr. LINDOLPHO R. (See
Secretaria da Agricultura, Depart-
mento de Zoologia.)

GuLtF Coast RESEARCH LABORATORY,
Ocean Springs, Miss.: (Through Dr. S.
Lee Wallace) Approximately 6 barna-
eles, 17 amphipods, 24 anomurans, 35
crabs, and 5 stomatopods from the Gulf
of Mexico (191804).

GumMucio, Jutio F., Cochabamba,
Bolivia: A gumucionite specimen from
Llallagua, Bolivia (191630).

GuNCKEL, Prof. Huveo, Santiago,
Chile: 173 grasses from Chile (193789).

Hasse, Dr. TADASHIGE. (See Kyoto
University. )

Haptey, Mrs. F. K., West Newton,
Mass.: I holotype and 74 paratypes of
mollusks from the Philippines (193173).

Hap.rinecton, P. (See Forestry Com-
mission of New South Wales.)

HaeNn, Dr. HERBERT, Miinchen, Ger-
many: 508 specimens of Foraminifera
representing 94 species from the Cre-
taceous and Tertiary of Austria and
Germany (190578, exchange) ; 4 Fora-
minifera from the Oligocene ef Ger-
many (193539, exchange) ; 271 Forami-
nifera, representing 70 species from the
Upper Cretaceous (Campanian) of
Bavaria, Germany (193867, exchange).

Haipay, Mrs. Wit11aMm B., Washing-

ton, D. C.: 1 olive-backed thrush
(192397).
Hatt, JAcK ©. (See University of
Kansas. )

HAMELLY, Henry, Grove City, Pa.:
N. A. T. O. first day cover (194609).

HAMMOND, WARREN, Fayette, Mo.:
Two-row hand corn planter, pat. Jan.
3, 1854 by S. Malone (193259) ; Reming-
ton percussion revolver, leather holster
and belt, of the period of the Civil
War (193497, loan).

69

HaAmpritrek, Gorruirs <A., Kennett
Square, Pa.: 50 photographic prints for
exhibition during March, 1952 (1940438,
loan).

Hanp, Dr. Cabdet, La Jolla, Calif.: 2
parasitic isopods and 1 shrimp col-
lected by donor in Elkhorn Slough
(192871).

HANDLEY, CHARLES O., Jr., Washing-
ington, D. C.: 150 North American birds
and 569 mammals (194687).

HANKINS, J. HADEN, Richmond, Va.:
A eryptogam (194757, exchange).

Hanscomp, Mrs. GrorcE W., Fort My-
ers Beach, Fla.: 42 marine mollusks
from Florida (194798).

Harpy, Dr. D. HiMo, Honolulu, T. H.:
6 flies, including 3 holotypes, from Aus-
tralia and 1 fly from Congo (192302) ;
2 type flies from Hawaiian Islands
(193629).

HARKER, PETER. (See Canadian Gov-
ernment, Geological Survey of Canada).

HARMER, GoRDON. (See Scott Publi-
cations, Inc.)

Harper, Mrs. JAMES, Pelham, N. Y.:
Photograph of Charles A. Leale, M. D.,
Captain and Assistant Surgeon, U.S. V.,
the first physician to reach President
Lincoln after his assassination
(192814).

Harpur CoLirce, Endicott, N. Y.:
(Through Jacob Fischthal) 1 sponge
lot, collected August 1950, from Che-
nango Lake outlet, Chenango Valley
State Park, N. Y. (192677).

HaARRAL, ESTATE OF GEORGE S., Mount
Vernon, N. Y.: (Through Mrs. Nellie
C. Harral) Confederate States flag,
officer’s sash, and cavalry saber, Civil
War period (107333, bequest).

HARRAL, Mrs. NELLIE C. (See Estate
of George S. Harral.)

Harrigan, Mrs. BENJAMIN, Philadel-
phia, Pa.: A United States National
flag, period 1877-1890 (192465).

Harris, Lucien, Jr. Avondale
Estates, Ga.: 1 butterfly (194487).

Harrison, Dr. B. F. (See Brigham
Young University.)

Harrisson, ToM, Kuching, Sarawak:
32 starlings from Santubong, Sarawak
(194035).

Harry, Haroun, Columbia, Mo.: 2
paratypes of a new species of nudi-
branch from Louisiana (192024).

HARSHEERGER, Capt. FRANK M.,
Breaux Bridge, La.: Hickory wood
broom made with hand tools by Daniel
Harshberger, grandfather of donor, in
1890 while living in central Illinois
(192884).

Hart, Donn V., Santa Ana, Calif.:
206 marine and fresh-water mollusks,
1 shrimp, and 6 crabs from the Philip-
pines (191712, 192810, 194068, 194225).
70

HarTMan, Dr. FRANK A., Columbus,
Ohio: 25 reptiles and amphibians from
Panam& collected by donor (190671).

Harvarp UNIVERSITY, Cambridge,
Mass.—Arnold Arboretum: 1 plant from
Canton Island (191641); 212 erypto-
gams collected in Fiji by A. C. Smith
(191672, exchange) ; 22 plants collected
in Fiji by L. Reay (192407); 1,704
plants from various regions and collec-
tors (192964, exchange). Gray Her-
barium: 291 plants collected in Idaho
by Quentin Jones (194659, exchange).
Museum of Comparative Zoology:
(Through William C. Schroeder) 102
fishes, cotypes and paratypes (190177,
exchange) ; 23 fishes from the western
Atlantic (192970, exchange); 2 type
specimens of the fish Paramyzine
(194786, exchange) ; (through William
J. Clench) 10 land mollusks from Afri-
ca (191510, exchange); marine mol-
lusk from off Port Aransas, Tex.
(192021, exchange); approximately
2,513 miscellaneous mollusks including
paratypes (192795, 193215, 193868, ex-
change); (through Dr. Joseph Be-
quaert) 1 wasp cotype (191705, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. P. J. Darling-
ton) beetle from Colombia (192329) ;
(through Richard W. Foster) approx-
imately 30 marine moliusks from To-
bago, B. W. I. (192979, exchange).

HAsprouck, Dr. Epwin M., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Brass fishing reel (191758).

Harar, Dr. Kotora, Sendai, Japan:
(Through Dr. Julia A. Gardner) 7 lots,
including 10 topotype specimens of Ter-
tiary mollusks from Japan (192293).

HATscHBACH, Dr. Gert, Curitiba,
Parana, Brazil: 99 plants collected in
Brazil (191388, 192319).

Havueut, Oscar, Littleton, W. Va.:
1,576 plants collected in Colombia
(191264).

HAUPTFLEISCH, W. F., Jeffreys Bay,
Union of South Africa: (Through Miss
Hauptfleisch and Miss Reid) 500 ma-
rine mollusks from Jeffreys Bay
(194422).

Hawawl, Territory or, Board of Com-
nuissioners of Agriculture and Forestry,
Honolulu, T. H.: (Through David T.

Fullaway) 7 parasitic wasps from
Hawaii (193754).
Hawatr, UNIvERsIty Or, Honolulu,

T. H.: 9 plants collected in Hawaii
(191959); (through Prof. Sidney C.
Hsiao) 10 oysters from Pearl Harbor,
T. H. (193116).

HAWAIIAN SuGAR PLANTERS’ ASSOCIA-
TION, Honolulu, T. H.: (Through BH. C.
Zimmermann) 387 wasps from Pacific
Islands (191701, exchange).

HAwtTuorne, Mrs. Grorer, Camden,
N. J.: Modern ivory carving of the

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

Hindu god Krishna, the incarnation of
Vishnu, and a miniature ivory carving
of an elephant, the work of a native
artist of the Belgian Congo (175571).

Haypbock, Maj. Epwarp L., Luanshya,
Northern Rhodesia, Africa: 12 bird
skins from Northern Rhodesia (191471).

Hayes, Mrs. HEtEN. (See Depart-
ment of Defense, Department of the
Navy.)

Hayter, W. R., Crescent City, Calif. :
(Through Congressman Hubert B.
Scudder) A Civil War veteran’s badge
(193748).

Hazzarp, R. (See Office of the Aus-
tralian Government Trade Commis-
sioner. )

HEATH, W. Ltoyp, White Plains,
Ae 76 Korean postage stamps (194-

Ye

HEBREW UNIVERSITY, Jerusalem, Is-
rael: 5 lichens from Palestine (191372) ;
100 plants from the Near East and
Mediterranean (194288, exchange).

HEpDDERGOTT, Dr. H., Miinster/West-
falen, Germany: 152 Microlepidoptera
from Germany (192788).

HEDGPETH, Dr. Jorn W., La Jolla,
Calif.: One lot of hydroids (191810) ;
31 lots of sea anemones from the Gulf
of Mexico (193916).

HENBEST, Dr. Lioyp G. (See U. S.
Department of the Interior, Geological
Survey.)

HENDLEY, ALBERT J., Washington,
D. C.: Photograph of Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony,
American Woman Suffrage leaders,
taken in 1875 (192598).

HENNING, Dr. WILLI. (See Deutsches
Entomologische Institute.)
HENNINGSMOEN, Dr. G.

tologisk Museum.)

HERBARIO “BaRBOSA RODRIGUES”,
Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 23
plants from Brazil collected by Pe.
Raulino Reitz (191476).

HERBERT, Rev. Dr. ArTHUR L., New-
ark, N. J.: 235 specimens of Clara
Maass-Lutheran Memorial Hospital
philatelic material, Cuban Maas stamps,
ete. (193070); first day cover of the
1-cent anti-tuberculosis stamp of Cuba,
1951 (1931382).

HERMANN, Dr. F. J., Beltsville, Md.:

(See Paleon-

38 plants from Washington, D. C.
(192320).
Herst, HerMan, Jr., Shrub Oak,

N. Y.: A deck of playing cards with
reproduction of 5-cent 1847 stamp, and
a deck of playing cards with 10-cent
1847 stamp reproduction (193113).

Hess, FRANK L. (See J. T. Patter-
son.

HiokoK, BENToN T. (See The Na-
tional Speleological Society. )
ANNUAL REPORT—-ACCESSIONS

Hiceins, Mr. and Mrs. G. C., Tulsa,
Okla., and BowsHeEr, Mr. and Mrs, Ar-
THUR L., Washington, D. C.: 150 inverte-
brate fossils from Pennsylvanian and
Permian rocks of Oklahoma (194212).

HILDEBRAND, HENRY, Austin, Tex.: 10
marine mollusks from off Freeport

(192506). (See also University of
Texas.)
Hitt, Mrs. LENA S§S., Washington,

D. C.: A cedar waxwing (194472).

Hirrt-Tout, CHARLES B., Victoria,
British Columbia: 61 Canadian semi-
official airmail stamps and 1 unauthor-
ized “Labrador” stamp (191691).

Hittyer Funp, Virciz M., Smith-
sonian Institution: A pewter candle-
stick and pump lamp, tole hanging
lamp, and tin lard lamp (194911).

Hinton, CHARLES L., Allegany, N. Y.:
7 medals and 1 plaque (194604).

HirescHt, Mizton, Los Angeles, Calif. :
24 prints for exhibition during May
1952 (194216, loan).

HJORTH-S¢RENSEN, Opp.
gian Embassy.)

Hosss, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Charlottes-
ville, Va.: 16 crayfishes, including 8
types, and 1 shrimp (191312, 194747) ;
4 shrimps, 4 crayfishes from Honduras,
and 9 shrimps from Gold Coast, West
Africa (192787).

Hogss, K. R., San Dimas, Calif.: 24
paratypes of a parasitic wasp of the
family Torymidae (191697).

Horpeman, Dr. J.J. (See Zoologisch
Museum. )

HorrMAn, HE. H., Washington, D. C.: 2
Flobert cartridges, cal. 28, rim-fire, ca.
1855 (193103).

HorrMAn, Mrs. Louisr, New York,
N. Y.: (Through Fred W. Kessler) A
matchbox case (194665).

HorrMAN, RicHArpD L., Clifton Forge,
Va.: Approximately 450 fresh-water
mollusks from Virginia (194865). (See
also Capt. Andrew J. Johnson.)

HoFFMASTER, RICHARD H.., Pittsburgh,
Pa.: 5 amphipods from Bear Cave
Sink, near Hillside, Pa. (193067); 2
flatworms and 3 amphipods from Blow-
ing Cave, Va. (194009).

HOoLuanp, Dr. C. G., Staunton, Va.: 86
projectile points and large blade types
from Virginia (198150).

Hotruuis, Dr. L. B. (See Rijks-
museum van Natuurlijke Historie. )

Homan, B. H., Jzr., New York, N. Y.:
6 postal history items, and 12 dies of
essays for United States postal station-
ery prepared by George F. Nesbitt and
Company (193111); 11 dies of essays
for government embossed postal station-
ery prepared by Nesbitt and 1 model of
cancelling device, patented in 1869
(193306, loan).

(See Norwe-

71

Hoop, JAMES R., Camp Pickett, Va.:
Approximately 60 fresh-water mollusks
from Camp Pickett Military Reserva-
tion (194717, exchange).

HoogstRaaL, Dr. HArry. (See De-
partment of Defense, Department of the
Navy, Naval Medical Research Unit
No. 3).

Hoover, Mrs. Bratrice, Washington,
D. C.: A Victor typewriter with carry-
ing case and manual (192508).

Hopkins MARINE STATION, Pacific
Grove, Calif.: (Through Dr. Donald P.
Abbott) 681 slides of ostracods
(1923870).

HopxKIns, Dr. Stwett H. (See Texas
Agricultural and Mechanical College,
Research Foundation.)

HorieBeck, Mrs. F. H., Charleston,
S. C.: 1 phanerogam (191886).

HorcHKIiss, Grorcr, Okinawa: 21
plants from Okinawa (193217).
HotcnHkiss, Nerz, Bowie, Md.: 13

plants from Maryland (192405).

Hortes, F. C., Grand Junction, Colo. :
5 slides of aphids including type, from
Colorado (192978).

HovusHo.Lper, Vic H., Phoenix, Ariz.:
A rat from Arizona (189985).

Hstrao, Prof. Sipney C. (See Univer-
sity of Hawaii.)

Houses, Dr. CLark.
of Texas.)

Husricut, Lrestir, Danville, Va.: 24
paratypes of new species of land mol-
lusks from North Carolina (194310) ;
approximately 800 land and fresh-water
mollusks from Maryland, Virginia,
North and South Carolina (194801).

Hupson, Dr. Grorcr E., Pullman,
Wash.: 5 birds (194471).

Hopson, L. S., Hast Setauket, N. Y.:
A ceramic stamp box, with reproduc-
tion of Canadian 60-cent “Bluenose’”
stamp on cover (193064).

HuGHES, Mrs. CARROLL W.
Guy W. Starling.)

Hum, Dr. Harorp J.
State University.)

Hunt, Mrs. ALIcrE NorVELL.
and Mrs. Stevens T. Norvell.)

HUNTER, Col. Grorce W., III. (See
Department of Defense, Department of
the Army.)

Hourp, Dr. Paut D., Jr.
sity of California.)

Husine, Frep C., Oakland, Calif.: 6
cacheted envelopes Oakland centennial,
November 6, 1951, and 1 cacheted enve-
lope, Contra Costa Post Office changed
to Oakland (192846, 194561).

IDAHO, UNIVERSITY oF, Moscow,
Idaho: 2 plants from Idaho (193822).

Inte, Paut L., Washington, D. C.:
Miscellaneous marine invertebrates, 2

(See University

(See Mrs.
(See Florida

(See Col.

(See Univer-
72

lots mollusks, and 1 lot Ostracods from
various places (193592).

ILurmnois, UNIVERSITY or, Urbana, IIl.:
8 grasses from Illinois (192826).

Intinors State Museum, Springfield,
Ill.: 2 grasses from Illinois (194850).

ImutAy, Dr. RatepH W. (See Dr.
Charles G. Dobrovolny.)

INDIANA, UNIVERSITY OF, Bloomington,
Ind.: 41 birds (193089).

INGELOFF, THORSTEN, Karlstad, Swed-
en: Swedish first day cover with special
“Malmo” cancellation (194614) ; Tylo-
sand and Oregro postal marking on cov-
ers (194916).

INGLE, RopErt M. (See Florida State
Board of Conservation.)

INSTITUT FRANCAIS D’AFRIQUE NOTRE,
Dakar, Senegal, French West Africas;
(Through P. L. Dekeyser) 169 marine
mollusks from French West Africa
(192796, exchange).

INSTITUT ROYAL DES ScIENCES Nart-
URALLES DE BELGIQUE, Bruxelles, Bel-
gium: EHchinoid from the Cretaceous of
Belgium (193888, exchange) ; (through
Dr. Marius le Compte) 2 specimens and
1 cast of Devonian brachiopods from
Belgium (194895, exchange).

INSTITUTE AND MUSEUM orf GEOLOGY,
Palermo, Sicily: (Through Dr. Fran-
cesco Cipolla) 167 invertebrate fossils
from Sicily (190305, exchange).

INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AF-
FaTRS, Lima, Peri: 74 grasses from
Haiti and Costa Rica (190017);
(through Dr. Walter F. Edmundson) 20
fresh-water mollusks from Michoacin,
México (193819).

INSTITUTE OF JAMAIOA, Science Mu-
seum, Kingston, Jamaica, B. W. I.: 19
Jamaican ferns (191671, exchange) ; 23
plants collected in Jamaica (192590) ;
39 ferns collected by George R. Proctor

(192985).

INSTITUTE OF PETROLEUM GEOLOGY,
Tokyo, Japan: (Through Dr. Takaya-
shu Uchio) 4 Recent foraminiferal
Specimens from Japan (193865).

InstTiITuTO AgcEU MAGALHAES, Per-
nambuco, Brazil: (Through Dr. Fred-
erico Simdes Barbosa) 52 fresh-water
mollusks from Pernambuco (192275).

INSTITUTO AGRONOMICO po NORTE,
Belém, Pari, Brazil: A grass and a
plant from Brazil (193209, 194619).

INSTITUTO DE BroLoafA, Chapultepec,
México: 7 plants from México (191478).

Instriruto BorANico “ANTONIO José
CAVANILLES,” Madrid, Spain: 31 plants
obtained by various collectors in Spain
(191895, exchange).

INsTITUTO DE BoTrANICA DARWINION,
San Isidro, Argentina: 33 plants from
South America (194198, exchange) ; 60

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

plants from Argentina and Bolivia

(194849, exchange).

INSTITUTO DE CIENCIAS NATURALES,
Bogota, Colombia: 84 plants collected
in Colombia by H. Garcia-Barriga and
R. E. Schultes (191879, exchange) ; 36
plants collected in Colombia by R. B.
Schultes (191480) ; 46 plants collected
in Colombia mostly by A. Dugand
(192554, gift-exchange) ; (through José
Ignacio Borrero H.) 4 birds from Colom-
bia (193337, exchange).

INSTITUTO DE INVESTIGACIONES VET-
ERINARIAS, Caracas, Venezuela:
(Through Dr. Franco Vergani) 45 land

and fresh-water mollusks from Vene-

zuela (188430).

INSTITUTO DE SALUBRIDAD Y HNFERME-
DADES ‘TROPICALES, México, D. F.:
(Through Dr. Luis Vargas) 6 mos-
quitoes from México (191703).

INSTITUTO DE SANIDAD VEGETAL, La
Plata, Argentina: (Through Dr. Ubaldo
Lopez Cristobal) 297 South American
ants, mostly Argentine (192304, ex-
change).

INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE CIENCIAS
NATURALES, Quito, Ecuador: 267 plants
from Ecuador (192965).

INSTITUTO INTERAMERICANODE, Tur-
rialba, Costa Rica: 73 plants from Costa
Rica (193158).

INSTITUTO MARDEN, Ituiutaba, Minas
Gerais, Brazil: 7 plants collected in
Brazil by Amaro Macedo (191889) ; 56
plants from Brazil (191477).

INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE MHIGIENE,
Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. A.
Mirsa) 387 beetles from Venezuela
(187733).

INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE INVESTIGACION
DE LAS CIENCIAS NATURALES, Buenos
Aires, Argentina: (Through Dr. N,. A.
Kormilev) 10 bugs from Argentina
(198632, exchange).

INTERIOR, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF THE,
Washington, D. C.—Fish and Wildlife
Service: A nest of Traill’s flycatcher
collected by Brooke Meanley in Arkan-
sas (191377) ; 2 plants from New Mex-
ico (191578) ; 30 plants mostly collected
in Alaska by Frank Beals (192098) ;
4 eggs of bush-tit from Idaho (193152) ;
1 plant from Nebraska (198154); a
skeleton of whooping crane, and one
of Ross goose (194096) ; a Trumpeter
Swan in alcohol and 6 eggs (194785) ;
1,196 birds from North America
(194879); 685 mammals (194926) ;
(through Stewart Springer and Har-
vey R. Bullis, Jr.) 1,181 fishes from
Gulf of Mexico, collected by U. S.
M/V. Oregon (190888) ; (through W. F.
Carbine and Isaac Ginsburg) 2 fishes
from Quantico, Va. (191005) ; (through
Stewart Springer) approximately 769
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

marine invertebrates, also echino-
derms, and 106 mollusks collected by
U.S. M/V, Oregon in the Gulf of Mex-
ico (191240); (through Dr. Paul §&.
Galtsoff) 2 marine mollusks from the
St. Lawrence River, Canada (191781) ;
(through Dr. Leslie V. Seattergood) 1
lot of trematodes from the mouth of the
sea herring, Clupea, from Booth Bay
Harbor, Maine (192666) ; 2 green crabs
from Perry, Maine (192878) ; 2 barna-
cles from a lobster (193560, exchange) ;
(through Dayton L. Alverson) 21 fishes
(193196) ; (through R. T. Mitchell) a
land mollusk (193364); (through John
W. Aldrich) 5 specimens of Greenland
Hskimo work in feathers and bird
skins; 4 articles made from vicufia,
alpaca, and llama skins (194876).
Geological Survey: Case and 10-keyed
flute marked, “William Hall & Son, 239
Broadway, New York,’ made about
1880; included with maps and instru-
ments left by the late Dr. Arthur Keith
(191245) ; 45 late Cenozoic land gastro-
pods from Mona Island between His-
paniola and Puerto Rico collected by
C. A. Kaye, 1950 (192294); 33 plants
collected in Alaska by Dr. R. M. Chap-
man (192924); about 1,800 type speci-
mens of Ozarkian and Canadian cephal-
opods (192929) ; 6 slides of Upper Cre-
taceous, Lawson limestone, fossils from
Suwannee County, Fla. (192931); 3
lots of Upper Cambrian trilobites from
the Eminence formation of Missouri
(193097) ; 2 specimens and 1 east of
ammonite (193163); 160 invertebrates
from the subsurface Upper Cretaceous
of Florida (193303); 344 rocks from
San Juan Mountains, Colorado, eol-
lected by Drs. Whitman Cross and Hs-
per S. Larsen, Jr. (193895); 4 ostra-
cods from the Cretaceous of Holland,
and 1 from Devonian, Haragan shale,
Oklahoma (194202); 1,500 specimens
of Mollusca from Well No. G—188 near
Miami, Fla. (194297); 40 type fossils
from western United States (194414) ;
27 type ammonites from the Upper Cre-
taceous of Montana, and 6 type ammo-
nites from Upper Cretaceous of west-
ern United States (194558); 8 thin
sections of Wolfcamp fusilinids from
Texas (194631) ; (through Dr. MacKen-
zie Gordon, Jr.) approximately 169 fos-
sil vertebrates from various localities
in Georgia, Wyoming, Montana, and
Washington collected by M. J. Hough
and party during summer of 1950
(191411) ; (through Dr. Josiah Bridge)
431 fresh-water and land mollusks from
Alaska collected by William S. Ben-
ninghoff and John R. Williams
(191868) ; (through Dr. Preston E.
Cloud, Jr.) 19 fossil vertebrate speci-

73

mens from phosphate mines of the Bone
Valley formation in Polk County, Fla.,
collected by J. B. Cathcart and others
during 1951 (191933); 4 fishes from
Onotoa Atoll, Marshall Islands, by Jack
Randall 1951 (198095); (through Dr.
T. C. Yen) 9 fresh-water mussels from
Idaho (192112); (through Dr. James
Steele Williams) 25 fossil fishes from
States of Parand and Santa Catarina,
Brazil, collected by MacKenzie Gordon,
Jr. and party during 1946 (193952) ;
vertebrate fossil collected by I. L. Tail-
leur in August, 1951, in Colville Valley
on the Kiligwa River, Alaska (193965) ;
(through Dr. Lloyd G. Henbest and Dr.
James Steele Williams) 6 fishes
(194877) ; (through Arthur Grantz)
approximately 65 marine mollusks from
Cook Inlet, Alaska (194671). (See
also Walcott Fund.) National Park
Service: 29 plants from Great Sand
Dunes National Monument, Colo.
(190462) ; 3 grasses from Grand Can-
yon National Park, Ariz. (191891,
191930) ; (through Joseph C. Moore)
6 parts of whale from Florida (191231,
191534); (through Arthur Stupka)
shrew and wood rat from Great Smoky
Mountains National Park, Tenn.
(194802, 194880, exchange).

Iowa STATE CoLLEcE, Ames, Iowa: 1
grass (194197).

Irnvine, Dr. LAURENCE. (See Federal
Security Agency, Public Health Serv-
ice.)

ISAACS, JESSE F.
M. Rodgers Isaacs.)

Isaacs, Mrs. Jessie M. Ropcrrs (de-
ceased): (Through Jesse F. Isaacs)
A silver gravy ladle and 6 silver tea-
spoons (190863).

Isety, Dr. Duane, Ames, Iowa: 72
plants from the United States (192768,
exchange).

IsRAEL, STATE oF: (Through D.
Friedman) 6 unused stamps of Israel,
consisting of 2 copies of each of the
Jewish National Fund (Kenen Kaye-
met L’Israel) (191692) ; 2 copies each
of 4 stamps of Israel (192658); 14
Israeli stamps (194917).

JACKH, Dr. E., Bremen, Germany: 72
Lepidoptera from Germany (194306,
exchange).

JACKSON, RALPH W., Cambridge, Md.:
2 land snails from Hcuador (192948, ex-
change) ; 500 land, fresh-water, and
marine mollusks, from Maryland,
Texas, and Ecuador (193210).

JAcosI, F'., Caracas, Venezuela: First
day cover of Queen Isabella, the Cath-
olic, set of postage stamps of Venezuela
(194867).

JACOBSON, Mokreis K., Rockaway
Beach, N. Y.: Approximately 20 marine

(See Mrs. Jessie
74

mollusks from Long Island (192852).
(See also Oscar Alcalde Led6n.)

JAHNS, R. H. (See New Mexico Bu-
reau of Mines and Mineral Resources.)

JAMES, ELLEN, Washington, D. C.:
Posterior half of braincase of a fossil
herring from Coos Bay, Oreg. (194642).

JAMES, H. G. (See Canadian Gov-
ernment, Department of Agriculture.)

JARVIS, DANIEL, Fort Worth, Tex.:
750 Pennsylvanian and Permian inver-
tebrate fossils from Texas (192296).

JEFFRIES, FRANK L., Seat Pleasant,
Md.: 353 land and fresh-water mol-
lusks from southeastern United States
(191709, 192147).

JELETZKY, Dr. J. (See Canadian
Government, Geological Survey of Can-
ada.)

JELLISON, Dr. WILLIAM L. (See Fed-
eral Security Agency, Public Health
Service.)

JENISON, Mrs. CAROLINE SPOONER,
ESTATE OF, Washington, D. C.:
(Through Dr. Naney Jenison) Cotton
dress worn by the donor’s grandmother
in Kentucky, ca. 1840, challis dress with
two bodices worn by donor’s mother, ¢a.
1850 (192664).

JENISON, Dr. NANcy. (See Estate of
Mrs. Caroline Spooner Jenison.)

JicHA, Henry J., Jr. (See New Mex-
ico Bureau of Mines and Mineral Re-
sources. )

Jobe, Mrs. THomAs C., Tyler, Tex.:
7 Foraminifera from the Paleocene of
Arkansas (193494).

JOHNSON, Capt. ANDREW J., and Horr-
MAN, RicHaArRp L., Clifton Forge, Va.:
40 reptiles and amphibians from Vir-
ginia (198970).

JOHNSON, Rear Admiral Jesse G.
(retired), Norfolk, Va.: 1 ‘Capex’
silver plate with replica of first Cana-
dian postage stamp, awarded to win-
ners at 1951 Canadian International
Philatelic Exhibition (193920).

JOHNSON, Dr. Marrin W., La Jolla,
Calif.: 3 slide mounts of 9 copepods
from the Salton Sea (192575). (See
also Department of Defense, Depart-
ment of the Navy.)

JOHNSON, WILLIAM F., and Copsey,
Jack H., Lodi, Calif.: Type specimen
of the helminth, Opisthadena bode-
gensis, from California (191462).

JOHNSTON, Dr. W. D. Jr., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 3 quartz specimens contain-

ing inclusions from Minas Gerais,
Brazil (194764).
JOHNSTONE, Mr. and Mrs. Harry

Inger, Mobile, Ala.: 1,865 marine and
fresh-water mollusks from Alabama
(192606, 193171).

JONES, Mrs. JOYCE.
of Michigan.)

(See University

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

JONES, Mrs. Lena L. (deceased) :
(Through R. D. Russell) A very large
round tablecloth of lace and filet medal-
lions, made by donor (191252, bequest).

JONES, Dr. LowELi, Reno, Nev.: 3
fresh-water clams from Antioch, Calif.
(192191).

JOSLIN, RicHArD, Ewa, T. H.: 8 con-
eretions from Signal!) Mountain, Im-
perial County, Calif. (194661).

JOUBERT, C. J. (See University of
Stellenbasch. )

JUNGE, CARLOS, Concepcién, Chile:
40 plants from Chile (191475).

Kano, Dr. Rokuro, Tokyo, Japan:
108 medically important flies from
Japan (191706, exchange).

KANSAS, UNIVERSITY OF, Lawrence,
Kans.: 8 grasses from Kansas (191674,
192827) ; (through Dr. R. H. Beamer)
112 lantern-flies from United States
(198696, exchange) ; (through Jack C.
Hall) 2 paratypes of bee flies (193982,
exchange).

Kerarstry, HE. P., Jacksonville, Fla.:
2 ferns (193016).

KEENAN, CHARLES J., Portland,
Oreg.: A Baltimore and Ohio first day
cover (193830).

KeEeuHRER, Dr. Louis, Olten, Switzer-
land: (Through Dr. Wendell P. Wood-
ring) Approximately 5,000 Post-Pleisto-
ecene fresh-water and land snails
(192711).

Ketioce, Dr. REMINGTON, Washing-
ton, D. C.: A brown creeper (194284).

Ketty, Dr. W. A., Hast Lansing,
Mich.: 100 invertebrate fossils from
Las Dolesias, Coahuila, México and the
type slide of Isastrypa whitneyi from
Cretaceous of México (192656, ex-
change).

KENERSON, Prof. W. H., Providence,
R. I.: Manograph (optical, reflecting,
photographie engine indicator) marked
“Manographe Hospitalier-Carpentier
Breveté S G D G, J. Carpentier, Paris”
(192776).

KeEenk, Dr. RomAN, Alexandria, Va.:
16 flatworms, 3 oligochaetes, and 16
amphipods collected in Colorado and
Alaska (192268) ; 9 flatworms collected
by Betty Locker (193072).

KENNEDY, Lt. Harry D., Bishop,
Calif.: 7 mountain midges from Cali-
fornia (192015).

Kenvy, Mrs. J. P., Washington, D. C.:
A woodcock (192170).

Kentucky, UNIVERSITY or, Lexington,
Ky.: 3 grasses from Kentucky (191479,
191760, 192173).

KERNODLE, GrorceE H., Washington,
D. C.: Aneroid barometer, marked
Beaumont’s Barometer, patented June
14, 1859 (192408).
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

KESSLER, F'‘RED W., New York, N. Y.:
A ceramic ash tray with reproduction
of Uruguay “Pegasus” airmail design
(193826). (See also Mrs. Louise
Hoffman. )

KETTLE, D. S., Glasgow, Scotland : 11
paratypes of 38 species of biting flies
from Scotland (191419).

Kevan, D. E. Mck., Sutton Boning-
ton, Loughborough, England: 2 Afri-
can grasshoppers (191696).

KitHAaM, Dr. LAWRENCE, Bethesda,
Md.: A mink found dead on road near

Potomac, Md. (191779); a painted
turtle from Bombay Hook Wildlife
Refuge, Del., collected by donor
(192056).

Kuirip, E. P., Washington, D. C.: Ap-
proximately 400 marine and land mol-
lusks from Cuba and Jamaica (1923386) ;
31 land, fresh-water and marine shells
from Florida, Arizona, and Isle of
Pines, Cuba, 5 corals from Florida, and
38 marine invertebrates (192337) ;
earthernware bird effigy canteen made
by the Chocé Indians and obtained by
donor at Andagoya, Rio San Juan, Dept.
El Chocé, Colombia in 1939; also dec-
orated earthenware bowl collected by
Dr. J. N. Rose, in Tepie, Department
of Nayarit, México (192396) : 4 mosses
and algae from the District of Colum-
bia and vicinity (193384).

Kine, Ropert C. (See Mrs. H. M.
Patton.)

Kinema, J. WILLIAM, Hast Grand
Rapids, Mich.: A _ cultivated fern
(191793).

Kirey-SMitrH, ReYNotp M., JR., Co-
coa Beach, Fla.: Approximately 290 ma-
rine mollusks from Florida (191655,
194421).

KirkKwoop, Carn W., Summerland,
Calif.: 2 moths from Arizona (192815).

KiscH, BArTHoLp S., St. Jean-de-Luz,
Basses Pyrennes, France: 15 marine

mollusks from St. Jean-de-Luz
(198506).
KJELLMERT, Dr. Gosta, Arboga

Sweden: 1,020 European cryptogams
(194372, exchange).
KLOSKOWSEI, ADAM.
Philatelic Society.)
Knapp, GUTHRIE B., Riverdale, Md.:
45 ethnological specimens collected by
donor prior to 1914 from various tribes
and localities in the Philippine Islands,
from the Kaffir of South Africa, and
from Japan and China (191757).
KNIGHT, J. Brookes, Washington,
D. C.: 4 Pliocene mollusks from off Long
Boat Key, Fla. (194676).
KNOWLTON, Dr. Geroracze F. (See
Utah State Agricultural College.)
KNULL, Dr. DorotHy J., Columbus,
Ohio: 8 leafhoppers (192422).

(See Polonus

75

Kors, Haven. (See Natural History
Society of Maryland.)

Komaroy, V. L. Botanical Institute
of the Academy of Sciences of the
U.S.S. R., Leningrad : 316 plants from
the U.S. S. R. (191881, exchange) ; 343
plants from western Siberia (194520,
exchange).

Konno, YOSHIO.
Bishop Museum. )

Korr, Rupo.peH, Buffalo, N. Y.: 21 De-
vonian gastropods from New York
(190256) .

KorMizev, Dr. N. A., Buenos Aires,
Argentina: 27 bugs from Argentina
(1943809, exchange). (See also Insti-
tuto Nacional de Investigacién de las
Ciencias Naturales. )

Kove.trski, A. J. Scranton, Pa.: 8
models of early American automobiles,
made by Seranton Hobby Center
(192593).

Kran, EMMa E., Washington, D. C.:
2 fresh-water mollusks from Nelson,
Ohio (194927).

KRAPOVICKAS, Dr. A. (See Ministero
de Agricultura y Ganaderia.)

KRAUSE, DALE, Pasadena, Calif.: 2
Mississippian blastoids from Alamo
Canyon, Alamogordo, N. Mex. (194213).

Krauss, N. L. H., Honolulu, T. H.:
569 insects, 14 arachnids, a Peripatus,
and an amphipod from Malaya, Aus-
tralia, the Caribbean region, and the
southeast Pacific islands (189037) ; 93
insects, 1 snake, 14 mollusks, and 21
crustacea from East Africa (192941) ;
160 insects and 22 snails from Zanzibar
and Tanganyika (193499) ; 1 scorpion,
1 centipede, 15 snails, a slug, 3 lizards,
and 5 tree frogs (193954) ; 5 scorpions
and 2 spiders from Madagascar
(194455) ; approximately 500 insects
from Cuba (194524).

KrocHMat, S. Brapitry. (See New
Hampshire Fish and Game Depart-
ment. )

KroMBEIN, Karu V., Arlington, Va.:
61 wasps with associated prey or para-
sites collected in Kill Devil Hills, N. C.
(193750) ; wasp holotype (193921) ; 94
wasps from West Virginia and North
Carolina (194862).

(See HExperi-

Kruxkorr, Dr. B. A.
mental Plantations, Inc.)

Krycer, J. P., Flintinge, Denmark:
Approximately 150 beetles from Eu-
rope (192106).

Kuck, Sgt. Martin J., San Francisco,
Calif.: 12 beetles, a spider, a weevil, a
snake hide, a snake head, and 4 lucanid
moths from Japan (192342, 193177).

KUEGLER, NorMAN B. (See Wollen-
sak Optical Company.)

Kuno, Dr. Hisasui, Tokyo, Japan: 2
analyzed minerals: hypersthene from

(See Bernice P.
76

Shichisei-zan, Formosa; hypersthene
and augite from Odawara, Hakone Vol-
cano, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan
(193949) .

Kuntz, Dr. Ropert E. (See Depart-
ment of Defense, Department of the
Navy, Naval Medical Research Unit
No, 3.)

KUSCHEL, Padre GUILLERMO, Santiago,
Chile: 8 paratypes of weevils from
Chile (194488).

Kusnezoy, Niconas, Tucumfn, Ar-
gentina: 111 ants from South America
(191397, exchange). (See also Funda-
cidn Miguel Lillo.)

Kurrer, Dr. H., Bern, Switzerland:
257 ants from all over the world
(192946, exchange) ; 2 North American
ants (194106, exchange).

Kyoro Universiry, Zoological Insti-
tute, Kyoto, Japan: (Through Dr.
Tadashige Habe) 55 marine mollusks,
including paratypes, from Japan
(193961).

KyusHu UNiversiry, Fukuoka, Ja-
pan: (Through Dr. Keizo Yasumatsu)
12 wasps from Japan (1938980, ex-
change).

La Cassese, Lt. Col. W. J. (See De-
partment of Defense, Department of
the Army.)

LAacuHNER, Dr. Ernest A., Washington,
D. C.: 16,417 fresh-water fishes, 118
erustaceans, 84 amphibians and rep-
tiles, 17 insects, 61 mollusks, collected
by donor in Eastern and Southeastern
United States (188793).

LAKELA, OLGA. (See University of
Minnesota.)

Lams, Mrs. Basr B#., Portland,
Maine: Spun silk dress worn by Caro-
line Frances Riggs, Georgetown Island,
Maine, in 1859 (192495).

LAMEGO, Dr. ALBERTO. (See National
Department of Mineral Production.)

LAMM. DoNALD Vi Lourenco
Marques, Portuguese East Africa: 379
bird skins from Mozambique (191143,
194283).

LANDAUER, Dr. Eric, Storrs, Conn.:
13 slides of Manchurian fleas (190938).

Lanvers, T. L., Chicago, Ill.: Shoul-
der-sleeve insignia of the Thirteenth
Engineers, United States Army 1917—
19 (191572).

Lanpo, Lt. Rozert E., San Francisco,
Calif.: Approximately 325 marine and
land mollusks, and 6 ecrustacea from
Japan (193962).

LANGILLE, Levitra A., Washington,
D. C.: Striped wool shawl purchased
in Rochester, N. Y. in 1870 by Mrs.
James H. Langille (192181).

LANKESTER, C. H., Cartago, Costa
Rica: 2 plants from Costa Rica
(191999).

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

LanxKspury, W. A., Brooklyn, N. Y.:
British medal of 1848 (194221).

La Rivers, Dr. Ira, Reno, Nev.: 21
fresh-water mussels from Pyramid
Lake, Nev. (193504).

LATHAM, Roy, Orient, N. Y.: Sea
urchin from off Montauk, N. Y.
(194245).

LAubDon, LOWELL R., Madison, Wis.:
90 Mississippian crinoids from Bridger
Mountains, Mont. (194765).

LAURENCE, ROBERT, New York, N. Y.:
Philatelic Christmas card of 1881
(193462).

LAzAR, YUSUF.
Field.)

LAzzARI, PIETRO, Washington, D. C.:
Drypoint “Horse,” by donor (198380).

Le Comptr, Dr. Marius. (See In-
stitut Royal Sciences Naturelles de
Belgique.)

LepON, Oscar ALCALDE, Cienfuegos,
Cuba, and JAcoBSON, Morris K., Rock-
away, N. Y.: 368 land mollusks from
Cuba (182020).

LEE, Dr. Davin J.
Sydney.)

Leg, Mrs. Satty D., Hyattsville, Md.:
3 marine mollusks from Rehoboth
Beach, Md. (192187) ; 23 marine mol-
lusks from the Indo-Pacific region
(192504) ; 30 fossils from the vicinity of
Brightseat, Md. (194378).

LerecH, Dr. HucH B., San Francisco,
Calif.: 23 water beetles (193633).

Leeson, Dr. H. S. (See London
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medi-
cine. )

LronArpD, HE. C., Washington, D. C.:
4 plants from vicinity of Washington
(193160).

LE SEMINAIRE DE RIMOUSKI, Rimou-
ski, Quebec: (Through Rey. A. A. de
Champlain) 107 fresh-water mollusks
from Alaska and Quebec (184899,
192875).

LEYERZAPF, Dr. HERMANN, Mainz, Ger-
many: Uraninite crystal from Katanga,
Belgian Congo (191765, exchange); 1
curite and soddyite from Shinkolobwe,
Africa (198507, exchange).

LIBERIA, REPUBLIC OF, Monrovia, Li-
beria: (Through Hon. McKinley A.
DeShield) 42 postage stamps of Liberia
(191771).

Licarr, Roy N., Alexandria, Va.: Ko-
rean War patriotic cover with Army
Air Force Postal Service A. P. O. cancel
and flag (192102).

LimpacH, RusseLtt T., Middletown,
Conn.: Lithograph, “Winter,” by donor
(194559).

Lin, Dr. SHvu-YEN, Port-au-Prince,
Haiti: Fish from Port-au-Prince Bay
(192177). (See also Food and Agricul-
ture Organization of the United Na-
tions.)

(See Dr. Henry

(See University of
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

LinprotH, Dr. Cart H., Lund, Swe-
den : 48 Coleoptera reprints for the T.
L. Casey Collection (192787) : 13 beetles
from Labrador (192851).

LITTLEFORD, ROBERT A.
ces Allen.)

LITTLEWOOD, WILLIAM H. (See De-
partment of Defense, Department of the
Navy, Hydrographic Office.)

Locker, Berry. (See Federal Secur-
ity Agency, Public Health Service.)

LocKLin, CHARLES R., St. Petersburg,
Fla.: 9 gastropods from Chipola forma-
tion, Florida (193746); 2 glacial pot-
hole boulders from New England
(193825).

LoEScH, HArRoLp, College Station,
Tex.; Approximately 221 marine mol-
lusks (192308).

Lonpon ScHooL or HYGIENE AND
TROPICAL MEDICINE, London, England:
82 British mosquitoes from the collec-
tion of J. FEF. Marshall (191637) ;
(through Dr. H. 8S. Leeson) 76 British
mosquitoes (192020, exchange).

LoNGENOTTI, Mrs. HELEN H.
Society of Philatelic Americans. )

Lopp, Oscar V. (See Federal Se-
curity Agency, Public Health Service.)

LOUISIANA STATE UNIversiItry, Baton
Rouge, La.: 24 plants from México
(191859) ; 97 plants collected in México
by Mr. and Mrs. Richard Graber
(192967) ; (through Dr. Lewis Flint)
fresh-water alga (194100).

Love, Dr. ASKELL. (See University of
Manitoba. )

LOWERRE, F. G., Rockaway, N. J.: 11
marine and fresh-water mollusks from
West Africa, Chile, and New Jersey
(190896).

LyrLu, Patty S., Richmond, Va.: Pair
of U. S. Naval Officer’s epaulettes, 1847—
1861 (191646).

LYMAN, FRANK, Lantana, Fla.: Mol
lusk from Hope Town, Little Guana
Cay, Bahamas; 5 mollusks from Florida

(See J. Fran-

(See

(192429).
LYMAN, JOHN. (See Department of
Defense, Department of the Navy,

Hydrographic Office.)

LyncH, R. F. (See Department of
Defense, Department of the Navy, Of-
fice of Naval Research.)

MacCorp, Maj. Howarp, A., Dayton,
Ky.: Skull (without face) of Indian,
from Keyser Farm Site, Page County,
Va. (193151) ; 54 fresh-water mussels
from an Indian Village site, Campbell
Co., Ky. (193764).

MAcEpo, Dr. AMARO, Ituiutaba, Minas
Gerais, Brazil: 257 plants and 438
grasses from Brazil (191276, 192174,
193156, 1938299).

77

Macks, Dr. WitttaM B., Cincinnati,
Ohio: 14 Devonian brachiopods from
southern Indiana (1938636).

Mackenzir, Mrs. JAMES, Farming-
dale, N. J.: Homespun blanket carried
during the Civil War by Joel Harvy
Ainsworth (193839).

MAcNAE, WiLtIAM. (See Rhodes
University. )

MAcSwaiIn, J. W., Berkeley, Calif.: 6
beetle paratypes from California
(191707, exchange).

MAErHIER, Dr. K. A., Honolulu, T. H.:
Giant Hast African Land Snail from
Guam (194885).

Macer, Maj. Gen. JAMES C., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Officer’s pistol belt and
holster and holster pistol, World War
II period (191507).

Maunurin, S., Meridian, Miss.: A
mareasite concretion, found where the
Buffalo River fiows into Peace River,
Alberta, Canada (192411).

MALKIN, Borys, Seattle, Wash.: 41
insects (194801).

MANILA PuBLIC HEALTH RESEARCH
LABORATORIES, Department of Health,
Manila, P. I.: (Through Dr. Walfrido
de Leon) Approximately 402 mosquitoes
from Philippines collected by 19th Medi-
cal General Laboratory and by Naval
Medical Research Unit (192104).

MANIToBA, UNIVERSITY oF, Winnipeg,
Manitoba: (Through Dr. Askell Love)
Moss from Iceland (1937388).

Mankins, Mary JAnr, Le Grand,
Calif.: Beetle from California
(192327).

Mann, M. D., Jr., Roselle, N. J.: Cul-
tivated fern (192984).

Manter, Dr. Harorp W., Lincoln,
Nebr.: 8 fishes from Suva, Fiji Islands
(191468).

Marete, Dr. JoHn P., Washington,
D. C.: Monazite from pegmatite col-
lected at Santa Cruz, Brazil (192297).
(See also Prof. G. P. Baxter and Dr.
Oscar B. Muench.)

MARKS, HLIzABETH N., Cambridge,
England: 12 mosquitoes from Fiji,
reared in laboratory colony at Cam-
bridge, England (192499).

Marks, P., JR., Utrecht, Netherlands:
11 Foraminifera from the Tertiary of
Algeria (194041, exchange).

MarsHALL, ERNEST B., Laurel, Md.:
14 mammal skulls from Laurel
(198501).

MarsHatL, Dr. N. B. (See British
Government, British Museum (Natural
History) .)

Martin, Lewis, Washington, D. C.: 2
Recent Foraminifera from Atlantic
Ocean (194479).

MARTORELL, Dr. Luis F., Rio Piedras,
P. R. and CaLpwe tt, Dr. JOHN S., Cir-
78

cleville, Ohio: Approximately 4,308 mis-
cellaneous Neotropical Homoptera and
Heteroptera (192016).

Martyn, E. J., Hobart, Tasmania: 100
larvae and 24 adult beetles from Aus-
tralia (192497).

MASSACHUSETTS, UNIVERSITY OF, Am-
herst, Mass. : Grass from Massachusetts
(191887).

Masters, C. O., Cleveland, Ohio: 50
mosquitoes from Assam (194921).

Matrox, Dr. N. T., Mayaguez, P. R.: 2
shrimps, 15 Conchostracan types, ap-
proximately 12 Hydroid cotypes, and 1
insect (191341). (See also University
of Puerto Rico.)

Marupa, Prof. Hizt, México, D. F.: 47
grasses and 389 plants from México
(192049, 192450).

MAULL, CATHARINE. (See Sussex
Archaeological Association. )

Maximum Carp Society or AMERICA,
New York, N. Y.: (Through Merlin F.
Teed) Seal and proof of the Maximum
Card exhibition of December 1, 1951
(192601), (through Florence Palma)
first day cover, October 24, 1951, franked
with i1-cent and previously released
2-cent stamp (192785).

Mayer, Fritz, Hamburg, Germany : 12
fishes (191006).

McAtpine, Dr. J. F. (See Canadian
Government, Department of Agricul-
ture.)

McCary, Dr. B. C., Williamsburg,
Va.: 333 potsherds from test holes and
stratigraphic blocks, Potts site, New
Kent County, Va. (192032).

McCASKILL, L. W., Christchurch, New
Zealand: 8 plants from New Zealand
(193578).

McCauLrey, Dr. JAMES H., Charleston,
Oreg. ; Sea slug from Oregon (191369).

McC.LatTcHIE, Capt. SAMUEL, San Fran-
cisco, Calif.; 118 plants from Korea
(192591).

McCuintock, H. P. (See Office of the
Australian Government Trade Commis-
sioner. )

McConNNELL, Prof. DUNCAN.
Ohio State University. )

McCoy, Mrs. ETHEL B., New York, N.
Y.: Silk searf with reproductions of
United States 1988 Presidential stamps
(198105, loan) ; silk handkerchief with
Landing of Columbus design as used on
2-cent Columbian stamp, 1898 (193106).

McCrea, Dr. LowraiIn E., Philadel-
phia, Pa.: (Through Marietta Solimeo)
35 millimeter reflex camera, cystoscope,
electric contro] box and timer (191414).

McCuLiock, Dr. Irenr, Los Angeles,
Calif.: 8 Recent Foraminifera from
México (193866, exchange).

MoDernmor7t, F. A., Wilmington, Del.;
Holotype and 6 paratypes of fireflies

(See

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

from United States (192943) ; 4 larvae

of fireflies with sample of host snail

from Jamaica (194885).
McDunnoueH, Dr. J., Halifax, Nova

Scotia: 5 moths from Nova Scotia
(198759).
McHEitroy, JEssm (deceased):

(Through Mrs. Hiland G. Batcheller)
Gray satin dress worn by Mary Arthur
MecHlroy, sister of President Chester
Arthur and First Lady of the White
House during his administration
(191415).

McEtvake, RowLAnp R., Port Wash-
ington, N. Y.: 4 moths including holo-
type (192790, exchange).

McGarr, Lt. H. J., Fairbanks,
Alaska: Alaskan bear (192427).

McGiLt~t UNIversiry, Redpath Mu-
seuwm, Montreal, Quebec: 8 Black River
fossils from Quebec (175995, exchange).

McGinty, THomMas L., Boynton
Beach, Fla.: 882 miscellaneous marine
invertebrates, 75 mollusks, 56 fishes,
and echinoderms collected off Palm

Beach, summer of 1951 (192368) ;
spider crab from off Palm Beach
(193071).

McLacuHtiaAn, LANIER P., Washington,
D. C.: A. A. A. first day cover and 7
assorted stamps from Switzerland,
Denmark, and France (194613).

McLaren, Dr. D. J. (See Canadian
Government, Geological Survey of
Canada.)

McMIckKtg, Mrs. HELEN F., Washing-
ton, D. C.: White muslin chemise and
pantalets, 1856, and black silk quilted
hood, 1850-1860 (191506) ; 8 specimens
of early American embroidery and
drawn work (194476).

MracHaM, Hucenre, Washington,
D. C.: 2 antique tapestries woven in
Belgium (192279).

Meap, Gites, Stanford University,
Calif.: A fish (191495).

MraNtey, Brooke, Stuttgart, Ark.:
17 snakes from Stuttgart (192482); 38
birds from Maryland (194688).

Merpcor, Dr. J. ©. (See Canadian
Government, Fisheries Research Board
of Canada.)

Menta, DHIRUBHAI, Ghatkopar, In-
dia: 4 Mahatma Gandhi post ecards
(192600).

MELLEN, FREDERICK F’., Jackson, Miss. :
28 brachiopods from Rockhouse shale
of west Tennessee (194662).

Mencers, Rev. C. RANDOLPH, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Silver medal of Portugal
dated 1898 (192100).

Menzirs, Dr. Rosert J., Davis, Calif. :
3 isopods from California (194263).

Merrck AND Co., INC., Rahway, N. J.:5
plants from Guatemala (190175,
190463).
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

Merriman, DaNiev. (See Yale Uni-
versity.)

MIAMI, UNIVERSITY oF, Coral Gables,
Fla.: A fern (191007) ; plant collected
in Florida (192841); (through Dr.
Hilary B. Moore) approximately 300
marine mollusks from off Miami
(192608) .

MicHakrEt, Dr. C. A., Austinville, Va.:
Potsherds from Cornett Site, Wythe
County, Va. (1938085).

MicHENER, Dr. C. D., Lawrence,
Kans.: 4 mites from United States
(194108).

MIcHIGAN, UNIVERSITY oF, Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 2 lichens collected by Henry A.
Imshaug (191761, exchange); (17
grasses from Michigan, collected by
Charles D. Richards (198297) ;
(through Mrs. Joyce Jones) 89 Rocky
Mountain lichens (193964, exchange).

Mites, Crciz, Bogota, Colombia:
Fish, holotype of a new pomadasid,
from the Colombian Caribbean
(191763).

MILES, WILLIAM, Wagarup, West Aus-
tralia: 4 recent brachiopods from West
Australia (192265).

Mitter, THomAs P., Youngstown,
Ohio: A 5’’ x 7’’ glass plate negative
made by donor in 1928 of W. S. ‘“‘Daddy”
Lively, well known photographer of the
nineteenth century (193222).

MiLterR, Comdr. WATER B., Seattle,
Wash.: 2 land mollusks from the Shen-
andoah National Park, Va. (191908).

Mririiron, Dr. H. E., Newark, Del.:
64 bumble bees from South America
(193354, exchange).

MINERALOGISK-GEOLOGISK MUSEUM,
Oslo, Norway: (Through Dr. Henrich
Neumann) Weibyite from Ovre-Aroé
Island, Langsundfiord, Norway (1923825,
exchange).

MINISTERIO DA VIACAO & OBRAS POB-
LIcAS, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil: 2
plants collected in Brazil (191890) ;
(through Dr. Valdemar C. De Franca)
9 fishes from Rio Sao Francisco, Per-
nambuco, Brazil (194011).

MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA yY GANA-
DERIA, Cordoba, Argentina: (Through
Dr. A. Krapovickas) 5 plants from Ar-
gentina (194077).

MINNESOTA, UNIVERSITY oF, St. Paul,
Minn.: 6 fresh-water moliusks from
Beltrami County, Minn. (191869) ; 129
lichens from Minnesota collected by
Bruce Fink (193251, exchange); 68
plants of Minnesota (194289, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. H. J. Griffiths)
538 fresh-water mollusks from Minne-
sota (191605, 191708); (through Olga
Lakela) 21 ferns from Minnesota
(193148, gift-exchange).

79

Mirsa, Dr. A. (See Instituto Na-
cional de Higiene.)
Missourr BoTaNicaAL GaRDEN, St.

Louis, Mo.: 3840 plants (192282, ex-
change); 73 plants of Missouri col-
lected by Julian A. Steyermark
(1939387, exchange).

MITCHELL, R. T. (See Department
of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice.)

MITCHELL, RopcerR D., Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 15 slides of mites (192740).

MirtLteMAn, M. B., Larchmont, N. Y.:
6 salamanders, types and paratypes of
2 new species (189761).

MopEett, Dr. Hans, Weiler/Allgiiu,
Germany: 1,000 land and fresh-water
mollusks from Germany, and 500 fossil
fresh-water mollusks (194311).

Morck, ARTHUR H., Milwaukee, Wis. :
7 butterflies from North America
(193755).

Mouturr, Mrs. J. W., Chevy Chase,
Md.: Decorated coiled basketry bowl
from Maidu Indians, north central Cali-
fornia (191668).

Montana State COLLEGE, Bozeman,

Mont.: <A grass from Montana
(191483).
Moonry, Mark, Baltimore, Md.:

Simplex exposure meter, Wager Defini-
tion Seale, and blueprint photograph
(194601).

Moorr, Prof. Grorer. (See Okla-
homa Agricultural and Mechanical Col-
lege. )

Moore, Dr. H. H., Jr.
Hortorium. )

Moors, Dr. HILAry B.
sity of Miami.)

Moore, JosrpH C. (See Department
of the Interior, National Park Service.)

Moors, Dr. WALTER G., New Orleans,
La.: 2 type copepods (194839).

Moreno, Mrs. THERESE Marie, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Chair-back cover, yellow
satin with design patterns of silk
thread applique and couching with gold
thread (193980).

Morean, Grorce D., Tampa, Fla.:
Plant from Florida (191896).

Morrison, Dr. JosrEpH P. E., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Approximately 22,000 mol-
lusks, 12 mammals, reptiles, 50 insects,
and approximately 278 crustacea, from
Virginia, Pennsylvania, Maryland,
West Virginia, Kentucky, and Missouri,
collected in 1934, 1943, and 1947-51
(191910).

Morrison, Dr. P. R.
of Wisconsin. )

Morrow, JAMES BE.

(See Bailey

(See Univer-

(See University

(See Yale Uni-

versity. )
MorTENSEN, WILLIAM, Laguna Beach,
Calif.: 7 pigment process prints
(194219).
80

Morton, Dr. ArTHuUR O., Sarasota,
Fla.: Keratometer (191792).

MosHeEr, Stuart. (See Mrs. N.
Pernot.)

Moun, Hpwin T., New Brunswick,
N. J.: 10 birds from the Gilbert Islands

(198931).
Moztry, Dr. Aan, Schenectady,
ING YS: 39 fresh-water mollusks
(193960).
MUELLER, Oscar O., Lewistown,

Mont.: Skull of grizzly bear found at
Lewistown (193635).

MuencuH, Dr. Oscar B., Las Vagas,
N. Mex.: (Through Dr. John P. Marble)
Monazite from 15 miles north of Las
Vegas (192298).

MUESEBECK, C. F. W. (See U. S.
Department of Agriculture, Bureaw of
Entomology and Plant Quarantine.)

Muirk-Woop, Dr. Heten. (See Brit-
ish Government, British Musewm (Nat-
ural History).)

Mutter, Dr. C. H., Santa Barbara,
Calif. : 293 plants from Texas (191489).

Muma, Dr. Martin H. (See Univer-
sity of Florida.)

MumMForp, Russrii E., West Lafa-
yette, Ind.: 7 bats from Indiana
(193449) ; 21 bats in alcohol from In-
diana (193717, 194032). (See also
Purdue University.)

Munro, Dr. H. K.
South Africa.)

Munroeg, Dr. HuGENE G. (See Cana-
dian Government, Department of Agri-
culture.)

Mouraucul, Dr. SADANORI.
tional Science Museum.)

Murcu, Lt. Comdr. Roserr W., An-
napolis, Md.: Cacheted cover marking
first flight of naval aircraft from first
Naval Aviation Camp, Annapolis, Md.,
autographed by Lt. John L. Clarke (192-
101).

Morray, Mrs. ANNE W., Washington,
D. C.: Harthenware syrup jug, Bennett
Pottery, Baltimore, Md. (192649).

Murray, Dr. J. J., Lexington, Va.:
Savannah sparrow (192536).

(See Union of

(See Na-

Morray, WILLIAM §., South Hill, Va.:
Hognose snake from Phyllis, Va.
(194522).

Musée BoranIQueE CANTONAL, Lau-
sanne, Switzerland: 300 plants from
Switzerland (193861, gift-exchange).

MuSs£E pu Conco BELGE, Tervueren,
Belgium: 2 Congo peacocks (193215).

MUuse£0 DE Hisrorta NaTuRAL “JAVIER
Prapo”, Lima, Perti: 1,436 plants col-
lected in Pera by Dr. Ram6én Ferreyra
and assistants (191491, 198486, 193489) ;
39 Peruvian grasses collected by Hmma
Cerrate (194552).

Musreo NAcIoNAL DE CreNcIAs Nat-
URALES, Madrid, Spain: Specimen of the

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

Colomera, Spain, meteorite (194794,
exchange).
Museu Gortpr, Belém,
plants from Brazil (194555).
Museu NaAcronat, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: (Through Dr. Walter Curvello)
3 Brazilian meteorites (194211, ex-

change).

Brazil: 2

Musru PARANAENSE, Curitiba, Pa-
rand, Brazil: 30 grasses and 16
phanerogams from Brazil (189571,

191490) ; (through Dr. C. N. Gofferjé)
31 marine mollusks from states of Pa-
rana and Santa Catarina, Brazil
(1938888, exchange).

MusEuUM NATIONAL D’HISTOIRE NAT-
URELLE, Paris, France: Rosieresite
from Rosieres, near Carmaux, France
(194294) ; (through Dr. Jean Guibé) 8
frogs from Goyaz, Brazil collected by
Dr. J. Vellard (191727, exchange) ;
(through Prof. J. Oreel) Ambatoari-
nite, from Ambatoarina, Madagascar
(192972, exchange); (through Dr. EH.
Séguy) South American fly, cotype
(198308) ; 7 flies and midges from Cro-
zet and Kerguelen Islands (194774) ;
(through Dr. L. Berland) 3 wasps from
Madagascar (198831, exchange).

Museum or NATURAL History, Reyk-
javik, Iceland: 100 plants from Iceland
(190688, exchange).

Mutua Security AcEncy, U. 8. A.
Special Technical and Hconomic Mis-
sion to Thailand, Chiengmai, Thailand:
(Through Lt. Comdr. Deed C. Thur-
man, Jr.) 42 mammals from Chiengmai
(194923).

Myers, Dr.G.S. (See Stanford Uni-
versity. )

Myers, Hon. WALTER. (See Post Of-
fice Department. )

Myxtesost, Tor. (See Norwegian
Hmbassy. )

MYLONAS, ALEXANDER, Athens,

Greece: (Through U. 8S. Department of
State) 2 medals issued in memory of
Cretan revolutionists, 1898 (194844).

NADEAU, Mrs. Berrry, Woodbury,
N. J.: Foraminiferal sample of Mid-
way formation (194482).

NAGrE, J. STEWART, Schuylkill Haven,
Pa.: Approximately 50 Middle Devo-
nian fossils from vicinity of Schuyl-
kill Haven (192074).

NATIONAL DrrpaARTMENT OF MINERAL
PropucTion, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil:
(Through Dr. Alberto Lamego) Orville
A. Derby Memorial Medal, struck as
part of Orville A. Derby Centennial Cel-
ebration, 2 special postage stamps and
2 “Symposiums” on the life of Derby
(192684) .

NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SocInTy, Wash-
ington, D. C.: (Through Carnegie Mu-
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

seum) 75 birds from Venezuela
(198176).

NaTIONAL HersariumM, Sydney,
N.S. W.: 2 cultivated plants (191878) ;
308 plants from Australia (191894,
192403, 198487, 193741, exchange).

Nationa, Museum, Manila, P. I.:
(Through Dr. Eduardo Quisumbing)
50 land shells from the Philippines
(194776).

NATIONAL Museum oF Victort4, Mel-
bourne, Australia: (Through Dr. A. N.
Burns) 675 Australian ants (191700,
exchange).

NaTIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC SOCIETY,
Washington, D. C.: (Through Harry
B. Shaw) 55 monochrome prints and 73
color transparencies for exhibition dur-
ing December, 1951 (193100, loan).

NATIONAL RESEARCH CoUNCIL, Pa-
cific Science Board, Washington, D. C.:
(Through Dr. J. L. Gressitt) 3 beetles
from Koror Island, Palaus, collected
by H. 8S. Dybas in 1948 (194919). (See
also Smithsonian Institution, U. 8S. Na-
tional Museum, collected by members
of the staff.)

NATIONAL ScIENcE Musrtum, Tokyo,
Japan: (Through Dr. Sadanori Mu-
rauchi) 3 miharaite specimens from
Oshima, Japan (194678, exchange).

NATIONAL SPELEOLOGICAL SOcIETY,
Washington, D. C., and Buiizzarp, Mrs.
JAMES, Lowmoor, Va.: 2 isopods and
9 insects from Lowmoor Quarry Cave,
Alleghany County, Va. (192369).

NATIONAL SPELEOLOGICAL SOCIETY,
Washington, D. C.: (Through Benton
T. Hickok) 62 pictorial prints for spe-
cial exhibition during November 1951
(192597, loan).

NATIONAL TATWAN UNIveERsSITy, Tai-
peh, Taiwan, China: 320 plants mostly
collected in Taiwan by Sasaki and col-
laborators (194290, exchange).

NATURAL History Society or Mary-
LAND, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Rich-
ard H. Stearns) Archeological material
from sites in Maryland, District of
Columbia, Florida, Georgia, and South
Carolina (191329, exchange) ; (through
Haven Kolb) blue crested Turaco
(191404).

NatuscH, Mrs. Ginrpert, Wellington,
N. Z.: 6 plants from New Zealand
(198091).

NEEDHAM, R. M., Lancaster, Ohio:
First day covers, Battle of Brooklyn,
Betsy Ross, 4-H, Baltimore and Ohio,
American Automobile Association, and
N. A. T. O. (194483).

NEILAND, KENNETH A.
Senger. )

NEvERBURG, Dr. GrorcE, Spokane,
Wash.: Allanite from Pacoima Canyon,

(See Clyde M.

81

near Los Angeles, Calif., and nontronite
from near Freeman, Wash. (194856).

NEUMANN, Dr. Henrico. (See Min-
eralogisk-Geologisk Museum. )

NEWELL, Dr. Irwin M., Honolulu,
T. H.: 17 slides of mites from South
Pacific (192333).

NEWMAN, Dr. EMANUEL, Vienna, Va.:
7 foreign coins (193627).

New HAMPSHIRE FIsH AND GAME DE-
PARTMENT: (Through 8. Bradley Kroch-
mal) Approximately 100 copepods from
gills of salmon (191234).

New Mexico, UNiversity or, Albu-
querque, N. Mex.: (Through Robert J.
Drake) 2 land snails from Boquillas,
Coahuila, México (191881).

New Mexico BurEAU oF MINES AND
MINERAL ReEsouRcES, Socorro, N. Mex.:
(Through Henry J. Jicha, Jr.) 100 in-
vertebrate fossils, Mississippian and
Pennsylvanian rocks of Lake Valley
quadrangle, New Mexico (193520) ;
(through R. H. Jahns) 2,500 inverte-
brate fossils from Ordovician, Devonian
and Pennsylvanian rocks near Chiz,
N. Mex. (194215).

New Mexico DEPARTMENT OF GAME
AND FISH, Santa Fe, N. Mex.: (Through
Howard Campbell) 15 parasitie nema-
todes from scaled quail, New Mexico
(193766).

New YorkK BOTANICAL GARDEN, New
York, N. Y.: 40 United States grasses
collected by F. L. Bennett and Floyd
Bartley (189793) ; 100 plants collected
in Kashmir by R. R. Stewart (191629,
exchange); plant from Argentina
(191889) ; 163 plants collected in Vene-
zuela by Dr. Bassett Maguire and asso-
ciates (192283, exchange) ; 154 plants,
91 grasses, 194 ferns collected in Vene-
zuela by Dr. Bassett Maguire and asso-
ciates (192285, 192316, 192771, 192986) ;
800 plants of Vernay Nyasaland Expe-
dition, 1946, collected by Dr. L. J. Brass
(193934, exchange) ; 300 plants collected
in Ecuador by W. H. Camp (194553, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. Donald P. Rog-
ers) 39 Puerto Rican algae (194369,
exchange).

New York UNiversity, New York,
N. Y.: (Through Marcus S. Goldstein)
Palatometer, Stanton’s device for meas-
uring height of palate (192168).

NIELSEN, Dr. Ernar L. (See U. S.
Department of Agriculture, Bureau of
Piant Industry, Soils, and Agricultural
Engineering.)

Nino, TAKECHIKA, Sapporo City, Ja-
pan: 4 mint copies each, 5-yen and 10-
yen Red Cross issue of Japan; first day
cover, Red Cross issue ; 2 copies of 5-yen
and 7 of 10-yen value (194560).

NIkIJULUW, KAREL J. V., New York,
N. Y.: Souvenir ecard bearing 4 South
82

Moluecan stamps (193514). (See also
Republie of the South-Moluceas.)

Norman, Mrs. Marius, Uganda, Af-
rica: 62 plants from Uganda (194412).

NorrisH, K., Harpenden, Herts, Eng-
land: Priderite from Wolgidite, Wolgi-
dee Hills, West Kimberley, western
Australia (194790).

NortH CAROLINA, UNIVERSITY OF,
Chapel Hill, N. C.: 53 plants from south-
eastern United States (1938617, ex-
change).

NortH CAROLINA STATE COLLEGE OF
AGRICULTURE, Raleigh, N. C.: 34 Mexi-
ean ferns (191715); 397 plants from
southeastern United States (191762,
198821, exchange); 2 plants from
North Carolina (192926).

NortH DaxkoTA AGRICULTURAL CoL-
LEGE, Fargo, N. Dak.: 224 plants from
North Dakota (192848, gift-exchange).

Norvetzt, Col. and Mrs. Stevens T.
(deceased) : (Through Mrs. Alice Nor-
vell Hunt) 33 ethnological specimens
from the Southwest and Great Plains
collected by the donors (194890).

NORWEGIAN EMBASSY, Washington,
D. C.: (Through Tor Myklebost) 1 copy
of each of the following postage items
of Norway : 30-ore King Haakon postage
stamp, 30-ore official stamp, 60-ore offi-
cial stamp, 30-ore letter card; 2 55-ore
aerograms; 3 Norway Olympic Winter
Games stamps; 2 Norwegian official
stamps; 1 postage stamp (192415,
192599, 192847, 194605) ; (through Tor
Myklebost and Odd Hjorth-S¢grensen)
Norwegian King Haakon stamp, 380 sur-
charged on 25-ore; 55-ore, blue, King
Haakon stamp (193065).

Not, Dr. R., Vienna, Austria: 124
Foraminifera from Cretaceous of Aus-
tria (194557, exchange).

Nouttine, W. H., Oakland, Calif.: 2
beetles from California (194300, ex-
change).

OBRECHT, CARL B.
of Detroit.)

Opava, Prof. THERon O., Duluth,
Minn.: Type trematode from Minne-
sota (191308).

OFICINA DE CONTROL DE Especiss Pos-
TALES Y IF ILATELIA, Managua, Nicara-
gua: (Through Augustin Vanegas P.)
339 Nicaraguan stamps (194456).

Oaawa, Tomozo, Saitama Prefecture,
Japan: Suit of Japanese armor of
Tokugawa period (1600-1868) (194279).

O’Hare, Joun B., Hyattsville, Md.:
Albino pilot blacksnake collected near
Upper Marlboro, Md., by donor (192198).

Onto Strate UNIversity, Columbus,
Ohio: 3 plants from Ohio (193162) ;
(through Prof. Duncan McConnell) 1
viséite from Visé, Belgium (193947).

(See University

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

OrnoMIKADO, Dr. TSUNETERU, Tokyo,
Japan: 17 Foraminifera from Pliocene
of Japan (193625, exchange).

OKLAHOMA AGRICULTURAL AND MgE-
CHANICAL COLLEGE, Stillwater, Okla.:
109 plants from Oklahoma (193385, ex-
change); (through Prof. George
Moore) 5,115 fishes from the Arkansas
and Red Rivers (194779, exchange) ;
(through Prof. I. E. Wallen) 107 land
and fresh-water mollusks from Okla-
homa (194870).

Op, WILLIAM E., Jr., Norfolk, Va.:
Approximately 200 fresh-water, land
and marine mollusks, 2 insects, and
crustacea from Korea, Japan and the
Solomon Islands (1925038); approxi-
mately 2,300 land and fresh-water mol-
lusks from Kansas (194778, exchange).

OLivaREsS, Father ANTONIO, Washing-
ton, D. C.: 675 bird skins from Colom-
bia (193734).

OLIVER, SMITH HEMPSTONE, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Envelope bearing “Save
Water” cancellation ; 2 unused War De-
partment franked envelopes of World
War I period (192420); 4-liter glass
butter churn (193941).

Ouivier, Dr. Louis J. (See Federal
Security Agency, Public Health Serv-
1ceé.)

OLMSTEAD, FRANK E., Potsdam, N. Y.:
6 cedar sap spouts, 3 iron sap spouts,
and 8 iron spikes (194893).

Ousson, A. A., Langhorne, Pa.: A
rare marine shell from Manta, Ecuador
(191509) ; paratype of pelecypod, new
subspecies from Pliocene or Pleistocene
ot Panama (191647). (See also Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences of Philadel-
phia.)

“Orsis,’ Praha, Czechoslovakia: 3
Czechoslovakian World Youth stamps,
and first day cover; 2 Komensky com-
memorative stamps (1946382).

Orcet, Prof. J. (See Muséum Na-
tional d’Histoire Naturelle. )

OrcHARD, C. D., San Antonio, Tex.:
12 lichens and 19 mollusks from Texas
(198673).

OREGON, UNIVERSITY oF, Hugene,
Oreg.: Phanerogam from Oregon
(191996).

OrEGON FIsH ComMMIssIon, Clackamas,
Oreg.: (Through Dr. A. D. Bajkov)
Approximately 200 fresh-water mollusks
from Columbia River, Oreg. (194669).

OREGON STATE COLLEGE, Corvallis,
Oreg.: Holotype and 4 paratypes of
tapeworm n. sp., from Oregon (192584) ;
(through Ivan Pratt) 4 fresh-water
snails from Oregon (192490).

Ortiz ECHAGUE, Jos&, Madrid, Spain:
76 Carbon Fresson prints for exhibition
during May, June, 1952 (194797, loan).

@rvia, Dr. Tor, Stockholm, Sweden:
3 brachiopods from Silurian of Gotland
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

(194663). (See also Swedish Museum
of Natural History.)

Osmoun, Brig. Gen. R. A., Westmore-
land Hills, Md.: 20 ethnological speci-
mens from Northern Burma and Assam
collected by donor in 1942-43 (194847).

Osmunpson, A. G., Webster City,
Iowa: Queen tiling spade (193940).

Otts, Leroy M., Muirkirk, Md.: Crys-
tal of corundum from west of Manakara,
Madagascar (194788).

OvERHULSE, Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS,
Kotzebue, Alaska: 346 insects from
Alaska (192424).

OVERSTREET, Mrs. WILLIAM. (See
Children of Mr. and Mrs. Marcellus
Cole.)

Owere, Mrs. Harpine B., Ann Arbor,
Mich.: Nemertean obtained on cruise of
the Caryn, Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution (192157).

OwstLey, Mrs. CHARLES, Washington,
D. C.: Painting on cloth scroll from the
Nashi, northwest Yunnan, China
(194655).

PALEONTOLOGISK Musrum, Oslo, Nor-
way: (Through Dr. G. Henningsmoen)
5 Lower Ordovician brachiopods from
Norway (193096, exchange).

PALMA, Frorence. (See Maximum
Card Society of America.)

PALMER, HRNEST J.. Webb City, Mo.:
31 grasses from Missouri (192825).

ParHAM, B. H., Suva, Fiji: Plant from
Wiji (191407).

PARKER, FRANCES, La Jolla, Calif.: 36
Recent foraminifers from Barnstable
Marsh, Mass. (191680, exchange); 5
Recent Foraminifera from the Atlantic
(194042).

PARKHURST, JOSEPH L., Jr., Colonia,
N. J.: 23 marine mollusks from Malta
(194049).

PaRNAU, JOHN L., Stockton, Calif.:
Spangolite from Majuba Hill, Pershing
County, Nev. (194914, exchange).

Paropr, Dr. LoRENzO R., Buenos Aires,
Argentina: 12 grasses from Argentina
(193938, exchange).

PARSONS, JAMES, Lewes, Del.: 2 ad-
joining pottery sherds of the type Mar-
ecey Creek Plain (193214). (See also
Sussex Archeological Association. )

Parrerson, J. T., Lanford Station,
S. C.: (Through Frank L. Hess) Ver-
miculite ore from 2 miles east of Lan-
ford Station (194859).

Patton, Mrs. H. M., Arlington, Va.:
(Through Robert C. King) Embroidered
cope of Russian Orthodox priest ac-
quired in Russia about 1925 (194280).

Prarsr, Dr. A. §., Durham, N. C.:
12 shrimps, 290 copepods, 23 barnacles,
and 26 isopods containing 23 type lots
collected in Texas (191808, 192531).

83

PrAarson, Mrs. Louise M., Washing-
ton, D. C.: First day cover of United
Confederate Veterans stamp (192786).

PrcHUMAN, Dr. L. L., Lockport, N. Y.:
3 horseflies (194459, exchange).

Prcora, Dr. WILLIAM T., Washington,
D. C.: 6 minerals from Bearpaw Moun-
tains, Mont. (194793).

Penn, Dr. Grorce H.
University.)

PENNINGTON, W. H., Tampa, Fla.:
Whale tooth from Florida (194008).

PENNSYLVANIA, UNIVERSITY oF, Phila-
delphia, Pa.: 482 plants from Pennsyl-
vania and Maryland (191493, ex-
change).

PrENSON, Husert, Washington, D. C.:
52 plants from Newfoundland (193935).

PEREZ, Dr. GiLBeRT §., Manila, P. L.:
2 land mollusks from Negros, Occiden-
tal, P. I. (193814).

PERLMUTTER, JACK, Washington,
D. C.: Lithograph “Aurora Borealis”
by donor (193496).

Prernot, Mrs. N., Falls Church, Va.
and MosHeEr, Sruart, Washington,
D. C.: Brass money weights set; bal-
ance contained in small wooden box
(194383).

Perry, Mrs. OLiver H., Washington,
D. C.: Magic lantern owned by donor’s
grandfather, Mr. Moon (194217).

Perry, Dr. Stuart H., Adrian,
Mich.: Almost complete individual of
the Rush County Indiana meteorite,
weight 914 pounds (191412) ; Dayton,
Montgomery County, Ohio meteorite
weighing 58 pounds (191899) ; specimen
of the Lafayette, Ind. meteorite weigh-
ing 637 grams (191900) ; specimen of
the Loreto, Baja California meteorite
weighing 208 pounds (192321); Keen
Mountain meteorite from Buchanan
County, Va. (194894).

PERSHING, FRANCIS WARREN.
General John J. Pershing.)

PreRSHING, Gen. JoHN J. (Through
Francis Warren Pershing) Riding
saddles, uniforms, flags, ete. owned by
General Pershing (193392, bequest).

PERSONIUS, RoBERT, Minneapolis,
Minn.: Approximately 583 land and
fresh-water shells from drift of Little
Missouri River, N. Dak. (192582).

PrsigAN, Dr. T. P., Manila, P. FT:
(Through Mrs. T. P. Pesigan) Apprexi-
mately 65 fresh-water mollusks from
Sorsogon, Luzon (1923809).

PETERDI, GABOR, Rowayton, Conn.: 37
prints for special exhibition during
October 1951 (192180, loan).

PETERS, WEMPLE, DALY AND PRIT-
CHARD. (See Le Roy Fryer.)

Peterson, Dr. Boracr. (See Zoologi-
eal Museum.)

Pretrerson, Menprt L., Washington,
D. C.: 171 rating badges of the

(See Tulane

(See
84

WAVES, U. S. Navy, World War II
(198225).

PETTIBONE, Dr. MArIAN, Washington,
D. C.: Approximately 30 amphipods
from Woods Hole, Mass. (192201).

PryserR, Harry W. (See Heirs of
Edmund C. and Emeline A. Tarbell.)

PritzeR, Donatp W., Knoxville,
Tenn.: 3 ants, types, from Tennessee
(192944).

Puewtps, Asa Gray, Hilton Village,
Va.: Potsherds from Briarfield Site,
Hlizabeth City County and Warwick
County line, Va., and Cashoke Site,
Bertie County, N. C. (193086).

Puetps, Mrs. Grace, Van Lear, Ky.:
37 specimens of the seed fern Trigono-
carpus and associated plants from the
Pennsylvanian in vicinity of Van Lear
(192153).

PHELPS, Hon. PHELPS, Pago Pago,
American Samoa: Oil painting of Sam-
oan dwelling (fale), by Charles Mc-
Phee; fue and fo’oto’0, emblems of
Samoan orator and talking chief
(194095).

Puuoip, Mrs. HorrMan, Santa Bar-
bara, Calif.: Abyssinian craftsmanship
objects in enamel and metal; religious
cult paraphernalia; native weapons;
bronze coins and bird figurine from site
of the ancient city of Petra in the Hed-
jaz, all collected by the late Hon. Hoff-
man Philip (194782).

PHILIPPINES, UNIVERSITY OF THE,
Quezon City, P. I: 49 plants from the
Philippines (192404); (through Mari-
ano G. Yogore, Jr.) 9 slides of Philip-
pine mosquitoes (192107); (through
Dr. Leopoldo §. Clemente) 18 slides of
cladoceran crustaceans from near Ma-
nila (193076).

Puiecer, Dr. EF. B., Jr., La Jolla,
Calif: 600 types slides of Recent Fo-
raminifera from the Atlantie and Gulf
of Mexico (192930).

Prerson, Mr. and Mrs. Ropert C., Jr.,
Clay, W. Va.: 130 specimens of the
West Javanese puppet show, wayang
(194783).

PINcHON, Rey. Pere, Fort de France,
Martinique: Bird bone and bones of
mammals from archeological site on
Martinique (191427).

PinHeEy, EH. (See Coryndon Museum.)

Pitney Bowes, Inc., Stamford,
Conn.: (Through Frederick Bowes, Jr.)
Model original Pitney Bowes meter
marking machine, 2 United Nations
meter marking first day covers, photo-
graph of marking and press release
(193658).

PuietscH, Dr. Don J., Washington,
D. C.: 30 miscellaneous insects and ap-
proximately 85 crustacea from Japan
(194046).

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

PruMMER, Epna, Pasadena, Calif.:
Piece hand-netted lace; hand-netted
lace baby bonnet; chemise with hand-
netted lace trim (194418).

Posan, Dr. José M., Caracas, Vene-
zuela: 7 fresh-water crabs (191795).

PoLONUS PHILATELIC Socrery, Chi-
eago, Ill.: (Through Adam Kloskowski)
Polonus Philatelic Society and Polpex
eachets, seals, souvenirs, ete. (192662).

Pomeroy, Rosert L., Hopewell, N. J.:
Shrew from Hopewell (192307).

PorpuLaR PHOTOGRAPHY, New York,
N. Y.: (Through Carole Anne Fine) 108
prints from Popular Photography Trav-
eling Salon exhibited January, 1952
(193164, loan).

PoRKORNAY, Dr. V., Prague, Czecho-
slovakia: 41 Foraminifera and Ostra-
coda from Devonian of Czechoslovakia
(194481, exchange).

Post, Dr. RicHarp L., Fargo, N. Dak.:
6 shrimps from Fargo (193593).

Post Orrick DEPARTMENT, Washing-
ton, D. C.: 2,897 stamps issued in for-
eign countries and described in Univer-
sal Postal Union Bulletins, and 1 each
of the following newly issued Canal
Zone airmail stamps: 4-, 6-, 10-, 21-, 31-,
and 80-cent (191532, 191749, 192675,
194400) ; 38 copies of each of the fol-
lowing 3-cent Commemorative Stamps:
United Confederate Veterans, Nevada,
Landing of Cadillac, Colorado State-
hood, American Chemical Society,
Battle of Brooklyn, Betsy Ross, 4-H
Club, Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, and American Automobile
Association (192299, 194135) ; (through
Hon. Walter Myers) pouch lock in use
in 1952 (193827).

Pratt, Dr. Harry D., Chamblee, Ga.:
2,177 ichneumon flies from United States
(194236).

PRATT,
College).

Pray, L. C., Pasadena, Calif.: 90 in-
vertebrate fossils from Silurian, De-
vonian and Mississippian rocks, Sacra-
mento Mountains, Alamogordo, N. Mex.
(194214).

PripER, Prof. R. T. Nedlands, West
Australia: 3 priderite-bearing rocks
from the west Kimberley area, western
Australia (193257).

Priest, Capt. Crcit D., Marandellas,
Southern Rhodesia: Honey guide from
Southern Rhodesia (191378).

Proctor, Grorce R., Kingston, Ja-
maica: 3 plants from Jamaica (191386).

Ivan. (See Oregon State

PROVENZA, D. ViNcENT, Baltimore,
Md.: Approximately 5 copepods
(191802).

Puerto Rico, UNIverstty or, Maya-
guez, P. R.: (Through Dr. N. T. Mat-
tox) 7 land mollusks and 1 insect from
Cerro Marahuaca, Venezuela (192190) ;
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

(through Dr. G. L. Warmke) 5 marine
mollusks from Puerto Rico (192561) ;
(through Dr. Irving Fox) a shrimp
(192562).

PuFFER, HLTon L.
Petroleum Institute.)

PuGET SOUND, COLLEGE or, Tacoma,
Wash.: 10 phanerogams from Wash-
ington (191745).

PurcHon, Dr. R. DENISON, Singapore,
S. S.: 12 clams from Singapore (193836).

PURDUE UNIVERSITY, Lafayette, Ind.:
(Through Russell E. Mumford) 2 bats
from Florida (191940, exchange).

QUEST, CHARLES, St. Louis, Mo.: 30
wood cuts and wood engravings for
special exhibition during November
1951 (192412, loan).

QuieLry, Mrs. Mary M., Washington,
D. C.: Marine mollusk and 42 insects
from Acapulco, México (192186).

QUISUMBING, Dr. HpuARDO. (See Na-
tional Museum, Manila, P. I.)

Rackiey, RuFFIN, Knoxville, Tenn.:
3 specimens of a possible Holothurian
from Middle Cambrian Hiwasse for-
mation near Tellico, Tenn. (191739).

RADULPHUS COLLEGE, Curacao, Neth-
erlands West Indies: 52 plants from
Curacao (191872); 86 plants collected
in Curacao by Fr. M. Arnoldo (193296).

RAFFLES MUSEUM AND LispRraAry, Sin-
gapore, S. S.: (Through Dr. M. W. F.
Tweedie) 75 marine and fresh-water
mollusks from Malaysia (193060).

RAGEOT, RoeurR, Washington, D. C.:
200 land shells from Virginia and Min-
eral County, W. Va. (193312).

Raines, Mrs. H. Taytor, Fort Myers
Beach, Fla.: 3 marine mollusks from
Campeche Bay and Gulf of Mexico
(1916038, 192409).

Rampo, B., Porto Alegre, Brazil: 100
plants from Brazil (192318).

RANDALL, FRED R., Rexburg, Idaho: 2
chalcedony specimens from north of
Areo, Idaho (191804).

Ranecer, Gorpon A., Hastern Cape
Province, South Africa: Sealy-throated
honeyguide (194891).

Rapp, Froyp A., Brandywine, Md.: 7
minerals from Japan (194792).

RaAseErti, Dr. FRANCO, Baltimore, Md.:
About 1,400 Middle Cambrian trilobites
from British Columbia (194762).

Rat, Dr. P., Dijon, France: 2 slabs
and 1 thin section containing topotypes
of a foraminifer from the Cretaceous of
Heay (Navarre) (1938490, exchange).

Ravup, Omer. (See Joel Shappirio.)

RavuscH, Dr. Ropert. (See Federal
Security Agency, Public Health Serv-
ice.)

REDMAN, C. FLoyp, St. Petersburg,
Pla.: Fern from Florida (192697).

REED, FRED C., Remo, Va.: Ulea min-
iature camera (194602).

(See American

85

Renn, J. A. G. (See Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. )

Rem, Miss. (See W. F. Haupt-
fleisch.)

Rep, GrorcEe K., Jr.
sity of Florida.)

REINHARD, Dr. H. J., College Station,
Tex.: 20 flies (191702, exchange) ; fly
from Texas (192940).

REMEY, CHARLES MASON.
C. Drage.)

Rewnegore, Bertin A., United Nations,
N. Y.: First day cover of United Nations
stamps (192845). (See also United Na-
tions Postal Administration. )

RHINEHART, WALTER L., Jr.
Ludwig Caminita III.)

RuwoavEs, Dr. RENDELL, Leesburg,
Ohio: 700 Ordovician and Silurian fos-
sils from Ohio (191540).

RHODES, F. V., Santa Monica, Calif. :
Telegraph crossarm complete with 2 in-
sulators (191610).

Ruoves UNIvERsiry, Grahamstown,
South Africa: (Through William Mac-
Nae) 58 amphipods (193365, exchange).

RicHarps, Horace G., Philadelphia,
Pa.: 4 sponges from Bowers, Del.
(192204).

RIETSCHEL, HRNEST, Shelton, Conn.:
119 used stamps, 3 commemorative
stamps, and 3 adhesives, all from Hast-
ern Zone of Germany (192421, 192659,
193463, 194608).

RIJKSMUSEUM VAN NATUURLIJKE HIs-
TORIE, Leiden, Netherlands: (Through
Dr. L. B. Holthuis) 10 crayfishes from
New Guinea, and 23 shrimps from Sur-
inam (190851, exchange).

Rinper, Dr. FReperick H. (See
American Museum of Natural History. )

Riptey, Dr. 8. Ditton, New Haven,
Conn.: 16 birds from Assam (194548).
(See also Yale University, Peabody Mu-
seum of Natural History.)

Roserts, Dr. Frank H. H., Jr. (See
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of
American Lthnology, River Basin Sur-
veys.)

Rosvertson, Dr. JAMES D., Zanzibar,
British East Africa: Approximately 200
marine and land mollusks from Zanzi-
bar (1924380).

Rosertson, Mrs. WititamM §., Grants
Pass, Oreg.: 3 chrome ores from Early
Morning Mine, Coalings, Calif. (193256).

Rogsinson, C. H., Puyallup, Wash.: 4
clay concretions from Washington
(193979).

ROBINSON, GEORGE, Falls Church, Va.:
37 Conchostracans from Falls Church
(192054).

Roca-Garcia, Mrs. MANUEL, Bogota,
Colombia: 299 plants collected in Co-
lumbia (1913890, 192317).

Rorestine Funp, Smithsonian Insti-
tution: 4 erystallized turquoise from

(See Univer-

(See Mrs.

(See
86

Lynch, Va. (191501) ; roeblingite from
Franklin, N. J. and tourmaline from
Fukushima Prefecture, Japan (191502) ;
2 uraninites, allanite, and thucholite
from various localities in Canada
(191508); 4 green beryl specimens
from Theophilo Otomi, Minas Gerais,
Brazil (192098) ; 2 topaz crystals from
Upper Glen Cove, Pikes Peak and a
phenakite crystal from Mt. Antero,
Colo. (192323); 2 mareasites from
Mangum Mine, Hockerville, Okla., and
1 chalcopyrite and galena on sphalae-
rite from West Side Mine, Treece,
Kans. (192492) ; uraninite, var. cleveite
with yttrogummite from Norway
(192670); 2 crystals of spodumene
(kunzite) and 1 cut stone of kunzite
from Pala, Calif., and crystal of spo-
dumene from Minas Gerais, Brazil
(192708) ; uraninite from Nunn Lake,
near Lac La Ronge, Saskatchewan,
Canada and tyuyamunite from Alla-
moore, Tex. (192974); shattuckite
from Ajo, Ariz. (193218) ; spodumene
erystal from Minas Gerais, Brazil
(193220) ; purple sapphire from Ceylon,
weight 12.25 carats (193255); 8 min-
erals from Austria and other localities
(1938454);  carnotite from Craven
Canyon, Fall River County, S. Dak.
(193623) ; 8 vanadinite specimens from
San Carlos Mine, Chihuahua, México
(193624); 5 brookites from Magnet
Cove, Ark. (193945); 18 garnets on
diopside from San Benito County, Calif.
(193946) ; 4 witherites and 1 strontia-
nite from Hardin Mine, Rosiclare, Il.
(194199) ; jadeite from Occhie, Susa,
Italy (194298). (See also Dr. J. M.
Duhovnik.)

Rocers, Dr. Donatp P.
York Botanical Garden.)

Rocers, JoHn C., Alexandria, Va.:
83 prints and drawings for special ex-
hibition during September 1951 (191901,
loan).

Rocers, JuLIA ELLEN, Long Beach,
Calif. : 1 sinistral specimen of a marine
mollusk from Tea Table Key, Fla.
(192111).

Roie, Dr. Marto SANCHEZ, Havana,
Cuba: 65 land mollusks from Cuba, in-
cluding paratypes (193360).

Romano, Mrs. JoHN, Rochester, N. Y.:
Gold net evening dress; gold lamé and
blue velvet evening coat, worn in 1928
(192710).

ROSENGURTT, Dr. BERNARDO, Florida,

(See New

Uruguay: 79 plants from Uruguay
(191892).
Ross, Dr. E. S. (See California

Academy of Sciences.)

Ross, Mrs. HeLen M., Millburn, N. J.:
21 United States and United Nations
first day covers; 3 United Nations
stamps, cancelled and removed from

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

outer envelope (192010, 192413, 192781,
193078).

Ross, Mr. and Mrs. Witt1aAM, New
York, N. Y.: 13 United States and
United Nations first day covers (191768,
192595, 194688).

Rosso, SAMUEL W., University, La.:
3 marine mollusks from Louisiana
(191964).

Rory, Louris M. (See Department of
Defense, Department of the Army, Office
of the Quartermaster General.)

RoTHBLUM, Morris C., Camden, N. J.:
Souvenir program for first day sale of
U. S. Betsy Ross stamp; stamp and first
day cancellation (193223); cacheted
cover and seal, Camden, N. J., 1952 show
(1989538).

Row .ey, Eimer, Glens Falls, N. Y.: 2
large idocrase crystals and i idocrase
pseudomorph after garnet from Olm-
Steadville, N. Y.; hyalite specimen from
Overlook on the Sacandaga Reservoir,
Saratoga County, N. Y. (192095, ex-
change).

Roy, Dr. SHaRratT. (See Chicago Nat-
ural History Museum. )

Roya Forest DEPARTMENT, Bangkok,
Siam: 93 plants from Siam (190695,
194474, exchange).

RoyaL ONTARIO MUSEUM OF GEOLOGY
AND PETROLOGY, Toronto, Canada: Tre-
avorite from Bon Accord, near Sheba
Siding, Transvaal, South Africa (194860,
exchange).

RuBEL, ABE, JR., New York, N. Y.:
3-cent dull rose-red United States stamp,
probably of 1854 printing, on envelope
with red oval Smithsonian Institution
rubber stamp (191690).

Rucxes, Dr. Hersert, New York,
N. Y.: 4 stink bug paratypes from
Bahamas (1938383, exchange).

Ruerr, JosE, New York, N. Y.: Tie
with reproductions of U. 8. and foreign
postage stamps (194666).

Runyon, Ropert, Brownsville, Tex.:
29 Texan plants (192695).

Rupp, Rosert §8., Orono, Maine: 30
flies from Maine (194841).

RusseELL, R.D. (See Lena L. Jones.)

RYCKMAN, RAYMOND E., Loma Linda,
Calif.: 1 snake and 11 lizards from
Orlando, Fla. (198879). (See also
School of Tropical and Preventive Medi-
cine.)

Ryvukyv Civit ADMINISTRATION TEAM,
San Francisco, Calif.: (Through Leon-
ard H. Thoman) 2 first day issue enve-
lopes bearing pairs of the Saion Forestry
commemorative and Ryukyu University
stamps (191775).

Sacus, W. P., Collingswood, N. J.:
White damask linen tablecloth with de-
sign depicting “The Last Supper”
(192094).
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

Satter, Dr. REESE I. (See U. 8. De-
partment of Agriculture, Bureau of
Entomology and Plant Quarantine.)

SALTER, Dr. WILLIAM, Washington,
D. C.: Plant from Maryland (194350).

SANCHEZ MagorapDA, HERNANDO, Méx-
ico, D. F.: 94 Mexican ferns (191545).

SANDERS, Ortys, Dallas, Texas: 7

toads, types, from Elkhart, Tex.
(193797).

SANDERSON, FRANK, Washington,
D. C.: Black-throated blue warbler
(192398); Maryland yellow-throat

warbler (194658).

SANDERSON, GLEN C., Marion, Iowa:
White-footed mouse from Iowa
(191324).

Sanpoz, Mrs. Mitprep, Solomons Is-
land, Md.: Crab collected in Wye River,
Md. (191726).

Sancer, I. J.. Washington, D. C.: 37
prints by donor for exhibition during
April 1952 (194045, loan) ; wood engrav-
ing, ‘“Northeaster,” by donor (194603).

SarGent, F. H., Falls Church, Va.:
Plant from Wyoming (192290).

Savory, EDWARD, Washington, D. C.:
A eardinal (1939382).

Sawicki, JAmES A., Washington,
D. C.: 2 pieces of military currency
(191634).

Saxton, V. F., Mt. Arab, N. Y.: 5
marine shells from New Caledonia and
Queensland, Australia (192685).

SBARBARO, CAMILLO, Spotorno, Sav-
ona, Italy: 30 plants (1923899, ex-
change); 42 Italian lichens (194098,
exchange).

ScALAMANDRE, Franco, New York,
N. Y.: 7 blue silk brocade samples and
17 yards blue gimp for reupholstering
the Alexander Hamilton armchairs
(194562).

Scanton, Lt. Joon H. (See Depart-
ment of Defense, Department of the
Army.)

Scarrercoop, Dr. Lrsiig, V. (See U.S.
Department of the Interior, Fish and
Wildlife Service.)

ScHELTEMA, R. §S. (See Chesapeake
Biological Laboratory.)

ScHENK, Epwarp T., Boulder City,
Nevy.: 3 kaersutite specimens from vi-
cinity of Boulder Dam, Ariz. (194853).

ScHIEFER, H. V., Cleveland, Ohio: 6
jasper cabochons from Flint Ridge,
Ohio (191684).

ScuiiiEerR, Dr. Everett L. (See Fed-
eral Security Agency, Public Health
Service.)

SCHLECHT, W. G., Washington, D. C.:
4 marine mollusks from Pawley’s Is-
land, 8. C. (194423).

ScHLEstncER, B. E., South Boston,
Mass.: 70 pelecypods and gastropods
collected at La Belle, Fla., in Pliocene,

87

Caloosahatchee formation (191499, ex-
change).

SCHLINGER, Eivert I., Davis, Calif.:
1 fly (193762).

Scumipt, Dr. ErtcH, Bonn, Germany:
7 dragonflies from Madagascar
(193529, exchange).

ScHMiITz, Rev. HERMANN, Bad Godes-
berg, Germany: 24 flies from Europe
(190760, 194424, exchange).

SCHNEIDER, Mrs. Heten KAHAN, Hast
Cleveland, Ohio: Decorative accessories
of Jewish ceremonial robe (kissel) :
Hmbroidered cap, belt, collar and cuffs
of woolen yarns appliqued with silver
strips, collar of silver dises, long in
possession of donor’s family in the
Carpathian section, former Austro-
Hungarian Empire (192962).

ScHooL oF TROPICAL AND PREVENTIVE
MepicinE, Loma Linda, Calif.:
(Through Raymond FE. Ryckman)
Ground squirrel from Orange County,
Calif. (193634).

ScHors, Dr. W., Salzburg, Austria:
3821 Foraminifera from Tertiary of
Austria (194854, exchange).

SCHROEDER, WILLIAM C. (See Har-
vard University, Museum of Compara-
tive Zoology, and Dr. Henry B. Bige-
low.)

ScHuLpT, CHariES, San Antonio,
Tex.: Radio receiving set, Crosley 50
(191494).

Scuutz, At, Washington, D. C.: 2
models of Civil War locomotive ‘‘Gen-
eral” (192968, loan).

ScHWAB, CHARLES, Washington, D.
C.: Brown thrasher (194594).

SCHWALBE, PAauL W. (See West
Chester State Teachers College.)

ScHWARZ, Dr. HRNEST, Bethesda, Md.:
20 marine snails from North Carolina
(194569).

SCHWENGEL, Dr. JEANNE §&., Scars-
dale, N. Y.: 5 marine mollusks from
Guam, México, and Bali (192502,
193372).

ScoLnix, Dr. Rosa, Cérdoba, Argen-
tina: 111 Andean plants (191385) ; 305
plants collected in South America
(191539, 191673).

Scorr, ARTHUR M., New Orleans, La.:
10 diatom samples from South America
and Australia (194756).

Scorr, Dr. DoNALD C.
sity of Georgia.)

Scort, GLENN R., Lakewood, Colo.:
Tooth of fossil shark from the Permian
Middleburg limestone, Pottawatomie
County, Kans. (193918).

Scotr PUBLICATIONS, INnc., New York,
N. Y.: (Through Gordon Harmer) Set
of Scott specialty albums (194622).

SCUDDER, Congressman Husert B.
(See W. R. Hayter.)

(See Univer-
88

SEALANDER, Dr. JOHN A.
versity of Arkansas.)

SECRETARIA DA AGRICULTURA, Porto
Alegre, Brazil—Indiustria e Comércio
Servico de Botdnica: 8 grasses from
Brazil (191280). Departmento de Zoo-

(See Uni-

logia: (Through Dr. Lindolpho R.
Guimaraes) 19 lice from Brazil
(192976).

Srpawick Musrum, Cambridge, Hng-
land: 140 Cretaceous brachiopods from
England (193099, exchange).

Siavy, Dr. E. (See Museum National
d@’Histoire Naturelle.)

SeLtpy, Mrs. JoHN A., Bethesda, Md.:
Copperhead snake from Watts Branch
Cuivert, Md., collected by Frank Taylor
(194721).

SELCHMANN, Mrs. Aveust E., Fred-
erick, Md.: 19 glass fragments from
site of the New Bremen Glass Works

(Amelung Factory), Frederick
(192088).
SENGER, CLYDE M., and NEILAND,

KENNETH A., Portland, Oreg.: 5 mam-
mals from Oregon (193987).

SENNOTT, JOHN N., Fort Myers Beach,
Fla.: 14 marine mollusks from British
Honduras (1985038).

Sennott, Mr. and Mrs. JoHNn N., Fort
Myers Beach, Fla.: 45 marine mollusks
from Gulf of Mexico, including types of
4 new species (192023) ; 2 marine mol-
lusks from Matade, Belgium Congo
(192794).

SeTzter, FRANK M., Washington,
D. C.: Student tobacco pipe with porce-
lain bowl, originally presented in 1848
by G. H. Reichardt to donor’s maternal
grandparent, Peter Jean Blaess of
Schwestzingen, near Heidelberg, Baden ;
wooden tobacco pipe with carvings of
deer figures executed in styles of Black
Forest craftsmen (191756).

SEVERSMITH, Herbert F., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 24 fishes from Maryland
collected by Sumner O. Burhoe, F.
Heckman, W. E. Maloney, and donor
(193621).

Srymour, GrorcE W., Keuka Park,
N. ¥.: 18 plants (1938517).

SHADLE, Dr. A. R., Buffalo, N. Y.: 580
beetles (192300).

SHAPPIRIO, JOEL, Washington, D. C.,
and Raup, Omrr, Chevy Chase, Md.: 2
stilbite specimens from Kibblehouse

Quarry, Perkiomensville, Montgomery
Co., Pa. (191764).
SHavus, Prof. Benzamin M., Nor-

thampton, Mass. : 2 uraninite specimens
and its alteration products, in zircon,

from Ruggles Mine, Grafton, N. H.
(194913).
SuHaw, Harry B. (See National

Photographic Society.)
SHEWELL, Guy H., Ottawa, Ontario:

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

38 specimens and 3 vials of blackflies
from Canada (1938352).

SHIGETA, Harry K., Chicago, Ill.: 50
pictorial prints for special exhibition
during October 1951 (192003, loan) ;
12 prints: ‘Vanity ;” “March Blizzard ;”
“Late Boake Carter ;”’ “Richard Menz
as Abraham Lincoln;”’ “Time, Space,
and Forms;” “George Arliss in ‘Old
HEnglish’;’ “Carl Sandburg;”’ ‘Pearls
and Mermaids;” ‘“Fantasy;’ “Low
Tide;” ‘Cheese’ (color print); and
untitled color print of steak platter
(192657).

SHikama, Dr. Tokio, Yokohama, Ja-
pan: 23 Permian mollusks from Japan
(194879, exchange).

SHULL, Lt. Col. Lewis F., Fort Ord,
Calif.: 18 blocks of four North Korean
postage stamps (194889).

SIDDALL, Mrs. MarGaret J., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Skull of baboon (192665).

SIEGEL, Ropert A., New York, N. Y.:
11 “Higienicos” cigarette ecards with
reproductions of postage stamps in

eolor (192848).

Steat, Dr. J., Rueil-Malmaison,
France: 6 Foraminifera from Creta-
ceous of Algeria and Miocene of France
(180588, exchange).

SrmmMons, Hpwarp M., Avery Island,
La.: Approximately 150 land and fresh-
water mollusks from Oglesby, Tex.
(194567).

Simmons, FRANK E., Oglesby, Tex.:
Pelecypod from west Texas (191787).

Simpson, Cart, Miami, Fla.: Silk
replica of the “Freedom Flag” (192144).

Srnciarr, G. Winston, Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 18 brachiopods from Ordovician
of Canada (194295).

SINGLETON, ANN.
Despecher.)

SKINNER AND SONS, WILLIAM, New
York, N. Y.: 7 wool-back fabric cuts, 5
articles manufactured from them, and
photographic enlargement of this pat-
ented weaving process (190847).

SxkorzKE, Srigmunp C., Milwaukee,
Wis.: 8 first day covers, Roosevelt me-
morial cover, Philippine Victory cover,
and 14 coins (194252).

Siater, Dr. James A., Ames, Lowa ; 22
bugs from United States and México
(191699) ; holotype of leafbug from
United States (193351, deposit); 55
South African bugs (194224, exchange).

Surep, Joun W. (See University of
Washington.)

SmirnH, ArtHurR C., Ithaca, N. Y.: 16
weevils from México (192013).

SmirH, Birt, Grapevine, Tex.: Fossil
ammonite from Texas (188458).

Smirn, Mrs. Ernest F., Los Angeles,
Calif.: Brown crepe dress, cape and
handbag, ea. 1920, which belonged to
Lillian Blachly, Helena, Mont. (193767).

(See Mrs. Clara S.
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

SmirH, Foster D., Jr., Caracas,
Venezuela: 15 skins and 3 sets of bird
eggs from northeastern Venezuela
(191473).

SmitH, KENNETH L., Brooklyn, N. Y.:
40 Cretaceous mollusks from western
United States (192835).

SmirH, Dr. Marron E., Amherst,
Mass.: (Through Dr. Alan Stone) 19
type mosquitoes from North America
(194416).

SmirH, MAxwWELL, Windermere, Fla.:
Gastropod from Belle Glade, Fla.
(198745).

SMITHSON, JOHN and JoHN, Jr.,
Mineola, N. Y.: Silver tankard, silver
basting spoon, wine cup, 2 luster tea-
pots and portrait of woman on wood
panel (189508).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washing-
ton, D. C.—87 envelopes addressed to
Smithsonian Institution, with various
forms of cancellation and free frank
(192005, deposit); 146 stamped con-
signment acknowledgment cards, 1913
period, from various countries (192006,
deposit); 8 miscellaneous philatelic
items (193062); portrait photograph
by Frederick Gutekunst, Philadelphia,
Pa. (193101, deposit); 3 oil paintings
of American Mail Steamships, “‘City of
Rio de Janeiro” (‘City of Para’’),
“City of Sydney,’ “City of Tokio”
(1938224, deposit) ; lithographs burning
of U. S. Frigate Missouri and hanging
of mutineers at sea; oil painting of
U. S. S. Alert and Huron (193226, de-
posit) ; 9 registry receipt cards, 1890's;
a Grant 1-cent postcard, 1893 (194612).
(See also following funds: Abbott,
Baird, Brown, Canfield, Chamberlain,
Dahlgreen, Hillyer, Roebling, Springer,
Walcott.) Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy: Mold and finished face mask of
Frances Densmore, made by Micka in
1912 (191898); cornhusk ceremonial
mask, Grand River Iroquois, Ontario,
Canada, probably collected by J. N.
B. Hewitt (192829); (through Dr.
Matthew W. Stirling) ceremonial and
historical wampum of the Iroquois, col-
lected in 1928-29 by J. N. B. Hewitt
at the Six Nations Reserve, Ontario,
Canada; also a shell necklace used in
the Tutelo adoption ceremony, col-
lected in 1941 by W. N. Fenton (192880).
Bureau of American Ethnology, River
Basin Surveys: Skeletal and archeo-
logical material from sites Mc44 and
Ha6, Buggs Island Reservoir, Roanoke
River, near Clarksville, Va. (193461) ;
(through Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.)
vertebrate material collected by Dr.
Theodore B. White, May, 1951, Garza-
Little Elm Dam, north fork of Trinity
River, Denton County, Texas (191031) ;
fossil vertebrate material from Oligo-

89

cene and Miocene deposits in the
Canyon Ferry Reservoir area, Mon-
tana, collected by Dr. Theodore H.
White, July, 1951 (191587); 5 fossil
vertebrates including mammals, rep-
tiles, and fishes, from Garrison Reser-
voir area near Williston, N. Dak.,
collected by Dr. Theodore H. White,
August, 1951 (192062); 1 Mosasaur
skeleton and shark teeth from Pierre
formation, upper Cretaceous in Oahe
Reservoir area near Pierre, S. Dak.,
collected by Dr. Theodore EH. White,
August, 1951 (192068); tympanic
bullae of kangaroo rat from near Pierre,
S. Dak. (1938460); (through R. L.
Stephenson) approximately 120 land
mollusks from Texas (193835). WNa-
tional Museum, Collected by members
of the staff: 188 marine invertebrates,
echinoderms, 59 mollusks, 2 fishes from
Florida, collected by Frederick M.
Bayer (1932738) ; 32 fishes from Alaska
collected by Arthur kL. SBowsher
(191365) ; approximately 5,675 insects
and some mollusks from Turrialba,
Costa Rica collected by O. L. Cart-
wright, May and June 1951 (192012) ;
3,500 miscellaneous insects, 14 milli-
peds, 1 scorpion and 64 mollusks col-
lected by O. L. Cartwright in Texas
(1938227) ; 2 analyzed basalt specimens
from Nuevo Juatito Vent, foot of Co-
patzin Hill, Paricutin, México, collected
by Dr. David H. Dunkle (194690) ; 125
pieces of jade from Guatemala, col-
lected by Dr. W. F. FosShag (185162) ;
1,367 plants from southern United
States and Cuba collected by H. P.
Killip (188525); approximately 3,000
marine mollusks, 12 corals, marine in-
vertebrates, and 50 echinoderms from
near Sarasota, Fla., collected by Dr. J.
Brookes Knight (193846) ; 15,037 fishes,
247 crayfishes, 2 shrimps, amphibians
and reptiles, 194 fresh-water mollusks,
and 18 insects from southeastern United
States collected by Dr. Ernest A. Lach-
ner and William T. Leapley (194449) ;
46 marine mollusks from near Monro-
via, Liberia collected by Dr. George C.
Miller (194929); 305 plants from
Minnesota and California collected by
C. V. Morton (192288); 1,387 miscel-
laneous marine invertebrates, 11 bra-
chiopods, 7 plants, 1 fish, 500 mollusks
from off Labrador collected by David
C. Nutt (191183); 141 mammals from
the Arctic Slope of Alaska collected by
Dr. Henry W. Setzer (in collaboration
with the Arctic Research Laboratory
and Office of Naval Research)
(191039); 2,000 plants from Hon-
duras collected by Jason R. Swallen
(194038) ; approximately 6,356 plants,
8 eaterpillars and wood samples col-
lected in the Ryukyu Islands by BH. H.
90

Walker and associates under the
auspices of the Scientific Investigation
of Ryukyu Islands Program of the
Pacific Science Board, National Acad-
emy of Sciences (192656). National
Museum, Obtained by purchase: 3,000
photographs of botanical type speci-
mens (188067); material for litho-
graphic exhibit: Sketch, tracing, stones,
proofs, and finished lithograph
(191025) ; 1,250 plants collected in Iran
by Dr. Karl H. Rechinger (192925) ;
Schwarz stereograph, with attach-
ments (198381). National Museum,
made in the Museum: Casts of 38
archeological objects from Venezuela
(191883) ; cranial capacity apparatus
designed in 1931 by M. S. Goldstein
(192166); 8S Blackfoot Indian face
molds and life masks (192491); busts
of 5 Indians and 1 Eskimo (193382) ;
molds, face mask and bust of 1
Comanche and 2 Omaha _ Indians
(193383) ; 546 photographs of plants
and 302 frames of microfilm (194851).
National Zoological Park: 55 birds and
2 eggs (191470, 191884, 192552, 194570,
194689) ; 37 mammals (194924).

SmytH, Dr. J. Avcrr, Tallahassee,
Fla.: 2 penaeid shrimps (191448).
(See also Florida State University.)

SMYTH, THOMAS, Jr., Baltimore, Md.:
26 fresh-water Medusae collected in
Padonia, Md. (192051).

SNELLING, Ropert, Turlock, Calif.: 51
bees and wasps from United States
(191349, exchange).

SocreTy oF PHILATELIC AMERICANS,
Cincinnati, Ohio: (Through Mrs. Helen
H. Longenotti) China plate, provided as
an award at the 1951 convention and
exhibition Society of Philatelic Ameri-
eans (193110).

SOLIMEO, MARIETTA.
rain —. McCrea).

Souxkup, Dr. J., Lima, Perfi: 61 plants
collected in Peri (191405).

SoutH Arrica, UNION or, Department
of Agriculture, Pretoria: 121 South
African grasses (192775); (through
Dr. H. K. Munro) 150 fruit flies from
Africa (1943802).

SourH AFRICAN Museum, Cape Town,
South Africa: (Through Dr. Keppel H.
Barnard) 6 gorgonians (193667).

SoutH-MoLuccas, REPUBLIC OF THE,
New York, N. Y.: (Through Karel J. V.
Nikijuluw) 2 sets of 6 stamps jointly
marking first anniversary of South-
Moluccan postal service and 75th Anni-
versary of Universal Postal Union
(198108) ; 21 United Nations stamps
and 9 Fifth Anniversary, Liberation of
the Pacific issue (193514).

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, UNIVERSITY OF,
Allan Hancock Foundation, Los Ange-
les, Calif.: 30 diatoms from Pacific

(See Dr. Low-

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

Coast, North America (194846);
(through Dr. E. Yale Dawson) 347 ma-
rine algae (194410, exchange).

SOUTHERN JLLINOIS UNIVERSITY, Car-
bondale, Ill.: Plant collected in Illinois
(192400).

SouTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY,
Dallas, Tex.: (Through Eula White-
house) 3138 mosses and algae from Texas
and California (193616, exchange).

SouTHWoRTH, CHARLES, Thedford,
Ontario: Silurian pelecypod from On-
tario (192295).

SoyKa, Dr. WALTER, Stubaital, Tyrol,
Austria: 5 slides of chaleid flies includ-
ing one cotype from Hurope (192017).

SPANGLER, PAUL J., Lawrence, Kans. :
30 amphipods from Pennsylvania
(198986).

SPERRY, JOHN L., Riverside, Calif.:
108 insects from Pertii and western
North America (193358) ; 287 microlepi-
doptera and 4 geometrid moths from
Pacific Coast of North America and
Brazil (194803) ; 678 moths from west-
ern North America, South America, and
India (194888).

SPRINGER FUND, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 200 Upper Paleozoic crinoids from
Oklahoma, including 23 types (192978) ;
28 crinoids and 2 cystids from Ordovi-
cian, Mississippian and Pennsylvanian
rocks of Oklahoma (194880).

SPRINGER, STEWART. (See U. S. De-
partment of the Interior, Fish and Wild-
life Service.)

SPRINGER, Victor G., San Francisco,
Calif.: 157 fishes from Korea (192463,
194761).

STABLER, Mrs. CyntTHIA ANN, Ashton,
Md.: Roper repeating centerfire shot-
gun, and rifled barrel and receiver hous-
ing for same (191770, loan); 10 seal
impressions in paper, ink sketch made
by Edward Stabler, and copy of his ad-
vertisement, 18387 (192007).

Stacy, Dr. M. C., Pittsburgh, Pa.: 170
Mississippian brachiopods from Nova
Seotia (194763).

STALLINGS, Don B., Caldwell, Kans.:
4 butterfly paratypes from Kansas and
New Mexico (198356).

STANFORD UNIverSiIty, Stanford,
Calif.: 9 Alaskan lichens (191371) ; 32
plants collected in California by A. M.
Vollmer and L. Beane (193488, ex-
change); (through John C. Briggs) 4
paratypes of gobiesocid fishes (191897,
exchange); (through Dr. G. 8. Myers
and Dr. J. Bohlke) 3 paratypes of South
American fishes (192115, exchange) ;
(through Dr. William C. Steere) 1 moss
(192770, exchange).

STANLEY GisBons, Inc., New York,
N. Y.: Cigarette ash tray with reproduc-
tion of $1.00 Trans-Mississippi stamp
(193112).
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

STANNARD, Dr. Lewis J., Urbana, Ill.:
10 thrips from United States and México
(194565); 1 thrip from Illinois
(194667).

STARKEY, J. ALBERT, Vineland, N. J.:
10 caprellid amphipods (192205); 2
crayfishes and 3 amphipods from New
Jersey (193269, 194205).

STARLING, Mrs. Guy W., and HueHEs,
Mrs. Carrot W., Arlington, Va.: Play-
er-piano music rolls and perforator
(194656).

Strate, U. S. DEPARTMENT oF, Washing-
ton, D. C.—A skippet-cover die, silver
skippet enclosed in a book-shaped box,
and wax impression of Great Seal of the
United States, 1869 (192008). (See also
Alexander Mylonas.) Institute of In-
ter-American Affairs: 75 plants col-
lected in Peri by Edwin Anderson
(188117).

STAUFFER, Dr. Cxinron, Pasadena,
Calif.: 5 Devonian brachiopods, Colum-

bus limestone, White House, Ohio
(194105).

STAUFFER, GEORGE P. (See Charles
F, Young.)

STEARNS, J. L., Washington, D. C.: 25
woods of Indo-China (194101).

STEARNS, RicHarD H. (See Natural
History Society of Maryland.)

STEELE, Paut H., Sacramento, Calif. :
Mollusk from Haster Island (192189,
exchange) ; mollusk from western Aus-
tralia (192510).

STEERE, Dr. WILLIAM.
University. )

STEHLIK, Dr. JARosLav L., Brno,
Czechoslovakia: 573 bugs from Hurope
(193723, exchange).

Stern, Hinpa A., Carbondale, IIl.:
3 dusky salamanders from Olmstead, Ill
(192462).

STELLENBASCH, UNIVERSITY OF, Stel-
lenbasch, South Africa: (Through C. J.
Joubert) 12 weevils and 86 mealy bugs
from Africa (193174).

STEPHEN AUSTIN STATE CoLizar, Na-
cogdoches, Tex.: 72 grasses from Texas
(191966, 193207).

STEPHENSON, Mrs. Mary R., Wilson,
N. C.: A plant (188306).

STEPHENSON, Ropert L. (See Smith-
sonian Institution, Bureau of American
Hthnology, River Basin Surveys.)

STEVENS, Dr. J. T., Marietta, Okla.:
100 Silurian, Devonian and Pennsyl-
vanian brachiopods from Oklahoma
(191498).

Stewart, Dr. T. Date, Washington,
D. C.: 263 specimens, archeological sur-
face collections, made by donor and
others in Virginia and Maryland
(1983880).

STEYSKAL, GrorGsE, Grosse Ille, Mich. :
31 flies, including 5 paratypes, from

(See Stanford

91

Michigan and Australia (192961,
194945).

Stirting, Dr. MartrHew W. (See
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of

American Ethnology.)

Stock, Dr. J. H., Amsterdam, Hol-
land: Approximately 105 copepods
(191263, exchange).

STODDARD, Hersert L., Thomasville,

Ga.: 2 wild turkeys from Georgia
(191469).

Stone, Dr. ALAN. (See Dr. Marion E.
Smith.)

Stone, Lt. Tep, New York, N. Y.: 1
cover mailed from U. 8. 8. Oregon 1899
(194664).

Stopp, Dr. Kraus, Mainz, Germany:
13 grasses from Africa (193208).

STRATTON, Ray F. (See B. F. Good-
rich Company.)

Straus, Paut A., Summit, N. J.: 2
gold coins and a silver coin (191396) ;
1 silver six-taler piece, Brunswick, New
Luneburg Line, 1654 (194299).

STRELAK, JOSEPH S., Downey, II:
July 17, 1951, Pentagon meter marking,
denoting new style, and imprinted re-
production of Washington meter mark
of trial period 1934-88 (191766); 20
postal cards (193069).

STRICKLAND, Capt. Lester L. (See
Department of Defense, Department of
the Air Force.)

STRIMPLE, HARRELL, Bartlesville,
Okla.: 101 Mississippian brachiopods
from Lake Valley, N. Mex. (194201).

STROHECKER, H. F., Coral Gables,
Fla.: 4 moths, 29 beetles, and 6 micro-
lepidoptera from Florida and Cuba
(192026, 193603).

Strunz, Prof. H., Regensburg, Ger-
many: Mineral from Hagendorf-Nord
near Pleystein, Oberpfalz, Germany
(193951).

STUPKA, ARTHUR. (See U. S. Depart-
ment of the Interior, National Park
Service.)

STURTEVANT, Dr. A. H., Pasadena,
Calif.: 5 flies (193955).

SUMMERS, FRANK, Davis, Calif.: 3

mite paratypes from California
(198310).
Supincer, Mrs. W. J., Columbia,
Miss.: Mud snake from Columbia
(191593).

Sussex ARCHAEOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION,
Lewes, Del.: (Through Catharine
Maull) Indian skull and skeleton from
Russell site, near Lewes (191467) ;
(through James Parsons) Indian skele-
ton from Derrickson farm, Sussex
County (194867).

SuTcLirFe, Dr. W. H., Jr.
muda Biological Station.)

Surrkus, Royat D., New Orleans,
La.: (Through Dr. Isaac Ginsburg) 200

(See Ber-
92

fishes from Gulf of Mexico off Clear-
water, Fla., collected by donor (194556).

Swanson, Dr. Leonarp E., Gaines-
ville, Fla.: 103 helminths from Florida
(186660) .

SwepIsH Museum or Natura HiIs-
Tory, Stockholm, Sweden: (Through
Dr. Tor @rvig) 15 Silurian brachiopods
from Sweden (193098, exchange).

SweEENrEy, Mrs. Epwarp C., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 389 plants from Africa
(1987386).

Sypnry, UNIverstry or, Sydney, Aus-
tralia: (Through Dr. David J. Lee) 8
slides of biting midges from Australia
(193115).

Tart, EF. W., East Jaffrey, N. H.: 5
fragments of green glass excavated by
donor from site of the Temple Glass-
works, New Hampshire (193571).

TARBELL, EDMUND C. and EMELINE A.,
Heirs oF: (Through Harry W. Peyser)
12 medals awarded to Edmund C. Tar-
bell for excellence as an _ artist
(191416).

TASMANIA, UNIVERSITY orf, Hobart,

Tasmania: 17 Tasmanian lichens
(191885).
Taytor, HEmMiny V., Poughkeepsie,

N. Y.: (Through Charles J. Corbally)
Mahogany Chippendale highboy in the
Philadelphia manner (191204, bequest).

Taytor, Dr. WiLL1AM R., Ann Arbor,
Mich.: Isopod, hermit crab, 2 crabs col-
lected in the Aleutians by P. T. Bank,
1945 (192912).

TEBBLE, NoRMAN. (See British Gov-

ernment, British Museum (Natural
History).)
Trep, MrertIn F. (See Maximum

Card Society of America.)

TELLER, Dr. L. W. (See Department
of Defense, Department of the Navy,
National Navy Medical Center.)

TEN Dam, A., Ankara, Turkey: 58
Foraminifera from Lower Cretaceous
of Algeria (1938493).

Trrry, Mrs. M. E., Palo Alto, Calif.:
200 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Uganda, Hast Africa (193172).

TrsKEY, Mrs. Marcaret, Buffalo,
N. Y.: 75 fresh-water mollusks from
New York and Ontario (191695); 10
fresh-water snails from New Zealand
and Ohio (191907, exchange).

Texas, UNIversIty or, Austin, Tex.:
(Through Henry Hildebrand) 12 crabs
(191181) ; (through Dr. Clark Hubbs)
83 fishes from southwestern United
States collected by donor (193942).

TrxAs AGRICULTURAL AND M&rcHANI-
CAL COLLEGE, College Station, Tex.: 1
grass (194473). Research Foundation:
(through Dr. Sewell H. Hopkins) 40
brackish water mollusks from Neches
River, Texas (193232).

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM,

1952

TEXAS GAME, FISH AND OYSTER CoM-
MISSION, Rockport, Tex.: (Through
J. L. Baughman) 31 fishes and 1 squid
from Gulf of Mexico (191651) ; 4 fishes
(191677); 1 Seyllarid (192367); 7
shrimps from bayou near Hoskin’s
Mound, southeast of Angelton, Tex.
(192691).

Texas STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH,
Austin, Tex.: (Through Dr. Richard B.
Hads) 2 mites from Texas (193752).

THOMAN, Lronarp H., New Orleans,
La.: 18 postage stamps of the Ryukyu
Islands (191769). (See also Ryukyu
Civil Administration Team.)

THOMAS, Cora, Washington, D. C.:
(Through J. M. Allen) Tapa, acquired
in 1897 from maker on Oahu, T. H.
(192165).

THORNE, FRED, Hl Cajon, Calif.: 2 but-
terflies from Hualpi Mountains, south
of Kingman, Ariz. (192018).

THURMAN, Lt. Comdr. and Mrs. DEED
C., Jr., Chiengmai, Thailand: 11 rep-
tiles and. amphibians and 2 centipedes
from Chiengmai collected by donors
(194859). (See also Mutual Security
Agency.)

TIBBETTS, Trp, Logan, Utah: 12 land
and fresh-water mollusks from Utah
(191798) ; 6 land mollusks from Camp
Lejeune, N. C. (194799).

TINDALE, B., Victoria, Australia: 3
samples of diatoms (191228).

TINKER, SPENCER. (See Waikiki
Aquarium.)

Tipton, Lt. VERNON J., Washington,
D. C.: 100 slides, holotype and allotype,
of fleas from western United States
(194888).

Toxyo, University or, Tokyo, Japan:
2 plants, photographs of Ardisia
(192651, exchange) ; (through Dr. Ta-
kayasu Uchio) about 1,000 Foramini-
fera, 52 species including paratypes,
from Tertiary and Quaternary of Ja-
pan (1938670, exchange).

Tokyo Science Musrum, Toyko, Ja-
pan: 200 Japanese plants (191893, ex-
change).

Totnat, Dr. FrerRENC, Budapest, Hun-
gary: Approximately 3800 land and
fresh-water mollusks from Hungary
(192061, exchange).

Toprine, E. W., Akron, Ohio: Models
of Ferguson tractor, dise-plow for trac-
tor, New Idea mower, spreader, and
cornpicker (1939389).

TOWNSLEY, SIpNrEy J., New Haven,
Conn.: Type Stomatopod from Hilo,
T. H. (194242).

Trapipo, Dr. HArotp, Panama, Pan-

ami: 6 heads of masked ducks
(192235). (See also Gorgas Memorial
Laboratory.)

Traus, Col. Rosert, Washington,

D. C.: 2 fleas, types, from southwestern
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

United States (192019) ; holotype and
2 paratypes of fleas (193309) ; 22 pseu-
doseorpions from United States
(198761). (See also Department of De-
fense, Depariment of the Army, Army
Medical Service Graduate School.)

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Washington,
D. C.—Bureau of the Mint: Assay Com-
mission Medals, two each for 1949, 1950,
1951, and 1952 (198802) ; 544 coins and
110 amulets of Korea, A. D. 100 to the
nineteenth century (194220); 2 sets
United States coinage from Philadel-
phia, Denver, and San Francisco Mints
and 2 sets proof coins from Philadelphia
Mint, all for 1951 in the denominations
of halves, quarters, dimes, nickels, cents
(194234, 194235). U.S. Secret Service:
2 Grant commemorative half dollars,
1922, with spurious stars in obverse
fields (1943882, loan).

TRUMAN, President Harry S., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Piece of rock from Cor-
regidor, Philippine Islands (191548,
loan).

TULANE UNIversIty, New Orleans,
La.: (Through Dr. George H. Penn) 3
type crayfishes (194062, gift-exchange).

TweEeEpDiIs£, Dr. M. W. F., Singapore,
S. S.: 8 brackish water mollusks from
well borings in Singapore (193837).
(See also Raffles Museum and Library. )

Ucuio, Dr. Takayasu. (See Univer-
sity of Tokyo, and Institute of Petrol-
eum Geology.)

UnitEep NATIONS, Foop AND AGRICUL-
TURE ORGANIZATION OF THE, Washington,
D. C.: 50 plants collected in Surinam by
Dr. A. T. Semple (191967); (through
Dr. Shu-Yen Lin) 7 shrimps collected in
fish ponds, Port au Prinee, Haiti
(1920538).

Unitrep Nations PosTaL ADMINISTRA-
TION, United Nations, N. Y.: (Through
Bertil A. Renborg) First day cover with
single copies of 6 United Nations stamps
(192849) ; 2 complete sets of Ist U. N.
postage stamps with tabs; first day
cover franked with U. N. airmail stamps
(193455).

UNIVERSIDAD DE CONCEPCION, Concep-
cién, Chile: 86 grasses from Chile
(191486).

UNIVERSIDAD NACIONAL DE TucuMAN,
Tucuman, Argentina: 596 plants from
Argentina, southern Brazil, and Para-
guay (192284, exchange); 515 plants
from Patagonia (194618, gift-exchange).

UNIVERSITETETS BOTANISKE MusEuUM,
Copenhagen, Denmark: 342 West In-
dian plants (191380, exchange).

UPPSALA UNIVERSITETS INSTITUTION
FOR SYSTEMATISK Boranix, Uppsala,
Sweden: 144 plants of Sweden and Reg-
nell collections in Brazil (193737, ex-
change).

93

URIBE Uribe, Dr. Lorenzo, Bogota,
Colombia: 49 plants from Colombia
(198155).

UTAH, UNIVERSITY OF, Salt Lake City,
Utah: (Through Dr. S. Flowers) 5 ferns
from Utah (193963).

UTAH Srate AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE,
Logan, Utah: (Through Dr. George F.
Knowlton) 11 paratypes of miscella-
neous flies and 2 type slides of aphids
from Utah (192556) ; 4 flies (192789).

VAIDEN, M. G., Rosedale, Miss.: 14
srackles, 1 shrike, 1 cowbird, and 1 Eng-
lish sparrow (191556, 193688).

VarL, S. P., Atlanta, Ga.: 6 beetles
(191459).

VAN Brer, P. J. H.
Museum.)

VAN CiEAveE, Dr. H. J., Urbana, IIL:
5 new helminths from Oklahoma
(198876).

VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY, Nashville,
Tenn.: 21 greenhouse plants (191269).

VAN DER VECHT, Dr. J., Naarden,
Netherlands: 85 bees from the Orient
(194900).

VANEGAS P., AUGUSTIN. (See Oficina
de Control de Especies Postales y Fila-
telia. )

VAN Eis, M. E., Ann Arbor, Mich.:
1 alga collected in Michigan (193015).

VAN EimpEN, Dr. F., London, England:
3 Weevil larvae and a fire-fly from
Europe (194877). (See also British
Government, British Museum (Natural
History), and Commonwealth Institute
of Entomology.)

VAN FLEET, STEPHEN C., Washington,
D. C.: Radio, phonograph, lighting and
projection historical materials
(193300) ; keyed Hungarian tarogatd,
C clarinet and an 8-key hautbois, made
in Paris, France (193820).

VarRGAS, Dr. Luts. (See Instituto de
Salubridad y Enfermedades Tropi-
eales.)

VATIKIOTIS, Sozon, Tarpon Springs,
Fla.: 264 marine mollusks, 8 fishes, ap-
proximately 127 marine invertebrates,
and 2 echinoderms from Red Sea
(188826) ; 38 marine mollusks from
Greece and 38 from Gulf of Mexico
(192505, 194339).

VAZQUEZ, ALBERTO, Arlington, Va.: 20
fresh-water mollusks from Minnesota
(192188).

VERGANI, Dr. FRANCO. (See Instituto
de Investigaciones Veterinarias. )

VERHOEFF, Dr. P. M. F., den Dolder,
Netherlands: 164 Huropean wasps
(193555, exchange).

VERRILL, A. Hyatt, Lake Worth, Fla.:
Cultivated plant (193161); mollusk
from Dominica, B. W. I. (194832).

VIRGINIA, UNIVERSITY or, Charlottes-
ville, Va. : 28 cultivated plants (193574).

(See Zoologisch
94

VIRGINIA FISHERIES LABORATORY,
Gloucester Point, Va.: (Through Dr.
Jay D. Andrews) 16 Holothurians from
Gloucester Point (194405).

VisscHerR, Mrs. Pautr, Cleveland,
Ohio: Approximately 10,979 barnacles,
miscellaneous invertebrates, echino-
derms, 2 insects, 150 mollusks, snakes,
10 scorpions; 163 lantern slides; 821
photographs and 2 rolls of film; card
files and reports; about 200 reprints on
barnacles (192694).

VocKeERoTH, J. R., Ottawa, Ontario:
12 midges from northern Canada
(192557).

VocEL, Morton, Washington, D. C.:
67 sawflies and parasitic wasps from
India and South America (192328).

VoreT, EHRHARD, Hamburg, Germany :
60 Upper Cretaceous bryozoans from
Kunrade, Netherlands (193302).

Vokes, Dr. Haroxmp E., Baltimore,
Md.: Holotype of new species of
pelecypod from the Miocene of México
(191632) : 30 fresh-water mollusks from
northern Ontario, Canada (194109).
(See also Mrs. R. Lee Collins.)

Voss, Jack, Bethesda, Md.: Skink
from Sherman Island in Potomae River,
collected by James Peters, Jr. (194722).

WAIKIKI AQUARIUM, Honolulu, T. H.:
(Through Spencer Tinker) 2 fishes
from Oahu Island (187055).

WaLcott Funp, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 5,000 invertebrate fossils from
Permian rocks, Glass Mountains, West
Texas, and 3,000 invertebrate fossils
from New Mexico, Oklahoma, Missouri
and Illinois collected by G. Arthur
Cooper, A. L. Bowsher and W. T. Allen,
1951 (191737); 31 fossil fishes and
reptiles from the upper Jurassic, Guaca-
maya and Hoyo de San Antonio, Pifiar
del Rio Province, Cuba (191750) ; about
270 vertebrate fossils including lower
Hocene material from vicinity of Big
Piney and Baggs, Wyo.; Paleocene from
Almy beds near LaBarge, Wyo.; and
lower Oligocene from Cameron Springs,
near the Beaver Divide in southern part
of the Wind River Basin; and collections
of fossil and recent invertebrates, 12
mollusks from Wyoming, all collected
by Dr. C. L. Gazin during summer 1951
(192002) ; approximately 500 Middle
Ordovician invertebrate fossils from
Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, and Vir-
ginia, collected by Dr. G. Arthur
Cooper, 1951 (192555) ; 7 bags foramini-
feral samples and 7 boxes of mollusks
and corals, approximately 500 speci-
mens, from St. Marys and Yorktown
formations along the James and Rap-
pahannock Rivers, Va., collected by Drs.
David Nicol and Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr.
(192778) ; 800 Mississippian and Penn-
sylvanian invertebrates from Pennsyl-

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

vania and Ohio collected by A. L.
Bowsher and W. T. Allen (194826), 250
Ordovician invertebrate fossils from
Virginia collected by Dr. G. Arthur
Cooper, 1952 (194848). In cooperation
with the U. 8S. Geological Survey: 850
fossil crinoids collected by A. L. Bowsher
and Edwin Kirk from Mississippian
rocks, northern Alabama and Central
Tennessee (193100, gift-transfer).

WALKER, Dr. E. H., Washington, D.C.:
50 eryptogams (193344); 50 mosses
from Japan (194097).

WaLiace, MaurickE H., Muskogee,
Okla.: 24 Jurassic brachiopods from
Kenya, Africa (192596).

WALLACE, Dr. S. Lee.
Coast Research Laboratory.)

WALLEN, Prof. I. E., Stillwater, Okla. :
388 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Oklahoma (192256). (See also Okla-
homa Agricultural and Mechanical Col-
lege. )

Water, Masrte R., Washington,
D. C.: An 1898 quarter Anna of Muscat
and Oman (191633).

WALTER, WALDEMAR M., Durham,
N. C.: 40 fresh-water and marine mol-
lusks, and 3 barnacles from North Caro-
lina (193231).

Warp, Ronap A., Chicago, Ill. : Holo-
type of louse from Madagascar (194304).

WarMKE, Dr. G. L. (See University
of Puerto Rico.)

WARREN, Lioynp O., Fayetteville, Ark. :
60 Chrysomelid beetles, 9 species, from
New Caledonia (191420).

WASHINGTON, UNIVERSITY OF, Seattle,
Wash. : 8 plants from México (191884) ;
(through John W. Slipp) 2 crabs
(191235) ; (through Arthur D. Welan-
der and Dayton L. Alverson) 1 fish
taken 40 miles off coast of Washington
(192689, exchange).

WASHINGTON, STATE COLLEGE OF, Pull-
man, Wash.: 456 plants mostly collected
in Washington by A. Cronquist (191628,
exchange); 1 grass from Idaho
(192346).

Watkins, J. E., Collection of clip-
pings and other material; 11 photogra-
vures of railroad subjects (194915,
found in the Museum).

WAYNE UNIveERSITY, Detroit, Mich.:
232 grasses from western national parks
collected by Mr. and Mrs. H. EK. Bailey

(See Gulf

(194007).
Weser, JAy A., Miami, Fla.: 350
fresh- and brackish-water mollusks

from Florida and Jamaica (191783,
gift-exchange) ; approximately 35 am-
nicolids from Big Pine Key, Fla.
(1938363).

Weser, Dr. Neat A., North Gate,
Baghdad, Iraq: 2 bats, 1 hedgehog, 3
fishes, insects, 40 ticks, 1 isopod, and 2
crabs from Iraq (191719).
ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS

WEBER, WALTER A., Vienna, Va.: Hm-
peror goose and king eider duck
(191876) ; isopod collected in Chesa-
peake Bay, Md., near Prince Frederick
(192055) ; 1 kingsnake from Fairfax
(192146).

WeEeEms, Howarp V., Columbus, Ohio:
28 flies, mostly from Florida (194566).

WEINSTEIN, ABRAHAM, Washington,
D. C.: Highteenth century copper coin
from Southern India (193749).

WEISGERBER, VERIL Domus, Philadel-
phia, Pa.: Post card with reproduction
of Chas. H. Weisgerber’s painting of
“The Birth of our Nation’s Flag,” used
for 3-cent U. 8. Betsy Ross stamp, with
3-cent stamp and first day cancellation
(193068).

WEISSAUER, RupoLtF, Philadelphia,
Pa.: 27 linoleum cuts for special exhi-
bition (193350, loan).

WELANDER, ARTHUR D.
sity of Washington. )

WELLER, Dr. J. Marvin. (See Chi-
eago Natural History Museum.)

WENZEL, R. L. (See Chicago Natural
History Museum.)

WESLEYAN UNiverSiIry, Middletown,
Conn.: 39 bird skins, 11 bird skeletons,
and 2 mammal skeletons (193966, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. H. B. Goodrich)
1,400 fishes, approximately 2,141 marine
invertebrates, 300 mollusks, reptiles and
amphibia from Wesleyan University
Museum collections (192560, exchange).

WEST CHESTER STATE TEACHERS COL-
LEGE, Gradyville, Pa.: (Through Paul
W. Schwalbe) Type specimen of Grace’s
warbler (190493, exchange).

WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY, Morgan-
town, W. Va.: 6 grasses from West Vir-
ginia (191675) ; 48 plants from south-
eastern United States (192772, ex-
change) ; plant from Alabama (192966).

WETMORE, Dr. A., Washington, D. C.:
28 skins and 3 skeletons of birds from
Michigan (191472) ; 5 mammals and 5
birds from Shenandoah National Park,
Virginia (194925).

Wuitr, Joun A., Lawrence, Kans.: 2
slides, about 300 specimens, of Forami-
nifera from Recent of Ceylon (191395).

WHitTsr, Dr. ORLAND EH., Boyce, Va.:
349 plants from Burma, India, and
United States (191487, 193157).

WHITEHOUSE, Huta. (See Southern
Methodist University.)

Wuite Hovusst, THE, Washington,
D. C.: Large round table of narra wood
presented to President Franklin D.
Roosevelt in 19384 by Gen. Emilio
Aguinaldo, Kawit, Cavite, P. I.
(194912).

WHITESELL, Woop, New Orleans, La.:
59 pictorial prints for special exhibition
September 1951 (192004, loan); 15

(See Univer-

95

prints by donor: “Louisiana Live Oaks,”
“Indianapolis Camera Club,” “Ladies
from St. Anna’s,” “Evening in Old New
Orleans,” “George ‘Pop’ Hart—Artist,”
“So What,” “John R. Satterlee J. P.,”
“Juanita Gonzalez—Sculptress,” “Inom-
mie Whitesell,’ “Anxious Moment,”
“Margaret has the Floor,” “Demonstra-
tion in Angle Shots,” “Country School
Board,” “Artist and Craftsman at
Work,” and ‘Skeptic Patient” (192493).

WicHER, Dr. C. A., Peine, Germany:
41 Foraminifera from Jurassic of Ger-
many (194478, exchange).

Wiceins, Dr. Ira L. (See Depart-
ment of Defense, Department of the
Navy, Office of Naval Research.)

Wiicox, Lrroy, Long Island, N. Y.:
14 fresh-water mollusks from Long Is-
land (192667).

WiLpuNG, FRANK H., Washington,
D. C.: 1388 woodworking tools for special
exhibition during November, 1951
(192704, loan).

WILLE, F. G., Clinton, N. J.: Im-
printed 1-cent postal card mailed De-
cember 31, 1951, last day of 1-cent rate
(193068).

WILLEMSE, Dr. C., Eygelshoven Z. L.,

Netherlands: 81 Indo Malayan grass-
hoppers (198498, exchange).
» WILLIAMS, Dr. HerMAnNN W., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Pair of U. 8. Army offi-
cer’s epaulettes, ca. 1804-1808; pair of
U. S. Infantry officer’s epaulettes, ca.
1832-1840 (193165, exchange).

WILLIAMS, Dr. JAMES STEELE. (See
Department of the Interior, Geological
Survey.)

WILLIAMS, RatpH B., Juneau, Alas-
ka: Nematomorph worm from Juneau
(191350).

Wittink, Dr. A., Tucumén, Argen-
tina : 2 wasps from Argentina (192331).

WIson, ARDEN, Harrisville, W. Va.:
Hand-operated winnowing mill
(192872).

Witson, Dr. Joun N. (See Federal
Security Agency, Public Health Serv-
ice.)

Witson, Mrs. Mitprep. (See Fed-
eral Security Agency, Public Health
Service.)

WISCONSIN, UNIVERSITY oF, Madison,
Wis.: 20 plants of North America
(192706, exchange) ; (through Dr. P. R.
Morrison) 9 mammal skeletons from
Alaska (191247).

WitTHERS, G. W., Atlanta, Ga.: Garnet
erystal from Paulding County, 5 miles
southwest of Hiram, Ga. (192178).

Witt, Witi1am, Arlington, Va.: 5
salamanders from Fairfax County, Va.,
and 1 snake from near Waynesville, Mo.
(194521).

Woke, Dr. Paun. (See Federal Se-
curity Agency, Public Health Service.)
96

Wotre, Col. L. R., Kerrville, Tex.:
8 hawks (193153) ;6 hawks from México
and 1 from Manchuria (194868).

WOLLENSAK OPTICAL CoMPANY, Roch-
ester, N. Y.: (Through Norman HE.
Kuegler) 13 specimens of photographic
equipment (194767).

WOMEN’S PHILATELIC Soctnty, New
York, N. Y.: Souvenir label marking
800th meeting of Women’s Philatelic
Society of New York (192417).

Woop, Mrs. ALBERT Harris, Orlando,
Fla.: 5 pairs of Indian moccasins col-
lected from Indians by the late Charles
H. Harris, while member of Troop H,
ist. U. 8S. Cavalry, Fort Assiniboine, near
present Havre, Montana, in 1884-1888
(191867).

WoonLine, HERBERT B., Akron, Ohio:
40 prints for exhibition during April,
1952 (194105, loan).

Wooprine, Dr. WENDELL P.
Louis Kehrer.)

Woops, Loren P. (See Chicago Nat-
ural History Museum.)

Woo.LseEy, HEATHCOTE M., Kent, Conn.:
2 marine mollusks (191130) ; approxi-
mately 150 marine mollusks from Ja-
maica and Grenada, B. W. I. (194777).

WorreEtu, W. S., Florence, S. C.: 2
plants from South Carolina (193093).

(See Dr.

Weicut, Leon M., Enterprise, Fla.:

Approximately 75 fresh-water mollusks
from Florida (192148).

WRIGHT, Dr. STILLMAN, Washington,
D. C.: 16 lots of rotifers, 9 lots of cla-
docerans, ostracods, and conchostra-
cans, 174 lots of copepods, and 334 lots
of miscellaneous plankton from South
America (190216).

WyGonZINsKy, Dr. Pretr, Tucumd4n,
Argentina: 116 bugs from South Amer-
ica (193114).

WYOMING, UNIVERSITY OF, Laramie,
Wyo.: 47 plants from Wyoming
(193740, exchange).

Yaar, Dr. Kenzo, Tohoku, Japan:
Hypersthene dacite from the Usu Vol-
cano at Hokkaido, Japan (191398).

YALE UNIVERSITY, New Haven,
Conn.—Bingham Oceanographic Labora-
tory: (Through Daniel Merriman and
James E. Morrow) 14 fishes from Pemba
Island, Mkonai Harbor, British East
Africa (193263, exchange). Osborn
Botanical Laboratory: 2 plants collected

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

in Arabia by W. W. Thoms (1924381).
Peabody Museum of Natural History:
(Through Dr. 8. Dillon Ripley) Body of
Asiatic honey guide (193735) ; 1 bird
from Assam (194547).

Yao, Dr. Y. T., Nanking, China: 76
fresh-water and land shells from Che-
kiang Province, China (142269).

YASUMATSU, Dr. Keizo. (See Kyushu
University. )

YEDLIN, Leo Neal, Yalesville, Conn.:
A monazite from Standpipe Hill, Tops-
ham, Maine (194858).

YEN, Dr.T.C. (See U. S. Department
of the Interior, Geological Survey.)

YOCHELSON, ELLIs, Washington, D. C.:
2 sponges from Devonian New Scotland
formation, New York (191392).

Yooore, Martano G., Jr. (See Uni-
versity of the Philippines. )

Youne, CHARLES F. and STAUFFER,
GrorcE P., Fort Sam Houston, Tex.:
Maxilla with 5 teeth of tapir from in-
side Goat Cave, Florida Caverns State
Park, Marianna, Fla. (192720).

Youne, Dr. Davin, Washington, D. C.:
Approximately 6.500 leafhoppers from
eastern United States (194884).

Youne, Dr. FranK N., Bloomington,
Ind.: 23 isopods (192163).

ZEIMER, Maj. Howarp A., Pine Bluff,
Ark.: 217 assorted airline and military
aviation buttons (191688).

ZETEK, JAMES, Balboa, C. Z.: Fish
from fresh-water stream on Pacific side
of Panama (191356).

ZIMMERMANN, H. C. (See Hawaiian
Sugar Planters’ Association.)

ZopAc, PETER, Peekskill, N. Y.: Speci-
men of quartz, variety jasper, from
New England, Hettinger County, N.
Dak. (194789).

ZooLogicAL MusrumM, Copenhagen,
Denmark: (Through Dr. Borge Peter-
sen) 50 parasitic wasps (198959, ex-
change).

ZooLtogiscHh Museum, Amsterdam,
Netherlands: (Through Dr. J. J. Hoede-
man) 11 fishes from the West Indies
(193782, exchange) ; (through P. J. H.
van Bree) 3 lizards and 3 snakes from
the Netherlands (193796, exchange).

ZUCKSWERT, Donatp R., Berkeley,
Calif.: 12 cladocerans from Lake Anza,
Calif. (192187).
Publications

by Members of the Staff of the
United States National Museum

July 1951 through June 1952

ABBOTT, R. TUCKER.
Poromya and Cetoconcha names.
Nautilus, vol. 65, p. 3, 1951.

Battle of the snails. Science

Digest, vol. 30, No. 5, pp. 15-19, 1951.

A study of an intermediate snail

host (Thiara granifera) of the Orien-

tal lung fluke (Paragonimus). Pyroc.

U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 102, pp. 71-116,

pls. 8-9, figs. 32-45, 1952.

; A new Terebra (hoffmeyeri)
from the Philippines. Nautilus, vol.
65, No. 3, pp. 77-80, pl. 5, figs. 5-9,
1952.

— and Lapp, H.S. A new brackish-
water gastropod from Texas (Amnico-
lidae: Littoridina). Journ. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 335-338,
12 figs, 1951.

Peat (See also under Rehder, Harald

ALLARD, H. A., and Lronarp, H. C. The
Canaan and the Stony River Valleys
of West Virginia, their former mag-
nificent spruce forests, their vegeta-
tion and floristics today. Castanea,
vol. 17, pp. 1-60, figs. 1-12, 1952.

BartscH, Paun. A note on the first
bird-banding in America. Bird-Band-
ing, vol. 238, pp. 59-60, 1952.

Bayer, FREDERICK M. Descriptions and
redescriptions of the Hawaiian octo-
corals collected by the U. S. Fish Com-
mission Steamer “Albatross.” (1.
Aleyonacea, Stolonifera, and Telesta-
cea.) Pacific Sci., vol. 6, pp. 126-136,
figs. 1-8, 1952.

A new Calyptrophora (Coelen-

terata: Octocorallia) from the Philip-

pine Islands. Journ. Washington

Acad. Sci., vol. 42, pp. 82-84, fig. 1,

1952.

Two new species of Arthrogorgia
(Gorgonacea: Primnoidae) from the
Aleutian Islands region. Proc. Biol.
Soe. Washington, vol. 65, pp. 63-69,
pls. 2-3, 1952.

—. New western Atlantic records of
octocorals (Coelenterata: Anthozoa),
with descriptions of three new spe-
cies. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci.,
vol. 42, pp. 188-189, 1 fig., 1952.

Hastern Pacific| Bhaker, Marcaret C. Further com-

ments on simple-Stamped, shell-tem-
pered pottery. Amer. Antiquity, vol.
17, No. 3, pp. 257-258, 1952.

Brown, Maraaret W. Medals awarded
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, leader in
the Woman Suffrage Movement.
Numismatist, vol. 65, pp. 114-124,
1952.

Bruns, FRANKLIN R., Jr. Fell’s profit-
able stamp guide. Frederick Fell,
Ine., New York. 128 pp., illustr., 20
em. 1951.

Liberia stampless covers. Amer.

Philatelist, vol. 65, pp. 769-774, 1952.

Liberia L. I. A. issues. Amer.

Philatelist, vol. 65, pp. 262-264, 1952.

Germany—the zoo (Hagenbeck

Stamp Essays). Amer. Philatelist,

vol. 65, p. 453, 1952.

The Michel collection of postal

stationery at the Smithsonian Insti-

tution. Covers Mag., vol. 11, pp. 7-

11, 1951.

The 1851’s and the Smithsonian.

National Philatelic Museum’s 1851-

1867 book, vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 424-426,

1951.

Philatelic collections at the
Smithsonian Institution. Stamps
Mag., vol. 76, pp. 164-166, 1951.

The Royal collection. Stamps
Mag., vol. 78, pp. 350-351, 1952.

CARTWRIGHT, O.L. Aphotaenius, a new
genus of dung beetle (Coleoptera:
Searabaeidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 102, pp. 181-184, 1952.

A new Megasoma from Arizona
(Coleoptera, Scarabaeidae). Proce.
Ent. Soe. Washington, vol. 54, pp. 36—-
37%, 1952.

CuACcE, FeNNER A., Jr. The number of
species of decapod and stomatopod
Crustacea. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sci., vol. 41, pp. 370-372, 1951.

CHASE, AGNES. New species of grasses
from Venezuela. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 42, pp. 122-124, 1952.

CHAPMAN, WILBERT M. and SCHULTZ,
LronarD P. Review of the fishes of
the blennioid genus Hcsenius, with
descriptions of five new species. Proce.

97

98

U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 102, pp. 507-528,
figs. 90-96, 1952.

CuiarK, AusTIN H. Our ever changing
fauna. Nat. Parks Mag., vol. 25, pp.
136-140, 6 figs., 1951.

Schizostella, a new genus of brit-

tle-star (Gorgonocephalidae). Proc.

U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 102, pp. 451-454.

pl. 40, 1952.

A new species of the crinoid
genus Cyclometra from South Africa,
with remarks and additional notes on
the genotype by Ailsa M. Clark.
Trans. Royal Soe. South Africa, vol.
33, pt. 2, pp. 189-192, pls. 15-16, 1952.

——. Echinoderms from the Marshall
Islands. Proc. U. 8S. Nat. Mus., vol.
102, pp. 265-303. 1952.

and CLark, Leta F. The butter-
flies of Virginia. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 116, No. 7, pp. i-vii, 1-239,
pls. 1-30, colored frontispiece and
folding map, 1951.

CuarK, Lerma F. (See under Clark,
Austin H.)

CocHrAN, Doris M. Two Brazilian
frogs, Hyla werneri, n. nom., and
Hyla similis, n. sp. Journ. Washing-
ton Acad. Sci., vol. 42, No. 2, pp. 50-
53, 1952.

Concer, Paut S. Diatoms: Their most
important role. Scientific Monthly,
vol. 73, pp. 315-323, illustr., 1951.

Diatoms. Welch Biology and
General Science Digest, vol. 1, No. 2,
pp. 1-2, 1952.

Cooprer, G. A. Unusual specimens of the
brachiopod family Isogrammidae.
Journ. Paleont., vol. 26, No. 1, pp.
113-119, 1952.

and WituiAMs, A. Significance of
the stratigraphic distribution of
brachiopods. Journ. Paleont., vol. 26,
No. 3, pp. 326-337, 1952.

CUMMINS, HAROLD, and SETZLER, FRANK
M. Dermatoglyphics in Australian
aborigines (Arnhem Land). Amer.
Journ. Phys. Anthrop., new ser., vol.
9, No. 4, pp. 455-460, 1951.

Deienan, H.G. A new frogmouth from
Groote Eylandt, Gulf of Carpentaria.
Emu, vol. 51, No. 1, pp. 71-78, 1951.

——. A substitute name for a thrush,
Turdus, of the West Indies. Auk,
vol. 68, No. 3, p. 379, 1951.

A new blackbird (Aves) from

western China. Proc. Biol. Soe.

Washington, vol. 64, p. 185, 1951.

Geographical variation in Gar-

rular sannio Swinhoe. Postilla, Yale

Peabody Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 11, pp.

1-5, 1952.

The earliest name of the Korean
tree sparrow. ‘The Condor, vol. 54,
No. 3, p. 171, 1952.

DUNKLE, Davin H. New Western Hemi-
sphere occurrence of fossil selachians.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41,
No. 11, pp. 344-347, 1951.

——. Vertebrate paleontology. Bri-
tannica Book of the Year, 1951, pp.
539-540, 1951.

(Annual Meeting of the Division
of Geology and Geography, National
Research Council.) Soc. Vert.
Paleont. News Bull., No. 35, p. 1, 1952.

Evans, Crirrorp, Jr. The territory of
Amapaé; land in dispute. Archaeol-
ogy, vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 175-180, 1951.

—— and Mercacrrs, Betry J. American
table d’hote. Américas, vol. 3, No. 7,
pp. 16-19, 1951. (American ed.).

and Mrccers, Berry J. Cardapio
Americano. Américas, vol. 3, No. 8,
pp. 16-19, 1951. (Portuguese ed.).

— and Merccrrs, Betty J. La mesa
Americana. Américas, vol. 3, No. 8,
pp. 16-19, 1951. (Spanish ed.).

—— (See also under Strong, William
Duncan.)

Ewers, Joun ©. Museums for Indians
in the United States. UNESCO,
Fundamental Education Bull., vol. 4,
No. 1, pp. 3-9, 1952.

(Editor) Of the Assiniboines, by
Edwin T. Denig. Missouri Hist. Soe.
Bull., vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 121-150, 1952.

Fietp, WiLtram D. A _ revision of
“Kurema” Hiibner subgenus “Teri-
ocolias” Rober (Lepidoptera: Pier-
idae). Acta Zool. Lilloana, vol. 9,
1950, pp. 359-874, illus. [Published
in fiscal year 1952.]

On the proposed suppression of

the trivial name ‘ajax’ Linnaeus,

1758. Bull. Zool. Nomen., vol. 6, pp.

105-106, Sept., 1951.

Moths of the genera Mulona

Walker and Lomuna, a new and

closely related genus (Arctiidae:

Lithosiinae). Proce. U. S. Nat. Mus.,

vol. 102, pp. 221-280, illus., 1952.

Moths of the genus Hpeiromu-
lona, a new genus of Lepidoptera.
Proce. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 102, pp.
455-469, illus., 1952.

Fosuac, W. F., and Switzer, GEORGE.
The diamond industry in 1950. Jew-
elers’ Circular-Keystone, vol. 122, 11
pp., 1951.

——. SwITIzER, GEORGE, and CHANDLER,
H. P. Gem stones. Preprint from
U. S. Bur. Mines Minerals Yearbook
1950, 9 pp., 1952.

FRIEDMANN, Hersert. Report on Re-
search Grant No. 1216. The life his-
tories of the honey-guides (Indica-
toridae) and of the parasitic weaver-
birds (Ploceidae) two groups of
African birds. Year Book Amer.
Philos. Soe., pp. 181-132, 1951.

The long-tailed sugarbird of east-

ern Rhodesia. Journ. Washington

ANNUAL REPORT—PUBLICATIONS

Acad. Sci., vol. 42, No. 1, pp. 31-82,
1952.
—. Vestigial claws on the wings of
the kiskadee fiyeatcher, Pitangus sul-
phuratus caucensis. Auk, vol. 69, No.

2, p. 200, 1952.

(See also under Wetmore, Alex-
ander.)

Gazin, C. Lewis. (Activities of the
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology
of the U. S. National Museum). Soc.
Vert. Paleont. News Bull., No. 33, pp.
12-18, 1951; No. 34, pp. 12-138, 1952;
No. 35, p. 28, 1952.

GLANCE, Grace. A new species of in-
sect of the order Protura. Proc. U.S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 102, pp. 304-314, illus.,
1952.

HANDLEY, CHARLES O., Jr. A new pine
mouse (Pitymys pinetorum carbo-
narius) from the southern Appala-
chian Mountains. Journ. Washing-
ton Acad. Sci., vol. 42, pp. 152-153,
1952.

The Newfoundland hermit thrush
in Virginia. Raven, vol. 23, Nos. 1
and 2, p. 10, 1952.

HuMEs, ARTHUR G., and Witson, MIL-
DRED STRATTON. The last copepodid
instar of Diaptomus sanguineus
Forbes (Copepoda). Journ. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 395-399,
figs. 1-24, 1951.

JOHNSON, DAvip H. The water shrews
of the Labrador Peninsula. Proce.
Biol. Soe. Washington, vol. 64, pp.
109-116, 1951.

The occurrence and significance

of extra molar teeth in rodents.

Journ. Mammal., vol. 33, pp. 70-72,

1952.

The status of Nycticebus coucang
brachycephalus Sody. Journ. Mam-
mal., vol. 33, pp. 115-116, 1952.

Jupp, Neiu M. A new-found votive ax
from Mexico. Amer. Antiquity, vol.
17, No. 2, pp. 189-141, 1951.

Nampeyo, an additional note.

Plateau, vol. 24, No. 2, pp. 92-938, 1951.

Three cicada whistles. Arch-

aeology, vol. 4, No. 4, pp. 248-245, 1951.

A Pueblo III war club from

southeastern Utah. Masterkey,

Southwest Museum, vol. 26, No. 2, pp.

60-62, 1952.

William Henry Holmes, 1846—
1933. Cosmos Club Bull., vol. 5, No.
5, 1952.

—. William Henry Jackson, 1843-
1942. Cosmos Club Bull., vol. 5, No
8, 1952.

KAINEN, JAcog. The halftone screen.
Typographer Annual, pp. 7-20, illus.,
1951. (Reprinted from brochure pub-
lished by R. R. Donnelley and Sons
Co., Chicago. 1950.)

99

KaANAzAWA, Ropert H. (See under
Woods, Loren P.)

LACHNER, HrRNest A. Studies of certain
apogonid fishes from the Indo-Pacific,
with descriptions of three new species.
Proce. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 101, pp.
581-610, pls. 17-19, fig. 105, 1951.

LronarpD, H. C. (See under Allard,
H. A.)

Loreticu, A. R. Jr. Coiling in the
Heterohelicidae. Contr. Cushman

Found. Foram. Res., vol. 2, pt. 3, pp.

106-110, pl. 12, 1952.

Ammopemphia, new name for the
Recent foraminiferal genus Urnula
Wiesner. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sci., vol. 42, p. 82, 1952.

—— and Tappan, H. Cribrotextularia,
a new foraminiferal genus from the
Eocene of Florida. Journ. Washing-
ton Acad. Sci., vol. 42, pp. 79-81, figs.
1-5, 1952.

—— and Tappan, H. Adercotryma, a
new Recent foraminiferal genus from
the Arctic. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sci., vol. 42, pp. 141-148, figs. 14, 1952.

MARBLE, JOHN PutTNAM. Introduction
to the Symposium on the measurement
of geologic time. Trans. Amer. Geo-
phys. Union, vol. 33, p. 149, 1952.

——. Report of the committee on the
measurement of geologic time, 1949-
1950. National Research Council,
1951.

Morrison, JoSEPH P. BH. World rela-
tions of the Melanians. News Bull.
and Ann. Rep. Amer. Malacological
Union, 1951, pp. 6-9, 1951.

Correction of type locality of

Pomacea cumingii (King), 1834.

Nautilus, vol. 65, pp. 105-106, 1952.

The genotype of Microceramus.
Nautilus, vol. 65, pp. 106-107, 1952.

Morton, C. V. New combinations in
Hquisetum and Peillaea. Leaflets of
Western Botany, vol. 6, p. 156, 1951.

A new fern of the genus Danaea
from Colombia. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 41, p. 276, 1951.

——. A fern new to the United States.
Amer, Fern Journ., vol. 41, pp. 86, 87,
1951.

Ferns and fern-allies [of Ari-
zona]. In “Arizona Flora,” by T. H.
Kearney and R. H. Peebles, Univ. Cal-
ifornia Press, pp. 27-49, 1951.

Nicot, Davip. Nomenclatural review of
genera and subgenera of Chamidae.
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 42,
No. 5, pp. 154-156, 1952.

PARFIN, SopHYI. The Megaloptera and
Neuroptera of Minnesota. Amer.
Midl. Nat., vol. 47, No. 2, pp. 421-434,
1952.
100

ReEHDER, Haratp A. Illustration index
and list of modern names. Jn “The
Shell Book,” by Julia Rogers, rev. ed.,
pp. 481-503, 1951. New York.

Objection to M. Gilbert Ranson’s
application in regard to the generic
name “Gryphaea” Lamarck, 1801
(Class Pelecypoda). Bull. Zool. No-
mencl., vol. 6, pp. 188-189, 1952.

—— and Apport, R. TuckEr. Some new
and interesting mollusks from the
deeper waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
Rey. Soe. Malacologica ‘‘Carlos de la
Torre,” vol. 8, pp. 538-66, pls. 8-9, 1951.
Habana, Cuba.

Rupp, VELVA EH. Geographical affinities
of the flora of North Dakota. Amer.
Midl. Nat., vol. 45, pp. 722-739, figs.
1-5, 1951.

ScHULTZ, LEoNARD P. A nomenclatorial
eorrection for “A revision of the
American Clingfishes, Family Gobie-
socidae, with Descriptions of New
Genera and Forms.’ Copeia No. 3,
p. 244, 1951.

Directions for collecting, pre-

serving, and shipping fishes to the

United States National Museum.

Handbook for Atoll Research, Pae.

Sci. Board Nat. Res. Council, pp. 67-

2, 195i.

and pr Mrnrzrs, Ruri StmOrs. A
new anchovy of the genus Anchoviella
from the Poti and Parnaiba Rivers
of Brazil. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sci., vol. 41, No. 7, pp. 235-237, fig. 1,
1951.

—— (See also under Chapman, Wilbert
M

SETZER, HENRY W. Notes on mammals
from the Nile Delta region of Egypt.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 102, pp.
348-869, 1952.

A new subspecies of Microtus
oeconomus from Alaska. Proce. Biol.
Soe. Washington, vol. 65, pp. 75-76,
1952.

SETZLER, FRANK M. Background of
heating and lighting in the depart-
ment of anthropology. Rushlight,
vol. 17, No. 3, pp. 2-3, 1951.

(See also under Cummins, Harold.)

SHOEMAKER, CLARENCE R. A new spe-
cies of commensal amphipod from a
spiny lobster. Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 102, pp. 231-233, fig. 83, 1952.

Smiru, A.C. The vegetation and flora
of Fiji. Scientific Monthly, vol. 75.
pp. 3-15, 11 figs., 10 tables, 1951.

Studies of Pacific Island plants,

IX. Notes on the Rutaceae of Fiji,

Samoa, and Tonga. Journ. Arnold

Arb., vol. 32, pp. 226-255, 1951.

Plants collected in Ecuador by

W. H. Camp. Vacciniaceae. Mem.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1952

New York Bot. Gard., vol. 8, pp. 41-85,

1952.

Studies of Pacific Island plants.
X. The Meliaceae of Fiji, Samoa,
and Tonga. Contr. U. 8S. Nat. Herb.,
vol. 30, pt. 4, pp. 469-522, 1952.

——. Studies of Pacific Island plants,
XI. Further notes on Fijian flower-
ing plants. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol.
33, pp. 97-118, 1952.

Studies of Pacific Island plants,
XII. The Cunoniaceae of Fiji and
Samoa. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol. 338,
pp. 119-149, 1952.

Smita, Lyman B. Why bromeliad?
Bromel. See. Bull., vol. 1, No. 2, p.
11, 1951.

More bromeliad derivations.

Bromel. Sce. Bull., vol. 1, No. 6, pp.

60-61, 1951.

Studies in the Bromeliaceae,

-XVI. Contr. U. S. Nat. Herb., vol.

29, pt. 10, pp. 429-520, figs. 1-76, 1951.

A new Nymphoides from Colom-

bia. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci.,

vol. 42, pp. 160-161, fig. 1, 1952.

Plants collected in Heuador by
W. H. Camp. Bromeliaceae, Can-
naceae, ete. Mem. New York Bot.
Gard., vol. 8, pp. 25-84, fig. 1, 1952.

—— and Iprozo, Jests M. Plants col-
lected in Ecuador by W. H. Camp.
Xyridaceae. Mem. New York Bot.
Gard., vol. 8, p. 35, 1952.

and SCHUBERT, BERNICE G. Plants
eollected in Eeuador by W. H. Camp.
Begoniaceae. Mem. New York Bot.
Gard., vol. 8, pp. 36—40, fig. 2, 1952.

Stewart, T. DALE. Objectivity in race
classification. Amer. Journ. Phys.
Anthrop., new ser., vol. 9, No. 4, pp.
470-472, 1951.

Notes on skeletal material. In

“Hxeavations at Nebaj, Guatemala,”

by A. L. Smith and A. V. Kidder.

Carnegie Inst. of Washington, Publ.

594, pp. 86-87, 1951.

Middle and South America:
Physical anthropology. Handbook of
Latin American Studies, No. 14, pp.
45-50 (1948). Univ. Florida Press,
1951.

Srrone, WILLIAM DUNCAN, and EVANS,
CrirrorD, Jr. Cultural stratigraphy
in the Vir valley, northern Pert:
the formative and florescent epochs.
Columbia Studies in Archaeology and
Ethnology, vol. 4, 374 pp., 32 pp. of
colotypes, Columbia Univ. Press, 1952.

SwALLEN, Jason R. Gramineae. In
“Arizona Flora,’ by T. H. Kearney
and R. H. Peebles, Univ. California
Press, pp. 70-145, 1951.

Gramineae. Jn “Flora of the

Charleston Mountains, Clark County,

Nevada,” by Ira W. Clokey, Univ.

ANNUAL REPORT—PUBLICATIONS

California Publ. Bot., vol. 24, pp. 32-
51, 1951.

Switzer, Grorer. Mineralogy of the
California glaucophane schists. Cal-
ifornia Div. Mines Bull. 161, pp. 51-
70, 1951.

Present status of the turquoise

industry. Games and Gemology, Win-

ter 1951-1952, pp. 113-115.

Rockhounds uncover’ earth’s

mineral beauty. Nat. Geogr. Mag.,

vol. 99, pp. 631-659, 1951.

“The Geysers,” Sonoma County,

California. Rocks and Minerals, vol.

26, pp. 504-509, 1951.

(See also under Foshag, W. F.)

WALKER, HGBERT H. Plant taxonomy in
Japan. Taxon., vol. 1, pp. 59-60,
1952.

WATKINS, C. MAtcotm. Walter Hough
and the U. S. National Museum col-
lection of firemaking, heating, and
lighting utensils. Rushlight, vol. 17,
pp. 863-867, 1951.

WeEtTMoRE, ALEXANDER. The identity of
two Asiatic birds recorded from
Nunivak Island, Alaska. Condor,
vol. 53, No. 4, pp. 206-207, 1951.

——. The pinnated bittern, Botaurus
pinnatus, in Paraguay. Auk, vol. 68,
No. 3, p. 871, 1951.

—. Additional forms of birds from
Colombia and Panama. Smithsonian
Mise. Coll., vol. 117, No. 2, pp. 1-11,
1951.

Observations on the genera of
swans. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sci., vol. 41, No. 10, pp. 338-340, 1951.

101

Four additional species for Pan-
Auk, vol. 68, No. 4, pp. 525-526,

ama.

1951.
Recent additions to our knowl-
edge of prehistoric birds, 1933-1949.
[Presidential address.] Proceedings
of the Xth International Ornithologi-
cal Congress, Uppsala, June 1950, pp.
51-74. 1951.
The scientific names for the bean

and pink-footed geese. Ibis, vol. 94,
No. 2, pp. 860-861, 1952.
——, FRIEDMANN, HeErRpBeErRT, et al.

Twenty-sixth supplement to the Amer-
ican Ornithologists’ Union Check-list
of North American birds. Auk, vol.
68, No. 3, pp. 3867-869, 1951.

—— and PHELPS, WILLIAM H., Jr. Ob-
servations on the geographic races of
the tinamou Crypturellus noctivagus
in Venezuela and Colombia. Bol. Soe.
Venezolana Ciene. Nat., vol. 13, No.
77, pp. 115-119, 1951.

WILSON, MILDRED STRATTON. An emend-
ed diagnosis of the copepod genus
Pupulina (Caligoida), with descrip-
tions of new species and a redescrip-
tion of the genotype. Proc. U.S. Nat.
aes vol. 102, pp. 245-268, pls. 12-15,

52.

(See also under Humes, Arthur

Woops, Loren P., and KANAZAWA, Ros-
ERT H. New species and new records
of fishes from Bermuda. Fieldiana
Zool., Chicago Natl. Hist. Mus., vol. 31,
No. 53, pp. 629-644, figs. 184-187, 1951.
Publications

Issued by the United States National
Museum

Fiscal Year 1951-1952

REPORTS

The United States Naticnal Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1951. 8vo. pp. i-iv, 1-112. January 17, 1952.

BULLETINS

Bulletin 201. A review of the Mysidacea of the United States National Museum.
By Walter M. Tattersall. 8vo, pp. i-x, 1-292, figs. 1-103. October 4, 1951.

PAPERS PUBLISHED IN SEPARATE FORM

FRoM VOLUME 30, CONTRIBUTIONS F'RoM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM

Part 4. Studies of Pacific Island Plants, X the Meliaceae of Fiji, Samoa and
Tonga. By A.C. Smith. 8vo. i-v, 469-522. May 6, 1952.

FroM VOLUME 99 OF THE PROCEEDINGS

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i-viii, 541-573.
February 7, 1952.

FRoM VOLUME 101 oF THE PROCEEDINGS

No. 3287. New finds of Pleistocene jaguar skeletons from Tennessee caves. By
Edward McCrady, H. T. Kirby-Smith, and Harvey Templeton. Pp. 497-511,
figs. 97-102, pl. 16. October 16, 1951.

No. 3288. An annotated checklist of the mosquitoes of the subgenus Finlaya,
genus Aedes. By Kenneth L. Knight and Blizabeth N. Marks. Pp. 5138-574.
February 12, 1952.

No. 3289. A new subspecies of marine isopod from Texas. By Robert J. Menzies.
Pp. 575-579, figs. 103-104. August 3, 1951.

No. 3290. Studies of certain apogonid fishes from the Indo-Pacific, with descrip-
tions of three new species. By Ernest A. Lachner. Pp. 581-610, fig. 105,
pls. 17-19. December 18, 1951.

FRoM VOLUME 102 OF THE PROCEEDINGS

No. 3291. Contributions to the morphology and taxonomy of the Branchiopoda
Notostraca, with special reference to the North American species. By Folke
Linder. Pp. 1-69, figs. 1-81, pls. 1-7. June 27, 1952.

No. 3292. A study of an intermediate snail host (Thiara granifera) of the
Oriental lung fluke (Paragonimus). By R. Tucker Abbott. Pp. 71-116, figs.
32-45, pls. 8, 9. February 26, 1952.

102
No.

No.

ANNUAL REPORT—ACCESSIONS 103

. 8293. Some marine asellote isopods from northern California, with descrip-

tions of nine new species. By Robert J. Menzies. Pp. 117-159, figs. 46-71.
May 29, 1952.

3294. Australasian stilt-legged flies (Diptera: Tylidae) in the United States
National Museum. By George C. Steyskal. Pp. 161-180, figs. 72-74.
February 26, 1952.

. 0295. Aphotaenius, a new genus of dung beetle (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae).

By O. L. Cartwright. Pp. 181-184. March 7, 1952.

. 3296. Preliminary analysis of the vertebrate fossil fauna of the Boysen

Reservoir area. By Theodore E. White. Pp. 185-207, figs. 75-80. April
2, 1952.

0297. A new crayfish from Alabama, with notes on Procambarus lecontei
(Hagen). By Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. Pp. 209-219, figs. 81-82. March 27,
1952.

. 8298. Moths of the genera Mulona Walker and Lomuna, a new and closely

related genus (Arctiidae: Lithosiinae). By William D. Field. Pp. 221-230,
pls. 10, 11. March 19, 1952.

. 8299. A new species of commensal amphipod from a spiny lobster. By Clar-

ence R. Shoemaker. Pp. 231-233, fig. 88. March 27, 1952.

. 33800. A new genus of Central American milliped (family Huryuridae), with

notes on the American genera. By Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 235-243, fig.
84. April 24, 1952.

. 8301. An emended diagnosis of the copepod genus Pupulina (Caligoida),

with descriptions of new species and a redescription of the genotype. By
Mildred Stratton Wilson. Pp. 245-263, pls. 12-15. March 19, 1952.

. 8302. Echinoderms from the Marshall Islands. By Austin H. Clark. Pp.

265-303. March 27, 1952.

. 3303. A new species of insect of the order Protura. By Grace Glance. Pp.

305-314, figs. 85, 86. April 25, 1952.

. 8304. New American cynipid wasps from galls. By Lewis H. Weld. Pp.

315-342, pls. 16,17. April 24, 1952.

. 3305. Notes on mammals from the Nile Delta region of Hgypt. By Henry

W. Setzer. Pp. 343-869. April 2, 1952.

. 23807. Schizostella, a new genus of brittle-star (Gorgonocephalidae). By

Austin H. Clark. Pp. 451-454, pl. 40. March 19, 1952.

. 0308. Moths of the genus Hpeiromulona, a new genus of Lepidoptera. By

William D. Field. Pp. 455-469, pls. 41-46. April 25, 1952.

. 3309. A review of the stink bugs of the genus Mecidea. By R. I. Sailer.

Pp. 471-505, figs. 88-89, pls. 47,48. June 27, 1952.

. 3310. Review of the fishes of the blennioid genus Hesenius, with descriptions

of five new species. By Wilbert M. Chapman and Leonard P. Schultz. Pp.
507-528, figs. 90-96. April 24, 1952.

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1952
Leite Hie
ih

oT ;

» i!

pi j
ae
¥

Wy

- . - — >
. 3 ° :
‘ £ ‘ ‘
/ .
x . . \ ‘
‘ z
> — a a . -
* = ~
~ ~ te ”
9 5
» ~
: . ~~ » = = 1 oat ewe
, : x
f ae a . . - oe
Ces = - - + -~ - pan hn ow 2.
es - ». ae ben
es a a = - _. ie a mann ed ~ men, .
-
== —_ = = ‘nan nan sa See Be o :
= ss ae “ - — > - ¥ - we ~
ow —_ — oe “ —
‘
4,
0

