on
P om es a a
ere 2 a a
& Py :
= aig em
Re A es

ot oP I
EPS
ate

i
.
is

* ity.
¥ ” ha
5 es 2
$ a) fy oo ath
5 . ai -
L v i,
bP BE
% ° re 4 ne a
F Fy A RS b
_ =
5 a és,

Pe
Pete am
ee a

a

2 5 ie ay a ary oie cm rt < ; wine ie is
ede fe de ae = *, eA role cle ae os . Je ae ie & fi
de a de Seo | ik Jb. Se . ee te eH
a eo a: ce oa

Bi je tf Ww I je

ck eh 2 [eee ee eo
TASER
oe ‘e ‘e ‘t, * Jt je ke fs Pe fe Je jo ye ile

we a e gig fe le We fe jo mw Je we ie it
AS « ae ea ie je fe fp Je fb ae Rae ca. ie

ae x2 a, eB ie om be a yee ‘=
je fae Le be ew pie
Sis a Rs as , Re oe - ‘le: je ‘te a

i * | ib le ie Te a

‘¢ fa ie qe Je qe. fe <: be ‘ ip: Ae ~ % a ‘ Le ee
© ae ‘e fe ae qe e 7 oe ies ae i “Be ‘e h ‘y, ye ‘— ‘on

© oe Je ca A 2 ‘ee te Te 4B) je ge ar ~ Be oie

ew i ae *~ Tp Se we a j

ei a je de. je We i ee Pel F

— we . is i Ye ts ye ae

ie: le fe de fe fo we “fe ie i | :

Se. i

:
ran. 5
ae Be te
x Ci Om

Bs ns
=
“=
-

$

ck * ee i cc. a
J a he. pe a xe ye ie :
ie de Sx Se. ie ei
) “ie ie a8 de ae Aw ye
ie Ye qe ge. Ja xe Cx ox . “ae Fey! je fe
is le ae ge Pe age ve ae te iw he @ we
ie ae. &e xe ve is. sg
fo ie iw de gs aw de ge ge
ie &e as {% Be Xe Ge Ne Xe
sao Ge se ae ate ie ae ie * ce we de pe Be 2
is. Ye ae gs ie he ke te Yo fe fe Te Ys fe oe
fe he Re ke Go ge 8G 22 Oo G & Ye Ye &@
By Me We Qs te ae de ge ie lw We ie Ge
pa ae ae ax et ee £e. Peed 2. nou s Ay Xe Aig! ike. }
Re We Ho Oe as. We Rw Ye de Ge Ge we Ge Ff
j* oe Oe Ke be Be tw ie aw de je ae Hs :
Be Qe ae Ae Be Be Be ae ae fe fe See ¢
a Pr oh Es ke Oy iy ae ie de es * fo Iw

4

¢ @ . oS & ie Qe qe qe Qe ye qe 46
We We Lo 3 Re ie ss ie "es ie je ye fe fe fe jf
Biss ae. yo nn ane bn ¥ ses, we Wise

oa
miet.:
Tee io
:

: vi
a es

Saher

ae
Pe

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION “OF “THE: INSTITUTION
FOR "THE “YEAR ENDED JUNE 30

1946

(Publication 3871)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1947

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.
Price $2,255
ET LER.OF) TRAINS NEL Ae

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 12, 1946.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 380, 1946. I have the honor to be,

Respectfully,
A. Wermore, Secretary.

II

a ——
_ Ze Q ONAN INST.
gaM vy

¢

‘ OCT 141947

CONTENTS

Page
_.SUICLECU SRG) ER IR A ae OR ae Ra - We AES WE Le MCR TROT 8 MRP
maevestablishments We oy 224 ooo ne nee Br eee ater! oie 1
Miberboarcof Regents 052 oe ee aS 2 epi). fren Be eee a 2
INANE GS ee sep ek Bee et let iy iy be hepa Mh eee Peet te ont 4
Pemtnsonian Cem en riial sper iy te ae et ye iE sc peggy ts 4
Position ofathe Institutionvafter.dOOjyears: 2. 3 eel ne et 9
mroposea new. bindings 20 ile Je Cea. yates 5 fect Soe he eae 12
Banalcwione piological Ares 75. frolic LE dee gee il Ee Bee 13
BonrbeentuoArthur leeture.<-we ois Soe ks oe tees hy ae 13
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution_______ 13
Reparer lee ete am Beer. fee ee OW oe tee ae ee 18
ET eA Ty ny ee eet PR SVE eds Ee ee ee oe oe 19
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum____________ 21
2. Report on the National Gallery of Art__.________________- 35
3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts____________ 53
4.\ Report on the Freer Gallery of Artisl2--.-2-2. -......_-. 59
5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology _____________ 65
6. Report on the International Exchange Service_____________ 77
7. Report on the National Zoological Park_....__._____-_____ 85
8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory _________________ ils?
Om Repormonythe library s2t sf 1 ye er ee ee 118
105-Freportion, publications a.fee2l) 20 bel see Se 123
Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents_____-_-__-_-- 129
GENERAL APPENDIX
On the astronomical dating of the earth’s crust, by Harlow Shapley__.____ 139
Atomic power in the laboratory and in the stars, by Robert S. Richardson_ 151
Atomic energy as a human asset, by Arthur H. Compton_______---_-___ 161
The scientific importance of X-rays, by L. Henry Garland______-_____-_- L7G
Wasible patterns of sound, by Ralph: K. Potter_..._....-..........-£..- 199
Fluorine in United States water supplies—Pilot project for the Atlas of
Diseases’. by Anastasia Van Burkalow_........2....0--2-24-.-.---= 207
The birth of Paricutin, by Jenaro Gonzalez R. and William F. Foshag-_.__ 223
The natural history of whalebone whales, by N. A. Mackintosh -_-_-_--__-__-_ 235
Life history of the quetzal, by Alexander F. Skutch__________-_-___-_-- 265
The sun and the harvest of the sea, by Waldo L. Schmitt_._______-_---- 295
Anthropology and the melting pot, by T. D. Stewart___..____-_-_------ 315
Archeology of the Philippine Islands, by Olov R. T. Janse__.___-------- 345
Palestinian pottery in Bible times, by J. L. Kelso and J. Palin Thorley___ 361
The march of medicine, by M. M. Wintrobe______..-...-.-.---------- 373
Mecinology and medicine. by Kurt S. Lion. .2....2 22 -.2- lesa lee 401
National responsibility for research, by J. E. Graf___._..-_..._---------- 411
Toward a new generation of scientists, by L. A. Hawkins_________-_---- 425
LIST OF PLATES

Secretary’s -Report: Plates. 1,-22--+-22222. 22. * 4} 2-2
The scientific importance of X-rays (Garland): Plates 1, 2---.-_________
Visible patterns of sound (Potter): Plates 1—-4-_--__--_____________
Fluorine in United States water supplies (Van Burkalow): Plate 1______
The birth of Paricutin (Gonzalez and Foshag): Plates 1-10___________
The natural history of whalebone whales (Mackintosh): Plates 1, 2-___
Life history of the -quetzal (Skutch) :-Plates 1-4--—-_ = eee
The sun and the harvest of the sea (Schmitt) : Plates 1-10______________
Archeology of the Philippine Islands (Janse): Plates 1-15____________
Palestinian pottery in Bible times (Kelso and Thorley) : Plates 1-3__--__

IV
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1946

Presiding Officer ex officio —Harry S. TruMAN, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—[Vacant].
Members of the Institution:
Harry S. TRuMAN, President of the United States.
Vice President of the United States.
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States.
JAMES F. Byrnes, Secretary of State.
JOHN W. SNYDER, Secretary of the Treasury.
Rosert P. PATTERSON, Secretary of War.
Tom C. CrarkK, Attorney General.
FRANK C. WALKER, Postmaster General.
JAMES V. ForRESTAL, Secretary of the Navy.
JuLius A. Krue, Secretary of the Interior.
CLINTON P. ANDERSON, Secretary of Agriculture.
Henky A. WALLACE, Secretary of Commerce.
Lewis B. SCHWELLENBACH, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
FReD M. VINSON, Chief Justice of the United States.
Vice President of the United States.
ALBEN W. BARKLEY, Member of the Senate.
WALLACE H. WHITE, Jr., Member of the Senate.
WALTER F. Grorcr, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
EpWARD E.. Cox, Member of the House of Representatives.
B. Carrott Reece, Member of the House of Representatives.
FREDERIC A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
VANNEVAR BusH, citizen of Washington, D. C.
FREDERIC C. WALCOTT, citizen of Connecticut.
Executive Committee.—FREvERIC A. DELANO, VANNEVAR BUSH, CLARENCE CANNON.
Secretary— ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Assistant Secretary.—JoHN EH. Grar.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.— Harry W. Dorsrx.
Treasurer.—NicHOoLas W. DoRSsEY.
Chief, editorial division—WEBSTER P. TRUE.
Administrative accountant.—THomas F. ChArk.
Librarian.—Letwa F. CLARK.
Personnel officer —B. T. CARWITHEN.
Purchasing officer —ANTHONY W. WILDING.

VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, chief preparator.
Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, associate
curator; J. R. Caldwell, scientific aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary
assistant curator of Old World archeology.
Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. C. Ewers, associate cura-
tor; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator.
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.
Collaborator in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy.

DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY : |
Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist; Aime
M. Awl, illustrator.

Division of Mammals: Remington Kellogg, curator; D. H. Johnson, associate
curator *; R. M. Gilmore, associate curator; H. Harold Shamel, scientific
aid; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator; Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collec-
tions; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; R. R. Miller, associate
curator.

Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin,
curator; R. B. Blackwelder, associate curator; W. E. Hoffmann, associate
curator; W. L. Jellison, collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; Mrs. Harriet
Richardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; J. Perey
Moore, collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman, collaborator in Foraminifera ;
Mrs. M. S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea.

Division of Mollusks: Harald A. Rehder, associate curator; Joseph P. E.

Morrison, assistant curator.
Associate, Division of Mollusks: P. Bartsch.
Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo-
rator.
Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.

*Now on war duty.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY vil

DEPARTMENT OF BroLtogy—Continued

Division of Plants (National Herbarium): B. P. Killip, curator; Emery C.
Leonard, assistant curator; Conrad V. Morton, assistant curator; Egbert
H. Walker, assistant curator; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd
mycological collection.

Associate in Botany : W. R. Maxon.

Section of Grasses: Agnes Chase, custodian.

Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
Section of Higher Algae; W. T. Swingle, custodian.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.

Section of Diatoms: Paul S. Conger, associate curator.

Associates in Zoology: Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall, A. G.
Boving, W. K. Fisher, C. R. Shoemaker, E. A. Goldman.

Associates in Botany: Henri Pittier, F. A. McClure.

Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark.

Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY :
R. 8. Bassler, head curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; E. P. Hender-
son, associate curator; B. O. Reberholt, scientific aid; Frank L. Hess,
custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustay A. Cooper,
eurator; A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator; J. Brookes Knight, research
associate in Paleontology.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection; J. B. Reeside, Jr., custodian of Mesozoic collection ;
Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; Norman H. Boss,
chief preparator; A. C. Murray, scientific aid.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, 8. H. Perry.

Associate in Paleontology; T. W. Vaughan.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.
Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator.

Section of Transportation and Civil Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.

Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber,* associate curator, F’. C. Reed,
acting associate curator.

Section of Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Electrical Engineering and Communications: Frank A.
Taylor, in charge.

Section of Mining and Metallurgical Engineering: Carl W. Mitman, in
charge.

Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.

Section of Tools: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

*Now on war duty.
VIII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES—Continued
Division of Crafts and Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Elizabeth
W. Rosson, assistant curator.
Section of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
Section of Woods and Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, associate
curator,

Section of Chemical Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
Section of Agricultural Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.
Division of Medicine and Public Health: Charles Whitebread, associate

eurator.
Division of Graphic Arts: R. P. Tolman, curator.
Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, associate curator.

DIVISION oF History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, associate curator;
J. Russell Sirlouis, scientific aid; Catherine L. Manning, assistant curator
(philately).

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Ohief of correspondence and documents.—H. 8S. BRYANT.

Assistant chief of correspondence and documents.—L. E. COMMERFORD.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—lL, L. OLIVER.

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHARLEs C, SINCLAIR.
Editor.—Pavut H. OEHSER.

Accountant and auditor.—T. F. Clark.

Photographer.—G. I. HIGHTOWER.

Property officer.—A. W. WILDING.

Assistant librarian.—ELIsABETH H. GAZIN.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:
FRep M. VINSON, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
JAMES EF’. ByrNES, Secretary of State.
JOHN W. SNype_er, Secretary of the Treasury.
ALEXANDER WETMORE, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
PAUL MELLON.
FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
SAMUEL H. Kress.
CHESTER DALE.
President.—SAMUEL H. KRESs.
Vice President.—FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN,
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS,
Director.—Davip E. FINtey.
Administrator.—H. A. McBripr.
General Counsel.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—JoHN WALKER.
Assistant Director.—MAccILL JAMES.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Acting Director.—RUEL P. ToLMAN.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Ix

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. WENLEY.

Assistant Director—GracrE DUNHAM QUEST.

Associate in research.—J. A. POPE.

Associate in Near Eastern art —RIcHARD ETTINGHAUSEN.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chicf.—MATTHEW W. STIRLING.

Assistant Chief.—FrANK H. H. Roverts, Jr.

Senior ethnologists.—H. B. Cottins, Jr., Joan P. HArrinetron, W. N. FENTON.
Senior anthropologists.—H. G. BARNETT, G. R. WILLEY.

Collaborator.—JOHN R. SWANTON.

Editor.—M. HELEN PALMER.

Librarian.—MiriamM B. KetcHum,

Tllustrator.—Epwin G. CASSEDY.

INSTITUTE oF SocrAL ANTHROPOLOGY.—JULIAN H. STewagRp, Director.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Acting Chief —Harry W. Dorsey.
Acting Chief Clerk.—D. G. WILLIAMS.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant Director.—PERNEST P. WALKER.
Head Keeper.—F Rank O. LOWE.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—LoyvaL B. ALDRICH.

DiIvISION oF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH : Loyal B. Aldrich, in charge; William H.
Hoover, senior astrophysicist; Charles G. Abbot, research associate.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS: Earl §. Johnston, assistant director ;
Leland B. Clark, engineer (precision instruments) ; Robert L. Weintraub, as-
sociate biochemist ; Leonard Price, junior physicist (biophysics).
ae TROY. fay bat a oy win tea “8

eked 1 ae

inf

‘xoororatg “apt: Ot inatigy ta ie

ti eth Ba

ata Saat a fiat) i Paks WATE A}
or. Pe hain 5 - we iF ‘ae ep teRe NT FY seuci ye #T— JONG
ie fo nema Ot MOTAMIRARL JE 106 9G eeuniney ez * FI pigote ade

Ea Maree 2m 2a NRO, aramns 2 Aang

y rn Wheater a4 ison i CARES. ROLE AOR ID ere paneeOen
rae hae Lie) aes SOMITE edna if
af ; : (hail Oe embe Se aRRERO PRAT VR aa rsee naa

Ave ee SO) AY mw.

} yes ' ABtoeNIG. came Shaan cota gar Ri sien to

4 + oti tered) ae ft ; Theaters ae um 5 een ines

| 1 & oprame ADEMEE ad TaKona WUTKT :

he S PRES RE seep iemindhe eats oo | PERL OUIA e mi aea a cai Tet ge, eee,

Dwi, Pai a UNG ee, Be Breet THAT WW yetaH-

pl - 5 thaeabl ,

it esd Pu ee ede BALI te Taal) Ke

PE eri, oping.) AAA LAOIDOIGOS CAMOPTAM.  «
Malet ee R BOT ey show on t : ee

, (end 0 wary
- eed iit Pe ve a ae WLG. He, a Hot eit— SEWER ¢
a BD : Di a MF |

/ HOE A) AMAT mea
i mae) PAOTASHAZI Oy sana CAAOHTB Ls alla

; pile. og SORRTAL  aae

ee: ssi ; ost nay pt il siTht An’ a ie unl i Hou Raat EM tg se eOw)

Vee) ‘i, saipiougan doreaeod ord A Deehad? | isiayiqocias rotass

j totagalb diateicng gozegitot Ge bia sieatna eid) id WOCrAae A i
ee c neiitioy al, Faados : (ehesnuiaa (i wotatonesd } pay pet Pte i §

Cot va wae teioia wig bec, aary I hianoal <5

t i.
Ca -
le % its ea ae lie bAh , Te Sa
my F " . Y ~
ye
2h ,
fant ‘ :
. 2%
a, 4 J
meres: i } q 11 he =
i Ceo eee ck ta RA hss naa Ve ane
Meo by LS aaa a eae tk I en a a te
Hr . * es ¥ Ri id z ie
»

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ALEXANDER WETMORE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1946

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and the
Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1946. The first 19 pages contain a summary
account of the affairs of the Institution. Appendixes 1 to 10 give
more detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum, the
National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the
Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Inter-
national Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical
Observatory, the Smithsonian library, and of the publications issued
under the direction of the Institution. On page 129 is the financial
report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents.

I regret to have to record here the death on April 22, 1946, of the
Chancellor of the Institution, Chief Justice Harlan Fiske Stone. Chief
Justice Stone was elected Chancellor by the Board of Regents on
January 16, 1942, to succeed the former Chief Justice Charles Evans
Hughes, and from the day of his appointment took a keen interest in
the Institution’s affairs. He had planned an active part in the Smith-
sonian Centennial celebration starting on August 10, 1946, and as
Chancellor he took several steps to insure the effective functioning of
the Institution in the years to come. His successor should be elected
at the next meeting of the board.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846,
according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of England, who
in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America “to
found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution,
an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust, Congress
determined that the Federal Government was without authority to

1
\

2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted an “establish-
ment” whose statutory members are “the President, the Vice President,
the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

During the year the following changes occurred in the personnel of
the Board of Regents:

The lamented death of Chief Justice Harlan Fiske Stone, on April
22, 1946, created a vacancy in the office of Chancellor of the Board of
Regents.

November 23, 1945. A vacancy in the class of citizen regents, caused
by the death of Dr. Roland S. Morris, of Pennsylvania, has not yet
been filled.

May 2, 1946. Dr. Vannevar Bush, citizen regent, was reappointed
by joint resolution of Congress to succeed himself for a statutory
term of 6 years.

June 24, 1946. The Honorable Fred M. Vinson, on his appointment
as Chief Justice of the United States, became ex officio a member of
the Board of Regents.

The roll of regents at the close of the fiscal year, June 30, 1946, was
as follows:

Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States; members from
the Senate—Alben W. Barkley, Wallace H. White, Jr., Walter F.
George; members from the House of Representatives—Clarence Can-
non, Edward E. Cox, B. Carroll Reece; citizen members, Frederic A.
Delano, Washington, D. C., Harvey N. Davis, New Jersey, Arthur H.
Compton, Missouri, Vannevar Bush, Washington, D. C., and Frederic
C. Walcott, Connecticut.

Proceedings.—The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was
held on January 18, 1946, with the following members present: Chief
Justice Harlan F. Stone, Chancellor; Senator Wallace H. White, Jr.;
Representatives Edward E. Cox and B. Carroll Reece; citizen regents,
Dr. Harvey N. Davis, Dr. Vannevar Bush, Frederic A. Delano, and
Frederic C. Walcott; the Secretary, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, and the
Assistant Secretary, John E. Graf. Dr. W. J. Robbins, chairman of
the Committee on Future Policies, attended the opening of the meet-
ing by invitation and later withdrew.

In accordance with the resolution passed by the Board at the last
annual meeting, the Chancellor appointed the following to serve on
the Committee on Future Policies of the Smithsonian Institution:
Dr. William J. Robbins (chairman), New York Botanical Garden;
Dr. L. P. Eisenhart, American Philosophical Society; Dr. George
Gaylord Simpson, American Museum of Natural History; Dr. Zay
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

Jeffries, General Electric Co.; Dr. Walter S. Adams, Mount Wilson
Observatory; Dr. F. R. Reichelderfer, United States Weather Bureau;
and Dr. A. V. Kidder, Carnegie Institution of Washington. Dr. Rob-
bins, chairman, stated that this-committee would do its best to present
an acceptable program for the future of the Institution, and announced
that the first meeting would be held on January 30, 1946, in the
Smithsonian Building.

The Secretary presented his annual report covering the activities
of the parent institution and of its several branches, including the
financial report of the executive committee, for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1945, which was accepted by the Board. The usual resolu-
tion authorizing the expenditure by the Secretary of the income of the
Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1947, was adopted by
the Board.

The annual report of the Smithsonian Art Commission was pre-
sented by the Secretary and accepted by the Board. The Commis-
sion, at its meeting on December 4, 1945, accepted several works of art.
A resolution was adopted to reelect the following members for 4-year
terms: John Nicholas Brown, Mahonri M. Young, George Hewitt
Myers, and Robert Woods Bliss. Vacancies on the Commission were
caused by the death of Herbert Adams and the resignation of Edward
W. Redfield. The names of John Taylor Arms and Eugene E.
Speicher, recommended by the Commission, were approved by the
Board to fill the above vacancies. Paul Manship was reelected chair-
man, and Dr. Wetmore was reelected Secretary.

Tentative plans were presented by the Secretary for the Centennial
celebration to be held during August 1946.

The matter of the Secretary’s salary and pension was referred to
the executive committee with power to act.

The Secretary reported that Mrs. Charleyne Whitney Gellatly,
widow of John Gellatly, had brought proceedings before the Court
of Claims through a bill in Congress, demanding restitution or pay-
ment for certain objects in the Gellatly art collection. The Smith-
sonian Institution is defended in this proceeding by the Depart-
ment of Justice, through Grover Sherrod, and has, in addition, the
valuable assistance of Huntington Cairns, General Counsel for the
National Gallery of Art. Hearing on the case was set for February
12, 1946.

By the terms of the will of Dr. Ale’ Hrdlicka, deceased member of
the staff, a sum of money was bequeathed to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion for the benefit of educational establishments in Dr. Hrdliéka’s
native town of Humpolec, Bohemia. Acceptance of this trust fund
was approved by the Board. A further bequest in the Hrdlitka will,
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

to provide for the reprinting of his papers on physical anthropology,
was declined as being impracticable because of the inadequacy of the
funds provided.

On December 20, 1938, Miss Annie-May Hegeman advised the In-
stitution that, as a memorial to her father, Henry Kirke Porter, she
had tendered to the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board convey-
ance of the property owned by her at the corner of Sixteenth and I
Streets NW., in Washington, as a gift, under agreement that when
the property was sold, the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board
should pay one-half of the net proceeds of such sale to the Smithsonian
Institution, to be invested, and the income thereof to be applied to the
general purposes of the Institution, the gift to be recorded as “The
Henry Kirke Porter Memorial Fund.” The Secretary reported that
the property had just been sold at a price of $600,000; under the terms
of the gift the Institution will receive one-half of the net proceeds.

At the last meeting the Board authorized the executive committee to
have a survey made of the business methods and practices now in effect
in the Institution to determine whether changes or improvements were
required. The committee directed the Secretary on their behalf to
enter into contract with the firm of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., who
specialize in such work. This firm has rendered a comprehensive re-
port covering organization and personnel, business methods, and ac-
counting procedures, from which the Secretary gave the following
quotation :

“Our conclusions in summary are that the administrative organiza-
tion is set up along simple and effective lines, the personnel is of high
caliber, conscientious and efficient for the particular requirements of
the Institution, the business methods on the whole are very good, and
the accounting system is essentially sound in principle. We have sug-
gestions to offer for some changes toward improvements which we be-
lieve to be possible. These are given in the course of our comments
in more detail upon the various topics falling within this area.”

In a special statement, Dr. Wetmore outlined to the Board recent
activities carried on by all branches of the Institution.

FINANCES
A statement on finances will be found in the report of the executive
committee of the Board of Regents, page 129.
SMITHSONIAN CENTENNIAL

The year 1946 marks the one-hundredth year since the founding of
the Institution. Strictly speaking, this report covers only the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1946, but as the actual anniversary of the estab-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

lishment of the Institution falls on August 10, only a little over a
month after the beginning of the new fiscal year, it seems advisable
in this report to anticipate to the extent of describing the Centennial
observances.

Smithsonian commemorative stamp—Among the outstanding
honors that came to the Institution on its one-hundredth anniversary
was the issuance by the Post Office Department of a special commemo-
rative 3-cent postage stamp depicting the Smithsonian Building and
containing the words “For the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” The design was suggested by the Chancellor of the In-
stitution, the late Chief Justice Harlan F. Stone. On the morning
of August 10, 1946, in an impressive ceremony held in the auditorium
of the National Museum, the first sheet of the Smithsonian stamps
was presented to the Institution by Assistant Postmaster General
Joseph J. Lawler on behalf of Postmaster General Robert E. Hanne-
gan. The ceremony was broadcast by the National Broadcasting Co.
through Station WRC, and music was furnished by the Navy Band
Orchestra. Mr. Lawler concluded his remarks with these words:

“Thus it will be shown that the philanthropy of one man (James
Smithson), coupled with the interest of another (Chief Justice Harlan
F¥. Stone), made possible this commemorative postage stamp and
brought together today this distinguished gathering of men and
women to pay honor to an Institution whose record of achievement in
the 100 years of its existence is well known throughout the civilized
world. My one regret is that the late Chief Justice Stone, who played
so important a part in making today’s celebration a reality, is not
present to enjoy the fruits of his labors for such a just and meritorious
cause. Dr. Wetmore, it gives me great pleasure to present to you the
first sheet of this Smithsonian Institution commemorative postage
stamp.”

In accepting the stamps on behalf of the Institution, I reviewed
briefly the growth and expansion of the Smithsonian during the first
100 years of its existence, and concluded as follows:

“Such, in brief outline, is the Institution that today receives the
signal honor of a commemorative United States postage stamp. For
100 years it has fostered diligently James Smithson’s clear-sighted
vision of the value to mankind of an institution devoted to the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men. At this milestone on its
journey into the unknown future, the Institution dedicates itself anew
to the promotion of Smithson’s ideals.

“Mr. Lawler, on behalf of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution and for myself, I thank you for the recognition of the
Institution’s work expressed through this fine commemorative stamp,
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

and for this first sheet, which will have a place of honor in our phila-
telic collections.”

Centennial publications——To provide a permanent record of the
Institution’s hundredth anniversary, as well as to call public atten-
tion to the event, there was issued on August 10, 1946, the anniver-
sary date, a book entitled “The First Hundred Years of the Smith-
sonian Institution,” by Webster P. True, chief of the Institution’s
editorial division. In it are reviewed briefly the origin and develop-
ment of the Institution itself and of the several bureaus that have
grown up around the parent organization, its extensive work in the
fields of research, exploration, and publication, and its function in
times of war. Special attention was given to typographic design and
to the illustrations, with the result that many commendatory letters
have come from recipients of the book.

I also authorized the preparation of a complete list, with classified
index, of all publications of the National Museum from 1875, the year
in which the Museum began publication of a separate series, to 1946,
the list to appear as a feature of the Centennial observance. The proj-
ect was turned over to the editorial division, and the difficult task of
preparing the classified index was undertaken by Miss Gladys O.
Visel, of that division. It is hoped to issue the list before the close
of the calendar year 1946. Copies will be placed in libraries and
universities throughout the world, and the availability of such an
index will greatly increase the usefulness of the Museum’s publications
to scientists and students.

Smithsonian Institution Centennial issue of “Science.”—The journal
“Science,” official organ of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, very generously devoted the entire issue of
August 9, 1946, to the Smithsonian Centennial. The editor of Science,
Dr. Willard L. Valentine, named as guest editor for the issue Paul H.
Oehser, assistant chief of the Smithsonian’s editorial division. After
an introductory statement by the Secretary outlining the developments
and activities of the Institution, special articles by Smithsonian staff
members review the various phases of its work, including astro-
physics, anthropology, geology, biology, and engineering, as well as
its publications, the International Exchange Service, its library, and
the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library of Congress.

Centennial convocation.—On October 28, 1946, a Smithsonian con-
vocation was held to mark in a more formal manner the Institution’s
one-hundredth anniversary. The event was timed to coincide with
the fall meetings of the National Academy of Sciences and of the
American Philosophical Society, the members of which, together with
some 40 distinguished foreign scientists who attended their meetings,
were the guests of the Institution for an evening affair in the Natural
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 4

History Building of the National Museum. There were felicitations
by Dr. L. P. Eisenhart for the American Philosophical Society,
and by Dr. F. B. Jewett for the National Academy of Sciences, with
a response on behalf of the Institution by the Secretary, and an illus-
trated lecture by Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, on the La Venta culture of southern Mexico, reviewing
the scientific results of his 8 years of archeological work in that region
in cooperation with the National Geographic Society. The addresses
were followed by a reception to the National Academy and Ameri-
can Philosophical Society members and some 1,000 other scientists,
educators, and Government officials.

Public notice of the Centennial—On August 10, 1946, the White
House issued as a news release a statement by President Harry S.
Truman, who is ex officio Presiding Officer of the Institution. The
statement is here quoted in full:

“On August 10, 1846, James K. Polk, eleventh President of the
United States, put his signature on the act of Congress establishing
the Smithsonian Institution. Today, August 10, 1946, we celebrate
the one-hundredth anniversary of this venerable organization that is
an American tradition.

“As presiding officer of the Institution, it is fitting that I, as Presi-
dent of the United States, should publicly take cognizance of this
occasion.

“When James Smithson, an English chemist and mineralogist, died
in 1829, it was found that he had left his fortune to the United States
to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men. When Congress was notified of the unusual bequest, there
arose a storm of debate, at times highly acrimonious, as to what to do
with the gift. But finally, after some 8 years of discussion, sane
counsel prevailed, the bequest was accepted, and the Smithsonian
Institution was formally established under a broad definition of its
proper functions.

“The act of foundation provides that the Smithsonian establishment
shall consist of the President, the Vice President, and the Chief Jus-
tice of the United States, together with the heads of the Executive
Departments. The managing body of the Institution is the Board of
Regents, composed of the Vice President of the United States and
the Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, three Senators, three
Representatives, and six eminent citizens. The executive officer di-
rectly in charge of the Institution’s activities is the Secretary, chosen by
the Board. There have been six eminent Secretaries: Joseph Henry,
physicist; Spencer Fullerton Baird, biologist; Samuel Pierpont Lang-

725862472
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

ley, astronomer and pioneer in aeronautics; Charles Doolittle Walcott,
geologist and paleontologist; Charles Greeley Abbot, astrophysicist ;
and the present Secretary, Alexander Wetmore, biologist.

“It is hardly necessary to state that this is the age of science—news-
paper headlines remind us of this every day. Atomic power, jet pro-
pulsion, television, transmutation of elements, metals from sea water,
penicillin—all these and many more present-day marvels trace back
invariably to basic scientific investigation. In view of the more
spectacular nature of recent discoveries in physics, chemistry, and
medicine, and their adaptability to prompt economic application, we
are likely to lose sight of the equal importance to mankind of research
in such other sciences as anthropology, biology, and geology—sciences
with which the Smithsonian Institution has been particularly con-
cerned. Here, too, the steady progress made during the past 100 years
has likewise contributed greatly to man’s welfare, through a better
knowledge and hence a fuller control of his environment, an under-
standing without which our present high hopes and plans for a united
and peaceful world would have an even more difficult road to travel.

“For a full century the Smithsonian Institution has been a world
center for the promotion of science, art, and other cultural activities.
Congratulations are in order upon the Smithsonian’s record in the
advancement of science and culture during a most important century
in the history of mankind, but this should be not merely a time for
counting laurels. Rather it should be a time for further considera-
tion of the ideals of the founder, James Smithson, and a renewal of
the Institution’s zeal in the increase of the sum total of man’s knowl-
edge. The Smithsonian should continue to strive toward the end
that man should not only know better his earthly abode, but should
acquire the means of knowing himself better. Such studies are of
vital significance in our present efforts to build a better world order,
and to break the cycle of recurring wars of ever-increasing destruc-
tiveness.

“On this one-hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Smith-
sonian Institution, may we accord all honor to the founder, James
Smithson, for his lofty and far-seeing ideals. May the next 100 years
bring even more glory to the name of the Institution and to that of its
founder.”

In addition to carrying the White House release, many leading
newspapers and magazines printed special feature articles on the
Smithsonian Centennial, and a number of radio commentators called
attention to the event on their August 10 news programs.

Special Centennial exhibit—With the aim of bringing the Institu-
tion’s Centennial to the attention of the thousands of visitors who
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

throng the Museum buildings every day, a special exhibit was opened
on August 10 in the foyer of the Natural History Building. In sepa-
rate alcoves were presented graphically by means of maps, photo-
graphs, specimens, and publications the various phases of Smithsonian
work during the past 100 years. The alcoves covered origin and his-
tory, research, exploration, publications, art, and custodianship of
the national collections.

POSITION OF THE INSTITUTION AFTER 100 YEARS

Before surveying the Institution’s present position, I will introduce
the subject by quoting a part of my general statement printed in the
August 9 issue of Science, which was devoted to the Smithsonian
Centennial.

“On August 10, 1846, the Smithsonian Institution came into being
when James K. Polk, President of the United States, affixed his signa-
ture to the act of its foundation. For 100 years the Smithsonian has
carried forward Smithson’s ideal through scientific research in many
fields, through world-wide exploration, through publications embody-
ing the results of original investigation, and through other accepted
methods of increasing and diffusing information.

“At the middle of the last century, Washington, the capital of our
Nation, was a small city of some 50,000 inhabitants. Great expanses
of unoccupied land lay beyond the Appalachian Mountains, and the
detailed exploration of the vast area beyond the Missouri River was
under way. The American Philosophical Society met in Philadelphia,
certain other societies with scientific interests had been organized, and
small natural history museums existed in a few centers, such as
Harvard College and Charleston. Science in any of its branches was
at best an avocation in this New World, except to a few individuals,
and those Americans who had opportunity or leisure for scientific
studies looked almost wholly for guidance to the Old World, whence
they or their immediate ancestors had come. Into such a setting came
the new Smithsonian Institution, to support and encourage scientific
and cultural knowledge and to give to American science a powerful
and far-reaching stimulus.

“Joseph Henry, first Secretary of the Smithsonian, set up a wise
and far-seeing plan of organization, effective in the sound basic prin-
ciples on which it rested, embodying close cooperation with other
agencies and individuals, and looking to the cumulative advancement
of knowledge. After Henry came Spencer Fullerton Baird, biologist,
as second Secretary; then Samuel Pierpont Langley, astronomer and
pioneer in aeronautical research; Charles Doolittle Walcott, geologist
and paleontologist; and Charles Greeley Abbot, astrophysicist—all
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

distinguished men of science. From its early activities, bureaus grew
up around the parent Institution—first the United States National
Museum, then the International Exchange Service, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, and the Astro-
physical Observatory. As the public value of these services became
evident, their support was assumed in whole or in part by the
Government, although they remained as bureaus of the Smithsonian
Institution.

“In addition to its scientific activities, the Smithsonian is charged
in its act of foundation with responsibility for national art treasures.
The art feature has culminated recently in the National Gallery of
Art, given to the Nation by Andrew W. Mellon and augmented richly
by other philanthropists. The Gallery is established as a bureau of
the Smithsonian Institution, but is directed by a separate board of
trustees. The earlier art interests of the Institution are included in
the National Collection of Fine Arts and the Freer Gallery of Art.
The latter, presented and endowed by Charles L. Freer, is devoted
chiefly to the Oriental field, and through its highly valuable archeo-
logical materials will figure more and more importantly in strictly
scientific studies.

“From one building, a small staff, and a single publication, the In-
stitution has grown in a century until it now occupies five buildings
on the Mall and numerous structures at the National Zoological Park,
while it issues 14 series of publications, each devoted to a particular
sphere.”

As the Institution goes into the second century of its existence, its
position is strong in some respects and weak in others. Its work in
the increase and diffusion of knowledge over the past 100 years has
established for it a national and international reputation among
scholarly organizations, providing unquestioned entree into any field
of cultural endeavor anywhere in the world. On the staffs of its
scientific bureaus—namely, the United States National Museum, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, and the Astrophysical Observatory—
are highly trained specialists in several branches of science, many of
them ranking among the leaders in their respective fields. In the
National Museum, vast study collections in biology, geology, and
anthropology offer unlimited opportunity for fertile investigations
in those fields. The three bureaus of.the Institution devoted to art—
the National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, and
the Freer Gallery of Art—all comprise splendid art collections in their
respective fields, together forming a growing aggregation that makes
Washington one of the world’s art centers.

On the other side of the picture, weaknesses exist in several direc-
tions. The collections and essential staff of the Institution and its
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 11

various bureaus have long since outgrown the present housing facili-
ties and physical equipment. Many of the Institution’s activities, both
scientific and administrative, are undermanned, leading to some degree
of failure to enter upon desirable new enterprises. Financial resources,
public and private, should be increased to promote the Institution’s op-
portunities for advancement of knowledge through research and pub-
lication. The public exhibits in the National Museum, viewed by
more than 2,000,000 visitors each year, require modernization, begun
in 1940 but postponed because of the war. Resources available for
printing and binding have not been sufficient to enable the Institution
to keep pace with the manuscript output of the scientific staff or to keep
abreast of the necessary binding in the Smithsonian library of 1,000,-
000 volumes. This condition has led to the creation of a large backlog
of unpublished scientific manuscripts, and of unbound periodicals in
the library.

The first step toward improvement is the recognition of weaknesses.
Having outlined important ones, I may take some satisfaction in stat-
ing that plans are now shaping up to remedy them. A building pro-
gram to relieve the present overcrowding is already outlined, and the
outlook is bright that before many years more building space will be
available to assure proper operation and normal expansion. Definite
efforts have already been started to obtain funds to increase the per-
sonnel where it is most needed, to make a beginning on modernization
of exhibits, and to keep more nearly abreast of the manuscripts pro-
duced by the scientific staff, so essential to the Institution’s responsibil-
ities in the diffusion of knowledge.

When the Smithsonian Institution was founded 100 years ago, it
stood almost alone in America as an organization devoted solely to
the promotion of science and of learning in general. During the first
century of its existence, other large foundations have come into being—
some of them with far larger resources—until today there are in
America scores of research institutions and laboratories, some of them
independent foundations, some attached to universities, and others
forming essential parts of large industrial concerns. While many of
these are restricted to specific lines of scientific work, the Smithsonian
Institution has no limitation in scope of activity as long as its en-
deavors operate to increase and diffuse knowledge. It can therefore
enter into any new fields of investigation that are feasible with the
funds and personnel at its command, but in order to make its work
most effective in the increase of knowledge, the Institution must now
plan carefully to avoid duplicating the efforts of other research
organizations.

At the close of its first century of operation and standing at the
threshold of the second century, the Institution’s first concern will be
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

to continue to execute faithfully the trust reposed in the United
States of America by James Smithson, its founder, more than 100
years ago.

PROPOSED NEW BUILDINGS

On October 3, 1945, H. R. 4276, the Public Buildings Act of 1945,
was introduced in Congress and referred to the Committee on Public
Buildings and Grounds. The part that concerns the Institution reads
as follows:

“Sec. 202. The Federal Works Administrator is hereby authorized,
under the provisions of the Public Buildings Act of May 25, 1926, as
amended (40 U. S. C. 341-847), to acquire land where necessary and
to construct for the Smithsonian Institution the following buildings
and facilities:

(a) A building on a suitable site in the Mall for a historical
museum to include space for the exhibition of the historical collection
of the Nation, including naval and military collections, memorabilia
of noted Americans, philately, and numismatics, under a total limit
of cost of $6,600,000.

(6) A building for the engineering and industrial collections of
the Nation, including aviation, under a total limit of cost of $9,150,000.

(c) Additional facilities at the National Zoological Park, includ-
ing an aquarium, a lion house, an antelope house, a monkey house and
monkey island, and barless pits and paddocks, under a total limit of
cost of $2,645,000.”

If this bill becomes a law and the funds authorized are appropri-
ated, the very extensive and valuable national collections in the fields
of history and engineering and industries could be properly housed
and exhibited to the public. The exhibits in these fields, which are
among the most interesting of all to visitors, are at present crowded
together in one building erected 67 years ago and now entirely inade-
quate for the purpose.

To anticipate slightly the next fiscal year, the President approved
on August 12, 1946, an act to establish a national air museum as a
bureau of the Institution and to authorize the appropriation of cer-
tain funds for the purpose. When funds are made available to carry
out the purposes of this act, the present intolerably overcrowded con-
dition of the national aeronautical collections will be alleviated. The
vitally interesting historical aircraft, engines, and other aeronautical
material now in the collections are housed in a steel structure built
during World War I and Jater turned over to the Institution to ac-
commodate temporarily the growing aircraft collection. This build-
ing is now full to overflowing, leaving no space to exhibit material
illustrating the tremendous recent advances in aeronautics.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

It is the earnest hope of the Institution that these proposed build-
ings will become actualities in the near future to the end that the price-
less national collections may be properly safeguarded and exhibited to
the ever-increasing number of visitors from all parts of the country.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

Under the President’s Reorganization Plan No. 3, the biological sta-
tion on Barro Colorado Island, known as the Canal Zone Biological
Area, was placed under the administration of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution on July 16, 1946. This area in Gattin Lake was set aside by a
1940 act of Congress in order to preserve in its original state the fauna,
flora, and other natural features for study by scientists, particularly
those from North, Central, and South America.

The Barro Colorado station has been maintained as a Federal agen-
cy since 1940 by contractual arrangements with other Federal agen-
cies and by fees subscribed by American scientific institutions. The
income from this method of support has not, however, been suflicient
to maintain the laboratories and other facilities in good condition,
and the Institution’s first concern upon taking over this new respon-
sibility will be to obtain funds for rehabilitation of the physical plant
and the proper equipping of the laboratories and other buildings.

The reorganization plan was not actually approved until shortly
after the close of the fiscal year, so that further discussion of the proj-
ect will be reserved for the next report.

FOURTEENTH ARTHUR LECTURE

Under the terms of the will of the late James Arthur, of New York,
the Smithsonian Institution received in 1931 a fund, part of the in-
come from which should be used for an annual lecture on some aspect
of the science of the sun.

The fourteenth Arthur lecture, entitled “The Sun and the Harvest
of the Sea,” was given by Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator of bi-
ology of the National Museum, on March 5, 1946. This lecture, with
Ulustrations, will be published in the Annual Report of the Smith-
sonian Institution for 1946.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF THE
INSTITUTION

National Museum.—In this first year after the end of the war there
were marked increases in the number of specimens accessioned and in
the number of visitors, and field expeditions began again to go out from
the Museum after having been held in abeyance during the war years.
Outstanding among the year’s accessions were the following: In an-
thropology, 6,765 artifacts from protohistoric Indian sites in Kansas
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

and adjoining States, 226 specimens from Ezion-geber in Trans-
Jordan, and documented field collections from Melanesian villages of
northeastern New Guinea; in biology, large numbers of specimens
from the Pacific area, most of them resulting from activities of mili-
tary and naval organizations or personnel, including birds and mam- .
mals from the South Pacific and the Orient, fishes from the Marianas,
10,000 mosquitoes from various Pacific islands and Burma, and plants
from the Admiralty, Aleutian, Caroline, and Solomon Islands, and
other Pacific areas; in geology, specimens of four minerals not hitherto
represented, sal-ammoniac crystals and other sublimates from the new
Mexican volcano, Paricutin, and large collections of fossil inverte-
brates from various localities in the United States; in engineering and
industries, 3 electromechanical tabulating machines and several high-
speed precision gages, 2 early commercial sewing machines of 1858
and 1874, and a specially designed exhibit illustrating the contribu-
tions of the mineral kingdom to materia medica; in history, a
Japanese parachute found in New Guinea, 37 models of United States,
French, and British warships of World War II, and 4 dresses dating
from 1814, 1855, 1861, and 1894 for the collection of American period
costumes. Field work included insect studies in Colombia, a survey
of the fish and game resources of Guatemala, a survey of the fauna of
Bikini Atoll in connection with the atom-bomb tests, studies of the
bird life of Panama and of Colombia, and fossil collecting in various
parts of the United States. Visitors for the year totaled 2,115,593,
an increase of nearly 400,000 over the previous year. The Museum
published two Annual Reports, six Bulletins, and five Proceedings
papers.

National Gallery of Art.—Six new gallery rooms were completed
and opened to the public on February 2, 1946, and a contract was
entered into for the installation of additional air-conditioning equip-
ment. The Gallery continued to receive many valuable gifts of paint-
ings, sculpture, decorative prints and drawings, and one painting
“Siegfried and the Rhine Maidens,” by Albert P. Ryder, was pur-
chased with Gallery funds. Traveling exhibitions of water colors
and drawings from the collection of the Index of American Design and
prints from the Rosenwald Collection were shown at a number of
art galleries and museums. ‘The Gallery accepted for safekeeping 202
paintings from German museums; these have been placed in storage
until conditions in Germany insuring their proper care have been
reestablished. The staff prepared a number of books and catalogs on
the Gallery collections, and contributed articles to outside art journals.
The second edition of “Masterpieces of Painting from the National
Gallery of Art” was placed on sale, and a third edition was being
prepared. A new edition of the General Information booklet, for
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

free distribution to visitors, was issued, and the sale of postcards,
color reproductions, and moderately priced catalogs was continued.
The Sunday evening concerts in the East Garden Court, and the daily
10-minute talks on “The Picture of the Week,” were continued with
undiminished popularity. The total number of visitors to the Gallery
was 1,947,668.

National Collection of Fine Arts——The twenty-third meeting of
the Smithsonian Art Commission was held on December 4, 1945, when
four art works submitted during the year were accepted for the
National Collection. Resolutions were adopted on the death of
Herbert Adams, a member of the Commission, and John Taylor Arms
was recommended to succeed him. To succeed Edward W. Redfield,
who resigned during the year, the Commission recommended Eugene
E. Speicher. Two miniatures were acquired through the Catherine
Walden Myer fund, and two pieces of pottery through the Reverend
Alfred Duane Pell fund. Eleven special exhibitions were held during
the year, as follows: The Honorable William D. Pawley collection
of 27 portraits of “Flying Tigers” by Raymond P. R. Neilson, N. A.;
28 sculptures by Genaro Amador Lira, of Nicaragua; 20 portraits of
members of the Lafayette Escadrille, by John Elliott; the Eighth
Metropolitan State Art Contest, comprising 412 paintings, sculp-
ture, prints, and metalcraft; the forty-fourth annual exhibition of
miniatures by the Pennsylvania Society of Miniature Painters, con-
sisting of 100 miniatures; 53 portraits by Alfred Jonniaux; A Cen-
tury of the Greeting Card, courtesy of Brownie’s Blockprints, Inc.;
53 oil and water-color paintings by Charles P. Gruppe; 54 paintings
of Siam by students of the School of Arts and Crafts, Bangkok;
Biennial Exhibition of the League of American Pen Women, in-
cluding 582 art objects; and the Scholastic Calendar Art Competi-
tion, including 150 paintings.

Freer Gallery of Art.—Additions to the collections included
Chinese bronze, painting, and pottery, Bactrian and Chinese metal-
work, a Korean gold ornament, and a Chinese manuscript. The work
of the staff was devoted to the study of new accessions and of objects
submitted for purchase; general research work within the collections
of Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Persian, and Indian materials; the prepa-
ration of material for publication and the revision of earlier work;
docent service, and public lectures. Reports were made upon 1,612
objects and 408 reproductions of objects submitted for examination,
and 132 Oriental language inscriptions were translated. The total
number of visitors to the Gallery for the year was 97,822, and 1,625
persons visited the main office for various purposes. Members of the
staff made several trips out of Washington on official business con-
nected with the work of the Gallery. Miss Grace Dunham Guest,
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Assistant Director, retired June 30, after 26 years of service with the
Gallery, and was given the honorary title of Freer Gallery of Art
research associate. John A. Pope, associate in research, and William
R. B. Acker, associate in languages, returned to the Gallery from
absence on war duty.

Bureau of American E'thnology.——The Smithsonian Institution-
National Geographic Society archeological project in southern México
was carried forward by Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau,
assisted by Dr. Philip Drucker of the Bureau staff. Twenty-four
stone monuments were located, including altars, statues, and mono-
lithic heads of Olmec and La Venta type. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts,
Jr., Assistant Chief of the Bureau, was designated director of the
archeological surveys and excavations of Indian sites to be flooded by
proposed dam construction in various river basins, to be conducted
under Smithsonian administration in cooperation with the National
Park Service, the Corps of Engineers, and the Bureau of Reclamation.
A large part of his time during the year was devoted to this extensive
project. Dr. John P. Harrington continued his study of Indian
languages, producing a Kiowa grammar of 405 manuscript pages.
Later in the year he pursued linguistic studies in New Mexico and
California. Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr., directed the closing operations
of the ethnogeographic board for 6 months after its dissolution on
December 31, 1945, and then resumed his research on Eskimo arche-
ology. He attended several meetings of the board of governors of
the Arctic Institute of North America in Montreal. Dr. William N.
Fenton continued his study of the place names of the Cornplanter
Senecas and collected material relative to the Condolence Council for
installing chiefs in the Iroquois League. In connection with his
Troquois studies, Dr. Fenton attended the First Conference on Iroquois
Research at Allegany State Park, N. Y., October 26-28. Dr. Gordon
Willey completed a 50,000-word manuscript on “Excavations in South-
east Florida” and a 25,000-word article on South American ceramics
for inclusion in the Handbook of South American Indians. He also
assisted Dr. Roberts in preparing preliminary plans for the Federal
Valley Authority archeological program. At. the end of the fiscal
year he was engaged in archeological work in the Virti Valley in
northern Peri. The Institute of Social Anthropology, an autonomous
unit of the Bureau under the directorship of Dr. Julian H. Steward,
continued its program of cultural and scientific cooperation with the
other American republics by a transfer of funds from the Department
of State. University courses and field researches were conducted in
México, Pert, and Brasil in cooperation with cultural organizations
of those countries, and several publications resulting from the field
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY LZ

work were in press. Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the
Bureau, submitted three papers on Indian music and a complete bibli-
ography covering 50 years of study of American Indian music. ‘The
Bureau issued one Annual Report, one Bulletin, two volumes of the
Handbook of South American Indians, and one publication of the
Institute of Social Anthropology.

Lnternational Hachanges.—The International Exchange Service is
the official agency of the United States for the exchange of govern-
mental and scientific publications between this country and all other
countries. During the war shipments to many countries were neces-
sarily suspended; but during the past year most of these shipments
have been resumed, and accumulated material being held at the Insti-
tution was reduced from 3,512 boxes to 1,109. The number of pack-
ages passing through the exchanges totaled 540,502, which included
3,117 boxes shipped from the Institution, an increase of 2,134 over the
previous year; the total weight of the material handled was 472,299
pounds. ‘The average weight of the individual packages was nearly
double that of the year before, indicating that institutions are sending
out some of the material held up by the war.

National Zoological Park.—During the war years, because of short-
age of personnel, maintenance of buildings and grounds was neces-
sarily neglected to some extent. Although the return to prewar main-
tenance standards has been hampered by the difficulty of recruiting
trained personnel, nevertheless the past year witnessed a perceptible
improvement in general conditions throughout the establishment.
The Park urgently needs new buildings to replace the remaining
antiquated structures still being used to house animals, and prelimi-
nary planning has been discussed with the Public Works Adminis-
tration for construction of these buildings when conditions justify
such work. ‘The number of visitors for the year showed a marked
increase over the previous year, owing to the removal of the wartime
ban on pleasure driving and to the general increase in civilian travel.
The total number of visitors was 2,872,337, an increase over the fiscal
year 1945 of 265,253. Although the number of rare or unusual ani-
mals has naturally decreased somewhat under wartime conditions, the
reduction is largely offset by an increase in number of the commoner
kinds. Rarities gradually began to come in again during the year,
and it is anticipated that normal growth in this respect will now be
resumed. At the close of the year the population of the Zoo num-
bered 2,553 individual creatures, representing 701 different species.

Astrophysical Observatory.—Final tabulation was made of the
solar-constant values for the calendar year 1945. A new vacuum
bolometer, designed at the Observatory, will eliminate gradual loss
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

of sensitivity. Under the terms of a contract with the Office of the
Quartermaster General, the Observatory is making a detailed study of
sun and sky radiation at Camp Lee, Va., as part of the program to de-
termine causes of tent-fabric deterioration. Eight copies of a special
instrument based on the sensitive, quick-acting thermoelement devel-
oped at the Observatory have been installed and put into operation at
Camp Lee. A large volume of information is accumulating concern-
ing the amount and kind of radiation, for each hour of each day, that
falls on the tents being tested. Observations continued at the three
field stations until February 1946, when the Tyrone, N. Mex., station
was closed. The equipment will be installed temporarily at a sea-level
location in Florida to study transmission of radiation through water
vapor. Dr. Abbot published two papers dealing with his studies of
the correlation between solar activity and weather changes. In the
Division of Radiation and Organisms, experiments have been carried
on in connection with improving the accuracy of apparatus used in
determining the amount of carbon dioxide absorbed by green plants
in the process of photosynthesis. The study of plant growth under
controlled artificial conditions of mineral nutrition, illumination, tem-
perature, and humidity has been continued. Further improvement
of technique is being studied.

PUBLICATIONS

The Institution’s several series of publications constitute its chief
means of carrying on the “diffusion of knowledge,” which joins with
the “increase of knowledge” to form the purpose of the Institution as
stipulated by the founder, James Smithson. The Smithsonian pub-
lication program started in 1848 with one series, the Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Knowledge, and as the Institution’s research work ex-
panded over the years, other series were established to contain the
several phases of its investigations until today the Smithsonian im-
print appears on 14 distinct series. At the end of its first full century
of existence, the Institution has issued some 7,500 individual publica-
tions, of which 12,000,000 copies have been distributed. As the great
majority of these works are the result of original researches, a large
volume of basic new knowledge has been made available to the world
through Smithsonian publications. It has been stated on numerous
occasions that few textbooks or encyclopedias exist that have not drawn
to some extent on publications of the Smithsonian Institution.

Among the outstanding papers issued during the year may be men-
tioned “A Bibliography and Short Biographical Sketch of William
Healey Dall,” by Paul Bartsch, Harald Rehder, and Beulah E. Shields;
“Sunspot Changes and Weather Changes,” by H. H. Clayton; “An
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

Annotated Checklist and Key to the Snakes of Mexico,” by Hobart M.
Smith and Edward M. Taylor; “The Birds of Northern Thailand,”
by H. G. Deignan; “The Indians of the Southeastern United States,”
‘by John R. Swanton; and volumes 1 and 2 of the Handbook of South
American Indians, edited by Julian H. Steward.

A total of 64 publications was issued during the year, and 129,750
copies of publications in all series were distributed.

LIBRARY

With the ending of the war early in the fiscal year, and the gradual
improvement in shipping conditions, the transmission of material from
European countries was resumed, and receipts increased in frequency
and number, the total number of accessions recorded being 37,143.
Also, the library was able to send abroad several thousand pieces from
its stock of duplicates to assist in the rehabilitation of destroyed
libraries. Among the 1,303 books purchased were a number of out-
of-print works which are noteworthy not so much for their rarity as
because they fill some special gaps in the collections. Outstanding
among the gifts of books and pamphlets was the late Charles W.
Gilmore’s private collection of 600 volumes and hundreds of reprints
and separates on vertebrate paleontology which was presented to the
library by Mrs. Gilmore. The total recorded volumes in the library
at the end of the fiscal year was 928,353; of this number 5,279 were
accessioned this year. Two hundred and sixty-two new exchanges
were arranged; 6,259 specially requested publications were received ;
6,124 volumes and pamphlets were cataloged, 25,326 cards were added
to catalogs and self lists, and 12,947 periodical parts were entered;
loans totaled 10,225. There were 820 volumes sent to the bindery,
and 1,010 volumes were repaired in the Museum. The most urgent
of the library’s needs continues to be more and better-arranged shelf
room. ‘There is also need of an increase in the library staff for cata-
loging and for systematic work on the large collection of duplicates.

Respectfully submitted.

A. Wertmorg, Secretary.
Of ES WA PRP eae sn oe:

ft tredobiad “5 iene hae nie relt isi Pies y Ki M daifs fe we Pate ondk,

CebaratiadT estate? Hy vata’ i hist Polkgn't” Me tere mt Sc ait
Hnodelh hatin’ S +r cctonailynoe See a ukeiial al’ net Bh oC
AgreRits and bev ie old te hited wineloy hie i ede stow
WS is ai WSO Beit y vit Dee tr 9 Hat oak ca
WCET bake asy end Dati faves! Bavy Bite isnsttet uy baa Dare ae
Pon ; iy see mere waite

si nae a pis’ ved iaey —

ase a er re i. a

it

1 bo

aabansy axl fiir 949 seca bcd Hi {yeti aber Sur x0 pubes ond ap
Biorb aban ew iric ne nai BtCT sie Ae j <ienteye qiie tite nets rete

wl eft i Pp eb hater Beast) Ua

ye 3 cars sine me

B att whos ets Hy ae
est ite pea felon ence i
Vi voll pireiet Syenss eadved to > ait ig “as boy Aidit!
BUT IST See fifo ae Gv OOD Fee oiiooliss) city ees
BaP al bayaneirc CL i Aides ia Bold sito i Lneg a wdatiw¢ fa a ilo
Vrrsail oil eaniblow Babes igtot al'® “promi; aM 1c qosndil

Cy anw AR9T de seit sds Fo bas of} Ja
’ ne ahora pte’ l aa) edi ere aaa
Bil hi fos ONS: ab ietecege RUS Bp bede fete Se
Boba: ewe aap Shy bagels ae nase eialelerniing firth athe
pantead lie ar eye sadviely iaelivai ay “MGI ine aah the bee i
oAvaobend ad? or ise ayotiilory o88 Viren. ous 22 OD betatey aiRe |

q dnt aan Hag mit , AUR uit ies a D44ig tas Stow sai oy OLBSE fine
biota bayiisriaianedeh wy ston Ohioy waahinos ahysa Reese ts. te

aes! TH) AREAL SE

Las ¥. JENS ie ts Ne aeytesl

Ve

, ‘ eo hal ei
eB Te) | Si ieee
oS an ae

é Ke Box

SHavOwT? priser! Sei

sdcaiadbeish te sotoatiot outs tei + RO RIOW 9 Literate sonia

ch idan eit Restirnehiatr ss:

eT ce eee een nt) (08 |

j ham ais

) i eth tae Sian leie la? | Re ‘WH:
eat ae iii Py as Ue Wa wigan iy pan a pena’. oie . Selig
PRE ee eT ey. wy Aa

ma erviwidi font nkwesorent an Yochood welt re :
iy ‘ =: dil

eae com ne y is riage e et , eed: ; stu

APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operation of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1946.

Appropriations for the operation of the National Museum for the
year totaled $991,053, including funds for the increase, study, exhi-
bition, and preservation of the national collections; for maintenance,
repair, operating, and guarding all the buildings of the Smithsonian
group; and for printing and binding. This amount represented an
increase of $52,059 over the previous year.

COLLECTIONS

Approximately 379,000 specimens came to the Museum’s collections
during the year, received in 1,594 separate lots. The five departments
registered specimens as follows: Anthropology, 9,026; biology, 320,-
037; geology, 45,163; engineering and industries, 1,480; history, 3,600.
Most of the accessions were acquired as gifts from individuals or as
transfers by Government departments and agencies. The complete
report on the Museum, published as a separate document, includes a
detailed list of the year’s acquisitions, of which the more important are
summarized below. Catalog entries in all departments now total
18,820,000.

Anthropology.—Prehistoric specimens received derived from such
diverse parts of the world as Trans-Jordan, Italy, Ecuador, México,
and the United States. They include 6,765 artifacts from protohis-
toric Indian sites in Kansas and adjoining States; 226 specimens
from Ezion-geber, seaport to King Solomon’s copper smelters, on the
. north shore of the Gulf of Aqabah, Trans-Jordan; a carefully docu-
mented series of 193 potsherds from surface sites throughout Trans-
Jordan; 486 diverse artifacts from the highlands of México; 149
stone, earthenware, and copper artifacts from the former Cherokee
region of Tennessee and North Carolina; 17 earthenware vessels of
Daunian ware from Apulia, Italy; and a hammered ox with cut-out
figures from Loja Province, Ecuador.

In ethnology, major documented field collections came from Mela-
nesian villages of northeastern New Guinea, including objects of

21
22, ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

many different kinds, some of which were hitherto unrepresented in
the Museum’s collections. A unique specimen in the form of a carved
altar stone was presented by Admiral William F. Halsey, who had
received it from a New Caledonian native chief. Other important
ethnologic material came from the Southern Shan States, Korea, Java,
and Sumatra. The North American Continent was represented by
two outstanding accessions: one a collection of basketry, skin gar-
ments, and dance robes obtained in 1890 from the Hupa Indians of
central California and from the Indians of the Great Plains, and
the other a collection of weavings from the Navaho and Chilkat In-
dians. A specimen of antiquarian interest was a copy of the Holy
Bible, with the Apocrypha, which was printed from stereotype plates
originally used for the third (1819) edition of the Isaac Collins Bible.
In addition, several dozen pieces of antique glassware were added to
the ceramics collections. The section of period art and textiles received
an important collection of 10 pieces of Belgian needlepoint and
bobbin-made laces dating from the period of World War I.

To the physical anthropology division came about 430 specimens
of Indian skeletal remains from various counties in Illinois, Arkansas,
and Missouri, and also skeletal material from Calhoun, Jersey, and
St. Claire Counties, Ill. Twenty-one cleared human fetuses were
added to the valuable embryological collection received last year.

Biology.—Nearly twice as many biological specimens were received
this year as the previous year.

Large numbers of birds and mammals from the South Pacific region
and the Orient came by transfer from the Army Medical School, the
Naval Medical School, and the U. S. A. Typhus Commission, while
several hundred North American mammals and birds were transmitted
by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Five handsome bear-
skins and skulls and an unusually well-prepared skeleton of a beaked
whale from La Jolla, Calif., were among other outstanding mammalian
gifts. Ornithological field work in Colombia under the W. L. Abbott
fund yielded about 1,350 birds to the Museum’s collections. Nearly
650 birds were collected for the Museum in Darién, Panama, and 60
from the atom-bomb test site at Bikini Atoll. Other important avian
specimens from Admiralty Islands, Manchuria, Ceylon, Pert, Vene-
zuela, and Canada found their way to the Museum’s division of birds.
Reptiles and amphibians were added to the number of 2,177, about
two-thirds of which were received from the Naval Medical Research
Unit No. 2 or from Service personnel. In addition, about 125 herpeto-
logical specimens resulted from the Smithsonian Institution-National
Geographic Archeological Expedition in México; 85 came from a
donor in Haiti; and 20 taxonomically important frogs from Brasil.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

About 20,000 specimens of fishes were received during the year,
among which were the following large lots: About 3,800 from the
Marianas, collected by the Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2; about
the same number transferred from the United States Fish and Wild-
life Service, 1,000 from Chile, and 2,800 from Louisiana and Texas;
and 2,200 fresh-water fishes from southern California. Smaller lots
containing much fine material, including many paratypes, came from
Australia, Venezuela, Colombia, Guatemala, the Philippines, the
South Pacific, California, and Baja California, through the generosity
of various donors.

Several large lots of insects were received, the most important one
both scientifically and economically being a collection of more than
10,000 mosquitoes and 4,000 slides of chigger-mites from various
Pacific islands and Burma, transferred from the Naval Medical Re-
search Unit No. 2 and the U. S. A. Typhus Commission. Another
10,000 miscellaneous insects collected on Guam were contributed by
various members of the armed forces. While cooperating with the
Mexican Government in an economic geological survey in México, Dr.
W. F. Foshag, the Museum’s curator of mineralogy and petrology,
obtained 2,500 miscellaneous insects for the National Museum. The
largest entomological accession of the year was a transfer of about
140,000 specimens from the United States Department of Agriculture,
a large part of which represents insects sent in by Army and Navy
sources for identification.

To the division of marine invertebrates came more than 5,000 new
specimens. Of these about 1,250, mostly crustaceans, were sent by
members or former members of the armed services stationed in the
Pacific region, the Aleutian, Hawaiian, and Marshall Islands, Okin-
awa, and Japan. Other accessions of interest included a lot of 950
invertebrates collected in Guam, Rota, Okinawa, Pelelieu, and the
Palau Islands and forwarded by the Naval Medical Research Unit
No. 2; 25 barnacles from the Bureau of Ships; and small lots of
crustaceans and leeches from the Army Medical Museum, the Army
Medical School, and the Eighteenth Medical General Laboratory.
Included in the material received in the division of mollusks were a
considerable number of type specimens. Transfers from the Army
Medical Museum, the Army Medical School, and the Navy Medical
School yielded 850 mollusks, chiefly fresh-water gastropods, from the
Philippines, Okinawa, and Guam. Over 4,000 Japanese and Philip-
pine mollusks came from one donor, nearly 900 Philippine shells from
another, 850 land and fresh-water shells from Virginia from another,
and 1,840 Colombian mollusks from still another. In all, about 20,000

725362478
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

mollusks were added to the collections. The helminthological collec-
tions were materially enhanced by the generous bequest of the life-
time collections of the jate Dr. Henry Baldwin Ward, distinguished
parasitologist; 8,000 lots of helminths, including many types, were
received from Professor Ward’s daughter.

The number of plants received jumped from about 30,000 in 1945
to nearly 42,000 in 1946, largely as a result of extensive collections
made by members of the armed forces while serving in the Admiralty,
Aleutian, Caroline, Galapagos, Solomon and Philippine Islands,
Guam and other Marianas, Japan, Okinawa, New Guinea, Burma, and
France. The herbarium received 3,100 Burman plants by transfer
from the U.S. A. Typhus Commission, and over 800 Ecuadorian plants
from the Foreign Economic Administration. Other important lots,
from private donors, came from Colombia, Venezuela, and México.
Noteworthy botanical collections totaling 6,800 specimens were made
for the Museum in Panama and the Dominican Republic. In addition,
about 5,000 plants were added to the herbarium as a result of ex-
changes arranged with other institutions, in Europe, South America,
Cuba, Canada, and the United States.

Geology.—The department of geology accessioned 45,000 specimens
during the year, nearly double the number for last year, about 90
percent of these being assigned to the division of invertebrate pale-
ontology and paleobotany.

The mineral collection continued its growth, partly through the
several Smithsonian funds available for the purchase of specimens,
but largely through gifts. Three new minerals not hitherto repre-
sented—cattierite, valsite, and salesite—were donated, while the new
species sampleite was obtained by exchange. The mineral collection
of Dr. Whitman Cross, containing specimens from many old classical
localities in Europe and the western United States, came as a gift and
added much historically interesting material. Geological field work
in México by Curator W. F. Foshag yielded fine sal-ammoniac crystals
and other sublimates from the newborn volcano Paricutin, and ex-
amples of rare mercury minerals from Huahauxtla, Guerrero. The
principal addition to the rock series also came from Dr. Foshag’s
visits to Paricutin and comprised an extensive collection of lavas, ash,
and other eruptive products. Extensive sets of mercury ores, cop-
per, and fluorspar were also included in Dr. Foshag’s Mexican ma-
terial.

Three meteorites not previously represented in the Museum’s series
were added: A slice of the Pine River, Wis., meteorite; a 3,576-gram
specimen of the Dimmitt, Castro County, Tex., fall; and a piece of the
Livingston, Tenn., occurrence.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

The most important additions to the gem collection came as trans-
fers from the Procurement Division of the Treasury Department.
They include a large blue topaz, three fine aquamarines, an amethyst,
and a tourmaline. Other outstanding gems were procured through
the Canfield, Roebling, and Chamberlain funds.

The following were noteworthy additions to the collections of fossil
invertebrates: 867 type specimens of Middle Cambrian brachiopods
and trilobites from Montana; 425 Middle Ordovician specimens from
the unique cryptovolcanic structure at Kentland, Ind.; 750 bryozoans,
corals, and other classes from the Middle Ordovician of Virginia and
Tennessee ; and 700 Devonian brachiopods from southwestern Ontario.
From the Upper Paleozoic rocks donations included 180 Pennsy]-
vanian and Permian gastropods from New Mexico, 500 Pennsyl-
vanian fusulines, about 5,000 Pennsylvanian fossils from near St.
Louis, Mo., and 250 from near Moab, Utah. Gifts through the
Springer and Walcott funds added other worthy Paleozoic fossils,
including 2,100 Cenozoic mollusks from the Lord Calvert collection.
Field trips conducted under the Walcott fund by Curator G. A.
Cooper and his associates resulted in about 5,000 specimens of Ordo-
vician invertebrates from Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, and Virginia,
a similar number from the Mississippian and Pennsylvanian rocks
of central Texas, and an equally large lot of Upper Paleozoic fossils
from west and central Texas, together with 400 blocks from west
Texas containing silicified fossils for etching. The division also
received 3,500 slides of Cretaceous Foraminifera from Arkansas and
50 from Peri. Other gifts included important Cenozoic material, for
example: 4,000 fossil fresh-water shells, 1,070 Tertiary fossils, and
about 75 Pleistocene fresh-water gastropods from Utah. Important
collections transferred from the United States Geological Survey
comprised about 3,700 types of Carboniferous and Permian fossils
described by the late Dr. George H. Girty; 200 Jurassic invertebrates
from Wyoming; 585 Cretaceous ammonites from Wyoming; and 1,000
Devonian and Mississippian fossils from the Central Mineral Region
of Texas. In addition, several hundred specimens were received by
exchange with other institutions and individuals.

In the division of vertebrate paleontology there was a decrease
of material coming in, owing largely to the fact that no expeditions
to obtain fossil vertebrate specimens could be sent out until just before
the year’s end. The extreme rarity of fossil bird remains made note-
worthy the gift of vertebrae, mandibles, and other bones of the double-
erested cormorant Phalacrocorax auritus from Pleistocene deposits
in Florida. Five fossil examples of the puzzling egg capsules of
chimaeroid fishes from the Upper Cretaceous rocks of México and
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

elsewhere were transferred from the United States Geological Survey.
Other fossil vertebrate additions included a mammoth tooth found in
the mountains of Ecuador, 18 fossilized specimens of the fish AM/allotus
villosus from western Greenland, and a partial skull of the porpoise
Eurhinodelphis from the Calvert formation in the Chesapeake Bay
region.

Engineering and industries—This department experienced a sub-
normal year in the matter of new accessions, there being a drop from
last year of about 50 percent in total number of specimens received.
Among the year’s total of 1,480, however, there are several worthy
of special mention.

In engineering, a group of three Hollerith electromechanical tabu-
lating machines and several high-speed precision gages were pre-
sented by two interested corporations. The United States Maritime
Commission transferred six models of ships representing classes of
standard cargo and passenger vessels procured by the Commission
during the war. There also came a scale model of the Baldwin-
Westinghouse, geared, steam-turbine locomotive, first introduced in
1945. In the section of aeronautics two groups of models were re-
ceived—one a collection of 19 United States Navy types of the period
following World War I, transferred by the Bureau of Aeronautics,
and the other a collection of aircraft recognition models made by school
children early in World War II, presented by the United States Office
of Education.

The Office of the Quartermaster General, Army Service Forces, and
the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, Navy Department, transferred
141 specimens of the various fabrics used by the services in World
War II, made according to standard Government specifications.
Various manufacturers continued to supply examples of new fabrics
to keep the textile exhibits up to date. Two early commercial sewing
machines were received, dating from 1858 and 1874. A number of
additions were made to the collections of early homecraft textiles,
including coverlets, carpeting, and needlework.

Specimens added to the collections representing the chemical and
agricultural industries included examples of the applications of the
newer plastics, and an 1885 Babcock milk tester. The most valuable
accession in the division of medicine and public health was a specially
designed exhibit illustrating the contributions of the mineral king-
dom to materia medica. In the section of woods and wood technology
an outstanding gift was a series of 100 British Honduras woods, from
the Honduran conservator of forests. Other desirable wood specimens
eame from the Philippine Islands and Peri.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27

Charles W. Dahlgreen, artist, presented 18 additional copper plates
of his etchings and drypoints, making 94 in all, which are being used
for printing the Smithsonian edition of his work (described in last
year’s report). Mr. Dahlgreen also gave 126 drypoints and etchings
and 1 block print in color, further representative of his life work
in the field of printmaking. Another interesting gift in graphic arts
was Walter Tittle’s “Arms Conference Memorial Folio” containing
25 autographed drypoint portraits of statesmen who attended the
Conference on Limitation of Armaments, 1921-22. Historically
valuable photographic equipment received included the machines used
in Germany as early as 1904 by Dr. Arthur Korn in transmitting
photographs by electricity; a radar camera of World War II; and
a motion-picture camera and projector dating from about 1885, which
came as a loan.

History—About twice as many specimens were received in the divi-
sion of history this year as last year. Accessions to the costumes col-
lection were noteworthy. The dresses that since 1915 have repre-
sented the administration of President Benjamin Harrison in the
collection of dresses of mistresses of the White House, were pre-
sented to the Museum. Mrs. Calvin Coolidge presented a fan, neck-
lace, and handkerchief to go in the case containing the dress of Mrs.
Coolidge presented by her in 1930. The general collection of Ameri-
can period costumes was enriched by the addition of four dresses
dating, respectively, from 1814, 1855, 1861, and 1894—each in an
excellent state of preservation and each a fine example of the period
it represents.

The military collection was increased by the gift of a Japanese
parachute found in New Guinea. A collection of United States Army
insignia and a series of topographic maps, all of World War I, were
received from the War Department. To the naval collection were
added 37 models of United States, French, and British warships
of World War II, and more than 700 pieces of naval insignia, from
the Navy Department.

The numismatic collection was increased by about 100 coins and
medals and the philatelic collection by 1,700 postage stamps.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORE.

Although field explorations during the year were not extensive,
they represented a return toward the regular schedule of such activi-
ties in times of peace.

Dr. E. A. Chapin, curator of insects, in connection with the State
Department’s program for the promotion of cultural relations with
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

scientists in other American countries, left on April 25 for Colombia.
During May he was at the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales of the
National University in Bogota, where he was occupied in consulta-
tions with government entomologists in connection with cooperative
investigations, particularly on certain groups of Coleoptera of eco-
nomic importance. There was opportunity at the same time for field
studies in a variety of climatic zones ranging from Villavicencio in
the tropical lowlands at the eastern base of the Andes to the high
mountain passes above Bogota. In June, Dr. Chapin continued to
Medellin, where he was occupied for several days with Prof. F. Luis
Gallego in examining insect collections at the Facultad de Agro-
nomia. This was followed by similar work in Cali and Palmyra with
Belisario Losada, and at Popayadn in the Universidad del Cauca. He
returned to Washington on June 30.

Dr. Robert R. Miller, associate curator, division of fishes, was
assigned to a survey of the fish and game resources of Guatemala, a
cooperative project of the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Depart-
ment of the Interior and the Guatemalan Government, with the par-
ticipation of the Smithsonian Institution. Investigations began in
March and continued until the end of May, Dr. Miller being occupied
mainly with studies of the fresh-water fishes of the plateau area.
Collections were made principally above 3,000 feet, covering many
lakes and streams. In addition there was opportunity for briefer
studies along the middle Motagua River and in Lake Ysabal. The
work in the main was in the nature of reconnaissance with expecta-
tion of continuing in greater detail another season. The present col-
lections, now under study, are yielding much data of interest.

In connection with the atom-bomb tests at Bikini, Dr. Leonard P.
Schultz, curator of fishes, and Dr. J. P. E. Morrison, assistant curator,
division of mollusks, left in February to begin a detailed survey of the
fauna of the atoll. It was expected that a careful check would be
made of conditions following the bomb explosions. The studies of
Dr. Schultz are concerned with fishes in the lagoon and along the
reefs to obtain data on the kinds present and on their relative
abundance. Dr. Morrison is occupied with mollusks and other marine
invertebrates on the reefs, and also with detailed collections of the
land animals present, including the birds. There has been oppor-
tunity also for comparative studies at several other atolls in the Mar-
shall Islands. The extensive series of specimens already obtained
will serve as an index to the forms found, and will be especially im-
portant also as the first collections in the Museum from this area.
This work was still under way at the close of the year and will be
reported in more detail next year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

At the beginning of March, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, accompanied by W. M. Perrygo, scien-
tific aid, went to Panama where they were occupied briefly in check-
ing on the fauna on San José Island in the Perlas group, where the
Smithsonian made extended studies in 1944. [ollowing this they
examined the Canal Zone Biological Area on Barro Colorado Island in
Gatin Lake, an agency for which Dr. Wetmore serves as executive
officer. They proceeded on March 14, through the assistance of Maj.
Gen. H. R. Harmon, Commanding General of the Sixth Air Force, by
plane to the auxiliary airfield at Jaqué in eastern Darién. Here they
remained until April 16 making detailed collections and studies of the
bird life of the coastal area. Ranges of broken hills and the lowlands
along the Rio Jaqué were a fertile field, so that the 640 specimens ob-
tained during 30 days of field work include representatives of 170
species. These supplement excellently earlier collections under
Smithsonian auspices in eastern Darién. The party returned to
Washington on April 21,

M. A. Carriker, Jr., traveling under the W. L. Abbott fund of the
Smithsonian Institution, this season covered the high paramos of the
Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Colombia, entering the area in January
through San José and San Sebastian de Rabago. Traveling in part
with pack oxen, Mr. Carriker worked first at Chinchicua where there
was some forest in addition to the open slopes. At the beginning of
February he camped at Siminchucua at a higher elevation where morn-
ing temperatures were frequently near freezing, with ice not uncom-
mon. ‘The next camp called Mamancanaca was at 10,500 feet in a
region of glaciated valleys and old moraines. Four lakes at suc-
cessively higher levels lay below the snow fields at 15,350 feet. Birds
in the main were found below 12,000 feet. A further camp was located
early in March at 10,000 feet on the headwaters of the Rio Guatipurf,
and in April still another, farther down the same river at the little
Indian hamlet of Chendticua. The expedition was highly successful,
obtaining fine series of the high-mountain birds, including many not
previously represented in the Museum and several that are new to
science. Other collections made at lower elevations give representa-
tion of the better-known Santa Marta races that make a highly desir-
able addition to our series from northern Colombia.

In the department of geology Dr. G. A. Cooper, curator of inverte-
brate paleontology and paleobotany, accompanied by Dr. J. Brookes
Knight, research associate, left on June 12 for Austin, Tex., and from
there proceeded by auto to the Glass Mountains in west Texas. At
that point the party was joined by Dr. R. C. Moore, of the University
of Kansas. The three cooperated in collecting blocks of Permian
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

limestone containing fossils in various parts of the mountains. Dr.
Preston E. Cloud joined the party on July 19 and served as leader for
further work in the Central Hill country of Texas to collect Mississip-
pian, Devonian, and Pennsylvanian fossils. After a week in this
region the party divided, Dr. Moore to return to Kansas and Dr.
Cooper and Dr. Knight to join Mrs. J. H. Renfro and Millicent Renfro
for four days of collecting in the incomparable Pennsylvanian fossil
deposits of Jack County, Tex. Work in the field ended on August 5
after obtaining more than 5 tons of blocks of silicified material to be
cleaned by etching with acid, and about 5,000 specimens of inverte-
brate fossils from central Texas.

On October 1 Dr. Cooper, accompanied by associate curator Byron
N. Cooper and Y. Wang, a member of the Geological Survey of China
working temporarily at the National Museum, left for the southern
Appalachians and the Central Basin of Tennessee. Dr. C. O. Dunbar
and Percy Morris of Yale University joined the party at Woodstock,
Va. After several days in southwestern Virginia they continued west
to Murfreesboro, Tenn.,and then to east Tennessee for work near
Knoxville. From this vantage point forays were made into various
parts of the Ordovician belts of east Tennessee for collecting and
study. On October 16 Wang and the two Coopers continued south to
Pratts Ferry about 35 miles south of Birmingham, Ala., and from here
worked northeast along the Ordovician belts through northeastern
Georgia and on into eastern Tennessee and Virginia. The party
returned to Washington on November 14. This trip proved most
profitable in checking on Ordovician stratigraphy. About 5,000 speci-
mens, including considerable new material, were collected.

On February 7, 1946, Dr. Cooper again left Washington for Austin,
Tex., where he joined Dr. Preston E. Cloud, of the Geological Survey,
for further studies and collecting in the central hill country. The
two visited many localities in the neighborhood of Burnett, San Saba,
Mason, and Brady. Many fine Mississippian fossils were collected
and Pennsylvanian fossils were also obtained in several places. Dr.
Cooper returned to Washington on February 24 with some 5,000 speci-
mens that form a fine representation of these beds.

The Museum’s part of the three geological expeditions described
above was financed from the income of the Walcott fund.

Dr. C. L. Gazin, curator of vertebrate paleontology, with Franklin
Pearce, scientific aid, as assistant, left Washington on May 23, in a
truck available through the cooperation of the United States Army,
on an expedition into the western States, to obtain additional fossil
mammal remains from Paleocene deposits and make further collec-
tions of fossil lizards from the Cretaceous in central Utah, as well as
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

to continue collecting in the Middle Eocene Bridger beds of south-
western Wyoming. These formations have been untouched by collect-
ing parties during the war years and it is expected that weathering
will have exposed many additional fossils. The expedition will con-
tinue into the next fiscal year, when several fossil localities in the
Wind River Basin reported by geological parties of the United States
Geological Survey will be investigated. The cooperation of the Army
in the loan of the truck is much appreciated since it proved to be a
large factor in making the expedition possible. This expedition is
another project under the Walcott fund of the Smithsonian Institution.

Dr. W. F. Foshag, curator of mineralogy, spent the first quarter
of the year in México concluding field work there, and returned to
Washington on October 8. This work on the mineral resources of that
country and on Paricutin Volcano was a joint project of the National
Museum and the United States Geological Survey in collaboration
with the Committee for the Study of Mineral Resources of Mexico.
Field studies were completed on the fluorspar deposits of the Tasco
District, State of Guerrero, the mercury-copper deposits of Las Fra-
guas, and the copper deposits of Oropeo, State of Michoacan, with
the assistance of Mexican geologists of the committee. Field work
in geochemical studies at Paricutin Volcano was continued.

On request from General MacArthur, Dr. Foshag and E. P. Hen-
derson, associate curator in mineralogy, on May 25 went to Tokyo
to undertake classification of gem stones under the Army’s jurisdiction.

MISCELLANEOUS

Visitors.—An increase of 384,877 visitors to the Museum buildings
was recorded over the previous year, the totals being 2,115,593 for
1946 and 1,730,716 for 1945. June 1946 was the month of largest
attendance with 246,012 visitors; August 1945 the second largest with
216,801. Records for the four buildings show the following number
of visitors: Smithsonian Building, 430,760; Arts and Industries Build-
ing, 852,080; Natural History Building, 606,310; Aircraft Building,
226,443.

Publications and printing—The sum of $48,000 was allotted the
National Museum for its publication and printing requirements for
the year 1945-46, the same amount as for the previous year. Of this,
$34,000 was used for printing Bulletins, Proceedings, and Annual Re-
ports; the rest for binding and for the salary of the Museum printer.
Thirteen publications were issued—two Annual Reports, six Bulletins,
and five Proceedings papers. A list of these is given in the report on
publications, appendix 10.
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

The distribution of volumes and separates to libraries and other
institutions and to individuals aggregated 32,887 copies.

Special exhibits Eleven special exhibits were held during the year
in the foyer and adjacent space of the Natural History Building,
under the auspices of various educational, scientific, recreational, and
Government groups. In addition, the department of engineering and
industries arranged 24 special displays—12 in graphic arts and 12 in
photography.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

The end of the war, and the ensuing order of the President directing
the Civil Service Commission to resume operations under the civil-
service rules, resulted in a considerable number of personnel changes,
especially during the transitional period from war-service to proba-
tional appointments. During the year several reemployed annuitants,
who, with long experience and special qualifications, had remained
in active service because of the wartime manpower situation, were
retired.

In the department of anthropology, John C. Ewers was appointed
associate curator in the division of ethnology on June 3, 1946. Dr.
Marshall T. Newman resumed his duties of associate curator in the
division of physical anthropology on January 7, 1946, after his release
from active military service.

Dr. William R. Maxon, curator, division of plants, retired on May
31, 1946, and was succeeded by Ellsworth P. Killip. On April 30,
1946, Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator, division of mollusks, retired. Other
changes in the department of biology were the reappointment, after
a wartime furlough to private industry, of Dr. Richard E. Black-
welder, associate curator, division of insects, on November 13, 1945.
The department lost by resignation the services of Mrs. Marie P. Fish,
scientific aid in the division of fishes, and Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson,
assistant curator, division of marine invertebrates, on May 15, 1946,
and June 14, 1946, respectively.

The vacancy in the division of vertebrate paleontology caused by
the death of Charles W. Gilmore, curator, was filled by the appoint-
ment of Dr. Charles L. Gazin on January 21, 1946, and Arlton C.
Murray was advanced to scientific aid on March 11, 1946. An ad-
dition to the staff of the division of invertebrate paleontology and
paleobotany as associate curator was Dr. Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., on
May 31, 1946.

Having been released from active military service, Frank A. Taylor,
curator, division of engineering, returned to his duties in the Museum
on March 4, 1946. The department of engineering and industries, at
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

the close of the fiscal year, lost three employees by retirement, as fol-
lows: Dr. Frederick L. Lewton, curator, and Mrs. Elizabeth W. Ros-
son, assistant curator, division of crafts and industries; and Dr.
Arthur J. Olmsted, associate curator, section of photography.

Four honorary appointments were made during the year: Dr. Paul
Bartsch, associate, division of mollusks; Dr. William R. Maxon, asso-
ciate in botany; Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod
Crustacea; and Dr. J. Brookes Knight, research associate in
paleontology.

Under the superintendent of buildings and labor, Walcutt C. Hamer
was promoted to assistant mechanical superintendent (foreman of
cabinet shop), the position made vacant by the transfer of Rafe A.
Watkins to the Army Map Service, and James I. Simpson was assigned
the duties of the assistant foreman of cabinet shop effective July 16,
1946. Following retirement for disability on February 20, 1946,
of William H. Chism, James ©, Clarke was promoted to principal
guard (lieutenant), and Edward Zuranski was assigned as principal
guard (sergeant) on March 10, 1946. Other additions to the guard
officer group were the promotions of Bascom F. Gordon to principal
guard (lieutenant) and William H. Baird and Arnold F. Short-
ridge to principal guards (sergeants) on June 30, 1946.

During the year the following Museum employees returned to their
positions after having completed military duty: Edward Zuranski,
September 9, 1945; John L. Theunissen and George V. Worthington,
October 7, 1945; Charles E. Stousland, November 5, 1945; Joseph
Singleton, December 3, 1945; Dr. Charles L. Gazin, December 27,
1945; Clyde E. Bauman, January 2, 1946; Samuel T. Fetterman,
January 6, 1946; Dr. Marshall T. Newman, January 7, 1946; Walter
McCree, January 30, 1946; Joseph R. Burke, Jr., February 20, 1946;
‘Frank A. Taylor, March 4, 1946; Oliver N. Armstead, March 6, 1946;
Robert L. Bradshaw and John Carl Carter, April 1, 1946.

Sixteen persons were retired during the year, under the Civil Serv-
ice Retirement Act: Through age, Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator, division
of mollusks, on April 30, 1946, after 50 years of service; Dr. Frederick
L. Lewton, curator, division of crafts and industries, on June 30,
1946, after 34 years 4 months of service; and Dr. Arthur J. Olmsted,
associate curator, division of graphic arts, on June 30, 1946, after 26
years 1 month of service. By optional retirement, Dr. William R.
Maxon, curator, division of plants, on May 31, 1946, after 46 years 5
months of service; Mrs. Elizabeth W. Rosson, assistant curator, divi-
sion of crafts and industries, on June 30, 1946, after 33 years 3 months
of service; Edgar J. Harrison, mechanic (painter), on August 31,
1945, after 13 years 5 months of service; Augustus G. Lindsay, guard,
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

on March 31, 1946, after 20 years 6 months of service; Beverly J.
Moore, guard, on June 30, 1946, after 3 years 9 months of service};
Henry Hicks, laborer, on September 30, 1945, after 23 years 4 months
of service, and Mrs. Mary W. Paige, charwoman, on May 31, 1946,
after 12 years 8 months of service. Through disability, William H.
Chism, lieutenant of guard, on February 20, 1946, after 13 years 10
months of service; Nicola DiGennaro, guard, on July 14, 1945, after
20 years 10 months of service; Leo F. Lennartz, guard, on February
26, 1946, after 5 years 4 months of service; John W. Lockhart, guard
on October 15, 1945, after 11 years 3 months of service; Bror O. Olson,
guard, on May 31, 1946, after 18 years 1 month of service; and Mrs.
Nellie Butler, laborer, on November 30, 1945, after 26 years 11 months
of service.

Through death the Museum lost six employees from its active roll
during the year: Charles W. Gilmore, curator of vertebrate paleon-
tology, on September 27, 1946, after 41 years 10 months of service;
Thomas J. Horne, preparator, on December 26, 1945, after 34 years
9 months of service; George Boylen, mechanic (electrician’s helper)
on November 28, 1945, after 3 years 9 months of service; Thomas C.
Watts, laborer, on October 14, 1945, after 18 years 2 months of service;
Roland 8. Woodland, laborer, on October 1, 1945, after 11 years of
service; and Fannie H. Nedd, laborer, on January 29, 1946, after 12
years of service. :

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER Wetmore, Director.

Tue SECRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Str: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees
of the National Gallery of Art, the ninth annual report of the Board,
covering its operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1946. This
report is made pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 (d) of Public
Resolution No. 14, Seventy-fifth Congress, First Session, approved
March 24, 1987 (50 Stat. 51).

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1946, the Board consisted of
the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, ex oflicio, and five general trustees, Samuel H. Kress, Ferdinand
Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Chester Dale, and Paul Mellon.

At its annual meeting held on February 11, 1946, the Board reelected
Samuel H. Kress as President, and Ferdinand Lammot Belin as Vice
President, to serve for the ensuing year. The executive officers con-
tinuing in office during the year were:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer.

David E. Finley, Director.

Harry A. McBride, Administrator.

Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.

John Walker, Chief Curator.

Macgill James, Assistant Director.
Donald D. Shepard continued to serve during the year as Adviser to
the Board.

During the year Margaret D. Garrett resigned as Chief of the Inter-
American Office.

The three standing committees of the Board, provided for in the
bylaws, as constituted at the annual meeting of the Board, held
February 11, 1946, were:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Fred M. Vinson, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.
Ferdinand Lammot Belin.
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Alexander Wetmore.
Paul Mellon.

35
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio, John W. Snyder, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Paul Mellon.

Chester Dale.

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Samuel H. Kress, Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Vice Chairman.
Duncan Phillips.

Chester Dale.

David E. Finley, ex officio.

The permanent Government positions on the Gallery staff are filled
from registers of the United States Civil Service Commission, or with
its approval. On June 30, 1946, the permanent Government staff of
the Gallery numbered 298 employees, as compared with 245 employees
on June 30, 1945; the increase of 53 employees is due chiefly to Public
Law 106 (Federal Employees Pay Act of 1945) which placed Govern-
ment operations on a 40-hour week.

During the past year 21 veterans returned to duty on the Gallery
staff, having obtained discharges from the armed forces.

Throughout the year a high standard of operation and maintenance
of the Gallery building and grounds and protection of the Gallery’s
collections of works of art has been sustained.

APPROPRIATIONS

For salaries and expenses for the upkeep and operation of the
National Gallery of Art, the protection and care of works of art
acquired by the Board of Trustees, and all administrative expenses
incident thereto pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 (a) of Public
Resolution No. 14, Seventy-fifth Congress, First Session, approved
March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51), the Congress appropriated for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1946, the sum of $783,707. This amount includes
the regular appropriation of $583,207, and two supplemental appropri-
ations, one in the sum of $184,500 required to meet increased pay costs
authorized by Public Law 106 (Federal Employees Pay Act of 1945),
and the other in the sum of $16,000, required to cover the costs of
within-grade promotions, reallocation of positions, returning vet-
erans, and terminal leave.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

From these appropriations the following expenditures and encum-
brances were incurred:

Personal TSERVICESE HOT Leese ae Fen, Doty bre 85 oy eS Fu meee re $661, 187. 45
Brintingand ybinding <0) ait a oA ee el 4, 936. 79
Suppliessequipment. etes) = 2-2 ae ee RE 117, 256. 77
Wnenenmbereds balance ase se ene ee ee 325. 99

Lo tet ee SARA NA Site Sarr nets ba OE. YEH CELTS 783, 707. 00

In addition to the above-mentioned appropriations, the Gallery re-
ceived the sum of $35,000 from the Department of State to cover
expenses during the fiscal year of the Inter-American Office of the
Gallery for the promotion of art activities between the United States
and the Latin American republics.

The Gallery also received from the War Department an allotment
of $24,000 to be used for the preservation and care of works of art
owned by foreign governments which have been placed in temporary
custody of the National Gallery of Art.

ATTENDANCE

During the fiscal year 1946, 1,947,668 visitors came to the Gallery
building, an average daily attendance of 5,365 people, as compared with
5,711 during 1945, thus showing an annual attendance slightly less
than in the previous year. ‘The greatest number of visitors in any one
day since the opening of the Gallery was 27,823 on Sunday, October
21, 1945.

The Sunday evening openings, featuring free concerts in the Gal-
lery’s East Garden Court, have continued to be exceedingly popular
throughout the year.

On May 15, 1946, the Servicemen’s Room (Founder’s Room), was
changed so that it might be used by the general public as a lounge, and
it is now in constant use by visitors to the Gallery for writing, reading,
and relaxation.

The lifting of travel restrictions since the end of the war has brought
a sudden influx of groups of elementary and high school children to
view the collections of the Gallery; and during March, April, May,
and June of this year 181 groups of young students from the eastern,
southern, and midwestern States attended special tours through the
Gallery.

PUBLICATIONS

The fiscal year which ended June 30, 1946, saw a considerable ex-
pansion in the publishing program of the National Gallery of Art.
The second edition of “Masterpieces of Painting from the National
Gallery of Art,” by Huntington Cairns and John Walker, was placed
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

on sale on November 1, 1945, and, despite a rise in price made neces-
sary by increased production costs, has continued to sell so well that
a third edition is now being printed and a fourth is under discussion.

A catalog entitled “Paintings and Sculpture from the Kress Col-
lection,” comprising 200 halftone reproductions, was issued in Febru-
ary 1946, in connection with the opening of the new galleries con-
taining recent additions to the Kress Collection. The National Gal-
lery of Art, the Harvard College Library, and Pantheon Books col-
laborated in the publication of “Drawings from Ariosto by Frago-
nard,” by Elizabeth Mongan of the Gallery staff, Philip Hofer, and
Jean Seznec—a distinguished example both of scholarship and print-
ing. Huntington Cairns, Secretary of the National Gallery of Art,
edited a collection of George Saintsbury’s essays in a volume entitled
“French Literature and Its Masters,” published by Alfred A. Knopf
in connection with the centenary of Saintsbury’s birth.

Articles were published by Huntington Cairns on Sociology and the
Social Sciences, in the volume “Twentieth Century Sociology”; The Ju-
ristic Bases for International Law, in Iowa Law Review, May 1946;
A Logician of Science, in The Sewanee Review, January 1946; Proust
and Painting, in The Art Bulletin, March 1946; Methodology of the
Social Sciences, in the University of Chicago Law Review, December
1945; by John Walker on the protection and salvage of art, in the Na-
tional Geographic Magazine, January 1946; by Fern Rusk Shapley on
two paintings in the Gallery’s collection in Gazette des Beaux-Arts,
July 1945, and the Art Quarterly, winter 1945.

Mr. Cairns also contributed an article, Philosophy as Jurisprudence,
to “Essays in Honor of Roscoe Pound,” to be published by Oxford Uni-
versity Press in the fall of 1946. Charles Seymour, Jr., submitted an
article to the Henri Focillon memorial issue of the Gazette des Beaux-
Arts to be published in December 1946. A comprehensive article on
the Gallery, its collections, installations, and history was prepared by
Joseph Blake Eggen for early publication in Mouseion.

Volumes by members of the Gallery staff in press by the end of the
year included “The Limits of Art,” by Mr. Cairns, an extensive com-
pilation of selections of poetry and prose that have been held to be the
ereatest of their kind in critical literature from Aristotle to the pres-
ent; “Le Chevalier Delibere,” with an introduction by Elizabeth Mon-
gan; “Three Centuries of American Painting,” by James Lane; and
the first of a new series of handbooks, with special reference to the
collections of the National Gallery of Art, entitled “The Search for
Line,” by Lois Bingham, of the educational staff.

Work in preparation for early publication progressed on a book
being compiled by Erwin Christensen which will give, under the title
“Made in America,” an over-all picture of the Index of American De-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

sign. Also in preparation for publication were Mr. Walker’s mono-
graph on Giovanni Bellini’s “Feast of the Gods,” in collaboration with
Edgar Wind, and a companion volume to “Masterpieces of Painting”
on the Gallery’s sculpture compiled by Mr. Seymour. Also brought to
completion in preparation for publication in the near future was the
first of a series of small handbooks on the Widener Collection of deco-
rative arts by Mr. Christensen. Smaller picture books of the Mellon
and Widener Collections of paintings and sculpture were also in prepa-
ration for publication. For progress on the Gallery catalog, see under
Curatorial Department.

Since the Gallery was opened to the public in 1941, well over
2,000,000 postcards of works of art in the Gallery’s collections, and
more than 400,000 of the Gallery’s 11-inch by 14-inch color reproduc-
tions have been sold.

The policy of furnishing moderately priced catalogs, color repro-
ductions of fine quality, and other publications, has been continued.
Another new edition of the General Information booklet, which is
made available to visitors without charge, was issued during the year.
Publishers of large collotype reproductions of paintings in the Na-
tional Gallery of Art have added 15 new titles to their lists during
the fiscal year 1946, making a total of 38 of these large reproductions
now available.

CONSTRUCTION OF NEW GALLERIES

The contract for the construction of six new gallery rooms, men-
tioned in the 1945 annual report, was completed during the fiscal year
1946. This construction was carried forward in keeping with the rec-
ommendations of the Committee on the Building and a resolution of
the Board of Trustees. Three of the rooms are in the east wing of the
building and three are in the west wing. These galleries are finished
and decorated in a manner similar to the gallery rooms adjacent to
them, with the exception of the specially designed room for the ex-
hibition of the Luini panels in the Kress Collection. The work was
completed and the galleries were opened to the public on February
2, 1946, for the special opening exhibition of additions to the Kress
Collection.

INSTALLATION OF ADDITIONAL AIR-CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT

The gradual opening of additional spaces in the Gallery building
and the construction of the six new galleries have made it necessary to
augment the air-conditioning equipment in the building by an addi-
tional compressor machine. In keeping with recommendations of the
Committee on the Building and a resolution of the Board of Trustees,

725362—47—-4
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

and with funds donated for the purpose, the Gallery has entered into
a contract for the manufacture and installation of this equipment. It
is expected that the contract will be completed during the present fiscal
year. This fourth compressor machine now being installed will air-
condition all the remaining unfinished spaces in the Gallery building.

CUSTODY OF PAINTINGS FROM GERMANY

On December 14, 1945, the late Honorable Harlan Fiske Stone,
Chief Justice of the United States and Chairman of the Board of
Trustees of the National Gallery of Art, announced that at the request
of the Secretary of State, the Trustees of the National Gallery of Art
had agreed to accept custody of the 202 paintings from German mu-
seums which were to be brought to this country for safekeeping until
conditions in Germany insuring their proper care were reestablished.
These paintings arrived at the Gallery on December 7, 1945, having
been transported to this country with great care by the United States
Army; and they are now stored under the custody of the Trustees in
the Gallery’s air-conditioned storage rooms until they can be returned
to Germany. The following is a list of the paintings which are now
stored at the Gallery:

Artist Title
Altdorfer,Albrecht=s- === asa s Departure of the Apostles.
Altdorfer, Albprecht2 2222s eae The Nativity.
AltdorfereAlbrecht==2- 242s. 2 Landscape With a Satyr Family.
Altdorfer;vAlbrecht222 2 fe 3 ye St. test on the Flight Into Egypt.
Amberger, Christoph____-_____-_-_-_ The Cosmographer, Sebastian Munster.
ZAIN ZOMI sr ACOMOk 8s ee eee Portrait of a Lady as Diana.
PS CES O IN Dp ie Pe Ne wR ag Triptych: The Last Judgment.
Antonello da Messina_______________. Portrait of a Young Man.
Austrianye.s 14102920 st Oe ees The Crucified Christ Mourned by Mary
and John.
Austrian, ¢: 142522 os Sh ee The Dead Christ Mourned by Mary and
Jobn.

Baldung, Hans (Grien)—.___________ Count von Lowenstein.
Baldung, Hans (Grien)__—__--___ -.. Pyramus and Thisbe.
Baldung, Hans (Grien)_____-_______ Mourning Over the Body of Christ.
Baldung, Hans (Grien) _____--_____ Saint George, Saint Catherine.
iBaldung: Hans" (Grien) ===) es The Adoration of the Magi.
Baldung, Hans (Grien) 2 ._2_____- Saint Agnes, Saint Mauritius.
BellininiGiovannise see ee The Resurrection of Christ.
iBohemilanvew1o0 0) === as eee Madonna and Child With Donor.
Bosch, Hieronymus. S22) =) Sse Saint John on Mount Patmos.

Reverse: Passion of Christ.
Botticelli Alessandroses. eee Madonna and Child With Singing Angels.
Botticelli; Alessandro. 22 Simonetta Vespucci.
Botticelli, Alessandros222_* 2222s Giuliano de’ Medici.
Botticelli, Alessandro _____-_________. Saint Sebastian.

Botticelli, Alessandro__.__-__-__-_-_-. Venus.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41

Artist Title
ESOGES! MOTT eek teehee ME a ar ree Shae 6 Madonna in Adoration.
BOUTS DIT ce?) ene aaa Madonna and Child.
Bronzing, “ANZelO. = ae ee Portrait of a Youth.
Bronzing, Angelos i= <9. este. Ugolino Martelli.
Bronzino;PAngelo_s-2- =2it2 2S _ eke Portrait of a Young Man.
Brueghel, Pieter, the Elder________-- Flemish Folk Sayings.
Brueghel, Pieter, the Elder_________- Pair of Fettered Apes.
Burckmair, Hanssen fae 2 ete The Holy Family.
Caracciolo, Giovanni Battista__._____ Two Physicians in the Role of Saint Cos-
mas and Saint Damian.
Michelangelo da Caravaggio_________. Conquering Love.
Carpaccio, Vittores =. 89 2.3. Burial of Christ.
@astaeno; Andrea dele = 2 s- ese ee: The Ascension of Mary.
Chardin, Jean-Baptiste-Simeon_______ The Draftsman.
Chardin, Jean-Baptiste-Simeon______- Still Life With Pheasant.
Whnristis meetniS*.- sok oa 8 tk, Saint Barbara Presents a Carthusian
Monk to the Madonna.
Whiristuseetris s+ 2 on te. Lady Talbot.
Joos van Cleve, the Hlder________-__ Young Man With a Glove.
Colognee A002 2322s.) ote ee The Life of Christ.
WOlOMNEHCs 135 0 Se ee ie ee le Diptych: Madonna and Child Enthroned,
Crucifixion.
Correggio (Antonio Allegri) _----____ Leda and the Swan.
Cossaehirancesco dele soa ee Allegory of the Harvest.
Cranach, Lucas, the Elder___--_----~ Lucretia.
Cranach, Lueas, the Elder__--____-__- Rest on the Flight Into Egypt.
Cranach, Lucas, the Elder__--___-__- Frau Reuss.
orenzodi.Credi. (2) 22. 322 Portrait of a Young Lady.
Master of the Darmstadt
Passion Middle Rhenish____-_____- The Madonna Enthroned.
Master of the Darmstadt
Passion Middle Rhenish_____-_____. Adoration of the Magi.
Master of the Darmstadt
Passion Middle Rhenish____-_-____. The Holy Trinity.
Master of the Darmstadt
Passion Middle Rhenish_____-_____ Story of the Cross.
Domenico iV eneziano-_- +--+ =. Martyrdom of Saint Lucy.
Domenico Veneziano (?)------------. Adoration of the Magi.
Domenico Veneziano (?)------------. Portrait of a Young Lady.
mer. Albnech tis. 4 tes 2 Hieronymus Holzschuher.
Munem Albrech tes’. = ae eae Madonna in Prayer.
Durer Albrech(=_ 222. = 2 4 ss = Madonna With the Siskin.
Durer: -Albrecht— +22 es Portrait of a Young Woman.
Hisheimer, A CaM <2. 2033. et eee Landscape With Penitent Magdalen.
MI Sheimenrs cA dames. eee ek The Holy Family with Angels.
Hisheimer, Adam (2). =e see Noah’s Thank Offering.
isheimer.~ Adams (0?) == oe Saint Christopher,
WV CK STAN Vane FH rn est wt, Giovanni Arnolfini.
My Cle Ua Via sce Sa ee, Madonna and Child in a Church.
) CFR 6) 5 We fs ese Christ Crucified.

Hy CkcU AD} Va a2 2 Yer So A 8 2 The Man With the Pink.

‘
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Artist Title
Hy ck dan vans 5! 28 ts he ere Baldwin Delannoy, Knight of the Golden
Fleece.

Robert Campin, Master of Flemalle__, The Crucifixion.
Robert Campin, Master of Flemalle__ Portrait of a Man.

Mouquet; Jean st Sao Bees Etienne Chevalier and Saint Stephen.

Mrench, ¢) 14002. <— 22s a ea es ae Coronation of Mary.

Mrench ¢, 1400222 2222s Diptych: Christ on the Cross.
The Man of Sorrows.

Geertgen Tot Sint Jans____-__--_-_~-- John the Baptist in the Wilderness.

Geertgen Tot Sint Jans_____------~-- Madonna and Child.

Giorgione.24-22- J aan Oe BS Portrait of a Young Man.

Giotto’di Bondone-_ 2) es Death of Mary.

Giovanni di, Paolo. 220) inebele: The Crucifixion.

Giovanni di! Paclo=—_ = eae Admission of Saint Clara to a Cloister.

Giovanni di Paolo’ See Saint Clara Aids the Shipwrecked.

Gossaert Jan (Mabuse)_-------____-. Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane.

Gossaert Jan (Mabuse)_—-_-________-. Baudouin de Bourbon.

Guardi\ Wrancescoss2- 22 = eee Balloon Ascension on the Giudecca.

Guardi, Wrancesco#22_ 3 2 oe The Piazzetta in Venice.

Guardivhirancesco. 222 ee Plaza San Marco, Venice.

ERS Rr err et ee a ne a i as EE Portrait of a Young Man.

Val Sepia ee ah ST Portrait of a Young Woman.

Va Sseliran SF ek be all ect EE Singing Boy With a Flute.

HaleteN rans). ee at Shae A es Tyman Oosdorp.

tals SMrange tos enn | ae The Witch of Haarlem, Malle Bobbe.

Tals; Wransess Get Ghee The Child-Nurse and Her Charge.

Hobbema, Meindert=.— A Road Winding Amongst Clumps of
Trees and Small Farms.

Holbein, Hans, the Younger_________- Portrait of an Elderly Man.

Holbein, Hans, the Younger_________- George Gisze,

Holbein, Hans, the Younger___.___-___ Hermann Hillebrandt Wedigh.

iEooch, Pieter de) Caee as eee The Bugler.

Eooch;. Pieter det 2222 eee eee The Mother.

Kalt,< Willem: 2 22 2 eee ee Still Life,

Kal fe aWiitl em 2a se ee ee Still Life.

iconinck se hilips =a ee eee Panorama of Holland.

a Tours Georges desse ae. sae Saint Sebastian Mourned by Saint Irene
and Her Ladies.

beyden;, uucas vanen =o! ae The Chesg Players.

eyden, uilcas: Vane ee Madonna and Child with Angels.

Mippi, Wilippino === = eee Allegory of Music.

Mippi, ra shiny ote ee eee The Madonna Adoring the Christ Child.

MOrenzettl. (eiethO ee. eee ene Saint Humilitas Heals a Sick Nun.

HSOTCNZELELASETELIOl ener 5 tee er Ree ee nee Death of Saint Humilitas.

Lorrain, Claude (Gellee)__________-. Italian Coastal Landscape in Early Morn-
ing Light.

Lotto; Lorenzo_..-.-- =2200 Sse ees Jesus Takes Leave of His Mother,

Mainardi, Sebastiano 2202222 aa Portrait of a Young Man With a Red Cap.

Mantegna Andreas Bis oh ea Cardinal Lodovico Mezzarota.

Mantegna, Andrea__._- _-2 Site 7 Saar Presentation in the Temple.

Marmion; Simon ve. 1) siirus ede Altar of Saint Omer Life of Saint Bertin.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

Artist Title
Marmion; Simonssa0in see im aie Altar of Saint Omer Life of Saint Bertin.
IMartinizy Simonecs = -se0eois Sah shit ee The Burial of Christ.
MaSaCciol 2 3 Se fee EUS Adoration of the Magi.
IMatSa CCl OU a we a ee A ah Prat Martyrdom of Saint Peter.
Martyrdom of Saint John, Baptist.
MIPSC CHOU SH Se a ck ets Eire Saint Julian Slays His Parents.
Saint Nicolas Endows Three Maidens.
MaSACCLO S28. SURO G OS Eat de Pr | toe The Four Saints Predella.
An Elderly Carmelite.
IMASHCCIONT? 28 Poyitit t SAT Ne *Rel The Four Saints PredeHa,
Saint Augustine.
MS SHeCiuterd 22) fio sed 6d) Ct ser ye The Four Saints Predella.
Saint Jerome.
MASH CCIOMS tae O GTA. ihe JO Ree The Four Saints Predella,
A Young Carmelite.
MPSA CCLOE ne Sai risen 8 oes Oe Bae: Felicitations at the Birth of a Florentine
of Patrician Family.
Memlingaiians 252. Seas 8 eek Madonna and Child.
Memiling: Hans — 7. sheers ie2F Madonna and Child.
IMemling« Hang teu 2 ies oe ee te ee Madonna and Child.
Memmi, Thippo.. 222 Us Sas ed te Madonna and Child.
Metsys;: Quentine——__ Susu ee ab eas The Mourning Magdalen.
Mostaert,/Jantivnates 21 far sit Portrait of a Man.
Guwater, Aclbert ‘vans. 2= 223 eis Resurrection of Lazarus.
PalimamsVecehiO == ase e te eu! Portrait of a Man,
Palmas Vecchio=-2 = = See Ae A Young Woman.
Panini Giovanni Paoloses rs ie 5te Composite View of the Ruins of Rome.
Patinir# Joachim 2s.e0t et ss ist Rest on the Flight Into Egypt.
BieroxdicCosimose.—_ 5 saat eee ee Venus, Mars and Amor.
Pollarmolo; Antonio 22— ve ees David With the Head of Goliath.
Poussin Nicolass#e2. sate ue The Roman Campagna With Saint Mat-
thew and the Angel.
RoussinyONicolas== os = 3 Bee Jupiter Nourished by the Goat, Amalthea.
maphael] 23 2. oo ee a eT Madonna and Child.
Raphaelite s i sien OR! ee sit ads Madonna and Child With the Little Saint
John.
Rapnael_ 2 sees eect, Te ee Madonna and Child With the Little Saint
John.
iRemprand fase ee0 sere So See ee Daniel’s Vision.
Rembrandt 2== Sieh ee Hendrikje Stoffels.
Rembprandts23 2852 Se ons fet eee Landscape With a Bridge.
Rembrandt 22-52 2 22 ek re) The Man With the Golden Helmet.
ihembrandta— =. sae ee Moses Breaking the Tablets of the Law.
Rembrand t== 222s Se Sew ey es geo Old Man With the Red Cap.
em bran Gea aie en as 5 te AT Minerva.
Rembrandt sao = ot Ae BOs hk, Potiphar’s Wife Accuses Joseph.
Rembrandt. 222 son os BO LN 1 Beek 4 The Preaching of John the Baptist.
ihembprandteass 2a = ae eee I, Proserpine.
Rembrandt==—2- = wees Se eA A Rabbi.
Rembrandt2 = = sees ee bas 2 OS Saskia.

Rembrand ts = ear Ps Self Portrait,
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Artist Title

Rembrandts2 22. a8) foal) 4 ae Susanna and the Elders.

Rembrandt22——_—_ 2 te a See Tobias and the Angel.

Rubens; Peter Pauls Andromeda.

Rubens; Peter Paul2:.<.2 Isabella Brandt.

Rubens; jeter Fault Landscape With the Shipwreck of Aeneas.

Rubens, Leter’ Paule=_ ee Madonna and Child Enthroned With
Saints.

Rubens; Peter Paules.2. 22.22 Perseus Frees Andromeda.

Rubens, Peter Paullc.s421 eee Saint Cecilia.

Ruisdael, Jacob yansise2- 3a ss Haarlem From the Dunes at Overveen.

Sacchi Andrea (2) 22-22) eee Alessandro del Borro.

Salsse that 22 ate Bees eR BSE Episode From the Legend of Saint Fran-
cis.

Sassettat 22 see tn OP be AB ek The Mass of Saint Francis.

Sehongauer, Martine+2-2=.2_2<2_ 4 _ The Nativity.

Piombo, Sebastiano del (?)---------- A Nobleman in the Costume of a Knight
of Saint James.

Piombo, ‘Sebastiano deleae2 = =2-=——=3 Portrait of a Young Lady of Rome.

Seghers,, Hercules. 220-52 22-222 View of Rhenen.

Signorellif ucal=_—— Se eae Portrait of an Elderly Man.

Signorellimuca.——- ees ee Saint Catherine of Siena, the Magdalen,
and Saint Jerome.

Sisnorellm@iucdae—--- 2 see 2 ee eee Saints Augustine, Anthony of Padua,
Catherine of Alexandria.

Squarcione, Francesco___-~---------- Madonna and Child.

Steen, Jia@l== 22222 222. te ee Baptismal Party,

Steen Janse ant oe te ne ne The Garden of the Inn.

Strozzi, (bernardos.2 33 =e Judith With the Head of Holofernes.

TersBoreh. Gerard 2222. tase ae The Concert.

Ter (Borch.Gerard2eo. Sea Ss eres Fatherly Advice.

Tiepolo, Giovanni Battista_______--__-_ Martyrdom of Saint Agatha.

Tiepolo, Giovanni Battista______-___- Rinaldo in Armida’s Enchanted Garden.

Tiepolo, Giovanni Battista______-___- Via Crucis.

Mintoretto;acopos- 22 ee Doge Mocenigo.

Tintoretto;Jacopo2s2- 4 225 et Portrait of a Man With a Long White
Beard.

PD td aires: tiles crete ENE ed i he ed A Daughter of Roberto Strozzi.

eG ei eee ee ee ee ee Portrait of a Young Man.

PRT tia Se oes eee a re Pe. Self Portrait.

Mata Se eee as a Bah Titian’s Daughter, Lavinia.

4 Le 0 oe ee Oey ee ere | Venus With the Organ Player.

ura. Cosimotsvt<.. 20 - 2. sseee Se: Saint Christopher.

Pura Cosimo ss 4298 ee eee Saint Sebastian.

Velazquez de Silva, Diego____________ Countess Olivares.

Velde;Adriaen\ van dea2=_- = aes The Farm.

Wermeer (Jianues! 222222 4 users ate ee, The Pear] Necklace.

VETMeCCr dame 2 = eet ee The Taste of Wine.

Verrocehio;;Andrea delo-__— = Madonna and Child.

Verrocehio; Andrea dela 22 eee Madonna and Child,

Master of the Virgo Inter Virgines___. Adoration of the Magi.
Wiatteau,wAntoinee. = hs The French Comedians.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

Artist Title
Ws bteAUi An COIn@s eo. es Le The Italian Comedians,
WiRtCeGHU, -AMtOMG@l eno a See tT Outdoor Festival.
Westphalian ec. 1250-1270___..________ Altarpiece: The Trinity With Mary and
Saint John.
Weyden, Rogier van der________-___- Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy.
Weyden, Rogier van der________-___- The Nativity.
Weyden, Rogier van der________-___- Augustus and the Tiburtine Sibyl.
Weyden, Rogier van der________-___- The Magi.
Weyden, Rogier van der_____________ The Saint John Altar. The Life of Saint
Jobn.
Weyden, Rogier van der (School of). Joys and Sorrows of Mary.
Weyden, Rogier van der________-___- Portrait of a Young Woman.
WiltzeeIWOnrad@ e226 ee The Decision on the Redemption of Man.
Watzecwonrad cs-2 2) Testes Ga The Crucifixion.
WaumMier VLONnOne +. © es Pris ery! oy Don Quixote.
Manet: Wdouard2:) 23ers. The Greenhouse.
ACQUISITIONS

PURCHASE OF PAINTING

On February 11, 1946, the Board of Trustees approved the purchase
of the painting, “Siegfried and the Rhine Maidens,” by Albert P.
Ryder, with funds of the Gallery.

GIFTS OF PAINTING AND SCULPTURE

On October 10, 1945, the Board of Trustees accepted the painting,
“Lady with a Harp—(Eliza Ridgely),” by Thomas Sully, from Mrs.
Maude Monell Vetlesen. The Board of Trustees on December 7, 1945,
accepted the portrait of Aaron Baldwin, by Francis Alexander, from
Mrs. Earle E. Bessey, the paintings, “The Johnstone Group,” by Sir
Henry Raeburn, “Soap Bubbles” and “The Magic Lantern,” by
Charles-Amedee-Philippe van Loo, from Mrs. Florence S. Schuette,
the portrait of Governor Charles Ridgely, by Thomas Sully, from Mr.
and Mrs. John Ridgely of Hampton, and the paintings, “A Courtyard,
Doge’s Palace, with the Procession of the Papal Legate,” “A Fete
Day, Venice,” “The Square of St. Mark’s,” and “Venice, The Quay of
the Piazzetta,” by Canaletto, from Mrs. Barbara Hutton. On Decem-
ber 19, 1945, the Board of Trustees accepted the bronze portrait bust,
Imaginary Portrait after a Late Roman Bust, by Lodovico Lombardi,
from Mr. Stanley Mortimer. On May 10, 1946, the Board of Trustees
accepted the portrait of Count Ludovico Vidmano, by Tiberio Tinelli,
from Samuel L. Fuller, and on the same date the Board also accepted
two bronzes and about half a dozen selected small paintings from
George Matthew Adams.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

GIFTS OF DECORATIVE ARTS

On December 7, 1945, the Board of Trustees accepted two miniature
paintings on porcelain, Louis de Bourbon, Prince de Conde (Le
Grand Conde), and Henri Jules, Duc d’Albret (later Prince de Conde),
by Jean Petitot, the Elder, from Lessing J. Rosenwald.

GIFTS OF PRINTS AND DRAWINGS

The Board of Trustees, on July 26, 1945, accepted a set of elephant
folio of John James Audubon’s Birds of America, consisting of 435
unbound plates, a set of five volumes of text pertaining to those plates,
and miscellaneous letters, clippings, and other papers relating to the
plates, from Mrs. Walter B. James. On December 7, 1945, the Board
accepted an engraving, “George Town and Federal City or City of
Washington,” from Otis T. Bradley. On May 10, 1946, the Board
accepted a lithograph, “In Memory of the Children of Europe Who
Have To Die of Cold and Hunger This Xmas,” by Oscar Kokoschka,
from Oscar Kokoschka, 17 lithographs from the United States Army
Forces, Middle Pacific, a collection of prints, drawings, and etchings
by Legros from George Matthew Adams, and a print “L’Heureuse
Fecondite,” designed by Fragonard and engraved by Nicolas de
Launay, from Edwin Wolf, II.

LOAN OF WORKS OF ART TO THE GALLERY

During the fiscal year 1946 the following works of art were received
on loan:

Particulars Artist
From Clarence Y. Palitz, New York, N. ¥.:
The ‘Nymph of the :Spring__. 2 2 Lueas Cranach the Elder.

From William A. Coolidge, Washington, D. C.:
View of San Giorgio and the Dogana from

thesPiazzadi san’ Marcos -= —-- se ee Canaletto.
Ge Laboureur 22 2 eee Vincent van’ ‘Gorn:
River View at St. Mammes___.___-=__-_- Alfred Sisley.
Landscape on Isle of Wight----_---____ — Joseph Mallord William Turner.

From Mrs. Arthur Iselin and William Jay
Iselin, Katonah, N. Y.:

Cinef: Justice Jon: Jay. == = — Gilbert Stuart.
Alexander Hamrltonsss 22 See John Trumbull.
From Mrs. Dwight Davis, Washington, D. C.:
Captain. Patrick Millens:) 35 2'4 — Sir Henry Raeburn.
From the Army Institute of Pathology, Wash-
ington, D. C.:
1D Pes (oy oValyl S Lee 6 eth ay 0) 0 eae eae we ge Li Thomas Eakins.

From Samuel H. Kress and the Samuel H.
Kress Foundation, New York, N. Y.:
86 paintings and 12 pieces of sculpture.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

Particulars Artist
From Madame Charlotte Fuerstenberg, Jo-
hannesburg, Africa:
12 French paintings.
From James Hazen Hyde, New York, N. Y.:

large Brussels tapesthy—-=- 8 = 2 ake Signed “A, Auwercx.”
From Colonel Axel H. Oxholm, Washington,
DPCEs;
Martha Washington__-~.--_._-_ ____._._ Attributed to Ralph Earl.
From Frederick Sturges, Jr., New York, N. ¥.:
Newport Elarbor,) W807 2 eu ee res John §. Kensett.

LOAN OF WORKS OF ART BY THE GALLERY

During the fiscal year 1946 the Gallery loaned the following works
of art for exhibition purposes:

Particulars Artist

To the George Walter Vincent Smith Art Gal-
lery, Springfield, Mass. :

The Lackawanna Valley__..__--___-=__~ George Inness.
To the Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, IIL:

Both Members of This Club___-----_---__ George Bellows.
To the Century Association, New York, N. Y.:

Portrait of Nathaniel Hawthorne__—____- Emanuel Leutze.

Both Members of This Club__-----_--_-_-- __ George Bellows.
To the Tate Gallery, London, England:

ipreezing. Wpss-_.-- 2 BVA Lee ee —_ Winslow Homer.

Georses Washington. =e ee Gilbert Stuart.

MISeerichanrds Vates-= 22m =e sence soe eee Gilbert Stuart.

The Lackawanna Valley___-.________-__ George Inness.

Siegfried and the Rhine Maidens______- —_. Albert P. Ryder.

Apliiien diy. Gallet 8 < F vi (OY wre tn! William Merritt Chase.

Governor Charles Ridgely___-____--__ — Thomas Sully.
To the White House, Washington, D. C.:

Portrait of George Washington___-______ Rembrandt Peale.

To the U. 8S. Department of State, Blair Lee
House, Washington, D. C.:
7 prints from the Rosenwald Collection.

EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1946:

Soldier art. Winning entries in the National Army Arts Contest, sponsored
and financed by the Special Services Division, United States Army Service Forces,
from July 4 to September 4, 1945.

Currier and Ives prints. Lent by Harry T. Peters, from July 22 to November
25, 1945.

New acquisitions in the Rosenwald Collection. A selection of prints from
the new acquisitions in the Rosenwald Collection, from September 9 to November
4, 1945.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Marine Corps battle art. Paintings and sketches made on Pacific battlefields,
from Guadalcanal to Okinawa; sponsored and financed by the United States
Marine Corps, marking the one hundred and seventieth anniversary of the
founding of the Corps, from November 10 to December 16, 1945.

Prints. Selections from the National Gallery’s collection of prints and draw-
ings, from November 27, 1945, to March 6, 1946.

Kress additions to the National Gallery of Art. Paintings and sculpture lent to
the Kress Collection of the National Gallery of Art by Samuel H. Kress and the
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, opening February 2, 1946.

Medicine in prints. A collection formed by Dr. Clements C. Fry of the Depart-
ment of Health, Yale University, from February 10 to March 24, 1946.

Hogarth and Rowlandson prints. From the Lessing J. Rosenwald Collection,
from February 17 to May 19, 1946.

Facsimiles of Russian folk prints. From the Rosenwald Collection, from
March 7 to May 18, 1946.

Life of Christ as depicted in the etchings of Rembrandt. Prints from the
Rosenwald Collection and an anonymous lender, from May 14, 1946, to continue
approximately 2 months.

Audubon prints, “Birds of America.” Elephant folio set by John James
Audubon, from May 26, 1946, to continue approximately 2 months.

Fine arts under fire. Photographs in 80 panels showing the work of the
Monuments and Fine Arts Officers in Europe, from May 14 to June 2, 1946.

I Remember That. Interiors of a generation ago, from a selection of water
colors from the Index of American Design, from June 4 to June 16, 1946.

Music in prints. Prints from the Rosenwald Collection, from June 18, 1946,
to continue for an indefinite period.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

Index of American Design. Exhibitions from this collection of
water colors, drawings, etc., have been shown during the fiscal year
1946 at the following places: University of New Hampshire, Durham,
N. H.; Elgin Art Academy Gallery, Elgin, Hl.; Baltimore Museum of
Art, Baltimore, Md.; University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.;
Beauvoir National Cathedral Elementary School, Washington, D. C.;
Kanawha County Public Library, Charleston, W. Va.; Society of
Liberal Arts, Joslyn Memorial, Omaha, Nebr.; California Palace of
the Legion of Honor, San Francisco, Calif.; the Newark Museum,
Newark, N. J.; Library of Congress, Washington, D. C.; Ohio State
Museum, Columbus, Ohio; American Federation of Arts, Washington,
D. C. (for circulation) ; Antiquarium League of Rochester, N. Y.;
American Embassy, Madrid, Spain; and George Washington
University, Washington, D. C.

Rosenwald prints. Special exhibitions of prints from the Rosen-
wald Collection were circulated during the fiscal year 1946 to the fol-
lowing places: Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.; Free
Library of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.; Philadelphia Art Al-
liance, Philadelphia, Pa.; American British Art Center, New York,
N. Y.; Library of Congress, Washington, D. C.; Cayuga Museum of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

Art and History, Auburn, N. Y.; Smith College Museum of Art,
Northampton, Mass.; and the Inter-American Office of the Nationa]
Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., for circulation in South America.
Five special exhibitions were held at Alverthorpe Gallery, Jenkin-
town, Pa., for the Tyler School of Art.

VARIOUS GALLERY ACTIVITIES

During the period from July 1, 1945, through June 30, 1946, a total]
of 52 Sunday evening concerts were given in the East Garden Court
of the Gallery. The concerts were free to the public and were attended
by over 50,000 persons. During March 1946, the Third American
Music Festival was held and attracted national as well as local interest.

Special suppers for service men and women were held every Sunday
night, during the war years, in the staff dining room of the National
Gallery of Art. Approximately 7,280 service men and women, many of
them in the service of our allies, attended. These suppers, free to the
guests, were made possible by generous contributions received from
friends and the staff of the National Gallery of Art.

Four additional prints of the 16-mm. sound version of the film,
“National Gallery of Art,” were acquired, making a total of six prints
now owned by the Gallery. Of these, one is now on indefinite loan at
the American Embassy in Paris, and a second one was taken by Mr.
Walker, Chief Curator of the Gallery, for showing abroad. Prints of
the film were borrowed by 13 institutions and individuals for showing.

A total of 186 color reproductions of works of art in the National
Gallery have been assembled, labeled, and framed. These reproduc-
tions, arranged in sets according to schools, were purchased by the
General Federation of Women’s Clubs for circulation among its clubs
in this country.

A total of 3,235 copies of press releases, 177 special permits to copy
paintings in the Gallery, and 86 special permits to photograph in the
Gallery were issued.

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

On July 1, 1945, a new section, staffed by a supervisor and two assist-
ants, was organized to carry out all work connected with the Index of
American Design. During the year, the 22,000 drawings were classi-
fied and filed. Plans were formulated for lending Index drawings, and
in this connection, working contacts have been established with many
private individuals, art museums, historical societies, etc. About
20 exhibitions of selected drawings were assembled and circulated.
A total of 160 original designs and 66 photographs were selected for
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

- use in connection with publications, and 130 photographs were dis-
tributed to artists, manufacturers, research students, etc.

INTER-AMERICAN OFFICE

During the year ended June 30, 1946, the Inter-American Office has
continued to carry out the Latin American art program of the Depart-
ment of State through the exchange of material and publications and
the assembling of information on Inter-American art activities. Dur-
ing this time six major photographic exhibitions and two exhibitions
of original art were prepared for circulation in Latin America; ap-
proximately 300 publications were widely distributed throughout the
Latin American countries and a booklet listing Traveling Exhibitions
of Latin American Art in the United States was compiled, published,
and distributed in this country.

CURATORIAL DEPARTMENT

During the past year there were 789 new accessions, either gifts,
loans, or deposits, including paintings, sculpture, prints, and the deco-
rative arts. These accessions were registered and the great majority
placed on exhibition. Three hundred and seventy works of art were
brought to the Gallery for expert opinion, involving 208 consultations.
The curatorial staff also made 103 written and 154 verbal replies to
questions from the public requiring research, and 23 visits were made
to collections of private individuals in connection with offers to the
Gallery of gifts or loans. Five members of the staff delivered 21 public
lectures on 11 topics.

Work on the revision of the original preliminary catalog, published
in 1941, has made considerable progress, and the first portion of the
new sculpture catalog, covering Medieval and Renaissance marbles
and terra cottas, was completed. At the same time, the cataloging and
filing of photographs in the Richter Archive continued, and will be
completed within the next year; this will make possible the cataloging
and filing of new accessions of photographs without delay as soon as
they are received. For the publications of the curatorial staff during
the year, see under Publications in this report.

Other important activities of the curatorial staff included the Tate
Gallery Exhibition in London, England, which consisted of an ex-
hibition of 220 American paintings, chosen from American museums
and private collections for showing in London at the Tate Gallery
in June and July. In addition to general organizing responsibilities,
Mr. Walker, Chief Curator of the Gallery, was chairman of the com-
mittee to select eighteenth- and nineteenth-century paintings.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51

The curatorial staff continued its assistance to the American Com-
mission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic
Monuments in War Areas (Justice Owen J. Roberts, Chairman) to
the end of the Commission’s activity on June 30, 1946.

Although the custodianship of the French Government collection
of works of art was terminated February 1, 1945, a number of paint-
ings continued to be housed and exhibited in the National Gallery
of Art. At the end of the past fiscal year preparations were begun
to remove all but six of those paintings for packing and shipment to
France.

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART

With the authorization of the Board and the approval of the Chief
Curator, the necessary restoration and repair of works of art in the
Gallery’s collection were made by Stephen S. Pichetto, Consultant
Restorer to the Gallery. All work was completed in the restorer’s
studio in the Gallery, with the exception of 39 paintings requiring
attention before they could be shipped to Washington or on which
work had already been begun in Mr. Pichetto’s New York studio.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

Approximately 15,000 persons attended the Gallery tours of the
collection, and 13,030 attended the lectures in the auditorium by staff
and visiting lecturers. The Picture of the Week, a 10-minute, twice-
daily talk on a single painting, continued to be a most popular feature,
attracting 25,029 persons during the year. Special tours, confer-
ences, and appointments were arranged for 2,599 persons.

LIBRARY

A total of 802 books, 160 pamphlets, and 98 periodicals were pre-
sented to the Gallery; 7 books were purchased by the Gallery; 135
photographs and 196 kodachrome slides were presented as gifts; 35
books, 43 pamphlets, and 443 bulletins were received on exchange
from other institutions; and 26 subscriptions to periodicals were
made; 3,589 books were borrowed and returned, of which number
3,504 were from the Library of Congress and the remaining 85 from
art museum and university libraries.

PHOTOGRAPHIC DEPARTMENT

During the year the photographic laboratory of the Gallery made
13,195 prints, 669 black-and-white slides, and 2,026 color slides, in
addition to 821 negatives, and 178 X-rays, infrared photographs,
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

ultraviolet photographs, kodachromes, and sets of color-separation
negatives.
OTHER GIFTS

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1946, gifts of books on art
and related material were made to the Gallery by Paul Mellon, Mrs.
W. C. Eustis, the Victoria and Albert Museum, Donald D. Shepard,
the Dumbarton Oaks Library, the Exchange and Gift Division of the
Library of Congress, the educational department of the Young
Women’s Christian Association, Wells M. Sawyer, and Leander
McCormick-Goodhart. Gifts of money during the fiscal year 1946
were received from Mrs. Florence Becker, David E. Finley, Macgill
James, Paul Mellon, Duncan Phillips, Lessing J. Rosenwald, and The
A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit is being made of the private funds of the Gallery for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1946, by Price, Waterhouse & Co., public
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination
of the accounting records maintained for such funds will be submitted
to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

Hontincton Cairns, Secretary.

Dr. ALEXANDER WETMORE,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1946:

APPROPRIATIONS

For the administration of the National Collection of Fine Arts
by the Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary
employees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling
expenses, and other necessary incidental expenses, $14,550 was allotted,
of which $5,018.19 was expended in connection with the care and
maintenance of the Freer Gallery of Art, a unit of the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts. The balance was spent for the care and upkeep
of the National Collection of Fine Arts, nearly all of this sum being
required for the payment of salaries, traveling expenses, purchase of
books and periodicals, and BSCSeaEY. disbursements for the care of
the collection.

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The twenty-third annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion was held on December 4, 1945. The members assembled in Gallery
3 of the National Collection of Fine Arts, in the Natural History
Building, at 10:30 a. m., where, as the advisory committee on the
acceptance of works of art which had been submitted during the year,
they accepted the following:

Oil painting, The Woodland Way, by William Baxter Closson (1848-1926).
Gift of the executors of Mrs. Closson’s estate.

Oil painting, Portrait of George Catlin, by William Fisk, R. A. (1796-1872).
Gift of Miss May C. Kinney, Ernest C. Kinney, and Bradford Wickes.

Miniature, Miss Clementine Dalcour in Mourning, by A. Margaretta Archam-
bault. Gift of the artist.

Miniature, Woman Knitting, by Mary Ursula Whitlock (1860-1944). Gift of
the executors of the artist’s estate. Accepted for the Smithsonian Institution.

The members then adjourned to the offices of Dr. Wetmore, Secretary
of the Institution, for the further proceedings, and the meeting was
called to order by the chairman, Mr. Manship.

The members present were: Paul Manship, chairman; Dr. Alexander
Wetmore (ex officio) ; and Robert W. Bliss, John N. Brown, George

53
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

H. Edgell, David E. Finley, George H. Myers, Archibald G. Wenley,
and Mahonri M. Young. Ruel P. Tolman, Curator of the Division of
Graphic Arts in the United States National Museum and Acting
Director of the National Collection of Fine Arts, also attended.

The following resolutions on the death of Herbert Adams were
submitted and adopted:

Whereas, the Smithsonian Art Commission has learned of the death on May
21, 1945, of Mr. Herbert Adams, a member of the Commission since 1921; there-
fore be it

Resolved, That the Commission desires here to record its sincere sorrow at
the passing of Mr. Adams, an eminent sculptor, whose productions are an enduring
monument to his genius. He was ever ready with helpful advice in formulating
the policies of the Smithsonian Art Commission and the National Collection of
Fine Arts. His helpful interest in the affairs of the Commission will be sadly
missed.

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the commission,
and that the secretary be requested to inform the family of Mr. Adams of this
action.

The resignation of Edward W. Redfield was submitted and accepted
with regret. A letter of appreciation for his long and faithful service
was ordered sent to him.

The commission recommended to the Board of Regents the name of
John Taylor Arms to succeed Mr. Adams, and Eugene E. Speicher
to succeed Mr. Redfield.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Paul Man-
ship, chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman, and Dr.
Alexander Wetmore, secretary.

The commission recommended to the Board of Regents the reelection
of John Nicholas Brown, Mahonri M. Young, George Hewitt Myers,
and Robert Woods Bliss for the usual 4-year period.

The following were elected members of the executive committee for
the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss,
and Gilmore D. Clark. Paul Manship, as chairman of the Commis-
sion, and Dr. Alexander Wetmore, as secretary of the Commission, are
ex officio members of the executive committee.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Two miniatures, water color on ivory, were acquired from the fund
established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer,
as follows:

53. Charles Wm. McGinnes (1793- ), by Carl Weinedel (1795-1845) ; from
Mrs. Robert L. Jones, Richland, Wash.

54. Samuel Douchy, by Nathaniel Rogers (1788-1844) ; from Mrs. Frederic
Fairchild Sherman, Millington, N. J.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55
THE REV. ALFRED DUANE PELL FUND

The following two pieces of pottery were acquired from the fund
established through the bequest of the late Rev. Alfred Duane Pell,
as follows:

One vase, Mountains of the Moon, designed and executed by Lea Halpern, of
Holland; from Miss Halpern.

One stoneware bottle, designed and executed by Bernard Leach, of England;
from the British Crafts Exhibition.

LOANS ACCEPTED

A marine painting by Lionel Walden (1861-1933), was lent by
Admiral Chester W. Nimitz on December 11, and withdrawn on De-
cember 21, 1945.

Three miniatures, water color on ivory, Dr. John Austin, of British
Guiana, attributed to Alexander Robertson (1772-1841); Jonathan
Amory (1802-1885) of Boston, by unknown artist, and Mrs. Jonathan
Amory (1806/09-1875), (daughter of Dr. John Austin), by Mme.
Busset, were lent by Miss E. M. Matthews of Chevy Chase, Md., on
February 14, 1946,

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

A marble bust of Mrs. William C. Preston, by Hiram Powers, lent
by James Q. Davis in 1926, was withdrawn by the owner and sent to
the University of South Carolina on July 3, 1945.

Three portraits, by ‘Charles Willson Peale, of Mrs. Elliott, Mrs.
John O’Donnell, and Mary O’Donnell, and one by Charles Peale Polk
of George Washington, lent in 1917, were withdrawn by the owner,
Miss Mary Eugenia Parke, on December 17, 1945.

Two pastels, The Cliffs Aflame, and Patsy, and five oil paintings,
Looking Far Out, Joyous Childhood, The Red Barn, Peonies, and
Springtime, by William B. Closson, lent in 1940, were withdrawn by
the executors of Mrs. Closson’s estate on February 21, 1946.

A silver tankard, lent by Ensign Edward Shippen, United States
Naval Reserve, in 1944, was withdrawn by the owner on April 5, 1946.

DEPOSITS

Three bronzes which had been in the art room of the Smithsonian
Institution for many years, two entitled Augustus Caesar, and the
other, Centaur, by unknown sculptors, were deposited by the Smith-
sonian Institution.

725362—47——_5
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS

Two oil paintings, Portrait of Commodore Stephen Decatur, by
Gilbert Stuart, and Portrait of Admiral William S. Sims, by Irving
R. Wiles, were lent to the United States Naval Academy for an exhi-
bition of naval personages and traditions, in connection with the
ceremonies held in observing the centennial anniversary of the found-
ing of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, on October 10,
1945, held at M. Knoedler & Co., New York City, September 24 through
October 13, 1945. (Returned November 6, 1945.)

Two miniatures, Mrs. Bertha E. Jaques, by Nelly McKenzie Tol-
man, and Woman Knitting, by Mary Ursula Whitlock, were lent to
the Pennsylvania Society of Miniature Painters to be included in
their annual exhibition in Philadelphia and Washington. (Returned
December 3, 1945.)

An oil painting, The Visit of the Mistress, by Winslow Homer, was
lent to the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, Va., to be in-
cluded in their exhibition of Nineteenth Century Virginia Genre
Painting, January 17 through February 18, 1946. (Returned Febru-
ary 25, 1946.)

The original design for the painting in the Capitol, Westward the
Course of Empire Takes Its Way, by Emanuel Leutze, was lent to The
Century Association for an exhibition held at their club, New York
City, February 7 through March 3, 1946. (Returned March 7, 1946.)

Four water colors by William H. Holmes, A Maryland Meadow,
Watt’s Branch, Near Rockville, A Storm-Beaten Coast, The Unmodi-
fied Rock Creek About 1910, and Coal Barge, Capri, 1880, were lent
to The White House, January 25, 1946.

Three oil paintings, Conway Hills, by Frederick Ballard Williams,
The Meadow Brook, by Charles P. Gruppe, and Sea and Rain, by
George H. Bogert, were lent to the Treasury Department, March 14,
1946, to be hung in the large conference room in the Treasury Building.

Two pastel portraits of Gen. George Washington and Mrs. Martha
Washington, by James Sharples, were lent, with the consent of the
owners, Mrs. Robert E. Lee, Dr. George Bolling Lee, Mrs. Hanson E.
Ely, Jr., and Mrs. William Hunter de Butts, to Knoedler Galleries,
New York City, to be included in an exhibition sponsored by the
Robert E. Lee Memorial Foundation called “Stratford Hall, the Lees
of Virginia, and Their Contemporaries,” from April 30 to May 18,
1946. (Returned May 27, 1946.)

LOANS RETURNED

One oil painting, Portrait of Andrew Jackson, by R. E. W. Earle,
lent to the Baltimore Museum of Art, was returned July 21, 1945.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

Two oil paintings, The Woodland Way, and Joyous Childhood, by
William Baxter Closson, lent to the civilian medical division, War
Department, were returned November 21, 1945.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

No. 115. Wreck at Lobster Cove, by Andrew Winter, N. A. (1893- ), pur-
chased in 1940 by the council of the National Academy of Design from the fund
provided by the Henry Ward Ranger bequest, was assigned by the council to
the Winchester Public Library, Winchester, Mass., December 7, 1945.

The following two paintings were recalled for action on the part of
the Smithsonian Art Commission, in accordance with the provision
in the Ranger bequest. The Smithsonian Art Commission decided not
to accept the paintings and they were returned to the museums to
which they were originally assigned:

No. 61. Woodland Nymph, by Douglas Volk, N. A. (1856-1935), assigned
to the Atlanta Art Association and High Museum of Art, May 16, 1927.

No. 67. A Long Island Garden, by Childe Hassam, N. A. (1859-1935), assigned
to the Kansas City Art Institute, February 27, 1929.

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY

A total of 414 publications (277 volumes and 137 pamphlets) were
accessioned. This number includes 152 volumes and 36 pamphlets
purchased, the priced auction catalogs of the Parke-Bernet Galleries
accounting for 33 volumes and 30 pamphlets. The other accessions
were publications received by exchange, gift, or transfer, with the
exception of 72 volumes of periodicals which were returned from the
bindery. This year’s additions brought the total library accessions
to 10,134.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

July 3 through October 9, 1945.—An oil painting, John Barrymore
as Hamlet, by John Slavin, of Richmond, Va., was shown in Gallery 2.

October 8 through 28, 1945—The Hon. William D. Pawley col-
lection of 27 portraits of “Flying Tigers,” by Raymond P. R. Neil-
son, N. A., was sponsored by the Chinese Ambassador to the United
States, Dr. Wei Tao-Ming. Catalog was privately printed.

October 7 through 28, 1945.—Exhibition of sculptures by Genaro
Amador Lira, of Nicaragua, consisting of 11 large pieces, 16 minia-
ture figures carved in wood and ivory and 1 cast in silver, was spon-
sored by the Pan American Union. A catalog was published by
the Pan American Union.

October 8 through 28, 1945.—Twenty portraits of members of the
Lafayette Escadrille, and a few other Americans who fought in
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

World War I, by John Elliott (1858-1925), from our permanent
collection. )

November 2 through 28, 1945—The Eighth Metropolitan State
Art Contest, held under the auspices of the District of Columbia
Chapter, American Artist’s Professional League, assisted by the
Entre Nous Club. There were 412 exhibits, consisting of paintings,
sculpture, prints, and metalcraft.

December 9, 1945, through January 6, 1946.—The forty-fourth an-
nual exhibition of miniatures by the Pennsylvania Society of Miniature
Painters, consisting of 100 miniatures. Reprint of catalog.

January 8 through 27, 1946—Exhibition of 53 portraits by Alfred
Jonniaux was held under the patronage of His Excellency, Baron
Robert Silvercruys, Belgian Ambassador to the United States. A
catalog was published by the artist.

February 1 through 24, 1946—A Century of the Greeting Card
(1846-1946), courtesy of Brownie’s Blockprints, Inc., of New York,
creators of the Brownie Greeting Cards. There were 186 panels
containing 949 cards. A catalog was privately published.

March 1 through 31, 1946—Exhibition of 538 oil and water-color
paintings, by Charles P. Gruppe (1860-1940).

April & through 28, 1946.—Exhibition of 54 paintings of Siam by
students of the School of Arts and Crafts, Bangkok, held under the
auspices of the Royal Siamese Legation.

May 12 through 29, 1946.—Biennial Exhibition of National League
of American Pen Women, including 582 art objects.

June 7 through 16, 1946—Scholastic Calendar Art Competition,
sponsored by the Washington Post, including 150 paintings.

Respectfully submitted.

R. P. Torman, Acting Director.

Dr. A. WETMORE,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the twenty-sixth annual report on
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1946.

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase were as follows:

46.2.

46.4.

46.5.

46.8.

46.10.

46.11.

46.3.

BRONZE

Chinese, Han dynasty (206 B. C.-A. D. 220). Gilt bronze cup with plum-
colored lacquer overbody, handle in form of a bird’s head with jewel
eyes and turquoise crest. 0.041 x 0.100 x 0.096.

Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C.). Ceremonial vessel of the type
ting, smooth bluish-green patina, occasional encrustrations of cuprite;
two upright inverted U-shaped handles on rim, band of decoration: cast
in relief around rim; three-character inscription inside. 0.156 x 0.151.

Chinese, Shang dynasty (1766-1122 B. C.). Weapon (ax) of the type ch‘i;
green to gray patina with patches of azurite and cuprite; hole with
thickened rim through upper center of blade, decoration cast in relief
on nei; nei and back of blade pierced for hafting; inscription of one
character. 0.827 x 0.251; weight: 6-3 pounds. (lIllustrated.)

Chinese, Han dynasty (206 B. C.-A. D. 220). Gilt bronze garment hook in
dragon form; back inlaid with 10 pieces of grayish-white to greenish
jade; broad piece of jade at back incised with mask pattern. 0.199 x
0.021.

Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1279). Gilt bronze Buddhist image;
standing figure of AvalokiteSvara in Yiinnanese style; gilding worn in
places; figure of Amitibha in headdress; right hand in vitarka mudra,
left hand in vara mudrad. 0.494 x 0.114.

Chinese, A. D. 6th-7th century. Toilet box with cover; smooth green
patina, incised landscape and dragon design on box and cover ; quatrefoil
and small loop on cover; three ball feet. 0.120 x 0.152.

GOLD

Korean, A. D. 8th-9th century. Headdress ornament, a standing Buddhist
image in repoussé relief ; surrounded by jeweled glory; 7 of the 19 jewels
missing; jewel in urna missing; right hand held before breast, left hand
pendant holding mala. 0.093 x 0.055.

59
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

MANUSCRIPT

45.41. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1868-1644). By Ch‘én Hsien-hsiang (A. D.
1428-1500), a poem of 14 characters in ink on paper; signature of two
characters, one seal; part of paper missing at lower edge. 1.834 x 0.915.
(Illustrated. )

METALWORK

45.33. Bactrian, 1st century B. C.-ist century A. D. Bowl (or boss) of thick
silver alloy; 12 human figures, a bear, a horse, and an eagle cast in
relief on outside, traces of gilding remain. 0.044x 0.191. (Ilustrated.)

46.7. Chinese, Han dynasty (206 B. C.-A: D. 220). Iron mirror, much rusted
with fragments of original silk container embedded in rust; gold sheet
inlaid on back with cut-out figure designs and some repoussé linear
designs. Diameter: 0.163.

PAINTING

45.83. A recent addition to the collection of the Freer Gallery of Art.

45.37. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644). By Sun Chih, dated in corre-
spondence with A. D. 1579. Autumn landscape; ink and color on paper ;
signature, date and two seals on painting; six seals and five inscriptions
on mount. 0.282 x 1.209.

45.88. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty (A. D. 1644-1912). By Chou Hao (A. D. 1685-
1773). A landscape in ink on paper; label, signature, six inscriptions
and six seals on painting, three inscriptions and nine seals on mount.
0.139 x 3.721.

POTTERY

45.34. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty (A. D. 1644-1912). Four-sided vase with animal-
istic handles, high foot; white porcelain, transparent colorless glaze
decorated with overglaze enamels; six-character mark of the Ch‘ien-lung
period (1736-1796) in underglaze blue on base. 0.272 x 0.192 x 0,121.

45.85. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644). Deep, thick-walled bowl; flat
ring foot ; white porcelain, transparent glaze over underglaze blue decora-
tion; six-character mark of the Hsiian-té period (1426-1435) in under-
glaze blue inside bottom. 0.126 x 0.266 (diameter).

45.36. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1868-1644). Large jar of heavily potted
white porcelain, transparent glaze over underglaze blue decoration ; two
shou characters included in design; six-character mark of the Chia-ching
period (1522-1567) in underglaze blue on neck. 0.531 x 0.522 (diameter).

45.39-

45.40. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty (A. D. 1644-1912). Pair of small bottles with
six-lobed bodies and slender cylindrica] necks; fine white porcelain cov-
ered with transparent glaze very faintly bluish in cast; decorated in
underglaze blue and overglaze enamels; six-character mark of the Yung-
chéng period (1723-1736) in underglaze-blue on bases. 45.39: 0.104 x
0.058; 45.40: 0.105 x 0.058.
Secretary s Report, 1946.—Appendix 4 PEATE 1

45.41

A recent addition to the collection of the Freer Gallery of Art.
Secretary's Report, 1946.—Appendix 4 PLATE

46.5

Recent additions to the collection of the Freer Gallery of Art.
46.1.

46.6.

46.9.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1279). ‘Tall vase with cover; southern
Kuan ware; fine gray clay, thinly potted, glossy bluish green-gray glaze,
lightly crackled; decorated with figures in high relief: two tigers, two
human figures on shoulder; cloud form with a character incised under
the glaze on neck; bird finial and cloud forms on cover. 0.338 x 0.133.

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty (A. D. 1644-1912). Compound vase formed of a
central vase around which five similar forms are attached with internal
communication ; fine white porcelain, very pale-green transparent glaze;
decoration with slip in low relief under glaze; six-character mark of the
Ch‘ien-lung period (1756-1796) in underglaze blue on base of central
vase. 0.165 x 0.140.

Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1279). Vase, Lung-ch‘tian celadon, bottle-
shaped with tall cylindrical neck surrounded by flat horizontal flange
ring; fine-grained light-gray porcelain, reddish brown at foot rim; thick,
opaque gray-green celadon glaze filled with minute bubbles. 0.165 x 0.072.

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects submitted for purchase, and to general research
work within the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Persian, and
Indian materials. The preparation of materials for publication and
the revision of earlier work has continued. Reports, oral or written,
were made upon 1,612 objects and 408 reproductions of objects sub-
mitted for examination by their owners, and 132 oriental language
inscriptions were translated. Docent service and public lectures given
by staff members are listed below.

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS

A total of 35 objects were repaired or remounted, as follows:

Chinese paintings remounted st. "ts 2922 Pee ese 9
Korean paintings remounted 22 24 GO. Oi) 1 oO ere oe ee th 2
Japanese paintings remountediseei es!) a5 pute ees, 2
Chinesel painting repaired] 2 testa Be ee al
Chinese album covers repaired and remade_________-__-_______ 5
Arabic painting repaineds.2---.. 3. Joe tment Temas 1
Persian. paintings repained....s4. 4. oer Rais ws 2,
@hinese.textiles.repaired 2.222 2-5... a et) eh Eee 2
Chinese, lacquer repaired 4 anos eanigng) hos bade testo otea 1
Ghinese. jades\irepairedie 2 Bananite ee ee tified cay 2
@hinese. bronze: repainedtiat ol _webe yovintudde sce ere ahiily 2 Supe 1
Chinese. pottery Irepaired sae 03.2 et ewe se oemad aii eee 33
Chinese stone sculpture repaired____.--._-.________.________ 1
Persian pottery: repaired_.--— = ta ee art wine oe 1
Arable? manuscript. moubted=_.__ 2 ae ere a al

Whistler. lithograph. repaired let b4 coutiiind wealeet we 1
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions totaled 662, as follows:

Chinese arts:

Bamboo? carving [nee Sas yo oe SNR gu 2S ees 4
Bronze, 2266 228 ee ee ee ee 143
Bronze: and. colds. ee ek 4
Bronzesand jade o's... se wee eee eee 16
Gold scifi, ae Se a nt a eee 2
Gold .and sivOni 6 ae ee ee eee 4
JRO Gyn 5 So aon gS ys cn RE Se 183
Marble carr ving: 2 hee ee ip ee Be eee 3
ahh bi et ee Ss a eno he eee a es oe ee 63
ROU GTyp toe ere a a oe, 101
Silver and sil ver “gilts sees ot Nee Po ee eee eee 28
Wood} Sculp Gtr Gee Bee ee Oe UPC Ss ER See EIS AA he ee 6
Japanese arts:
Wacquer we be sk ester he fare Wom el ie ee 11
Paintin gins oo ee oes A ae A Sn oe 42
Pottery: = SS ee 2 36
Korean arts:
Pottery soe oe Sek Oy SPS OI SALT ek Saks 0k SS Cee 16
ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4: 30 every day except
Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the main
entrance was 97,822. The weekday total was 65,311, and the Sunday
total was 82,511. The average weekday attendance was 203, the aver-
age Sunday attendance 626. The highest monthly attendance was in
June, with 10,454 visitors; the lowest in December, with 3,874 visitors.

There were 1,625 visitors to the main office during the year; the pur-
poses of their visits were as follows:

Hor .generaleinforma tonsa. ae ee eee 1, 074
To. see staftinrembersas. 2s 2526 ee eet ie Dey Eyed oe eee 174
To ‘read_ inthe librany =<< 22272 Se ee ee ee ee ne 161
To make sketches and tracings from library books__--_------- 6
To see_building-and, installations. 225) =" eee eee Sea eeas 21
To make photographs, sketches, ete., in court__-_-___---__---_- PAL
To examine, borrow, or purchase photographs and slides_-_--- 324
To submit.objects for examinations22 232i ee aie ee 354
To see objects in storage:
Washington Manwscripts a= oo ee eee Sree een eS ae 63
Far Eastern paintings and textiles______-___-____-_-___ 47
Near Eastern paintings and manuscripts_____-______-_ 23
Tibetan paintings. 200 aaa ee 2
Indian) paintings and manuseripts=— ose 19
Americany. painting see sass = eee ee 42

Whistler prints. tad ait See eee a ee eee 5
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

To see objects in storage—Continued.

Oriental pottery, jade, bronze, lacquer, bamboo__----~- 102
Gold treasure and Byzantine objects_-_-___-----_--__- 4
“Allesculpture S22 222 Ce Si bee eS ea 9
Syrian\-and other glassii 2242 eee 2s ee te q
— 323

DOCENT SERVICE, LECTURES, MEETINGS

By request, 11 groups met in the exhibition galleries for instruction
by staff members. Total attendance, 226.

Mrs. Usilton, librarian, gave three talks on indexing before the
editors and indexers of the Dewey Decimal Classification System at
the Library of Congress, October 23, 26, 30, 1945.

The Freer Gallery of Art auditorium was used for two meetings as
follows:

January 12, 1946__The East-West Institute for Librarians. Attendance_. 228

The Director of the Gallery opened the meeting with a brief address
of welcome.

May 18, 1946__The Art Technical Section of the American Association
Of Museums:s  Actend al Ces se ae ee ee 150

Members of the staff traveled outside of Washington for profes-
sional purposes as follows:

November 18-16, 1945___ Mr. Wenley examined objects at various dealers in New
York and attended an evening meeting of the trustees
of the Textile Museum of Washington.

December 18, 1945______ Miss Guest and Dr. Ettinghausen spent the day at the
Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore studying Near East-
ern collections.

February 1, 1946___----_ Miss Guest spent the day at the University Museum in
Philadelphia studying Near Hastern manuscripts.
March 13, 1946________- Mr. Wenley spent the day at Princeton University at-

tending a meeting with Professor Rowley regarding
Princeton University Bicentennial, April 1-3, 1947.

April 17-18, 1946_______ Dr. Ettinghausen at Princeton University to see Prof.
Ernst Herzfeld regarding gift of the Herzfeld Archive
to the Smithsonian Institution for deposit in, and
under the direction of, the Freer Gallery of Art.

May 31—June 24, 1946___ Dr. Ettinghausen at University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
to do editorial work on Ars Islamica.

June 12-14, 1946________ Mrs. Usilton attended annual convention of Special
Libraries Association in Boston.

PERSONNEL

Isabel I. Mayer was appointed assistant in research August 1.
William R. B. Acker reported for duty December 8, as associate in
languages, after serving with the Office of War Information since
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

December 31, 1942. E. Harriet Link reported for duty as clerk-
stenographer (CAF-5), March 18, after completion of her duties
as staff aid with the American Red Cross overseas. John A. Pope re-
ported for duty April 22, as associate in research, after completion of
his duties as captain, United States Marine Corps Reserve. Grace
Dunham Guest, Assistant Director, retired June 30. In recognition
of her 26 years of outstanding service, she has been given the honorary
title of Freer Gallery of Art research associate.

Respectfully submitted.

A. G@. Wentey, Director.
Dr. A. Wermorge,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1946, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of June 27, 1944, which pro-
vides “* * * for continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii and the excavation and
preservation of archeologic remains. * * *”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau, left Washington January
6, 1946, in order to continue work on the Smithsonian Institution-
National Geographic Society archeological project in southern Mex-
ico. From the latter part of January until the middle of April, arche-
ological excavations were conducted at the site of San Lorenzo on the
Rio Chiquito in southern Veracruz. This was the site discovered by
Dr. Stirling the preceding year at the conclusion of the work in Chi-
apas. During the season’s work just concluded a map of the site was
completed, several of the mounds were cross-sectioned, and a number
of stratigraphic trenches dug.

During the course of the work 24 stone monuments were located, in-
cluding 5 colossal heads of La Venta type, and 2 table-top altars.
In addition, there were a number of miscellaneous monuments repre-
senting jaguars and seated figures, both human and anthropomorphic.
The collections made during the course of the work, after inspection
in Mexico City, were shipped to Washington. During the period of
this work, Dr. Stirling was assisted in the field by Dr. Philip Drucker.
Dr. Stirling returned to Washington on May 9.

During the fiscal year Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Assistant Chief,
read and corrected page proof for the article, “The New World
Paleo-Indian,” which was printed in the general appendix to the
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1944. He prepared
an article, “Prehistoric Peoples of Colorado,” to be used as one chap-
ter in a forthcoming history of Colorado which is being published by
the State Historical Society of Colorado, and another article, “One
Hundred Years of Smithsonian Anthropology,” to be published in

65
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Science. In addition he wrote two book reviews for anthropological
journals, annotated six books for the United States Quarterly Book
List, and worked on the final report on the investigations at the Lin-
denmeier—Folsom site.

On the basis of information obtained through correspondence with
various members of the Virginia Archeological Society and from a
review of the literature on Virginia, Dr. Roberts prepared a state-
ment for the National Park Service, Region 1, on the archeological
sites that would be inundated by the construction of dams and reser-
voirs in the James River Basin, beginning at Richmond and continu-
ing up the main stream and its larger tributaries to the foot of the
mountains. He also carried on extensive correspondence in connec-
tion with the agreement between the National Park Service and the
Smithsonian Institution relative to archeological work in river basins
where flood-control dams and irrigation projects will result in the
flooding and loss of important archeological sites. This included
preliminary plans for work in the Missouri Basin and suggestions
and advice on the situation in the Etowah and Savannah River Val-
leys in Georgia, the Warrior River in Alabama, the Neches, Trinity,
and Brazos Rivers in Texas, the Arkansas River and its tributaries
in Arkansas and Oklahoma, and the Sacramento, American, Kings,
and Kern Rivers in California. This entailed the writing of many
letters to local people in the various areas seeking information about
the existence of sites and the checking of the literature for additional
information. In October Dr. Roberts was designated as director in
charge of the archeological surveys and excavations to be conducted
under the administration of the Smithsonian Institution in coopera-
tion with the National Park Service, the Corps of Engineers, and the
Bureau of Reclamation. In this connection he assisted officials of
the National Park Service in preparing estimates and justifications for
supplemental funds for 1946 and the funds for 1947 archeological work
in the Missouri Basin.

Dr. Roberts also served as the general department representative on
the Efficiency Rating Board of Review for the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, taking part in three hearings. In relation to this he attended
two Civil Service Commission Institutes of Efficiency Rating Boards
of Review and six sessions of the Interagency Conference on Training
Aids and on Orientation.

On April 12 and 13, 1946, Dr. Roberts represented the Smithsonian
Institution at the final convocation and other exercises of the sesqui-
centennial celebration of the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill. During the year he also served on various committees for the
Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

From July 1, 1945, to June 30, 1946, Dr. Roberts served as vice
chairman of the division of anthropology and psychology of the
National Research Council. .

During the absences of the Chief, Dr. Roberts was Acting Chief of
the Bureau.

Dr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, spent the early part of the
fiscal year in Washington, D. C., where he produced a Kiowa grammar
of 405 manuscript pages and wrote 8 articles for scientific periodicals.
During part of this period he was still engaged in work for the Bureau
of Censorship.

Dr. Harrington left Washington February 11, 1946, for Clovis,
N. Mex. There he interviewed Mr. Scheurich, grandson of Governor
Bent, New Mexico’s first Governor, and about 80 years of age. From
Clovis, Dr. Harrington went directly to Gallup, N. Mex., where he con-
tinued his studies of Navaho phonetics. From Gallup he went to
Albuquerque, N. Mex., where he worked with Mr. Shupla, expert
speaker of the Hano language, which is related to Tewa. From Al-
buquerque he went to Santa Barbara, Calif., where he continued his
Chumashan studies, and was engaged in this work at the close of the
fiscal year.

Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr., ethnologist, resumed his research on Es-
kimo archeology, which had been largely suspended during recent
years because of his duties as Assistant Director, and later Director,
of the Ethnogeographic Board. On December 31, 1945, the Board was
formally dissolved, but on decision of the sponsoring agencies—the
three research councils and the Smithsonian Institution—Dr. Collins
continued operation of the office for an additional 6 months. The his-
tory of the Ethnogeographic Board, written by Dr. Wendell C. Ben-
nett, was prepared for publication, and a Board project for a survey
of wartime Government documents was begun January 1, 1946, under
the direction of Dr. Homer G. Barnett, assisted by Walter B. Green-
wood. The report on this project has been prepared by Dr. Barnett
and will be published, with bibliography, in the near future.

Dr. Collins attended several meetings of the Board of Governors of
the Arctic Institute of North America in Montreal, and contributed
the section on anthropology for “A Program of Desirable Scientific
Investigations in Arctic North America,” issued as Bulletin No. 1 of
the Arctic Institute. Several book reviews were also prepared for the
United States Quarterly Book List and other scientific journals.

As a member of the Committee on International Cooperation in
Anthropology of the National Research Council, Dr. Collins assembled
from committee records and other sources information on the activi-
ties of anthropological societies, universities, and museums in Scan-
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

dinavia during the war. This was published in the American An-
thropologist under the title “Anthropology During the War: Scan-
dinavia.”

During the month of July 1945, Dr. William N. Fenton was en-
gaged in a study of place names and related activities of the Corn-
planter Senecas. When completed, this series, on which M. H. Dear-
dorff of Warren, Pa., and C. E. Congdon of Salamanca, N. Y., have
collaborated, will comprise the Indian names of places throughout
the valley of the Allegheny River. Another problem on which work
was continued was the documenting and description of the Condo-
Jence Council for installing chiefs in the Iroquois League, the study
of which the late J. N. B. Hewitt had commenced a generation ago.
Having collected the sacred songs and ritual chants of this ceremony
for the Library of Congress in the spring, Dr. Fenton returned to
the Six Nations Reserve on October 29, 1945, in the Recording Lab-
oratory sound truck for the purpose of making a documentary film.
Dr. Fenton was invited to sit in on the rehearsals and attend the instal-
lation of two Cayuga chiefs on November 20, 1945. The family of
one of the candidates, Chief John Hardy Gibson, has served American
ethnology for two generations, and with the help of Howard Skye
and the cooperation of the chiefs, a complete transcript of the proceed-
ings of the Condolence Council among the Canadian Iroquois was
prepared and published for the first time since Horatio Hale’s ac-
count in the last century. This material, written up on returning
from the field, became the body of an illustrated lecture on “The Six
Nations of Canada,” which Dr. Fenton was invited to deliver before
the Royal Canadian Institute of Toronto, January 12, 1946. In the
field, Ernest Dodge, of the Peabody Museum of Salem, collaborated
in recording some rare Iroquois flute music from James White, Onon-
daga of Six Nations. In addition, a complete performance of the
Dark Dance Rite of the Little People was recorded with Eli Jacob,
Cayuga of Sour Springs, as leading singer. Similar recordings were
made of the Death Feast ritual in the spring, and from Howard Skye,
an official of the ceremony, Dr. Fenton obtained a fairly complete
account of the fall celebration. The same informant helped translate
a Cayuga text of the Tutelo Migration Legend, collected by Hewitt.
Returning by way of Allegany Reservation, near Salamanca, N. Y.,
material for a second album of Iroquois songs was collected from
singers at Coldspring Longhouse. Christian hymns in Seneca were
recorded near West Salamanca to extend coverage of hymn singing
already collected in Mohawk and Oneida. Acknowledgment is due
the Viking Fund of New York for support of this field work.

An outstanding event in Iroquois studies was the organization and
conduct of the First Conference on Iroquois Research, held October
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

26-28 at the Allegany State Park, N. Y. Discussions were devoted
to ethnology, linguistics, and archeology with reference to the Lower
Great Lakes area. The proceedings of the conference, written by Dr.
Fenton, were distributed to the 20 persons in attendance and to others
interested. Dr. Fenton attended a similar conference on the pre-
history of eastern New York and New England, held February 22,
1946, at the New York State Museum, Albany.

“Area Studies in American Universities” reclaimed D. Fenton’s
attention, when the Commission on Implications of Armed Services
Educational Programs, of the American Council on Education, re-
quested him to prepare a report for publication on the Ethnogeo-
graphic Board’s Survey of the Foreign Area and Language Train-
ing Programs of the ASTP and the Civil Affairs Training Schools
during 1943-44. The manuscript for the final report, totaling some
180 pages, was virtually completed at the close of the fiscal year.
Completion of this report coincided with the end of the Ethnogeo-
graphic Board and discharged a final obligation to that wartime
activity.

The following publications by Dr. Fenton appeared during the year:

Place names and related activities of the Cornplanter Senecas (Pennsyl-
vania Archaeologist) :

IiI. Burnt-house at Cornplanter Grant, vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 88-96.
IV. Cornplanter Peak to Warren, vol. 15, No. 4, pp. 108-118.
V. The Path to Conewango, vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 42-56.

(With J. N. B. Hewitt) Some mnemonic pictographs relating to the Iroquois
Condolence Council (Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences,
vol. 35, No. 10, October 15, 1945, pp. 301-315).

An Iroquois Condolence Council for installing Cayuga chiefs in 1945 (Journal
of the Washington Academy of Sciences, vol. 36, No. 4, April 15, 1946, pp.
110-127).

Dr. Philip Drucker, anthropologist, resumed his duties at the Bu-
reau of American Ethnology on December 17, 1945, after release to in-
active duty by the Navy. He departed almost immediately for Mexico
to assemble equipment, set up camp, and make preparations for exca-
vating a site in southeastern Veracruz, San Lorenzo, that had been
selected by Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau, for this season’s
work by the National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution
cooperative expedition. On Dr. Stirling’s arrival, in the latter part
of January, Dr. Drucker remained as his assistant. Intensive exca-
vations were carried out in various mounds and other features of the
site, and numerous stone monuments, including altars, statues, and
tremendous monolithic heads of “Olmec” or “La Venta” type were
found. While Dr. Stirling occupied himself with a study of the
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

monuments, Dr. Drucker made tests to locate an occupational zone,
and dug a deep stratigraphic trench to optain ceramic materials to
define the culture horizon to which the monuments belong. The
material from these investigations will be of inestimable value in
tying in the monuments with those of Tres Zapotes and La Venta, and
defining the ancient “Olmec” culture.

Following the close of the expedition’s camp in mid-April, Dr.
Drucker proceeded to the neighboring state of Chiapas to carry out
reconnaissance planned to supplement that done by Dr. Stirling the
previous year. He was able to locate a number of caves containing
offerings or caches of pottery vessels from pre-Spanish times, and
made collections which were shipped to Mexico City for ultimate
shipment to Washington. In addition to the caves, a number of
extensive village sites were discovered which contained not only
remains of stone houses but also ball courts and great ceremonial
structures of masonry.

On May 21 Dr. Drucker proceeded to Mexico City where the San
Lorenzo and Chiapas collections were inspected by officers of the
Museo Nacional de Mexico, and where, through the courtesy of those
officers, permission was obtained to ship the collections to Washington
for study and for preparation of reports for publication. While the
shipping permit was going through necessary channels, Dr. Drucker
availed himself of the opportunity of studying ceramic and jade col-
lections in the Museo Nacional, and to visit sites in the central highland
where important discoveries have been made in recent years, such as
Tula, in the state of Hidalgo, and Xochicalco, in Morelos. At the end
of the fiscal year he was completing preparations to return to
Washington,

During the month of July 1945 Dr. Gordon Willey, anthropologist,
was entirely oecupied in completing a 50,000-word manuscript en-
titled “Excavations in Southeast Florida.” This paper will make
available the results of the archeological field program carried out
in south Florida in 1933-36 by the Bureau of American Ethnology in
conjunction with the State of Florida.

From August 1945 to February 1946 Dr. Willey was primarily
engaged in editorial work on the final volumes of the Handbook of
South American Indians. The fifth and last volume of this work
was submitted to the editor of the Bureau at the end of February,
with the exception of part 3, “The languages of South America,”
which is being prepared by Dr. J. Alden Mason. During this period
a 25,000-word article on South American ceramics was prepared for
inclusion in the Handbook, and a 8,000-word article on the archeology
of the Argentine pampas was prepared to be published as part of a
Yale University symposium on Argentine archeology.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 71

During the early part of 1946 Dr. Willey also assisted Dr. Roberts
in preparing preliminary plans for the Federal Valley Authority
archeological program.

In February a brief survey trip was made to Georgia on the pro-
posed Allatoona River control project.

From March until June Dr. Willey was engaged in conducting
archeological field work in the Virt Valley in northern Peru, for a pro-
posed study of prehistoric settlement patterns in the valley. At the
close of the fiscal year Dr. Willey was still engaged in this field work.

INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

The Institute of Social Anthropolgy was created in 1943 as an
autonomous unit of the Bureau of American Ethnology, to carry out
cooperative training in anthropological teaching and research with the
other American republics. As the Director, Dr. Julian H. Steward,
was instructed in the official order establishing the Institute to report
to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution; there is presented
here his report to Secretary Wetmore.

Washington office —The Institute of Social Anthropology, carrying
out a program of cultural and scientific cooperation with the American
republics under a grant of $77,351 transferred from the Department
of State, continued under the directorship of Dr. Julian H. Steward.
Miss Ethelwyn Carter served as secretary throughout the year.

Mezxico—In Mexico the Institute was represented by Dr. George M.
Foster, Jr., anthropologist, in charge of the work; by Dr. Stanley S.
Newman, linguist; and by Dr. Robert C. West, cultural geographer,
who joined the staff in February 1946, when Dr. Donald Brand resigned
to resume his teaching duties at the University of New Mexico.

Since cooperation with the Escuela Nacional de Anthropologia began
in June 1944, 15 university courses in anthropology, geography, and
linguistics have been given, attended by more than 100 individual
students. Total enrollment in all courses has exceeded 150. Because
of the international nature of the Escuela, it has been possible to reach
students from countries other than Mexico, including Haiti, Guate-
mala, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, Spain, France, Canada, and the
United States. In both courses and field work, students have had an
opportunity to learn American techniques, methodology, and, above all,
ideals of scholarship.

Basic field reasearch on the important Tarascan population of
Michoacan has been conducted. Institute staff members have put 24
man-months, and the seven participating students 55 man-months, into
this research. The field work of the Institute, in conjunction with
previous studies, has resulted in the most complete body of cultural

725362—47——_6
7 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

data available on any comparable area in Latin America. One large .
monograph on the Tarascan area has already been published, and three
more will follow in 1947, Six student papers of from 100 to 200
manuscript pages are also being prepared for publication in Spanish
by the Escuela.

Peru.—Dr. F. Webster McBryde, cultural geographer, was assigned
in September 1945 to take charge of the Institute work in Peru.
Harry Tschopik, Jr., continued his work in Peru throughout the year.

The accomplishments can be shown best by a résumé of the work since
it began early in 1944. At this time, Peru had no institution devoted
essentially to social science teaching and research, and its geographical
society was requesting advice from the United States about its pro-
posed reorganization. The cooperation of the Institute has helped
the Ministry of Education of Peru to establish a well-financed national
center of social science, the Instituto de Estudios Etnolégicos. The
Instituto, dedicated to teaching, research, and publication, is a most
important development, because for the first time Peru can obtain
scientific information on her native peoples, who are the predominant
element in her contemporary population. The staff of the Peruvian
oflice of the Institute of Social Anthropology has given lectures at the
Universities of Cuzco and Trujillo, and courses in geography and an-
thropology are planned for the Instituto, thus enabling Peruvian stu-
dents to obtain training in United States techniques of social science.
Dr. McBryde has helped in the reorganization of the geographical
society and has advised on changes in the geography curriculum in
San Marcos University in Lima.

The Institute staff has carried out extensive research among Peru-
vian coastal and central highland communities. The latter project,
done in cooperation with three Peruvian scientists, involved 36 man-
months and included 30 different communities. The data will be
published in both Spanish and English in several monographs, two of
which already are in press. They not only represent significant con-
tributions to knowledge on heretofore little-known groups, but also
will be very useful to Peruvian authorities interested in such practical
problems as that of obtaining laborers for the high Andean mines
and that of colonizing sparsely populated areas of eastern Peru, a
matter of prime importance to the agricultural experimental stations.
At the request of the Peruvian-Bolivian educational commission, a
survey will be made of the settlement patterns of the altiplano to
provide a basis for the establishment of rural schools.

The importance of these research results has been acknowledged and
stressed by the Minister of Education in a speech before the Peruvian
Congress.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73

Brazil_—Cooperation with the Escola Livre de Sociologia e Politica
began October 1, 1945, when Dr. Donald Pierson was assigned as rep-
resentative of the Institute of Social Anthropology to Brazil. In
February 1946, Dr. Kalervo Oberg was assigned as cultural anthro-
pologist to cooperate with the Escola Livre.

In effect, the Institute has taken over and expanded a program
which was begun under Dr. Pierson in 1940 and which has helped
make the Escola Livre one of the most important social science centers
in South America. Seven courses in sociology and anthropology are
now being given by the Institute staff. Students in the social science
major have increased from 5 in 1945 to 24 in 1946. The first masters
degrees in social science were given in February 1946. With the help
of the Institute staff, it has been possible to increase the undergraduate
curriculum from 3 to 4 years, a very distinct educational gain.

Institute staff members have continued to guide the program of
translating 200 articles and 13 books from English into Portuguese.
This work, financed by outside funds, is of great importance as an aid
to teaching.

Field research to be started this year will meet the outstanding
need of Brazilian students, namely, intensive training in field methods
through their application. The research results will be published
in English and Portuguese. Surveys in Matto Grosso and rural areas
near Sao Paulo have already been carried out by Institute staff mem-
bers and students.

Publications.—Publication No. 2, “Cheran: A Sierra Tarascan Vil-
lage,” by R. L. Beals, was issued during the year. Publication No. 3,
“Moche, a Peruvian Coastal Community,” by John Gillin, and Pub-
lication No. 4, “Cultural and Historical Geography of Southwest
Guatemala,” by Felix Webster McBryde, were received in proof.
Publication No. 5, “Highland Communities of Central Peru: A Re-
gional Survey,” by Harry Tschopik, Jr., was sent to the printer.
Publication No. 6, “Empire’s Children: Tzintzuntzan and its People,”
by George M. Foster, Jr., was contracted for by a printer in Mexico.
Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen, of the editorial staff of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, did the editorial work on these publications.

Handbook of South American Indians—No grant from the De-
partment of State for cooperation with the American republics was
requested for the Handbook during the fiscal year 1946. The final prep-
aration of the manuscript and clerical work pertaining to the Hand-
book was undertaken by the Washington office of the Institute of
Social Anthropology, with the assistance of Dr. Gordon Willey, of
the Bureau of American Ethnology.
74. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Volume 1, The Marginal Tribes, and volume 2, The Andean Civili-
zations, were issued in June 1946. In addition to the usual edition
of 8,500 distributed by the Bureau of American Ethnology, the De-
partment of State ordered 600 copies for distribution through its
embassies in Latin American countries, and the Superintendent of
Documents ordered 1,000 for sale. Volume 3, The Tropical Forest
Tribes, and volume 4, The Circum-Caribbean Tribes, were received
in galley proof. With the exception of the linguistic section, volume
5, The Comparative Anthropology of South American Indians, was
completed and submitted to the editor of the Bureau of American
Ethnology for the final editing.

During the fiscal year, the Interdepartmental Committee on Scien-
tific and Cultural Cooperation of the Department of State granted
the Bureau of American Ethnology $15,000 toward the cost of pub-
lishing the Handbook.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the Bureau, prepared
for publication a paper entitled “Music of the Alabama Texas.”
In this tribe, Miss Densmore found that only ordinary dance songs
remain.

She also submitted her complete bibliography covering 50 years of
study of American Indian music and a paper entitled “Prelude to
the Study of Indian Music in Minnesota.” Another long paper was
completed on the subject “Distribution of Certain Peculiarities in
Indian Songs.” ‘This paper is illustrated with a number of distribu-
tion maps.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editorial work of the Bureau continued during the year under
the immediate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. There were
issued one Annual Report and one Bulletin, listed below; also two
volumes of a five-volume Bulletin, and one publication of the Institute
of Social Anthropology.

Sixty-second Annual Report, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1944-1945.
9 pp.

Bulletin 1387. The Indians of the Southeastern United States, by John R.
Swanton. 943 pp., 108 pls., 5 figs., 18 maps.

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

Bulletin 148. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward,
editor. Volume 8: The Tropical Forest Tribes. Volume 4: The Circum-Carib-
bean Tribes.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 75

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 3. Moche, a Peruvian Coastal
Community, by John Gillin.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No.4. Cultural and historical geography
of Southwest Guatemala, by Felix Webster McBryde.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 5. Highland Communities of Cen-
tral Peru: A regional survey, by Harry Tschopik, Jr.

Publications distributed totaled 12,730. As compared with the
fiscal year 194445, this was an increase of 1,160.

In addition to the regular Bureau work, the editorial staff conducted
the editorial work on the publications of the Institute of Social
Anthropology.

LIBRARY

There has been no change in the library staff during the fiscal year.
Accessions during the year totaled 109. There has been a marked
falling off in the number of gifts to the library, doubtless due to the
disturbed condition of the publishing industry following the end of
the war. Though there is a slight decrease in exchange material in
the form of books which are entered on the accession book, there has
been a very great increase in exchange material as a whole. Large
shipments, covering the period since 1939 or 1940 to date, have been
received from many of our exchanges in Europe and other parts of
the world. Many of our sets have thus been brought up to date
without inquiry on our part.

The routine of accessioning and cataloging new material has been
kept up to date. A small amount of work has been possible, also, on
analytical entries for periodical material. It is hoped that this work
will soon be brought up to date.

ILLUSTRATIONS

E. G. Cassedy, illustrator, spent most of his time from July 1945
through April 1946 on art work for the Old Apothecary Shop, a new
exhibit in the National Museum. Other work of routine nature was
done for the Handbook of South American Indians and for other
branches of the Institution.

ARCHIVES

Miss Mae W. Tucker continued her work of operating and cata-
loging the manuscript and photographic archives of the Bureau. In
addition to furnishing material for routine requests for photographs
and manuscripts, many qualified visitors were received and furnished
with materials or working facilities.

The Mohawk Dictionary, copied by Mrs. Erminnie Smith from
records in Canada, was alphabetized and filed for more ready refer-
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

ence. A number of the Iroquoian vocabularies collected by Mrs. Smith
and J. N. B. Hewitt and recorded in the Powell Outline volumes were
copied on cards and filed for more convenient reference. The num-
ber of these cards so far completed is approximately 7,500. Personal
and place names numbering about 600 were copied from New York
State historical documents and placed in the card catalog. The Nez
Percé dictionary compiled by Miss S. L. McBeth was copied on cards
from the original manuscript in the Bureau collection. These cards
number about 2,000.

Early in 1946 preparation was begun for a catalog of the unpub-
lished manscript material in the Bureau archives, to be published for
distribution. In order to insure as accurate a catalog as possible the
material is being checked piece by piece and listed on memorandum
sheets for the final typing.

COLLECTIONS

Collections transferred by the Bureau of American Ethnology to
the Department of Anthropology, United States National Museum,
during the fiscal year were as follows:

Accession
No.
171677. One elk-horn quirt from the Pawnee Indians. Collected about 1877
near Columbus, Nebr., by Hlon J. Lawton, M. D.

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the
American Indians of both continents, both past and present. Various
specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them fur-
nished for their owners.

Personnel.—Dr. Philip Drucker, anthropologist, returned to duty
from military furlough on December 17,1945. Dr. Homer G. Barnett
resigned December 31, 1945. Mrs. Catherine M. Phillips, clerk-stenog-
rapher, transferred to the War Department May 21, 1945, and Mrs.
Jessie S. Shaw was promoted to fill this vacancy effective June 3, 1946,
by transfer from the division of ethnology, United States National
Museum.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Strieuine, Chief.

Dr. A. WETMORE,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1946:

From the appropriation general expenses, Smithsonian Institution,
there was allocated at the beginning of the year $28,166 for the ex-
penses of the Service. After conditions became favorable for the safe
transmission to some of the countries where exchanges had been
suspended during the war, the Institution requested and was granted
a deficiency appropriation of $47,000. This increased the available
appropriation to $75,166. As it was not possible to make shipments
to all the previously suspended countries, the total expenditure amount-
ed to only about $48,080.25.

The number of packages received for transmission during the year
was 540,502, an increase over the previous year of 153,744. The weight
of these packages was 472,229 pounds, an increase of 261,189. The
average weight of the individual package is almost double that of the
previous year—an indication that the institutions are shipping some
of the material held during the war. The material is classified as
shown in the following table:

Packages Weight

Sent Received Sant Received

from from
abroad abroad abroad abroad
7 Pounds Pounds
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad__-.____]| 319,036 |____________ Tf GIS lea ell BP OS
Publications received in return for parliamentary docu-

MENUS Sao ne ne ee te a OU eee ie SES PEO (al eee 6, 485
United States departmental documents sent abroad_______- VAL hy eee Sos CO OSD), eee
Publications received in return for departmental documents_|__.____--- 4040 e SSSA 8 Se 12, 411
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent

QDEONt meee ee ete ee eek MN mee see APPA Ks a ee aes LSA VADOD [UM de 2 ual
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received

from abroad for distribution in the United States________}_-_-______ P02 y feo eee 65, 183

AR A Ph ee oe oS aE ee ee eee eee (hem rs 513, 695 26, 807 388, 220 84, 079
Cran Git ote levee ees eee 8 540, 502 472, 299

The packages are forwarded partly by mail direct to the addressees
and partly by freight to the exchange bureaus. The number of boxes

77
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

shipped abroad was 3,117, an increase of 2,134. Of these boxes, 1,294
were for depositories of full sets of the United States Government
documents. The number of packages distributed by mail was 69,833.

Of the material accumulated at the Institution during the war,
there remained at the beginning of the fiscal year 3,512 boxes. At
the end of the fiscal year this figure had been reduced to 1,109. This
reduction was effected through the resumption of exchanges with
certain countries where exchange had been suspended during the
war. These countires are indicated in the table below by an asterisk.

The countries to which consignments are now regularly forwarded
are:

EASTERN HEMISPHERE :

Africa. *Lebanon.
Australia. *Netherlands.
*Belgium. New Zealand.
*Bulgaria. *Norway.
*China. *Palestine.
*Czechoslovakia. Portugal.
*Denmark. *Spain.
*Wrance. *Sweden.
Great Britain. *Switzerland.
*Greece. *Syria.

India. Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
Ireland.

WESTERN HEMISPHERE: All countries except the United States and her possessions.

Shipments to other countires will be resumed at the earliest practi-
cable date.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
to be sent in return for the official publications sent by foreign govern-
ments for deposit in the Library of Congress is 93 (56 full and 37
partial sets). The depositories for China and Italy have been changed
as indicated in the list.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Direccién de Investigaciones, Archivo, Biblioteca y Legislacién Ex:
tranjero, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
SoutH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
Victor1A: Publie Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
BreiteIum: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles,
Brazit: Instituto Nacional do Livro, Rio de Janeiro.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

CaNapA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Manirosa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.
QueBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
Cute: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
CHINA: Ministry of Education, National Library, Nanking, China.
Prrpine: National Library of Peiping.
CotomsBrA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
CusA: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana.
CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Eeyet: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.
France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Reichstauschstelle im Reichsminsterium fiir Wissenschaft, Erziehung
und Volksbildung, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Prussia: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
GREAT BRITIAN:
Enctanpd: British Museum, London.
Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
Houneaky: Library, Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
Inp1A: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
Iraty: Ministero della Publica Istruxione, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
LATVIA: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga. ;
LEAGUE OF NATIONS: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departamento de Informacién para
el Extranjero, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NorTHern IRELAND: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of Nor-
way.)
Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.
PoLanp: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.
PorTUGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
Rumania: Academia Romana, Bucharest.
Spain: Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20, Madrid.
SwEvEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
TurkKEY: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education,
Istanbul.
UnIon oF SoutH AFrrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
UnIoN or Soviet Socrtarist Repusrics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115.
UKRAINE: Ukrainian Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries,
Kiev.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Urnuauay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
Yucosiavia: Ministére de l’Education, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.
Botivia: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

Minas Gerars: Directoria Geral e Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA:

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

BritisH CoLruMsBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.

NEw BRUNSWICK: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PRINCE Epwarp IsLanpD: Legislative and Public Library, Charlottetown.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.

CryLon: Chief Secretary’s Office, Record Department of the Library, Colombo.
DoMINICAN ReEpPusBLic: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo.
Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Haiti: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:
Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
ICELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:

Benes: Library, Bengal Legislature, Assembly House, Calcutta.

BIHAR AND ORISSA: Revenue Department, Patna.

BompBay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-

ment, Bombay.

BurMA: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,

Rangoon.

Pungas: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
TRAN: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.

Ivaq: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAIcA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
LizeriA: Department of State, Monrovia.
MALTA: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
NEWEOUNDLAND: Department of Home Affairs, St. John’s.
NicAarAcua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PanaMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PARAGUAY: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asunci6n.
SALVADOR:
Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
Stam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
Vatican Ciry: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 81

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad 68 copies of the Federal Register
and 63 copies of the Congressional Record. The countries to which
these journals are being forwarded are given in the following list:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER

ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires,
Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.? *
Cémara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
Boletin Oficial de la Reptiblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruccié6n
Publica, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA:
Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New Sourn Wates: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
WESTERN AusTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia.
BRAZIL:
Biblioteca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro,
Imprensa Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.’ *
AMAzONAS: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Mandéos.
Baur: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sio Salvador.
Espirito SAnto: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rio GRANDE po Sut: “A Federacio,” Porto Alegre.
SERGIPE: Biblioteca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracaju.
SAo PavLo: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Sio Paulo.
British Honpurass: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CUBA:
Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Havana.’ *
Eeyrr: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.”
FRANCE: Bibliothéque du Senat, Paris.
Great Britain: Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.
Greece: Library, Greek Parliament, Athens.*
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Hart: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
Honpvuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Inp1a: Legislative Department, Simla.
IraLy: International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.’ *
IRELAND: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
Mexico:
Direccién General de Informacién, Secretaria de Gobernacién, Mexico, D. F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D. F.

*Added during year.
1 Congressional Record only.
2 Federal Register only.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946 -

Mexico—Continued.
AGUASCALIENTES : Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CHIAPAS: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoaHuILaA: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
CotimA: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
DurANGO: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
GUANAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
GUERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JALISCO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
Lower CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicuoAacsNn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacén,
Morelia.
MoregLos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
Nayarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nvurvo LEGN: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Periodico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
PurEsiLA: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QUERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Secci6n de Archivo, Querétaro.
San Luis Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
StnaLoa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacaén.
SonorA: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
Tapasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Sessién 8a, Ramo de Prensa,
Villahermosa.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TLAXCALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
VERACRUZ: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departmento de Gobernaci6én
y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucaTAn: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida.
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
PERU: Camara de Diputados, Lima.
PoLAND: Ministry of Justice, Warsaw.’ *
SPAIN: Diputacion of Navarra, San Sebastian.
SwITzERLAND: Biblioteque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva.’ *
UNION oF SouTH AFRICA:
Care oF Goop Horr: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
Urucvuayr: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

Austria, to which exchanges were formerly sent by way of Germany,
has now established her own exchange bureau. Those countries listed
below to which exchanges are not yet being sent are: Germany, Japan,
Latvia, Rumania, and Yugoslavia. The bureaus whose address has

*Added during year.
2 Federal Register only.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

changed during the year are marked by an asterisk. The bureaus or
agencies listed are those to which consignments are forwarded by
freight. To other countries not appearing on the list, packages are
sent by mail.

LIST OF AGENCIES

Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna.

Bewtcrum: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de
Belgique, Bruxelles.

*CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking.

*CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque de
l’Assembleé Nationale, Prague 1-100.

*DENMARK: Institut des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Royale,
Copenhagen K.

Eeypr: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasangatan 24,
Helsinki.

*WRANCE: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Nationale, 58 Rue
de Richlieu, Paris.

GrerRMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universititstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 721 North Circular Road,
Willesden, London, N. W. 2.

Huncary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

InpIA: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

*JTaLy: Ufficio delgi Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Publica Istruxione,
Rome.

JAPAN: International Exchange Service, Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park,
Tokyo.

Latvia: Service des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Library,
The Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

PoLAND: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortuGAL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RUMANIA: Ministére de la Propagande Nationale, Service des Echanges Inter-
nationaux, Bucharest.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicién de Libros y Revista para Biblote-
cas Pfiblicas, Ministerio de Educacién Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.

SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

*SwiTzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque
Centrale Fédérale, Palais Fédérale, Berne.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TURKEY: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving, Istanbul.

UNION oF SouTH AFRica: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town,
Cape of Good Hope.

UNIon or Sovier SoctAtist RepPusrics: International Book Exchange Depart-
ment, Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, Moscow, 56.

VictorIA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Publie Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yucostavia: Section des Echanges Internationaux, Ministére des Affaires
Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Frank E. Gass, correspondence clerk, who had been for several years
Acting Chief Clerk of Exchanges, retired on June 30, after almost 60
years of service. Mr. Gass was appointed as messenger on August 1,
1886, and retired in March of 1941. When the manpower situation
became acute in 1942 Mr. Gass returned to the Exchanges to serve dur-
ing the war.

D. G. Williams was appointed as Chief Clerk on February 25.

Carl E. Hellyer, on January 11, was transferred from the guard
force to the position of shipping clerk.

Glenn P. Shephard, on March 4, was transferred from the Freer
Gallery of Art to the Exchanges and detailed to the Government
Document Room.

Harold Peacock, after honorable discharge from the Signal Corps
of the United States Army, was employed by the Institution on April
2, and detailed to the incoming mail room in charge of records and
geographic distribution.

Respectfully submitted.

H. W. Dorsey, Acting Chief.

Dr. A. WETMORE,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1946:

The appropriation for the regular operations of the Zoo was
$310,000. A supplemental appropriation of $65,670 for salary in-
creases authorized by Congress was also made available, making a
total of $375,670. Subject to minor changes in final bills, a total of
$359,453 was expended for all purposes and an unexpended balance
of $16,217 remains. This balance was due to the difficulty in filling
vacant positions and in obtaining materials.

Reconversion to a peacetime set-up is proving to be a slow process
involving much effort in selecting, training, and orienting new em-
ployees. However, substantial progress has been made in recruiting
personnel, although a number of vacancies still exist including some
in skilled positions which could not be quickly filled. The additional
manpower taken on was largely offset by reduction in working hours
from 48 to 44 or 40 hours a week. As rapidly as possible, all units of
the organization are being put on the 40-hour week.

The problem of obtaining materials such as building supplies and
others used in the maintenance of structures has continued to be very
difficult. Indeed, some supplies have been more difficult to obtain
than they were during the wartime. It has nevertheless been possible
to improve some of the structures in the Park and to do some clean-up
work that had been neglected during the war. Therefore, by the close
of the fiscal year there was a perceptible improvement in the general
conditions throughout the entire establishment.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

A small addition to the personnel is needed to enable the Zoo to carry
on the work in an eflicient manner and permit employees to take the
leave to which they are legally entitled. The Zoo has been under-
manned throughout the entire period of its existence, and with the
adoption of the 40-hour week, the situation has been particularly acute.

Of no less importance is the need for new buildings to replace anti-
quated, dilapidated structures that are still used to house animals,

85
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Preliminary planning has been taken up with the Public Works Ad-
ministration for construction of these buildings when economic
conditions justify.

A great deal of general maintenance and improvement work must be
done to restore the Park and structures to a presentable condition.
With a moderate increase in personnel the improvements can be grad-
ually effected as materials become available.

VISITORS

With the removal of the ban on pleasure driving and in line with the
general increase in traveling, there has been a marked increase in
number of visitors, particularly those from more distant States, as well
as in traveling groups and school groups.

ESTIMATED NUMBER OF VISITORS FOR FISCAL YEAR 1946

eubyeCl oto ye ee 169/600, Hebruary22 2 oe 129, 950
Awoast tie Fi Boel 582 es 271,000. Marchi 2i5\ s_- Bet neers 215, 900
September] 3 = ee 247,600.) April! 5.222 ee Ae 381, 137
October! 222-22 e se aE 2645000). May == eee 169, 700
Nowenibers =< seas oes Be 151; 400 a June... 5° eee 260, 900
December. ase ae 42, 850 —__—-
January .( 1946) 24 235 2 68, 500 Potatlt25 2 A2es Sees 2, 372, 337

The attendance for the fiscal year 1945 was given in the last annual
report as 2,355,514, whereas it should have been 2,107,084. Therefore,
the actual increase in attendance in 1946 is 265,253.

NUMBER OF GROUPS FROM SCHOOLS

Number |} Number Number | Number
of groups} in groups of groups | in groups
ATLA D rT ee errs ener eee oe 1 DSi ANG Ww: ersey <--- = eet tenes 21 1, 376
Connecticuts ta Sere eee 3 140 Ui SINie wy Onka-t 2 Lh 8 957
Delawaresm heise ee 5 2107 ||P Norch) Caroling ss. sea 15 700
District of Columbia___-_-_-_-_- 60 QE719 | Onion Beas ae es ee 21 551
COLL 1A ee eee a ea: 12 B19 PE eMnSylVeaniae = se 2 es 104 4, 024
LENO N Tae KPa eA, (rh 1 34; || ,50uth Carolinas no) se ekeee ee 19 599
NEN TUCK yes Ss Re ne Ore 4 1733} PECL MeESSeOe eas ene eee 6 236
Maine te sna Se ere 4 P4AGUl | Viren ae aes 2 eee ee 115 5, 795
Wiarylandes see ee ae 172 1O*829 West Virginiae:-220---neeoe 9 613
IMIASSACHUSETES sane see en eee 8 488 _————<—<— | —_—_———
MCHIS anes ces 2 2, Se es TS 3 84 Motales =: 2222 ae Bees 592 30, 062
New Hampshire_________.--.- 1 52

About 2 p. m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
by the Zoo police and listed according to the State, Territory, or coun-
try from which they came. This is, of course, not a census of cars
coming to the Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of attend-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

ance by States of people in private automobiles. The tabulation for
the fiscal year 1946 is as follows:

Percent Percent
Washington Ds Orv sie tei eee PAK (at GSK QA (0h eae oa iit Aid ala 1.6
Misr y lands res ha ee oa as 26: 2%. North' Carolinas ee 2 ae 1.5
Wanginige)$ Cet on ler ott 23 £0.40: (New Jerseyisy ies te ses 1.3
Rennsylvania) eias su aie le eo 3.9: .. Massachusetts = -= = 2-5 1. 09
ING wae OlK= tsa 'f titrest tent Lea 744 Ytieal Ui Yay 3 (6 Es at ee Se eR AT SS, 1. 05

The cars that made up the remaining 22.06 percent came from every
one of the remaining States, as well as from the following Territories
and countries: Alaska, Alberta, British Columbia, Canal Zone, Cuba,
Mexico, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Peru, Philippine
Islands, Prince Edward Island, Puerto Rico, and Quebec.

It is well known that District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia
cars bring to the Zoo many people from other parts of the United
States and of the world, but no figures are available on which to base
percentages.

THE EXHIBITS

The total number of individual animals and the different kinds of
animals the Zoo has been able to maintain during the war has not de-
clined as much as was anticipated, although the variety of rare, un-
usual, or especially interesting animals has been reduced, the reduction
being offset in part by more of the commoner creatures. At the be-
ginning of the war, when it appeared that Washington might be
bombed, the Zoo disposed of its venomous snakes. Later, when the
danger of bombing was over, several lots of the interesting pit viper
known as habu (7'rimeresurus flavoviridis) were kept for the Army
Medical Corps which was using them in connection with some of their
studies.

As rapidly as possible under present conditions the Zoo is endeavor-
ing to build up the collection to the prewar standard. Because of
restrictions on transportation few live animals are being brought into
this country, but it is anticipated that this condition will gradually
improve.

The Park’s collection of alligators, crocodiles, and caimans is out-
standing in that it includes 11 different species which are listed later
in this report.

The birth of a baby Arabian oryx (Orya leucoryx) was highly
gratifying, but unfortunately after a few days the little one died,
although it seemed te be in perfect condition and there was no clue
as to the cause of its death.

725362—47——7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Other rarities such as the pigmy galago or “bush baby,” pottos, and
burrowing pythons were received directly from West Africa, rare
frogs were flown from South America and Panama, two pairs of
quetzals were received from Costa Rica and several cocks-of-the-rock
from South America. From the New York Zoological Society the
Park received three very large Galapagos tortoises that had been col-
lected while young many years ago and raised in Florida. Small and
attractive cage birds, not imported during the war, are coming in
again, and a considerable number of species have been added to the
collection.

ACQUISITION OF SPECIMENS

Additions of specimens of the Zoo collection were by gifts, deposits,
purchase, and births or hatchings.

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTs

Adams, Donald, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Alexander, W. F., Silver Spring, Md., 4 Pekin ducks.

Allentuck, Lester, Washington, D. C., Philippine macaque.

Aquarium, Department of Commerce, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Ballou, George, Bethesda, Md., bassariscus, ribbon snake, 4 racers, 4 rattlesnakes

Bandy, Billy, Wayne, Maine, 30 garter snakes.

Beck, J. S., Washington, D. C., snapping turtle.

Bernstein, Eddie, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.*

Bessinger, J. M., Washington, D. C., 4 Cumberland terrapins.

Bianco, Mrs. L. O., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Botts, L. J.,. Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Botts, Max, Hampton, Va., green guenon.

Bowen, Felix, Bethesda, Md., capuchin.*

Bozeivich, Lucal, Berwyn, Md., 2 goats.

Breeding, Charles R., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Brill, W. J., Jr., Washington, D. C., Cooper’s hawk.*

Brown, Col. F. Q., Bethesda, Md., brown-cheeked parrot.

Buck, Congressman Ellsworth B., Washington, D. C., 45 frogs.*

Busey, Bill, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Capley, J. B., Baltimore, Md., green guenon.

Carmichael, Michel, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Carr, Commander B. L., Washington, D. C., snake-head fish.

Carter, Dr. Hill, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.*

Casbarian, James P., Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

Caspar, J. A.. Washington, D. C., green guenon.

Chapman, Mr. and Mrs. Otto, Silver Spring, Md., whistling swan.

Chick, W. J., Jr., and Fowler, J. A., National Park Service, Washington, D. C.,
hog-nosed snake.

Cohen, Mrs. Roger, Chevy Chase, Md., 5 guinea pigs, 25 mice.

Colburn, Norman C., Washington, D. C., 6 rabbits.

Cooke, Lt. Jay, Baltimore, Md., 50 xenopus frogs.*

*Deposits.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

Cookston, Maj. R. E., Lakewood, Ohio, yellow-headed parrot.*

Cooper, Suzanne T., Washington, D. C., 2 barbs, 8 zebra fish, 2 South American
catfish.

Crenshaw, Joel, Arlington, Va., Pekin duck.

Denis, Armand, Dania, Fla., green mamba, black mamba.

District of Columbia Health Department, Washington, D. C., 3 rhesus monkeys.”

District of Columbia Police, through Officer E. M. Brown, Washington, D. C.,
black-crowned night heron.

Dunean, C. H., Greenbelt, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Earnest, E. P., Washington, D. C., black widow spider.

Erlanger, Arlene, Washington, D. C., palm tanager, gouldian finch.

Ewart, Jack, Washington, D. C., red coatimundi.*

Fairchild, Dr. Graham, Gorgas Memorial Library, Canal Zone, 3 frogs.

Faller, Erwin H., Washington, D. C., corn snake.

Ford, Robert W., Alexandria, Va., black vulture,

Garret, J., Rappahannock Academy, Va., red fox.

Gatti, Stephen, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

Gleason, Martin A., Washington, D. C., king snake.

Gould, Louise, Washington, D. C., false chameleon.

Graham, Mrs. W. W., Washington, D. C., 2 grass paroquets.*

Haakinson, E. B., Washington, D. C., garter snake.

Hall, Mrs. Frank, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Hall, Mary, Alexandria, Va., 2 red squirrels.

Hamlet, John N., Washington, D. C., red salamander, 15 pine or fence lizards,
6 blue-tailed skinks, prairie faleon, black vulture, Alleghany wood rat, 3
whip-tailed lizards, scorpion.

Hanby, Mrs. B. F., Arlington, Va., yellow-headed parrot.

Harder, Mrs. Arthur, Washington, D. C., 2 ring-necked doves.

Hayes, Mrs. M. M., Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Headley, Mrs. Wharton, Kinsale, Va., bald eagle.

Helfrick, W. G., Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Hohlen, Mae, Washington, D. ©., sparrow hawk.

Hottel, W. H., Tegucigalpa, Honduras, long-tailed spotted cat.

Hugg, Mary, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Humphrey, Don, Washington, D. C., barn owl.

Huppman, Louis B., Baltimore, Md., scaup.

Hust, Gye, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Ingham, Rex, Ruffin, N. C., scarlet king snake, coatimundi,* bare-eyed cockatoo.*

Jones, Cullen, Cheverly, Md., red salamander.

Jones, Henry J., Bethesda, Md., Jersey cow.

Jones, William, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Katsuranus, Joseph, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Kelley, James Ford, Jr., Silver Spring, Md., opossum.

Kelley, W. J., Silver Spring, Md., opossum.

Knudtsen, Hinar B., Baltimore, Md., 2 water snakes.

Lane, John G., Washington, D. C., skunk.

LaVarre, William, Washington, D. C., 2 American crows.

Lepphard, Charles, Washington, D. C., fence lizard.

Link, Cornelius, Washington, D. C., chicken snake.

Lond, Mrs. Wendell, Washington, D. C., 3 Pekin ducks.

*Deposits.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Lynch, Mrs. J. O., Bethesda, Md., Pekin duck.

Major, Frederick G., Arlington, Va., 4 horned lizards.

Mann, Mrs. C. R., Washington, D. C., tufted titmouse.

Mannix, Mrs. Dan, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Mannix, Lieut. D. P., Washington, D. C., bald eagle, rabbit.

Mayer, Lieut. John, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

McCarthy, F., Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

McLanahan, Duer, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Medical Corps, U. S. Army, 31 habu vipers, 3 water snakes, akamatah.

Meems Brothers and Ward, Long Island, New York, 2 Cape cobras.

Meikle, Mrs. J. C., Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

Melvin Dairy, Washington, D. C., northern porcupine.

Meredith, Florence, Arlington, Va., double yellow-headed parrot.

Miles, Jay, Takoma Park, Md., white squirrel.

Millard, C. C., Washington, D. C., 2 rabbits,

Minker, H. L., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Morgan, David, Bethesda, Md., red-shouldered hawk.*

Needham, P. H., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Neri, Joseppe, Washington, D. C., golden pheasant.

Netherland, Frank, Kenwood, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Newill, Dr. D. S., Connellsville, Pa., hybrid jungle fowl, gray jungle fowl.*

New York Zoological Society, through John TeeVan, 3 Galapagos tortoises.*

Nida, Robert, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

O’Dwyer, Arthur, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Old, W. E., Williamston, N. C., 5 DeKay’s snakes, 4 blue-tailed skinks, marbled
salamander, 2 gray frogs, milliped, 10 ground skinks.

Parker, Harry Lamont, Montevideo, Uruguay, 30 Stelzner’s frogs.

Penney, Mrs., Colesville, Md., 2 raccoons.

Phillips, C. E., Kensington, Md., Pekin duck.

Poiley, S. M., National Institute of Health, Washington, D. C., 4 meadow mice.

Preston, P. D., Silver Spring, Md., canary.

Putziger, Bernard, Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Pyle, George L., Arlington, Va., oppossum and 8 young.

Rafferty, J. P., Arlington, Va., 2 alligators.

Randall, H. W., Washington, D. C., Florida diamond-backed rattlesnake, cotton-
mouthed moccasin, black snake, western bull snake, pilot black snake.

Reamy, J. L., Washington, D. C., 2 rabbits.

Redfield, David, Washington, D. C., chipmunk.

Rehe, Mrs., Arlington, Va., Pekin duck.

Richards, Henry, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.*

Runnels, Ormond, Arlington, Va., blue jay.

Santlemann, Mrs. W. F., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Schmid, Ed, Washington, D. C., 50 tiger salamanders.

Schneider, Mildred, Washington, D. C., 3 rabbits.

Scott, Mary, Arlington, Va., Pekin duck.

Shaw, H. L., Baltimore, Md., Hamadryas baboon.*

Shelby, Lizzie, Hillside, Md., bull snake, 8 hog-nosed snakes, 2 garter snakes, 2
water snakes, green racer.

Smith, David A., Chevy Chase, Md., mallard duck.

Smith, Douglas P., Bethesda, Md., rabbit.

Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Leslie, Vienna, Va., 6 mallard ducks, 2 Pekin ducks, skunk.

*Deposits.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY O91

Smith, Spencer, Orange, Fla., 2 gray foxes.

Stabler, Albert, Jr., Spencerville, Md., ground hog, red jungle fowl.

Steele, Mrs. S. F., Chevy Chase, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Stiller, Bertram, Washington, D. C., flying squirrel.

Tate, R. D., Seat Pleasant, Md., red fox.

TeeVan, John, Miami, Fla., 3 Galapagos tortoises.*

Theadore, Mrs. John, Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Thomas, Miss, Bradly, Va., Pekin duck.

Thomas, Maj. W. B. S., U. S. Army, Mexican water snake, 3 worm snakes,
2 lizards, 9 akamatahs.

Thompson’s Dairy, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Trueblood, Winslow, Cohasset, Mass., wood turtle.

Turner, Bill, Westwood, Prince Georges County, Md., duck hawk.

Ulke, Dr. Titus, Washington, D. C., spade-footed toad.

Vermillion, Mrs., Washington, D. C., skunk.*

Wesley, Rhoda, Washington, D. C., red salamander, opossum.

Westburg, Leroy, Washington, D. C., hog-nosed snake.

White, Vivian, Washington, D. C., blue-fronted parrot.

Woolf, D. O., Washington, D. C., 2 black widow spiders.

Wyatt, Archie, Washington, D. C., guinea pig.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

MAMMALS

S8cientific name Common name Number

GR MNOLTAGUSIETUIGE See. AN ee ee AQUA GC =Be swash ee aed B
ANGIE PREG BAN STABLE LES ae AIS OCOD Sai 2 es eae 2
P20 DOS OCT US ae eRe a ee 8 ee GU ec he 1
VETS OTUMAOUS GIRO Cent Er American bison__.__._________ 2
FV OSMEGTULECU See ee a te ere eS LCT) ae ee ee 1
DBO SEG UTS ee oa lh rt di Park cattle. soe noo ee als 1
CCIM CUES OC CUT ULNA S as eee Bactrian camel. 2. asa = at
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus____________ Green > guenonso eo ery |
Cervus Ee Canadensis ea Bee American elkk228 93 2 = Soe 1
Chinchilla chinchiliags == 2 @hinchilla. a5) 2223s ye 3
Choeropsis liberiensis_.--=. +. Se Pigmy hippopotamus _________ 1
Cynomys ludovicianus __._______._______-__- Plains prairie dog=—=—- = ant 15
Damandamares 22 oo 8 24. Aston ye 8 Hallow: deer. teak es eek 2
DOIN SOC 22 8 SEES Yay wal ap cet Eno White fallow deer_________-__ 4
Dasyprocta punctata______-_--s2e"2_ Spectacled agouti--____.______ ea
TLCUS StAQ TUS ae <r eyaney. | ew ta ryer en cee E Bengal tigersus ies. saben eee: 6
Hippopotamus amphibius______-_----_____- Hippopotamus 2. s0i2_2e2 35 1
Odocoileus! wirginianusss* ess Mirginia. deers 22 <2 5 2 es 1
GEYER CUCOI Dee re See ES Ry so ate Arablanvory Xoo sss ita iL
GUiSTari esa mers ele r es SS y te eines Wroolless sheeps=25) 22 222s 2
OGuisheuropacus — £12 A seee = shal Me Te MOH OND aeeeias Artis et Ae it:
ISTIC SU Se Net Ne el Mitt 2 ow = Sika j, Geers s ec a en yee hl 1
SYNCenOs: CO fens 2 BA Rrra. ceel yeT bs African sbuttal === =a ee 1
Thalarctos. manitimis sete ei) Polartbeats sinc 2am 2 ier sexier a 1
Thalarcios maritimus X Ursus middendorfii__ Hybrid bear _________-_-___-_-_--_--. 2

*Deposits.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS—continued

BIRDS
Scientific name Common name Number
Anast platyrhynchos 2.2 eae Mallardvduckos) ss, te ees 15
Brantajcanadensts_< 2 ee ieee Canada: goose 28280 seis ba 2
Larus novaehollandiae___.__-__-_____-__-_- Silver seulleAl eda Laat omnis 3
Taeniopygia castanotiso2 222s ee Zebra finch 2 heul eat aes 11
Taeniopygia castanotis______-___------_--- Zebra finch (gray phase) —-____ 3
RUT UnigisOnmius coe 2 ee. Tee ee Ring-necked dove_________-___ 17
REPTILES
EDICT. ALES) CONCHINS = a ee Rainbows b0as-—- = 23
Gelkor Geckone ss oho ser aes eee Gecko: 2". grins)
AMPHIBIANS
Pipa OMernicand2. = ee a ee eee Surinam todd] 2222 26

ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 30, 1946

MAMMALS
MARSUPIALIA
Scientific name Common name Number
Didelphiidae:
Didelphis-virginiands= ee ee Opposum:--=2 2.4 eee 11
Phalangeridae:
IPECOUTUSYOREUICED Sea ea ee Lesser flying phalanger____--- 2
Petaurus norfolcensis=— 2 ae Australian flying phalanger_. 2
Macropodidae:
Dendrolagusnusts== New Guinea tree kangaroo... 2
Thylogate -eugenii2 Dama—wallabys 4
Phascolomyidae:
Monbvatus ursintss= 2 eee Flinders Island wombat____-- af:
CARNIVORA
Felidae:
ACINONYD fULAtUS == ee Ses A ee Cheetah... Sie 1
Peis. chasse bh src eh a BAe ee Jungle cats. = = eee 1
Felis; Concolor bitwise he ences es ek PUM} 2223222 or tah Bie 5
Felis concoior patagonica____________-__ Patagonian. pumas 2 ees 1
Felis concolor X Felis concolor patagon- Hybrid North American xX
ECO SS A, Sia ANS cts BN RENT Eras Ce South American puma_____~ 4
MeUS il COs2 = 2 es Bonney eine BS ee Wion.2=5. 2-22. 2 ee 5
Jaguar os... = ee 4
Felis onca_-------~--------------------- | Black. jaguar ee 2
Melis pardalis. 2.2 . + inh eee se Ocelotzo2 222.04 eee 2
, Indian leopard_-___ 353 = wes Sy
Felis pardus__—--_---_-------_--------- eee Indian leopard__----_- 2
Felis, temmenchkii_ 222 Pe i Siren Golden: cat. sui tina. gale 2
Helisutignig see nce 2 We ie a Bengal. tiger. 2224... ee ae 2

PCUSMLOTIS LONGUS = ae ee Siberian tiger_-—+.22 Sees 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93

MAMMALS—continued
CARNIVORA—continued
Scientific name Common name Number
Felidae—Continued
PLCMS LGTAS SUMOLT AC Sa See Sumatran) figer2iaaes— see 3
AIT AACAL [1b See ate ene NR mie Bay. lynx. 2s SS 2
LSE COU a ee Bob cate eee al
Oncifelis gcofiroyt.—— st tees = Geoifroy’s:. cats ees 4
Oncilla. pardinoides 2-28) 3a * Lesser. tiger’eatii 222 So eetees ?:
Viverridae:
Arciictis, binturong ee. Bitte - Bintunon geaassesen eee =e ee 1
Civetiictiss civeitaas:| seater African. civet-————_ 2st ees il
Myonan sanguineusse. Saseses Dwart civetese ee See 1
Nondimarninotatase8 sie West African palm civet___---~- 1
Paradocurus hermaphroditus__-_--------~ Small-toothed palm civet__--~- 2
Hyaenidae:
Crocuta crocuta germinans__-_---------- East African spotted hyena____ _ 1
Canidae:
OC USHLOUT IVS eee eee oe ee COVOtC Se ee ee 1
Canis tatrans xX famitiaris._22=--—_ es. Coyote and dog hybrid_--___-_- i!
CONISULDUS  TWOUUNSS eee ee Riding wolt ees ee ee 2
COMSENAGET> TULUS FLL EL SURE ® Sone an Texas=red wolt! ever ssn 33
Cuon javanicus sumatrensis______------- Sumatran wild dog_-----__-—- 1
DDUSiCYONACULDUCUS = ae Ban ne South American’ fox .—__-==" -— 1
Dusicyon (Cerdocyon) thous_-_-_-------- South American, fox —- ~~ = i
Nyctereutes procyonoides_________--_--- RACCOON) COPS sea. aa ane 2
Urocyon cinerecargenteus=2—_— = Gray LOke Se oe ree ee 5
LUD C Bae WCU OU en mre ee ee ee RR Cd tpl O Xen ee eee 10
Procyonidae:
DSI RTILKO?, © 5 LATALPA a ah Ne RIES Coatimand) li
NCS TLC IUCLS ILC eee en ene ee Rede costimundls=s=—2—aa—— = aft
DNICESATO ALC LS O1UG ee cee ee eta ee Nelson’s coatimundi__-_---_~~- 2
PEO LOS BULLIES ete ne ee rece ern ak ee Winka jouw 2s a eee tc
EVA CEO Oe = eee ee el ee ee 6
ZT OCU OTRO LO Ig ee ee ae ee ee Blocla raccoONes. 20 ee 8
Raccoons (albino) 2==—————— 1
Bassariscidae:
BUSTERS ODS © CERT E Ls a ain Ring-tail or cacomistle_______- 1
Mustelidae:
GIS OVS [ee ere cee eee ee Grit SO er eres ee a ee at
GiiSOneClla MRULONUG == en Grisone 22th 2. ee 2 ae eee 1
AIT OM CONGUENSTS: COU Care a ne Hloridavotter— 2 ae 1
Lutra (Micraony@) cinerea___.___-_____ Small-clawed otter____________ 1
Martes (Lamprogale) flavigula henricii_. Asiatic marten__-_-_-_-_---_- 1
Metes=metes leptoryncnus_—_ Chinesesbad gee =. ee 1
BUCLUVONG CONES gee ee ee ee Rate] Sec ee eee 1
Mephitis mephitis nigra. 2-2 SS ee eo re ee er ee 1
Mustela eversmanni_____________--_____ jE Et eg oe cei tiv a ethane aes 1
Mustela frenata noveboracensis________._ Wied Se) een nes tan en ee 1
Tayra-varbara: tarbarg-22_ Wihitertaytas 2222s ee 2

Tayra barbara senilis_.___-__________._- Gray-headed tayra_---------~- 1
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

MAMMALS—continued

CARNIVORA—Ccontinued
Scientific name Common name Number
Ursidae:
Huarctos americanus___-_—=-—-_____-_— Black bearswsiuates sae eas 4
Huarctos thibetanus.— ert ee Himalayan bear _- 245 33 2a8 1
Helarctos matayanus___222-262— 2 Malay or sun bear__-___~____- 1
Melursus Ursinus ess sear teets Sloth \bear_.= senor ates i
Thatarctos marttinisse = =s35 2) Polar. bear 2shiogshaba ose 3
Thalarctos maritimus XX Ursus midden-
dorfiz 2 2 2 la. sel ree ee Hybrid. bear sewer te yee 4
Ursusarctos =. Saeia Asem i ee. European brown bear____-_-~ 1
Ursus arctos meridionalis__________-___-~- Caucasas brown bear __—---__~ al
UOT 8Us Gy Csae witnesses pet A ee Alaskan Pensinsula bear__---~ 3
Ursus middendorfi Ged att eee ee Kodiak bbhears-222% 22 nerene en's 8
WT SUSESTLICCNIS(S ea ae a ee eee Sitka brown bear______-_ 385089 3
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
Zalophus californianus 2 Sea Honett¢ 2. = ees 3°
Phocidae:
Phoca vitulina richardti__.- _-=-—~-=_== Pacific harbor seal__________- 2
PRIMATES
Lemuridae:
Galago denidovt = ee Least-galacoe]-===seaeeas Bey a |
GCN AINLONG 0 oe a ee a Mongoose: lemurs 2
IPEROODICULCUS SP OVELO me = eee eee Pott. 24 2 ee 3
Callitrichidae :
COMEDIC OCCHUNS Es ee ee ee White-tufted marmoset____~_~- 1
ECOnNtOCeOUS TO8CliG= = 2s = aan ae eae Lion-headed or golden marmo-
SQt. fee Se a il
Oedipomidas geoffroyi_____-_-~-------~- Geoffroy’s marmoset__-----_- 1
Cebidae:
AO TUS PEL UOUEG CCUG ee ee ee SET Douroucouli or owl monkey__- 4
Ateles geoffroyi vellerosus__________---~ Spider monkey 2 eee 9
CEOWSRA DCLG 222k Se Cee Ra re. Seinen Wer Gray capuchin 5
COGUSHCODUCINUS ea ee, Se White-throated capuchin__-___ 33
CO HITIV MMT ORAL KETA A i aa a Weeping capuchin___._____-__ 2
WCGOLNTI® LAG OUI CNG ea Wooly monkey 1
Cercopithecidae:
Cercocebus albigularis________-- sich ge ‘Blue monkey. 1
Cercocebus aterrimus_._-_____.______=-~ Black-erested mangabey —_----_ 1
Cercocebus tOrgualis atys=- Sooty . mangabey ——-—__ =~ === 2
Cercocebus torquatus lunulatus______--- White-crowned mangabey_---- 1
Cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus____-—- Vervet guenon=__ eee 2
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus____-______ Green guenon_-.--—_- === 2" 8
Cercopithecus cephus2o—2  = Moustached guenon____-----__ 2
Cexcopithecus die eee Diana Monkey —-- eee 3
Ceropithecus diana roloway_—_---——~ elf sale Roloway monkey—-—_—_----~-~~- 2
Cercopithecus neglectus___________-____- De Brazza’s guenon_-_-______ 1

Ceropithecus nictitans petaurista___-__--_ Lesser white-nosed guenon___ 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

MAMMALS—continued

95

PRIMATES—continued
Scientific name Common name Number
Cercopithecidae—Continued
Cercopithecus) sp 28 25 (OU an ee West African guenon____--___ 1
Prythrocebus patas.-- I Neo Ratas: -monkey22ees41e Hees 1
Gymnopyga maurus________-----___-_——- Moor tmonkey=————— = ene 1
Macaca 4trusimordars 2225 vi Javan. mnracaque.__- 22 suse 4
MOCCHCOMMNUIOTL OR ee Se Rhesus monkey------~-+-____ 8
Macaca nemestrina______----------_----~ Pig-tailed monkey __-_______- 2
Macaca philippinensis_____-_-_-_-_--------- Philippine macaque ____--____ 5
Macaca. silene ssa = a2 SUIS. Wanderoo monkey__--_---____ 2
MGCGCas -8inicmigon, ae sates Toque or bonnet monkey______ 1
WE CICUMSDECIOS@ ee oe es ee Red-faced macaque ______-___- 1
Mandnllusosphings 22 Oe 2 a Mandrill- 20s ee tui Aaienabs il
EO OMCOILOUUS = an an ea Chaemaes# 222 2 5s BRAS 1
Hylobatidae:
EA LOD GLE SHAC QULt See ree Po So ee Sumatran -gibbon=_ =. 2 er a
Hylobates agilis X Hylobates lar pileatus_ Hybrid gibbon_-_____---_-____ i
Hylobates hoolochk 22222-22322 de ape eters ws Hoolocktzibbon’= 222) masa 1
Hylovatesstar pileatus——___ --_-__-__-_— Black-capped gibbon____--____ i
Symphalangus syndactylus _-_----------- Siamang gibbon ______-_-_____ 1
Pongidae:
Pantiroglodytesa2.— St eas Chimpanzees—2 = BSS ea sis 2
Pan troglodytes verus.____--_-------~---- West African chimpanzee_____ 2
IPONTORD UICC S met eee Na De eee Bornean orangutan 2222—22 2 2= 1
Pongo pygmaeus abelit______-___----_--~. Sumatran orangutan________~- 2
RODENTIA
Sciuridae:
Callosciwurnus finlaysoni_._---.._--_---_-- Lesser white squirrel_________ 1
Citellus beecheyi douglasii_______------- Douglas ground squirrel______ 4
Citellus tridecemlineatus_________----__- 13-lined ground squirrel_______ 1
Cynomys ludovicianus ____-------------- Plains prairie doge == =.= 40
Funisciurus leucostigma __---------~---- West African bush squirrel___ 3
GUACOMYSHUOLONS Ban ae ae ee lying isquirreles a — 14
Heliosciurus rufobrachium maculatus____ West African sun squirrel_____ 1
MORMOlEsMOnel eae es Woodchuck or ground hog_-___ 5
RAC ONGI CO ee a Sere PE SS Giant Indian squirrel_________ 1
Sciurus aberti___.___--- ee Se eee Abert’s squirrel_______________ 1
Sciurus niger neglectus______----------~-~ Hoxcsguirreltse 9. eee 1
FONTUUSHS UN UOT LS ee ee ee Eastern chipmunk____________ >
Heteromyidae:
TRNGGOMIYS OF U1t aoe en Ordkangaroo wat 2.22 3
Cricetidae:
Cricetomys gambianus______-__----_----- Gambia pouched rat__________ 1
Mesocgicctusiauratus_o ose Se Golden hamster _-_____--+_~__ 4
MACOS MNAGIStena es Meadow mouse________--_____ 2
Neotoma floridana attwateri____-__------ Round-tailed wood rat____-_~_ 2
Neotoma pennsylwanica ~_____-_---_----- Allegheny wood rat_____--____ 1
OnyeOMy Ss DOUWUSUIS ae ee ae ee MB Sy KEES 2 tl al oa ES 2
Peromyscus crinitus auripectus___-_----- Golden-breasted mouse__----_- i
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

MAMMALS—continued
RODENTIA—continued
Scientific name Common name Number
Cricetidae—Continued
Peromyscus leucopuseaata es seo ee White-footed or deer mouse___ 1
Stgmodon hispidus222 a= sete Cotton rat 2 eAtee eae 3
Muridae:
Mais MALSCUlUS ep Bae Sew et Toe White and other domestic mice. 13
Hystricidae:
Acanthion brachyunum folie ese Malay porcupine) 2.2232 ee 3
ALNCrUnus OL TiCOnUS eH oe eee West African brush-tailed por-
cupine..--_ . aeete  ekee 3
Thecurus crassispinis sumatrae__-__---- Thick-spined porcupine __.____ 1
Myocastoridae:
MajOCaStOr.COUPuUs.- 2 eee Coypu =... -= 42 4a esi 7
Cuniculidae:
Cuniculus paca virgatus________.-.._-_.~- Central American paca_-..___ i
Dasyproctidae :
Dasyprocta prymnolopha—____—---—--~=—.-- Agoutiinte. 5. oc eee 2
Dasyprocia punctataa see ee ee Speckled agouti__._-____-_--_.. 4
Chinchillidae:
Chinchilla. Ghinchillase eee Chinchilla.2-25 = Se zn §
Caviidae:
Cavia porcellis= = ae a er ee ee ee Guinea. pig.__-_..=+4$= 3
Dolichotis patagona_____ 2S eee Patagonian :cavyo2-22-=s-=3—= 1
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Oryctolagus cuniculus.—.---==-.-======4 Domestic” rabbits==- = 5
Sulvilagus “flomdanus 22-2 Eastern cottontail rabbit-__-_- 1
ARTIODACTYLA
Bovidae:
ANNMOUICQUS LCTUL 0 ae a ee ee Aoudad_...-...- =. ee 15
AN OG SEL GUS ON a= Se ee eee Mountain 2n0a 1
Bib0s \GQUrUS =. 255 on ee 2 (Gaur a eee 3
7 2 American bison--.__—=_ se 13
Bison bison ————— =< —————— = = Weare bison... =. Se 1
IB OSUANGACIES Mee sleet oe Seance: Lee geen eee Zebu =.= 2. 22S S ee 4
IB OSSUCHUTUS 2 on re Be ee ees Domestic cow (Jersey) —--~- aed
IBOSTtQURUS Ss oe oo ee ee Texas longhorn steer__-_______ 1
BOS LOUNUS = ees Ue eI see 2 eae ale West Highland or Kyloe cattle. 3
IB OSHC LUGS eee er ree le es See British Park cattle__________ 5
ES TUD OULU S OUND CLUS es ee ee Water buitalo2 eS,
COpnig vRiInCuss: 2= <a eo ee Domestic coat EE 1
COD ORSUDUT COs a ee ee ee lbex 22 ee 1
Cephalophus mazwellui________~_--_~._. Maxwell’s duiker_____________ 1
Cephalophus niger___________--------__ Black duitker. 2 eee 1
Cephalophus nigrifrons_________-_____.— Black-fronted duiker__________ 2
Hemitragus jemlahicus_________._____-_- Tah 22252 eo 5
Oncotragus OnecOtraguenna2 9 8 aan ee South African klipspringer___._. 1
Oryx bveisa annectens—_—_ = Ibean beisa oryx—--—_-__-____ 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

MAMMALS—continued

ARTIODACTYLA—continued

97

Scientific name Common name Number
Bovidae—Continued
Ona ESlCUCORY Pea ee ATAablang Olykoa ee ee 3
OU SEE OTACS ie nae Seen ee oe ee Woolless or Barbadoes sheep-. 1
OUISRCUNONOCR a aaa es eee a MontlonSssee eee se eek ae 4
Poephagus grunntens-—2 oe Vials Bn es ae ed ee 6
TSCUCOLS EE NOY CNTs ae ee Bharal or blue sheep_-_--___ it
SO GER Iss ee ee Willd boa rei oe 2 ee 2
NUNCCTUSMICH) Choa ae eee eae African: buitalOs. oe see ee 2
MOMOCNO GUS. ONY E pa ne ee LDL yang beste Ne late sae wit rel bet eataliary Se) 3
Cervidae:
ENGR) CPG Ss So Ee SS SPOS ASI Sind COr == == ee a eels 5
Genvusr Canadensis ae American) ke =a eee 5
Cercusielaphiss 2091S ONES eos Red=deer22 Sa eee 4
ClERUUSE AIUD ON ae eee ree ee eee Japanese deere. === aes 3
Cervus nippon manchuricus___-_-__-_---- Dybowsky deer:2 2
allow Geers sees Sain ae Seas 9
Dama dama_——————-—--—_-——------ mae fallow deer____________ 1
Odocoileus virginianus______-_---_------ Virginia’ deer22 = See 5
Giraffidae:
Giraffe camelopardalis_—_—___. --. = Nubiam giraties 2 = 2 4
Ging amreuiculatas— 22) ee Reticulated giraffe__._._._____- al
Camelidae:
COMES PUGCITIGNUS = =) ee Bactrian camele =. See 3
Canvethis=dromedariuge: = 222 teases Single-humped camel_____-____. 1
SON OM O LONG ee = eee DE Eg es a a ee ee Se 2
WONG QUIMa GUuaNiCO=--=—— GUuanrCoeae oes sees a eee 1
TG OING RD OCOS nase a oo PANE C2 ee es ner ae wale cs 2
WACUPNO ViCUONG t= 2 wo ee SOE SES Witla s=== en ee eee 1
Tayassuidae:
IRCCOTAVONGWIETUS 2 a oe a ee ee Collared! peceary==—= === al
Suidae:
Ws COW USSATUCUUTUSSO aa IB ADILUSS Ae eee eee a aa
Phacochoerus aethiopicus aeliani__.______ East African wart hog_-----~ 3
Hippopotamidae:

Choeropsis Woeriensias 22-25 = ees Pigmy hippopotamus_____-____ 5
Hippopotamus amphibius__-_-_-_-----~- ippopotamus 222 = 2
PERISSODACTYLA

Equidae:
Equus burchellii antiquorum__--..._--- Chapman’s zebra__..________— 2
TE OQUUSIOTEUY Ea ome P rE Re ee Grevy’s zebraii2a_.2 Bee e2er 2 |
Houus-qrevyix<cavatlus_sotsu ei Zebra-horse hybrid___---___-- 1
Equus.-kiang==--S 4 aa ws 6 Sen eo8 2 Asiatic wild ass or kiang_-_-__ 1
Bquwus:-onag eres POC yay wes Onager —==-- 4S OVen hh Bea al
LGU SEDI ClCUUS iene ee Mongolian wild horse__—--~~-~ 3
LRG OATICP ELAN RT ea apse EN hn dr Mountaingzebras 2 1
Tapiridae:
Acrocodia “indicate sews So e9tw poses Asiatic tapir== Sioees Sines Zz

RODUTUSh LELLCSUTIS 22 ee an es South American tapir_____--
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

MAMMALS—continued

PERISSODACTYLA—continued

Sctentific name Common name Number
Rhinocerotidae:
Rhinoceros “antcornise- 22 =. = Great Indian one-horned rhi-
NOCELOS ——_ -— = 1
PROBOSCIDAE
Elephantidae:
Elephas maximus sumatranus___-.------ Sumatran elephant__.__.______ 1
Lozodonta africana oryotis_____.------- African elephant2 2==3) === 1
EDENTATA
Choloepodidae:
Choloepus. didactylus= = - Ss. Two-toed sloth. =.-4..— 223s 3
Dasypodidae:
Chaetophractus villosus__—____—---_--~~_-- Hairy armadillo_____-___---~. 1
Huphractus sexcinctus=— = es = Six-banded armadillo_________ 2
Myrmecophagidae:
Myrmecophaga tridactyla______-_.__-_--- Giant anteatert2n-) .72te8 1
BIRDS
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
Sinuthio: (CQMelUS2 = ee eee Ostrich). 55) 2 eee 2
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
Rhea americana__—___-_____ a Common rhea 7 os eee 3
CASUARIIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Casuarius bennetti papuanus____-------- Papuan Cassowary —--------~~- al
Casuarius casuarius aruensigs_____.__--__- Arw. cassowary —=<=—=—-=-— === 1
Casuarius uniappendiculatus occipitalis__ Island cassowary_—-—--~------ 1
Casuarius uniappendiculatus uniappendic-
Eg i Sas Sa nr One-wattled cassowary--__---- 1
Dromiceiidae:
Dromiceius novaehollandiae.-----=-~---- Common! emu 2
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
Antenodytes *forsteriasaaa> 2-3-5 Emperor penguin_--_-__-_-----~ 5!
Spheniseus idemersusi = 224 = 8 Jackass penguin___-----4-~=.- 4
Spheniscus humboldtt___. 22 Humboldt penguin__-------_~-_ 2
TINAMIFORMES
Tinamidae:

Hudromia, elegans 2-52 -s2s224-=---- == Crested tinamou or martineta. 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 99

BIRDS—continued
PELECANIFORMES
Scientific name Common name Number
Pelecanidae:
Pelecanus conspicillatus___-_-__-__------~- Australian pelican=<_-=.22s2—— 2
Pelecanus erythrorhynchus_—_----------~- White, pelicans ssso = 5
Pelecanus occidentalis 22L_—2L-=--____--_ Brown). peliean — ===2=--—4.s—— 5
Pelecanus onocrotalus -----~.--__-_---__ European pelican___-_-_------ 2
Phalacrocoracidae:
Phalacrocoraz auritus albociliatus_____-_ Farallon cormorant..__--_---~- ail
fregatidae:
Pregatavariclenss sete an ons Lesser frigate bird___.__-_---- 1
CICONIIFORMES
Ardeidae:
Al dEO2 NCO W108 a os wee na OR aan Great) bluev heron#222222222-22 2
Ardea occidentaligat See ies we ssees Great white heron______-----_- al
Loretta thalasasa ne ee ee Saas Snowy ~eeret){2 02 es ee 5
LOTIAG=CACTuled = Sots 2 NO sh essen little blue-heron2]=222s2.-—5 al
-Hydranassa tricolor ruficollis_____-__---- Louisiana’ heron®——2 2". 22222"" 2
Notophoyxs novaehollandiae_____-__------- White-faced heron__---—----_- 1
Nyctanassa violacea cayennensis___-__--- South American yellow-
crowned night heron__---__-_ 1
Nycticorax nycticorar naevius__-__-.---- Black-crowned night heron__-. 20
Cochleariidae:
Cochlearius cochlearius__--_--------- =—-“BoatbillMherones 2. eee 1
Ciconiidae:
Dissoura-episcopus 22220" 2 aa Woolly-necked stork_------~-- 1
EOiS* Cin ercus Sates on ntees CIN SS ewes Malay~stork{="2="e8='-2—" 2
Leptoptilus crumeniferus ---_----------- Marabouss-=22 Vesa 1
Leptoptitus dubimett Lolo s ohh aces. Indian -adjutante see 1
EEntcOplilis JUUQNICUS sas ase oe Jeesser = adjyutante 2
Mycteria-americona’ 222202 O 5 St ees s= Woodmibist2 see naan eee i
Threskiornithidae:
AG OHORO) 01 Gnome eens eS Sess Roseate spoonbill__----------- 4
Guan GS CD Ce ae Se eee Wihitesibis=es==s2ss2— =e 8
Guart-atva5T Good sas. = Se Hybrid white and scarlet ibis-__ 1
Guaramrnubr ap ee ee ee Neanlet 1 DLS eee att
Threskiornis aethiopica_________-------- SRG a ONG) 1
Threskiornis melanocephala____--------~- Black-headed ibis___.___-_------ a
Threskiornis spinicollis__.__-_--__------_ Straw-necked ibis___--------- 2
Phoenicopteridae:

Phoenicopterus chilensig_________------- Chileam flamingo2===——-—— == ——= 1-
Phoenicopterus ruber______----~_-------- Cuban famingo= 3
ANSERIFORMES

Anhimidae:
CRON CID Oi Se sae aes White-cheeked screamer___-_—_ 1

GUNG CRU ae ee ee Crested screamer —________ —__ q
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

BIRDs—continued

ANSERIFORMES—Ccontinued

Scientific name Common name Number
Anatidae:

Ada SDOWS CO ae BEE ThE Sd Woodiduckite seston Sanus eT 2 EG
ANASIOTASTLENS(S = eee ee Brazilian’ teqloe2 2.) ase 942
Anasicdomestica 2 i st -aiws Pekin. duckie bes seas 25
ANAS platyThynChOs ae ee eee ee Mallard. ducer ake seins 61
ANUS MILO UD CS eee = tse ee ee ee ee Black duck... 2233 sso3erw 7
Anser. U0; TON set a ie ee cee American white-fronted goose- 1
Anser cinereus domestica________-_--_--- Toulouse: goose=—-——_.__ = Se 2
Anseranus, semipalmata 222222 Australian pied goose_________ 2
Branta COnagdenstSa— 2 ee Canada: goose ee 37
Branta canadensis occidentalis__-________ White-cheeked goose__-_______ 26

Branta canadensis X Chen caerulescens.. Hybrid Canada goose X blue
2O0Se=_.- == = a Ee 2
Branta, Rutchinsti= 2 222 eee Hutchin’s: goose:.+2- £2... 228 4
Branta hutchinsi minima_——-==2--——.___ Cackling) goose—_===22222—-5== 8
Catrina moscnati= = ae aes ee ee Muscovy duck 2222==-—=—— 16
Cereopsis novaehoilandiae ...-__-----__-~- Cape Barren goose___-------- a
OREN AOElLONti Cae es eee ek es Snow. ,£00se222=52--2- Baas 2
Chen, caerulescens: + 9 ete Blue goose... 5 eee 2
Ghenopis atratape ss ee 2 eee Blickiswan ees |
Chioephagasleucoptera—- = ee Magellan goose_____-__-_-_-__ 1
CUGNODSISMCY ONOIVES= = ee Domestic goose —__---------- 2
Gyonits, Colum DianuUsce See eee Whistling. swan. =a 3
Cygnus melancoriphus____------==--_-_~ Black-necked Swan__—__------ 1
OCYONUS: CLOT 2s = Se See Mute swan =... -—-'== =25== 3
DOUG R OC UE a eR et eee ee Pintail,-- ==. eae 8
DOflGs SHUG a2 see Chilean pintail_ ee eS a!
Dendrocygna. avvOneg <= = eee eee Black-billed tree duck ____--~- 3
Dendrocygna autumnalis___._- = Black-bellied tree duck_---__ 2
Dendrocygna viduata a ae es White-faced tree duck____---~- 4
Dendronessa galericulata________._--__-_ Mandarin: duck2222 = asi AA
MOATECCUKAMCTACON G2 = 2 aes ee ee Baldpate 22s... 3 eee 1
TNT TAU OPENS ates A pi ke espe besser’ sScaup22 = ae 1
ME CUAL COWLES oa aig ans ee Ring-necked duck——~--_-----~ i
INCEMONMCONOMNENSE= at tas ae eee Green-winged teal__-_-_-____ caopety
NELHON MI ONIMNOSUM 2. 2 se ee Baikal) steal. =.= Se oe eee 5
INTO CORS [ea ln ae eis A ee Iybridi.duck. = eee 1
INUGOCONAMETICONG. 2s 2 ee ee Red-head duck = 2
NUROCE UAlisinenid —— eee Canvasback duck] 1
PMACtEICONAGICG == = ee ee Hmperor goose == ee 3
‘Querqueduia discos. == = Blue-winged..teal___—_-___--_— 6

FALCONIFORMES
Cathartidae:

Catharntesnoure = ee Turkey vultures eee 2
COnDGU DS OLNOtUS ese nee ee ee Black vulture. = 2
Gymnogyps californianus___------_------ California condor_—~-_-—_------ 1

Valiuronypniuso-2o25 2 eee Andean condor 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 101

BIRDS—continued

FALCONIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Accipitridae:
Accipiter striatus velogs_ 292-2 - Sharp-shinned hawk_-_--____- 2
Buteo..borealisive) simaot wetey Red-tailed hawk--_—__________ 7
Buteo_lineatus elegans.2-2.--_-_~__-___ Southern red-shouldered hawk. 1
Buteo lineatus. lineatus_____-_--________- Red-shouldered hawk_..-_-_-__ 1
Buteo. melanoleucuss_ 2 24.8 2 South American buzzard eagle. 2
Butcouplatyptenusstt oes OMe Broad-winged hawk___--_____ 1
BUCO MOCCILOCHTOUSs oo Pe oa Red-backed buzzard__-_______ 3
Gypohicrar angolensig____-__-__-_______- Fish-eating vulture_____-_____ 1
Ginsiimueppellizs ce wis ai Ruppell’s| vultures —_- = 1
Hatiaecetus leucocephatus 22202 Bald. eagletes maths _mevinslso sy q
Haliastur ~wndusisscsts 2 avses =. Brahminy-.-kite Ss) Sie es 5
PLOGG DIC MILON DY Cea ee ae ee ee ee = Harpy eagle.._-- 22> 2 Shimane 2
Hypomorphnus wrubitinga_____-_--_____~ Brazilian. eagless iis jase Wis 1
Moaluagon Chimango= 2222 _ aati = Chimango. 2... 4 ese 83
Milvus migrans parasitus_______-___-__- African yellow-billed kite_... 2
Pandion haliaetus carolinensis___________ Osprey or fish hawk__-____-__ al
IPGTQDULEO. UNICINCLUS == ee ee One-banded hawk__-_-_---___ al
Torgos-tracheliotuse====== 22202) African eared vulture________ 1
Falconidae:
Cerchneis.~ sparverius = 222008 Sparrow -~hawk2 52 ene a 8
Cerchneis sparverius interaedius________ South American sparrow hawk. 1
DaptriusPamertcanus® 22 200 Red-throated caracara________ 34
Fiaico- deiroleucueso SU 2 ne Bat--ftaleons====So a0 eet ee 1
Faico peregrinus anatum__-------------- Duck=haw k== sees ew 2
POLY DOTS WDLONCUS = on = ewe eee South American caracara_____ 1
GALLIFORMES
Cracidae:
Crag “jasciolataciee os ete Crested curassow__________ ot 1
Cree TOT a= Stelter = vovmvpasnver Dy = se Panama curassow-~_~-~2-- 1 1
Cran sclatert ase sail eprint Ao = wa eo Sclater’s. curassows-~2-2 26h 22 1
EEE AE ee et fae us Sess Bee ys oe Razor-billed curassow--_-~--— 1
Phasianidae:
ATTUSIANUS: [ORG USSs Bee ents een see Argus pheasant 22252 * nena 2
Catreus caliente sae Ba Seis © eee eee Cheer pheasant 49 222% sank © 2
Chrysolophus amherstiae________________ Lady Amherst’s pheasant _____ 1
Chrysolophus pictus===<—<-=s22s— eon s= 2 Golden, pheasant===— 5
COMMUNISM CTISLOLUS See a eae eee Crested quale Soe 2
Crossoptilon (auritum a2 22 Blue-eared pheasant__________ 1
CORT HG AS) Cis se en, pie A ee 1 eo ripe sia Bantam schicken ses eae 1
COLLUSES ere en oe ee eee ed) per Oriental silky bantam fowl__. 2
Cae pemen aeeene fees wees Fightine “fowl it
PT DE hs) pate sy stl rang Se al et pl ec a Long-tailed fowl_____._____ ASed al
GOS CLL ge ee ee Red’ jungle tfowle 2 o = 2
CR OULUS GO LL See ee ee ae PE EE Hybrid red jungle fowl X Ban-
CAINE O yy Loe a 2 rt 3

GAUSS MGT AY CLs eee a eee Ceylonese jungle fowl__--_- aria a |
102 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

BIRDS—continued

GALLIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Phasianidae—Continued
Gallus lafayetii X G. gallus_---_---------~-- Chicken hybrid 22.2222 44 2 il
Gallus: sonnerott:228_ hose beet oo Gray jungle fowl_-~_--—-—+-= sf!
Gennaeus albocristatus__________-----~-- White-crested kaleege__-_____- 2
Gennaeus nycthemerus______--—---------- Silver pheasant2.._¢tiess as 3
Hierophasis. swinhotiz.2 2 22232 Swinhoe’s pheasant__----__-__ 2
Lophophorus impeyanus__----------~---- Himalayan impeyan pheasant. 1
POO: (CVUSEC EUS et res eh Peafowl... 220s 4nelinans ante 6
: Ring-necked pheasant ~-___-~~ 4
IE CUS OO I 2 ee ring-necked pheasant___ 1
Polyplectron napoleonis______-_------_.--- Palawan peacock pheasant____ 1
Syrmaticus reevests > asset wet ae Reeve’s pheasant__--_________ 1
Numididae:

Acryllium vulturinum 22 .-==—----.---~_ Vulturine guinea fowl__------ 1
NUantd GeSp= n= = 5 Pes es Net ee Guinea: fowl 2522243 pees 4
GRUIFORMES

Rhinochetidae:
Rhinochetos jubatus ..----—--=+---_-___-_ Kagu ——..—--2te8=4o553 2 25eee 1
Gruidae:
ANtRrOpoides OiTdOLe <= Demoiselle crane__—--_----~--~ 2.
BAleanicd spGvVOning == ta ee West African crowned crane__ 2
Balearica regulorum gibbericeps______-_- East African crowned crane___ 1
(GHATS UTA CUITKE (XG en oe ee White-naped crane______--_-_- 1
Gris) leucogervanus. 222-34 eee Siberian crane ~.---=-----=2-+ 2
Rallidae:
Amaurornis phoenicurus __.-----------~- White-breasted rai]__--_______- 2
Aramides cayennensis___.—=-~- 222222 Wood: rail-2-=3.. eee 2
LUA COMAIVET CONG 22 eS ee ee American coot.—=-—=--=--= 38) §
Gallinula chloropus cachinnans____-----~-~ Hlorida-.gallinule!s.osr oat 3
Gallinula chloropus orientalis___--_--~~- Sumatran gallinule___--__-___ ali
Limnocoram flavirostra:——+2U_-- African. black-rail_=\ 3s 3
Porphyrio poliocephalus_____-_---------- Gray-headed porphyrio_____--__ 1
Cariamidae:
Camiama cnistata.28 G2 Wale eee fe Cariama or seriama_____--_~- 2
CHARADRIIFORMES
Haematopodidae:
Haematopus ostralegus —_-—_-_-_-_______ European oyster catcher___--_ 1
Charadriidae:
iBelanoprerus chilensis.= = = = Chilean lapwing_-—----.---==_ 1
Laridae:
HOGUS AOL GCNLAts= = Se ee Herring eu eee al
arts) Celawarensis.—- Se eee Ring-biled 2) ee al
OTS \COMANICONUS 2 se ee eee Kelp: gull...--- 22. eee 2
TUEUSH OLOMULCESCONS see a er ee Galaucous-winged gull_______-_ aul
Larus novaechollandiae___--------------- Silver’ gull=_2=2-= oS eee 10
Glariolidae:
Glareola “pratincola———__- 5 Collared pratincole _-_._---_-- 4
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 103

BiRDsS—continued
COLUMBIFORMES ©
Scientific name Cominon name Number
Columbidae:
Columba iguinea 22a! - Sas sseccs os Triangular-spotted pigeon_____ 1
Columba. Uvid OS BAe ee a oo es Domestiepigeon'= 22a 3
Columbigallina passerina___-_---------~- Ground: doyesaaunes Sire 2
Ducula Gene. Ve Hei es eRe Green imperial pigeon _____--- al
DUCULGSPQUUNG = sos = = ES oe Imperial pigeon 222251 2¢_ 77252 1
Gallicolumba luzonica -_----__------~~_— Bleeding-heart dove--__-____-_ Pe
Ground cristata. Bass OLO EBs eee e se Sclater’s crowned pigeon_---_~_ 1
Gourad—wictoria 22018 2 Tae es ee Victoria crowned pigeon__---_- 1
Heptotila -CUssini Be OF Bess Sees Cassin’s- dovet22 is eae 1
GC DLOCILOG TAU COWL ee ee ee ee Scaled) pigeon 222-22. ----- a
Muscadivores paulina_.o- See Celebian imperial pigeon___-~-_ al
Streptopelia chinensis__________..._----- Asiatic collared dove_---------~- 2
Streptopelia chinensis ceylonensis____--_- Lace-necked or ash dove_--~-- 3
Streptopelia tranquebarica____---------~ Blue-headed ring dove__---~- eel ey
Teirtur risOris=_— 2. = ss eee Ring-necked dove__---------_- 33
CNUACLE CUTICULOUG eee South America mourning dove. 5
Zenaidura macroura__ +22. 2s Mourning dove=+=22-. =... 2
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:

Agapormis. iliande ae Peach-faced love bird__----~- 2
Agavornis pullaria 2 a Red-faced love bird_--_-_.-_-_ 2
AMUZONG Gestiva to2. H ee ee Blue-fronted parrot___------- 1
Amazona auropatliiata___________.___--_- Yellow-naped parrot__-______- 2
Amazona ochrocephala ___--------~~--_- Yellow-headed parrot______--- 2,
PANTOCONOMON OUI a a ee ee Double yellow-headed parrot— 3
Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus___._--------~ Hyacinthine macaw_-__--_-_- 1
AGRO ON UAT Dae re ea ee eet Yellow and blue macaw__--__ al
ATG Macdo = =... - BANE Red, blue, and yellow macaw__-. 1
AT ULING WRC ODS soe en ee Cuban ‘conure__—_—__seshiuthe 1
ATQUNGO DCTUNGD = aay Gray-headed conure__—_--__-__ 1
Calyptorhynchus magnificus._.__-_----~-+- Banksian cockatoo__----__-~ es foe
CORACODSISI TG NO eee Lesser vasa parrot __-=---+== 1
Cyanopsitiacus spivi__-- 2-224 Spix’s) macaw sass" «25 aon) sl)
DALCOLDSUS: SUNQUINCUS— = no eee Bare-eyed cockatoo__-_____-_~- 2
Helectus pectoralis _____-.__.__- 214s EclectuspantroG= === 1
EFolophus roseicapillus___-____--__--_-_~- Roseate cockatoo —---------_- 2
KOKGtOG GLbdi2223- Hass aeeeeht es White cockatoo_.---~-.--=--~ 2
Kakatoe ducropssca te ey Solomon Islands cockatoo_____ 2

Kakatoe golerita sty sekcerd 2 Large sulphur-crested cocka-
TOO 2 eset eee 2 bade oen 2
Kakatoe leadbeateri____-.-.------------- Leadbeater’s cockatoo__—_---- 1
KCK OLOE MOLUCCENSIS See Great red-crested cockatoo_-____ 1

Kakatoe sulphupeds wee ae fee Lesser sulphur-erested cocka-
TOG on ne dine Veen ae rents 1
Lorius. domicellasies+ Heese ok Rajah Tory et aateen stat ene 2
GOTUUS ic QUTT AUS se ee ee Reg lonysen sank = eee ee 1

725362—47——8
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Birps—continued

PSITTACIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Psittacidae—Continued
LOTUS SFO AUS= 232s Sohn ati Ss Se Red-sided™ loryo 2-442 ee aly i
Melopsittacus undulatus_-___----------- Grass paroquet .-22=— 222s 5
Myopsitia monachus.~--—--=—=-- -.______ Quaker paroquet_____________ 1
Nandayjus manday 2s. ee Nanday paroquet_____--____--— 1
Nestor notabiligue a ee I); Baa ar naNRe Ie Daren Saag yt 5 |
Pionites canthomerg222 22 ae Amazonian caique__________-_ 2
Psittaculaneupainiges eee ee Red-shouldered paroquet--_—-- 3
Psitlaculawkhhameni= == eee eee Kramer’s paroquet_-_________ 2
Psittacula longicauda.8 228s oe Long-tailed paroquet______--_ 1
CUCULIFORMES
Cuculidae: Z
Hudynamis scolopaceus.— 2 -_-____ Koe)) 230s. sui See 1
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Tyto-alba-pratincola. 2 Barn: ow). ees See 5
Strigidae:
Bubo-vinginianus—...____ = 2 eae ee Great horned owl]________---__ 9
ietupa. Kevine= ae Malay: fish owl = 1
Nayctéa,..nyctea 288) See Sa Snowy +ow] 222 ee al
Otusnasioz Dit. SVG). 90 es Sereech owl. "3. = eSe3 1
Sinianvariawanias. Sa See Barred owl-2- eh3s2 2. See 6
TROGONIFORMES
Trogonidae:
Pharomachrus mocino___------~--------- Quetzal Ven Ss BAe eee 3
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
Daeelom gigas tune <a as Kookaburra..222 23, Dae 2
Haleyon-sanctus obs eae eee Sse Sacred kingfisher_______-_____ 1
Momotidae:
Momotus:.-.lessonia2t Conte 6 FSO event Motmot-:.=-2224 22 eee 1
PICIFORMES
Ramphastidae:
Aulacorhynchus sulcatus sulcatus__--—- Groove-billed toucanet_-__-~~~_ ul
Pteroglossus ardcari- 22-2 Se Black-necked aracari--------_ al
Pteroglossus torquatus____-_-__-_---------- Aracari--toucan2/232% 2 1
Ramphastos carinatus2222-=__-~_2-__-—- Sulphur-breasted toucan______ 6
Ramphastos piscivorus____------------~- Toco toucane ss) hoses 1
Capitonidae:
Cyanops asiatica_2iu ikea Red-capped barbet__---------- 1
Cyanops zeylanica_.==22)-----=~---- Streaked barbet------—---- a A:
Megalaima zalonica--—--—--------—-~~--- Streaked barbet---_------— OG
BIRDS—continued
PASSERIFORMES
Scientific name Common name Number
Cotingidae:
Rupicola peruviana sanguinolenta_______ Searlet cock-of-the-rock___-___
RUDtCOld TUDICOlG— oe = ne Cock-of-the-rocks aon ee
Corvidae:
WULLOCLELG, FOTMOSG= 20 ee eee Mexican’ jay=22 =
PR SUM CIT ILCTUS UG ese ee ees ChineSemcisSH een ae en
CUSsiLODIG UCWLONNCO = ee ee Wueatane plvejay. ne
OR DV PBL IS RADE ep aha pth A ace RS White-breasted crow__-------~
Corvus. brachyrhynchuse. ee AIMGTIGa CLOW aoe ee
Corvus coraz principalis____.___.----__- INOKtnern Travene fhe
CORDUST COT na = a ee oe Hooded crow
COLCUS Chi DLOlCuCuss ne ne White-necked rayen___----_ _—
COnUUS INSOLE Se ee ALAN A ClO Wee ee
COVANOCLLLY CUSTOM ae ana ee ene IBIWeS [LY eee pa
OVONOCOTGL CLTYUSODSs en ne Wrrica jaye s eee
Cyanocorar” miystacalis_——-- ssn = Moustached” Jay2——--—=—
CHENODICH CYANO 22 ee eee eee Azure-winged pie-_.____-_--__--
Gymnorhina hypoleuca______------------ White-backed piping crow----
Picde pick luadsOnicdaa-- = ne American magpie___________-_
Wi, OCtS8 hw CHCTULER 2 aan 2 = Pea ee ee Formosan red-billed pie_----~
WROCISSG “OCCIDILCN Ss en ne ee Red-billed blue magpie—-_---_
Paradiseidae:
Ailuroedus crassirosirig__-_— = so = Australian catbird_----------
Ptilonorhynchus violaceus____-___--_----- Satin” bowerbird==22-- ==
Pyecnonotidae:
ETUC ILO NO LAU SM CUTUCL UE Steer we ee ee ee Yellow-vented bulbul___----_-~_
Timaliidae:
WGCLOTN TAD Les eee ee. ee ee Pekin=-rTobin=2=3 22
Pomatorhinus erythrogenys___---------- Scimitar babbler. 22s
Mimidae:
Metanotis caerulescens esse == Blueicatbird eee
MAUS DOLUGLOLLOS re ee Mockingbird ee
Turdidae:
1 LTT ALLCLOSE Asiatic= thrush2])2 22 ees
GOrTlaceuClangeni: aaa eee ne See Burmese-thrush2 eee
Garrular pectoralis picticollig________--- Chinese collared laughing
thrush2 Sheen or sees
Hgiocichlia -miusteling 222 ee ee ae sas Wood=thrush*] 22 sane eee
Platycichla: flavines 22) 2 22 SU Baws nse Yellow-footed thrush_-_-_----
TT CAUSA ON GY in ae ee nee I mes Bonaparte’s thrush_____--____
TUNG UsSmNiOT AltOniUs= 2 a ae = A eee Hastern: robine=-=2e'es —SseNs
TUT OUST LOENTT AS a oe ee Argentine robin _--_------_ ete
Sturnidae:
Creatophora cinered 2s Ser es eaeaeaS Wattled: -starling =. <a 2eee*
Galeonpsar "salvador 22 ae Crested®starling 22 Lateass
Graciia-religiosa a ee eee Hihi-mynalr esses ese ne
Graculipica melanoptera____.___.__~__-_-_- White-starling ==-=- 2

Pastor roseus

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Rosy pastora=-=2— eee

105
106 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Scientific na
Sturnidae—Conti

BIRDS—continued

PASSERIFORMES—continued

me
nued

Sturnia malabarica____--__-_-— Bee

Sturnus vulgar

Ue See ae ee SSS ee

Temenuchus pagodarum —---.-__---_--__

Ploceidae:
Diatropura pro

Ch 6 ete

RITACIUTAL OC) DSUCCECCU) en ee ee eee
Lonchura leucogastroides -__-_----------

Munia maja__-
Munia malacca
Munia oryzivor
Munia punctula
Ploceus baya__

(9 Ral till pn re EIR eI a
i ee ee eo eee nea ae a

Ploceus Antenmedius 2 ee

Common name Number

Piedimynall 223 Soe ee
Starling seen 22 eee ee
Black-headed mynah —___~____

Giant “why dahlss 02 =e
New Caledonian parrot finch
pen galeert 22 40
White-headed munia__--______
Black-throated munia —__-___-
Java Sparrow 2
Rice bird or nutmeg finch____-
Baya (weaver.222. eee
Black-cheeked weaver —------~

Poephilaacutictudla 2 2 = eee Long-tailed: finch
Poepnita- gould == ee Gouldian: (finch 2222
Quelea sanginirostris intermedia___-__.- Southern masked weaver finch_
Stegonura, paradisea_. -— 2 a= ee Paradise whydah ===
Taeniopygia castanotis__________-_____-_ Aebta’ finch...
Icteridae:
AQCIQINS OSSIIMNI Sao ee Cuban red-winged blackbird___
Cassiculus melanicterus___.._____-------- Mexican cacique_______-_____—
Gymnomystar mexicanus ___-_---------- Giant oridles_-=-- sks
Kotenusy CUllocht ee eee Bullock’s troupial _._-__..-__-_
Teterusmictenieie eee Troupial 2 ee
Molothrus bonariensis __.-._..---_-__-___ Shiny cowbind =
NOMOSDOA TE CUL CESS ee = ee eee Chilean blackbird 2==--=2s32=
Trupiavis. defilippt2 = = 22 a= ee See Military ‘Starling _--- === 2
Xanthocephalus santhocephalus___------ Yellow-headed blackbird__-___
Thraupidae:
Calospiza; cyanicollis =a ee Blue-necked tanager____---~-~
Chlorophonia occipitalis________.__.__----- Central American chloro-
phonia. — >. 2.
Piranga sovdentatas 22 see eee Dee Orange tanager—=__-s2-= =
Rhamphocelus canvos 22-222 Silver-beaked tanager___-____-
Ramphocelus dimidiatus __.__-_--_----~- Crimson, tanagert,--24_ 2-22 e5
Ramphocelus flammigerus___._-____------- Yellow tanager. 2 ===
Ramphocelus icteronotus-__-_-~__-~.___— Yellow-rumped tanager___--__
TRAONGOTG CG Wintis — fa Darwin's tanager == 2s
DONMUGTG MAUS Cat eee Blue-hooded euphonia --------
ROAD TS OCONG Peer Bien Se te ee Blue’ tanager_=_2__ + _ = ee
Fringillidae:
AMandave “amandavdaa22— ee Strawberry finch eee
Carpodacus mezicanus____.-__--__------ Mexican house finch_____---_-
Coryphospingus cucullatus __-__.__._.----__ Red-crested finch_-_-----------
Cyanocompsa argentina_________------_-~ Argentine blue brosbeak_---~-~
DAU COS CHU CO os Soe ag ns ae pepe Se Diuea’ finch! ee
TUNCO THOMAS 22 Sarg ne ek ee ee Slate-colored junco_--------~--
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107

BIRDS—continued

PASSERIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number

Fringillidae—Continued
Lopnrospinguss pusiiyus. _- ees os es = Black-crested fineh___________ 3
MeElODUtTNGTNIOV On = = ee Cuban bullfinch=== "2 1
Melospicd Nuelodig sass ~ ee oe Sone snarrowesee = 2
POP OdttG, CUCULLGEO = ee Brazilian; cardinal— 22.22" 2
Paroaria gularis nigro-genis_____.-____- Black-eared cardinal_________ 3
IRUSSCT LLG tO CO sere re oe NOx& SPARROW 22.205 se Se EN al
PESEVATUE (ONO CI Ue ee ee haznliabunting= 2 ee ee 4
IBUSSOLING CYAN CO nn era eS Indizoubunting = sees 2
Passering leclanchert-—— = Leclancher’s bunting ____--__- 6
IP OSSCTINGE UCT STCOLO Te Bluewbunting= 222s. ve
IPRRVO MUSIQUE INOSa a ee Chilean-lark finches "2222" 1
DENIS LEGS Mourning inch! 33 2
TERT AAL ED LR ape a ah Pa eye a Gay’s gray-headed finch______ 1
Richmondina cardinalis___._________.--~ Carding]. = = eee 4
NErITUISINCONATIUS nn ee See Canary ase sae eek eee 2
DLC ULE SURE CO Ute ease eee ee ee er ele Mystomfinceh 2522 serve. es 1
SECILUSILULCOIG 2 25 = ee ee Sattron finch yee ae ene 2
StCONSSNUNON ra» Sen ee ee Lesser yellow finch_________ ie apple
NOTTMISMINODYQIGUS oa ee Fe Chilean=siskin=) ae 3
SVOGODMLGACURILC Se en Hick’s seed-eater__-_________ 2
NVOLODNUG QUILUNCNS === ae ee Yellow-billed seed-eater_______ 2
PUT CET SIROLEU LGC ine ee es Mexican grassquit—____-—--*—~ Ps
Wolotinia jacariniz 2 ae Bene SaaS Blue-black grassquit__________ 1
Zonotrichia albicollis_______._________..— White-throated sparrow —~-__~-~ 5
Zonotrichia capensis_______._____-_-___~- Chingolo= 222 ae 4

REPTILES
LORICATA

Crocodylidae:
Alligator mississipiensis_____~-=-----___ APR OTe eee eee ee 21
ALG ALOT SINON S18 ee a ee Chinese alligator-____________ 3
COMMANLOLUTOSUTIS = 22 eee ee Broad-snouted caiman___-____ 1
Caiman scleropa— =... > = Spectacled caiman —_.._______ 3
Crocodiylus acutus____ == = American ecrocodile_________-- 4
Crocodylus cataphractus_____---------~-_ Narrow-nosed crocodile____-__ 1
Orocodylus MMlOlucus==———-—— African crocodilez-2=.._—_ 2
Crocodylus palustris. ee “Toad, “crocodiles 2 se 2
Crocodylis porosus= = eS Salt-water crocodile___.______- at
Crocodylus rhombifer=_____-_-==.------- Cuban crocodile_-..____+=__-_ 1
Osteolaemus tetraspis______-_--------~-- Broad-nosed crocodile _-___-_- 3

SAUBIA

Gekkonidae:
Gekicomgecicotrssee earn ee ae Geckorest arse fee Lee 2

TIguanidae:
AGrGLiSt CUTOLINENSISa ane False “chameleon” ___------__ 15
Crovaphytis-collans=s— Collared=lizard=——— ¢
108 |= ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

REPTILES—continued
SAURIA—Continued
Scientific name Common name Number
Iguanidae—Continued
Touana AGuand=a=-2 =~ 2-8 ae Common iguana__________: =<
Phrynosoma cornutum___-------------- = eaorned Vizard == = 4e 1D
Scelonorus, undulatuse ss. See Pine or fence lizard__________ 15
Anguidae:
Ophisaurus ventralis _..-____._....---.--- Glass snake or legless lizard-__ 3
Agamidae:
Uromastiz acanthinurus__.___---_--___- North African spiny-tailed liz-
ards. ee eee 1
Helodermatidae:
Heloderma horridum —.___- == Mexican beaded lizard______-~ 2
Heloderma suspectum _.__-_---.---_--_-~ Gila monster 5
Tejidae:
Cnemidophorus sexlineatus______________ Six-lined race runner___~_____ 1
Scincidae:
umeces fasciatus. = 2 Blue-tailed skink_____________ 2
TALLOQUC  SCULCOLD C8 sa ee ee Blue-tongued lizard-__-__-___ 2
Varanidae:
Varanius Komodoensisa ee Komodo dragon 1
VGnanis) MON OTe = ee eee Indian monito;, =e 1
Varanus niloticus. =. === Nile. monitor 2
Veranus salvator.__<. 22-2 es Sumatran monitor ___-_______ 3
Zonuridae:
Zonurus. giganteus_._._.2 a African spiny lizard__--_______ 6
SERPENTES
Boidae:
Catabaria reinhardtti__- ee ee Burrowing pythons == as i
CONnStTiCLOTACONSUACLOT > = a ee Boaxconstiicte. 1
Consirictor 1mnerator. eee Central American boa__--_--_ q
Eipicnates mCEnchnige oe ee Rainbow, boa ae 30
1 DUCT UCSCT. ASS US ae ee ee Salamantat 2 St eee 1
Nt CUOLES STIG S oe eee ee Haitian bea Al
FEIAETLE CGC SMATULLTALIVALS ree ee ae Anaconda=n 2. 2s eee i
EAE NOMAMOLUT US ee ae ae ere Indian rock python_--_---____- 1
EY ETO EG VS et eee ae eee Ballypy thon. Ce carol
Tropidophis melanurus__-______-_____._-_ Cuban ‘bodes: eee 1
Colubridae:
COMET CONSTI CTON en ee Black snake=22 1) Ssh sasaeee 2
Convers lagen aes ee ee ee Coachwhips2222 See 1
Diadophisspunctatus=. 2 2 Ring-necked snake____--____ aac |
Dinodon semicarinatum_______-_________ Atkam ata lh 22% Soe serene 2
Drymarchon corais couperi_______-----__ Indigo, snake_—__- eee 3
LATE ORR OAN ne es ee Corn\,snake.<..5- eee 4
LODE MOUSOLELO saat ae ee ee Pilotsnake=..:. 22 eee 3
ieterodon  contontias oe Hog-nosed snake ________---__ 5
Lampropeltis getulus____._____-. _______ Chain king snake. = 1

DCAD Ac le MES) Ses ae am amen EEL TR Water :snake:-_.-. eee 15
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 109

REPTILES—continued

SERPENTES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Colubridae—Continued
INGO SDs seo tn ee ett Indian water snake___-__-_-_ 1
Naina miscatons- set 8 Watertsnakes 2 2 1
Oxyuclisniulgidus se ee 8 Green tree snake:_—~.__...-- 1
Pituophis melanoleucus_____----------~- Bull snakei = 2222 2 2
Sioreniandekayia=.-+ 2-36 os De Kay's snake... _...-=*-. 5
Thanmmnopnhis) ordinoides_- ——.=— =-— —--_____ Western garter snake__-__--~ 2
Rhamnophis) isintaus-—s2—~ oso Garter snake 332= 4... =... 10
TRTASOPSHiacksonig— == 2" nasa Black tree snake_-____.—.-..— 1
Elapidae:
Najalmmelanoleuca:. 22+ eee West African cobra____--_--- 3
INORG G4 Ore tS tp ES Indian’ cobtas2222 0 eee 5
Crotalidae:
Agkistrodon mokeson___.—_~—~--_--_~--= Copperhead snake__-~--_-__ ahve
Grotalusternificus. oo % o2 oss South American rattlesnake-_ 1
Trimeresurus flavoviridis__.______-__----- Mabuie- =n. 0 82 ee 6
Viperidae:
WADCT.G) FUSSCUN a oe ee ee ee Russell’a viper-22-]22=- = 1
TESTUDINATA
Chelydidae:
Batrachemys nasuta_------------------- South American  side-necked
turtles eS oe 3
TERRORS EU OS ee ee ee ee a ES South American snake-necked
turtle 20222224 eee iS
Hydromedusa tectifera_______-_-_----~----- South American long-necked
turtle.22 22. Swe eee 16
Platemys platycephala______------------ Flat-headed turtle--_-_-------- 1
Platysternidae:
Platysternum megacephalum _-----------~ Large-headed Chinese turtle-_ 1
Pelomedusidae:
Pelomedusa galeata____.-_._-------------- Common African water tor-
toise2..- eee eee 1
Podocnemis expansa__.-._-.----=-____.- South American river tortoise. 1
Kinosternidae:
KG OSLEIN ON SD oe re ee eee) Central American musk turtle. 1
Kinosternon subrubrum__._—---—~-.~----- Musk.- turtles. Shessts eos a
Chelydridae:
Chelyara _serpentina 222208. oie es Snapping turtle22. 2s 8
Macrochelys temminckii-_-_-.___---------- Alligator snapping turtle----- 1
Testudinidae:
Chrysemys marginata___-_-------------- Western painted turtle-_----- 5
Chrysemys. pictaa.o2oB Ol GO Painted turtle. see 3
Clemmys guttataws ones. Bete oe Spotted: ‘turtles22oso 8h as 6
Clemmis-isctintas =) 2 ee eee Wood turtles=_=- = Sere 6
Cyclemys amboinensis _____------------- Kura kura box turtle_--------~- 2
Geoclemys subtrijuga _._.--___-_--_--__. Siamese field turtle__-.._------ 1

Geoemyda. manni ...-S222205L S54. 55- Costa Rican terrapin-----_-_-- 3
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

REPTILES—continued

TESTUDINATA—Ccontinued

Scientijic name Common name Number
Testudinidae—Continued
Graytemys: barbvourt Le ee Barbour’s:-turtle===_ -==*2o38 55 6
Kiniey sn 08d <2232- Se es eo African hingeback turtle--____ 3
Mataclemys centratas 2.) te Diamond-back turtle_--__-__-_- 24
Pseudemys concinn@ 222222 = 26 = == Cooter. 20S et ee 3
Pseudemys elegansies Lee ae Cumberland terrapin__-_-----_- 6
Pseudemysornata 2223.0 ee Central American water turtle. 1
PSCUCEMIYS LUGOSO arenes = a) EE eee Cuban“ terrapin? eee 1
Terrapene Sp. 222222 =- Pi AR SAE eae Mexican box turtle22oi_220e22 2
Err Onene \CONOUMG a oe a =e Swe ee Box ‘turtle 222. ae eee 50
Hernapeneem ajo se eee a eee Wiser ee seer eee Miorida box turtles 4
NeSsGudongenticulata =. ea een South American land tortoise__ 2
EStudo CDRip DU eee ee Duncan Island tortoise--_____ Al
Pestudo: NOOdensi se. a Seen es Hood Island tortoise__--_---~ 3
MCSTUDOMCOTNACTS ne en. en at een Soft-shelled land tortoise___~-~ 1
RESEULAORUICUN Gee ee ee ee ee Albemarle Island tortoise_____. 6
Trionychidae:
AG A GICT OG ae me eee eee eres eee Soft-shelled turtle ___-_-__--___- 6
AVAGO WS ee ee West African soft-shelled tur-
tle. eee Al
AMPHIBIA
CAUDATA
Salamandridae:
PriturnUsspyrnhogastem= © Sean ss ee Red salamander-____---—__._- 3
TrUurus TOvesus.- ee Giant néwt2s)_ eee 2
Prius. VULGATIS as Ba aet ee Common salamander_____-~__- i
Amphiumidae:
Amphinni@ means’ Bes oe ae ee Blind eel or congo snake____- il
Ambystomidae:
Ambystoma maculatum._2==—=25.—.-... Spotted salamander ________-- y4
Ambystoma, trigrinum.._--225 2==--2 2 AXOlOth 2 xiks nto 24
SALIENTIA
Dendrobatidae: ‘
Atelonus: stelzneni.—— sie eee Black ‘atelopuSs=42=- ===s54qm8 30
ALCLODUSHUATIUS CTUCIVET {2 === Yellow atelopus-—_-_-___-____ 2
Dendrovates, auratws2- =e eae Arrow-poison frog_—_____----__ 3
Bufonidae:
ISH O) . CHING OU ee ee Common) toad===2>2- sheets 12
BUlO. Cm pusus. Sassen ee ee Sapo de concha=s+s-= ==2=5s5 8
BUfO! Marius 22 Sse ene ee SNe Marine’ toad_._. = seis seas 5
IBiufon MELLOCenhalus sa = ee Cuban giant toad_--_-_-___.- 3
Ceratophrydae:
Cer atOopnrys KOrnGt dat as ee Horned frogs -en eee 2
Hylidae:
ACIS QNIYUAUS Ba et BE ay ne Ts a ee Cricket: frog === 5 S21 25= Bees 3

ELUM CRU Ci OR ea a Trée (frog220 = See 6
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 111

AMPHIBIA—continued
SALIENTIA—continued
Scientific name Common name Number
Pipidae:
Pind) (GMenicang== 2a ee es Subinant. toad -- 12
EMETLOD US MUL CUS sett eee ee ee African clawed frog_-----~- 23 8Y}
Ranidae:
EU COLLES UCUE Te ee ee ee Bulli se eee ns 4
EEUU CLOUNULU CIS te aes eS Green airoge oe ee ae 3
TREN OT OCCIDULALI Set ee ees West African bullfrog________ af
GNGe Dilense= esters ee Sse eats S Beopard: 1hOgee ae ee ere ee 15
Rona sylwatica=—=—----—-__-_-=-- === WOO tTrOps aite oe ere a 4
FISHES
Apnyosemion australe s=_—=-— 2 lbyne-tailedstishe=—= = 2s. aes 1
TRUED USWA UCNC UU oe ee oe Se Clown! (barbis 222 eee 8
BEZEL TRU IER MES TLTTLCLUTZCUTE AU Star ee a er Ne gr en a ce 22
COLOSSIANS! GUT ATUL) Oe ae Goldhshtecns sh. Uae aaa es 35
OED TUE LS EEL CO sae aes meen ee ed eee Snake? head qd: 22 anes oe ee 1
COT) LORDS) Sl a aad wri i A Cattish. Stes aeter omnes ape 2
Danio’ wmatlabvancuss_- = ations, 1) 2k Blue#danio++-.- 2 {f
DONTOMANCIA One ese = 5 te SN on Zebrar fish! 2-2 eee 8
Gymnocorymbus. ternetzi_________.-..-____ Blacks tetia-— == Se 5
HE MAGTAMMNUS ISP a= wee Tetras Buenos}Aireso 2 = 2
Hyphessororycon innest_.__... .-______.___ Neon) tetra fishes) == sae See Pe
KEYDLODlerus OlCITTiis_ ES GlASS 3 CachS Net ses eee ae oe 2
WE DISTEST-TeLICUlAbUS = 2 2 Guppy 222 ae eee ee een 100
Benidosien: | paradora._ =. =— Sea eie eee South American lungfish... 2
ANU RUUCLOLO Rs AS BY RE ee a Cubans limia=== ose 10
MG CTONOMUS Sle ee Paradise fishes. 2s sae eee 14
CR OIVULUMEUIUSUG TITS ate ok tee ee ee ee 6
MMGUACTIASUERSDILENOD Sa ee ee WAT CLOT: tin O lily ere we ene ee 20
ELDEUPOCCUUUS = fat ee Ne ed ee Ne REG WeIN CON Mee a wae ah ie 20
Riatypoecilus smacilatuss | eee Goldplaties i222. festa airs tee 12
IPLCCOSEOMALS USP) a ee es A 8 eee Sa Armored:.catfishof-—5 2-5 es 1
PRES SRNI, CRAIG SS, ee See eek, Oe Ny ee A Rat ea rc NC gee em 9 1
PR ODTODLETIES mONNECCLENS aa ee ee African lingish===sse—— es 2
IELeCropnylim scalare—=— == ee Angel. fish = 3 eae a ee al
SERRGSQUNUS Lernctet_ 2 = =. ee ee Piranha or cannibal fish_____ 1
UICHOGUSLOM (LOCT = no eae ee ee Blue couram i= al
: J SwoOvdta les oe ee ee 1
Xiphophorus helleri____------------------ hice eer i Oe 8
ARACHNIDS
WGCULGUCCELUS INU CLONG aes Black widow spider__________ 1
ULU DCU CISD ee =e eee ee ee ee TPA antl aes eee eee oe
Centrunoides gracilisi— 22225 2 Mexican brown scorpion______ 1
INSECTS

ISG RUN) ee a Oe Giant ‘cockroach {222 es 100
112 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

MOLLUSKS
Sctentific name Common name Number
ACHING CChOUNG =) eee Giant lands snail 2
SUMMARY
Animalsvon hand. July ty 194522 Ss Se ee eee 2, 623
Accessions during: the yeats = see 28 ee ee ee eee 1, 108
Total number of animals in collection during the year_____________- 3, T31
Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of
animals’ on deposit, iet@ss 2. Se ee ee eee 1,178
In /collectionsonicaune 30}, 19460 ee ee 2, 553

STATUS OF COLLECTION

Class Species eaivie Class Species ere
Miammalse 4-822 as 211 618"i| Insects "322.2! (42.2 1 100
TB indSte re eee es 337 Os4tPNOlUSKs= = =e eoeeee 1 2
Reptilesses 225. sees ee a 98 493) ||; Arachnids: = 22.3322) eee 3 4
Amphibianse 222) sosscccecos= 23 177 | —_——
1 ae eee 27 295 Totalcc22eesee ese 701 2, 553

Respectfully submitted.
W. M. Mann, Director.
Dr. A. WETMORE,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1946:

The Astrophysical Observatory comprises two divisions: (1) The
Division of Astrophysical Research which is devoted to a study of
solar radiation, and (2) the Division of Radiation and Organisms
which investigates the effects of radiation upon organisms. The Ob-
servatory is supported largely by Congressional appropriation,
amounting in this fiscal year to $51,039, and in part by private funds,
The equipment and housing of both divisions have remained nearly
unchanged during the year.

(1) DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

Work at Washington.—In addition to the usual routine of correct-
ing, recomputing, and verifying the solar observations as received
from the three field stations (Montezuma, Chile; Table Mountain,
Calif.; and Tyrone, N. Mex.), a tabulation was made, after critical
study, summarizing the solar record for the calendar year 1945. These
values add another year to the great table of volume 6 of the Annals
referred to in last year’s report. Progress has also been made in the
continued search for possible improvements in solar-constant instru-
mentation and methods. A new vacuum bolometer, designed by L.
B. Clark, technologist of the Observatory, is in preparation. This
new design will eliminate the gradual loss of sensitivity which we have
noted in the past arising from certain impurities in the vacuum
chamber.

Reference was made in last year’s report to a contract, signed in
June 1945, with the Office of the Quartermaster General, Army Service
Forces, under the terms of which the Observatory is to make a detailed
study of sun and sky radiation at Camp Lee, Va., as part of extensive
tests in progress there to determine the causes for the deterioration of
tents and tent fabrics. It is known that radiation from the sun and
sky falling upon exposed fabrics over extended periods is a factor
which hastens deterioration in the fabrics. Practically nothing is
known, however, of the amount of radiation required, nor of the part

113
114. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

of the spectrum most active, in the degradation. The development of
suitable instruments and methods for this radiation study at Camp
Lee, the installation of the equipment, and the organization of the
observing program occupied the time of most of the staff for several
months. The type of instrument adopted is a special form of the sen-
sitive, quick-acting thermoelement which Mr. Clark has developed
and used in many lines of research. Eight copies of this instrument,
all automatically recording, were prepared under Mr. Clark’s direc-
tion, and are now in successful operation at Camp Lee. Special glass
filters, hemispherical in shape, are used to restrict the instrument to
the measurement of radiation in known parts of the spectrum. De-
scription of these instruments is given in a report soon to be issued.

Dr. Abbot has continued his researches correlating solar activity
with weather changes, and has published two articles on the subject
during the year.

Publication of Dr. Arctowski’s studies of terrestrial and solar at-
mospheric circulation has been delayed. Dr. Arctowski has uncovered
certain interesting phases of the subject which he feels require further
study.

Work in the field—Notwithstanding the continued handicap of
manpower shortage, observations were made on every available day
at all three field stations until February 1946. At that time the Tyrone
station was closed because of the resignation of S. C. Warner as
director. Since the sky conditions at Tyrone have been progressively
less favorable during the past 4 years, probably owing to increased
smoke and dust from mining operations in the general vicinity, the
closing of this station is not too greatly regretted. At the end of the
fiscal year arrangements were nearly completed to install the Tyrone
equipment temporarily at a wet, sea-level location in Florida where
valuable observations can be made concerning the transmission of
radiation through water vapor and related problems.

The program of observations of sun and sky radiation at Camp Lee,
Va., begun in December 1945, is still in progress. The observations
are made largely by personnel of the Quartermaster Board working
under the direction of Mr. Hoover. ‘This has necessitated frequent
trips by Mr. Hoover to Camp Lee to install, supervise, and inspect
the work. From these Camp Lee measurements, a great volume of
information is accumulating concerning the kind and amount of
radiation, for each hour of each day, that falls upon the tents and
exposed panels. These data will be summarized and published at
intervals. The first report is expected to appear shortly. It is con-
fidently hoped that these measurements will help to explain the causes
of exposed fabric deterioration.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY "15

In August 1945 Dr. Abbot spent several weeks at Mount Wilson,
Calif., testing his new radiometer and developing plans for improved
apparatus for measuring the energy spectra of stars.

(2) DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
(Report prepared by Dr. Harl 8S. Johnston, Assistant Director of the Division)

Project 1. Photosynthesis ——For the accurate determination of
carbon dioxide absorbed by green plants in the process of photo-
synthesis it is necessary to correct for the amount of carbon dioxide
eliminated in respiration. Before many of the fundamental prob-
lems arising in this study can be solved it is absolutely necessary to
improve the accuracy of the apparatus designed for the measure-
ments of minute changes in the concentration of carbon dioxide sur-
rounding the plant. During the past year much time has been given
to this work and many experiments carried out. Respiration experi-
ments have been run with barley seedlings, and small animals such
as the cockroach, cricket, and grasshopper. A most interesting and
unexplained respiration rhythm has been discovered in the cockroach.
However, this phenomenon as well as an apparent water-vapor effect
cannot be fully explained until more work is completed on this delicate
and highly sensitive apparatus.

Project 2. Plant growth—The study of plant growth under con-
trolled artificial conditions of mineral nutrition, illumination, tem-
perature, and humidity has been continued. The experiments carried
out on wave-length balance indicated a need for improvement in the
technique used. Further work along this line is being pursued.

Most of the work under this general project has centered around
the problem of the role of the environment in the growth processes of
cereal seedlings. The effects of radiation, which constitute the pri-
mary problem, have been found to depend upon other environmental
factors, such as temperature, water supply, humidity, and chemical
composition of substrate so that it has become necessary to evaluate
the importance of these. Some of the observations and tentative
conclusions from these as yet incomplete experiments are listed:

a. Development of seedling as a whole.—In the growth processes
of grass seedlings a sharp distinction must be made between the rate
of growth and the ultimate amount of growth. These two properties
appear to be antagonistic in the sense that the slower the rate of
development of a given organ, the longer does growth continue and
the greater is the final size attained.

The rate of water absorption appears to be a determining factor in
controlling the growth processes; the effects of certain other environ-
116 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

mental factors can be interpreted as resulting from an influence upon
the water uptake.

b. Growth of coleoptile—A marked effect of temperature upon
the growth inhibition of the oats coleoptile by light has been observed.
Below 25° C. the inhibition is independent of temperature; between
25° and 30° the inhibition effect becomes smaller as the temperature
increases; above 30° there is no inhibition and possibly a slight stimu-
lation by light. These statements apply, of course, only to the specific
conditions of intensity and wave length which have been studied. An
improved thermostat is being constructed so that the experiments can
be extended with greater precision. ;

c. Root.—A very interesting effect of light upon root growth has
been noted. Roots which are caused, by mechanical restraint, to
grow in a horizontal direction elongate at their normal rate in dark-
ness, but are greatly inhibited by light. In addition to the interest
in the mechanism by which this result might be caused, it is noted
that red light is effective, indicating the presence of a pigment which
absorbs these wave lengths.

d. Cells.—Histological studies of the mesocotyl have been initiated
in order to correlate the gross effects with the cellular development
of this organ.

e. Technique—In cultures of seedlings at high humidity and tem-
perature a complication is introduced by the abundant development
of molds. Considerable time has been devoted to devising techniques
for inhibiting mold growth without influencing the development of
the higher plants. As the result of tests with about 200 fungicidal
chemicals a few have been found which appear promising. Steriliza-
tion by ultraviolet irradiation also has been found effective.

PERSON NEL

On March 9, 1946, the Observatory lost by death Lyman A. Fillmen,
instrument maker for the past 15 years. His place was filled on Apri!
8, 1946, by Darnel G. Talbert.

A. G. Froiland, on military furlough since July 8, 1943, returned
as astrophysical aid November 16, 1945. In February 1946 he was
promoted to associate astrophysicist and transferred to Montezuma,
Chile, where he assumed charge of the Montezuma station, replacing
F. A. Greeley. Mr. Greeley returned to Washington in May, and at
the close of the fiscal year was enjoying a well-earned vacation. He
and Mrs. Greeley had for 3 years carried on the arduous work of the
Chilean station unaided.

In September 1945 A. F. Moore, director of the Tyrone station, ex-
changed stations with S. C. Warner, director of the Table Mountain
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117

station. In January 1946 Mr. Warner resigned to return to the teach-
ing profession.
PUBLICATIONS

During the fiscal year the following publications on the work of the
Observatory appeared :

Agpot, C. G., Correlations of solar variation with Washington weather. Smith-
sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 104, No. 18, July 1945.

Apsor, C. G., 1945-1946 report on the 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipi-
tation. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 104, No. 21, March 1946.

Assort, C. G., Energy spectra of stars. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 104, No. 22,
April 1946.

AssgoT, C. G., Hoover, W. H., and CuarK, L. B., A sensitive radiometer. Smithson-
ian Mise. Coll, vol. 104, No. 14, August 1945.

AcpricH, L. B., The solar constant and sunspot numbers. Smithsonian Mise.
Coll., vol. 104, No. 12, July 1945.

Respectfully submitted.
L. B. Avpricu, Director.
Dr. A. WreTmorz,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1946:

As the fiscal year 1945-1946 drew to a close, the library, as an
organic part of the Smithsonian Institution, approached the hun-
dredth anniversary of its founding on August 10, 1846, for service in
“the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

To anyone to whom books are a perpetual source of exciting revela-
tion of human experience and accomplishment, and of the working of
men’s minds, a backward glance at the hundred years of the library’s
history furnishes the outline for a richly colored picture of books in
use in advancing the boundaries of knowledge. Section 8 of the Act
of Organization provided for “the gradual formation of a library com-
posed of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human
knowledge,” and although this universality of aim was later modified,
of necessity, the continuity of purpose in procuring “a complete collec-
tion of the memoirs and transactions of learned societies throughout
the world” has never been broken. The collection of this and similar
important material, begun with the founding of the Institution and
now forming part of the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library of Con-
gress, has not been surpassed for size and completeness in the library
world, while the working libraries built up at the Institution to serve
immediately the Government bureaus it administers include many ex-
ceptionally rich collections of material on special subjects.

But even a hundred years ago, the acquisition of books alone was not
the whole concern of the Institution in forming its hbrary. Secretary
Henry was keenly interested in making it “a center of bibliographical
knowledge” as well, and the first librarian, Charles C. Jewett, a man
in advance of his time, was a pioneer in proposing and devising the
schemes for cooperative cataloging which, as later developed, have
done so much to facilitate both the scholarly and the popular use of
libraries. He early recognized what the late Lord Rayleigh put so
well when, many years later, in an address before the British Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science, he said, “By a fiction as
remarkable as any to be found in law, what has once been published
* * * is usually spoken of as ‘known’ and it is often forgotten that

118
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 119

the rediscovery in the library may be a more difficult and uncertain
process than the first discovery in the laboratory.”

The importance of making this “rediscovery in the library” easy for
serious students was never so urgently impressed upon librarians as
during the late war, when libraries were overrun by research workers
from the war agencies. Then as never before did both the excellencies
and the deficiencies of library cataloging and of reference and biblio-
graphical services come to light. Just how large a part books played in
winning the war it is impossible to say, but many a tale could be told
of the finding of a fact which, like the proverbial horseshoe nail in
reverse, helped make victory possible. The Smithsonian library is
gratified that it was so extensively used by the war agencies. It, in
turn, received no small benefit from the experience gained in serving
them, which is of especial value in making constructive plans for the
improvement of its catalog and for the betterment of its service in
general.

VJ-day, coming as it did early in the fiscal year, made the year’s
history one of conversion to the postwar activities of rehabilitation.
Before the war was over, publications had already begun to come in
from the liberated countries in Europe, and as the year advanced and
shipping conditions improved, more and larger shipments of material
that had accumulated abroad arrived. Through the International
Exchange Service, 4,937 pieces were delivered to the library, in com-
parison with 540 received the previous year.

The accessions division recorded the receipt of 37,148 pieces alto-
gether, an increase of more than 11,000 over the year before. In ac-
cordance with routine procedure, all documents, dissertations, and
other publications not immediately pertinent to the work of the In-
stitution were sent directly to the Library of Congress and there were
9,162 of these, while the total number of volumes and parts cataloged
or entered for the Smithsonian Deposit was 5,016.

Among the 1,303 purchased books there were a number of out-of-
print works which are noteworthy not so much for their rarity as be-
cause they filled some special gap in the collections. A few of them
were: The Game-birds and Water-fowl of South Africa, by Boyd R.
Horsbrugh, 1912; Etching, an Outline of its Technical Processes and
its History .. ., by Sylvester R. Koehler, 1885; Miniatures des Cing
Siécles, 1920; A History of British Birds, by Francis O. Morris, 8
volumes, 1863-67; Icones Filicum Japoniae, by Masasuke Ogata, 7
volumes, 1928-36 ; A Voyage in the South Seas, in the Years 1812, 1813,
and 1814, by Capt. David Porter, of the American Frigate, the H'ssea,
1823; Anders Zorn, Aquafortiste, by Axel L. Romdahl, 1923; Hand-
buch der Entomologie, by Christoph W. M. Schréder, 3 volumes, 1925-

725362479
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

29; A Brief History of Old English Porcelain and its Manufac-
tories . . ., by Louis M. E. Solon, 1903; Travels of the Jesuits, into
Various Parts of the World: particularly China and the East-
Indies ... Translated from the celebrated Lettres édifiantes &
curieuses . . . To which is now prefixed, an Account of the Spanish
Settlements, in America, with a general index to the whole work, by
Mr. Lockman, 2d ed., 2 volumes, 1762; American Lace and Lace
Makers, by Mrs. Emily Noyes Vanderpoel, edited by Elizabeth C. Bar-
ney Buel, 1924; Arcana Entomologica, by John Obadiah Westwood,
1845; A Voyage Round the World, in the Years MDCCXL, I, II, II,
IV, by George Anson, esq; now Lord Anson, Commander in Chief
of a Squadron of His Majesty’s Ships, sent upon an Expedition to the
South-Seas. Compiled from his Papers and Materials, by Richard
Walter ... 5th ed., 1749.

Gifts received were even more numerous than in the preceding year
and numbered 4,103, exclusive of the Gilmore collection on vertebrate
paleontology which arrived late in the year and has not yet been com-
pletely counted. Mrs. Gilmore’s gift to the National Museum of the
late Dr. Charles W. Gilmore’s private library on the subject of his
special studies is an important one. Its 600 volumes and especially
its hundreds of reprints and separates are invaluable to the work of
the division of vertebrate paleontology where it will be housed as a
part of the division’s sectional library.

To the many other donors of useful books and papers the library
is most grateful. Coming as they do from friends of the Institution
all over the world they often supply needs in the collections that it
would be otherwise difficult to fill.

Toward the close of the fiscal year the Institution was so fortunate
as to receive by transfer from the National Academy of Sciences about
850 parts of valuable old scientific serial publications needed for the
completion of sets in the Astrophysical Observatory and the Museum
libraries and to fill other Jacunae in the collections.

With the reestablishment of interrupted exchange relationships all
over the world came also the opportunity to share in the rehabilitation
of destroyed libraries. Several thousand pieces were withdrawn for
this purpose from the library’s very large collection of duplicate
serial parts, some 1,800 of them in response to specific requests from
individual libraries for certain titles, but most of them to be used in
combination with similar materials from other libraries collected and
to be distributed by the American Book Center for War Devastated
Libraries. It would be possible to do more of this very gratifying but
time-consuming work, as well as other much-needed work with the
duplicates, if the library staff were large enough so that a competent
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 121

member, with suitable assistance, could be put in full-time charge of
the collections. The duplicates have never been fully organized nor
thoroughly studied. They include much material that would be valu-
able in arranging special exchanges with other libraries for compara-
ble material. Since the termination of the WPA project under which
an excellent beginning of their proper sorting and filing was made, it
has not been possible to continue any systematic work on them, and
the large annual additions that are made to the collections are almost
wholly unarranged.

The cataloging of purchased publications and of most of the other
currently received material was well kept up, but there was little oppor-
tunity to make additions to the union catalog of records of the older
publications belonging to the bureau libraries, and none to make
progress in reducing the huge “backlog” of incompletely or inaccurately
cataloged books. The inadequacy and incompleteness of the catalogs
in leading quickly to the information in the older material in the
library was distressingly obvious during the war. The cataloging
problem is a serious one, and the only satisfactory solution of it would
seem to be to make it a special project organized and planned to be
completed by a staff especially engaged to do it within a given period
of time.

Changes in the library’s personnel were the resignation of Mrs.
Margaret L. O’Keef on November 2, 1945, and the appointment of Miss
Lillian Treder to succeed her on June 17, 1946.

The most urgent of the library’s needs continues to be more and
better-arranged shelf room. The present overcrowding is extremely
serious everywhere, and in the Natural History Building, current
accessions can only be shelved by removing older publications and
sending them to the inconveniently located and scattered bits of shelf
space available in the attic stacks of the Arts and Industries Building.
Both the books and the library service suffer badly from such an
arrangement. ‘The questions of the hbrary’s housing throughout the
Institution, and of its cataloging, taken together, have grown to consti-
tute what amounts to a reorganizational problem. The opening year
of the Institution’s second century would seem to be a most suitable
time to look for its solution.
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

SUMMARIZED STATISTICS

Accessions
Total,
recorde

Volumes valusier
June 30, 1946
Astrophysical Observatory (including Radiation and Organisms) ---.---..----- 205 11, 920
Biureatom American Pi tHnOlog Ve cea a= ae ee 109 34, 314
reer Gallery Of -ATtee! soea ss See ee eee: are ee ee ee ee ee 215 21, 697
Wational Collectioniof, Mine ATts 26 -) =a" sen nan eee ee ee eee 414 10, 569
ING TATE I DU a ba ee a ee 8 ee ee eee Ces 2,772 236, 316
INF ttOm a 00 10g] CAGE sir koa ee 21 4,142
Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress_--__-_.__---------------------- 15257, 577, 430
Sri GHSOM sary OLE COs ee ee ee 285 31, 965
SUN OG Ue ae ee alo ea er er Te on 5, 278 928, 353

Neither incomplete volumes of periodicals nor separates and reprints
from periodicals are included in these figures.

Exchanges
INew..exchanges arranged =. oe 2 ee ee se eee 262
91 of these were assigned to the Smithsonian Deposit.
Specially requested publications received___-_------------------------- 6, 259

891 of these were obtained to fill gaps in the Smithsonian Deposit
sets.
Cataloging

Volumes and pamphlets cataloged 2222 2) 22 Sat se eee 6, 124
Gards added to catalogs and ‘shelf lists2-2. “e022 See eee 25, 326

Periodicals
Periodical parts: entered! 3= 22 ee See eee eee 12, 947
Of these 3,399 were sent to the Smithsonian Deposit.

Circulation

oans of booksiand periodicals22 2-2-2 ess Sissi eee 10, 223
This figure does not include the very considerable intramural circula-
tion of books and periodicals assigned to sectional libraries for filing, of
which no count is kept.
Binding

Volumes: Senteto) the bindery. = +. eee 840
Volumes repaired in the Museum__.__. —— = eee 1, 010

Respectfully submitted.
Leita F. Cuarg, Librarian.
Dr. ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Str: [have the honor to submit the following report on the publica-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government branches
under its administrative charge during the year ended June 30, 1946.

The Institution published during the year 16 papers in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 Annual Report of the Board of
Regents and pamphlet copies of 23 articles in the Report appendix,
1 Annual Report of the Secretary, 2 special publications, and a reprint
of 1 special publication.

The United States National Museum issued two Annual Reports,
6 Bulletins, and 5 Proceedings papers.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report, 1
Bulletin, 2 volumes of a five-volume Bulletin, and 1 publication of
the Institute of Social Anthropology.

The National Collection of Fine Arts issued one catalog.

The Freer Gallery of Art issued one pamphlet.

Of the publications there were distributed 129,750 copies, which
included 148 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge, 29,257 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections, 24,675 volumes and separates of Smithsonian
Annual Reports, 18,990 War Background Studies, 2,356 Smithsonian
special publications, 45 reports on the Harriman Alaska Expedition,
32,887 volumes and separates of National Museum publications, 12,730
publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1,628 publications
of the Institute of Social Anthropology, 10 catalogs of the National
Collection of Fine Arts, 5 pamphlets of the Freer Gallery of Art, 16
Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 1,056 reports of the Ameri-
can Historical Association, and 5,947 miscellaneous publications not
printed by the Smithsonian Institution (mostly Survival Manuals).

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Sixteen papers in this series were issued, as follows:
VOLUME 104

No. 11. The West Atlantic boring mollusks of the genus Martesia, by Paul
Bartsch and Harald A. Rehder. 16 pp., 3 pls. (Publ. 3804.) July 2, 1945.

No. 12. The solar constant and sunspot numbers, by L. B. Aldrich. 5 pp., 1 fig.
(Publ. 3806.) July 2, 1945.

123
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

No. 18. Correlations of solar variation with Washington weather, by C. G.
Abbot. 10 pp., 5 figs. (Publ. 3807.) July 28, 1945.

No. 14. A sensitive radiometer, by C. G. Abbot, W. H. Hoover, and L. B. Clark.
6 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 8808.) Aug. 23, 1945.

No. 15. A bibliography and short biographical sketch of William Healey Dall,
by Paul Bartsch, Harald Rehder, and Beulah E. Shields. 96 pp., 1 pl. (Publ.
8810.) January 30, 1946.

No. 16. An important new species of oyster from North Borneo suitable for
introduction in the Philippines, by Paul Bartsch. 2 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 3812.)
December 12, 1945.

No. 17. New Westville, Preble County, Ohio, meteorite, by H. P. Henderson
and S. H. Perry. 9 pp., 4 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 3814.) January 30, 1946.

No. 18. The skeletal anatomy of fleas (Siphonaptera), by R. HB. Snodgrass.
89 pp., 21 ols. (Publ. 3815.) April 1, 1946.

No. 19. Sunspot changes and weather changes, by H. H. Clayton. 29 pp., 23
figs. (Publ. 3816.) March 6, 1946.

No. 20. Schistosomophora in China, with descriptions of two new species and
a note on their Philippine relative, by Paul Bartsch. 7 pp., 1 pl. (Publ. 3841.)
April 10, 1946.

No. 21. 1945-1946 report on the 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipitation,
by C. G. Abbot. 2 pp. (Publ. 8842.) March 27, 1946.

No. 22. Energy spectra of stars, by C. G. Abbot. 5 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 3848.) April
10, 1946.

VOLUME 106

No. 8. A list of fresh-water fishes from San José Island, Pearl Islands, Pan-
ama, by Samuel F. Hildebrand. 3 pp. (Publ. 3847.) June 10, 1946.

No. 4. Notes on the herpetology of the Pearl Islands, Panama, by Doris M.
Cochran. 8 pp. (Publ. 3848.) June 24, 1946.

No. 11. Review of the New World species of Hippodamia Dejean (Coleop-
tera: Coceinellidae), by Edward A. Chapin. 39 pp., 22 pls. (Publ. 3856.) June
14, 1946.

No. 12. Deseriptions of two new leafbirds from Siam, by H. G. Deignan.
8 pp. (Publ. 3856.) June 24, 1946.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORT

Report for 1944.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of the
Board of Regents for 1944 was received from the Public Printer De-
cember 12, 1945:

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show-
ing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1944. ix+-503 pp., 40 pls., 69 figs. (Publ. 3776.)

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publs. 8777-
3799) :

Solar variation and weather, by Charles G. Abbot.

Astronomy in a world at war, by A. Vibert Douglas.

The structure of the universe, by Claude William Heaps.
Industrial science looks ahead, by David Sarnoff. :

The new microscopes, by R. E. Seidel and M. Blizabeth Winter.
Radio acoustic ranging (R. A.-R.), by Commander K. T. Adams.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 125

The David W. Taylor Model Basin, by Rear Admiral Herbert 8S. Howard.

Research for aeronautics—its planning and application, by W. F. Farren.

Human limits in flight, by Bryan H. C. Matthews.

Trans-Arctie aviation, by Lt. Elmer Plischke.

Our petroleum resources, by Wallace HB. Pratt.

Woods and trees: Philosophical implications of some facts of science, by
Frederick H. Krecker.

Biology and medicine, by Asa Crawford Chandler.

The locust plague, by B. P. Uvarov.

The codling moth, by B. A. Porter.

Grassland and farmland as factors in the cyclical development of Kurasian
history, by J. Russell Smith.

Southern Arabia, a problem for the future, by Carleton S. Coon.

The New World Paleo-Indian, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.

Haster Island, by Alfred Métraux.

Brain rhythms, by E. D. Adrian.

The development of penicillin in medicine, by H. W. Florey and E. Chain.

Recent advances in anesthesia, by John C. Krantz, Jr.

Aspects of the epidemiology of tuberculosis, by Leland W. Parr.

Report for 1945.—The Report of the Secretary, which included the
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
and which will form part of the Annual Report of the Board of
Regents to Congress, was issued January 4, 1946.

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report of

the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30,
1945. ix+116 pp.,2 pls. (Publ. 3813.) 1946.

The Report volume for 1945, containing the general appendix, was in
press at the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

The Smithsonian Institution. 25 pp., 13 pls. (Publ. 3811.) January 14, 1946.
National Aircraft Collection, by Paul Edward Garber. Sixth Edition. 43
pp., illus. (Publ. 8840.) May 31, 1946.

The following special publication was reprinted :
Brief Guide to the Smithsonian Institution. Sixth Edition. 80 pp., illus. 1946.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during the
year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 2 Annual Reports, 5 Proceedings papers, and 6
Bulletins.

REPORTS

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the year ended June 30, 1944. iii+100 pp. January 5, 1946.

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the year ended June 30, 1945. iii+112 pp. June 28, 1946.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

PROCEEDINGS: VOLUME 96

No. 3195. Hyporhamphus patris, a new species of hemiramphid fish from
Sinaloa, Mexico, with an analysis of the generic characters of Hyporhamphus
and Hemiramphus, by Robert R. Miller. Pp. 185-193, fig. 9, pl. 11. July 27, 1945.

No. 3196. Notes on recently mounted reptile fossil skeletons in the United
States National Museum, by Charles W. Gilmore. Pp. 195-203, pls. 12-19. Feb-
ruary 5, 1946.

No. 3197. The onychophores of Panama and the Canal Zone, by Austin H.
Clark and James Zetek. Pp. 205-213. February 21, 1946.

No. 3198. Echiuroid worms of the North Pacific Ocean, by Walter Kenrick
Fisher. Pp. 215-292, figs. 10-19, pls. 20-37. April 11, 1946.

No. 8199. The osteology of the fossil turtle Testudo praeextans Lambe, with
notes on other species of Testudo from the Oligocene of Wyoming, by Charles W.
Gilmore. Pp. 293-810, figs. 20-27, pls. 388-44. March 28, 1946.

BULLETINS

No. 185, part 4. Checklist of the coleopterous insects of Mexico, Central America,
the West Indies, and South America, compiled by Richard H. Blackwelder. Pp.
551-768. May 138, 1946.

No. 186. The birds of northern Thailand, by H. G. Deignan. v-+616 pp., 4 maps,
9 pls. September 17, 1945.

No. 187. An annotated checklist and key to the snakes of Mexico, by Hobart M.
Smith and Edward M. Taylor. iv+239 pp. October 5, 1945.

No. 188. The fresh-water fishes of Siam, or Thailand, by Hugh M. Smith.
xi+ 622 pp., 107 figs., 9 pls. November 13, 1945.

No. 189. A descriptive catalog of the shore fishes of Peru, by Samuel F. Hilde-
brand. xi-+530 pp., 95 figs. February 26, 1946.

No. 190. The North American clear-wing moths of the family Aegeriidae,
by George P. Engelhardt. vi-+221 pp., 82 pls. (16 in color). June 28, 1949.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the Bureau has continued under the immediate
direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. During the year the follow-
ing publications were issued :

Sixty-second Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1944-1945.
9 pp.

Bulletin 187. The Indians of the Southeastern United States, by John R. Swan-
ton. 943 pp., 108 pls., 5 figs., 18 maps.

Bulletin 148. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward, editor.
Volume 1: The Marginal tribes. 624 pp., 112 pls., 69 figs. 7 maps. Volume 2:
The Andean civilizations. 1,035 pp., 192 pls., 100 figs., 11 maps.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 2. Cherfn: A Sierra Tarascan
village, by Ralph L. Beals. 225 pp., 8 pls., 19 figs., 5 maps.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

The National Collection of Fine Arts issued one catalog, as follows:

Catalog of American and European paintings in the Gellatly Collection. Third
Edition. 20pp.,11 pls. 1945.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 127

FREER GALLERY OF ART
The Freer Gallery of Art issued one pamphlet, as follows:
The Freer Gallery of Art. Revised Edition. 12 pp., 6 pls., 2 figs. 1945.

REPORT OF THH AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are trans-
mitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided by the
act of incorporation of the Association. The following report vol-
umes were issued this year:

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1944. Vol. 1, Pro-
ceedings and Guide to the American Historical Review, 1895-1945; vol. 2,
Calendar of the American Fur Company’s Papers. Part 1: 1831-1840; vol. 3,
Calendar of the American Fur Company’s Papers. Part 2: 1841-1849.

The following were in press at the close of the fiscal year: Annual
Report for 19438, vol. 2 (Writings on American History) ; Annual Re-
port for 1945, vol. 1 (Proceedings and list of members) ; vols. 2, 3,
and 4 (Spain in the Mississippi Valley, 1765-1794, Parts 1, 2, and 3).

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION
The manuscript of the Forty-eighth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, November 7, 1945.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Annual Reports to Congress and the various publications of the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administration of the Institution were
virtually used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for the
coming year, ending June 30, 1947, totals $88,500, allotted as follows:

SIMHSOMAnelN Stitt ON aa ee ee ee ee $16, 000
Nationale Mise rime ieee 2 ee Be ee es ee 43, 000
Bureau of American Wthnology------ = 17, 480
National Collection of Fine Arts____._._.. .--....-_______. 500
Imternarional sHxchanges2 26 se. ss ene ee eee ee 200
Nationale ZoologicallPorkse sven oo ee Dee eee ee 200
AStrophysicalaObservatory—- 2225-22 ee 500
American’ Historical Association... -.--- == 10, 620
PALS ee ae es he ee eae 88, 500

Respectfully submitted.
W. P. True, Chief, Editorial Division.
Dr. A. Wermore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
¢ oay:
; FRR

Ya en diet
ae savy Eepra iL ie somonnhaSeko's
hehe” nermoarliine ashy Ve aIOeeT wat OF HOR

i ar es a. holes vESiT! pares

et aad: ALLE

rf it aaa, SP
7 SRI TARE SAP
: SPEI SN Ait s = ty.
} : * ati:
Epule VTtits ) ff GE Tata ie gant ds, ot
7 on bi ,
er EEs 1} Gt “ 7 Bone 1OO08
y o py i ; 1 4
| ,
EP gaa pe ie rhs OF. Rater.)
b 2 Por ieey 28 rheriolts 8 e 608, 128 a PG
: . : "
i “io
: :
bs
—-,

| iki anna sa i ee
; ae a ete wee nets en seein Hi sia} pees [30 ais

a0 SiS gigpe sae iss nee elie Rice “aul ae ieed® ef meshed
ete abi cts eae == im sire ae Sates HOlinionwad, fgots otaatt LBS aires

Paneer ny =< Fee arate sania We ees ella deg

iesyF
“ dbsstianda a

ae we Pe! % att ty ee re ners
ee . ee o. / ra | rae wan ae v2 = 2h f apne es
ey | : 7 es Pe A Shwe S is Ossi sna oinsaAne acm “2

. P t FA by eS 9 eV some ee ie RRR nw ey
4 Fata wo IR aT clr we te cm then pan ein epee nt at al Date dae dies Hab eS beac is

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONTAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1946
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with

statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s, 6d.—
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim,
freights, insurance, etc., together with payment into the fund of the
sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the lifetime of Madame
de la Batut, brought the fund to the amount of $550,000.

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general
work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest, plus
savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present
year.

ENDOWMENT FUNDS
(Income for unrestricted use of the Institution)

Partly deposited in United States Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested
in stocks, bonds, ete.

Income
Investment present
year
Parent fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings) __________- $728, 878.29 | $43, 701. 53
Subsequent bequests, gifts, etc., partly deposited in the United States Treasury
and partly invested in the Consolidated Fund:

AveryRobert S..and Tydia, bequest fund_----_-_....-_---.------_-----«= 61, 770. 56 2, 155. 51
NG Cer ONG STO ONL See. ee ak Re eR ee aes Se 315, 455. 63 10, $89. 98
Habel, Dr. s., bequestifnndec< S7faishtk SCE ee ee ae Pa eas 500. 00 30. 00
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund 223s ke ee om 4, 079. 43 142. 08
HManilton; James bequest fund —— se = ee eat aac meh A, ofc 2, 909. 47 164. 26
Henry, Caroline, bequest fund! =. 2-22. et eign Bh a ee! 1, 226. 77 42.73
Hodgkins MhomaclGa(Peneralipit..... 22. na cee ee ee 146, 412. 95 8, 019. 25
Rubeess William lones, bequestitund 22.22 1, 069. 87 52. 11
Sanford’ GeorgervHesimenionialitimds 255.0 les Sil 2, 002. 96 97.45
Witherspoon LuomasrAcsmemorialtund. o-oo) eee ee 130, 900. 34 4, 559. 12
Special fund, stock in reorganized closed banks____-_____-___-__-__--___-_-- 2, 280. 00 527. 69
ERO Ge tect a ee een ee en SS RS ee ae Ree ee 658, 607. 98 26, 780. 18
Gran dite tale eee a ee a ee Te ee a a 1, 387, 486. 27 70, 481. 71

129
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions to date,
are listed below, together with income for the present year.

Income,
Investment present
year

Abbott, William L., fund for investigations in biology_...._..__....__.____--- $107, 456. 55 $3, 486. 59
Arthur, James, fund for investigations and study of the sun and lecture on

SELINIG ie ek Be eit Ea Rp Se 40, 566. 73 1, 412. 90
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna of

countries other than the United PSH CR eee ear re iit te Rag SET Gr SS ee 50, 819. 13 1, 769. 97
Baird, Lucy H., fund for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird_____________- 24, 422. 02 850. 59
Barstow, Frederick D., fund, for purchase of animals for Zoological Park__-___. 1, 014.10 35.32
Canfield Collection fund for increase and care of the Canfield collection of min- :

C3 ot ESRI SR Ai RO el ag ince RBIC EN Ul Lo el ae oe NN hie 38, 795. 43 1, 351. 20
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection, and promo-

tion of researches relating to Coleoptera: _.- 2s 2 ee 9, 303. 64 324. 04
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea col-

lection. of gemsiandsmollusks!- 22 een eee ee 28, 564. 24 994, 86
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, fund, for preservation and exhibition of the

photographic collection of Rudolph Eickemey OE, dite Cae = ee Se eee 514, 58 17. 92
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of lighting

OBJECTS a AIS Sa Saeed ee ee oe ae Ai BP ee Re era eee 6, 666. 45 232. 19
Hitchcock, Dr. Albert §., library fund, for care of Hitchcock Agrostological

ibraryee ht 02 SCS vi ke (Oe oe CORE Ne tAR SD GST he RS) eS aie LE 1, 600. 54 55. 74
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge in

regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air___.___.___-_-_.___._-___-- 100, 000. 00 6, 000. 00
Hrdliéka, AleS and Marie, fund, to further researches in nphveics! anthropology

and publication in connection therewith 22.22 2225 Yet eR es a eee 18, 654. 65 649. 72
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove-_-____._..--._-------------------- - 19, 415.74 676. 23
Long, Annette and Edith C., fund, for upkeep and preservation of Long col-

lection of embroideries, laces, Ct mere ei | ren en es ee ee 550. 78 19.18
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of art for the

use and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts_._____-._____--__-_-- 19, 227. 51 669. 67
National Collection of Fine Arts, Julia D. Strong bequest fund, for benefit of

NationaliCollectioniof Rinotarts #60. oat Ie Shee ST Se 10, 141. 81 353. 21
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell collec-

tion See ke ae Ss Re ee Soe Wet ag he)! iS ge ees 7, 518. 73 261. 87
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institution when

principalvamounts:toip250 000i =. eae ee ee ee 102, 126. 64 4, 228. 27
Rathbun, Richard, memorial fund, for use of division of U. 8S. National Mu-

seum containing Crustacea ee eek EA ee MO oad eee aoe EL ee A ae 10, 788. 45 375. 73

Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of Asher Tunis_ 30, 261. 17 1,399. 12
Roebling Collection fund, for care, improvement and increase of Roebling col-

lection ofvminerals2 fo Leenks ees ere eee ee a 122, 418. 63 4, 263. 71
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and chemistry - 95, 247. 10 3, 319. 23
Smithsonian employees retinamunt (unde se A IN ee 80, 371. 03 2, 799. 24
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, ete. of Springer collection and library_________- 18, 189. 94 633. 54
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for development of geo-

logical and paleontological studies and publishing results thereof-....-------- 430, 925. 04 14, 746. 52
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust__....__.-_-___.___-_-_- ate 60, 125. 70 2, 513. 81
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria_________ = 962. 14 33. 51

Nota). seco swe cevesesetaesse series weds besos teeecceweteeoveuststesowSdeces 1, 426, 648. 47 53, 473. 88

The above funds amount to a total of $2,814,134.74 and are carried
in the following investment accounts of the Institution:

United States Treasury deposit account, drawing 6 percent in-

tenes te Ae IS be Se 2 Ree aie eee $1, 000, 000. 00
Consolidated investment fund (income in table below) --------~~ 1, 551, 671. 40
Real estate: ‘morteages: (et. eee ee eee ee 203, 010. 79
Special funds, miscellaneous investments______________________ 51, 908. 70
Wninyvestedbicapital ee ee eect Bhar 7, 543. 85

OC) 21 Ve SR i al Ee 2, 814, 134. 74
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 131

CONSOLIDATED FUND

This fund contains substantially all the investments of the In-
stitution, with the exception of those of the Freer Gallery of Art;
the deposit of $1,000,000 in the United States Treasury, with guar-
anteed income of 6 percent; and investments in real estate and real-
estate mortgages. This fund contains endowments for both un-
restricted and specific use. A statement of principal and income of
this fund for the last 10 years follows:

Fiscal year | Principal Income Beene Fiscal year | Principal Income eg
1937_____._...| $738, 858. 54 | $33, 819. 43 ASBTAl|PLO420 eee a $1, 270, 968.45 | $46, 701. 98 3. 67
1O3R ee 867, 528.50 | 34,679. 64 4500))|| plO43 Beet ee 1, 316, 533.49 | 50, 524. 22 3.83
1OSQ Mae 902, 801.27 | 30, 710. 53 3540) || 19440 ssa ae 1, 372, 516.41 | 50, 783. 79 3. 69
1940__________] 1,081, 249.25 | 38, 673. 29 Sh474|| 945 ee Ta 1, 454, 957.73 | 50, 046. 67 3. 50
1941__________] 1,093, 301.51 | 41, 167.38 SH76yi el O46 omens 1, 559, 215.25 | 57, 612.38 3. 69

CONSOLIDATED FUND
Gain in investments over year 1945
Investments made from gifts and savings on income_______-------_ $82, 817. 37
Investments of gain from sales, ete., of securities____________-_____ 21, 440. 15
SING Tals? Sete es ke 8 SE OE 104, 257, 52

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects of
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler,
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for the
construction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his
will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities to
the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment fund for the
operation of the Gallery.

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by
20,465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis & Co. As this stock advanced
in value, much of it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the
fund now amounts to $5,994,394.31 in a selected list of securities classi-
fied later.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are under the following
headings:

Courmand erounds fund 2.22! 22s (eee ee ee ee $671, 519. 80
Court and grounds maintenance fund____________-_______ 168, 648. 43
(CRUG EN BONE TTT ANG boot Si he 2s Ree em eae ae ed 683, 381. 72
esiduary legacy funda a. a ee ee 4, 470, 849. 36

Tt ate ee a SI ay el ont es EE ED, 5, 994, 394. 31
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Statement of principal and income for the last 10 years

Fiscal year Principal Income eas

LOR Tn rin iE lege wr ses tee TN dt che A eee $4, 881, 986.96 | $280, 969. 53 5. 75

TCR Ye a a ee * ea ph ep Ral So he Tae he, Fae 4, 820,777.31 | 255, 651. 61 5.30

SCR ee a SO Bae ee EN OD Mes eee ene oe Rene Sie ee 5, 075,976.76 | 212, 751. 78 4.19

TOY spt at i en gern bd ie nach va pl fina ADS 6, 112,953.46 | 242, 573. 92 3.96

1941 AYE or heist bonne elle vase Sol eee 2 Bl 6, 030, 586.91} 233, 079. 22 3. 86

TREY Daeg ee a aetna Se eile Pere hare oe BE 5, 912,878.64 | 241, 557.77 4.08

LOAD us eee rvi tre 0. deo Tye hee ues eS eee peed ee) 5, 836,772.01 | 216, 125.07 3.70

1 LAA nah Ae Ge ears Fs eRe Rr obit cn Gas Te 5, 881, 402.17 | 212, 395. 27 3.61

SCA aes nee SRD ONE Wane eM RU LR STH) 5, 864,061.73 | 212, 552. 69 3.62

LC UE Oe ES NCO AS NT TE Na I tere Bs ee 5, 994, 304.31 | 220,818. 86 3.68

FREER FUND
Gain during present year from sale, call of securities, ete.________ $130, 332. 58
SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purposes______---____-_------~ $1, 387, 486. 27
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en-

GOWMeNG 2 eee oe se eee Ee se ee ee eee 1, 426, 648. 47

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment__ 2, 814, 1384. 74

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes___-__-___-----_ 5, 994, 394. 31

Total invested endowment for all purposes___-----_---- 8, 808, 529. 05

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS
Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as author-
ized in the United States Revised Statutes, sec. 5591__-_____-__ $1, 000, 000. 00

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or
market value at date acquired) :

Bonds (8 different teroups) 2. = = ee $627, 612. 34
Stocks (51° different groups) ——-_-2=----=_ 975, 967. 76
Real estate and first-mortgage notes___________ 203, 010. 79
Wninvesteds (capital {222 so sesso sae Ss See See 4, 543. 85
1, 814, 134. 74
Total investments other than Freer endowment____-____ 2, 814, 134. 74

Investment of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired) :

Bonds (29 different groups) —________________ 2, 962, 710. 30
Stocks (53 different groups) —~_-__-_-__________ 2, 983, 576. 38
Real estate first-mortgage notes______________ 2, 500. 00
Uninyested! capitale 14. tossed wage Sols 45, 607. 63

5, 994, 394. 31

Total investments =2s2 2s ee DER UDO 8, 808, 529. 05
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 133

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL
YEAR 1946+

Washi balance on hand. June, 30, 1045s. 2. - > eee ee $760, 218. 09
Receipts:
Cash income from various sources for general
WwOLK OLethoeninStituulomen. = 2 eee enun ee $93, 441. 46
Cash gifts and contributions expendable for
special scientific objects (not for investment) — 30, 627. 29
Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment and from miscel-
laneous scources (including refund of tempo-
Maya CLV AN CCS) = a eee Soe a ee eee 192, 425. 47
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.
(orseinvestment) ss eee 850, 519. 70
Total receipts other than Freer endowment___________ 667, 013. 92
Cash income from Freer endowment__--_______ $220, 818. 86
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.
(for =investment) 2280 225es ee eee 1, 599, 8138. CO

Total receipts from Freer endowment_-___-__________ 1, 820, 631. 86

LOT Rata SE See ne eae SOR oe Eee era. 3, 247, 863. 87

Disbursements:
From funds for general work of the Institution:

Buildings—care, repairs, and alterations_____ $3, 108. 43
Murnitunresand six ures: 9222 a sas eka s 63. 75
Generaladministration# 2-225 ==") 52 ee 27, 109. 04
OGURA ee Se ee SE 2, 989. 55
Publications (comprising preparation, print-
IN STAN OLOISELEDUCLOM) =e eee en eee 14, 995. 12
Researches and explorations________________ 21, 888. 11
: 70, 154. 00
From funds for specifie use other than Freer en-
dowment:
Investments made from gifts and from sav-
AES ae OTA TAC OTN C ees mar Oe ees 82, 817. 37
Other expenditures, consisting largely of re-
search work, travel, increase and care of
special collections, ete., from income of en-
dowment funds, and from cash gifts for
specific use (including temporary ad-
VI COS) asec eee ete ee ee eal Se 132, 745. 71
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
Os SCCUTILICS: (CL@i a aa aoe weenie 347, 920. 79
Cost of handling securities, fee of investment
counsel, and acerned interest on bonds
POUL CHASC see Sec Ae ee Se 8, 3038. 45
566, 787. 32

From Freer endowment:
Operating expenses of the Gallery, salaries,
field expensesietes "ks 5 at 68, 366. 75
Purchase of art objects... 114, 070. 23

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative
charge of the Institution.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Disbursements—Continued
From Freer endowment—Continued
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale,
cally of securities, cte=— = ee $1, 595, 344. 67
Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on

bonds: purchased] == ee 25, 730. 45
$1, 803, 512. 10
Cash: balarice: June SOs P54 se eae one So eee eae 807, 410. 45
TOC | eS Laake ah i a nie a aOR OR CE 8, 247, 863. 87

Included in the above receipts was cash received as royalties from
sales of Smithsonian Scientific Series to the amount of $26,498.52.
This was distributed as follows:

Smithsonian Institution Endowment Fund__---_--_______-________ $11, 753. 71
Smithsonian Institution Emergency Fund__--_-------__-______---_ 2, 938. 42
Smithsonian Institution Unrestricted Fund, General____-______-____ 8, 815. 28
Salavieg so ewe et ae ee ee ee Bo Se eee Se 2399 11

26, 498. 52

Included in the foregoing are expenditures for researches in pure
science, publications, explorations, care, increase, and study of collec-
tions, etc., as follows:

Expended from general funds of the Institution:

PTDL Ca tO ras ween Os 2 ewe hs $14, 995. 12
Researches and explorations__._.___________________ 21, 888. 11
$36, 883. 23
Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes:
Researches and explorations________-______________ 40, 495. 84
Care, increase, and study of special collections_____ 5,586.81
UD Ca ti@m Giguere al Se SE Se OA ee es 4, 184. 80
50, 267. 45
oh BCG) 6 Ua Cs cee ole Pe a eC Te RT DI Tra ae 87, 150. 68

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and banks
such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been continued during
the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to $739.72.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from the
following:

Audrey H. Madden, for “Northern Mexico Archeological Fund,” to further archeo-
logical investigations in Mexico.

National Academy of Sciences and Social Science Research Council, for “Commit-
tee for the Recovery of Archeological Remains.”

Research Corporation, for printing “Smithsonian Elliptic Functions Tables,” by

G. W. Spenceley.

John A. Roebling, as a further contribution for research in radiation.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are
withdrawn and deposited in the United States Treasury.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 135

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Insti-
tution.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1946:

SHULGLOS man (expen SCS= sn = = Se ee = OL 00k, DOL. OO
NaionaleA00lOriGale Palko s= 222-22 ee ee 375, 670. 00

In addition, funds were transferred from other Departments of the
Government for expenditure under direction of the Smithsonian In-
stitution :

Cooperation with the American Republics (transfer from State De-
“APT ORES TO) | aE SS ea ee $98, 488. 00

Working Fund, transferred from National Park Service, Interior
Department, for archeological investigations in Missouri River

BE ser eon ty eee tS 20, 000. 00
Working Fund, transferred from Navy Department, for Crossroads
EO CG pene eee eae eee ee a ee ee oe ee 12, 920. GU

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is given

below:
SEPTEMBER 26, 1946.
HXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Sirs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1946, and certify the balances of
cash on hand, including petty cash fund, June 30, 1946, to be $809,310.45.

We have verified the records of receipts and disbursements maintained by
the Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts
of records and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1946, together with the authority
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expenditures
and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust
fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.

We certify the balance sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1946.

Wittram L. YAEGER,
Respec t fully Sbaniciod: Certificd Public Accountant.
Frepvertc A. DELANO,
VaNNEVAR Busy,
Crarence CANNON,
Executive Committee.

725362—47——10
Ct es regia \ RUERORE, a 0° mnt Jey

hea. ail ley fi speci, ails 03 on eajelor Stoo guiogotot edt

| ede: Gee aye 01S
TOO adF tot adeno) po abe Siow ane aba qe wo roller of'T
‘paisoadtife oft to. apis fhe ayer mba: a3 fatty : -Unswud Joon
JHOL cajaae’ odt sot noliudijedtl

hy aly ; : ae ee BA ik Das evo
Bea A ee tae odie dake ones ee frotyolods ‘Tedais

tayr ebnet comp ip beaks a

ue say ¥o waisainb: wPUD Sahrort: ‘LOE sn “urtav OW
7 ; . not

' $3.¥ias
iif staniasentAé oft ME w soln
Sasa nnn CORTE
gett. bora Taasad — ‘gabtoWt
nol¢ soit VES ‘30 Ss ‘ote
ahh bas i F paarapgekL rh ee f awk sutibio Wt
1 et 2, SRE nO NTA LONER a cede -dasterlin

opie 2! turks GlarMeepatanandiaim mais. bootebieg ait iy es “siti

rengocl werto, tort be

(ORG OE") ees

wee ee. eleeuret
7, Geb tw ks

[70 Gok <orrc00 snr ero
Apis y DA Mayes 7 ae at
ie Te! htt reel cons FODSe i pin SVR Ow Int RBes Lanett THAIS
to poonalad Sct HIG has be! O68 sait, bobns ‘in9% Isogit sit 40} acituliiagd
OFS Wee od ot OLOF Of. ot Bate ay tht xtieq palbuloal hima me igo
nivuoe od} baRitay: sved OW
Josten of bog, xotieea sae
iz bonnie aN ha tre | oW
ak fer ‘Wy. “thejzup pont,
Hoiahe ett oe oo. aes as
Simi at med? bigot bi ebieset to,
SS OR OEE BOR eater vol
onde, foe wilt wevinte oe
wd bouts svi Deepa
7 ore Dt ord burp?
7G sos iiy Gelnslitens off te. sienioon gad fol: iy Das han }u1Bz9 34 (5
Angst
ATOM ‘toneqood Sit fiegok iD «ere
n> vfausoon baa balf elasieovites ee hasem
35 & Lenore vel bodman esi. eR TOC ENE

IGS 3

Lee

SLtere es: Dua: Bijq wien. 267 - 20d}
-bodeloimt
tpisineitt, wif Tanovc Ybor Hrce tify mk gooey, ael ed ht) oases
Ser OG onuh is en neasijanl of te cot iNag
ROA LiL MAIVE Gh wonsty ; - tation!
enjouvnnek otidws, Gater<eat)
i TE ase a . pisvoiila tag
SCT CT AP corsteremet TE OT ae. Ee 0 Teen

Aree iAP i ica ihe aermoreitht Jy).
‘ooloy att Te

worn vy hel) eG Dee Sa ey ee eee Kati ic ia ate
7 Maes e Mi Vt ©) ) i , on

ees nvineo’) Peet a

ie OS aa - O11 —gest

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1946
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the GenrraL Appenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1946.

138
ON THE ASTRONOMICAL DATING OF THE
EARTH’S CRUST?

By Hartow SHAPLEY

Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

These notes on cosmogony are only minor contributions in an im-
portant and expanding theme. Over the years a considerable num-
ber of scientists are gradually developing a fairly complete and satis-
fying cosmogony. When the hypotheses settle down into accepted
laws, and the skimpy observations grow into “facts of the world,” my
present contribution will avail little; but at this particular moment,
it may show the trend of our thinking and planning.

Until recently, the word cosmogony generally implied, astronomi-
cally, the study of the origin of the earth and of the other planets;?
scientific thoughts about the universe had of necessity been restricted
closely to the planetary system, with an occasional vague adventure
into the unexplored realm of stellar bodies. But as our knowledge
of stars and nebulae increased, this vagueness diminished; and, with
a fine disregard for our impotence, we have now tackled the origins
of stars, star clusters, nebulae, galaxies, and space-time itself. Cos-
mogony has appropriately expanded beyond the bounds of the solar
system, and now includes the description and theory of the whole
knowable material universe. As something of a digression, it ex-
amines the riddles of the origin of planetary systems. But perhaps
this appearance of implied condescension toward earthly affairs is
inappropriate, for the more we look into the problems of the origin
of the earth, the more we find that its genesis involves operations that
are universal. The earth’s crust, it appears, has an age not at all
insignificant compared with the duration of stellar processes; and the
chemistry of the earth’s crust is a convenient and comprehensive
sample of the chemistry of the universe.

1Paper No. 90, published under the auspices of the committee on research in experi-
mental geology and geophysics and the division of geological sciences at Harvard University.
Reprinted by permission from the American Journal of Science, vol. 243—A, Daly Volume,
1945.

2To many writers, cosmoiogy is a preferred synonym, notwithstanding its frequent dis-
coloration with metaphysics ; and cosmography is a proper and modest substitute when sim-
ple description of cosmic matters is concerned.

139
725362—47——11
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Eddington has pointed out that with our new knowledge of a new
physics we might have predicted the existence of the stars from the
general properties of matter, even if we had been hopelessly cloud-
bound and had never seen them. The atomically small leads directly
to the sidereally immense. Analogously, we could now propose half a
dozen problems dealing directly with the local solar system, the solu-
tion of which would go far toward settling the most basic problems
of universal cosmogony.

The preceding remarks are prefatory to the observation that an
astronomer who is especially interested in the macrocosmos is in
congenial company when he associates with a geologist who explores
the origin of meteorites, the topography of the moon, and the atmos-
phere of.planets, and writes on such subjects as “Our Mobile Earth” *
and “The Strength and Structure of the Earth.” ¢

HOT GAS AND COLD SPACE

A factor of high importance in general cosmogony, as well as in
the contemplation of the surface rocks of the earth, is the greediness
with which interstellar space sucks the life blood out of the stars.
Or to put the same idea in prosaic and less anthropomorphic terms,
the second law of thermodynamics, which records that heat flows in.
the direction of lower temperature, is a most basic principle in sidereal
evolution.

The temperature of interstellar space is a little above absolute zero;
the temperature of the stars, except in their relatively thin and cool
atmospheric blankets, is in the tens of millions of degrees absolute.
Hence the stars cool off violently. The violence is not perceptible
to the average observer, unless he be equipped with long-range cosmic
vision and competent theory. But the astonishing rate with which our
own star pours its heat into the vacuum of interstellar space would
scarcely permit time for the evolution of the observer and his ancestral
hne of living forms, if it were not for the existence of a mechanism
for the subatomic replacement of the heat so profusely radiated.
Ina few scores of millions of years the heat of an average star would be
disastrously diminished—disastrous for neighboring protoplasmic
life—if the expenditure were not prolonged a thousandfold by the
“carbon stove” mechanism, which burns stellar hydrogen fuel into
helium ash while liberating energy, and by similar atomic trans-
formations.®

3Daly, R. A., 1926. Scribner's, New York.

4Daly, R. A., 1940. Prentice-Hall, New York.

5 Nontechnical accounts of these atomic transformations can be found in Gamow, The
birth and death of the sun, The Viking Press, New York, 1940; and Russell, Sci. Amer., vol.
161, pp. 18-19, 1939.
DATING THE EARTH’S CRUST—SHAPLEY 141

The temperature of interstellar or intergalactic space can be vari-
ously defined. When measured by the equilibrium temperature of a
small meteoritic particle at a distance of a light-year or more from
the nearest luminous star, it is probably but 2 or 3 degrees above abso-
lute zero. But if we should “measure” temperature in terms of atomic
and molecular motion, we could say that a radiant gaseous nebula
(even though of almost infinitesimal rarity) at the distance of a light-
year from a blue star has a temperature of 10,000° or 20,000° absolute.

The first definition is the one to choose in considering the leakage
or radiation from the surface of the sun, a leakage of 4,000,000 tons of
light per second. The sun’s output of light would be enormously
greater if we should peel off suddenly the outer 1 percent of its body.
The skinning of the sun would expose highly ionized gases with tem-
peratures in the millions of degrees. We would have a kind of super-
nova, but only momentarily on cosmic time scale; for promptly the
ionized atoms would regain their shells of electrons, some molecules
would form, the present heavily absorbing atmospheric layers would
re-form, and with some serious convulsions and oscillations set up by
the sudden exposure, the sun nova would speedily return toward the
calm equilibrium it enjoyed before we ventured the reckless experiment.

It is quite likely that great gaseous envelopes might be produced
by a sun-to-nova flare-up, or in course of the subsequent convulsions;
and in any case, the earth and neighboring planets would be promptly
scorched clean of biology and their surface features melted away.
Clearly the sun has not been a nova since the freezing of the earth’s
surface into its present state.

These comments on the coldness of space and on the sub-surface
hotness of the sun are all immediately relevant to the problems of the
origin of the earth’s rocky crust. If the planets were generated
catastrophically from the sun, much of the material composing them
must once have been this highly superheated material that les not
far below the 6,000° surface layers through which our present sun-
hight is filtered and cooled; we must use not the relatively cool outer
portions alone, for the total mass of the sun’s atmosphere is small
compared with the mass of a planet.

The greediness with which interstellar space, even interplanetary
space, absorbs radiation is significant in its bearing on the age of the
earth’s crust. Both elementary consideration and mathematical cal-
culations indicate that any earth-sized gaseous or liquid body, isolated
in sidereal space, would freeze into solid matter (rocks) practically
instantaneously—again in terms of cosmic time scales.

It is this quick transition from the normal, hot, ionized, turbulent,
gaseous state of stellar matter to the relatively cold, dead, crusted body
of a small or medium-sized planet that is important in bringing to-
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

gether the cosmic-minded geologist and the astronomer. For it means
that the rocky surface of the earth is essentially coeval with the plane-
tary system. The measurement of the ages of the oldest rocks is
therefore a measurement also of the total duration of the earth. The
astronomer sees little support for the suggestion that all the planets
may have not been born together. Planetary birth is probably such a
catastrophic affair that if a second family were produced the violence
would wreck all preexisting systems of planets and satellites.

We owe the concept and analysis of the high-speed cooling of the
original surface of a disruption-produced earth to Harold Jeffreys,
whose attack on cosmogony has been from the standpoint of geo-
physics.

It is worth emphasizing again that the earth is a sidereal body of
really great antiquity. We shall see later that there is good evidence
for believing that the pre-Cambrian rocks of our countryside have
existed, many of them unchanged, throughout most of the history of
the Pleiades, the Milky Way, and the expanding universe. And it
is additional good fortune that during the past thousand million years
there has been left a fairly continuous record of living forms on this
ancient crust; that continuity of organisms, and especially the char-
acteristics of plant forms for two or three hundred million years,
provides the astronomer with his best evidence on the stability of re-
mote stars. Indeed, the fossil plants, in the sediments dated by radio-
active processes, have inspired and practically forced our search for
heat-generating atomic transformations within the stars.° These
fossils prove the essential constancy of the intensity and quality of
solar radiation throughout geological time. Many fertile and suc-
cessful astronomical theories would probably still remain unformu-
lated if, instead of the paleontological record of the earth’s surface,
we had a dictum dating organisms, for instance, from only 4000
B. C.

NOTE ON SEVERAL COSMOGONIC FAILURES

The astronomers and geologists who have worked assiduously dur-
ing the past half century on the theory of the origin of the earth have
reason to be sincerely satisfied with themselves because they have
produced so many hypotheses that do not work. By showing what is
not so, not sufficient, not compatible with the growing body of verifi-
able observations, they have cleared the field for more competent
theoretical investigations and indicated in what direction profitable
astronomical and mathematical researches may lie.

A serious hindrance to the formulation of any planetary-system
cosmogony that may be even temporarily successful is the abundance

® Shapley, H., The age of the earth, Publ. Astron. Soc. Pacific, October 1918.
DATING THE EARTH’S CRUST—SHAPLEY 143

of our clues to the mystery. We know too much to permit any naive
hypothesis to prosper.

A successful theory must account reasonably well for the follow-
ing 10 circumstances (the number could be much increased) :

1. The nine planets move in orbits that are nearly circular.

2. They carry with them 97 percent of the angular momentum of
the whole system, and angular momentum cannot be lightly regarded
in an evolutionary plan.

3. The planets are well spaced from each other, with the sizes and
masses tapering off in both directions from Jupiter.

4. The rotation of the sun, and the orbital revolutions of the nine
major planets and most of the satellites and asteroids, are in the
same direction (counterclockwise as seen from Polaris), which is
also the direction of the axial rotation of most of the planets, if not all.

5. Because of radiation pressure, dissolution, and dismemberment
through other causes, the comets are short-lived, relative to the age
of the earth’s crust; but their abundance and behavior enrolls them
as a part of the solar family.

6. The mean density of the earth is 5.5, but of Saturn 0.7 (it would
float in water!).

7. A great but faint comet of which the orbit is totally trans-Jovian
varies unpredictably in brightness by large amounts.

8. Conspicuous constituents of the solar corona are very highly
ionized atoms of iron, nickel, and calcium.

9. The sun’s present isolation in space makes collision or near en-
counter with another star an improbability of high degree—say, one
collision in a billion years, to be optimistic. (In very ancient time, as
noted below, the chances for constructive disaster were probably much
higher. )

10. The subsurface temperature and radiation pressure of the sun
are exceedingly high; the sun is gaseous from surface to center and
generates energy subatomically in such a manner that the present
size has not appreciably changed in a billion years or more.

It would take too much space to comment on the foregoing items,
or to discuss various hypotheses that have succeeded in satisfactorily
explaining or harmoniously using a few of them. The most serious
obstacle to a successful hypothesis is the distribution of the angular
momentum; the planets have so much, the sun so little. The near-
circularity of the orbits, and the violently explosive nature of high-
temperature gas when the pressure is released, are probably the two
next most difficult properties to handle.

We generally agree that no hypothesis of the origin of the earth is
as yet satisfactory. In recording this attitude we have in mind the
nebular hypothesis associated generally with the names of
144. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

Laplace, Kant, and Swedenborg; the collision hypotheses of Buffon
and, much later, of Bickerton; the tidal-disruption theories of Cham-
berlin and Moulton, Jeans, and Jeffreys; the grazing-impact hypo-
thesis of Jeffreys; the double-star plus collision suggestion of Russell
as developed by Lyttleton; the vague nebular-filament hypothesis of
Nolke, and various internal-explosion theories, such as that considered
by Ross Gunn. There are variations on some of these hypotheses, and
some of them have been repaired by ad hoc assumptions and subhypoth-
eses. Eventually one of them may be patched up into scientific re-
spectability. Among the modern critics have been Luyten, Hill, Jeff-
reys, and, most usefully, Russell, who has critically examined both
the data and the theories.’

At present the general feeling seems to be that the earth probably
came from a star, and that it is therefore the daughter of catastrophe.
The mass is not large enough to make the precrustal existence
clear or simple, but it must have been brief. Doctor Jeffreys has
recently written:

I think that the most serious difficulty of all catastrophic theories, affecting
both Jeans’s theory and mine, and also Lyttleton’s further modification, is that
the newly formed planets would need to be able to control not only the velocities

of thermal agitation but alse those of general expansion due to the sudden
relief of pressure.®

A RETREAT INTO CHAOS

From the foregoing summary it is clear that our hope of tracing
an orderly progress in the origin and career of the earth is still de-
ferred. An elaborate examination of the dynamical history of the
various planets may be helpful in the search for an acceptable theory ;
and possibly the contributions from geologists and seismologists con-
cerning the inner structure of the earth may be suggestive. There is
work of useful sort to be done on asteroids, comets, and meteors; and
a searching of the stars and interstellar spaces of the solar neighbor-
hood for giant planets that act like stars, and subdwarf stars that
simulate planets. With the recent discovery of a neighboring star
(mass unknown) that is about a million times fainter than the sun,®
we may be led in the direction of thinking of Jupiter, which has a
mass one-thousandth the solar mass, as an extinct subdwarf companion
of the sun. That concept would turn our cosmogonical speculation
more in the direction of the dynamics of double stars with unequal
components than in the present direction of collisional and catas-
trophic phenomena.

7 The solar system and its origin. The Macmillan Co., New York, 1935.
®§ Nature, vol. 153, p. 140, 1944.
® Van Biesbroeck, G., Harvard Announcement Card No. 678, January 26, 1944.
DATING THE EARTH’S CRUST—SHAPLEY 145

Several years ago, despairing of our finding an acceptable orderly
theory of the origin of the planets, I proposed an alternative that can-
not be easily disproved.” It might be called the hypothesis of the
chaotic origin of the solar system. It ties in earth-birth with the
genesis of stars. We should remember that the hardest problems of
cosmogony would not necessarily be disposed of even if we should
get a satisfactory theory of the origin of the earth. For we would
ask at once concerning the origin of the sun and of galaxies, and even-
tually be driven back to the deeper puzzles of the origin of matter,
origin of space, of time, and of origins. Planetary genesis is there-
fore only a decoy, leading to universal processes.

One working hypothesis of the origin of stars prescribes that they
have come disruptively from an original all-encompassing mass
(Lemaitre’s cosmic atom), perhaps through several shattering explo-
sive stages. Other cosmogonies also require high concentrations of
matter at some past time, perhaps at “the beginning of things.”

On the chaos hypothesis we assume that whatever collisional or
explosive event produced the sun also simultaneously produced a very
large number of fragments. Much of the debris has subsequently been
lost—diffused or driven off as gases, or as particles dynamically
ejected. If, in this confusion, the great fragments that are now Jupi-
ter and Saturn moved in the same direction around the gravitationally
controlling primitive sun, and moved in practically the same plane,
they together might in time set the tune for the surviving fragments
(planets and asteroids). We must visualize a long cleaning-up proc-
ess, in which bodies with highly elliptic orbits were rejected or cap-
tured, and those with other-direction motions likewise subjected to
dynamical elimination. The bodies with essentially circular orbits,
rightly spaced and oriented, revolving in the correct direction, are
the only natural survivors of the cleaning-up and regularization.

There are, of course, difficulties even with this generous chaotic
hypothesis—for instance, the present nonexistence of orbits of high
inclination (except cometary). But its greatest weakness, of course,
is that it represents a council of despair—it is the antithesis of “orderly
procedure” at the time of the system’s origin. Nevertheless the hypoth-
esis would certainly suffice to end our search, because in the primitive
star-making violences, and in the confusion of bodies, motions, and
explosive processes, almost any detail can be specified. The momen-
tum puzzle could be bypassed, and the other difficulties resolved by
appeal to forces of varied and irregular fragmentation.

My suggestion” really amounts to saying that the planets and

10fWacts and fancy in cosmogony. Annual Sigma Xi address, Atlantic City, December
28, 1932.

11The Sigma Xi address was not published. Somewhat later H. N. Russell independently
made a similar suggestion, and probably others have also,
146 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

satellites are as we find them and move as they do because they were
born that way; and that may be the correct answer. We have some
evidence that the stars may have been catastrophically born; and, if
they were, how can we escape the likelihood that minor bodies also
appeared at that time and came under the gravitational control of the
nearby stars? Meteors, meteorites, comets, asteroids, and the small
satellites are almost certainly the products of fragmentation. Why
not date at least some of them, if not all, from the Crowded Days of
Chaos, and not struggle to make them the regularized offspring of
the orderly dynamical processes that are observed, at this late time,
smoothly operating in our isolated solar system ?

ON T. AND THE OVERCROWDING

The isolation of the sun with respect to its neighboring stars is
average for this part of the Milky Way. The stars in the Pleiades, on
the other hand, are relatively much closer together, and in the center
of a globular star cluster, like Messier 13 in Hercules, the separation
of one star from another must be less than one-hundredth our distance
of 4.3 light-years from Alpha Centauri, the nearest known neighbor.
Nevertheless, in these densest clusters the stars are still well separated.
We see in them no evidence of frequent collisions.

Similarly, our galaxy of stars is pretty well isolated in metagalactic
space. The Clouds of Magellan (much smaller galaxies than our
own) are perhaps within the spherical star haze that surrounds our
own galaxy; but the nearest great spirals (the Andromeda Nebula
and Messier 33) are nearly a million light-years away. Nevertheless,
the galaxies, large and small, in this part of the universe are perhaps
10 to 50 times as numerous per cubic megaparsec 7” as in most of the
metagalaxy that is now under observation. The typical galaxies
average a million or so light-years apart, and their random speeds of
a few hundred miles a second are not sufficient to provide numerous
collisions and encounters.

The dominant motion of the galaxies, as far as we can ascertain it,
is the spectroscopically measured radial motion. Five hundred ob-
jects have been measured with the large reflecting telescopes. After
V. M. Slipher’s pioneer work on the speeds of these external galaxies,
Milton Humason of Mount Wilson has contributed most of the ob-
served values. With this material on motion, Hubble has derived the
well-known linear relation between the red shift and distance. If we
interpret the red shift in the spectra of the galaxies as the result of
recession, then the linear relation is between velocity and distance.
For many good reasons such an interpretation of the red shift is gen-

12 A megaparsec is 3,260,000 light-years.
DATING THE EARTH’S CRUST—SHAPLEY 147

erally accepted by astronomers and physicists, although it is recog-
nized that some as yet unknown factor may contribute to the spectral
characteristics of these objects which are so distant that their radia-
tions must spend from 1 million to 150 million years in intergalactic
space. :

It is well known that the expansion of the universe (recession of the
external galaxies), which increases in speed with distance from the
observer (wherever he is located), is consistent with the theory of
relativity. The recessions are, in a sense, predicted. If and when
we are able to extend our observations to more distant galaxies, it is
quite probable that the relation between red shift and distance will
deviate from linearity.

For the present discussion we shall look toward the past rather than
the future—toward an epoch of crowding rather than toward unending
dispersion. The present observed expansion is such that at a distance
of 1 million light-years a galaxy recedes at the rate of about 100 miles a
second; at a distance of 5 million light-years, at a rate of about 500
milesasecond. One naturally asks if this expansion has been going on
throughout the whole time that the earth’s crust has been in evolution.
There is no reason to think that the situation has been otherwise. Let
us therefore see where the galaxies were when the earth was young.

We take the rate of expansion specified above (its uncertainty is
small), and using the number of seconds in 2,000 million years, which
we assume for calculational purposes to be the age of the crust, we
calculate

2X 10° X 3.2 X 107 X 10? miles=
approximately 10° light-years

as the distance traveled, since the crust formed, by a galaxy that is
now a million light-years distant. This would indicate that such a
galaxy was, at the time of the origin of the earth, in the immediate
vicinity of our galaxy. Since the velocity of recession is proportional
to the distance, we would find the same result for galaxies now distant
10 million and 100 million light-years. Therefore, some 2,000 million
years ago all of the untold myriads of galaxies, according to this
argument, were here with us, perhaps overlapping our galaxy, or at
least in its close neighborhood. The congestion would be astoundingly
high. Recently I have estimated, from the available metagalactic
census reports, that more than 20 million galaxies are within range of
our telescopes; more than 500,000 are already on the Harvard photo-
graphs. But even our greatest telescopes do not reach “all the way.”
A fair surmise, based on Eddington’s version of a relativistic cos-
mogony, would make the total number of galaxies in the universe
greater than 10", the number of stars greater than 10”, and the mass
of the universe about 10° grams. The corresponding number of
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

atoms, since the universe apparently is still largely composed of simple
hydrogen, is of the order of 10”.

We have measured the velocities of a good and representative sam-
ple of galaxies; but we should not extrapolate back too confidently in
our search for the zero point of time. Throughout the past the rate of
expansion may not have been constant at the presently observed value.
It may have been increasing with time. That assumption would
Jengthen the interval between now and the zero time of the expansion.
But, however we try to modify the situation, within reason, we come
to the conclusion that a few thousand million years ago our galaxy
was in a region characterized by an exceedingly high density of
galaxies, stars, and matter.

We should now point out some important, almost dramatic, coinci-
dences. It is remarkable enough that the age of the observed expan-
sion of the metagalaxy is of the same order as the age of the earth’s
crust, measured by radioactivity, and therefore of the earth itself.
But this interval of a few thousand million years also measures the
somewhat preliminarily determined ages of the oldest meteorites so far

‘examined. It is also the interval through which star clusters like the
Pleiades must have existed; they cannot be more than a few thousand
million years old according to dynamical researches by Bok and others.
And finally, this interval, according to the recent work of Chandra-
sekhar, is consistent with the ages of wide binary stars.

Although it has not been worked out quantitatively, there is a
suggestion that in proving the existence of extended clouds of dust in
our Milky Way, W. S. Adams at Mount Wilson has provided another
indicator that our galaxy cannot have existed for very many thousands
of millions of years.

We come to the conclusion, important in cosmogony, that about
half a dozen lines of evidence point to a time some 8,000 million years
ago as an epoch when something momentous happened. One could
call that moment “creation,” if he made his definitions carefully. He
might simply call it the beginning of the epoch of the Expansion of
the Universe, with its numerous consequent byproducts. Or he might
more simply and safely call it T), and leave to the investigators of the
future both the further testing of its reality and the speculations as
to its meaning.

It should promptly be put on record that all the astronomical evi-
dence and speculation is not definitely on the side of this “short” time
scale of a few thousand million years. To many of us that interval
seems to cramp sidereal processes too severely. I have in mind the
sequence of types of galaxies; some indications of the ages of the
individual stars; the evolution of globular star clusters. It may be
that these phenomena can be so interpreted that the short time scale
is sufficient for everything we observe and reason about. But we
DATING THE EARTH'S CRUST—SHAPLEY 149

could well be cautious and say only that the evidence of the moment
is fairly strong in favor of the view that the planets, the meteorites,
the galaxies, the double stars, possibly the clusters of galaxies, and
certainly the expansion of the galaxies in the observable part of the
metagalaxy, all date back to T). Now, a time interval of only 300
million years since T, certainly would not be long enough; and 30,000
million would be too much. The geometrical mean, 3X10° years, is
a convenient number to remember as our current approximation.

It is not necessary, of course, to go along with Lemaitre’s exploratory
suggestion and put all the matter of all the galaxies into one original
cosmic atom, the explosion of which produced the phenomena that we
now observe. But it is consistent with our various observations to
accept the former existence of a very highly compressed material uni-
verse, in which stellar collisions might be numerous, fragmentation
a common occurrence, and where the prevailing general confusion
of matter and motions would suit requirements for an initial chaotic
phase in the development of the solar system.

Certainly the time T, is a zero point of significance to students of
galaxies, clusters, meteors, and the origin of the earth. If the cosmic
violence at that time was sufficiently high-temperatured, it may be that
the origin of the highly penetrating cosmic radiation should also be
dated from T,. Some years ago De Sitter suggested that the stars
themselves may antedate the expansion. And, of course, there might
have been a long prestellar state of the universe before the shock of
3X 10° years ago started the currently existing processes.

It may require active research throughout one or two geological
periods in order to settle finally the questions we have raised.

THE FUTURE OF THE METAGALAXY

In the concluding section of this random discussion of certain
points in cosmogony, we get completely disconnected from the earth
and geology. The significant constituents of the metagalaxy in our
existing cosmogonies are space-time, radiation, the unit galaxies,
and interstellar dust and gas. We have been content, in the solar sys-
tem and even throughout our own galaxy, with gravitation as a domi-
nating force in the moving of stellar bodies. Radiation pressure is
in general effective only for particles of a diameter comparable with the
wave length of the radiation. It does not push stars or galaxies
around. But of late years, as a byproduct of relativistic cosmogony,
we have come to the concept of a new force—cosmic repulsion. It
might be called negative gravitation. Its effect can be loosely de-
scribed as the tendency of material bodies to scatter from each other
when the mean density of matter in space sinks below a certain ex-
ceedingly small value.

It is the cosmic repulsion that is effective in the recession of the
150 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

galaxies and the expansion of the universe. The average density
of matter throughout our planetary system and even throughout our
galaxy is so high that the dispersive tendency is overcome by the
great gravitational forces involved. Even in a cluster of galaxies—
like the one in our vicinity which includes our galaxy, the Andromeda
Nebula and its companions, the Magellanic Clouds, and half a dozen
others—gravitation still controls the situation, and our cluster of
galaxies is not dissolving under cosmic repulsion—at least not with
marked rapidity. The cohesion that maintains our cluster apparently
operates in a number of other close associations of galaxies which
have come into our records. The mean density in them is high
enough for gravitational control. But throughout metagalactic space
in general the mean density is perhaps but one-hundredth of the value
within the cluster of galaxies. The density is, in fact, about 10-”
grams per cubic centimeter and too low for gravitation any longer
to maintain the situation. The expansion that has set in under the
repulsive force will still further lower the mean density, and it there-
fore now appears that we (the metagalaxy) are doomed to infinite
dissipation.

At the same time, through the operation of the laws of thermo-
dynamics, the heat of the stars is going out into the coldness of space.
The universe is steadily approaching the heat-death—a coldness near
absolute zero in an empty world.

Such destinies define the future of the metagalaxy only if the
processes are forever one-directional. Perhaps they are not. Even
now we cannot say that the reverse building-up processes are not
going on in some parts of the universe. We see less than 1 percent
of it. There is, however, no substantial evidence or argument for
the cyclic restoration of heat and density. And some cosmogonists
are bold enough to abstain from wishful thinking.

A further section of this paper could be written to review the
situation with regard to interstellar dust and its possible role in the
forming of stars and in the development of galaxies. Also we
might present the preliminary hypotheses that deal with the evolu-
tionary passage of galaxies along the continuous sequence of forms that,
includes systems that are globular, oblate, spiral, and irregular; and
discuss the nature and the formation of spiral arms. The genetics
of star clusters is an allied study of basic significance. But all these
galaxy-sized problems are so remote from those dealing with the
crust of the earth and its genesis that we can scarcely justify their
discussion in a collection of geological papers. We close this astro-
nomical contribution with the statement that the planet earth has,
after all, a most perplexing and exciting role in the story of
cosmogony.
ATOMIC POWER IN THE LABORATORY AND IN
THE STARS?

By Rogsert 8. RicHARDSON

Mount Wilson Observatory

When on August 6, 1945, President Truman announced the destruc-
tion of the Japanese army base at Hiroshima, he did so in words of
singular interest to astronomers.

“It isan atomic bomb. It is a harnessing of the basic power of the
Universe. The force from which the sun draws its power has been
loosed against those who brought war to the Far East.”

Several conversations heard shortly afterward indicated that many
took the President’s words literally, and assumed that radiant energy
from the sun had in some mysterious way been concentrated in bomb
containers for use against the Nipponese. Presumably people have
become so accustomed to startling technological developments during
the last 3 years, that they are willing to believe practically anything.
A few remarks clarifying the situation may be of timely interest.

The most obvious feature about the stars is by far the hardest to
explain—the fact that they shine! In other words, what is the “force
from which the sun draws it power”? In their search for an answer,
astronomers have eagerly seized upon each discovery in physics that
might posibly help them with their own problems. Thus any sum-
mary of the various answers given to this question becomes essentially
an account of the growth in knowledge of the fine structure of matter.
In this article it is proposed to examine these theories, not so much
with respect to their intrinsic merit, but more for the gradual modi-
fication they have undergone as the result of physical discovery.

Doubtless men have always propounded theories to explain the
source of the sun’s heat. The first rational theories were not advanced
until about a century ago, soon after the principle of the conservation
of energy was clearly recognized. Previously they had been little
more than mere fanciful speculation. As for example, Sir William
Herschel’s assumption that the photosphere arises from the decompo-

1 Reprinted by permission from Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific,
vol. 57, No. 338, October 1945,

151
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

sition of the solar atmosphere into clouds with the emission of light
and heat; or worse still, the suggestion by Sir John Herschel that the
vital energies of monstrous creatures—the willow leaves of Nasmyth—
are the true source of luminosity! Two famous theories based upon
the mechanical equivalence of heat originated about the middle of
the nineteenth century. Although discarded long ago, they still are
accorded respectful mention because they contain at least some basis
of sound physical reasoning.

The first theory of the meteoritic origin of the sun’s heat was an-
nounced by J. Robert Mayer? in 1848. Mayer claimed to have been
the first to enunciate the principle of the conservation of energy, but
seems to have discussed it in such obscure terms that he never received
clear title to the distinction. There is no question, however, that he
anticipated Helmholtz by 2 years in this respect.

Mayer pointed out that space is known to be filled with innumerable
small bodies many of which must be drawn into the sun with a speed
approaching the parabolic velocity of 380 miles per second. As they
plunge into the sun, their energy of motion would be converted into
heat. He calculated that a total mass equal to 144 of the earth’s mass
striking the sun annually would be sufiicient to maintain its observed
output of energy. At first glance this appears quite reasonable, and
for a few years Mayer’s theory enjoyed considerable success. Closer
examination, however, revealed that on this basis the earth should
receive from meteoritic bombardment millions of times more heat than
could possibly be admitted, so that the theory soon became of historical
interest only.

A theory ascribing the source of the sun’s heat to friction but in a
wholly different way was first described by Helmholtz * in a popular
lecture delivered on February 7, 1854. He showed that as the sun
loses heat by radiation it must contract, and this contraction is equiva-
lent to the fall of particles by various amounts depending upon their
distance from the center of the sun. Making the most unfavorable
assumptions, Helmholtz found that a shrinkage of 250 feet per year
would be enough to supply the sun’s annual output of energy, an
amount too small to be detected for 10,000 years.

One of the necessary conditions which any theory of solar radia-
tion must fulfill is that the temperature of the earth has not sensibly
diminished in historical times. As evidence of this condition, Helm-
holtz cited the cultivation of grapes and olives, plants extremely sen-
sitive to temperature changes, over the same regions that prevailed in
the days of Homer. Against this evidence it was argued that formerly
the German knights had made their own wine and drunk it, but the

2 Republished in Philos. Mag., vol. 25, p. 241, 1863.
§ Philos. Mag., vol. 11, p. 489, 1856.
ATOMIC POWER—RICHARDSON 153

quality of the grape had changed so much that this was no longer
possible. To this Helmholtz replied that it was more likely that the
throats of the drinkers had changed rather than the climate of their
country.

Astronomers became so convinced of the truth of the contraction
theory that they arbitrarily told geologists that the maximum age
of the earth was 25 million years, and to adjust their evolutionary
scale accordingly. This the geologists flatly refused to do, as they
had reasons for believing that the age of the earth was more than
100 million years.

Toward the close of the century, the discovery of radioactivity by
Becquerel and the isolation of radium by the Curies led to the uneasy
suspicion that friction might not be the sole source of solar radia-
tion. In 1899, T. C. Chamberlain,‘ a geologist, dared to challenge the
contraction theory as well as boldly to predict, with startling insight,
sources of subatomic energy. “What the internal constitution of the
atoms be is yet open to question,” he wrote. “It is not improbable that
they are complex organizations, and the seats of enormous energies.
. . . Are we quite sure we have yet probed the bottom of the sources
of energy and are able to measure even roughly its sum total?”

With the reluctant abandonment of the contraction theory there
followed a long interlude during which astronomers could give no
definite answer to the question, “What is the force from which the
sun draws its power?” They could watch radium release enough
energy every hour to melt more than its own weight of ice, knowing
that it could continue to do so for another 1,000 years. Application
to the sun, however, was little more than a hopeful possibility. No
radioactive substances had been identified in the solar atmosphere,
and there was small prospect of detecting spectral lines of such heavy
elements. Besides, nobody had the faintest idea whence radium
derived its energy. Then in 1905, Einstein ® published a paper of less
than 500 words which changed the whole situation and has continued
to exert an ever-increasing influence on modern physics. From con-
siderations based upon the electrodynamics of moving bodies, he
showed that if a body gives off energy, Z, in the form of radiation, its
mass diminishes by Z/V*, where V is the velocity of light.6 From
this he concluded, “it is not impossible that with bodies whose energy-
content is variable to a high degree (e. ¢., with radium salts) the theory
may be put to a successful test.”

There appeared to be two ways in which mass might be converted
into energy. The more radical involved the total annihilation of
matter. The case generally envisaged was a head-on collision between

* Science, vols. 9 and 10, 1899.

5 Ann. Physik, vol. 18, p. 639, 1905.
®° This is Hinstein’s original notation.
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

an electron and a proton in which both vanish, only to reappear as a
radiation of fr equency 2 2.31028. There could be no doubt that such a
process occurring within the deep interior of stars would certainly
provide a potent source of energy. Chief drawback of the annihilation
process was the total absence of observational evidence to support it.
A less energetic but more likely reaction was the formation of heavier
elements from hydrogen. If, as was then supposed, a helium nucleus
consisted of four protons and two electrons, its atomic weight should
be four times that of hydrogen, or 4X 1.008=4.032.7. On the contrary,
accurate measurements made by Aston in 1920 with the mass spectro-
graph revealed that the atomic weight of helium is 4.002. ‘Thus 0.030
mass units had presumably been liber rated as energy in the atom-build-
ing process.

While the transmutation of hydrogen seemed fairly plausible and
was capable of furnishing the minimum amount of energy that the
cosmologists demanded for their various hypotheses, yet Eddington,
summarizing the state of affairs in 1926, found the outlook anything
but bright. Attempts to formulate a theory of stellar evolution based
upon the transmutation of hydrogen were invariably strained. Every
argument led to a deadlock. “Unfortunately, the facts as yet do not
fall into satisfactory order,” he regretfully admitted, “and we are still
groping for a clue.” §

Vor another 10 years astronomers continued to grope for the essen-
tial clue before it gradually became apparent. In 1919, Rutherford,
by bombarding nitrogen with alpha particles, had obtained oxygen of
atomic weight 17—the first case of the artificial transmutation of the
elements. A whole new field of research was opened, which atomic
physicists immediately invaded with great exultation. Exciting dis-
coveries and epoch-making developments followed with breath-taking
speed : the positron, the neutron, artificial radioactivity, the cyclotron,
together with the production of a host of strange particles by nuclear
disintegration unknown a few years before. And since large quantities
of energy were released in many of these disintegration experiments
astronomers began to eye them with covetous eyes.

By 1939 both our experimental and theoretical knowledge held
progressed to such an extent that it was possible to decide which
reactions might be responsible for the production of energy in stars
similar tothe sun.® First, all nuclear reactions that might conceivably
contribute to generating energy in the sun were written down. Then

tT Now, the helium nucleus is believed composed of two protons of weight 21.00758 and
two neutrons of weight 2X 1.00893, so that the weight of the separate parts should be
4.03302. The latest value for the weight of the helium nucleus is 4.00280, giving a differ-
ence of 0.03022.

8 Internal Constitution of the Stars, p. 297.

®°H. A. Bethe, Phys. Rev., vol. 55, p. 434, 1939.
ATOMIC POWER—RICHARDSON 155

opposite each reaction was written the quantity of energy liberated,
the rate at which the reaction would proceed at the temperature cal-
culated for the center of the sun, 20 million degrees, and finally, the
“mean life” or average time required for the reaction to take place.

Inspection of the table revealed that only a very few reactions
would provide energy at the rate emitted by the sun. At 20 million
degrees some reactions would occur so rapidly that the sun would
explode, while others were far too sluggish. In fact, it was pretty
obvious that observations could be satisfied only by a particular series
of reactions in which hydrogen combining with carbon and nitrogen
is transformed into helium with the liberation of energy. The unique
feature about the series is its cyclical character, neither carbon nor
nitrogen being consumed but serving as true catalysts for the com-
bination of four protons and two electrons into an alpha particle.
Thus 85 years after the origin of the contraction theory, astronomers
finally found in the carbon-nitrogen cycle a reasonably satisfactory
answer to the question, “What is the force from which the sun draws
its power?”

It must not be supposed that astronomers now sit back complacently
and regard the matter as closed. Although the carbon-nitrogen cycle
accounts very well for the production of energy in stars like the sun,
it has not been so successful when applied either to very luminous
white stars or cool red giants. Thus Y Cygni, which is 32,000 times
as bright as the sun, must be converting hydrogen into helium so fast
that it can hardly have been shining at its present rate for more than
85 million years, and probably has only enough hydrogen left to con-
tinue for another 170 million years. If the present age of the universe
is 2,000 million years, then stars like Y Cygni are truly “brief candles”
blazing for a few cosmic minutes only. At the other end of the
sequence are stars like Capella which have a central temperature cal-
culated to be about 6 million degrees, so low that the carbon-nitrogen
cycle would fail to operate effectively. In order to explain the pro-
duction of energy in the red giants we are forced to rely on proton
reactions with deuterium, lithium, and beryllium, which occur at
relatively low temperatures. But it is hard to see how these light
elements were built up in the red giants in the first place.

A question which naturally arises at this time is “Why was not
subatomic energy used as a source of power in the 30’s?” It would
seem that if nuclear reactions produce so much heat, and if physicists
knew how to produce them, then why not harness them for industrial
use immediately? For example, the energy liberated from the trans-
formation of a single pound of lithium and hydrogen in the proper
proportions would release as much heat as can be obtained from the
combustion of 3,150 tons of coal.

725362—47——12
156 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946:

The answer is that these reactions can be produced in the laboratory
only on an infinitesimal scale by the expenditure of far more energy
than they release. The nuclear reactions observed before 1939 are
fundamentally impractical as commercial sources of power because
they are not self-propagating. <A fire once started will continue to
burn as long as fuel is available. But in the proton-lithium reaction
just mentioned, the few alpha particles formed do not lead to other
reactions with additional release of energy. Subatomic energy, if
it is to be harnessed efficiently, must start a chain reaction that will
proceed to release energy of its own accord.

Two decades after Rutherford launched physicists upon an orgy
of atom splitting, Hahn and Strassemann?° reported a new type of
nuclear reaction which has become of transcendental importance.

‘Following up experiments by Fermi, Irene Curie, and others, they had
bombarded uranium with neutrons and obtained some radioactive
substances whose chemical properties resembled barium. This led
them to think that these new substances were probably isotopes of
radium, which is chemically similar to barium. Further analysis,
however, failed to distinguish these products from barium, and at
last they were forced to conclude that the new substances actually were
isotopes of barium. All previous experiments on nuclear disinte-
gration had succeeded only in transforming the reacting elements into
others of slightly different atomic weight, such as nitrogen to oxygen,
beryllium to carbon, etc. But in this experiment, neutron bombard-
ment of uranium of atomic number 92 at the end of the periodic table
had resulted in the appearance of an element of atomic number 56
near the middle of the table.

The experimental result also conflicted with theoretical ideas con-
cerning the nucleus. Previously it had been supposed that the rapid
emission of large numbers of charged particles from the nucleus was
precluded by the “Coulomb barrier,” or potential field of force sur-
rounding the nucleus. This was pictured as a steep, craterlike barri-
cade which prevented exterior particles from reaching the nucleus, as
well as preventing the nuclear particles from escaping. Using a new
nuclear model proposed by Bohr" 2 years before, Lise Meitner and
O. R. Frisch ” showed that a rather simple explanation was possible.
In Bohr’s theory, the particles composing the nucleus of a heavy atom
can be considered as behaving somewhat like the molecules in a drop
of water. Collectively, the molecules cling tightly together, but occa-
sionally one near the surface, through a series of favorable collisions,
will gain sufficient speed to fly off or “evaporate.” In the nuclear case,

10 Naturwiss., vol. 26, p. 756, 1938.

11 Nature, vol. 137, pp. 344, 351, 1986.
12 Tbid., vol. 143, p. 239, 1939.
ATOMIC POWER—RICHARDSON 157

this corresponds to the escape of an alpha particle or electron from
radioactive elements. Ifa drop of water is violently disturbed it may
break into several parts. Similarly, if the nucleus receives a powerful
shock, as when struck by a neutron, it may divide in two, the process
which has since become known as “nuclear fission.”

Meitner and Frisch also called attention to the tremendous energy
released by the fission of uranium. When uranium, the heaviest ele-
ment of all, is split into two elements of roughly half its weight, there
is an excess of mass which is converted into energy of an amount given
by Einstein’s mass-energy relation.

The energy released by fission of one uranium atom is in engineering
units 0.000320 ergs, which means that to produce one horsepower we
would have to split 23,300 billion uranium atoms per second. Let us
try to visualize these figures in terms of familiar things. To toast a
slice of bread in an electric toaster takes about 15,500 calories. Assum-
ing 100-percent efficiency in the atom-splitting process, the same energy
could be obtained from thirty-billionths of an ounce of uranium. Or
for an entirely different example, a 100-ton locomotive could run
from New York to San Francisco on 0.02 ounce of uranium metal.

Most important of all, uranium fission releases neutrons which are
more effective in splitting nuclei than protons or alpha particles would
be, since, having no charge, they are not repelled as they approach
the positively charged nucleus. In the ideal case, the reaction would
spread with increasing rapidity and if uncontrolled would lead to
an explosion of tremendous violence. Even if the chain spreads much
more slowly than in the ideal case the release of energy would still be
of unprecedented violence, providing that the multiplying factor were
always greater than unity, and was “compounded” very rapidly.
According to reports, this entire detonation problem was and still is
one of the most difficult encountered in designing a highly efficient
atomic bomb.

Further work indicated that the uranium involved in the fission re-
action is a rare isotope of atomic weight 235, which comprises only
0.7 percent (144, part) of the metal occurring in nature, most of which
is of atomic weight 238.

In the light of recent events, it is interesting to look back at some of
the comments on uranium fission made about 1940. One writer,"
after mentioning several points in connection with the new process,
remarked : “These five points are the fancy which may or may not
come true within our time. There are others, like the uranium bomb,
which go beyond fancy into the fantastic.” Again, E. O. Lawrence ™*
spoke of the

8 Robert D. Potter, Sci. Month., vol. 50, p. 571, 1940.

14From an address given at Stanford University in June 1941; reprinted in Ann. Rep.
Smithsonian Inst., 1941, p. 163.
158 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

possibility of a chain reaction that has excited the interest in uranium as a
practical source of atomic energy * * *, It is perhaps sufficient to say that
there is some evidence now that, if U** could be separated in quantity from the
natural mixture of isotopes, a chain reaction could, indeed, be produced. But
herein lies the catch, for there is no practical large-Scale way in sight of Separating
the isotopes of the heavy elements, and certainly it is doubtful if a way will be
found. But I should not want to indicate that the uranium matter is a dis-
appointment * * *, Success in this direction may await the development
of a new instrument or technique just as the airplane depended upon the gas
engine.

H. E. White ™* faced the future with more confidence.

Should uranium atoms of atomic weight 235 be responsible for the observations
just described, it seems reasonable to suspect that a small piece of uranium metal,
composed entirely of these atoms alone, should act like a bomb and explode
with far greater violence than any known explosive. Here then may be the
source of energy that will make the rocket ship a reality.

Distinctly disquieting is the note struck by a series of papers pub-
lished in Nature and the Physical Review on the products of uranium
fission produced by neutron bombardment by several Japanese work-
ers at the Nuclear Research Laboratory in Tokyo. Using one of the
largest cyclotrons in the world, on May 3, 1940, they were able to
announce production of a radioactive element of atomic number 93.
This is the element later named neptunium which, with plutonium
of atomic number 94, played such an important part in the develop-
ment of the atomic bomb. There can be no doubt that the Japanese
were thoroughly alert to all the possibilities of the reaction.

Can uranium fission help in the problem of stellar energy produc-
tion? Already Saha? has suggested that the highly ionized atoms
of iron, nickel, and calcium identified by Edlén as the source of the
coronal lines have been produced through some process akin to ura-
nium fission. Perhaps it is too early as yet to attempt to apply this
new knowledge to specific astrophysical problems, but its eventual
importance cannot be doubted.

One of the most embarrassing questions which astronomers are
frequently called upon to answer is, “What use is astronomy? Why
bother to look at a star you can see only through a 100-inch telescope ?”

The atomic bomb should provide an eternal answer to such queries.
So-called “practical” men would certainly have found little to interest
them in the experiments and theories which atomic physicists found
so fascinating prior to about 1940. It is true that the cyclotron had
valuable applications in therapeutics. But on the surface, much of
the work would have seemed. as useless as the discovery of a white
dwarf star or the identification of molecules in interstellar space. Yet

18 Classical and Modern Physics, p. 615, 1940.
16 Observatory, vol. 66, p. 18, 1945.
ATOMIC POWER—RICHARDSON 159

both physicist and astronomer were concerned with the investigation
of the fine structure of matter, the physicist in his laboratory on the
earth, the astronomer in his laboratory of the sky. And investigation
of the fine structure of matter was directly responsible for the atomic
bomb.

The essential identity of the two lines of research is tacitly recog-
nized in President Truman’s statement, “The force from which the
sun draws its power has been loosed against those who brought war
to the Far East.”
OL ‘onagra

i ain oie ar aan i VTS Se a
! ie ony 1% PSaLOnOia Raiden! oi gd ©

spade yeaa dived Ty cee ey jie daa

: yee migitenos ciel HG sastio etal aula | ete”

13 m3 Py 8 0. aaueh !
vanaalata a asart Be here
H freed BSI) TH WC 4 en

hain wa areas Cte Sn ak Aad ok

Bos 2 hed ike eae) Gar eee 206% bees he (his ted (hea vatioal =
= Lies

ae Pal me

7 4 bak
os ont =
le ea 834 ee : fa Boe ames sO 8 ba ig 1
i > L , X: A. o* ayes
iv tas 29s iow (6 -aticant {9

oy

Pea Per gs ee chk ses pqhuithy eeaeetiny Uo. oo
uhently elled usca do dasver 1! Whe ust 3s «noe
fics Bats 6 anbe Lahpels ag ee Bede
ae “4 prvi ts ibiah e : ie es Fe ie eee é pane qs ¥ rare

ATOMIC ENERGY AS A HUMAN ASSET?

By ArtHur H. CoMpTon

Chancellor, Washington University, St. Louis

It is with high appreciation combined with a deep sense of humility
that I accept tonight the Franklin Medal of the American Philosoph-
ical Society. Coming as it does from my colleagues whose respect
is to me a matter of the greatest value, you must know that this honor
is most highly appreciated. Yet the inscription on the Franklin
Medal reminds one of virtues which, though called for by the critical
times through which we are passing, are scarcely to be found. Ben-
jamin Franklin himself combined the qualities of scientist with those
of statesman in unusual degree. Now, in the age of atomic energy,
such a combination is needed by the world as never before.

It is with diffidence that we who have been working on the techni-
cal aspects of atomic energy present before a group of experts such
as are here tonight our amateur thoughts with regard to its human
implications. Yet action is needed, and only by boldly presenting
our thoughts for discussion can a reasonable basis for such action be
reached.

The ability to release atomic energy gives mankind great new
powers. These powers can be used for good or ill. The first use of
atomic energy was as a bomb whose explosion stopped short a tragic
war with the probable net saving of some millions of lives. Its ter-
rific military destructiveness has made it necessary for us to consider
afresh how we may avoid future wars. The dramatic demonstra-
tion of its explosive power has, however, drawn attention away from
the significance of atomic energy to our industry, our habits of life,
and our culture. It is in such peacetime consequences that atomic
energy will eventually mean most to man.

The atomic age has started as a period of keenest rivalry. The
rivalry is between nations and social systems. The prize to be won
is prosperity and world leadership. It can include peace and security.
If only we agree to place war beyond the power of nations, the race
is sure to make life of greater value. Such is the prospect of a world

1 Franklin Medal Lecture, read November 16, 1945, in the Symposium on Atomic Energy
and its Implications. Reprinted by permission from Proceedings of the American Philo-
sophical Society, vol. 90, No. 1, January 1946.

161
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946:

strengthened by unlimited power from atomic fission and forced away
from war by the examples of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

I want tonight to consider the human consequences of the release of
atomic energy in three major directions. First is its effect on war
and the world’s political structure. Second is its application to the
practical tasks of peace. Third is its effect in changing the form
of our social life and customs.

1. HOW SHALL WE PREVENT ANOTHER WAR?

World government has become inevitable. The choice before us
is whether this government will be agreed upon or whether we shall
elect to fight a catastrophic third world war to determine who shall
be master. Unity by agreement will bring greater life. Unity forced
by another war will bring death to many millions and disaster to all
mankind.

The primary function of this world government must be to prevent
international war. With regard to its economic and cultural life the
world has during the past century been developing into a unit in
which the welfare of each person depends intimately upon that of
the rest of humanity. We have indeed become “members one of an-
other.” Such development has not however resulted in political world
unity. The great destructiveness of an atomic war, even to the victor,
makes it necessary now for self-preservation to insure peace. In a
quarrelsome world the only means of insuring peace is, however, for
the nations to set up an international police force which monopolizes
the power to wage war.

Now for the first time, however, it becomes feasible for a central
authority to enforce peace throughout the world. Before World War
II many parts of the earth were difficult of access by a world police.
If not a Maginot Line, at least a strong fighting front could keep out
a policing army. During the time required to bring this policing army
to the scene the defense of the recalcitrant group could be strengthened.

Today this is changed. Fast airplanes, long-range rockets, and
~ atomic bombs have now solved the technical problem of bringing to
_ bear on any area at any time whatever destructive force may be re-
guired to quell resistance. A central authority having virtual monop-
oly of these major means of warfare can now be equipped to enforce
international peace.

The fact is that the United States now has in its possession a sufli-
cient monopoly of the weapons needed for such policing that it might
be able to act in this capacity of world police. That we do not set
ourselves up as the world governors is simply because we do not
want the job. We feel that world control is the world’s business, not
ours. We know that, if we should use armed force to prevent other
nations from fighting when our own interests were not directly
ATOMIC ENERGY AS A HUMAN ASSET-—COMPTON 163

threatened, we should be considered meddlers and should gain only
the fear and hate of other nations. We should prefer to withhold our
fighting power unless our own safety is directly threatened, and con-
fine our policing activity to our own reasonable share in keeping order
within nations that are not now able to look after their own interests
or that may become dangerous to us if not kept under control.

Nevertheless, looking ahead it is clear that no mere strengthening
of our own might can keep us safe. Our safety cannot be kept secure
by our own military development without international control of
the new weapons. Whatever our strength, others also can arm so as
to inflict upon us disastrous damage if war should come. What is
needed is an agreement which will make our safety much surer than
could result from our own armed might and which will at the same
time provide for elimination of international wars elsewhere through-
out the world. It is such an agreement that we should seek, sincerely,
with determination, and with faith that it can be attained with rea-
sonable promptness. The important step that has just been made
in this direction by the President of the United States and the Prime
Ministers of Great Britain and Canada should be welcomed by the
entire world.

I am not much concerned with the precise answer to the question
of how long it would require before other nations could be prepared to
challenge us with atomic weapons. I know they will not do so for
the next 5 years. After 25 years, unless some mutual agreement pre-
vents their development, such countries as Britain, Russia, and France
could arm themselves with weapons similar to ours if they should
want to spend the necessary effort. The time required would not be
greatly affected by whether we hold to our own secrets or not. It is
in any case only a small part of the lifetime of our Nation that would
elapse before we should be faced with the awful possibility of an
atomic war.

As has been seen by the heads of our governments, now is the time
when international agreements can best be made to prevent such a
catastrophe. Other nations have not yet developed a pride in their
atomic might which could give them dreams of world mastery. Our
own effort has paid for itself many times over by stopping the course
of World War II. All nations are now laying plans for the post-
war years, and it will be much easier to shape these plans now on the
basis of world government than to stop the wild development of a
renegade nation by imposing emergency military controls after it is
set in its course.

It may be worth reviewing just what we mean when we refer to the
great destructiveness of war in the age of atoms. If the future de-
mands it, science sees no reason to doubt that atomic weapons can be
made that are related to the present atomic bomb much as the block
164. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

buster is to the blunderbuss. Yet even the present atomic bomb is a
highly effective weapon. If one bomb will devastate four square
miles and damage a hundred square miles, how many bombs are
needed to destroy all of a nation’s concentrations of fighting and in-
dustrial facilities above ground? Will it be 100, 1,000, or 10,000?
That is a question for the military to answer. It has been demon-
strated that whatever bombs are required can be produced and de-
livered to their targets.

Let us try to imagine what may be expected to happen if a war be-
tween two major powers should break out in 1970. We may assume
that by this time both sides will have such weapons in whatever
amount they consider necessary and of greater destructiveness and
variety than those now possessed by the United States. Because of
the enormous advantage of surprise, Pearl Harbor tactics will be
employed. Jet-propelled planes or rockets with atomic warheads
will be sent without warning at each of several hundred of the enemy’s
major production centers, No city of over 100,000 population will
remain as an effective operating center after the first hour of the
war. At least 10 percent of the attacked nation’s population will be
wiped out in the initial blow. If this nation elects to fight back,
rockets and planes from hidden installations will carry the reply. The
attacker in this case can expect no mercy. Though his citizens may
have immediately moved underground, his great cities as well as his
surface production plants will be annihilated. The fighting will con-
tinue until one side chooses to surrender or is unable to resist its
opponent’s army of occupation.

If the United States should be party to such a war, we should ex-
pect Philadelphia, with such neighboring cities as Reading and Wil-
mington, to follow Hiroshima and Nagasaki into oblivion. With the
destruction of these cities we should expect about one out of every four
of their inhabitants to be killed. If our Nation should eventually win,
what would we have gained? Perhaps the control of the world. But
of what value would this be with our civilization gone and our popu-
lation decimated ?

No feasible means of preventing the bombs from striking their tar-
gets has yet appeared on the horizon. Only two countermeasures have
so far been proposed. The first is to disperse our cities, preferably into
hilly regions, so that more bombs will be required to destroy them.
The second is to place all military installations and essential in-
dustries underground and provide emergency underground shelters
for all the population. Clearly such measures will seriously interfere
with our normal life. So indeed was it inconvenient in the middle
ages to live in a castle on a hilltop; but safety in a world of robbers
ATOMIC ENERGY AS A HUMAN ASSET—COMPTON 165

demanded such a life. Similarly now, until positive assurance can
be obtained of security through an international military force, we
have no alternative but to prepare such shelters and scatter our popu-
lation. Death is worse than inconvenience.

We must keep in mind that, when all are armed with atomic
weapons, no superiority of one nation can free it from danger of
great damage by another. One man may own a .22-target pistol
and another a high-power hunting rifle. But neither is insurance
against murder by the other. The insurance is to take away both
guns, or the fear of punishment by the police, or most surely of all
the development of a social conscience for which murder becomes
unthinkable.

Is there then any procedure which can free us from the threat of
annihilation? I believe there is. It makes, however, the hard
demands of sacrifice of national sovereignty and of faith in other
peoples that will give them a share in the responsibility for our own
security.

In the statement issued yesterday by the heads of the governments
of Great Britain, Canada, and the United States plans are laid
looking toward “entirely eliminating the use of atomic energy for
destructive purposes and promoting its widest use for industrial
and humanitarian purposes.” They “emphasize that the responsibil-
ity for devising means to insure that the new discoveries shall be
used for the benefit of mankind, instead of as a means of destruction,
rests, not on our nations alone, but upon the whole civilized world.”

Let us suppose that the United States, Russia, and Britain agree to
transfer their own total power to wage international war to a joint
Military Commission. It will be better to include France and China
as the other permanent members of the Security Council so that
the Military Commission can function within the framework of the
United Nations Organization. This Commission will have placed
under its orders the united armies, navies, and war weapons of the
member nations. Its charter will give the Military Commission the
responsibility for stopping any armed conflict between nations that
may arise, including wars in which the member nations are them-
selves participants. This responsibility can be carried out since the
major nations will have contributed to the Commission all of their
own fighting strength except that needed for their internal policing.
To be effective it seems obvious that the actions of the Military Com-
mission cannot be subject to the veto power of any single nation but
must be controlled by the joint action of some such group as the
Security Council. For concreteness we may suggest further that
this Commission have its seat in Canada, with its headquarters at
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946:

either Ottawa or Vancouver. Canada will accordingly be the home
ground of the combined armies, the home waters of the combined
navies, and in its vast territories will be dispersed the atomic weapons
of the member nations ready for use in case of emergency.

As thus envisaged, the military strength of the Commission would
be so great as to make hopeless the effort of any individual nation or
group of nations to challenge its power. At first all of the strength
in atomic weapons would be contributed by the United States. The
other member nations would, however, contribute armies and planes
and guns according to their proportionate share.

When the agreement is reached to the satisfaction of the member
nations, the “know-how” for producing atomic weapons would be
passed on to the Commission which these nations entrust with their
united military power. From then on there would be no reason why
atomic bombs should be made by any other group, here or in any other
country. Nor is there any reason why until such an agreement is
reached the technical secrets of atomic weapons should be released
from the countries that now have them.

The far-reaching agreement here suggested is perhaps one that can-
not be attained at one step. Time will be required to make the needed
readjustments of our thinking. But the terrible threat of atomic war
which Mr. Oppenheimer described so graphically this morning is
upon us, and makes it necessary for us to make these readjustments
before time runs out.

In the exploitation of the peacetime uses of atomic energy each na-
tion will need to give suitable assurance to the others that its own
control of its atomic industry is such as to prevent the malevolent
development of weapons by any group within its borders. It is essen-
tial that such assurance include provision for the inspection to any
extent that may be necessary by representatives of the international
Commission.

We are thus proposing that international wars be outlawed and
that responsibility for preventing wars be placed in an international
Military Commission that will act under the direction of the Security
Council of the United Nations Organization. This Military Commis-
sion, with its headquarters perhaps in Canada, will monopolize the
armed forces of the nations that enter the agreement, except those
needed for internal policing. Under its supervision atomic weapons
will be produced solely for its own use. The member nations will
undertake to prevent the illicit production of fissionable materials
within their own boundaries, and this will be supported by permitting

complete inspection of their activities by agents of the Military Com-
mission.
ATOMIC ENERGY AS A HUMAN ASSET—COMPTON 167

If the nations follow such a procedure with courage and determina-
tion it would seem possible to insure the banishment of international
wars. It will then be possible to develop with assurance the peaceful
fruits of atomic energy.

Two alternatives have been suggested to this idea of preserving our
safety through an armed international Commission. One is atomic
disarmament. The other is maintaining our own strength on a con-
clusively higher level than can be attained by any combination of
other nations, ie

I am convinced that atomic disarmament would be a fatal mistake.
The proposal we have been discussing calls for the resignation by
every individual nation of the right to make and possess atomic wea-
pons; but it makes this outlawing effective by placing atomic weapons
at the disposal of the United Nations Security Council. An agreement
to stop producing atomic bombs would only make it possible for some
ambitious nation to develop them with the hope of gaining the mastery
of the world, and our destruction would be the result.

For a number of years I believe we could as a nation maintain mili-
tary strength greater than any group that might oppose us. Such a
policy would however tend to unite the world against us, which would
in the long run be disastrous. It is, furthermore, doubtful whether
over some peaceful decades our nation would continue support of our
armed forces adequate to maintain a high level of superiority. We
should then become vulnerable to the nation with the long-harbored
grudge or the newly developed commercial rivalry.

The answer is rather to outlaw war itself. And this can be done
by a strong world “police” which has at its disposal more powerful
weapons than any recalcitrant nation can hope to acquire.

It is clear, however, that while working for such an agreement for
a united international armed force we, as well as other nations, cannot
avoid the policy of maintaining our own armed might at a level that
will make attack by a potential enemy unprofitable. When our efforts
for agreement are successful, our weapons and an appropriate share
of our Army will be turned over to the Commission. For the time
being, only we are able to produce such weapons, and it is our task
to see that they are made available for this world “police.” Thus the
Commission will start with the strength necessary to fulfill its re-
sponsibilities. If by some mischance the attempts at an agreement
should fail, our strength will be doubly needed to discourage attack
from any potential enemy.

There is thus real hope that another atomic bomb may never be used
in war, and, thanks in part to atomic weapons, that international war
itself may already be obsolete.
168 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

2. THE PEACETIME IMPLICATIONS OF THE RELEASE OF ATOMIC
ENERGY

Enough regarding the destructive uses of atomic energy. Of much
more interest is its use as man’s willing servant. In the long run it
can hardly be questioned that the peaceful applications of atomic
energy will be those that will most profoundly affect our lives. What
these important applications will be is, however, as difficult to predict
as it would have been a century ago, just after Faraday laid the
scientific basis for electrical engineering, to tell the future meaning of
electricity. At this moment the obviously great field open to atomic
energy is that of production of useful heat and power. We also see
important though limited medical and industrial applications of ra-
dioactive materials, artifically produced by atomic chain reactions.
Perhaps more significant than either are the new vistas that will be
opened up by scientific experiments that make use of the byproducts of
atomic fission.

Such had indeed been the case with such discoveries as X-ray. Fifty
years ago it was evident that X-rays were useful for “seeing” through
objects, such as the human body, which are opaque to ordinary light.
It could not be predicted that X-rays would become a powerful weapon
in the fight against cancer, or that researches made by X-rays would
reveal the electron and with it give us the radio and a host of electronic
devices.

Such unforeseen developments are the result of every great discovery
of science. It will nevertheless be worth noting some of the definite
practical applications of atomic energy that we can now see clearly
before us:

At present, controlled atomic power in the form of heat is in con-
tinuous production in large quantities at several plants, especially
those at Oak Ridge, Tenn., and at Hanford, Wash. The heat from
these plants is a byproduct, and is carried away in the one case by
air and in the other by a stream of water. The useful product is neu-
trons which are used in the plant as a means of transmuting certain
chemical elements to others of specially useful characteristics. Of
these transmutation processes the most important one is that of
uranium into plutonium. Previous to the fission chain reaction the
most abundant source of neutrons was the cyclotron which operates
on electric power. Per kilowatt of energy used, the fission chain reac-
tion. gives some 10,000 times as many neutrons as a cyclotron, and
it is not difficult to make a fission chain reaction plant that delivers
100 times as much power as is used by a cyclotron. This means that
right now we are using large amounts of atomic power many times
more efficiently for the particular process of producing neutrons than
the best electrical machine that we have been able to devise.

Looking to the future, we may expect the use of neutrons as a means
ATOMIC ENERGY AS A HUMAN ASSET—COMPTON 169

of producing new elements by transmutation to become of increasing
importance. Plutonium is a concentrated source of available energy
and will be a valuable material for peaceful purposes as well as for
building weapons.

Other artificial radioactive elements, especially radioactive ones,
will also find use in medicine, in industry, and in many branches of
science. It is yet too early to see clearly how important these uses
may become.

We have not yet built an atomic power plant that is generating elec-
trical power. This is merely because we have been engaged in winning
a war and there has been no serious shortage of electric power. If
there were sufficient demand for a demonstration, a reasonably efficient
plant using super-heated steam for driving a turbine could be put into
operation within a year. Before, however, such plants can be made
economical competitors with existing practice, a number of years’
development will be required.

Whiie there are several other possibilities, the most obvious method
of producing power from atomic fission is to heat a cooling agent
such as air or steam or liquid metal in the chain reactor unit and
pass this heated coolant through a heat exchanger which heats the
steam for driving a turbine. Beyond the heat exchanger of such a
plant everything would be done according to standard practice. Up
to the heat exchanger all the design requires new features, among
them protection against the extreme radioactivity of everything, in-
cluding the coolant, that has been exposed to the neutrons.

The chain reacting unit itself can assume many forms. The one
essential is that it shall contain a fissionable substance such as
uranium, either in its natural state or, if a small unit is desired, en-
riched with additional U-235 or plutonium. H. D. Smyth, in his
official report, has described in some detail how this active material
can be combined with a moderator such as carbon or beryllium or
heavy water so as to bring about the chain reaction.

The large atomic power plants now used for producing plutonium
have in them many tons of natural uranium and graphite. By using
uranium containing more than the usual fraction of U-235, chain re-
acting units have been built that are of much smaller size.

There is, however, a lower limit to the size and weight of an atomic
power plant that is imposed by the massive shield needed to prevent
the neutrons and other dangerous radiations from getting out. Next
to cosmic rays, these radiations are the most penetrating that we know
and, for a plant designed to deliver for example no more than 100
horsepower, are enormously more intense than the rays from a large
supply of radium or an X-ray tube. To stop them, a shield equivalent
in weight to at least 2 or 8 feet of solid steel is needed. There are
basic laws of physics that make it appear very unlikely that a lighter
170 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

shield can be devised. This means that there is no reason to hope that
atomic power units for normal uses can be built that will weigh less
than perhaps 50 tons. Driving motor cars or airplanes of ordinary
size by atomic power must thus be counted out.

Prominent among the advantages of atomic power are the extraor-
dinarily low rate of fuel consumption and consequent low cost of fuel,
the wide flexibility and easy control of the rate at which power is de-
veloped, and the complete absence at the power plant of smoke or
noxious fumes. With regard to fuel consumption, when completely
consumed, the fission energy available from a pound of uranium is
equivalent to the energy obtained from burning over a thousand tons
of coal. With the prewar price of uranium oxide at roughly $3 per
pound and of coal at $3 per ton, this would mean the economical use of
uranium as fuel if only one part in a thousand of its available energy
isused. Actually we should expect the first plants built for producing
atomic power to be considerably more efficient than this in their use of
the fission energy which would mean a substantial cost advantage in
favor of uranium. One must consider also, however, the need to
purify and fabricate the uranium into the desired form. For certain
types of power plants under consideration, some separated U-235 is
required and this is expensive. Attempting to consider all such
factors, it appears that the fuel cost of the atomic power plant of the
future will nevertheless be small as compared with the corresponding
fuel cost of a coal-burning plant.

In considering the economic aspects there are, however, many other
factors. It is not really possible for these to be explored until we have
actual experience with atomic power plants. First is the capital cost.
Clearly, if one must charge against the capital cost what is spent in
research and development, this cost is very high indeed. If, however,
one looks down the line to a billion dollar a year national industry
based on atomic power, the Nation can afford a considerable investment
in the research and development required to bring this industry into
being. When this development is completed, it appears not unlikely
that the cost of building and maintaining a large-scale atomic power
plant may compare favorably with that of a coal-consuming plant of
the same capacity.

Much remains to be learned, however, regarding the metallurgical
and other technical problems involved in constructing a successful
plant to transform fission energy efliciently into high-temperature
heat. The materials to be used may be expensive. The designs are,
nevertheless, essentially simple. An inherent advantage of the atomic
power unit is that the heat sources, i. e., the uranium blocks, can readily
be maintained at any desired temperature regardless of how rapidly
the heat is being removed. This means that a relatively small-size
ATOMIC ENERGY AS A HUMAN ASSET——-COMPTON 71

heater unit will be needed and that corrosion due to excessive heating
is controllable.

The terrific blasts produced by the atomic bombs have led to un-
warranted fear of accidental explosions resulting from the normal use
of atomic power. Explosions such as destroyed Hiroshima cannot
occur accidentally. Such explosions must be carefully planned for.
The dangers of explosions of the “boiler” type with an atomic power
plant are about the same as with a steam plant, which is to say they
are practically negligible if the plants are designed and handled by
competent engineers.

There is, nevertheless, real possibility of damage to health of the
operating personnel from ionizating rays emitted by the plant itself
and by all materials that are taken out of the plant. These materials
could also become a public hazard. This is the problem of the health
of radium and X-ray workers on a grand scale. That the problem
can be solved is shown by the fact that in all of the operations of the
existing half dozen or more such plants, some of which have now been
working for years, not a single serious exposure has occurred. This,
however, is due to the thorough inspection and vigilant care given by
the health staff headed by Dr. Robert Stone. In some of the experi-
mental work we have not been so fortunate. Until we become much
more familiar with nucleonics than we are at present, atomic power
plants can be operated safely and serviced only with the help of health
supervisors who are familiar with radiological hazards.

All of this points toward using atomic power first in relatively large
units where careful engineering and health supervision can be given.
An obvious suggestion is its application to the power and heat supply
of cities and of large industrial plants. Within 10 years it is not
unlikely that the power companies designing new plants for city serv-
ice will be considering favorably the use of uranium instead of coal
for purely economic reasons.

This of course does not mean that atomic power will put coal out
of business. Each will have its own field. For small heating units,
such as the kitchen stove, atomic power has no place. If our national
economy grows as it should, coal as a chemical agent, as for example
in blast furnaces and preparation of organic chemicals, will increase
in importance.

From the point of view of the national economy the introduction
of such a new source of power is a clear gain. If it will lessen the
cost of heat and power to our cities, it will be a stimulus to every
industry. If it reduces the pall of winter smoke, it will be a boon to
us all. If it gives cheap power where industry and agriculture need
it but cannot now get it, it will extend our economic frontiers. These
are possibilities that lie immediately before us.

7253624713
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

3. ATOMIC ENERGY AND OUR WAY OF LIFE

Atomic energy is just one more step along the path of technological
progress. It may, however, be the supreme gift of physical science
to the modern age. Clearly its value will be determined by the use
to which it is put. It is especially worthy of note that, along with other
technical advances, the effect of atomic power is to force human so-
ciety into new patterns. This need for human growth to meet the
responsibility of atomic power is the basis of Norman Cousins’ strik-
ing statement that “modern man is obsolete.”

Let me note briefly three such effects of technology on society that
can be clearly recognized. These are, first, toward greater coopera-
tion, second, toward more training and education, and third, toward
evaluating one’s life in terms of service rendered to the community.

First, the society that is adapted for survival in the modern world
is one in which an increasing degree of cooperation occurs between
diverse groups spread over ever larger areas. As an example, con-
sider the atomic bomb project, in which about a million people of all
types and descriptions and spread throughout the Nation worked
together to gain a needed result that could be achieved only by a great
coordinated community.

In no field is the growing importance of such cooperation more
evident than in that of scientific research. Faraday, a century ago,
was one of the first professional scientists. Working by himself,
he covered the whole field of electricity and much more besides.
Sixty years ago Thomas Edison organized what was perhaps the first
research team to work with him at Menlo Park. Now our country
has thousands of research laboratories. From 1900 to 1940 our uni-
versities developed organized research groups for studying specific
problems, Astronomers built specialized observatories. Research
centers grew for studying diseases. ‘Teams of physicists built cyclo-
trons and surveyed cosmic rays over the world. When the war came
cooperative research became of greatly increased size and effectiveness.

The development of the methods for producing plutonium is typical.
At the peak there were engaged on this one problem roughly 5,000
laboratory workers in more than 70 locations studying its different
aspects. Not only theoretical physicists and nuclear chemists were
needed. Equally vital were corrosion experts and metallurgists and
haematologists and meteorologists, laboratory technicians, mechanics,
and office workers of many kinds. No one person could be skilled
in every field or understand even the meaning of the answers to the
many problems. But somehow the group mind integrates such
knowledge into the useful form that results in a process that success-
fully produces plutonium.
ATOMIC ENERGY AS A HUMAN ASSET—COMPTON 173

There remains, happily, a valuable place for the individual research
man who masters and advances his own limited field of study. His
specialty, however, is of little value except as a part of a broader field.
More and more we find that even in a limited field a team of men with
different specialties working together does the most effective work.
New thoughts develop in their discussions. More refined techniques
are available. A team which thus supplies a combination of origi-
nality and special skills is the pattern toward which research is
moving.

Cooperation is thus the very life blood of a society based on science
and technology. Such a society is necessarily made up of specialists,
not only scientists and engineers, but skilled laborers, salesmen, ad-
ministrators, educators, and legislators. Working alone such spe-
cialists are useless. When their work is coordinated they form a so-
ciety of enormous strength. It is a major source of our Nation’s
vitality that we have so many diverse elements in our population.
Each has its place among the many specialties. What the society of
an atomic age cannot permit is the development of antagonisms be-
tween these groups that will prevent effective cooperation. To love
our neighbors is becoming the condition of survival. And our neigh-
bors with whom we work are to be found in all divisions of society
throughout the entire world.

As the second evident effect of technclogy on society, consider the
need for ever-increasing training and education. It is because of the
mechanical skill of many millions of workers, the know-how of our
many technical men, and the administrative skill of our industrial
and military leaders that our country has come out ahead in this
war as in the last. It is no disparagement of the American engineers
who have done these great tasks to point out that most of the new
wartime developments that have led to victory, such as radar, sub-
marine detection, rockets, and the atomic bomb, have had to be led
by men whose scientific knowledge is far in advance of that supplied
by our technical schools and industries in the training of engineers.
To compete in the modern world more people need more training.
Nor is technical training all that is required. Of greater importance
is more education for leadership. In a democratic society that is
forced into a position of world prominence, our citizens as well as
our leaders need to understand the problems and human needs of all
the nations.

This pressure for more training and education applies at all levels.
Automatic machinery performs an increasing number of routine jobs.
The demand for skilled mechanics to make the machines is thus in-
creasing while that for unskilled labor falls off. The growing com-
plexity of society multiplies rapidly the demand for all kinds of
174. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

persons trained to keep the work coordinated. These range from
typists to administrators. Of those whose over-all view of the needs of
society is adequate to guide wisely an industry or the growth of a
community there is an acute shortage.

The result is more students wanting more extensive education in
schools and colleges. Professional schools are becoming graduate
schools. More research men will want to carry their studies beyond
the doctor’s thesis. The interruption of our college education during
the war places our Nation at a temporary disadvantage with regard
to highly trained young men and women and is for the moment
keeping down the enrollment in our advanced classes. All indica-
tions are, however, that the postwar pressure on our institutions of
higher learning will increase and continue. There is growing interest
likewise in all aspects of adult education as our citizens strive to
keep themselves abreast of the rapid changes of the times.

The third and perhaps the most remarkable trend is an increasing
concern that one’s activities shall contribute to the welfare of society.
It is more difficult to establish this trend by citing examples than it
is to show the increase of cooperation and of education. But it is,
I believe, no less real. The ancient high regard for the “holy man”
who retired to a monastery and separated himself from society finds
little sympathy in our modern life. Reading of American colonial
history shows that the freedom for which our forebears fought was
primarily the right to live their own lives in the pursuit of happiness
without unnecessary restrictions, not primarily the opportunity to
shape a better society. Now both capital and labor strive to justify
their position in terms of the usefulness of their contribution to
society, and our Nation has fought a war with unparalleled unanimity
because our loyalty to the common cause made us ready for any
sacrifice.

We have not had in this country prominent movements similar to
that in Germany, where the youth was whipped to patriotic ardor by
the call to lose one’s self in the greater good of the state. Nor has
any “cause” in this country perhaps met with the wide response the
Russians have given to communism as a political system in which
each person consciously works for the good of all. Yet Americans
respond to many calls to service. As members of scientific societies,
we are aware of our own increasing attention during the past genera-
tion to the social responsibilities of science and scientists. The
present active concern of the scientists about the political disposition
of the atomic energy problem is apparently only a representative
example of the anxiety of everyone in the Nation that with the great
issues with which humanity is faced his own actions may help rather
than hinder a good solution. The greater powers placed in our hands
ATOMIC ENERGY AS A HUMAN ASSET—COMPTON 175

by technology seem indeed to make us more acutely aware of our
responsibility to use these powers for human ends that go beyond
ourselves.

Typical of the forces working in this direction is recognized need
that our form of society must attain its fullest strength if it is to
survive in the fierce competition of the postwar world. We have come
to realize however that our strength lies in the many millions of our
citizens who are working efficiently and loyally at the Nation’s tasks.
Widespread education, encouragement of each individual to seek for
the place in the game where he can play best, opportunity for advance-
ment and leadership—all these have helped to strengthen our society.
Self-preservation demands that all possible effort be given to enable
and encourage every citizen of the country to contribute his best to
the needs of the Nation. To attain this result, cultivation of the spirit
of service is of first importance.

The evolutionary law of the survival of the fittest applies to societies
as well as to individuals. According to this law the society of the
future will inevitably advance along these lines of cooperativeness, of
education, and of individual concern with service toward the common
welfare. If selfish interests or an ill-adapted form of government
should prevent our growth along these lines, some other nation or
group that can develop thus more rapidly will pass us by.

You will note that these factors which give strength to society are
precisely those that characterize the highest type of citizen. Coopera-
tion: he likes to work with others on a common task. Education: he
has learned to do his own useful task and to share intelligently in solv-
ing public problems. Service: the central objective of his life is to
contribute to the common welfare the maximum that his abilities make
possible. These also are the factors which make life of greatest value
to the individual himself.

My point is this: the release of atomic energy is merely the most
recent important step of that steady progression of science that is
compelling man to become human. He must pay careful attention
to cooperation, education, and service for the welfare of society if he
is to thrive under the conditions that science imposes. If we will let
ourselves grow as thus indicated, the civilization of the atomic age
promises to be the richest that history has known, not only with regard
to material bounty, but also in its cultivation and appreciation of
the truest human values.

How then are we justified in describing atomic energy as a human
asset ?

First, atomic energy now supplies for the first time weapons which
make it possible for a centralized world government to prevent wars
between nations. Having made war intolerable because of its enor-
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

mous destructive power, it thus opens the way for an international
organization to prevent war from ever occurring again.

Second, atomic energy is now a source of useful new materials pro-
duced by transmutation. It promises to supply us with heat and
power available in large quantities wherever needed and thus to open —
new economic frontiers. New advances in medicine, in industry, and
in science are on the horizon.

Third, as the most recent great step in the long progression of ad-
vances in science and technology, the advent of atomic energy is
forcing mankind along the difficult road to greater humanity. Grow-
ing cooperation, education, and spirit of service are evident trends.

The present is thus a time for hope. True, the atomic bomb has
brought us face to face with the fact that continued world strife will
mean disaster and death. It is, however, likewise true, and much more
worthy of attention, that the way is now open as never before for
the world to reach a true unity, with world peace a necessity that can
and will be attained.

When our first parents ate of the fruit of the tree of knowledge, they
became as gods, knowing good from evil. Much as they longed to
return to the garden of innocence an angel with a fiery sword stood
in their way. Their only hope for peace lay in work to make the earth
give them a fuller life. Somehow the marvel occurred that in their
work they became human souls who shared the task of their Creator
and came to be called His children.

The same angel with the same fiery sword prevents us from return-
ing to a pre-atomic age. We have no choice but to use our great new
powers in the effort to build a better world.

In the fierce competition between social systems in the atomic age,
the need for strength demands that we enable every citizen to con-
tribute to the common welfare as his abilities may permit. Perma-
nent peace can now be secured if we will work for it. Increased pros-
perity with broader horizons lies before us. Greater development of
the human spirit is the inevitable consequence of the increased
responsibility for using our new powers. ‘These are among the great-
est of human goods.
THE SCIENTIFIC IMPORTANCE OF X-RAYS?

By L. HENRY GARLAND, M. D?

[With 2 plates]

Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
You go not, till I set you up a glass
Where you may see the inmost part of you.

(Hamlet, act III, scene 4, lines 23-25.)

The discerning English dramatist wrote these amazingly prophetic
lines some 300 years before a modest German physicist announced the
discovery of a “new type of rays.” Yet, had he known, Shakespeare
hardly could have penned a more apt description of a fluoroscopic
examination—aided, it is granted in this instance, by a mirror, in
which the good Queen of Denmark might “see her inmost part.” 'To
continue the remarkable coincidence, the Queen, like many an appre-
hensive patient, replies to Hamlet:

What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murder me?
And Polonius cried forth:
What ho! help, help, help!

Before the days of shockproof X-ray equipment, such a scene might
have taken place in a radiologist’s office; today it should be a rarity
(unless Polonius were confronted with the statement for an unusually
prolonged and complicated series of examinations).

In the half century which has elapsed since Roentgen’s announce-
ment there have been many developments in medical science which,
at first glance, might seem to dwarf the tremendous importance of the
discovery of X-ray. These developments include the perfection of
antitoxic sera, of remarkable antibiotic agents (the sulfa drugs, peni-
cillin, and similar molds), of stored blood or blood derivatives, and
finally of planned atomic disintegration. Yet we believe it is safe to
hazard the guess that in another 50 years we still shall look upon the
X-ray as one of the developments of major scientific import of all time,

1 Reprinted by permission from Electrical Engineering, vol. 64, No. 12, December 1945.

? Associate Clinical Professor of Radiology, Stanford University School of Medicine;

formerly Commander, M. C., U. 8S. N. R.
177
178 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946:

as well as one of the most valuable weapons for medical care. We shall
look back and thank the pioneers in physics, electricity, radiology, and
general medical pedagogy who made equipment practicable and who
encouraged physicians to specialize in the field of X-ray diagnosis and
treatment.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

To appreciate the importance of X-rays it is desirable that certain
basic facts be kept in mind. These rays are penetrating radiations
corresponding to light rays but having much shorter wave lengths.
They may be used in a manner similar to light rays for the inspection
of some materials and, by virtue of their peculiar properties, for the
analysis of others. Gross inspection methods include simple roent-
genography (or X-ray “photography”) and roentgenoscopy (or X-ray
fluoroscopy) ; detailed inspection methods include various other means
such as microradiography, Roentgen spectroscopy, Roentgen diffrac-
tion, and so forth. In practice, X-rays usually are generated by allow-
ing a stream of high-speed electrons to impinge upon a metal target.
They have wave lengths of from 10.0 to 0.01 angstroms, and effect a
sensitized film in a manner similar to that of light rays. They also
cause certain substances to fluoresce. The materials through which
they pass are ionized and give rise to scattered X-rays. Because of this
ionization, the rays are of use in the treatment of certain medical con-
ditions. X-rays can be reflected, refracted, and polarized by special
means (including the use of crystals).

The principal use of X-rays lies in their ability to penetrate opaque
objects. Such objects arrest the rays approximately in direct propor-
tion to their densities. Substances of low atomic weight such as cotton,
gauze, and aluminum, are traversed readily by the rays, while other
substances such as bone and heavy metals are opaque, and cast a dense
shadow on a sensitized film. Some materials are transparent to ight
rays but opaque to X-rays (for example, a plate of lead glass).

In the radiographic examination of materials (both animate and
inanimate) it is important to remember that the delineation of an
object depends on its differing in density from its surroundings.
Unless such difference exists, the outline of the object cannot be shown
on ordinary roentgenograms. A simple example of this is the demon-
strability of the heart in X-rays of the chest. Surrounded as it is by
air-filled lungs, the heart is readily visible in chest films. However, if
nature had placed it in the middle of the liver, no distinct shadow
would be cast as the liver is of approximately the same density.

Under ordinary circumstances, X-rays are not directly visible and
require a specially prepared surface for their detection (a fluoro-
scopic screen or sensitized film). We use the adjective “ordinary”
because you actually can see X-rays with a little training and practice.
SCIENTIFIC IMPORTANCE OF X-RAYS—GARLAND 179

Unfortunately, if you look at them sufficiently long, you will lose
your eyelashes, and probably your eyebrows, if not most of your hair.
This is because of the destructive effect of large amounts of X-rays
on the hair follicles and other living tissues. However, it is safe to
gaze at the rays for a few minutes, using a small beam (perhaps 1-
inch diameter). One must sit in total darknes for some 30 minutes
before he can appreciate the faint fluorescence produced by the rays
on the human retina; one is then able to see small lead objects placed
between the X-ray tube and the human eye, and, if one has an opaque
lens (cataract) or cornea, he can ascertain whether or not the optic
nerve is intact. The method is used occasionally by radiologists, at
the request of eye specialists, to assure that the patient has an intact
retina and nerve before surgical procedures on the cornea or lens are
performed. It is to be noted that objects will seem upside down,
since the focusing power of the human lens will be ineffective with
X-rays.

The action of X-rays on photographic film is similar to that of light
rays. Ordinary X-ray films are coated on both sides with a silver
halide emulsion, especially sensitive to the violet range of the spectrum,
because they are used mostly with double intensifying screens which
glow with that color. These screens consist of thin pieces of card-
board coated with calcium tungstate and a protective transparent
film. They are placed in a special bakelite or aluminum-fronted
frame, and for satisfactory results must make perfect contact with
the film. Special nonscreen films may be used for improved detail,
but are from 5 to 10 times slower than screen films. The modern film
has a cellulose-acetate base (with no greater fire hazard than paper).
The finished roentgenogram is a negative image and is studied in a
flashed opal glass illuminator.

The fluoroscopic screen usually is made with zinc sulfide because
it must carry an image to be viewed directly and this chemical fluo-
resces in the color range to which the eye is quite sensitive (yellow
green). Roentgen’s original screen was made of barium platino-
cyanide, which was much less efficient than the present type. All
fluoroscopic screens must be covered with lead glass to protect the
operator from exposure to X-rays. The operator must “adapt” his
eyes prior to examination by remaining in a darkened room for several
minutes or by wearing special goggles before beginning the work.

A beam of X-rays consists of electromagnetic radiations of various
wave lengths. If of very short wave length they are of high penetrat-
ing power; if of very long wave length they may penetrate only a few
millimeters of tissue. The quality of a beam of rays may be measured
by various methods, the most convenient one in ordinary practice being
the determination of their absorption by some material such as copper
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

or aluminum. A spectrometer can be employed, but is too time-
consuming and troublesome for routine use. The quality is expressed
as the thickness of an absorber which reduces the intensity of a given
beam to one-half its initial value, and the resulting figure is known as
the half-value layer for that beam. Tor low-voltage rays (up to 20 |
kilovolt) cellophane may be used as the absorber ; between 20 and 120
kilovolt, aluminum; between 120 and 400 kilovolt, copper; and for more
than 400 kilovolt, lead or tin. A refinement of the method is to record
a second half-value layer, the ratio of the second to the first being used
as an index of homogeneity. It is to be noted that the expression
half-value layer is only part of the description of the quality of a given
beam; for scientific purposes one also must specify the nature of the
target material, the tube wall, and the generator wave form.

The quantity of X-rays in a given beam at a given point may be
measured by recording the ionization in a fixed volume of air or
gasat that point. The “roentgen” is the unit of X-ray quantity and is
defined as “that quantity of X or gamma radiation such that the
associated corpuscular emission per 0.001293 gram of air produces,
in air, ions carrying one electrostatic unit of electricity of either sign.”
The mass of 1 cubic centimeter of air at 0° centigrade and 760 millime-
ters of mercury is 0.001293 gram; in biclogical work, 1 roentgen equals
83 ergs per gram of tissue. The rays usually are measured by an
electroscope attached to a small thimble chamber composed of a special
light plastic material. It is of interest to note that the almost uni-
versally used instrument at the present time is a “condenser Roentgen
meter” designed and manufactured in Cleveland, Ohio.

X-RAYS IN SCIENCE

The importance of X-rays to science in general is so great that a
volume would be necessary to describe it. However, a few of the more
interesting applications of X-rays will be mentioned in this article
and an attempt made to give a clue to their true value. For the sake
of brevity the sciences will be grouped into a few general categories.

Anatomy and physiology.—The importance of X-rays to anatomy,
comparative anatomy, paleontology, and associated sciences is now
well appreciated. However, it is not realized generally that the modern
method of teaching anatomy to medical and other students involves the
use of roentgenological demonstration of the skeleton and its various
associated soft parts, both in the cadaver and in the living subject. In
this manner the appearance and behavior of bony and other structures
in the living is demonstrated in a way never before possible. The
study of the skeletal development in vertebrate embryos is facilitated
enormously by Roentgen methods. The anatomy of small and large
animals is revealed in zoological work. The status and often the
SCIENTIFIC IMPORTANCE OF X-RAYS—GARLAND 181

diseases of mummies may be determined without opening the wrap-
pings or even the sarcophagi. Genetics has been furthered by study-
ing the behavior of many species, notably Drosophila melanogaster
(the common fruit fly) following exposure to specific quantities of
X-rays (with the production of subsequent mutations of certain
types).

Physiology is greatly indebted to roentgenologic methods, notably
in connection with the study of the alimentary tract, the circulation of
the blood, and the functioning of moving parts, especially joints.
X-ray “movies” as well as fluoroscopy and “still” films have been
used extensively in this field. As an example of their value in one
small department the X-ray (kymographic) determination of ~
cardiac output can be cited (2).5

An X-ray film is made of the subject’s chest, in the erect position,
at a measured distance (say 5 or 6 feet), using a lead grid between the
patient and the film. The exposure takes about 2 seconds’ time and
the film is moved slowly downward a distance of 12 millimeters dur-
ing the exposure. When the film is dried, the outline of the heart
appears as a serrated border, the “peaks” representing the shadow in
maximum expansion and the “valleys” in maximum contraction. The
peaks are joined by one line, the valleys by another. The rest of the
heart shadow is completed as shown in plate 1, figure 1. The area in
these two phases then is measured with a planimeter and the figures
corrected for distortion. The corrected figures then are converted into
volumes according to a table established from experimental and ca-
daver work. The difference in volume between expansion and contrac-
tion gives the output per beat. In many normal subjects the average
stroke output per ventricle is 60 cubic centimeters; a person with a
rapid pulse tends to have a smaller, and one with a slow pulse a cor-
respondingly larger output. Therefore, it is more informative to
speak of the output per minute than the output per stroke; this in
turn varies with body size, which may be expressed fairly simply in
terms of total body surface. The number of liters of blood pumped
per minute per square meter of body surface is termed the cardiac
index. This index thus may be found by using this particular X-ray
method. (Needless to say, there are other methods of determining
this index, but the roentgenkymographic one is a simple and reliable
one when correctly used.)

Our knowledge of the functions and behavior of the alimentary
tract in health and disease is largely dependent on the use of Roentgen
methods of examination. Some of the earliest investigators in this
field have been American physiologists who did their original work
on cats (to whom they fed bismuth in milk, and so forth). Food also

* Numbers in parentheses indicate references at end of article.
182 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

may be used, provided it is opaque to the rays. On an early morning
walk near San Francisco several years ago, I came across a plump
horned toad. Having a little time to spare that day, I brought the
toad into my fluoroscopic room and placed it on the table. I then cap-
tured a common house fly and dusted it with barium sulphate. After
setting the tasty meal beside the toad I turned on the X-rays and
watched the inevitable and fascinating sequence of events. The ba-
rium cast just as good a shadow in the toad’s stomach as it does in the
human, and the progress of the meal could be studied easily.

Physics and chemistry.—The use of X-rays in the sciences of physics
and chemistry and all their innumerable ramifications is an ever-
expanding chapter in X-ray history. The gross analysis of many
materials may be performed in part by roentgenoscopy or roentgenog-
raphy, and the detailed analysis by methods such as Roentgen diffrac-
’ tion, crystallography, or electron microscopy. The diffraction method
of measuring small objects is well established. The principle depends
on the fact that a beam of light or X-rays which has traversed a col-
lection of small objects is seen surrounded by a series of rings or dif-
fraction spectra, from the diameter or pattern of which the size of
the object can be calculated. A familiar example is the ring visible
around lights on a misty night, the diameter of which is determined
by the mean diameter of the mist particles. The interpretation of
X-ray diffraction patterns in terms of the ultimate structure of crys-
tals and solids has its foundations in crystalography. By such meth-
ods it is found that rubbers, plastics, and fibers, although superficially
different, are intrinsically similar materials. X-ray studies also have
assisted greatly in analyzing the structure of the higher polymers.
The essential features of such diffraction apparatus are:

1. A source of X-rays.

2. A device to limit the rays to a beam of minimum divergence.

3. A holder to support the test specimen in the beam.

4, A means for recording the X-rays diffracted from the sample of critical angles
(determined by the crystal structure of the samples).

A recent issue of Electrical Engineering included a description of
a method of X-ray analysis of unknown chemical substances by em-
ploying a new photoelectric roentgen intensimeter (1). The meter is
said to be so delicate that if the X-rays are passed through a pile of
100 sheets of paper, the difference in absorption caused by adding or
subtracting a single sheet can be recorded.

As a direct result of investigations in physics and chemistry there
are numerous industrial and commercial X-ray developments which
include the following:

1. The examination of various complicated appliances, such as radio tubes,
without the necessity of breaking open the tubes.
SCIENTIFIC IMPORTANCE OF X-RAYS—GARLAND 183

2. The examination of castings and welds.

8. The examination of packages and personnel for concealed materials.

4, The examination of edible materials for defects or impurities (such as candy
bars and oranges).

5. The behavior of solids and liquids under projectile bombardment (such as
high-speed roentgenography of bullets).

The roentgenographic examination of metal parts in connection with
the airplane industry is said to have used up more film per month dur-
ing the last few months of the recent war than was used in all medical
procedures in the United States during the same period. The im-
portance of skilled interpretation of these roentgenograms and of
adequate protection for the employees operating the X-ray equipment
obviously is great.

Since the early days of X-ray development, packages, clothing, and
even personnel have been inspected for contraband and other illegally
possessed materials. Packages and similar objects may be inspected
without harm, provided they do not contain unprocessed film or other
sensitized material. Individuals may be examined only under strin-
gent conditions, as exposure of large amounts of the body to X-rays,
especially if repeated, is fraught with ultimate danger to the indi-
vidual; possibly resulting later in skin damage, anemia, or infertility.

It is to be recollected that metals and other materials may be radio-
graphed either with X-rays or radium rays. It is therefore appro-
priate to consider a few aspects of radioactive substances, as many of
them have properties analogous to those of X-rays. Radium rays are
of three general types:

1. Alpha rays, which are positively charged particles of very low penetrating
power, being stopped by a sheet of ordinary paper.

2. Beta rays, which are negative electrons, of moderate penetrating power,
stopped by a thin metal filter (2 millimeters of brass or 0.5 millimeter plati-
num or their equivalent).

8. Gamma rays, which are electromagnetic radiations (photons) of considerable
penetrating power, the hardest ones traversing several centimeters of lead.

Because of their different charges, these three types of rays can be
separated in a magnetic field. The alpha rays are deflected slightly
in one direction, the beta more strongly in the opposite direction, and
the gamma not at all. Radium disintegrates slowly, its half period
being 1,590 years. For medical purposes it usually is kept in small
containers in the form of a radium salt. Many of these containers
can be placed together and the group then used like an X-ray tube.

Since the work of Rutherford, in 1919, we have been able to produce
artifically radioactive substances. One method of doing this is to use
the cyclotron, by means of which the nuclei of atoms are transformed
into new unstable substances. High-speed protons, deuterons, and
neutrons have been used to transform most elements. The resultant
184 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

radiations are of many types (alpha, beta, gamma, neutron, and
positron). Many biologically useful radio elements are produced by
deuteron bombardment and include radiophosphorus, radiosodium,
radioiron, radioiodine, and radiostrontium. These substances can be
administered to patients and their exact method of localization and
storage in the human body studied by means of Geiger counters and
similar apparatus. In this manner the metabolism of certain living
tissues, in both health and disease, can be studied more completely
than ever before. For example, totally new information concerning
the need for and method of use of iron in the human Bene in conditions
like anemia, has been obtained.

An indirect development of high-voltage tubes in physics is the
electron microscope which permits much higher magnifications of
minute objects than are feasible with optical microscopes. With this
instrument the image of the object is viewed either on a fluorescent
screen or is recorded on a photographic film. Recent developments
include modifications by which the instrument may be used either as
a diffraction camera or a microscope. Stereoscopic electron micro-
graphs can be made. The usual electron microscope operates at about
60 kilovolts, but there is a small table model operating at 30 kilovolts.
The structure and behavior of viruses has been studied for the first
time, and the detailed structure of bacteria has been revealed.
Chromosomes, the tiny rodlike particles that bear the major responsi-
bility for inherited characteristics, may be examined, and by means of
ingenious methods the actual location of certain specific genes in a
number of chromosomes has been determined.

Biology.— X-rays have been used in most of the various biological
sciences, notably in botany and zoology. The architecture of many
torms of plant life have been studied by macroradiography as well as
microradiography. Mutations have been produced by bombardment
of seedlings and rootlings with X-ray, and new hybrids successfully
developed. In fact, one physician insists that a special type of be-
gonia he grows is a direct result of irradiation of a former plant. He
gives no credit to Mendel’s cosmic ray but, unfortunately, I am not
sufficiently familiar with botany to know whether or not he is correct.

In zoology, several forms of animal life have been studied with
X-rays. With the larger type of animal one naturally has to make
segmental studies. About a generation ago an ailing elephant at the
London zoo was subjected to X-ray examination. The tired pachy-
derm lay on her side and had her torso marked with chalk into a
series of rectangles, each a little less than 14 by 17 inches in size. These
then were numbered in sequence and a series of roentgenograms made.
We cannot vouch for the quality of the films made through the thicker
parts, but those of the extremities which we saw were quite good. Race
SCIENTIFIC IMPORTANCE OF X-RAYS—GARLAND 185

horses, greyhounds, parrots, and other domestic pets frequently are
subjected to examination in connection with injuries, foreign bodies,
and certain diseases. Before the development of shockproof appa-
ratus, cats were particularly difficult to X-ray as they have a strong
dislike for the hair-raising qualities of the corona from exposed high-
voltage wires.

Miscellaneous.—One of the lesser-known but more valuable uses of
X-rays is in connection with art. Many pigments contain lead and
other radiopaque salts and the roentgenogram of a canvas often reveals
shadows different from those on the visible painting. Areas of over-
painting, alterations, and erasures can be detected. The authenticity
of some old masters has been proved and of others disproved by such
means. <A recent refinement includes sectional radiography of the
canvas in which, by keeping the tube and film in motion, a very fine
layer of the painting can be registered to the exclusion of other layers.

TasLe I.—The electromagnetic spectrum

Range of fre-

Type of radiation Range of wave lengths quencies
Electrical waves__-__-_- 10000000, 20 kilometers! ==" == 222-2 => 10°! to 104
Radio wavesa.= 222 2 2Osto OLOlvmetersntt Bete Sp yen sere WE 10! to 1012
Infrared) rayse. 2202 2+ 120:000}to0:7. 400 angstroms*=_/ss5 2. 2022 10" to 10%
Visible rays. = =. ==- (-COOMO os GO0haneSstromss os eee
Ultraviolet rays. ._--- 3 -900itorls00rangstroms=o 22 220" eee
pxicrars 5 zat Sie cls Oso Olyanestroms 5145 wee eo
Gamma-Trays....-.=--- 0:1 -t0-002angstrom 22 e's eee fe
Cosmie rays.*_ os O:O000IE angstroms Vere et tee We ens

* 1 angstrom=10—‘ centimeters; 100,000,000 angstroms=1 centimeter.
X-RAYS IN MEDICINE

The importance of roentgenologic methods in medicine, dentistry,
and allied sciences is increasing continually. They permit the exam-
ination of parts of the body hitherto inaccessible to study and the
detection of disease at a stage when it may be cured readily. They ex-
tend the physician’s eye to an incalculable distance. They are also
of use in the prevention of disease and in its treatment. (A small
precancerous skin nodule, keratosis, may be cured before it develops
into a malignancy; established, localized, accessible cancer can be de-
stroyed.) Our knowledge of many diseases such as stomach ulcer,
lung tuberculosis, and bone cancer has been entirely revolutionized
and reoriented since the discovery of X-rays. They have provided
an impetus to investigation and research in preventive medicine such
as no other weapon ever placed at the disposal of the doctor.

One might arrange this section according to the various medical
specialties, but I think it will be of more interest to nonmedical readers
to consider the importance of the rays according to each of the various
186 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1946

systems of the human body. However, it is timely at this point to
acknowledge the debt of roentgenology to members of the specialties
outside of its own field, physicians who have contributed greatly to
the refinements of many techniques in diagnosis as well as treatment.
The reader should know that there are now “national qualifying
boards for specialists.’ These boards examine eligible graduate
physicians and certify those who pass successfully. At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

physicians and certify those who pass successfully. ‘At the present
time there are boards in the following branches of medicine:

Sate ee es ~p-----

Sais and pia tiene who pass successfully. SA thes present
