we ee.
a8 : vst I,
eet fy shat tata” ° ne . oe a
: bP DR Be Ff -
se ‘ uty? eb bd be Mey Nw eee ry
ts

ecatatet tata? nh he

Chek Pe BD om ao oe we be wf
js  & & ie ooh)! OD DH |

e, t a OO ie Y ‘. > is i se a ae
rt a yea oe ® ep wl

: ; Ye ie \e 4 i mS : ’ y , | h
Be Ml lta si pa nee a eae

sinh ni 8 @ ¥ By Be ee ee ee ee ee
a Jt i tt «, “S oi yt Ad _*. Hee eine rt eet tt etal f

ow * * Fy Fett ee ee
oy et oe 5 f . ts . . . teh eee ee eR we ee OY
oy ee bd PR we eR eee ee ee ee
boeobekmae > & ® Bees does wee OL
RP Se & Se Fe . eee ee ede we we ew
thipee eo es ® 2 ows ee ee
ip ® & & w wh & & fh Be we Fe ee ee we
f{ehah we & ® & Be oF de ee eh ee we
“fe f ® @ > & & ® ® & F & we ee ee ew BF a
URGE ® > ® eR we Oo ee ee fe we
+f & & is & Y % @ @ * & * & & Be & & eww
Riki ff & & &@ * © @ @ @ oe ee Rk we ee we
eit ie fF & oe ce & © 2 @ ® F ww ey ww EF
hE @ Re be & * & & Be OW ew ee ee
ef we oP ov Pew ¥ HP eee ee we ea |
BRR Dee & © & © w Baw ko ee ke ee a ee
eee ef i | se oe de F &R e ee ee ee
Peek oe & Rw ® eB BD ie * & ® @ ® 8 ee |
ShRP eS & © we ww eee ew we
GeERPRh hb * & ® ® DF HO BS Ow Ee oo
@ & fe & & ie & & ® | _ & a 8 a i & &@ F ® ©) ,
RPEbROo De © @ BEE PEE EEE oo Pe
f 1 3 Cd . a a a * 8 & # 4 i a 4 ® & & 4% a {
‘Peeps eb we Dee Fe Boe De ee ew ee
eee eee sed od oS oe & RD
tier ae &® & ® & ® ha @ & & & ® @ yo
** > e ® Y ses &© & Fe © we ee » + & & ®
a ® * * & & & ® « ® * «& v & & B * x

AAAS AA ee
ee eee ew ee ew |

io » ® |
ananete ee »
ote owe he ‘ ate (a * ie

ge PERT aT

~\ E
ry \
e*\ e -

Vg

y 4
Wy
| a

Pi ve

Pas

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

SPOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

_ THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR 1876.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1877.
FORTY-FOURTH CONGRESS—SECOND SESSION.

CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
In the House of Representatives, March 1, 1877.

The following resolution, originating in the House of Representatives February 28,
1877, has this day been concurred in by the Senate :

Resolved by the House of Representatives, (the Senate concurring,) That ten thousand
five hundred copies of the Report of tha Smithsonian Institution for the year 1876 be
printed, one thousand copies of which shall be for the use of the Senate, three thousand
copies of which shall be for the use of the House of Representatives, and six thousand
five hundred copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution: Provided, That the
aggregate number of pages shall not exceed five hundred, and that there be no illus-:
trations, except those furnished by the Smithsonian Institution.

Attest :

GEO. M. ADAMS, Clerk.
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TRANSMITTING

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1876.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, February 16, 1877.
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the opera-
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for
the year 1876.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. SAm. J. RANDALL,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1876.

This document contains :

1. The annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the establishment for the year 1876, with the sta-
tistics of collections, exchanges, &c.

2. The report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund,
the receipts and expenditures tor the year 1876, and the estimates for
1877.

3. The proceedings of the Board of Regents for the sessions of Jan-
uary and February, 1877.

4, A general appendix, consisting principally of translations from for-
eign journals or works not generally accessible, but of interest to the
collaborators and correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others
interested in the promotion of knowledge.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

ULYSSES S. GRANT, President of the United States, ex officio Presiding Otticer.

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief-Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti-
tution, (President of the Board of Regents.)

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, (or Director of the Institution.)

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief-Justice of the United States, President 67 the Paard.
T. W. FERRY, acting Vice-President of the United States.

H. HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States.

J. W. STEVENSON, member of the Senate of the United States.
A. A. SARGENT, member of the Senate of the United States.
‘HIESTER CLYMER, member of the House of Representatives.
BENJAMIN H. HILL, member of the House of Representatives.
GEO. W. McCRARY, member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey.

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington.

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts.

J. D. DANA, citizen of Connecticut.

HENRY COPPEE, citizen of Pennsylvania,

GEORGE BANCROFT, citizen of Washington.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. GEORGE BANCROFT.

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

U.S. GRANT, President of the United States.

T. W. FERRY, Vice-President of the United States.
M. R. WAITE, Chief-Justice of the United States.
H. FISH, Secretary of State.

LOT M. MORRILL, Secretary of the Treasury.
J.D. CAMERON, Secretary of War.

G. M. ROBESON, Secretary of the Navy.

J. N. TYNER, Postmaster-General.

Z. CHANDLER, Secretary of the Interior.

A. TAFT, Attorney-General.

ELLIS SPEAR, Commissioner of Patents.
OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM.

JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary, Director of the Institution.
SPENCER F. BAIRD,

Assistant Secretary and Curator of the National Museum.
WILLIAM J. RHEES,

Chief Clerk.
DANIEL LEECH,

Clerk in charge of Correspondence.
CLARENCE B. YOUNG,

Clerk in charge of Accounts.
HERMANN DIEBITSCH,

Clerk in charge of Exchanges.
Miss J. A. TURNER,

Clerk in charge of Library.
Miss M. E. GRIFFIN,

Clerk in charge of Distribution of Publications.

8. G. BROWN,

Clerk in charge of Freight.

Prof. G. B. GOODE,

Assistont Curator of the National Museum.
Prof. F. M. ENDLICH,

In charge of Mineralogical Division.
Prof. ROBERT RIDGWAY,

In charge of Ornithological Division.
Prof. W. H. DALL,

In charge of Conchological Division.
Prof. EDW. FOREMAN,

In charge of Ethnological Division.
T. W. SMILLIE,

Photographer.
JOSEPH PALMER,

Taxidermist.
JOSEPH HERRON,

Janitor.
REPORT OF PROFESSOR HENRY, SECRETARY OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION, TO THE BOARD OF REGENTS, FOR THE
YEAR 1876.

GENTLEMEN: I| have the honor herewith to present to your board the
report of the condition and operations of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year 1876, it being the thirtieth report which I have been per-
mitted to submit to your honorable body.

INTRODUCTION.

The long term of service of the principal executive officer of the In-
stitution, and the few changes in the presiding officer of the Board of
of Regents, have been attended with the important result of an unin-
terrupted continuity in the policy of the management of the establish-
ment. A definite conception of the will of Smithson, and of the means
best adapted to realize its intention, was clearly apprehended at the be-
ginning, and a plan proposed and partially adopted which would carry
out, in the most effectual manner, the ideas expressed in the terms of
the bequest. Unfortunately Congress did not delegate to the Board of
Regents the power of entirely organizing the Institution, but specified
certain objects which should be included in the plan adopted. It will,
however, be seen by an examination of the whole series of annual re-
ports, that while due regard has been had to the requirements of Con-
gress, the prominent object kept constantly in view has been the full
introduction of the plan of increasing and diffusing knowledge by
means of researches, publications, and exchanges. This plan, which is
known as that of active operations, and which has received the approba-
tion of the scientific world, was not generally understood at the time of
the organization of the establishment. The value of scientific research
was not as highly appreciated then as at the present day, and therefore
it is not surprising that Congress should devote the income of the fund
principally to the formation of a library, a museum, and a gallery of art.

These objects, though important in themselves, are all of a local char-
acter, being principally confined in their influence to the city of Wash-
ington, and therefore could not realize the liberal intention of Smithson,
which includes in its comprehensive scope the intellectual advancement
of mankind.

Although a majority of the Board of Regents were in favor of the
plan of active operations, they did not think it prudent to ask Congress
at that time to reconsider the plan which it had adopted, but concluded
to proceed without delay in executing the measures prescribed, while at

the same time they availed themselves of the privilege granted in one
7
8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the sections of the act of organization to partially introduce and
gradually develop the plan of active operations.

In conformity with the act of Congress, a building has been erected
at a cost of upwards of $500,000. A library of 70,000 volumes has
been colleected—principally of a class of books of the highest value,
consisting of the transactions and proceedings of learned societies—
with provision for its annual increase. The museum of the Government
has been enlarged to more than ten times its original size, a new depart-
ment having been added to it, viz, that of American Indian Ethnogra-
phy, which is more extended and varied in specimens than any other
ever established. A gallery of art has also been formed, which is es-
pecially rich in illustrations of industrial arts. In addition, a consider-
able proportion of the income of the Smithson fund has been expended
on the improvement of the grounds surrounding the building. In short,
every item of the original requirement of Congress has received due
attention.

To effect these objects, and at the same time to develop the plan of
active operations, it became necessary to increase the income of the
fund, and this has been accomplished by the adoption of a system of rigid
economy and by a judicious investment of the savings of the income.

The original amount of the fund of $541,379 has been increased to
$714,000. Instead of forming the library by the purchase of books, it
has been created principally through exchanges, while the expense of
maintaining it has been obviated by depositing the books in the Library
of Congress. The care of the grounds, which was avery expensive item,
has been assumed by the Government, and the cost of maintaining the
museum is now defrayed by an annual congressional appropriaiion. The
Institution having thus happily been relieved from the support of these
burdens, is now, at the end of the third decade of its history, in a con-
dition to fully realize the conception of its character as originally set
forth in the first annual report of the Secretary, while the success of the
plan of active operations has fully vindicated the propriety of its adop-
tion. Through its operation the Institution has advanced almost every
branch of science, and has made the name of Smithson known wherever
civilization exists.

It has published twenty-one quarto volumes of transactions, entitled
‘Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,” twelve octavo volumes of
‘¢ Miscellaneous Collections,” and thirty octavo annual reports. These
publications have been presented to the principal libraries of the Old
and New World. It has especially advanced natural history and eth-
nology by the large number of specimens it has collected and distrib-
uted to foreign and domestic museums, and has been instrumental in
widely diffusing a knowledge of the progress of science by its system of
international exchanges between the United States and all other parts
of the world. The system of “ active operations,” while advancing the
interests of civilization generally, has been of importance to Washington
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

City in assisting to constitute it a centre of scientific and literary activ-
ity, and in co-operating with other institutions here established. Be-
sides contributing to render ‘the Library of Congress the first in the
United States in the number and value of the books which it contains,
it has deposited in the Department of Agriculture 30,000 specimens of
plants, and many other objects connected with agriculture. It has also
deposited with the Army Medical Museum a large collection of osteo-
logical specimens, and a series of skulls for the especial illustration of
the craniology of the North American Continent. It has affiliated itself
with the Coreoran Art Gallery, and deposited with that admirable insti-
tution the specimens of engravings received from its foreign correspond-
ents, as well as a number of valuable pictures belonging to its collection.

From this sketch of the past and present condition of the Institution,
it will, I think, be generally admitted that the trust has been faithfully
administered, and that, although changes have been found necessary
in the plan adopted by Congress, yet these have been only such as orig-
inated from the peculiar nature of the bequest and the difficulty, from
a priort conceptions, of adopting the most efficient means of realizing
the intentions of the donor.

The principal event of the year 1876 connected with the Institution
is its display of specimens at the International Exposition in Philadel-
pbia. It was stated in the last annual report that Congress had made
an appropriation to enable the Institution to participate with the
several Departments of the Government in the Centennial Exhibition.
After careful consideration of the subject it was concluded that the part
of the Government exhibition under the special charge of the Institu-
tion should consist of such articles as would illustrate (1) the character
and operations of the Institution itself, (2) the mineral and animal re-
sources, (3) the ethnology, and (4) the fishery industries of the United
States. The responsibility of collecting and arranging'these objects, as
' well as of representing the Institution. at the Centennial Exhibition, was
intrusted to Prof. S. F. Baird, assistant secretary of the Institution, °
who, with a corps of assistants principally engaged for the occasion,
discharged the arduous duties assigned him in a highly satisfactory
manner.

The part of the Government display under the auspices of the In-
Stitution has been pronounced by competent judges one of the most
interesting and complete of the kind ever exhibited. The portion which
illustrated the character and operations of the Institution embraced full
sets of the three classes of its publications, a series of tables showing
the extent and importance of the system of international exchange, and a
number of large charts exhibiting the results of the system of meteorology
founded by the Institution; that illustrating the mineral wealth of the
country contained an extensive series of the oresof the precious and ordi-
nary metals, with their products, the principal varieties of coal, the clays,
10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

marbles, slates, and other building materials, the several varieties of pe-
troleum and coal-tar, &c., &c.—in short, a most extended collection
of specimens of large size showing at one view the vast mineral resources
of the United States, to which was added a variety of specimens to rep-
resent the different stages of the manufactured articles derived from the
mineral kingdom. The display of the animal resources of the country
was also extensive and various. It embraced all the species capable of
economical application and such animals as were of special interest to
the naturalist. These were represented by stuffed specimens, by life-
size plaster models and by photographs. The industrial application of
these animals was also exhibited as well as the apparatus by which they
are pursued, captured and utilized. Among the larger mammals were
well mounted specimens of those most valued for food, as the different
kinds of deer, including the moose, elk and caribou, the musk-ox, and
the buffalo; and the fur-bearing species were represented by bears, the
grizzly, brown, black, and white; by the foxes, yellow, black, cross,
gray, and kit; by wolves, fur-seals, sea-lions, sables, and minks ; the oil-
producing animals by whales, porpoises, and other cetaceans. Another
part of the animal display embraced a series of specimens of animal
food preserved by being dried, smoked, salted, pickled, and canned, to-
gether with representations of the various applications of the teeth,
bones, horns, and scales; and, again, of articles used for clothing, as
furs, leather, &c.

The ethnological branch of the Exposition was at the joint expense of
the congressional appropriation for the Indian Bureau and that for the
Smithsonian Institution. Special importance was attached to this sec-
tion of the Exposition, and great exertion made to render it as complete
as possible. To this end, agents were temporarily employed to obtain
articles to illustrate the ethnology of portions of the country hitherto
imperfectly known. The success of the enterprise was commensurate
with the energy expended, anda more extensive and varied collection
of articles was obtained to illustrate the past and present condition of
the various native tribes of the American continent than was ever
before exhibited. It consisted of a large number of the different varie-
ties of specimens of the stone age from all parts of the continent and
the West Indies, and a series of articles in use at the present time
among the Indians, especially among tribes which have had but little
connection with the white race. There were also exhibited numerous
life-size figures to show every variety of Indian costume and personal
decoration. Independent of the temporary interest which was subserved
by this exhibition, the large collection of new articles has rendered an
important service to the ethnology of the country, since these articles
will be preserved for scientific study in the National Museum.

In addition to the foregoing, representatives, in plaster, papier-maché,
and photography, of all the edible fishes of our coast were exhibited,
in connection with the Smithsonian display, by the United States Fish
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

Commission, of which Professor Baird is the head. But for a full
account of the part of the Centennial Exhibition known as the Govern-
ment, or United States, exhibition, I must refer to the reports of Profes-
sor Baird in the appendix to my last and that of my present report.

The anticipations expressed in the last report in regard to the addi-
tions which would be made to the National Museum through the agency
of the Centennial Exhibition have been fully realized. These additions
consist of new specimens procured by the direct agency of the Institu-
tion, particularly for the exhibition ; of donations from various States of
the Union, from individuals, and especially from foreign exhibitors.
These will require more than three times as much space for their dis-
play as was required by the previous collections of the Museum. To
preserve and exhibit this increase, or to render it available for educa-
tional and scientific purposes, an additional building is imperatively de-
manded. The appropriation for erecting this building must be fur-
nished by Congress, since the idea cannot for a moment be entertained
of making it from the Smithson fund. Furthermore, the building
should be an extension, as it were, of the present Smithsonian edi-
fice, since if the National Museum is entirely transferred to another
building the Institution would have left upon it, for support, a building
erected from the income of the Smithson fund almost entirely for the
accommodation of the Government collections and far too large and ex-
pensive for its own use. I beg leave, therefore, to repeat the suggestion
made in my last report, that the Government be asked to take entire
possession of the present edifice for the use of the Museum, to enlarge
it so as to meet the present emergency, and to repay to the Institution at
least a part of its cost; a portion of the sum thus repaid to be applied to
providing other accommodations for the Institution in a building better
adapted to its operations, and far less expensive in its maintenance;
and the remainder to be added to the permanent fund for the increase
of the power and efficiency of the establishment.

I may further be allowed to remark that the experience of the last
year has strengthened my opinion as to the propriety of a separation of
the Institution from the National Museum. The events of this period
have proved that the Museum is destined to become an extensive estab
lishment involving a large annual expenditure for its support and a
variety of complex operations having no necessary connection with the
plan adopted by the Institution for the “increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge among men.” Smithson gave his own name to the establishment
which he founded, thereby indicating that he intended it as a monu-
ment to his memory, and in strict regard to this item of his will the
endowment of his bequest should be administered separate from all other
Junds, and the results achieved by it should be accredited to his name alone.
The Institution should not, therefore, be merged in an establishment of
12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the Government, but should stand alone, free to the unobstructed
observation of the whole world, and keep in perpetual remembrance the
name of its generous founder. The functions of the Museum and of the
Institution are entirely different. The object of the former is the estab-
lishment of a collection of specimens of nature and of art which shall
exhibit the natural resources and industry of the country, or present at
one view the materials essential to a condition of high civilization which
exists in the different States of the American Union; to show the various
processes of manufacture which have been adopted by us, as well as
those used in other countries; in short, to form a great educational estab-
lishment, by means of which the inhabitants of our own country as well as
those of foreign lands who visit our shores may be informed as to the
means which exist in the United States for the enjoyment of human life
in the present and their improvement in the future. The Smithsonian
Institution, on the other hand, does not offer the results of its opera-
tions to the physical eye, but presents them to the mind in the form of
new discoveries, derived from new investigations and an extended ex-
change of new ideas with all parts of the world.

It is the design of the Museum to continually increase its collection
of material objects; of the Institution, to extend the bounds of human
knowledge. The latter collects nothing for preservation of a material
character. Itis true it sends out explorers and makes large collections,
but these are for distribution to museums, colleges and academies, or to
all establishments in which they can be useful in the way of the extension
of science or the advancement of education. Every civilized govern-
ment of the world has its museum which it supports with a liberality
commensurate with its intelligence and financial ability, while there
is but one Smithsonian Institution—that is, an establishment having
expressly for its object “the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” The conception of such an institution—not a local estab-
lishment intended to improve tle intellectual condition of any single
city or any single nation, but that of mankind in general—was worthy
of the mind of Smithson, and the intelligence and integrity of the
United States are both involved in the proper administration of the
trust, since the terms in which it was conveyed must be truly inter-
preted and the intention expressed rigidly carried out. |

It has been supposed that the Institution has derived much benefit
from its connection with the Museum in the way of adding to its popu-
larity, but it should be recollected that the Institution is not a popular
establishment and that it does not depend for its support upon public
patronage, but that it is an establishment founded on the bequest of an
individual, and that the very nature of its operations, involving study
aud investigation, is in a considerable degree incompatible with con-
tinued interruption from large numbers of visitors. So far from the
Institution having derived advantage from the connection which has
existed between it and the Museum, the latter has proved a serious ob-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

stacle in the way of the full development of the plan of the former in
having absorbed, in the erection of the building and in the appropria-
tions for the care of the specimens, at least one-half of the whole income
of the Smithson fund. Furthermore, the Museum and also the Institu-
tion have now arrived at such a state of development that the two can
scarcely be continued under one organization.

But the most objectionable result of the present connection of the
two establishments is the uecessity of the Institution appealing to Con-
gress annually for appropriations for the support of the Museum,
whereby, in the language of my last report, the Institution is presented
to the world as a suppliant for perpetual aid, whereas, for carrying out
the legitimate objects of the bequest, no annual appropriation is neces-
sary from the public Treasury; for, although more than one-half of the
whole income of the Smithson bequest has been devoted to a Museum
and other local objects, it has succeeded, through its researches, publi-
cations, and exchanges, in establishing a reputation as extensive as Civ-
ilization itself.

In this connection it may be stated that an important step has been
made at the present session of Congress toward recognizing the
National Museum as a separate establishment. In the language of the
Act making appropriation for deficiencies, it is for the first time
announced as an ‘appropriation for the National Museum in charge of
the Smithsonian Institution.”

Since the meeting of the board on the 24th instant, I have trans-
mitted to the Senate and House of Representatives the resolutions
adopted by the Regents relative to the necessity for the erection of an
additional building in connection with the Institution, and have con-
ferred with several members of Congress as to the probability of obtain-
ing an appropriation for this purpose. These have given encourage-
ment as to the probable appropriation of $250,000 for the erection of
the proposed building,* but do not think that the proposition to pur-
chase the Smithsonian building would at this time, on account of the
condition of the Government finances, meet with favorable considera-
tion. The proposition should, however, be kept before the public, and
in due time, I doubt not, it will be adopted.

General M. C. Meigs, Quartermaster-General, United States Army,
who had charge of the extension of the United States Capitol, and has
had much experience in the construction of public buildings, has gratui-
tously furnished a plan for a new building for the Museum, and in
addition generously offers his assistance in superintending its construc-
- tion. This building will be of durable though inexpensive material, and
expressly adapted to the uses for which it is designed. In its con-

*The bill making an appropriation of $250,000 for the erection of the building passed
the Senate without opposition, but failed to receive consideration in the House because
a favorable vote of two-thirds of the members present was required to bring it before
that body.
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

struction care will be exercised not to sacrifice utility to architectural
effect, but the fact will be kept in view that architecture is essentially
a useful art, and that the mind receives pleasure and improvement from
the contemplation of perfect adaptability no less than from imposing
exterior effect.

The operations of the Institution during the past year, independent
of those connected with the Centennial, have been carried on with un-

abated energy.
FINANCES.

I am happy to inform the Regents that the finances of the Institution
are still in a favorable condition and that from the First National Bank
has been received the last instalment of the money which was on deposit
at the time of its suspension. The Institution bas therefore lost nothing
on this account, except the interest of the money which might have ac-
crued from its investment.

The following is a statement of the condition of the fund at the begin-
ning of the year 1877:

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States in accordance with the act of Congress of

Amonet We lietarn a} a. oct ers . «ta tieener ae eeeeeie ee $515,169 00
The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos-

ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance

with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867........-- 26, 210 63

Total bequest of Smithson 2... $235 22-6 2. aaniew oe 541, 379 63
Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States,

as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867,
derived from savings of income and increase in value of

BO MORTMON TS: (5 sis ct aiere on So trcinehn pie terh a eheicl a ageing 108, 620 37
Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of
Carlisle, Pa., February 24, 1874.........-...--.------ 1,000 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of

the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent.,

payable semi-annually in gold...-........ .----- 651, 000 00
In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund
from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates, viz:
consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates, $29,-
375.07 ; fractional certificate, $50.13; total, $88,125.20,

\

BO WAIOD IAL 6c <x epcinca oes Cae em ee ae 42,000 00
Cash balance in United States Treasury at the beginning
of the year 1877 for current expenses.........-.-.---.-- 21,029 18
Total Smithson funds January 11, 1877* ........... $714, 029 18

*The date at which the settlément of the accounts for 1876 was made.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

(For a detailed account of the expenditures, &c., see report of execu-
tive committee.)

From this it appears that the total fund, including the Virginia stock
at its present value and the cash on hand at the end of the year, amounts
to $714,029.18. The receipts during the year 1876 were $47,486.21, and
the expenditures $46,978.21, leaving a balance of $508 to be added to
the balance on hand at the beginning of 1876. The interest on the
Hamilton bequest has been received to December 31, 1876, and, in ac-
Cordance with the terms of the will, an appropriation was made from it
for an archeological exploration in bone-caverns in the vicinity of Car-
lisle, Pa., the former residence ot Mr. Hamilton. The final results
will be given to the world accredited to James Hamilton, and in this way
his name will be perpetuated with that of Smithson, and his donation
serve as an example to be followed by others who may desire to benefit
the world and live in the history of science long after their departure
from this life. ,

The interest on the Virginia bonds received during the year was
$2,907.75. The marketable value of this investment remains about the
same as it was at the date of the last report.

A fact which has been omitted through inadvertence in previous
reports should here be mentioned, that the Institution is greatly in-
debted to our highly esteemed fellow-citizen, W. W. Corcoran, esq., for
valuable suggestions in its early financial history; and especially for
the transferring to the Regents, at par, instead of at the market value,
of $240,000 of United States bonds as a safe investment of the amount
of accumulated interest devoted to the erection of the building.

PUBLICATIONS.

Since the reports of the Institution are separately distributed to many
persons who have not ready access to the whole series, it is necessary
in each succeeding one to repeat certain facts which may serve to give
an idea of the general organization of the establishment. The following
statement is therefore repeated :

The publications of the Institution are of three classes, viz, the Con-
TRKIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE, the MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS, and
the ANNUAL REporRTS. The first consists of memoirs containing positive
additions to science resting on original research, and which are generally
the result of investigations to which the Institution has, in some way,
rendered assistance. The Miscellaneous Collections are composed of
works intended to facilitate the study of various branches of natural his-
tory, meteorology, &c., and are principally designed to induce individuals
to engage in these studies as specialties. The Annual Reports, besides
an account of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Insti-
tution, contain translations from works not generally accessible to Amer-
ican students, reports of lectures, extracts from correspondence, &c.
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The following are the rules which have been adopted for the distribu-
tion of the several publications of the Institution :

Ist. They are presented to learned societies of the first class which in
return give complete series of their publications to the Institution.

2d. To libraries of the first class which give in exchange their cata-
logues and other publications, or an equivalent from their duplicate
volumes.

3d. To colleges of the first class which furnish catalogues of their
libraries and of their students, and all other publications relative to
their organization and history.

4th. To States and Territories, provided they give in return copies of
all documents published under their authority.

Sth. To public libraries in this country, containing 15,000 volumes,
especially if no other copies are given in the same place; and to smaller
libraries where a large district would be otherwise unsupplied.

6th. To institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particu-
lar branches of knowledge are given such Smithsonian publications as
relate to their respective objects.

7th. The Annual Reports are presented to the meteorological observ-

ers, to contributors of valuable material to the library or collections,
and to persons engaged in special scientific research.
' The distribution of the publications of the Institution is a matter
which requires much care and judicious selection, the great object being
to make known to the world the traths which may result from the ex-
penditure of the Smithson fund. Tor this purpose the principal class
of publications, namely, the Contributious, must be so distributed as to
be accessible to the greatest number of readers, and this will evidently
be to large central libraries.

The volumes of Contributions are presented on the express condition
that, while they are carefully preserved, they shall be accessible at all
times to students and others who may desire to consult them, and be
returned to the Institution in case the establishments to which they are
presented at any time cease to exist. These works, it must be recol-
lected, are not of a popular character, but require profound study to
fully understand them; they are, however, of importance to the pro-
fessional teacher and the popular expounder of science. They contain
materials from which general treatises ou special subjects may be elab-
orated.

The publications of the Institution during the past jear are mainly
those described in previous reports and which have been in process of
preparation for a series of years. They form two volumes of the Smith-
sonian Contributions to Knowledge, XX and XXI, made up of separate
papers.

The twentieth volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl-
edge consists of one memoir only, entitled, Tae Winds of the Globe, or
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. de

the Laws of Atmospheric Circulation over the Surface of the Earth; by
James Henry Coffin, LL.D., Professor of Mathematics and ers
in Lafayette College, Ears The tables of this volume were
completed after the author’s decease, and the maps drawn by Selden
Jennings Coffin, professor of mathematics in the same institution.
There is added to the work a discussion and analysis of the tables and
charts, by Dr. Alexander Woeikof, late secretary of the meteorological
committee of the Imperial Geographical Society of Russia. This volume
consists of 781 quarto pages, 2 wood-cuts, and 26 plates or charts. We
consider it, perhaps, the most important contribution to knowledge
which the Institution has given to the world. It presents a rich mine
of information for the use of the meteorologist, the physical geographer,
and the mariner, thus combining materials of abstract scientific inter-
est with knowledge immediately applicable to the practical affairs of life.

The twenty-first volume of Contributions to Knowledge consists of
the following articles, viz:

1. Statement and Exposition of Certain Harmonies of the Solar Sys-
tem. By Stephen Alexander, LL. D., Professor of Astronomy in the
College of New Jersey. 104 pages, 20 wood-cuts.

2. On the General Integrals of ‘Planetary Motion. By Simon New-
comb, Professor of Mathematics, United States Navy. 40 pages.

3. The Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte’s Island, British Colum-
bia; with a brief description of their carvings, tattoo designs, &e. By
James G. Swan, Port Townsend, Washington Territory. 22 pages, 7
plates.

4. Tables, Distribution, and Variations of the Atmospheric Temper-
ature in the United Siatos, and some adjacent parts of America. Col-
lected by the Smithsonian Institution, and discussed under the direction
of Joseph Henry, Secretary. By Charles A. Schott, Assistant, United
States Coast Survey. 3560 pages, 9 diagrams, 2 plates, 3 charts. The
whole volume consists of 543 pages, and 41 illustrations.

The work on Temperature, as we have stated in previous reports, con-
sists of the results of the discussion of all the existing material which
could be collected of observations of temperature in the United States,
illustrated with large maps and a number of wood-euts. It is published
separately and also as a part of the series of volumes of “ Contributions.”
The compilation of the materials and their discussion were intrusted
to Mr. Charles A. Schott, of the Coast Survey, assisted by a number of
computers at the expense of the Smithson fund.

In previous reports mention has been made of an extensive publica-
tion in preparation for the Institution, on the Antiquities of Tennessee,
_ by Dr. Joseph Jones, of the medical department of the University of
Louisiana, at New Orleans. Some years ago a small appropriation was
made by the Institution to assist this gentleman in his exploration. He
pursued his investigations with great ardor and success. In presenting an
outline of his explorations he states that an effort was made to accomplish

s 2
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

two results: first, the accurate description of the aboriginal remains, and,
second, the collection and classification of such facts as bore on their
obscure history. The work when first submitted to the Institution was
found to contain more historical and bibliographical matter selected
from known authorities than could properly be considered contributions
to existing knowledge, and it was therefore returned to the author for
revision and abridgment. The omissions and modifications desired hay-
ing been made, the work has been published during the past year.
Some idea of its character may be obtained from the following titles of
the chapters:

Burial caves.

Modes of burial practiced by the aborigines of America.

Mounds, fortifications, and earth-works.

Karth-works on the Big Harpeth River.

Larth-works on the West Harpeth and Big Harpeth Rivers.

The stone fort, and other aboriginal remains.

Relics from the mounds and stone graves.

General conclusions.

It forms a volume of 181 quarto pages with 85 wood-cuts and a very
full index prepared by Prof. O. T. Mason. It will constitute a part of
the twenty-second volume of the Contributions to Knowledge.

Another quarto work published during the year, and which was pre-
pared especially for distribution at the Centennial Exposition, is that on
the Archeological Collections of the United States National Museum in
charge of the Smithsonian Institution, by Prof. Charles Rau. This work
consists of 118 quarto pages, illustrated by 340 wood-cuts, and an
account of it will be found under the head of Ethnology.

Miscellaneous collections.—In previous reports a work was described
of which the first part had been published, entitled “The Constants of
Nature,” compiled gratuitously for the Institution by Prof. F. W. Clarke.
This part was on the specific gravity, boiling and melting point and
chemical formula of 2,572 distinet bodies, including over 5,000 deter-
minations. During the past year a supplement to this part has been
published consisting of the determinations of specific gravities, boiling-
points and melting-points made since 1873. In it the determinations
are given for nearly 700 substances, of which at least 400 are new. It
is embraced in 61 octavo pages.

Part If of the same general work has also been published during the
past year. Itis entitled “A table of specific heats for solids and liquids,”
consisting of 58 octavo pages, including 410 substances.

Part III has also been printed, consisting of “Tables of expansion by
heat for solids and liquids.” It gives data for the expansion of about
350 different substances, no liquid mixtures or solutions, however, being
included. It occupies 57 octavo pages. This work has been much
called for by practical chemists and physicists. It will be continued
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

from time to time as the author, amid other professional engagements
in the University of Cincinnati, can find leisure to select and verify the
materials.

In the year 1875 another series of publications was commenced which
forms a part of the Miscellaneous Collections. It is entitled ‘The
Bulletins of the National Museum,” and is intended to illustrate the
collections of natural history and ethnology belonging to the United
States, of which the Smithsonian Institution is the custodian. Six
numbers of these Bulletins have been published. They are prepared at
the request of the Institution by different individuals, and sre printed
by the authority of the Secretary of the Interior at the Government
Printing-Office.

The following is a list of these Bulletins:

I. Check-list of North American Batrachia and Reptilia; with a sys-
tematic list of the higher groups, and an essay on geographical distribu-
tion, based on the specimens contained in the United States National
Museum. By Edward D. Cope. 1875. 8vo, 108 pp.

II. Contributions to the Natural History of Kerguelen Island, made in
connection with the American Transit of Venus Expedition, 1874~75,
By J. H. Kidder, M. D., U.S. N.- Part I, Ornithology, edited by Dr.
Elliott Coues, U.S. A. 1875. 8vo, 62 pp.

III. Part Il of the foregoing, consisting of Oology, Botany, Geology,
Mammals, Fish, Mollusks, Insects, Crustaceans, Anuelids, Echinoderms,
Anthozoa, Study of Chiornis Minor. Prepared by J. H. Kidder, E. Coues,
Asa Gray, F. M. Endlich, Th. Gill, W. H. Dall, C. R. Ostensacken, H. A.
Hagen, S. I. Smith, A. E. Verrill, and S. F. Clark. 1876. 8vo, 124 pp.

IV. Birds of Southwestern Mexico, collected by Francis E. Sumichrast,
for the United States National Museum. Prepared by George N. Law-
rence. 1876. 56 pp.

V. Catalogue of the Fishes of the Bermudas, based chiefly upon the
collections of the United States National Museum. By G. Brown
Goode, assistant curator United States National Museum. 1876. 8vo,
84 pp.

VI. Classification of the collection to-illustrate the animal resources
of the United States. <A list of substances derived from the animal
kingdom, with synopsis of the useful and injurious animals, and a class-
ification of the methods of capture and utilization. By G. Brown
Goode, assistant curator United States National Museum. 1876. 8vo,
140 pp. .

An account of the first two of the Bulletins was given in the last an-
nual report.

The third number of the series, that on the natural history of Kergue-
len Island, by Dr. J. H. Kidder, United States Navy, embodies the re-
sult of the examination of the eggs, the identification of the plants,
fishes, mollusks, insects, &c., of the region. It also contains a brief
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

description of the collections of Surgeon Kershner, of the United States
Navy, in the Chatham and Auckland Islands, and in New Zealand, and
of Mr. I. Russell in the latter place.

The botany of Kerguelen Island had previously been very thoroughly
studied by Dr. J. D. Hooker in connection with Sir James Clarke Ross’s
Antarctic Expedition, (1539~41.) A number of new phanerogams, ferns,
sea-plants, and lichens have been added to the list.

The zoological collections, though comparatively small, contain an
unusual number of new genera and species, especially among the mol-
lusea, insects, crustacea, echinoderms, &c., descriptions of which have
been furnished to Dr. Kidder by Professors Verrill, 8S. I. Smith, Dall,
Ostensacken, and Hagen.

The Bulletin concludes with a study of Chionis minor, a unique and
little-known bird, with an attempt to establish its proper position in
classification.

Bulletin No. 4, the catalogue of birds collected by Prof. Francis Su-
michrast in Southwestern Mexico, is a scientific account of the collection
made in accordance with an arrangement between the Smithsonian In-
stitution and Professor Sumichrast for an extended exploration of the
Pacific side of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec for the purpose of procuring
specimens of its natural history. During the past four years, four instal-
ments of birds have been received and examined by Mr. Lawrence, con-
taining 321 species, represented by more than 1,700 specimens, all of a
remarkably fine character, and bearing testimony to Professor Sumi-
chrast’s efficiency as an industrious and energetic collector, while the
character of the many valuable notes he has coutributed manifest his
minuteness and intelligence as an observer.

From this exploration it appears that the region of the Pacific is com-
paratively much poorer in birds than that of the Atlantic. This is
attributed to the extreme dryness of the soil, to the scarcity of vegeta-
tion and of insect life, and to the duration of the winds from the north-
east and southwest, which there prevail with great violence. The con-
traction of the American continent. between the ninety-fourth and
ninety-fifth degrees of longitude west from Greenwich, forms what is
called, improperly perhaps, the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. In a physical
point of view, it may be considered as divided into three parts: first,
an eastern, extending from the Gulf of Mexico to the Puerta; second, a
central, from the Puerta to the Chivela; and, third, a western, from the
Chivela to the Pacific. The eastern part has its largest portion covered
with thick and damp forests, vegetation which rivals the greatest
beauties of the tropics. The central region presents an undulating sur-
face embossed with innumerable hills which gradually unite on the
western side with the mountains of the Sierras. Although watered by
numerous streams, it presents but a scanty vegetation, essentially
characterized by oaks on one side and palm-trees on the other. The
western division, or plains of the Pacific, is very dry, and presents
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

a striking contrast to the rich plains on the Atlantic slope. The num-
ber of animal forms, as well as the vegetable, decreases perceptibly in
proportion as we advance from the Atlantic to the Pacific. It is wor-
thy of note that while the species belonging to the western province sel-
dom, if ever, find their way to the eastern division, those, on the contrary,
in the latter province, spread to within a short distance of the shores of
the Pacific. The difference in the elevation of the ground which exerts
in Mexico such a great influence over the geographical distribution of
animal species, exists only in a slight degreein the Isthmus of Tehuan-
tepec, the highest point of the territory, not being elevated more than
from 500 to 2,800 feet above the level of the sea.

The fifth bulletin, a “ Catalogue of the Fishes of the Bermudas,” is
based chiefly upon collections in: the United States National Museum,
made and described by G. Brown Goode.

A visit to the Bermudas during the months of February and March,
1872, afforded the author opportunities for collecting the notes and
specimens upon which this paperis based. At the time of his visit only
seven species of fishes had been recorded from this locality, and the
only authentic information regarding the fish-fauna was contained in
one short chapter of a work by John Matthew Jones, of England. In
the present list, Mr. Goode enumerates seventy-five species, most of
which were personally observed.

Bulletin No. 6 consists of a tabular classification prepared by Pro-
fessor Goode, to facilitate the work of collecting and arranging the
materials gathered by the Institution for the International Exhibition,
to illustrate the resources of the United States as derived from the ani-
mal kingdom. With a view to its future use in the classification of the
articles of the kind which it includes, it is presented in a permanent
form as a part of the Miscellaneous Collections. It forms a pamphlet of
140 octavo pages, of which the following are the several divisions: The
first group, section A, is an index of the whole series, including all
North American animals which are directly beneficial or injurious to
man. Section B embraces all instruments and methods employed by
the hunters, trappers, and fishermen of North America, aboriginal and
civilized. It is a monograph of all matters relating to the chase and
fisheries of the country. Section C includes all methods of utilizing an-
imal products. Section D presents a list of all useful substances derived
from the animal kingdom, and section E all articles illustrating the cul-
ture and protection of useful animals. Though this work was hurriedly
prepared for use at the Centennial Exhibition, and is necessarily incom-
plete, yet it will serve as a basis for other attempts of a similar char-
acter, and will be of especial use in making preparation for future Inter-
national Exhibitions.

Centennial Outline Map of the United States and other portions of North
America.—In order to serve as a basis for showing the larger features
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the physical geography, and to present graphically any special sta-
tistics of the United States to accompany the exhibits from the Smith-
sonian Institution at the International Exhibition of 1876, it was
deemed desirable to have constructed an outline map on a scale suffi-
ciently large for that purpose. The design and construction of this map
were intrusted to Mr. W. L. Nicholson, topographer of the Post-Ofiice
Department, and from the drawings prepared under his care a number
of prints were made by lithograph transfer. The map is on a scale of
16 miles to the inch, (1: 1,013,760,) in 20 sheets. covering, when mounted,
an area of 163 feet long, (horizontally,) by 15 feet wide, (vertically,)
extending from the southern shores of Lake Winnepeg and Hudson’s
Bay to the parallel of 15° north latitude, taking in the whole of the
Gulf of Mexico, Yucatan, and the larger West India Islands. From
east to west it includes parts of Nova Scotia and of Vancouver Island,
the Territory of Alaska being shown, on a smaller scale, detached, in a
vacant corner of the map. The meridians and parallels were laid down
from the polyconic-projection tables of the United States Coast Survey
Office. The details are restricted to the more general topographical (and
political) features—the shore-lines of the oceans and great lakes, the
principal rivers, the State and international boundaries, and a few of
the larger cities, the mountain-topograpky being omitted, as one of the
desiderata for additions to such a map of this continent.

The original construction and the printing of this map were under-
taken by the Smithsonian Institution, but, as an offset toward the re-
imbursement of this expense, propositions were made and accepted
from several of the subcommissions of the United States executive
departments exhibiting at Philadelphia for the purchase of a limited
number of copies of the map. Under these arrangements, the Agricul-
tural Department made mse of a series of six of these maps, ex-
hibiting by colors, in a very effective manner, statistics of the value
of farm-lands, wages of farm-labor, areas of woodland, products of
sugar-crops, of textile fibers, and of fruits. The Light-House Board
employed one for showing the sites of and the relative orders of all the
light-houses along the sea-coast, the great lakes, and the Mississippi,
Missouri, and Ohio Rivers. The Post-Office Department made use of
one to show the railway mail-service of the United States. Various
bureaus of the Department of the Interior, including the Census, Educa-
tion, and Geological Survey of the Territories, used several sets of the
same.

The Smithsonian Institution exhibited four of these maps for present-
ing the results of the meteorological discussions of rain-fall and of
temperature over the United States in the summer and winter months.
These were enlargements from the maps accompanying the publications
of the Smithsonian Institution. On these four maps an attempt was made,
by the addition of the greater mountain chains, to give a coincident
view of their relation to the great climatic elements.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

A fifth set of the sheets was used for representing the geology of the
United States and Territories.

There now remain on hand several sets of the original prints of this
large outline map, available for purposes similiar to the foregoing, and
which it is proposed to dispose of to institutions or associations willing,
by a small proportionate outlay, to aid in the re-imbursement of the
original expenses.

Annual report.—The annual report of the operations of the Institution
for the year 1875 was presented to Congress on the 7th of April, 1876, but
the extra copies ordered as usual were not delivered to the Institution
until December, and their distribution has therefore only just now com-
menced. An edition of 10,500 copies was printed, 1,000 for the use of
the Senate, 2,000 for the House of Representatives, and 7,500 for the
Institution. The appendix to the report contains translations of Arago’s
eulogy on Volta; DeCandolle on the probable future of the human race;
the annual report for 1873-74 on the transactions of the Geneva Society
of Physics and Natural History; a lecture on the past and future of
geology, by Prof. Joseph Prestwich, of England; a report on the dimi-
nution of the water of rivers and streams, by a committee of the Royal
Academy of Vienna; an original communication on the refraction of
sound, by Wm. Bb. Taylor, of Washington; a letter by Professor Henry
on the organization of local scientific societies, intended to furnish an
answer to numerous letters addressed to the Institution on this subject;
a translation of a proposed international code of symbols for charts of
prehistoric archeology, by Profs. Mortillet and Chantre; an article on
characteristics pertaining to ancient man in Michigan, by Henry Gill-
man; anda memoir on the stone-age in New Jersey, by Dr. C. C. Abbott.

RESEARCHES.

It has been stated in previous reports that an annual appropriation
was made for several years to enable Professor Newcomb, of the Na-
tional Observatory, to employ accountants for the reduction of the
mathematical expressions of the orbits of the planets Uranus and Nep-
tune to numerical tabular results.

Although the representation of the observations of Uranus by the
tables presented to the Smithsonian Institution four years ago, was
regarded by astronomers generally as highly satisfactory, it was not so
considered by the author, owing to the systematic character of the mi-
nute discrepancies. He therefore desired to ascertain whether these
discrepancies arose from errors in the computation of the perturbations
of Uranus, and, if not, whether they could be due to the action of an
ultra-Neptunian planet. The first step in the investigation was to have
a complete duplicate computation of the perturbations from 1753 until
the present time, by the method of mechanical quadratures, with which
to compare the results computed from the tables. An appropriation
24 REPORI OF THE SECRETARY.

having been made by the Institution for this investigation, it has been
found that there is a small discrepancy between the two sets of results,
the cause of which has not yet been ascertained.

Tf it is found on further examination that there is really a discrepancy
between the observations of Uranus and its motion as computed from
the theory of gravitation, it will be considered that the chance of the
discrepancy being due to an ultra-Neptunian planet is sufficient to jus-
tify the continuance of the work.

Professor Newcomb remarks that the problem now before us is vastly
more difficult than that with which Le Verrier had to deal. When Le
Verrier’ had completed the determination of the motions of Uranus,
taking iuto account the action of Neptune, he considered the representa-
tion of the observations by theory highly satisfactory. But the out-
standing differences were far larger than those with which we are now
occupied.

In regard to the computations of the comet of short period mentioned
in the last report, we have nothing further to report at present, the work
having been suspended for a time on account of the transfer of Professor
Stone from the National Observatory to the Cincinnati observatory, and
the consequent absorption of his time in preparing for his new duties.

A small appropriation has also been made for a series of physiological
observations on the temperature of the human body under certain
abnormal conditions, by Prof. H. C. Wood, jr., and Dr. Horace Hare, of
Philadelphia. These observations are in progress, and it is thought the
results of the investigation will be ready for publication in the next
annual report. They relate especially to the subject of animal heat, the
mode of its production, and its relation to pathological and normal func-
tions. The first question to be investigated is whether ordinary fever
is due to an increased production or retention of heat. A series of
analytical experiments as to the amount of carbonic acid given off by
the animal during the normal and the febrile state, also the amount of
excretions from the kidneys, will be made, and a determination as to
whether the depression of temperature, caused by ammonia, section of
the spine, injuries, &c., is due to a diminished production or increased
loss of heat; also whether the paralytic fever observed in connection with
certain nerve sections is always caused by such sections, whether it is
induced by an increase in the production of heat, or by its retention ; and

finally, how the nervous system acts in the regulation of the calorific
function.
METEOROLOGY.

The Institution has continued the reduction and discussion of the
large amount of meteorological material which it collected during the
twenty years of its system of observations. The miscellaneous work by
the computers of the Institution during the year 1876, is as follows:

1. The temperature observations for the years 1871, ’72,’73, have been
,

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

reduced and partly tabulated, thus closing the series conducted by the
Institution relative to temperature.

2. The temperature and rain-fall observations made at a large num-
ber of stations in British North America have been tabulated to the
end of the year 1874. This was a special matter undertaken to facili-
tate and extend the rain-fall discussion.

3. A number of averages have been computed and the work continued
relative to the publication of a second edition of the memoir on the rain-
fall of the United States, which will embrace additional material.

4, Meteorological information has been furnished in many instances
to individuals making application therefor, they bearing the expense of
the clerical labor involved in the copying.

To complete the reduction and discussion of the system of meteorology
conducted by the Institution, there remain the observations relative to
the pressure of the atmosphere, and also those relative to moisture,
thunder-storms, and casual phenomena. These will be taken up during
1877.

TELEGRAPHIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES.

The arrangement which was concluded between the Smithsonian In-
stitution and the Atlantic cable companies in 1873, by which free tele-
graphic transmission of astronomical discoveries was granted between
Europe and America, has been continued during the past year.

The following is a list of the small planetoidal bodies discovered in
1876, the most of which discoveries were announced through this Insti-
tution :

| | } | |
| ese } : : Mean
a Name. | Dats of ‘liscovery. Discoverer. Place of discovery. distance.*
' |
| |
1581 Coronis:. ..-...-.: | sanMany: Aer. aan nn fKnorney. socsoesce8 Beplinvsses seco nee 3.00
159) Emelia._.-........| January 26-.......-. | Paul Henry...-.---. PALIS see 2-5 scence ee: 3.13
DGON Una soc) ost February 20......-... Reterghess--<e=so5-. Glintonee oa. osc mems QS
fG1 i Athor <5.25 2.55. April 1G: <ccce550 <0 Watson - 24-2; 2.525. (Ann SATHOP2.: ses coct 2. 38
162 | Laurentia.-.-..... Fy 0) es eee Pros, Henry........- 122 Ht ee oe ee ee 3. 02
163 | Erigone........... Aprilao: 2-5-2 35.25. Perrotin essere. 228 POMIOUSUS s-o essen ae 2.35
164 | Eva...... Sear Se DULY 12 co seaisces 26 Paul Henry. ...----. PALIN Sac ick tose aoe 2. 55
165) |' Loreley .....:....- ANgust 9%. 2202 t 5.2 WPetersics=-s2 sees ee. COlintonec cscs ceciseee 3. 13
166 | Rhodope....-...... August 15 ..... sae SROTOIS <2 occniesen coils oot BOs. ot seeei Jaa ae 272
(Gl 0 ei |: PAU SUSt 28) sees ecisoe.|| EP OLGES) 265-2 <0 55: Fasc eee see ae aoeeiets 3. 22
168 | Sibylla.......-.... September 28 ...:...| Watson ............. AnnvJATbor:.<s -\-ca-5-2 3. 38
169 LAVA OF See ee September 28 ...... Pros Henrys 922222 -- ADIs” fee scie ss onan .| 2. 36
a

A stellar outburst in the constellation of the “Swan” was observed
November 24, 1876, by Dr. Schmidt, at Athens ; a phenomenon similar
to the remarkable stellar outburst which occurred in the ‘“‘ Northern
Crown” in May, 1866, though not so brilliant, as it did not apparently
exceed the light of a star of the third magnitude at its greatest bright-
ness. At the close of the year it had dwindled to the lowest visible
magnitude.

* The figures in the last column of the table represent the mean distances of the
several bodies from the sun, that of the earth being taken as unity.
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
CORRESPONDENCE.

The correspondence of the Institution during the past year, especially
on account of the Centennial Exhibition, was very largely increased,
and has formed no inconsiderable part of the labors of the officers. The
usual number of inquiries have been made as to the name and character
of specimens of natural history, mineralogy, &c. The number of scien-
tific problems received for solution has not been diminished. Several
elaborate treatises have been submitted to the Institution for examina-
tion, purporting to be explanations of the theory of gravitation, and
other extended generalizations of natural phenomena. As the theory
of gravitation is a prominent subject of investigation by those who are
interested in scientific speculations, we would direct attention to a paper,
published in the appendix to this report, prepared for the Institution by
Mr. William B. Taylor, of Washington, giving a history, with comments,
of all the attempts which have been made since the discoveries of New-
ton to the present time to refer the phenomena of gravitation to some
other cause than that of action ata distance. This elaborate paper will
exhibit the difficulties of the problem which those who endeavor to solve
it have to contend with, as well as the entire failure of all the attempts
which have been made and the probable result of all that will be here-
after essayed in regard to it.

Among the subjects to which attention has been called by foreign cor-
respondents is that of the organization of a society, under the auspices
of the King of Belgium, at Brussels, for a thorough exploration of the
African continent, the final object of which being the suppression of
the slave-trade, the opening of the country to foreign commerce, and
its advancement in civilization. ‘To this enterprise the attention of all
the geographical societies of the world is called, and their co-operation
solicited. It is proposed to run lines of survey across the continent
from east to west and from north to south, establishing depots at inter-
vals for the accumulation of articles of commerce and the supply of the
explorers. This is truly an enterprise worthy of the present age, since
its object is to open, for the uses of civilized man, a portion of the earth
richly endowed with the means of the support and the enjoyment of
human life, now almost a waste, or only sparsely inhabited by barbarian
tribes. It is a work to which the attention of our educated citizens of
pure African descent should be directed, as opening a field of unpar-
alleled usefulness in the way of advancing the civilization of the world,
and it is one to which they are especially adapted, since, in a letter from
Professor Edw. D. Blyden, of Liberia College, published in the appen-
dix to the Smithsonian Report for 1870, it is shown that only individu-
als of pure African blood are fully fitted for withstanding the peculiar

influence of the climate.
EXCHANGES.

The operations of this part of the general system of labor of the Insti-
tution have assumed a magnitude during the past year far greater than
REPORT OF .THE SECRETARY. 25

that of any previous year since its first adoption. This has arisen from
the fact that we have presented to foreign libraries, especially those
of Australia and New Zealand, a large number of sets of the publications
of the Institution, and also those of the publications of the Government
entrusted to the Institution for distribution.

During the past year 4,853 packages, each containing ecvanal articles,
have been received from anna for distribution to institutions and indi-
viduals in this country.

Three hundred and twenty-three boxes, averaging 7 cubic feet each,
with a total weight of 80,000 pounds, were sent abroad by the Institu-
tion during the year. The total number of separate parcels contained
in these boxes was about 13,000.

As an evidence of the high estimation in which this branch of the
operations of the Institution is regarded, as well as to give proper
credit to the parties who have transmitted free of cost the packages of
the Institution, we reprint, as usual, the following list of their names:

Cunard Steamship Company. | North German Lloyd Steamship
Anchor Steamship Company. | Company.
Pacific Mail Steamship Company. | Hamburg American Packet Com-
Panama Railroad. Company. | pany.
Pacific Steam Navigation Compa- French Transatlantic Company.
TER im «6! | North Baltic Lloyd Steamship
New York and Mexico Steamship Company.
Company. | Inman Steamship Company.
New York and Brazil Steamship
Company. |

The special thanks of the Institution are again tendered to the above-
mentioned companies for their enlightened liberality.

We may also mention as an evidence of the high appreciation of the
character of the Smithsonian exchanges that the packages bearing the
marks of the Institution are admitted free of duty and without exam-
ination into all foreign ports.

The following are the principal foreign agencies of reception and dis-
tribution of the Smithsonian exchanges :

London, William Wesley, 28 Essex street, Strand.

Paris, G. Bossange, 16 Rue du 4 Septembre.

Leipsiec, Dr. Felix Fliigel, 49 Sidonien Strasse.

St. Petersburg, L. Watkins & Co., 10 Admiralty Place.

Amsterdam, Frederick Miiller, Heerengracht KK. No. 130.

Milan, U. Hoepli, 591 Galeria Cristoforia.

Harlem, Professor von Baumhauer.

Christiania, Royal University of Norway.

Stockholm, Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.

Copenhagen, Royal Danish Society.

Lisbon, Royal Academy of Sciences.

Madrid, Royal Academy of Sciences.
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Havana, Dr. Felipe Poey.

Santiago, University of Chili.

Mexico, Mexican Society of Geography and Statisties.

Montreal, Geological Survey of Canada.

The packages of the Institution for the West Indies have been kindly
furwarded by Mr. Thomas Bland, of New York, and those for Turkey,
by Messrs. Chrysoveloni & Co., of 5 Fenwick street, Liverpool, England;
and some other points in the East, by the American Board of Commis-
sioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.

The following table exhibits the number of foreign establishments
with which theInstitution is at present in correspondence, or, in other
words, to which it sends publications and from which it receives others
in return:

Foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution.

AMONG 26 24's a> sac es sous eaeete 62\ Waly. cos.ioctsticee sce eerscee ees 181
Argentine Republic........-...-.-. 13) Ja pall. 2505 seca mere bes see eens 4
PANT D | Beem aceite ee aeoea Se cence oe 30! | SANG ceases Ste Sey se eee ee 5
DATA a ccna notte eae een an) OLE bere cenceasciee eee eee ae 1
olivi ass S. Skte. See Site nt etter eee LSP AManritis is.22cetas ccmetciaan ree avons

"TAC a ss SR Sata leg i On| MMexiGov 32. fac secbeesaas aniee Secere 15
BT GISn “AMOL OAs oe eocece-ce es Sone @*| New -Zealand\2f5. occa vecoesoenee 15
BritishyGuiana -s-c5500250%- «-< oe 3 |WNOBWOY wech ocigace wane eucssee mene 25
Cane Colony caceisnss == sac, cece once AN RGrU ss a ilin\smsisiop cis teense aitneleees 3
CentraleAmMenicaees---ice conc nee se 2) Philippine Islands.5--2-..5-- 24--e-% 3
CLOTNTI s S ee Ceo SEA ae coe aaeece 88) POLYNESIA sclcice weiss c sacle cisieeeeee 2
CHING Jiteicts teste cs aebje: Gone catas 1M | Portugal res. eae ee seen eee 4 23
Colombia ceroeseecaceelse es ene se: 31 | SRUBBLO Sass hcl e  b ed tee se eoees 162
WOR MAD eo otoe, te wonaistiee orc a areeee= 28] (‘Spail 22.6) cass eseaces ee eeen te see 18
Dutch Guangenca ven eee eres dW tt Helen aise accsce cee ee eeiee os 2
IS CURMOL sccecc cece. sdacnee eee 1] Sweden.) 0-eseeaoes - Hae - 22
GyDliecemicsoe spice cieeee aceon Sa eS WitZelnlandy.2s-heree omens sea ieee 70
HMEATICD oicsee ors Case sccsitcee secs OSE | OUTIOeG ce aearse see cree ciereme ieee 1
PMMA GS s easter sei. Lee 2 aNL O4G" SPOTKSYte Coe sckioeeetece wn ae ree eee 11
Great Britain and Ireland....-.... 363 Menezuela Ye ceuie tose ont se ose eee 2
METEGCO ee iain cic utc i<) Scrctesiateiwiatee si ce's Sls Wiest) Indies ooscni.seoce meas See 7
HIOMAN GM scacemek «aoc as aceite ee G5: "General jo aeoeceeenaccasae eke eee 7
RG eri Cheeta et eke tee secs ate eee 2

OUCG Eee > ed El ee Ds 4 a A eae 29 | TOUS . mrecek Aran ae weet esr ieee 2, 275

Statistics of exchanges sent during the last eight years.
| 1869. | 1870. | 1871. | 1872. | 1873. |, 13874. | 1875. | 1876

Number of boxes...........-- ....-| ue] 1e{ 108] 1791 196] 131| 908 323
Bulk in cubic feet... ..<......-.00- 1,033 | 1,189 772 | 954 | 1,476 933 | 1,503 2, 261
WHGIPUE. oct ceeatcse nee coupes | 23, 376 | 31,383 | 28, 950 | 26, 850 | 44, 236 27, 990 | 45, 300 | 80, 750

To facilitate the business of the exchanges, the following rules have
been adopted :

1. Every package, without exception, must be enveloped in strong
paper, and secured so as to bear separate transportation by express or
otherwise.

2. The address of the Institution or individual, for whom the package
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

is intended, must be written legibly on the cover, and the name of the
sender on one corner of the same.

3. No single package must exceed half of a cubie foot in bulk.

3. A detailed list of addresses of all the parcels sent, with their con-
tents, must accompany them.

5. No letter or other communication can be allowed in the parcel,
excepting such as relates exclusively to the contents of the package.

6. All packages must be delivered in Washington free of freight and
other expenses.

7. Every parcel should contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed
and returned, either through the agent of the Institution, or, what is
still better, through the mail, to the sender.

Should returns be desired for what is sent, the fact should be ex-
plicitly stated on the list of the contents of the package. Much disap-
pointment is frequently expressed at the absence of any return in kind
for transmissions; but unless these are specifically asked for, they will
fail in many instances to be made. It will facilitate the labors of the
Institution very much if the number corresponding to the several ad-
dresses in the Smithsonian printed catalogue be marked on the face
of each parcel; and for this purpose a copy of the catalogue will be
forwarded to all who apply for it.

Specimens of natural history will not be received for transmission
unless with a previous understanding as to their character and bulk.

8. Unless all these conditions are complied with, the parcels will not
be forwarded from the Institution; and, on the failure to comply with
the first and second conditions, will be returned to the sender for cor-
rection.

.

Exchange of Government documents.—In the last report a full account
was given of the system adopted for carrying out the law relative to
the exchange of the official publications of United States Government
for those of foreign nations. In accordance with this system, during
the past year 120 boxes of documents were forwarded, the following
being a list of the distribution:

International exchange of Government publications in 1876.

Sent to— Boxes. Sent to— Boxes.
RE ERIN GL Ee oor Sea ys oe Oc cise Mat | HOTIN AN MPa oesl= vc ROes ot esis <= cAI S
UR DEDIDE. SORe Se SSS See a aes eae ey Ge SE. (0) 1); aa SSO SHOTS Oo Sa Cesc Be 5
PMUAGINGE MN eee oeete secre a) | ENC ANG 424 eins) ec soc cence aac sae 5
PMA tLe eso ap aoc acis cies 22) PAIN scccclclee om = aces wee eeme meee as cc 5
ME SONU NV RICS<..../.502-26--26 + css 7 Welhurkeyieosss.. <2 ccsonsaemo ee ONS fees 1
RIAEPLATICM So Sate Sef k Smacte ees Mol PHOMANG™ Sacre acsearle esi 1
PROBA fs. ewe Cltibewst ees Wa BORG IIs ay aoe eee eae eee ase 1
MEME im 21s Maths iaahtfe Saanich Mahar OMingal: EOS Stee saws Once edhe “tf
“Scotland. <=... 3.-.: - fee eyteeinla tastes Fa) Otbawa. coc esate co PaHeses dic 2 1
PLE MONPAQIIES 92% a. see cet Yeie icra u sia, c.oi<' Va | ONAN Osean sees rot ootatea dh sais oto 1
ERY Ute ete ee = 2 ss Brest Ny arriia es nO} | MOS COV ate een aninte' a6 cin aja Swine 1
eGmHeline a ees oS ee ce oe “yy bg 22 le eo ge RR 1
“ES Ey RS Se Se ce eee) cere ee Bal ont. fA Se cL, Oe 1
PR SS a a 5 | PApaANye cs hees lace tice scsA cece stot eSers 1

30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The expense of boxing, packing, transporting, and paying of agents —
in connection with the transmission of these sets of. Government doca-
ments, amounting to $857.50, was advanced by the Institution, with the
expectation that it would be repaid from an appropriation for the
Library of Congress; but when the account was presented we were in-
formed that, in consequence cf the reduction of the appropriations at
the last session of Congress, there were no funds available for the pur-
pose. We have, therefore, requested the Library Committee of Congress
to procure the insertion of an item in the deficiency bill to re-imburse
the Institution for the amount advanced, and also to defray the cost of
the necessary expenses of the system of exchange for the ensuing six

months.
LIBRARY.

The library of the Institution, as has been stated in previous reports,
has been placed on deposit in the Library of Congress under the direction
of Mr. A. R. Spofford, librarian.

The following is a statement of the books, maps and charts received
by the Smithsonian Institution in 1876 and transferred to the Capitol:

Volumes:
OOCLAVO™ OF ESS oes. ccels cae scan oe ele ae eres 756
Quarto; or larger vos. =. cscs ase © NSiia a kamen tm 261
1, 017
Parts of volumes:
AGL AMO. GEARESS cateicisle sa snes Gall tse ciate oe kta: < 2aon
Quarto OU Ial GOD oc ccc a's ares wae cee = Bs Maisie eats iat ain US
4,515
Pamphlets:
OGtaING, OF 1eS8)2 nasal eS calawl yp yee = Habis does eae 1,530
Oiarto, or larver's !< sno sce niet as bom seem eee 348
1, 878
Maps and) Charts «22% 0. iasicne eet pee on. asia alee Se ee ee 375
A ifn) DAR ee aie i ROI RES Wee Iy Sui ELS Oto Br 7, 585

The articles received at the Institution are recorded in a book pre-
pared for that purpose and afterwards transferred to the Library of
Congress. Much use is made of the books of the Institution which are
in the Library of Congress as well as those of the latter library by the
collaborators of the Institution.

Among the principal donations received in 1876 are the following:

From the director-general of the Royal Collections of Art and Sci-
ence, Dresden: ‘ Monumente des Mittelalters und der Renaissance aus
dem siichsischen Erzgebirge, die Klosterkirche Zchillen, jetzt Wechsel-
burg und die Rochlitzer Kunigunden-Kirche. 50 Blatt gross folio,
photographische Aufnahmen und Sehnellpressen Lichtdruck von Rémm-
ler & Jonas, Dresden, unter artistischer Leitung von Carl Andreae.”
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ol

Dresden, 1875. ‘“ Gravirte und geatzte Ornamente von Gegenstiinden
des k. Historischen Museums und der Kunstgewerblichen Ausstellung
zu Dresden vom Jahre 1875.” Parts i and ii, Dresden, 1876. Folio.
“Archiv fiir Literaturgeschichte.” Vols i, v, 1-3. Leipzig, 1870-1876,
8vo. ‘Mittheilungen aus dem k. Zoologischen Museum zu Dresden.”
Part 1, Dresden, 1875, 4to, and various pamphlets.

From the Royal Historical Academy, Madrid: Coleccion de Docu-
mentos inéditos para la Historia de Espana. Vols. xxi, lix. Mad-
rid, 1852-1873, 8vo, and Historia de Felipe III. Vols. I, 11, Madrid,
1875, Svo. ;

From the Ambrosian Library, Milan: “ Translatio Lyra Pescitto
Veteris Testamenti ex Codice Ambrosiano.” Vol. I, Part1. Mediolani,
1876. Folio.

From the Austro-Hungarian War Department, Vienna: ‘ General
Karte von Bosnien, der Herzegovina, von Serbien und Montenegro.”
120 sheets.

From the Icelandic Literary Society, Reykiavik, Iceland: Skirnir,
1875, Copenhagen, 8vo. Skyrslur og Reikningar, 1874-1875, Copenha-
gen, 1875, 8vo. J rjeltir fra Islandai, 1874. Reykiavik, 8vo. Report
en the Icelandic Literary Society, Copenhagen, 1872, Svo.

From Mr. James L. Bowes, Liverpool: Keramic Art of Japan, illus-
trated. Parts iii, iv. London and Liverpool, 1876. Folio.

From the British Museum, London: The Cuneiform Inscriptions of
Western Asia. Vol.iv. London, 1875. Folio. Catalogue of Birds. Vol.
ii. 1875,8vo. Catalogue of Additional MSS. 1854-1860. 1875. 8vo.
Catalogue of Spanish MSS. Vol. i. 1875. 8vo. Catalogue of Oriental
Coms. Vol.{1.. 1875. 8vo.

From the Ministry of the Interior, Topographical and Hydrographical
Division, Christiania, Norway: Aarbog for Handels Marinen, 1870-
1875, 11 parts, Kristiania, 8vo. Den Norske Lods, vols. i and viii, Kris-
tiania, 1870, 1871, 8vo., and 36 charts.

From the University of Chile, Santiago: Anales, vols. xlv and xlvi,
Santiago, 1873, 1874, Svo.. Twenty-one volumes of government docn-
ments, 1874, 1875, 4to.

From the Society of Natural History, Madrid, Spain: Anales, vols. i-
v, Madrid, 1872-1876, 8vo.

From Dr. Otto Ule, Halle, Saxony: Die Natur, vols. xi, xii, xvii, xix-
xxiil. New series, i, ii, Halle, 1862-1576, 4to.

From the Royal Academy of Science, Letters, and Arts, Modena,
Italy: Memorie, vols. xiii-xvi, Modena, 1872-1875, 4to.—33 disserta-
tions and discourses.

Die Astronomisch geodiitischen Arbeiten des K. K, Militiir, Geograph-
‘ischen Instituts in Wien. III. Vienna, 1875. 4to. General Karte
von Central Asien. Blatt 1-12. Special Karte im Maastabe 1, 75,000.
22 parts.

From the Geographical Establishment, Brussels, Belgium: Nouveau
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Plan Hypsométrique de Bruxelles et des Environs, 53 parts. Carte
des Chemius de Fer de la Belgique, 1876. Carte des Chemins de Fer
del’Europe Centrale. Mirror d’Uranie @’apres Anglais @’Elton. Carte
Générale de la Palestine. Atlas Universel de Geographie, composée de
20 belles cartes.

From the Observatory of the Roman College, Rome, Italy: Bulletino
Meteorologico, 1863-1875, 10 vols., 4to, and 36 astronomical pamphlets.

From the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm: Hand-
lingar Ny. Folja. Vols. x-xii, 1872-1875. 4to. Bihung, vols. i-iii,
1872-1776. Svyo. Ofversigt. Vols. xxviii-xxxii, 1872-1876, and § parts
of volumes and pamphlets.

From the Russian Government, Ministry of War, St. Petersburg:
Eestniah Osadie Straasbourgah. Vols. i and ii. St. Petersburg, 1874,
1875. 8vo. Artillerysky Zhurual, 61 parts. Eengenneerie Zhurual, 29
parts. Oreyeyuyy Zboruik, 22 parts, and Voennoe Zboruik, 6 parts.

From the Hungarian Academy of Science, Buda-Pesth: Publications
of the Academy, 38 vols. and 133 parts of volumes. Buda-Pesth, 1875-
1876, 4to. and 8vo.

From the Board of Admiralty, London: Tide-tables for the British
and Irish ports, 1876, Svo. Remarks on Davis Straits, Baffin’s Bay, &c.,
#875, 8vo. Lights, 1876, 10 in number, and 32 charts published by the
Hydrographie Office.

From the Royah Library, Stockholm : Government documents, 25 vol-
umes, 1876, 4to.

From the Imperial Medico-Chirurgical Academy, St. Petersburg: 31
Inaugural dissertations for 1875.

From the Universities of Dorpat, Helsingfors, Berlin, Bonn, Buda-
Pesth, Erlangen, Gottingen, Greifswald, Halle, Heidelberg, Leipzig,
Marburg, Tiibingen, Bern, Ziirich, Louvain, and from the Royal High-
School, Utrecht: Inaugural dissertations for 1875.

From the Library of Parliament, Ottawa, Canada: 21 volumes, and
from the Parliament of Ontario, Toronto, 10 volumes government docu-
ments.

From the State Library of Vermont: 6 volumes documents.

From the State Library of Ohio: 10 volumes documents.

ETHNOLOGY.

The Institution during the past year has, as usual, given special at-
tention to ethnology, and has directed investigations to be made in
all cases where information has been received of the existence of
mounds, shell-heaps, &c. The subject, however, has received a special
impetus through the Centennial appropriation of Congress, circulars
having been distributed to the correspondents of the Institution re-
questing aid in collecting specimens and in giving information as to
the existence of particular collections. By this means and through the
agency of the United States Indian Bureau a very large addition has
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Se,

been made to the collection of ancient implements as well as to that of
those used by Indians of the present day. It was stated in the last
report that the services of Charles Rau, a well known ethnologist, had
been engaged to classify and arrange the collection in the National
Museum and to prepare a descriptive catalogue for publication. This
work he has accomplished in connection with the Centennial Exhibi-
tion, and although the catalogue is not entirely exhaustive it will
serve to show what ample material has been obtained by the Smithso-
nian Institution for the study of North American archeology. The fol-
lowing is an account of the work in question:

In the introduction the author speaks of the system adopted by him
in arranging the Smithsonian collections illustrative of North American
archeology and ethnology. The archeological series comprises objects
supposed to belong to times antecedent to the European occupation,
and which, therefore, are thought to exhibit aboriginal art unmodified
by contact with the whites. These relics, consisting of chipped and
ground stone, of copper, bone, horn, shell, clay, and, to a small extent,
of wood, were found in mounds and other burial-places of early date,
in eaves and in the shell-heaps met with along the coasts of North
America. The second, or more strictly ethnological, series, a descrip-
tion of which is not attempted in the present volume, consists of arti-
cles obtained from existing native tribes by private explorations, as well
as by expeditions undertaken by order of the United States Govern-
ment, and contains almost every object tending to illustrate the do-
mestic life, hunting, fishing, game, warfare, navigation, traveling by
land—in short, every phase of the existence of these tribes that can be
represented by tangible tokens. The uses of these ethnological speci-
mens are in most cases well known, a statement which cannot be made
in reference to the objects constituting the archeological series, for
many of the latter leave a wide scope for conjecture as to the manner
in which they were employed by their makers. These doubts extend
even to certain types hitherto thought to be well recognized. Thus,
many of the so-called arrow and spear heads were not what their names
imply, but knives used in connection with short wooden handles. Such
cutting-tools have been obtained by Major J. W. Powell among the

_ Pai-utes, and Mr. Paul Schumacher found corresponding implements in
graves of Southern California.

The introduction closes with reference to the other valuable collec-
tions of the National Museum which illustrate the past or present con-
dition of man in Central and South America, in Asia, Europe, and the
other parts of the world.

The first division treats of the most numerous class of relics, namely,

“those of stone, which are fashioned either by the process of chipping,
grinding, or polishing. The first category embraces rude pieces, flakes
and cores as well as the more carefully wrought objects, such as arrow
and spear heads, perforators, scrapers, cutting and sawing tools, dag-

83
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ger-shaped implements, large implements supposed to have been used
in digging the ground, and, lastly, wedge or celt-shaped tools or
weapons. The ground and polished specimens, more defined in form,
comprise wedges or celts, chisels, gouges, adzes, and grooved axes, ham-

mers, drilled ceremonial weapons, cutting-tools, scraper and spade-like
implements, pendants and sinkers, discoidal stones and kindred objects,
pierced tablets and boat-shaped articles, stones used in grinding and
polishing, vessels, mortars, pestles, tubes, pipes, ornaments, and sculp-
tures.

The objects of copper are described under the following heads. They
are either weapons and tools, or ornaments, and have been produced,
as it would appear, by hammering pieces of native copper into the re-
quired shapes.

The third division embraces the specimens of bone and horn, consist-
ing of perforators, harpoon-heads, fish-hooks, cups, whistles, drilled
teeth, &e.

Under the fourth head are enumerated the various objects made of
shells. They are either utensils and tools, such as drinking-cups,
spoons, fish-hooks, celts, &c., or ornaments, comprising various kinds of
gorgets, pendants, and pends:

In the fifth division, which treats of ceramic fabrics, he vessels ob-
tained from mounds of the United States as well as the more elaborate
specimens of Mexican fictile art, are described and figured.

Under the sixth head the wooden objects of early date are enumer-
ated. Their number is not very considerable, owing to the perishable
character of wood.

In the first appendix the aboriginal methods of hafting stone and bone
implements are described and illustrated by eighteen drawings. The
second appendix shows the system adopted in classifying the Smithso-
nian collection, illustrative of North American ethnology.

The implements and samples of workmanship which the Institution
has collected furnish a knowledge of the condition of the arts among
the primitive people who inhabited this continent. There is, however,
another class of ethnological information which cannot be derived from
such objects. We allude to the manners and customs of the people, the
ceremonies they observe, the myths they transmit, and the religious
systems they have adopted. As a general rule it may be assumed that
for any usage or ceremony found among them for which no reason can
be given there was a corresponding usage in ancient times which had a
direct relation to the condition of the people at that time. Hence in
order to reconstruct the past history of the different races of men it is
of great importance to discover the survivals of the past in present
usages. The especial attention therefore of those who have an oppor-
tunity of studying those tribes of Indians which have come least under
the influence of civilized man has been directed to obtaining accurate
information as to the points we have above enumerated.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 355

Indian vocabularies.—For a number of years the Institution has been
collecting, as a part of its work in the line of ethnology, Indian vocabnu-
laries, and of these the number amounts to 670. They were placed in
the charge of J. H. Trumbull, LLD., of Hartford, Conn., for critical
examination and arrangement forthe press. It was the intention of the
Institution to publish these vocabularies as a part of the volumes of
the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, and also in a separate
form for more general distribution to philologists actually engaged in
the comparative study of languages of savage tribes. An offer, how-
ever, was made by Maj. J. W. Powell, who had also collected a series of
Indian vocabularies, to adopt those of the Institution, and to publish
the whole in connection with his researches under Government in re-
gard to the ethnology of the Indian tribes inhabiting the country
watered by the tributaries of the Great Colorado of the West. In ac-
cordance with the general policy of the Institution in not expending its
funds on anything which can be as well done by other means, the prop-
osition of Major Powell was accepted, the only conditions exacted on
which the transfer was made being that full credit should be given in
the publication to the name of Smithson for collecting and arranging
the articles, and also that extra copies be furnished the Institution for
liberal distribution.

In connection with these vocabularies the Institution has also trans-
ferred to Major Powell, for publication, a grammar of the Ponka lan-
guage, by Rev. J. Owen Dorsey, of Maryland, who resided for several
years aS a missionary among the Ponka Indians.

The Institution has also transferred to Dr. F. V. Hayden for publica-
tion, in connection with his explorations, the following articles, giving
an account of the result of ethnological explorations undertaken under
the auspices of the Institution:

‘*¢ Researches in the Kj6kkenméddings and graves of a former popula-
tion of the coast of Oregon, the Santa Barbara Islands, and the adja-
cent mainland.” By Paul Schumacher.*

“The Twana Indians of the Kokomish reservation in Washington
Territory.” By Rey. M. Eells.*

These will also be published with due acknowledgment to the In-.
stitution, and extra copies furnished for distribution to its ethnelogical
correspondents.

New edition of ethnological instructions—In March, 1861, the Smith-
sonian Institution published a paper entitled ‘ Instructions for Research
relative to the Ethnology and Philology of America,” prepared by Dr.
George Gibbs, an octavo pamphlet of 51 pages divided into two parts,
the first relating to ethnology, the second to philology. Under the first
head Dr. Gibbs treated of the facts that should be observed and the
the Territories. Vol. III, No.1. April, 1877.
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

material collected, relating to crania, specimens of art, &c., names of
tribes, geographical position, number, physical constitution, picture-
writing, dress, food, dwellings, arts, trade, religion, government, social
life, war, medicines, literature, calendar, and astronomy, history, and
antiquities. Under the head of philology he gave a brief account of
some of the peculiarities of the Indian languages, with general direc-
tions for the best methods of collecting certain words, a simple and
practical alphabet, and a comparative vocabulary in English, Spanish,
French, and Latin. This vocabulary contains 211 words. The whole was
followed by an Appendix A, “‘ Physical Character of the Indian Races,”
with a tabulated statement on particulars of inquiry, and also an Appefi-
dix B, relative to ‘* Numeral Systems.”

This paper has been distributed widely among the missionaries, Indian
agents, travelers, and local collectors in ethnology, and has served a val-
uable purpose, resulting in the collection by various persons of the large
number of vocabularies previously mentioned, and ‘vhich comprise
nearly all, the languages and dialects of the Indian tribes of the
United States, and many in British America and Mexico. It served
also to direct inquiry in the several branches of ethnography, resulting
in the collection of many valuable notes and minor papers on this subject
and many articles illustrating the industries, arts, means of subsistence,
&c., among the Indian tribes. It has stimulated investigation through-
out the country, giving direction to inquiry, while the results have abun-
dantly proved the value of the instructions and the wisdom of their pub-
lication.

The demand for this work has been such that it is deemed important
to publish a new edition of it, more comprehensive in plan and more
elaborate in detail.

First. It is found necessary to enlarge the alphabet so as to include a
wider range of sounds which have been discovered in the North Ameri-
can languages.

Second. It is necessary to enlarge the vocabulary so as to modify it
somewhat as experience has dictated, and that new words may be col-
lected.

Third. It is desirable that many simple sentences should be given, so
chosen as to bring out the more important characteristics of grammatic
structure.

This work, which will form a manual of ethnography, has been
undertaken in behalf of the Institution by Prof. J. W. Powell, aided
by several eminent ethnologists and philologists, and is well under way.

In this connection I may mention that John Howard Payne, author
of “ Home, Sweet Home,” in 1848 presented to the Institution for pub-
lication a large amount of manuscript giving an account of the manners,
customs, myths, and religion of the Cherokee Nation previous to its
removal from Georgia. He was shortly afterward re-appointed Ameri-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. xe

can consul at Tripoli, on the occasion of which he withdrew the manu-
script for revision and preparation for the press. He took it with him
to his distant post of duty, with the intention of returning it to the
Institution, but his sudden death prevented the realization of this inten-
tion. We have made inquiry in regard to this manuscript, but have
been unable to obtain any information as to what has become of it.

An account of the large additions to the department of ethnology dur-
ing the last year will be found in the report on the Museum.

MISCELLANEOUS.

‘The Institution, as in former years, has been in harmonious co-opera-
tion with the Department of Agriculture, the Army Medical Museum,
and the Corcoran Art Gallery. With the first it has deposited plants
and other articles relating to agriculture; to the second it has trans-
ferred a large number of articles pertaining to comparative anatomy
and materia medica, and has received in return ethnological specimens;
in the third, the Corcoran Art Gallery, it has deposited a number of en-
gravings.

Chemical Laboratory.—During a part of the past year the laboratory of
the Institution has been in charge of Dr. Oscar Loew, the chemist and
mineralogist of the Wheeler Survey, during which time, besides analyzing
various mineral waters and other substances collected by that expedi-
tion, he has made a series of analyses of minerals for the Institution.

Photography.—tn the photographic laboratory, under the direction of
ir. T. W. Smillie, a large number of photographs have been made of
ethnological and natural-history specimens. The Institution has con-
tinued during the past year the collection of photographic likenesses of
cultivators of science in all parts of the world, the whole number re-
ceived up to this time being over twelve hundred.

Light-house duty—I have been a member of the Light-House Board
since its organization, and during this time have discharged the duty of
chairman of thecommittee on experiments. To the discharge of the duties
connected with this service I usually devote one day in the week, and the
greater portion of my summer vacation to light-house investigations. A
considerable portion, however, of the vacation last year was expended
in acting as one of the board of centennial judges. On this account the

researches on sound as applied to fog-signals have been deferred until
another season.

Fish Commission.—The investigation in regard to food-fishes and the
methods of their propagation, for which an appropriation for several
years has been annually made by Congress, has been continued under
the direction of Professor Baird. This work was commenced in 1872,
and has been prosecuted with satisfactory results to the present time.
oo
io 2)

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The National Museum was established by the Government in 1842, at
which time it consisted principally of specimens collected by the Wilkes
exploring expedition. It was transferred from the Patent Office to the
care of the Smithsonian Institution in 1858, where it has been enlarged
by all the collections made by exploring and surveying parties of the
several bureaus of the War, Navy, Treasury, and Interior Departments,
and those of the Smithsonian Institution. At first $4,000 only was an-
nually allowed by Congress for the care and exhibition of the specimens.
In 1871 the appropriation for this purpose was increased to $10,000, in
1872 to $15,000, and for the last two years to $20,000. Nothing, how-
ever, has been allowed for the rent of the building, which was erected
exclusively out of the income from the bequest of Smithson.

The following report from Professor Spencer F. Baird, assistant sec-
retary, gives an account of the additions to the museum and the various
operations connected with it during the year 1876:

REPORT OF PROF. SPENCER F. BAIRD ON THE ADDITIONS, &C., TO THE
MUSEUM IN 1876.

Increase of the Museum.—At no period in the history of the National
Museum, from the time when it was organized to the present, has the
increase been so great as during the year 1876. A sudden and abrupt
augmentation began in 1875, reaching its culmination in 1876. In the
absence of funds for the purchase of collections, the ordinary means of
increase have been derived, first, from the contributions of Smithsonian
correspondents, either spontaneous, or invited with a view of securing
material for some particular research ; second, from the specimens col-
lected by the various Government surveys and exploring expeditions and
transferred to the Smithsonian building in accordance with the law of Con-
gress; and, third, by the exchange of specimens with private individu-
als or public establishments at home and abroad.

During the two years just past the most important means of increase
has been the United States International or Centennial Exhibition of
1876, which has just passed into history as the most extensive and suc-
cessful of world’s exhibitions of natural products and general industries.

In addition, however, to the sources of increase to the Museum
during the years 1875 and 1876, mentioned above, still another presented
itself of perhaps even greater productiveness, viz, acquisitions from
foreign exhibits. With scarcely an exception, the best and most im-
portant of these were presented to the United States at the close
of the exhibition, embracing, as they did, many complete series
of objects, illustrating the geology, metallurgy, the ethnology, and the
general resources of all nations. - Of about forty governments and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

colonies, the choicest of the exhibits of thirty-four were presented to
the Smithsonian Institution for the National Museum, the remainder
either having nothing to give or being restricted in the disposal of
their articles.

It was, however, not from foreign commissions alone that collections
were received by the Institution. Several entire State exhibits, and
many belonging to private parties were also added to the general in-
crease. Nevada, Montana, and Utah presented the whole of their
mineral exhibits, while partial collections were received from several
other States and Territories.

Of the general collections received during the year, the most note-
worthy are the zoélogical specimens brought together by Lieut. George
M. Wheeler, during his recent survey, and turned over by him to the
museum in accordance with the law of Congress.

Engineer William A. Mintzer, of the United States Navy, also con-
tributed a number of packages, containing collections of natural history
and ethnology from Arctic America, collected by him while engaged in
mining isinglass on Admiralty Island, north of Hudson’s Straits.

The general ethnological collections obtained during the year (prin-
cipally as the result of expenditure from the centennial fund of the
Indian Bureau) are of very great extent. Among the most impor-
tant may be mentioned those of Mr. James G. Swan, from Vancouver
Island, Alaska, and Washington Territory, illustrating the habits of the
highly ingenious Northwestern Indians, the more conspicuous of these
being the front of an Indian house, a number of carved wooden columns
for ornamental purposes, some of them 30 feet long and 8 wide, carved
from a single log and, properly ornamented, and a dug-out canoe, 60 feet
feet long and eight wide.

Mr. Paul Schumacher, in continuing his archeological labors on the
south coast of California, made many important acquisitions, adding
materially to the variety he had previously gathered. Some additional
objects of interest were also received from Rey. Stephen Bowers, of
Santa Barbara. Dr. W. W. Hays, of San Luis Obispo, formerly con-
~ nected with the Smithsonian Institution, also presented a large number
ef objects, while additional collections were also received from Mr. Ste-
phen Powers, principally’ of illustrations of the life eos customs of the
Indians of Nevada and California.

The parties sent out by Major Powell, at the request of the Indian
Bureau, to make collections illustrative of the Indians of New Mexico,
especially of the Moquis, obtained an extensive collection, including
pottery both ancient and recent, stone implements, dresses, We.

One of the most interesting and important additions to the ethnolog-
ical collection consisted of carvings of bone and stone implements, con-
tributed by Mr. Lucien M. Turner, United States signal observer at
Saint Michael’s, on Norton’s Sound, south of Behring’s Straits. This
series, in the number of pieces and variety of shape, the character of
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the ornaments, &c., is one of the most striking of its kind ever con-
tributed to the museum.

Additional collections of objects were also received from Capt. A. W.
Corliss, United States Army, stationed at Tucson.

Not less interesting and important were the archeological collections
received from Nicaragua. Dr. Earl Flint, of Granada, furnished many
additional specimens to his previous transmissions.

To Dr. J. F. Bransford, United States Navy, is due the most impor-
tant acquisition ever made from Central America, in the form of avery
large number of objects exhumed from Indian graves on the island
of Omotepec, in Lake Nicaragua. These were especially interesting as
being found between successive sheets of volcanic eruptions, thus giving
a comparative chronology to the objects.

A series of objects illustrative of the Ainos, or hairy men of Jesso,
furnished by Mr. B.S, Lyman, are of signal interest.

The most important contributions among the mammalia consisted of
collections of fur-seals and sea-lions from the Alaska Commercial Com-
pany, and a series of eight skins of sea-lions of the California coast (Za-
lophus gillespii) and presented by Capt. J. G. Baker, of the United States
revenue marine.

No very large collections of birds were received during the year, with
the exception of those from Lieutenant Wheeler’s party, although the
specimens furnished by Engineer Mintzer from Greenland, by Dr. Her-
ing from Surinam and elsewhere, are noteworthy.

Numerous reptiles in small lots were brought in from various sources. ©
Of fishes, the acquisitions were numerous, consisting mainly of transmis-
sions by agents of the United States Fish Commission. As heretofore,
Mr. Vinal N. Edwards, of Wood’s Hele, made many important contri-
butions, among which were some fifteen species additional to the known
fauna of that locality, which for many years has been the chief station
of the Fish Commission.

Mr. Thomas J. Moore, curator of the free public library of the city of
Liverpool, transmitted a number of species of English fishes packed in
ice for the purpose of having casts made and added to the collections of
the Institution. These were consigned first to Mr. E. G. Blackford, of
Fulton market, who repacked them in ice and shipped them to Washing-
ton. Ilor this, as well as for a continuation of the services of this
gentleman in the prompt transmission of rare fishes, the Institution is
under great obligations. A special service rendered by him was the
transmission, day by day, to the Fish Commission exhibit at the Cen-
tennial of all the varieties of fresh fish as they made their appearance
in the New York market. Their preservation in large refrigerators,
erected at his suggestion by Messrs. Allegretti and Banta, constituted
a great source of attraction to the Centennial visitor.

The exhibit made of the fisheries of the United States derived a great;
deal of its value from the co-operation and contribution of various
REPURT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

parties who fully appreciated the importance of making a satisfactory
competitive display in view of the anticipated rivalry of foreign govern-
ments. Among these, acknowledgment is especially due to Messrs.
Bradford & Anthony, of Boston, for undertaking to bring together the
fullest series of objects used by the American angler ; to Messrs. A. R.
Crittenden & Co., of Middletown, Conn., who in like manner prepared the
collection of boat-fittings, fisherman’s equipments, clothing, &c.; to the
‘American Net and Twine Company, of Boston and New York, which
supplied samples of nets of all kinds, models of pounds and fishing-boats,
and furnished also miles of netting to serve as ornamental drapery to
the building. Mr. J. H. Nichols, of Syracuse, and Mr. Thaddeus Nerris,
of Philadelphia, also supplied from their private collections a number
of angler’s equipments.

Here, as in the case of other objects, space does not permit more ex-
tended mention; but the detailed enumeration will be found in the list
of donations.

The additions to the collections of minerals were enormously large,
the principal and most important being a series of ores of the precious
metals collected in California, Oregon, Nevada, Utah, Idaho, and else-
where, by Mr. Thomas Donaldson, and representing a money value far
greater than its actual cost, in view of the donation of the specimens
by the owners and the agents of various mines.

The collections made by Professor Blake on Lake Superior, by Mr. G.
C. Brodhead in Missouri and elsewhere, by Mr. Maury in West Virginia,
and by other parties, were also noteworthy. By far the most valuable
direct donation, however, was that of the collection of ores and minerals
of Nevada collected by the Stafe Centennial board and exhibited with
the Smithsonian display. These, with all the cases in which the speci-
mens were exhibited, were presented to the National Museum by the
authority of the legislature of Nevada, the same disposition having
been made of the very valuable collections of Montana and Utah.
Gen. J. H. Wilder, of Chattanooga, presented a large number of speci-
mens from Tennessee. Other series of more or less note will be found
detailed in the list of donations.

The present of three large boxes filled with choice minerals of Japan
by the government of that country is also a noteworthy addition.

It will be seen from the preceding enumeration that all parts of
North America are represented in the accessions of 1875 and 1876, and
So uniformly indeed that no one region can be indicated as more worthy
of notice than another.

From Central and South America have been received collections in
ethnology and zodlogy; from the South Pacific a general collection in
natural history ; from Japan collections in ethnology and mineralogy.
Apart from the Centennial donations comparatively little has been sent
in from Europe, a few specimens of birds and ethnological objects rep-
resenting the series. With the acquisitions made at Philadelphia,
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

however, no part of the world is really unrepresented, as shown by the
enumeration of foreign commissions which presented either the whole
or a considerable portion of the objects they exhibited from the animal,
vegetable, and mineral kingdoms, or as illustrating their ethnology or
industries.

It is quite impossible to give, in the limited pages allotted to the
present report, anything like a complete statement of the objects thus
added to the treasures of the National Museum from the five principal
sources thus mentioned. In the Appendix, however, will be found a
general statement of the more important objects presented by foreign
commissions, arranged alphabetically by countries, the remaining addi-
tions being given under an alphabetical list of donors. The catalogue
of the display made by the Smithsonian Institution and Fish Commis-
sion at the Centennial, for the publication of which it is hoped Congress
will shortly make provision, will give a minute enumeration of all
objects obtained on that occasion.

Work done in the Museum and at Philadelphia.z—As might have been
expected, the numerous additions to the collections, resulting from the
various donations above referred to, required a corresponding increase
of the personnel of the Museum, and a very large force was temporarily
employed in receiving and unpacking collections, in preparing them
properly for exhibition, in mounting them for suitable display, in cat-
aloguing, entering, and labeling them, in packing for shipment to Phil-
adelphia, in unpacking and arranging there, in caring for them during
the exhibition, in repacking and shipping to Washington, and in dis-
posing of them properly at the end of théir journey. The funds for this
additional service were derived from the special appropriation made
by Congress for the purpose. ‘To facilitate the work, several divisions
were organized; that of ethnology, under the charge of Dr. Charles

tau, assisted by Dr. Edward Foreman and Mr. Frank H. Cushing;
the mineral department, under Prof. William P. Blake, assisted by Mr.
Thomas Donaldson; the animal and fisheries divisions were in charge
of Mr. G. Brown Goode, assisted by Mr. T. H. Bean and Mr. H. C.
Chester.

A series of plaster casts of the fishes, reptiles, and cetaceans of North
America was prepared and painted to represent the colors of the living
animal. The preparation of the skeletons of whales and other animals
of economical interest was done partly at the establishment of Henry
A’. Ward at Rochester , and partly at the Institution.

The aggregate of the entries of specimens in 1876 amounted to 23,675,
showing a very large increase over the entries of 1875 (12,578) and still
more over those of 1874, (10,332.)

An accompanying report upon the operations of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, as connected with the centennial display, will give the necessary
details in regard to the operations at Philadelphia during the summer,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

although it may be stated here, in brief, that while the mounting of the
specimens, or arranging them in a suitable form for exhibition, was ear-
ried on during the whole of the period, the actual packing up and box-
ing of the specimens began in March, and their shipment in April.
Twenty-one car-loads of specimens were forwarded from the Smithsonian
Institution, and these were unpacked and put in place with such rapidity,
that by the 10th of May, at the opening of the exhibition, comparatively
little remained to be done, the whole labor being completed within the
subsequent few weeks.

On the 10th of November the Sait: of packing the specimens for their
return to Washington was commenced, but was soon arrested by an order
of the President directing everything to remain as it was, pending the
action of Congress in regard to the erection of a,suitable building for
the Government exhibit, as more fully detailed in the accompanying
report. The interval, however, was made use of in transferring the
donations made to the United States by foreign governments and Ameri-
can States and individuals from their previous place of exhibition to
the Government building. As soon as the embargo as to packing was
removed, these collections, with others constituting fhe summer’s exhibit,
were boxed and held in readiness for the anticipated order of the Presi-
dent for their transfer to Washington.

In addition to the twenty-one car-loads of objects meaed to Philadel-
phia from Washington, a large portion of the exhibit of the Smith-
sonian Institution, arriving from other directions was put in place.
Almost the whole of the mineral display was in this category, only one
load having gone from Washington.

The collections transferred to Washington after the close of the Ex-
hibition were more than thrice the bulk of those that were taken thence
to Philadelphia in the spring, the entire shipment returned occupied
forty-two cars, representing approximately an aggregate of 812,000
pounds.

This may be a proper occasion to acknowledge the very great liberal-
ity of the railroad companies in regard to the collections in charge of the
Smithsonian Institution, and without which the funds at its command
would have been inadequate to meet the expense of transportation. By
an agreement between the railroad companies and Captain John F.
Rodgers, the officer in charge of transportation to and from Phila-
delphia of the Government collection, full rates were to be paid
one way; but all objects thus transferred were to be brought back
free of charge. Thanks, however, to the liberality of the Phila-
delphia, Wilmington and Baltimore, the Baltimore and Potomac, and
the Pennsylvania Railroad Companies, no charge whatever was made on
the twenty-one car-loads taken to Philadelphia in the spring; and the
same companies agreed, without inquiring into the nature of the con-
tents, to bring back to Washington the same number of cars free of
expense—additional ear-loads to be paid for at the usual rates. It was
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

under these conditions that the liberality of the Philadelphia, Wilming-
ton and Baltimore Railroad, in furnishing, as far as they could be used,
hay-cars of extra size, was of so much importance, as it enabled us to
pack in a portion of the cars at least 50 per cent. more than in ordinary
freight-cars. The remissions of the freights to Philadelphia from vari-
ous points are due largely to the efforts of Mr. John 8. Wilson, of the
Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad Company, acting
under the authority of Mr. Isaac Hinckley, president of the road, and
_ to those of Mr. Kingston, of the Pennsylvania Railroad.

Scientific investigation of collections.—In view of the constant labor re-
quired in receiving the collections and putting them in proper form for
the Philadelphia exhibition, it was impossible to devote much effort to
the critical investigation of the collections and their use as material for
scientific purposes, although a number of the specimens were placed in
the hands of correspondents and collaborators for careful examination,
among which are the following:

Mr. Robt. Ridgway, in charge of the department of mounted animals,
has continued his investigation of the birds in the National Museum, and
has arranged and labeled the entire American collection, involving the
handling of over 30,000 specimens.

Mr. George N. Lawrence has examined certain obscure species of the
ornithological collection, new to science.

The Rodentia have been investigated by Dr. Elliott Coues, who has
prepared therefrom material for an elaborate monograph to be published
in Professor Hayden’s series of reports. Several new species have re-
warded his labors. A preliminary report has lately been made by him
of the shrews, which will form the subject of a second work by the same
author.

Prof. Edward Cope has received various collections of reptiles from
the Institution, and has submitted them to careful examination.

Dr. Thomas H. Streets, surgeon United States Navy, has been en-
gaged during the year in investigating the collection of vertebrates and
other animals obtained by him during a recent United States survey of
the South Pacific and the Gulf of California made by the United States
ships Portsmouth and Narragansett. He has discovered several new
species, an account of which, with his other notes, will be published in
the Bulletins of the National Museum.

Professor Gill has continued his labors upon the general and sys-
tematic arrangement of the mammals and fishes.

The ethnological collection has also been the subject of considerable
inquiry. Professor O. T. Mason, of Washington, has undertaken a
memoir upon a remarkable collection of stone implements from Porto

tico, presented to the National Museum by the late Mr. George Latimer.
This will be fully illustrated and form part of the report of the Institu-
tion for 1876.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

Dr. Rau has prepared a work on the American stone age, to serve as
a guide to the archeological exhibit of the United States, and which
has been published by the Institution.

Dr. James Lewis has completed, during the year, his investigation of
the fresh-water and land shells of the United States belonging to the
Museum, and has carefully identified and labeled the species. A series
was reserved by him for the Museum and the duplicates made up into
sets for distribution. ‘

Dr. Edward Foreman has also thoroughly identified the vegetable
substances used by the American Indians as food, medicine, narcotics, °
paints, &c., and has made up numerous sets for distribution to ethno-
logical establishments.

Distribution of duplicate specimens—The same reasons which pre-
vented the usual effort in regard to researches among the collections
has more or less interfered with the distribution of duplicates during
the year; but as the amount of material available for the purpose has
been greatly increased as a result of the Centennial collections, it is
hoped that the coming year will permit an unusual amount of effort in
this direction.

A considerable number, however, of zoological, mineralogical and
ethnological specimens, either singly or in sets, have been sent off as
direct donations or exchanges. Their aggregate, including that for
1875, will be found in the usual table of the appendix.

Present condition of the Musewm.—The great enlargement of the
Museum has commensurately expanded its means for scientific and prac-
tical instruction. In many departments it may claim very great emi-
nence, entitling it, on the whole, to rank with the largest Huropean
collections, while in some respects, especially as regards the ethnology,
mineralogy, and zoology of North America, it may fairly be said to
occupy the very first place among museums of the world. The immense
mass of duplicates now in its charge also constitutes so much material
for increasing the present number of species, and when proper facilities
are afforded for unpacking and arranging its reserve series, great addi-
tions can be made by a suitable system of exchanges. At present, how-
ever, everything looking toward such final arrangements is contingent
upon provision by Congress in the way of increased accommodations,
since the present available space is entirely inadequate to the purpose.

The Museum portion of the Smithsonian edifice consists of two rooms
of about 10,000 feet area each, with a connecting range and gallery of
about 5,000 feet. The specimens in cases are at present very much
crowded, while very many others are in boxes, occupying the passages
and intermediate spaces. The basement of the Institution, nearly 400
feet long, is a series of store-rooms, for the reception of portions of the
collection not yet exhibited in the upper halls, and thus without benefit
46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY:

to the general public. Among these objects are very many skeletons,
beautifully prepared by Professor Ward, some 40,000 jars of alcoholic
specimens, together with several hundred large copper tanks, likewise
filled ; over 50,000 skins of birds, of which at least 15,000 should be
mounted and placed in the general collection ; several thousand skins
of mammals; large numbers of fossil vertebrates, minerals, ethnological
objects, &e.; these, for the most part, not duplicates, but simply speci-
mens for which there is no room elsewhere.

An estimate of 25,000 square feet, or a space eaual to that of the
upper halls, is by no means extravagant for the proper display of the |
specimens thus excluded. Anticipating the necessity of increased ac-
commodations for the Centennial collections and accessions, the Smith-
sonian Institution, in 1875, made application to Congress for the use of
the Armory building in the square between 6th and 7th Streets, an edi-
fice 100 feet by 50, having four floors. This it was supposed would be
adequate, at the close of the Centennial, for the reception and exhibition
of at least the fishery exhibit and that of economical mineralogy. So
great, however, was the surplus of Centennial material to be provided
for that the building is now filled with boxed specimens, occupying for
the most part the entire space from floor to ceiling of each room. The
building is not fire-proof, and although the specimens in it represent some
of the most valuable and important of the series, there is nothing to pre-
vent their destruction by fire. or injury from damp, vermin, or other
causes, a result which would constitute an irreparable loss.

As the four floors of the Armory referred to present 20,000 feet of
area, an estimate of 50,000 feet for the proper display of the specimens
now stored in them cannot be considered extravagant, thus making the
entire additional space required, 75,000 square feet. Only one-fourth of
the specimens in charge of the Institution are at present on exhibition,
the remainder being entirely withdrawn from public inspection, so that
the necessity for prompt effort to secure the proper accommodations will
be readily nuderstood.

There can be no question as to the scientific and industrial value of the
specimens thus added to the national collections, as they consist, not of
the ordinary objects of natural history alone, but of those which show
the natural and industrial resources of the country, and constitute, in
very great part, that material which to the American manufacturer and
producer is of the utmost value as constituting the objects of their
study. Indeed, their acquisition by the United States tends to render
the benefits of the international exhibition permanent to a great de-
gree; it is, therefore, of importance that, while the lessons of the ex-
hibition are still fresh in mind these objects should be exhibited and at-
tention invited to them. Numerous applications have already been made
for permission to make a study of the objects, which, on account of the
impossibility of furnishing space for unpacking them, for the most part
have been refused. The great number of duplicates, too, should be
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

distributed as speedily as possible to the various points throughout the
country requiring them. Of course, this cannot be done under present
circumstances.

Nature of increased accommodations required.-—In view of the fact that
the collections for which provision is needed represent a bulk of at least
three times the present capacity of. the Smithsonian building, it is evi-
dent that to accommodate these, and to make reasonable provision
for probable increase in the future, a building of great magnitude will
be required. If, however, this be constructed according to the usual
plan of Government buildings in Washington, the expense would be so
very great as to render it doubtful whether the necessary appropriation
can be obtained, and in any event the period of time required for com-
pleting the edifice would extend over so many years that the greater
part of the collections now boxed might be destroyed by rust, decay, the
attacks of insects, &c., while the country would lose the stimulus of the
exhibition and the benefits of its study.

Any new edifice should be in connection with the present Smithsonian
building, and, in a measure, form its extension, so that the entire Na-
tional Museum might be together, and a single supervision extended
over the whole.

After a careful consideration of the problems relating to the subject
of a building, a plan has been settled upon to be presented to Congress °
for its consideration, which, it is believed, embraces, in a very marked
degree, the requirements of economy, space, convenience, comfort, and
freedom from danger of fire. The idea of this was suggested by Gen-
eral Meigs as the result of his special inquiries into public buildings
and museums abroad, and the details have been worked out by Mr.
Cluss. This involves an edifice with a floor area 300 feet square,
and so arranged as to be capable of being excellently lighted. A concrete
floor is proposed, for the purpose of keeping out moisture and preventing
the lodgement of vermin, with brick walls and an iron, slate, or metal roof.
It is believed that such a building can be completed and provided with the
necessary heating-apparatus at a cost not to exceed $250,000, or about
$2.54 per square foot. By its simplicity and uniformity of acres e, and
the absence of cut-stone or carving, it is thought that the whole can be
completed and ready for occupation within ten months’ time from its
commencement.—sS. I’. BAIRD.

GOVERNMENT EXPLORATIONS AND SURVEYS.

The following are brief accounts of the principal explorations of the
Government in 1876, from which specimens will be derived for increas-
~ing the collections of the National Museum. They are furnished by the
several directors of the explorations.
1. Under Lieut. George M. Wheeler, Engineer Department, U.S. Army.—
The geographical surveys west of the one hundredth meridian, under
anal REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

First Lieut. George M. Wheeler, Corps of Engineers, United States Army,
and reporting to Congress through the Engineer Bureau of the War
Department, were begun in 1869. In that year the present officer in
charge, while making reconnaissances for routes of communication
through Southern Nevada, conceived the idea of extending the work to
other portions of the Military Department of California. A plan for
the prosecution of the same was presented while elaborating the results
of that year’s work. Lack of funds prevented operations in 1870, but
in 1871 parties again took the field in Nevada, California, and Arizona.

At that time the work received its principal support from the appro-
priation for ** Surveys for Military Defenses,” under which head it nat-
urally fell. In 1872, however, Congress appropriated special means and
amore complete organization was made, the survey being prosecuted
principally in Utah, but also in Arizona and Southeastern Nevada. In
1873 the character of the methods employed upon this work advanced
in proportion with the prospect of its development into an accurate
geodetic survey, extending over large areas. During this season many
points accessible to the telegraph were occupied for completing the sys--
tem, now extending from Eastern California, Nevada, and Northern Ar-
izona to the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains. In 1874, connection
between the east and west portions was made more perfect. In 1875
the operations of the survey were conducted in two divisions, designated
as the California and Colorado sections, the former acting in portions of
the southern sierras and extending from the branches of the coast-
ranges south of latitude 37°, eastward toward the Colorado desert,
while the latter expanded the finished area of 1873 and 1874 in Colo-
rado and New Mexico. :

The distribution of areas surveyed thus far is as follows:

Square miles,

in Nevada. .32 2 s)ocs 2% Lee eee eee oon aes ath ef OE
PEOBNOrNIA. 2). = fi. oe eS aE A ee ae eee 40, 625
In Arizona ..... eiein'c = oad neon pee eee Ae eset) waar 3 tS ob 60, 120
DENS OMOVHG, | 55's, 5 )4)0(5 fs) sine Lae pe ee a lershate sa oie oboe een 37, 500
[is N20 Sa ee a Siena y alae eicieusoe sehen Bre tae ees 44, 015
Pew oMeRIeO se J) x). s Vee a lebad whe mish cibee@ Se aeeeehe ae eae 53, 236

Square miles.

On a scale of 1 inch to 8 miles........ al tai pet ta ara abe AR an ear 192, 217
On aacale .of 1-inch.to 4 miles:).2.o:25.,2 wo at Bt es ee es tee ee 13, 028
On a scale of 1 inch to 2 miles....... odio bie NES alate See 1, 091

During the season of 1875 one party an the California section pontine
ued examinations for determining the practicability of diverting the
Colorado River for the purpose of irrigation. The report of Lieutenant
Bergland on this subject, and the information already submitted by the

officer in charge of the survey, are sufficiently full to place this matter
at rest for the present.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

Aside from the topographical work of 1875, gratifying results in eth-
nological research were obtained by a party of the California section
under Dr. H. C. Yarrow, detailed for that purpose. Extensive burial-
places were discovered, and it is estimated that the remains of no fewer
than 5,000 individuals were exhumed. The valuable collection made
has been submitted to Professor F. W. Putnam, of the Peabody Museum
of Archeology, for examination and study. Dr. Yarrow’s report fully
describes the explorations of this party.

The geology of portions of Southern California, Arizona, New Mexico,
and Colorado was examined and reported upon by Prof. Jules Marcou,
Dr. Loew, and Mr. A. R. Conkling. Professor Marcou makes valuable
additions to the knowledge of the field visited by him. Dr. Loew de-
scribes much of geological interest in his work of the year, besides mak-
ing a large collection of specimens. He also determines the chemical
composition of alkaline and other deposits, and of the waters of thermal
and mineral springs of Southern California, and analyzes the ores from
several mines. Mr. Conkling made a rapid and interesting examination

-of the mountain geology from La Veta Pass to the head of the Pecos
River. Much valuable mining information of a descriptive character
was obtained by the different parties.

The meteorological and hypsometrical methods, as described by Lieu-
tenant Marshall, show a commendable state of efficiency. The economic
botany and agriculture of Southern California received careful consider-
ation from Dr. J. T. Rothrock, acting assistant surgeon United States
Army, and his observations cannot fail to interest those in search of in-
formation regarding that country. In the field of zoology Mr. H. W.
Henshaw displayed his usual energy. During the season 700 ornitho-
logical specimens were secured, representing 127 species. The report
of this gentleman describes the habits, peculiarities, and localities of
these birds.

The operations of the season of 1876 were carried on in portions of
Colorado, New Mexico, California, and Nevada. The Colorado party,
traversing atlas-sheets 52, 53, 61, and 62, occupied 10 main and 51
Secondary triangulation stations, with numerous three-point, sextant
latitude, and meander stations, covering an area of 4,800 square miles.
The party in New Mexico, operating upon an area of 7,500 square miles
in atlas-sheets 62, 69, 70, 77, 78, and 84, occupied 15 triangulation, 191
three-point, and a large number of subordinate stations. Correspond-
ing results were obtained by each of the four parties acting in Nevada
and California. Base-lines were measured at Sutro, Nevada, and Colo-
rado Springs, Colo.

The working force of the season was disposed as follows: (1) the
California section, in charge of Lieutenant Wheeler, with its several
parties under the command of Lieutenants Tillman, Symons, Birnie,
and Macomb; (2) the parties of the Colorado section, under Lieutenants

s4
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Bergland and Morrison ; (3) the office force in Washington, temporarily
in charge of Mr. George M. Lockwood.

The two sections were rapidly organized, and, except in case of the
New Mexico party, were placed in areas readily approached, in order to
gain full advantage of the season, rendered necessarily short by the late-
ness of the appropriations. The results accomplished are of more than
usual value. The detailed topographical notes from that part of the
Sierra Nevada within which lies Lake Tahoe, surrounded by a
number of outlying miniature lakes, will admit of publication upon a
scale of 1 inch to1 mile. Minute topographical details, by the plane-
table method, admitting of reproduction on a scale of 1 inch to 500 feet,
if required, were gathered in the vicinity of Virginia City, Nev., by a
party dispatched thither for the purpose of measuring a base-line.

As the result of this season’s barometric work, 749 cistern-parometer
and 3,804 aneroid stations were occupied. The highest point reached
was Pike’s Peak, 14,150 feet; the lowest was Sulphur Springs, Nev.,
3,575 feet. Fourteen mining-camps were visited.

During the past year the following publications have been made: 1
progress-map; 2 crayon atlas-sheets; 7 topographical atlas-sheets; 6
geological atlas-sheets; map of Lake Bonneville, (restored outline of
an ancient fresh-water lake;) preliminary report of 1869, revised edition ;
annual report of 1876; Volume III (Geology) of general report; Part
I (Invertebrates) of Volume IV, (Paleontology;) and Volume V,
(Zoédlogy.) Progress has also been made upon Volumes I, I, VI, and
VI, and it is expected to have the MS. of three of them in the hands of
the printer at an early date. The manuscript for Catalogue of Declina-
tion of 2,018 stars has gone forward.

The small amount of the appropriation did not admit of the employ-
ment of the usual number of geologists, zodlogists, &c., but Mr. A. R.
Conkling, as geological assistant, and Mr. H. W. Henshaw, as zoological
collector, accompanied the California section. Observations in geology
were confined chiefly to the eastern and western summits of the Sierra
Nevada Range. Abundant e. idence of the former existence of glaciers
is found in the mountains on the southwestern side of Lake Tahoe. Gla-
cial scratches were observed on Tallac Peak. Vast surfaces of rock
have been polished and grooved by these moving masses of ice, and well-
marked terminal moraines are seen on the southern banks of the lake.
Some very picturesque lakes occur in front of Tallac Peak, and, accord-
ing to Prof. Jos. Le Conte, who has studied this region carefully, these
lacustrine areas have been scooped out by glacial ice.

Near Lick’s Point, Lake Tahoe, a compact phonolite is found. The
northern side of the lake is bounded by granitic ridges. Inthe Eastern
Summit there are several ore-deposits. The principal mines are the
Montreal, Emerald, Niagara, and Clear Creek Caiion. The Carson
Valley contains numerous hot springs, and several basaltic buttes oecur
on the plain of Carson City. About one mile east of the town a mass
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ot

of yellow sandstone outcrops, which is fossiliferous, the bivalves of the
genus Unio being very numerous.

The work of Mr. Henshaw, collector in zodlogy, was mainly confined
to the vicinity of Carson City, Nevada, and the region contiguous to
Lake Tahoe. In the character of its avian fauna the pine region of the
eastern slope of the Sierras was found to nearly resemble that of the
western side, and some birds, distinctively Californian in nature, were
ascertained to range down to the foot-hills on the borders of the sage-
brush plains of Nevada.

The fish of the various streams and lakes of this well-watered region
received careful attention, and extensive collections were made. Speci-
mens of such insects as remained at this late season were collected, and,
though the results are not large, it is more than probable that they in-
clude a number of novelties, especially among the Orthoptera.

The section of country visited will prove of most value for timber,
grazing, and mineral purposes, as in most instances the altitude of the
high interior mountain-ranges precludes the certainty of crops, even
where there is arable ground. In favorable exception to this rule, how-
ever, may be noted the land in proximity to Honey Lake, in the north-
ern part of the California area, and on either side of the Rio Grande,
below Albuquerque, in New Mexico.

An important feature of the present stage of the survey results from
the instructions which require each chief of party or topographer to
take notes sufficiently detailed to permit the plotting, upon resource-
sheets, of the limits between arable, irrigable, grazing, mining,and timber
lands, indicating, also, those absolutely barren. In the office, in addition
to the regular geographical atlas-sheets, certain preliminary maps have
been arranged, from which will be prepared colored sheets, upon which
areas will be so delineated as to readily convey to the eye the general
capabilities of the section embraced. These delineations, together with
the tabulated results of the season’s observations, will give a complete
account and almost perfect idea of the natural resources of the country
and its availability for agricultural, mining, and grazing purposes, and
will graphically separate the arid, barren, and otherwise worthless tracts
from the better land. In future operations it is intended to procure
complete statistics on these important points, and the material of former
years having been digested, the comparison of large areas will then be
practicable. In addition to the data disclosing the natural resources,
the direction of drainage, with basin perimeters, will be indicated, and
the amount of rain-fall determined as nearly as practicable. The sheets
and tables will then furnish fair data for deciding upon the feasibility
of irrigating by canals, reservoirs, and artesian-wells. These maps will
be completed as rapidly as the limited force and relative importance of
different portions of the work will allow.

Through an inadvertence on page 56 of the Annual Report of the In-
stitution for 1875, it is stated in relation to geographical surveys west
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the one-hundredth meridian, that connection was had with the base-
line measured by Captain, now Brig.-Gen. E. O. C. Ord, near Los An-
geles, Cal., in 1854. The ‘‘base” in question was measured in April and
May 1853, by Assistant George Davidson, United States Coast Survey.

2. The work of the United States Geological and Geographical Survey of
the Territories, under the direction of Professor Hayden, during the season of
. 1876.—The United States Geological Survey for the season of 1876 was
divided by Dr. Hayden into five parties for field-work. The late date
at which the appropriation was made available delayed the commence-
ment of the work until late in August, so that only the completion of
the atlas of Colorado was attempted and successfully accomplished.
The work of 1876 was therefore a continuation westward of that of the
three preceding years, finishing the entire mountainous portion of Col-
orado with a belt of Northern New Mexico, 15 miles in width and a
breadth of 25 miles, of Eastern Utah, and also a rectangle of Arizona, 15
by 25 miles. The areas of exploration are located in the interior, remote
from settlements and largely on the reservation for the Ute Indians. Each
party was assigned a special area for examination, which was so selected
‘as to connect with each other topographically. The common point of
departure was Cheyenne, in Wyoming Territory.

The main division or party of primary triangulation was under the
charge of A. D. Wilson, and accompanied for part of the season by Dr. F, ’
VY. Hayden, director of the survey. The object of this party was to com-
plete the primary triangulation of Colorado. The field was taken at Trin-
idad, the southern terminus of the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad, and
the first station was made on Fisher’s Peak, a point near Trindad.
' Marching thence westward through the Raton Hills, a station was made
on Culebra Peak, one of the highest points of the Sangre de Cristo
Range. Crossing the range, the next point was Blanca Peak, the
highest peak in Colorado, one of the Sierra Blanca group of the San-
gre de Cristo Range. Its elevation is 14,464 feet above sea-level.
From the Sierra Blanca the party proceeded westward across the San
Luis Park and up the Rio Grande to its source, making two stations on
the way, one near the Summit district and the other on the Rio Grande
Pyramid. From the head of the Rio Grande the Continental divide
was crossed, and the next station made on La Plata Peak in the La
Plata group of the San Juan Mountains. From this point the party
turned northwest, traveling across the broken mesa country west of the
Dolores, making three secondary stations to complete the topography
omitted in 1875 on account of the hostility of the Indians. After occu-
pying the highest point of the Sierra Abajo, one of the isolated moun-
tain-groups of the plateau region, they went eastward to Lone Cone,
where another station was made. Thence they proceeded northward, via
the Uncompahgre agency, crossing the Gunnison and Grand Rivers to
the ; lateau region at the head of White River, a branch of the Green.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

The final station was made between the White and Yampah Rivers,
in the northwestern corner of Colorado. In the two months he was in
the field Mr. Wilson traveled 1,400 square miles, finished about 1,000
square miles of topography, and also made eleven geodetic stations,
connecting by a system of primary triangles the whole of Southern
and Western Colorado with the triangulation of the previous years.
Mr. W. H. Holmes accompanied the triangulation-party as geologist.
From the rapidity with which they were obliged to travel he was unable
to do much detailed work, but he had an excellent opportunity to cor-
relate the formations of the plains east of the mountains with those of
the pleateau region on the west. As he had previously surmised, he
found the structure of the Sierra Abajo to be identical with that of the
other isolated mountain-groups to the south and east of the Abajo in
in his district of 1875. A mass of trachyte has been forced up through
fissures in the sedimentary rocks, and now rests chiefly upon the sand-
stones and shales of the Lower Cretaceous. The sedimentary rocks are
arched from the intrusion of wedge-like sheets of trachyte, and the bro-
ken ends of the beds are frequently bent upward, as if by the upward
pressure of the igneous mass. The division left the field about the 12th
of October at Rawlins Springs, in Wyoming Territory.

The Grand River division was in charge of Henry Gannett, topog-
rapher, with Dr. A. C. Peale as geologist. James Stevenson, executive
officer of the survey, also accompanied the party a portion of the season.
The party took the field at Cation City, August 23, and marched west-
ward to the Uncompahgre agency, a few miles east of the lower dis-
trict assigned to the division. The country assigned to it for explora-
tion consisted of two detached portions, one of about 1,000 square miles,
lying south of the Sierra la Sal and east of the Sierra Abajo, extending
eastward to the Rio San Miguel and southward as far as the latitude of
Lone Cone. The other lay north of the Grand River, extending from
the river to the crest of the Roan or Book Cliffs. Its eastern limit was
the meridian of 108° and the western 109° 30’, comprising about 3,000
square miles.

Work was commenced in the southern district early in September.
The country surveyed is entirely made up of broken plateaus, almost
without water, except in the Dolores.and San Miguel Rivers, and sev-
eral smaller streams. It has very little agricultural value, but portions
of it would make fair winter-ranges for stock. The region, however, is
geologically interesting, on account of several folds which, with the
subsequent erosion, have beautifully exposed the several formations.
Coal occurs at several places in the Cretaceous rocks, and on the Uncom-
_pahgre River, a few miles above the agency, there is semi-anthracite
coal. Gold placers have been discovered on the San Miguel River,

- and in the mountains south of the district prospecting has been vigor-
ously prosecuted. This portion of the San Juan wining region bids fair
to become one of the most important and successful districts, as indi-
cated by the developments already made.
Cy

4 REPOR! OF THE SECRETARY.

The northern area is occupied by the valley of Grand River and the
foot-hills of the Roan Plateau, forming the Book Cliffs. The valley of
the Grand extends down the north side of the river for upward of a
hundred miles, with an average widtb of 10 miles, and is at present
about as valueless a piece of country as there is in any part of the
West. There is no good water except in the Grand, which is in low cation
most of its course and consequently difficult of access. The soil is a
bluish-gray alkaline clay, derived from the weathering of Cretaceous
shales, which, when dry are deep and powdery, and when wet become
a mud of almost incalculable depth. There is but little vegetation of
any kind. Part of the valley might be irrigated from the river and
thus become of value. The geology is comparatively simple, the differ-
ent formations dipping away from Grand River in regular order from
Triassic to Green River Tertiary, the latter forming the summit of the
cliffs. Coal oceurs along the cliffs, but at no locality visited was it of
economical importance. The most interesting discovery was that of
asphaltum springs, on the southern side of the crest of the Roan Pla-
teau. The mineral tar flows from fissures in Tertiary sandstones and
hardens as it pours down the walls of the cafons on which it occurs.
About a dozen of these springs were noted, some of them in connec-
tion with sulphur springs.

The party, after finishing the northern area, started for Rawlins, on the
Union Pacific Railroad, which they reached October 23, having been in
the field two months. In that time they traveled about 1,100 miles,
locating 55 topographical stations, and surveying 4,000 square miles in
about 35 working days, the rest of the time being occupied in marching
to and from and between the districts.

The White River division was directed by George B. Chittenden, as
topographer, accompanied by Dr. F. M. Endlich, as geologist. The dis-
trict assigned to this party began on the east at longitude 107° 30’,
joining the work previously done, (1874,) and extended westward to lon-
gitude 109° 30’, or about 27 miles over the Colorado line into Utah. Its
southern boundary was north latitude 39° 38’ or the approximate line
of the Book Cliffs, while the White River formed the northern limit.
The area surveyed comprised about 3,800 square miles. In working up
the topography of this district the party spent 48 days of absolute field-
work, made 4i main topographical stations and 16 auxiliary ones, and
traveled within the district about 1,000 miles. The country has bith-
erto been almost entirely unexplored, and had been described by the
nearest settlers as a broken cation country, extremely dry.. It was
marked on the maps as a high, undulating plateau, with fresh-water
lakes and timber. The party saw no lakes of over 400 yards diameter,
and but two or three of these, and timber was rather the exception.
The country is nearly all inhabitable, both winter and summer, and
considerable portions of it are valuable. About three-quarters of it is
within the limits of the Ute Indian reseivation.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

The general topography is a gentle rise from White River toward the
south, and asudden breaking off, when the divide is reached, into rugged
and often impassable cliffs, known on the maps as the Roan or Book
Mountains. The gentle plateau slope of the White River slope is cut
by almost numberless and often deep cations, and in many cases the
surface of the country has been eroded away, leaving broken and most
picturesque, the lower benches generally covered with cedars and
pions, and the upper rich in grass. There are four main streams
draining into the White, the most eastern of which is a large running
stream. The second has in summer no running water for the greater
part of its course, although pools of good water may be found in its
bed. The third is for the most of its length a mere trickling stream of
alkali water; while the fourth and most western one is dry for 25 miles
from its mouth and then forks, one branch containing good water in
pools, while the other is a running stream of bitter alkali. The trails
generally keep on thc summits of the ridges to avoid crossing the nu-
merous canons. Geologically speaking, the district is one of singular
uniformity. Traveling westward, the older formations, reaching back
as far as the Triassic, were found. These were followed by Cretaceous,
which in turn was covered by Tertiary. About three-quarters of the
region surveyed is covered with beds, belonging to the latter period,
dipping gently from the summit of the Book Cliffs northward. Owing to
the lithological characters of the strata, water was a rare luxury in most
parts of the district. In the far western portion and outside the limits
of the reservation, one large vein of asphaltum and several small veins
were found, with, also, running springs of the same material, all of
which, if once reached by railroads, will prove of great commercial
value. At present, they are about 50 miles from white settlements and
100 miles from the nearest railroad communication. Work was com-
pleted October 14, and the party marched eastward through Middle
Park, to Boulder City, Colo., having been in the field rather more than
two months.

The Yampah River division, in charge of Gustavus Bechler, with
Prof. C. A. White as geologist, reached the field late in August. The
district assigned to the party for exploration is virtually the northwest-
ern corner of Colorado, embracing also a small belt of country lying in
Utah. The Bear or Yampah River forms the natural boundary of this
area on the north as the White does on the south; both tributaries to
the Green and eventually of the great Colorado of the West. Their
course in general is westward through the whole extent of the district.
The eastern and western limits of the district are the same as those of
the White River district, which lies immediately to the south of the
Yampah district. Between the two rivers the country is composed for
the greater part of plateaus or table-lands, which, according to their
elevation, have the features of high plateaus, terraces, benches, and oft-
sets. This belt of country is about fifty miles in width. It is cut by
56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

dry cafons and gorges, with scarcely any grass or timber. From the
White River agency, White River takes an almost due west course for
about eighteen miles, most of the way through an open valley, with
here and there a few narrow gorges. About fifty miles below the agency
the valley opens into a broad barren expanse, with scanty vegetation.
Soon after the river enters a canon, the walls of which increase until it
flows into the Green.

The Yampah deviates but seldom from a westerly course. Like
the White, it flows through a plateau country, which rises gently
from the river back for a distance of about eight miles. South of
the river are the Williams River Mountains. The Yampah traverses
the country more or less in a canon, occasionally emerging into open
grassy valleys. Where the Snake, one of its tributaries, comes in there
is a park about 8 miles in length from east to west, surrounded on all
sides by eroded terraces and plateau spurs that rise by steps to the
divide on either side. Leaving this park, the river enters a huge fissure,
and continues in caiion until it joins the Green, in longitude 109° 40/
and latitude 32° N. After the Yampab joins it, the Green also con-
tinues in cafion for the greater part of its length. All these rivers have
numerous branches from both sides, forming deep caons the greater
part of their length. As a-whole, the district is very arid and barren,
and almost destitute of trees. The total area surveyed by Mr. Bechler
is about 3,000 square miles. The rocks of the district, studied by Dr.
White, the eminent paleontologist, embrace all the sedimentary forma--
tions yet recognized by the investigators who have studied the region
that lies between the Park Range and the Great Salt Lake, viz, from
the Uinta quartzite (which underlies the Carboniferous) to the Brown’s
Park group, or latest Tertiary, inclusive. Much information was also
obtained concerning the distribution of the local drift of the region, the
extent and geological age of outflows of trap, &c. The brackish-water
beds at the base of the Tertiary series, containing the characteristic fos-
sils, were discovered in the valley of the Yampah. They are thus shown
to be exactly equivalent with those from the valley of Bether Creek, in
Wyoming Territory. The work of the past season shows very clearly
the harmonious relations of the various groups of strata over vast areas;
that, although there may be a thickening or a thinning out of beds at
different points, they can all be correlated from the Missouri River to
the Sierra Nevada Basin. Dr. White remarks that the line between the
Cretaceous and Tertiary epochs must be drawn somewhere, but that it
will be strictly arbitrary, as there is no well-marked physical break to
the summit of the Bridger group.

The Zodlogical division was in charge of Dr. Elliott Coues, U.S. A.
The party left Cheyenne on the 15th of August, and traveled westward
to Laramie Plains and thence southward into and through North Park.
From North Park they proceeded to Middle (Egan) Park, and finally
returned to Cheyenne via Berthoud’s Pass and the plains east of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5T

mountains. Collections in various departments of zodlogy were made
along the whole route traversed, but particularly on and near the Rabbit
Ear range of mountains; and careful observations were taken of the
various zodlogical phenomena which presented themselves. The collec-
tions have been deposited in the National Museum, with the exception
of the osteological material, which has been donated to the Army
Medical Museum. The material secured will become the basis of Dr.
Coues’ reports upon the zodlogy of the region explored. In the gen-
eral field-work the zodlogist in charge was ably assisted by Mr. L. M.
Cuthbert, of Washington, and Mr. W. W. Karr, of Memphis.

The Photographic division of the survey did not take the field during
1876, partly on account of the lateness of the season, but also in part
because of the accumulation of office-work. Mr. Jackson, the photog-
rapher, remained in Washington during the summer engaged in arrang-
ing the collection of Indian photographs and preparing material for the
publication of a historical and biographical catalogue of photographs of
seventy-five tribes of the North American Indians.

The survey, in addition to its field-work, prepared an exhibit for the
International Centennial Exhibition. The exhibit was divided into
models, maps, photographs, publications, sketches, and pictures in
water-colors, and chromos, and specimens. There were two classes of
models, one representing geological structure and the other the ancient
ruins of Southwestern Colorado and portions of adjacent territories.
One of the latter class represents a two-story cliff-house of the Rio Man-
cos of Colorado. It is built in the crevice of the rock, 800 feet above the
valley, in an almost inaccessible situation. Another model represents
the ruins of a double-walled tower, a form of building that seems to have
been common among the ancient inhabitants of the region. There were
also two models of a cave-dwelling of the Rio de Chelly of Northeastern
Arizona, one representing the ruins and the other their ideal restora-
tion. The geological and topographical models were as follows: Two
of the Elk Mountains, one of them being divided into sections, showing
the internal structure of the range, and the other showing only the to-
pography and geology, the latter represented by colors. The maps on
exhibition were topographical, geological, and hypsometric. The pho-
tographs and positives on glass represented the scenery and ruins of
the West and the hot springs of the Yellowstone National Park. Full
Sets of the reports, with sketches in color of scenery and in crayon of
Indians, and also specimens from the Yellowstone hot springs, added to
the exhibit.

During 1876 the following publications were issued by the survey :

- Bulletins, volume ii, (Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4,) comprising over 300 pages,
with 110 illustrations.

Eighth Annual Report, (Colorado and adjacent territory,) 515 pages
and 88 illustrations.

Monograph of the Geometrid Moths, by A. 8. Packard, jr., 607 pages

and 13 plates.
58 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Invertebrate Paleontology, by F. B. Meek, 629 pages, with 85 wood-
cuts and 45 plates.
Catalogue of Publications, second edition.

3. Exploration of the Rocky Mountain Region by Prof. J. W. Powell.—
As soon as the appropriation for the fiscal year of 1876~77 could be
used, the surveying corps left Washington and proceeded to the rende-
vouz camp at Gunnison, Utah, where the field parties were organized
under the general superintendence of Prof. A. H. Thompson, geogra-
pher of the expedition. While en route they were joined by Capt.
Clarence E. Dutton, of the Ordnance Department, U. 8S. A., who had
been assigned for duty on this survey by the Secretary of War, and di-
rected to make an examination of the immense fields of igneous rocks
in Southeastern Utah.

The field organization as finally completed differed somewhat from that
of previous years—the geographic and geological work being assigned to
separate parties, each practically independent in all movements, though
working under the same general plan and within the same territorial
limits. It is believed that better results can be and have been secured
by this separation of distinct branches of the. survey than by the old
method of attaching a geologist to a geographic party or a geographer
to a geological party.

Five parties were organized—one under Prof. A. H. Thompson, to
continue the triangulation; one topographic party under Mr. Walter
H. Graves, another under Mr. John H. Renshaw; one geological party
under Mr. G. K. Gilbert, another under Capt ©. E. Dutton.

The party under Professor Thompson continued the expansion of the
primary triangulation resting on the base-lines measured in preceding
years at Kanab and Gunnison, Utah. The area embraced in this sea-
son’s work amounts to about 10,000 square miles, the instrument used
being a ten-inch theodolite of peculiar construction, designed especially
for this work by Professor Thompson.

Topographic party No. 1, in charge of Mr. Graves, extended the
secondary triangulation over an area of 6,000 square miles, lying be-
tween the Wasatch Mountains on the west, and the Green and Colorado
Rivers on the east. Mr. Graves also made a complete plane-table sketch
of the country surveyed, which, taken in connection with his angles for
locations and perspective profile sketches, will enable him to construct
a map of his district on a scale of 4 miles to the inch. The principal
topographic characteristics of this region are long lines of unscalable
cliffs, the escarped edges of terraced plateaus, of which the country is
composed, and deep, narrow cations with vertical walls, both presenting
well-nigh impassable barriers to travel.

The only considerable bodies of irrigable lands found are along the
valleys of the Green and San Rafael Rivers. The only timber-lands are
on the Sevier plateaus at an elevation of from 8,000 to 11,500 feet.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5g

The work of topographic party No. 2, under Mr. Renshaw, was con-
fined to Southwestern Utah and Southeastern Nevada, one of the most
rugged and barren sections in the Great Basin. The methods of survey
were the same as adopted by party No. 1, except that perspective pro-
file sketches were made by the aid of the orograph, a newly designed
instrument that promises to be of great use in topographic surveying.
The work of Mr. Renshaw and his able assistant, Mr. O. D. Wheeler,
was extended over about 4,000 square miles. In all this area no con-
siderable bodies of irrigable lands are found; probably not one-half of
one per cent. possessing any value except for pasturage.

A topographic survey of the Henry Mountains was made in 1875, and
a map constructed on a scale of 4 miles to the inch, but this being
thought too small a scale to admit of correct representation of the details
of the geology, Mr. Gilbert, in addition to his geological work, made
a more detailed survey of the topography, carrying a complete system
of secondary triangulation and a connected plane-table sketch over more
than 1,000 square miles. The data collected are sufficient to make a
topographic map of the Henry Mountains on the scale of 2 miles to the
inch, or 1-63000. /

The Rocky Mountain Region of the United States, (not including
Alaska,) or that portion west of the meridian of 99° 30’, was by a for-
mer Secretary of the Interior divided into districts for surveying and
mapping purposes, and these districts numbered ; the area of each dis-
trict is 24 degrees in longitude, and 14 degrees in latitude. The region
of country surveyed by the parties under the direction of Professor
Powell is embraced in districts numbered 75, 85, 86, 95, 96, 104, and 105,
the first five lying directly west of the region in which Dr. Hayden ‘is
engaged, while districts 104 and 105 lie immediately south of the other
districts in which he himself has been at work. During the earlier part
of his work, before these districts were established by the Department,
Professor Powell’s work extended in an oblique direction from northeast
to southwest along the general course of the Green and Colorado Rivers
through the districts above designated, but the work was in such condi-
tion that no one district was complete. During the present season his
parties have been engaged in extending the survey over the unsurveyed
fractional districts, so that final and complete maps of each may be con-
structed.

The methods of survey during the present season are essentially the
same as those employed during the last, being modified to a slight
extent as experience has suggested ; the chief improvements are in the
method of triangulation. In addition to the determination of geodetic
positions and general geographic features, the system of classifying the
Tands inaugurated in former years has been continued during the present,
the object of this classification being to determine the extent and posi-
tion of the irrigable lands, timber lands, grass lands, mineral lands,
and waste lands; the latter being composed of rugged mountains and
60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

desert plains. The practical importance of this classification, if carefully
made, is great, not only in presenting the information desirable to those
who wish to settle in the country, but also in the collection of facts
neccessary to intelligent legislation concerning these lands.

In the region embraced in this survey a very small portion of the
country can be redeemed by irrigation for agriculture, and no part of it
can be cultivated without irrigation. It appears from the reports that
less than one per cent. can be thus made available. Especial care has
been given to the determination of the extent of such lands, so as to
exhibit their position on the maps. These irrigable lands and timber
lands, together with some small districts of coal-bearing lands, are the
only parts of the country that should be surveyed into townships and sec-
tions.

Having in view economy and convenience in the linear surveys of this
district, the geodetic points of the general geographic survey under the
direction of Professor Powell have been carefully marked, that they
may hereafter be used as datum points by the officers of the General
Land Office.

Extensive coal-fields exist in the region surveyed, but, as in many
other parts of the world, these coal-fields are of practical value at com-
paratively few places. The general characteristics of these coal-fields
have been the subject of much investigation, and some very interesting
and valuable results have been reached ; these will appear in the final
reports. The quantity of available coal is practically inexhaustible,
and the mines that can be economically worked are of great number.

In the Uinta Mountains silver and copper mines have been discovered
and worked by private parties. The extent of these silver and copper
bearing rocks has been determined, but their value can be established
only by extensive working.

Mr. G. K. Gilbert devoted much of his time to the study of the struc-
ture of the Henry Mountains, of which enough had been. learned in the
preceding season to warrant the belief that they embodied a type of
eruption hitherto unknown. The attention given to them has been. am-
ply repaid by the elucidation of the manner of their constitution. They
are volcanic, but their lavas, instead of finding vent at the surface of
the ground and piling up conical mountains thereupon in the usual man-
ner, ceased to rise while still several thousands of feet underground, and
lifted the superincumbent strata, so as to make for themselves deep-
seated subterranean reservoirs, within which they congealed. Over
each of these reservoirs the strata were arched and a hill or mountain
was lifted equal in magnitude to that which would have been formed if
the lava had risen to the surface; but the material of the hill was sand-
stone and shale instead of hard volcanic rock, Subsequent erosion has
carried away more or less completely the arching strata and laid bare
many of the intrusive masses. It has revealed also a system of reticu-
lating dikes which go forth in all directions from the main masses, inter-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

secting the sedimentary rocks. The lava masses, the dikes, and those
portions of shale and sandstone which have been metamorphosed by
contact with the molten rock, are harder than the unaltered sedimentary
strata which surround them, and yield to the agents of erosion more
slowly. The wash of rain and streams by which the face of the sur-
rounding country has been degraded, has been resisted by these hard
cores, and in virtue of their obduracy we have the Henry Mountains.
The deposits of lava are not all in juxtaposition but are scattered in
clusters, and each cluster has created a mountain. Mount Ellen consists
of a score of individual lava masses ; Mount Pennell and Mount Hillers
of one principal mass, accompanied by several of minor importance;
-Mount Holmes of two masses; Mount Ellsworth of a single one, with
many dikes and sheets. Each of the mountains is individual, topo-
graphically as well as structurally, and together they constitute a group
of mountains, not a range. Mr. Gilbert’s note-books contain many
sketches, by the aid of which he will be able to illustrate all the features
of the peculiar types of structure.

Before commencing the main work of the season, Mr. Gilbert made
an excursion in search of the outlet of Lake Bonneville, the great fossil
lake of Utah. During an epoch which was probably coincident with
the glacial epoch, the broad interior basin of Utah was covered by a
great lake which overflowed its rim and sent an outlet to the ocean by
way of the Columbia River. When the climate became gradually
warmer and drier, the evaporation grew greater and the rain-fall grew
less, until finally the overflow ceased and the lake began to dry away
and shrink within its shores; to-day only Great Salt Lake and Sevier
Lake remain, but high up on the mountain is carved the Bonneville
Beach, a permanent record of the old flood-tide. The search for the
point of outlet was successful, and it was found at the north end of
Cache Valley, a few miles beyond the boundary of Utah, in the Terri-
tory of Idaho. The bed of the outflowing stream was traced for a num-
ber of miles. The beach-lines were seen to run quite to the pass through
which the channel was cut, but beyond, on the side of the drainage of
the Columbia, no trace of them could be seen.

Of no less interest was the discovery of a recent orographic move-
ment at the western base of the Wasatch Range. A great fault runs
along that base; one of the faults by which the mountains were pro-
duced. The block of the earth’s crust which lies to the westward of the
fault-planes was dropped down, and the block which lies to the east-
ward was lifted up, and from the eastward block subsequent erosion
has carved the range. Along the plane of ancient movement there has
been a recent movement. The mountain has risen a little higher or the
yalley floor has dropped a little lower, and this so recently that the
‘Bonneville flood is ancient in comparison.

Capt. C. E. Dutton resumed this year his study of the large area
of igneous rocks in Southern Utah, in the vicinity of the Sevier River,
62 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and has brought back additional information which he purposes em-

ploying in the preparation of a monograph of the entire tract. He has

worked out the structure of the component features, and the approxi-

mate area of the eruptions, and is engaged in classifying the various
lithologic members. The older outbreaks appear to he of early Tertiary

age, (Kocene,) and to have been nearly continuous through a long
period. The volcanic beds thus formed were subsequently traversed by
great faults, and tables were uplifted, with deep valleys between them;

the structure thus produced conforming to the general type prevalent
throughout the plateau country. The degradation of these long lofty
tables gave rise to conglomerate beds of great extent and thickness,
which are composed entirely of volcanic materials. Captain Dutton
has compared the details and arrangement of these conglomerates with
the alluvial beds now accumulating in great volume in the valleys out
of the waste of the adjoining tables, and finds an agreement between
them so close that he ascribes the same mode of origin to both. He
also finds considerable metamorphism not only in the underlying sed-
imentary beds (early Tertiary) but in the superposed conglomerate;
and he thinks it must have occurred comparatively near the surface.
The greater portion by far of the erupted rocks he classes as trachytes
and trachydolerites. The rhyolitic varieties are of very limited occur-
rence, being found only in the vicinity of the Beaver or Tunbar Range.
In the southwestern part of the field (near Panguitch) extensive fields
of basalt are found. Captain Dutton distinguishes two ages of the
basalt; one prior to the development of the present structural features
of the region, the other subsequent to it—the former being more prop-
erly dolerite or anamesite, the latter typical basalt.

Under instructions from the Interior Department, Professor Powell
and his parties have also been engaged in general ethnographic work
in the Rocky Mountain Region. One of the special items in these
instructions was the classification of the Indian tribes, such classification
being not only of scientific interest, but of great importance in the
administration of Indian affairs. For the eastern portion of the United
States this work had been accomplished—first by the unofficial labors
of the Hon. Albert Gallatin, and subsequently by the Hon. Henry R.
Schooleraft, as an officer of the Government; and some addition had
been made to the work by various persons for scientific purposes.
This work has been renewed by Professor Powell, and has been pushed
with all the energy possible with the funds at his command, and a
large amount of material has been collected by himself and by members
of his corps, and by residents in and travelers through the country.
In addition to this a large amount had been collected by the Smith-
sonian Institution through various channels—materials as yet unpub-
lished. That Institution has placed all this matter in the hands
of Professor Powell to be combined with his own collections. The first
volume of the reports on this subject will soon be issued. It treats of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

the tribes of Alaska, the western half of Washington Territory, and
Northwestern Oregon, and is accompanied by maps exhibiting the
geographic distribution of the tribes of these regions. A second volume
on the tribes of California has also been sent to the Government Printer,
which will be succeeded by others as rapidly as they can be prepared.

Dr. Elliott Coues, U. 8. A., is engaged on a ** Report on the Birds of
the Valley of the Colorado,” based primarily on the collections made by
the several parties under Professor Powell’s direction. This report was
sent to the Government Printer early in the spring, and about 200 pages
have already been set up.

Mr. L. F. Ward, the botanist of the corps, assisted by several gentle-
men of scientific ability in this department, has been engaged during
the entire year in the preparation of a “Report on the Botany of the
Valley of the Colorado,” which is now nearly ready for publication.

CONCLUSION.

From the foregoing report I trust it will be evident to all inter-
ested in the prosperity of the Institution that the establishment is still
successfully prosecuting the plan best adapted to realize the intentions
of its founder, that its funds are in a good condition, and that its repu-
tation and usefulness have suffered no diminution since the date of the
jast report.

Respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
WASHINGTON, January, 1877.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD ON THE CENTENNIAL
EXHIBITION OF 1876.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, January, 1877.
Sir: I beg leave to present a statement of operations for 1876 con-
.neeted with the Smithsonian department of the United States Centen-
nial exhibit, in continuation of that given in the annual report of the
Smithsonian Institution for the year 1876.

At the end of the year 1875 the preparations for the exhibit referred
to were in full operation, involving a great deal of arduous labor, for
the purpose of having everything m readiness by the 10th of May, the
date of the opening of the International Exhibition.

As originally authorized by you, the display to be made by the
Smithsonian Institution was to include, first, the mineral resources of
the United States; second, its animal crite and third, its eth-
nology.

The superintendence of the mineral section was intrusted to Prof.
William P. Blake, of New Haven, a gentleman of much experience in
such labors and familiarly acquainted with the mining industries of the
United States generally. By visiting different localities, especially in
Michigan, Missouri, and elsewhere, and by the efforts of several assist-
ants, among them Mr. Charles M. Shepard, Mr. Howe, Professor Brod-
head, and Professor Hitchcock, supplemented by an extensive and
laborious correspondence, he succeeded in securing for the Institution
a very full display of ores, building-stones, clays, &c.

The arrangement made with Mr. Thomas Donaldson to gather a full
series of the ores of the precious metals of gold, silver and mereury.
from the Western States and Territories also continued to be highly
productive, Mr. Donaldson personally visiting a great number of mining
localities, and obtaining a full series of specimens, many of them rich
in bullion and thus of very considerable commercial value.

In no ease was either he or Professor Blake called upon to pay money
for any article, no matter what its intrinsic value, the specimens being
contributed by the owners of the mines with the understanding only
that they were to receive a suitable display in the Government exhibit
and subsequently in the National Museum in Washington.

Most of the material of these collections was sent directly to Phila-
delphia, only one of at least thirty car-loads of mineral matters being
shipped from Washington.

In addition to the objects just referred to, arrangements were effected

64
r
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

with several State commissioners for the exhibition in the Smithsonian
mineral department of collections made by them to illustrate the
resources of their several States, and which were delivered in the build-
ing free of cost and for the most part provided with the necessary cases
and without expense to the Centennial fund. Chief among these was
the exhibit of the State of Nevada, which was of very great extent and
made under the supervision of Mr. Whitehill, the State geologist.

A collection from Montana, made under the direction of Mr. Wool:
man, came next in interest and importance. General Wilder presented
@ series of the ores and building-stones of Tennessee in great variety,
and Mr. Joseph Wharton furnished a large quantity of raw material
and finished products connected with the nickel industry. Under the
supervision of Dr. E. R. Beadle, Dr. Koenig, and Mr. Wilcox, a very
valuable loan collection of the principal minerals of the United States
formed part of the Smithsonian exhibit.

The animal division was under the special charge of Mr. G. Brown
Goode and included the subject of the fisheries of the United States,
for which special provision. was made in the congressional appropria-
tion.

Mr. Goode prepared, with great labor, a classification of the objects
necessary to constitute such an exhibition, which was printed by the
Interior Department as No. 6 of the Bulletins of the National Museum
and widely circulated.

In addition to the objects purchased or presented to this series, sev-
eral very valuable collections were lent by various parties. Among
them may be mentioned a great variety of nets by the American Net
and Twine Company of Boston; an extensive series of apparatus used
by the angler, by Messrs. Bradford & Anthony, of Boston; of North
American furs, by Messrs. Charles Herpich & Co., of New York;
polished Unio shells from Dr. Miller and Mr. Schaffer, of Cincin-
nati, &c.

Here, as in the case of the minerals, the donations and loans were so
numerous as to render it impossible to mention them in a brief report
like the present.

The ethnological exhibit was made under the auspices of the Indian
Bureau of the Interior Department, the funds necessary for the purpose

being supplied from its share of the Centennial appropriation.

_ The preparation for the exhibition and the arrangement of the col-
lection were under the direction of Dr. Charles Rau, assisted by Mr.
F, H. Cushing. The collections in the field were made by Messrs. James
G. Swan, in Alaska and Washington Territory; by Mr. Stephen Pow-
ers, in California and adjacent States; by Major J. W. Powell, in
Arizona, Utah, and Colorado; by Messrs. Stephen Bowers and Paul
Schumacher, on the coast of the Pacific and California.

A large number of loans, especially of stone implements, &c., were

$5
66 CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION,

made by various gentlemen throughout the country, who were interested
in rendering this portion of the general exhibit complete.

The Government building was completed and. turned over to the ex-
ecutive board on the 1st of March, although the Smithsonian division
was occupied by Professor Blake prior to this with a portion of the
mineral display.

The shipments to Philadelphia from Washington began on the 20th
of April, and a very large force was necessarily engaged for a time in
the Government building in putting up the cases, for the most part
manufactured in Washington, and in unpacking and arranging the col-
lections. The contents of eighteen cars were loaded in Washington,
forwarded to Philadelphia, and unpacked, between the 20th of April
and the 1st of May, several car-loads following in the latter month.
The total number of car-loads sent from Washington amounted to
twenty-two, while nearly forty full or partly full loads were sent from —
other directions, principally containing minerals.

In arranging the various specimens in the Government building, Pro-
fessor Blake, for the mineral section, was assisted by Mr. Donaldson,
Mr. Adams, Mr. Thompson, and, for a time, by Mr. Draper.

The animal and fishery sections were placed in order by Mr. Goode,
aided by Messrs. Chester and Brown, and the ethnological by Dr. Rau,
assisted by Mr. Cushing; all the departments having many laborers and
other assistants.

On the 10th of May, the opening day of the International Exhibition,
the greater part of the Smithsonian and Fish Commission collections
was in place, although still requiring some subordinate arrangement;
and it may here be stated, generally, that the Government exhibit was
far more nearly ready on that day than any other in the Centennial
Exhibition—those of the War and Navy Departments being entirely in
order. By the 1st of June, all the collections of the Institution were in
place, the specimens labeled and everything in satisfactory condition.

In obedience to your instructions, I left Washington on the 31st of
May, to take direct charge of all the branches of the Smithsonian and
Fish Commission divisions, assisted in their respective sections by
Messrs. Blake, Goode, and Rau. Mr. Goode, however, was unfortunately
soon obliged to leave, in consequence of the illness caused by overexer-
tion, and his place was not supplied. ;

Numerous collections of various kinds were added throughout the -
season of the exbibition, partly in continuation of the special researches
instituted by the Smithsonian Institution and the Indian Bureau, and
partly by individual contributions. A very attractive feature of the
Fish Commission section was a succession of fresh fish, supplied by Mr.
EE. G. Blackford, the well-known fish-dealer of Fulton Market, New York,
who made special arrangements to secure all the varieties of Ameri-
can food-fishes, sending them in ice to the Government building and
delivering them there without any charge whatever. Here they were
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

shown in two immense refrigerators—one contributed by Mr. Alegretti
and one by Mr. Banta, each having its peculiarities. Here were exhibited
day by day not fewer than two hundred varieties of American fishes.
Some of the fish were kept on exhibition in a frozen condition during
the entire period of the Centennial display.

My own work I found very arduous, in consequence of the large
amount of correspondence, the number and complexity of accounts, and
the constant stream of visitors. To this was added service on two of the
groups of judges—one that of the fisheries and the other the supplemen-
tary group, instituted toward the close of the exhibition, to take cogni-
zance of exhibits which claimed consideration for award from having
been overlooked when the first series of judges prosecuted their labors.

It may be readily imagined that, however arduous the duties of the
position assigned me at the Centennial, thesassociations were extremely
agreeable, in view of the large number of intelligent and scientific men
among the judges, both American and foreign, and the gentlemen con-
nected with the several commissions with whom I was brought in contact.
The relations to the United States Centennial Commission were also ex-
tremely pleasant, the director-general, the president, and the officials
generally doing all in their power to facilitate the labors of the Govern-
ment board.

It is with much satisfaction that the members of the executive board
have been able to report to their respective chiefs the fact that the col-
lective exhibition made by the Government, under their charge, was
considered the most satisfactory and instructive display of all those
shown at the International Exhibition, both as respects extent and
variety, and the thoroughly systematic and convenient arrangement and
labeling of the collections. A printed catalogue wascontemplated and
the manuscript for the same prepared, bat the Centennial appropri-
ation would not admit of the cost. An application was therefore made
to Congress for an order to print this catalogue, but failed to receive
consideration in the closing hours of the session.

The exhibition closed on the 10th of November, in accerdance with
the original plan, or in six months from its opening, and, as is known to
every one, it continued to increase in interest until the final day. The
unusual heat of the summer deterred many persons from visiting it at
that season; but with the cooler weather of the late summer and
autumn the aie was immense, and the general result, both as to the
number of visitors and the receipts, was unexampled in the history of
similar exhibitions.

Some time before the close of the exhibition intimations had been
made by numerous exhibitors, both foreign and domestic, of a design to
make various donations of material to the United States ; but the exact
magnitude of these accessions to the collections displayed was far from
being anticipated. As it proved, not only did many private individuals
contribute their collections to a greater or less extent, but objects from the
exhibits of various States were presented, notably from those of Michi-
68 CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.

gan, Ohio, Indiana, Tennessee, &c., in addition to the collections from
Nevada, Utah, and Montana, already mentioned as included in the
Government series. It was, however, by foreign nations that the most
important donations were made, their commissioners, with few excep-
tions, presenting either the whole or a large part of their animal-, vege-
table-, and mineral-, and to a considerable extent their industrial ex-
hibits. An accompanying list expresses in general terms the character
of the objects received from the different parties, but no adequate idea
can be formed of the whole until the collection is re-arranged in a suit-
able building in Washington.

The suggestion of the President of the United States that acknowl-
edgment be tendered by Congress to the foreign commissions which
havé made such remarkable donations to the people of this country is
oue eminently worthy of consideration.

No provision was made by Congress for the reception of the new
material referred to, beyond an appropriation, to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, for the repair and fitting up of the Armory building to receive
them in Washington ; and as the Institution is only required to take
charge of ‘ objects of nature and art, of foreign and curious research,
of natural history, mineralogy and geology belonging to the United
States,” when the same shall be ‘‘in the city of Washington,” it was a mat-
ter for consideration to what extent it would be proper to use the funds
appropriated by Congress for the Centennial Exhibition in receiving
and taking charge of such objects.

In view of their relation in most cases to subjects covered by the
Smithsonian exhibit and of the manifest discourtesy of rejecting and re-
fusing to receive such articles, I asked and obtained your permission to
take charge of them, and immediately set to work a large force in trans-
ferring them from the various buildings to the Government building.
This foree was engaged in the transfer almost uninterruptedly from the
10th of November, the closing day of the exhibition, until the middle of
February. The expenses of cartage alone to the Government building
exceeded a thousand dollars, some of the specimens being of great mag-
nitude and weighing several tons.

Simultaneously with the employment of the transfer parties, another
force was occupied in packing the collections in preparation for ship-
ment, the additions thus made being estimated to require from forty
to sixty freight-cars for their accommodation.

Reference has already been made to the expressions of interest in the
Government exhibit and in its transfer in bulk to Washington and
reproduction there. This idea was broached at an early period and its
importance urged by many influential newspapers.

The National Academy of Sciences at its meeting in October directed
its president to memorialize the President of the United States on this
subject, and, this having been done, His Excellency directed that all oper-
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

ations looking toward the transfer of the collections to Washington be
suspended until Congress might take such action as it deemed proper
in regard to the subject. This order was subsequently modified by
allowing the removal to Washington of such objects as were needed for
the use of the Departments and all such specimens as were liable to be
injured by the cold and dampness which prevailed throughout the
building after the 10th of November.

In view of the fact that the building, having been sold, was delivera-
ble to the purchaser on the 1st of March, on the 19th of January, 1877,
a final order was issued by the President directing the transfer of all the
articles to Washington, there to be stored in some suitable place or
places, pending congressional action.

I remained in direct charge of the operations of receiving, packing,
&e., until the 9th of December, when, in obedience to your instructions,
I returned to Washington and left Mr. Daniel Leech, of the Smithsonian
Institution, to direct future operations, assisted by Messrs. Chester and
Brown, the mineral collection still remaining under Professor Blake’s
special administration. These gentlemen have been diligently occu-
pied in the interval in packing the objects and in forwarding them to
Washington as fast as suitable cars could be obtained, and it is expected
that the entire series will be in Washington by the 10th of February.

It was extremely fortunate that Congress gave to the Institution the
use of the armory building, an edifice 100 by 50 feet in dimensions, and
with four floors, of 5,000 square feet each, as without it it would have
been entirely impossible to provide for one-fourth of the collection. It
was intended originally that the armory should serve as a supplement
to the Smithsonian building by exhibiting on two of its floors the fish-
ery and mineral collections, but it was soon found that any idea of a
display there must be abandoned and the building used exclusively
for the storage of objects in boxes. It is now being rapidly filled on all
its floors in this way, and any attempt at an exhibition of its contents
must be deferred until a suitable building can be constructed for the
purpose.

An extension of the National Museum by the construction of additional

wings, or other buildings, in connection with tbe Smithsonian edifice
has long been in contemplation, as for many years it has been impos-
sible to show many of the most interesting objects belonging to the
United States for want of suitable space. The Centennial collections,
however, being added to the former stock, has precipitated the crisis
in this respect and rendered it necessary that some special arrangement
be made at an early day for the accommodation of the entire series.
. The entire capacity of the Smithsonian building is now 25,000 feet of
floor space. The collections exhibited by the Institution at the Centen-
nial, covered about 34,000 feet of fluor. The donations at the close of
the exhibition will certainly require 24,000 feet, while articles stored in
the basement, and never shown at all, call for at least 20,000 feet.
70 CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. ~

It is thought, however, that these additional collections may be con-
densed into a space of, perhaps, 50,000 feet, although the aggregate space
already mentioned would be much better suited to the exigencies of the
case, and itis therefore to be hoped that Congress will, at an early day,
take action in reference to a new building, which, of course, will be most
conveniently placed in connection with the Smithsonian edifice.

This should be constructed as cheaply as possible, consistent with the
demand for space and protection against the elements and fire. It is
thought that by laying a concrete floor on the ground, using brick walls
and piers and a roof with iron beams, and wooden sheathing covered
with tin, these requirements will be most readily met. Several plans
have been proposed for this building, some one of which it is hoped will

find favor and be adopted.
In a series of accompanying papers, I beg to present a general ac-

count of the Government exhibit, a statement of the contributions from
foreign governments, and a separate list.of the more important contri-
butions of mineral objects from American sources. .
The alphabetical list of contributions to the National Museum for the

year 1876, will also show the many smaller donations that have been
made to its several departments.

T have the honor to be, very respectfully,

SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Representative of the Smithsonian Institution and of the
Department of Food-Fishes in the Government Centennial Board.

Professor JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

GENERAL ACCOUNT OF THE GOVERNMENT CENTENNIAL
EXHIBIT; BY PROFESSOR BAIRD.

Appropriations by Congress in acts of March 3, 1875, and July 19, 1876.

March 3, | July 19, Total

1875. 1876,
SV AL Department's. as acienomocs weseacdscucocieuesneee Ree eae eer eee $133, 000 $151, 500
NY Department... sos. ccscecosconcues con seee Cot RE REN EEE Sane RoeeEre 100, 000 100, 000
anterior Department. .:2.sccdeneecscontccess seo beee sere eee oe poner 115, 000 130, 000
Rroasury Department... . ise cce ke ces ac cannon ene boote Cee eneee cone 5, 000 19, 000
WostOitice Denartment, .- ...<2secescs coc cuss st nae ote eee eee 5, 000 5, 000
Apiicaltural.Department ..- o2..c2cc cesea tes ent Cec eEE eee UCeeee eee 50, 000 50, 000
Smithsonian Institution .;.-- 2-5-2024 d as ee ae ee ee | 67,000 88, 000
United States Commission of Food-Fishes. ...........-..-e--ceeeeeeeee- 5, 000 10, 000
For show-cases, shelving, stationery, &0 ......2cesce--sccccnenvencenes- 25, 000 , 000

505,000 | 73,500 | 578, 500
4

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. TE

PREPARATION FOR THE EXHIBITION,

Erection of building—A committee of the board of the respective De-
partments, was appointed to take into consideration all the matters
relating to this building, and to consider plans for the same; and from
several offered them, that of an edifice in the form of a cross, designed
by James H. Windrim, of Philadelphia, was selected. The floor of this
occupied 102,840 square feet, of which 20,840 was taken up by passages,
leaving a space remaining of 82,000 square feet for exhibition purposes.
It was completed and ready for occupation March 1, 1876, on which
date it was accepted by the board. The space assigned to each Depart-
ment was as follows:

Feet

REM PRC AP ETMIGIIL Simin fei ~| ojne'= veer sniee \claiais’e seks Sulalee dielcee Mele 11, 200
ORE TIAEEIMIOEN D-  sio a cite nc elles aw/aleis sepa cewles seaeed mectas 10, 400
aE EV eMC AL TIVCNG is vise 2 esitie s le/sals da e's es a alrees aoate ce 3, 000
Sern? Denarliment.\ fous ayes as ose eae cae otoelns combate 6 3, 800
Interior Department....... SES BSE SHOES OOO EE DEO OnE Le 20, 600
Agricultural Department................. Seoals sete card eetaee ae 6, 000
eee ON He IS CULULIOM, 2 20% vices ac ote evs tiacicec dane e dae ee tual 20, 600
es PRM CHARITIES AION C8 S-<e Ave ate widiwlwia'a eae’a'aln Uiv.ce bale Delage ee be omens 6, 000

81, 600

The original contract for the cost of this building was $67,201.61, but
subsequent changes somewhat increased the amount. These, with other
expenses, such as grading the grounds, &c., made the total amount to be
deducted from the available fund, and divided pro rata among the vari-
ous Departments, with the exception of the Treasury and the Commis-
sion of Food-Fishes, about $94,000, leaving about $411,000 for the actual
purposes of the display.

The building was entirely of wood, and of course liable to damage
from fire. A careful guard was, however, maintained, and no accident
of any kind occurred during the exhibition.

EXHIBIT AS MADE.

Completeness on opening-day.—Although the time at the command of
the board for the preparation of the exhibit was short, and the amount
of money appropriated to carry out the plans of the several departments
was considered by them insufficient for the purpose, on the opening-day
of the exhibition most of the articles were in their places, this: being
especially the case with those of the Army and Navy; and the remain-
der were ready within the course of a few weeks later, In this respect
the Government display was in advance of those in the other buildings,
the internal arrangements of which were more or less incomplete for a
long time after the 10th of May.

Summary of exhibits in the different sections.—~The collections, as finally
arranged, consisted essentially of the following elements:
72 CENTENNIAL -EXHIBITION.

A.—The War Department.

1. The Signal-Service Bureau.—In this was shown the apparatus of
the Signal-Office proper, with its field telegraph and wagons, instru-
ments, &c., and that of the weather-observation division, with its self-
registering and other meteorological apparatus. Here observations
were made and recorded, and a copy of the daily weather bulletin
posted. ;

2. The Ordnance Bureau.—Here were shown all the machinery, in work-
ing operation, for the manufacture of cartridges and of the Springfield
rifle, together with a series of models of ordnance of different patterns,
shot, shell, &c., and outside the principal building was a laboratory
for illustrating the methods of testing ordnance and powder.

3. The Quartermaster’s Department.—This displayed specimens of the
uniforms of soldiers at different periods in the history of the American
Army, the horse-equipments, tents, blankets, &c., as also a veterinary
display illustrating the diseases of horses’ feet.

4, The Engineer Bureau.—Here were shown models of river and har-
bor improvements, including that of the excavation at Hell Gate, sam-
ples of maps and charts issued by the bureau, &c.

5. The Medical Department.—The exhibit of this department of the
Army consisted of a model hospital of the size and equipment of those
of usual construction at military posts. Here were the appliances used
for keeping and transporting sick and wounded on land and water, the
medicines used in the Army, surgical apparatus, and photographs and
engravings illustrating the surgical history of the Army, &c.

B.—The Navy Department.

1. Navy Ordnance Bureau.—In this section were exhibited the differ-
ent large and small arms used by the Navy at present and in the past,
illustrations of the torpedo system, &c.

2. Bureau of Steam-ELngineering.—This embraced specimens of the dif-
ferent forms of engines used in naval vessels.

3. The Bureau of Construction and Repair.—This exhibit included two
large working models of the Antietam, one fifty feet long, and serving ©
as a trial-ship for the cadets at Annapolis; also a model of a newly-con-
structed monitor, and a full-sized monitor-turret, with its guns, was dis-
played outside of the building.

4. Bureau of Yards and Docks.—This showed various models of the
different dry-docks belonging to the United States Navy.

5. Bureau of Medicine and Surgery.—This presented an exhibition of
the various drugs, medicines, food, &c., as prepared for use on ship-
board, together with all the equipments of naval hospitals, models of
hospital-ships, &c.

6. Bureau of Equipment.—Here was shown ships’ galleys, boat -Stores,
uniforms of the Navy in different periods of its history, specimens of
rope, bunting, signals, and various patterns and forms of flags.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF -THE SECRETARY. 43

7. Bureau of Hydrography.—The most interesting portions of this
was the collection of articles illustrating the various polar explorations
of Kane, Hayes, and Hall; also specimens of charts prepared by the
Hydrographic Office, compasses, sounding apparatus, and the apparatus
used in the observations of the transit of Venus by the American par-

ties.
C.—Treasury Department.

1. The United States Coast Survey, and Bureau of Weights and Meas-
ures.—In this were shown a series of the weights and measures of the
United States, and the very complete apparatus used in the measure-
ment of base-lines for surveys. <A series of the reports of the office,
and of its maps and charts, was also displayed.

2. Light-House Board.—In this were shown the different lanterns
used for purposes of illumination; the different oils, wicks, &c.; models
of light-houses, light-ships, &c. Outside of the building was erected an
actual light-house, in full working order, and lighted every night; as
also a fog-trumpet or syren of enormous power, capable of being heard
at a distance of many miles. This was used to indicate the time daily
for the opening and closing of the Centennial Exhibition.

3. Revenue Bureau.—In this were shown the specimens of all the
forms of revenue-stamps, and the apparatus used in gauging, &c.

4, Bureau of the supervising Architect of the Treasury.—In this, models
of various public buildings were shown.

Specimens of United States currency, bank-notes, &c., were also
shown by the Treasury Department, as also a complete life-saving
station, with boats, Xe.

D.—Post- Office Department.

In this portion of the building was held the Centennial branch of the
Philadelphia post-office, fully meeting the needs of the Centennial Ex-
hibition, and kept up several weeks after the close. Here were seen in
operation machines for making stamped envelopes, samples of locks,
bags, &c., and two first-class railway postal cars.

E.— Department of the Interior.

1. Bureau of Education—In this division were shown models of
school-houses from different parts of the country and different periods
in our history ; school-furniture; apparatus for educational purposes ;
samples of school-drawing and articles used in object-teaching ; illustra-
tions of the progress of the Indian tribes in education and civilization.
._ 2, Census Bureau.—This presented the original schedules of the cen-
sus of 1790, 1840, and 1870, illustrating the progress of the country by
the comparative magnitude of the records.

3. The Patent-Office—In this was shown a selection of models from
the Patent-Ofiice, illustrating the more important stages of develop-
74 CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.

}
ment in the industrial and economical arts from the beginning of the
Patent-Oftice system to the present day, as also a cgmplete set of publi-
cations of the office.

In connection with this display were arrangements for illustrating
the actual methods by which patents are issued in the United States,
from the first application for the purpose to its entire completion. In
the Patent-Office section were also shown a variety of historical relics,
including articles of clothing once owned by Washington, as well as his
camp furniture and equipage.

4, The General Land-Ofice exhibited its series of maps, especially one
of very large size, constructed expressly for the purpose, and showing
the present condition of the land-office system over the whole United
States.

5. The Indian Bureau.—This display, which was made in co-operation
with the Smithsonian Institution, contained illustrations of the aborigi-
nal inhabitants of the United States, both ancient and modern; speci-
mens of their stone implements and pottery ; their weapons and domes-
tic utensils; their ornaments and articles of religious observance, &ec.

6. Pension Office.

7. Geological Surveys of the Territories —Here were exhibited models
in relief of areas of the western country, and of ancient ruins, trans-
parent and other photographs of scenery, antiquities, and Indians,
books, maps, charts, &e.

F.— Department of Agriculture.

1. Chemical section —In this were shown the soils, rocks, marls, fertil-
izers, agricultural products and their derivatives, samples of food, such
as flour, sugar, &c., products of dry distillation of wood, preparations
of oils, &e.

2. Natural-history section.—This exhibited birds, insects, and other
animals injurious or beneficial to the farmer, and included a series of
300 engraved plates to illustrate a work on the economical entomology
of the United States; also models of, different fruits and vegetables,
and sections of 400 species of North American woods, with their leaves
and fruits, as wel as a series of vegetable fibers, with their applications.

5. Statistical section.—In this were shown charts and maps of the
farm-lands, the distribution of forests, and the regions suitable for the
cultivation of various staples. There were also many engravings of
agricultural colleges, &e.

G.—The Smithsonian Institution.

This illustrated, first, the operations of the Institution itself; second,
that of the National Museum of the United States under its charge.

1. The Smithsonian Institution.—This display contained a full series
of all the publications of the Institution and charts illustrating its system
of international exchanges, with a set of large charts, showing the mean:
temperature and the rain-fall in the United States.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75

2. National Museum, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion—In the museum section were shown collections illustrating the
economical mineral wealth of the United States, in a series of ores of
the precious and baser metals and their metallurgy, including specimens
of the metals and their simple applications; the materials used in the
manufacture of glass, such as sand, soda, &c.; and the earth and clays,
with their applications in tiles, terra-cotta, bricks, and pottery; the
different varieties of coal, petroleum; samples of the principal build-
ing stones, as marble, granite, &c.

The animal section contained, first, representations of the animals of
the United States of economical importance to the country, as furnish-
ing food, ivory, bone, leather, glue, furs, bristles, oil, &c.; second, the

apparatus by which these animals are pursued and captured ; third, the
means by which they are utilized for the wants or luxuries of man when
taken; fourth, specimens of the products of such utilization and their
simple applications ; and, fifth, the methods by which they are protected
and multiplied.

H.—The United States Fish Commission.

In this was shown a series of models in plaster or papier-maché of
the principal fishes and cretaceans of the United States, and photographs
and original drawings of the same, as furnishing oil, bone or manure,
together with the apparatus of pursuits and capture; models of boats
of different styles of construction, and special illustrations of the whale-

fishery, Also the methods of fish-culture, in illustrations of hatching-
boxes, carrying-vessels, models of fish-ways, &c. This display and that
of the animal department of the Smithsonian exhibit were more or less
united, and illustrated not only the methods and appliances of civilized
man in this connection, but also those of the American savage.

Public opinion in regard to the Government exhibit—As already re-
marked, the officers in charge of the Government exhibit were unable
to make it as complete as they had hoped, on account of the reduced
appropriation for the purpose; but as it was, it was considered by all
visitors as decidedly the best part of the International Exhibition, in
view of the extent and exhaustiveness of the collection and the method
and order of its display.

No special catalogue of the Government exhibits was printed, au-
thority not having been obtained from Congress for the purpose, al-
though a very full catalogue had been prepared.

The building was constantly the resort of intelligent visitors from all
parts of the world, and a great many critical reports have been pub-
lished already in foreign journals in regard to this display. Professor
Archer, one of the chief commissioners from Great Britain, in a lecture
recently delivered before the Society of Arts in London, uses the fol-
lowing language, in speaking of the United States Government building
and its annexes:
76 CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.

“This group consisted of a very large edifice, in the form of a cross,
erected by the United States Government at a cost of $60,000, and, in
addition, @ laboratory, for illustrations of arsenal work, and a model
mnilitary hospital, which was of great practical utility anne the exhi-
bition. Within the chief building was displayed most interesting and
instructive collections, illustrative of the work of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, and the general and geological surveys of the States, the mine-
ral, zoological, and botanical collections connected with those surveys,
and also most important ethnological and prehistoric collections. The
great collection of food-fishes of America, made for the fishery commis-
sion by Professor Baird, with the appliances for catching and preserv- .
ing fish; also series illustrating the various naval and military weapons
and engines, and’ machinery for arsenal work ; and, lastly, a complete
display of all the applications in the postal department of the States.
The general arrangement of the contents of this large building, cover-
ing about two acres, was most satisfactory, and had been carried out
under the most competent scientific supervision ; hence it was felt to be
the most instructive portion of the Centennial Exhibition. It brought
into full view a great mass of the intellectual work of some of the great-
est of American workers in the fields of science.”—Journal of the Society
of Arts, December 22, 1876.

These suggestions were based upon the exhibit as actually made and
which closed with the expiration ms the Centennial Exhibition, on the
10th of November.

DONATIONS TO THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

After the close of the Exhibition a new element was introduced into
the question of the transfer of the Government collections to Washing-
ton and their arrangement for inspection and study, namely, the dona-
tion to the United States of many objects or entire collections, that had
been displayed elsewhere in the Exhibition than in the Government
building. These were derived from two sources :

Ist. From American State commissions and private exhibitors, by
whom much material of great value was presented and tending to fill
up important blanks.

2d. From the commissions of the several foreign governments parti-
cipating in the International Exhibition of 1876.

The experience of previous expositions had indicated the probability
of contributions from the latter source, and to meet the expected emer-
gency Congress at its last session granted the Armory building to the
National Museum, and made an appropriation for the purpose in the
following words:

“For repairing and fitting up the so-called Armory building, on the
mall, between Sixth and Seventh streets, and to enable the Smith-
sonian Institution to store therein, and to take care of specimens
of the extensive series of the ores of the precious metals, marbles,
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

coals, and numerous objects of natural history now on exhibition in Phil-
adelphia, including [any] other articles of practical and economical value,
presented by various foreign governments to the National Museum,
four thousand five hundred dollars: Provided, That the said sum shall
be expended under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution.”

The contributions from the States were of very great value; Nevada,
Utah, Montana, Tennessee, &c., presenting most valuable series of their
ores, while an aggregate of much magnitude was received from indi- .
viduals ; minerals, metals, ores, building-stones, coals, pottery, &c., all
being included. It was, however, from the foreign commissions as
above referred to that the greatest mass was derived, so that, although
the gift of some articles was anticipated, the members of the Govern-
ment board were not prepared for the wholesale donation of by far the
greatest portion of the collective exhibits made by foreign nations, as
well as those of many of their individual exhibitors. Among these may
be mentioned specimens of mining and metallurgy, ores, metals, com-
bustibles, building-stones, earths, clays, tiles, terra-cotta, and pottery;
vegetable products, as samples of woods, fibers, seeds, medicinal plants,
&c., furs, skins, gelatine, samples of industrial products in the way of
woven and plaited fabrics, objects in metal, wood, glass, earthen wares,
illustrations of manners and customs, &e.

List of countries from which donations were received.—The nations from
which were received the collections in question are the following:

Argentine Republic. Russia.
Austria. Spain.
Africa, (Orange Free State.) Philippine Islands.
Belgium. Sweden.
Brazil. Switzerland.
Chili. Tunis.
China. Turkey.
Egypt. United Kingdom and Colonies.
France. Bermuda.

- German Empire. Canada.
Hawaiian Islands. New South Wales.
Japanese Empire. New Zealand.
Mexico. Queensland.
Netherlands. South Australia.
Norway. Tasmania.
Pern. Victoria.
Portugal. Venezuela.

_ The commissions which are not included in this list had nothing at
their disposal, their exhibitions consisting either purely of private ma-
terial reclaimed or otherwise disposed of by their owners, or, as in the
case of several British colonies, of articles borrowed from the colonial
museum in London and necessarily returned there.
78 CENTENNIAL. EXHIBITION.

Assignment of collections received.—W hile no special authority had been
given by Congress to receive these articles, it was not considered proper to
refuse them, and they were accordingly taken charge of by the several de-
partments of the Government to which they were most nearly related. An
exhibit of the iron, chain-cables, cordage, &c., of the naval department of
Russia was received by the representatives of the Navy Department. To
the Bureau of Education was delivered everything of an educational char-
acter. The Department of Agriculture received the articles belonging to
the vegetable kingdom, suchas sections of wood, fibers, grains, seeds, &c.,
while articles belonging to the mineral and animal kingdoms, and as
illustrative of the manners and customs of the people, were taken by the
Smithsonian Institution, and objects relating to the fisheries by the
United States Fish Commission.

Accompanying com munications from some of these departments give
in fuller detail the character of these donations. Suffice it to say, that so
far as the Bureau of Education, the Department of Agriculture, the Smith-
sonian Institution, and the Commission of Food-Fishes are concerned,
the collections promise to exceed in magnitude their own Centennial ex-
hibitions

PROPOSED TRANSFER OF THIS COLLECTION TO WASHINGTON.

General feeling on the subject—The interest in the exhibition of the
Government very naturally suggested to many the importance of trans-
ferring it to Washington and maintaining it in its original form, and
numerous suggestions and earnest appeals to that effect have already
appeared in the public press. This feeling met with special expression
in a resolution of the National Academy of Sciences, at its session in
Philadelphia in October; and in compliance with its instructions, Pro-
fessor Henry, its president, transmitted to the President of the United
States the following communication :

‘¢ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
““ Washington, D. C., November 13, 1876.
“To His Excellency the President of the United States ;

‘Str: I have the honor to inform you that at a meeting of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, held in October last, the following preamble
and resolutions were unanimously adopted:

‘*¢ Whereas the members of the National Academy of Sciences have
been greatly impressed by the extent, rarity, and richness of the truly
national collection contained in the Government building at the Centen-
nial Exhibition, and considering the great importance and lasting in-
terest with which the people of the United States must regard this col-
lection: Therefore,

“ ‘Resolved, That in the opinion of the Academy the Government col-
lections as a whole should be transferred to Washington, and there pre-
served in an appropriate building for perpetual exhibition.

“Resolved, That the Academy entertains the hope that the President
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79

of the United States will favor the foregoing proposition; that he will
delay the dispersion of the exhibit from the several Executive Depart-
ments until Congress has assembled, and that he will recommend to
that body to provide for the transfer of the Government collection to
the city of Washington, and for its subsequent permanent support.’

“In transmitting these resolutions to your Excellency, I beg leave, in
favor of the proposition, to suggest, first, that the exhibit would form a
fitting memorial of the centennial condition of the country; second,
that it would illustrate in a striking manner the appliances used by the
Government in carrying on its various and complex operations; third,
that it would be a repository in which the natural resources of each
State would be exhibited; fourth, that it would give information, in
one view, of importance to the statesman, legislator, scientist, educator,
and the capitalist of our own and of foreign countries ; fifth, it would be
of interest to the intelligent public at large, and would meet the appro-
bation of all who regard the prosperity of the country, and take pride
in the condition of the national capital.

‘Tn conclusion, it may not perhaps be improper to remark that I do
not advocate this proposition for the purpose of extending the power
and influence of the Smithsonian Institution. On the contrary, I think
the exhibit should be made a truly national one, and be immediately
under the control of the Government.

*‘T have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

“JOSEPH HENRY,
“President National Academy of Sciences.”

Economical value of the collection—Embracing as these donations do
the essential portion of the displays of foreign nations, such as their
natural products, general industries and educational and scientific
methods, &c., it is clearly evident that the element of the Centennial
Exhibition of most importance to the American people, has thus been
left to it, in the closing of the Centennial, and if properly administered
must conduce in a very great degree to the material and mental ad-
vance of the nation. By re-arranging it in a systematic manner, in
connection with the articles already shown, a most instructive and im-
portant museum can be made available to the people of the United
States. We are assured that no such collection as this is to be found
in any part of the world; and it is very doubtful whether it can ever
again be reproduced, as many of the nations represented at the Centen-
nial have intimated their intention of not taking part in the Paris or
any future exposition.

Distribution of duplicates —As might be expected, a large amount of
duplicate material accompanies these donations to the United States
from American and foreign sources, which, when a final arrangement is
accomplished, can, if Congress so direct, be distributed to various edu-
cational and industrial establishments throughout the United States.

Commercial value. —The expenditures of the United States, for an ex-
80 CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.

hibition lasting but six months have amounted to nearly $600,000. The
donations from our own States and individuals, tending to fill up
some of the gaps and complete the American display, which an insuf-
ficient appropriation interfered with, and those from foreign nations
which have been given to the United States, can hardly be considered
as overvalued at $400,000, and we therefore have an aggregate of prop-
erty, in value, of at least a million of dollars to provide for.

Future increase of collections.—Promises have been made by most of
the foreign commissions to complete any portion, illustrating the natural
products and industries of their respective countries whenever the
arrangement of the collection shows the deficiencies.

Action of the President in regard to transfer.—In view of the magnitude
of the collections thus acquired by the United States, and the inad-
equacy of any present provision for their transfer to Washington, and
their arrangement here, as also in view of the urgency of the appeal
of the National Academy of Sciences, the President, under date of
November 17, 1876, issued an order forbidding the removal of the articles
in the Government building until some arrangement could be made
in regard to them. This order was subsequently modified by allowing
such objects as were required for the use of the Government in Wash-
ington or elsewhere, to be transferred, as also such as were liable to
deeay or injury by remaining in a building exposed to cold and damp-
ness. The greater part of these articles are now stored in the Govern-
ment building at Philadelphia, waiting some action on the part of Con-
gress.

Demolition of Government Centennial building soon required.—As the
contract made by the park commission with the Centennial Commis-
sion requires the removal of all the buildings within 60 days of the close
of the exhibit, it is necessary to take speedy action on this subject;
and if Congress does not see fit to erect a building at the present time
for the proper display of the collections, measures must at any rate be
authorized for their removal to Washington, and their storage in some
safe place, as the appropriations made to the Government board did not
contemplate these foreign and domestic donations in their enormous.
aggregate, and are entirely inadequate to handling them. The articles of
this character, in charge of the Smithsonian Institution alone, will, it is
stated, fill fifty freight-cars to their utmost capacity, in addition to the
collections ._prepared by the Institution directly for the exhibition, and
moved from Washington to Philadelphia in the spring of 1876.

As the Government building embraced an area of about 100,000
square feet, it is evident that one of less magnitude would not suffice
for the reproduction of an exhibit of the original and acquired material.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, PHILADELPHIA, 1876.

The United States Centennial Commission has examined the following
reports of the judges and accepted the following reasons, and decreed

an award in conformity therewith.
FRANCIS A. WALKER,

Chief of the Bureau of Awards.

Given by authority of the United States Centennial Commission.
A. T. GOSHORN,
Director-General.
J. R. HAWLEY,
President.
J. L. CAMPBELL,
Secretary.

REPORT ON AWARDS.

I.—PUBLICATIONS, COLLECTIONS IN NATURAL HISTORY,
AND ARCHAEOLOGY.

TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D. C.

“The importance of the scientific work done by the Smithsonian In-
stitution and the great value of its publications are everywhere ac-
knowledged. The exhibits representing its museum, now known as the
‘National Museum,’ are very extensive and of very high merit. This
statement is made, not without regret that the funds of the Institution
are inadequate to a yet larger work in the many important fields it has
occupied, and in the hope that, to the end of such enlargement of its
labors, the Government of the United States will early relieve the In-
stitution of the necessity to use any portion of a fund consecrated to
‘the increase and diffusion of knowledge’ for the maintenance of a mu-

seum intended primarily to represent the resources of the United
States.”

IL—MAPS, BOOKS, AND COLLECTION OF THE ANIMAL AND
MINERAL PRODUCTS OF THE UNITED STATES.

TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D. C.

“‘Its successful efforts for the increase and diffusion of knowledge, as
shown by its researches, publications, and system of international ex-
changes, and its display of the animal and mineral resources of the
United States.”

S 6
82 INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, PHILADELPHIA, 1876.
ILI.

TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NATIONAL MUSEUM, AND COMMIS-
SION ON AMERICAN FOOD-FISHES, WASHINGTON, D. C.

‘‘ For a very superior scientifically and practically arranged display of
the vast natural resources of the United States, embracing animals
beneficial or injurious to man, means of pursuit and capture, means of
utilization, animal products and their applications, protection and cul-
ture of useful animals. Collections illustrating the mineral wealth of
the United States, systematically arranged. Geological maps and pub-
lications and collections of ethnological objects of the greatest interest
for this branch of science.”

IV.—ORES AND MINERALS.
TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D. C.

‘‘Commended for a very full and instructive collection of the ores and
minerals of the United States, and for the admirable order and arrange-
ment of the exhibit.”

V.—COLLECTION OF BUILDING-STONES.
TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D. C.

‘‘ For the magnitude of the exhibit and the excellent quality of many
of the marbles, granites, &c., exhibited.”

VI—SKINS AND FORS.

TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NATIONAL MUSEUM, WASHING-
INGTON, D. ©.

“This Institution, which in a collective exhibit shows the most com-
plete and systematic display of the various series and grades of excel-
lence in crude, dressed with long hairs, plucked, and dyed fur-seals of
Alaska and South Pacific, as well as other furs.

‘*We consider also as a duty to mention the names of the gentlemen
who selected their finest specimens and placed them at the service of
the Institution. Among them we mention Mr. Chas. A. Herpich, of
New York; M. Treadwell and Company, of Albany; Mr. Bowsky, of
New York; and Renfrew and Company, of Canada.

“It is very interesting to see how far this industry was brought in the
United States, and as a show for public instruction the Smithsonian
exhibit is a true success.”
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, PHILADELPHIA, 1876. 83
VIL—FOOD-FISH.
FOOD-FISH COMMISSION OF THE UNITED STATES, WASHINGTON, D. C.

‘“For-its unique character, its scientific arrangements, the complete-
ness of its illustrations, and its economical value.”

VIII.—CASTS OF AMERICAN FISHES IN PLASTER OF PARIS
AND PAPIER-MACHE.

TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR JOSEPH PALMER, WASHING-
TON, D. ©.

‘For the most faithful representation of the fish on the American
coast. These casts, which number four hundred and eight (408,) consti-
tute the largest and most perfect collection heretofore made, as a per-
fect illustration of the shape, form, and appearance of American fish.”

IX.—COLLECTIVE EXHIBIT OF PHOTOGRAPHS OF AMER-
ICAN FOOD-FISHES.

TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR T. W. SMILLIE, WASHING-
TON; D.C:

“For great comprehensiveness of exhibit and excellence, illustrating
the fish of America.”

X.—COLLECTION OF WATER-COLOR SKETCHES AND OIL
PAINTINGS (ON PLASTER CASTS) OF FISH OF NORTH
AMERICA.

{TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR J. H. RICHARD, WASHING-
TON, D. C.

‘‘ For exceeding truthfulness in the coloring of the plaster casts of
fish, and for the pains-taking labor and artistic effects.”
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE NATIONAL
MUSEUM, IN CHARGE OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITU-
TION IN 1876.

Abbott, C.C. Jasper nucleus, perforator, pipe bowl, and bow! of varie-
gated slate, from New Jersey.

Adams, S. N. Specimens of wulfenite, from Nevada.

Aiken, Charles E. Specimens of Abert’s squirrel (Sciurus abertii), com-
mon skunk (Mephitis mephitica), swift fox ( Vulpes velox), badger ( Taxidea
americana), and prairie wolf (Canis latrans) in the flesh, and 5 buffalo-
skins (Bison americana), from Colorado. (Purchased.)

Alaska Commercial Company. One box seal-skins, series of unplucked,
plucked, plucked and dressed, and plucked, dressed and dyed seal-
skins.

Allen, J. & S., Walpole, Mass. Two series of linen fishing-lines.

Allen, J. J. & Sons, Philadelphia, Pa. Sample of soluble marine guano.

Alden Sea-Food Conpany, (through E. G. Blackford.) Samples of Alden’s
vapor-cured snowflake cod-fish, fresh green turtle, and granulated
clams.

Aling, D. D. Models of Providence fish-car and snug-stow anchor.

Ames, James T. Box of Unios, Abalones, &e., polished and unpolished ;
Specimens of emery-stone; box of pearl-oyster shells; emery-ores,
and emery with the associated minerals, from Massachusetts.

American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass. Mummy and _ sur-
roundings, from cave in Kentucky.

American Needle and Fish-Hook Company, New Haven, Conn. Twenty-
three cards illustrating the different kinds of hooks made by the
company.

American Net and Twine Company, Boston and New York. Samples of
eel-pots, lobster-pots, netting-cords, corks, nets, models of fish-traps,
mullet cast-net, shrimp, crab, and basket eel-pots manufactured by
the company.

Ams, Max., New York. Samples of Hamburger aale, pickled eels, eels
rolled and pickled in olives, American pickled eels, and Russian and
American caviar.

Agassiz, Alevander. Ores and massive specimens of copper, from the
Calumet and Hecla Mine, Michigan.

Army Medical Museum. Moccasins of Santee Sioux, two quivers and
two Sioux scalps taken by Chippewa Indians; catlinite pipe, tobacco-
pouch, powder-horn and ammunition-pouch, and drum-sticks of Yank-
ton Sioux Indians.

Atkins, O.G. Nine models of different kinds of fish-ways in use.

Atwood, Capt. N. B. Samples of fish- and whale-oils, from Massachusetts ;
Samples of sword-fish-, mackerel-, skate-, and halibut-oils, manufac-

tured at Provincetown, Mass. 4
e
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 85

Bailey, Benjamin 8S. Black mussel, from Connecticut.

Brackett, E. A. Brackett hatching-box.

Brazil, Commission of, to International Exhibition. Dried air-bladder of
pescoda, (fresh-water fish.)

Bailey, S., (through W. H. Dall.) Miscellaneous co!lections from Wash-
ington Territory.

Baird, Prof. S. F. Fresh fish from Philadetphia; box ethnological speci-
mens, from cave at Carlisle, Pa.

Baker, Captain, U.S. Revenue Marine. Eight skins of sea-lion (Zalophus),
from California.

Baker, Mrs. Marcus. Shells, from Colorado desert.

Baldwin, Mr., (through E. R. Squibb, M. D.) Specimens of chemicals.

Baldwin, D. Box of Indian relies; 3 skeletons of panther (Felis con-
color), and skull of skunk, from Colorado.

Ballou, W. H. Arrow-heads, from New York.

Banta, George A., New York. Chest refrigerator.

Barber, E. A. Nest of broad-tailed humming-bird (Selasphorus platycer-
cus) from Colorado; 2 nests of chipping sparrow (Spizclla socialis), and
pieces of pottery, from Pennsylvania; collection of pottery, arrow-
heads, and beads, from ruins in Utah, Colorado, and Arizona.

Barney, George, Swanton, Vt. Samples of various colors and grades of
polished marble in cubic blocks; 2 panels of marble tiling.

Barnum & Richardson Company. Iron-ores and specimens of iron, from
Connecticut.

Barroeta, Dr. G. Specimens of silver-ore and plants, from San Luis
Potosi, Mexico.

Bartlett, J. H. & Sons. Paddles, harpoon-head, sperm-whale’s teeth, &e.

Batchelder, J. H. Paper-folder made of: seaweed (Laminaria longi-
cruris).

Baxter, J. N., (for Rutland Marble Company, Vermont.) <A suite of all
grades of marble in large polished slabs and cubes, and photographs
of the quarries of the company.

Baxter, Joseph. Hematite iron, from Virginia.

Bean, Tarleton H., M. D. Specimens of sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrhyn-
chus), young Petromyzon americanus and Catostomus teres, from Free-
stone Point, Potomac River.

Beardslee, Commander L. A.,U. 8S. N. Young sturgeon and flat-fish, from
Potomac River.

Beasley, Thomas. Two specimens of horseshoe-crab (Limulus), and box
of ‘‘cancrine.”

Beckwith, Paul. Four boxes ethnological specimens, from Devil’s Lake
agency. .

Bell & Mackey, (through Hon. J. P. Woolman.) Collection of silver-ores,
from Nevada.

Bendire, Capt. Charles, U. 8. A. Alcoholic specimen of waxwing (Am-
pelis garrulus), 22 skins of gray-crowned finches (Leucosticte), skins
of rodents, grouse, finches, and sparrows.
86 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. |

Bennett, John, (through J. G. Swan.) Collection of native grass and
plants, from Wasbington Territory.

Berdell, Dr. Theodore. Copper- and silver-ores, from Colorado..

Berthoud, Edward L. Collection of ores and minerals, from Colorado.

Bigaglia, P. & Co. Four hundred and seventy-nine patterns of venetian
beads. (Purchased.)

Black, S. W. Box of minerals, from Texas.

Blackford, Eugene G. Specimens of pike, fresh fish, oysters, from Massa-
chusetts, and clams from Long Island; clams and mussels from Oyster
Bay and Canarsie; lbggerhead-turtle (Thallassochelys caouana), large
bivalves, oysters, white-fish (Coregonus), Greenland halibut (Rein-
hardtus hippoglossoides), quinnat salmon and lobster; oysters, from
Long Island and coast of Virginia.

Blake, Prof. W. P. Nine boxes of minerals.

Blandy, John F. Collection of minerals.

Blankinship, John. Stone pipe and alcoholic specimens, from Tennes-
see,

Blatchford, Edwin. Mackerel-rimmer.

Boehmer, George H,. Minerals, nest and eggs of pewee, skeleton of
mouse, from Maryland.

Boerner, G. C. Grasshoppers, from Indiana.

Botkin, W. A. Crystallized galena, from Missonri.

Bouvé, Thomas T. Specimens of polished porphyry, showing origin of
the rocks.

Bowers, Stephen. Seven boxes of ethnological specimens and natural
history, trom Santa Barbara.

Bowie, Mrs. R. G. Specimen of short tailed shrew (Blarina brevicauda).

Boyd, OC. R. Ores and minerals.

Bracket, Col. A. G., U. S. A. Weasel, in flesh; badger-skin, skins of
Carpodacus, Pelecanus, and Eremophila; 2 hawks, in flesh; specimen of
Washington eagle and Arctic bluebird; 6 specimens of horned lark
(Eremophila alpestris), in flesh ; and specimens of Leucosticte and Junco,
from Wyoming.

Bradford and Anthony, Boston, Mass. Six boxes of fishing-tackle; patent
net, staff, and ring; 2 boxes of sportsman’s utensils; plated ice-chisel,
and reel. (Deposited for Centennial.)

Bradford, I. Rocks from Arkansas.

Bradley, Prof. Frank H, A suite of rock-specimens, from Georgia and
the western part of North Carolina.

Bransford, Dr. John F., U. 8S. N. Ten boxes of ethnologica and gen-
eral natural history, from Nicaragua.

Brasher, P. Model of Egg Harbor skiff.

Breed, E. E. Two eggs of Carolina dove, Wisconsin.

Brecdon, I. Chrysalids from Michigan.

Breedon, Jacob. Collection of beetles, &c., Virginia.

Brewer, James D. Three models of fish-ways.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 87

Briggs, John. Stone implements, from Oregon.

Broadhead, Prof. G. C. Collection of Missouri ores and minerals; geo-
logical report and maps.

Brower, J. M. Ethnologica and objects of natural history, from Fiji
Islands.

Brown, Dr. J.J. Specimens of Unio, &e., from Wisconsin.

Brown, Solomon G. Hare (Lepus cunicularia).

Brown, Dr. William H. Shells, from Cedarville, N. Y.

Brown, William H. Samples of glue and isinglass, from Massachusetts.

Brownson & Co. Fossil bone, Texas.

Bryce, Walker & Co. Collection of minerals.

Buck, Jonathan. Two pairs of fisherman’s boots, and one of slips.

Budlong, Colonel. Samples of lead-ore, from Missouri.

Buel, Bela S. Gold-ores, from Colorado.

Buel, J. T. Samples of spoon-baits for bass-, pickerel-, pike-, and trout-
fishing.

Burchard, ——. Two young living alligators, from Florida.

Burling, William. Box of cinnabar, from California.

Burt, Mrs. Hannah M. Mackerel-rimmer, used 15 years ago.

Burton, A. A. Stone implements, from Illinois.

Burritt, Francis. Four decoy-ducks.

Cambridge, Mass., Museum of Comparative Zodlogy. Alcoholic fishes, from
Brazil.

Cannelton Coal Company. Section of coal-bed, with ornamental stand
and frame, from West Virginia.

Canfield, C. B., (for the New England Granite Company of Hartford,
Conn.) Specimens of Westerly granite and a large polished granite
slab.

Cape Ann Tsinglass and Glue Company. Specimens of fish-sounds.

Cape of Good Hope, (C. Coates, commissioner.) Fresh-pressed crayfish.

Carley, B. J. M., Fulton Market, New York. Shells of oysters and clams
from various places along the coast of the United States.

Carlin, J. S. F., (through J. A. Carlin.) Specimen of horned frog,
(Phrynosoma,) Northern Pacific Railroad.

Carpenter, Lieut. W. L., U. 8. A. Collection of land- and fresh-water-
shells, from New Mexico and Arizona; collection of embryonic birds
and eggs; box of vertebrate fossils, from Nebraska.

Carter, John F. Samples of oiled clothes used by the fishermen of Cape
Ann.

Castine Packing Company, Castine, Me. Fourteen cans and one jar of
oysters, clams, lobsters, &c.

Caton, Judge J. D. Skin of black-tailed deer (Cariacus columbianus
var.) from Santa Barbara.

Central Park Menagerie, W. A. Conklin, director, New York. Sea-cog,
(Zalophus gilliespit), in flesh.

Chapman, W. D. Chapman’s combination trolling-pole, harpoon, and
88 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

line-holder; samples of spoon baits for bass-, pickerel-, pike-, and trout-
fishing.

Charles, H. Bird shaped ethnological object, from Indiana.

Chase, William H. Models of Nantucket fishing-boats and salt-mill-

Chester, Capt. H. C. Models of oyster boat and car, fishing-smack,
Block Island boat, and menhaden purse-seine; scrimshawed tusks of
walrus.

Chicago Feather-Duster Company, Chicago, Ill. Series of domestic turkey -
feather dusters, 5 sizes.

Cincinnati Society of Natural History, (H. Schroyer.) Cast of ox-hora;
head of fossil ox; casts of horn-cores of fossil ox.

Clarke, F. LZ. Specimen of Gordius, from Haleakala Mountains, Hawaii.

Clark, F. W. Fish-hatching apparatus. .

Clark, George. Model of seine-boat, from Michigan; specimens of Core-
gonus albus, from Lake Michigan.

Clark, J. H. Ethnological and natural-history specimens, from Rhode
Island.

Clark & Schneider, Baltimore, Md. Two of Clark & Schneider’s guns,
breech-loading.

Cleveland, William H. Model of No-Man’s Land fishing-boat.

Cleveland Historical Society. Bone arrow-points.

Clinton, E. & Co., Philadelphia, Pa. Samples of brushes made from
bristles and hair of American animals.

Clinton, Judge G. W. Fish (Chirostoma) in aleohol from Niagara River.

Cardington, C. Specimen of Phymata rosea, from Southern Florida.

Coffin, Nat. I. Specimen of Sclerostoma found in dog’s liver.

Cogswell, ——, superintendent, and Hazzard, president, Mine La Motte,
Missouri. Collection of ores from locality.

Coleman, Walter and Sons, Providence, R. I. Box of tackle, blocks,
&., used on small fishing-craft.

Collins Company, Collinsville, Conn. An assortment of mining-picks, for
decoration and illustration.

Colts Manufacturing Company, Hartford, Conn. One gun, rifle, and
revolver.

Cooper & Hewitt, Trenton, N. J. Samples of ores and products.

Congdon, IT. C., foreman Eureka Consolidated Mine, Nevada. Fifty-six
specimens of the ores and other specimens illustrating the mine.

Connecticut Centennial Board of Managers, (by W. P. Blake, secretary.)
A collection of 12-inch cubes of polished granite from the chief quar-
ries of the State, presented by the quarry-owners; geological map of
the State, enlarged from the map of J. G. Percival.

Consul United States, Levuka. Three boxes of skulls and ethnologica,
Society Islands.

Cook, J. W.d& V. Dried specimens of stickleback (Gasterostets,) from
Oregon.

Cook, W. H. & Oo., New Bedford, Muss. Whale-lance, harpoons, and
toggle-irons.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. ray

Cook, Prof. G. H., State geologist, and Professor Smock, assistant. Series
of the clays of New Jersey.

Corliss, Capt. A. W., U. S. A. Five boxes of stone implements, pottery,
&2., from Arizona.

Corrigan, J. J. Silver- and gold-ores, from the Eureka mining-district,
Nevada.

Corry, J. C., superintendent Ophir Mine, Nevada. Specimens of silver-
and gold-ores from the mine.

Craite, Prof. George L. Silver copy of medal in commemoration of
birthday of Thomas Carlyle.

Crandall, Charles H. Hammer caught while fishing for tautog; two
walrus-tusks.

Cracford, A. W. Box of land and fresh-water shells, and 3 specimens
of Machera patula, from California.

Crittenden, A. R., Middletown, Conn. A very large and complete collec-
tion of articles relative to the fisheries, models of fishing-boats, &c.,
and general natural history. from various portions of the New England
States. ,

Cruikshank, A. B. Cruikshank’s patent self-acting safety-cleat.

Curtis, Dr. Josiah. Hollow stone cylinder, stone pipe, &c.

Curtis, Melville. Metallurgical series, from the Manhattan Silver Mill,
Nevada.

Curtis, Allen A. Series of silver-ores, from the Reese River lodes,
Nevada. ,

Curtis, Samuel T. Silver- and gold-ores, from Nevada.

Dall, W. H. Models of animal.-, fish-, and bird-traps, used on Youkon
River; alcoholic specimens, from Massachusetts.

Danilson, William H., agent Bannock, Shoshone, and Snake Indians. Wth-
nologica, Indian Territory.

Dannfelt, C. Juhlin, commissioner from Sweden. Lapland razor, scabbard,
handle, and needle-case, made from reindeer-horn.

Darrow Manufacturing Company, Bristol, Conn. Basket, powder-flasks,
doll’s head, and coil of rope, made from raw-hide.

Davenport, Iowa, Academy of Natural Sciences. Box of Unios.

Davis, O. W., jr., Katahdin Iron Works, Maine. Specimens of the ores,

_ fluxes, and iron produced.

Davis, Edward. Mackerel-rimmer.

Davis, Benjamin. Two large quahaugs, from Providence River.

Davis, S. S., and Wiiliam Day. Fossil bones and leaf-impressions, from
Oregon.

Dean, J.N. Minerals, from Georgia.

De Beck, W. D. Box ethnological and geological specimens, from Ohio

~ and Indiana.

Decamp, W. S. large specimens of iron-ores illustrative of several
mines of New Jersey.

Decatur, Stephen. Silver-ore, Colorado.
90 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Degener, Rk. C. Indian plant and box of antimony-ore, from Soath
America.

Delano, M. A. Suite of ores from the Phenix Mine, Michigan.

Delano, Mrs. M.A. Large crystalline specimen of copper, from Michigan-

De Long & Sons, Glen’s Falls, N.Y. Double-paddle pair of oars, 7 feet
8 inches long.

Derry, C. W. Mammal-skins, from Colorado.

Dickinson, P. Specimens of discoidal stones, from Tennessee.

Dias, Charles H. Pholas-eaten rock, from Pacific coast.

Divon, Robert. Box of Damariscotta oysters.
Dougherty, E. D. Marble in cubes, slabs, and blocks; polished, massive
specimen in trophy, showing fossil. From the Dougherty quarries.
Douglas, James, jr. Suite of specimens illustrating the extraction of cop-
per from its ores by the ‘‘ wet way,” Hunt & Douglas BEOResS Pheenix-
ville, Pennsylvania.

Douglas, H. T. G W. G. Box of minerals, from Virginia.

Dorglas, Col. John D. Coneretion, from Virginia.

Doyer, S. S., agent. Indian curiosities.

Dresser, J. W. Series of fishing-lines in white and oiled linen.

Dulin, k. A. Specimens of quartz-erystals.

Dunan, W. S, Baltimore, Md. Eight cans of fertilizing-material.

Duncklee, H. L., Boston, Mass. Camp stove and furniture.

Bagle Preserved Fish Company, New York. Samples of Krauter ancho-
vies, and Russian sardines.

Edwards, Vinal N. See under Washington, U. S. Commission Fish and
Fisheries.

Elliott, 8S. A. Specimen of gold-ore, showing free gold, from Colorado.

Ellis, J. B. One hundred and fifty specimens of fungi, New Jersey.

Elwell, Samuel, jr. Dory thole-pin; row-locks; wooden jib-hank; 2

belaying-pins; porgy slivering-knife; 3 mackerel-rimmers; Sek of

mackerel-cots, used on the fingers when taking mackerel by hook and
line; model of Gloucester fisherman of 1835.

Ely, Smith. A suite of specimens illustrating the copper-ores of the
locality and the extraction of copper by smelting; bars of copper, &c.

English, William. Canoe and paddles.

Endlich, Dr. F. M. Mammal-skin, from Kansas.

Emerson, B. F, Specimens of copper and copper-ores, from Michigan.

Eureka Manufacturing Company, Boston, Mass. Bedtord air-pistol.

Evans, Capt. William. Fishes in alcohol, from Virginia.

Ewing, Thomas BE. Specimens of ores, from Arizona.

Edmunds, Dr. M. C. Lake-trout, from Lake Memphremagog,

Everdeen, J. J. Trawl-buoy.

Fair, James G. Rich and characteristic specimen of the silver-ores of the
Comstock lode, Nevada.

Fallin, C. Willis. Specimen of albino Virginia quail (Ortyx virginianus),
in flesh.

Farlow, Dr. W. G. Sponge-teuts, male of dried stems of Laminaria,
and specimens of Alge.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 91

Farmin, Giles. Stone implements, from Minnesota.

Farwell, O. A.,and M. H. Simpson, president Cliff Mine, Boston. Specimens
of copper, copper-rock, ancient tools, &e.

Fenner, C. A. Model of extension boat.

Ferguson, Maj. T. B., Maryland Commissioner of Fisheries. Model ot
oyster-schooner; 4 boxes of oysters; 2 boxes of shells; specimens
of Etheostomoids, Cyprinodonts, and Cyprinoids.

Fitzhugh, D. H., jr. Three wooden lure-fishes; model of Au Sable fish-
ing-boat.

Fletcher, Edward H., (through Harper Brothers.) Specimens of minerals
from Bergen Hill, New Jersey.

Fletcher, Dr. W. W. White-fish (Coregonus novanglie), from New Hamp-
shire.

Flint, Dr. Earl. Collection of Mexican antiquities.

Foster, J: W. Sail-thimble, made from bone of whale.

Foster, T. G. Soapstone bowl, two axes, arrow-heads, and stone celts,
from North Carolina.

Fraser, C. A., (through C. R. Douglas, United States consul, Puerto
Plata.) Specimens of wood, &e.

Freeman, Sanford. Mackerel-rimmeyr.

Friel, Joseph. Box of ethnologica, from Tennessee.

French, E. W. Model of birch-bark canoe, Passamaquoddy Indians.

Gabb, Prof. W. M. Six specimens of stone implements, from West
Indies. Copper medal, Colorado.

Gashwiler, General J. W. Silver-ores, Nevada.

Gates, O. Casts of stone implements, from Ohio.

Gavitt, W. E. Box of rocks.

Gesner, William. Ores, minerals, and coal, from Alabama.

Gideon, B. W. Box of ethnologica, from Georgia.

Gifford, J. D. New Jersey sneak-box.

Gilbert, E. F. Specimens of shell- and feather-work; jewelry made from
teeth of alligators, and 3 specimens of grasshopper and ichneumon fly.

Gilliss, Capt. Jas., U.S. A. Male panther (felis concolor), in flesh, from
Wyoming Territory.

Gloucester Isinglass and Glue Company, William A. Paiz, agent, Boston,
Mass. Prepared glue, rough or “ court-plaster” glue, and isinglass,
made from skin of cod (Gadus morrhua).

Goodale, S. L. Extract of fish (menhaden) and oil.

Goode, G. Brown. Specimens of Acipenser oxyrhynchus, young, and Pe-
tromyzon americanus ; 4 skins of eel (Anguilla bostoniensis) ; Coquina,
from Florida; skin of Virginia deer.

Goode, F. C. Four gophers and alligator (Alligator mississippiensis), from
Florida.

Goldschmidt, S.A. Alcoholic specimen of Ostracion punctatus, New York.

Gowen, Franklin, president Reading Railroad Company, Pennsylvania, A
complete section of the mammoth vein of anthracite coal, Plank Ridge
colliery.
92 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Gordon, W. Alexander. Alcololic specimens of shrimps and Lake Pont-
chartrain oysters; specimen of snake (Tropidonotus fasciatus), from
Louisiana.

Goulding, B. I. Specimens of coral, from Falls of Ohio.

Gower, Frederic A. Sock-joint row-lock.

Graham, T. J. Silver-ores and galenite.

Graves, Frederick D. Patent improved noiseless row-lock.

Green, H. A. Specimens of minerals, from New Jersey.

Green, L. Noank lobster-pot.

Griest, Jesse W., agent. Ethnologica.

Griffin, Dr. Louis P. Specimens of natural history.

Griffin, C. B. Specimens of natural history.

Griffin Brothers. Samples of smoked herrings; keg of Quoddy River
herring.

Gruber, F. Specimen of spotted seal (Phoca richardsii), 2 skins of black-
tailed deer (Cariacus columbianus), and skin of sea-lion (Humetopias
stelleri), from California.

Gutierrez, M. Julian, manager Tecali Company, Puebla, Mexico. Mexican
onyx, travertine limestone, Tecali quarries, (through Professor Bar-
cena, Puebla, Mexico.)

Haggin, James B., president K. K. Consolidated Mine Company. Silver-
ores and metallurgical specimens, including bars of unparted bullion.

Hahn, F. L. Silver-ore, galena, and pyrites.

Haigh, A. V. Squirrel-skin, arrow-head, and lower jaw of alligator.

Haines, Hiram, State geologist. A geological map of Alabama.

Hall, J. F. Bottle of * yellow-tails” (Bairdiella punctata).

Hall, Prof. James. Cast of lower jaw of Cohoes mastodon.

fiall & Company, Pennsylvania. Cap-extractors, &c., for guns.

Hamilton, A. C., superintendent. Specimens of ores, from the Savage
Mine, Nevada.

Hammond, General John F. A series of iron-ores, fuel, fluxes, and prod-
ucts, from Crown Point, N. Y.

Hanchet, I. Uarge and rich specimen of silver-ores, from Nevada.

Hancock, Hon. Judge. Copper- and zine-ores, from Texas.

Hardenburgh, A. Rk. Package of minerals, from California.

Harris, D. W. Oriole’s nest and twig of white oak, from Louisiana.

Harris, L. B. Collection of minerals.

Harris, J. 8., assistant engineer Reading Coal and Iron Company. A
large collection of coal plants and fossils, from the coal-beds of the
company.

Harrison, Edwin. Massive specimen of iron-ore, from Iron Mountain,
Missouri.

Harvey & Ford, Philadelphia. Carved bone, ivory, and shell articles.

Haven, Williams & Company, Philadelphia, Pa. Seal-skins, from South
Sea Islands. Whale-boat and fittings.

Haynes, B. Kaolin, from Florida.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. Jo.

Haywood, Howard. Stone implements of the Oconee-chee Indians.

Hearst, George. Silver-ores, from Nevada.

Heath, Charles G. Pahranagat mining-district ores, Nevada.

Heath, L.J. Specimens of quahaugs (Cyprina islandica), whelks (Fusus
islandica), hen-clam (Mactra ovalis), and Pecten tenuicostatus, from
Maine.

Hedges, S. P. Three eel-spears.

Heinrich, O. J. One box of minerals.

Henning, George C. Lay figure in sportsman’s clothes. (Lent.)

Henderson, J. H. Vest made from skin of rattlesnake (Crotalus durissus),
from Alabama.

Herendeen, Mrs. E. P., (through W. H. Dall.) Stone adze with carved
handle, from Fiji Islands.

Herendeen, Capt. E. P., (through W. H. Dall.) Wi: alrus-spear, Walrus
Island; bonnet, eye, ‘ma baleen of right whale (Hubalena cullamach).

Hering, Dr. C. J. Skins of birds, from Surinam.

Herron, Eli. Model of rabbit-trap.

Higgins & Gifford. Model of Cape Ann seining-boat and dory.

Higgins, Capt. N. Y. Small piece of ambergris from sperm-whale.

Hill, Mrs. D. H., (through Hon. R. B. Vance. ) Specimens of malachite and
schist, from North Carolina.

Hill, Joel F. Flexible sandstone, from North Carolina.

Hill, A. A. Gold-ores, from Colorado.

Hitchcock, Prof. OC. H., Massachusetts. Geological map of the State;
a suite of type specimens of the rocks of the White Mountain region ;
geological and physical maps of the States of Maine, New Hamp-
shire, and Vermont.

Hitchcock, George N. Skin and skeleton of black-tailed deer (Cariacus
macrotis).

Hobart, Miss M. Stone chisel, from Illinois.

Holabird, W. H. Hunting vest and jacket.

Holmead, William. Snowy owl (Nyctea nivea), in flesh, from Mount
Pleasant, D. C.

Holst, Professor, Christiania, Norway. Articles made of fish eyes and
scales; painted cast of silver nugget.

House, Thomas L. Malformed sucker, Potomac River.

Heran, Thomas. Ethnologica, wood, &c., Medellin, South America.

Horan, Henry. Three models of animal-traps; specimen of Acipenser
oxyrhynchus, young, Achirus lineatus, from Potomac River.

Hoyt Bros. Barrel of oysters.

Hoy, P. R. Broken leaf-shaped implement, from Missouri.

Hunt, A. G. Piece of plank, schooner Carrie Melvin, bored by teredo.

Hurlburt, William I. S. Minerals, from Virginia.

Hussey, Wells & Co., Pittsburgh, Pa. Illustrations of the manufacture of
crucible-steel by a series of crucibles, broken to show condition of
charge at different heats; specimens of ingots broken and of steel
94 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

bars of various sizes and grades, all in an ornamental plate-glass case;
specimens of flanging, &c.

Hutchinson, John. Package of lance- and arrow-heads, from Illinois.

Hyatt, Prof. A., Boston, Mass. Casts of marine animals.

Ingalls, Frederick. Stone ax, from Illinois.

Isaacs, A. & Co., Boston, Mass. Cotlection of American and Mediterra-
nean sponges.

Jackson, BH. H. Specimens of mud-eel (Siren lacertina); and alcoholic
fishes, from Columbia, 8. C.

Jack, Hon. Edward. Two skins of moose (Alce3 malchis), from Freder-
icton, N. B.

James, William H. Samples of spoon-baits for bass., pike-, bluefish-, and
trout-fishing.

Japan, Legation of, to the United States. Fur of sea-otter, from Japan.

Jefferey, Rk. W. Stone implements, from Pennsylvania.

Jencks, Frederick T. Collection of duck- and goose-skins, from Chicago.

Jenks, Prof. J. W.P.,and Newton Dexter. Specimens of coal and graphite.

Jenks, Col. C. W. Corundum, from North Carolina.

Jewett, Colonel. Crustacean, from mouth of fish, from California.

Jocelyn, Capt. S. P., U. S. A. Gold napkin-ring, made by Haidah
Indians. (Loan.) :

Johnson, Lyman. Stone ceremonial weapon, from Mississippi.

Johnson & Young, Boston, Mass. Models of lobster-house, schooner,
smack “Storm King,” two-mast cat-rigged boat “Little Maud;” 7
models of eel-pots, and claw of lobster.

Jones, James. Mineral-ore, from Texas.

Jones, William. Cod-liver oil made from Pseudophycis breviuscula.

Joplin, James L., (through W. T. Knott.) Stone pipe, from Kentucky.

Jouy, P. L. Skin of Sciurus hudsonius.

Judge, Edwin W. Dog-calls, and fish-trap patented in 1856.

Kallussowski, Dr. Henry. Specimens of giant-beetle (Dynastes hercules),
and of varied thrush (Turdus nevius), from Arkansas.

Keenan, T. J. R. Box of unfinished stone beads, from Mississippi.

Keene, H. B. Specimen gold-ore showing free gold, from Colorado.

Kelsey & Hosmer. Kelsey & Hosmer’s fish-dressing machine.

Kemp, Day & Co., New York. Forty cans of lobsters, clams, oysters,
&e.

Kempton, C. W. Collection illustrating the argentiferous deposits of

Newbury, Mass.

Kennard, Charles W. & Co., Boston, Mass. Tortoise-shell goods.

Keep, M. R.  Rudely-chipped implement, from Japan.

Kerr, Prof. W. C., State geologist. Specimens of building-stones, ores,
and minerals, from North Carolina.

Keyes, Winfield Scott. Large specimens of lead- and silver-ores, from
Nevada.

bee:
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 95

Kiergaard, F. C. Samples of fish scale jewelry.

Kingsbury, Frederick J., president Scovill Manufacturing Company, Water-
bury, Conn. Samples of copper, zinc, and nickel alloys.

Kinroy, T. W. Copper relics and photographs, from Ohio.

Kirby, H. S. Boat-hooks, pike, &c., used in whale-fishing; eel-spear,
and mask, from Friendly Islands.

Knapp, Dr. James. Box of ethnologica, from Kentucky.

Knox, Samuel. Box of shells, from Ohio.

Krider, John. Ten decoy-ducks.

KKumlien, A. I. Specimens of stuffed birds, shells, and mammals, from
Texas.

Kusil, F. d Co. Three boxes of minerals, from Utah.

Lamb, Levi. Malformed claw of lobster.

Lapham, Seneca G. Model of animal mounds of Wisconsin.

Lankin, Prof. E. P. Box of alcoholic fish, and 2.stone sinkers, from
Florida.

Latham, J. H. WUantern for eeling.

Latham, B. F. JVsarge lobster-claw, from Connecticut.

Lawler, J. Models of menhaden-steamer and oil-factory, Bristol, Me.

Lechevalier, A. Bird’s egg and skins of grebes’ breasts.

Ledyard, L. W. Crinoid necklace, from Colorado.

Leete, B. G. Native and table salt, from Nevada.

Lehigh Zine Works, Bethlehem, Pa. Zinc-ores and products.

Leidy, Joseph, M.D. Part of shell of fossil Hmys.

Leigh, Sergt. J. A., U. 8S. A. Twenty-four species of birds and collection
of eggs, insects, fossil bones, and fossil teeth, from Nebraska.

LeBaron, J. Francis. Minerals, from Boston.

Leonard, H. L. Three bamboo fishing-rods, (lent,) and 2 pieces of bam-
boo, showing splitting and gluing. (Presented.)

Lewis, W. K. & Bro., Boston, Mass. Fresh lobster in tin cans.

Lewis, Bull & Co. Silver-ores, galenite, &c.

Lewis, Miss Annie J. Specimen of quahaug (Cyprina islandica), from
twelve miles off Castine, Me.

Lewis, J. F. Limonite-iron ores, from New York.

Lightner, Joel F., superintendent. Silver-ores, from Nevada.

Lincoln, George F. Combs, jewelry, &c., manufactured from horns and
hoofs of cattle.

Lindheimer, F. J. Collection of Indian relics, from Texas.

Liverpool, England, Free Public Museum. Specimen of mullet (Mullus
surmuletus}, and herring, (Clupea harengus), from Devonshire coast ;
mackerel, cod, brill, turbot, 4 specimens of gray mullet (Mugil),
and specimen of ling (Lota molva), pike, and white-bait from Lough

. Neagh, Ireland.

Iufkin, Charles. Mackerel-jig, style of 1840; petrified. wood taken in
forty fathoms of water.

Iyman, B. 8S. Box of Aino articles, from Yokohama, Japan.
96 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Iyman, William. Lyman’s patent bow-facing rowing-apparatus.

Mackey, John W. Rich and characteristic specimens of the silver-ores
of the Comstock lode, from the Bonanza mines.

Macon, Dr. G. H. Specimen sea-louse (Squilla).

Macey, E. B. & F. Collection of whaling-implements, whaling-harpoon,
boarding-knife and spade, toggle-iron, &c.

Madison, E. H. Bottle of American “ browning,” for staining shot-gun
and ritle barrels, with pieces of barrels showing manner of staining.

Madison, G. H. Ceremonial stone relic, from Iowa.

Maguire, F. B. Specimens of Heterostichus rostratus, Oxyjulus modestus,
Syngnathus, &e.

Mahan, J. L., Indian agent. Specimen of carpet and cloth made by
Chippewa women from Odanah Indian Mission, Wisconsin.

Mahrenholz, H. & A., New York. Three pairs of boots made of alliga-
tor-, anaconda-, and human skin, respectively.

Mann, John F. Samples of spoon-baits for bass-, pickerel-, pike-, and
trout-fishing, nickel-plated.

Manigault, Dr. G. E. Skeleton Emys serrata, Charleston, S. C.

Mansfield, G. H. & Co., Canton, Mass. Series of braided silk, cotton,
and linen fishing-lines. ‘
Marshall, George. Specimens of opossum (Didelphys virginianus), one
flying-squirrel (Sciuropterus volucella), and birds, from Maryland. -
Marvin Brothers & Bartlett, Portsmouth, N. H. Twelve bottles of fish-
oils.

Masterson, T. Indian beads, from Pennsylvania.

Massachusetts Arms Company, Chicopee Falls, Mass. Maynard rifle and
appurtenances.

Mather, Frederick, Fresh fish and stone beads, from New York.

Mathews & Dugan. Case of horseshoes, showing state of farriery.

Mathews, G. F. Oysters, clams, &c., from Bay of Fundy.-

Matteson, F. S.. Two myrtle-robins, (Turdus nevius), 2 specimens squir-
rel, (Sciurus), 1 specimen showtle (Haplodontia leporina).

Maury, Dr. M. F. Sections of the chief coal-beds of West Virginia.

Migler, J. G. & Co., Brookfield, Wash. Ter. Fresh Columbia River
salmon in cans.

Merritt, J. C., jr. Three pieces of stone, and specimens of arrow-heads,
from New York.

Merry, Henry. Iron-ores, from Lake Superior iron-district.

Miles, George W. Specimens of oil and guano manufactured from men-
haden (Brevoortia menhaden).

Miller, M. J. Clay bottle; turtle-shaped clay vessel, from Mississippi.

Milner, James W. Models of gill-net and Parmlee’s Waukegan fishery ;
box of bones from moand in Northern Illinois.

Mintzer, Engineer W. A. Birds’ eggs; stone lamps and cooking-uten-
sils; Eskimo cranium; marine mollusks; fishes, birds, and antlers ;
stuffed seal, bows and arrows, mica, &c., from Greenland.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 97

Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences, P. L. Hatch, corresponding sec-

retary. Cast of human skull, from Palmer’s Lake.

Mitchell, J. E. A series of grinding and abrasive stones, oil-stones,
whetstones, &c.

Mott, Mrs. C. E. Three boxes feather- and shetl-work, made from
Florida shells and birds.

Moffat, E. S.A series of the iron-ores of northern New Jersey.

Monfort, Miss M.C. Collection of shells.

Monteith, J. B. Ethnologica.

Moran, Dr. G. H., U.S.A. Red-headed woodpecker (Melanerpes erythro-
cephalus), and collection of reptiles, mice, and moles; nest and eggs ;
alcoholic specimens of salamanders and snakes, from North Carolina.

Morris, William. Wooden lure-fish for winter-fishing through the ice,
and the “ otter” to be used in lake- and river-fishing.

Moses, John. Samples of pottery and the materials used, from New
Jersey.

Mosier, J. L. H. Noduie of flint, with a supposed resemblance to
human head.

Moosmueller, Very Rev. Oswald, O. S. B. Fifteen specimens of Indian
relics.

Mueller, Dr. Rudolph. Rush mat and arrow-heads made by Chippewa
woman, and stone implements, from Carthagena, Ohio.

Murphy, Hon. Patrick. Crystallized masses of lead-ore, melonite, fos-
sil, &c., from Missouri.

McBride, Sara J. Case of salmon-, trout-, and bass-flies.

McChesney, Dr. C. £., U. S. A. Collection of alcoholic mammals; 30
G. bursarius ; 3 T. talpoides ; prairie-dogs, mice, and shrews; buffalo
fe chips.’

McCormick, Hon. Richard C. Ores from various parts of Arizona.

McCoy, Maj. W. Wirt. Silver-ores and metallurgical specimens, from

_ Nevada.

McCully, William & Co., Pittsburgh, Pa. Specimens of bottles of dif-
ferent sizes and forms, with materials used in the manufacture of
glass.

McCurdy, Alexander. Fisherman’s marline-spike; hand-line gear for
halibut and cod, used on Saint George’s Banks; collection of fishing-
implements.

McDonald, Allen LZ. Trawl-roller used to haul in trawls over the
sides of the dory; stay-sail snatch cleat, used by Gloucester fishing-
schooners.

McElderry, Dr. Henry, U. S. A. Four dried skins of salmon; Brewer’s
blackbird, in flesh.

HeFadyn, Malcom. Scrimshawed tooth of sperm-whale (Physeter ma-
crocephalus), and model of topmast-schooner in use 60 years ago.

McKee, G.P. Alcoholic specimens of herring (Pomolobus chrysochloris)
from Pearl River, Miss.

s7

.
98 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

McLeod, Rev. Rk. &. Specimen of sable (Mustela americana), 2 speci-
mens of white-haired porcupine (Hrethizon dorsatus), fisher (Mustela
pennanti), four hoofs of reindeer (Tarandus rangifer), and beaver
(Castor canadensis), male and female, in flesh, from Maine. (Pur-
chased.)

McMasters, G. M. Specimen gold-ore, showing free gold, from Colorado.

McLaughlin, W. B. Model of herring-weir, from Grand Manan, N. B.

Miles Brothers & Co., New York. Collection of brushes made from the
tail-hairs of squirrels, &c.

National Preserving Company, Baltimore, Md. Can of condensed pul
verized raw beef. ;

Neff, Peter. Bottle of diamond lamp-black; tube filled with borings,
showing strata.

Nelson, E. W. Skins of water-birds, from Illinois.

Nevada, State Board of Centennial Managers, C. C. Stevenson, chairman.
Large collection of silver-ores and other materials of economic im-
portance, presented by authority of the State legislature.

New Jersey Zine Company, B.S. Baker, president, J. George, superintendent.
A massive collection of the ores and minerals of Mine Hill, and of
Sterling Hill, Sussex County, with samples of metallurgical products,
zine, and spiegeleisen. ‘

New York Condensed Milk Company, Brewster's, N. Y. Borden’s extract of
beef, cocoa, milk, &e.

Nichols, J. A. Trunk and bale of fishing-rods and sporting goods. (Lent.)

Niles, Kossuth, Master, U. S. N. Boxof oysters from Appalachicola Bay.

Norman, A.J. Three gun-recoil checks.

Olmstead, £. B. Collection of Indian stone implements, from Tennessee.

Oneida Community, Oneida, N. Y. Full series of traps for catching game.

Oregon Packing Company, Portland, Oreg. Box of Cook’s Columbia
River fresh salmon ; spring-salmon bellies, salted.

Page, Kidder and Fletcher, New York. Logs of wood bored by teredo.
Petroleum and coal-tar products.

Palmer, Dr. E. Three boxes and one bale ethnologica, from Utah; skin
of bat; box of ethnologica, from California; birch-bark canoe, Passa-
maquoddy Indians, Eastport, Me.

Park, Brothers & Co., Pittsburgh, Pa. WUlustration on a large scale of
the production and use of cast or crucible steel; specimens of flang-
ing; steel trophy ; objects made of crucible steel.

Parker, Charles H. Piece of planking of brig H. B. Emery, bored by
the teredo.

Parker, W. F. Pigeon-trap.

Parker, Charles. One Damascus-steel Parker gun.

Parrott, R. D. A., Greenwood Iron Works, New York. Ores, products,
&c., and a large display of “slag wool” of all grades.

Passaic Zine Company, New Jersey, (Manning & Squier, New York.)
Zine-ores, calamine, spelter, &c.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 99

Parsons, Joseph, jr. Pair of nippers, (Gloucester,) and hand-haulers,
(Banks of Newfoundland.)

Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass. Box of ethnologica.

Peabody, George A. Three bottles of porpoise-oil.

Pennick, N. Shell conglomerate, from Virginia.

Peterson, N.C. Painted shells of mactra.

Phillips, B. Four samples of Spanish nets, machine-made.

Pleasants, General Henry, engineer Reading Coal and Iron Company,
Pennsylvania. Series of sections of shafts and coal-beds.

‘Poole and Hunt, Baltimore, Md. Model of guano-mixer.

Poey, Prof. Felipe. Yish-skeletons; one box minerals, from Cuba.

Ponziglione, Paul M., S.J. Specimen of * prayer-beads-plant” berries
(Sapindus marginatus).

Potter, Charles T. Model of fish-trap.

Potter, Thomas. Two deformed lobster-claws, from Connecticut.

Potts, John. Specimens of seals, obsidian knives, labrets, figures, &e.

Powell, Maj. J. W. Eleven boxes ethnologica; skull of panther
(Felis concolor).

Providence Tool Company, Providence, R. I. Peabody- Martini rifle.

Powell, Rk. H. Birch-bark canoe, from Montagenant Indians.

Powers, Stephen. Specimens of natural history; model of Indian traps ;
1 bale and 4 boxes of Indian collections.

Potter, C. V. Clay concretions taken in sixty fathoms of water; coral
(Astrangia dana.)

Potter, EH. H. Concretion.

Portland Packing Company, Portland, Me. Samples of sugar-corn, Port-
land blue-berries, champion shell beans, Cumberland roast chicken,
Cumberland and potted sausage, Old Orchard Beach clams, fresh
star lobster, Cumberland roast turkey, mutton, veal, beef, soup and
bouilli, ox-tail soup, fresh Seguin mackerel, fresh star lobster, Yar-
mouth succotash, in tin cans.

Raht, William LZ. Models of Indian faces; box stone implements, from
Georgia.

Randall, E. 7. Box of stone implements and mummied frog.

Rau, Dr. Charles. Cast of bronze sword, found near Braunsberg,
Prussia.

Rawlings, Loyd, superintendent, and Thomas Flood, foreman of Silver
Hill Mining Company, Nevada. Gold-ores.

Read, Daniel. Selections of colored marbles, polished specimens.

Reeves, S. J., president Phenix Iron Company, Pennsylvania. Sections
of the Phenix iron columns of all sizes; sections of shape iron; high
tower (lent) for support of the column of coal in the Trophy in the center
of the Government building.

Republic Tron Company, Michigan. Collection of iron-ores.

Remington, E. & Sons, Ilion, N. Y. One rifle, double barreled breech-
loading shot-gun, and one cartridge-loader.
100 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Renfrew, G. R. & Co., Quebec, P. Q. Beluga leather and oil, and teeth of
Somniosus.

Richmond Marble Quarry, Vermont. Large polished and carved block of
marble.

Ricksecker, Edmund. Skin, nest, and three eggs of Bewick’s wren
(Thryomanes bewickii), from Texas.

Riddell, J. S. Mineral and ores, from Texas.

Ripley, Sons, J. & Y., Vermont. A suite of all grades of marble, pol-
ished slabs and cubes.

Rittenhouse, J. M. Unfinished ceremonial ax, from New Jersey.

Robertson, Rev. W. R. Fossil tooth and bone, from Indian Territory.

Rollins, J. Q. A. Gold-ores, from Colorado.

Roquette, Adrian. Indian basket-work, from Louisiana.

Ross, W. A. & Bro., New York. Samples of English and American
cudbear and orchil liquor, and American orchilla weed.

Roth, J. T. Models of fish-way used on Susquehanna River and
hatching-apparatus for black bass.

Rowe, Capt. E. L. 'Two wooden and one soapstone jig-mold.

Russell, John, Cutlery Company, Turner’s Falls, Mass. (Knives for hunt-
ing, sticking, skinning, We.

Rodgers, Charles. Steatite pipe, from New York.

Rogers, Herbert M. Cod-liver oil.

Salisbury, S. Three oyster-tongs.

Samuels, J. B. Copper-ores, from Virginia.

San Diego, Cal., Academy of Sciences. Stereoscopic views of Indians,
and 3 acorns, from Cuyamaca Mountains.

Sautter, Aug. Ground-squirrel, from Illinois.

Sawtelle, H. W., Assistant Surgeon, United States Army. Old flint-gun-
lock, found near Norfolk, Va.

Schaffer, David H. Specimens of the shells of and jewelry made from
the Unio.

Scheffer, E. Samples of pure, dry, saccharated, and liquid pepsin.

Schieffelen, H. H. Irish moss, isinglass, and cuttle-fish (Os sepia).

Schumacher, Paul. Eight boxes of ethnologica, from Oregon, and 7
boxes from California. ' |

Scott, k. A. Models of Colvin’s portable canvas boat. |

Scoville & Johnson, Marquette, Mich. Lehnen’s patent folding camp-
baker. |

Shaler, N. S., State geologist, Kentucky. A series of specimens of the »
ores and coals of the State.

Sharps Rifle Company, Connecticut. Sharps rifle and case.

Shaw, John, Eureka Consolidated Mine, Nevada. Molybdate of lead, and!
wulfenite.

Shears, D. Clifton. Photograph of moose-horns.

Shepard, Edward IM. Ores of Dutchess County, New York. Also,
spear- and arrow-heads, from New York.

|

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 101

Shepard, Prof. C. U., jr. Full series illustrating the nature of the fossil-
phosphates of South Carolina, utilized for the manufacture of fertil-
izers, with a map, sections, analyses, We.

Sherman, D., United States Indian agent. Three boxes of stone and
stone implements from Indian graves, from New York.

Skinner, D. M. Series of fluted trolling-spoons.

Slagle, J. W. Two boxes of ethnologica, from Virginia.

Small, H. EH. Two bottles of blubber and fifteen of fish- and whale-oils.

Smith, Charles H. Indian samp-stone, from Massachusetts.

Smith, Prof. J. Alden. Gold-ores, from Colorado.

Smith, William H., and H. Donnelly, foreman Belcher Mine. Specimens
of the ores of the mine and across the lode.

Smith, N. C. Model of lobster-pot.

Smith, Rev. C. D. Corundum and other minerals, from the western part
of the State of North Carolina.

Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural, Vera Cruz, Mexico. Box of
shells.

Sopries, A. P. Silver-ores, from Colorado.

Soto, O. and M., Santiago, Chili. Mounted specimens of deer, (Cervus
huamel), condor, and puma.

Southwick, J. M. K. Models of fishing-smack, fisherman’s car, and fish-
marketman’s car; collection of fishing-implements; scoop-net bow
used in dipping fish from smack’s well.

Squibb, Edward k., M. D. Four bottles of Honduras silver cochineal ;
castoreum of North American castor; murexide and prophylamine ;
sea-tangle (Laminaria digitata); red and yellow prussiates of potassa.

Sterling, E., M. D. Cast of arrow-straightener, from Ohio.

Sternberg, C. H., M. D., U. 8. A. Fossil shells, from Kansas.

Stevenson, James. Ovyster-fish, from the Potomac River.

Stockbridge & Co., Gloucester, Mass. Prepared cod-fish.

Stone & Hooper, Charlestown, Vt. Models of tank, rearing-box, carrying-
can, and parlor-brook for fish-culture.

Stone, Miss Anabel. ‘ Lobster man.”

Stone, Livingston. (See under Washington, Tnited States Commission of

Fish and Fisheries.) Collection of fishes, &c., from California; 5 models
of boats used by the Chinese, Italian, and American fishermen in
San Francisco Bay.

Strater, Herman & Sons, Boston, Mass. Tin decoys of ducks, plover,
snipe, &c.

Stratton, Capt. Thomas, (through James G. Swan.) Silver and gold ar-
ticles; also collections of Mollusca and Alge from Washington Ter-
ritory.

Streets, Dr. T. H., U. 8S. N. Two specimens of C. virginicus, and fish.

Streng, L. H. Ninety-five species of fresh-water shells, from Michigan.

Strouse, Henry St. G. Arrow-heads and chippings.
102 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Sutherland, John. Fresh fish (Coregonus neohantonensis); 4 specimens
cisco (Argyrosuma clupeiformis) from Lake Erie; also lake-trout, 2
cusk, and 2 white-fish.

Sutherland Marble Company, Vermont. Polished blocks and masses, monu-
ments, &e.

Tatham & Brother, Pennsylvania. Illustrations of the chief commercial
forms of lead; sheet, pipe, shot, &c., &c.; trophy of tin pipe and of
tin lined iron pipe.

Thompson, J. H. SpPeimens of fish, and 2 scales of feted: thrissoides.

Thompson, C. O. Box of minerals.

Thornton, L. B. Box of fresh-water shells, from Alabama.

Throckmorton, 8S. Rk. Two fishes, in alcohol, from California.

Treadwell, George C. & Co., Albany, N. Y. Hight seal-skins. (Lent.)

Turner, Lucien M. Ethnological and natural-history specimens, from
Alaska. .

Turrell, Oscar. Polished chisel of granite; stemmed spear-point, from
India.

Underwood, William & Son, Boston, Mass. Samples of canned meats.

Valentine, Mann S. Samples of Valentine’s extract of beef; collection
of geological specimens, from Virginia. é

Vance, Hon. R. B. Chaleopyrite and malachite, from Old Savannah
Mine, North Carolina; specimen of tea, from North Carolina.

Van Patten, Dr. Specimen of natural history, from Costa Rica.

Velie, J. W. Conch-harpoon and turtle-peg.

Vickers, General, (through N. M. McDowell.) Two specimens of tinamous
(Nathura perdicaria), male and female, from Chili.

Voss, A. Mill for cutting fish for bait.

Wallace, John. Water-buffalo (Bos bubulus),in flesh ; specimen of dol-
phin (Delphinus), and skin of bear (Ursus montanus), from Minnesota.

Ward, 8. Alcoholic specimens of white-fish (Coregonus albus).

Washburn & Moen Company, Worcester, Mass. Iron wire of various
sizes.

Wasson, John, surveyor-general of Arizona. Specimens of silver-, lead-,
and gold-ores, from various mines in the Territory.

Webb, J. G. Box of ethnologica, from Florida.

Webber, Mrs. F. W. Specimens of fossil corals, also stone pipe, from
Alabama.

Welch, Dr. L. B, Casts of grooved and perforate implements.

Welpley, D. P. White rabbit (Lepus americanus), from Virginia.

Wells, W. H., M.D. Indian basket of Digger Indians; package of Cal-
ifornia raisins.

Welsher, H. W. Two bottles of fishes.

Wernigk, Dr. E. Box of minerals, from Illinois.

Wernich and Wander. Two pieces of sturgeon-leather.

Westerberger, Frank. Bone seam-rubber used by sail-makers, made
from jaw-bone of sperm-whale (Physeter macrocephalus).
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 103

Weston, Wiliam H. Tin ‘*bung-bucket” or “ water-thief,” and Province-
town doryman’s “ fog” or “ lipper” horn.

Wetherby, A. G. Fifty species of shells, from Utah.

Wharton, Joseph. Nickel and cobalt ores, massive and selected ; asso-
ciate minerals, and the products; nickel plates, bars, rods, wire, and
manufactures, nickel salts, &c.; cobalt in bars; cobalt oxide and
salts; nickel magnetic needle; nickel magnet.

Wheatley, Charles M. Suite of specimens illustrating the extraction of
copper from its ores by smelting.

Wheaton, W. W. Iron-ores and furnace-products.

Wheeler, S. I. Tuber of tuckahoe, from North Carolina.

White Manufacturing Company. Collection of hunting-lamps.

White, Dr. John B. Ethnological specimens, from California and Arizona.

Whitehill, Dr. H. R., mineralogist of Nevada. Contributions from his
private cabinet.

Whitmore, John J., (through C. G. Atkins.) Dried specimen of menhaden
(Brevoortia menhaden), from mouth of Penobscot River. ,

Wickes, George F. Ores and minerals, from Virginia.

Wiggins, John B. Minerals, from Virginia.

Wiggins, Pierce. Indian mortar and pestle, from California.

Wiggins, Mrs. Lucinda. Two Indian baskets, from California.

Wilbur, James H., Indian agent. Box of ethnologica, from Washington
Territory.

Wilcox, Dr. F. E., U. S.A. Specimen of paludal shells, from Kansas.

Wilcox, Crittenden & Co., Middletown, Conn. Four boxes of boat-fitting
apparatus, and apparatus illustrative of the fisheries.

Wilcox Tanning Company, Wilcox, Pa. Tanned skins of bison.

Wilder, General J. T., Tennessee. The ores, coals, fluxes, and other eco-
nomical minerals of the State and of the Chattanooga iron-district ;
map of the Chattanooga iron-district, &c.; face carved from shell;
pierced and grooved stone sinker; chipped flint flake; large flat
(smoothing) tool; stone axes; pestle; spade-like implements;*per-
forated stone (sinker); agricultural implements; two clay bowls.

‘Wilkins, W. & Oo. Series of manufactured bristles and horse hair.

Williamson, George, United States minister. Ancient pottery, from Guate-
mala.

Willison, J. F. Birds’ nests and eggs, from New York.

Winchester Repeating Arms Company, New Haven, Conn. Two rifles and
card of cartridges.

Winters, Theodore, Nevada. Specimens bullion from the “ Mexican
claim.”

Witherbee, T. F. Collection of the iron-ores of Essex County, New York,
in large and small masses.

Wood, William J., Connecticut, vice-president of the Collins Company, and
for the company. A series of specimens illustrating the production
and uses of blister-steel in the manufacture of axes, mining-picks, &e.
104 ; ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Woodman, H. T. Collection of stone implements, from Lowa.

Wolcott, Maj. Frank. Two specimens of fishes (alcoholic) from Wyo-
ming Territory.

Woolman, Hon. J. P., Montana. Collections of ores and minerals from
various mining-districts contributed by the owners of claims and
mines.

Wooster, A. F. Ethnological specimens, from Connecticut.

Wyeth and Brother. Samples of prussiate of potassa, pancreatin, sac-
charated pepsin, cod-liver oil, and inodorous glycerine.

Washington, D. C.:

Department of State. See under Isaac Browers, Fyji Islunds, George

Williamson, United States minister to Guatemala.

Treasury Department. See under United States Coast Survey and

Captain Baker, U. S. Revenue Marine.

War Department :

United States Army. See under Col. A. G. Brackett, Captains Charles
Bendire, A. W. Corliss, 8S. P. Jocelyn, Lieutenant W. L. Carpenter,
Sergt. J. A. Leigh.

Quartermaster’s Department. Indian dress, from Kansas. See, aiso,
under name of Capt. James Gilliss.

Surgeon-General’s Office, United States Army Medical Museum. Sixty-
four specimens of gold, silver, and copper ores, 4 stone hatchets,
two Apache earthen pots, also geological specimens and fossil
shells, from New Mexico. See also under the names of Drs. C. EL.
McChesney, Henry McElderry, George H. Moran, H. W. Savielle,
F. EH. Wilcox, OC. H. Sternberg.

Surveys west of the one hundredth meridian, Lieut. G. M. Wheeler in
charge. Collection of butterflies; Arachnida; two boxes of Coleop-
tera ; crania of lynx and alcoholic and skin collection of mammals
and reptiles; skull of Baird’s dolphin (Delphinus bairdii); alco-

-holic collection of spiders and fishes; collection of botanical
specimens (Leguminosa); 4 mammal-skins, 46 bird’s eggs, and 3
lots pinned insects.

Navy Department :

See under Commander L. A. Beardslee, Master Kossuth Niles.

Medical Bureau. See under names of Drs. Palmer, John PF. Brans
Jord, and Thomas H. Streets.

Interior Department :

General Land-Office. See under Surveyors-General A. R. Harden-
burgh and John Wasson.

Office Indian Affairs. See under the names of Indian agents Paul
Beckwith, W. H. Danilson, S. S. Dyer, Jesse W. Griest, J. L.
Mahan, D. Sherman, J. H. Wilbur; also under the names of John
Blankinship, 8. G. Lapham, #. Palmer, J. W. Powell, (part,) Ste-
phen Powers, P. Schumacher, and L. M. Turner.

2 i.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 105

Survey of the Colorado, (Maj. J. W. Powell in charge.) Eleven boxes
ethnologica ; skull of panther (Felis concolor).

Department of Agriculture, (Hon. Frederick Watts, Commissioner.) Ar-
ticles of food, medicine, narcotics, vegetable fibers, &c., &c.; bow
made of horn of Rocky Mountain sheep; arrows and moccasins, from

Rochester Museum.

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, (Prof. Spencer I’. Baird,
Commissioner.) Large collection of fishes and other marine products,
models of nets, boats, &c. See, also, under the names of Charles G.
Atkins, T. H. Bean, H. C. Chester, A. I. Kumlien, and H. W. Welsher.

For a separate statement in general terms of the donations of objects
of geology, mineralogy, metallurgy, zodlogy, botany, ethnology, and
industries of various kinds made by the foreign centennial commissions
to the United States, and taken charge of by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, see another part of this Report.

A complete list of the additions to the collection to illustrate the
mineral resources of the United States will be given hereafter.
106 APPENDIX.

Table showing the number of entries in the record-books of the United States National Muscum
at the close of the years 1875 and 1876, respectively.

Class. 1875. 1876.

SOIT BIB were ee ae tre cate awe a macin os an remin wnin bn ete unineme mois oe ale a seniem aes 12, 462 12, 612
ESTE > rete Senta ee ee eine eiieaine e/a in nine = coe a Rie eiea ate Sb ate ner ears tele eletate 70, 378 70, 987
FLOP CLO R AITO CAIN LOTS oie oieiain one winis bwinlbee « halca eine misixinm piaieiainis = em aid emi demids amin settee 8, 410 8, 572
Lp ts ees ee ek wee SS SAR oe OARS OIE ear ce Some Serre ARE sccessosa 16, 649 16, 893
SGI aS OGL SE TER AA Ae eee Se SOR SBerace curtis Soctoacse te seses cata Sees ae 15, 363 15, 442
igre eee tee ean clotted tea nena aun ear eens Pe ae aas en 17,249 | 17,201
Crustaceans .... ae 2, 210 2, 310
FAMINGUON Gee otamakiosbme sn eicats sce asms scene 100 100
UTES ESH Rene eee bat inte eocticim eaeie needle ainsi eiepip me aie s Reis eles canteen hie ete iateiniateasetoermiare a ate 26, 757 30, 721
ING tib ie tan 04 2 SE Rae A app Oa RONe a SOn A ceASIridnccAscast S96 PARP Rn eS eB Coca seer 3, 148 3, 229
DN VOMADTaUe dt ORBLE bce ccc cwte dooms seer anima te ae weweensmera a @ttanenine ns aera oer 7, 905 7, 905
PVIQTET IG S25 cee one ties amine aroae eee cee ae errs coca aan area eae cemae tate 9, 394 20, 050
Mibnplo ical Specimens: ssn. .see cle arinewe tele = conic se wiee eves oma nae eee einer 20, 302 27, 880

Total ss 7a.p sees nc SOBRE A SSRs och OS REAR SAR Shere acca teo A Sacneorceasssncas *210, 327 | 234, 002
2G a2) CG OR (ean ecigns see ina deSesar oe racerone daemon como aoccaesackososans soci soetiges:- 23, 675

* The corresponding entries for 1875 were 12,578; for 1874, 10,334.

Approximate table of the distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of 1876.

Distribution to the end | Distribution during 1875 | 1044) to the end of 1876.

of 1874. and 1876.
Class. j
Species. Specimens. Species. Specimens. Species. | Specimens.
Skeletons and skulls .... 429 1, 230 102 394 531 1, 624
Mammals a 2,129 4, 779 12 13 2,141 4, 792
iste ty Saab sesosonmernnae 24, 879 38, 207 937 1, 219 25, 816 39, 426
REPMIOs sscee seer cesar 1, 991 3, 262 14 20 2, 005 3, 282
IRUSHGH Semen = seas aeen 2,771 5, 815 213 407 2, 984 6, 222
Nests and eggs of birds. 7,172 17, 870 256 258 7, 428 18, 128
TNHACUS)= ve o-eees en aces 3, 648 8, 294 433 1, 066 4, 081 9, 360
Crustaceans .....:....2: 1, 078 GOO S  cisa cere onl ao xine einialeldlonte 1, 078 2, 650
SHOES Soeses sctinaeteinser 89, 789 195, 292 172 222 89, 961 195, 514
Radistesee =) 222 ice ace 583 (iff BECRSROCRAAC OS SObeecr co sce 583 778
Other marine inverte-
DTAates se ecnae cease 1, 844 By) ee eer arirsa) bernie Sei ae 1, 844 5, 160
Plants and packages of
NQGUB conse e cet aisecee 5). 28, 370 49, 705 80 150 28, 450 49, 855
MOSBUBTaacceceasbiane sels 4,125 ROT OE Ms tte etde ors | Satotoerase ea 4,125 10, 154
Minerals and rocks ..... 8, 867 16, 252 216 572 9, 083 16, 824
Ethnological specimens. 1, 950 2, 069 115 412 2, 065 2, 481
Diatomaceous earths,
(packages).-...-...-.. 258 1,012 150 | 150 408 1, 162
Mata en eon oe 179, 883 362, 529 2, 700 | 4, 883 182, 583 367, 412

nn
EXCHANGES. 107

STATISTICS OF LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES
IN 1876.

BOXES SENT ABROAD,

No. of | Cubic

~
o a co .
Agent and country boxests tee

Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm.-..-.....---.----.--- 6 | 42
Royal Danish Society GL ociences; Copenhagen cs)... oG secs ene enn 5 | 35
Royal University of “Norway, Ghivistianta 232,255.25 iene ore eterno 3 21
Leowatcngids Co. st. Petersbure, Russia ---2-:-.--5.-'s2i ss. seca 13 | 91
Fr. Miiller, Amsterdam, fOMBOl@IMM .cccs cs sense coseslecsmweeeeens 6 42
Prof. von Baumhauer, Bureau Scientifique Néerlandais, Harlem.-.-.-- 6 42
Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and Greece. 56 392
“Sich me ROE THO. TRETIS 6 ees oe cesa See leo Cee ean pacaeU PUSS oF SaEe 23 161
U. Hoepli, Reale Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere, Milano..-. | 77
William Wesley, London, Great Britain, British possessions in !

RUS MMA ese eit Saito ciennla laa ence ivicin swe a ins s area vic daicicin noe neces oe 52 | 364
Academia Realdastecienciass MishONto. sacscscece see Soe eset tieee eee oul 71
Reiencademia de Ciencias, Madrid: - 222.25 so cic acces cece ce-5 sees 1 | vi
Cuba, Reali Universidad de lajHabana.=2--. .2.. 0222. .225)e secs eset jhe 2
SC nliimeviers dad fee cao a soceye canis anche cicieitinncidecaeticsucieistnwaseuastie 2 14
Mexico, Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Estadistica-........-.---- 2 | 14
IBienOnPAyTes, Ee rOt. i DURMEIStOD-cs 25+ 25-<+ ssscs spain cna casas == 1 7
Instituto Historico, Geographico e Ethnografico, Brazil..---.-..----- 2 14
niversidadsor Costa ica, Sam JOSG:..-.----s--s6 s-coee e+ oe ese ee ei 7
MINIGOHIM ES VOMO Vite os areiccomepenasc.cs cides Some ce SSE aad ahemee aces ae 1 7
Public Library, Victoria ....-....--.---- PG ee Oe bk Fe $e 6 42
Royal Economical] Society of the Philippine Islands, Manila... 2 14
ME ANOMERMENY SOBUM epee ss le Se clap sm eke ae hws ul Saciacem selec 203 1, 421
ipnoreie nye OVeEINMents 2.0 oo scite ccc - Secs dase sm cclopee ss ge enee 120 840

Moral weieht 80,750 POUNGS so-so. sock sos oc sicwiss wee wee 323 2, 261

NoTe.—12,219 miscellaneous packages, of which 30 contained specimens of natural
history, exclusive of 290 Smithsonian Reports of 1875; 160 copies of vol. xx and.160 of
vol. xxi of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge ; in all, 12,829 addressed packages.

International exchange of United States Government's publications in 1876.

No. of boxes.

Queensland, government of, (per A. Mackey, commissioner, Centennial).... 7 A—G.
Nictoriay, covernment of Melbourne. -22--.----. -. 224. scse~ see cece oe eee 7 A—G.
Aacinide ;overnment of South Australia o225--t-.22. 22ss6 s5eceo cess =. e 7 A—G.
Wellington, government of New Zealand, parliamentary library. -----.---- 7 A—G.
Sydney, government of New South Wales......-....-..----..----+ s------- 7 A—G.
Hobarton, government of Tasmania, parliamentary library ..---..---..-.. 7 A—G.
Switzerland, (per Swiss consul).......----. Wot atiaicite spate nite deere Sate, taliaue ete 7 A—G.
Sweden, per consulate of Sweden and Norway..---- Bsa eres oe ieee ieee 7 A—G.
LSE ASCH) Fare] BU Uo) OF oe es ye tee ak ee 7 A—G.
Government of Buenos Ayres, (per E. Oldendorff, Centennial Commissioner) 7 A—G.
Eavorimont or Hayti, per locaton -c2tee asc. esacte o- ence eseonsenescnecs 6 A—F.
Government of Venezuela, (Messrs. Dallett, Bliss & Co., New York)....--. 6 A—F.
Norway, Kongelige Norske Frederiks University, (per Messrs. Wesenberg

SES (Cig LE LOTT EEG ET YE) gy 5 C—G.
Prussia, Royal Library, (per Dr. F. Fliigel, Leipsic)..-.... ....-...---..--. 6 C—G.
Germany, Reichstag Bibliothek, Berlin, (per Dr. F. Fliigel, Leipsic) ....--.. 3 E—G.
Saxony, government of, Dresden, (per Dr. F. Fliigel, Leipsic) ....-.-... .--- 5 C—G.

PUMA MOMMSCUME ION COMM, 2= sheer oe cc. 22 <ccs «Jae eaee eRe Result Oocend, DO=G.
108

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

No. of boxes.

Spain, government of, (per Centennial Commissioner) .-....---...--..----. 5 C—G.
Turkey, government of, (per légation impériale ottoman) ...--.-------..-. Ge
Holland, government of, (per consul-general, New York).-.---.---.-------- 1G
Belgium, M. le Ministre des Affaires Etrangéres.........----.-.----------- LG.
Portugal, government of, (per consul-general, New York) .-...----.-.----- = ihe
Ottawa, parliamentary library. ----..---. .-<260 se csce sccm n ew ene cem wenn 1 G.
Toronto, government of Ontario ..-. 2. 2-2. 6 - noe we cee ore won 2 mene nee = 1 G.
Mexico, government, (per Juan N. Navarro, New York)...-...--.----.---- IL Gy
Brazilpeconsulate at Baliimore <2s20.,.--202 <--> onnceos +4 =~ ap 2-90 an bing ae ee
Chili, Munoz & BPspriella, New York << 22-1. ec sone renee seen ee amlomicvanine TaGe
Japan, (per legation in Washington) ....-..---..-.----0- e-0- - 0+ - 2-6 o-oo Ge
Total ..- 2.2 ---- ---- 2+ eee eee cones ene e teenies cee cee eee eee cee e tenes 120
N. B.—The boxes are marked A, B, C, D, E, F, G.

PACKAGES RECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FROM EUROPE,. ETC., IN 1876, FOR DISTRIBUTION IN
AMERICA.

ALABAMA. No. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Tuscaloosa: Georgetown 5 z
Alabama Insane Hospital............ 1 | Georgetown College...--.----------. 5
Washington:

ARKANSAS. American Medical Association....--. 3
Bureau of Education .--............. 5
Litile Rock : Bureau of Navigation .......--...-.. 10
Governor of the State of Arkansas.... 2 | Bureau of Ordnance..........-...-.. 4
habe LIPLaryi.- 1-6 ec esiee\ece ce eee as IL | Bureau of Statistics s-<- 2... ase 8
@ensns BURCaM esse eer teeta 5
CALIFORNIA. Coast-Survey Office .----....5.2. 5.25 a
Columbian University.....-..---...-. 3

Oakland : Columbia Institution for the Deaf and
leah On Cemeteries 2 DWM S55 hq cscksb oeccosnsoasoscee 1
University of California....-....--.. 1 | Department of Agriculture ...-...-.. 124
San Francisco : Engineer Department orlsaiscasdnemnne 11

BOER of Health. as a he a eh Oh 2 General Land-Office....-..---------- 5

California Academy of Sciences..---- 70 | Interior Department gia aig Aton 2

Geological Survey of California. -... 4 Liont House Board. atSises S20e Saesace a

May - fa isco .. 1 Loh b-ELOUsSe DOALRG@ ences ee oe
eyaos tie City, of Ren Eee scare Medical Society of the District of Co-

Stockton: lathe ton ae i eee 1

Insane Asylum....-..----..+-------- 1 | National Academy of Sciences... ---- 7

National Deaf-Mute College..--.....- 1

CRIB OS SOE Nautical Almanac Office. ............ 4

Golden City: Navy Department...--......-....--.. 3

Sch 1 a f Mi ey: , | President of the United States. .-.-.. 1

i EB I TI Signal-Offices! .-: cent esc acese names 36

Bes” ax Surgeon-General’s Office..... sitecisciue 111

eh EC Swedish and Norwegian Legation.... 1

se Treasury Department sdigsiaa SScb a Sace 3
Hartford : age United States Commission for Fish-

State Agricultural Society...-..-...-. 1 eries 3
: Fe ey ee  eoetmmcccas. 17 SCRLGS sp amare See ee eer
Young Men’s Institute.--...--..-.... 1 | United States Geological Survey of the

New Haven : MarritoLied.. ccc esaees se eee eese ues 69

American Journal of Arts and Sciences 70 | United States Naval Observatory .... 57

American Oriental Society......-.... 19 | United States Patent-Office.......... 128

Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sci- War Department .... cae. esse newe 3
CNG. t i A ey ees 94

Sheffield Scientific School...-.......-. 1 GEORGIA.

MOU OMep Sissetee saw alls <\enr a eeet 25 Athens ;
Middletown : State Agricultural College.......-..- 1

Connecticut State Hospital for the In- Savannah :

BAROR pu domseeGtia geiaice Saeco ne 1 | Historical Society of Georgia .-...--. 2
,

EXCHANGES.

109

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

ILLINOIS,

Chicago:

Chicago Academy of Science.....-.---

Chicago Public Library

Dearborn Observatory. ..---.---..--.

Mayor of the City of Chicago
Elgin:

Northern Illinois Hospital........-..
Jacksonville :

Dlinois State Hospital. ............-.
Ottawa:

Academy of Natural Sciences ..-.----.
Rantoul:

Rantoul Literary Society--..-....---.
Springfield :

Academy of Science....-....---..---

INDIANA,

Indianapolis:
Geological Survey of Indiana
Horticultural Society of Indiana. .---
Indiana Institution for the Blind --..
Indiana Institution for the Deaf and

(DTT ty oo kGeibopSecoaseca oo ss eae
Lafayette :
legariktiey Uni taesniye ooecaeosos ooeeco
IOWA.

Davenport :

Academy of Natura! Seiences ..__-. --
Des Moines :

PLALOMLTDTATYy. -s55. <2 soe be St scl Ss8
Towa City:

Iowa State University...-..---..----

KENTUCKY.
Frankfort :
Geological Survey of Kentucky
STateMBIDIALYnocces s2c5-5 oss cine nose -
Louisville:
Mayor of the city of Louisville.---..

LOUISIANA.

New Orleans :
New Orleans Academy of Science... -
PYOMUCM DEADLY ssc co occa asta ow is ass + S-

Augusta: ,
Maine Board of Agriculture...-...-.
SPUN LEA a ee ee eS eee

Brunswick :

Portland :

Portland Society of a History.
Waterville :

Colby Palversity. 2.20.00 800% 28...

24

cow

MARYLAND.

Annapolis :
United States Naval Academy........ 1
Baltimore:
Johns Hopkins University..........- 6
Maryland Academy of Sciences...--. 2
Maryland Historical Society........- 2
Peabody Institutes. ---. S22.2-222_ 2. eR
MASSACHUSETTS. °
Amherst :
Ambersh Collererna-a-etsaeteas se 3
Boston :

American Academy of Arts and Sci-
ONICER sae aCe Sore ee on oP 146
American Social Science Association. 2

American Statistical Association..... 8
Board of Mducationi-ss. 2. see sn es ee 1
Board of State Charities...........-. 3
BostoneArt,- Clubsacoecese ec eee eee Z
Boston Athencum +--+ sees scceeeeee oe 2
Bostonsblospitale.s-. 5-2 sae a) 1
Boston Medical and Surgical Journal. 10
Boston Natural History Society.-.---. 201
Bowditehy library sco. ce-2 1. cseseers = 1
Gynceological Society ...-.. ....-.-. 1
Massachusetts Historical Society .-..- 1
Mayor of the city of Boston.......-- 1

New England Genealogic Historical

} Society Lote ote estes ae es See!
Ornithological’ Clubee-ss. -ceeesecs 1
Perkins Institution for the Blind.:-. 1
Publeabraty--.scccceccee ese se es ya Wi
Sanitary Commission..---.........-. 1
State Board of Agriculture..--...... 2
State Board of Health.....-........ 1
State; Library assassee sesame eee 8

Cambridge:
Harvard) Colleges ss oiresece = osn\-e eae 39
Harvard College Herbarium...--...- 1
Harvard College Observatory .....--. 27
Museum of Comparative Zodlogy.... 8

Peabody Museum of American Arche-

ology and Ethnology.........-.--- 3
Jamaica Plain:
Bussey Institution ~~ 2-2~.==-/-- 2-426 i
Yorthampton :
Clarke Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb: So v2¢ =. eee eee eee 1
State Hospital for the Insane.---.--.. al
Salem :
American Association for the Adyvance-
ment of Sclencesseaeseee seen = = 45
American Naturalist cssee c=. ce5. 12
Pissex Instiiwhex-ceceee ss e- occ e eee =e 92
Peabody Academy of Sciences....... 85
Somerville :
McLean Asylum for the Insane...... 1
Worcester :
American Antiquarian Society...--- - 11

Institute of Technology.......-..... 3
i

110

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE

SECRETARY.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &e.—Continued.

MICHIGAN.
Ann Arbor:
ODSOLVaAlOLy tourer sea meele ncaa ee 9
University of Michigan ........-.-.- 2
Detroit:
Michigan State Agricultural Society. 8
Review of Medicine and Pharmacy.. 9
Lansing :

Geological Survey of Michigan..---. 16
Michigan State Board of Health....- 1
MINNESOTA.

Minneapolis :
Minnesota Academy of Sciences.... - 7
Saint Anthony :
University of Minnesota ...--. ---- ati da
Saint Paul:
Mimnesota Historical Society.....--- 5
Saint Peter :
Minnesota State Hospital for Imsane.. 1
MISSOURI.
Saint Louis:
Geological Survey of Missouri - .---.. 13
Governor of the State of Missouri.... 1
Saint Louis Academy of Sciences -... 110
State Board of Agriculture .-....-.--. 4
University of Saint Louis ......-.... 2
Waspington University ------..--...- 1
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Concord:
Dartmouth College: -.- 2 2222-222 - 3
Dartmouth College Observatory .-...- 1
New Hampshire Asylum for Insane... 1
New Hampshire Historical Society... 2
NEW JERSEY.
Hoboken :
Stevens Institute of Technology...--- 11
New Brunswick :
Geological Survey of New Jersey..-- 6
Princeton:
College of New Jersey .----.---.--.- 5
NEW YORK.
Albany:
Albany Insiitute.<-2s.ceee see eeeee 21
Dudley.Observatory-..---23 225-24... 22
New York State Agricultural Society. 22
New York State Library.-........... 47
New York State Medical Society -----. 1
New York State Museum of Natural
UIST OI jee taco i niniwioyeiw t,c'ote ce via aereeete
New York State University.......... 8
Blackwel’s Island :
New York City Lunatic Asylum ..... 1

New York—Continued.

Brooklyn:
Long Island Historical Society .-.-.. - if
Mercantile Library Association ...... 1
Buffalo:

Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences .. 47
Canandaigua :

Brigham Hall Hospital _----- - 22-5 1
Clinton:

Hamilton: Collere,-- 264-45 eee 1

Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton

Colleren eases sae nee eet “4

Hudson :

Observatory foo aen eet nee metee ae 1
Tthaca :

@ornell Universityisce ose eee ceeeee 6
Le Roy:

Ingham University -.....-.. soourcocst 1
Lima:

Genesee (Collepeste.. ose eee eens 1
New York:

American Chemist)... 5 sss ee se eee 3

American Geographical Society os =) BY

American Institute. scence se seeeeses 20

American Institute of Architects. .... 17

American Museum of Natural History. 20

American Public Health Association. 1

American Society of Civil Engineers.. 11
Anthropological Institute of New

Work Soscastliosccn dmssu\dcleaednceere 17
Astor ibrany- sae cree aoe 13
Board of Commissioners of Central

Parle s2ec5) Sebo ee cee eee ee 1
Board oftHealth#®s -:csee ce ee eee 1
Columbia ‘Colleset— 222 == ose eee 1
Cooper Unione reese ae- sane eee 2

Engineering and Mining Journal .... 11
General Society of Mechanics and

Pradesmeni cess soma sane ee eee 1
Insurance Department ....-...--. soon
International Review -....-----.---. l
Leno. Libranrye spon. sss" oe ee ee
Manufacturer and Builder...-......- 13
Mayor of the city of New York ...--. 1
Mechanics’ Institute..2-....-.-. .... 1
Mercantile Library Association .-...-- 2
Merchants and Clerks’ Library Associ-

atlon ).<s252c5—. Welececicc eee eee 1
Meteorological Observatory ..--.-.---- 8
Metropolitan Museum of Art.-.--..-- 2
New York Academy of Medicine...--. 3
New York Academy of Sciences... --. 87
New York Historical Society..---.--- 5
New, York Tribune-i2. op-Seecen ceaee 1
Sanitarian... <2. eeeeeeeeseieee see 10
School.of Mimes isu a. - sere eieaeer 8
Uniao Scientifico Brazileira..--- acess 1h
United States Sanitary Commission... 5
University of the city of New York.. 4

Poughkeepsie :
Pablic Eibraty. 52 ee ons. es cee ee 1

Vassar College. icc. cenccces ences PS at |
EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &¢—Continued.

New York—Continued.

Rhinebeck :
Saint Joseph’s College.

_ Roch ester:

Schenectady :
Union College
Syracuse :
Letrifeulivi: UNO eA SE see eee eee
Syracuse University
Troy:
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute... - --
Utica:
State Lunatic Asylum.........--..-.
Willard:
Willard Asylum for the Insane

ee ee

NORTH CAROLINA.

Chapel Hill:
University of North Carolina...--..-.

* OHIO.
Cincinnati :
Astronomical Observatory. ..---.----
Cincinnati Quarterly Journal of Sci-

Monge vweweAsyIOM) Soc cinsccce coccee ==
Mayor of the City of Cincinnati... ---
Mercantile Library ...--:--..---.----

Ohio State Board of Agriculture... -
Paphemabrary:\s-22 25525 2255-2255

Columbus :
Geological Survey of Ohio.-.-....---.-
SLSLOUMNDLALY o-- <s sca cseeisejsecae~-

Gambier :

KenvourColere 2. =< mie at-2!-on-ce
North Bend:

Horticultural Society of Ohio....-.. --
Oberlin :

MMOD CONGEO —. 5.- Soe = cance eee

OREGON.
Salem :
Willamette Observatory ......-.--.-.-

PENNSYLVANIA.

Alleghany :
Alleghany Observatory........-..---
Danville:
State Hospital for the Insane..-..---
Easton:
American Institute of Mining Engi-
ORI R REE Hee his eters istais'c'a's Seng woe ote
Lafayette College......--. Jaasscose6
Harrisburgh :
Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. ..
Pennsylvania State Agricultural So-
GQlpbYessoaccr ces aicewacesweetventicers
Btabeskibraryecccce so cssccce seetaatas
State Lunatic Hospital..... ee seiace

10

1

PENNSYLVANIA—Continued.

Philadelphia :

Academy of Natural Sciences.-.--.-.-
American Entomological Society .... -
American Journal of Conchology...- -
American Pharmaceutical Association.
American Philosophical Society.-.-..-.
Asylum for thedmsane@ eso cos eases set
Boardlof Hducationess- eeca-nesee a
Board of Health
Central High School
Franklin Institute
Historical Society
Library Company
Medicali Timesz-24-\53-2e cent eee
Mayor of the City of Philadelphia...
Medical Society of Pennsylvania.-..-
Numismatic and Antiquarian Society
Observatoryeossoe tosses aceacaei acts
Pennsylvania Hospital..-.-..-.-..---
Pennsylvania Institution for the Deaf

ange Dumbee ssa ee ee ee eeeioee nee
Penny Montilvjec seen cosas ce eeaet=
Pennsylvania Society for the Preven-

tion of Cruelty to Animals
Polytechnic Review .-......--
Social Science Association .. -. -- ,
Waener Free Institute of Science... -.
Zoolorical| Societyas---14- 1s == od

South Bethlehem :
Lehich University 2222-2242) =-

of Pennsylvania. .- -

Se

RHODE ISLAND.
Providence:

Brown University - eee

Butler Hospital for the Insane... p

City Registrar's) Omice-22e2222.2--—-

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Charleston :
Charleston Library Society .-. 2
Elliott Scciety of Natural History .. ais
South Carolina Medical Association...
Columbia :
University of South Carolina .....-.-

TENNESSEE.

Nashville :

Statechibranyc.s2 - ue lecsaaeeoeeee

TEXAS.

Chapel Hill:

Souls UMniVersiby scam se ae rate

VERMONT.

Derby:

Orleans Society of Natural Science- --
Burlington:

University of Vermont ...-...-.....--
Montpelier:

Staten LibLanyansece acess e = weele

ie ye!

175

20

mR 0D

36
112 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.
ee eee

VIRGINIA.

Charlottesville :
University of Virginia. ..¢22 s-<cen5) 99

Hampton ;

Hampton Normal Institute .....----- -2
Lexington :
Washington and Lee University - ..-- 1

New Market :
Polytechnic Institute.......----..--. 2

Richmond:

Medical Society of Virginia..--..---- 1
Southern Fertilizing Company. .----. 1
State si brary: +. sc-sekieneeeeieeent ee
Williamsburgh :
Eastern Lunatic Asylum ...--..--.-- 1
WISCONSIN.

Janesville :

Wisconsin Institute for the Blind.... 1
Madison:
College of Arts...-...- Je aie 1
Wisconsin Academy of Sciences. Arts,
and Letters. . Sie £ 7

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society - 25

State Historical Society of Wisconsin. 7

Madison University ........-......-- 1
Milwaukee :

Natural History Society-.-.-......--. 1
Neenah:

Scandinavian Library Association.... 1
BRITISH AMERICA.

Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island :

Colonialstibranyecces seee ios 2
Fredericton, New Brunswick :

hecislative Library ces) oee aie 2

University of New Brunswick..-.-...- 2
Halifax, Nova Scotia:

Board of Agriculture. .-.-. .220:-2..: al

Dalhousie College...--- ...5.252555.- 1
Kingston, Ontario :

Botanical Society of Canada..-.....- 1
Montreal, Quebec:

Board of Acriculture,.o.-:--2--..-0-~ I

Geological Survey of Canada....--.. 16

MeGill Coleco semeesses see see 1

Montreal Historical Society.....-... 2

Natural History Society ..--.....-..- 29

Royal Canadian United Service Insti-

CUBON oc. cchae slate eeree 1

Société d’Agriculture du Bas-Canada. 1
Ottawa, Ontario:

Library of Parliament.............- 2
Quebec, Quebec :

aval University. 23-222. -22 eee 2

Le Naturaliste Canadien :.......-..... 1

Literary and Historical Society...... 8

QObservatory7.csc% 2-22 oo eeeeee oe 5

British AMERICA—Continued.

St. John’s, New Brunswick :
Mechanics’ Institute ...--..---......
Toronto, Ontario:
Canadian Institute <--.5.- 22-2 secece
Magnetic and Meteorological Observa-
WOU coer leweic asi <i = ee eee eee
Meteorological OCG ose = =e eee
Provincial. Meteorological Observa-
bOLY = =~ Sonica cobemoso55 5°
Trinity ‘College ‘Library EAR onioaSoss +
University of Toronto.......-.-..-.-

INDIVIDUALS.

Abbe, ProtC 2 2252 -tasocem eit ae
Ar aSSIZ A Ole Alte ae clase ionine= etme
INGE CVA Mish Bigse eso psaeosoaosene 55
Allen, Prot. tA coces sence een emoee
Alvord, Brevet Brigadier-General....
Anderson, Erol ibn-seee eee eee
JATIPELETy Av Wisse se es = seisise sata leteaee

AB Cy, Ate ae lae ole eete aaa teers
Bagley, Governor J. J..s-<...---...-
Baird) Prot 8.0l seen seen eee eee
Ballard: Deas sc2 22 ess cae ee eee
Bancroft, Hons Gs sss scee essere aly
Banerott, Hie s2s ose ssc x ee aerate
Bandeliny Misa s. cites. see oaeeeee
Barbank; sProtessor-.<- 2s ose eet

Barcena, Prot. Mos 2seetss tote eee eee J

Barker, Prof.iG. E\.22-c.n ose
Barnard; Driee><ceshj- tence emeere wistd
Baxter: Hon. OWidi: 25s. etnc eee

Bell (Drie ais wis ae elelental ts codeine eee
Bennet; Ji: Gases eccs conc tesa deteecsis
Bereckmans, Professor ..-- 2. --.- 22-2
Bessels. -Driehis-erzsseesee hice tater
Bessey, Prot. Co Bes. oto Seventeen
Billings, Dri deSise cease eerie
Blake; Ji Hie nase eis ees

Bland ese ahs ces cies setter eee
Bland y; Jt Pisces. coco osesenee eee
Bliss; Ri. -Ss20-t ose) cenen ee eceeees
Blodget Whste se ccoseen meee eee
Boardman,’ Ss lon. ds eeeteele eee
Boehmey; ‘Gs Hizccs se casseeeaeeonoer
Bowers, R6ViuS acces cece nelesase eens
Brabrook;,'Ss Geo 2c. sn scisnae eee

Brewer, Dr: Gloss eae ee aa eee
Brigham; DroCi Bie. sees sesso eee
Broadhead :Gir@xecsectesees pe seieeee

Burmbam) sees ea sos cee aeee ene
Butier; :Gescetecoes saautcceeemaeeee

EXCHANGES.

113

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, d:c.—Continued.

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Wee ADS Urns eer ee co ee
Canby, Ui dele Le Aes Se ee eae ee
Carpenter, ae oS eee
Maroy, TH. Oi ceae- ===> ---- SSS hE
Calterfield, W. F-- PB ee
Chandler, Prof. C. F.. 5S eae
Chickering, i PGES FeOW cs Ae se
@larke,. Prot. H. C---..---: Come eae
Ean oo == =<) 2- poo. SS
Cleveland, D
Clinton, G. \ fe et aera
Coffin, eee es od cee
llevan Se ero Os ae acieeeee
BEDS Na, WW 2-22-23 222-05 Foams
TED GT AG i ee es eee ee
PTO 1G ONS = obs oe
Cope, BRP e ees oasis acs ae SS
“es [St a eee eee
Cox, E.-T

DDS KC ern «Ca eee 3 ee
TDAP Ty ZAC ee ee
DES TCLS mt 0) Ree ee eee
MawWAONT TOL. Ds WV. = sa}e seers «ots os
PRBHUMING PhS (oop es sles 2 iste sone,c% 3
Dike, C
MERHNOT SIMO a= As nne-) once siS< <i
MnNONOTer TORN a. 2 -. cos See sces <2
Dodge, C. R
Mowe Cant J. Mo -J- 2522-5525 -sesse oe
IMNGN eat. hao cfesic ctw oe obs sie
LTE 09 0 De eae
LESS yeaa] Deel 6 eS See ene yee ees
Pep. Oapt. by: CO... 52.322. +-s0--
SAMA ETOL, Jz. ss <ieoe wane 2s
Baton, Hon. J...---.---.------------

Ellis, F. B 2a SSR eee ee eee os

Engelmann, 7 Sf TRS SERRE
SIGUE) A nr re ne
Eve, 7 JES a in
Everdell, | CA ae ee

Fay,S

ee

Fiss, G. W.: Mee Ne ees oe) Satie en ie
Force, CCF ie Di el ee
LLaTW EC TO Bay) a ari
un) 13 th a as
Fremont, its | a at
Hrost, G. Mes. 2: . BOG ee eee
Gabb, 0 aa ia a tated
Garber, HPA SV ite oa 8S Mein Ba
emer PIES Woe oo. e cuss ete ee

s 8

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Gentry be Sacessfclll be eee 1
Gerard.) Weelth. Go. 027.52. 2 e eee 1
Gilbert: Gua S eV, a 2
Gol SD Ear tes See 18
GIOV ere Dee ae oe oe ee Se i
Goodall @Protessor ss 2scess5 222 coe 1
Goode. Go Bees Ges cas cae pee te 2
Goodfellow,sB serene. ee ee ee 2
Graham, Colopiel._.> 25 2.2228 We. 1
Gray; Prof. (Asoo oe eae ee ee 10
Guyot,Prof. Aw 62> 2 ee 13
Hagens Dr. Fens oeccoe see ee ee 8
Hale iM. A. : 212 eee 1
Hall rote. soe SEED tone aos 15
Harding, Co titans ee ee ee 1
Harding, Boot < 2208 Po. ee ee 2
Hamline Go Wien scl ase cape nee 2
Harkness; Professor. ::-2 i222 2560525 1
Harries Wis co asasce so cece Meee 1
Hawking: Col: R:G 22..2 2 ee 1
Hayden, Dry Ws Viie2 tee Se 93
Haynes, Professor’............ ao Oil 1
HedrickysBx S2 Se sne- ise ee ii
Henry; Prot-Jostsccae-> eee 36
Hershaiws, Es Wise a soa se 1
Herbert: Gis sotto eo. eee 2
Higgins, Be ORAS Se eee oy Be
Hilg. ard, Prof. J. | OEE LES Bi 3
Hill, Gs ote sis ee 1
PU Dee so Shae ree eae 1
Hilton, Wise eo ae ae, 2 eens 1
HinrichssProt.G esses 6.> see 15
Ge Ue ee ae Cee eee 1
Hitchcock, Prof. C. H...-.-.--.- oy oe
Hoar, Judge 2. oon as oa 1
Holden: Prot. HiSescsas ee eee ee 2
MOUPHUN, bees sone seat eee 2
Howe: Dr: S:.Gea eae natok eee i
Hanis jAdves- o228s20 eee eee 3
Hant;- Dr: 0s Sz Sosa eee eee 3
Hyatt, ProfsAes es s55s25c 08 see 2
Hyatt Dr bi ssa sere. eae see oe 2
Jackson minient.He sea. oes och ota a 3
Jarvis Dress Jeet see ek Sacks 21
Jenkins, Rear-Admiral T. I......---. 2
Johnson, Captaingers. ssscu-ooh ace 1
Aol ParironOnre coe ose a2 woe eee 1
Kerrgbrofs WiiG). ee sos Laos sae 1
Mingstan’ Prof.G. T= 32. 522sse ee ]
Kn oxsghis Jue cstiet Soe awe esas 1
Bapham Dred: Aq io: 5. eee 1
Rg Neal i are es Remaenoee 1
Lawrence: Gs N) 2522 )-hoeee eee 5
Lawson, Captain: 2s=<,.cee- se eeee ee 1
ener: Tce loo: eee neers a
ie Conte; - Dri Jeli aoe oe 9
Lee;tAdmiraliSiiPeerease ame | 2
ees Ji Lincseeee a eee te eee 2
Leidy,:Dra Jee Paseo sobs toa 13
Bemmony le Gpereeepeeecn sass. acc 2
Iheonard sProtiejaiviees cet oek cee 4
Wesley. dime eres ao. csc dese oe 5
Lesquereus erotic 5.5s55-25 4

Theyi) Bighopypeeee a cease Secs de aNe 1
114

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Packages received at the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Coutinued.

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Levitte, Dr. G. M
Lewis, Dr. J
WOOMmMIs ss PEOti bees eae se ss donc cielo sen
TOVETIN Re EROrAM eee etiepi's ee nee
Lyman, B.S
VM Siew carats b= '<\s ale fals'sale 2 ese
Maclntire, J
MEICM ATEN ODN Wx. bee as sonitcee sabes
Manigault, G. E
Marcou, Prof. J
Marsh, Prof. O. C
Marvwedoel. Miss Bl 2os221s2ceeet Jose
Mason, Prot. O. T
Massey, A.A -+.-2- <3. - pte Es Bee ~-
Matthews, G. F
Meek HB a eesiiectses woken Pee
MOOG POA t Aten seme cinerea ene
Meigs, General M. C
NYG GT RASS Nd SY) eS eae et Sea Cae Pe
MGC Hel VIRB Mest a5 tee ole ee
MOH Ti Curemcmines cme tees oats oa ee
Mohr, jr., P. F
Moody, J. D
MOTAIS REVS Sisccus culos a2 cere se
Morris, Prof. G. S
INTOT BORE Oe cits chee sa ces Se woes

Moulay ror sine csc oats oie we ce ok
Moyer, Dr. T.S
MUNVOE shlsWky ths mene = cee se bce Se :
Miner WG enenalAsr dco secre - ss eae sis
DI phen EKOL pbs phys ..0 asec 2 < ea- ae ee
Nev benrmniase roti: Sussccece ooo ee
NOWCOMDErOhe Sree e=- Sos aias eco
Newton, ProtiH.yA\- cop asce> - see oe
INGTON eS Dip ae ere le ene by nae
INOUITRE Ee TOt ghey Pieooe tsb aoe eat) oe
Olmstead, Rev. L. G
Osborne, J. W
OUTED eee 20 Ue pee ok Ree ees Peis

RACIAL | Rep Es Als 2c chee eum cies

NOM ELUM wiben tcces, Sse cei aeereeias

RACOUM ID Dw beee eons SEE Sc yee oes ae ee ott

Barkan eb tA os. 28 ie ee eee

Jehu OF (GL (CG Se See ae ieee eae

Paterson; Captain’. -2.)-\-2 s-.tsse<es <

Pea rsOlied peemibeee cn ts 6 )s ceknee nce ws

eC iy Glee yeencwicie oa cc ss a eee ak

IPOINCE VETO MR eee es oe ae Seer as
Peters, Prof, Cebab sc... 5sc2-\- sets

Pimental, F
PoeKgche,. Tc aes eee ee ee eet
OOTO. Bt AE oe ese eee oer ae aes a
mourtsles, 1. Py idee ieee ee ene te
acy Gl MAT. J, WW ssc s cto ee eee eit
POO he st ak ee eee
MRUN ATELY VV. aos ont Coes eee
Pais, Professor
UR UBE DOL Gr os e's ots adie Gul cole Sones
PUT IDONO EDT OW ies aie nw nok Sa wo eee
Reg General iM... '2),..- tapes
Se ES oe pa nih o's weld op see eee
RDS) Gs A ld
FU ea nee acre c's onic’. oe once
Riley, C. V

weewes tee ees cee eee oees

~ / <
INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Rillieny, Ni. -2. 52.0% os wane leila tapes
RIGGION Mitr. 9 2a ~ a5 a eee
Hoberts, Geese. ce cee PS lis se sae ee
Robinson; (Ri Wier... 22st aidemeie orate
Rodrigues, Dr. Je a2. a ose eee
Ropers, Proressor :.. 35..02 cee eee
Roas, Dr. Alexander’M .:.... -222 eoee
Ruthertord; Ui. Meo. 2.22. oe eee j
Safford, Prof. J. M
Sattord; Proficl. Hl. 220. =. sees
Salisbury, Prof. E. E

eee ew eet eee ewe

‘| Sands, Rear-Admiral B! S.......-...-

Schenek, Hon. R. C
Scheiffelin, H. M
Schott, Gay Peat oS ee ce eee
Schroeder;; MrkiiBi22--.-- one eee
Schumacher hese aes ee reeee Echoes:
Schuster, dae 2 e.g eae ee eee eee
Seudder) S$: dy 225. sae Steet aoe
Seaman). Wi. Hit= =< Leste eee eee
Selwyn; AsHRiGoe oe. scion so oe eee
Shaler; ‘Prof. NoStes2525 20-26 90 eee
Shepard, Profv@rees 22-9. eerie eee
Sigsbies Capt, Caine aoe eee ees
Silliman, Prof.) Beecas.. see ee Fie tae
Slater,'jr:, H.UNvssssotes eee eee
Smallwood, Dr.i@s2 22. 2ace eet eee 5
Smith 9A 22. ca ae ee ee
Smith,:Prof./Hiebyeece ores ae eee
Smith, ProtsSolee ee. meee
Smith jWabo eee ace ec cee oe

Southall jd. Gestece oe cee ee
Squier) MAG eee ee oe eee
Stam, CiDace 22 ee a ee eee
Stearns: dh. (iC aoe ke eee eerie
Sterling i!@ Sa j28 0 oon eee
SUV) Tro ego) 0B Beemer ee See ec
Stone ProhiOne ieee eee eee
Storns; Coc scandens eee eee
Stout;-DrOAsBrie? ccteeae aeEeme ere
Strong, Cube esas 2ee cao ee
Swezey; GiiDices<ack acces cece eee
Datta 3 Cote ne Sek ae arene ee
Thomas Profs. Cees oo een ;
Thomson; J His Cle cen ane ee
(Rhomton,Siciheesas-e2-ee es eee

Ty on) 05: GuaWice seas cele ae
TMuackerman, broly ese sseeee eee
Murrill, \C7 Bisse See eee ae cree
Whler Drs. Peake cena ane eee
Vasey, Dr. Gi eicsea tea as eee
Vierrill, (Prof. (Ai Eee ee eee
Vietromile, Bic. coeeeck oss re eet
Wachsmuth; Co's) tesserae ee
Weal Dr. Wi Pc eee act eames
Waterhousé, Dr. A oso. cae as see
Watson, ProfsoiGres eet. so ares x
‘Weeden, W,. Bi 2 o-teseooces seater
Western & Co
Weston, IL. C

Pale

InDIVipUALS—Continued.

Wheeler; Lieut. G. Ne eee 7 | Winthrop, R.C . sane eNe ee

W. PPD Oc Ae cise acieecs emesis <=, 15 | Witthaus, Mrs. Bass). eae
Dicceknos, Lae, JAD See Le Woodrow ev; Prof. J)... 2-52 sone
miney, Prof: J--.-.. -....--..-: Gi; Woodwards Wr Jodo: scce occ sce
Wiiiney; Prot. Web). :-..- 2-2-2225: LOD Woodworth Dr.,JaM2:* 2222/8 5.35
“Whittlesey, C Src, 6S SECRETED EE ee i? | Worthen bro. Anes: = oo ask a
- Wilson, soe 1D 2) eer 3 | Yarrow, (Bens) (shea | Sani Rm ea
Wil U2) dO) 8s ee eae 1 | Young, Prof. C. A eeysee arene ce
Winkel. Prof Jide 2 Scere Gt pYoune*C.cB ees ee ne sence

4 ‘Winchell, 1 TE Se eee 2 |e oun ps Ming: Mi) eerste aoe ane er

OO in) 1 Dia OBS OE ea 1

“: RECAPITULATION.

sie

_ Total hes OLIN CEUbIONSe oot. alt Se ecch, San cake wens ce Soke eee oe
Total AUPE ES ESOL URIBE), se soe srs eevee hee oe Scices ser ele ae egee oe ee
Morlmuniber of parcels toinstitutions ;.-. 2.22.2... ces<|s--5 ccc. tee ce eee ecicnns

Mota! mumber of parcels to individuals. =... ...-...-..--/--25 o0s- eceeeees sees :
2

EXCHANGES.

InpDIvipuaLs—Continued.

115

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &ce.—Continued.

3,705
1, 148

4,553
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The executive committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution respectfully submit the followipg report in relation to the
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the support
of the National Museum, the receipts and expenditures for both the
Institution and the museum for the year 1876, and the estimates for the
year 1877.

Statement of the condition of the funds at the beginning of the year 1877.

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of

Aucust 10, 1846 2:2. 2... 3 Ma a Rs SW Se. ee Rx eae $515, 169 00°
Residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, deposited

in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance with

the act of Congress of February 8, 1867............... 26, 210 63

Potalhequest Gf Smitison. 3. sry es co eee en 541,379 65
Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States, as ~
authorized by act of Congress, February 8, 1867, derived
from savings of income and increase in value of invest-

INTQRIGS) cjateie wats rsd bapid Se erecta cs Re ee le ae) ener ee 108, 620 37
Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of Car-
homed. Nebruary 24, 1874 2. eee. «2 ae alanine nae 1, 000 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of
the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent.,

payable semi-annually in gold..............-... 651. 080 00
In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund,
from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates,
viz: cousolidated bonds, $58,700, deferred certificates,
$29,375.07; fractional certificate, $50.13; total $88,125.20,

How Valued at. ...... foe cee Alaina oon i ee 42, 000 00

Cash balance in United States Treasury at beginning of
MOM OU 2c woe. 5. okie AEA a Rien dg Salo nie Coenen
Total Smithson funds, January, 1877........- Jean) CEE DOO tes

116

sf REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. bi

: Sitement of receipts ne expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution dur-
ing 1876.

RECEIPTS.

’ Interest on $650,000 from the United States, 6 per cent.

ME Pee ere edt ace eo Sainte eo Ree ew tidia o's --- $39,000 00
_ Prémium on above June 30, 1876, at 1118, $2,266.87, and

January 6, 1877, at 106,8,, $1,255.36, (less commission) .. 3,522 23
Interest on eae bonds; coupons sold December 15,

1876, @ 83-86, (less commission)...-.........--....... 2,907 75:
_ Dividend from First National Bank October 7 , 1876, 25 per

tent lh ye ele ote eee 2,056 23

zo

——-

OLLIE te ER et SP A Se hear ale cel ig 47,486 21
, EXPENDITURES.

Total expenditure from the Smithson income in the
REE UR to cats = sea ten 2 eh satan a clasine ws = cieeante 46,978 21

Balance unexpended of the annual income, which is
included in the cash balance in the Treasury,
oem) Siriaas bo letareen a= nih aie ni 508 00

HAMILTON BEQUEST.

Interest on $1,000 February 24,1874, to December 31,1874... $50 88

5
Ap: January 1, 1875, to December 31, 1875... 67 61
oe January 1, 1876, to December 31, 1876... 65 36
Total income received to 31st December, 1876....-. a 183 85
_ Expended for exploration of -a cave near Carlisle, Pa., in ©
feo, by Prot: f. Baird). 2... 2... 25.0... 0 2.5225. - aE 150 00
Balance on hand January 1, 1877............. ca ala $33 85

VIRGINIA BONDS.

_ Amount realized from sale of Virginia coupons in 1876, by
Riggs & Co.

- December 15, 1876, coupons due Ist January, 1876, nue Ist
July, 1876:

30 coupons @ 85:........... Tene. eee eT $25 50
12 coupons @ 86 .....-..... cages hare Tamera pe 10 32

_ 900 coupons @ 834 .......-..-. Sie SAL ja apenas 748 13 _
_ 2,580 coupons @ 83....... $2 RCS RS ABD 2,141 40,

; 2,925 35
_ Less $ per cent., broker’s commission .....-..--- Bt haO0:
ce ——_—_——. 32,907 75
118 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK DEPOSIT.

Amount on deposit at the time of the suspension of the bank,

10 September aGe. o/s. 5 hsaenrs aoe cn eee ee reas
Received on account of the above—

11th November, 1873, 30 per cent..........- ~-s» $2,467 46

7th April, 1874, 20 per GONE; c-.ce=' Sele 1, 644 97

5th May, 1875, 10 ‘per COnb,so..5 acne eee ee 822 48

27th December, 1875, 15 per cent .............-. 1, 233 73

7th October, 1876, 25 per cent ............5.- 2,056 23

100

$8, 224 87

8,224 87

Statement of expenditures in detail from the Smithson income, in 1876.

BUILDING.

Repairs and improvements....... pak ain td Sm Gare $2, 561 71
PUIMUUre ANG TETATES 1.6). . x. ye. cee talslsje-ete sy 704 62

MaGnMBON i Gue.DOAtG .. > 553... sa uk sae oe ee oe $300 75
Exehtimns the puilding <2 se i 2s cect eee ee 365 28
PSatINe HAG: GOUGING? <h2i2,<0. is Sela sintee ae eee fitayare|
PINT A SE) m crsl Behe acer ee tale eo ene cm rere a 320 64
OMEIOUELY fore ce wn lew vale ee ee eet oe ieee B25°71 .
Incidentals, ice, insurance, carriage, printing,

BE tint asc jain des ae Sel? Sees Dee BAER 860 57
Salaries and clerk-hire'...-.. -.......0...4022 12, 541 97
Purchase of books and periodicals............ 596 80

Smithsonian contributions ......-... efeici as ahs tae | $7,331 43
Miscellaneous collections...................-.- 3,116 21
eports «2.5 4) owe ens hws apenas ene 603 50
Map of United States, (for the Centennial Ex-

HIDILION) |. \ 7-5 nena eee tae ate ne ta 200 00
Meteorology and researches...............-.. 2,124 34
PRPATMACERDELS aa stn ia rate ear ate ee ah Oe 1, 241 59
PAOEAUOLY. . . «>. i .0 oo. dv bee aes wae 94.44

EXCHANGES.
Literary and scientific international exchanges ......... e

$3, 266 33

16, 287 43

14, 711 51

10,199 10

*
w

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 119

MUSEUM.
Advanced for construction of laboratory of natural history.. $1,313 84
Advanced for clerk at Centennial.............-...... es 1,200 00

Total expenditure from the Smithson incomein 1876. 46,978 21
Expended from Hamilton-bequest income.......-....... 150 00

47, 128 21
REPAYMENTS.

The Institution, as in former years, has made temporary advances for
the payment of freight on Government collections, &e., the repayments

of which, together with the amount received from sales of the publica-

tions of the Institution, have been deducted from the several items of
the foregoing expenditure, as follows:

From exchanges, repayments for freight .............0.../.- $127 88
Pia PORtALE, TEPAYMENtS .2. 255 6.3 one oe as cones dae ty are 21 UE
Prant researches, repayments... 2.2. ee er te ese sees 5
From Smithsonian Contributions, sales of publications........ 42 05
From miscellaneous collections, sales of publications......... 277 40
Mronureports, sales of-publications.....-....--- .s2-dcbse oes 16 60
Sm nba LONELY, TOPAYMENL. <4. ee sa ved wwe eee cea clews 3 00
mmomocost Of DOOks, repayment --.. 22... ewes cm ev nee eeewe ck 29 04
Pee MOrOIGUrTe, TEPAYMENt 5.0.26. 60 Seek ee cs ed wk ecetne se 16 00
Sm pailiding repayment... -~ 22. .s.c-.ces- 0 lice ee 3 75
SPron incidentals, répayment......... 022. ...0..0. yoee-0d tie 50 00
RAMEE R Se SS SP isan nhc ne kage * oie SSW had Stee eRe $592 49
ESTIMATES.

The following are the estimates of receipts and appropriations for the

year 1877 of the Smithson fund:

Estimated receipts.

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable June 30 and

eeerempetrs!, 157i, a Cold... 02h. so. oes ye cobs ke thy. & $39, 000 00

Probable premium on, gold, (6 per cent.)........-.----.... 2,340 00
Interest on the Hamilton fund to December 31, 1877, in
eet sei Rore aid ain ns 2 alm oreleral e ainsi , 60 00
Probable premium in gold, (6 per cent.).....-..-:-.---. as 3 60
Interest on Virginia bonds from sale of coupons due Jan-

REMPETIN NUN O(N: a2. 6c 3. 2 ss se ee eee 2,500 00

$43, 903 60

Provisional appropriations. —
TMI ES ae in seem oink 5 odes Roan eo sas $1, 000
SETI DONSCN ss 2-2-5 =e a4, os sono dene Seated de ss,0 ne 14, 000
MAR? ied hy’
; a ee ‘ ) Fie oo ae
120 . REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. :
For. pablications and researches .(.2 <\. 4)...‘ usu set: eee ee $18, 000
MOPS CHAN LGR «2 larg oe Pom a Gace sy 0's CM gine ae eet oe 8, 000
Hor Goeks and. appawabus: 6.0.25 SOU eee eee 2, 000
MOY CONTLOPOMDICNS ix, <6 5 stein) Viele Jie eta aren eee SB ce era nd er —— «500

$43, 500
NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The collections of the surveying and exploring expeditions of the
Government forming the National Museum continue to be in charge of
the Smithsonian Institution, Congress making annual appropriations for
the care and preservation of the specimens. The estimate submitted
for this purpose for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1877, was $25,000,
but the amount granted was only $10,000. This large reduction in the
appropriation rendered it necessary to discharge the larger portion of
the scientific and laboring force of the museum, and to retain scarcely
enough to exhibit and preserve the specimens without attempting any
work in the way of making up sets of specimens for distribution to
other museums, colleges, and academies.

To provide for the temporary storage of the large collections which
would be received from the Centennial Exhibition, Congress at its last
session granted to the Institution the use of an edifice on the mall,
known as the “ Armory building,’ and appropriated $4,500 for its
repair. » The building was in a dilapidated condition, and required all
of this appropriation to put it in substantial repair, leaving nothing
for heating and other arrangements. A small additional appropriaticn
is recommended to be asked for at the present session of Congress to
complete the repairs.

It was stated in the last report that it had been foul necessary for
properly carrying on operations connected with natural history, for ~
-which no conveniences existed in the Smithsonian edifice, that a sepa-
rate building should be erected on the grounds; and the necessity for
this was the more urgent on account of the large preparation of new
specimens required for the Centennial Exhibition.

For this purpose $3,000 were granted by Congress. This sum was
expended, but was found insufficient, and the remainder, to complete the
building, was advanced from the income of the Smithson fund.

The amount thus advanced, $3,927.84, it is hoped, will be refunded to
the [nstitution by an appropriation in the deficiency bill of this session.

The following is a tabular statement of the condition of the National
Museum appropriations, January, 1877
Appropriation for preservation of the Government collec-

tions for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1876, (Digest of

Mppeopriations 1876, py, LOB) secine emo cise = au sae .. $20,000 00
wii e iaabe from July 1, 1875, to December 31, 1875: ....- 10, 381 32

~

Balance unexpended January 1, 1876.............. 9,618 68
Expeuditure from January 1 to June 30, 1876......-.... . 9,618 68

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. POE

Appropriation for preservation of the Government collec-
tions for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1877, (Digest

fom sappropriations, 1877, p. 106).... ... 2.2.2... 02a. $10, 000 00
_ Expenditure from July 1 to December 31, 1876.......... 5, 090 86
Balance unexpended January, 1877............-.. 4,909 14

Appropriation for fitting up a separate building or labora-
tory for operations in natural Wie (act July 31, 1876;

Re Si Th LOG) oS aor woe ncn Sone ele Vee evde en wlan oe 3, 000 00
4 ‘Expenditure from July 1 to December Ef igo Wd cer or es 3, 000 00
Appropriation fOr repairing and fitting up the so-called .

Armory building on the mall, between Sixth and Seventh
. streets, and to enable the Brenbanian Institution to store
therein and take care of specimens of the extensive series
_of the ores of the precious metals, marbles, building-stones,
coals, and numerous objects of natural history, now on
exhibition in Philadelphia, including other objects of
practical and economical value, presented by various for-
eigh governments to the National Museum, four thousand
five bundred dollars: Provided, That the said sum shall be
expended under the direction of the secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution,” (act July 31, 1876; Digest of

Seerupriauons, p. 106)... 22. 2... kn ee ee ee 4,500 00
_ Expenditure from July 1, 1876, to December 31, 1876...... 3,916 23
_ Balance unexpended J anuary, LS area ods. Gee ees Peska 583 77

4 All the payments on account of the National Museum have been made
directly by the disbursing officer of the Department of the Interior, on
_ the presentation of vouchers approved by the secretary of the Smith-

 gonian Institution.
SUMMARY.

_ ‘he executivé committee have examined five hundred and forty-two
vouchers for payments made from the Smithson ineome during the
_ year 1876, and three hundred and nine vouchers for payments made
from the congressional appropriations for the National Museum, making
- @ total of eight hundred and fifty-one vouchers.

All of these vouchers have the approval of the secretary of the Insti-
~ tution, and a certificate setting forth that the materials and property
~ and services rendered were for the Institution and to be applied to the
purposes specified.

_- ~The committee have also examined the account-books of the National
Museum, and find the balances of $4,909.14 and $583.77(=$5,492.91) to
the credit of the Institution to correspond with the certificate of the
_ disbursing clerk of the Department of the Interior.
123 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The quarterly accounts-current, bank-book, check-book, and ledger,
have also been examined and found to be correct, showing a balance in|
the charge of the Treasurer of the United States January 11, 1877, of |
$21,029.18.

Respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER,
GEO. BANCROFT,
Heecutive Committee.
WASHINGTON, January 23, 1877.

| JOURNAL OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
| INSTITUTION.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 24, 1877.

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
was held this day at 7 o’clock p. m. in the office of the Secretary.
Present, Chief-Justice Waite, Chancellor of the Institution; Hon. H.
_ Hamlin, Hon. J. W. Stevenson, Hon. H. Clymer, Hon. G. W. Reeders
_ Hon. Peter Parker, Hon. Ganeee Bancroft, Prof. Asa Gray, and Pro-
fessor Henry, the Secretary.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
4 Excuses for non-attendance were received from Professors Dana and
 Coppée.
_ The Secretary presented a general exhibit of the condition of the
_ fund and the receipts and expenditures for the year 1876. He stated
that to save time these statements and all the accounts of the Instita-
_ tion had been referred by him to the executive committee, who were
prepared to report at the present meeting.
Dr. Parker, in behalf of the executive committee, presented the an-
nual report of the receipts, expenditures, estimates, &c.
On motion of Mr. Hamlin, the report was adopted.
The Secretary called the attention of the Board to the great increase
of the National Museum during the past year from specimens pro-
- cured from the appropriation by Congress for the Centennial, from the
donations of States of the Union, from individuals, and from foreign
_ governments. He stated that for the exhibition of these articles an ad-
_ ditional space of four times that afforded by the present Smithsonian
edifice would be required ; that therefore an additional building was
_ absolutely necessary, and as this could not be erected out of the Smith-
Son fund, an appropriation from Congress must be asked for.
* On motion of Dr. Parker, the following preamble and resolution were
_ adopted, and the Secretary was instructed to transmit them to Congress:
_ Whereas Congress, in the organization of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, directed that it should make provision on a liberal scale for a
Museum to contain all the objects of natural history and of curious and
foreign research, then belonging to or hereafter to belong to the United
States Government: and
Whereas, in accordance with this direction, the Institution has devel-
oped and for many years principally supported this national museum,
the collection being the property of the Government, while the build-
ing was erected for their accommodation at a cost of $500,000, out of
the income of the Smithson fund ; and
123
124 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Whereas, on account of the appropriations of Congress for a national |
exhibit at the Centennial, and the liberal donations which have been |
made by several States of the Union, by individuals, and especially by —
foreign coe the ae se ei has dpb increased a

Smithsonian puillaing to para it: Thesetare |
canes That Congress be palin ia) requested to ds: accom: | {

building i in Eenuection with the present Smithsonian edifice. - |
Professor Gray, from the committee appointed at the last session, —
‘to take into consideration the connection of the Smithsonian Institu- |
tion ard the National Museum, and to recommend such action as may |
be thought proper in relation to’ the matter,” made report of progress |
and requested farther time, which was granted, it having as yet been |
found impossible to obtain a meeting of the committee for the consider- —
ation of the subject. i
On motion of Mr. Clymer, the Board adjourned to meet on Pteida ce 0 |
February (1.
WASHINGTON, D. C., 1st February, 1877. |
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day, at |
7 o’clock p. m., in the office of the Secretary.
Present, Chief-Justice Waite, Chancellor; Hon. T. W. Ferry, Hon. H. |
Hamlin, Hon. J. W. Stevenson, Hon. A. A. Sargent, Hon. H. Clymer, |
Hon. B. H. Hill, Hon. Peter Parker, Hon. George Bancroft, Prof. Asa ||
Gray, and the Secretary, Professor Henry.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. _ ,|
Mr. Sargent and Mr. Hill stated that they were unavoidably detained —
from the last meeting.
Professor Gray presented the following. report of the special com-
mittee on the Museum:

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITIEE.

- When Congress, thirty years ago, enacted the law which established |
this Institution, it probably did not anticipate the state of things to ©
which we have arrived. The income of $500,000 must then have ap-
peared much larger than it does now, and the several undertakings ~
which were devolved upon it must have been contemplated upon a mcd-
erate scale, if it was supposed that the means would compass the ends. —
A library, upon which $25,000 annually might be expended, a gallery of |
art, 2 chemical laboratory, a geological and mineralogical cabinet, nec- —
essary lecture-rooms, and, by implication, Jecturers, a museum of natural ©
history and natural produets, to include all the materials then belong- —
ing, and thereafter to belong, to the United States, (and we see how ||
vast that item has become,) these all have assumed a magnitude far |
beyond what could have been contemplated ; and yet they do not. cover |
those operations for ‘the increase and diffusion of knowledge among —
@

-

a4

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 125

men” which have given to the Smithsonian Institution its chief reputa-
tion and greatest usefulness throughout the civilized world.

The reasonable explanation of the terms of the organic law (and which
those who were familiar with the discussions at thé time know to be the
true one) is, that Congress did not attempt to define the particular course
which the Institution should take, probably because under the conflict-
ing and incongruous views that were urged, it did not clearly see its
way todo so. But while the law allowed all the available income to be
devoted to a library, if the Regents should think proper to give the new
establishment that direction, it required scientific cabinets, laboratories,

i! &c., which looked to a certain amount of development upon a different

line. The act indicated two or three allowable lines along which the
Institation might develop, either of which would soon have absorbed
‘allthe income. Under it the Regents might have converted it essentially

- into a library, into an educational establishment, or into a museum,

Under it they also might, still fulfilling the required conditions, develop

lines of operation which come closer to the express intent of the founder,

which intent must have been the governing principle of the whole enact-
ment. And this is what our prédecessors did. It is not surprising that
this small body, having the responsibility laid upon it, should have

_ adhered as closely as possible to the terms of Smithson’s will “ founding

an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among

_ men.” We. believe that the propriety and the wisdom of their course,
confirmed by the results, is now unquestioned.

That the museum and other collections mentioned in the act of estab-
lishment must have been regarded as a subsidiary feature, and the

_ library equally so, (except upon the alternative of its having the lion’s
_ share,) would seem evident from the fact that these were to be main-

tained upon the income of the Smithsonian fund, while the objects com-

_ posing them belonged, and appear still to belong, to the Government of
_. the United States, and to be held in charge of the Institution for exhibi-

tion and study. Accordingly, when these collections increased to such
extent that the care and exhibition of them threatened to absorb a

large part of the income of the Smithson fund, and to cripple legitimate
operations for the increase and diffusion of knowledge, which the Regents
had at thé outset originated, and of which experience had shown the

_ wisdom so soon, we say, as these Government collections began to press

heavily upon the institution, Congress, being informed thereof, made
provision for assuming this burden. 1t has made increasing provision

__as the collections have themselves increased in magnitude and cost of

maintenance. It has thereby manifestly acted upon the theory that

_ these museums are national property. The alternative view, viz, that

they are gifts, supplemented with gifts for their support, would be fatal

_ to the Institution, for the objects remain, continually increase, and can-

not be declined, while the gift for their maintenance may at any time

cease to be made. Uyon this theory, Congress could at any time con-

-
126 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

vert this Institution into a museum, and that without any legislation
whatever, by merely omitting to make an annual appropriation. For,
without taking intoaccount the vast Centennial gifts of foreign countries, —
the collections will now more than fill the Smithsonian building, and

their care and exhibition would absorb its whole income.

We are therefore bound to conclude that the Board of Regents, as re- —
spects these national collections, acts as the trustee of Congress. Under
this state of things, and in view of the ever-increasing magnitude and |
interest of these collections, the relation of this Institution to the |
National Museum becomes a matter for grave consideration.

In contemplating it we should be mindful of a policy which the Re-
gents have pursued of economizing the means and energies of the Insti-
tution by doing all it can through others; by taking up no line of use-
fulness, however inviting, which is. otherwise provided for, and even —
relinquishing important fields upon which it had entered, whenever
other agencies were at work in them and were found adequate to occupy
them. Thus the important field of meteorology, upon which, at the
outset, the Institution systematically entered, was surrendered to the
Signal Bureau, which Congress has enabled to cover the ground. To
avoid needless duplication of books and librarians, it has consolidated
its library with that of Congress, and contributes to the latter the com-
plete series of transactions of learned societies, journals, and other pub-
lications which it receives by exchange, or from time to time may pur-
chase, not parting, however, with the right of property, and thus con-
tinuing to fulfil, according to its best judgment, the duty of making
provision ‘for the gradual formation of a library composed of valuable
works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge.” So also
when Mr. Corcoran founded a gallery of art, and endowed it with

double the amount of the original Smithsonian fund, our unimportant |

collections in that department were contributed to it, and the Institution
may now fairly hold itself absolved from the duty of maintaining “a
gallery of art.”

Our Secretary, in his annual report submitted on the 26th of January,
1876, has now raised the grave question whether. the well-being of the
Institution would not favor or even require the adoption of a similar
policy as regards the National Museum. He declares that it is most
“desirable that a more definite distinction between the two establish-
ments, if not an entire separation, should be made,” and he urges the
subject upon our attention by considerations which cannot be disre-
garded.

Your committee was appointed to take thought upon this subject.
The vast increase of museum objects in natural history, ethnology, aud
materials of industrial art, consequent upon the Centennial Exposition,
an increase far beyond the largest anticipations, gives new importance
and urgency to this question.

A favorable action by the present Congress upon the suggestion made
=

3
hi
be
ay

ie koa

TE fy Pe EE Det ESE hen roe,

Re ee eh ae
~~: " ot

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. LZ

to it by a resolution of this Board, at the last meeting, viz, for the

erection of a large but comparatively inexpensive building, annexed to
_ the present edifice, to contain these great accessions to the museum,
Be would do away with the present embarrassment in that regard. The

suggested acquisition by Government of the present Smithsonian edi-

- fice, already mainly filled with its collections, would give a desirable

unity and prominence to the National Museum, and might sufficiently
mark that ‘‘ definite distinction between the two establishments” which

_ our Secretary suggests as needful. We agree that a more marked dis-

tinction than now appears to exist is desirable, for the avoidance of

_ present misapprehension and future complication.

But we apprehend that both these desirable snloee may not suffi-

ciently provide against the danger that the Smithsonian Institution may

become wholly subsidiary to the museum, and be perhaps crippled by
it. The Institution has only one executive officer, with undivided

responsibility, who may, with our consent, ‘‘employ assistants,” but we

look to him alone, and all must pass through his hands. His scientific
labors in conducting the Institution, not to speak of those somewhat

_ extraneous, of which he might possibly be relieved, are various, impor-

tant, and exacting. Much will be lost if the executive head of this
Institution shall be other than a man of broad scientific culture and
experience, commanding the regard of the scientific world, and the con.
fidence of the many who depend upon his judgment. His time and
powers must be divided between such duties as are here referred to, and
those of administration. Now the proportion which the museum bears

- to the Institution proper is already large, and it threatens to be* pre-

dominant. We have no desire to check its immense development, and
we contemplate with satisfaction its sure popularity ;. but, as respects
the burden which the museum throws upon our Secretary, we may say
that it is already heavy, and that it threatens to be injuriously large.
If not provided against, the time seems sure to come when the museum
will mainly absorb the working energies of the Institution.

In the next place we must all agree that the looking after Ganeress

ional appropriations in the present mode is not desirable. The Secre-

tary has called attention to this. An objectionable feature would be
removed if the appropriations were made directly in the name of the
National Museum, and if it became possessed of the present edifice. But

Still the duty of preparing or supervising and of anxiously furthering the

annual appropriations for the museum, would devolve upon our Secretary.

We would also remark that this great museum must have a large
number of employés, many times more than the Institution itself needs
for its uses. This great extension of patronage cannot be contemplated
without anxiety. Under the present organization this patronage is
vested in the Secretary. So far as the Institution is concerned, it were -
much better not to have it. On the other hand it may well be that the
128 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS ©

‘
Government would prefer some such administration of the museum as
this board secures.

No present action is proposed by this committee, beyond the recom-
mendation that the distinction between the Institution itself and the
museum under its charge should be mads as prominent as possible. The
very great development which the museum is now undergoing May soon
bring the whole subject before the Board in a practical. form. If the
next Congress should adopt a plan to which the Secretary adverts, (but
which seems unlikely,) namely, that of transferring the museum to a

new building to be erected for the National Library, the separation which —

the Secretary recommends would be at once complete. In that event,
since the Smithsonian building was erected in great part for containing
these collections, we will not doubt that Congress would indemnify the
Institution by re-imbursing an equitable portion of the original outlay.
On the other hand, if the museum is to develop to its full size and im-
portance upon the present site, according to the plans laid before the
Board, and by it recommended to Congress, this will, as 1t seems to us, |
almost necessarily involve the acquisition by the Government of our
present edifice ; and that will pave the way for an entire separation of
administration, or to such other adjustment as the Board of Regents may
then think best, or be able to accomplish.
Respectfully submitted by

ASA GRAY,

A. A. SARGENT,

HIESTER CLYMER,

Committee.

On motion of Mr. Stevenson, it was

Resolved, That the report of the committee, be received and printed
in the proceedings of the Board of Regents, to be submitted to Con-
gress with the report of the Secretary.

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations of the
institution during 1876, which was read, and, on motion, ordered to be
transmitted to Goa arcne.

The Secretary also presented a list of the articles given to the United
States National Museum by foreign governments represented at the
Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia.

Ov motion of Mr. Hamlin, it was

Resolved, That a committee be appointed to prepare a memorial to be
submitted to Congress, showing the recent immense contributions to
the national collection, and the necessity for provision being speedily
made for their reception and exhibition.

The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Bancroft, Parker, Gray, and the
Secretary.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 129

WASHINGTON, February 5, 1877.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day at 7 o’clock
p. m., in the office of the Secretary.

Present, Chief.Justice Waite, Chancellor; Hon. T. W. Ferry, Hon. J.
W. Stevenson, Hon. A. A. Sargent, Hon. H. Clymer, Hon. G. W. Me-
Crary, Hon. P. Parker, Hon. Geo. Bancroft, and the Secretary.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Mr. Bancroft, from the special committee appointed at the last meet-
ing, presented the following report of a memorial to be sent to Congress:

MEMORIAL

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled.

The undersigned, Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, beg leave
respectfully to lay before you a question which has suddenly arisen, and
which can be solved only by your authority.

In the year 1846, on the organization of the Smithsonian Institution
‘for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men,” Congress, to
the great relief of the Patent-Office and other public buildings, devolved
upon the Regents of that Institution the custody of “all objects of art
and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history,
plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging or here.
after to belong to the United States, which may be in the city of Wash-
ington.”

In accordance with this enactment, the Institution has received and

carefully preserved all the specimens which have been brought together
from more than fifty public exploring expeditions, and has added speci-
mens collected by itself, or obtained from foreign museums by exchange,
till its present edifice, in the beginning of 1876, had become full to over-
flowing.
. By an act bearing date July 31, 1876, additional duties were laid upon
the Smithsonian Institution as custodian, and $4,500 were appropriated
“for repairing and fitting up the so-called Armory building, on the mall
between Sixth and Seventh streets, and to enable the Smithsonian In-
stitution to store therein and to take care of specimens of the extensive —
series of the ores of the precious metals, marbles, building stones, coals,
and numerous objects of natural history now on exhibition in Philadel-
phia, including.other objects of practical and economical value presented
by various foreign governments to the National Museum.”

As a fruit of this act of the General Government, the Smithsonian In-
stitution finds itself the custodian of enormous collections that had been
displayed at the Centennial Exhibition, and on the closing of that ex-
hibition, had been presented tothe United States. These donations are
made by individuals among our own citizens, by foreign exhibitors, and
by several of the States of the Union, and there is scarcely a power in

s9
130 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

the civilized world in any region of the globe which has not taken part
in these contributions, and some of them with the largest generosity.
Men of science, most competent to pass judgment, pronounce them to be
of immense value, and are of opinion that, including the gifts from States
of the Union and the exhibits of the United States, they could not have
been brought together by purchase for less than a million of dollars.

That the magnitude and value of the donations from foreign govern-
ments may be manifest, we annex to this memorial the list of the more
important of them, as Seger by Prof. S. F. Baird, who represented
the Smithsonian Institution at Philadelphia. Their nae apie exhibition
requires an additional building, which shall afford at least four times
the space furnished by the present edifice of the Institution.

The Government of the United States is now in possession of the
materials of a museum, exhibiting the natural products of our own
country, associated with those of foreign nations, which would rival in
magnitude, value, and interest the most celebrated museums of the old
world.

The immediate practical question is, shall these precious materials be
for the most part packed away in boxes, liable to injury and decay, or
shall they be exhibited?

It was the act of Congress which ordered the acceptance in trust of
these noble gifts to the United States. The receiving of them implies
that they will be taken care of in a manner corresponding to the just
expectations of those who gave them; and one of the prevailing motives
of the donors was that the productions of their several lands might con-.
tinue to be exhibited. The intrinsic value of the donations is moreover
enhanced by the circumstances under which they were made. They
came to us in the one-hundredth year of our life as a nation, in token of
the desire of the governments of the world to manifest their interest in
our destiny. This consideration becomes the more pleasing when we
bring to mind that these gifts have been received not exclusively from
the great nations of Europe from which we are sprung, or from the
empire and republics on our own continent beyond the line, but that
they come to us from the oldest abodes of civilization on the Nile, from
the time-honored empires and kingdoms of the remotest Eastern Asia,
and from the principal states which are rising into intellectnal and
industrial and political greatness in the farthest isles and continent;
from states which are younger than ourselves, and bring their contribu-
tions as a congratulatory offering to their elder brother.

We have deemed it our duty to lay these facts and reflections before
both houses of Congress, and to represent to them that if they in their
wisdom think that this unequaled accumulation of natural specimens
and works interesting to science, the evidence of the good-will to us that
exists among men, should be placed where they can be seen and studied
by the people of our land and by travelers from abroad, it will be neces-
sary to make an appropriation for the immediate erection of a spacious

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. ae:

building. Careful inquiries have been instituted to ascertain the smallest
sum which would be adequate to that purpose; and the plan of a con-
venient structure has been made by General Meigs, the Quartermaster-
General United States Army. We beg leave further to represent that
to accomplish the purpose there would be need of an appropriation of
$250,000. This amount is required, not as a first installment to be fol-
lowed by others, but as sufficient entirely to complete the edifice. Should
this appropriation be made at an early day, the building could be ready
for the reception of articles before the next session of Congress.

On motion of Mr. Stevenson the report of the committee was adopted,
and all the Regents present signed their names to the memorial,* which
was placed in the hands of Mr. Stevenson to be presented to the Senate,
and Mr. McCrary to the House of Representatives. .

Mr. Clymer offered the following resolution, which was unanimously
adopted :

Resolved, That the executive committee be authorized and requested
to have a life-size portrait of the Secretary of the Institution painted
by some competent artist, which, when finished and approved by the
Regents, shall be preserved and kept in testimony and memory of the
devoted, unselfish, and renowned services of Joseph Henry in behalf of
the “ increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

The Board then adjourned sine die.

The following is the list appended to the foregoing memorial :

List of the more important collections presented by foreign commissioners
to the United States Government and taken charge of in behalf of the
National Museum by the Smithsonian Institution.

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.

Dr. ERNESTO OLDENDORFF, Commissioner.

Ores of metals, minerals, pottery, tiles, stuffed animals, leathers and
hides, nets, fishery products, samples of woods, fibers, seeds, grains,
specimens of silk and wool in great variety. This donation embraces
almost the whole of the exhibit in Agricultural Hall and a large portion

of that in the main building.
AUSTRIA.

Dr. FRANCIS MIGERKA, Commissioner.
Specimens of mineral wax (ozockerite) and a variety of mineral and

industrial products.
BELGIUM.

Count D’OULTREMONT, Commissioner.
Some specimens of industrial products.
*M. R. Waite, T. W. Ferry, H. Hamlin, J. W. Stevenson, A.A. Sargent, Heister Cly-

mer, B. H. Hill, G.W. McCrary, Peter Parker, Asa Gray, George Bancro¢ft. Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution.
132 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

.
BRAZIL.
Dr. J. M. Da Sttva Coutrnno, Commissioner.

Specimens of iron, coal, hides, leather, tiles, and pottery in great
variety ; specimens in large number of woods, vegetable fibers, sub-
stances used as foods, gums, resins, &c. This collection embraces nearly
the whole of the immense display in the agricultural building and a
part of that in the main building.

CHILI.
EDWARD SHIPPEN, Esq., Commissioner.

A collection of minerals and ores, artificial stone; tiles, terra cottas,
and an extensive variety of grains, ‘seeds, and other vegetable products,
embracing by far the largest part of the display of the Chilian govern-
ment in the main building.

CHINA.
J. L. HAMMonpD, Commissioner.

The entire exhibit made by the commissioners of customs of China
and displayed in the mineral annex. It inelndes a complete representa-
tion of the manners and customs of the Chinese, such as samples of
their foods, medicines, clothing, their domestic and household utensils,
their ornaments, objects used in their plays and festivities, &c. In the
collection are numerous full-sized figures, beautifully executed and suit-
ably dressed, representing the different ranks and classes in the com-
munity. Many bundreds of clay figures, about one foot in height, illus-
trating the different races of the empire; specimens of cotton and silk
in great variety, samples of paper, leather, and the like; samples of pot-
tery, such as vases, tea-pots, pipes ; matting, baskets, &c. This collee-
tion is of unparalleled interest, and cost the Chinese government a large
sum of money. It will require a space fully equal to half of one of the
halls of the National Museum for its exhibition. There are also three
ornamental gateways, three cases, and two pagodas as used in the main
building for purposes of exhibition ; musical instruments, specimens of
wrought iron and other metals, bamboo-ware, glass, specimens of tea,
oils, and woods, tobacco, and sugar. The entire collection (exclusive of
the ornamental gateways and cases) filled twenty-one large wagon-loads.

EGYPT.
E. Bruascu, Commissioner.

Collection of minerals, tiles, and pottery; garden products in great
variety ; samples of wood, and a large collection of objects illastrating
the habits and customs of the natives of Soudan, Nubia, and Abyssinia,
such as musical intruments, weapons, clothing, &e.

FRANCE.
Captain ANrryE, Commissioner.
No collective exhibit was made by the government, but Messrs. Hav-

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. ldo

iland, of Limoges, France, presented a pair of Centennial memorial-
vases, valued at $17,000, and requiring the erection of a special kiln tor
their production, together with a large panel of tiles.

GERMANY.
Mr. BarTELS, Comnvissioner.

Specimens of tiles, cements, asphalt-work, fire-bricks, manufactures
in metals and woods from the commissioner; and from Mr. F. Krupp,
of Essen, a very extensive display illustrating the mineralogy and metal-
lurgy of the iron-trade of Germany, with samples of the different man-
ufactures made at the great gun-works at Essen. This collection is one
of the largest and most complete at the Exhibition, and attracted great
attention. A special catalogue of this collection was printed by the
exhibitor.

HAWAII.
H. R. Hrrcncccx, Commissioner.

Collections of the volcanic and other rocks and minerals, ropes and
fibers, tobacco, sugar, oils, models of boats, nets, and vegetable products
in large variety. y

ITALY.
JOSEPH! Dassi, Cominissioner.
Samples of alabaster, terra cotta, marbles, &c.

JAPAN.
Lieut.-General Saigo TsuKMICHI, Commissioner.

A valuable series of tiles and other pottery, the large exhibit of the
fisheries of Japan in the agricultural building, including both products
and apparatus, skins and hides of animals, various food preparations,
and a series illustrating the materials and manipulations employed in
the manufacture of tea and silks; also manufactures of bamboo.

MEXICO.
Dr. MArRtano BarceNna, Commissioner.

The greater part of the exhibit of the natural produets of the country
as shown in the main building, including the ores of gold and silver,
obsidian, woods, fibers, and other vegetable products, pottery and terra
cotta. Among the most notable mineral specimens may be mentioned
an iron meteorite, weighing 4,000 pounds.

NETHERLANDS.
Dr. E H. Von BAauMHAUER, Commissioner.
Agricultural products in considerable variety; specimens illustrating
the fisheries of Holland, includingycod-liver oil, &c.; tiles, cement, &c.

NORWAY.

Wma. C. CHRISTOPHERSEN, Commissioner.
GERHARD GADE, Assistant Commissioner.

A very large collection of ores and other specimens illustrating the
134 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

metallurgy of iron, copper, nickel, &c. <A collection illustrating the
eatable fishes of Northern Europe; samples of prepared fishes, samples
of food preparations, &c. Great variety of agricultural products.

ORANGE FREE STATE.
CHARLES W. RILEY, Commissioner.
A collection of agricultural products.

PERU.
Jos& CarRLos Tracy, Commissioner.

A series of the principal food and other vegetable products in that
country.

PORTUGAL.
M. JAYME BaTaLHa ReEIs, Agricultural and Colonial Commissioner.
M. Lourrncgo MALuetrro, Industrial Commissioner. —

The greater part of the very extensive exhibit of minerals, ores, &c.,
in the main building; also pottery, samples of industrial products,
glass-works, paper, &c., and a full series of the vegetable productions
of the kingdom in nearly two thousand varieties. A portion only of
this collection filled sixty large boxes.

RUSSIA.
General CHARLES DE BIELSKY, ‘Commissioner.
Captain NIcHOLsKy and Captain SEMETSHKEN, Assistant Commissioners.

An enormous collection illustrating the metallurgy of copper and iron,
including different varieties of Russian iron and steel; the very exten-
sive collection of minerals of Siberia, exhibited by the School of Mines
and valued at a high price; samples of rope and cordage, pottery, tiles,
cement, isinglass, and other products of the sturgeon.

SPAIN.
Col. F. Lopez Fasra, Commissioner.

A collection of great magnitude, illustrating the mines and mining of
coal, iron, copper, and silver, salt, &e., in the kingdom of Spain; a very
large number of bricks, tiles, earthenware, and pottery; illustrations
of the various fibers and other materials for basket-work, cordage ; in-
dustrial products in great variety, including samples of paper, leather,
&c. A complete series illustrating the agricultural resources of the
country.

From the Philippine Islands, as one of the colonies of Spain, were
received, through Mr. Sebastian Vidal, samples of native work in the
form of baskets, nets, boats, &c., and hemp fibers.

SWEDEN.
C. JUHLIN-DANNFELT, Commissioner.

The entire exhibit of Sweden made in the agricultural departmen’
illustrating the fisheries and agricul ure of Sweden, including also speci-
meus of fish, food-fish preparations, &c.; specimens of peat-working

ne eek. Sheed tan git, he ee ie an he

~oSeyee*
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 135

machinery, apparatus for deep sea sounding and dredging, and also for
collecting specimens of natural history, photographs of Arctic scenery, &c

SIAM.
No Commissioner.

A collection illustrating the products, the industries, &c., of the king-
dom of Siam, made for the Centennial Exhibition with the understand-
ing that it should be presented to the United States at the close. This
filled 216 boxes, and embraces many articles of great pecuniary value,
This collection, with those from China and Japan, will require a room as
large as the upper floor of the Smithsonian Institution for satisfactory
display.

SWITZERLAND.
Mr. Epwarp GUYER, Commissioner.
Specimens illustrating the geology of the Alps and St. Gotthard tan-

nel.
TURKEY.

G. D’ARISTARCHI Bry, Commissioner.

Illustrations of the metal-work of the country, of its mines and min-
erals, its tiles and pottery, domestic and household utensils, samples of
iron and steel, &e.

TUNIS.
G. H. Heap, Esq., Commissioner.

A threshing-machine such as has been used from the time of the
ancient Carthagenians.

UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND, INCLUDING COLONIES.

GREAT BRITAIN.
Col. H. B. SANDFORD, Commissioner.

A very large collection of the private exhibits of tiles, terra cottas,
bricks, and pottery, sanitary ware, as also many industrial products in
great variety ; among the more notable articles in the series are collec-
tions of tiles and mosaics from Messrs. Minton & Hollins, and many
specimens from Messrs. Doulton, of Lambeth; among them several
large vases. Some highly important deposits have also been made, sub-
ject to recall after a certain period. Chief among these is the allegor-
ical representation of America, a duplicate of that furnished by the
Messrs. Doulton to the Albert Memorial in London, embracing several
colossal figures. This group is valued at $15,009. Also the large terra
cotta pulpit and font, and many other specimens of great variety ; an
extremely complete and important collection of samples of wools from
all parts of the world, presented by Messrs. John L. Bowes & Brothers,
embracing over three hundred varieties, each suitably labeled with
prices marked, &c.; a similar collection of wools in the fleece exhibited
by Messrs. James Oddy & Sons.
136 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

BERMUDA.
A. A. OUTERBRIDGE., Esq., Conwnissioner.
A great variety of specimens of coral, shells, and other marine ob-
ects, modeis of boats, samples of stone and wood.

CANADA.
Prof. A. L. Sunwyn, in charge of geological exhibit.

An extensive coliection of the rocks of British North America; many
hundreds of specimens exhibited by the geological survey, specimens of
coals from all parts of the Dominion; ores of different kinds, samples
of iron, steel, and copper, stoneware, and pottery.

NEW SOUTH WALES.

AuGustus Morris, Esq., Commissioner.

The extensive exhibit illustrating the mining resources, the natural
history, and the botany and agriculture of the province, including a
large model of the gold products of the colony up to the year 1875, and
specimens of coal-oil, shale, petroleum, &c.

NEW ZEALAND.
JAMES HecTror, Esq., Commissioner.

The entire exhibit of the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms of
the colony, and also specimens illustrating its ethnology. Among these
Specimens is a model of the gold product of the colony, and specimens
of its coal.

QUEENSLAND.
AneGus Mackay, Esq., Commissioner.

Model of the gold product of the colony, specimens of ores of cop-
per, iron, and gold; a large collection of native woods, fibers, and
other products.

SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
8S. Davenport, Esq., Commissioner.

A full series of all the exhibits from the animal, mineral, and vegeta-

ble kingdoms.
TASMANIA.
H. P. Wetcn, Esq., Commissioner.

Specimens of the iron and other ores, leather, woods, seeds, and
grains, fibers, wools, &ce.

VICTORIA.
Sir RepMoND Barry, Commissioner.

The entire collection of useful economical minerals of the country
exhibited by the mining department, specimens of stoneware and other
products, extensive collections of grains, wools, fruits, fibers, and
woods; samples of paper, gums, e.

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. Tat

VENEZUELA.
Mr. LEON DE La Cova, Commissioner.
The entire exhibit made by this country of minerals, ores, articles of
materia medica, fruits, fibers, extracts, We.

In general it may be stated that from the countries mentioned in the
foregoing, the exhibits made by the commissioners in behalf of their
respective governments, so far as relates to the animal, vegetable, and
mineral kingdoms, and their applications have been presented to the
United States; in some cases without any exception whatever, in others
all except a few duplicates which were presented to other foreign com-
missions, or to institutions in the United States. Indeed, the only
countries from which absolutely nothing was received were, Denmark,
Luxembourg, Bahamas, British Guiana, Cape of Good Hope, and
Jamaica; the exhibit of these countries being either entirely private
property or borrowed from the coloniai museum in London, and neces-
sarily returned.
EULOGY “ON GAY OU SiS ats
By M. ARraGo.

INTRODUCTION.

The biography which I am about to read is of unusual length, not-
withstanding the numerous excisions I have made in it this very |
morning. I might, as an excuse, say that Gay-Lussac is no ordinary |
academician; that he will occupy a very eminent position in the scien-
tific history of the first half of the nineteenth century; that the titles
alone of the important memoirs-he has published would fill a large num-
ber of pages, &e., &e.; but, I prefer frankly acknowledging it, I was too
late in discovering that I had exceeded the established limits, and when
there no longer remained the necessary time for giving a new form to
my work. I therefore resign myself unreservedly to any criticisms that |
the subject may call forth. I will merely observe to all those who, coming
here to seek relaxation, should unfortunately only find weariness, that
an old man, drawn into dwelling even to garrulity upon the divers merits
of a friend, has perhaps some claim to indulgence.

CHILDHOOD OF GAY-LUSSAC—HIS ADMISSION TO THE POLYTECHNIC
SCHOOL.

Joseph Louis Gay-Lussae, one of the most illustrious scientists of
which France can boast, was born, September 6, 1778, at Saint Leonard, |
a small town of the ancient province of Limousin, situated near the
frontier of Auvergne. His grandfather was a physician, and his father
king’s procurateur (prosecutor) and judge at Pont de Noblac.

Those who have had an opportunity of observing the frigid reserve
which characterized Gay-Lussac in mature age will be undoubtedly sur-
prised to hear me say that in his childhocd he was boisterous, turbulent,
and very venturesome. To justify my appreciation, I will cite one fact
from a thousand which I have gathered from the lips of Gay-Lussae
himself, and which was also related to me by his relatives: A venerable
eure, uncle of our future associate, occupied a house only separated from
that of Gay-Lussac’s family by a small yard; he had established his
fruitery in a room on which looked the chamber where Gay-Lussac and
a brother, a year younger, were in the habit of studying. <A desire to
taste the forbidden fruit took possession of Gay-Lussac. He hurriedly

133

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. F 139

stretches, with all imaginable difficulty, a pole from the window of this
room to that of the good curé; and armed with a stick, to the end of
which the blade of a knife was securely attached, he places himself
astride upon the fragile bridge; the end of his excursion reached, he
breaks a window-pane, pierces the finest of the fruit with his instrument,
and returns triumphant, safe and sound, to his own apartment. This
exploit, which might have cost him his life, was repeated several times
at short intervals. Finally, Gay-Lussac’s parents suspected the truth,
and the two brothers were taken to the priest to ask pardon. The first
thought of the child was to deny, but the evidence of his guilt became
clear. Gay-Lussac experienced such humiliation at being surprised in
the very act of telling a falsehood that he resolved never again to depart
from the truth, a resolution religiously kept during the rest of his life.
Those who like to seize, in the boyhood of great men, indications of the
character exhibited later in life, will pardon me if I interrupt for a mo-
ment the order of dates to relate another anecdote remembered by our
associate with very natural pleasure; this likewise involves a question
of apples.

Gay-Lussac having gone to Paris, the superintendent of the school in
which he was placed one day discovered that several apple-trees in his
garden had been completely stripped. As the offense could not, he
thought, be attributed to the pupils, since in order to pass from the
yard to the garden, it was necessary to climb two high walls, he resolved
to dismiss the servants. Gay-Lussac learns this, solicits and obtains an
interview, and then exclaims, ‘The servants are innocent; it is the
pupils who have taken your fruit. I will not tell you who took part in
the raid, but I am sure of the fact since I was one.” Let us add that the
exceptional frankness of the youthful Gay-Lussac was not on this occa-
sion followed by any serious consequences. It won for him, on the con-
trary, the most marked affection of the superintendent and his wile,
who, from this time, lavished upon him truly parental care.

Gay-Lussae began the study of the Latin language under the diree-
tion of a priest who resided in Saint Leonard, for whom he always tes-
tified the sincerest attachment. That his taste for the noisy pastimes
of youth might not interfere with his desire to perform his duties, he
devoted a portion of the night to study, after playing all day with his
comrades. ;

The revolution of 1789, so legitimate in its objects, and which began
with so much grandeur and majesty, had ended by rushing into the
most deplorable digressions. The law against suspicious persons reached
Gay-Lussac’s father. The removal of this excellent man to Paris would
probably have been followed by his death. Our friend, filled with
alarm, repaired diligently to the club, which met in his native town.
to ascertain the slightest indication which could threaten his fath-
er. The sight of a strong and valiant youth inspired the leaders of
the epoch with a desire to enroll him in the army, then fighting the
140 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

Vendeans. Gay-Lussae might gladly have donned the military capote
and shouldered his musket, but his filial affection prevailed; he proved
that, according to the letter of the law (he was but fifteen years of age)
he was exempt from joining the defenders of the republic, and he was
left undisturbed. After the ninth thermidor, Gay-Lussac’s father, who
had fortunately remained in the prisons of Saint Leonard, regained his
liberty. The first use he made of it was to devote himself to the future |
of the highly-gifted son, who, during his imprisonment, had given him
the most intelligent proofs of love. He placed him at M. Savouret’s
school in Paris.* This was in 1795. The scarcity and impossibility of
procuring food for his pupils induced M. Savouret to close his estab-
lishment. Gay-Lussac was soon after received into the boarding-school
of M. Sensier, which, established first at Nanterre and afterward at
Passy, outside of the walls of Paris, enjoyed some advantages of which
the schools of the capital were deprived at that time.

Ihave recently met in our assemblies old college-mates of Gay-Lussae,
and all have preserved the most pleasant recollections of him. One of
them, M. Darblay, a representative of the people, said to me, with feeling:
“He was the model of his school-fellows; we never saw him, notwith-
standing his uncommon spirit, give way toward any one to an impulse
of anger or impatience; as to his diligence, that was never relaxed.” A
pupil, taken to the theater by his friend, when asked at what hour he
returned, would reply: “I do not know, but it must have been very
late, as there was no light in Gay-Lussae’s chamber.” .

The difficulties under which M. Savouret had succumbed very soon
reached M. Sensier himself. Of all his pupils, he alone retained Gay-
Lussac, whose parents secretly were in the habit of sending him small
quantities of flour. Reduced to the most cruel extremities, Madame
Sensier every night carried to Paris, for sale, the milk of two cows, fed
in her garden, but the road being unsafe, Gay-Lussac begged and ob-
tained the favor of daily escorting his benefactress, armed with a large
sword suspended to his belt. It was during the return, which was made
by daylight, that our friend, stretched on the straw of the cart of the
impromptu milk-woman, studied geometry and algebra, thus preparing
himself for the examinations for the Polytechnic School, which he was
soon to undergo.

The sixth Nivése, year VI, after brilliant examinations, Gay-Lussae
received the much-coveted title of pupil of the Polytechnic School.
We sce him in this establishment always conversant with the required
duties, and giving during the hours of recreation private lessons to
young men who were intended for public services. 1t was in this way
he added small sums to the thirty franes that each pupil of the original
Polytechni¢ School reeeived as his monthly allowance, and that he sue-

“I regard as a duty the preservation in this biography of the names of all persons
who had any relations with our friend in his youih.

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 141

ceeded in maintaining himself in Paris without imposing fresh sacri-
fices on his family. 3

Gay-Lussace was one of the most distinguished of the scholars of the
Polytechnic School, as, at a later period, he was one of the most illustri-
ous and popular of the professors.

DEBUT OF GAY-LUSSAC IN CHEMISTRY—HE BECOMES COLLABORATOR

OF BERTHOLLET AND ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF THE FOURCROY
COURSE—AERONAUTIC VOYAGE WITH M. BIRT.

Bertbollet, who had returned from Egypt with General Bonaparte,

requested, in 1800, a pupil fromthe Polytechnie School, whom he wished

to make his aid in the work of the laboratory. Gay-Lussac was this
privileged pupil. Berthollet suggested to him an investigation whose
results were diametrically opposite to those expected by the illustrious
chemist. I could not venture to affirm that Berthollet was not some-
what disturbed at finding himself mistaken in his predictions, but it is
certain that, unlike many other scientists whom I could name, after the
first impulse of vexation, the frankness of the young experimentalist
only served to increase the esteem that the author of Statice Chemistry
had already conceived for him. ‘Young man,” said he to him, ‘ your
destiny is to make discoveries; henceforth you shall be my collabora-
tor. I desire, and it is a title of which one day I am sure I shall be
able to boast, I desire to be your father in matters of science.”

Some time afterward, without giving up his position with M.
Berthollet, Gay-Lussac was chosen assistant professor of the Foureroy
course and often supplied Berthollet’s place, which soon gained him
the reputation, that was constantly growing, of one of the most distin-_
guished among the very able professors at that time collected at the
capital.

Man, by reason of his weight and limited muscular force, seemed con-
demned to move forever on the surface of the earth, and only to beable
to study the physical properties of the elevated regions of our atmos-
phere by painfully climbing to the summit of mountains; but what are
the difficulties over which genius allied to perseverance cannot triumph ?

A scientist, who was a member of this academy, Montgolfier, calcu-
lated that by rarefying, by means of heat, the air contained in a paper
balloon of limited size, he would obtain an ascensional force sufficient
to raise men, animals, and instruments of all kinds. This idea was
partially realized, June 1783, in the town of Annonai. The astonished
Parisian population saw, November 21, of that same year, the intrepid
voyagers, Pilatre de Roziers and d@’Arlandes, sail through the air, sus-
pended from a montgolfiére. Another physicist, whom the academy has
also numbered among its members, Charles, showed the possibility of
making balloons of a varnished material almost impermeable to hydro-
gen, the lightest of known gases, which could take the place of heated
142 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAGC.

air with advantage. From his voyage made December 1, 1783, in com- —
pany with Robert the artist, in a balloon thus inflated, date ascensions —
infinitely less adventurous, and which in our day have become a pastime
for idlers.

It is to the original Academy of Sciences we must likewise go back,
if we wish to find one of the first scientifically useful ascensions made
with hydrogen-gas balloons.

It seemed to result from the experiments made during an ascension by |
Robertson and Lhoest at Hamburg, July 18, 1803, and renewed at St. Pe-
tersburg, under the auspices of the Imperial Academy of that city, by the
same Robertson and the Russian physicist, Saccharoff, June 30, 1804, that
the magnetic force which directs the needle at the surface of the earth
grew considerably weaker in proportion as they rose in the atmos-
phere. This fact, which confirmed the dimirution of this same force
that M. de Saussure supposed he had discovered in his celebrated jour-
ney to the Col du Géant, seemed to the principal members of the Insti-
tute, with good reason, to justify an especial experiment. This was:
confided to the physicists, Messrs. Biot and Gay-Lussac, both young,
enterprising, and courageous. ‘This last term may perhaps seem some-
what exaggerated to those who, in our day, have seen women, aping
in their costumes winged butterflies, placed entirely outside of the car
of the aerostat, rise from our public gardens, before the eyes of a won-
der-struck crowd. But such would forget that now balloons are con
structed with infinitely more care, and the means of safety have very
much increased.

Our two physicists ascended from the garden of the Conservatoire
des Arts et Metiers August 24, 1804, furnished with all the instruments
necessary for investigation, but the small dimensions of their balloon —
did not allow them to exceed a height of 4,000 meters. At this eleva-
tion they endeavored, with the aid of the oscillations of a horizontal
magnetic needie, to solve the problem which had been the chief object
of their ascension, but the rotary motion of the balloon presented unfore-
seen and serious obstacles. They succeeded, however, in partly sur-
mounting them, and they determined, in these aerial regions, the dura-
tion of five oscillations of the magnetic needle. It is known that this
duration must increase when the magnetic force which brings back the
needle to its natural position has decreased, and that this duration must
be shorter, as the same directing force has increased. It is therefore a
case entirely analogous to that of the oscillating pendulum, although
the motion of the needle is performed in a horizontal direction. The
consequences deduced from their experiments seem to me subject to
difficulties, which I shall point out after giving an account of the ascen-
sion made a few days later by Gay-Lussac alone.

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 143

ASCENSION OF GAY-LUSSAC ALONE—CONSEQUENCES OF THE OBSER-
VATIONS MADE ON MAGNETISM AND TEMPERATURE—IMPORTANCE
OF AERONAUTIC VOYAGES.

This ascension took place September 16, 1804, at forty minutes after
nine in the morning. This time Gay-Lussac ascended to a height of
23,000 feet, 7,016 meters above the sea, the greatest well-authenticated
height that man had then succeeded in attaining, and which, since that
epoch, has been but once slightly exceeded by Messrs. Barrel and
Bixio.

This second ascension has enriched physics with several important
results, which I will endeavor to explain in a few words.

We find, for instance, that at the moment when Gay-Lussac’s ther-
mometer, at a height of 7,016 meters, indicated 9°.5 below the freezing
point, that of the Observatory of Paris, in the shade, and with a north-
ern exposure, stood at + 279.75. Therefore 37° was the extent of the
thermometrical scale to which Gay-Lussae found himself exposed during
the interval from 10 o’clock in the morning till 3 in the afternoon. It
was therefore no longer possible to attribute the perpetual snows exist-
ing on the summits of high mountains to any special action exerted by
those rocky summits on the surrounding strata of air, as no considera-
ble terrestrial elevation existed in the regions above which Gay-Lussac’s
balloon had successively passed.

Are these enormous variations of temperature connected in any way
by a simple mathematical law with the changes of height?

By taking as exact the thermometrical observations, about which
Gay-Lussac himself raises some doubts, on account of the rapidity of
the ascensional motion of the balloon, and the time required by a
thermometer to indicate exactly the temperature of the mediums into
which it is immersed, we would arrive at this curious result, that the
temperature would vary less for a given change of beight near the
earth than in the regions of the atmosphere of a mean elevation.

But I must remark that the ordinary manner of discussing aerostatic
observations leads us into a vicious circle. The analytical formula, by
means of which the successive heights of the balloon are calculated,
absolutely supposes, in fact, an equal abatement of temperature in
every region of the atmosphere for the same change of height. The
observations of 1804, and those subsequently made, will only give
results free from all objection when discussed according to the profound
method for which we are indebted to our ingenious and illustrious
associate M. Biot.

The difficulties might have been avoided if observers, furnished with
theodolites, and distributed at proper distances, had determined trigo-
nometrically by their combined observations the successive heights
of the balloon. Scientists and academies desiring to enter anew upon
144 _ EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

the scientific study of the physical constitution of our atmosphere will
certainly not fail to take my suggestions into serious consideration.

The hygrometer of de Saussure gave indications, during the ascension
of Gay-Lussac, of an irregular movement, but taking into account, at
the same time, the degrees indicated by this instrument and the tem-
perature of the strata in which it was observed, our associate found that
the amount of humidity containxed in the air continued to diminish with
extreme rapidity.

It was already known at the time of this memorable ascension that
air in all latitudes, and at a height very slightly above the level of the
sea, contained about the same proportions of oxygen and azote. This
resulted with proof from the experiments of Cavendish, Macarty, Ber-
thollet and Davy. It had also been ascertained by the analyses of The-
odore de Saussure, of air brought from the Col du Géant, that at the
height of that mountain the air contains the same proportions of oxy-
gen as that of the plain below.

The eudiometrical analyses of Gay-Lussac, made with the greatest
care, of air collected at a height of 6,636 meters, established the fact
that the air of those high regions was not only composed of oxygen and
nitrogen, like that at the surface of the earth, but, moreover, that it did
not contain an atom of hydrogen.

Jt is not necessary to insist here upon the importance of these results;
they showed the vagueness of the explanations given then by meteorolo-
gists of shooting-stars and other atmospheric phenomena.

The following extract from Gay-Lussac’s own narrative gives some
clew to a true explanation of the discomfort experienced by the most
robust travelers in climbing elevated peaks, such as Mont Blanc:

**On reaching the highest point of my ascension, 7,016 meters above
the mean level of the sea,” said the courageous physicist, ‘‘my respira-
tion was sensibly affected, but I was far from feeling yet a discomfort
sufficient to induce me to descend. My pulse and respiration were very
much accelerated; breathing very rapidly in air of extreme dryness, I
ought not to have been surprised that my throat was so dry that it was
impossible to swallow bread.”

Let us now pass on to the experiment which was the chief object of
the two aerostatic voyages, undertaken under the auspices of the
first class of the Institute. The question was, as I have previously
said, to assure themselves whether, as announced, the magnetic attrac-
tion exerted by the earth on a magnetic needle decreases very rapidly
with the height. Gay-Lussac succeeded, in this second ascension, in
counting, in a given time, twice as many oscillations as in the first.
The results must, therefore, furnish much greater exactness. He found
that a needle which at the surface of the earth required 42.2 to make
ten oscillations, at a height of 4.808 meters above Paris made the same
number of oscillations in only 428.8. The result was 428.5 at 5,631
meters, and 41%.7 at 6,884 meters. These numbers do not give much

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 145

regularity; it would have been necessary, as Gay-Lussac himself
remarks, in order to deduce rigorous consequences, to combine them
with the corresponding measurements of the inclination, which could
not be effected.* Our friend, as M. Biot did, from the discussion
of the numbers collected in the first ascension, drew from his obser-
vations the conclusion that magnetic attraction is constant at all
accessible heights. This consequence was logical, at a period when
‘it was not generally known that, in a given place and under given cir-
cumstances, the duration of the oscillations of a magnetic needle is
influenced by its temperature, and that a decrement of the thermometer
of 37° must produce the most remarkable changes. We see that owing
to the imperfect state of the instruments, and of science in 1804, it was
impossible to arrive at an exact solution of the problem in question.
Moreover, it would be astonishing at the present time to hear that the
problem had been solved.

No considerations of any nature would authorize throwing a veil
over the gaps of science. This reflection especially concerns the works
of men whose authority is incontestable and uncontested.

Gay-Lussac, after having finished all his investigations with the calm-
ness and composure of a physicist seated in his laboratory, landed at
forty-five minutes after three o’clock, between Rouen and Dieppe, forty
leagues from Paris, near the hamlet of St. Gourgon, whose inhab-
itants executed with great readiness all the maneuvers directed by
the aerial voyager in order that the car should avoid the shocks that
would have placed the instruments in danger.

The dignity of this assembly and of the narrative should not, I
think, prevent my relating a singular anecdote, for which I am indebted
to my friend. Having reached a height of 7,000 meters Gay-Lussac
was desirous to rise still higher, and for this purpose rid himself of every
article not absolutely needed. Among these was.a white wooden chair,
which fell by chance into a bush near a young girl guarding some
sheep. What was the astonishment of the shepherdess, as Florian
might have said. The sky was pure, the balloon invisible. How
explain the chair, if it came not from paradise? The only argument
against this conjecture was the coarseness of the work; the workmen,
said the skeptics, must be very unskillful above. The dispute was at
this point when the journals, publishing the particulars of Gay-Lussac’s
voyage, put an end to it, and classed among natural effects what until
then had seemed to them a miracle.

The ascensions of M. Biot and Gay-Lussac will live in the memory of
men as the first which have been made with marked success for the
solution of scientific questions.

The very remarkable meteorological phenomena of a fall of the ther-

*Gay-Lussac succeeded in observing the dip of the needle, only at a height of
4,000 metres. He found there, in round numbers, 30°. This result, supposing it to
be exactly reported, differs immensely from the dip which takes place upon the earth.

s 10
146 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

mometer to 40° below freezing at a height of 7,049 meters, veriiied by
M. Bixio and M. Barrel during an ascension, undertaken at their own —
expense, July 27, 1850, clearly prove that glorious discoveries are —
awaiting those who will follow in their footsteps, provided they have ~
the necessary information and are furnished, as were these two phys-
icists, with a collection of exact instruments. It is sincerely to be
regretted that the ascensions, made almost every week, under circum-
stances more and more dangerous, and which, it may be painfully pre-
dicted, will end in some terrible catastrophe, have turned aside the
friends of science from their projected voyages. I can imagine their
scruples, but without sharing them. The spots on the sun, the mount-
ains in the moon, the ring of Saturn and ‘the belts of Jupiter have
never ceased to be objects of investigation to astronomers, although
now shown for ten centimes on the terre-plein of Pont-Neuf, at the foot
of the column of the Place Vendome, and at different points of our
boulevards. The public, now so discriminating and enlightened, would
not confound those who daily expose their lives for lucre, with physicists,
running the same risks to rob nature of some of its secrets.

ASSOCIATION OF GAY-LUSSAC WITH M. DE HUMBOLDT—WORK ON THE |
EUDIOMETER—TRAVELS IN ITALY AND GERMANY. |

However slightly conversant with the literary history of the first half _
of this century, all have heard of the warm and profound friendship of _
M. de Humboldt for Gay-Lussac, and of the influence it exerted over
the scientific career of the able chemist; but it is not so well known
how it originated and was developed, and this deserves to be related.

Before starting on the memorable journey which has made America |
known to usunder so many different aspects, M. de Humboldt prepared —
himself for it by diligent study. The object of one of his researches was
the eudiometrical means in use to determine the constituent principles
of air; this work, done in haste by an imperfect process, was somewhat
inaccurate. Gay-Lussac perceived this and criticised the error with an
alacrity that I would venture to condemn, if it were not rendered excu-
sable by the author’s youth. Itis unnecessary to mention that Berthollet —
received M. de Humboldt on his return with the frank cordiality and
well-bred politeness which characterized the illustrious chemist, and
which is engraved in indelible characters on the minds and hearts of all
who had the happiness of knowing him.

One day, M. de Humboldt remarked, among the company assembled
in the salon of the country-seat of Arcueil, a tall young man of modest
but dignified bearing. ‘ This is,” said some one to him, ‘ Gay-Lussac,
the physicst, who recently fearlessly ascended into the atmosphere to
the greatest height yet reached by man, to solve important scientific
questions.” ‘This is,” added Humboldt aside, “ the author of the sharp
criticisms on my eudiometrical work.” But soon mastering the sentiment —
of resentment, naturally inspired by such a reflection on a high-spirited

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 147

nature, he approached Gay-Lussac, and, after some complimentary re-
marks on his ascension, extended his hand and affectionately offered
his friendship. It was, with due allowance, the Soyons amis, Cinna!
(Let us be friends!) of the tragedy, but without the mortifying reflections
which, as Voltaire relates, were made by the Maréchal de la Feuillade,
after having heard them for the first time. “Ah! Auguste, how you do
spoil the Soyons amis, Cinna!” Such was the origin of an attachment
that was never interrupted, and that soon bore the happiest fruits. We
see in fact, immediately afterward, the two new friends executing con-
jointly an important eudiometrical work.

This work, read atthe Academy of Sciences, the 1st Pluviése, year XIII,
had for its principal object an estimate of the exactness that could be ar-
rived at in an analysis of air with Volta’s eudiometer; but the authors at
the same time touched upon a multitude of questions relating to the
chemistry and physics of the earth, throwing great light upon them
and making very ingenious conjectures. It is in this memoir that the
remark is found (which has since received, at the hands of Gay-Lussac,
developments so important) that oxygen and hydrogen, considered in
volumes, unite to form water, in the definite proportion of 100 of
oxygen and 200 of hydrogen.

Our scientific annals present a large number of memoirs published
under the name of combined authors. This kind of association, much less
common abroad, is not without its drawbacks. If we except the very
rare case, of which however I[ could cite instances, where the part of each
collaborator was clearly defined in the joint editorship, the public is
obstinate in refusing an equal share to both associates. It frequently
dismisses, as caprice dictates, the formulas, we thought, we imagined, on
the very plausible pretext that the same -dea cannot present itself at
the same time to the minds of both associates. It refuses to one of
them all intellectual initiative and reduces his share to the mechanical
execution of the experiments.

These inconveniences of publishing in common, almost inherent in
human nature, disappear when, by way of exception, one of the asso-
ciates resolves not to indulge the public in its prejudiced and often
malicious surmises, by unhesitatingly disclaiming any part belonging
to the other. It was the good fortune of Gay-Lussac to meet with such
a collaborator. Here is, in fact, what I read in a note by M. de Hum-
boldt: ‘‘ Let us insist upon the remark contained in this memoir, that
100 parts in volume of oxygen require 200 parts in volume of hydrogen
gas for saturation. Berzelius has already reminded us that this phe-
nomenon is the germ of what was discovered later about definite pro-
portions, but the fact of complete saturation is due to the sagacity of
Gay-Lussac alone. I co-operated in this part of the experiments, but
he alone foresaw the importance of the result to the theory.” A decia-
ration so frank and loyal from this illustrious and venerable academician
will astonish no one.
148 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

We will refer farther on to this very remarkable portion of Gay-Lus-
sac’s works. Gay-Lussac, assistant professor of the Fourcroy course,
obtained, through the friendly intervention of Berthollet, leave for a year
to accompany M. de Humboldt in his travels through Italy and Ger-
many. The two friends, before leaving Paris, provided themselves
with meteorological instruments, and especially apparatus suitable for
determining the inclination of the magnetic needle and the intensity of
the variable force which directs the magnetic needle in different lati-
tudes. They left Paris March 12, 1805, and experimented with their
instruments at Lyons, Chambéry, St. Jean de Maurienne, St. Michel,
Lanslebourg, and Mont Cenis, &c. I will return elsewhere to the
magnetic results of this journey in a memoir of our colleague inserted
in the collection of the Society of Arcuei]. Gay-Lussac had imbibed in
his youth the meteorological theories of Deluc, some of which had almost
captivated him, but in his passage over the Alps his ideas were entirely
modified. He felt the need, for example, of having recourse to the
action of ascending atmospheric currents to explain a large number of
curious phenomena.

Nothing enlightens and enlarges the ideas more, with regard to
natural phenomena, than traveling in mountainous regions, especially
when so fortunate as to enjoy the society of as cultivated, ingenious, ang
experienced an observer as M. de Humboldt.

Gay-Lussac and his illustrious fellow-traveler, after visiting Genoa,
went to Rome, where they arrived July 5, 1805, and alighted at the
palace Tommati alla Trinita di Monte, the residence of William de
Humboldt, chargé @affaires of Prussia.

In the society of him who has so eloquently described it, the grand
scenery of the Alpine regions could not fail to excite genuine enthusi-
asm in Gay-Lussac’s soul. The sight of the immortal monuments of
architecture, of the painting and sculpture with which Rome abounds,
joined to the learned conversations of the Rauches, Thorwaldsens, &c.,
habitués of the Tommati Palace, awakened in the youthful traveler a
taste for the fine arts, which until then had been latent. Finally he
enjoyed the advantage of admiring the fascination of talent ; for Madame
de Staél then held every salon of the Eternal City under the spell of her
eloquent and spirituel conversational powers. Gay-Lussac’s sojourn in
Rome was not without fruit to the science of chemistry. Thanks to the
courtesy of Morrichini in placing a chemical laboratory at the disposal
of the young traveler, he was able to announce, July 7, that fluoric acid
existed with phosphoric acid in the bones of fishes. July 9, he finished
the analysis of the alum rock of the Tolfa.

July 15, 1805, Messrs. de Humboldt and Gay-Lussac left Rome and
started for Naples, accompanied by M. Léopold de Buch, who, though
still young, had already distinguished himself by very valuable geologi-
cal researches. Vesuvius, in a state of rest at that period, suddenly
exhibited the most magnificent and terrible evolutions, (as if to celebrate

me _———_ _ -

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 149

the welcome of the three illustrious observers ;) eruptions of dust, tor-
rents of lava, electrical phenomena, nothing was wanting.
Finally Gay-Lussac had the good fortune, (the expression is not mine ;

* I borrow it from one of the fellow-travelers of the learned chemist)—

he had the good fortune of being witness of one of the most frightful
earthquakes ever experienced at Naples.

Gay-Lussac eagerly seized this opportunity of coping with the prob-
lem which, since Empedocles, had defied the sagacity of observers. We
will soon give an account of the results collected by our friend in the

_ six ascensions of Vesuvius which followed each other in quick succession.

The time not devoted by Gay-Lussac to the study of the burning
volcano was employed in examining the collections of natural history,
and especially of former volcanic eruptions, which are found in great
numbers in Naples; our travelers had much reason to be gratified at
the kind attentions and exquisite politeness of the Duke de la Torre
and Colonel Pole; but such was not their experience with Dr. Thomp-
son. When they presented themselves, accompanied by a Neapolitan

scientist, to study his museum, he addressed them in these outrageous

words: ‘‘ Separate yourselves, gentlemen; I can keep my eyes on two,
but not upon four.” One feels tempted to ask from what society of
lazzaroni had Dr. Thompson borrowed sentiments so low and _lan-
guage so indecent; but all is explained when we learn that Thompson
was the physician, friend, and confidential agent of General Acton, the
instigator of the political assassinations which defiled Naples at the
close of the last century.

In his expeditions around Naples, by land and water, M. Gay-Lussae
corrected some erroneous ideas, then generally entertained. He found,
for example, that the air confined in sea-water contained, instead of 21
parts of oxygen, as ordinary air does, above 30 parts of oxygen for 100.
He visited Monte Nuovo and Epomeo with M. de Buch. On seeing
Monte Nuovo, Gay-Lussac fully adopted the opinion that M. de Buch
was then beginning to disseminate in the scientific world, according to
which mountains may suddenly spring out of the earth by means of
upheavals.

Epomeo seemed to them to have the characteristics of an abortive
volcano, without fire, or smoke, or crater of any kind.

After having finished their labors in Naples, our travelers returned
to Rome, where they remained but a short time. On the 17th of Sep-
tember, 1805, Messrs. de Humboldt, de Buch, and Gay-Lussae quitted
Rome to repair to Florence. They took the mountain road, in order to
visit the celebrated baths of Nocera, near which Popes Clement XII and
Benoit XIII had erected some real palaces, with all the necessary appli-
ances for invalids, who, from June until September, brought plenty into
the surrounding country.

- There an important problem was presented. Morrichini had found,
by chemical analysis, that air obtained from these waters contained 40
150 _ EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

per cent. of oxygen—that is to say, about double the proportion of the
same gas in atmospheric air, which seemed incredible. Gay-Lussac
discovered in reality that the air procured from the water of the baths
contained 30 per cent. of oxygen, a8 spring-water usually does. The
salutary effects of the waters must therefore be sought elsewhere, as they
were found so remarkably pure, no re-agent disturbed them. Is it this
purity that renders them so efficacious ?

In mythological times, heroes, celebrated by the Greek poets, roamed
desert countries to battle with the brigands and wild beasts they shel-
tered. Our travelers, as we see, seemed in their turn to have assumed
the mission of destroying by the way errors and prejudices, which often
make more victims than the monsters of antiquity exterminated by
Hercules, Theseus, Pirithéus, &e.

These scientists reached Florence September 22, and Fabbroni, super-
intendent of the museum, received them with the greatest distinction.
He did the honors of the rich collection, at the head of which the Tus-
can government had placed him, in a manner to prove how worthy he
was of the confidence he enjoyed. Gay-Lussac took great delight in his ©
society; he especially admired the knowledge and ability displayed by
Fabbroni in pointing out the merits of the productions of Michel Angelo
and of the illustrious painters and sculptors, successors of this great
man. He was not so much charmed with the learned director when, on
asking him the value of the inclination of the magnetic needle, Fab-
broni replied that the beautiful instruments which adorned the labora-
tory of the grand duke had not been used for fear of tarnishing the
metal. He did not enjoy either the reunions where Madame Fabbroni,
celebrated for the elegance and beauty of her poetry, the center of a
circle composed of the most distinguished society of Florence, was in
the habit of directing against every topic in succession flashes of wit
to which the individual addressed was obliged to reply at once and in
his best manner. These theatrical customs have happily disappeared
from among our neighbors to give place to conversations where each
freely takes the part which suits his position and even his timidity.

On the way from Florence to Bologna, where our three travelers ar-
rived safely September 28, they stopped at Piétra-Mala to study the per-
petual flames previously examined by Volta.

At Bologna Gay-Lussac visited Count Zambeccari, who had lost six
fingers by sliding along a rope to escape a catastrophe which was
threatening him, the montgolfiéré in which he had ascended into the
air having taken fire; his sufferings did not prevent his discussing with
Gay-Lussac a plan he had formed, and which, at a later period, was to
cost him his life—that of ascending again—but this time with a balloon
filled with hydrogen gas which he could heat more or less at will, by
means of a circle of lamps with a double draught of air. It will be
seen that the unfortunate aerial traveler was contriving in his new
scheme a method by which he would substitute the risks of explosion

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAGC. 157

for those of the conflagration of his first attempt. Our travelers re-
mained but a short time in Bologna, whose university had then singu-
larly declined from its ancient reputation. The professor of chemistry
of this university, M. Pellegrini Savigny, had left no very favorable
impression upon Gay-Lussac’s mind; our colleague accused him of hav-
ing degraded the science by inserting in his Traité de Chimie (Treatise
upon Chemistry) methods of his own invention for preparing good sher-
bets and excellent soups for every day in the year.

Did not our friend indulge in some exaggeration in classing the sub- -
jects alluded to in the treatise of M. Pellegrini among those which
a scientist, who has any self-respect, should abandon to professional
charlatans? I will venture to say, in spite of my profound deference for
Gay-Lussac’s opinions, that he who should succeed in reducing to uni-
form and precise rules the preparation of our food, especially that of
the poorer classes, would solve an important hygienic question. I am
persuaded that some day posterity will manifest astonishment on learn-
ing that in the middle of the nineteenth century the alimentary regimen

‘of the masses was abandoned to empirics, of both sexes, without educa-
tion or intelligence.

Byron relatesin his memoirs, that during Sir Humphry Davy’s so-
journ in Ravenna, a fashionable woman expressed the desire that the
illustrious chemist should prepare for her a pomade to darken her eye-
brows and make them grow. I would unreservedly share the contemp-
tuous disdain with which our young friend would undoubtedly have
received such a proposition as this. But there is, it seems to me, a wide
difference between the pomade for the fashionable woman and formu-
las for improving the food of the people, and even that intended to sat-
isfy the sensuality of the rich.

Messrs. de Humboldt, de Buch, and Gay-Lussac reached Milan Octo-
ber 1. Volta was beni in that aie but they had ‘great difficulty in
finding him.

The civil and military administration of Milan, which ould not have
hesitated a moment if asked the address of a Seats Hungarian or Cro-
atian sublieutenant, of a contractor, or of any titled personage whatso-
_ ever, seemed utterly unmindful of Volta, that great man, the glory of
Lombardy; whose name will be uttered with respect and admiration
when the breath of time will have swept away even the slightest recol-
lection of generations of his contemporaries.

Let us turn aside from these several anomalies, a thousand instances
of which it would be easy to enumerate, and resume our narrative.

Our three young travelers learned in Milan that the scientific world
was alive with the rumor of a pretended discovery by M. Configliachi.
According to the Italian chemist, water was composed of muriatic acid
and soda, elements that the battery decomposed without difficulty.
Volta, consulted by our three travelers as to the merit of the observa-
tion, replied, ‘I have seen the experiment, but I do not believe in it.”
152 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

It was in these terms the immortal physicist expressed the caution
which should meet all extraordinary facts similar to the pretended phe-
nomeuon by which his pupil Configliachi hoped to attain a great repu-
tation, The remark is peculiarly applicable to facts ascertained by in-
struments of a delicacy so extreme as to be influenced by the presence,
breath, and emanations from the body of the observer. The Voltaic
dictum, “‘I have seen it, but do not believe in it,” might have been ap-
plied on some recent occasions; it would have saved science some ret-
rograde steps, and certain authors unqualified ridicule.

On the 14th and 15th of October our travelers crossed Saint Gothard.
Gay-Lussae was denied the enjoyment of a spectacle from which he had
anticipated much pleasure and instruction, a thick fog concealing from
view even the nearest objects for a whole day. He compensated him-
self for this disappointment by a minute study of General Pfiffer’s fine
relief of Switzerland.

At Gottingen, November 4, the great naturalist Blumenbach, at that
time full of life and activity, cordially extended the honors of the uni-
versity to our young countryman.

On the 16th of the same month Gay-Lussac arrived at Berlin, where
he remained all winter under the roof of M. de Humboldt, kindly wel-
comed and appreciated by all the distinguished men of the city; he |
passed much of his time in the society of Klaproth, the chemist, and —
Erman, the physicist.

Gay-Lussac quitted Berlin in the spring of 1806. He very suddenly |
determined to leave on learning that the death of Brisson left a vacancy —
in the Institute, and that he might be chosen to fill the place of the
aged physicist.

In examining now the works of Gay-Lussac’s contemporaries who, in
1806, were in a position to contend with him for the vacancy in the
Academy of Sciences, it seems astonishing that his presence should
have been indispensable to his success; but it is that we forget that at
the end of the eighteenth century and beginning of the nineteenth no
one was a real physicist unless possessing a valuable collection of in-
struments well polished, well varnished, and arranged «in glass cases.
It was not without trouble that Gay-Lussac, who owned only a few in-
struments of research, succeeded in overcoming such prejudices. Let
us preserve these memories for the consolation of those who have ex-
perienced, or may in the future experience, disappointments in academic
elections.

GAY-LUSSAC’S RESEARCHES ON DILATATIONS.

A short time before Gay-Lussac, now a member of the institute, had
begun to apply his experimental talent to the study of the changes of —
the elastic force of gases with the temperature, and the formation and
diffusion of vapors, the same field of research had been explored in
England by an equally clever man, Dalton, numbered by the academy
among its eight foreign members. Dalton, although his genius was

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAGC. 153

not unknown, to his countrymen, occupied in the small town of Kendal
the very humble and somewhat unprofitable position of private tutor of
mathematics, and had only at his command for his experiments imper-
fect instruments. There would then have been no impropriety in sub-
jecting his results to careful verifications. Gay-Lussac was not ac-
quainted with the works of the illustrious English physicist, as there
was no mention of them in the full and instructive account of the
experiments made by the physicists who had preceded him. Dalton

had found that air expands 0.392 in the interval between 0° and 100° of
the centigrade thermometer. Already, previously, as I had ascertained
from a printed document, Volta had given for this expansion 0.38.
Finally, in 1807, Gay-Lussac found it to be 0.875. This number was
generally adopted up to a recent period, and employed by all the
physicists of Europe.

According to the late determinations of Rudberg, and Messrs. Magnus
and Regnault, there was an error of about 1,4, in the value of the dila-
tation of air given by Gay-Lussac; our colleague never objected to
the number 0.3665 substituted by our fellow-laborer, M. Regnault, for
the number 0.375 which he had given. But what could be the real
cause of this difference? Gay-Lussac has never given any public ex-
planation of this disagreement. Not anticipating the catastrophe which
so suddenly removed him from us, I was guilty of the fault of not inter-
rogating him directly upon this subject.

It would not be uninteresting, however, to investigate how so careful
a physicist could allow himself to be drawn into such an error.

A German professor, celebrated for the importance of his discoveries,
M. Chladni, visited Paris some years since. Smarting under the diffi-
culties which he had encountered in all his investigations, he said in an
impressive tone and petulant manner, never to be forgotten, for in their
exaggeration they almost bordered upon the ridiculous: ** When you de-
sire to lift the smallest corner of the veil which envelopes nature, she
invariably exclaims “No! No! No!” M.Chladni might have added that
at the moment when it seems about to yield, it surrounds the observer
with snares into which the most skillful fall without suspecting it.

What could be the causes of error in the experiments of Volta, Dalton,
and Gay-Lussac that these illustrious physicists had not perceived? I
have heard it said that the drop of mercury designed to intercept com-
munication between the vessel in which the air was expanded and the
external atmosphere, leaving a slight space and giving passage to a
portion of the dilated air, was not displaced as much as it would have
been without that; but this cause would evidently have given too small
a co-efficient, and it was in the opposite direction, according to the recent
observations, that the number upon which Gay-Lussac had decided was
in fault. It was much more probable that the interior of the sides of

_ the vessel in which the celebrated academician operated were not suffi-
ciently dry; that the hygrometric vapor, adhering to the glass at low tem-
154 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

peratures, evaporated when the apparatus was submitted to high temper-
atures; that it increased, therefore, without any means of detecting it, the
volume of the elastic fluid upon which they desired to operate. I point.
out this cause with the more confidence that it is now established that
the glasses, according to their composition, and even according to their
degree of annealing, are diversely hygrometrical; so that the degree of
heat which would cause complete desiccation in one of these glasses
would be insufficient when operating in another apparatus. Gay-Lussac
had perfectly understood the effect that hygrometric vapor should pro-
duce, and he attributed to this cause the errors of his predecessors.
Therefore, it was in following with a little more precaution in the paths
traced by our friend that this error of ;, imputed to him was discovered,
an error which could do no real injury to the just and legitimate repu-
tation for exactness which this learned physicist had acquired and which
subsequent works so fully justified.

When Gay-Lussae was occupied with the numerical determination of
the dilatation of elastic fluids by heat, our most skillful physicists thought
that different gases have different co-efficients. Witness, for example,
what Monge says, which I quote from his memoir on the composition of
water: “ Elastic fluids are not all equally dilatable by heat.” Gay-Lussac
found within the limits to which his experiments were confined that tbis
was an error. Since then there has been a return to the first opinion.
Indeed, it is almost a consequence of the fact verified by Davy, and espe-
cially by our colleague, M. Faraday, that gaseous bodies can be liquefied,
and under pressures different for each one of them.

SOCIETY OF ARCUEIL—MEMOIRS ON MAGNETISM—LAWS OF GASEOUS
COMBINATIONS—CATHETOMETER.

In 1807 Berthollet formed a private scientific society, composed of a
small number of individuals and called the Society of Arcueil, after the

commune, in the neighborhood of Paris, in which the country-seat of

this illustrious chemist was situated. Gay-Lussac, as may be readily
imagined, was one of the first members of the new society. Before pro-
ceeding further, let us say a few words about the criticisms to which this

kind of dismemberment of the first class of the institute formerly gave ~

rise. It was eminently flattering to young débutants in science to have
as chief judges and counselors in their labors men of European celeb-
rity, such as Laplace, Berthollet, Humboldt, &c. ; but could it be asserted
that preconceived ideas to which the cleverest minds more readily aban-
don themselves in an intimate reunion, so to speak, than before a pro-
miscuons public, had not a tendency to arrest the spontaneity of genius
and repress its researches below a conventional level? On the other
side, might not the desire to give evidence of fertility of mind, in the
presence of the most famous scientists, Sometimes lead enthusiastic
spirits to venture upon bold theories ?

Whatever may be thought of these doubts, which I mention with

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 155

great hesitation, the independent and sober judgment of Gay-Lussac
would have placed him beyond influences which would not have been
called into play except under cover of eminent merit or fertility and of
imagination. His publications in the three volumes of the memoirs of
the Society of Arcueil deserve in every respect, from their variety, their
novelty, and also their exactness, to occupy the most distinguished place
in an impartial history of the sciences.

The first volume of the collection, published by the Society of Arcueil,
begins by a memoir in which Gay-Lussac has combined ‘the results of
all the magnetic observations made in conjunction with M. de Hum-
boldt, during the journey through France, Italy, and Germany, of which
we have already spoken at length. This branch of the science has for
some years been making very considerable progress, and yet we can confi-
dently recommend to physicists those pages on which Gay-Lussac has,
examined all the causes of error which may affect the measurements of
inclination and intensity, and the precautions to be taken to avoid them.
We know now that the horizontal force which directs the magnetic
needle is subject to a diurnal variation which depends in part, but only
in part, upon a corresponding variation in the inclination. We have
likewise learned that in a given place and at a given time the duration
of the oscillations of a needle depends upon its temperature. It would
therefore be now necessary, if a magnetic voyage were undertaken, to
take into account all of these disturbing causes; but, and we can say
it without flattery, at the period when it was published, the work of
Messrs. de Humboldt and Gay-Lassac was a model.

If we cast our eyes over the second volume of the Memoirs of Arcueil,
we will find there, among other clever works of interest—a Memoire sur
la Combinaison des Substances Gazeuses entre elles, “ Memoir on the com- ©
bination of gaseous bodies with each other.” This memoir contains re-
sults so remarkable, so important, that they are habitually called the
laws of Gay-Lussac. It would now be very difficult for me to give a
detailed and perfectly accurate account of the atomic theory. This
sketch should, I think, go back as far as Higgins, an Irish chemist,
whose work, published in 1789, is only known to me through very
short quotations by Humphry Davy. Then come the researches of
Dalton in 1802. It is a matter of certainty that the law of volumes
was demonstrated experimentally by our associate in 1808, without any
knowledge on his part of the first more or less systematic investigations
of his predecessors.

The laws to which we have alluded may be announced in these terms:

Gases, in acting upon each other, combine in volume in the simplest
ratios; such as 1 to 1, 1 to 2, or 2 to 3. Not only do they only unite in
these proportions, but again, the apparent contraction of volume which
sometimes occurs by the combination bears also a simple ratio to the
volume of one of the combined gases. Gay-Lussac, later, had the bold-
ness to deduce from his laws the density of the vapors of several solid
156 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

bodies, such as carbon, mercury, and iodine, integral parts of certain
gaseous combinations. This boldness, as proved by subsequent exper-
iments, was crowned with perfect success.

Recently it was thought possible to deduce from the unequal dilata-
tion of different gases by heat the proof that the law of volumes is not

mathematically exact. Let us suppose, the learned critics sayimplicitly, _

that two gases combine in equal volume and at a fixed temperature—
for example, that of 20° centigrade—and that the combination is made
molecule by molecule let us carry to 40° the temperature of the two
gases. If at 20° equal volumes contain the same number of elementary
particles, such would not be the case at 409." There will then be unequal

volumes which will enter into combination, supposing that the union ~_

must always be effected molecule by molecule. It will be seen that the
criticism implies the absolute truth of the atomic theory of combination,
which, by the way, may seem not so firmly established as the law of
Gay-Lussac. Besides, would not that have been a very singular coin-
cidence which should have led our colleague to operate precisely at the
temperatures at which this law should be rigidly exact?

Let us remark, in point of fact, that in the study of nature it has

rarely happened that experiment has led, through some light devia- —

tions, to simple laws, unless these laws have become the definite regu-
lators of the phenomena. The system of the earth offers a striking

example of this truth. The laws of the elliptical movement of the © |

planets are only exact by disregarding the irregularities known under
the name of perturbations, and which place each planet sometimes in
advance, sometimes behind the position assigned to it by the immortal
laws of Kepler.

' Tf it is ever established by direct experiments that the principles laid
down by Gay-Lussac are not confirmed when the temperatures come to
vary, it will be the time to investigate whether there be not a natural
cause to which these perturbations may be attributed.

In the limited compass assigned me I could only present simple doubts
on the nice question I have ventured to broach; at all events, the assimi-
lation which they have suggested to me seems of a nature to satisfy the

most enthusiastic partisans of the scientific glory of Gay-Lussac. When —

Laplace, looking at capillary phenomena in a new light, desired to com-
pare the results of his skillful calculations with those of observation,
and when he wished the subject to have the final seal of experiment, he

applied to Gay-Lussae. The latter fully responded to the confidence of ©

the immortal geometer. I should add that the instrument which he
invented is of small dimensions—the same, under the name of cathe-
tometer, now so generally in use among physicists. I leave to those
who consider they have the right, the responsibility of laying claim to
priority in the use of the word cathetometer now generally adopted ;
but the instrument in principle and even in form will not the less remain

one of the valuable inventions with which our colleague has endowed —

science,

‘

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 157

WORKS ACCOMPLISHED BY MEANS OF THE BATTERY OF THE POLY-
TECHNIC SCHOOL.

We have now reached the period when, treading in the path so suc-
cessfully opened by Nicholson and Carlisle and followed by Berzelius
and Hisinger, Sir Humphry Davy succeeded, by means of the battery,
in transforming potash and soda into metals which could be kneaded
with the fingers, like wax; which float on the surface of water, because
lighter than it, and which ignite spontaneously in this liquid, diffusing
the brightest light.

The announcement of this brilliant discovery, at the close of 1807,
created a profound sensation in the scientific world. The Emperor
Napoleon took part in it, and placed at the disposal of the Polytechnic
School the fund necessary for the erection of a colossal battery. While
this powerful instrument was being constructed, Messrs. Gay-Lussac
and Thénard, to whom it was to be confided, conceiving that ordinary
affinity, well directed, would suffice for the production of potassium and
sodium, attempted various very dangerous experiments, and succeeded
beyond their expectations. Their discovery was published March 7,
1808. From this time the two new metals, which were only obtained in
very small quantities by the battery, could be produced in great abun-
dance, and thus became the usual instrument of chemical analysis.

As may be easily imagined our two celebrated countrymen did not
allow the means of investigation they had just so skillfully prepared
to remain idle in their hands. They placed the potassium and sodium in
contact with nearly all known chemical substances, and noticed, during
the experiment, the reactions most fertile in theoretical consequences.
We will content ourselves by citing here the decomposition of the acid
formerly known as boracic, and the discovery of its radical, called by
its discoverers boron. We must likewise rank very high in their inves-
tigations the very difficult and varied experiments by which they deter-
mined the actions exerted by the two new metals on ammonia; the
results of their work on fluoric acid, now called fluobydric, and the
discovery of the new gas which they named fluoboric. Following the
chain of their researches, the two illustrious chemists were led to
attempt the analysis of the substance then denominated oxygenated
muriatic acid; they made known the results of their numerous experi-
ments February 27,1809. Their communication finished with this para-
graph, which I transcribe literally: “‘ According to the facts reported in
this memoir, it might be supposed that this gas (oxygenated muriatic
acid gas) is a simple body. The phenomena which it presents are suffi.
ciently well explained in this hypothesis; we do not seek, however, to
vindicate it, because it seems to us that they are explained still better
by regarding oxygenated muriatic acid gas as a compound body.”
_ They made by this declaration a large concession in favor of the pre-
vailing opinions of the Society of Arcueil ; to those supported with
158 EULOGY-ON GAY-LUSSAC.

great warmth by Laplace and Berthollet. Sir Humphry Davy, who |

was in no wise constrained by personal considerations, maintained that

the first interpretation alone was admissible; he regarded oxygenated

muriatic acid as a simple body, that Amperé proposed to call chlorine ;
common muriatic acid became then the combination of this radical with
hydrogen, under the name of hydrochloric, or chlorohydriec acid. This
manner of interpreting facts is now generally adopted.

It is seen by this example that there are cases where the counsels of
genius, when they assume the imperious character that counsels should
never have, may sometimes lead the squndest minds astray from truth.

When the colossal battery constructed with the funds granted the ~
Polytechnic School by Napoleon was finished, Messrs. Gay-Lussae |

and Thénard were eager to study its effects, but less energy was shown
than was expected. So after various trials, without striking results
the two illustrious chemists confined themselves to laying dewn gen-
eral principles on the mode of action of these apparatus when they
exceed the usual dimensions. We find in their work a chapter in which

they examined the different causes which create a variation in the energy -
of the galvanic battery, in which they give the means of measuring its —

effects, and in which they study theinfluence exerted by the liquid con-

tained in the troughs, according to its nature and the variations of in-

tensity which may depend upon the number and surface of the plates’ —

employed. ;
ANALYSIS OF ORGANIC MATTER.

The analysis of animal and vegetable substances for some years has
received immense developments and led to the most important results.

This progress of the science is chiefly due to a method invented by Gay- q

Lussac to effect organic analyses, and which has been adopted by all

chemists. Our colleague burned the substance to be analyzed with the ~
binoxide of copper. This process was a great improvement upon the

one he used with his associate and friend M. Thénard, in which combus-
tion was effected by means of oxymuriate of potash, now known as
chlorate of potash.

RESEARCHES ON IODINE.

M. Courtois, a manufacturer of saltpeter in Paris, discovered, about
the middle of 1811, in the ashes of varec a solid substance which cor-
roded his boilers, and which since, at the suggestion of Gay-Lussace,
has been called iodine, from the extremely remarkable violet color of its
vapor. M.Courtois sent samples of this substance soon after its discov-
ery to Messrs. Desormes and Clément, who made it the subject of exper-
iment. M. Clément did not make public M. Courtois’s discovery, and
the results he had obtained conjointly with M. Desormes, until the meet-
ing of the first class of the institute, December 6, 1813. Sir Humphry
Davy, who, on account of his scientific genius, had obtained from the
Emperor especial permission to pass through France, was then in Paris.

EULOGY -ON GAY-LUSSAC. 159

Hereceived from M. Clément, a short time after his arrival, numerous sam-
ples of the mysterious substance. M.Gay-Lussac learned this, and saw
at a glance what mortifying criticisms affecting the honor of our exper-
imentalists and academies might arise from resigning the priority, the
result of chance and thoughtlessness, to the investigations of a foreign
chemist. He went immediately to rue du Regarda, to the poor workman,
obtained a small amount of the matter discovered by him, set himself
to the task, and produced in a few days a work equally remarkable for
the variety, the importance, and the novelty of the results. The iodine,
under the searching eye of our colleague, became a simple body, fur-
nishing a peculiar acid by combining with hydrogen, and a second acid
by uniting with oxygen. The first of these acids proved, by a new exam-
ple, that oxygen was not the only acidifying principle, as was believed
for a long time. This work of Gay-Lussac upon iodine was subse-
quently completed; and there are found in a very long and beautiful
memoir, read August 1, 1814, and published among those of the acad-
emy, the varied results of the investigations of our colleague.

Every chemist who has read this work admires in it the fertility of
the author in varying experiments, and the soundness of judgment
which always guides him when necessary to interpret them and draw
| from them general consequences. In several chapters of this very
' remarkable work the author dwells especially upon the analogy which
he establishes between chlorine, iodine, and sulphur, which throws
great light upon several branches of the science then involved in
obscurity.

DISCOVERY OF CYANOGEN.

Prussian blue, a substance known to manufacturers and painters, had
been the subject of the researches of a large number of scientists,
among whom we will chiefly cite the academician Macquer, Guyton
de Morveau, Bergman, Scheele, Berthollet, Proust, and M. Porrett.

Guy-Lussac, in his turn, entered the lists. His results are recorded
in a memoir which was read before the first class of the Institute Sep-
tember 18, 1815. From this moment everything doubtful became a
certainty ; light succeeded obscurity. This memoir, one of the most
- beautiful of which science can boast, revealed a multitude of new facts
of immense interest to chemical theories. Those who will read it with
care will see at the cost of what fatigue, with what precautions, what
sobriety in the deductions, what soundness of judgment, an observer
succeeds in avoiding false steps, and bequeathing to his successors a defi-
nitive work; I mean a work which subsequent investigations will not
essentially modify.

In that admirable memoir, the aathor first gives an exact analysis of
the acid which enters into the composition of Prussian blue, and which
was called by Guyton de Morveau prussic acid, but which was never
obtained, until the work of our friend, in a state of purity, but mixed
only with water. _ He then showed how he succeeded in separating the
160 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

radical from prussie acid, which has since been denominated cyanogen. |
He established the fact that cyanogen is a compound of azote and ear-
bon; that prussic acid is definitively formed from hydrogen and this rad-
ical; and that it should take the name of hydrocyanic acid, for which —
chemists now often substitute that of cyanhydric acid. He points out
with the greatest care its reactions on a great number of substances,
simple or compound, solid or gaseous. He makes known the combina- —
tion of cyanogen with chlorine, which should naturally bear the name
of chloro-eyaniec acid. In briet, in this work Gay-Lussac filled a gap in
chemistry by showing that there exists a combination of azote and —

carbon. He proved that cyanogen, although a compound, plays the —

part of a simple body in its combinations with hydrogen and metals, — |
which, at the period when our colleague wrote, was the sole example in ~

the science. I have said that, to establish results so grand, Gay-Lus-

sac displayed indefatigable perseverance. If proof of it is wanted, I —
will mention, for instance, that, wishing to know what modifications —
electricity could produce in a mixture of two gases, he passed into it
at least fifty thousand sparks. |

We read with great regret, in the memoir of our colleague, the follow-.
ing paragraph: “I had indulged the hope, in devoting myself to these

researches, of being able to throw some light on all the combinations of

hydrocyanie acid; but the duties I have to perform have forced me
to interrupt them before they had reached the degree of perfection to
which I expected to bring them.” What were these duties which, in
1815, hindered Gay-Lussac from completing this work of genius? It
was—and I mention it with regret—the necessity of providing for his —
family, by giving public lectures almost daily, which consumed the |
time our friend had wished to devote more usefully to the advance- —
ment of science. .

Cyanogen, one of the constituent principles of Prussian blue, furnishes,

by combining with hydrogen, a poison so subtile that a celebrated phys-
iologist, the first to use it in experiments on living animals, exclaimed, —

on seeing its effects, ‘‘ Henceforth one may believe all that antiquity

has said of Locusta.” The same learned academician has proved by —

his experiments that in the poisoned animals no lesion in the organs |

essential to life is seen. -

This action of the liquid obtained for the first time by Gay-Lussae it
will appear the more mysterious from the fact that it is produced by a —
substance composed of azote, one of the constituent principles of atmos- —

pheric air, of hydrogen, one of the constituent principles of water, and
carbon, whose innocuousness is proverbial. One more reflection, and I

have done with this article. Chemists never fail, when they discover a —
new product, to describe its taste. Who does not think with horror that

if he had not departed from the usual custom, if he had placed one ne |

single drop of this liquid on his tongue, our friend would have fallen a

|
|
|

;
,

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 161

instantaneously, as if struck by a thunderbolt. The odor of bitter
almonds which is exhaled, it is said, by the dead bodies of animals that
have perished from the effects of hydrocyanic acid, would then have
given no clue to the cause of this national Paeleerple:

‘SIPHON BAROMETER—MANNER IN WHICH CLOUDS ARE SUSPENDED—
STORM-CLOUDS—DIFFUSION OF GASES AND VAPORS—CENTRAL HEAT
OF THE GLOBE.

Gay-Lussac published, in 1816, the description of a portable siphon
barometer, now so widely spread, especially since the improvements
made in it by the artist Bunten.

This is not the only service rendered to meteorology byour friend. In
a note inserted, in 1822, in the twenty-first volume of the Annales de

| Chimie et de Physique, iene of Chemistry and Physics,) he has ex-
plained his views on the manner in which clouds are suspended. On
looking at the ascensional motion that the ascending atmospheric cur-

rent gives to soap-bubbles, evidently heavier than the air, he thought
he might attribute the suspension of vesicular molecules to this same
current, at much more considerable elevations.

Before this epoch, in 1818, in a letter addressed to M. de Humboldt,
Gay-Lussac had investigated the causes of the formation of storm-clouds.

According to him, the electricity constantly diffused in the air suffices

to explain the phenomena presented by this kind of cloud. When the

storm-clouds are of great density, they possess the properties of solid

bodies; the electricity originally disseminated in their masses rises
to the surface where it has considerable tension, by virtue of which it
can overcome, at times, the pressure of the air and dart forth in long
flashes, either from one cloud to another, or over the surface of the

‘earth. It will be seen how greatly these views differ from those of

Volta, the master of everything connected with electricity. Whatever
be the opinion pronounced upon the rival theories, it must be acknowl-
edged that in the discussion of what Gay-Lussac calls his conjectures,
he has shown himself a very skillful logician and perfectly familiar with
the most subtile properties of the electric principle.

Among the researches of our friend, designed to throw light upon the

nicest points of meteorology, we must also mention those which concern

vaporization and the dissemination of vapors, either on empty spaces

or in spaces containing aeriform fluids.

I perceive that I shall scarcely be able to say even a few words about
Gay-Lussac’s views with regard to voleanic phenomena. These opin-
ions were published in 1823, under the title of Réflexions, in a memoir in-
serted in the twenty-second volume of the Annales de Chimie et de Physique.
The author does not believe that the central heat of the earth, if that heat

exist, contributes at all to the production of voleanic phenomena. These
| phenomena, according to him, are owing to the action of water, probably

$s 11
162 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

sea- water, on combustible substances. According to this hypothesis, the a

torrents of gaseous matter which issue from the craters of voleanoesshould

contain a great deal of hydrogen and hydrochloric aeid. The manner in
which the authorexplains the absence of hydrogen in these aeriform ema-
nations, and the processes which he points out to such men as Monte-
celli, Cavelli, and other scientific observers, suitably placed to ascertain
the existence of hydrochloric acid, must be sought in the original me-
moir. Ido not think that this memoir, in spite of its ingenuity, has
solved the so much controverted question of voleanic phenomena. But
I will in this case simply imitate the reserve of Gay-Lussac, who mod-
estly said in beginning his memoir, “I do not possess the extent of in-
formation (in geology) required to treat such a subject. I shall merely
skim lightly over its surface.”

SERVICES RENDERED TO THE INDUSTRIES BY GAY-LUSSAC—ALCOHOL-
METER—ALKALIMETER—MANUFACTURE OF SULPHURIC ACID—AS-
SAY OF GOLD AND SILVER BULLION.

According to the logical and unavoidable consequences deduced from
the language of certain biographers, whose merits, in other respects, it
gives me pleasure to acknowledge, the young man who devotes himself
to science, particularly when brilliant success has marked his first steps,
surrenders by so doing his personal freedom. In fact, they not only
sometimes examine what those whose history they are writing have
done, but claim to be able to determine what they should have done, at
@ period, too, when for want of inspiration they have felt, for the sake
of their dignity and fame, the need of rest. In this examination they
disregard the fatigue induced by age, the infirmities resulting from it,
and family obligations, all as sacred to the man whose life is given up to
study as to any other citizen.

Gay-Lussac has not escaped the consequences of this somewhat cen-
surable manner of criticising. It has pleased some to divide the career
of our colleague into two distinct phases: the first devoted to the spec:
ulative study of natural phenomena, the second entirely confined to:
the applications from which he was to realize substantial benefits.

In this second phase, which they claim fades into insignificance, if it is
not diminished in importance by comparison with the first, Gay-Lussac,
enjoying the favor of the government, was selected in succession to.aid
by his scientific knowledge in the manufacture of gunpowder; to act
as adviser in the administration of the excise; to manage the assay
office become vacant by the death of Vauquelin, &e.

The invention of new processes, characterized by exactness, simplicity,.
and elegance, proves what a slave Gay-Lussac was to his duties, and
that the government could not have bestowed its confidence more
judiciously.

The academy, called upon to pronounce upon the merits of the:

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 163

alcoholmeter in every-day use, with our colleague, adopted, June 3, 1822,
a report, concluding as follows: _

“Tt is obvious, in brief, that M. Gay-Lussac has treated the subject
of areometry under every aspect, and with his accustomed skill. The
tables he has deduced after a tedious toil of more than six months, will
be a valuable acquisition to the industries and sciences ; the authorities
will find in them also, as he hoped, the means of improving and simpli-
fying the collection of taxes, and the safest guide they can follow.”

As fertile in the invention of industrial methods as in the discovery
of scientific truths, one after the other, as if by enchantment, Gay-Lus-
sac created chlorometry, invented methods for determining the richness
of the alkalies of commerce, contrived ingenious means by which the
manufacture of sulphuric acid has become less expensive, and has no

_ longer need to be brought from unfrequented places } and he crowned

this series of important works by the discovery of a process which has
been substituted in all civilized countries for cupellation, an ancient and
defective method for analyzing alloys of silver and copper. Truly, I
ask myself, with what theoretical speculations could Gay-Lussac have
better filled the second phase of his career, since phase there is, than
by producing works which to their scientific merits add the advantage
of being susceptible of positive and multiplied applications, which serve
as safe guides to the natural industries and to enlighten the public au-

_thorities ?

To pretend to confine men of genius to the path of pure abstraction,
and to forbid discoveries which may be useful to the human race, would
be to yield to the most erroneous ideas, in my opinion. And besides, do
you wish to know to what you expose yourself when you decide, ac-
cording to preconceived ideas, what a scientist could do, or should have

done?

Gay-Lussac, in your opinion, was in the enjoyment of excellent

_ health, and should have been able, as a septuagenarian, to manifest

the ardor, activity, and fertility of intellect of his youth, and a cruel
event has proved to you that he bore in his bosom the germ of the dis-
ease which carried bim off so unexpectedly to scientific Europe.

You thought him entirely absorbed in conducting his business affairs,
and at that very time he was constructing, at great expense, in his
country-seat, a laboratory which might serve as a model for those
chemists who, for themselves or for the public, may have to direct the
construction of establishments of the same kind.

Our colleague was represented as exclusively preoccupied with the
lucrative applications of science, at a period when, concentrating his
faculties to meditate upon numerous and different theories, he was
writing the first chapters of a work, which unfortunately he did not
finish, entitled Philosophie Chimique, (Chemical Philosophy.)

. Lhope, after these few words, the biographers whose opinions have
rendered this digression necessary, will feel, on such occasions, the ne-
164 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

cessity of confining their explanations simply to the scientific produc. —
tions which have been submitted to the public, and of remaining silent
about those with which, according to their judgment, the scientist —
should have enriched the world. It is almost preaching ingratitude to
posterity. '

I should add that the illustrious savants, whose opinions on a special _

point I have thought it my duty to combat, would likewise like to limit _
these biographies to purely technical analysis; they would discard
everything which concerns the sentiments of the man and the citizen. —
They allege that details of private life (they call them anecdotes, with
a desire to stigmatize them with absolute censure) ought not to be pre- ,

served in our academic archives. When, without pretending to show, _
as night reasonably be done, any comparison between the productions

of the early secretaries and my own humble biographies, I reminded
these aristarchs of the very interesting portraitures contained in the 4
admirable eulogies of Fontenelle and Condorcet, they replied that a
everything is good in its time, that the progress of knowledge has ren-
dered the modifications they demand indispensable. I do not share ©
these opinions, notwithstanding the respect due the savants who com- 3
mend them. c|

I regard as an essential part of the mission I have to fulfill an inves-
tigation into whether the associates whom we have had the misfortune i
to lose have caused the worship of science and that of integrity to —
keep pace with each other; whether they have, as the poet expresses if, —
allied fine talents to a fine character. Nevertheless, in such matters —
the public is the only competent judge; I will wait until it has made
known its sovereign decision, and unreservedly yield obedience to it.

GAY-LUSSAC AS PROFESSOR—HIS LABORATORY—HIS WOUNDS—SIM- —
PLICITY OF HIS MANNERS.

I am going, therefore, without further explanation, to take the liberty
of introducing you into those amphitheaters where our colleague de- |
lighted with his eloquence a large and brilliant audience. We will then
pass into his laboratory ; I will even collect various anecdotes, (you see
I do not hesitate to use the word,) from which an estimate may be |
formed, from a new point of view, of the full extent of the loss which _
the academy has sustained.

In a discussion among the learned to decide whether a treatise on the —
world was or was not by Aristotle, Daniel Heinsius decided in the
negative, and the following is his principal argument: * The treatise in
question presents none of that majestic obscurity which, in the works
of Aristotle, repels the ignorant.”

Gay-Lussac would assuredly never have obtained encomiums from |
the Dutch philologist, for he always approached his object by paths the |
most direct, the most distinct, and with the least parade. ¢

Gay-Lussac, on all occasions, showed his profound dislike for those —
ostentatious phrases into which his first titular professor, notwithstand-

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 165

ing his well-merited celebrity, often allowed himself to be drawn, and
in which the most pompous words were found side by side with such
technical expressions as ammonia, azote, carbon. His language and
style were grave, correct, nervous, always perfectly adapted to the sub-
ject and characterized by the mathematical spirit which he had imbibed
in his youth at the Polytechnic School. He had the power, as others
had, of exciting astonishment in his audience by presenting himself be-
fore it without any manuscript notes in his hand; but he would have
run the risk of using erroneous figures, and exactness was a merit which
touched him most nearly.

Gay-Lussac’s knowledge of the foreign languages, Italian, English,
and German, enabled him to enrich his lectures with erudition of the
purest kind, and drawn from the original sources. He it is who has
initiated our own chemists and physicists into several theories originat-
ing on the right bank of the Rhine. In brief, Gay-Lussac, who has not
been surpassed by any contemporary chemist in the importance, novelty,
and brillianey of his discoveries, has also indisputably occupied the first

rank among the professors of the capital upon whom devolved the task

of teaching the sciences at the Polytechnic School.

On entering Gay-Lussac’s laboratory every one was struck, at the first
glance, with the intelligent order which reigned everywhere. The ma-
chines and different utensils, for the most part prepared by his own
hands, were remarkable for the most careful conception and execution.
You will pardon me these details, gentlemen. If, as Buffon has said,
“Style makes the man,” we might add with not less reason thatthe great
chemist and good physicist are recognized by the condition of the ap-
paratus which they use. Imperfections in the operation are always more
or less reflected by the results.

When the chemist operates upon new substances and combinations
with unknown reactions, he is exposed to real and almost inevitable dan-
gers. Gay-Lussac realized this but too truly. During his long and
_ glorious scientific campaigns, he was seriously wounded on several dif-
ferent occasions; the first time, June 3, 1808, by potassium, prepared
in large quantities by a new method. Messrs. de Humboldt and Thé-
nard led our friend with his eyes bandaged from the laboratory of the
Polytechnic School, where the accident occurred, to his house rue des
Poules, which, by the way, it would be well to call rue Gay-Lussac. In
spite of the prompt attention of Dupuytren, he lost the lachrymal
glands and thought himself perfectly blind for a month. This disheart-
ening prospect for a man of thirty was borne by our friend with a calm-
ness and serenity that the stoics of antiquity might have admired.

‘For nearly a year,” said Madame Gay-Lussace, (in a note she had the
goodness to send me,) ‘‘ the reflection from a small night-lamp before
which I placed myself to read to him, was the only light he could en-
dure. During the rest of his life his eyes remained red and weak.”

The last explosion of which Gay-Lussac was the victim, took place at
a period of his life when misinformed individuals declared him to be

”
166 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

idle. Our friend was busy with the study of the carbureted hydrogens ~
proceeding from the distillation of oils. The glass balloon containing —
the gases, and which had been set aside for several days, was taken by
M. Lariviére, a young chemist, to be submitted to Gay-Lussac’s inspec- |
tion. While our colleague was absorbed in the minute examination
necessary to give the projected experiments the desirable precision, a
frightful explosion took place, the cause of which, even to this day, is
not perfectly understood, which completely shattered the balloon. Such
was tne velocity of the fragments of glass, that they made on the win-
dow-panes of the laboratory clear holes without the trace of a fissure, as
if by projectiles from fire-arms. Gay-Lussac’s eyes, which were but a
few centimeters (not more than an inch) from the balloon, this time es-
caped all injury; but one of his hands was seriously wounded, and
required long and painful treatment. Some persons saw in this terrible
wound the original cause of the painful disease to which our friend suc-
-cumbed a few years afterward.

The members of the academy, who went daily to visit him on his bed
of suffering, heard him with emotion congratulate himself that the
wounds of his young friend and assistant, M. Lariviére, were insignifi-
cant, and on this occasion his own life alone had been endangered.

Some have desired to regard these accidents as the consequences of
negligence and thoughtlessness ; say, rather, by a comparison whose ap-
propriateness will be recognized by all who know our friend, that if he
were often wounded it was because he was often under fire, and that
he did not hesitate to examine things very closely, even when there
was great danger in doing so. It has been thought the successes of
Gay-Lussac in his scientific researches only afforded him that calm satis-
faction which the discovery of some new truths must naturally produce.
Appearances were deceitful. To protect himself from the dampness of
the laboratory, which was on the ground floor, Gay-Lussac usually wore
sabots over his shoes. Pelouze, one of his favorite pupils, told me that |
after the success of an important experiment he had frequently seen
him through the half-open door of his study give signs of the liveliest
pleasure, and even dance in spite of his clumsy wooden shoes.

This reminds me of an anecdote which I will borrow from my friend

Sir David Brewster, simply, I confess, that it affords me the opportu-
nity of connecting the name of Gay-Lussae with that of the immortal
scientist of whom Voltaire, without being charged with exaggeration,
has said:

Confidants of the Supreme, creatures of immortal life,

Ye who burn with fire divine, and your wings with glory rife,

Spread around your Master’s throne, can you, from your stations high,

View great Newton here below undisturbed by jealousy ?

Confidents du Trés-Haut, substances éternelles,

Qui brilez de ses feux, qui couvrez de vos ailes

Le tréne ot votre maitre est assis parmi vous,

Parlez: du grand Newton n’étiez-vous point jaloux ?

In 1682 the great Newton, turning into account the dimensions of
the earth, obtained by Picard, of this academy, renewed a calculation

é

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 167

-which he had before attempted, but without success, according to the
former determinations of Norwood. His object was to ascertain whether
the force which retains the moon in its orbit and prevents its escaping

’ in a tangent by virtue of the centrifugal force, was not the same as that
which causes bodies to fall at the surface of the earth, diminished only
in the ratio of the square of the distances measured from the center of
our globe. This time the numerical calculation justified the anticipa-
tions. The great man experienced such delight, this coincidence pro-
duced so much nervous excitement, that he was incapable of verifying
his numerical calculation, as simple as it was, and found himself obliged,

for the purpose, to have recourse to a friend.

Let us not omit, when the opportunity occurs, to show that calm
scientific labors afford not only more durable emotions than those
derived from the frivolities of the world, but that they are often accom-
panied by the same vivacity.

There was in Gay-Lussac’s laboratory, by the side of furnaces, retorts,
and apparatus of every kind, a small white wooden table, on which our
friend recorded the results of his experiments as they progressed. It
was, if I may be allowed the comparison, the exact bulletin written
during battle. It was on this little table that were also traced the
articles concerning different points of doctrine or questions of priority.

It would be impossible, in relating the life of a man whose chief
works date back to the beginning of this century, the period of an entire
renovation in chemistry, that we should not have to mention discussions
of this kind. These scientific polemics took place especially between
Gay-Lussac, Dalton, Davy, Berzelius, &c. You see our friend dealt
with doughty antagonists, with adversaries worthy of him. In these
discussions our old friend marched straight forward, regardless of any
one, with the vigor, let us say more, with the dryness, of a mathematical
demonstration. Rarely do we find in them phrases like the balm applied
to freshly-made wounds. But how is it that no one has remarked that
Gay-Lussac treated himself with a want of ceremony quite equal to that
which he used toward others ?

The following lines are quoted literally from one cf his writings: ‘The
results that I have given,” said he, in the Memoirs of Arcueil, “of the dif-
ferent combinations of azote and oxygen are not exact.”

Should not he who criticises his own works so frankly be excusable
for being so exclusively preoccupied with the interests of truth in ex-
amining the works of others?

MARRIAGE OF GAY-LUSSAC—HIS LOVE FOR HIS NATIVE LAND—UN-
CHANGEABLE DEVOTION TO HIS FRIENDS—HIS NOMINATION TO THE
PEERAGE.

- Those who only knew Gay-Lussac slightly, fancy there could have
_ been no romance in his private life. Perhaps they will change their
opinion after hearing this recital.
168 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAGC.

There was, in Auxerre, at the beginning of our first revolution, a
musical artist who was attached to the four large societies and to the
college of that city. The suppression of these establishments, in 1791,

brought great pecuniary troubles upon this respectable family. The

artist did not, however, lose courage, and devoted the small fortune of
his wife to the education of his three daughters, whom he wished to fit
for the honorable ysosition of governess. But the eldest of these young
girls, Josephine, becoming aware of the narrowness of the means of ~
her parents, and of the sacrifices they would have to endure before
attaining their object, earnestly begged to be placed in a mercantile
establishment in Paris, to remain there until the ages of her sisters and
their education should enable them to realize the hopes entertained for
them by their parents.

It was at a linen-draper’s, the usual refuge of women of all conditions —
and ages, whose lives had been disturbed by revolutions, where —
Josephine had placed herself, that Gay-Lussac made her acquaintance.
He saw, with curiosity, a young girl of seventeen seated behind the
counter holding in her hand a small book which seemed to fix her
attention deeply. ‘‘ What are you reading, miss?” he said. ‘A work,
perhaps, beyond my comprehension; it interests me, however, much—a

treatise on chemistry.” This singularity excited the interest of our

young friend; from that moment the unusual necessity for linen ware
brought him constantly to the draper’s, where he entered repeatedly into
conversation with the young reader of the chemical treatise; he loved
her and was loved in return, and obtained from her a promise of mar-
riage. Our illustrious colleague, as a future marriage dower, placed
Josephine in a boarding-school to complete her education, and especially
to learn English and Italian. Some time after’ she became his wife. I
would not venture to advise this rash fashion of choosing a wife,
although our celebrated chemist perfectly succeeded in it.

Beautiful, sparkling with wit, brilliant,and admired in society, for
which nevertheless she cared but little, for the grace and distinction of
her manners, Madame Gay-Lussac constituted for more than forty years
the happiness of her husband.

From the beginning, they adopted the amicable custom, the conse-
quence of some slight mutual concession, of merging their thoughts,
desires, or sentiments into one thought, one desire, one sentiment com-
mon to both. This identification in everything was such that they ended
by so entirely having the same handwriting that an amateur of auto-
graphs might readily believe that a memoir copied by Madame Gay-
Lussae had been written by the celebrated academician.

Three days before his death, touched by the infinite solicitude lavished
upon him, Gay-Lussac said to his wife, ‘‘ We will love each other to the
last; the sincerity of attachments is the only happiness.” This tender,
affectionate language will not spoil the portrait I have desired to draw
of our colleague.

EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC. 169

Gay-Lussac’s demeanor was always very grave; he entered frankly
into the bursts of merriment that a well-chosen anecdote created in
societies where he was surrounded by his friends, but he never provoked
them himself.

Gay-Lussac carried his love for his native land so far as never to be
willing to be witness of a performance of “ Pourceaugnac,” brought out
_ by Moliére at Limoges; his joy, therefore, knew no bounds when there
appeared, under the name of “ Nouveau Pourceaugnac,” a vaudeville by
M. Scribe, in which the principal character, M. de Roufignac, also a
native of Limousin, instead of being mystified, renders all the other
actors the sport of his witty mystifications.

It is related that La Fontaine, at one time, accosted all his friends
_ with, “‘ Have you read Le Prophete Baruch?” So it was with Gay-Lus-
sac; he never failed, no matter how little the circumstances authorized
it, to ask with candor equal to that of the fabulist, “Do you know the
‘Nouveau Pourceaugnac?’ It isa charming piece; I advise you to go
to see it.” And I must say for him that, though so saving of his time,
he preached by example.
| A single fact will suffice to show that Gay-Lussac gave himself up

enthusiastically to the honest inspirations of his soul, when necessary,
even at his own risk and peril, to baffle an intrigue or defend a friend..
At the second restoration it had been decided in high places, it was
said, to remove a professor, whose liberal sentiments had rendered him
an object of suspicion, from the Polytechnic School. But how effect
this dismissal without exciting great opposition? The professor was
zealous, respected, and even, I must say, beloved by all his pupils. The
case was embarrassing, when it was discovered that this victim of pub:
lic animosity had during the hundred days signed the additional act.
The professor of literature (it was not, let it be well understood, M.
Andrieux, but his successor) undertook to make every use of this dis-
covery. Ina meeting of the corps of instruction he declared that, in
his opinion, those who gave their support to the usurper, that Corsican
ogre, whatever might be their motives, were not worthy to lecture
before the youth to whom the future of the country was to be confided;
they should themselves decline to officiate. The member of the corps
of professors against whom this attack was directed asked permission
to explain himself, when Gay-Lussac arose impetuously, interrupted
his friend, and announced in a sonorous voice that he also had signed
the additional act; that he would not hesitate in the future to sustain
the government, whatever it might be, even the government of Robes-
pierre, when the enemy threatened the frontiers; that, if the patriotic
sentiments which guided him were a subject of reprobation, he formally
demanded that the proposed reformation should begin in his person.

The professor of literature saw, therefore, that his proposition would
be followed by consequences which would far exceed the limit within
which he wished to confine it, and no more was said.
170 EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

Berthollet died in 1822; it was then known he had bequeathed his
sword, an integral part of his costume as peer of France, to Gay-Lussae ~

This bequest excited much surprise. But it will be found quite natural

if we follow out the chain of ideas which influenced the venerable

academician.

As the most illustrious of our chemists, Berthollet had been senator z
under the empire and peer of France during the restoration. ‘ Should a
we be surprised that he was persuaded that a science which was the 7
source of glory and wealth to our country, should not cease to be repre-
sented in the highest tribunals of thestate? When nearhisend, Berthollet —
examined, with the independence, tact, and judgment usually displayed

py the dying, to which of the living chemists this honor should revert;

his opinion was decidedly in favor of his friend and colleague Gay- —

Lussac; which he testified as fully as his habitual reserve allowed him,
by giving him a part of his future costume as peer. This was what this

gift signified, which it would be very difficult to understand without —

this explanation. Berthollet had often heard, while in Egypt, of the
symbolical language of flowers, frequently used by Mussulmans, and a
language which is the pride of many oriental poets. The circumstance
just related is but an extension of those poetical usages. The venerable
academician expressed, by the gift of an object so little in harmony

with the ordinary occupations of Gay-Lussac, the esteem he felt for our

friend and his inviolable attachment. This act of enlightened justice
however, was not realized as promptly as was hoped. ‘Why,’ said the

friends of Gay-Lussac to the dispensers of royal favors, ‘why make him

ii AI ea ea

ail
<

|

wait so long for a reward which he must receive sooner or later? Do —

you think him not sufficiently distinguished?” ‘ You wrong us,” they _
reply. ‘Have you any fault to find with his connections?” ‘Weare not 4

ignorant that they are all honorable and of gentle birth.” “Isit by any

accident a question of fortune?” ‘We know that Gay-Lussac enjoys an q
_ ample competence, the fruit of hisownlabor.” ‘What, then,is the obsta- _
le?” And then they acknowledged, softly, very gently, shrouding if
themselves in mystery, as if ashamed of such an avowal, that the great i

chemist worked every morning with his own hands at the assay-office,
which seemed incompatible with the dignity of a peer of France.

Such was the wretched motive which, for several years, interfered —

with the fulfillment of Berthollet’s ingenious horoscope. Indeed, it is

difficult to imagine that a man can degrade himself by working with _
his hands in attempting to prove the reality of his theoretical concep- —

tions.
To take an instance at random, and from foreign sources, do the dis-
coveries of Huygeus and Newton forfeit any of their importance and

brillianey because the first made spectacles and the second telescopes

with their own hands? Are the immortal views of Herschel on the
constitution of the heavens at all lessened for having been obtained by
instruments fashioned, by the illustrious observer himself ?

EULOGY ON. GAY-LUSSAC. 171

Has a single voice in the House of Lords, so proud of its ancient privi-
leges, been raised to claim that Lord Ross had recently degraded him-
self by becoming in turn founder, forger, and polisher of metal, when,
by this triple qualification, he has endowed the science of astronomy
with the colossal telescope, now one of the marvels of Ireland ?

Could there bea puerility more worthy of contempt than that of which
he would be guilty who could ask, at the time when Watt was trying,
by the most careful experiments, to give the steam-engine that perfec-
tion which makes it the glory of the inventor and the power of his
country, whether the hands of the illustrious mechanician were covered

with iron-rust or coal-dust? At all events, reason finally triumphed
over prejudice, and Gay-Lussac was admitted into the House of Peers.

DEATH OF GAY-LUSSAC—HIS LAST WORDS—HE CAUSES THE TREATISE
ENTITLED PHILOSOPHIE CHIMIQUE TO BE BURNED.

Gay-Lussac saw his end approach with the resignation which a pure
conscience must inspire. He not only faced death with calmness, but
even the act of dying, as Montaigne might have said.

When the sad news fell like a thunderbolt upon Paris that the health
of our colleague was a cause of great solicitude, one of his friends imme-
diately wrote to the afflicted family who surrounded him to learn the
truth. Gay-Lussac desired to reply himself. The following were the
words of the dying man:

“ My DEAR ARAGO: My son has just told me of your letter to him.
It is but too true; I have one foot in the grave, which must very soon

close over me; but I gather all my strength to thank you for the interest

you take in me, and to tell you that the mutual affection of our two
families has been a source of great happiness to me all my life.

“Adieu, my dear Arago.”

Do not imagine, gentlemen, for a moment, that I could, on this solemn
occasion, wish to make a parade of sentiments so unaffected, to sponta-
neous, and so free from that straining after effect which formerly led
Madame de Sévigné to describe the friendships of the dying hour. A
self-deception emanating at all events from the heart would be forgiven.

The forebodings of Gay-Lussac, his family, and the public yielded every
moment to more encouraging anticipations. Our colleague Magendie,
who had hastened to his old friend with his scientific skill, was, for a
short time, himself deluded by this general hope.

Gay-Lussac was removed to Paris, where his condition for some days
seemed to improve. He spoke to us then of his future work, and of
the regret he felt, at a time when there seemed no possibility of pro-
longing his life, at having given an order to his son to burn his treatise,
Philosophie Chimique, the first chapters of which were nearly finished.
But he was soon forced to abandon all hope.

The dropsy, with which he had: been suddenly attacked, made rapid
1? EULOGY ON GAY-LUSSAC.

progress, and our friend expired quietly and bravely on the 9th of May,
1850, at the age of seventy, and he might have said with one of ancient.
times, “If it were given me to live my life over again, I would on all
ocasions do as I have done.”

The obsequies of the learned academician were solemnized May 11,
in the midst of a large concourse, including nearly the entire body of his
early associates of the Academy of Sciences, and some of the most dis-
tinguished members of other acadamies; the entire institute testified in
this manner that it could not at that time have suffered a greater loss.
The early pupils of the Polytechnic School, the entire body of the two.
present classes of the school, the friends of science, and many grateful
auditors of the two excellent courses of the Sorbonne and the Jardin des.
Plantés, also joined in the funeral procession.

The various political opinions which unhappily divided our country
were blended together in this mournful train, and who could, indeed,
say to which of these parties Gay-Lussac belonged? What party could
flatter itself to have numbered the illustrious scientist in its ranks ?
The compatriots of our colleague once intrusted him with the honor
of representing them in the Chamber of Deputies. Later, as we have
seen, Louis Philippe made him peer of France; but he approached the
tribunes of these two assemblies very rarely, and only to discuss
special questions relating to his favorite studies. Should this reserve
be attributed to timidity, or can it be simply explained by Gay-Lus-
sac’s desire not to introduce any disturbing elements into the even cur-
rent of his life? If this last supposition be correct, he was perfectly
successful. Never did the foulest of all calumnies, political calumny,
attack the scientific career of our associate. His works have escaped

the daily criticisms of those hireling writers who, before taking up the —

pen, ask themselves, not what are the real merits of the memoirs whose-
analysis they are about to publish, but what are the supposed opinions
of their authors upon the exciting and yet perplexing questions of social
organization. The discoveries of our colleague have always been ap-
preciated in France at their just value. We can, therefore, say of him,.
in the words of Voltaire, written under a portrait of Leibnitz, ‘‘ Even.
in his own country he lived respected.”

The recollections of the profound friendship which bound me to Gay-
Lussac for more than forty years have perhaps tempted me into too
minute details in writing his biography. However that may be,
I will sum up the history of this beautiful life in these few words:
Gay-Lussac was a good father, an excellent citizen, an honest man in
every event of his life, an ingenious physicist, and a peerless chemist..
He honored France by his moral qualities, and the academy by his-
discoveries.’ His name will be uttered with admiration and respect in
every land where science is cultivated. Finally, the illustrious acade-
mician will live forever in the hearts and memories of all who had the
happiness to rejoice in his friendship. —

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO [1, EMPEROR OF BRAZIL.

BY ANPRISO FIALHO,

Doctor of Political and Administrative Science, of Brussels.

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. A. Henry. ]

PREFACE.

About a year ago the telegraph announced the intention of the
Emperor of Brazil to visit the United States, and the countries of the
- north of Europe he had omitted in his first tour in 1871. Remembering
the favorable manner in which the journals had at that time spoken
of the distinguished traveler and of his reign, which has lasted now
for forty-five years, I determined to prepare an account of both for the
public, although under a very abridged form.

We offer then to the reader only a biographical sketch, for we have
no intention of encroaching upon the domain of future historians, par-
ticularly as the reign of Dom Pedro II has not yet terminated, but we
are happy to be able to furnish some well established facts, which may
serve as a foundation for a more extended work, superior to ours in
style and form, although not in truthfulness of statement.

Before touching upon the place in Brazilian history occupied by the
reign of Dom Pedro II, let us glance rapidly over the history of Brazil,
from its discovery to the ascension to the throne by its present Emperor.

INTRODUCTION.

HISTORY OF BRAZIL FROM ITS DISCOVERY UNTIL THE ASCENSION TO
THE THRONE BY DOM PEDRO II.

About the end of the year 1499 and the commencement of 1500,
three Spanish navigators, Alonzo de Hojeda, Vicente Yanes de Pingon,
Diogo de Lepe, and the Portuguese admiral, Pedro Alvares Cabral,
landed successively at different points of the coast of Brazil, whose ex-
istence at that time was entirely unknown. Although Cabral had been
_preceded by the three Spanish navigators, and owed his discovery
only to the circumstance of having involuntarily wandered from the

173
174 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO IIL.

route he should have followed for the Indies, the king of Portugal, _
Dom Manoel was the first to announce to Europe this important dis- |
covery, and to take possession of the new country, to which the Portu- —
guese gave the name of Brazil, on account of the well known wood of —
that name which abounds there. Brazil thus became a colony of Portu-
gal.

By nature rich beyond expression, and seeming only to await the — |
hand of civilized man to yield every possible profit, Brazil was for
Portugal an inexhaustible mine of wealth, with this important advan-
tage, that its great distance from all European nations shielded it from _
invasion. ’

The importance of the possession of Brazil was especially felt by
the royal house of Portugal, when Napoleon threatened to seize their
country and join it to Spain, (treaty of Fontainebleau in 1807.) This
circumstance determined the prince regent, Dom Juan, to intrust the
defense of the kingdom to England, and to embark himself for Brazil
with all his family, and a numerous court. Brazil thus became the seat
of the Portuguese royalty, and was afterwards raised to the dignity of a ©
kingdom. Ky

The residence of the royal family in the country was prolonged to
1821, that is to say, until a large party in Portugal, discontented with
what appeared to be a desertion of their country by their sovereign,
and also on account of the commercial relations Brazil entertained with the
rest of the world, contrary to the ancient monopoly accorded to Portu- —
gal, excited a revolution which soon extended over the entire country, —
and at last obliged the king to return to Portugal. On leaving for
Europe, Dom Juan placed at the head of the government of Brazil his. —
son Pedro, heir presumptive to the throne.

It was not without grave apprehensions that the king quitted Brazil,
for there had been several attempts to attain the independence of the
country, and the most enlightened of its patriots still entertained hopes. _
of eventually securing its freedom. Foreseeing the impossibility of |
subduing these revolutionary efforts sufficiently to prevent a recurrence
of them, and at the same time knowing the monarchical tendencies of
the majority of the Brazilian people, he on his departure very wisely
counseled his son to place himself upon the throne in case a separation
of Brazil from the mother country appeared inevitable.

After the return of the royal family to Portugal, the Cortés resolved —
to reduce Brazil to its former state of a colony, and compelled the king
to adopt certain reactionary measures which outraged the dignity and
aroused the patriotism of the Brazilians. The Cortés in fact forgot that
in the moral as well as the physical world it is not possible to attempt
to repress what is irrepressible without danger of explosion or rupture.

The prince regent of Brazil, Dom Pedro, hardly twenty-three years of
age, Saw these indications of discontent with uneasiness. His situation
became more and more embarrassing. It was difficult for him to decide

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. 175

what, under the circumstances, was his duty: for if, on the one hand, he:
desired to enforce obedience to the sovereign authority of Portugal, on
the other, he found the nation quite ready to proclaim him as king, but
also determined not to hesitate even in the use of force, if necessary to
secure independence. There was in his mind a terrible conflict between
the apparent duty—which he had not the strength to discharge—and
the noble ambition of preventing the return of a people who had tasted
of the sweet cup of liberty to a colonial condition. Added to the latter
consideration was the fact that his father and sovereign had in advance
released him from the loyal adherence which was his due, and had him-
self suggested the solution of the question of Brazilian independence,
if it were irresistibly presented.

. Under these circumstances, the Portuguese Cortés themselves relieved
Dom Pedro of his embarrassment; first by the issue of orders tending to
deprive him of all administrative authority over the Brazilian provinces,.
and finally by his recall to Europe. The departure of the prince would
have compelled the Brazilians to assert their rights by the demand for
another occupant for their throne. The moment was decisive, and the
Brazilians understood this so well that they entreated Dom Pedro to
remain in the country, in order that the contest might be avoided which
must inevitably ensue, and also that he might assist them in securing
finally their independence. Dom Pedro yielded to the desire of the
nation, expressed to him through its legitimate representatives, in
words which have become celebrated in the history of Brazil: ‘ Since
it is for the good of the country, I remain.” Brazilian independence,
under the form of a monarchy, was decided from that moment. Whether
Dom Pedro was actuated entirely by ambition, or solely by the desire
to found a free state—which is much more in accordance with his chiv-
alrous disposition—there was now for him no honorable retreat. Like
Cesar, after passing the Rubicon, contrary to the orders of the Roman
senate, he could say, ‘‘Alea jacta est !”

Events followed in rapid suecession. The resolution to remain in
Brazil contrary to the expressed orders of the mother country was taken
on the 9th of January, 1822. Only four months after, the young prince
accepted the title of Perpetual Protector of Brazil, offered to him by the
municipality of Rio de Janeiro in the name of the nation, and on the
12th of October of the same year he was proclaimed Emperor, under
the name of Dom Pedro I. The independence of Brazil was thus
peaceably obtained, for the Portuguese garrisons in the country made
but slight resistance and were soon overcome.*

The empire established, it was necessary to give it a constitution, but
the discussion of this important document led to very serious disagree-
ments between the members of the chamber of deputies and the sover-

-* The independence of Brazil was recognized by Portugal in the treaty of the 29th
ef August, which imposed upon the country the payment of two millions of pounds
sterling.
176 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

eign, who at last summarily dissolved the legislative body. We can

easily understand the irritation this act produced in the nation. The
Emperor, in order to calm the disturbance and restore public confidence,
prepared, in 1825, a most liberal constitution. But unbiased judgment
was no longer possible; misunderstandings again occurred in regard to
the execution of this fundamental code; for, on the one hand, the
Emperor, who had been reared in absolutism, had a natural tendency in
that direction in spite of himself, and, on the other hand, the liberals
wished to efface this element completely from the government in order
that they might rule. Fault existed on both sides. The fact was, the
political parties, as well as the sovereign, were novices in parliamentary
government. A curious incident shows the state of public feeling at
this time. On the 25th of March, 1831, anniversary day of the adoption
of the constitution, the Emperor went, according to custom, to church
to assist in the Ze Dewm announced for the occasion. On his entrance
there was a ery of ‘ Long life to the Emperor!” followed by “As long as

he is constitutional!” The Emperor turned toward the portion of the —

audience from which the latter came, and said in a firm, clear voice,
‘Tam and have always been a constitutional sovereign!” This, how-
ever, did not prevent discontent from increasing every day.

On the 6th of April the Emperor, considering his ministers inefficient,
dismissed them and appointed others. The malcontents seized upon
this occasion to promote a revolt, in which the garrison of the capital
participated. The insurgents sent messengers to the sovereign to de-
mand the restoration of the dismissed ministers, under the pretext that
the new officers had not inspired the people with sufficient confidence.
The Emperor replied, ‘‘Z will do everything for the sake of the people, but noth-
ing by force of the people ;” and, although he could count upon the support
of the Portuguese part of the community, and of the troops of that nation-
ality, in the maintenance of his authority, he preferred to abdicate in
favor of his son rather than shed the blood of hiscountrymen. Hesigned
the act of abdication the next day, the 7th of April, and set sail a few
hours afterward for Portugal, where he re-established his daughter,
Maria da Gloria, upon the throne which her uncle and husband Don
Miguel had usurped. His son, in whose favor he abdicated the throne
of Brazil, is the present Emperor Dom Pedro II.

DOM PEDRO II.
lf

Dom Pedro II was the offspring of the marriage of the Emperor Dom

Pedro I, of Brazil, founder of the empire, and descendant of the house

of Bragance, of Portugal, with the Archduchess Leopoldine, of Austria, _

and of the house of Hapsbourg.* He was born at Rio de Janeiro on

*The Princess Leopoldine was the sister of the Archduchess Marie Louise, who
became Empress of the French by her marriage with Napoleon I.

‘

Pel hee

o> Ree Mage AR as ELAN BITE Colo

i
Be
S

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. Die py

the 2d of December, 1825; and had hardly completed his fifteenth year:
when his august father abdicated in his favor, in accordance with the
constitution, which prescribed that with- the same degree of relation-
ship, preference should be given to the masculine sex.* His name is
Pedro @’Alcantara Joao Carlos Leopoldo Leocadeo Miguel Gabriel
Raphael Gonzaga; his title, Constitutional Emperor and Perpetual Pro-
tector of Brazil.

The childhood of this prince was far from happy, for his mother died
the year following his birth, and his father was engaged in the harass-
ing and almost daily political struggle which terminated with his abdi-
cation. It is doubtful whether, under the circumstances, Dom Pedro [
had the time to attend, as he would have desired, to the education of
his children. They did not even witness his departure, the Emperor
having determined suddenly in the night to abdicate and leave the
country. He did not wish to disturb the peaceful slumber of his chil-
dren, and contented himself with embracing them several times very
tenderly and with tears. It was a sad spectacle, this valiant soldier,
who had many times braved the danger of revolutionary crises, weep-
ing in the presence of his court, his ministers, the embassadors of France
and England, his friends, and his faithful generals.

Imagine the sorrow of his children the next morning when they
received, instead of the paternal kiss, the sad news of the departure of

the father they would perhaps never see again. Although Dom Pedro,

on account of his extreme youth, could not feel all the importance of
such an event, his tears, and the manner in which he pressed in his
arms his young sisters, testified to the extent of his grief. How many
children of the people were at that moment happier in their cottages

than he in a palace, notwithstanding he had just come into the posses-

sion of an immense empire.

1g

According to the Brazilian constitution the Emperor is a minor until
the age of eighteen years, and during his minority the empire must be
governed by a regent, the member of the imperial family the most
nearly related to the Emperor, provided always such relative is more
than twenty-five years of age. In case there should be no relative ful-
filling this condition, it is the duty of the chamber of deputies and the

senate to nominate a permanent regency composed of three members,

the oldest of which is the president. This was done, and the regency,
consisting at first of the required number of persons, was, a few years
later, after the reform of the constitution, reduced to one, elected by the
nation for a term of four years. ‘

The men who were successively called to the noble task of preparing

*Of the surviving sisters of Dom Pedro who remained in Brazil, one, the Princess
Dofia Francisca, was married in 1843 to the Prince of Joinville; the other espoused

Prince Louis de Bourbon, Count d’Aquila, in 1844,

s 12
178 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

Dom Pedro to govern his empire, acquitted themselves in a manner
worthy the honor and gratitude of their countrymen. While endeavor- 7
ing to establish the empire of law in this nation distracted by anarchy, —
the regents never for a moment forgot the physical and intellectual ;
education of the young monarch. The principal direction was intrusted
to the bishop of Chrysopolis, to the great satisfaction of all acquainted —
with this venerable gentleman, eminent not only for his virtues, but —
also for his great attainments.

Under this wise and paternal instruction, Dom Pedro, with his two
young sisters for companions, passed his days in the midst of books and
toys, with all a child’s unconscious freedom from care, when he received ~
the terrible news of the death of his illustrious father (1834). He had
not then completed his tenth year. The intelligence, which was as un-
expected as sad, produced in his youthful mind, after an interval of the .
most violent arioh a complete change; he pace grave almost to sad-
ness, while all his actions and words seemed to be carefully considered.
This transformation can be very naturally explained. The young prince,
deprived of his mother, had settled all his filial affection and hopes upon
his father. His confidence in the power of the parent, who had be-
queathed to him his rights as a monarch, to draw the sword if necessary.
to maintain them intact,as he had done for his daughter in Portugal, was
in accordance with the ideas of his age. This prop suddenly withdrawn,
this powerful moral support lost to him, he felt the necessity of self-
reliance and of preparation for the gulf which might any moment open
under his feet in a country where the ambition and the vanity of the

political men were unbounded, while moral as well as material law were —

absolutely wanting. He then very naturally determined to make a man ~
of himself, to seriously prepare not only to guard against danger, but
also to meet it if necessary. A happy inspiration taught him that the

surest way to this end was the acquirement of superior knowledge, of —}

science in all its branches. The most learned professors, national and
foreign, to be found in the country or that could be obtained from abroad
had heen provided for his classical studies, and later, others were in-
trusted with his instruction in philosophy and mathematics as well as —
the natural, moral, and political sciences. Although pursuing all these —
branches with equal facility and like ardor, he had for the natural sci-

ences a marked preference amounting to enthusiasm. His application —

to study soon produced results which excited the admiration of those
who surrounded him, but also caused uneasiness to the bishop of Chrys- |
opolis and the regent in the fear that he might injure his health by too |
great application. It is related that one evening the venerable instructor 4
was obliged to remonstrate seriously with his young pupil because the |

latter had fallen into the habit of relighting his lamp for study after it |

had been extinguished by the bishop for the night. |
The fruits of his industry soon became evident in his conversation, —
which was remarkably intelligent for one of his age, nor was it without |}

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. 179

_ « certain satisfaction that he exhibited his attainments, unusually varied
and solid for a youth of fourteen. We shall see later how this love of
study was turned to the great advantage of his country.

fiat

In 1840 Dom Pedro was in his fifteenth year. Civil war had for five
years desolated the province of the Southern Rio Grande, the most im-
portant and the strongest portion of the empire, as far as regarded means
of defense from the neighboring countries of the Plata. This condition
of political disturbance in one portion of the empire, with the ebullition of
- a rebellious spirit under forms more or less violent in various parts of

the country, ended by producing a general feeling of discontent, which’

in the capital assumed more and more of a threatening character.
This state of things exactly suited idle mischief-makers and ambitious,
unscrupulous politicians. The public good, the welfare of the country,
state reasons, and other high-sounding phrases of the same character,
not without their effect when skillfully used, especially in a country
whose organization is still imperfect, were the order of the day both
¥ with the press and in places of public business. At this period two
political parties appeared to predominate over the various factions which
divided the country. Their tendencies were in general the same as the
two opposing parties in a constitutional government—the liberal and
the conservative. The former, which was in the minority in the cham-
| _ bers, whether eager to obtain power, or wishing to recommend itself to
' the supreme head of the nation, perhaps because really convinced that
the good of the country required a radical change in the personnel of
_ the administration, proposed, through its representatives in the session
_ of parliament, that the young prince should be declared of age. This
project was lost in the senate, and when presented a month later to the
house of deputies, excited the most stormy discussions ever known in
Brazil. Finally, the regent (Senator Pedro de Aranjo Lima, after-
ward Marquis of Olinda) determined to order an adjournment of the
chambers. In the state of publie feeling this act was certainly im-
politic; and the communication of the decree to the chamber of depu-
ties (July 22, 1840) was like setting fire to a powder-mine ready for an
_ explosion. It produced immediately violent excitement. The authors
of the project for declaring the Emperor of age and its principal sup-
porters quitted the hall immediately, and collecting adherents in the |

_ streets proceeded to the senate, where they joined the few members of

that body in favor of the proposition. They then sent to Dom Pedro a

deputation, with a communication. signed by five senators and three
members of the house of deputies, in which it was declared that ‘“ the
adjournment of the legislative chambers at the moment when the ma-
jority of the Emperor was proposed was an insult to his august person,
as well as treason to the nation; and in view of the great evils which
must accrue to the tranquillity of the capital from such an adjournment,

180 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

since the enemies of public peace would take advantage of this event
to disturb society to its foundation, the Emperor was entreated to save
the country and the throne by taking into his own hands, from that
moment, the exercise of the high attributes the constitution conferred —
upon him. Instead of resisting with firmness this demand, the regent —
left Dom Pedro to his own unadvised inspirations, and demanded of lim, ~
in the presence of the delegates, whether he would accede to their desires. —
The young prince, much agitated, answered, “Yes.” What other re-
sponse could he make, face to face with anarchy and threatened revolu-
tion, especially after the weakness manifested by the government.

This was on Wednesday. The regent immediately announced his in-—
tention to convoke parliament for the following Sunday, in order that
the majority of the Emperor might be publicly declared according to
the constitution. A member of the deputation objected to any delay, —
and proposed that this convocation should take place the next day. —
On the following day, therefore, the 23d of July, Dom Pedro II was.
declared of age by the president of the general assembly of the repre-
sentatives of the nation, and on the same day took the oath imposed by
the fundamental law of the empire. This political event excited great.
enthusiasm throughout the entire nation; weary of the often bloody
struggles of the factions, there seemed hopes of a better future in the —
political emancipation of the prince. In consequence of this emancipa-
tion the liberal party were brought into power. The minister pro-
nounced the chamber of deputies dissolved, and decided that the Em- —
peror should be crowned the following year.

Vi.

Behold Dom Pedro then governing by himself his vast empire. The —
burden he had assumed, or rather which had been placed upon his
shoulders, afforded grounds for reflection for more than one sincere
friend of the monarchical form of government and of the reigning dy-
nasty; for from 1831, the period of the abdication of the first Emperor,
to 1840, the majority of his son and successor, none of the statesmen
who had held the reins of government had been able entirely to con-
trol anarchy and the ambitious spirits who aspired either to the central
government or to that of the provinces, which they saw in their auda-
cious dreams converted into independent republics. In fact the first.
years of the government of Dom Pedro did not pass without danger to —
the monarchy. First, the serious revolution of the province of the Rio |
Grande had not been entirely quelled, and there seemed no near pros- |
pect of its termination ; then the struggle between the liberal and the
conservative party, both through the press and in the tribune, assumed
a more and more violent character and ended by an actual contest at
arms.

The conservative party, in return for the prompt action by which the |
liberal minority had obtained the power and forced consent to the major- _

wih

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. 181

ity of the Emperor, induced the young and inexperienced monarch
- to dissolve the new liberal chamber even before it had assembled, on

account of alleged violence and fraud committed during the election,
and placed itself at the head of the administration of the government of
the country. The liberals followed this defection by the revolution of
1842, in two of the largest provinces of the empire—Minas-Geraes and
S. Paulo—but were soon subdued. However, their exclusion from the
government was not of long continuance, for two years afterwards we
see them again in power, to be reversed anew in 1848. Again they took
up arms, this time at Pernambuco. The contest was bloody, but hap-
pily did not last long, and the rebels were conquered as before. If the
young Emperor had not at this time sufficient experience in the govern-
ment of men to avoid these fratricidal struggles, he had an opportunity
of manifesting his conciliatory disposition by using one of the most
beautiful prerogatives granted him by the constitution—that of remis-
sion of punishment, and pardon of the guilty.

The conservative party, in 1845, brought to an end the important
revolution of the Rio Grande, and gained by this new success a prestige
and reputation for order which maintained it in power until 1863.

The Emperor was married, by power of attorney, in 1843, to the daugh-
ter of Francis I, King of the Two Sicilies, the Princess Thérése Christine
de Bourbon;* and in 1845 he made with her a journey through the
southern provinces of the Rio Grande and S. Paulo, to study for him-
Self the means of avoiding the return of discontent.

Vv.

Order was hardly restored (after the revolution of 1848) when the

attention of the government was called to the neighboring countries of

La Plata, under the despotic rule of General Rosas, President of the

_ Argentine Confederation.

This audacious gaizcho had conceived the project of re-establishing for
his own benefit the ancient Spanish vice-royalty of La Plata, which in-
cluded the territories known to-day under the names of the Argentine
Confederation and the republics of Paraguay and Uruguay.

Foreseeing the danger that must necessarily arise from an increase .
of the power of Rosas to Brazilian commerce, a part of which was car-
ried on by river communication with the Brazilian province of Matto-
Grosso, ‘he imperial government was making preparations to oppose this
measure, when Rosas, by his hostile attitude toward Brazil, which he

*Of this marriage was born two princes and two princesses. The princes are dead ;
also the younger of the two princesses. The latter, the Princess Léopoldine, was mar-
ried to the Prince Louis Auguste Marie de Cobourg-Gotha, Duke of Saxe. The
surviving princess, who bears the title of princess imperial, because she is the heir
presumptive to the crown, is called Isabel. She is married to Prince Louis-Philippe-

_ Marie-Ferdinand-Gaston d’Orleans, Count d’Eu, and son of the Duke de Nemours. The

Princess Léopoldine left four children. The princess imperial has only one son, who is
by the constitution her successor to the throne. ’
182 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. a

accused of taking part with his enemies, himself furnished a pretext for
declaring war.

Brazil then formed an alliance with General Urquiza, governor of a”
province of the Argentine Confederation in revolt against Rosas. Their
united forces marched against the despot and vanquished him on the
2d of February, 1852, at Monte-Casero, not far from Buenos Ayres.
Rosas embarked the same day for England.

VI.

From this period really began that progress which excites the admi-
ration of all who compare the Brazil of the present with the Brazil of —
twenty-five years ago. This beautiful era in the history of the vast em- —
pire commenced with the abolition of the slave trade an immense
step toward civilization, followed by a veritable enthusiasm for commer-
cial and industrial enterprises; then were laid the first railroads, the
especial lines of which, such as those of state, received the guarantee of
an interest of 7 per cent.; the companies for river and maritime navi-
gations were largely increased; Europe was brought into communica-
tion with Brazil by means of steam; gas was introduced into all the
great cities, and good roads were opened. Most of these enterprises
gave to agricultural industry, especially to the culture of coffee, sugar,
tobacco, and cotton, a marked impulse, and were thus of material bene-
fit to all classes of society.

The satisfactory condition of the country allowed Dom Pedro to make
an excursion of several months to the northern part of Brazil, (1859.)
He visited in succession the provinces of Bahia, Pernambuco, d’ Alagoas,
and Parahyba. He was everywhere welcomed with great enthusiasm,
and received such warm ovations that it may be said his journey was
one continued féte, by which the people endeavored to express their love
and gratitude for the great benefit they had received through his wise
government. This visitation of the empire was of the greatest utility
in a particular as well as general point of view. For everywhere the
Emperor endeavored to learn for himself the degree of intellectual and
material development of the provinces, what was needed to secure their
progress, and especially the manner in which the governors adminis-
tered their office.

On his return to the capital he took the necessary measures, in con-
formity with the information he had obtained, for the benefit of the
provinces he had visited.

VEL.

This peaceful prosperity, which lasted ten years, was suddenly dis-
turbed by a double incident known under the name of the Lnglish Con-
Jlict, and worthy of notice because evincing the energy of Dom Pedro,

when called to maintain the dignity of the nation of which he is the :|

head, and also the ardent patriotism of the Brazilian people.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II 183

' Towards the end of 1862, some officers of the English navy had, in
the garb of peasants, deserted from a military post in the vicinity of
Rio; they were seized in a brawl by the civil authorities and impris-
oned until they could be identified, which was done the next day.. The
English government claimed satisfaction fur their detention, but the
Brazilian government, believing no satisfaction was necessary, submitted
to the decision of Leopold J, King of Belgium, the question whether the
English navy had cause for offense. The Belgian monarch replied in
the negative. But, before this decision was received, the minister from
England at Rio, (Mr. Christie,) either because he was angry with the’
Brazilian government for refusing the satisfaction demanded, or fore-
seeing the sentence of the king of Belgium, and not wishing to remain
under the unfavorable impression of a condemnation he had himself
provoked, demanded and obtained authority from England to require of
the Brazilian government an immediate settlement of a claim which had
been under consideration for two years, and which necessitated the ~
payment of a sum of money (6,000 pounds sterling) as indemnity for
the losses resulting from the shipwreck of a small English vessel upon
the coast of Brazil. This was the second incident. The imperial govern-
ment refused to comply with the demand before the claim had been

fully discussed. The English minister then ordered the commander

of the English squadron stationed in the Brazilian waters to exercise
the act of reprisal until the sum named was paid. As soon as this order
was known the entire populace of the capital arose in indignation, and
a large body, carrying the national colors, proceeded to the palace of S.
Christovam,* the ordinary residence of the Emperor, and encountering
the sovereign on the way, conducted him in triumph to his city palace,
where the monarch had already called a council of the ministers. It
was on this occasion Dom Pedro uttered these memorable words, which
secured to him forever the love of the Brazilian people: “‘Z desire above

all to show that in the presence of danger I am the equal of every other
Brazilian citizen.”

Although the ministers shared the indignation of the sovereign and
the people at this uncalled-for violence on the part of a foreign power,
still, as responsible for any measures taken, it was necessary to reflect
caretully before acting. The opinion was earnestly maintained that force
should be met with ee, but by the minority. After along deliberation,
it was concluded that a contest upon the sea, although offering some ad-
vantages in the commencement, would at last become too unequal to
be continued with any chance of final success; it was therefore decided
that the government should agree to pay the required sum, but directly
_ to the English Government, provided the latter persisted in the demand
made by its representative at Rio. The English Government insisted,
and the sum was paid, but under protest. :
_ The Emperor, considering the conduct of the English government as

*The palace of 8. Christovam is in the suburbs of the capital.
184 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

un act of mere caprice, withdrew his representative at London; which —
determined the recall of Mr. Christie. Diplomatic relations were not 4
restored between Brazil and Englaid until three years later, and then
through the intervention of the King of Portugal.

It is a common saying ‘that evil always has its good side.” The conflict
with England was not without advantage to Brazil, in that it manifested
the weakness of the country as compared with the great maritime pow-
ers, and showed the Brazilians that they should not confine their atten-
tion exclusively to interior prosperity, but should also acquire the means
of responding suitably to any exterior insult.

A number of respectable citizens then conceived the happy idea of.
raising a permanent national subscription for the purchase of modern
cannon and iron-clad vessels. This was met with enthusiasm by the
nation; donations were received from all sides; the Emperor subscribed
the fifth part of his civil list; the empress and the princess followed his
example, the public functionaries and the officers of the army gave 5
per cent. of their salaries; the rich land-holders promised large amounts ;
the poor also, to the extent of their ability, manifested their patriotism,
The subscription amounted in a few months only, to a sum of several
millions. Large orders were then sent to Europe for all kinds of war-
engines, while the armories of the country worked with an activity be-
fore unknown. The Emperor himself manifested indefatigable energy;
he visited every day arsenals, workshops, dock-yards, fortresses, war-
vessels, military schools, and everywhere exhibited knowledge which
astonished even specialists. All these efforts were crowned with Dril-
liant success, as we shall see. But first we would mention that about
the middle of 1863 the conservative party was obliged to give way be-
fore the liberal party, which came into power by the elections following
the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies, in which the conservative
majority had become doubtful.

Vink

In April, 1863, occurred in the republic of Uruguay, adjoining Brazil,
a revolution, at the head of which was General Flores. The govern-
ment of Uruguay could not subdue the insurgents for want of men and
money, and had, like its predecessors, recourse to violent incursions
upon the property of the Brazilians living on the frontiers of the re-
public, taking from them especially their herds of sheep and cattle.
Under these circumstances many subjects of the empire were maltreated
and even forced to enroll under the flag of the republic.

The government of the Emperor remonstrated with the government
of Uruguay, but the President of the republic, (Aguirre,) while feigning
a desire to do justice to the complaints of the empire, for which he held
his subaltern agents responsible, in reality endeavored to support the
republic of Paraguay.

This republic was at that time governed by Lopez II, who was a re-

“

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. 185

publican only in name. He was, in fact, the most immoral, the most
tyrannical ruler in all America. He was, besides, very ambitious of
military glory, and as soon as he became President (in appearance by
election of the self-called National Congress, but in reality by heritage
and his own will,as the only generalof the republic) he imagined he could
perform in La Plata the role which Napoleon III had for some time taken
in Europe, viz, the maintenance of European equilibrium. For this end
he made of the nation a regular military depot, and only waited for an
opportunity to send forth his troops. He had, besides, accumulated an
immense quantity of material for war, so that he was quite prepared
not only to enter into a military contest, but to maintain it for a long
time.

The hostile attitude of Brazil toward Uruguay furnished the Presi-
dent of Paraguay with the pretext he desired to forward his pretensions.
After demanding, for the sake of form, of the representative of Brazil
at Assumption (the capital) information in regard to the views of the
imperial government, he sent to the latter, in the month of September,
1864, a declaration that he would not consent to the occupation by
Brazilian troops, neither permanently nor temporarily, of any part
whatever of the territory of Uruguay. :

The imperial government made a mistake in taking no notice of this
declaration of the despot ; and, not receiving the satisfaction demanded
of the government of Uruguay, invaded the territory of that republic.
The Brazilian troops and those of General Flores, who held the open
country, naturally united against the common enemy, and obtained

_ their first victory in the taking by assault of the city of Paysandee.

This alliance, made upon the field of battle, having been ratified by the
imperial government, the united forces marched together upon the cap-
ital of the enemy,(Montevideo,) and obliged it to capitulate on the 20th
of February, 1865:

The news of the invasion of Uruguay provoked on the part of Lopez
an open act of hostility against Brazil. A steamer was expected belong-
ing toa Brazilian company, and which did service between Rio Janeiro
and the Brazilian province of Matto-Grosso, passing by the capital of
Paraguay. When the boat arrived at Assumption—it was the Marquez
de Olinda—it was seized by order of Lopez and most of the passengers
made prisoners, among others a colonel who was on his way to take
charge of the government of the province of Matto-Grosso, (November,
1864.)

This act excited great indignation in the empire, and an outery from
all parts of the country for punishment of the tyrant. The feeling was
so general, that at the end of several weeks the number of the volunteers
who responded to an appeal made by the Emperor to their patriotism
was wore than sufficient, and the government was obliged to decline

‘further offers of service. Lopez then took possession of the province of
Matto-Grosso. He was obliged to pass through the territory of the Ar-
186 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

gentine Republic in order to invade a second Brazilian province, Rio —
Grand de Sud, and, not having obtained permission, did: so by force, —

commencing hostilities by the surprise and seizure of two ships of war.
Thus a triple alliance was formed against Lopez, consisting of Brazil
and the two republics, Argentine and Uruguayan. General Mitré,
President of the Argentine Republic, was made chief in command of
the aliied armies.*

Although the tyrant had to struggle against all Wige powers, the war
lasted five years, and was the most sanguinary that had ever been known
in South America. In the first place, Lopez possessed, as we have said,
formidable resources in the materials for wart he had collected. Then
Paraguay, the principal theatre of operations, was admirably protected
by numerous lagunes, water-courses, forests, and mountain-chains, while
to these natural barriers were added extensive military constructions.

Brazil, which was the soul of the alliance, and which alone possessed
a squadron, blockaded Paraguay from the commencement of the year
1865, while the allied armies assembled upon the territory of the Ar-
gentine Republic, in order to pass over the 200 leagues which separated
them from the enemy’s country.

In the month of June, 1865, the Brazilian squadron destroyed, in the
naval contest of Riachuelo, the squadron of Paraguay, consisting of
eight war-steamers, protected by floating batteries of earth.t Three
months later the Paraguayan commander of a column of 10,000 men
(the same which had invaded the province of the Rio Grande) capitu-
lated in the city of Uruguayana, in the presence of the Emperor, who
had undertaken in person to drive the enemy from this part of the em-
pire.

In April, 1866, the allies passed the Parana, the frontier of the enemy.
Several battles, among which should be mentioned that of the 24th of |
May at Tuyuty, (about 70,000 men were present,) distinguished the
first period of the campaign in the enemy’s country. The assault under-
taken on the 23d of September, from the direction of Curupaity, against
the terrible Humayta, (fhe Sebastopol of America, constructed upon a
very sharp elbow of the river Paraguay,) failed completely, with great
loss to the allied forces. The latter then undertook a siege of the fort-
ress, which lasted two years.

The fall of Humayta (August, 1868) was secured only when the iron-

* The Brazilian army was commanded by General Osorio, and that of Uruguay by
the President, General Flores.

+ He commenced with an army of 80,000 men, in all respects perfectly equipped, and
well distributed over the entire region of the war.

¢ The battle took place upon the waters of the Parana, near the mouth of the small
river Riachuelo; hence the name of the contest. The Brazilian squadron was also
composed of eight war-steamers of wood, the iron-clad vessels being still-in course of
construction. The victory was for a long time undecided, and there were several very

exciting occurrences, among others the capture and recapture of a Brazilian sloop, the
Parnahyba.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. 187

clad squadron of Brazil forced the passage of the river defended by this
fortress; a passage which, in the beginning of the war, had been consid-
ered impracticable on account of the formidable batteries, the torpedoes,
the chains, and the vessels sunken in the stream, all of which formed a
powerful system of defense. The remains of the garrison of Humayta,
(4,000 men,) in accordance with the orders of Lopez, refused to surren-

der, and fought ten days without intermission in the almost-island

opposite the fortress, where they had taken refuge after being compelled
to evacuate. This valiant and obedient garrison, deaf to the most hon-
orable proposals of the allied commanders, ended by falling from ex-
haustion. Never was there a more bloody contest.

This obstacle surmounted, the Marquis of Caxias, placed at the head
of the Brazilian troops after the reverse of Curupaity, and commander
at this time of the allied forces, with the Brazilian squadron, also under
his orders, proceeded toward the capital of the enemy, which could,
however, be reached only by passing through the main body of the
army of the tyrant, which had protected the city with new and impor-
tant lines of defense. These had all been erected since the bloody battles
of Itororo and of.Avahy, (on the 8th and 11th of December, 1868,) and
the assaults upon the camp of Lopez, at Lomas Valentinas, (on the
21st and 25th of December,) in which the Brazilian army alone lost
a third of its most effective men. After repeated victories the allied
armies made their triumphal entrance into the capital, (on the Ist of
January, 1869,) which had been abandoned after the fall of Humayta.
The Marquis of Caxias then left the army on account of illness, and
was replaced by the nephew of the Emperor, the young Count d’Eu,
who was also marshal of the empire. The count took by assault the
new capital of the enemy, (the city of Pirebeburg,) then chased Lopez
from the first chain of mountains in which he had taken refuge,
destroyed the remainder of his army in the battle of Campo Grande,
and finally pursued him to the extreme limits of the republic.

Lopez, whose men had been reduced to a few hundred, was surprised
in his encampment on the 1st of March, 1870, by the Brazilian troops.*
As soon as he perceived the enemy he mounted a horse and fled, while
his companions fought desperately. As he was about to reach the edge
of a dense forest, in which he hoped to save himself, the soldiers of the
Brazilian cavalry fired upon him, preferring to kill him rather than
allow him to escape. ‘To say nothing of his never having conducted his
troops personally into battle, Lopez had not even the courage to defend
himself when attacked, and, like most tyrants, died the miserable death
of acoward. With his decease ended the long struggle in which were
sacrificed 200,000 Paraguayans, about 80,000 Brazilians, and 10,000
Argentines and Uruguayans. Brazil, besides, expended nearly two
thousand millions of franes.

*The last operations of the war with Paraguay was exclusively the work of the
Brazilian army.
188 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO It.

The gratitude of the Brazilian people to their sovereign, and of the |
imperial government to the troops and victorious generals, was mani- —
fested in an admirable manner. A sum of three millions of francs was
collected by a national subscription to raise a statue to Dom Pedro, but
the modest Emperor devoted this amount to the good of public instrue-
tion; the Marshal Caxias, already a marquis, was made a duke, (the
only one in Brazil;) Count d@’Eu, being already marshal of the army,
was, upon his return to the capital of the empire, the object of brilliant
ovations: the fetes celebrated by the city in his honor and in that of
the army lasted three days, and cost about two millions of franes. On
this occasion the Emperor expressed to the army his happiness and
gratitude by embracing the commander and one of the soldiers of each
battalion. Several of the generals received, with promotion in rank,
titles of nobility; among others, General Osorio was successively made
baron, viscount, count, and marquis (do Herval): he was also accorded
an annual pension of about 20,000 frances, in addition to his pay as
general of the army. General Camara, the conqueror of Lopez, was
made viscount (de Pelotas), and also received a pension of 20,000 franes.
To the officers of the volunteer corps the government accorded honorary
promotion, and preference in the nomination to public employ; finally,
every volunteer soldier (there were about 30,000) received the sum of
800 franes, besides a certain portion of land in the interior of Brazil.

IX.

The enormous sacrifices Brazil was forced to make to sustain the war,
which lasted much longer than was at the beginning anticipated, deter-
mined the political party which came into power during the hostilities
to propose to the Emperor to conclude peace before the fall of Lopez;
but Dom Pedro under these circumstances manifested the most ardent
patriotism and at the same time great political discernment. He never
lost faith in the ultimate success of his arms, although the enemy em-
ployed every means of resistance the most unscrupulous despotism
could invent under the vail of patriotism; he, moreover, understood
better than any one else the importance of giving a severe lesson to
Paraguay, this natural ally of the constant enemies of Brazil—the re-
publics of South America. So strong was his conviction in this respect,
that he would not hear of peace, and even went so far as to declare form-
ally he would abdicate rather than parley with such a foe; affording
thus an example of self-abnegation and patriotic energy worthy to be
placed by the side of that given by Appius Claudius, (the blind,) who
was nota king, it is true, but a member of the famous Roman senate,
which, by its dignified bearing in the presence of misfortune, appeared
to the messenger of Pyrrhus an assembly of kings. ‘I have for along
time,” indignantly exclaimed the illustrious blind old man, ‘ complained
of the gods because they deprived me of sight, but now I thank them,
and even regret that they did not make me deaf also, that I might not

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. 189

hear such disgraceful proposals. Our fathers thought not of peace un-
der such circumstances; on the contrary, the greater the danger, the
greater their heroism and perseverance. It is thus they became great!”
The Emperor would no more make peace with Lopez than the Roman
senate with the king of Epirus.

Another circumstance also proved both how much Dom Pedro had at
heart the reparation of the affront to his country, and the entire confi-
dence he had in final victory: After the reverse of Curupaity, he had
confided the chief command of the Brazilian troops to the head of the
conservative party, Marshal Caxias, a measure which was approved by
the liberal ministry under Senator Zacarias. Some time after, the re-
ciprocal confidence between the general and this body was disturbed
to such a degree that both offered to resign; but the Emperor was able
to produce a reconciliation, and thus to secure the judgment and skill
of the general, which he deemed absolutely necessary for the success of
the imperial arms. Still a certain opposition began to be manifest, both
in the press and the chamber, by the minority of the liberal party, to the
marshal, who was accused of being too slow in his military operations.
This increased more and more, and even extended to the ministry; the
_ latter shortly after, disagreeing with the Emperor in regard to the choice
of a senator, (a choice exclusively reserved for the sovereign by the con-
Stitution,) again offered their resignation, which was this time accepted,

Dom Pedro was now obliged to choose between a new liberal ministry,
which could inspire the confidence neither of the general-in-chief nor
yet of those who were opposed to him, and a conservative ministry
which would be willing to afford the marshal every possible means to
secure the victory. These considerations decided the Emperor in favor
of the latter, which was presided over by the Viscount de Itaborahy,
who was obliged to dissolve the Chamber of Deputies for refusing to
support him (July, 1868).

The conduct of the Emperor towards vanquished Paraguay proved
that he had been animated by no feeling of hatred for that unhappy
country; on the contrary, it afforded another evidence of his proverbial
magnanimity, for he voluntarily pledged himself after the war to keep
the country independent for ten ) ears, on account of the feeble state to
which it had been reduced.

De

The war did not prevent the imperial government from taking all the
administrative measures the circumstances would allow to increase the
prosperity of the country. The navigation of the Amazon was opened
to foreign nations; new lines of railroad were projected, and the con-
struction of those which. had been commenced was not allowed to be
_interrupted; in a word, progress continued with a firm and assured pace,
and, except a slight increase in the rights of dower and of land and per-
sonal taxes, absolutely nothing indicated that the nation was engaged
190 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

in a formidable contest. Commercial transactions received such an —
impulse that large fortunes were made as if by enchantment.

One fact is worthy of being recited: In the last year of the war, when —
the army and the squadron were reduced because the strength of the
enemy was not as great, the custom-house revenue of Rio Janeiro (about
300,000 franes a day) was sufficient to cover the expense of the war; so
that the campaign against Paraguay not only exhibited the patriotism,
the strength, and the perseverance of the Brazilians, but also the im-
mense resources of their country. :

Peace concluded, the government, far from resting upon its laurels,
employed every means to draw from the experience gained during the
war knowledge that would be useful in the future, and render the
country better able to meet with promptitude attacks from its turbu-
lent neighbors or other nations. The leaders who had most distin-
guished themselves upon land and sea during the war were consulted
as to the best measures for this end; and, in accordance with the in-
formation received from them, new iron-clad vessels were ordered, among
which should be mentioned the frigate Independencia, still in course
of construction at London, and one of the largest in the world;*
the army was re-organized ; the mode of recruiting by force, hitherto
employed, was replaced by the system of conscription ; corporal punish-
ment, so derogatory to human dignity, was abolished, and the pay of
the officers was increased a third.

Perhaps the most urgent need felt by the country after the war was
the resupply of the farming population of this vast empire, relatively
depopulated by the loss of a hundred thousand men, for the most part
cultivators of the soil. The solution of this great problem depended
for the most part, if not absolutely, upon the settlement of another im-
portant question, the abolition of slavery, which had for several years
been a subject of especial solicitude with Dom Pedro, not only on ac-
count of his well-known ideas of philanthropy, but also because he
was assured of what he constantly endeavored to convince his ministers,
that all efforts to establish a current of emigration toward Brazil, such
as that toward the United States, would be useless as long as slavery

existed. Both the liberal and conservative party at last understood the — :

necessity of immediate attention to this difficult and delicate question.

Abolitional ideas had for a long time in fact been entertained by phi-
lanthropic minds in Brazil. Several societies called “ liberators ” had
been formed for the purpose of freeing a certain number of slaves each
year. Many provincial and municipal associations of the empire fol-
lowed this good example, and every day negroes were liberated by in-
dividual owners; in a word, the current of public opinion had become
too strong to be arrested, and the Emperor, who rejoiced in the course
events had taken, determined to seize the first opportunity of satisfy-

a)
“This frigate costs 12,000,000 frances. Brazil now possesses twenty-five iron-clad
vessels. -

az

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. HOE

ing not only his own philosophical and benevolent views in this matter,

but also the desires of a large portion of his people.

As soon as the war with Paraguay was ended he called the attention
of the conservative minister (Itaborahy,) then at the head of government-
al affairs, to the subject. The minister, although he did not believe in
the sudden and radical enfranchisement such as had taken place in

_the United States, thought the children of slave parents should be freed,
- but he had not the courage to take the responsibility of maintaining

this opinion in opposition to the numerous and wealthy planters, many
of whom held seats in Parliament or were electors. He preferred to send
his resignation to the Emperor, which was eagerly accepted. The minis-
ter who succeeded him was also obliged to retire at the end of four

- months on account of the opposition, more and more threatening, of the

slaveholders. What was to be done? Wait until the liberal party,
which had inscribed this reform upon their programme, came into power?
But how was it possible to wait ?

Under these circumstances the Emperor offered the ministry to the
Viscount Rio Branco, a man well known on account of his political ability
and an especial talent for conciliating unruly spirits. The viscount
carried out, although not without great trouble, the views of the EKm-
peror and the Brazilian nation, and on the 28th of September, 1871,
was passed by the Parliament the law known under the name of the

free womb.” This legislative act, which declared the children born of

slave-women after that day to be free, and required the owner of the
parents for a slight indemnity to maintain the childrea until the age of

‘twenty, was received with indescribable enthusiasm by all Brazil, with

the exception only of the slaveholders, who held their pecuniary interests
above those of their country and of humanity. The government received
from all the various corporations, political or civil, and the religious so-
cieties, benevolent or otherwise, the most ardent promises of support
and warm congratulation. In this universal feeling of contentment
the generous promoter of this wise law, Dom Pedro II, was not forgotten,

_ although at the time absent from the country, as we shall see.

XI.

Dom Pedro had for a long time wished to visit Europe, but the ac-

- complishment of his desire had been postponed, at one time by troubles

at home, at another by differences with foreign nations, and when at
jast the country was in a condition to allow this excursion, much to be
desired on account of relations with foreign powers, the Emperor com-
menced his journey by passing through the provinces of his own em-
pire he had not yet visited, thus showing himself true to his especial
maxim, Brazil first of all.

Not only did the victory over Paraguay, which insured external peace
by affording sufficient proof to the turbulent neighbors of Brazil that
war against her could only end to their disadvantage, and the interior |
192 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

order of the country not disturbed since 1848, seem especially opportune —
for the execution of this project of a voyage to Hurope, but Ee health
of the Empress required the journey.

According to the Brazilian constitution the sovereign cannot leave the
country without permission of parliament, under pain of forfeiting the
empire. Dom Pedro asked and obtained leave of absence for a year,
and started for Europe in the month of May, 1871, under the name of
Dom Pedro @Aleantara, confiding the regency of the empire to his
daughter, the Countess d’Eu. He sailed with the Empress and a suite
of ten persons on board the English steamer which passes regularly
between Rio de Janeiro and Southampton, for he would not spend a —
centime more than the allowance of a civil officer, which, by the way,
is not great—2,000,000 frances a year. The entire population of Rio
turned out to wish him a happy journey, and a speedy return. They
collected upon the quay, in the windows facing the port, upon the roofs
of the houses, on the islands of the bay, waving their handkerchiefs as
he appeared, and filled the numerous small steamboats which were to
escort for some distance the vessel containing the august travelers.
These sincere and touching adieus showed how much the people loved —
their sovereign.

The first stopping place of the imperial tourists was Lisbon. Upon
the arrival of the Emperor, Louis I, his nephew, came to meet him, and
offered to suspend the rules of quarantine and conduct him immediately
to his palace. Dom Pedro firmly determined to travel as a private gen-
tleman, not only refused to accept this offer, but also to pass the four
days of quarantine in a man-of-war the King placed at his disposal. He
lodged therefore in the common lazaretto with all the passengers who
had landed at Lisbon. He passed several days in the beautiful capital,
and then went by rail to Spain, promising his royal nephew to pass ¢
few days in Portugal on his return to Brazil. After Spain he visited
France, England, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Italy, and
Egypt. He took advantage of his journey to lay the foundations of sev-
eral treaties of commerce and friendship, but particularly of extradition,
which were afterwards consummated.

In these different countries, of which he knew as much as could be
learned from written descriptions, Dom Pedro made a careful examina-
tion of the works of art, of science, and of industry, the schools, univer-
sities, and scientific societies, whose: meetings he delighted to attend.
He invited to his table distinguished men of all classes, and surprised
more than one Diogenes in his tub. Everywhere and to everybody,
he exhibited much more knowledge than is generally possessed by the

heads of nations, and on his return to Brazil, honored with the most |

distinguished decorations the men of letters, arts, and science with
whom he had been in relation. In certain charitable institutions and —
in the poor quarter of several large cities, he left substantial souvenirs —
of his visit.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. 193

Dom Pedro was decorated on this journey with the order of the gar-
ter, and also received diplomas from several learned societies, among
which we may mention that of member of the natural history section
of the French Institute, a deserved reward for his profound study of
this branch of knowledge. In short, the journey was a success, and of
great importance to Brazil, as the Emperor was enabjed to refute the
errors that superficial or malevolent writers had spread all over Europe
in regard to the country.*

Dom Pedro quitted Europe with the firm determination to return at
some future time, and visit the countries of the north as well as Turkey.

XII.

The return of Dom Pedro to Brazil gave the people another oppor-
tunity of showing their attachment, by an enthusiastic welcome, and a
brilliant reception at the capital. One of his first acts was to abolith
the system of vassalage which had descended from the ancient kings
of Portugal. Then he hastened to introduce every useful art and cus-
tom he had seen abroad compatible with the climate, institutions, and
national habits of the country. The capitalin this way was embellished
with numerous erections, which at the same time responded to the
requirements of public comfort. t

Brazil was then united by the telegraph with Europe, the United
States, and the republics of La Plata. Several other works of public
interest, such as the construction of new railways and the opening of
new roads, &c., were undertaken or received new impulse from the gov-
ernment. For the better success of his plans for material improvement,
Dom Pedro nominated as minister of public works, of commerce, and
of agriculture the Senator Viscount de Itatina, who had accompanied
him on his voyage to Europe, and was, in consequence, the best inter-
preter of the desires of the Emperor.

In political and intellectual affairs there was radical reform, especially
in the reorganization of primary schools, of higher, schools, and the re-
vision of the electoral law.

The solicitude Dom Pedro had always felt in regard to public instruc-
tion, proves conclusively how entirely he was convinced that it is the

*It may be well to give here the opinion of Professor Agassiz in regard to these
errors: “Like every country,” he says, “struggling for recognition among the self-
reliant nations ef the world, Brazil has to contend with the prejudiced reports of a
floating foreign population, indifferent to the welfare of the land they temporarily in-
habit, and whose appreciations are mainly influenced by private interest. It is much
to be regretted that the government has not thought it worth while to take decided

' Measures to correct the erroneous impressions current abroad concerning its admin-

istration, and that its diplomatic agents do so little to circulate truthful and author-
itative statements of their domestic concerns.”—(A Journey in Brazil, by Professor and
Mrs. Agassiz.)

tAmong the public constructions at Rio especially remarkable, are the foundling
asylum, the hospital of Mercy, the military school, the primary schools, the exchange,
the public treasury.

$15
194 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

condition sine qua non of all real and lasting progress. It is, therefore,
not surprising that during his journey his attention should have been
especially directed to this branch of public administration. After adopt-
ing the methods and programmes of study which seemed to him the
best, he caused a number of really palatial buildings to be erected, with
spacious gardens attached, to be used as public schools for children of
both sexes; and in order to render study agreeable, the luxury and
provisions for comfort in these establishments were so great as to be
condemned as extravagance by those opposed to the projects of the
Emperor.

In the high schools, reform was introduced in the regulation of exam-
inations. These were rendered so much more difficult as to excite the
manifest hostility of the students; but the increased rigor was really
necessary, as the diplomas conferred by the scientific corporations had
ceased to be regarded with much confidence.

The central school was reorganized and converted into a polytechnic
institution, similar to the Belgian schools for engineers. Lastly, a school
of mines was formed in the province of Minas, the richest in precious
minerals, and now it is proposed to found at Rio a university, with due
consideration, however, for the faculties of law and medicine existing in
the provinces.

The reform of the electoral law is one of the greatest benefits Brazil
has received from the very hand, so to say, of the present Emperor. The
old law was full of flaws, which might allow a party in power to remain
so. continually, were it not for the prerogatives accorded the Emperor by
the constituiion. No party at the head of the administration had desired
to reform this law, precisely because of the advantage to be drawn from
its defects, but once in the opposition, there was no want of condemna-
tion of the frauds and violence committed by the agents and friends of
the government during the elections. ;

The greatest inconveniences resulting from this defective law were,
ou the one hand, the impossibility of knowing whether the parliamentary
majority represented really the opinion of the people, and on the other
the want of any security that the minority would be represented. Also,
every dissolution of the houses of parliament was followed by a unan-
imous chamber, evidently the creation of the minister; and even if this
had not the general support, it could always exercise great influence upon
legislative decisions, because of its power over a large number of public
functionaries; that is to say, on account of the number of public offices _
at its disposal.

Tor the purpose not only of putting an end to the complaints of par-
ties not in power, but also and principally to govern in accordance with
the real desires of the nation—the first duty of every honest govern-
ment—Dom Pedro determined to reform the electoral law, and on the
occasion of the opening of parliament in 1874, entered into a formal
engagement to prevent, in the future, electoral abuses.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. Hey be

The liberal party desired election by one degree, that is, direct elec-
tion; but the constitution positively required election by two degrees,
that is, indirect. This was an insurmountable obstacle to the Emperor,
for he knew that too frequent alteration of the organic laws of a country
ends in political disorganization. He therefore confined his attention
to such changes in the old system as would render parliament more

- jndependent of the government. Among the improvements of the new

law was the decree that the holding of the office of representative was
incompatible with the tenure of any other charge remunerated by the
state, and that the government could not nominate any deputy or sena-
tor to an office six months before or after the elections. Should this
loyal attempt at reform by the Emperor be unsuccessful, we are con-
vinced he would propose to the people to change the constitution, rather
than have the national vote continually misconstrued.

XIII.

Almost immediately after the return of Dom Pedro to Brazil, toward
the end of the year 1872, occurred an event known under the name of
the religious question, of which we must give a brief account, for, although
much to be regretted, it gave proof of the moderation of the Brazilian
monarch, and his respect for the national institutions.

The bishop of Pernambuco, (Mgr. Vital de Oliveira,) who had received
his religious education at Rome, where he had been nominated to ofiice
at the age of 28, forgetting the maxim of Talleyrand, “ above all, no zeal,”
came to Brazil with the predetermination, it would seem, to suppress
Free Masonry in his diocese, which had not been attempted by the ten
preceding bishops nor by the primate of Brazil; for they knew that,
under the form in which it existed in the empire, it was not hostile to the
Catholic religion. The conduct of the young bishop, whom the Pope at
the time called too hot-headed, is so extraordinary that we transcribe liter-
ally that document, the cause of the disturbance which followed, in order
that the reader may judge of it for himself.

On the 28th of December, 1872, Mgr. Vital de Oliveira sent to the
vicar of the parish of Saint Antoine (at Pernambuco) an order conceived
as follows: ‘It has come to our knowledge that Doctor Costa Ribeiro,
well known as a Free Mason, is a member of the fraternity of the Trés
Saint Sacrement of this parish; and as the initiated of the order of
Masonry are under the ban of high excommunication imposed upon
them by several of the Popes, we order you, without delay, to see the
judge of the fraternity, and command him in our name to exhort, kindly
but instantly, the Brother Costa Ribeiro to abjure this sect condemned
by the church. If, unhappily, he refuse to retract, let him be immedi-
ately expelled from the fraternity, inasmuch as excommunicants are
excluded from it by ecclesiastical institutions. Let the same course be
pursued with regard to any other Free Mason who niay be a member not
only of this, but of any other fraternity in the parish.”

(Signed, etc.)
196 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

The fraternity, in united council, decided to beseech the bishop to with-
draw this order as being doubly illegal. It required what was in fact
contrary to the organic rules of the fraternity, which authorized no
expulsion of its members on account of being Masons, and contrary
also tq the constitution of Brazil, which required (article 102, § 14) that
apostolic letters and other ecclesiastical mandates must receive the con-
firmation of the government before they could be carried into execution.
Now, the order condemning Masonry had not been authorised with the
imperial seal; besides, the fraternities were not only religious but civil
orders, and in the latter capacity did not come under the authority of
the chureh. An order such as that of the bishop of Pernambuco had
never before been given by any of the bishops of the empire, Masonry
in Brazil haying the same legal title to existence as any other society
whatever. .

Notwithstanding these considerations, which the fraternity endeav-
ored to impress upon the bishop, the latter persisted in his design, and
ended by pronouncing the sentence of interdiction, by which the mem-
bers of the fraternity were forbidden to appear in any religious cere-
mony whatever with the insignia of the society. The fraternity en-
treated the bishop in vain to withdraw this severe and illegal restric-
tion; they then carried it, as an abuse, to the crown, founding their
appeal upon the requirement of the constitution which had been dis.
regarded.

The government, wishing to act with prudence and justice, consulted
the council of state, which was of the opinion that the bishop had abused
his authority in requiring the expulsion of the masonic members of the
fraternity, and in pronouncing against the society the sentence of inter-
diction, inasmuch as the organic laws of the fraternity were under the su-
pervision of the civil authority, the bishop having only the right toapprove
and control those appertaining to religious matters. Jn consequence of
this decision the government ordered the bishop to withdraw, within a
month, the sentence of interdiction. The bishop not only refused obe-
dience himself to this requirement, but enjoined the same on his vicars,
under threat of suspension ex informata conscientia, a threat he im-
mediately executed upon one of them who merely seemed irresolute.
He besides declared in a public address that he had not taken the de-
mands of the constitution into account, as he recognized no higher au-
thority than that of the church. This act of real rebellion obliged the
government to prosecute the bishop for disobedience to the laws, but
this was not done without again consulting the council of state, this
time in full conclave. An embassador was at the same time sent to

tome to demand the support of the Pope against the refractory bishop,
which proves conclusively that the imperial government desired to re-
main on good terms with the religious power. The Emperor was, besides,
quite ready to remit any penalty the tribunal might impose upon the
bishop, if the Pope induced the prelate to withdraw the interdiction.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. 197

The Pope, having probably been made to understand this, wrote a
letter to the bishop expressing disapproval of his conduct and ordering
him to withdraw the interdiction, but the prelate did not obey, under
the pretext that the Pope had been misinformed in regard to the matter.
The prosecution continued and the bishop was condemned to four years
of hard labor, but the Emperor hastened to commute this punishment to
four years of imprisonment.

During the prosecution the bishop of Para, following the conduct of
his colleague of Pernambuco, was subjected to the like process. The
affair then assumed a violent character both in the press and in parlia-
ment, where, however, the majority supported the government. The
bishop from his prison—a palace situated on a beautiful fortified penin-
sula opposite Rio, in which he moved freely and was allowed to see any
one who wished to visit him, and was treated like a prince—succeeded,
by the intervention of ecclesiastical agents, in exciting the peasants of
his diocese to a rebellion, happily soon repressed.

Notwithstanding the evident connivance of the bishop with these dis-
turbanees, the government forbore any further prosecution of him, in
order to spare the Emperor the pain of seeing this high functionary con-
demned to more severe punishment. We can readily understand this
feeling in a monarch, raised in the Catholic religion, with Catholic sub-
jects, and who had taken the oath on ascending the throne to maintain
the Catholic religion, which is the religion of State. Jurthermore, Dom
Pedro did not allow the term of imprisonment imposed by the high court
of justice for the bishops to expire, but pardoned them at the end of two
years. To this act of clemency the Pope responded by removing the in-
terdiction pronounced by the bishops against the fraternities, and re-
ligious peace was restored to the empire.

XIV.

During the legislative session of 1875, Dom Pedro, taking advantage
of the tranquillity of the country at home and fearing no trouble from
abroad, demanded and obtained from parliament a leave of eighteen
months. His purpose was to complete the tour commenced in 1871,
and to visit’ the universal exposition held that year in Philadelphia,
(United States of America.) Foreseeing this long absence, Dom Pedro
had, after the retirement of the minister Rio Branco, (June, 1875,) nomi-
nated as his successor the old Marshal Duke de Caxias, who had twice

been president of the cabinet, and who enjoyed a high reputation, well

merited by his victories in Paraguay and over the enemies of the
internal peace of the country. The duke had as colleague in the min-
ister of foreign affairs the Baron Cotegipe, well known to possess an
amount of energy, quite uncommon among Brazilian statesmen, espe-
cially displayed during the hostilities with the neighboring republics.

- Having thus confided the government of his empire to a ministry of
tried men and to the regency of the princess, the successor to the throne,
198 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

Dom Pedro left for the United States the latter part of last March,
and at the moment of writing we know that he has received a most
flattering welcome from the country of Washington and Franklin, not
only on the part of public authorities, (although he desired to preserve
a rigorous incognito,) but also by the press and the people of that pow-
erful republic. We are sure that Dom Pedro is convinced by this re-
ception of the sincerity—he has, however, never doubted—of the desire
of the great republics of North America to maintain cordial relations
with the great empire of South America, a policy perfectly in unison
with the spirit of the people and the proud reserve of one of their most
able representatives, Monroe, who repudiated all European intervention
in America, wishing the continent to belong to Americans alone.

From the United States Dom Pedro took passage for Europe, where
there is no doubt as cordial a reception awaits him as he received in
that country five years ago.

XV.

A few words before closing this sketch in regard to the personal char-
acteristics of Dom Pedro, both as a man and as a Sovereign.

In respect to physique, he is tall, well formed, with light hair and
complexion; he has blue eyes, a benevolent expression, and wears a
full-grown beard, which is very gray, much more so than his hair; his
whole appearance is attractive and his manner sympathetic; he will
be fifty-one years of age next December.

Dom Pedro’s activity is extraordinary. He rises at 6 o’clock, reads
certain news journals, while his secretary looks over others, and marks
passages worthy of consideration, attends to business until half past 9,
breakfasts rapidly,* then gives audience to the public; after which he
generally visits the schools, arsenals, fortresses, or attends a session of
@ Scientific society, &c.t He dines at 5, again gives audience to the
people, and then resumes business,t if he does not go to the theater, (of
which he is very fond,) to a concert, a ball, or some private entertain-
ment. He never retires before midnight.

When visiting the establishments for instruction, whether private or _
belonging to the state, in the capital or in the provinces, he assists in
the examination of the pupils and in the distribution of prizes, and
makes note on these occasions of the name, family, and place of birth

* He never remains more than half an hour at breakfast, nor at dinner, and has at his
table all his personal attendants, who are on duty for a week.

t Dom Pedro never fails to be present at the reunions of the Brazilian Institution of
History and Geography, of which he is the honorary president.

He has a library, and a very complete laboratory for natural and physical science.
Besides the study of these branches, as well as of political and moral science, he is
much interested in ancient literature. In asynagogue in London, during his visit in
1871, he delighted the rabbins by translating a page of their Hebrew Bible.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. 199

of those who distinguish themselves in their studies. More than one
thus noticed has afterward found in the Emperor a powerful protector.*

Dom Pedro not only encourages letters and the arts, he also renders
important aid to industrial societies of general utility, either trom his
own purse, by the purchase of shares, or by demanding subsidy for them
from the legislative bodies.t

He presides twice a week at the council of state. The session com-
mences at 9 o’clock in the evening, and lasts sometimes until 1 in the
morning. Each minister gives an account in his presence of all the
matters in his department requiring the imperial signature; the Em-
peror listens with attention, and occasionally asks for some explanation.
If the matter is of importance, especially if it touches the rights or the
purses of the citizens, he will not allow a decision on the same day, but
takes time to study the subject carefully, giving his opinion at the next
session. If it is a radical innovation he employs a longer time in exam-
ining all its details, consults the council of state, and adopts it at last
only if convinced that it is really and intelligently desired, and will be
of profit to the people; for his long experience in the government of
men has taught him that reform must be carefully considered, must be
opportune and very evidently beneficial before it is adopted, in order
that progress may be made. In this respect he is a liberal conservative,
as every head of a nation should be who desires to respect the laws and
at the same time advance civilization.

One would suppose from this active interference of the Emperor in
the affairs of state, that the ministry exercises but little power. But
this is not the case, for the Emperor has for the constitution, and for the
public offices it creates, an almost religious respect. It is sufficient to
say that he has not once during his long reign made use of the veto
power given him by the constitution. He has never forced his own
wishes upon any of his ministers; he leaves them entire freedom of
action. But this very respect for the laws of the nation, as well as his
own experience, has taught him the necessity of exercising his sover-
eign attributes, which he does, taking counsel only of his own conscience.

This loyal conduct, this benevolent interference on the part of the
sovereign in the affairs of the country, has nevertheless been attacked

* We are glad to give the following example: When M. Carlos Gomes, a Brazilian
composer, after completing his studies in the school of fine arts at Rio and at Rome
played for the first time, in the Brazilian capital, his beautiful opera Le Guarany, which
had been very successful in Italy and London, he was summoned to the imperial box
and warmly congratulated by the Emperor, who gave him at the same time the diploma
and the badge of an officer of the order of the Rose set in diamonds.

t There exist in Brazil not less than eighteen lines of steamboats, supplied by the
state, representing a value of 9,000,750 francs a year, without counting 568,000 francs
contributed annually to the United States and Brazil Mail Steamship Company, whose
vessels run every month between Rio and the United States, stopping at several Bra-
zilian ports. As to the railroad lines, we know they have nearly all a security of 7 per
cent.
200 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

as unconstitutional, as too personal a government. Those who pretend —
that the control of a nation should be left exclusively to the ministers —
and parliamentary majorities, rest upon the celebrated maxim: “ The —
constitutional king reigns, but does not govern.” This is not the place to dis-
cuss this important question, but as to the maxim we cannot refrain from
declaring, with Guizot, that it has no solid foundation. IfM. Thiers ut-
tered it, when in the opposition, it is very certain he would not defend it
to-day, since his experience at the head of the French nation. It was the
constitution of England, which in some sort deprives the sovereign of
political action by the existence of a constituent and all powerful parlia-
ment, which led him to make this statement. But even with such a
constitution, the distinction, as made by the Emperor between the attri-

butes of the head of the nation, of its ministers, and of the national parlia- — |

ment, is absolute, as M. Thiershimself proved by his conduct in the con-
stituent assembly of Versailles, during his government of the country
from 1871 to 1873. It is, moreover, very easy to show the nonsense of —
the remark by substituting for the word reign its true significance, as
given by the good Lettré, in his remarkable dictionary: “To reign,” he
says, “is to govern a state under the title of king, queen, emperor, elect-
or, prince, or duke.” Now, is it not nonsense to say the king governs,
but does not govern ?

The maxim, moreover, is not in accordance with the Brazilian
constitution, which confers upon the sovereign not only control over
the political powers governing the nation, but also especial attributes
to be exercised by him exclusively. The accusation therefore that the
Emperor is illegal in his personal government is without foundation.

We have seen that Dom Pedro gives audience to the public twice a
day. On these occasions he exhibits the qualities of a truly liberal soy-
ereign, and shows that he cares as much for the interests of his Brazil-

ian family as for his own. In fact, he receives every one, foreigners or
his own people, with affability and kindness, pressing the hand of |

those he regards especially. If an artist or a savant presents himself,
Dom Pedro does not allow him to depart without some conversation
upon his especial pursuit; if one of his acquaintances, he inquires with
interest for the health of the different members of his family and inter-
changes with him some familiar and pleasant remarks. To claimants —
he has become somewhat reserved in manner on account of the great
number who have imposed upon his kindness, and also because he does —
not wish to encroach upon the attributes of his ministers. Still, he —
listens with patience and attention ; making from time to time an objec- —
tion, or giving counsel; but he does not trouble the ministers with
their pretensions, unless justice, equity, or benevolence require. If a
complaint is made to him either from subaltern officials, who are very ~
apt to suppose injustice has been done when they have not been pro-
moted fast enough to suit their supposed deserts, from a disappointed
oflice-seeker, or from any one whatever, Dom Pedro takes the trouble

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. 201

to inquire into and discuss the cause of his discontent. He endeavors
to reconcile as much as possible the duties his political position impose
upon him with his own inclinations, which always lead him to clemency
and benevolence. Thus every year, on the occasion of certain religious,
national, and dynamic festivals, he pardons the condemned and the
criminals.

Altheugh the penal law of Brazil authorizes the punishment of death,
it was very seldom used in the commencement of his reign, and has
not once been imposed during the last twenty years. What Dom Pedro
has most at heart, is the manner in which justice is administered in his
empire.* Thus one day, when a complainant had the audacity to tell
him that one of his ministers had done him an injustice, he answered
with some asperity, ‘‘ My ministers never do an injustice.” But ina
moment resuming his natural benevolence, he added, “I will examine
into your affair,” and the next day reparation was made, the case being
one of the few not without foundation.

The following incident in the life of Dom Pedro shows how ready he is
to pardon offenses even against himself personally. A young lawyer of
talent, desiring probably to attract the attention of the controlling minds
of the country, wrote a pamphlet against the Emperor and all the house
of Bragance, in language much too violent to be sincere; nevertheless, he
became later successively a deputy, a minister, a councilor of state, a
senator for life, and received a title of nobility. There was a cry of
corruption on account of his advancement from the opponents of the
Emperor, although he had retracted the substance of his pamphlet, and
did not enter into the various offices until long after its publication. The
truth is, he owes the position he to-day occupies to his real talent and
to the magnanimity of his sovereign, who would not place the least
obstacle in the way of his elevation, especially after his retraction, and
since he devoted his talents to the service of his country, instead of
employing them to defame her institutions and her rulers.

As to the liberality of the Brazilian monarch, it is manifested in
various ways: sometimes by general almsgiving, (he causes several
hundreds of centimes to be distributed to the poor every Saturday,)
sometimes by especial donations, either voluntaryt or by request, some-

* The government of the United States rendered homage to this spirit of justice in
Dom Pedro, as well as to his wisdom, in electing him one of the arbitrators in the cele-
brated Alabama question. The monarch was represented at the tribunal of arbitra-
tion which met at Geneva, by the Viscount Itajuba, former professor of law in Brazil,
and at present embassador of the empire at Paris.

tThe following incident, recounted by the person benefited, shows the delicacy
which clothes the acts of generosity of Dom Pedro. During an excursion into the
interior of the country, where the hospitality of patriarchal times still prevails,* the
Emperor was received by the principal resident-citizen of the place, a very respectable
man, with whom he remained several days on account of his health. During his visit

*In some of the rural districts of Brazil, travelers are entertained gratuitously by the landholders,
many of whom always have a large bell rung a quarter of an hour before every meal, in order to invite
passers-by to take a place at their table. :
202 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

times in annual pensions to certain meritorious persons, and frequently
in sums of money given for the education of promising youth, often
large enough to allow them to prosecute their studies in Europe.

It is an edifying proof of his religious feelings and of his Christian
humility, that every year on holy Friday he washes publicly the feet of
the poor in the imperial chapel, and that during the procession of the
Corpus Christi be assists in carrying the dais throughout the ceremony.

The qualities we have noticed are sufficiently indicative of what Dom
Pedro is in private; it is hardly necessary to say that he is an excellent
husband and model father. The Empress, his faithful companion since
1843, is an admirable woman, a providence to the poor and the orphan;
to know her many virtues and not love her is impossible. The heiress
presumptive to the throne, the only child left him, has received a care-
ful education, befitting her rank and the office she will assume in the
empire. Her political instruction, promoted by several European tours,
especially in England, where she seemed to seek in Queen Victoria an
example for future imitation, is the exclusive charge of her august father.
Her first essay in the art of government, four years ago, gave great
satisfaction and promised well for the future. As she is now again in
charge of the empire, Dom Pedro can travel without care, as he knows
the love of the Brazilian people for their future Hones is as great and
as sincere as that for their present Emperor.

CONCLUSION.

When we look back over the reign of Dom Pedro, and compare the
Brazil of 1831, the time of the ascension to the throne by the present
Emperor, when the national wealth was, so to say, insignificant, when
the existence even of society was menaced by anarchy, when there
were almost no means of communication with the interior, with the Bra-
zil of to-day, taking into consideration its commerce and agricultural
prosperity,* its numerous coast and river steamboats, its railroads and
telegraph lines, passing through regions of country then occupied by
virginal forests; its educational institutions cf every degree, and its
powerful means of defense—when we remember that these two periods
are separated only by an interval of forty years, and reflect upon the
immense progress which has been made in this comparatively short
space of time, represented by the words riches, tranquility, respect, ©
happiness—we have cause to be astonished, and to ask if all this is the
work of a single man.
knew not how to obtain the means to meet a large debt soon requiring payment.
Dom Pedro, having assured himself secretly that he had been correctly informed, said
to his host when the moment came to take leave of him, ‘‘ You have forgotten to put
away an important paper I have seen in the drawer of the bureau of the room I
have occupied.” It was the receipt of the creditor of his host.

*In 1831 the revenue of Brazil was hardly forty millions of francs; now it is over ten
hundred millions,

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II. ZU03

It is trns these great things have not been accomplished exclusively
by the present Emperor of Brazil; but, as permanent head of the gov-
ernment, the credit of them for the most part, of right, belongs to him.
It is at his instigation that important measures of the administration
have been undertaken ; it ishe who has the right to approve or reject the
projects of reform; he, in short, who has selected the men who have
aided him in the realization of his philosophical ideal of prosperity for
his people. The Brazilians render him full justice, and thank him for the
position their country occupies among civilized nations.

Almost as large as Europe, and by nature the richest country in the
world, Brazilis, in fact, the most prosperous and the most powerful state
of South America, and stands next to the United States in the whole of
the western hemisphere. ‘Should her moral and intellectual endow-
ments,” said the eminent naturalist Agassiz, “‘ grow into harmony with
her wonderfui natural beauty and wealth, the world will not have seen
@ fairer land.” *

We do not for an instant doubt the condition of this prophecy will

_ be fulfilled, particularly if the future governors of the empire take as
model the wise administration of Dom Pedro.

It is a custom of biographers to compare the persons they describe
with others of the same rank who have points in common, but we find
no monarch now upon the throne, although several have reigned
at various historical epochs, with whom we can compare the Emperor ot
Brazil.

If we go back to antiquity he may be placed side by side with the
best of the Roman Emperors. Like Vespasian, he established order in
an empire disorganized by factions and the machinations of ambitious
men, and gave an impulse to the arts and sciences. In this respect he
also resembles Augustus, but unlike him had no supporters such as
Meceenas and Agrippa. His noble qualities of heart give him the right
to say with Titus, ‘‘ The day passed without an opportunity for a good
deed is a day lost.” He is not a warrior like Trajan, but when his
country was invaded he went in person to meet the enemy, and forced
him to capitulate, and if the Roman emperor refused to allow a column
to be erected to record his victories, the Brazilian Emperor declined the
statue his people wished to raise in his honor after the war of Paraguay.
As tc the rest, they were equal in love of justice and respect for the
laws.

Dom Pedro appreciated as did Hadrien the inestimable benefit of
peace to human prosperity. The virtues and the modesty of Antony
the Pious were not greater than those of the Brazilian monarch; and
by his clemency toward others and his severe judgment of himself, he
deserves to be placed by the side of Marcus Aurelius, the philosopher.

In the middle ages we can think of no sovereign who can justly be

“compared with Dom Pedro in regard to the organization and adminis-

* Work already cited. —
204 BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DOM PEDRO II.

tration of government, in interest for the education of youth, in sim-
plicity of manner and personal activity, except Charlemagne, who,
while governing with his own eye the empire extending from the Ebre
to the Baltic, superintended the planting of the fruit-trees on bis farms
and the number of eggs to be sold, while he devoted his evenings to
study.

Finally, in modern times we can mention as his equal only Peter the
Great, who had also to recreate his kingdom under every species of
opposition.

But these comparisons with sovereigns who reigned before the rights
of men were acknowledged, and who knew no other law than their own
will, with the head of a modern nation accustomed to govern itself and
recognizing no power greater than its own, are necessarily defective and .
incomplete, although they serve to place in stronger light the personal
and social virtues of the monarch. We should rather seek among con-
stitutional rulers the equal of Dom Pedro in humanity and patriotism,
as well as in his comprehension and application of parliamentary
regime. On this ground there can be no hesitation in selecting the
sovereign who was the preceptor of the present Emperor of Brazil in
the difficult art of governing a free people. .We speak of Leopold I, of
Belgium, whom history has already surnamed the model constitutional
king. in our opinion the pupil has quite equalled the master; posterity
will be the dndiee

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

By WiLuiAm B. Taytor, of Washington.

“Non fingendum, aut excogitandum, sed inveniendum quid Natura faciat aut ferat.”—BaAcon.

“Causas rerum naturalinm non plures admitti debere, quam que et vere sint, et earam phzenome-
nis explicandis suficiant.”"—NEWTON.

Ever since the grand demonstration by Newton in 1682, that the moon
is a falling body, observing precisely the same law of decline from a
rectilinear path as the cannon-ball, and that it is therefore under the
dominion of the same force, an eager and unceasing desire has been
manifested to discover an antecedent or origin of this universal tendency
of matter. é

Even before this date, or in 1671, the ingenious Dr. Robert Hooke
had endeavored to trace the cause of gravitative fall to the external ac-
tion of waves in a surrounding medium. He appears to have been led
to this reflection by observing that small bodies floating on the surface
of agitated water collected toward the center of disturbance or the ori-
gin of the waves.*

Newton himself, as is well known, speculated on this subject, and
some years before arriving at his great generalization, he threw out a
suggestion as to the cause of terrestrial gravity in a letter to Mr. Boyle.
As connected with this speculation, it may be well to recur to Newton’s
still earlier statement of his conceptions in regard to the nature and
action of the «ther. In a letter to Mr. Henry Oldenburg, secretary of
the Royal Society of London, in January, 1675-6, he thus unfolds the
hypothesis:

“Tirst, it is to be sapposed therein that there is an etherial medium,
much of the same constitution with air, but far rarer, subtiler, and more
Strongly elastic. But it is not to be supposed that this medium is of
one uniform matter, but composed partly of the main phlegmatic body
of the ether, partly of other various setherial spirits, much after the
manner that air is compounded of the phlegmatic body of air intermixed
with various vapors and exhalations; for the electric and magnetic
effluvia and the gravitating principle seem to argue such variety. Per-
haps the whole frame of nature may be nothing but various contextures
of some certain «therial spirits or vapors, condensed as it were by pre-

* Posthumous Works of Robert Hooke, edited by Richard Waller. London, 1705, pp.
xiv, and 184.

205
206 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

cipitation, much after the manner that vapors are condensed into water.
Thus perhaps may all things be originated from wether. . . ”

‘(In the second place, it is to be supposed that the «ther is a vibrat-
ing medium like air, only the vibrations far more swift and minute;
those of air made by a man’s ordinary voice succeeding one another at
more than half a foot or a foot distance, but those of «ether at a less
distance than the hundred-thousandth of an inch. And as in air the
vibrations are some larger than others, but yet all equally swift, (for in
a ring of bells the sound of every tone is heard at two or three miles
distance in the same order that the bells are struck,) so I suppose the
wtherial vibrations differ in bigness but not in swiftness.” *

Newton had in 1672 controverted the supposed opposition of his views
to the action of the «ther by answering: ‘The objector’s hypothesis
as to the fundamental part of it is not against me. That fundamental
supposition is, ‘That the parts of bodies when briskly agitated do excite
vibrations in the ether, which are propagated every way from those
bodies in straight lines, and cause a sensation of light by beating and
dashing against the bottom of the eye; something after the manner
that vibrations of the air cause a sensation of sound by beating against
the organ of hearing.’ Now the most free and natural application of
this hypothesis to the solution of phenomena I take to be this: That
the agitated parts of bodies, according to their several sizes, figures,
and motions, do excite vibrations in the ether of various depths or
bignesses, which being promiscuously propagated through that medium
to our eyes, effect in us a sensation of light of a white color; but if by
any means those of unequal bigness be separated from one another, the
largest beget a sensation of a red color, the least or shortest of a deep
violet, and the intermediate ones of intermediate colors, much after the
manner that bodies, according to their several sizes, Shapes, and motions,
excite vibrations in the air of various bignesses, which according to
those bignesses make several tones in sound; that the largest vibra-
tions are best able to overcome the resistance of a refracting superficies,
and so break through it with the least refraction ; whence the vibrations
of several bignesses, that is the rays of several colors which are blended
together in light, must be parted from one another by refraction, and so
cause the phenomena of prisms and other refracting substances; and
that it depends on the thickness of a thin transparent plate or bubble
whether a vibration shall be reflected at its further superficies or trans-
mitted; so that, according to the number of vibrations interceding the
two superficies, they may be reflected or transmitted for many succes-
sive thicknesses. And since the vibrations which make blue and violet
are Supposed shorter than those which make red and yellow, they
must be reflected at a less thickness of the plate, which is sufficient to
explicate all the ordinary phenomena of those plates or bubbles, and

“History of the Royal Society of London, by Thomas Birch, 1757, 4 vols. quarto,
vol. iii, pp. 249-251.

)

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 207

also of all natural bodies, whose parts are like so many fragments of
such plates. These seem to be most plain, genuine, and necessary con-
ditions of this hypothesis. And they agree so justly with my theory,
that if the animadversor think fit to apply them, he need not on that
account apprehend a divorce from it.”*

This passage is interesting as being the earliest presentation of a
theory of color, now universally adopted. The same views were re-
peated as a suggestion, some forty-five years later, in the second edition
of his treatise on ‘ Optics.”t

In his ‘“‘ Letter to the Hon. Mr. Boyle,” dated February 28, 1678-9,
(about six years later,) Newton, after proposing as an explanation of the
phenomena of cohesion, chemical affinity, &c., the ‘ supposition” that
an exceedingly elastic subtile «therial substance is diffused through all
places and bodies, but much rarer within and near gross bodies than
beyond them, adds toward the conclusion of his letter: “I shall set
down one conjecture more, which came into my mind now as I was
writing this letter: it is about the cause of gravity. For this end I
will suppose ether to consist of parts differing from one another in sub-
tilty by indefinite degrees, . . . in such a manner that from the
top of the air to the surface of the earth, and again from the surface of
the earth to the center thereof, the «ther is insensibly finer and finer.
Imagine now any body suspended in the air or lying on the earth, and
the «ther being by the hypothesis grosser in the pores which are in the
upper parts of the body than in those which are in the lower parts,
and that grosser ther being less apt to be lodged in those pores than
the finer ether below, it will endeavor to get out, and give way to the
finer ether below, which cannot be without the bodies descending to
make room above for it to go into. From this supposed gradual sub-
tilty of the parts of the zther, some things above might be further illus-
trated and made more intelligible. . . . For my own part, I have
so little fancy to things of this nature, that had not your encourage-
ment moved me to it, I should never I think have thus far set pen to
paper about them.”¢ It will be seen from the above that Newton had
not at this time (only three years before the crowning epoch of his life)
extended his conception of “ gravity” to the outlying universe.

Fourteen years later—a decade after his culminating work—this topic
was again incidentally touched upon by Newton in four letters ad-
dressed to Doctor Bentley, ‘containing some arguments in proof of a
Deity.” In his second letter, dated January 17, 1692-3, he says in re-
ply to one from Bentley: ‘“‘ You sometimes speak of gravity as essential
and inherent to matter. Pray do not ascribe that notion to me, for the

* Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society ; November 18, 1672. No. 88, vol.
vii, p. 5088.
+t Newton’s Optics. Second edition, 1777. Book iii, appendix. Query 13.
-{The Works of Isaac Newton, edited by Samuel Horsley: In 5 vols., quarto. Vol. iv,
pp. 385-394.
208 KINETIC THEORIES: OF GRAVITATION.

cause of gravity is what I do not pretend to know, and therefore would
take more time to consider of it.”*

In his third letter, dated February 25, 1692-3, he expresses himself
somewhat less guardedly thus: ‘It is inconceivable that inanimate
brute matter should, without the mediation of something else which is
not material, operate upon and affect other matter, without mutual con-
tact, as it must do if gravitation in the sense of Epicurus be essential
and inherent in it. And this is one reason why I desired you would not
ascribe ‘innate gravity’ tome. That gravity should be innate, inher-
ent, and essential to matter, so that one body may act upon another at
a distance, through a vacuum, without the mediation of anything else,
by and through which their action and force may be conveyed from one
to another, is to me so great an absurdity, that I believe no man who
has in philosophical matters a competent faculty of thinking can ever
fall into it. Gravity must be caused by an agent acting constantly ac-
cording to certain laws; but whether this agent be material or imma-
terial, I have left to the consideration of my readers.” +

At the conclusion of the third book of his Principia, Newton remarks:
‘‘ Hitherto I have not been able to discover the cause of those properties
of gravity from phenomena, and I frame no hypothesis ; for whatever is
not deduced from the phenomona is to be called an hypothesis.

To us it is enough that gravity does really exist, and act.according to —

the laws which we have explained.”

Still twenty-five years later than the date of these oft-quoted Bentley —

letters, Newton again recurred to the subject in an appendix to the
second edition of his “ Optics,” published in 1717. After suggesting
that the chromatic dispersion of luminous rays by refraction might be
due to varying wave-lengths of an all-pervading ‘“ ztherial medium,”
(as previously referred to,) he asks: ‘“ Is not this medium much rarer
within the dense bodies of the sun, stars, planets, and comets, than in
the empty celestial spaces between them? And in passing from them

to greater distances, dcth it not grow denser and denser perpetually, —

. and thereby cause the gravity of those great bodies toward one another,
and of their parts toward bodies; every body endeavoring to go from
the denser parts of the medium toward the rarer? . . . And though
this increase of censity may at great distances be exceeding slow, yet
if the elastic force of this medium be exceeding great, it may suffice to
impel bodies from the denser parts of the medium toward the rarer,
with all that power which we call gravity.” t

The intellectual spirit of the age in which “ gravitation” was estab-
lished was one of strong reaction from the previous metaphysical sway
of “occult qualities;” and that the above crude suggestion (perhaps
offered too much in deference to that spirit) by no means satisfied the
judgment of Newton, is shown by his subsequent inclination to dispense

“Works, edited by Horsley, vol. iv, p. 437.
t Works, ut supr., vol. iv, p. 438.
{ Optics, book iii, appendix. Query 21.
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 209

altogether with a medium which apparently must tend to retard the
planetary movements, and which he thought insufficient to account for
the ordinary behavior of the Juminous ray. He concludes that as “there
is no evidence for its existence, therefore it ought to be rejected. And
if it be rejected, the hypotheses that light consists in pression, or motion,
propagated through such a medium, are rejected with it.”"* This appears
to have been the turning-point in the suspended balance of his judgment,
determining his choice between the alternative conceptions of emission
and of undulation.

Afterward, as if driven back from every assault to the only retreat,
which in earlier years he had stigmatized as “so great an absurdity”
that no competent thinker could “ever fall into it,” he despairingly
asks: ‘* Have not the small particles of bodies certain powers, virtues,
or forces, by which they act at a distance? . . . . What I eall
‘attraction’ may be performed by impulse, or by some otber means un-
known to me. I use that word here to signify only in general any force
by which bodies tend toward one another, whatsoever be the cause.” tf
And beyond this point, no human research has since been able to pene-
trate.

This last and presumably deliberate judgment of Newton is a quarter
of a century later than the inconsiderate utterances of his third ‘ Bent-
ley letter,” which have been so eagerly seized upon by every speculative
writer intent on propounding new theories of the universe.

The thoughtful philosopher Doctor Young, about a century later,
commenting on Newton’s suggestion of an stherial medium—rarer

toward and within dense bodies,—with great ingenuity remarks: ‘‘The

effects of gravitation might be produced by a medium thus constituted,

if its particles were repelled by all material substances with a force

decreasing like other repulsive forces, simply as the distances increase.
Its density would then be everywhere such as to produce the appear-
ance of an attraction varying like that of gravitation. Such an etheriai
medium would therefore have the advantage of simplicity in the origi-
nal law of its action, since the repulsive force which is known to belong
to all matter would be sufficient, when thus modified, to account for the
principal phenomena of attraction.

“It may be questioned whether a medium capable of producing the
effects of gravitation in this manner would also be equally susceptible of
those modifications which we have supposed to be necessary for the
transmission of light. In either case it must be supposed to pass
through the apparent substance of all material bodies with the most
perfect freedom, and there would therefore be no occasion to apprehend
any difficulty from a retardation of the celestial motions, the ultimate
impenetrable particles of matter being perhaps scattered as thinly
through its external form as the stars are scattered in a nebula, which
has still the distant appearance of a uniform light and of a continuous

=

*Loco citat. Query 28. t..oco citat. Query 31.
s 14
210 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

surface; and there seems no reason to doubt the possibility of the propa-
gation of an undulation through the Newtonian medium with the actual
velocity of light. It must be remembered that the difference of its
pressure is not to be estimated from the actual bulk of the earth or any
planet alone, but from the effect of the sphere of repulsion of which
that planet is the center; and we may then deduce the force of gravi-
tation from a medium of no very enormous elasticity.

‘We shall hereafter find that a similar combination of a simple press-
ure with a variable repulsion is also observable in the force of cohesion ;
and supposing two particles of matter (floating in such an elastic me-
dium capable of producing gravitation) to approach each other, their
mutual attraction would at once be changed from gravitation to cohe-
sion upon the exclusion of the portion of the medium intervening be-
tween them. This supposition is however, directly opposite to that
which assigns to the elastic medium the power of passing freely through
all the interstices of the ultimate atoms of matter, since it could never
pass between two atoms cohering in this manner. We cannot therefore
at present attempt to assert the identity of the forces of gravitation and
cohesion so strongly as this theory would allow us to do if it could be
established.” *

In his succeeding lecture “ On Cohesion,” Dr. Young adds at its con-
clusion: ‘* With respect to the ultimate agent by which the effects of
cohesion are produced, if it is allowable to seek for any other agent than
a fundamental property of matter, it has already been observed that
appearances extremely similar might be derived from the pressure of a
universal medium of great elasticity ; and we see some effects so nearly
resembling them, which are unquestionably produced by the pressure
of the atmosphere, that one can scarcely avoid suspecting that there
must be some analogy in the causes. Two plates of metal which cohere
enough to support each other in the open air will often separate in a
vacuum. . . . . But all suppositions founded on these analogies
must be considered as merely conjectural ; and our knowledge of every

i
{
i

ee ee a ae TS

ee eS oe

29ers

thing which relates to the intimate constitution of matter, partly from™
the intricacy of the subject, and partly for want of sufficient experi-
ments, is at present in a state of great uncertainty and imperfection.” + —

Very curiously, this ingenious scheme of universal repulsion leaves no |
room for that self-repulsion of matter exhibited in the phenomena of —

elasticity. That Young did not regard these speculations as reposing
on a very firm basis is shown by his memoir “On the Theory of Light
and Colors,” in which the fourth ‘hypothesis ” assumes the ether to be
denser within transparent bodies, and for a small distance around them,
than in the spaces beyond such bodies. ¢

“Lectures on Natural Philosophy. 1807, 2 vols. quarto. Lect. xlix, vol. i, pp. 616,
617.

t Loco citat. Lecture 50, p. 630.

+ Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, 1802, vol. xcii, p. 21, and Young’s
Lectures on Natural Philosophy, vol. ii, p. 618.
sion for these propositions considered collectively is

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. i tal
CONDITIONS OF THE PROBLEM.

It is well to bearin mind that every hypothesis directed to the expli-
eation of gravity, is required in limine to give a satisfactory account of
the following six characteristics of this mysterious influence :

ist. Its direction is radial toward the acting mass, or rectilinear—in-
definitely. This rectilinear traction is incapable of deflection by any
intermediate force. It suffers neither disturbance nor interference from
any multiplication of similar lines of action, and admits neither of re-
flection, refraction, nor of composition.

2d. Its quantity is exactly proportional to the acting mass—indefi-
nitely. Cvorollary: hence,

2d b. Its integrity of action is complete with every accumulation of
additional demand—indefinitely ; that is to say, no multiplication of
duty in the slightest degree impairs its previous tensions.

3d. Its intensity is diminished by recession, in proportion to the square
of the distance through which it acts—indefinitely ; in a manner some-
what analogous to—but (as modified by the seeond condition) radically
different from—the action of light.

4th. Its time of action is instantaneous throughout all ascertained dis-
tances, and therefore presumably—indetinitely. Corollary: hence,

4th b. Its rate of action (if the expression may be tolerated) is precisely
the same on bodies at all velocities—indefinitely. It no more lags on a
comet approaching the sun at the inconceivable speed of two hundred
miles in one second than on a body at the lowest rate of motion, or than

on the same comet receding from the sun at the same velocity.

5th. Its quality is invariable under all circumstances—indefinitely.
It is entirely unaffected by the interposition of any material screen,
whatever its character or extent; or in other words, it can neither be
checked by any insulator nor retarded by any obstruction.

6th. Its energy is unchangeable in time, certainly for the past two
thousand years; presumably—indefinitely. Corollary: hence, ;

6th b. Its activity is incessant and inexhaustible—indefinitely ; the
ceaseless fall of planets from their tangential impulses involving no
dynamic expenditure in the sun or in other known matter.

It is scarcely necessary to add, as the necessary outcome of the latter
propositions, that gravitation is a property immutable and inconvertible.
As in the 1st proposition, two terminal elements (m’ and m’’) are neces-
sarily assumed for determining the direction and measure of the radial
straight line of action; and as in the 2d proposition, ‘ the acting mass”
(m) is the product of these two elements, (m’.m’’,)—the action being
reciprocal; so in the 3d proposition, the measure of the diminution of
intensity (d’) has reference to the same two elements, between whose

dynamic centers the value of the distance d is taken. And the expres-
mm"!
a

of the combined quantity and intensity of the traction between the two
given elements. If we regard m” as incomparably smaller than m’, (as

as the measure

212 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

for example, a one-pound spherical iron shot thrown to a distance from
our terrestrial globe,) its mass may be entirely neglected as a vanishing
quantity, and we have the simpler expression = as indicating the amount —
of action exercised by our earth upon such a ball,

No hypothesis failing to embrace each of these six requirements de-
serves consideration ; and any hypothesis fully covering them all, might
be expected to account equally for the quite incomparable actions of
elasticity, magnetism, affinity, and cohesion, before being entitled to
acceptance as a just or comprehensive theory of molecular force.

As the projectors of kinetic systems of gravitation have almost invaria-
bly quite ignored the fourth of the above conditions, it is worth while
here to dwell somewhat upon this point. Swift as the earth’s orbital
motion is, (upward of 18 miles in one second,) the velocity of light is —
about ten thousand times greater, being 185,000 miles per second. And
yet the composition of these two velocities gives a displacement or
“aberration” of the heavenly bodies, as seen from our earth, of about —
20” of angle for the observed direction of the visual ray. A luminous —
impulse emanating from the sun requires about 84 minutes to reach the —
earth. Were the gravitative influence supposed to be so much swifter
than light as to require but a single minute to pass through this dis-
tance, there would still be a corresponding gravity ‘ aberration” of 2.4/7
of angle. The effect of this slight obliquity of traction would be an
acceleration of the earth’s orbital velocity which would become measur-
able in a single year.

This is a subject which has been very fully and carefully investigated
by astronomers; and the illustrious Laplace, when he found an unex-
plained minute acceleration in the moon’s orbit, threw out the sugges-—
tion that if the velocity of transmission of gravitation did not exceed —
eight million times that of light, it would satisfactorily explain the-
junar anomaly. It is scarcely necessary to say that when he subse-
quently discovered the secular diminution of eccentricity in the earth’s—
orbit, at present continuing, (though slowly reaching its minimum,*) he-
recognized the true cause of the moon’s irregularity, which no longer —
permitted even the unimaginable limit of possible velocity he had pro-
visionally assigned for gravitative action. =

Arago has remarked : ‘‘ Now if we apply to the perturbation the maxi-
mum value which the observations allow, when they have been corrected
for the known acceleration due to the variation of the eccentricity of
the terrestrial orbit, we find the velocity of the attractive force to-
amount to fifty millions of times the velocity of light.” t .

* The minimum eccentricity will be reached in about one “ precession” pericd, or
25,000 years hence.

i Popular Astronomy, book xxiii, chap. 27, vol. ii, p, 469 of the English edition. To
represent the real meaning of this velocity, it may be put into the equivalent form,
that if gravity occupied the one hundred-thousandth of a second in passing from the ry
sun to the earth, it would be detected. Or, the time required to reach us from the
nearest star (distant in light-travel about three years) would not exceed two seconds. gi

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 213

If it is possible to represent in such terms the lowest assignable limit of
transition, it is because we are furnished with a test of planetary move-
ment of most marvelous delicacy in the record of eclipses occurring at
a particular locality 2,000 years ago ;—fixing the relation of annua revo-
lution to diurnal rotation with an almost absolute precision. Sir John
Herschel remarks: ‘From such comparisons Laplace bas concluded
that the sidereal day has not changed by so much as one-hundredth of a
second since the time of Hipparchus!”* This implies the absence of
even an infinitesimal ‘‘aberration” of the gravity radiant, or the negation
of any assignable interval for its full and complete action. Hence the
fourth category above stated. )

The same consideration serves to show that the energy of gravity has
undergone no abatement or change during the lapse of two thousand
years. Hence the sixth category.

It is but just however, to notice here that a minute outstanding
anomaly of the moon, detected in recent years, and still unexplained,
detracts somewhat from the accuracy of the above infinitesimal measure ;
though it does not impair the value of the general argument. IJivery
‘investigation, every calculation, of the astronomer, assumes the action
of gravity to be for all distances,—absolutely instantaneous.

VILLEMOT. 1707.

Philippe Villemot, a French doctor of theology, and a distinguished
mathematician, published at Lyons in 1707 an astronomical treatise,
entitled Nouveau Systéme, ou Nouvelle Explication du Mouvement des
Planétes, in which, referring the movements of the planets to Cartesian
vortices, he announced the theory that their gravitation is occasioued
by a difference of pressure, on their outer and inner faces, of tbe fiuid
constituting the solar vortex, owing to an increase of its density ont-
ward from the sun. The general conception is obviously somewhat
similar to the speculation cursorily hazarded by Newton in 1679, and
- again recurred to by him (though only transiently) in 1717, or ten years
later than the above publication by Villemot.

The details of this system cannot here be given, from want of access
tohis work. The Nouveau Systéme, however, appears to have been very
favorably received by the author’s contemporaries.

BERNOUILLI. 1734.

It is now nearly a century and a half since the elder John Bernouilli,

of Switzerland, the illustrious mathematician, (professor at the univer-
Sities of Gréningen and afterward of Basel,) imagined a method of ac-
counting for the action of gravitation by centripetal impacts from with-
out. Still retaining his early prepossessions in favor of the philosophy
of Descartes, he devised a very curious combination of ztherial vortices
and Newtonian emissions. This eclectic hypotbesis was promulgated

* Outlines of Astronomy, chap. xviii, sec. 908.
214 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

in a competitive memoir on the cause of ‘The Mutual Inclination of
the Planetary Orbits,” which obtained the prize of the French Academy |
of Sciences in 1734. This treatise is divided into four parts, the first

three of which are occupied with his exposition of the cause of gravita- |
tion, and the fourth with the main question proposed.* .

Referring to the respective systems of Descartes and Newton, Bernou- —
illi finds in each ‘insurmountable difficulties,” hence “ a just mean be- 7
tween the two appears the safer course. . . . The gravitation of
the planets toward the center of the sun, and the weight of bodies —
toward the center of the earth, are not caused either by the attraction |
of Newton, or by the rotary force of the vortex medium of Descartes, —
but by the immediate impulsion of a substance which under the form —
of what I call a ‘ central torrent,’ is continually thrown from the whole —
circumference of the vortex to its center, and consequently impresses on
all bodies encountered by it iu its path the same tendency toward the —
center of the vortex. . .  . And all that Newton has derived from
his ‘ attractions’ are by my theory, derived from the impulsions of the —
central torrent.” + |

‘“« According to my system, two kinds of matter are conceived as occupy-
ing planetary space, and also two principal movements in the celestial vor-
tex. One of these materials I conceive as perfectly fluid, or I would say,
actually divisible without limit; that is, it is not composed of elementary
corpuscles, as ordinary fluids are conceived, which according the num-
ber and size of their constituent particles, present more or less sensible
resistance to bodies moving in them, but being perfectly uniform and
without structure, is also without resistance.” This matter is called the
primal element; which was employed by the Creator in forming the cor-
puscles of sensible matter, definite small portions being compacted
together into the coherent molecules of matter of the second element.

‘* Matter of the primal element, being perfectly fluid without coher-
ence, presents no resistance to bodies moving within it; forthe resistance —
of fluids comes only from the inertia of the molecules of which they are —
composed.”{ This primal element, being without constituent parts and
without inertia, is as the author states, the same in effect as a perfect
vacuum.

‘The celestial vortex is composed in great part of the primal element, |
in which is mingled however, a considerable portion of the second ele- |
ment.” According to Bernouilli’s view, “ the rotation of this vortex is not — |

so rapid as to carry the planets around the sun, as Descartes assumed.”
In fact, its rotary velocity is in a subsequent portion of the memoir’
stated to be so low as to amount to only about one two hundred and
thirtieth of the orbital velocity of the planets, an approximation to the

* Published in the Piéces de Prix de V Académie de Paris, tom. v, and included in his
collected works under the title Essai d’une Nouvelle Physique Céleste. |

t Johannis Bernoulli, Opera Omnia, 4 vols. 4to. Lausanne and Geneva, 1742; vol. iii,
Sec. viii, pp. 270, 271.

+ Loco citat., sections x and xvi, pp. 273, 276.
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 215

Keplerian third law being however maintained. Thus the vortex sur-
vived its primary purpose and function. The small centrifugal motion
of the matter of the second element contained in the celestial vortex is
sufficient to make it denser at the outer than at the inner portion, though
leaving it still too rare to sensibly affect the motions of the outer
planets.*

The primal element collected and condensed at the center of each vor-
tex forms astar or sun, though neither the cause nor the manner of such
condensation is very clearly unfolded. This central mass agitated with
intestine motions of extreme violence in all directions, as in a boiling
caldron, produces an intense light and heat, while detached particles at
the surface, continually more and more broken up by the frequency and
impetuosity of their collisions, acquire a subtilty transcending all con-
ception of the imagination, and are finally thrown off in all directions
with explosive force to immense distances, and with the velocity known
as that of radiant light. These infinitely small particles, forming the
luminous “ effluvias” incessantly springing from the sun in radial lines,
pass without obstruction through the pores or interstices of the grosser
matter forming the planets, though losing at their surface their luminif-
erous property.

Beyond the orbit of Saturn they encounter more and more of a similar
material collected at the outer confines of the vortex; and, while a large
number pass into adjacent vortices and continue their course unimpeded,
a large number suffer collision by direct impacts from the similar radia-
tions from these vortices. Being inelastic they are mutually arrested,
and form molecules of various size, according to the number of such col-
lisions suffered, until impelled by the resultant of these impacts, they
either pass into adjoining vortices or back into their own in the form of
material molecules of the second element, with correspondingly reduced
velocities. } .

‘““In this manner we conceive there must continually descend from the
heavens a copious and impetuous rain of pellets, driven inward by the
shocks of molecules from surrounding vortices.” This converging or cen-
tripetal shower of pellets, called the ‘central torrent,” perpetually de-
luging the sun, forms the compensation and nourishment for its cease-
less waste, as the evaporated water condensing into rain-drops replen-
ishes the constant waste of thesea. These minute balls, having only the
amount and direction of motion imparted to them at.the boundaries of
the vortex, are yet supposed to fall with mathematical precision toward
the center of the sun without ever touching each other as they approach.
Notwithstanding the efforts expended by the author in attempting to
establish this necessity, this centripetal directness undoubtedly remains
physically the weak point of his hypothesis.

As the inter-vortical molecules acquire different magnitudes before

* Loco ciiat., sections xviii, Xix, pp. 278, 279.
t Loco citat., sec. XXvViil-xxxVl.
216 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

being finaliy driven toward the center of any system, they will also have
differing rates of descent, ‘‘their velocities being inversely as their

masses, so that if one should become a thousand times larger and slower —
than the impelling particle of light, it would still have a velocity equal
to the diameter of the earth in one minute;” and the average speed
would be much greater than this, though always much less than the
velocity of light. ‘‘ The central torrent with such a velocity would ex-
pend its force on any body which it encountered ; and this is precisely —
the gravitation of the planets toward the sun.” And as the various
sizes of the minute balls would permit them to penetrate the pores of
eross matter to varying depths before being arrested, their impulses
would be distributed through the mass instead of being entirely expended
on the surface.*

The particles of light radiated by very distant stars, having to run the
cauntlet of all the intermediate stellar vortices, might be supposed to
be very much obstructed and reduced in number, if not in some cases
entirely suppressed.

Each planet and satellite has its subordinate vortex, in which the
same play of impalpable effluvia and returning torrent is carried on;
and although this is treated as a very obvious corollary of the system,
it is one somewhat difficult to fully formulate or realize. Whether two
independent masses of lead or iron also attract each other impulsively
by virtue of their own special vortices, with atomized radiations and
resulting central torrents, is not so definitely made out.

Such then is the primum mobile of the planetary gravitations; and
with an admirable complacency, Bernouilli contrasts the system of
Newton with his own, in which the elementary particles of matter, having
no pores, receive the gravitative impulse necessarily on their surfaces.
** Now if it were the essential nature of bodies to ‘attract’ each other,
it is evident that elementary particles would gravitate in proportion to.
their solidity, and not in the ratio of their surface,andthat . .. .
consequently their attraction should diminish in the ratio of the cubes
of the distance, instead of as the squares. . . . What then becomes
of the system of M. Newton, when its very foundation is tumbled into
ruins? I am surprised that not one of the partisans of this hypothesis
has perceived this ivcongruity, in attributing attraction as an essential
quality, not only to large masses, but even to the elementary particles
destitute of pores!” +

It is scarcely necessary to criticise this wonderful system of “Celestial
Physics.” The condensation of the impalpable atoms of caloric, without
adhesions and without attractions, (and seemingly without inertia,) into
the dynamic gravific molecules of the “central torrent,” is a phenomenon
certainly as recondite as the gravitation these molecules are summoned
to impel. It is sufficient to say that the Nouvelle Physique satisfies no
single condition of the six formerly indicated as essential pre-requisites.

* Loco citat., sec. Xxxvii-xl. t Loco citat., sec. xlii, p. 299.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. SLT

It may be added, that in the fourth book of this labored treatise, the
inclination of the ecliptic plane to that of the solar equator and vortex,
‘is supposed to be due to a deviation or drift resulting from the oblong
or prolate form of the revolving spheroidal earth.”*

That such an essay should have been crowned by the Academy (the
prize however being shared between John Bernouilli and his son Daniel
as an independent competitor) appears in our day, notwithstanding the
mathematical pre-eminence of its author, a somewhat unfavorable illus-
tration of the scientific character of the age. Bernouilli has however
left us the statement of an elementary truth, which may appropriately
close this notice: ‘‘In physics we should banish the practice of explain-
ing phenomena by chimerical principles more obscure than those pre-
sented for investigation.” t

LESAGE. 1750.

Some fifteen years later, another bold scheme of universal impact or
pressure, designed to explain and supersede “ attraction,” was conceived
by Georges-Louis Lesage, a French-Swiss physicist and mathematician.
By means of an infinite number of “ ultramundane corpuscles” of trans-
cendent minuteness and velocity, traversing space in straight lines in
all directions, atoms and masses of matter are impelled together differ-
entially in the lines of their reciprocal mechanical shadows, or in the
direction in which the rectilinear impulses of the ‘“‘ corpuscles” are un-
counteracted by opposing ones, from the intervention of other atoms or
masses.

To quote Arago’s exposition of the theory, “A single body placed in
the midst of such an ocean of moving corpuscles would remain at rest,
since it would be equally impelled in every direction. On the other
hand, two bodies ought to advance toward each other, since they would
form a mutual screen, as their opposed surfaces would no longer be hit
in the direction of the line joining them by the ultramundane corpus-
cles, and there would then exist currents, the effect of which would no
longer be neutralized by opposite currents. Moreover, it will be readily
seen that two bodies plunged into such ‘ gravitation fluid’ would tend
to approach each other with a force varying inversely as the square of
the distance.” ¢

Although this scheme presents merely the exchange of one incompre-
hensible agent for another, it is perhaps one of the most ingenious
attempts ever made to substitute the conception of primeval motion
for that of static tension.

Lesage was only twenty-three years old, when in 1747 he first devised

*The measurements of a meridional are of the earth by James Casini, not long pre-
' viously, had brought out the curious result that the polar axis of the earth is its long-
. est diameter.—Traité de la Grandeur et dela Figure de la Terre. Paris, 1720.

t Opera : loco citat., sec. Xxxii, p. 288.

¢ Popular Astronomy, book xxiii, chap. 27, vol. ii, p. 468.

218 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

his system of nature; and it is related in his biography that in the

enthusiasm of his supposed discovery of so august a secret, he cried out,

in the words of the Syracusian Sage, ‘‘ewreka! eureka!” and though
late at night, he immediately wrote to his father, under date of January

15, 1747, ‘* Evpyxa! evpyza! Never have I felt such satisfaction as at

this moment, in which I have just succeeded in explaining completely,
by the simple laws of rectilinear movement, the principle of universal
gravitation!”

His first production (written in unsuccessful competition for a prize
of the Academy) was an Lssai sur Vorigine des forces mortes, in 1749.
This memoir was principally occupied with his mechanical basis of grav-
itation. Lesage wrote much, and published little. A memoir by him
entitled Hssai de Chimie Mécanique, which explained the phenomena of
elective affinities by currents of ultramundane corpuscles of unequal
size, was crowned by the Academy of Rouen in 1758. Another essay
by him entitled Zoi qui comprend toutes les Attractions et Répulsions, was
published in the Journal des Savants, for April, 1764. Highteen years
later, he wrote a dissertation entitled Lucréce Neutonien, more fully
developing his system, and comprising a response to the objections
which had been urged against it. This treatise was published in the
Mémoires de l’ Académie de Berlin, for 1782. He also left a Traité des
Corpuscles ultramondaines, alluded to with high praise by Prevost in his
account of Lesage’s life and works, but which appears never to have
been published.

For more than fifty years did Lesage, with unwavering faith, proclaim

his doctrine of what he called the “ gravific fluid,” and urge upon his
contemporaries its adoption; but without success. Thescheme has been
rejected by intelligent physicists and astronomers as valueless in deal-
ing with the complex facts of nature.

Of the six requirements heretofore specified, it will be found to satisfy
but two,—the first and the third. So far from fulfilling for example
the second condition, (the ratio of mass,) on which Lesage himself most
confidently expatiated, it can apparently give no true account of the
behavior of a series of atoms placed in a line between two outer ones.
The author supposed that he had covered the ground by the assump-
tion that material atoms are so exceeding small in comparison with their
jnterspaces that but few of the flying ‘“‘ corpuscles” will encounter the
atoms. Professor Tait, of the University of Edinburgh, has remarked :
“It is necessary also to suppose that particles and masses of matter
have a cage-like form, so that enormously more corpuscles pass through
them than impinge upon them; else the gravitation action between two
bodies would not be as the product of their masses.”* While this sup-
position fails notably to give a satisfactory mathematical representation
of the observed facts, (on any assignable ratio of impact to percolation,)
it is of course quite inadmissible with respect to atoms themselves. In-

* Lectures on Recent Advances in Physical Science, London, 1876, Lect. xii, p. 300.

y!
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 219

deed, if the atoms of matter are porous or penetrable to the “ ultramun-
dane corpuscles,” the third condition will remain unsatisfied.

This corpuscular system of course entirely ignores the fourth condi-
tion of the problem, and its fundamental postulate stands in direct op-
position to the fifth condition. It is certainly impossible, on any quan-
titative assumption or numerical estimate whatever, to represent by
this scheme the earth’s residual gravitation toward the sun during an
eclipse of the moon.

Professor J. Clerk Maxwell, discussing the theory of Lesage, observes
that if the number of ultramundane corpuscles arrested by our earth is
by supposition much less than the number arrested by the sun, ‘ the
proportion of those which are stopped by a small body, say a one-pound
shot, must be smaller still in an enormous degree, because its thickness
is exceedingly small compared with that of the earth. Now the weight
of the ball, or its tendency toward the earth, is produced according to
this theory, by the excess of the impacts of the corpuscles which come
from above, over the impacts of those which come from below and have
passed through the earth. Hither of these quantities is an exceedingly
small fraction of the momentum of the whole number of corpuscles
which pass through the ball in a second, and their difference is a small
fraction of either, and yet it is equivalent to the weight of a pound.

. . . Now the energy of a moving system is half the product of its
momentum into its velocity. Hence the energy of the corpuscles which
by their impacts on the ball during one second, urge it toward the earth,
must be a number of foot-pounds equal to the number of feet over which
a corpuscle travels in a second, that is to say, not less than thousands
of millions. But this is only a small fraction of the energy of all the
impacts which the atoms of the ball receive from the innumerable streams
of corpuscles which fall upon it in all directions. Hence the rate at which
the energy of the corpuscles is spent in order to maintain the gravitating
property of a single pound is at least millions of millions of foot-pounds
per second. What becomes of this enormous quantity of energy? ....
The explanation of gravitation falls to the ground if the corpuscles are
like perfectly elastic spheres, and rebound with a velocity of separation
equal to that of approach. If on the other hand they rebound with a
smaller velocity, the effect of attraction between the bodies will no
doubt be produced; but then we have to find what becomes of the
energy which the molecules have brought with them but have not car-
ried away. If any appreciable fraction of this energy is communicated
to the body in the form of heat, the amount of heat so generated would
in a few seconds raise it, and in like manner the whole material universe,
to a white heat.” *

Hence the energy expended by the ultramundane corpuscles in giv-
ing motion to material masses must be so much abstracted from their
. aggregate store of velocity; and from the constanily-increasing num-

*Encyclopedia Britannica, ninth edition, 1875, article “ Atom,” vol. iii, pp. 46, 47.
220 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

ber of such corpuscles which must thus be more or less ‘‘ spent” in ful-
filling their appointed function, it follows that the total activity of bom-
bardment on matter cannot be as vigorous now as it wasa million years
ago, and must be still less vigorous a million years hence ; all which is
contrary to the unchangeable continuity of gravity affirmed by our sixth
condition.

As has been well remarked by an able anonymous writer in the North
British Review, “The attraction of gravitation is not as the surface of
the bodies, but as their mass. Lesage had therefore to suppose his solid
bodies not solid, but excessively porous, built up of molecules like cages,
so that an infinite number of atoms went through and through them,
allowing the last layer of the sun or earth to be struck by just as many
atoms as the first, otherwise clearly the back part of the sun and earth
would gravitaté more strongly than the front or nearer sides, which
would be struck only by the siftings of the previous layers of matter.
This notion involves a prodigious quantity of material in the shape of
flying atoms, where we perceive no gross matter, but very little mate-
rial in solid bodies, where we do find gross matter; and it further re-
qnires that the accumulation of atoms which strike the solid bodies
perpetually should be insensible.” *

Not only does the “ gravific fluid” utterly fail to give an approximate
representation of the actual conditions of the planetary movements, but
as must be evident, it will not permit the continued existence of any
such movements. A mass moving in free space in any direction except-
ing directly toward a similar mass, must receive a more active shower
of corpuscles in its front than in its rear, and must thus be retarded by
a differential of energy directly proportioned to its velocity. Every
planet must accordingly encounter a tangential resistance to its orbital
motion, proportional to its own gravitation and to its velocity.

As illustrative of the different estimates of this hypothesis formed by
distinguished men, the following citations may be permitted. M. Pierre
Prevost, professor of philosophy and general physics in the University
of Geneva, published two years after the death of Lesage, an account
of his writings, in which, after a sketch of his corpuscular hypothesis,
he remarks, ‘‘I pause at the foot of this majestic edifice with a senti-
ment of hope; persuaded that the labors of the founder will not be
suffered to perish, and that men of genius will share with me the ad-
miration it has inspired.”{ And Professor Tait regards it as “the only
plausible answer to this [great problem] which has yet been pro-
pounded.”{ Sir Jobn Herschel, on the other hand, has remarked, ‘* The
hypothesis of Lesage which assumes that every point of space is peue-
trated at every instant of time by material particles sui generis, moving
in right lines in every possible direction, and impinging upon the ma-

7

* North British Review, March, 1868, vol. xlviii, p. 126 of American edition.
t Notice de la Vie et des Ecrits de G.-L. Le Sage, published at Geneva in 1805. i
¢ Lectures on Physical Science, loco citat., p. 299.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 221

terial atoms of bodies, as a mode of accounting for gravitation, is too
grotesque to need serious consideration ; and besides will render no ac-
count of the phenomenon of elasticity.” *

As an interesting illustration of Lesage’s range of intellectual activity,
it may be mentioned that to him belongs the credit of having devised,
constructed, and operated, in his native city, Geneva, in 1774, the first
working electric telegraph.t His system consisted in the employment
of an insulated wire for each letter, terminating in an electroscope at the
receiving-station. He also wrote a Dissertation sur Vélectricité applique
a la Transmission des Nouvelles :—the first treatise on the electric tele-
graph.

EULER. 1760.

Leonard Euler, the eminent Swiss mathematician and philosopher,
(a pupil of Bernouilli previously referred to,) entertained an indefinite
impression that the etherial medium is in some way a connecting link
between the celestial bodies, inducing that mutual tendency to approach
commonly called “ attraction.” Only some dozen years later than the
date of Lesage’s first conception, he briefly discussed the subject iv his
celebrated ‘“‘ Letters” commencing in 1760.

He thus comments on the action of gravity: ‘Supposing a hole made
in the earth through its center; it is clear that a body at the very center
must entirely lose its gravity, as it could no longer move in any direc-
tion whatever, all those of gravity tending continually toward the cen-
ter of the earth. Since then a body has no longer gravity at the center
of the earth, it will follow that in descending to this center, its gravity
will be gradually diminished; and we accordingly conclude that a body
penetrating into the bowels of the earth loses its gravity in proportion
as it approaches the center. Itis evident then that neither the intensity
nor the direction of gravity is a consequence from the nature of any
body, as not only its intensity is variable, but likewise its direction,
which, on passing to the antipodes, becomes quite contrary.”

After some further exposition of the effects of gravitation, as observed
in the courses of the planets, Euler indulges in some speculation on
the probable nature of thisinfluence. ‘‘ But in attempting to dive into
the mysteries of nature, it is of importance to know if the heavenly
bodies act upon each other by impulsion or by attraction ; if a certain
subtile invisible matter impels them toward each other; or if they are

*Fortnightly Review, July 1, 1865, vol. i, p. 438.

t*The earliest attempt to apply frictional electricity to telegraphy seems to have
been made by Lesage, of Geneva, who, in 1774, constructed a telegraph consisting of
twenty-four insulated wires.” (George B. Prescott, Electricity and the Electric Tele-
graph, 8vo, N. Y., 1877, chap. xxix, p. 414.)

{ Letters a une Princesse: d Allemagne, Let. 50, 30th August, 1760. This work, since
so popular, was republished in England, “ Letters on different subjects in Physics and
Philosophy, addressed toa German Princess.” Translated from the French by Henry
Hunter, 2 vols. 8vo, London, 1802.
222 KINETIC TITEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

endowed with a secret or occult quality, by which they are mutually
attracted. On this question philosophers are divided. Some are of

opinion that this phenomenon is analogous to an impulsion; others —

maintain with Newton, and the English in general, that it consists in
attraction.”*

“To avoid all confusion which might result from this mode of ex-
pression, it ought rather to be said that bodies move as if they mutually
attracted each other. This would not decide whether the powers which
act on bodies reside in the bodies themselves or out of them; and this
manner of speaking might thus suit both parties. Let us confine our-
selves to the bodies which we meet with on the surface of the earth.
Every one readily admits that all these would fall downward, unless
they were supported. Now the question turns on the real cause of this
fall. Some say that it is the earth which attracts these bodies, by an
inherent power natural to it; others that it is the ether, or some other
subtile or invisible matter, which impels the body downward, so that the
effect is nevertheless the same in both cases.

‘This last opinion is most satisfactory to those who are fond of clear
principles in philosophy, as they do not see how two bodies at a distance
can act upon each other if there be nothing between them. ... .
Let us suppose that before the creation of the world, God had created:
ouly two bodies, at a distance from each other; that absolutely nothing
existed outside of them, and that they were in a state of rest; would it
be possible for the one to approach the other, or for them to have a pro-
pensity to approach? How could the one feel the other at a distance?
Whence could arise the desire of approaching? These are perplexing
questions. Butif you suppose that the intermediate space is filled with
a subtile matter, we can comprehend at once that this matter may act
upon the bodies by impelling them. The effect would be the same as
if they possessed a power of mutual attraction. Now as we know that
the whole space which separates the heavenly bodies és filled with a sub-
tile matter called zther, it seems more reasonable to ascribe the mutual
attraction of bodies to an action which the ether exercises upon them,
though its manner of acting may be unknown to. us, than to have re-
course to an unintelligible property. . . . . . As the idea of all
oceult qualities is now banished from philosophy, attraction 6ught not
to be considered in this sense.” t

It does not appear how so vague and inexplicable a supposition is
calculated to commend itself ‘to those who are fond of clear principles
in philosophy.” In his anxiety to avoid an “occult quality ” in matter,
this learned writer seems quite unconscious of the fact that by investing
his ether with an ‘unknown manner of acting,” he is just as fatally “‘hav-
ing recourse to an unintelligible property.” Certain] y, Just as ‘ perplex-

*Letters, &e. Let. 54, 7th September, 1760.
t Letters, &c. Let. 68, 18th October, 1760.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 223
_ ing questions” are suggested by the hypothesis of ether pressure, as by
the hypothesis of an original ‘‘ propensity to approach.”

The speculation however, is too indeterminate to admit of precise
criticism ; and is noteworthy only from the eminence of its proposer.
It is a little remarkable that Euler, although in correspondence with
Lesage, makes no allusion to his hypothesis.

HERAPATH. 1816.

Passing over a few names of less note in this connection, (Berthier,
Churcol, and others,) we find a somewhat more developed attempt at
unveiling the standing enigma, presented in the writings of John Her-
apath, of Bristol, England. Ina preliminary essay, published in Thom-
sows Annals of Philosophy, ‘*On the Physical Properties of Gases,” he
announced the hypothesis of ‘‘one cause for heat, light, gravitation,
electricity, cohesion, wrial repulsion, &c., from which all these flow,
and are easily deducible;. and their effects may be computed by mathe-
matical induction. [deduction ?] It shows us that gravitation, cohesion,
and afiinity, are but the same thing under different modifications; that
the differences of the two latter arise from a difference in the figures
and sizes only of the particles; that attraction and repulsion are not
. properties of matter.”* This hypothesis thus briefly stated by its au-
thor, at the age of twenty-three years, does not appear to have been fur-
ther publicly elaborated for five years.

In 1821, Herapath contributed to the same journal a memoir entitled
REA. Miithematical Inquiry into the Causes, Laws, and principal Phenom-
ena of Heat, Gases, Gravitation, &c.,” memorable as presenting by far
the fullest and clearest exposition of the mechanical theory of heat and
of gases that had at that time been propounded. He states that about
ten years earlier, while engaged in investigating an anomaly found in
his calculations of lunar equation, his attention had been accidentally
directed to Newton’s suggestions as to the cause of gravitation; and he
proceeds : °

“If gravitation depends upon the action of an elastic medium such as
Newton supposed, which grows rarer ard rarer as you approach the
dense bodies of the sun and planets, there ought to be some’reason for
this varistion of density; and as Newton has not, as far as I could per-
ceive, given any, I began to consider what it might be. And after some
little thinking, it occurred to me that if this medium be of the same
nature as our atmosphere and other gaseous bodies, that is, if it be
capable of being expanded by heat and contracted by cold, then the
sun being a very hot body, and the heat being so much the greater the
nearer we are to him, the density of the medium ought therefore to de-
crease with a decreasing and increase with an increasing distance,
the same as Newton would have it. And because we find by experience
that dense solid bodies receive heat more strongly than much rarer

* Annals of Philosophy, July, 1816, vol. viii, pp. 58, 59.
224 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

ones, particularly than gases, the dense bodies of the planets beirg ©
heated by the sular rays as well as by the medium about them, ought
it appeared to me, to be hotter than this medium, and consequently
ought to produce the same effects on the medium as the sun, though
not in so great a degree. Therefore if as Newton imagines, the parti-
cles of the plauets be impelled toward the sun by the inequality of the
pressure on their further and nearer sides, the denser parts of the me-
dium pressing more forcibly than the rarer, the same reason will like-
wise hold good why bodies should be impelled toward the planets and
other material parts of the system.” *

After speaking of the discouragement resulting from his unsuccessful |
attempts at arriving at the mathematical laws of heat, he proceeds:
‘¢ Yet sometimes when my thoughts were involuntarily turned this way,
the idea that two inanimate bodies could act on each other at a distance
without some other means than that of a mere tendency or inclination
in them to approach, would appear so strongly unphilosophical, and the
apparent coincidence of several phenomena with conclusions I had
drawn from my notions of gravitation so very seductive, that I could
not avoid thinking the views I had taken were tolerably correct ; and
that there was only wanting the direction of some happy idea, which
patient perseverence might possibly attain, to set the whole in a clear.
and irrefragable light. Thus between hope and despair, between un-
ceasing attempts and mortifying failures, [ continued until May, 1814,
at which time my ideas of heat underwent a complete revolution. Pre-
vious to this time I had conceived heat to be the effect of an elastic
fluid, and on this supposition, had repeatedly attempted to reduce its
aws to mathematical calculation ; but uniform disappointment at length
induced me to give this hypothesis a careful investigation, by compar-
ing it with general and particular phenomena. The result of this in-
vestigation convinced me that heat could not be the consequence of an
elastic fluid. . . . After I had revolved the subject a few times in
my mind, it struck me thatif gases instead of having their particles
endued with repulsive forces, subject to so curious a limitation as New-
ton proposed, were made up of particles or atoms mutually impinging
on one another and the sides of the vessel containing them, such a con-
stitution of zriform bodies would not only be more simple thanrepulsive
powers, but as far as I could perceive, would be consistent with phe-
nomena in other respects, and would admit of an easy application of
the theory of heat by intestine motion. Such bodies I easily saw pos-
sessed several of the properties of gases; for instance, they would ex-
pand, and if the particles be vastly small, contract almost indefinitely;
their elastic force would increase by an increase of motion or tempera-
ture, and diminish by a diminution; they would conceive heat rapidly,
and conduct it slowly; would generate heat by sudden compression,

* Annals of Philosophy, 1821, vol. xvii, or of new series, vol. i, p. 276.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 225

and destroy it by sudden rarefaction; and any two, having ever so

small a communication, would quickly and equally intermix.’”*

Fanciful as are the considerations which led Herapath to this conclu-
sion, it may be doubted whether a better statement of the dynamic
theory of heat, and the modern view of gaseous temperature, has been
published in the last half century. Certainly none can be found pre-
ceding it. The scientific world was not then bowever prepared by a
sufficient induction to fully appreciate this theory.

These views of thermogenetic gravitation were amplified by their
author at a later period, and included in an elaborate and excellent
treatise on the general principles of physics, published in 1847, in which
work they form the conclading portion, or book iv, comprising four
sections.t+

Herapath saw very clearly that a theory of molecular collision cannot

_ dispense with resilient impacts; but he announced the startling paradox

that atoms “perfectly hard” would on striking each other, rebound just
as though they were elastic. This very difficult thesis is discussed at
some length (though certainly not convincingly) in his general work,
in a chapter on “ the collision of hard bodies.” The conception of a re-
pellant propensity in the atoms is of course, excluded by the very spirit
of the hypothesis. ‘ Only two properties to matter are assumed, namely,
inertia and absolute hardness. . . . Our theory deprives the par-
ticles of repulsion, or of any active properties, and merely assumes that

airs are composed of small particles moving about in all possible diree-

tions, and keeping up their state as airs by their mutual collisions and
reflections from one another and the sides of the containing vessels.
From this simple property, and that of heat consisting in corpuscular
motion, the whole known laws of gases are deduced with mathematical
rigor.”§ Unfortunately ‘two properties” are wholly insufficient either
to set or to keep a system of molecules in motion. Matter thus consti-
tuted, (with only ‘“‘ two properties,”) with any amount ef motion super-
imposed, could never make acosmos. The “stubborn fact” of elasticity
has indeed been the insuperable obstacle and embarrassment of all
kinetic schemes of molecular physies.

‘“« By extending the principles to find the temperatures of the planets,
we arrive at an interesting conclusion, namely: supposing them to be
all of the density of our earth, we bring out very nearly the amount of
gravitation toward each of them which is actually found to exist.
Mereury is not included, as our knowledge about him is uncertain.”
(Introduction, p. xxv.) Mercury however is excluded, because on the
assumption that the absolute temperatures of the planets are inversely
as their distances from the sun, the temperature of this inner planet is

tMathematical Physics. By John Herapath. 2 vols. 8vo. London, 1847.

_t Math. Phys., vol. i, pp. 106-137. Huyghens and Wren had both (a century and a
half earlier) maintained the same doctrine.

§ Math. Phys., Introduction, pp. xvii, xviii.

S15
226 KINETIC: THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

found to be too high to satisfy the conditions of the calculation.* If
‘the amount of gravitation toward each” planet is at all indicated by
the relative distance-periods of their satellites, it is very clear that they
cannot have the same density.

It might be expected that with the range of temperatures at our com-
mand, the influence of heat on attraction could be subjected to the test
of direct experiment. It is admitted that “ We have no distinct evi-
dence of attraction being either augmented or lessened by heat.” +

The radical defect of this ingenious application of the differential of
heat-motion as the impelling force of gravity lies in the fallacy that
any pressure-differences would, under the circumstances, result from
temperature-differences. Our author says: ‘In Newton’s day the
notion of a fluid which had no visible tendency to one part of space
more than to another, keeping up an equilibrium with itself, and yet
able to press heavier on one side of a body within it than on the other,
was quite enough to gain incredulity.”{ Nor is it easy to perceive how
the notion is made more credible in our day. The rarefaction of a free
gas by heat is the direct effect of its increased elastic tension or pressure,
and the two are proportional. In other words, if upon the planetary
hemisphere exposed to the sun there were fewer impacts of gaseous
molecules in a unit of time than on the outer or night hemisphere,
these impacts would have a correspondingly higher velocity, so that
the whole moment of impulse (or pressure) on the two sides would be
precisely equal.

It is doubtful whether this hypothesis (even supposing it operative)
could really satisfy any of the six conditions heretofore propounded.
With regard to the second postulate, it is evident that the mass of the
attracting body cannot determine the quantity of attractive action, if
heat be the efficient cause. This is very frankly conceded by Herapath,
who says of the mass ratio: ‘* This law has been proved experimentally
by Sir Isaac Newton; but though this be trne, the converse case does
not according to our principles hold good, namely that the attractive
forces of bodies are directly proportional to their quantities of matter.

Our principles do not therefore corroborate Newton’s third law of —
motion, respecting the equality of action and reaction in attracting

forces; for by our theory, a body might by the agencyof the fluid
medium, be impelled toward another, without any reciprocal action;
which is by no means surprising if we consider attraction not to be an
inherent or essential property of matter, but merely the action of a
third body.”§ The sufficient answer to all which is, that not only is it
unconfirmed by any experimental research, but all experience contra-
dicts the assumption.

* Math. Phys., vol. ii, p. 318.

t Math. Phys., Introduction, p. xv.

t Loco citat., Introduction, p, xxxvi.

§ Annals of Philosophy, new series, vol. i, p. 411; and Math. Phys., vol. i, p. 9.

eR Ter
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 227

The force of the objection contained in our fourth condition-precedent
is thus courageously confronted and defied: “ It might be conceived
that the attraction would be less on a body moving toward the central
body, and greater on one moving from it, which is contrary to what we
find by experience. Though regarded mathematically, such an infer-

_ ence would be strictly true, yet since the difference between the forces
will depend on the activity of the medium, and since this activity will
be increased in proportion to the tenuity of the parts of the medium, it
is evident that the etherial atoms may be so small, and the activity of
the medium consequently so great, that the swiftest motions we know
of could produce no sensible difference in the vigor of its action.” And
with a marvelous boldness of assumption he adds: ‘* We may hence
fairly conclude that there might be a fluid medium pervading the
heavens, and all bodies, of such activity that no sensible difference
could be observed in the intensity of its action on bodies in a state of
quiescence, or moving with a velocity not only six million, but several
million million times greater than that of light !”*

Guyot. 1832.

Another ingenious attack upon the “* Problem,” in a somewhat similar
though really distinct direction, was made by Dr. Julies Guyot—a
French physician,—in a very original and suggestive treatise entitled
Eléments de Physique Générale, 8vo, published in Paris in 1832, at
about the age of twenty-seven years. This writer seems to have had,
even at this early date, a general idea of correlating the physical forces.

Assuming with other physicists, two kinds of matter,—one sensible in
the gaseous liquid and solid forms, the other insensible, in the ‘“ simple
elementary and atomic” condition of the etherial medium, filling all space
under a state of constant and enormous pressure, and infinitely more
subtile than any particle of combinable matter,—and assuming also two
kinds of movement, one of translation and the other of vibration, Guyot
maintained that these two forms of motion are reciprocally comple-
mentary and convertible, their sum being constant. So that motion is
essential to matter, is equally indestructible, and is directly propor-
tional to its mass. He held that light, heat, sound, and the excitations
of smell and taste, are all the results of molecular motion or vibration,
as are also the agencies of electricity, magnetism, and gravitation.

In a work on the pressures resulting from rial motions, published
in 1835, Guyot records some curious experiments on the influence of
vibratory sounding bodies in causing light objects to approach them ;—
experiments which immediately recall the suggestions made by Dr. Rob-
ert Hooke more than a century and a half earlier, and which would cer-
tainly have delighted that philosopher. Disks of pith and of paper,
delicately suspended near a vibrating tuning-fork, were observed to be

—<—

‘

* Annals of Philosophy, new series, vol. i, p. 410.

228 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

attracted as it were, to the origin of vibration, with a range of influ-
ence approximately proportional to the area of the disk. The same
phenomenon was observed with the employment of a bell, when caused
to sound by drawing a bow across its edge, excepting that at the nodes
of oscillation no “ attraction” was exhibited.*

In an essay entitled ““A synthetic Glance at the Forms and Forces of
Matter,” published in 1861, the same author, recapitulating his views
and observations of 1832 and 1835, and still maintaining that all the
properties of bodies are derivatives of their translatory or vibratory
movements, and that the equilibrium and the phenomena of the world exist
only under the condition of constant pressure of the incoercible ether
upon coercible matter, and the reaction of the latter upon the former,
argues that, “if it be shown that the Vibration of the atoms of bodies
may and actually does cause a rarefaction in the sphere of activity of
each of the atoms,” this constitutes a proof that “the approximation of
the atoms of bodies of ponderable matter is due to the rarefaction of
the imponderable fluid, and consequently to the diminution cf its press-
ure in the space between the atoms of the same body;” and hence that
“we are compelled to admit that attraction is a mechanical force, con-
sisting, first, of the rarefaction of the ether between molecules, masses,
or the heavenly bodies, resulting from the ceaseless vibration of the
atoms of ponderable matter, and secondly, of the reaction from the
exterior pressure of the zether upon the same, resulting from the general
pressure of the imponderable universal medium which constitutes the
mother-liquor of the world.”t

In this article the writer brings out very distinctly an idea first sug-
gested by Newton, and which has recently been fermenting, so to speak,
in the minds of various speculative writers, to wit, that matter as ex-
perimentally cognizable by our senses—having for its lowest constituent
unit the compounded molecule of uniform structure for each element-
ary substance, the indivisible “atom” of the chemist—has been by
some mysterious process evolved in the indefinite past from the strue-
tureless impalpable ether filling immensity. That the ultimate mole-
cule of matter as known to us is a highly complex or oxganized cosmos,
appears to be sufticiently demonstrated by the definite multiple peri-
odicities exhibited by gaseous spectra. If the sympathetic responses

*Des mouvements de Vair et des pressions de Vair en mouvement. (8v0, Paris, 1835.)
Sir Henry C. Englefield, in 1773, observed at Brussels, that during the ringing of a
large church bell, (weighing 16,000 pounds,) the zrial vibrations affected a mercurial
barometer, which was placed experimentally about seven feet below it, by raising
the column about one-hundredth of an inch. (Journal of R.I., vol. i, p. 157.) On
which Dr. Young offers the following suggestion : “It is easy to suppose that the law
. of the bell’s vibration was in this experiment such that the air advanced toward the
barometer with a greater velocity than it receded, although for a shorter time; and
that hence the whole effect was the same as if the mean pressure of the air had been
increased.” (Lectures on Natural Philosophy, 1807, 2 vols. quarto, vol. ii, p. 270.)

t Presse Scientifique, 1861, vol. iii, p. 130.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 229

of the ether indicate a community of nature with the absolute atoms of
the molecule, whose tremblings they transmit, we are confronted with
the paradox, that while in the molecule these atoms are so firmly bound
together that no known forces have ever been able to divorce them, in
their isolated or discrete state constituting ‘“‘the mother-liquor of the
world,” their repulsions are so intense that no known forces have ever
been able to unite them.

It is impossible not to be struck with the originality of speculation
and the ingenuity of experimentation by which, as Dr. Guyot believes,
he has solved the great problem of energy or dynamic. But it is appa-
rent at a glance that his system is at variance with every feature of the
actual phenomenon of gravitation, and fails to represent any of the six
conditions-precedent, perhaps excepting the first. If the resultant mo-
tion of translation from an acoustic vibration of air (or from a thermal
vibration of ether) may be supposed to occur in a right line, it is not
established that it can so continue for any considerable distance ; and
the last five conditions are each and all directly incompatible with the
assumption.

Perhaps the most palpable fault of the scheme however, is the vio-
lence done by it to the established law of the conservation of energy,
while being proclaimed apparently in the interest of that law. A
vibrating molecule is supposed to impress its motion upon an investing
medium, without parting with any of its original vis viva ; or in other
words, it is miraculously endowed with an inexhaustible fund of dynamic
action, and its motion though constantly expended in “ work” per-
formed, yet requires no regeneration.

Or on the other hand, if gravitation depend upon the vibrations
transmitted from the active molecule as a center to ihe surrounding
zether, this “attractive” action must decline with the expenditure of
the vibratory energy, contrary to the observed fact as summed up in

the sixth proposition.
FARADAY. 1844,

Although the views announced by Professor Michael Faraday on the
subject of gravitation were undoubtedly very vague, he must be classed
with the kinetic theorists; and the very influence necessarily attaching
to his well-earned reputation as an investigator and experimental physi-
cist, renders a full discussion and a free criticism of his published reflec-
tions all the more imperative in the interests of scientific truth.

In “A Speculation on the Nature of Matter,” dated January 25, 1844,
Faraday remarks: “The safest course appears to be to assume as little
as possible ; and in that respect, the atoms of Boscovich appear to me
to have a great advantage over the usual notion. . . . . A mind
just entering on the subject may consider it difficult to think of the
powers of matter independent of a separate something to be called the

‘matter, but it is certainly far more difficult, and indeed impossible, to
think of or imagine that matter, independent of the powers. Now the
230 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

powers we know and recognize in every phenomenon'of the creation ;
the abstract matter in none; why then assume the existence of that of
which we are ignorant, which we cannot conceive, and for which there
is no philosophical necessity? . . . . Doubtless the centers of force
vary in their distance one from another, but that which is truly the
matter of one atom touches the matter of its neighbors. Hence matter
will be continuous throughout, and in considering a mass of it, we have
not to suppose a distinction between its atoms and any intervening
space. The powers around the centers give these centers the properties
of atoms of matter; and these powers again, when many centers by
their conjoint forces are grouped into a mass, give to every part of that
mass the properties of matter. . . . . The view now stated of the
constitution of matter would seem to involve necessarily the conclu-
sion that matter fills all space, or at least all space to which gravitation
extends ; for gravitation is a property of matter dependent on a certain
force, and it is this force which constitutes matter. In that view, mat-
ter is not merely mutually penetrable, but each atom extends, so to say,
throughout the whole of the solar system, yet always retaining its own ‘
centre of force.” * .

This result of ‘assuming as little as possible” thus appears to com-
mence with the Berkeleyan negation of matter, only to conclude thar it
is omnipresent. When it is inferred however, that every atom sepa-
rately includes every other atom, it is obviously only influence that is
conceived of, and not matter at all in any intelligible sense. If we call
this multitudinous infinitely-extended and mutually-inclusive influence
“matter,” there still remains the inexorable necessity of designating by
some distinctive title that other form of influence inclosed within the
visible tangible surfaces bounding those appearances which are charac-
terized by inertia, which are accurately measurable in mass, and which
are the objects of all our direct observation and experiment. Neither in
formula, nor in idea, therefore,—neither in nominalism, nor in realism,—
are we advanced a particle by such speculations.

In a memoir “On the Possible Relation of Gravity to Electricity,”
read before the Royal Society, November 28, 1850, Faraday remarks:
“The long and constant persuasion that all the forces of nature are
mutually dependent, having one common origin, or rather being differ-
ent manifestations of one fundamental power, has made me often think
upon the possibility of establishing by experiment, a connection between
gravity and electricity, and so introducing the former into the group,
the chain of which (including magnetism, chemical force, and heat,)
binds so many and such varied exhibitions of force together by common
relations.” He then records experiments with a tubular helix of cov-
ered copper wire of considerable length, and having its extremities
connected with long covered wires which were brought to a very sensi-
tive galvanometer, the said coil or helix being allowed to fall about

‘i. ©. D. Philosophie: al Magazine, 1844, vol. xxiv, pp. se 143.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. Zan

' thirty-six feet. No indications however, were perceived in the needle.*
Experiments with solid cylinders of copper, iron, glass, &c., secured
within the helix were successively made without result. Similar eyl-
inders were then dropped through a fixed helix, and also reciprocating
motion by mechanical devices was tried, but equally without any effect
on the galvanometer needle. Faraday concludes, “‘ Here end my trials
for the present. The results are negative. They do not shake my
strong feeling of the existence of a relation between gravity and elec-
tricity, though they give no proof that such a relation exists.”+ These
experiments were skillfully devised.to detect a correlation between the
two, if any such existed. Were gravity either a form or a resultant of
molecular motion we should certainly expect to find evidence of an
expenditure of such motion, proportioned to the energy of the “ fall.”

Several years later, in a memoir ‘On the Conservation of Force,”
Professor Faraday thus states the result of his further meditations on the
“attractive” theme of gravitation: ‘‘I believe I represent the received
idea of the gravitating force aright in saying that it is a simple attractive
force exerted between any two or all the particles or masses of matter
at every sensible distance, but with a strength varying inversely as the
square of the distance. The usual idea of the force implies direct action
at a distance; and such a view appears to present little difficulty
except to Newton, and a few, including myself, who in that respect may
be of like mind with him. This idea of gravity appears to me to
ignore entirely the principle of the conservation of force; and by the
terms of its definition, if taken in an absolute sense, ‘varying inversely
as the square of the distance,’ to be in direct opposition to it.”§.

This singular misconception of his theme, which underlies all his
subsequent reasoning, way be briefly rebutted by the simple averment
that the conservation of force has no relation whatever to the law of
force, and can have no relation to it. All that the established doctrine
affirms, is that be the law what it may, “conservation” demands that
none of the resultant effects shall vanish, and that the action of the law
shall be absolutely the same in the same conditions. In the case of a
dynamic radiation—indeed, through a perfectly elastic medium,—con-

* It is evident that whether the earth be contemplated as an electrically-charged
globe or as a permanent magnet, the delicate experiments of Faraday, above described,
would necessarily give indications thereof in the galvanometer : and it is an interesting
illustration of the scientific conscientiousness of the experimenter, to observe with
what caution these collateral results were eliminated.

t Philosophical Transactions Roy. Soc., 1851, vol. 141, pp. 1-6. A Mr. Zalewski pre-
sented to the French Academy of Sciences, (April 22, and August 19, 1850, and again
July 5 and 19, 1852,) memoirs “ On Electricity as the Cause of the Effects attributed to
Universal Gravitation.” (Comptes Rendus, 1850, vol. xxx, p. 485; vol. xxxi, p. 255;
and for 1852, vol. xxxv, pp. 49 and 95.) ‘‘ Faraday’s insight was so profound, that we
cannot assert that something may not yet be discovered by such experiments, but it
will assuredly not be conservation of force.” Professor Tait’s Lecture on ‘“ Force,”
Nature, 2ist September, 1876, vol. xiv, p. 462.

{ Referring, of course, to the “third Bentley letter.”

§L. E. D. Phil. Mag., 1857, vol. xiii, p. 228.
232 KINETIC THEORIES OF» GRAVITATION.

servation requires that all the successive spheres described by increas-
ing radii of action shall represent precisely the same amount of energy,
which is the expression of ‘“‘inyerse squares.” But in the case of a
primitive force which is not radiation, (as in gravity, elasticity, cohesion,
or affinity,) the law of increment or decrement with distance may have
any mathematical value, and may be entirely different and incommen-
surable with every variety of force.

Unfortunately the human mind has been gifted with no insights or
intuitions which can determine the a priori certainty of a single fact of
natural law. After twenty-five centuries of vainly-struggling specula-
tion, the true Jaw of one kind of force was laboriously ascertained only
two little centuries ago. And this result is justly regarded as the most
brilliant achievement of the highest human intellect. Did experience
teach us that the law of gravity was one of simple decrease of intensity
directly with the distance, (in which case the periodic times of the plan-
ets would be directly as their distances and their orbital velocities the
same at all distances,) or did it teach us that its energy was precisely
the same at all distances, as Faraday thinks to be the true desideratum,
(in which case the periodic times as well as the orbital velocities would
be as the square roots of the distances,) or did it teach us that its inten-
sity increased directly as the distance, as by an elastic bond,* (in which
case the periods of revolution would be the same for all distances, and
the orbital velocities therefore, proportional to the distance,) in each
and every case it would still be unalterably true that the energy ex-
pended in separating two bodies would be exactly equal to the energy
given out in their return to the antecedent position. And this is what
is meant by the ‘*‘ conservation of force.”

Probably no generalization of science has been the occasion of more
misapprehension and confusion than this of ‘‘ conservation.” Properly
speaking, ‘ Force” is not conserved at all! Itis the offspring of Force, or
““work” that is really conserved. As words necessarily follow thought
practically no less than genetically, (and sometimes longo intervallo,) it
results that with the increasing specializations of scientific conception,
many words continue to retain their more primitive or ‘“‘ comprehensive
type” cf meaning, without originating the required varieties or differ-
entiations of expression; and such has been the case with the very
useful word “force ;” which is employed sometimes in its more general-
ized sense, as including any stress or action whatever; sometimes as
limited to quantity of motion ; sometimes as Synonymous with energy,
(in which sense alone is “conservation” applicable to it;) sometimes as
expressing ‘‘the mere rate of conversion or transference of energy per
unit length of that motion,” (with a strong suspicion that “ there is
probably no such thing as force at all;”)t and sometimes as signifying

* There is reason to believe that this is actually the law of the atomic orbits.

t Lecture on “Force,” by Professor Tait, of Edinburgh. Nature, 21st September,

1876, vol. xiv, pp. 459, 463. It is certain that Newton did not employ the word Vis in
any such restricted sense, as the learned professor would imply.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 233

- primitive innate tension, exclusive of all motion, although the parent of
all motion. So that while one would limit the word to designate a
purely kinetic condition of matter, another would limit it on the opposite
side to designate a purely static quality in matter.

Elasticity is a natural force, having always an entirely different space-
potential from gravity, and yet is equally removed in every case from
that ratio of uniformity supposed to be the true representation of con-
servation. In the case of tensile elasticity, (as of a rubber band or of a
long spiral spring,) the tension increases directly with the distance cf
elongation.

Professor Faraday thus proceeds to illustrate the difficulty he finds
in the ordinary definition of gravity: ‘‘ Assume two particles of matter,
A and B,in freespace. . . . Then at the distance of 10 the force
may be estimated at 1, whilst at the distance of 1, i. e., one-tenth of the
former, the force will be 100; and if we suppose an elastic spring to be
introduced between the two as a measure of the attractive force, the
power compressing it will be a hundred times as much in the latter case
as in the former. But from whence can this enormous increase of the
power come?” The answer is, that this increase of ‘“‘ power” comes
from either particle being so much nearer the source of the influence.
Why this increase should be just one hundred-fold in the case supposed,
the present state of science does not furnish any explanation. The re-
sult is accepted simply as a very rigorously verified “ fact.”

‘‘Suppose the two particles A and B removed back to the greater
distance of 10, then the force of attraction would be only a hundredth
part of that they previously possessed ; this, according to the statement
that the force varies inversely as the square of the distance, would
double the strangeness of the above results; it would be an annihilation
of force.” Here again, the law of intensity, as a function of distance,
is confounded with absolute quantity in the agent. Such a confusion
could hardly have occurred in discussing the action of a permanent
magnet. The actually existing gravity decrement no more involves
any “annihilation of force,” than would an equality of ratio irrespective
of distance involve a creation of force, were it found in any case to be
true. So far from there being any destruction or loss of force in the
crucial case supposed, the doctrine of “conservation” teaches us that
the separation of the two particles could be effected only by the expendi-
ture of an adequate amount of energy; and that at their greater dis-
tance of 10, these particles would possess a potential of position precisely
equivalent thereto.

Faraday continues: ‘According to the definition, the force depends
upon both particles; and if the particle A or B were by itself, it could
not gravitate, 7. e. it could have no attraction, no force of gravity... .
As the particles can be separated, we can easily conceive of the particle
B being removed to an infinite distance from A, and then the power in
’ A will be infinitely diminished. Such removal of B will be as if it were
234 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

annihilated in regard to A,.and the force in A will be annihilated at —

the same time.”* Although it is certainly true that when B is removed
to an infinite distance from A, the power of A upon B will be infinitely
diminished, it is not a sound inference that ‘the power im A will be
infinitely diminished.” The same inaccuracy occurs in the assumption
that if an isolated particle “could not gravitate” it could have “no force
of gravity.” This is but another expression of the not unusual sophism
that force has no existence unless in active exercise.

Varying his illustration to attack the problem of mass, Professor
Faraday thus further unfolds his difficulties: “The particle A will
attract the particle B at the distance of a mile with a certain degree of
force; it will attract the particle C at the same distance of a mile, with
a power equal to that by which it attracts B. If myriads of like par-
ticles be placed at the given distance of a mile, A will attract each with
equal force. . . . How are we to conceive of this force growing up
in A to a million-fold or more? And if the surrounding particles be
then removed, of its diminution in an equal degree? Or how are we
to look upon the power raised up in all these outer particles by the
action of A on them, or by their action one on another, without admit-
ting (according to the limited definition of gravitation) the facile genera.
tion and annihilation of foree?” The substance of this enigma is com-

prised in the corollary to our second proposition. Striking out the —

fallacious expression “of this force growing up in A,” which has already
been sufficiently criticised, surely the case as stated, is a very good
illustration of “conservation.” The hypothetical generation and.anni-
hilation of the distant particles surrounding A are just as “ facile” as

the hypothetical “‘ generation and annihilation of force” exercised by

them; but no whit more so. As if one should say, imagine the clock

wound up, and it will run a week. The equation is correct only on con-

dition that both the terms are equally real or equally imaginary.
Inasmuch as the accepted definition of gravitative force (deemed by

Faraday so objectionable) is merely the summation of an overwhelming —

induction derived from a ceaseless observation, the question naturally
arises, to what point are the difficulties imagined by him supposed to
tend? ‘The principle of the conservation of force would lead us to
assume that when A and B attract each other less because of increas-
ing distance, then some other exertion of power, either within or with-
out them, is proportionately growing up. And again that when their
distance is diminished, as from 10 to 1, the power of attraction, now in-

creased a hundred-fold, has been produced out of some other form of —

power which has been equivalently reduced.”+ Were gravity merely a
dynamic energy, generated in time and space by an anterior and exte-
rior force, the inference would undoubtedly be correct. Conversely, the

utter falsity of the inference, as established by all experience, in which —

*L. E. D. Phil. Mag. 1857, vol. xiii, pp. 228, 229.
+ Loco citat., pp. 230, 231.

“
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 235

experience, as 2 question of fact, the keenest of experimental investi-

ators, Faraday himself, has been able to detect no flaw, the utter
falsity of the inference may be taken as conclusive against the premiss.
Gravity is thereby proved to be a static tension,—incessant, inconverti-
ble, inexhaustible; as affirmed by our fifth and sixth propositions.
Whatever @ priori conceptions may be indulged therefore, as to the
natural fitness of a central force having the same tension at all dis-
tances, it has been definitely established by two centuries of continn-
ous and irreversible demonstration, that gravity is not such a force.
' And this announcement is the subject of our third proposition.

‘Tt will not be imagined for a moment,” says Faraday, “that I am
opposed to what may be called the law of gravitative action; that is, the
law by which all the known effects of gravity are governed. What !
am considering is the definition of the force of gravitation. :
That the totality of a force can be employed according to that law I do
not believe, either in relation to gravitation, or electricity, or magnetism,

| or any other supposed form of power.”* But the most refined and varied

observations (even when conducted by a Faraday) have failed to detect
any such supposed residuum of effect, and have substantiated as one of
the largest results of our present knowledge the received formula as
expressing the “totality” of the force recognized as gravity. Our
*‘ beliefs” should always be based upon, and conform to, the observed
order of nature. “The safest course appears to be to assume as little
as possible.”

Faraday thus sums up his own impressions: ‘“ For my own part, many

_considerations urge my mind toward the idea of a cause of gravity which
is not resident in the particles of matter merely, but constantly in them
and all space.” (p.231.) “I would much rather incline to believe that
bodies affecting each other by gravitation act by lines of force of definite
amount, or by an ether pervading all parts of space, than admit that the
conservation of force could be dispensed with.” (238.) Fortunately,
the alternative presented possesses no relation of its terms. The un-
qualified assertion of ‘‘ conservation” has no bearing whatever on either
“lines of force” or the supposed action of ‘an ether ;” and a choice is
therefore quite unnecessary.

On no subject, perhaps, have the distinguished author’s ideas been
more vague and intangible than on the favorite one of “lines of force.”
After exhibiting the familiar magnetic curves or chains of iron-filings as
atypical phenomenon, he says: ‘The term line of force, as defined above,
is restricted to mean no more than the condition of the force in a given
place as to strength and direction; and not to include any idea of the
nature of the physical cause of the phenomena. At the same time, if

* Loco citat., p. 233.
tAn excellent review and criticism of Professor Faraday’s Memoir on Gravitation,

by Professor Briicke, of Vienna, was published in the L. E. D., Phil. Mag., 1858, vol. xv,
Eps ol.
236 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

reason should arise to think that the physical condition of the force par-
takes generally of the nature of a current or of a ray, a view which the
author inclines to, he sees no objection in the term.” *

‘‘In the action of gravity, for instance, the line of force is a straight
line, as far as we can test it by the resultant phenomena. It cannot be
deflected or even affected in its course. Neither is the action in one line
at all influenced, either in direction or amount, by a like action in another
line.”+ This is the affirmation made by our first proposition.

Faraday continues: “There is one question in relation to gravity,
which, if we could ascertain or touch it, would greatly enlighten us. It
is, whether gravitation requires time. If it did, it would show unde-
niably, that a physical agency existed in the course of the line of force.
It seems equally impossible to prove or disprove this point, since there
is no capability of suspending, changing, or annihilating the power, or
annihilating the matter in which the power resides.”t Some six years
before the date of this latter paper, Professor Faraday, in “Thoughts on
Ray-vibrations,” had suggested more doubtingly, the same inquiry: “I
am not aware whether there are any data by which it has been or could
be ascertained whether such a power as gravitation acts without occu-
pying time.”§

This query finds its answer in our fourth proposition. The writer was
’ evidently not aware that it had been definitely settled by the astrono-
mers, and with a delicacy of precision infinitely beyond the reach of
any direct or instrumental research; and not being a mathematician,
he very naturally supposed the problem insoluble. Those not trained
in the higher operations of the science of “‘ necessary conclusions,” have
no conception of the resources of mathematical investigation applied te
judicious comparisons of accurate observations. And just here the
reminder may be permitted, that did the influence of gravitation occupy
the millionth part of a second in traversing the distance of a million
miles, the astronomer’s analysis would easily detect it. This would
represent only one-ninth of the velocity estimated by Laplace and Arago,
as previously stated.

*L. E. D., Phil. Mag., 1852, vol. iii, p. 67. Dr. P. M. Roget showed in 1831, by a very
neat geometrical demonstration, that these so-called “lines of force” in the magnetic
field, are simply the tangential resultants of the directive action by the two magnetic
poles exerted in straight or radial lines with a ratio of diminished intensity as the
square of the distance from either pole, on the minute iron particles regarded as
needles. (Journal of the Royal Institution, February, 1831, vol. i, pp. 311-318; and
also a treatise on ‘‘ Magnetism” by the same author, in vol. ii of the “ Library of
Useful Knowledge,” chap. ii, sect. 3, pp. 19-21.) M. Ch. Cellerier has also, by an
analytical discussion of the “‘magnetic curves,” established the same conclusion
mathematically. (A Treatise on Electricity, by Aug. De La Rive, London, 2 vols., 8vo,
1853. part iii, chap. i. Note D, vol. i, pp. 542-544.)

t Phil. Mag., 1852, vol. iii, p. 403.

t Ibidem, p. 403.

§ Phil. Mag., May, 1846, vol. xxviii, p. 349.

KINETIC THEORIES _OF..GRAVITATION. 25%
SEGUIN. 1848.

Mare Seguin, a French engineer, distinguished as having affirmed in
1839, from a study of the locomotive-engine, the correlation between
heat and * work,” and as having estimated the ‘“ mechanical equivalent”
of heat, labored for many years to establish the unity of the natural
forces. It is interesting to observe that like Herapath, he commenced
his studies in molecular physics with an inquiry into the nature of heat;
and like him, was led to discard entirely the generally-received theory
of a material caloric in favor of the kinetic hypothesis now universally
adopted.

Nearly a quarter of a century before publishing his views on molecular
forces generally, Seguin presented to Sir John Herschel a very original
and suggestive communication on the probable nature of heat, which
was published by the latter in the Philosophical Journal of Edinburgh
for 1824. The writer infers from the compressibility of all known sub-
stances that their constituent molecules must be at a great relative dis-
tance from each other; and from the characteristic odor of most solids,
that the densest and hardest substances are subject to the escape of
their surface molecules, or in other words, ‘‘ are capable of being evap-
orated.” From the infinitesimal size of these escaping molecules, they
of course elude all known methods of comparison or mechanical appre-
ciation.

“In order to assign to them the condition either of a solid, a liquid,
or a gas, it is necessary to suppose the existence and the combination of
two forces which are sometimes ix equilibrio, and sometimes predominate
the one over the other. We shall admit then the supposition that these
two forces may be the same as those which regulate the planetary sys-
tem, and that the molecules of bodies are subject to circulate round one
another, so that each body, though it appears at rest, has really a cer-
tain quantity of motion, whose measure will be a function cf the mass
and the velocity of the molecules in motion. Upon these suppositions
it is obvious that during the impact of two bodies, all the quantity of
motion which is not employed in giving the body which is struck a
motion of translation, will go to angment the quantity of interior motion
which it possesses ; and if this motion takes place in circles or ellipses,
the parts will recede from the center of attraction, and the body will
increase in volume. In this state it will have a tendency to transmit
the excess of motion which it possesses to bodies which are near it, or
to parts which it will emit in greater number in following the same law.
If the quantity of motion is so great that the attraction of the molecules
can no longer be in equilibrio with their angular velocities, the body
will remain in the gaseous state till it has transmitted to other bodies.
the excess of velocity which it possesses.” *

This is a very neat and perspicuous presentation of the dynamical

*The Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, October, 1824, vol. x, pp. 280-282.
238 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

theory of temperature, expansion, conduction, evaporation, and the

transformation and conservation of energy ; and although three years
later than Herapath’s remarkable announcement of the theory of gaseous
temperature, is doubtless an independent and original discovery; for
such it is entitled to be called. There is now little question that while
the molecular excursions in gases take place in straight lines or in hy-
perbolic trajectories, the atomic motions within the molecule (whose
marvelous regularity of periodicity is attested by the fixed refrangibili-
ties of the spectrum) are really described in elliptic orbits, as Seguin
had so early preconceived.

The writer proceeds to apply this hypothesis to a variety of appar-
ently unconnected phenomena, as to the sudden development of motion
in the fracture of a ‘‘ Prince Rupert’s Drop” or unannealed glass tear;
to the action of the steam-engine, in which a large amount of molecular
orbital motion in the vaporized water is transformed into,the rectilinear
or translatory motion of the piston; for “if, as we suppose, an angular
motion has been changed into a rectilineal motion or into a motion of trans
lation, we should find after the effect only the quantity of motion which
has not been employed in producing the useful effect.” He shows that
the same theory explains satisfactorily the great degree of refrigeration-
observed in the higher regions of our atmosphere, while by the material
theory of caloric the upper regions should be the hottest; and he main-
tains that even ‘“‘the motion produced by organized bodies may be ex-
plained in the same manner as the steam-engine.” This is certainly a

very remarkable prevision of the correlation between the physical and ‘

the organic forces. .

It was not till 1848 that Seguin commenced a series of memoirs, read
before the French Academy of Sciences, on the nature of the molecu-
lar forces, but dealing mainly with cohesion regarded as a phase of
gravitative action. A theory of mutual impacts and reactions between
the molecules of matter and the atoms of the xther was proposed but
not very clearly presented.* With a communication, made October 22,
1849, the author submitted the results of experiments showing actions
“‘very analogous, if not identical in their effects, with that of gravita-
tion.” The apparatus exhibited consisted essentially of a magnet at-
tached to a pendulum which produced motion in small iron bullets sus-
pended a short distance therefrom.

In an editorial résumé of Seguin’s work on ‘“ Molecular Physics,” in
Abbé Moigno’s Cosmos, in 1852, the Abbé, after alluding to Newton’s
speculations, affirms with characteristic confidence and earnestness:
“Tf there is anything certain in the world, it is that the molecules of
bodies and bodies themselves are not really self-attractive; it is that
attraction is not an intrinsic but only a developed force ; it is that not-

* Comptes Rendus, September 25, 1848, vol. xxvii, pp. 314-318; January 22, 1849, vol.

XXvili, pp. 97-101; October 22, 1849, vol. xxix, pp. 425-430; January 19, 1852, vol.
XXXiv, pp. 35-89; November 7, 1853, vol. xxxvii, pp. 703-708.

Og med +". ~
eee ar

: &
f
_
*
pred
1b

we

a
‘ q

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 239

_ withstanding everything occurs as though bodies mutually attracted
each other, it is incontestably true that bodies do not so attract. New-
ton, as Euler,—as every philosopher worthy of the name,—has seen in
nature but two things, inertia, and motion originally impressed by a
free Will, the first and infinite Mover. And it is with these two great
facts of inertia and movement that advancing science shall ultimately
explain all the phenomena of the physical world. Already courageous
thinkers have endeavored to explain by inertia and motion the great,
the capital fact of universal attraction, but these explanations are neither
so distinctly formulated nor so plausible as to enable us to give a correct
idea of them.” Abbé Moigno, as Seguin’s interpreter, proceeds: “ The
secret of cohesion has been pursued by one of our most illustrious com-
patriots, M. Seguin, senior, for the last twenty years, and he has cer-
tainly discovered it. It consists most essentially, as we shall proceed
to show, in the incontestable fact that the molecules of bodies exceed
in number and minuteness anything that could have been imagined.”*

This theory of cohesion is then set forth at’ some length, the funda-
mental assumption being that there are two classes of dynamic monads
occupying the universe, the one in a state of relative repose, exhibiting
the various phenomena of attraction, and commonly called the ponder-
able elements, and the other class entirely free or independent, (improp-
erly called imponderable elements,) actuated with extreme velocities of
translation, of rotation, and of vibration, continually traversing the
systems of ponderable monads in all directions.t

Although the admiring editor avows himself a pupil of Seguin, it
is doubtful whether he has cautiously followed him, in so enthusias{i-
cally proclaiming his development of ‘‘a vast theory from the admission
of but a single principle in the universe,—the attraction of two monads
in the inverse ratio of the distance squared, without recourse to any
hypothetical force of mysterious attractions or of impossible repulsions.”

In 1858, Seguin published in the Cosmos a somewhat elaborate essay
On the Origin and Propagation of Force,” in which he seems to have
abandoned a kinetic theory of gravitation. It is true that he there
holds: ‘‘ Matter is inert; that is to say, it does not harbor in itself the
power to put itself into movement, and still less a fortiori to communi-
cate it, since a thing to be transmitted must first exist.”{ And it is
also true that he repeatedly speaks of “the great principle of the inde-
finite conservation of motion” as being ‘‘ the foundation of all me-
chanics ;”§ and regards “the. possibility of the destruction of motion
as equivalent to “ the annihilation of force,”|| which is the very shibboleth
of kinetic theorists; and further that. he disputes Poisson’s proposition
that two spheres of equal mass and velocity, devoid of elasticity, if

* Cosmos, November 14, 1852, vol. i, pp. 693, 694.
t Cosmos, vol. ii, pp. 371-382, and pp. 625-632.

t Cosmos, October 15, 1558, vol. xiii, p. 485.

§ [bidem, pp. 503, 505, 515, 518, 527.

|| Lbidem, p. 509.
240) KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

directly meeting, would have their motion destroyed, and be reduced 4
to rest; RR Heel that ‘the idea of the possibility of the destruction —

of force and of the complete disappearance of motion has always been

insuperably repugnant to sound and careful thinkers, who have made —

this question a subject of study.”*

Notwithstanding all which, he says, in regard to the uniform tendency
of a material system to its center of gravity, ‘‘we are thus led to con-
sider attraction as a first cause, emanating directly from the Divine Will
in the creation of matter. Doubtless it is not impossible that it may

hereafter be discovered that attraction in its turn is only a consequence —
of a more general law, comprehending in itself more implicitly the —
means of explaining the effects attributed to attraction. . . . But ©

as these considerations are purely metaphysical, since observation cannot
reach beyond the established fact that two confronting bodies gravitate
toward each other by virtue of a force to which is given the name of
attraction, it appears to me wiser not to advance further to penetrate a
mystery which nothing within our knowledge as yet appears able to
explain. Let us then consider matter as existing from the beginning
uniformly in space, and attraction as an essential property with which
it is endowed, by virtue of which the different parts or molecules com-
posing it possess in themselves the power of mutual attraction.”t

So explicit a statement would seem quite sufficient to prove that Abbé

Moigno has in his zeal transcended the doctrines of the one whom he had ~
effusively recognized as his teacher; and that whatever may have been

the earlier views of Seguin as to the origin of gravitation, he can. no
lenger be numbered with those who conceive it to be “a mode of mo-
tion.”

BOUCHEPORN. 1849.

M. F. de Boucheporn read a memoir to the French Academy of Sci- ~

ences, July 30, 1849, entitled ‘‘ Researches on physical laws considered
as consequences of the only essential properties of matter, impenetra-
bility and inertia;” the object proposed being to show the considera-
tions leading to the conclusion that all physical law rests simply on
these necessary attributes of matter, ‘‘ without the supposition of any
force.”

He commences with the general recognition, “It is an idea quite old _

in science that the movements of the heavenly bodies may be explained

by an external impulsion or by the action of a universal fluid. This —

was the earliest idea of French philosophy, being that of Descartes,
and even Newton himself had thought of connecting with it the great
law of gravitation.”

<a JS

Boucheporn proceeds to cite some of the principles and results devel- |

oped. “1st. The intensity of an impulse propagated in the etherial

* Cosmos, October 15, 1858, vol. xiii, p. 508.
t Ibidem, pp. 486, 487.

a — ¥
“a
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 241

medium foilows the law of the inverse square of the distance from the
center of disturbance. 2d. The resistance of the wether does not sensi
bly affect the velecity of a body when this is sufficiently less than that
of ztherial propagation; but this resistance becomes a uniform pressure
on the entire surface of a body, (supposed spherical,) and even deter-
mines its sphericity.. 3d. Taking as unity the density of the fluid, the
quantity of motion impressed by a body on the ether is equal to its
volume multiplied by the square of its velocity ; which is also the meas-
ure of the total pressure on the surface of a body. 4th. Propagated to
the interior of the heavenly bodies, the pressure would produce the
effect that all layers of equal thickness will inclose the same quantity of
matter, and that the mean density is three times tbat of the surface.
This kind of homogeneity would not be affected by the action of heat.
In sbort, from such great internal condensation, it may be conjectured
that the heavenly bodies are almost entirely impermeable by the ether,
as will shortly appear trom an astronomical law. Sth. As to attraction;
the displacement of the ether by the movement cf a body A, will pro-
duce in all parts of the fluid a sort of aspiration toward the point being
left by its center; any other body B receiving these aspiring waves on
its nearer hemisphere wi.l bave lost all or a part of its own pressure ;
and the half pressure (volume multiplied by the squared velocity) which
acts an the opposite hemisphere, no longer being counterbalanced, will
give an impulse to the body B in the direetion of A. Such would be
the principle of attraction. . . . ”

The writer finds a verification of his principles in the relation existing
between the respective masses of the planets and the produet of their
volumes by the square of their velocities, omitting the cases of Uranus
and Neptune. Also by determining the velocity of an attracting body
from that of its satellite, knowing only the ratio of the radius to the dis-
tance; and lastly, by determining the amount of fall of heavy bodies
from the angular velocity of the earth, irrespective of its mass !*

LAME. 1852.

Gabriel Lamé, a distinguished French gecmeter, and author cf a very
learned and valuable woik on the laws of elasticity, enibracing a pro-
found inathematical discussion of the theory of vibrations in almost all
its scientific aspects, has incidentally alluded to gravitation in such a
manuer as to deserve a notice here.

Of his more immediate theme hetorcibly remarks: ‘ Elasticity is thereal
origin or indispensable intermediary of all the more important physical
phenomenaof the universe. . . . Ina word,the function of elasticity
in nature is at least as important as that of universal gravitat*on.
Indeed gravitation and elasticity should be considered as effects of the
same cause, which correlate or connect all the material parts of the uni.

* Comptes Rendus, July 30, 1849, vol. xxix, pp. 108-112. The author embodied his
Views in a work entitled Principe Générale de la Philosophie Naturelle, 8vo, Paris, 1853.

S$ 16
242 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

verse; the first asserting this relation through immense distances, the
second exhibiting it only in very small spaces.”* In what way these
two great master-forces of nature, seemingly so unlike, and even antag-
onistic to each other, may possibly be connected in action or in principle,
is nowhere suggested ; but the character of the author forbids the sup-
position that the remark was hastily ventured, or conceived without
sober reflection.

No further reference however, to the subject of gravitation occurs in the
work, till toward its close. In the last ‘* Lesson,” Lamé shows the neces-
sity for admitting a pervading «ther. And considering the question
whether ponderable matter is really the medium which vibrates and
transmits light in transparent crystals, he decides: ‘ There can no
longer exist a doubt on this question ; for it clearly results from our
analysis that ponderable matter alone is incapable of producing pro-
gressive waves which will explain the optical phenomena of birefractive
bodies, or which could have led to the discovery of most of these phe-
nomena. Luminous waves then are produced and propagated in trans-
parent bodies by the vibrations of an imponderable fluid, which is no
other than the zther.”” He determines analytically two systems of undu-
lation in the ether, of differing velocities ; one system radial, or normal
to the ellipsoidal surface of the wave, affecting the dilatation or conden-
sation of the medium, and not concerned in optical phenomena; and the
other system transverse to this in two sets, or in the direction of two
tangents to the ellipsoidal wave, representing the phases of polarized
light.t

Lamé econeludes his Lessons with some reflections on the internal con. |

stitution of solid bodies. ‘It seems highly probable that the progress
of general physics will conduct one day to a principle analogous to that
of universal attraction, of which this itself shall prove only a corollary,
and which may serve as the basis of a rational theory comprehending
both mechanics—the celestial and the terrestrial. But to presuppose
this unknown principle, or to infer the whole from one of its parts, is to
retard—it may be for a long time—the epoch of its discovery.” And
speaking of the great desideratum, a rational science of molecular

mechanics, he asks: “Is this an enigma forever insoluble? To this —

question must. be answered yes, if the existence of ponderable matter
only is to be admitted ;—no, if we admit also the existence of the
ether.” ¢ )

** Since then the existence of the zetherial fluid is incontestably demon-
strated by the propagation of light through celestial spaces,—by the

explanation (as simple as complete) of the condition of difiraction in the —

theory of waves,—and as has been seen,—by the laws of double refrac-
tion, which prove with no less certitude the existence of an ether within

* Legons sur la Théorie Mathématique de VElasticité des Corps Solides. 8vo, Paris, 1852
Lesson i, p. 2.

t Loco citat., Less. xxiv, sec. 131, pp. 327, 328.

t Loco citat., sec. 134, pp. 332, 333.

FL ay) ee ope

ae we <
oem oss
Packie ough em
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 243

transparent bodies, we know that ponderable matter is not alone in
the universe; its particles swim as it were in a kind of fluid medium.
If this fluid be not the unique cause of all the observed facts, it must at
least modify them, diffuse their action, and complicate their laws. It is
then no longer. possible to attain a rational.and complete explanation of
the phenomena of physical nature, without recognizing the intervention
of this agent, whose presence is so inevitable. It is scarcely to be
doubted that in this intervention, sagaciously investigated, will be found
the secret or the true cause of the effects which are attributed to heat,
to electricity, to magnetism, to universal attraction, to cohesion, to
chemical affinities ; for all these mysterious and incomprehensible agen-
cies are at bottom but co-ordinating hypotheses,—useful without doubt
to our existing ignorance, but which the progress of true science will
complete by dethroning.” *

These passages are less notable for any precise hypothesis as to the
cause of gravitation than for their earnest unformulated faith in the
mechanical agencies of the ether as the fountain-head of all force.

A very striking illustration of the author’s realizing sense of the
etherial presence occurs in a memoir communicated by him to the
Academy of Sciences about ten years before this time, or in 1542; in
which, discussing the difference between the determination by Gay-
Lussac of the co-efficient of gaseous dilatation, and that made by Rud-
berg and verified by Regnault twenty-five years later, Lamé made the
somewhat startling announcement that the observed difference indicated
an increasing «ther-pressure on terrestrial matter! ‘The difference
between these results is explained by admitting that the pressure of the
ether has undergone ou the earth in a quarter of a century an aug-
mentation equal to a pressure of eight or nine tenths of a millimetre of
the mercurial column.” f

WATERSTON. 1858.

Tn an essay ‘On the integral of gravitation, and its consequents with
reference to the measure and transfer, or communication of force, by J.
J. Waterston,” of Edinburgh, published in the Philosophical Magazine,
‘the writer commences with the general consideration: *“* Modern ideas
with relation to heat and the active condition of the molecular element
naturally incline us to estimate every force with regard to its work-pro-
ducing capacity. In the following paper I have considered gravitation
under this aspect, and in doing so, have been Jed to discuss some points
relating to dynamical sequence in the abstract.”

After referring to the fact that neither Newton nor Laplace recog-
nized the principle of the conservation of force in their grand researches,
Waterston continues: ‘‘ Even at the present day, mathematicians have
been so long accustomed to and brought up in the statical method of

* Loco citat., sec. 134, pp. 334, 335.
t Comptes Rendus, January 3, 1842, vol. xiv, p. 37.

‘
244 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

treating molecular physics initiated by those great leaders, that the
iuefiiciency and inconsistency of this mode of inquiry with the mechani-
eal theory of heat seems as yet not to be fully appreciated by some even
of the most zealous upholders of that theory. With this impression, it
seews desirable that every effort should be made to arrive at a clear
understanding of fundamental points, and the principle of physical
causation, which the mechanical theory supplies.”*

As thisis the usual point of departure with kinematists, (not “ brought
up in the statical method,”) it may be well here to affirm with some
pesitiveness that-without the ceaseless co-operation of two antagoniz-
ing or reciprocating statical teusions, a “* mechanical theory of heat” is

rationally impossible. Matter possessing only inertia and motion (whose:

product is momentum) would very speedily arrive at a state of stable
and inert equilibrium, without having ever exhibited a single phenome-
non of force, and without the possibility of any dynamic potential.
An abstract system of kinematics, under any geometrical arrangement
or conception, is indeed quite irreconcilable with the actual system of
dynamics found in nature and subject to our observation. All gases
would under the operation of the first law of motion, tend to infinite
and equable diffusion; and liquids and solids would quickly follow in
their wake. Heat, whether cousidered as a vibration or a revolution,
(or preferably as both a rectilinear and an orbital movement,) could of
course have no existence, since there could be neither recoil nor con-
straining bond; and the very first step'toward an oscillation would
also be the last one. Even the principle itself of ‘‘conservation of
foree” is absolutely dependent on the existence of primordial static po-
tentiality. So much for a “clear understanding of fundamental points.”

‘* SECTION 1. The integral of gravitation is a function of space. Sup-
pose a central homogeneous globe to augment in bulk by the descent
of similar matter from an infinite distance in radial directions all around ;
each descending element, on arriving at the surface of the globe, pre-
sents itself charged with a certain amount of mechanical force equiva-
lent to the square velocity with which it impinges. If we confine our
attention to the centripetal influence of the original central giobe only,
the square velocity of the descending element diminishes in the inverse

ratio of the radius of the augmenting globular mass; for it is upon the

surface of this that impact takes place, and the matter that has been
added to the original globe is assumed not to augment the centripetal
force acting upon the descending matter.”+ This established ratio of
final velocity does not appear in any way to substantiate the general
proposition ; nor is it seen to receive support from any of the succeed-
ing illustrations. Gravitation,as a fact of observation, is always found
to be rigorously relative to two posited elements; and its integral is by
such observation a function of the distance between these elements. If

*L. E. D. Phil. Mag., May, 1858, vol. xv, p. 329.
t Loco citat., p. 330.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 245

the distance is infinite, the integral is negatively infinite. But how it
is a funetion of ** space” in any more general sense, is certainly not ob-
vious. As Professor Briicke, of Vienna, has forcibly said in his response
to Faraday: “So far as my consciousness reaches, so far as | am eapa-
ble of distinguishing true from false, and like from unlike, all known
facts are bronght into complete harmony with our laws of thought,
when we suppose forces as the causes of phenomena to reside in the
masses, the spaces between these masses being traversed by the forces,
If the forces could be imagined as existing in space, it must also be
conceivable that matter may be annihilated without changing the sum
of the forces, and this, at least by me, is not conceivable.’*

*“ SECTION 2. The force-generating faculty exists in space, and is di-
rected centripetally. [?] This is proved by the following considerations.
The integral force-producing power of any body, however small, subject
to the law of universal gravitation, is illimitable as space. It is impos-
sible to imagine an infinite attribute belonging to a finite entity.f It is
therefore in space that the energy that contributes the power of gravi-
tation exists, and the element of inatter merely gives to it a centripetal
direction. This, as a consequent of the law of gravitation, seems note-
worthy from it probably being applicable to molecular forees generally.
Tt favors the idea that the function of the material element is to give
direction to a living force that pervades space.”t The first part of this
proposition, {as an iteration of the previous one,) that gravitative force
“exists in space,” is Gerived as an inference from a metaphysical postu-
late,— It is impossible to imagine” it as belonging to a finite body.
But our powers of “ imagining” can hardly be accepted as the measure
of scientific verity. ‘‘It is impossible to imagine” the nature of elec-
trical action, chemical affinity, lamini‘erous vibration, zether, atom,
foree, or space! Who is able to formulate in thought the co-existence
of an equal repulsive and attractive energy in either pole of a bar
magnet, simultaneously discriminating by opposite action between the
reversed ends of two magnetic needles? But when it is said that the
sole function of the mateiial element is to give centripetal direction to
the circumambient ocean of force, wonderful indeed is the conception of
virtue in the * finite entity” thus drawing to itself the centripetal ten-
deney in all directions throughout illimitab'e space, and instantaneously
re-adjusting these infiaite lines of foree with every momentary change
of position! If difficulty of “imagining” were a criterion of error,
surely it might be well applied to this hypothesis.

“Suction 3. The law of gravitation with respect to the element of
radial space, is usually defined with reference to a constant element of
time; the increment of velocity generated being proportional to the
increwent of time, whatever the direction or velocity of the motion, and

*L. E. D. Phil. Mag., February, 1858, vol. xv, pp. 87, 88.
t Is it impossible to imagine an atom having an eternal duration ?
‘ ¢ Phil Mag., 1858, vol. xv, pp. 331, 332,
246 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

inversely as the square of the central distance. If we view it with ref:
erence to a constant element of radial space, we find that the increment —

of square velocity generated by the force of gravitation is proportional
to decrement of radial distance, and inversely as square of central dis-
tance. This holds whatever the velocity or direction of the motion,
whatever the orbit of the projectile... .”

“Srcrion 4. The mutual gravitation of two bodies develops mechan-

ical foree in each of them inversely proportional to its mass. Suppose
two bodies to descend toward each other by their mutual gravitation,

their common center of gravity being at rest. At any time before they —

meet, their acquired velocities being examined will be found inversely

as their masses; which assume as one to ten. Suppose them removed ~
to the earth’s surface, and each projected up a vertical with their ac-_
quired velocities respectively: the smaller body rises 100 times the —
height ascended by the larger, and thus in again descending would be —

able to perform ten times the work... .”*

After some other propositions and discussions, not specially bearing

ou the present inquiry, Mr. Waterston gives a general statement of

results as follows: ‘ Kven if we had not those proofs of the existence —

of a universal medium that the undulatory theory of light supplies, it
would be well to admit the existence of media to which ordinary matter
may be assumed to be entirely subordinate in all their potential rela-
tious, so as to give order to our ideas in tracing out the dynamical

sequence of nature. It would be taking too narrow a view if we limited —

the function of the Inminiferous wether to the conveying of physical
pulses only. The atmosphere also conveys physical pulses, but that is

the least important of its functions in the economy of nature. There is —
nothing that should hinder us attributing to the media concerned in —
the radiation of heat and light the higher functions of electric polarity
and gravitation. The special dynamic arrangements by which this is —
effected may ever elude research, but as there is no limit to the vis viva —
which such media may conserve in their minutest parts, so there is no~
physical impossibility in that vis viva being suddenly transferred to the —

molecules of ordinary matter in the proportions and sequence required
to carry out the order and system of nature. The fundamental princi-
ple of action in such media must be in accordance with elastic impact,
for upon that the dynamic theory of heat and conservation of force rests
as a foundation. The statical and dynamical characteristics of gravita-
tion and transfusion of force have also been shown to conform to it, so
that all the forces that hold the molecules of bodies together must also
be in subjection to it.” +

From the above it would appear that the writer in previously affirming
the integral of gravitation to be a function of space, intended rather the
content of space, or the dynamic medium supposed to oceupy it. The

* Loco citat., p. 332. t Loco citat., p. 344.

_

H
a
=
5
hl
a“

>

Jim
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 247

whole suggestion is however, so indefinite that it must be accounted less
a coherent hypothesis than a mere speculation,—a cast among the possi-
bilities. To refer the great fact of gravitation to some unimagined and
unimaginable ether-motion, the special arrangements of which for effect-
jung the desired purpose “ elude research,” is not to proffer an explana-
tion, but to indulge in an illusion; and although Mr. Waterston has in
terms recognized all of the six propositions (excepting the last one) an-
nounced as the necessary conditions of the problem,* he has failed to
show that one of these conditions can be satisfied by his speculations.

CHALLIS. 1859.

Professor James Challis, of the University of Cambridge, England,
in the prosecution of a ** Mathematical Theory of Heat,” published in
the Philosophical Magazine for March, 1859, advanced in November of
the same year, to a “ Mathematical Theory of Attractive Forces,” based
on the assumption “ that all substances consist of minute spherical atoms
of differeut but constant magnitudes, and of the same intrinsic inertia ;
and that the dynamical relations and movements of different substances,
and of their constituent atoms, are determined by the pressures of the
wether against the surfaces of the atoms, together with the reaction of
the atoms against such pressure by reason of the constancy of their
form aud magnitudes. The wkther is assumed to be a uniform elastic
fluid medium pervading all space not occupied by atoms, and varying
in pressure proportionally to variations of its density. The theory recog-
nizes no other kinds of force than these two, the one an active force resi-
dent in the ether, aud the other a passive reaction of the atoms.”

After a formidable array of partial differential equations, the author
concludes: ‘ Having now shown that waves of large breadth attract asmall
spherical body toward their origin, and havipg previously shown that
waves of small breadth may repel such a body in the contrary direction,
the main difficulty in forming a theory of attractive and repulsive forces
seems to be overcome.”{ It is supposed by Professor Challis that by
the disturbance of a material element, a series of undulations differing
greatly in their order of magnitude and velocity may be simultaneously
propagated in the etherial medium, giving rise to as many different
manifestations of force; and that according to their relative wave-
length, some of these will produce a permanent motion of translation
on molecules of determinate mass subjected to their influence. This
is partly in aceord with the striking experiments of Guyot previously
referred to.

In a following paper the author undertook ‘A Theory of the Force
of Gravity ;” remarking that, “As we have no conception from personal
experience and sensation of any other species of force than pressure, the
actio in distans does not admit of being explained by any previous or

tL. E. D. Phil. Mag., November, 1859, vol. xviii, p. 334.
248 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

concomitant knowledge, but if it be a reality, must forever remain to
us incomprehensible.” Tow the school-boy’s personal experience of the
strain exerted in drawing by a cord his wintews sled can be resolved
into a sensation of *¢ pressure” does not seem easy of discovery.

Assuming then an order of «etherial waves having a much larger
range than those of light, Professor Challis endeavors to deduce the
several laws, of action proportional to the number of atoms acted upon,
of the inverse square of the distance of action, and of simultaneous
action in different directions. He infers that if such waves enconntered
a slight retardation of propagation in passing through the earth, they
would be refracted, so to speak, by the form of the large inequalities of
the terrestrial surface, producing the observed deflection of the plumb-
line.

He also supposes that a small function involving 7? must be added
to the usual formula “ increasing sensibly the action of the sun near
its surface and diminishing its action notably through interstellar dis-
tances. He thinks that this alone will explain why the sidereal system
does not collapse toward its common center of gravity. ‘According
to the theory of gravity I have proposed, although the ordinary law
may be exact through the solar system and far beyond, there must be
distances at which the condition that the exeursions of the vibrating
particles of the ether are large compared to the dimensions of the
atoms ceases to be fulfilled. In that case the attraction changes to
repulsion.” *

teuewing the discussion of “A Theory of Molecular Forces,” the fol-
lowing year, Professor Challis contends: * It is a matter of demonstra-
tion that a theory of molecular forces cannot be constructed on the
hypothesis that the forces vary according to some law of the distance
from individual material particles, unless the law be such that the foree
changes sigu with the distance so as to become attractive alter being
repulsive. But if foree be a virtue resident in the particle, it must at its

origin be either attractive or repulsive, and it seems impossible to con-.

ceive how by emanation to a distance it can change its quality. This
difficulty, as will be shown, is not encountered in a theory of molecular
forces which deduces their laws from the dynamical action of an elastie
medium.” While itis probably no more difficult to conceive an innate
force or virtue which “ at its origin” shall have a law of radial intensity
whose value passes through zero, than to conceive auy other mathemat-
ical law of increment or decrement, there is certainly no necessity for
assuming such a law. If we should suppose the attraction by inverse
squares to be absolute, with the superposition of a repulsion of much
higher inverse power, and of far greater intensity, it is evident that the

two curves of force would cross each other, and that at the intersection «—

the resultant would involve a “ change of sign.” However difficult it
may be to realize such a conception, the actual superposition of oppos-

* Phil. Mag., 1859, vol. xviii, p. 451.

a
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION, 249

ing forces is daily exhibited to us in the behavior of the magnet.
Another possible conception is that repulsion is a positive material or
atherial atmosphere of definite radius. ;

Indeed, the author’s theory is really one of the superposition of two
systems of waves, rather than one of a single system changing its sign.
For he supposes that the attraction of gravity results from :etherial
waves of great length and correspondingly large excursions or ampli-
tudes, in whieh the diameter of the material atom is a vanishing quan-
tity (‘¢=0”), and there is no sensible difference between the velocities
ou its two hemispheres; while atomic repulsion results from such
small waves (smaller even than those of light) that the atom is large in
comparison, and the difference of the wave on its two hemispheres is
very notable. ‘ Thus the conditions assumed in the mathematical the-
ory of heat are satisfied by supposing » to be very large and q [the ex-
cursion of the wave] to be very smail; and the fulfillment of these con-
ditions accounts for the great energy of calorific repulsion. . . Hence
atoms of very small size, acting upon each other by the intervention of
waves of which the excursions are very small, mutually repel with a
very great force; and at the same time, as was shown in the Theory
of Ueat, the force varies very rapidly with the distance.”

Attributing to the spherical hard atom of matter only inertia, * it
-would be contrary to these principles to ascribe to an atom the property
of elasticity, because from what we know of this property by experience
it is quantitative, and being most probably dependent on an ugegrega-
tion of atoms, may admit of explanation by a complete theory of mole-
cular forces.” * Of this fundamental property however,—uecessarily
precedent to all theory of wave-action,—no explanation is given.

That the author did not feel entirely satisfied with his vibratory theory
of molecular forces, would appear from his returning to the subject two
years later with the remark : ‘* Such vibrations, when we calculate their
effect ouly to the first power of the velocity, are found to produce simply
oscillations of small spherical bodies submitted to their action, and not
motion of translation. To account for the latter, it is necessary to pro-
ceed to the consideration of effects due to the second power of the ve-
locity. . . . . . Lastly, there is yet another physical force, the
relations of which to an etherial medium and to other modes of force
are not readily made out: I mean the force of gravity. If however, all
the other forces are modifications of ztherial pressure, it is reasonable to
suppose that this oue is of the same kind. I have ventured to reason
on this supposition, and haveattempted to deduce (I think with success)
the known laws of gravity from the dynamical action of stherial waves
of much larger magnitude than those which correspond to molecular
forces.” + ;

While it is comparatively easy to explain the origin af heat-waves

* L. E. D. Phil. Mag., February, 1°60, vol. xix, pp. 89-91.
tL. E. D. Phil. Mag., April, 1862, vol. xxiii, pp. 319, 320.
250 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

by the theory of the reactions of antecedent forces, the converse prob-
lem, to explain forces by the hypothesis of antecedent waves, is by no
means so simple. Accordingly, a very weak point in all undulatory
theories of gravitation has been an account of the origin (to say nothing
of the continuance) of the primum mobile. ‘*On the source and main-
tenance of the sun’s heat,” Professor Challis remarks as follows: ‘‘ We
are led to the conclusion that the undulations which emanate equally
in all directions from each atom, and constitute by their dynamic action
the repulsion of heat, are mainly produced by the reaction of the atoms
due to their inertia and impenetrability. It is plain however, from
this reasoning, that there must be an original and independent source
of undulations. Now obviously such a supply may be conceived to be
furnished to the sun by undulations emanating from the stars. We have
ocular evidence that stars transmit light-undulations, and it is quite
possible that they originate others not sensible to the sight.”* As our
sun is one of the stellar fraternity, surely this device of mutual borrow-
ing is an extraordinary method of production.

“That action at a distance is not a universal condition of force is
proved by tbe modern discovery that light and heat, which are modes
of force, are transmitted through space by the intervention of a me-
dium. If one. kind of force requires a medium of transmission, why not
another? Again, it is found by experience that the same portion of
matter may attract or repel, according to circumstances. But inherent
force cannot possibly be so changed by circumstances. In the same
matter it must continue to be always the same.” t

** All physical force being pressure, there must be a medium by which
the pressure is executed.” And the origin of this pressure is therefore,
the origi of “all physical foree.” The fundamental postulate of this
medium is that it is a uniformly continuous elastic fluid, exerting a
pressure always proportional to its density. As it is contrary to prin-
ciple to ascribe elasticity to atomic matter, the question might arise,
why is it more proper to ascribe this occult property to the ether? In
the case of air (of uniform temperature) the constant ratio of .pressure
to density results we are told, from a vis a tergo, the vibratory action
of the interstitial ether. The author perceives the incongruity of deny-
ing to the air a quality attributed to the «ether, when the law is implic-
jtly the same in both; and he suggests in exteruation, ‘¢ we can con-
ceive of the existence of another order of ether haviug the same relation
to the first as that has to air, and so on ad libitum.’t

The very key-note of the hypothesis is dynamic etherial “ pressure.”
“All the different kinds of physical foree detected by observation and
experiment are modifications of pressures of the wther.”§ But when we

* Phil. Mag., June, 1863, vol. xxv, p. 4€5.

t Phil. Mag., October, 1863, vol. xxvi, p. 284.

{ Phil. Mag., June, 1866, vol. xxxi, pp. 468, 469.
§ Ibidem, p. 470.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 25h

seek the cause of this pressure, it forever eludes us. Here then the
system stands self-convicted of impotence to exercise its prime preroga-
tive. At whatever point in the infinite series of descendiag orders of
wether we stop, the secret of its power is ever one step backward. We
must still “conceive of the existence of another order of ether having
the same relation to it” that it had to the preceding. And that no pos-
sible element of embarrassment may be wanting to our conception, the
first cether is absolutely “continuous,” without atoms and without in-
terstices ! F

In 1869, Professor Challis published an elaborate extension of his
mathematical discussion of kinetic theories of the physical forces, in a
large octavo volume of some 750 pages; the first half of the work being
devoted to a general mathematival treatise, of high merit and value,
under the title of ‘‘ Notes on the Principles of Pure and Applied Calcu-
lation.” In the latter portion of the work, (on theoretical physics,) the
subjects treated of “are those of light, heat, and molecular attraction,
force of gravity, electricity, galvanism, and magnetism, respecting which
I make the general hypothesis that their phenomena all result from
modes of action of an elastic fluid, the pressure of which is proportional
to its density.”* And in the “introduction ” to the work, he has more
explicitly stated: “The hypothesis respecting the wether is simply that
it is a continuous elastic medium, perfectly fluid, and (hat it presses pro-
portionally to its density.”t The forces of elasticity, and of chemical
affinity, are excladed as beyond the present reach of analysis.

A distinction is made between the ztherial radiations of light and of
heat, not justified by any observed phenomenon. ‘Since in the theory
I have proposed, the transverse vibrations of rays always accompany
direet vibrations, and it was concluded that the sensation of light is en-
tirely due to the former, we are at liberty to refer the action of heat, or
other modes of force, to the direct vibrations.”¢ This would leave the
polarization of heat quite inexplicable ; as obviously vibrations of the
acoustic type are incapable of polarization.

It is now familiar to opticians that fine rulings on glass, whose dis-
tance apart is less than a half of the wave-length of light, are readily
resolvable with optical distinctness by our modern microscopes, while
the intimate texture of the glass is apparently as far removed from res-
olution as with the unarmed eye. What part can etherial vibrations
play in giving cohesion to the ultimate molecules of the glass? Here
then is apparently a new difficulty for the undulatory theory of force ;
for not only are the ultimate molecules of the silicate bound together
with a powerful force, (giving seeming continuity of substance to our
highest artificial vision,) but they are also held apart with a still more
potent stress. Professor Challis does not shrink from the solution.

* Principles of Mathematies and Physics, 5vo., Cambridge, L869, p. 313.
t+ Introduction, p. xlv
t Opere citat., p. 437.
252 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

“ Making the only hypothesis which is consistent with the theoretical
principles advoeated in this work, namely, that the ultimate atoms of
the glass are kept asunder by the repulsive action of etherial undula-
tions which have their origin at individual atoms, it may be presumed
that this atoniic repulsion is attributable to undulations incomparably
smaller than those which cause the sensation of light... .. The only
additional hypothesis that will now be made is that there are undu'a-
tions of the «ther for which the values of 4 are very much inferior in

Inagnitude to those of the undulations which produce the phenomena of |

light. The origin of this class of undulations may, as well as that of
all others, be ascribed to disturbances of the ether by the vibrations
and motions of atoms. Although the periods of the etherial vibrations
may, under particular circumstances, be determined by tke periods of
the vibrations of the atoms, this is not necessarily the case... . ”*

“ TTowever small may be the condensation propagated from a single
atom, the resulting condensation from an aggregation of atoms con-
tained in a spherical space will be of sensible magnitude at distances
from the center of the space very large compared to its radius, provided
the space be not less than a certain finite magnitude, and the atoms
contained in it be not fewer than a certain finite number. .... We
have hitherto had under consideration the waves of atomic repulsion
and the waves of molecular attraction, and it was argued that the lat-
ter might result from compositions cf the former, and that in that case
the values of 2 would be much larger for the composite waves than for
the components.” t y

In 1872, the author again writing “On the Hydrodynamieal Theory
of Attractive and Repulsive Forces,” says, in regard to the discussion of
the first and second orders of small quantities, “ Having in fact sue-
ceeded in overcoming the mathematical difficulty of effecting a second
approximation by this means, [starting from the first approximation, ]
I have ascertained that the solution contains terms of indefinite increase,
Whence it must be concluded that the logic of the process is somewhere
at fault... . . Both in this Magazine and, in my work on the Mathe-
matical Principles of Physics, I have in various ways attempted to solve
to the second approximation the problem of the motion of a small
sphere acted upon by the vibrations of an elastic fluid. But I must
coufess that owing to the difficulty of including the effeet of the spon-
taneous vibrations, my efforts have been only partially suecessful.” He
remarks that as his equations involved two unknown constants H, and
I, (representing the amounts of wave condensation on the nearer and
on the further hemispheres of the atom,) “on this account the theo-
ries which attribute the forces of heat, molecular attraction, and gravity,
to action on the atoms by pressure of the ether in vibration, are incom-
plete.” And he admits that for any purpose of quantitative determina-

* Opere citat., py. 456, 459. t Opere citat., pp. 463, 489.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 20a

tion or verification, “* The whole theory however of attractive and re-
pulsive forces, 1egarded as due to vibrations of the zther, is incomplete
for want of ana priori determination of the composition and value of
the quantity J7.”*

In 1876, the author returns to the discussion with a view ‘‘to correct
in certain respects that investigation, [the one last cited,| and to carry it
a step further.” And in dealing with a residual effect of vibration,
* which in fact is the attraction of gravity,’ and determining that the
accelerative force is independent of the size of the atom or molecule,
he says: “This result expresses the force of gravityas due to the at-
tractive action of a molecule of a higher order as to magnitude than the
molecule of molecular attraction. lor distinction, a molecule of this
superior order might be called a gravity-molecule. Its magnitude may
still be considered to be so small that in comparison with the magni-
tudes of verrestrial and cosmical masses, it may be treated as an infini-
tesimal quantity. .... Lastly, it is to be noticed that on account of
the large value of 4 for gravity-waves, they do not suffer sensible retarda-
tion or refraction in passing through gross bodies. I have on several
previous occasions, treated of the problem of gravitating force theoreti-
cally, and by slow steps have approximated to its solution; but before
the present attempt, I had not succeeded in exhibiting satisfactorily the
rationale of this kind of attraction by vibrations.” t

Such is an imperfect abstract of the most carefully-studied and the
most diligently-elaborated exposition of the wave-theory of attraction.
which has yet been proffered to the scientific world. Discussed with
the earnestuess aud candor of a fervent conviction, and with all the
rescurces of a high order of mathematical culture and ability, the re-
sult yet fails, sadly and fatally, to satisfy the conditions of the problem.
Stroug as is the author’s assurance that he has successfully grasped by
his formulas and equations the several functions embraced in the first
three of our propositions, i\tbis is by no means mathematically estab-
lished; and the last three propositions are hopelessly ignored and vio-
lated. We have seen that. Llasticity, that puzzling “ occult quality,”
driven out from the sober presence of the purely rational atom, bas in an
inexplicable manuer, slipped in by the back-door of etherial pressure.

Naturam expelles furca, tamen usque recurret,
Et mala perrumpet furlim fastidia victriz.

With the multitudGinous duties imposed upon the much-suffering
gether, in ail the varying ranges and orders of undulations derived from
atoms and from molecules with ever-changing motions, amid all the
perturbations and transformations of the mechanical energy of matter,

*L. E. D. Phil. Mag., September, 1872, vol. xliv, pp. 203, 204, 209.

+ Phil. Mag., September, 1876, vol. ii, p. 191.

¢ Principles of Mathematics and Physics, p. 499. In the concluding chapter of the
work, the author draws strength and encouragement from a quotation of the celebrated
“Third Letter to Bentley.”
254 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

there is one resultant alone which never by any accident incurs a com-
position or experiences a commutation, the constant and unchangeable
undulation of gravitation.

GLENNIE. 1861.

Mr. J.S. Stuart Glennie, in 1861, published in the Philosophical Mag-
azine several papers on the autieee of gravitation, in which he proposed
to show that universal repulsion is the true explanation of this force ;
thus referring it rather to a static than a kinetic condition of pressure.
In an essay “On the Principles of the Science of Motion,” he sets out
with the design “‘in this attempt to found a general theory, cleared of
ethers and fluids, of properties and virtues.” Commencing with the
generalization that ‘‘a mechanical force, or the cause of a mechanical
motion, we know to be in general the condition of a difference of press-
ure,” he infers, ‘hence it appears that if a general mechanical theory is
possible, the ultimate property of matter must be conceived to be a

mutual repulsion of its parts, and the indubitable Newtonian law of

universal attraction be deduced herefrom, under the actual conditions
of the world. The general experimental condition of the fitness of the

mechanical conception of pressure as the basis of a general physical .

and chemical theory evidently is that there bea plenum. . . :
To give distinctness to this idea of the parts of matter as inten re-
pulsive, a molecule, or a body (an aggregate of molecules), is conceived
as a center of fines of pressure; the lengths and curves of these lines
are determined by the relative pressure of the lines they meet; and
lines from greater are made up of lesser molecules and their lines, and
so on ad infinitum. In speaking of a molecule or body as such a center
of pressure, it will be convenient to have a technical name. Rather
than coin a new term, it is proposed to use ‘atom’ inthissense. ... .
Atoms, or mutually determining centers of lines of pressure, may also
be defined and their relations analytically investigated, as mutually de-
termining elastic systems with centers of resistance. This is the fun-
damental conception (not hypothesis) of the theory. . . . . Now
in a system of atoms as above defined, let the centers be of equal mass
and at equal distances; there will be no cifference of pressure on any

one center, no moving force will be developed, and the conditions of

equilibrium will be satisfied. But it is clear that forces will be devel-
oped, or the general conditions of motion be fulfilled, either (1) by a
difference in the masses of the centers, or (2) by a difference in the dis-

tances of the centers, in consequence of a displacement of any one of

them, or (3) supposing a state of dynamic equilibrium established in
the system by its being brought in contact with another system in a
cifferent state of such equilibrium. uy

“If all the masses of the system were shat and all at the same dis-
tance from each other, their mutual repulsions would be equal in all
directions, and they would remain at rest. But if, though two masses

|
i
|
|
d
|

_

ee ewer
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 255

may be equal, either has on the other side of it a mass of greater size,
or at a greater distance than the other, it is evident that the mutual
pressures of these two equal masses will under such conditions, be un-
equal, and hence as in the first case, they will approach. It is also
evident that a body may thus cause the approach to itself of another
body, whatever the number of interposed bodies. Thus if the concep-
tion of atoms is applied to the unequal and unequally-placed bodies of
such a world as that presented to us, the law of universal attraction
follows, and gravity is mechanically explained, that is, is referred to a me-
chanical conception. But it must be understood that the above propo-
sition is given rather to show that as an actual law, universal attraction
may be deduced from the theoretical conception of universal repulsion,
than with any pretension to its being the best attainable form of an ex-
planation of thelaw. It may however be remarked that such an expla-
nation is in accordance with the chief characteristics of the force of
gravity; it is not polar, and it seems to be so far different in kind from
other physical forces that it is not interchangeable with them, as they
are among each other; for the attraction of gravity is thus referred to
difference of mass, either between the two attracted bodies or in the
systems of which they are parts.” *
* In a second article, “On the Principles of Energetics,” Mr. Glennie
proceeds: “As force is thus conceived, not as an absolute entity acting
upon matter, but as a condition of the parts of matter itself, and as a
condition determined by the relative masses and distances of these parts,
any valid hypothesis of a force or of a motion to account tor any set of
phenomena is thus seen to imply an assertion as to relative masses and
_ distances which can be more or less readily submitted to experiment or
observation and analysis. . . .

“ The condition of the beginning of motionis a difference of pressure on
the body that begins to move; the condition of a uniform continuous
motion is a neutralization of the resisting pressure; the condition of an
accelerated continuous motion is a uniform or varying resisting [effect-
ive?| pressure.” t

in a subsequent paper, in continuation of the last, the writer thus re-
sumes his statement: ‘‘ Here more clearly to express the idea in con-
trast with the fundamental hypothesis of Professor Challis, an atom may
be defined as a center of an emanating elastic ether, the pressure of which
is directly as the mass of its center, and the form of which depends on
the relative pressures of surrounding atoms. Thus if you will, matter
may be said to be made up of particles in an elastic ether. But that
ether is not auniform circumambient fluid, but made up of the mutually
determining «thers (if you wish to give the outer part of the atom a
special name) emanating from the central particles. And these central
particles are nothing but what (endeavoring to make my theory clear by

*L. E. D. Phil. Mag., January, 1861, vol, xxi, pp. 41-45.
t Loco citat., April number, p. 276.
256 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

expressing it in the language of the theories it opposes) I may call xthe-
rial nuclei. . . . In defining atoms as centers of pressure, they are
thus no less distinguished on the one hand from centers of force than ,
from the little hard bodies of the ordinary theories;-for such centers of
force are just as absolute and self-existent in the ordinary conception of
them as those little bodies ; and in a scientific theory there can (execpt as
temporary conveniences) be no absolute existences, entities. Hence
(mechanical) foree, or the cause of motion, is conceived not as an entity
but as a condition,—the condition namely of a difference of pressure ;
and the figure, size, and hardness of all bodies are conceived as relative,
dependent, and therefore changeable. There are thus no absolutely ulti-
mate bodies.”* In a later part of the same article (p. 356) the writer
objects to the ordinary atomic conception that “an hypothesis of infin-
itely hard atoms not merely requires in the consideration of the motion
of such an atom abstraction to be made of the interior relative motions,
also conseqtent on that difference of pressure which causes its external
relative motion, but explicitly dénies any internal motion.” The force
of the objection is not very obvious. There seems to be no more need
of conceiving internal motions in the ultimate upit of matter, for the pur-
poses of molecular physics, than there is for conceiving internal motions
in the planets for the purpose cf astrenomical physics.

In a brief summary of his views, in the succeeding volume, Mr. Glen-
nie thus recapitulates: ** Matter is conceived as made up, not of an
elastic ether and inelastic atoms, but of elastic molecules of different
orders as to size and density. If a rough physical conception of these
molecules be required, they may be conceived as etherial nuclei, the
ether of the nuclei of a lower being made up of nuclei of a higher or-
der, and so on ad infinitum.” f

Itis somewhat difficult to criticise a scheme of gravitative pressure
so indeterminate in detail. The very function of a theory or hypothesis
is to formulate the unknown in terms of the known; aud in proportion
as a writer fails to do this, he fails to present us with an intelligible
theory or hypothesis. From the objection expressed, that “atoms” are
ordinarily conecived as self-existent bodies, while ‘in a scientific theory
there can be no absolute existences or entities,” it might be supposed
that the author held the constituents of matter to be merely mathemat-
ical points (without dimension) forming the centers of repulsive
spheres, ‘ etherial nuclei ;” but when we learn that these elastic mole-
cules are ‘“ of different orders as to size and density,” built up of success:
ive aggregates from the infinitely small, and that each exerts a repel-
lant “pressure which is directly as the mass of its center,” we are led
to conclude that these “ ztherial nuclei” do possess a determinate mag- —
nitude. If they are not to be considered as “‘ absolute existences or enti-
ties,” they are supposed to have at least sufficient substance to be moved

1

SS ey — nb ee) ee ey

* Phil. Mag, May, 1861, vol. xxi, pp. 351, 352.
t Phil. Mag., July, 1861, vol. xxii., p. 62.
é y KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 257

about according to the differences of pressure to which they are ex-

_ posed. A system composed of any number of these repellant centers

having equal mass, and placed at an equal distance apart, will it is said
remain in a eu of stable equilibrium, apparently whatever be
the unit of distance. What fact of observation this deportment illus-
trates is not stated. But if either masses or distances be unequal, mo-
tion will result, and ‘forces will be developed.” This certainly does
not represent any ascertained fact of gravity or molecular physics.
With a universe filled with such centers of repulsion energetic inversely
as the square of their radii, it is not easy to see how strictly centripetal
motions can result, or how such motions of approach (if possible)
could exhibit an energy in directly the reverse ratio.

In enthroning a universal repulsion to discharge the office of a uni-
versal attraction, Mr. Glennie has not been successful in satisfying any
of the conditions of the problem, and in investing his “ atoms” with the

pressure of elasticity he has hardly carried out his programme of a theory

‘cleared of properties and virtues.”

> -KELLER. 1863.

Messrs. F. A. E. and Em. Keller, in a joint ‘Memoir on the Cause of
Weight, and of the Effects Attributed to Universal Attraction,” (pre-
sented to the French Academy of Sciences March 23, 1863,) announced
as the motive force the agency of xtherial undulations. Referring the

_ effect to the longitudinal vibrations of the ther, the writers think ‘“ the

time has come to seek and to find a plausible explanation of weight—
simple and natural—in the ceaseless action of these waves on resisting

_ bodies, an action analogous to that of ocean-waves, which drive ships

upon the coast by the vis viva of their flow over that of their ebb; for
the longitudinal vibrations of the ztherial waves condensing and dilat-
ing being simply impulsions followed by reaction, and the reactions

_ being always more feeble than the impulsions, there follows definitively
_ an excess of force in the direction of the propagation which should com-

municate itself to dense bodies opposed to their propagation, and which
should press them one toward the others. It is thus that inert bodies

of slight density would transmit their impulsion to denser bodies, when

thrown promiscuously into a long box, were we to strike repeatedly one

_ of the ends of the box. Ultimately the denser particles will collect at

the opposite end; and if both ends are struck simultaneously these par-
ticles will collect in the middle of the box, while the others will be ar-
ranged in the order of decreasing density from the center.”

After considering the effect on a line of particles subjected to contin-

‘uous shocks at each extremity, the writers proceed: “If instead of a

single line of particles a certain volume be taken, and if instead of shocks
in two opposite directions the shocks are supposed to be given in all

directions, it is easy to see that the denser particles, mutually absorbing
“- a part of the impulses directed from one to the other, would approach as if

s-17
258 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

really attracted. As a resultant of all the impressions, the particles
would act upon each other in the inverse ratio of the square of the dis-
tance, and in the direct ratio of their number,—an action which at once
presents a striking analogy with the law of universal attraction.” *

It is not believed that either of these ratios would be even approxi-
mately attained. It will be observed that in this scheme the etherial
vibrations are supposed to exert a precisely opposite action to the undu-
lations exhibited in the system of Professor Challis, having their origin
on the circumferences of enormous spheres of cether, and being accurately
directed to a central point or points, whatever may be the variety of
distribution or the changes of position in the material elements.

Tart. 1864.

The professor of natural philosophy in the University of Edinburgh,
P. G. Tait, has expresséd himself with a cautious moderation on the
probable origin of gravity, but with a sufficient distinctness to indicate
his inclination to a kinetic hypothesis. In an able though somewhat
prejudiced and partisan review of “The Dynamical Theory of Heat,”
published in the North British Review for February, 1864, after the
very distinct affirmation of the great truth that ‘natural philosophy
is an experimental and not an intuitive science: no @ priori reasoning
can conduct us definitely to a single physical truth ;” the reviewer thus
proceeds to suggest his inductive conclusions:

‘‘In the physical world we are congnizant of but four elementary or
primordial ideas, beside the inevitable Time and Space. They are Mat-
ter, Force, Position, and Motion. Of these, motion is simply change of
position; and force is recognized as the agent in every change of
motion. Till we know what the ultimate nature of matter is, it will be
premature to speculate as to the ultimate nature of force; though we
have reason to believe that it depends upon the diffusion of highly at-
tenuated matter throughout space.” t

Indefinite as the statement is, the indication that ‘‘force” probably
depends rather on “highly attenuated matter” than on ordinary gross
or sensible matter would appear to be derived from a somewhat meta-
physical reason to believe. If the conception of a material connecting-
link throughout space may be supposed to rest on a perception of phys-
ical fitness or necessity in such a transmitter of energy, this gives no
physical reason to believe the origin of force resident in the one form of
matter rather than in the other. For whether this “highly attenuated
matter throughout space” is supposed to act statically or kinetically,
and whether its function be to give or to receive impulses, we are cor-

* Comptes Rendus, vol. lvi, pp. 531, 532.

+ North British Review, February, 1864, vol. xl, art. ii, p.22 of Am. edition. This
essay, With another one on “Energy ” in the same periodical, has been republished as
a separate treatise, under the title of ‘“ Sketch of Thermodynamics.” 8vo., Edinburgh,
1868.

|
4

Saye
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 259

rectly informed that “force is recognized as the agent in every change
of motion;” and therefore we are no nearer the source of this agency
after the acceptance the hypothesis than we were before it.

Still more recently, Professor Tait, in an evening lecture on “ Force,”
delivered September 8, 1876, before the British Association at its Glas-
gow meeting, has recurred to his kinetic hypothesis. ‘‘ Why two
masses of matter possess potential energy when separated, in virtue of
which they are conveniently said to attract one another, is still one of
the most obscure problems in physics. I have not now time to enter
on a discussion of the very ingenious idea of the ultramundane corpus-
cles, the outcome of the life-work of Le Sage, and the only even appar-
ently hopeful attempt which has yet been made to explain the mechanism
of gravitation. The most singular thing about it is that if it be true,
it will probably lead us to regard all kinds of energy as ultimately
kinetic.* And a singular quasi-metaphysical argument may be raised
on this point, of which I can give only the barest outline. The mutual
convertibility of kinetic and potential energy shows that relations of
equality (though not necessarily of identity) can exist between the two;
and thus that their proper expressions involve the same fundamental
units, and in the same way. Thus as we have already seen that kinetic
energy involves the unit of mass and the square of the linear unit directly,
together with the square of the time unit inversely, the same must be
the case with potential energy; and it seems very singular that poten-
tial energy should thus essentially involve the unit of time, if it do not
ultimately depend in some way on energy of motion.” t

This is the unavoidable inference of the kinetic system of force, if
consistently maintained. But if there be any induction impregnable, as
the generalization of a life-long, a continuous, and an unvarying expert-
ience, it is that potential energy does not ‘involve the unit of time.”
The carbon that has lain protected in the bowels of the earth for untold
ages (certainly for many millions of years) has precisely the same rela-
tion to oxygen as the carbon prepared from last year’s wood, and
holds stored in the same mass the same exactly measurable potential
energy. The stone ball that may have lain a thousand years undis-
turbed on the brink of a precipice has during that time lost no fraction
of its static tension, but will fall with absolutely the same dynamic effect
as if thrown up to its seat by a cannon but a moment before. The
familiar case of a wound-up clock or watch, with the pendulum or the
balance-wheel at rest, is equally irreconcilable with any scheme of kinetic
action or of a force involving as a function any “ unit of time.” As
Professor Maxwell points out: ‘‘ In both cases, until the clock or watch
is set agoing, the existence of potential energy, whether in the clock-
weight or in the watch-spring, is not accompanied with any visible

* This was, of course, its very purpose.
‘ + Nature, September 21, 1876, vol. xiv, p. 463.
260 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

motion. We must therefore admit that potential energy can exist in a 4
body or system all whose parts are at rest.”’*

The degree of accordance between the logical conclusion and the un-
reasoned fact, is a measure of the value of the “singular quasi-meta- —
physical argument” by which it is deduced. ‘In dealing with physical
science, it is absolutely necessary to keep well in view the all-important
principle that nothing can be learned as to the physical world save by
observation and experiment, or by mathematical deductions from data so

obtained.” t
SAIGEY. 1866.

The following presentation of the theme, though from a litterateur
rather than a physicist, is interesting as showing what may be called
the percolation of ideas. In a series of essays contributed by Emile
Saigey (under the nom de plume of ‘‘ Edgar Saveney”) to the Revue de
Deux Mondes for November 1, November 15, and December 15, 1866,
the writer proposed to give a popular exposition of ‘*Modern Physics

and Recent Views on the Unity of Natural Phenomena.” After a brief —

sketch of the received correlation of forces, he proceeds: ‘‘ What then
is gravity? What is that mysterious force which causes two bodies to
attract each other in the direct ratio of their masses and an inverse
ratio of their distance? Two bodies attract each other! Then matter
is not inert! Is there not then an apparent contradiction between the |
two terms, matter and inertia? . . . Now what light is this new ©
theory going to throw upon the principle of gravity? Here is the
answer. A substance to which the name of ether has been given is
diffused throughout the entire universe. It envelops bodies and pen-
etrates into their interstices. The existence of this substance is deduced
from a series of proofs, among which luminous phenomena hold the
first rank. ASther is composed of atoms which impinge upon each other
and upon neighboring bodies. It forms in this way a universal medium
which exerts a constant pressure upon the molecules of ordinary
matter. . . . It becomes evident that bodies do not owe their
gravity to an intrinsic force, but to the pressure of the medium in
which they are immersed. The motion of heavy bodies no longer ap-
pears to us other than as a transformation of the etherial motions;
and gravity henceforth enters into that majestic unity to which we
have conducted all physical forces. . . . Are there then strictly —
speaking, two kinds of matter? We can hardly conceive it, now that
we have resolved everything into motion. In what respect would these —
two kinds of matter differ? Would not the one be subject to the same
laws of motion as the other? Can there be two systems of mechanics?
Certainly not; since there is but one law for motion, there can be but

* Theory of Heat: by J. Clerk Maxwell, London, 1872, chap. xxii, p. 282.
t Nature, 1876, vol. xiv, p. 460.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 261

a single essence tor matter, and the molecules of ordinary matter must
appear to us as aggregates of wetherial atoms.” *

In his concluding essay, M. Saigey thus expounds the etherial action:

* Let us imagine the ether uniformly diffused throughout space. - Its
atoms endowed with motions of progression and rotation, strike each
other in the manner mentioned. Let us now suppose that at some point
within the medium there is a special and disturbing cause, as for ex-
ample, a molecule having weight [inertia ?] and itself endowed with a
vibratory motion. The disturbance goes on extending throughout the
etherial mass, and by reason of the nature of this medium is propa-
gated in all directions. The atoms nearest to the heavy molecule will
receive violent shocks; they will be powerfully urged and their ranks
will grow thin in the neighborhood of the center of disturbance, and the
layer contiguous to the molecule will become less dense than the rest
of the medium. The motor action continuing, this same effect becomes
propagated from layer to layer throughout space. As a final result,
the ether becomes arranged around the center of disturbance in concen-
tric layers, the first of which and nearest to the molecule will be least
dense, and they will go on indefinitely increasing in density. This con-
dition of things might be easily represented and the figure traced: the
molecule at the center, around it spheres of atoms, wide apart at first,
then nearer and nearer to each other. Let us remark, in passing, that
the difference in density of contiguous layers, like all effects which are
propagated by concentric spheres, is inversely proportional to the sur-
face of these spheres, that is to the square of their radii. [?] This es-
tablished, suppose a second molecule to be situated at any point of this
system. It will encounter on the side toward the first molecule, layers
of «ther less dense than upon the opposite side: pressed upon by the
ether in all directions, it will however receive fewer shocks on the side
toward the first molecule, and it will consequently tend to approach it.
Such would seem to be the cause of gravity.”t The law of inverse
squares does not appear to be well made out, although this is a point
to which all kinetic theorists make ostentatious reference. The density
of the «ther, instead of following this ratio, should ex hypothesi,
follow directly the opposite ratio; or rather the ratio of increase directly
as the distance ;—which is perhaps what was intended. Of the other
five conditions it is quite unnecessary to speak.

CROLL. 1867.

In a communication to the Philosophical Magazine, in 1867, by James
Croll, of Edinburgh, ‘On certain Hypothetical Elements in the Theory
of Gravitation,” the author revived the difficulties which had been felt
and proclaimed by Faraday. He says: ‘ It was demonstrated by New-
ton, and has been proved by general observation and experience, that

* Revue de Deux Mondes, 1st November, 1866, vol. lxvi, pp. 148, 149.
: t Revue de Deux Mondes, 15th December, 1866, vol. Ixvi, pp. 922, 923.
262 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

bodies tend toward each other with a force varying inversely as the 4

square of the distance, and directly as the mass of the bodies. But it
never was demonstrated or proved by any one that the bodies attract
each other. The thing which has been demonstrated is that B tends
toward A; but the theory does not rest here; it goes on to account for

this tendency by referring it to a hypothetical cause, viz, to the ‘attrac.

tion’ of A. This however is a mere hypothesis, and no way essential
to the theory. All that the theory requires is that it be demonstrated
that A tends to move toward B. It is not necessary that we should go
beyond this, and attempt to explain the cause of this tendency. ‘rifling
as this assumption included in the theory may at first sight appear, it

will be found that almost all the difficulties and objections which have q

been urged against the theory of gravitation are due in some form or
other to that asstmption. At the very outset we have the objection

arged against the theory that it implies the absurdity of action at a_

distance. Now the mere facts of gravitation imply no such thing.
That A and B placed at a distance should tend toward each other does
not imply action at a distance. A moves by virtue of a force, but it
does not follow that this force is at a distance from A. But if we assert
that A and B ‘attract’ each other, then we imply action at a distance;
for A is then affirmed to move in consequence of the force of B, and B
in consequence of the force of A. ‘The very idea of attractive force,’

as Professor Briicke remarks, ‘includes that of an action at a distance,’

No principle will ever be generally received that stands in opposition
to the old adage, ‘A thing cannot act where it is not,’ any more than it
would were it to stand in opposition to that other adage, ‘A thing can-
not act before it is, or when it is not.’”*

These venerable “‘adages” are about as valuable in directing us to
the actual facts of nature, as that other celebrated adage of Zeno, “a
body cannot move where it is not;” and conversely, ‘‘it cannot move
where it is.” An equally profound dictum is, that a *‘ cause” cannot
properly be said to precede its “ effect,” since succession implies discon-
tinuity.

It may be a fact of natural law that everything “acts where it is not,”
including even an etherial vibration ; and certainly there is no difficulty
in believing it; and the other metaphysical axiom may be easily dis-

credited by the simple reflection, that were our sun suddenly blotted - .

from existence by supreme power, though all “ attraction” of the planets
would instantly cease, its full dynamic action on the earth would con-
tinue unimpaired for eight minutes. Were Sirius annihilated this year,
it would still continue to pour upon us its full measure of dynantic ac-
tion for twenty years ‘‘ when it was not.” The difficulty is not in the
possibility of posthumous action, but in the possibility of annihilation.

As Mill has very properly stated in answer to Sir William Hamilton,
* Action at a distance is intrinsically quite as credible as action in con-

“L. E. D. Phil. Mag., December, 1867, vol. xxxiv, p. 450.

2
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 263

tact, and there is no reason, apart from specific experience, to regard the
one as in any respect less probable than the other.” *

In our profound ignorance of all beyond the ascertained facts of grav-
itation, there could be no objection whatever to the substitution of the
word “tend” for the word “attract,” did it adequately express the
observed fact that A induces in B a “tendency” to approach; the quan-
tity of tendency in B being found to be proportional not merely to its
own mass, but notably to the mass of the distant body A.

Mr. Croll proceeds: “‘ The attraction theory is also in opposition to
the principle of the conservation of force, as has been shown, I think
clearly, by Faraday. When, a stone for example is thrown upward
from the earth, it not only loses all its motion, but it loses its attraction
in proportion to the square of its distance from the center of the earth.
What becomes of the motion imparted to the stone? It is not trans-
formed into attraction, for the attraction diminishes as well as the motion.
When the stone again falls to the earth it gains both motion and attrac-
tion. In the former case, the attraction is said to consume the motion,
and instead of becoming stronger becomes weaker in consequence; and
in the latter case it imparts this same motion, and yet after imparting
the motion, it is actually found not only not to have lost but to have
gained force thereby. Faraday justly asks what becomes of the force or
motion imparted to the stone? It is not converted into attraction, for
the attraction becomes less instead of greater in consequence. And in
the case of the falling stone, where does the motion come from? If the
motion arises from the attraction of the earth, then there must be a
certain amount of this attractive force converted into motion; and if so,
the attractive force should be so far reduced; but instead of this it is
actually increased. There is therefore no account given of what be-
comes of the motion externally imparted to the stone when thrown
upward, or whence the increase both of attraction and motion is derived
as it descends. If the attraction theory be correct, then there is a des-
truction of force in the one case and a creation of force in the other; and
_ if so, then the conservation of force is violated.” f

Although this is merely a more prolix statement of the objection
urged by Faraday, it may be again specifically answered. It will be
found on careful examination, that the whole difficulty really proceeds
from an hypothesis tacitly adopted by the writer, while ostensibly
opposing “ certain hypothetical elements in the theory.” From the nec-
essary limitations of language, we have constantly to make words do
double or multiple duty in carrying different ideas; and to many this is
a source of constant confusion and misconception. The tacit assump-
tion underlying this supposed violation of the conservation of ‘ force”
is that the force of gravity is the same in kind as the force of the fall-

“Examination of Sir William Hamilton’s Philosophy, by John Stuart Mill, chap.
xxiv, vol. ii, p. 245, of Am. edition.

t L. E. D. Phil. Mag., 1867, vol. xxxiv, p. 451.

264 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

ing stone; and that as the latter is an example of kinetic energy, capa-

ble of transmuting itself into heat, so gravity must be in essence also |

a kinetic energy capable of similar transformation. On this ‘ hypo-
thesis” all the consequences so incongruous with experience, as above

indicated, would result. The ascending stone would have its energy |

' “transformed into attraction,” and the latter would be correspondingly
increased. It would then be truly “said to consume the motion” of the
stone. And when the stone was falling there would be “a certain
amount of the attractive force converted into motion, and so the
attractive force should be so far reduced.” The reasoning is undoubt-
edly correct. ‘ But instead of this, it is actually increased. There is
therefore, {by the kinetic hypothesis,| no account given of what becomes
of the motion externally imparted to the stone when thrown upward.”
And the undisputed facts of observation therefore, show us that if the
kinetic hypothesis ‘‘be correct, then there is a destruction of force in
the one case and a creation of force in the other.’ The conclusion is
incontrovertible.

Seeing then the incongruity and inadmissibility of the assumed
hypothesis, let us try a new departure. Let us, recurring to that only
safe guide experience, recall as the necessary outcome of the fourth,
fifth, and sixth propositions, that ‘ gravitation is a property im-
mutable and inconvertible.” Let us, to avoid confusion of idea by
the unconscious double entendre of the word “force,” limit the term for
the present to that innate and primitive tendency or tension which
appears as the last result of dynamic analysis, and which obviously
differs as much from the action of the falling stone, as the flying arrow
differs in function from the elasticity of the bow which has impelled it.
We shall thus have a term comparable in derivation and use to the
“element” or the “atom” of the chemist, designating simply that
which as a matter of fact, has not yet been further resolved. Ifnow we
deny (for the present purpose) the application of this term ‘ foree,” to
the dynamic action of the falling stone, and call the latter “energy,” a

term which conversely we deny to the primitive vis motria, all confu- ,

sion and inconsistency will disappear. Obviously, ‘‘ conservation” can
be intelligentiy applicable only to that which is capable of expenditure,
transformation, or dissipation; as to matter, or to energy. To speak of
the conservation of immutable gravitation is as unmeaning as to speak
of the conservation of the equally immutable molecular cohesion or
atomic elasticity. Asa fact of daily observation, motion is a variable
function, and like heat, color, form, or density, is net conserved.

When a stone is thrown upward therefore, it loses tension, because
this has been found empirically to be the inflexible law of distance-ratio
for the gravitative force, and for no other human reason. It gains in
potential energy by the ascent, because there has been a corresponding:
expenditure of kinetic energy in effecting the ascent; and all experi-
mental research proves the absolute constancy of the sum of these two

= TT A PPE EE I ee a ata’ OPS Te a ey mee

i.
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 265

forms of energy. And this constancy is all that is signified by the oft-
quoted but not always justly apprehended “ conservation of force.” So
far from there being any fixed relation between gravitative force and the
conversion of motion, the ratio varies in every planet; and while the
height to which a pound of gunpowder would project a ball upward
would differ widely in different planets, the velocity of projection and ~
the returning energy of the fall would be precisely the same in all.
Were we to rigorously deny that gravitation is energy, or that energy
is force, we could not correctly affirm the conservation of ‘‘force.” The
thing truly conserved would be energy, and this is undoubtedly the
more accurate and less misleading form of expression.

Mr. Croll says in concluding his essay: “In the case of the loaded
piston rising under the pressure of the steam, we have the pressure of the
steam and length of space both diminishing as the vis viva or mechan-
ical work increases. This is in harmony with the principle of conserva-
tion, for pressure or force diminishes as energy or work increases. But
in the case of gravitation matters are reversed, for the force increases.
along with the work. As the weight descends and performs work, the
pressure of the weight, the thing which performs the work, increases
also; and when the weight is rising and energy diminishing, the force
or pressure of the weight is not increasing but actually diminishing
also.” <A very sufficient demonstration that steam and gravity are not
correlated; that they are not both “forces” in the same sense of the
term. Similarly a bar-magnet employed in educing magnetism in
another steel bar, so far from losing what the other gains, has its own
magnetism re-enforced by the operation. Vires acquirit eundo.

‘¢ This difficulty,” says Mr. Croll, ‘“‘ along with all the others which we:
have been considering, will entirely vanish if we adopt the view of gravity
which has been ably advocated by Faraday, Waterston, and other physi-
cists, viz, that it is a force pervading space external to bodies, and that on
their mutual approach this force is not increased, asis generally supposed ;
the bodies merely pass into a place where the force exists with greater
intensity ; for in such a case, the intensity of the force in the space
external to any body is inversely as the square of the distance from
the center of convergence of these lines of force. As the stone recedes.
from the earth its vis viva is transferred to space, and exists there as
gravity. When the stone approaches to the earth, the force existing in
space is transferred back to the body, and appears again as vis viva.”*

Here then is an hypothesis which based on an a priori sentiment of
fitness rather than on any direct induction, can be submitted to the
test of observation. As a fact of observation, gravitation is always. ©
found to be a property of gross tangible matter, with its tensions math-
ematically directed to the mass-centers, and in quantity always directly
proportioned to the number of material molecules, agreeably to the first
and second propositions. As a fact of observation, the moon may pass:

* Phil. Mag., loco citat., pp. 456, 457.
266 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

through the very center of the space occupied by our earth only two
weeks previously without any perturbation or consciousness of increased

tension in this mystic “space.” To affirm that the projected stone

transfers its vis viva to space without suggesting any conceivable method
by which such transfer vould physically be effected, is not to proffer an
hypothesis. To affirm that the falling stone receives from the illimitable
ocean of space its just supply of vis viva—whether required at the in-
stant or ten years afterward—is to bid us hope that the steam exhausted
from the cylinder into the atmosphere may be induced to return to its
duty when needed, in order to justify our faith in its conservation.

Nine years later, in a communication read before the British Asso-
ciation at Glasgow, September, 1876, “On the Transformation of
Gravity,” Mr. Croll repeats very much the line of argument just re-
ferred to, showing that the interval had not served to remove his diffi-
culties. He commences his memoir with the query: “Is gravity con-
‘vertible into other forms of energy? Can gravity be converted into
heat, electricity, magnetism, etc.? or can those forms of energy be con-
verted into gravity?” It might be supposed that the question would as
soon occur to the physicist, Can the flight of the arrow be converted
into elastic tension? The answer to his inquiry is directly involved in
the fifth and sixth propositions. Mr. Croll, however, gives a different
answer. ‘It may be true that gravity cannot be directly transformed
into heat, electricity, magnetism, chemical affinity, etc., nor these forms
directly transformed into gravity; but nevertheless, the thing may be
done indirectly. . . . If the electricity produced by the descent of the
water be gravity transformed into electricity, then the ascent of the
water produced by electricity must be electricity transformed into grav-
ity; for it is the same process merely reversed.”* The alternatives are
doubtless equally correct.

“If gravity be correlated to other forms of energy, it must like them
come under the great principle of conservation. But here we enter
upon debatable ground. It is admitted that gravity can perform me-
chanical work, and the mechanical work can be converted into other
forms of energy. Here we have correlations; but it is generally denied
that there is a decrease or loss. of gravity resulting from such trans-
formations. But this appears to me to be a virtual denial of the prin-
ciple of conservation. . . . The reasons which appear to have led to
this opinion are I think, mainly the two following: 1. It has been as-
sumed [!| that the eee of a body is not affected by the work which
it performs. 2. The force by which bodies are drawn toward each other

does not diminish as they approach, but on the contrary increases...

May not a stone when in the act of falling be acted upon by
gravity with less force at any given moment than it would be were the
stone at rest at that instant? The point has never yet been determined

* Phil. Mag., October, 1876, vol. ii, pp. 241, 242.

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 267

either by experiment or by observation.”* There is no conceivable
reason why the falling stone should not “‘ be acted upon by gravity with
less force” than if it were at rest, (or why our fifth and sixth propo-
sitions should be true,) excepting the cogency of ascertained fact.
Natural philosophy is an experimental science; and this point has been
determined both * by experiment and by observation.” The sensitive gal-
vanometer needle of Faraday would have betrayed a sigh of commuting
energy in the falling weight employed, while the actual increments of
vis viva were really so large that they would have been a notable duty
for the coarsest scales. And the ceaseless fall of planets from the tan-
gents of their orbits, without any reduction of their own centripetal
tensions, or of their satellitic control, is a constant and conclusive
observation to show that this law or condition of gravitation—embraced
in our sixth proposition—has not (as above suggested) been “ assumed.”
Mr. Croll continues: ‘‘ But if the force of gravity does not sustain
any loss as work is performed by it, what then is it that is supposed to
sustain the loss? Some form of energy must diminish as work is per-
formed; and if it be not gravity it must be something else. The
generally received explanation is this: when a body is projected upward,
the potential form of energy into which the upward motion of the body
is transformed does not consist in the simple force of gravity or tend-
ency of the body to descend, but consists in this force or tendency
multiplied by the distance through which it is capable of descending
This mode of viewing the matter, it is perfectly true, com
pletely meets the mathematical and mechanical conditions of the prob-
lem ; but for this very reason it seems to me to hide somewhat the
real physical nature of the process. [!] . . . Space and time are
conditions, but conditions absolutely necessary to the transformation of
potential energy into kinetic, and of kinetic energy into potential; but
they themselves cannot be forms of energy. But if it be true that the
mere force of gravity or tendency of the stone to fall to the ground is
not the potential energy, but that this potential energy is the force
multiplied by the space through which it can act, then space must
become a form of potential energy. This is evident; for the potential
energy in this case consists of two factors, one of which is the space
through which the force acts. It thus hecomes just as much a form of
energy as the other factor, viz, the force.” t
The conclusion that space is “a form of” action, because all action is
necessarily conditioned by space, does not appear so “ evident.” Mr.
Croll correctly states: ‘‘ But it is not in reference to gravity alone that
this space-condition is essential to the transformation of. potential into
kinetic energy. It is as we shall shortly see, a condition absolutely
necessary to the transformation of energy under every possible form.
In the unbending of a spring the amount of work which can be per-

* Loco citat., pp. 242-244. t Loco citat., pp. 244, 245.
268 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

formed is proportionate to the pressure of the spring multiplied by the
space through which the pressure can act. The potential element,
which in this case decreases as work is performed, is the tension or
elastic force of the spring. Space is necessary simply to allow this ten-
siov to expend itself in work. It is this tension, not space, which re-
appears as work or kinetic energy.”* In the case of a sling with a per-
fectly elastic cord whose elongation is proportional to the strain, the
tension or potential element does not ‘ decrease as work is performed ; ”
on the contrary, it increases directly with the work; and whatever the
centrifugal velocity of the ball, the period of revolution remains con-
stant.t The elasticity does not ‘expend itself in work.” Vires ae-
quirit eundo. As this is simply the ‘law of force” for this particular
tension, it has no relation whatever to ‘‘ conservation,” which pertains:
entirely to ‘+ work.”

Again comparing gravitation to steam, whose pressure is weakened
by the absorption of molecular motion in the rising piston, the writer
repeats his questionings, ‘‘ May not the same be equally true of gravity ?
In fact, if gravity has a dynamical origin, it must hold equally true of
gravity and of heat.” Again recurring to Mr. Waterston’s conception
that “ gravitation is a function of space,” he would almost lead us to for-
get that ‘ spacecannot be aformofenergy.” Again endeavoring to fortify
his assumptions by scholastic dogmas, he reiterates, “‘ the conception of
attraction does not represent the modus operandi of gravitation, because
attraction implies action at a distance, or in other words, that a thing
acts where it is not, which is just as impossible as that a thing can act
when it is not.” Again affirming that “ there is no necessity for forming
any conception of the cause of which it is the effect,” his whole disserta-
tion appears impelled by the necessity to ‘‘ represent the modus operandi
of gravitation.”

The general conclusion arrived at by Mr. Croll appears to be: ‘Gray-

ity in all probability is of the nature of an impact ora pressure. Some of

our most eminent physicists state that the force of gravity must either re-

sult from impact of ultramundane corpuscles, in some respects analogous.

to that of the particles of a gas, (which has been found to be capable of
accounting for gaseous pressure,) or it must result from difference of
pressure in a substance continuously filling space, except where matter
displaces it. That gravity is a force of the nature of pressure is I think
beyond all doubt; but that this pressure results from the impact of cor-
puscles, or from difference of pressure in a substance filling space, is.
purely hypothetical. Why not assume it to be a force, without calling
in the aid of corpuscles or a medium filling space ?”{

+ The same isochronism exists with the revolving or conical pendulum whose vertical
height is constant, or with one whose ball revolves in the surface of a paraboloid.
t Loco citat., p. 252.

3
|
j
f
’
4
.
2
|
y
7
5
‘
€
4
:
4

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 269
\

a medium,” it is not easy to perceive why it should so indubitably be
“‘of the nature of pressure” rather than of tension. Is the phenomenon
of the terrestrial tidal wave rendered any more intelligible by referring
it to the action of a “pressure” from beneath, than by referring it, as
the ‘most eminent physicists” do, to the action of a lunar tension from
above? |

Rejecting a pressure-medium as “ purely hypothetical,” the author yet
thinks a pressure-force in gravity “is beyond all doubt”! not perceiving
that the latter conception is as “ purely hypothetical” as the former. A
speculation born of metaphysical imaginings as to the “ possible,” framed
in no physical relations to associate it with any known action, supported
by no fact of observation, result of experiment, or sound induction,
based on assumptions directly at variance with all ascertained laws or
conditions of gravitative action,—if such a speculation be not “purely
hypothetical,” in what propulsive undulations, corpuscular chaos, or
ztherial vortex, shall we seek to find a fitting subject for the appellation?
And yet hypothetical as the speculation pre-eminently and undoubtedly
is,—baseless, formless, insubstantial,—it comes to us with the prestige of
a distinguished physicist as its propounder, and of a learned association
as its audience and recipient. Aas

LERAY. 1869.

Within the last twenty years, probably more than a dozen “ original”
discoveries of the cause of gravitation have been announced to the
French Academy of Sciences. Two brief essays of the same year may
here be noticed. A Note by P. Leray, entitled a ‘“ New Theory of Grav-
itation,” was presented to the Academy through M. Faye September 6,
1869.

‘‘This new theory rests on the assumption of an ether—a fluid ex-
ceedingly rare and perfectly elastic—and on the two following principles:
First, that in the free ether (that is, undisturbed by the presence of
other bodies) there exist at every point equal currents crossing each
other in all directions; second, that in passing through bodies, the
currents of the ether are retarded proportionally to the thickness trav-
ersed, and to the mean density of the path. It may be added, that the
currents thus enfeebled, on passing again into the zther, recover but
slowly their former force, and may be considered approximately—within
the limits of our solar system—as preserving a constant value.” This
gravific fluid evidently does not differ essentially from that of Lesage.
These simple hypotheses, says the writer, ‘‘ conduct in effect to the same
results as the law of universal attraction, without requiring any action
at a distance; and give moreover the key to many phenomena which
this law does not explain.” |

Considering first, the case of an isolated body, it is evident that the
currents, being equal in all directions, neutralize each other, effecting
therefore no change of position in the isolated body; although by the
270 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

vis viva absorbed from the ether, heat light and magnetism are produced
in the body as shown in the stars. ‘‘This cause being permanent, explains
without difficulty why the light and heat of the sun are constant”! A
body in motion is of course retarded by the relative differential of the
currents, although this retardation would be sensible only with very
light bodies.

Considering secondly, the case of two bodies, (exterior to each other,)
the currents enfeebled by traversing the bodies would impinge less
strongly on the mutually-facing sides of the two bodies than on their
exterior sides, thus producing an approach by the difference of impulse.
And lastly, in regard to weight, this is the result of the quantity of
motion communicated to a body by the shocks of the etherial atoms.
The two facts of experience, that the weight of a body remains invaria:
ble whatever its position, and that all bodies fall with the same velocity
in a vacuum, prove that ponderable atoms are spherical, having an equal
superficial density in all directions, and that all ponderable atoms are
alike, or that there is ultimately but a single elementary substance.*

BOISBAUDRAN. 1869.

Another short paper, entitled a ‘‘ Note on the Theory of Weight,” was
presented to the Academy September 20, 1869, by M. Lecoq de Bois-
baudran, called forth by the previous communication of M. Leray. He
remarks: ‘Having been myself occupied on this question, I have the
honor to communicate to the Academy the actual state of my researches.
On certain points, and particularly on the explanation of the central
heat of the stars, 1am happy to agree with M. Leray ; on other points
my conclusions differ from his. I attribute to matter, whatever may be
its state of division, no other essential properties than those established
by experimental physics and mechanics. I designate as atoms the last
stage of division of matter. I admit that two bodies separated by an
absolute void cannot act on each other; that action takes place only by
contact, the play of forces following the laws of ordinary mechanics.

If there existed but a single kind of atoms, the interchange of forces’

occurring between equal masses, two atoms could not unite. Force and
matter would exist, but not attraction. There are then at least two
kinds of primordial atoms of different masses. The smaller may be
called sether ; the others, ponderable atoms.” The writer then goes on
to say that a ponderable atom in the midst of a vibrating ether would
itself receive a vibration (though of less activity than that of the sether)
without being displaced in space, the portion of energy lost by the ether
being transformed into heat, etc. A second atom being placed near the
first, the ether vibrations would be feebler between the two than in ex-
terior space, which would result in approach.

‘*] prefer the notion of vibrations of the ether to that of ‘equal cur-
rents crossing each other in all directions.’ The attraction exerted on

* Comptes Rendus, 6th September, 1869, vol. lxix, pp. 616-620.

ee a

sg

ares seat
Bs _ KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 2k

_a ponderable atom is not in the simple ratio of its mass; for if this mass
equalled that of an ether atom, the attraction would be nil. If there
exist ponderable atoms of different masses their rate of fail would be
uneqal. If there were but one kind of ponderable atom, all bodies would
fall with equal velocity. Experience seems to justify the last hypothesis;
but very slight differences of mass in the ponderable atoms would suffice
to determine the formation of chemical elements of very different
atomic weights, and an inequality of their fall would escape unadvised
observers.”

After affirming the law of distance, M. Boisbandran says: ‘“ In consé-
quence of the inertia of the ether, attraction is not proportional to the
real masses, but no more is it to the number of ponderable atoms con-
tained in a body. The vis viva of the atoms of ether, however great,
has a finite value.” Lastly, he remarks: “ft is to the longitudinal
vibrations of the ether that I attribute the cause of weight.” *

Neither the hypothesis of M. Leray, nor that of M. Boisbaudran, pre-
sents any feature of special novelty, requiring comment.

GUTHRIE. 1870.

In 1870, Prof. Frederick Guthrie published an account of some inter-
esting experiments ‘‘On Approach caused by Vibration,” unaware at
the time of the earlier labors of Dr. Guyot in the same direction. He
found that a card suspended near a vibrating tuning-fork was urged
toward the fork, and by varying the experiment with smoke, with cork,
with calcined magnesia, with floss cotton, with a second suspended
tuning-fork, with brass disks, etc., he obtained similar results. At the
termination of his experiments he thus sums up: ‘The experimental
results appear to me to point to the following conclusions: whenever
an elastic medium is between two vibrating bodies, or between a vibrat-
ing body and one at rest, and when the vibrations are dispersed in con-
sequence of their impact on one or both of the bodies, the bodies will
be urged together. The dispersion of a vibration produces a similar
effect to that produced by the dispersion of the air-current in Clément’s
experiment; and, like the latter, the effect is due to the pressure ex-
erted by the medium, which is in a state of higher tension [or pressure]
on the side of the body furthest from the origin of vibration than on
the side toward it. In mechanics—in nature—there is no suck thing
as a pulling force. Though the term attraction may have been occa-
sionally used in the above to denote the tendency of bodies to approach,
the line of conclusions here indicated tends to argue that there is no
such thing as attraction in the sense of a pulling force, and that two
utterly isolated bodies cannot influence one another. If the etherial
vibrations which are supposed to constitute radiant heat resemble the
erial vibrations which constitute sound, the heat which all bodies pos-

* Comptes Rendus, 20th September, 1869, vol. lxix, pp. 703, 704.
D2 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

sess, and which they are all supposed to radiate in exchange, will cause
all bodies to be urged toward one another.”*
This hypothesis would make gravitation, or molecular attraction, a
function of temperature, contrary to all observation; and is indeed en-.
tirely incompatible with the fourth, fifth, and sixth uonataene of gravi-
tative action. In short these experiments, striking and instructive as
they unquestionably are, will be found on careful scrutiny to really sim-
ulate the effects of gravity in no one particular.

CROOKES. 1873.

From some very ingenious and interesting experiments made by
William Crookes, in 1873, with light disks attached to a delicate torsion-
balance and hermetically sealed within a nearly perfect vacuum, in
which experiments the radiation of heat was observed to exert a repul-
sive effect upon the blackened side of the disks, he inferred that a clue
was thereby probably furnished to the mystery of gravitation. He thus
concludes his first memoir: “It is not unlikely that in the experiments
here recorded may be found the key of some as yet unsolved problems
in celestial mechanics. In the sun’s radiation passing through the quasi-
vacuum of space we have the radial repulsive force, possessing success-
ive propagation, required to account for the changes of form in the
lighter matter of comets and nebule; .. . . but until we meas-
ure the force more exactly, we shall be unable to say how much influ-
ence it may have in keeping the heavenly bodies at their respective dis-
tances. So far as repulsion is concerned, we may argue from small
things to great, from pieces of pith up to heavenly bodies.
Although the force of which I have spoken is clearly not gravity eae.
as we know it, it is attraction developed from chemical activity, and
connecting that greatest and most mysterious of all natural forces,
action at a distance, with the more intelligible acts of matter. In the
radiant molecular energy of solar masses may at last be found that
‘agent acting constantly according to certain laws,’ t which Newton held
to be the cause of gravity.”¢

Similar expositions are announced in Mr. Crookes’ Journal for 1875, §
and various modifications of the apparatus employed in the experiments
are detailed. These little instruments, inclosed within an exhausted
bulbous tube of glass, and with the disk-arms mounted on a pivot to
permit continuous rotation, have since become quite familiar under the
name of ‘ radiometers,” and have received a careful investigation from
a number of observers. It is now known that they do not act by any im-
pulsion of radiation, but solely by the differences of heat-absorption by

*L. E. D. Phil. Mag., November, 1870, vol. xl, p. 354.

t Referring, of course, to the “‘ Third Bentley Letter.”

$ Philosoph. Trans. Roy. Soc., 1874, vol. elxiv, p. 527.

§ Quarterly Journal of Science, July, 1875, vol. v, p. 351.

)
H
j

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 213

the two sides of the disks and the reactions of the residual air of the
exhausted chamber.*

In a later essay on “The Mechanical Action of Light,” Mr. Crookes
estimates that ‘‘the pressure of sunshine” amounts ‘to 2 ewts. per
acre, 57 tons per square mile, or nearly three thousand million tons on
the exposed surface of the globe;—sufficient to knock the earth out of
its orbit if it came upon it suddenly.t It may be said that a force like
this must alter our ordinary ideas of gravitation; but it must be remem-
bered that we only know the force of gravity between bodies such as
they actually exist, and we do not know what this force would beif the

temperatures of the gravitating masses were to undergo a change. If

the sun is gradually cooling, possibly its attractive force is increasing,
but the rate will be so slow that it will probably not be detected by our

_ present means of research.” +

This possibility is denied by our sixth proposition. The generaliza-
tions embraced in our first, second, and third propositions are assumed
to be equally true at all possible temperatures; and the ground for
this assumption is, that they have been actually ascertained to be
true for all observed variations of temperature. The induction can
therefore be arraigned only by a conflicting fact of observation or
experiment. Varied and delicate experiments have actually been re-
peatedly made from the time of Fresnel to the present, to detect if pos-
sible an influence of heat on weight, but without result. Indications
sometimes observed have always been found to be due either to cur-
rents in the best approximate vacuums or to the molecular reactions

from unequal absorption. It is evident that if heat radiation could

exercise the slightest influence upon gravitative attraction, it would be

possible in many cases to interpose a screen to its action, contrary to the

observed fact generalized in our fifth proposition.
We are correctly reminded that “‘ we only know the force of gravity

as between bodies such as they actually exist ;” but this knowledge

teaches us that the ratio a is invariable; that therefore the exponent 2
of the radius or distance is integral, and is not a residual of an exponent
24 n. Finally, we know that heat radiations require eight minutes to
pass from the sun to theearth. The inferences then that the conduct of

the “radiometer” affords any key to the problem of celestial mechanics,

or that it illustrates or suggests any analogous “agent acting con-

_ stantly according to certain laws” as “the cause of gravity,” are evi-
_ dently unfounded and erroneous. ‘“ Nor must wé forget that the more

rigidly we scrutinize our received theories, our routine explanations and

__ interpretation of nature, and the more frankly we admit their short-

comings, the greater will be our ultimate reward.” §

*This view has since been accepted by Mr. Crookes himself,
tIf any such action really existed, its effects would be just as certain and as disas-
trous if applied gradually as if applied suddenly.

_ * Quarterly Journal of Science, April, 1876, vol. vi, p. 204. § Loco citat., p. 256.

‘$s 18
274 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

In this résumé of kinetic theories, doubtless other names, well de-
serving notice, have been overlooked from want of more extended re-

search; but it is believed that the foregoing survey comprises essentially —

all the forms of the hypothesis of primeval motion which have been
propounded. The general tenor of this line of speculation has been
well set forth in an able review of ‘The Atomic Theory of Lucretius,”
which appeared in the North British Review for 1868.

“The most plausible suggestion yet made by this school is that a
single omnipresent fluid ether fills the universe; that by various
motions of the nature of eddies, the qualities of cohesion, elasticity,
hardness, weight, mass, or other universal properties of matter are
given to small portions of the fluid which constitute the chemical
atoms; that these, by modifications in their combination, form, and
motion, produce all the accidental phenomena of gross matter; that
the primary fluid by other motions, transmits light, radiant heat, mag-
netism, and gravitation; that in certain ways, the portions of the fluid
transmuted into gross matter can be acted upon by the primary fluid
which remains imponderable or very light, but that these ways differ
very much from those in which one part of gross matter acts upon
another ; that the transmutation of the primary fluid into gross matter,
or of gross matter into primary fluid, is a creative action wholly denied
to us; the sum of each remaining constant.”* The hypothesis of the
transmutation of wether, or of the evolution of “ matter,” is not how-
ever necessarily involved in that of referring all conditions, properties,
and powers of matter to ‘‘a mode of motion.”

GENERAL CONCLUSIONS.

In the conception of a statical pressure of ether constantly acting
inwardly on concentri¢ spherical surfaces, there is the obvious irration-
ality of a stable non-equilibrium. Nor is there any real difference in
the conception of an ether having concentric increments of density
outward, in which ordinary matter is buoyed, as it were, toward the
center: a scheme in which every particle of matter finds itself in the
midst of its own little spheres of rarefaction, and in which such center
of ztherial rarity is supposed to blindly follow the flying stone in what-
ever direction hurled at the caprice of an idle boy. Entirely too much
importance has been attached to this conception as a speculation of

Newton, when it was evidently an unconsidered and merely obiter dictum |

suggestion, utterly repudiated by him in later years.

Omitting then any further consideration of the statical method of
explaining gravitation by pressure, we find that kinetic systems are
essentially of two classes, the hypotheses of emissions or corpuscles,
and the hypotheses of fluid undulations. It is proposed to show that
no form of either hypothesis can satisfy the two Newtonian conditions
of a scientific theory—verity and sufficiency.

*North British Review, March, 1868, vol. xlviii, p. 127 of Am. edition.

;
a

ee

eee

adi Sidhe anise As

hn

‘

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 275

The corpuscular hypothesis is clearly invented pro hac vice. Nor can
even an analogue of the invention be found in the corpuscular theory
of gases; for in the latter case, the free path of the particle is assumed
to extend only for the short distance between neighboring molecules,
and by reason of incessant collision and deflection among the elements
the hydro-dynamic pressure of the medium is equal in all directions,
quite irrespective of the number or character of intervening obstrue-
tions: while the gravific or ultramundane corpuscle must ex hypothesi
travel from infinity in a perfectly straight and undisturbed path to fulfill
its appointed mission. It is therefore a special creation, neither ascer-
tained nor suggested by any other consideration.

Secondly, even if a vera causa, it is wholly insufficient. The first
great triumph of the corpuscular assumption was its supposed happy
expression of the distance-ratio of gravitative intensity: and this
appears to have been admitted by all the mathematicians who have
referred to the problem. But a very brief consideration will show that
while this may be approximately true for small masses, there is a limit
of magnitude as well as of number in the masses of gross matter, beyond
which no assignable number of corpuscles is capable of acting. Let us
suppose for definiteness (not as even suggesting a higher limit) that
normal to a plane whose area is d?, (d representing the distance between
two adjacent molecules of ice or of water,) a million million corpuscles
are passing simultaneously with any desired frequency. This neglects
for the moment the far greater number passing through the same area
at all other angles. The molecule of ice or water being a very small
though appreciable fraction of the value of d, (a not improbable estimate
of which value may be the five hundred millionth of an inch,) it is ob-
vious that with an equable distribution of the material molecules in a
continued right prism having d* for its base, no very great depth is
required for a million million of such molecules to lie each in the line of
motion of one of the parallel moving corpuscles. Beyond this depth or
distance, of any number of molecules continued, no one will receive an
impact, or in other words, will have any gravitation.* This reasoning
remains true, whatever be the number and direction of the prisms chosen,
and whatever be the number of corpuscles passing through its base
ad. Ifit be said that this number is infinite, this is simply an uncondi-
tional surrender of the hypothesis. It is proved then that the number
of corpuscles passing through a large mass must be very much less than
the number impinging on its exposed strata or passing through a small
mass; and that if the mass be large enough, the side presented toward
another mass will receive no gravitative impulse thereto; and a tidal

*This idea may be more popularly illustrated by supposing on a plane of indefinite
extent a grove of small, vertical trees, planted at irregular but equable intervals, at
any assignable distance apart. It is evident that it would require no indefinite extension
of the woods to absolutely exclude a horizontal ray of light in any direction, even

_ , though suns or electric lights were blazing with unimaginable splendor.
276 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

attraction between the bodies would be impossible! The scheme there-
fore fails not only to satisfy the second condition, (as formerly stated,)
but it equally fails to satisfy “indefinitely” the third condition. And
this objection lies equally against every variety of the corpuscular hypo-
thesis, from that of Bernouilli to that of Leray.

In the next place, the hypothesis of undulations similarly fails. . First,
because the motion assumed is not a vera causa. If it be answered
that an all-pervading ether and its system of undulations are otherwise
established, by the large array of well-observed phenomena shown to
be in exact accordance both in quantity and in quality with the mathe-
matical deductions from such postulated undulations, the rejoinder is,
that such undulations as have thus been established are demonstrably
incapable of inducing anything in the slightest degree analogous to
gravitation; and therefore the new undulations required have not been
otherwise ascertained. And this is a radical defect in all the wave sup-

positions. We are not at liberty to assume unknown and undemon- ©

strated actions, entirely different in character from anything which has
been actually observed or necessarily inferred. Great as is the credit
due to Professor Challis, for instance, for his dexterous, persevering, and
laborious efforts to develop his theory by the stern logic of mathematics,
the whole demonstration is vitiated by the unwarranted prelimnary
assumption of qualities and modes of action in the ether analogous
to those of gases; as for example, that the pressure and the density are
proportional. Now as a matter of fact, the ether is a medium so wholly
and so radically dissimilar to any known gas in structure and in proper-
ties, that the most characteristic features of its luminiferous undula-
tions,—rectilinear propagation, with its special incident inflection; select-
ive refraction or chromatic aberration ; birefraction ; and polarization in
its various forms,—find no representative therein; leading a Newton to
the reluctant conviction that a gaseous ether could not be the vehicle of
light.* The denial therefore, of the verity of fluent undulations in the
ether is based upon the skeptical affirmation that beyond experience
and safe induction therefrom, we can tell nothing as to the behavior of
an nnknown agent.

But if the character of undulation required were established, sec-
ondly, it would as in the former case, be entirely insufficient for the
purpose. The wether must have the elasticity and the mass or inertia

* Dr. Young, in referring to Fresnel’s discussion of “ polarization,” says, “it might be
inferred that the luminiferous wether pervading all space, and penetrating almost all
substances, is not only highly elastic but absolutely solid.” (Miscellaneous Works of
Thomas Young, London, 3 vols. 8vo, vol. i, No. 18, p. 415.) And Sir John Herschel re-
marks: ‘‘ Every phenomenon of light points strongly to the conception of a solid rather
than a fluid constitution of the luminiferous ether, in this sense,—that none of its
elementary molecules are to be supposed capable of interchanging places, or of bodily
transfer to any measurable distance from their own special and assigned localities in
the universe.” (Familiar Lectures on Scientific Subjects, London, 1867, lect. vii, p.
285.) On the other hand, recent mathematical discussions have found some difficulties.
eyen in this hypothesis,

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 277

necessary to execute precisely its ascertained dynamic function.* This
specific and very limited inertia is manifestly inadequate to the indefi-
nite accumulation of energy required to give the same proportional
tendency between large masses as between small ones. The experiments
of Guyot and of Guthrie quite conclusively show that neither in the
law of quantity nor in the law of intensity can gaseous vibrations rep-
resent even approximately the ascertained facts of gravitation embodied
in the second and third propositions.

But if in dynamic action a gaseous undulation of ether, with its
existing co-efficient of inertia, is found to be so palpably inadequate to
the known effect, on the other hand the elasticity must be assumed to
be incomparably more active than the limit expressed by the actual
velocity of aluminous undulation. Ifitsrate of propagation be assumed
to be very many millions of times more rapid than that of light, the
inertia must be correspondingly reduced; in short, must be practically
mil; and the action must be really kinematic rather than dynamic.

Failing thus at every point, the hypothesis leaves still more inscruta-
ble the origin of the undulation. The center of disturbance is supposed
to be the vibrating material element; but the cause of the vibration
is never stated. If innate tendency be the answer, never surely was a
more mysterious ‘“ occult quality” attributed to matter in the history
of human excogitations. Hither misapprehending altogether, or quite
ignoring the origin of thermal vibrations, the kinetic theorist not un-
frequently appeals to the dynamical doctrine of heat as the type and
the warrant of his assumptions. But in the case of heat, as in every
other observed case, motion is a phenomenon to be accounted for; and
no physical theory is complete, until in origin, in quantity, and in di-
rection, it is accurately explained by a true and sufficient antecedent
cause.

But granting a prime mover—the immediate operation of a Demi-
urgus, if necessary,—how is the initial impulse converted into vibration ?
What is the resisting power deflecting the element in motion from that
rectilinear direction, which is its first law of action? And by what
opposing battledoors (for two are absolutely necessary) does the deflected
particle become a shuttlecock ? Upon these important questions there
is a very remarkable reticence. We know that when a bell is struck
with a hammer the moving impulse of a segment of the free edge is
resisted by a molecular pressure which (for want of a better name) has
been called repulsion ; and that this reaction is in turn resisted by a
molecular tension which (for want of a better name) has been called
attraction; and that this reciprocating play very rapidly declines as

* From the actual dynamic energy transmitted by the ether, Sir William Thomson,
in 1855, estimated that a cubic foot should weigh not less than tbe quadrillionth
(1 + 10%) of a grain; or that the inertia of ether had for its higher limit about one
two-thousand-trillionth (4 — 10!) of that of ordinary air. (L. E. D. Phil. Mag., Jan-

tary, 1855, vol. ix, p. 39.) Its lower limit may be one hundred times this amount, or
one twenty-trillionth (4 — 10%) of the inertia of air.
278 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

the momentum of vibration is transferred to the elastic air. -And these
two qualities of the vibrating bell—cohesion and elasticity—as Sir
John Herschel has well remarked, “we have no means of analyzing
further, and must therefore regard them, till we see reasons to the con-
trary, as ultimate phenomena, and referable to the direct action of an
attractive and a repulsive force.”* But in a kinetic system there is no
room for such abstractions. How then are they to be displaced and su-
perseded ? We wait in vain for an intelligent or an intelligible answer.

But after this long list of difficulties, supposing the vibrating parti-
cles set in motion, still by the Demiurgus, with his right and left pro-
pulsions, by what power (short of his incessant repercussion) 1s the
vibrating particle enabled to transmit without decline or interruption,
these ztherial waves of gravitation—let us say for a single year, we
might as well have said for a single minute? Here again we listen
vainly for an answer!

And thus, step by step, have we been led to the culminating vice of
every kinetic sytem ; its utterly reckless violation of any rational concep-
tion of the conservation of energy. And yet remarkably enough, the
ostensible impulse and occasion of such creeds have usually been a
strong veneration for this much-abused principle, and the consciousness
of a special mission to restore and to vindicate its neglected authority !
Not unfrequently the vibrations communicated to the telegraphic ether
by a trembling atom have been supposed to be transmitted unimpaired
to that or to other atoms, and back again, in endless and magnificent
cycles of “perpetual motion.” And as “there is no limit to the vis viva
which such a medium may conserve” within its boundless bosom, such

‘projectors have the Bank of the Infinite on which to draw in every
dynamic emergency, without the fear of a depleted treasury, and with-
out any necessity being felt for inquiring too nicely into the balance of
the depositor’s account. Aud thus, as Leray has intimated, suns and
stars are maintained for ever blazing on a borrowed capital of motion.

In opposition to all this ideal programme of an illimitable ocean of
dynamic, with its treasures lying loose in space, to be absorbed by every
projected ball or stone, it may be simply declared that from observation
we have no reason whatever to believe the «ther to be in any case a
source of energy. We have absolutely no experience of any undulations
originating in its broad expanse. It is never self-luminous; and even
in the case of electricity there is always required the disturbance of a
material element. Nor is there any ascertained fact to warrant the sup-
position that the ether is a reservoir of force,—in any other sense than
that without the possession of intrinsic tension it would be incapable of
transmitting energy. So far therefore as sober experience is accepted
as our guide, we only know that a mechanical impulse of suitable char-
acter being committed to the ether, it is a faithful vehicle of energy,
never adding to, and never abstracting from its charge.

* Prelim. Discourse on the Study of Natural Philosophy, part ii, chap. ii, sec. 80.

‘>
a)

KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 209

Among the names presented in the foregoing selection from kinetic
theorists are several eminent in the domains of physics and mathemat-
jes. Their labors, animated with the zeal, the diligence, and the persist-
ency of purpose and conviction here displayed, might be expected to
enlarge notably the boundaries of our knowledge to whatever depart-
ment of natural law they were devoted. But when we look for any
actual results from these elaborated speculations, how barren is the
prospect. How wonderfully contrasted in character is the prime as-
sumption with the fruitfulness of that generalization which it aims to
subordinate and to comprehend. How striking its failure, not in the
higher réle of prophecy, but in the humbler one of mere interpretation.

_ How clumsy the mechanism by which it vainly strives to accomplish its

results.

But it is not simply in the negative aspects of an unsuccessful effort
that these varied speculations, prompted by a common sentiment and
motive, teach us their most suggestive lesson. Beyond the facts of con-
stant and of signal failure, these restless, resolute probings by the human
mind in all directions, serve as the cumulative bases of a new induc-
tion; and by the very sharpness of the contrasts brought to view at
every point between the tentative conjecture and the determinate expe-
rience, they enforce the assurance, that whatever else the principle of
gravitation may be, it is not in its essence any form of motion. And
that gravitation is not aresultant of pressure, appears to be very clearly
made out by the inability of every scheme of such hypothesis, in the
hands of its most skilfull adherents, to give any rational account of the
semi-diurnal ocean-tides.

Another lesson no less striking, is the utter worthlessness of metaphys-
ical axioms as a criterion of physical truth, or as a foundation for ra-
tional physical theory. Such propositions as “It is impossible to im-
agine an infinite attribute belonging to a finite entity,” or “It is im-
possible to conceive anything to act where it is not,” are not merely quite
irrelevant to scientific verity, but if gravely accepted as physical postu-
lates, prove only to be positive obstructions to scientific investigation.
Professor Challis has well said, “I do not admit that any metaphysical
argument can be adduced either in support of or against a physical hy-
pothesis. Meta-physics come after physics.”* And Sir John Herschel,
some thirty years ago, laid down as a rule of sound philosophy, ‘‘ Expe-
pience once recognized as the fountain of all our knowledge of nature,
it follows that in the study of nature and its laws we ought at once to
make up our minds to dismiss as idle prejudices, or at least suspend as
premature, any preconceived notion of what might or what ought to be
the order of naturein any proposed case, and content ourselves with
observing, as a plain matter of fact, what 7s.”t And again, long before
him, Newton condemned the “feigning hypothesis for explaining all
things mechanically, and referring other causes to metaphysics. Where-

*L.E. D. Phil. Mag., 1861, vol. xxi, p. 505.
t Discourse on Study of Natural Philosophy, part ii, chap. i, sec. 68.
280 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

as the main business of natural philosophy is to argue from phenomena
without feigning hypotheses, and to deduce causes from effects, till we
come to the very first cause, which certainly is not mechanical.” *

It has already been noticed that elasticity has proved a stumbling-
block to every kinetic hypothesis. A system of molecular physics
without this property would represent a chaos; but a chaos destitute
of energy. As Lamé has well observed in his admirable treatise on the
subject, “‘The réle of Elasticity in nature is as important as that of
Gravitation!” How then are we to formulate this prime and potent
force? Evidently no phase or form of motion can simulate its action.
Here all kinetic theory fails: and there is then something in the world
beside “inertia and motion.” Until some rational analysis be discov-
ered, we must accept the fact (in the language of Sir John Herschel)
as an ‘ultimate phenomenon.” And as we find that the molecules of
all material substance resist compression with a force proportional in
some high ratio thereto, we can only conceive that they are separated
by an interval through which this repellant resistance is exercised.
Here then it seems, we are at once confronted with an ‘occult quality”
or virtue, a force of repulsion, quite beyond the reach of any explana-
tion or relegation. And worse than all, with a quality or virtue which
proves to be that ever-dreaded and in fact ‘“impossibie” actio in dis-
tans! Are we then driven in the last resort to admit that devoid of all
perception of propriety, the insignificant physical molecule does pos-
itively “‘act where it 7s not,” and where it ought not ?

When we endeavor to penetrate into the secrets of molecular physics,
again are we borne on the waves of a large induction that the atoms of
matter never are and never can be in contact: but that in Seguin’s
fine conception, they are really circulating in perpetual orbits of vary-
ing magnitude, according to the resultants of impulsions received by
mutual impacts on their dynaspheres, or on the mystic boundaries of
their elastic repulsions: in orbits whose magnitude determines the
character of their aggregation, and which notwithstanding constant
perturbation, could be suppressed only by the total absorption of mo-
tion, in an absolute zero of temperature. And thus, whether we con-
template the infinitely small or the infinitely grand, in every case comes
back,upon us the wide induction, that the action of matter in atom, in
molecule, or in mass, is ever at a distance! Of actual contact there is
probably no instance afforded in nature, excepting in the intimate sub-
stance of the ultimate atom. And notwithstanding the petulant sneer
of some distinguished physicists, there is nothing to forbid (on the con-
trary much to favor) the Newtonian conception of infinitely hard spher-
ules of determinate magnitude, as the real substratum of the physical
universe.

The assumption therefore of a material band or bar between bodies, to
transmit energy from one to another, whether by a pull or by a push, is

* Optics, Book iii, Query 28.

x KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION. 281

still very far from establishing an action by contact, or from sustaining
the fond hypothesis that an atom “acts where it is!” Admitting a con-
necting rod for drawing the railway train of dynamic, as Professor Max-
well has remarked, “the action of the rod is explained by the existence
of internal forces in its substance; and the internal forces are explained
by means of forces assumed to act between the particles of which the
rod is composed, that is between bodies at distances which, though
small, must be finite. The observed action at a considerable distance is
therefore explained by means of a great number of forces acting between
bodies at very small distances, for which we are as little able to account
as for the action at any distance, however great.”*

To the wondering inquiry what possible explanation can be given of

* A Treatise on Electricity and Maguetism: by James Clerk Maxwell. Oxford, 2 vols.
8vo, 1873. Parti, chap. v, sec. 105, vol. i, p. 123.

If the attempts hitherto made by kinetic theorists to explain the tensile strength of
a rope or of a chain by the pressure of a vis a tergo have been exceedingly lame and
unsatisfactory, even the more direct examples of actual impact and propulsion are
really as little serviceable to the hypothesis of contact action. If we have good reason
to believe that the constituent molecules of a steel bar are actually separated by rela-
tively large spaces of intense repulsion,—a fortiori must the physical impact of the
most violent percussion be resolved into an action through a vacant space. Taking
the case of a steel ball struck suddenly by a steel bat, the interval of distance between
the first impression of the moving mall and its nearest approach to the ball, is suffi-
cient to permit the acceleration of motion in the missile through every gradation, from
zero to its full velocity.

Perhaps no better ‘‘ prerogative of instances” of a physical contact could be sug-
gested than that of a thick glass plate resting on the convex surface of a large glass
lens, since the perfectly-ground plane surface of the upper glass and the perfectly-
ground spherical surface of the lower one are best adapted to exclude_a possible film
of air. Such an arrangement represents the well-known experiment by which Newton
determined from the measurable variation of distance between the glasses (when
closely pressed together) the wave-length of light for different colors. On this very
beautiful experiment Dr. Robison forcibly remarks in his excellent work on Natural
Philosophy :

“The conclusion seems unquestionable that we have no proof from the black spot
between the glasses, that they are in mathematical contact in that place. We know
by the first experiment that a very considerable force is necessary for producing the
black spot. A greater pressure makes it broader, and in all probability this is partly
by the mutual yielding of the glasses. I found that before a spot, whose surface is a
square inch can be produced, a force exceeding one thousand pounds must be em-
ployed. When the experiment is made with thin glasses, they are often broken before
any black spot is produced. . . . . There is therefore an essential difference be-
tween mathematical and physical contact; between the absolute annihilation of dis-
tance, and the actual pressure of adjoining bodies. We must grant that two pieces of
glass are not in mathematical contact till they are exerting a mutual pressure not less
than one thousand pounds per square inch. For we must not conclude that they are
in contact till the black spot appears; and even then we dare not positively affirm it.
My own decided opinion is, that the glasses not only are not in mathematical contact
in the black spot, but that the distance between them is vastly greater than the
eighty-nine-thousandth part of an inch, the difference of the distances at two suc-
cessive rings.”—A System of Mechanical Philosophy: by John Robison. 4 vols. 8 vo.,
_ Edinburgh, 1822, vol. i, sec. 241, 242, pp. 250, 261.
282 KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION.

such a theory or hypothesis of attraction, the obvious answer is, there
is neither “theory” nor “hypothesis” in the case. The observed fact
that one body does actually induce approach in another body at a dis-
tance from it, if accepted as an ‘‘ultimate” one, is of course thereby ex-
cluded from all idea of “explanation.” And as this observed fact, by
the multiplicity of instances in which no intermediate agent has yet
been detected, or rendered rationally plausible, is generalized into an
“induction,” the burden of proof lies entirely on the shoulders of those
who with a keener vision through nature’s veil, are ready to proffer
hypotheses “without assumptions,” and endless motions without the
aid of *‘ occult qualities.”

But this stern requirement of a demonstrated instance of material
link, or mechanical connection, to impugn the large induction of an
actio in distans, cannot be evaded by the logical artifice of designating
such “induction” as a competing ‘‘ hypothesis!” If by the scientific
method of a carefully registered experience such theorists should ever
be successful in physically justifying their ill-advised scruples, their
mala fastidia, (to use the phrase of Horace,) none will be more heartily
rejoiced at this new conquest over ignorance than the astronomers and
physicists who hitherto have given themselves but small concern re-
specting the metaphysical paradoxes supposed to be involved in the
more usual statement of the law of gravitative action.

But as yet this generalization, after two centuries of busy thought
and daring speculation, still remains the largest, clearest, surest, yet
attained by man; and with each revolving year new demonstrations of
‘its absolute precision and of its universal domination serve only to fill
the mind with added wonder and with added confidence in the stability
and the supremacy of the power in which has been found no variable-
ness, neither shadow of turning, but which, the same yesterday, to-day,

and forever,
“Lives through all life, extends through all-extent,
Spreads undivided, operates— unspent !”

/

|
|

er arate

& ged?
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

By Prof. GEORGE Par, of the University of Brussels.

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. A. Henry]
CHAPTER I.

ORIGIN OF THE EARTH.

As far as the assisted eye can penetrate the depth of space, we find
that attraction is one of the fundamental properties of matter. It is
inherent in all bodies, whatever may be their form, whatever their na-
ture. Its energy isin inverse proportion to the square of the distances,
and proportional to the masses : its action is limited neither in time nor
space.

If we examine attentively the universality of this foree, its unlimited
action, we must arrive at the conclusion that matter, of which attraction
is only a property, is equally infinite in time and in space; that it exists
everywhere, and is constantly transformed; its activity is a natural
result of its properties, and we may say after careful study of all rela
tive phenomena that matter without properties, and consequently with-
out activity, cannot exist.

We have only to direct our thoughts to the innumerable worlds,
whose history, written on the starry vault, has left much concerning them
still unrevealed ; to consider simple immensity and eternity and oppose
to them the where and the when of the origin of matter; to endeavor to
imagine what could have existed before or at the time of its appear-
ance, and we will easily conceive that its essence is necessarily infinite,
and that its activity, which is partially manifested in universal attrac-
tion, is permanent and eternal.

- We may say then that matter fills space without limit, and that from its
bosom constantly proceed worlds without number under the form of light
vapors, which, grouped together by the effect of attraction, create nebula,
which unceasingly increase in volume by the addition of matter of analo-
gous formation. In these nebule are produced different centers of
attraction, around which collects the still diffuse matter. As condensa-
tion advances, the heat disengaged increases in proportion, and when-
ever this exceeds radiation there is an accumulation of heat which pro-
duces incandescence of the entire gaseous mass.

Each of these centers of attraction forms the germ of a solar system,

and each passes through the same phases in the course of its develop
233
'

984 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

ment, differing only in the time occupied in going through these.

changes.
What are these phases, and what is the order of their succession ?

The hypothesis of M. Faye in regard to the development of celestial —

bodies has the advantage of accounting for a large number of cosmical
phenomena, and at the same time of giving an exact idea of the activity
of matter, from its extreme dispersion, to the formation of planets. As
it is founded upon the physical constitution of the sun, it may be well
to give a glance at some of the theories which have been formed in re-
gard to this luminary.

According to the Scotch scientist, Wilson, the sun is an opaque, solid —

or liquid body, surrounded with a dense atmosphere, the exterior strata

of which are luminous in themselves and constitute the photosphere. —

Arago proved the existence of an incandescent gas, by means of the
polariscopic telescope ; for from the entire surface of the solar disk he
obtained no polarized light, which would not have been the case if the

sun were a solid body or an incandescent liquid. In order to explain

the penumbra, W. Herschel supposed between the sun and the photo-
sphere the existence of a cloudy envelope, which reflects and absorbs
all the luminous and calorific rays. The production of spots was attrib-
uted to gaseous emanations of a volcanic nature, which rend the cloudy
envelope and the photosphere and allow us to perceive the opaque body.

Moreover the appearance of the spots toward the edge of the sun,
according to all the laws of perspective, indicate that they are actual

depressions and not protuberances, as Leland considers them, nor a —

superficial phenomenon, as La Hire has supposed, nor yet clouds, as M.
Kirchoff has declared them to be in an hypothesis generally accepted
in Germany. As the latter hypothesis is connected with a discovery
of great importance to spectral analysis, we will consider it more in
detail.

It is evident from the investigations of Angstrom that gases and
vapors always absorb the rays of refrangibility, corresponding to those
they would themselves emit, if they were carried to incandescence.

Starting with this fact, MM. Bunsen and Kirchhoff have shown that -
we may produce certain lines of the solar spectrum, by interposing —

vapors of different metal\s in the path of the light of a continuous spec-
trum, proceeding from an incandescent body. In order to apply to the
sun the results of this experiment, M. Kirchhoff supposed the sun to
be a solid or an incandescent liquid, surrounded with an atmosphere

containing vapors of different metals of which we perceive the dark —

rays in the solar spectrum. The spots, according to this hypothesis, are
only clouds of conical form, which are produced by a sudden cooling of
certain regions of the solar atmosphere. The protuberances, having
the appearance of floating clouds, which are observed during total
eclipses of the sun, appear to confirm this view. But when we consider,
what is well known, that the spots are seldom seen beyond 50° of lati-

~

- THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 285

tude north and south, while the protuberances appear in all latitudes,*
this particular proof loses its force.

Furthermore, Warren de la Rue has brought absolute proof to the
support of the existence of a cavity in the spots. Two photographs of
the sun, taken with an interval of two days between them, and united in
a stereoscope, give clearly the perception of a cavity.

These considerations, and many others, cause us to prefer the hypoth-
esis of Wilson, Herschel, and Arago, who admit the existence of a pho-
tosphere of a cloudy envelope, and an opaque interior.t
' It remains for us to inquire what is the nature of this interior; is it
solid, liquid, or gaseous? In what way does the sun produce the enor-
mous amount of heat it has given forth from immeasurable time?
And how are produced the spots whose origin has been explained in
such different ways?

A close observation of the formation of the spots, nad of the phenom-
ena which precede and follow them, has furnished Mr. Faye with the
elements of his hypothesis, in which he declares that the solar mass is
entirely gaseous, because the ascending currents which produce the
spots proceed from very great depths in the solar mass, and conse-
quently that it is the contraction of this gaseous mass, which furnishes
the enormous heat radiated into space.

The extension of the same phenomena to all the stars, and to all mat-
ter in course of formation, raises the value of this hypothesis which,
however, does not claim to be perfect. Itisin fact only a sketch, made
by the'hand of a master, which still requires some touches of the pencil
to make it a complete picture, embracing in its generalities the cosmic
life of matter. Let us consider the hypothesis more in detail.

There exist gaseous masses of a temperature superior to all chemical
affinity. This great heat is produced by the contraction of the mass,
and the disappearance of a considerable quantity of vis viva; but as the
gases are bad conductors, and exist in a state of great division, the
emission of heat and of light is very feeble, (nebulous type.)

There comes a time when by the progress of condensation, and by the
cooling of the surface of the nebula, chemical forces come into action ;
there are then produced the liquid and solid particles which distinguish
the exterior strata of the gaseous mass the photosphere. But as the
solid and liquid particles are denser than the rest of the mass, they fall
toward the center of gravity. There they are volatilized anew, under
the influence of the high central temperature, and determine ascending
currents of gas, which are in their turn cooled and feed thus the photo-

_ sphere, which is more or less agitated, according to the intensity of the

currents. (Type, sun, star.)
When the entire mass of a star becomes thickened to such a degree

* E. Plantamour, Observation de Véclipse totale de soleil dw 18 juillet 1860, a Castellon de

_ la Plana; Guillemin, Le Ciel.

t See further details of these hypotheses Faye Comptes rendus, t. ix, 1865, p. 89-96.
286 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

by continued precipitations that the exchange of heat between the cen-
ter and the periphery can no longer take place by means of currents,
the luminous envelope disappears for want of aliment, and it is only
after a sufficiently prolonged repose that the expansive force of the gas
succeeds in overcoming the resistance, and envelopes the entire globe
with a photosphere, which will be extinguished again when equilibrium
is established between the expansive force of the gas and the pressure
of the condensed matter. (Type, variable star, temporary star.)

These phenomena may be repeated at intervals more or less consider-
able, but the effects of the cooling is manifested more and more, until
finally the luminous phenomenacease entirely. It is then the geological
life of the star commences.

The sun is still far from the exhaustion of its calorific capacity, but
it has only a shadow of its former greatness. It extended, before the
formation of the planets, beyond the limits of our present system. The
equivalent of heat lost since that time in the generation of the force
necessary to divide the mass of the sun from the planets would make
it occupy a space whose radius would extend beyond the orbit of Nep-
tune. The attenuation of the solar matter must have been extreme
when our system formed one continuous whole, with the mass of the
other stars of the milky-way.

We have considered the formation of the great centers in a general

way; let us now examine their particular development, Se we can
study only in our solar system.

We follow in this the theory of Laplace, suggested to the great
geometrician by the discovery of the rings of Saturn, in which, to use
his own expression, ‘man detected nature in the execution of one of
her mysterious creations.”

Our solar system had, before the creation of the planets, a form very
much flattened, in consequence of its movement of rotation and of its
gaseous nature. In fact, the centrifugal force and the expansive force,
which both increase with the distance from the center, counterbalanced
the attraction, and produced a considerable enlargement in the plane of
the equator. When a certain portion of the nebula, on account of the
equilibrium of these contrary forces, could no longer participate in the
general movement of contraction, a ring was formed, which circulated
around the central body with the velocity it had acquired as a portion
of the generating body, when the dimensions of the latter were the
same.

Several rings were detached thus, successively, and continued to con-
dense independently of the central body, until, by an exterior influence,
or by the preponderating attraction of nuclei formed within their sub-
stance, they broke into fragments of unequal volume. The principal
nucleus, collected about a center of gravity the largest part of the
mass, which had formed the ring, and was then in the same condition as

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 287

the generating body, that is to say, that it could give birth to other
bodies, still less important, viz, to satellites.

As to the movement of the secondary bodies, this was regulated by
the rotation of the principal body. When the mass of the ring com-
menced to condense, two movements were produced, through its con-
nection with the center of gravity of the solar system. The parts
nearest to the sun were removed (by the condensation) farther away,
that is, nearer to the planetary center, and as their velocity, on account

of their inertia, remained the same, and as, besides, this velocity was less
- than that of the center of gravity of the planet, they had a tendency

to fall behind. The parts farthest from the sun, on the contrary,
approached nearer to it, and their angular velocity, being originally
greater, they had a tendency to advance beyond the center of gravity

of the planet. These two contrary motions made the secondary body
turn around the principal body in the direction in which the latter
revolved around the sun.

The ring which must have formed our earth was remarkable neither
in position nor size; but as it is the only one of which we know, although
very imperfectly, the different phases of planetary development, it must
especially attract our attention.

We have already shown how every ring must finally break and con-
_ glomerate its substance into a single spheroid, in which are manifested
_ the same luminous and calorific phenomena as in the sun, although

_ with less intensity, as these must be in proportion to the mass. The
earth, by the contraction of its gaseous globe, acquired a movement of
rotation, increasing in rapidity as the volume became less. At the dis-
tance of sixty terrestrial radii a ring was detached which afterward gave
birth to the moon. The globe diminished more and more in volume
until the cooling became so considerable that the liquids formed in the
photosphere were precipitated in the order of their density. A thick
atmosphere enveloped this incandescent nucleus.

The increase in temperature of the earth toward its center, its density
too slight, (5.44 according to Reich,) for the enormous pressure of its
entire mass, the nature of the ancient eruptive rocks and the flattening
of the globe prove that the earth has passed through a liquid and in-
candescent condition, and notwithstanding its present coolness, its cen-
tral heat is still great. It is true that Herbert Spencer demonstrated *
that it was not necessary for the earth to be in a soft state to be flat-
tened. As the intensity of the centrifugal force increases in cubic propor-
_ tion to the dimension of the mass, while under the same conditions the re-

sistance increases as the square, it follows that if the mass continues to
augment, there will come a time when the centrifugal force will be
greater than the limits of the resistance and cohesion, and in consequence
all the mass will yield to a certain degree.

The most resistant substance known to us, having a hundred millionth

* Philos. Magaz., 1847, p. 194.

288 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

part of the volume of the earth, would he flattened if its rotation was }
as rapid as that of the surface of our globe. This incontestable fact is —
no proof against the supposition of a primitive fluidity ; it rather shows
us that the idea of fluidity is quite relative, for that which assumes a
certain form upon our earth may become level upon a globe where the
weight is greater. Spencer himself does not deny this fluidity, which is,
moreover, now generally admitted.

At the commencement of the period at which we stopped in the his-
tory of our globe, the nucleas, composed of liquid and incandescent lava,
possessed a uniform very high temperature. A dense atmosphere sur-
rounded it, containing the elements of the present atmosphere, also sub-
stances not condensed, and all the water of the earth in a state of
vapor. This uniform temperature of the incandescent lava could not
continue indefinitely, for the liquids which were precipitated from the
upper strata of the atmosphere, where they were condensed by the cold,
decreased the heat by a uew volatilization. This constant cooling of
the surface of the nucleus determined the first congealment of its
liquid mass.

The scoria formed by this congelation were broken and heaped up by
the continual ebullition of the liquid sea of matter, by storms, which were
of aviolence in proportion to the chemical activity of the globe, and the
denseness of the atmosphere and by the tides, produced by the attrac-
tion of the sun and moon. Their débris collected into floating islands,
which were constantly increasing in extent and number, and at last by
their union formed the first, but still greatly-agitated, crust of the earth.

Sir William Thomson* has shown that the central heat can have no influ-
ence upon the temperature of the surface of the globe ten thousand years
after the definite formation of the terrestrial crust. This fact has its cause
in the want of conductibility of heat of the eruptive or plutonian rocks.
As an instance of this, one may walk with impunity upon a bed of lava,
a few days after an eruption, while at the depth of only a few feet the ,
lava is still incandescent, and so continues, sometimes for nearly a cen-
tury.t The thermal sources and the eruptions of lava may have main-
tained the temperature at a very high degree, even during more recent
times; and it is probable that for three or four millions of years vege-
tation was affected by the high temperature of the soil whenever the
roots penetrated more than a yard below the surface.f

As soon as the central heat ceased to act upon the temperature of the
surface of the globe and of the atmosphere, the precipitation of vapors —
must have become almost general. The temperature of the first water
was undoubtedly high, on account of the great pressure of the atmos-
phere, of the heat liberated by condensation, and of the sensible influence
of the stili recent crust. This high temperature of the water facilitated

* Phil. Mag., January, 1863, p. &.
tL. Figuier, La Terre avant le Déluge, 1863, p. 35.

} Thomson, Phil. Mag., January, 1863.

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 289

the dissolution of the plutonian rocks, which were deposited under the
_ form of unstratified sediment in proportion as the water cooled.
_ After the precipitation of the water, calm did not reign upon the
surface of the earth; violent reactions evinced the powerful but irregu-
lar struggle of the ual forces. The origin of these forces is found
in the constant loss of the heat of the globe. According to Reich and
Bailey the density of the earth must be between 5.44 and 5.67. It is,
then, greater toward the center than at the surface. This is evident
from the mean density of the sedimentary and eruptive rocks of the
crust.
' We ought not to be surprised at the great density of the central
strata; on the contrary, if we take into account the compressibility of
liquids, and the enormous pressure the subterranean mass supports
we will be astonished thatit is not greater, and seek, with Lesley, a force
sufficiently powerfal to counterbalance this immense pressure. We
know that the heat alone maintains bodies in a certain state of fluidity ;
_ but as there is a constant loss of heat, equilibrium must cease and the
entire mass shrink in proportion to the loss of caloric. The terrestrial
crust which passes from the soft to the liquid state contracts more than
the total volume of the ignited mass; a cracking of the crust ensues
and an ejection of melted and incandescent matter.
The sedimentary crust does not contract in any way. It sinks at
certain points and rises at others, following the contraction of the
solid crust it covers. Hence the heaping up in places, the rents and
irregularities of a surface once perfectly united and level. All these
_ Inequalities are so many new agents for the circulation of the water at
the surface of the globe, which by disaggregation and denudation far- »
nishes material for the filling up of oceanic depressions.
The appearance of organisms in their most simple forms soon followed
_ the formation of the sedimentary strata. ‘This was a sign that the
chaotic state which necessarily prevailed during the period of the pre-
 cipitations of the first waters was approaching itsend. We know little
of the structure of these first organisms. They were only the precursors
_ of others more perfect, which in their turn became the antecedents of the
existence of beings of a still higher order.
There have been various efforts made to estimate the age of the earth,
_ at least since the commencement of the sedimentary formations. Hum-
_ boldt has said that geologists by their hypotheses and their conclusions
‘penetrate into spaces and times which are far beyond the limits of our
observation. But it should not be forgotten that if in this way they
_ can arrive at a certain probability or relative certainty, it is rarely ac-
_ corded them to settle their conclusions upon indisputable and necessary
data, and therefore we cannot place entire faith in the estimations of the
age of the terrestrial crust. Mr. Bischof has endeavored to show by
the cooling of basalt and of lava that the earth has taken nine millions
',of years to cool down to the point it is at present, provided it be ac-
s 19

290 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

cepted that the Coal period required a temperature of from 27° to 280
C., and that the temperature of our day is from 7° to 15° at the mean,

Gibbert has calculated the duration of the same period to be five mil-. |

lions of years. But why admit a temperature of 27° for the carbonifer-
ous period? The preponderance alone of the Cryptogames over the Phan-
erogames does not justify this estimate, as proves the flora of New
Zealand, which is almost exclusively cryptogamic. Moreover the cool-
ing of a mass of basalt takes place in a medium and under conditions
quite different from those which determine the cooling of the earth. It
is, then, with little hope of attaining the truth that we try to calculate
the duration of geological ages. We must, however, admit that they
were immense compared with our short existence, and in every case
greater than the figures mentioned.

CHAPTER II.
CENTRAL HEAT.

The central heat is a constant source of forces, which, in different
ways, act upon the crust of the globe. E

The contraction of the solid crust, the cracking of this crust, and the
escape of incandescent matter are direct consequences of the loss of
this heat. The plications, the faults, the elevations and depressions of
the sedimentary crust take place because the sediments can no more

contract, but, on account of their weight, sink at certain points of the-

solid nucleus.

From these two kinds of forces there result a series of phenomena,
of which the rising and sinking of entire countries, earthquakes, and
volcanic eruptions are the most important.

The actuality of these risings and sinkings of the crust of the globe
has been confirmed in so many ways that all savans now agree in attrib-
uting to them a large part in the successive modifications of the surface
of the earth, and in the raising of the continents. If there were no
other convincing proof, the fact that the mountains are, on an average,
10,000 meters above the mean of the oceanic depressions would confirm
the idea that these masses cannot be of marine formation, but are the
product of a central foree—of an action slow but constant, rarely sud-
den or violent.

Upheavals and subsidences are observable at many points of the
globe, and some even are taking place under our eyes, but so slowly
that the effect is perceptible only after a long period of action. Thus it
is proved that the northern part of Sweden is rising so rapidly that we
may foresee the time when the Gulf of Bothnia will be completely dry.
This elevation diminishes toward the southern part of this country, and
there is even a sinkin gof the shores of Germany, of the islands of

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. Z20t

Denmark and of Norway. Greenland is also sinking, as was proved
after the grand breaking up of the ice in 1815. The ancient dwellings
then found were washed by the sea, and in some cases entirely sub-
merged, which was evidently not the case when, in the fifteenth cen-
tury, they were inhabited by the Danish colonists. <A striking example
of an alternate elevation and depression is furnished us by the columns
of the temple of Serapis, not far from Pizzoli, on the Gulf of Baiz.
The foundation of this temple is at present below the level of the sea,
and the water covers it according to its height, from 30 to 45 centi-
meters, (12 to 18 inches.) Three large columns, of Greek marble, about
3.5 meters, (28 feet,) are still standing; others lie broken and scattered
along the shore. All these columns are perforated at the same height
by pholadites, which only at the level of the water attack the calca-
reous rocks of the coast. The space where this perforation was accom-
plished is very narrow, its upper and lower limits forming a zone of
from 2.25 meters to 2.56 meters (74 to 84 feet) in width. The lower
limit with the large columns is at a height of 2.84 meters, (94 feet;) with
the smaller and more elevated columns of the temple it is only about
half as high. The lower part of the columns is perfectly well pre-
served, even retaining the polish, while the part above the perforated
zone is much decomposed, as al! calcareous matter exposed to the in-
fluence of the waves, the air, and the sun. When, in 1749, this temple
was discovered, only the upper part of the columns emerged from the
voleanic sand and scoria deposited by the sea. It was necessary to
_clear away the material collected, in order to obtain this proof of a pro-
longed continuation of the water at a height which necessarily implies
a rising of the entire coast, since so great a change in the level of the
sea, it is evident, has not taken place on other parts of the Mediterra-
 nean.*

The Australian continent gives us, also, a proof of a contemporaneous
rising. Thus Mr. Becker has shown from the examination of a number
of facts that in the space of twelve months Hudson’s Bay was elevated
fourinches. The pole of the pavilion on the shore whose foot was bathed
by the sea five years before, at the time of the observations, was at a
considerable distance from the water, separated from it by a lawn of
vigorous vegetation and covered with tents and houses. The celebrated
navigator, Flinders, made in 1802 bathymetric observations upon the
south coast of Australia, and his charts, remarkable for their precision,

were regarded as authority with the English marine. But soon it was
found that, in the bay of Lacépéde, for example, where Flinders had
marked 10 fathoms there were only 7; this was a rising of 18 feet in
fifty-six years, which gives four inches a year. The quay of Melbourne
is six feet higher than it was twenty years ago, and the inundations to
which this city were exposed have ceased, on account of this elevation.
_M. Becker concludes that the whole Australian continent is relatively

*H. Girard, Briefe iiber Al. v. Humboldt, Kosmos, t. iv, 2e partie, p. 83.

ECD Ripe POM Reber Gye oot

i
Pee ROM

992 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

recent, and that it must have been covered by the sea at no very dis-

tant period. He supports this opinion by the accounts of travelers who

have visited Central Australia. They all declare the existence of a
vast surface in the center of the continent, surrounded with mountains
and covered with sand, in which are found the broken shells and the
carapaces of crustacea as well preserved as if they were recent. The
strange flora and fauna of Australia, the salt lakes of its interior, as
well as the presence, frequently contested, of the more, recent Tertiary
deposits, alike confirm this supposition.*

Another proof of a slow rising is given us by the small island of Santa
Maria, not far from the island of Conception. Captain Fitz Roy found,
from the traces produced by the erosion of the sea and from the per-
forations of the Pholadites that the northern part of the island has been
elevated 10 feet, while the southern part has risen only 8 feet, above the
level of the ocean. We cannot attribute this rising to a retreat of the
sea, for the unequal elevation of the ancient line of erosion would be
then unexplained. Mr. Darwin attributes, also, to a general rising of
the continent of South America the beds of shells he observed at a height
of from 4 to 5 English feet.

The shores of France, also, offer examples of an oscillation of the sur- —

face of the earth. In the vicinity of Bourgneuf, not far from La Ro-
chelle, are the remains of a ship wrecked in 1752 upon an oyster bank
along the coast. To-day these remains are found surrounded by cultiva-
ted fields, and 4.2 meters (134 feet) above the mean level of the ocean. The

neighborhood has gained in the course of twenty-five years more than ~ .

a thousand acres of ground merely by the rising of the coast.t Nor-
wandy and Bretagne, on the contrary, are sinking, although very slowly.

We find there are on the coast of Greenland submerged edifices which —

date from the eighth century.t

We must not forget that, according to an hypothesis generally admit-
ted in regard to the increase of coral formations, the presence of the
latter in a sea indicates a slow sinking of the bottom of the ocean.
The researches of Darwin upon these formations in Polynesia show that
the corals live ordinarily only at a depth of from 34 to 43 meters.

Now, on examining the coral islands, we find that the calcareous forma- —

tions of the corals descend in abrupt slopes 335 meters below the
level of the sea. As the corals cannot live at such a depth, it must
have been the sinking of the bed of the ocean which caused them to
descend.

These facts are sufficient to show that the plications and the rising of
the sedimentary crust have altered greatly the surface of the globe.
We will see that volcanic force, which is a more direct result of the cen-
tral heat, produces the same effects. It is these two forces, heat and
volcauie action, which have raised enormous masses of granite to the

* The Annals and Mayazine of Natwral History, vol. xvi, 3d ser., 1865, p. 333.
t Girard, op. cit., p. 101. t Lbid., p. 110.

a eee aig # Tempero = eT Kell gee Be wae = 4 Se.

9 ad ty

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 293

height of the Himalayas, the Andes, the Alps, and the Pyrenees. Only
their intensity has not been always the same; this is greater in propor-
tion as the crust where the rupture takes place is stronger. On account
of its slight thickness the first crust of the earth offered very little re-
sistance to the escape of the ignited substances, which easily forced a
passage through the large rifts and cracks in its surface, and, as the
first sedimentary strata were still plastic, they followed easily the con-
traction of the solid crust. To-day the thickness of this envelope is
estimated at more than 25 miles; its resistance, therefore, is much
greater, and continues to increase by new eruptions and new solidifica-
tions of ignited and fluid substances. On this account the more recent
geological periods have been marked by fewer of the catalysms, indicated
by the formation of mountain chains, but their intensity and violence
have been proportionately greater, giving rise to the Andes and to the
mountains of Central Asia, which are more recent than the mountain
systems of Europe, and relatively much more important.

Earthquakes are phenomena which most frequently accompany all
modification of the crust of the globe. What we know of their nature is
that they are undulations of the ground, sometimes more, sometimes less
elastic. The starting-point of these waves is in the interior of the earth,
often very near the surface, (at 3,400 meters, or 11,000 feet,) sometimes
at a very great depth, in which case a circle is shaken, including many
countries and entire seas. The earthquake which, on the 3lst of No-
vember, 1755, destroyed the city of Lisbon, was felt in Labrador, and
from Canada to the Carolinas, in the Antilles, Morocco, the north of
Italy, Germany, a part of Russia, the south of Sweden and of Norway,
and England felt its influence. The district affected by this earthquake
extended approximately 100° in longitude and 50° in latitude, and com-
prised a surface of 325 square myriameters, (12,500 square miles.) Other
districts affected by earthquakes have been quite equal to this one in
extent. Thus the region of earthquakes on the Mediterranean extends
from the Azores to beyond Lake Baikal.

The causes of earthquakes may then vary in nature, according to the
depth from which they proceed, although in general their origin is the
same; but, whatever may be their cause, we can, through analogy of

their effects, make use of some mechanical laws to explain the phenom-

ena which accompany them.

It is known that in a homogeneous and elastic medium the sum of the
active forces remains constant and is propagated in all directions. In
applying this law to earthquakes, it follows very simply that, first, the
point most agitated is also the nearest to the origin of the agitation,
and that the points at equal distance from the center of the movement
are similarly affected, according to the principle that the effects of a
blow transmitted upon different points are under identical conditions as
the sine of the angle at which the surface is attained ;* and, second, that

* Prof. Pfaff, Zeitschrift der deutsch. geolog. Gesellsch., 1860, p. 453.
294 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

the point nearest to the origin of agitation is the first to be influenced —

by the commotion which is transmitted to other points in isochronal
circles.

Close observation of these isochronal circles would undoubtedly con-
tribute much to the knowledge of the nature of earthquakes. For this
end meteorological stations should be provided with instruments for
determining the direction and intensity of these phenomena. But all
the instruments for this purpose, hitherto proposed, fail either because
they are too complicated or on account of their want of accuracy, and
the seismometers employed are for the most part not as good as a bottle
with the inside polish taken off and filled with a liquid slightly colored.

Such a bottle, suitably placed in a quiet spot, will indicate, in case of a

commotion, by the highest points of the side wet and colored, the direc-
tion of the current, and by the width of the zone the relative intensity
for the same place. .

Many scientists distinguish in the motion of earthquakes an agitation
by shocks, a movement of undulation, and a movement of rotation, (or
of twisting.) The centers of commotion of the crust, where the effects
are the most violent, sometimes present the phenomenon of a shock

from below upward. During the great earthquake which, in 1783, de- .

vastated Southern Calabria and the city of Messina, blocks of granite
were seen to jump up without changing place, while men and even ani-
mals were thrown into the air and deposited in some cases upon much
higher ground. When the earthquake in 1797 destroyed the city of
Reobamba, situated to the south of Quito, the corpses of several of the
former inhabitants were thrown upon the hill La Cullea,a height of sev-
eral hundred feet. It is said that during the earthquake in Chili,which
took place on the 7th of November, 1837, a pole sunk 8.5 meters (28
feet) in the ground, and sustained by iron bars, was violently thrown
upward, leaving a deep hole.*

The undulatory movement of the ground is more frequent than the
movement by shocks, and its relation to the latter movement is analo-
gous to the undulation of a surface of water compared with the spot at
which a body falls into it; with the difference that the surface of the
soil receives the first shock from below upward. The surface of the
ground is agitated as a liquid surface. Thus, to several eye-witnesses
of the earthquake of Lisbon, the buildings of that city appeared to
rise and fall like a flotilla with the waves of a heavy sea. The move-
ment of the ground produces upon the mind an effect well described by
Humboldt. ‘This impression,” says the author of the Cosmos, ‘does
not in my opinion proceed from the memory of the numerous similar
catastrophes recorded by history, which then crowd upon the imagina-
tion. What affects us is, that we lose suddenly our innate confidence
in the stability of the ground. From our infancy we are habituated to

the contrast of the mobility of the water with the immobility of the —

? * Girard, op. cit., p. 8.

5
* a — 7 . y 7 P
ee ee ae a Ee

Se 2 <
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 295 -

ground. ‘he testimony of our senses strengthens our security. Does
this solid, and as we supposed thoroughly reliable surface commence to
tremble, a moment suffices to destroy the experience of a life-time. An
unknown power is suddenly revealed; the calm of nature was only an
illusion, and we feel ourselves violently thrown back into a chaos of
destructive forces. Then every noise, every breath of the wind, excites
atttention; we distrust above all the earth we tread upon. Even the
animals are disturbed by the unusual phenomenon, and accompany
every shock with cries and bellows, while the birds indicate the approach
of the earthquake by their uncertain and terrified flight.”

The third kind of oscillation of the ground is probably only a modifi.
cation of the undulatory movement. It is known that there are often
many spots within the radius of activity of an earthquake which
remain intact, an island amidst countries destroyed. This is because the
ground is not of a character to transmit the movement. Suppose then
a disposition of similar ground in a horizontal direction to retard the
progress of the waves at one angle more than at another, the rotary
movement would be produced which curves the rectilinear boundaries
of plantations and changes the orientation of buildings. The triangu-
lar obelisk of the Episcopal square at Agram was, three years ago, a
curious example ofthis phenomenon. The angles of the superposed
parts of the obelisk were displaced horizontally at least 25°. A repara-
tion of the obelisk has effaced this proof of the existence of the rotary
movement, which, however, is neither as frequent nor as important as the
two others.

Thus far we have said nothing of the cause of earthquakes. Is
this cause the giving way of subterranean caverns, or the sinking of
rocky masses? Is it the effect of the dilation of the crystals which are
formed in a supersaturated solution, as Mr. Volger believes, or is ita
subterranean storm, as was deciared by the ancient philosophers ?

All these hypotheses, and many others that have been advanced upon
this subject, are far from being entirely false, but their application can
be only very limited and often purely local. Now we require a theory
which finds a reason for the phenomena in the physical constitution of
the earth; an agent whose powerful action can be proved in the geologi-
cal periods and whose important effects may be foreseen in the future.

Here, as before, we have receurse to the central heat, which maintains
in a state of liquidity the greater part of the terrestrial mass, except
a thin solid envelope which covers it. The supposition that this is the
cause we are seeking coincides with what we know of the mobility of
the crust of the globe. We will say, then, that it is the loss of the cen-
tral heat which produces directly or indirectly ruptures and sinkings of
the terrestrial crust, the mechanical effects of which are transmitted by
waves over great surfaces and give rise to earthquakes. It should be
added that many other circumstances may modify this action. Thus
earthquakes are most frequently felt in the vicinity of the sea and of vol-

-

nl
296 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

canoes, as in Italy, in Asia Minor, in the western part of South America, —
in the Sunda Islands, and the Philippines, &c., rarely in the center of con- —

tinents. The winter seems most favorable for the production of the
phenomenon, which fact is explained by the contraction of the crust

caused by the cold. As the moon must exercise upon the liquid mass —

of the earth an effect analogous to the tides, Perry has attentively ob-
served the phenomena of earthquakes -with reference to this action.

By the comparison of more than seven thousand observations, made at —

the commencement of this century, this savan found that earthquakes
are in fact more frequent at the perigee than at the apogee; they are
also more frequent when the moon passes the meridian than at any other
relative position of the satellite to a given place.*

It seems, however, that, contrary to what has been assumed, earth-
quakes do not depend upon the state of the atmosphere. The proximity
of large bodies of water is not necessary for the production of this phe-
nomenon. Attempts have been made to demonstrate the electric nature
of these commotions of the crust, but without success in establishing,
even upon general facts, the exposition of this hypothesis.t The mag-
netic activity of the earth has equally no relation with earthquakes, and
the deviation of the magnetic needle at the place alone where the com-
motion is felt is a proof that this perturbation of the needle must be
attributed to local electric currents, which may in their turn result from
the mechanical action employed in the production of the earthquake.
All things, then, considered, the commotions of the crust upon which we
live depend principally upon the chemical and calorific modifications of
the liquid and incandescent mass, and the nature of the solid crust.

They are partially influenced by the substance of the nearest planets, and —

by the cold, which determines sometimes their frequency. The other
causes are quite accessory and at present hardly admit of generaliza-
tion.

Another series of phenomena, very often in intimate relation with
earthquakes, have their source in the incessant contraction of the
solid envelope of the globe. As the chemical activity of the fluid and
ignited mass is not destroyed, its effects are combined with the effects
of the contraction of the crust; hence the fractures, the crevasses in the
solid envelope, followed by eruptions of lava, basalt, and trachyte. We
may say, then, with Humboldt, that volcanic activity is only the reac-
tion of the interior of a planet upon its crust.

One is often astonished that the center of the earth can furnish so
much material for voleanic eruptions, but an examination of the subject
shows that no great contraction of the crust is required to supply all
these eruptions. The greatest discharges of lava contain rarely more
than a thousand cubic meters, and seldom as much. If we imagine this
substance extended over the surface of the earth, the stratum thus formed

*Institute, No. 1067, p. 201.
+Girard, Briefe iib. Al.» Humboldt’s Kosmos, p- 145.

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 297

would hardly amount to the five-hundredth of a millimeter (the
12,500th of an inch) in thickness. A contraction, then, of the crust which
would shorten the radius of the globe a millimeter (. inch) would be
sufficient to produce five hundred powerful emissions of lava, and a con-
traction of three centimeters (1.13 inch) would be enough to furnish lava
for all the eruptions history has recorded for three thousand years.*
As to the intimate relation which exists often between earthquaies
and volcanic eruptions, there are so many proofs of it that even the
common mind has learned to recognize their connection. Thus when
the Italian peasant sees Vesuvius and Etna smoking and discharging
vapors, he has no fear for his security. But when these natural pro-
cesses cease to give passage to the gas and the vapors which are con-
tinually disengaged from the interior of the globe ; when calm succeeds
to the feeble detonations which accompany these manifestations, then
he is filled with anxiety and dread, for he knows that a violent eruption
will be the consequence of this apparent repose, and that earthquakes
will ravage vast extents of the surrounding country. Let us cite some
examples of thisrelation between the twophenomena. Humboldt relates
. that the volcano Paola, situated to the north of Quito, vomited thick,
black smoke at the commencement of the year 1797. On the 4th of
February of the same year the smoke suddenly ceased, but precisely at
the same time occurred, fourteen miles more to the south, the terrible
earthquake of Kiobamba, one of the most violent which had ever devas-
tated the plateau of Quito. Scarcely was this over than the western
Antilles were troubled by an earthquake which lasted six months, and
ceased on the 27th of September with the eruption of the volcano of
Guadeloupe, until then inactive. When the eruption of this voleano
ceased, new shocks were felt in South America, which ended only with
the destruction of Cumana, on the 14th of December of the same year.
Volcanic openings, or mouths, are not irregularly distributed over the
surface of the globe; they are-most frequently parallel to the priacipal
lines of fracture of the crust, and then they form part of mountain-
chains. They are rarely isolated. It is worthy of remark there are few
volcanic centers still active which are at a great distance from the sea.
What was said of earthquakes may also be said of volcanoes: they are
more frequent in maritime districts, for wherever the sea has retired
during the geological periods, the volcanoes then active have ceased to
be so. Witness the extinct volcanoes of Auvergne, of the Rhine, of
Transylvania, of Bosnia, and other volcanic cones of the Andes, of
Abyssinia, &c. Still we have no reason for refusing the testimony of
Humboldt as to the existence of volcanoes in Central Asia. ‘If active
volcanoes,” says this savan, ‘are almost always in the neighborhood of
the coast, this is due less to the influence of the water of the sea, than
to the‘facility with which the crust of the globe is ruptured, at a place
where the declivity of the continents toward the sea, in carrying off the

*Pouchet, L’ Univers, note 113, p. 144,

998 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

sedimentary strata, facilitates the fracture.” Moreover, in the chain of —
the Southern Andes we find the volcano Tolima, 5,613 meters (33 miles) —

in height and distant about 200 miles from the sea, which experienced

a great eruption on the 12th of March, 1595, But this maximum of —

distance of an active volcano upon the American continent is hardly the
tenth part of that at which we find in Central Asia the active volcanoes
of the chain of Thian-Chan, which, according to reliable information,
have emitted flames, lava, and pumice-stone since the first century of
ourera. ‘The hesitation,” says M. d’Archiac,* ‘‘to admit the existence
of these voleanoes because there are oil mines which, if on fire, would
present similar phenomena, is evidently forced, and rather a supposition
to sustain an hypothesis, which must, however, yield to facts which
cannot be doubted.”

This reflection applies especially to the partisans of the hypothesis of
Gay-Lussac, who are numerous and strong, on account of the facility
with which this theory is deduced from the two principal forces of the
earth, the sea and the central fire. As the hypothesis has its reason-
able side, we will give some of its principal features.

At the commencement of this century it was considered that proxim-
ity to the sea was indispensable for the production of voleanic phenom-
ena. Examination of the products of the eruptions persuaded the
French chemist that they are the result of a reaction of the sea-water,
which penetrates through fissures to great depths, upon liquid and incan-
descent rocks, for the most part of silicates of potassium and aluminum.
In this case the different chlorides of the sea-water act upon the sili-
cates and produce by their decomposition, and a recomposition more in
accordance with their affinities, such an over-increase of heat that a vol-
atilization of the water, in spite of the enormous pressure, is the conse-
quence. The steam forces its way through the fractured crust, and

carries with it the substances melted by its passage, such as trachyte, —

basalt, and, at the present period, lava. In more recent times an
attempt has been made to attach the hypothesis of Gay-Lussac to that
of Mr. Elie de Beaumont, who attributes volcanic eruptions to a kind of

effervescence which the gases contained in melted matter produce as soon —

as the pressure of the crust is removed by its fracture. By virtue of this
effervescence, which causes the melted matter to rise wherever the pres-
sure is least, the sedimentary andp rimitive rocks are injected with in-
candescent masses, Sometimes of considerable volume. It is then that
water is supposed to intervene in these passages of injection; it reacts
upon the incandescent rocks, and from this reaction results a volcanic
activity, less productive in the outflowing of lava, but not less formida-
ble on account of the volcanic storms it occasions.

The mud-vyoleanoes are undoubtedly the last effort of volcanic activ-
ity. M. Hochstetter has shown{ us that the former eruptions of the

* Histoire des progres de la géologie, t.1, p. 181.
t Die Vulkane Javas, Sitzungsberichte der Wiener Akad., xxxvi, p. 128.

=
«
5

4

i
i
4
‘
;
sy
q
|
}.

es ee ed
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 299

volcanoes of Java have given place to emanations formed only of the
debris of ancient eruptive rocks mingled with cinders, and reduced to
a pasty condition by the water which penetrates into the interior of the
crater. He establishes three periods of activity for these volcanoes,
characterized, first, by emissions of trachytic lava (oligoklasaugit) in
the incandescent but pasty condition, which extend horizontally in
strata and form the volcanic cone; second, by the flowing out of tra-
chytic rarely basaltic lava, ina fluid state; and third, by the expulsion of
cinders, sand, and angular fragments of incandescent lava, which takes
place still in onr day. The accumulation of water in the craters causes
the eruptions of mud. Very remarkable are the aqueous eruptions
observed in South America. Bouguer reports that at the time of the
eruption of the volcano Cotopaxi, which occurred ‘in 1742, a disastrous
inundation was attributed to the water thrown up by the volcano. An
analogous phenomenon was presented at Lancerotte, one of the Canary
Islands. There it could not be said, as in the case preceding, that the
water came from the melting of the snow accumulated upon the cone of
the volcano, for, in the first place, there was no snow upon the island,
and, in the second, the water was seen to come out of several of the
craters in a state of activity.*

According to M. Saint-Claire-Deville,+t the phases of volcanic action
are three in number, first, phase of great activity, marked by violent
eruptions, such as Vesuvius has experienced several times within eight-
een centuries; second, phase of mean activity or strombolian phase, char-
acterized by slight eruptions, succeeding each other at short intervals ;
these eruptions have their seat at the summit of the cone or in its im-
mediate neighborhood; third, phase of least activity or sulphureous phase,
when only aqueous vapors are disengaged, accompanied, according to
the intensity of the eruption, with chlorhydric, sulphurous, sulphydric
carbonic acids, hydrogen gas, and carbureted hydrogen. Not only do we
observe a certain succession of these products during the sulphureous
phase, but we find also that they are disengaged at a determinate dis-
tance from the openiag and in concentric circles. Nearest the mouth
the chlorhydric acid, then the sulphurous acid, the sulphydric acid, the
carbonic acid, and lastly the carbureted hydrogen. This succession
seems to indicate that the compounds of salphur and carbon, which are
thus disengaged, around the cone of the eruption, are only metamor-
phic products, which are formed by action of the heat from the lava,
arrested in the volcanic passages, upon the rocks impregnated with
water, which contain sulphur and carbon in a state of combination.

Volcanoes must have existed at every age of the world, but of course
they differed greatly in importance, when the terrestrial crust was
hardly formed, until now when it is about 40 kilometers (25 miles) in
thickness. However, M. d’Ormalius d’Halloy affirms that volcanoes did
not exist before the Quaternary period.t Ami Boué, on the contrary,
* Della Torre, Storia et fenomeni del Vesuvio, p. 82. tComptes Rendus, t. \xvi, p. 803.

{Bulletin of the Geological Society of France, t. xi, p. 80, 1853.
300 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

opposes the opinion that the ancient Plutonic rocks were produced by
the simple escape of fluid matter through fissures in the crust, and that
all the ancient eruptions took place under the sea. He believes that
there have always been islands, which, like the islands of Oceanica in
our day, are centers of great eruptions. As to the sedimentary strata
which cover ancient craters, and which d’Ormalius mentioned in favor
of his view, a depresssion of these islands below the level of the sea
would perfectly account for the marine deposits upon the trachytes and
the basalts. Taking the lava as an essential character of the volcanoes,
d@’Ormalius, moreover, denies their existence, on account of the entire
absence of lava in geological eras anterior to the Quaternary period.
This fact does not prove the absence of eruptions, but merely a change
in the eruptive matter, which might result from the greater depth of
the strata from which the lavas proceed and from the increased pres-
sure they must support, which cannot but affect the nature of the igne-
ous rocks. Ami Boué thought eruptive craters existed as far back as
the Secondary period, and even before the Carboniferous period.

The formation of voleanic cones and the craters they contain has long
been a subject of discussion. De Buch advances the theory of the form-
ation of craters by gaseous emanations, proceeding from the interior of
the globe. These emanations, he says, raise the sedimentary strata like
a bubble or blister, which, in bursting, forms a circular cavity by the
accumulation of the débris. The maps of Teneriffe and of Palme, with
which he supported his theory, led to ano less important discussion in
regard to the marine formation of the basalts, according to the Nep-
tunian theory of Werner. The views of De Buch prevail in the cele-
brated descriptions of Etna and of Vesuvius by the French savans Elie
de Beaumont and Dufresnoy. Sir Charles Lyell combats this theory in
his Principles of Geology, to-day universally esteemed. Fr. Hoffmann,
who saw arise from the bosom of the sea the island of Ferdinandea, op-
posed to the theory of De Buch the formation of craters by accumula-
tion of scoria, sand, and volcanic ashes.* But let us remark, in passing,
these hills of sand and ashes are sometimes hundreds of feet in height,
such as those formed by a very violent volcanic action in the middle of
a great plain in the State of Nicaragua,t cr I may say even such as the
great Chimborazo, if we admit the consolidation of sand and cinders or
ashes into solid rock.

The effects of volcanic action are very great, and, as we shall show,
they may contribute to the modification of the crust of the globe.

On the 12th of July, 1831, suddenly arose, near the bank called Nérita,
between the Pantellaria islands and the coast of Sciacca, in Sicily, a
voleano, from out of a sea from a hundred and forty to two hundred
meters (450 to 650 feet) in depth. It was formed of scoria; was about
three leagues in extent, and abeut sixty yards in height. It disap-

*D. H. von Dechen, L. v. Buch, Sein Einfluss auf die Entwichelung der Geognosie, Bonn,
1853, pp. 14, 15.
t Ramon de la Sagra, Comptes Rendus, t. xvi, p. 481.

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 301

_ peared into the sea on the 28th of December, 1831. Fr. Hoffmann was
_ at that time in Sicily, and made a report of it in the Annales de Poggen-
_dorf. It was the origin of his theory of the accumulation of volcanic
ashes. Spratt announced in 1862 that the island again arose from the
deep, and that it was hardly three meters or ten feet above the level of
the sea.*

Submarine eruptions are quite frequent. The navigators who have
observed them describe the phenomenon in brilliant colors and with a
vivacity of expression, which evinces the powerful impression made
upon their minds. In fact, the boiling sea, the blackened waters thick
with ashes, the boisterous waves, the rise and fall of the columns of
water shot into the air, the rumbling of thunder from the electrified
clouds, form a wild but harmonious picture, of which it is difficult to
catch the details, on account of the constant and rapid change of scene.

Continental eruptions in the midst of a large plain are not more rare.
Humboldt has left a description of the eruption which formed the
volcano Jurullo. Six days’ journey from the city of Mexico, a large
plantation of wheat was agitated for two months by a violent trembling
of theearth. Finally it began to undulate like a sea under the influence
of a strong wind, and a thousand mouths were opened vomiting flames
and lava. Then arose, with six other elevations, the volcano called
Jurullo, which soon attained a height of 520 meters (1,700 feet) and
vomited torrents of lava.t

The hot springs, the geysers, seem to have direct connection with
earthquakes and voleanic phenomena. The hot springs of Western
Bohewia, during the earthquake of Lisbon, experienced several times a
loss of water, alternating with an increase of double their usual supply.
_ At the same time several lakes of Carneole became suddenly dry, but
_ filled of themselves a short time after. The same phenomenon was
observed several times in Calabria and in America during volcanic
eruptions. This phenomenon. may be explained in several ways, but
we confine ourselves to the following solution, which is sustained by a
large number of well-established facts:

It appears, from the observations of Dr. Cartellieri upon the variation
in the supply of the spring called Franzensquelle at Eger,* that this
supply is in inverse proportion to the barometric pressure. This fact
admits of the following deduction. Wemust suppose, antecedently, a
constant force, which causes the water to spout up from the spring, and
_ this force must be independent of the barometric pressure, for if it were
a not, it would not act in a contrary direction. We may then compare
this phenomenon to a fountain in a vacuum, placed under the receiver of
a pneumatic pump, in which the air may be alternately compressed and

*Ch. Ehrenberg, Die bei Sicilien ‘sich newerlichst wieder hebende Ferdinandea Insel,
Berliner Monatsberichte, 1863, p. 486, 489.

tL. Figuier, La Terre avant le Deluge, p. 372.

tNowak, Silzungsberichte der bhkmischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, Prag, 1864, t. 1,
p. 144.
302 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

rarified. If we suppose the water rushes out in a fine jet, this will

increase in height when the air is rarified by a few strokes of the piston, |

and it will diminish, on the contrary, when the air is compressed. We
have before us exactly the image of what takes place in nature, if we
admit that the reservoirs of most springs are cavities produced by the
separation of sedimentary strata, following a commotion of the crust or

a sinking of the inferior strata, while the upper strata remained un- ©

moved, or under other circumstances were elevated. These excavations
fill with water, which does not vary in volume as long as the surround-
ing ground is inrepose. Butif a slow upward movement diminishes

the capacity of these reservoirs, the water they contain will be driven

forth with more or less violence according to the rapidity of the upward
movement. An earthquake may then produce such a pressure upen the
waters of the reservoir that it will be driven out with great force and
may sometimes occasion extensive inundations. In this way may be
explained the inundation of the island of Lacerotte, of which we have
already spoken. In other cases the commotion may produce large sub-
terranean cavities, which would absorb the water of lakes and rivers.

The geysers of Iceland and the torpedoes of Brazil are springs of an-
other origin. Their waters penetrate by fissures to the incandescent
rocks of the volcanic outlets. There, heated by contact with the ignited
masses, they dissolve large quantities of silica, and, driven by the steam
which is formed, they rush to the surface and there, in cooling, deposit
the silica. ‘To the action of hot springs we must attribute the formation
of many rocks, generally considered of volcanic origin. Thus hyper-
sthénite has been hitherto described as an eruptive rock, but is found,
according to the report of the geological commission of Canada, in the
state of sedimentary rock in several localities in that country. The sed-
imentary origin of many granites, syenites, diorites, and dolorites is
equally established by the savans of this commission.

We have only to say, in terminating our views of plutonian forces,
that the metamorphism, to which is attributed all change of aggrega-
tion of a rock, should be reduced to its normal proportions, for the oil-
beds—the saccharoid marbles—are found far from all eruptive rocks,
and are continued often by masses which do not bear the same charac-
teristics. In many cases the influence of chemical agents, of enormous
pressure, and of heat alter the lower strata of the crust sufficiently to
explain some cases of metamorphism.

We have endeavored to show that the central heat is a constant
Source of forces which have modified the surface of the globe and
brought it to its present condition. These changes were produced very
slowly on account of certain very simple laws, which are still in force.
Without the necessary connection of these forces, which renders it pos-
sible to submit their effects to continuous observations and to deduce
from them the bases of the theory of the physical constitution of the
earth, geology as a science could not exist; it would be undistinguish-
able from petrology or paleontology, upon which it is founded.

es ee
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 303

CHAPTER III.

THE FLUID ENVELOPE OF THE EARTH.

The formation of the crust of the earth is controlled by two powerful
agents, one of which is known to us as the force of central heat, and the
other has for its domain the atmosphere and the sea, and for principal
motive-power solar heat and its unequal distribution at the surface of
the globe. Such is the present state of the earth, but these conditions
have not always been the same, for the influence of the solar heat is
relatively recent, while for a long time the atmosphere was affected only
by terrestrial heat, of which it was the medium. When the influence of
this heat reached almost its limit, most of the vapors contained in the
atmosphere were precipitated, and from the first drop of water which
fell upon the still burning surface of the earth to the first ray of sun-
light which shone upon the ocean in the full majesty of its power is the
_ period when the geologist must look for the greatest manifestation of

the plutonian forces upon the crust of the globe. It is also at this epoch
that the formation of most of the rocks occurred, which for a long time
have been considered of eruptive character. Further consideration of
the necessarily greater activity of the atmosphere and of the sea at this
early stage of the world’s history, and of the composition of these rocks,
will give us some light as to their character.

The temperature of the atmosphere at the time of the precipitation
of the first waters was still considerable, for to the heat proceeding from
the radiation of the earth was added the heat resulting from the con-
densation of the aqueous vapors. Now most bodies are more readily
dissolved in warm water than in cold, and the same must have been the
case on a grand scale when the sea was at an elevated temperature,
and uniformly covered the face of the globe. This dissolving action
extended to the silica and to the various silicates which form the base of
the granite rocks. The first sea acted upon the crust of the earth by its
excessive turbulence, by the rapid movement of its waters promoted by
the continual oscillation of the crust itself, still very thin, and by the
impulsion of a dense atmosphere in which the enormous evaporation
and the condensation of the water gave rise to electrical discharges, to
storms and whirlwinds, which are not possible under present conditions.
Nothing could resist the destructive impetuosity of these waters which,
breaking and overleaping all obstacles, became necessarily so over-
charged with materials held in suspension, as to form at last only a
thick muddy paste. Want of liquidity for a time arrested the move-
ment of this mud, but as new waters were precipitated, equally agitated
by the causes mentioned, it followed that in many cases this mud was
taken up again and deposited anew. However, the impetuosity of
these elements began at last to diminish, and in intervals of repose
~ the stratified sediments were disposited.
304 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

According to one view, the sedimentary rocks of this first phase of
the activity of the waters could be no other than the granites, the
syenites, the serpentines, the porphyries, and other rocks reputed primi-
tive or of plutonian nature. We suppose that they remained in a pasty
condition as long as they were buried in the earth at a sufficient depth to
be influenced by a temperature which maintained them in their primitive
state; but they were hardened by losing the temperature and the water
necessary to the solution of their siliceous cement, when by some pressure
they were brought to the surface of the globe. This plasticity without
incandescence explains clearly why there are no traces of metamor-
phism to be found in the rocks injected by granite veins, which would
be the case if the rock had been liquid and incandescent. Other facts
equally attest the aqueous origin of several granitic rocks.

Certain quartz, particularly the amethyst, lose their color so easily
under the influence of heat, that we are led to the admission of the
organic origin of color, which is irreconcilable with the hypothesis
of the formation of quartz by dry means. M. Delesse has extended this
theory of formation to all the granites. He says, “ The existence in the
granitic rocks of volatile organic material is alone sufficient to prove
that they have not been submitted to very great heat; that they
have not an igneous origin.” His opinion has been confirmed by the
investigations of M. Rose, which show that silica is found in two con-
ditions: First, in the amorphous state, which could be produced by
humid means and by dry means, with a density of 2.2 to 2.35 second,
in the crystalline state, with a density of 2.6; itis the hyalin or the
granite quartz which can only be formed by humid means or at least
under the influence of water.*

These observations are of the highest importance, and will probably
lead to an approximate solution of the question of the true origin of
granitic rocks. At present the controversy in regard to this subject is
not ended—quite the contrary.

In proportion as the influence of the sun upon the atmosphere became
more apparent, the irregular action of the winds and oceanic currents
must have given place, more and more, to a regular inclination of the
fluids of the poles toward the equator, and vice versa. This regularity
in the movements of the fluids was greatly affected by the incessant
rising of the crust, which, in producing islands of variable extent, local-
ized the denuding action of the current upon certain points, which, by
their configuration, rendered the velocity of the waters greater. The
materials carried away by the currents were dropped as soon as the mo--
tion of the waters ceased sufficiently, and formed deposits more or less
homogeneous, according to the rapidity of the sedimentation.

After the emersion of islands and continents, the atmosphere contin-
ued the disaggregation of the eruptive and sedimentary rocks, through
the influence of humidity, heat, and cold, by electricity and its chemical

* Pavre, Recherches géologiques, t. iii, p. 307.
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 305

_ products, as well as by free carbonic acid, and by other substances less
prevalent in the atmosphere.

The débris of these rocks were carried into the sea by the rains, pro-

- ceeding from the condensation of vapors. The waters charged with
material in suspension were united into streams and rivers, and emptied
_ into lakes and seas. The denudation of the islands and continents,
under the influence of atmospheric agents, is considerable. M. Croll *
has calculated how much the American continent has been denuded in
_ the entire Mississippi region. Knowing the quantity of material in sus-
pension in the water (;.,, of its weight), the amount of water annually
emptied into the Guif of Mexico, and the whole extent of the basin of
which the waters empty into this river, this savant found that in 4,566
Fears 1 foot (304 millimeters) of earth is carried into the ocean. Taking
into account the specific weight of the sediments (1.9) and of the erys-
talline rocks (2.5), we ought to bring the number of years to 6,000.
As the mean height of the American continent is estimated by Hum-
boldt at 748 feet (227 meters), the entire continent must at this rate be
leveled and buried in the sea in 4,000,000 years; that is, if no ulterior
uprising takes place. This denudation is not everywhere the same. It
depends in general upon the mean elevation of the continent above the
level of the sea. Thus the denudation of India, at least three times more
rapid than that of North America, is easily accounted for by the great
- elevation of the Himalayan regions, which send down their waters
through the tributary rivers of the Ganges and the Indus, and by the
very frequent atmospherical precipitations which are the consequence
of fhis elevation. The sources of the Ganges are found ata height of
3,962. meters, (24 miles).

If we consider the effects of denudation during a time which is only a
small fraction of the geological epochs, we may well ask how many
times whole continents have been earried into the sea, to be sent forth
again by the central forces of the earth’s nucleus. We readily perceive
that the various sediments have been several times destroyed and re-
formed by the effect of denudation; those primitive beds which have
remained uninterrupted in the succession of their deposits owe their
preservation to several circumstances, particularly to their being sub-
merged, until the more recent epochs.

Speaking in general terms, we may say that the entire mass consti-
tuting all the mountains and continents, of a mean elevation of 307
meters (1,000 feet) above the level of the sea,t has been diminished by
an amount of material sufficient to fill up an abyss six times the depth
of the ocean. It must not be forgotten, however, that the continents
are continually rising, and that certain parts of the ocean may, by up-
heayal, become land ; likewise the continents may have been lowered at
certain points, and submerged for a time, to appear again regenerated
and enriched with new formations of strata.

* On Geological Time, ete., Philosoph. Magazine, vol. xxxv, 1868, p. 379.
tHumboldt, Asie Centrale, t. 1, pp. 182, 187.
$s 20
306 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. ‘

Nothing resists the slow and continual action of marine waters, and
whenever they do not create they inevitably destroy. The island of
Helgoland, in the tenth century large and flourishing, is to-day reduced |
to a mere fraction of its former size, and at every tempest loses a con-
stituent part of its frail existence. The destructive force of the sea is
especially manifested upon abrupt projections, where the continuous ©
shock of the waves is re-enforced by the action of the tides. In the
Mediterranean, where the tides are nearly insensible, the action of the
sea is governed by the submarine currents and by the prevailing winds. —
The oriental shores of the Adriatic are for the most part corroded, ab-
rupt, and deeply indented, and the number of islands is very great.
On the western shore, on the contrary, the sand beach is constantly —
increased, both by the sediment of the numerous rivers, having their —
source in the Alps, and by the detritus deposited at the bottom of the —
sea. This explains why Ravenna, which at the time of the Romans was —
a sea-port, is, at the present day, several leagues from the Adriatic. A
similar phenomenon is manifested upon the coast of Western Flanders,
where several villages, maritime in the middle ages, are now at a con-
siderable distance from the sea, while other towns, now ports, can only
be preserved by great labor from a similar fate.

At the bottom of the sea the deposit of sedimentary rocks is formed
according to the nature of the material transported by the rivers or —
washed away by the action of the waves. An estimation somewhat —
uncertain in the present state of science gives to the sedimentary crust —
a mean thickness of 500 meters (1,600 feet) for the entire surface of our
planet. We may, however, safely admit that this thickness exceeds a
hundred meters (328 feet). Now as the sedimentation at the bottom of ©
one of the most corrosive arms of the ocean, the British Channel, is only —
about four centimeters (about an inch and a half) a century,* we see
that the process of sedimentation even in the ocean must be excessively
slow, and require millions of centuries to form beds equal to the vast
deposits of sandstone and caleareous matter. Isnot the same slowness —
of action often observed in mountain regions, where a shallow sheet of —
water excavates a ravine of over a hundred yards in depth, while the
hard rock is scarcely affected by a force much greater, but not persist-—
ent? It is not the momentary forces which produce the greatest
changes at the surface and in the interior of our planet; it is the smaller
but constant forces which, multiplied by an indefinite time, give those
prodigious results which dazzle our senses, and of which we fail to dis-
cover the origin, because we cannot conceive of the time required to
produce them.

The calcareous earths, and particularly the chalk, are uot sediments
of inorganic material, but rather deposits of organized débris, formed,
according to Ehrenberg and several other micrographers, of the caleare-
ous carapaces of microscopical animals. Great masses of the pure

— o™~.

*Houzean, Histoire du Sol de L’Europe, Bruxelles, 1857, p. 135.
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 307

white of marble, of chalk and of the calcareous formations would be
impossible without the intervention of organisms.* Marine water con-
tains about 3.5 per cent. of salt, of which the sulphate of lime consti-
tutes 4.617 per cent. A thousand parts in weight of marine water
contains, then, 1.67 parts of sulphate of lime or of gypsum. Reckoning
the mean depth of the sea at 2,000 meters, this quantity will correspond
to 1,670,000,000,000 of kilograms (1,640,000,000 tons), and the specific
_ gravity of gypsum being equal to 2.9, the total volume of this material
will be represented by 578,000,000,000 of cubic meters (751,000,000,000
cubic yards). This quantity is greater than the mass of all the caleareous
_ rocks of the continents, and sufficient material is afforded by it for the
| formation of new calcareous rocks. But as the carbonate of lime is not
found in considerable quantities in marine water, and as the gypsum
is the only calcareous compound so distributed, we must look for the
source of the carbonate of lime, which is the chief constituent of the
shells and the carapaces of marine animals. According to the various
_ investigations in regard to this matter, plants decompose the gypsum,
the sulphur of which serves in the formation of the albumen, the
principal aliment of animals. The lime contained in the cells of the
alimentary plants is put in circulation by the digestion of these plants,
and after having contributed to the purification of the nourishing liquid
_ which it deprives of its carbonic acid, it is secreted and forms the shells
and the carapaces.
Among all the marine animals the smallest are the Infusoria, and
especially the Rhizopodes, which contribute mostly to the formation of
_ the calcareous strata.
The other organized deposits, particularly those which proceed from
the débris of the Testacea, are formed for the most part along the sea-
coast and principally upon the flat, sandy, muddy shallows, or very
slight inclinations of quiet gulfs.t After the death of the shell animals
the disengagement of the gas consequent upon their decomposition
renders them specifically lighter, so that the constant play of the waves
throws them readily either upon flat shores, where they are piled up
with their shells unbroken, or upon steep cliffs, where the continual
shock of the water reduces them to consolidated masses of débris which
constitute the shell-marl. Submarine banks covered with Testacea of
the genus Ostrea are constantly raised by the remains of these animals,
while at the same time they gain in extent by the accumulation of the
_ shells which fall from the bank and gradually fill up the surrounding
depths.
_ Whe sand and clay transported by the rivers are generally the products
_ of siliceous rocks and of the trituration of their débris encountered in
the beds of rivers under the form of pebbles and gravel. The two
t. xxii, pp. 65, 99.
. tD’Archiac, Cours de Paléontologie Stratigraphique, t. ii, p. 304.
308 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

substances are rarely found pure, as employed in the manufacture of
glass and porcelain; they are generally mingled together in every pro- i
portion, and form the foundation of fertile soils. According to the ce-_
ment which gives them their consistency to the period of their forma-_
tion, and the proportion of their mixture, they form a great variety of —
rocks which are often difficult to specify, although the petrographic laws
controlling the binary mixture of bodies are very simple.*

The action of the sea depends in a great measure upon the influencall ;
of the atmosphere. Now, as the atmosphere of past ages was of neces-
sity denser than at the present time, this influence must have been
greater. Before concluding from certain general phenomena that the
atmosphere diminishes, and with it the action of the sea, we will say a
few words upon its composition, which, being that of a rere ealtes is not
invariable. M. A. Smith found that in Northern Scotland the quantity
of oxygen contained in the air was the greatest, being 20.999 per —
cent., and that of carbonic acid the smallest, only 0.0336 percent. M. ;
Houzeau likewise made, during along series of years, very exact ob-—
servations in regard to the variability of the atmospheric elements, and
- found that the seasons sensibly influenced the proportions of the gases,t

The observations of M. Ménest had previously made manifest that the
quantity of carbonic acid varies with the seasons: In the month of
December it undergoes no change; it increases until the month of May,
decreases until the month of August, and reaches its maximum in the
month of October. During the night the amount of carbonic acid is.
greater than during the day; it also increases after an abundant rain.
From these facts we conclude that the quantity of carbonic acid in the
atmosphere depends directly upon the vital activity of plants and ani-_
mals; indeed, they regulate for the most part, if not entirely, its diffu-
sion in certain parts of the globe at certain times of the year. ,

During the Coal period the atmosphere is supposed to have been
especially charged with carbonic acid. This view appears to be corrob-_
orated by the rapid increase of the coal vegetation and by the remark-
able thickness of the beds of carbonate of lime formed by marine ani-
mals. If, however, we compare the entire mass of carbon contained in”
the strata of the Coal period with the carbon at present in the atmos-
phere, we find that the latter much surpasses the fossil carbon ; and
we must admit with M. Ch. Lyell that the atmosphere of the Coal period
differed very little in its composition from that which now surrounds
our globe.§

In adopting the opinion of the English geologist, we do not wish to
infer that the atmosphere is invariable in its elements and in its extent;
on. the contrary, we are led to believe in a variability both of the mass

1 Len rar rs Ce
* J. Roth, Geolog. Zeitschrift, t xvi, p. 675, 692.
+ Comptes Rendus, t. lviii, p. 798.
t Tbid., t. lvii, p. 155.
§ Ch. Lyell, Travels in North America, 1845, vol. i, pp. 150, 152.
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 309

i"

nd of the elements. According to Ebelmann, if the stratified rocks
ad contained 1 per cent. of protoxide of iron, this would have been suf-
icient to absorb all the oxygen of the air.* Now as iron is furnished
rom an inexhaustible and continuous source, the fall of meteors, the
nnual number of which is, according to M. Culvier Gravier, forty mill-
ions for the entire surface of the globe, this metal may, at a very dis-
tant period it is true, absorb all the oxygen gas of the earth.
Nitrogen also is diminishing in quantity. The electrical explosions
during storms increase the affinity of oxygen for nitrogen, the result of
which is an oxygenated compound of this gas. The latter, on contact
with the air and with water, is transformed into nitric acid, which forms,
with the alkalies and with ammonia, nitrates very widely distributed in
nature. Nitrogen again is taken out of the air by guano and other
analogous deposits. M. Rivero, estimating for the Chincha Islands the
number of Guanes at 264,000 only, found that these birds have been able,
in six thousand years, to form the deposit of guano of these islands
which is estimated at thirty-six millions of tons. As the Guanes feed
upon fishes, and as the latter contain only 2.3 per cent. of nitrogen, while
the guano of Peru contains 14 per cent., M. Boussingault has concluded
that 10 kilograms (22 pounds) of guano proceed from 600 kilograms
(1,320 pounds) of sea-fishes, and that the 268,000,000 quintals of guano
(26,000,000 tons) are equivalent in capacity of nitrogen to 2,268,000,000
quintals (223,000,000 tons) of fishes. The 53,000,000 quintals (5,000,000
tons) of nitrogen must have been taken out of the atmosphere, as we
know of no other primitive source of this element. M. D’Archiact has
observed that the nitrogen withdrawn from the atmosphere cannot un-
assisted return to its source, and we know of no natural agent for its
estoration. The slow and continued action of the Guanes, then, by in-
creasing the quantity of guano and diminishing to an equivalent amount
the mass of nitrogen, must after a time modify the elementary constitu-
tion of the air.
Man alone restores to the atmosphere a part of the nitrogen it has
ost by employing the guano for the improvement of his land, as he also
“restores to the animal and vegetable kingdom the carbonic acid long
buried in the earth under mineral forms.
It is no longer worth while to contest the fact of the diminution of
he aqueous mass of the globe. It is generally admitted that since the
epoch of the first sedimentation, the sea has diminished to an amount
equal to the mass of sedimentary rocks, minus the mass of the same
rocks dehydrated. But the possibility of acontinued diminution of the
waters in the course of time is rejected, and for what reason? We
know not, since the diminution of aqueous masses in the past is allowed.
The nucleus of the globe constantly furnished mineral substances, which,
by their disaggregation, their dissolution, and the evaporation of the
* D’Archiac, Cours de Paléont. Strat., t. ii, p. 23.
t Cours dePaléont. Strat., t. ii, p. 385.

-
310 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

dissolvant, pass into the erystalline state, and in this condition always
contain what is called the water of crystallization. If the materials are”
not soluble, they form sedimentary beds, which retain the water in
which they were deposited. Whoever has visited the quarries of hewn
stone, and especially those of calcareous rocks, will be convinced of this
fact; the freshly raised stones are soft and much easier to cut, as they
have not lost their quarry-water. The aerolites also contribute to the
absorption of water ; the substances which constitute them, being inoxi-
dized, absorb oxygen, and are afterward hydrated, forming deposits
similar to those produced by bodies of terrestrial origin.

If the fluid envelope constantly diminishes, its action decreases in
proportion, but with such extreme slowness that even after the lapse of
several centuries there would be no apparent change in its condition.
In the present state of our globe, we may say that nothing resists the”
slow and continued action of atmospheric forces. Everything is cor-—
roded and destroyed in the course of time by these powerful agents. It
is their slow action which has hewn and fashioned the rocks of Swiss —
Saxony, whose singular forms and bold superpositions astonish the tray-_
eler. It is through their influence that the mountains are cleft with
deep ravines, that the plains are furrowed by streams and rivers, which
act as so many veins in this gigantic circulation where all proceeds from —
the sea and all returns to the sea. .

The vapors which arise from the ocean through the influence of solar
heat are, above the continents, condensed into rain, which, falling upon”
slopes of variable inclination, carries away in the streams formed all
debris which, on account of the impulse of the waters, size or form, can-
not resist the action of the water. When this débris reaches the rivers, it
is there deposited in proportion as the rapidity of the waters diminishes, |
and fills up the beds of the rivers, which, in consequence, often change |
their course. Several riversof Upper Italy, and especially the Po, have i
filled up their beds to such an extent that, in order to avoid the frequent |
floods which occur whenever the rivers are at their full height, it has
been found necessary to raise the banks by means of dikes, an immense —
and almost interminable undertaking. Agriculture has, however, de- _
rived great advantages from this circumstance; for, as the water is —
higher than the surrounding country, it can easily be directed to all
points where, for agricultural or other needs, it is required in great quan-
tity. Fields of rice are thus inundated, gardens and fields supplied with ,
moisture; in fact water is the nerve of the industrial and agricultural —
life of Lombardy, of Venice, and of the neighboring countries on the
right shore of the Po; it is the source of the prosperity of the regions. -

Toward the mouth of the rivers are deposited the finer materials, which
have been retained in suspension in the water, and these form the sand-
deposits which extend more and more into the sea, that is if the latter
is tranquil, and if the action of the tides and waves is not too great; in
the contrary case, these deposits, which are called deltas, on account
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 311

of their form, are destroyed, carried far from the mouth, and deposited
anew under the form of strata. The clay and sand likewise deposited
acquire in time consistency, and mixed and cemented by means of solu-
ble materials in the water are sometimes converted into hard rock. At
other times, however, by the constant action of the waters, the sands are
washed upon the low shores, where they are quickly dried and carried
‘by the winds upon the continents. The hillocks or dunes which mark
the progress of the sand invade many fertile countries, and threaten to
convert them into arid deserts. The coasts of Guyenne (Lande) are an
example ; the sand-banks have there made great progress, although they
increase at the rate of not more than two meters a year.

_ Ifthe desert of Sahara was formed in this way, the sand-banks without
~ doubt commenced at the western side of the African continent, where
it still contintes. But in order to reach from the Atlantic to the shores
_ of the Nile (and it is not even two thousand years since this has taken
| place,) the moving sands must have taken more than two millions of
years, and the distance which they have passed over is about 450 myria-
meters (2,800 miles).

The fluid envelope of the earth is not only affected by the sun; the
~ moon also exercises an influence by its proximity in producing oceanic
and atmospheric tides.* The tides of the fluid envelope, in general,
are the product of the combined movement of the earth around its axis
and around the center of gravity common to the moon and to the earth
situated in the mass of the terrestrial globe. Before arriving at this
_ explanation,t different theories were proposed, generally incapable of
explaining the periodical return of the waters, when this could not be
_ referred to the attraction of the moon.t
~ The circulation of the fluids at the surface of the earth depends, as
we see, upon the attraction of the moon and of the sun, and upon the
radiant heat of the latter which produces the evaporation of the waters
and their condensation in the form of rain, dew, hail, snow, &c. The
influence of the nucleus of the earth is less and is manifested only by
- the changes produced in the interior of the crust and at the surface,
_ consequent upon risings, eruptions, and earthquakes. The heat acts
_ again upon the waters, which penetrate the crust of the earth, raising
_ the temperature according to the depth. Hence the origin of many
thermal springs. In order to explain the number of these springs,
many scientists have generalized the action of the central heat upon
_ the waters which penetrate the crust by fissures or by infiltration.
They have thought that the waters are distilled by contact with the
incandescent mass, and, deprived of all saltness, are condensed in the
clefts of the rocks whence they gush out at the surface of the earth.

_ *C. M. Elliott, On the Lunar Atmospheric Tide at Singapore, Phil. Trans. of the Roy,
_ Soc. of London, 1852, 1st part, p. 125.

 . ¢ Croll, Phil. Mag., April, 1864, p. 287.

>. +tCarus, Briefe iibcr das Erdenleben, p. 153.
312 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

Mr. Nowak* has proposed a theory of the circulation of water, which,
on account of its singularity deserves to bementioned. It is based upon
some observations made in the Andes by M. Boussingault. It admits
the existence of an envelope of slight thickness which does not rest at
all points upon the solid nucleus of the earth, but which is lifted up by
the vapors proceeding from the waters which infiltrate it. The mount-

ains then are only blisters raised by the force of the vapors which are —

there condensed. The pressure which these waters of condensation
exercise upon the elevated parts of the mountain, produce in these blis-
ters—to continue the simile—a species of running wound, origin of the
springs, or by sudden action volcanic eruptions, disengagement of va-
pors, and the discharge of waters, as this phenomenon is manifested in
the Andes.

It is entirely useless to look for the explanation of these springs in
theories based upon problematical data; while observation demon-

strates that the evaporation, the condensation of the vapors, and the cir- .

culation of the waters in the subterranean canals are sufficient to account
for the formation of the springs. This is the opinion of Lyell, and
he admits the influence of the central heat upon the production of these
phenomena only in the case of thermal springs, the geysers, the mud vol-
canoes and other similar phenomena.

In this constant circulation the waters dissolve apart of the rocks
through which they pass, and, impregnated with salts, return to the sur-
face. Pliny observed that the waters are characterized by different
properties, according to the nature of the soil through which they pass,
and experience shows that, on account of the effect upon fruits and veg-
etables, mineral-spring water is unsuitable for culinary purposes, which
is not the case with river-water. Instead of explaining this fact by
antipathies and sympathies, as the heroic Romans did, chemistry teaches
us that selenitic waters hold in solution carbonates of lime, which, in
combining with the legumin, render these fruit unfit for alimentation.

An excess of carbonic acid facilitates the solution of a notable quantity
of calcareous substance, which is deposited in proportion as the carbonic
acid is withdrawn. In this way are formed, by the filtration of the waters
charged with calcareous substance, the stalactites and the stalagmites
of subterranean caves. M. Liebig explains in the following manner
the formation of the stalactites. The vegetable materials in decomposi-
tion—or humus—under the influence of humidity and of the atmosphere
disengage carbonic acid, which is dissolved in the rain-water. This water
in traversing the pores of calcareous matter dissolves a part, and, in
proportion as the excess of acid evaporates in the caverns, the calcareous
material is deposited and forms the stalactites.t

The circulation of the fluids at the surface of the globe is, as we per-
ceive, an essential condition of the organization of the terrestrial crust.

*Die Lehre vom tellurischen Dampfe und von der Circulation des Wassers unserer Irde,
Prag, 1843.
t Lyell, Antiquity of Man, 1864, p. 74.

————————

oe ES Se a Pe See ee ee

ee
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 313

It has also prepared the way for organized beings; resembling life in
its movement, it has rendered life possible, and without it life would
cease. It was at first violent and irregular in action, but it prepared
inorganic material for organization and animalization, and when the
wild elements of nature were exhausted, at the mysterious mandate of
_ creation, we see arise from the bosom of the ocean the first of those liv-
ing beings which have taken possession of the earth and of the air.
The appearance and the development of life is a very important epoch
‘in the history of the earth, and as such, as well as on account of the
‘modifications of the crust occasioned by the existence of organisms, we
will proceed to consider some important aspects of this phenomenon.

CHAPTER IV.
ORGANISMS.

It is an unusual circumstance, in penetrating the soil even to a slight
depth, not to find organic remains. In examining these carefully and
comparing them with living organisms differences are found so great
that often they cannot be classed with any recent species or even
genus. Sometimes there are entire families of which no analogues are
_ found in the living creation, but which nevertheless, judging from the
profusion of their fossil remains, must for a considerable time have
- dominated on account of their numbers and their form in the fauna or
the flora of the period in which they existed. What is the reason of
_ these successive appearances and disappearances? What laws control
these perpetual changes? What are the causes which destroy a portion
_ of these organisms and preserve others? These are the most difficult
questions biology has to answer; let us see whether she can satisfy our
legitimate curiosity. |

Most of the sedimentary rocks are characterized by the presence of
_ fossil remains, which are peculiar to them. We may say in the present
state of science that the chain of organisms is continuous, commencing
with the Laurentian formation. We find in the latter remains of mi-
- croscopic animals, whose presence may be detected by chemical reagents.

The Silurian formation hitherto has relatively been the richest in
organisms. We find in it mollusks and fish. If some of the genera of
this formation have for a long time been extinct, others, especially
among the mollusks, still exist; such are the genera Nautilus, Turbo,
Buccinum, Turritella, Terebratula,&c. It isin this formation that for the
first time we find the remains of plants; these are the fucoids which,
as far as we know, are the first representatives of the vegetable king-
-dom.* These plants are perpetuated through all the periods, but always
_ under richer and more varied forms. It is important to observe that

* Unger, Chloris protogea, p. 8.
314 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

the primitive facoids resemble more those of the tropical zone, while
those of the late periods for the most part approach in characteristics
the fucoids of the temperate zones, a fact which may serve as an indi-
cation in the determination of geological temperatures and climates.
From the appearance of these first organisms until that of man, life has
been manifested under every imaginable form in the varied conditions
of the different geological periods, for the biological evolutions have

been affected by certain causes which act with increasing progression

in immediate dependence upon the development of the earth’s crust.

It is to paleontology we should apply for knowledge concerning the
development and succession of the animals and plants of past ages.
She cmploys the means placed at her disposal by geology and eompara-
tive anatomy to reveal in each period and in each formation a world
whose strange forms have disappeared never to return. Each forma-
tion, however, does not represent an entire act of creation, but only a
disconnected page from the scene of this great drama,* consequently the
organic remains do not indicate to us the continuous succession of
organisms, but rather certain periods of their development, certain epi-
sodes in the history of creation.

And what difficulties we encounter at every word in deciphering these
pages. We require a Césalpin, a Leonardo de Vinci, a Palissy, and
a Buffon to teach us their characters, and a Cuvier and an Owen to
show us how to read them. How many prejudices had to be overcome
before the learned men of the last century could be persuaded that these
singular forms found in the earth were other than simple freaks of
nature or the shells left by pilgrims upon the mountain-tops. The truth
at last was brought to light and prevailed over the misconceptions of
the world, but only very slowly were the facts obtained which allowed
any certain knowledge of organic remains, and a deduction of the sim-
ple laws which control their development.

From analysis of these organisms and comparison of them with those
that are recent, we find that their differences of structure are greater,
in proportion as the strata which contain them are older ; also that in
the very ancient formations, the forms of high organiztion are more or
less wanting in ratio to the age of the rocks. Thus the mammals in the
Keuper (the upper division of the Triassic formation), the birds in the
Mixed Sandstone, the reptiles in the Old Red Sandstone, the fish in the
Upper Graywacke. We may therefore conclude that at a certain period
there were no organisms whatever in existence. We might easily deter-
mine upop a certain period for the appearance of organisms, perhaps
that of the complete precipitation of the waters, but at present it con-
cerns us to know how they appeared, whether through the pre-existence
of germs or by spontaneous generation. This is a question of very
great importance, but concerning it we have still very little positive

*Darwin, Creologische Aufeinanderfolge organischer Wesen, Zeitschrift fiir die gesamm-
ten Naturwissenschaften, t. xvi, 1860, p. 428.

‘THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 315

information. It is more discussed than any other in science, but as
yet with no definite result.

Not only the origin of organized beings, but also their generic devel-
opment is difficult to explain. Some savans believe in the transforma-
tion of species; others attribute to a direct creative force the continuous
succession of new organic forms. We may say with G. Bronn* that
we know of no natural force which can produce new species, and we do
not know the conditions which are necessary for their production. We
do not know any substance in which this foree may be inherent; we
know only that the individuals of a species already in existence are
propagated by processes in accord with the simplicity or complication
of their organization. According to Isidore Geoffroy Saint-Hilairet
the two hypotheses mentioned are equally inadmissible in the sense and
to the extent they are ordinarily taken. They should not be entirely
rejected, freed from serious errors which are mingled with great and
fundamental truths. For instance, the fact given us by Professor
Agassiz is very remarkable, that ancient animals resemble the embryos
of the present existing animals of the same class, so that the geologi-
eal succession of extinct forms is parallel to the embryonic develop-
ment of recent animals.t The fact is undeniable, comparative anatomy
has expressed itself positively upon this subject, but what conclusion
can we draw from it? This, perhaps: thatthe superior animals are de-
rived in a direct line from the animals whose forms are indicated by
the various stages of development of the embryo, or, going further
back to the egg, that the origin of all beings is in the infusoria. We do
not place much value upon such conclusions, for although, according to
M. Chevreul, the mutability of species is not an absurdity, to admit
it as a fact, and to draw consequences from it, is to abandon the experi-
mental system which does not permit us to use as a principle mere con-
jecture.§

The character of species has been equally a subject of controversy
Certain physiologists base their determinations upon an indefinite
fecundity, others upon a common origin and upon resemblance. The
solution of these questions is not, however, absolutely indispensabJe for
the study of the organisms which have successively occupied the sur-
face of the globe, and for a sketch of the primitive world it is not
necessary first to settle whether each species is the product of a direct
creative force or the offspring of an extinct species. But it is essential
to know that no new organism manifests itself until all the conditions
of its existence are realized, which proves the influence of exterior cir-
cumstances upon the succession of organized beings.

The development of plants is more directly dependent upon the nature

_ ae ee eee eee
* Handbuch einer Geschichte der Natur, t. ii, p. 653.
t Histoire Nat. Génér. des Réegnes Organ., t. 1, p. 11.
t D’Archiac, Cours de Paléont. Strat., t. ii, p. 97
§ Journ. des Savants, 1840, p. 715.

316 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

of the medium in which they live; and the great uniformity of their
organization, with the limited number of their species, indicate an
almost constant uniformity of exterior conditions. Theambient medium
of the first organisms was incontestably water; and it is admitted that
marine plants preceded those of the lagoons, and the latter the vegeta-
tion of fresh water. Terrestrial plants followed the aquatic, and are dis-
tinguished by a greater variety of forms. The Hquisetacea represented
to-day by the horse-tail or shave-grass and other analogous plants were
the most generally distributed over the islands and continents of the
first periods. They appear inall the sedimentary strata, from the most
ancient to the most recent. The number of their fossil species known
exceeds a hundred. The conformation of their stem permits their
division into three categories, which mark the periods of development.
The ELquisetacea of the first period up to the Graywacke are arborescent
calamites, whose longitudinal grooves continue in an unbroken line to
the articulation of the branches. The second period, from the Coal
epoch to the Mixed Sandstone, also contains arborescent calamites,
but their grooves alternate with the articulations and the line of sepa-
ration is broken in the form of a zigzag. Certain paleontologists explain
why the sheath is wanting in the two forms preceding, while it is found
with the Equisetacea, by supposing that in these two forms only the
mold of the interior of the arborescent calamites has been preserved.

The Lycopodacea, also very ancient, hold a very important place, par-
ticularly in the Coal period. The arborescent kinds, such as Lepido-
drendon, Lycopodites, Knorria, Segenaria, were giants compared with
their humble representatives of the present day, of which the small
number of species indicates a rapid decline. No other family of plants
is found in the fossil state under so many forms or in such great num-
ber. Their exceptional preservation cannot be attributed to the lig-
neous and fibrous structure of their stem, but to their actual predomi-
nance in the flora of the Coal period.

The ferns commence with the Graywacke, and are already very
abundant in the Old Red Sandstone. Their fossil remains are often
so well preserved that the entire plant can be reconstructed with the
greatest certainty, and its character studied as closely as with a living
plant; for the most delicate parts, among others the organs of fructifica-
tion, have well resisted the action of time, and they furnish very valua-
ble data for phytotomy and the comparative organography of fossil and
recent ferns.

Certain remains of fossil plants-for a long time puzzled the paleontol-
ogists; now it is admitted that the Asterophyllites, the Stigmaric, and the
Sigillarie are only roots and stems of the same species of vegetation, or
at least of the same genus.

In the succession of the classes of the vegetable kingdom the Jlonoco-
tyledons come after the Acotyledons. The number of their species increase
up to the Chalk, and, in all, a hundred fossil species are known, thirty-

4

se
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 317

seven of which belong to the family of the palms. The Cycads formerly
so important, accompany the conifers, starting with the Coal forma-
tion, and attaining their maximum of development in the Keuper and in
the Freestone, and diminishing in importance in the Chalk. The princi-
pal genera of this family are Cycadites, Zamites, Pterophyllum, Nilsonia.

The conifers, formerly always accompanied with palms, are now
found from the warm regions of the equator to the inhospitable glacial
zone. Their genera, Pinites, Abietites, Araucaria, Voltzia, Juniperites,
Cupressites, Thuites, Taxites, and others, are still extensively distributed,
and do not appear to have lost vitality.

The Dycotyledons, of which only a few traces are found in the last
strata of the Secondary period, appear suddenly in the Tertiary period,
and predominate in almost all the continents. These plants, with their
large leaves, beautiful flowers, and succulent fruits, change entirely the
aspect of the flora, while under the shadow of their great branches and
in their thick foliage animal and vegetable life find shelter and protec-
tion.

In the animal as in the vegetable kingdom there is progressive im-
provement in the organization of the living creatures which have suc-
cessively inhabited the terrestrial globe ; but in general the importance
of their fossil remains is inversely proportional to the development of
this organization. Thus the Infusoria* have left great beds, siliceous or
‘cretaceous, almost entirely composed of their shells; and, in our day,
in many parts of North Germany there are vast extents of country
where, at a few yards from the surface, the damp soil is principally
composed of living Infusoria. The city of Berlin is built upon such a
soil. The Polythalamia and the Foraminifera, generally very small, are
particularly abundant in the Chalk, which is almost entirely composed
of them. The Nummulites, cemented by a clayish substance, form enor-
mous deposits in the Upper Chalk.

The Polyps appear with the first sedimentary deposits of the transi-
tion period, but their principal genera quickly disappeared. Thus the gen-
era Catenipora, Syringipora, hardly reached into the Carboniferous lime-
stone. From that time until the Jurassic formation the genera Gorgonia
and Cythophyllum prevailed. During this formation appeared the genera
Scyphia, Tragos, Achillum, Manon, and Astrea, which are recent, while the
Cuemidies rapidly disappeared. Until the Chalk period we find prin-
cipally the Syphonia; the Ventriculites and the Hippurites, which are
classed to-day, in spite of the authority of von Buch, with the bivalve
mollusks belonging exclusively to the Chalk.

The Crinoids, under very elegant forms, are very numerous before the
Chalk, but during the formation of the Cretaceous strata they disappear

* Many strata of microscopic fossils must be attributed, according to certain micro-
graphs, not to the Infusoria, but rather to the Diatomaca and to the Desmidia, the sili-
ceous carapaces of which were regarded by Ehrenberg as the remains of microscopic
animals,
318 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

almost entirely. For a long time they were believed to be extinct.
To-day, on the contrary, it has been proved that the sea of the Antilles
contains representatives of this family. These are the Pentacrinus caput
meduse and the Holopus rangit of Martinique. (D’Archiac, op. cit., t. ii,
p. 222.)

Australia presents us with a similar phenomenon. This continent
not only possesses animals and plants which recall by their organi-
zation the fauna and flora of the Jurassic strata; but itsshores still harbor
mollusks which are found elsewhere only in the Lower Tertiary formations,
and even in the more ancient strata. Subsequent to the Crinoids appear
other echinoderms, particularly the free star-fishes, and the echinoids.
The first are found in the Triassic formation, the last in the Jurassic.
Several genera are still recent, such as Cidaris, Echinus, Clypeaster,
Ophiura, and Spatangus; others have had relatively only a very short
existence, as Nucléolithes, Galerites,and Ananchytes. The number of
their fossil species is over a thousand.

The BLrachiopods form the largest part of the fossil remains; they
therefore render important assistance in the classification of the sedi-
mentary depesits, and the determination of the relative age of these
rocks. On account, however, of the especial knowledge required of
malacology and of fossil remains, such means are of less general use.

In the most ancient formations predominate the genera Spirifer, Ortis,
and Productus, which hardly attain the Triassic system, while the genus
Terebrutula, which appears simultaneously with the preceding in the
micaschist of the Silurian period, passed through all the following epochs,
and is also found in our seas. The other bivalve shells, especially, com-
mence to increase in number with the Triassic formation; in more
ancient strata they are relatively quite rare. In the shell limestone
abound the genera Avicula, Myophoria, Plagiostoma, Pecten ; the genera
Gryphea, Lyriodon, Ostrea, Pholadomya, in the Jurassic formation. The
Chalk contains the genera Exogyra, Inoceramus, Lima, Pinna, and Spondy-
lus, while the molasse (a soft Tertiary sandstone), and the deposits which
follow, contain the genera Arca, Dreissena, Panopea, Crassatella, Solen,
and Pectunculus.*

The fossil Gasteropods, of which the number of species is very great,
are especially frequent in the molasse, but they are found equally in the
more ancient deposits; the shell itself is very seldom found; only its
imprint, or the mold of the interior, which renders the determination
of genera and species very difficult.

The Cephalopods are of great importance in the history of the appear-
ance of organized beings, and the part they played in past ages far
exceeded that of the present. They form series which distinguish

* Von Buch observed that the thickest portion of the shell does not occur in the same
part with the Lrachiopods of all ages. According as the shell belongs to the most

‘ ancient sedimentary rocks, to the mean or to the recent formations, the maximum of

thickness is found near the ligature, in the middle, or toward the edge of the shell.

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 319

epochs and formations quite as well as the Brachiopods, or, among the
plants, Equisetacea. The first series is composed. of Orthoceratites, of
Belemnites, and of Sepias; until the Zechstein, the Orthoceratites predom-
inate, and after along period appear in great numbers the Belemnites,
which disappear in the Chalk, leaving no representatives, unless in the
 cuttle-fish and the sepia of our sea, of which fossil species are also

found. The Ammonites form the second series, which commence with the’

Graywacke, and continue to the upper strata of the Chalk. The cham-
bered Cephalopods are remarkable for the rapidity with which they
developed into genera and species, and still more so for their quick dis-
appearance after a renewal of the same forms in the Baculites, Scaphites,
Turrilites, Hamites. Itis a question whether with the sudden disappear-
ance of the Crinoids, of the Belemnites, and a larger part of the Sauri-
ans, the conditions of animal life were not completely changed after the
Jurassic period. The abrupt extinction of certain organisms is repeated
quite often in the history of the sedimentary crust, and at intervals so

regular that to attribute it to a fixed law, independent of all biological

processes, is in accordance with all the facts furnished by contemporary
geology, concerning the changes which have modified the surface of the
globe. These fossil remains are a powerful auxiliary for the demonstra-
tion of this law.

The Crustaceans appear with the Trilobites, animals of a peculiar struct-
ure, which have no analogues among the Crustaceans now living. Their
eyes, of complicated structure, are, according to Buckland,* the most
ancient testimony of the existence of light. Other Crustaceans after-
ward appear, but have more analogy with those of the present time.

Insects are found in great numbers, distributed among the fossil plants
of the Coal formation; later they are found in the Lignite or in yellow
amber, which is the fossil gum of the Pinnites succinifer.

The large class of Fishes commence with the mica-schist. Professor
Agassizt divides the largest number of the fossil species into four orders,
two of which, the Ganoids and the Placoids, continue from the mica-
schist until our day, while the Ctenoids and the Cycloids are observed

__ only since the Chalk. The fish of the primitive world were organized

in accordance with the nature of the medium they inhabited. The most
ancient were enveloped in a veritable armor of scales, which protected
them from the violence of the elements. In course of time this envelope
grew thinner, and at last disappeared.

The first traces of reptiles are found in the Zechstein, in the Protosaurus,
which is not found in the following deposits. Some foot-prints found
in the Old Red Sandstone have been attributed to saurians. In the

Triassic formation we find the Dracosaurus, the Notosaurus, the Phytosau-

rus; in the Jurassic formation, the Ichthyosaurus, the Plesiosaurus, the
Teleosaurus, and other species not less strange in form and proportion ;

* Pouchet, L’ Univers, note 94, p. 420.
t Researches upon Fossil Fish, t. i., pp. 165, 172.
320 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

in the Chalk, the gigantic Mosasaurus, the Iguanodon, and the Hyleo- —

saurus ; all these animals after a period of great importance gradually

diminish and disappear in the Chalk. Up to that time the saurians ©

ruled as sovereigns over land and,'sea to the sixty-fifth degree of lati-
tude. Even the air was invaded by fantastic pterodactyles, with
wings, claws, and crocodile’s head, and lacking only the proportions
of the dragons with which the imagination of poets peopled the grot-
toes and caverns in times past. Everywhere hideous creatures crawled
or slept in the sunlight, and preyed upon each other when, after a
long season of repose, hunger or other needs forced them to activity.
Their voracity was such that they did not spare even the individ-
~ uals of their own species. This fact is proved by the analysis of the
coprolites, whose discovery is due to Miss Mary Anning. The rivers,
lakes, marshes, and shores all were filled with monsters, whose scale-
covered bodies glistened in the sun’s rays, while in the damp forests,
hidden among the branches of the virginal crowns of the. palms, other
reptiles lay in wait for their prey. The appearance of the crocodile is
the last act of this exuberant creation, whose forms cannot fail to
astonish us when in thought we compare them with the creatures of
the present world; and this is our only link with this class of animals,
which, within a time relatively limited, had very extended ramifications.

The Chelonians, the Batrachians, and even the Ophidians, were, accord- |

ing to Owen, very numerous and well developed in the Jurassic and

Cretaceous periods, although Cuvier concluded from the few fossil re-

mains of serpents found that they were rare at the times mentioned.*
The fossil remains of Birds are found particularly in the red sandstone

of Massachusetts, which corresponds very nearly with the mixed sand- —

stone of Central Europe. Foot-prints especially are frequently discov-
ered. In later deposits new species appear, and fossil remains become
more frequent.

The Mammals commence with the marsupials. In the schists of Stone-
field, belonging to the Jurassic formation of England, we find incon-
testable remains of these animals, which, by their organization, form the
intermediate link between the oviparous and viviparous animals. The
Cetaceans were developed at the same time, and attained colossal propor-
tions. Among the animals of dry land were the Pachyderms, begin-
ning with the herbivorous, which first attained great development.
These animals were the initial efforts of nature, which by these inert
forms prepared the way for other animals, whose light and graceful
structure was better suited for pursuit or flight, for attack, and for de-
fense. The Paleotheria, the Anoplotheria, the Charopotami, the Adapides,
the Xyphodonts, were the principal animals living at this time. The im-
mense forests and vast plains furnished them with an abundant supply
of food.

* Cuvier, Lecherches sur les Ossements Fossiles, t. v, 2d part, p. 526,

We Ee ee ee ee eee
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 321

Among all the fossil mammals none more excite the interest of scien-
tific men and the curiosity of the public than the mammoth. Its great
height of from twelve to fifteen feet, the size of its tusks, its trunk, give
it a sort of family likeness to the elephant; however, its thick reddish
hair, the remains of pine branches found in its stomach, the discovery
of a mammoth, preserved entire in the ice of Siberia, denote that it was
not an inhabitant of the tropics like its congener, the elephant. but of
the temperate and cold zones of Central Asia and of America.

A species nearly allied to the preceding, the mastodon, formed in its
cosmopolitism an exception to the continental localization not only of
the living animals, but also of the fossil mammals of the Pliocene and
Post-Pliocene formations. The mastodon is represented by species differ-
ing very little in Asia, in the two Americas, and even in Australia ;
and what is worthy of remark, it is the only quadruped that lived upon
the latter continent which was at the same time represented by analo-
gous species in some other part of the world.*

The ruminants occupy the second place in the succession of the herbi-
vores. Magnificent stags with enormous horns, fallow-deer, elks,
gazelles, reindeer, and other known species, browsed together upon the
same vast plains, while to-day these species are distributed over every
zone and throughout all parts of the world. These inoffensive crea-
tures, which with other Herbivores occupied almost exclusively the sur-
face of the globe, were soon obliged to defend themselves from the
attacks of the carnivorous animals, which lay in wait for them in the
forests, and pursued them in the open plains. In proportion as we
approach the upper strata of the sedimentary crust, the number of the
Carnivores increases rapidly; for beside the large dogs, nearly five feet
high, which were probably the first to appear, we find representatives
of the cat family, of the plantigrades, and of the wolves. The bone-
caves, excavated for the most part by the action of the sea, are filled
with the remains of the bones of a great number of animals, and, as has
been stated, in some cases, with the imprint of the teeth of Carnivores
upon them, it is thonght of the animals which carried these bones into
the caves.

If we attentively examine the development of organized beings, and
compare it with the stratigraphic development of the earth’s crust, we
find that there is a certain parallelism which can be traced throughout
all the geological periods. When the crust of the globe was only a
thick sediment without apparent stratification, resting upon the cooled
lava, what living creatures inhabited the earth? Some Infusoria hardly
more complicated in structure than snow crystals or other mineral con-
cretions, whose individuality was constituted as much of silica as of
carbon. In our time we would say almost that the richness of strata is
in proportion to the richness of animal life. Asia, extremely well de-
veloped in a stratigraphic and orographic point of view, is also the only

* Owen, Report on the Extinct Mammals of Australia, London, 1845, p. 20.
S$ 21
322 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

continent which appears to unite all the conditions required to be the
seat of the creation of man; while Australia, poor in strata, is equally
poor in its organisms, which all appear to be the remnants of past ages.

Everything in nature is intimately connected ; the mineral kingdom is
a condition of the vegetable, and the vegetable of the animal. And
even within the animal kingdom there are creatures whose existence
involves as a condition the destruction of other animals, Plants cannot
exist for a long time alone upon the surface of the globe; for finding no
limit to their growth and extension, and not giving back to the atmos-
phere the carbon they are obliged to draw from it, the latter element
would in time be exhausted and they would perish. But nature has
created the herbivores who, in consuming and digesting the alimentary
plants, hasten in the first place their decomposition, which takes place
slowly only under the action of the air, and besides restore to the latter
by respiration the carbonic acid indispensable to the vegetable kingdom.
The herbivores, in their turn, would compromise their existence by de-
stroying the plants which serve them as food, if nature had not imposed
limits upon their multiplication by creating for them implacable and
sanguinary enemies.

We have already examined in what manner the vegetable kingdom,
seat of the cosmic forces, is in relation to the activity of these forces,
which have modified the surface of the globe; it remains to be seen in
what way the appearance of animals and vegetation intluences the organ-
ization of the terrestrial crust.

Plants are, Oken* observes, organisms suspended between the earth
and the sun, or, if you will, between darkness and light, whose appear-
ance has as a condition the influence of the central luminary of our
planetary system upon the earth. In fact, without light, plants fade and
die, while in the ardent rays of a tropical sun and under the influence
of the humidity of these warm regions, favorable to them but fatal to
the human race, they develop those beautiful forms and brilliant colors
which constitute the ornament of equatorial regions.

Some savans have supposed that the aurora-borealis may at some
period have supplied the place of solar light, and in consequence the
growth of plants have extended over all parts of the globe. It is prob-
able that the chemical activity of the earth, indubitably greater at the —
periods when organisms were produced, gave more importance to this
electro-magnetic phenomenon ; but notwithstanding this probability, we
dare not affirm its influence upon organisms, not knowing the time of
the appearance of organized beings, nor the period when the rupture of
the cloudy envelope dissipated the darkness which covered the earth.
Whatever may have been the source of light, we see that the conditions
of existence must have been very uniform, since the same fossil-remains
are found at the equator as in the polar regions. The submarine forests
of the shores of Greenland, and the coal-beds of the islands of Disco

* Tr. Bromme, Atlas zu Al. v. Humboldt’s Kosmos, p. 106.
.
th i
3
E
¢
.
3
%

~~

SRR aR HE TSAR Yor a8

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 323

and Spitzbergen, regions now permanently covered with ice, are evidence
of a uniform climate very favorable to the increase of vegetation. For
a long time it was matter of discussion how trees could flourish and
form forests so near the pole, since the solar light failed them during a
large part of the year, and the heat was insufficient. It is, however,
not difficult to conceive that plants do not require light when, through
extreme cold, which deprives them of their leaves, they go to sleep, so
to say, in order to await the return of light and heat. It would be only
necessary for their preservation that the cold to which they were ex-
posed was not too extreme.* Now the heat which mitigates the rigor
of the climate is furnished by the oceanic currents, proceeding from the
equatorial regions.

According to Humboldt, currents depend upon the tides in their move-
ment around the globe, upon the duration and force of dominant winds,
upon the difference of the specific gravity of the waters or their degree of
saltness, and finally upon the horary variations of the barometric press-
ure. Now, all these causes which influence the production of ocean eur-
rents are variable. The movement of the tides is modified by the config-
uration of the continents; the winds by the unequal distribution of the
land and water, the very different calorific capacity of which produces
ascending currents, the real generators of aerial currents. The difference
in saltness is produced by the great quantity of fresh water which is
emptied into the ocean, or by the abundance of the rain, very variable
upon the sea. The result is that the currents themselves are variable;
and if to-day the western coasts of Europe are visited by the Gulf Stream,
in former times this current may have been directed more to the north,
and promoted upon the American islands and upon Spitzbergen the de-
velopment of vegetation. The cold currents, on the contrary, may have
proceeded along the European coasts and produced there a climate simi-
lar to that of Canada and Labrador.

The climatic conditions may also be changed by the predominant
distributions of the sea upon a hemisphere, and in this ease a damp and
foggy climate would be the consequence: Now, such a climate, even
were it quite cold, would not prevent the development of a rich crypto-
gamic vegetation, as is shown by the flora of the islands of Falkland

' and of New Zealand. There is nothing, then, averse to the supposition

that, at certain geological epochs, the climatic conditions were very
favorable to the development of plants, and that their growth was
possible even in the polar regions. Moreover, the coal-beds of the isl-
ands of Disco and Spitzbergen cannot be the result of the accumulation
of floating wood, for, in the first place, the débris thus deposited would
be mingled with sand and pebbles, and, in the second, trunks of trees
still standing have been found in these beds. i

Plants act a very important part in the economy of nature. They
are the immediate agents of organization, and serve as intermediates

* J. Croll, On Geological Time, etc., Philos. Magaz., vol. xxxv, 1868, p. 445.
324 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

between the mineral and animal kingdoms, the latter not assimilating
directly inorganic substances. Plants decompose the carbonic acid of
the air, under the influence of solar light, and set free the pure oxygen,
which is necessary for the respiration of animals; also, they absorb the
inorganic salts and form albuminous azotic substances, which are en-
gaged in the production of the horny cartilaginous or bony frames and
the formation of the tissues of the animals. The humus is the pro-
duction of the slow alteration of plants mingled with mineral substances.
It is found in a fossil state in all the deposits, and serves to promote
the development of plants to a more perfect organization. Upon an arid
rock first appear the lichens, which by their decay form enough earth
to allow the mosses to succeed them; the grasses, finding the neces-
sary conditions for their development, follow the mosses, after which
any of the plants may dispute the new ground acquired for their nutri-
tion. The same succession takes place on a large scale in the organiza-
tion of the terrestrial crust.

The preservation of the fossil remains of primitive plants is due to cer-
tain agents which prevent their decomposition. Water, for example,
destroys certain parts of a plant, while others are preserved in it for
quite a long time. The preservation of the soft and tender portions in-
dicate that these plants were soon covered with lime, and that they
were not deposited far from the place of their growth.*

Some streams preserve their plants by depositing rapidly upon their
entire surface a stratum of calcareous matter which, gradually increas-
ing in thickness, shields them from all exterior action. To this process
we are indebted for the elements of a quite new science, paieophytology,
which in many cases has opened the road to the discovery of the general
laws which bave controlled the modification of climates.

Plants are not only found scattered here and there through the sens
mentary strata; their remains frequently form large deposits, such as the
beds of coal, nerve and peat. In former times the products of the de-
composition of these deposits, such as bitumen and petroleum, were found
in such abundance, that their exploitation equaled in importance that
of coal, which, with iron, forms the basis of great industrial wealth.

Coal is quite abundant in Hurope; England, Belgium, France, |
Prussia, Silesia, Bohemia, Hungary, possess mines of more or less im-
portance. Scandinavia, Russia, Greece, Italy, have, we may say, no coal-
deposits. Of other parts of the world, America is the most richly gifted,
while Australia possesses the least.

The value of all the coal-deposits has been calculated by the Prussian
engineer, Mr. Carmel. He compares the whole amount to a solid mass
of 44,800,000,000 cubic meters (58,000,000,000 cubic yards). He at the
same time allays the apprehensions often expressed that this precious
combustible will be exhausted by its enormous consumption, which an-
rually draws fromthe earth ahundred and twenty-five million tons. This

*F. Unger, Chloris protogea, 1847, p. iv.
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH 325

would give a stratum two meters in thickness (64 feet) and 56 square
_ kilometers (21 square miles) of extent. As the volume of the coal-de-
posits is known, as well as the annual quantity consumed, it is caleulated
that this store of combustible material will not be exhausted for thirty-
_ six thousand years.

The formation of coal is not easy to explain. Are these deposits col-
lected in the hollow of valleys, at the bottom of lakes, at the mouths of
rivers or in turf-bogs? Modern research inclines toward the latter sup-
position. The nature of the plants the débris of which forms coal im-
plies the presence of marshes, on the borders of which these plants
grew; if such was the case, coal is a formation analogous to peat. The
climate must have been damp and temperate as in our day. The trees
which bordered the swamp fell into it as they were uprooted by the vio-
lence of the winds, and thus increased the quantity of vegetable matter
which formed the coal. Fora long time the carbonization of the remains
_. of plants was attributed to the influence of terrestrial heat; but Goep-
pert has shown that it is rather due to the enormous pressure and the
action of chemical agents, which produced a peculiar decomposition, the
consequence of which was the metamorphosis of wood into coal. A
piece of Pinnites succinifer transformed into black coal, while some amber
adhering to it underwent no alteration, is a proof in favor of this view,
_ for otherwise the co-existence of the coal and the amber would be alto.
gether inexplicable.

Some geologists consider that anthracite is a deposit of vegetable
matter, which preceded the formation of [bituminous] coal. But in 1831
Featherstonehaugh showed that the anthracites and [bituminous] coals
were deposits formed at the same time, and were often contained in the
same stratum. The identity of fossil plants in the two substances
proves the same thing.* The chemical difference of the two combusti-
bles must, then, be attributed to stronger pressure, to the presence of
more energetic chemical agents, and in every case to a greater degree
of terrestrial heat.

The lignite deposits are collections of vegetable matter, encountered
in morerecent formations. The thickness of these strata rarely exceeds
5 meters (164 feet). It is a combustible not much sought after, for
when it comes out of the mine it contains as much as 45 per cent. of
water, which is disengaged with difficulty, by exposure to the air. It
contains only about 50 per cent. of coal, and its calorific power varies
between six and eight thousand calories. It is found in the secondary
aud lower strata of the Tertiary deposit. Its quality diminishes in pro-
portion as it exists in more remote periods.

The formation of deposits similar to the lignite is taking place to-day
in the neighborhood of the mouths of large rivers. We may give as
example the large quantity of wood floating in the Mississippi, forming
often regular moving islands of matter. A portion of these vegetable

. SS

* Lyell, Travels in North America, vol. 1, p. 88.

326 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

débris is cast upon the banks at the mouth of the river, is covered with
mud and penetrated with saline matter, while a large part is carried far
away by the current, and furnishes valuable building material to the
inhabitants of the glacial zone.

The bitumens, the petroleums, and the naphthas are hydrocarburets,
more or less condensed, which proceed from the decomposition of large
deposits of vegetable matter, imprisoned between the sedimentary strata,
and submitted to variable pressure. Such is the conclusion we have
attained, thanks to the researches of synthetic chemistry, which teaches
us that the products of the distillation of wood can, under certain con-
ditions of temperature and of pressure, be transformed into more com-
plicated carburets.

Petroleum is largely diffused in the terrestrial crust. In Europe, and
especially in Gallicia, several pits have recently been discovered. Asia
is quite rich in this product, but in North America it has become the
object of a very important and extended industry. The tubes bored for
the purpose of obtaining this oil pass ordinarily through the ferruginous
clay, the sandstone, the conglomerate, and the bituminous schists
before reaching the bed of oil confined between two strata of refractory
slate, containing the fossil remains of Stigmaria and other plants of the
Coal period. When the drill reaches the bed of oil, a regular explosion
of gas takes place, the latter consisting in most cases of a mixture of
carbonic acid and hydrocarburets. This explosion is followed by a con-
tinuous jet of oil, which shoots up sometimes to a height of more than
. 80 yards. Both gas and oil being eminently inflammable, many disas-
ters occur in boring the petroleum-wells. The yield from these pits
is sometimes as much as 4,000 gallons of oil in twenty-four hours. The -
daily product of all the wells of the United States may be estimated at
50,000 gallons. The oil is geuerally of a deep-brown color, and only in
a few cases is clear and transparent. A simple distillation suffices to
render it fit for ordinary use.*

We may consider as an organic product the gas disengaged in several
parts of Italy and in Transylvania, and now burning at Bakou, on the
Caspian Sea. The Ho-tsing or wells of fire in Central Asia, of which
Humboldt has left a very detailed description, are equally gaseous ema-
nations, proceeding from the subterranean decomposition of vegetable
substances.

Peat is a recent deposit of vegetable matter, the formation of
which appears to have some analogy with that of oil. The remains of
all kinds of plants may contribute to the increase of peat-bogs, but in
order that marshes become peat-bogs certain conditions are necessary
favoring the development of the plants of which the largest part of them
are formed. Thus the water must not be completely stagnant, must not
be impregnated with slime nor be liable to any great rise or fall, must
not be very deep and not rapid in motion, while the bed of the marsh

Pies Prasy: Seti

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 327

should be argillaceous and impermeable, but never sandy nor gravelly.*
Peat is principally composed of the ligneous and fibrous parts of the Carex
eriophorum, and certain mosses, whose decomposition has been retarded
by the circumstance that the temperature of the water in which they
were, never passed beyond a certain mean, and also by the presence of
some organic acids. The depth of peat-bogs is often very great, some-
times as much as 18 yards. Their lateral extent is seldom over 3 yards,
ordinarily not more than 1.

M. Lesquereux has made upon the subject of the geographical distri-
bution of peat-bogs, some very important remarks. He observed that
the peat-bogs of Europe extended between the torty-fifth or the forty-
sixth degree of north latitude and the regions where the growth of
ligneous plants ceases. <A corresponding limitation is given for their
vertical extension; in the Alps, for example, they are contained in the
valleys up to a height of 2,600 meters (8,500 feet). According to Mr.
Darwin, there is no peat in the island Chiloe at 41° to 42° of south lat-
itude, notwithstanding the great number of its marshes; on the con-
trary it is very abundant in the Chonos Islands in 45° latitude. The
temperature favorable to the development of peat-bogs is an annual
mean of 5° to 8° C.; the development ceases when the temperature at-
tains 10°. M. Lesquereux concludes from this that the temperature of
the globe has not sensibly changed since the Quaternary period, for if
during this period the temperature of Scotland had fallen to that of
the Azores, we would find somewhere in the south of Europe deposits
contemporary with this cooling, which is not the case. M. d’Archiac |
however, considered that this supposed decrease of temperature is not
incompatible with the absence of peat, for he thinks that this low de-
gree of heat may have continued for too short a time to produce great
deposits; or, if these were formed, they may have been carried away by
the diluvian action which denuded this zone.t As to the age of the
recent peat-bogs, there is but one opinion, that their formation com-
menced with the cessation of the last diluvian phenomena.

Animals, more than plants, contribute to the formation of permanent
crusts at the surface of the globe; especially the inferior animals, the
Crustacea, the Mollusca, Cephalopoda, Gasteropoda, Acephala, Brachyopoda,
the Radiata, Echini, Crinoidea, Asterioida, the Polyps, the Foraminifera,
and the Infusoria, which are born, live, die, and are buried in the same
place, upon the same bank, at the foot of the same rock, and which form
thick strata, consisting entirely of their calcareous remains. The residue
of the terrestrial animals is less abundant, because their remains are
generally disorganized by the influence of atmospheric agents before
they are carried into the sea. Still, the tusks of the mammoth found in
the ice of Siberia, the bones discovered in the caverns, the guanoof the
Chincha Islands of Peru, of the coast of Chili, and of Terra del Fuego,

*D’Archiac, Cours de Paléont. Strat., t. li, p. 390.
t D’Archiac, op. cit., t. ii, p. 397.

328 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

and the atmospheric dust, composed in great part of infusorial remains,
form materials which add to the deposits of inorganic substances.

The strength or durability of strata formed of the remains of marine
animals depends upon certain exterior conditions which are very vari-

able. Thus, the structure of their sides, their petrific character, and their.

contour, more or less broken; the nature of the bottom of the sea, which
may be muddy, sandy, gravelly, and filled with broken shells and corals;
the tides, the difference between the high and low water ; oceanic cur-
rents, transporting the germs to a distance; climate ; the composition o7
the waters, their degree of saltness, and particularly their depth, all con-

tribute to complicate the character of a marine fauna, and determine, —

more or less, the abundance and the variety of forms of a particular
region.* E. Forbes has established certain laws upon the relation
which exists between the bathymetrical and geographical extension of
the marine animals. He has shown that the extension of a species in a
vertical direction corresponds to its horizontal or geographical distribu-
tion, and, connversely, that the more a species extends in a vertical di-
rection, or, in other words, the more it is found at different depths upon
the same coast, the more it is diffused over large surfaces.

The Mollusca rarely live at a depth of more than five hundred yards.
Now, for animals which can live only a hundred yards below the surface
of the water, all depth beyond this is an insurmountable obstacle to
their extension. This fact may explain why on two sides of a cape are
often found two almost completely distinct faunas. It has also been
observed that northern species, on approaching the equator, seek a
depth of water where the temperature is equal to that from which they
came. The reverse takes place with tropical species. The result is
that the geographical extent of a species must be greater in proportion
as it can live at a greater depth. As the molluscal animals do not
repeat themselves on the two sides of the equator, although the type
may be the same, it must be admitted that the equator is equally an
obstacle to the distribution of the Mollusca.t

A change in the saltness of the water is also an obstacle to the exist-
ence of marine types. In the lagunes and salt marshes near the mouths
of rivers, Mollusca are found, indicating by their presence every degree
of saltness, from sea-water to fresh. If the degree of saltness is changed,
the primitive types are replaced by others better adapted to the me-
dium. It has been often asked whether an acclimatation of the marine
types is not possible in a medium where the change in the saltness takes
place very slowly. We may answer in the affirmative if we consider the
acclimatation of the Phoca of Lake Baikal which formerly was a part of
a vast sea, and also if we take into account the persistence of the lower
animals which have endured through all ages, and still form the most
numerous inhabitants of our globe, while the existence of the superior

* D’Archiacg, op. cit., t. ii, pp. 190-194.
t D’Archiae, op. cit., t. ii, p. 226.

Pe ee ee

Sing
ZW ie Saamecnditeed tame HPCE LA OU ,

rer

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 329

animals is so limited that they are born and perish in a period which
for the Testacea is recent.*

The least complicated seem best to resist the changes of condition due
to the influence of the revolutions of the terrestrial crust; those which
through simplicity of elementary constitution approach nearest the min-
eral kingdom share somewhat its resistance to the agents of destruction.

The presence of the fossil remains of marine animals in the interior of
continents proves that the configuration of the latter is not invariable.
We have already spoken of the slow rising of Australia. Central Asia,
also, must be the elevated bed of a former ocean, for Kirghiz and China
show that there must have been an interior sea where now exists the
desert of Gobi.t Besides, deposits of shells have been observed at ele-
vations of from three to four hundred yards, and even higher.t The
levels of erosion of the Alps, observed by Sharp at heights of 9,000,
7,500, and 4,800 feet, prove that the level of the sea has changed several
times.§ In former periods England was united to the continent, as is
evident from the similarity of the molluscal fauna of the British Isles
with that of the continent, and from certain geological considerations
in regard to the fauna of the Quaternary Mammalia. Thus we know of
no species of fluvial Testacea in England which is not found upon the
continent, while several species of recent appearance on the continent
are wanting in England. Ifthe Azores and the Canaries possess species
peculiar tu them, this proves that by their isolation these islands have
become centers of distinct creations, which is not the case with the Brit-
ish Islands, on account of their dependence upon the continent.

M. Laurent, in charge of the formation of artesian wells in the north-
ern part of Sahara, asserts in his report that the desert was once a sea,
communicating through the gulf of Gabes with the ocean. Among the
fossils discovered, one, the Cardium edule, is frequently found in the Med-
iterranean, and still lives in the salt lakes of the desert.

The existing continental fauna of Morocco, and of Algeria as far as
Bacea, is almost identical with the fauna of Southern Europe. Only

from the Senegal to the Nile commences the fauna of true African char-

acter. The elephant, the rhinoceros, the hippopotamus, the giraffe, the
crocodile are not found beyond the desert, and the continental fauna of
Africa coincides closely with that of Morocco, while the latter has much
analogy with the European fauna. The Innuus ecaudatus is found upon
the rocks of Gibraltar. The Sorex etruscus of Italy re-appears in Algeria.
Strauch shows the identity of the reptiles of the two coasts, and EHric-
son affirms that a large number of insects of Central Europe and a still
greater number of the Mediterranean countries are the same as those of
Morocco and of Algeria, while there are very few species identical with

* Lyell, Elements of Geology, trad. Gineston, t. i, p. 213.

t+ Humboldt, Asie Central, t. ii, p. 138.

t D’Archiac, Histoire des Progrés de la Géologie, t. ii, p. 302.
§ Quart. Journ. Geolog. Soc., 1855, t. xii, 46, pp. 102-128.
330 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

those of Egypt. If we also take into account the fossil remains found
in the bone-caves of Sicily, we must admit, with M. Anca, that Europe
was connected with the African continent by two isthmuses; the one
represented by the present submerged plateau, which extends from the
southern point of Sicily to Africa; the other, easier to determine, is the
isthmus of the columns of Hercules, which united Morocco with Spain.
All these facts show us the dependence which exists between the
organic and inorganic world. If the exterior conditions influence the
development and the distribution of plants and of animals, on the other
hand animals and plants modify the structure of the sedimentary rocks,
by depositing upon them their organized remains. But in general we
may say that the end toward which all the forces of nature tend is
found in organization of matter, and consequently the crowning act is
the formation of living creatures, animals endowed with sensation, and
lastly of man, the final expression of the creative force of the earth.

CHAPTER V.
ICH.

From the appearance of the first organisms until our time, the earth
has experienced every degree in the climatic scale, from the warm and
uniform to the rigor of later periods. Besides this slow cooling, it is
evident there were oscillations of temperature, from the periodic increase
and decrease in the extension of certain plants of the temperate re-
gions.* We still find, even in our day, in different parts of the globe,
changes of climate, the cause of which is far from evident. M. Charles
Zenger concludes, from his numerous observations, that the annual heat
of central Europe sensibly increases, but is not able to attribute this
change to any known cause.t His observations coincide with the ap-
pearance of meridional plants ia the north of Germany, noticed in 1835-—
1836. We may,on the contrary, attribute to a slow cooling the increased
extent of the Swiss glaciers, which, from the twelfth century, have more
and more obstructed the ancient passes of the mountains, destroying
forests and habitations and reducing the temperature of the surround-
ing country. In France and Belgium, the culture of the vine has ceased
in many regions, where formerly its products were of great importance.
The disappearance of pines in Ireland indicates that Great Britain also
experiences this decrease of temperature. But the most striking proof
of a considerable cooling is furnished us by the dwindling and decay of
the birch forests of Iceland. This island, eminently volcanic, was, in
the middle ages, the seat of an advanced civilization. The arts and
sciences flourished there, and its poetry still astonishes the reader by its

*Count Gast. de Sporta, Annals and Magaz. of Natural History, 3d ser., vol. xix, 1867,
p. 351.

t Phil. Magaz., June, 1868, p. 433.

leven

-

hoe, case Splat ali Cg ; ined rs

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 331

freshness and vivacity. But then, as numerous documents testify, all

nature contributed to enlarge the ideas and excite the imagination of
the poet. The magnificent woods were peopled with numerous animals,
and the nightingale made music in the groves of thisisland now ravaged
by cold and fire. Spitzbergen, formerly accessible, is now completely
surrounded by ice. Greenland, once a flourishing colony, founded in
982 by the Norwegians, commenced to decline about 1348, and this
verdant country, which, according to a list found in Rome, had already,
anterior to the fourteenth century, seventeen bishops, and numerous
relations with Iceland and Norway, had to be discovered anew in the
sixteenth century. To-day it is completely covered with ice, and its

eastern side is altogether uninhabitable.*

It is also a well known fact that the passage between the Pacific and °
the Atlantic oceans, by the polar sea, is becoming more and more im-
practicable and even impossible, on account of the ice which obstructs
the straits and canals.

Wecannot say with Boussingault that to an elevation of the mountain-
chain of the Andes must be attributed the retreat of the line of per-
petual snow, for a change of climatic conditions in the general direction
of the winds, and the quantity of avmospheric precipitations takes
place more readily in certain regions, and may consequently modify the
climate.

If we pass from the local to the general distribution of climates over
the globe we are struck with the unequal division of heat in the two
hemispheres. Theborders of the southern glacier attain, and sometimes
pass beyond, the seventy-fifth parallel, while the northern glacier reaches
very nearly the eightieth parallel. Travelers who have wintered on the
borders of the southern glacier have shown us, by means of thermometric
tables, that the mean temperature is hardly higher than that of northern
latitudes very near the pole, in which some vessels have been forced to
remain during the winter season. Dumont d’Urville affirms that the
floating islands of ice frequently encountered in the southern sea are of
a size unknown among the icebergs of the northern hemisphere. Their
length exceeds sometimes 20 kilometers (124 miles), and their height 30
meters (98 feet). This enormous mass represents moreover only that
part of the ice which is above the surface of the water, and is only an
eighth of the entire amount.t

Geological periods also give us proof of numerous oscillations of tem-
perature. In fact, after the Carboniferous period, so rich in vegetable
forms, we observe a relaxation and very marked diminution in the evo-
lution of animal and vegetable life during the Permian period and also
during a part of the Triassic period.t It is in the Permian deposit that

*H. G. Bronn, Handbuch einer Geschichte der Natur, t.i, p 131. Alph. Favre, Rechers
ches géologiques, t. i, p. 178, note 1.

tLyell, Travels in North America, 1845, vol. II, p. 100.

t D’Archiac, Cours de Paléont. Strat., t. ii, p. 11.
332 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

we find for the first time numerous scratches whose origin, much dis- —

cussed, has been recently attributed to the action of ice. A similar and —

very pronounced arrest of vegetation is manifest after the Jurassic for-
mation, in the Cretaceous deposit, and at several epochs during the
Tertiary period, which is especially demonstrated by the predominance
in Europe now of tropical, now of hyperborean types. A striking ex-
ample of a notable change of climate is given by E. Forbes. This
savan has registered a list of fifty species of shell-fish which inhabited
the British seas at the time of the formation of the coralline crag
and of the red crag (of the Pliocene). All these mollusks are recent, but
they are completely wanting in the Pleistocene or glacial deposits of
England. We find them in those of Sicily, of Southern Italy, and of the
Grecian archipelago. E. Forbes thinks that these mollusks resorted
for a time to these shores, where they found conditions favorable to
their existence, and after the amelioration of the climate returned to
the British seas.*

Mr. Heer has drawn attention to the fact that we find in many loeal-
ities of France and of Germany bones of the marmot and of the rein-
deer, which can only be accounted for by a lowering of the temperature
of Central Europe, which permitted these animals to live in latitudes
less elevated and at a less vertical height. M. Lartet has mentioned in
a letter addressed to the Academy of Sciences the presence of the
Ovibus moschatus in several localities in the ancient province of Peri-
gord. In the Quaternary then it must have lived 15° farther south, for
at the present period it first existed only in North America and never
passed beyond the sixtieth degree. M. Alph. Milne Edwards found in
the bone-caves, among the animal remains, portions of the large owl
(Stryx nyctea) which to-day inhabits the polar regions.t

The glaciers, whose growing proportions we have mentioned, were
once much mere extensive than they now are, as the moraines prove
we find in Piedmont and Lombardy, upon the Jura, and upon many other
mountain chains, where now no glaciers exist. We find these moraines
in the Vosges, in the Black Forest, in the mountains of Scotland, upon
the Apennines, Mount Libanus, the Alleghanies in Northern America,
in New Grenada, and in New Zealand.t It is well known that the
glaciers move along the sides of the mountain more or less rapidly in
proportion to the slope. They would end then by overflowing the
entire valley if the melting of their extremities did not keep them at a
certain height. It is only after a series of exceptionally cold years that
any progress can be perceived in the glaciers, while only a few very
warm years suffice to produce a very sensible retreat. Now, if in
former times the glaciers extended to the environs of Turin, this would
prove that this extension was due entirely to a period of severe yin-

* Lyell, Elements of Geology, 6th edit., t. i, p. 330.
t Favre, Rech. Géol., t. i, p. 182-183.
¢Ibid., p. 181.
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 333

ters. How much must the mean temperature of Europe be lowered in
_ order that the extension of the glaciers attain such proportions? The
estimation is not difficult. In the first place, experiment shows ‘that the
temperature diminishes one degree for 188 meters (6164 feet) of height.
The glaciers descend 1,150 meters (3,772 feet). The mean temperature
must then be lowered 6° or 7° centigrade in order that the glaciers may
descend to the level of the sea. This is actually the case in the island of
Georgia and in Patagonia, where, according to Darwin, the glacier reaches
the level of the sea at 46° 40/ of south latitude.* According to M. Ch.
Martin, a lowering of 4° centigrade would be necessary in the mean tem-
perature of Switzerland in order that the glaciers of the valley of
Chamounix should extend to the environs of Geneva.t
Another proof of the action of ice is given by the abraded and pol-
ished rocks. The giaciers scratch the rocks in the bed of their course
with the pebbles and stones contained in their lower strata; they polish
the salient points they encounter first by their passage around them,
and afterwards as their mass increases by their movement over them.{
This phenomenon is notonly observed in Switzerland, but also in Sweden,
in Norway, in Lapland, and in Finland. In the latter province, the
striped and polished surfaces are especially remarkable, because the
country is not mountainous; now the phenomenon in this case can only
be produced by the action of permanent glaciers, which would imply a
considerable covling of the mean temperature of Europe. It is true
that the scratches and polish upon the rocks has been attributed to the
action of floating icebergs, which plowed the bottom of the sea with
the stones attached to their lower surfaces. This opinion is difficult to
sustain, in view of the, for the most part, parallel character of the stripes
in Finland, and the direction almost always north and south of the
stripes. If floating ice had produced these marks, the scratches would
not have been parallel, nor in the same direction ; for, supposing the
current constant in its course, the rotation of the floating mass should
be taken into account, and also the obstacles the current would meet,
_ causing it to deviate, and producing whirls and rapids. Moreover,
Greenland, which, at an equal latitude, is now permanently covered
with ice, shows the possibility of a similar cooling in Southern Europe. ~
The dissemination of erratic blocks is also attributed to the action of
glaciers. We observe these in the plains of Switzerland and of Pied-
mont; it is ice which has detached them from the sides of the Alps,
and ice which has transported them to the place where they now rest.
Some naturalists have introduced water as an agent in this matter,
which according to them must have covered certain parts of Europe to
explain the transportation of these bowlders. This hypothesis has,
however, been abandoned even by its illustrious author ;§ for had the
* Cotta, Briefe iiber Al. v. Humboldt’s Kosmos, vol. 1, p. 216.
tAlph. Favre, Recherches géologiques, t.i, p. 183.
tE. Desor, La Limite Sup. des Polis Glaciaires, etc., 1855, p. 7.
3 § Lyell, Elements oj Geology, 6th edit., t. i, p. 229.

ery

eee eee vere

oer
a pet

sft chee erobeinong ier rN
334 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

é

transportation been accomplished by water, shells would be found in the —

drift, which is not the case.
_ The members of the geological commission of Canada* have found
many transported blocks both in the mountains and in the valleys of

this province. The blocks of each locality consist of a mixture of —
different rocks, although one of local or distant origin strongly predomi- —

nates over the others. In almost every case the blocks seem to have
been transported toward the south.” There are some signal excep-
_ tions, however. Thus, in the county of Runouski, in the valley of the
river Neigette, there are several calcareous bowlders transported from a

distance of several miles in an opposite direction from the ordinary, —

that is, to the northeast. Dr. Dawson has observed similar instances in

Nova Scotia. This phenomeaon is not confined to the northern hemi- —

sphere.t Darwin discovered the existence of similar blocks in South
America, and almost within the same limits, that is to say, about 50° 10/
of south latitude. About the seventy-second degree of west longitude
these boulders are very numerous. They consist of feldspathic rocks,
of the schists, chlorites, quartzes, and the basaltic lavas. This phe-
nomenon, then, is very genera], and consequently every theory which
attempts to explain it by any local cause must be discarded. In pro-
portion as we approach the tropical regions the phenomenon gradually
disappears, and no trace of it is found beyond the forty-fifth degree of
latitude north or south. It is, therefore, almost impossible to suppose
that the bowlders of one hemisphere were carried into the other, and
consequently it must be admitted that this phenomenon occurred peri-
odically upon each of the two hemispheres.

If we admit that a very general cause must have presided over the
dissemination of these transported blocks, still we cannot deny that
sometimes a local cause may produce the same phenomenon. North
America furnishes an example of this. In Canada the mean tempera-
ture of winter is 9° 9’, and in Labrador it is still less. The winters
there are very rigorous, producing the congelation of the mouths of the
river Saint Lawrence, as well as of the rivers which empty into Hud-
son’s Bay, among others of the Saskatchewan, and the Churchill. <As
this barrier of ice occurs when the winter rains of the northern part of
North America produce great inundations, it is violently broken up,
and the ice of the submerged plains is carried away, with everything
which has collected upon it. This cause of the dissemination of bowl-
ders cannot be generalized, for the simple reason that the periodical
rains in Europe do not always occur in winter.

To explain the phenomena of erratic boulders most scientists have
recourse to ice; and differ only in regard to the cause which could pro-
duce an extension of the glaciers. Thus Charpentier supposed that the

tOn the Distribution of Erratic Boulders, etc. Trans. Geolog. Soc., London, 3d ser.
vol. vi, p. 415.

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 335

change of climate of Switzerland ought to be attributed to the elevation

of the Alps. In 1841 he abandoned this idea to support that of the

rending of the Alps, and the ejection from the fissures formed of large
quantities of vapor, which in precipitating cooled the country.

M. Kemtz was inclined to suppose a still greater elevation of the
Alps, as much as 20,000 feet. According to M. Lecocq, it is the unequal
distribution of heat at the surface of the globe, which on the one hand
favors the evaporation of the waters, and on the other the precipitation
of these vapors. M. de la Hive attributes to the evaporation of the
waters of the freshly-emerged continents, the formation of the more ex-’
tended glaciers of some mountain chains. Mr. Frankland* proposed a
theory which rests upon the fact of the unequal cooling of the ocean
and of continents. The sea, retaining the heat better, at a certain pe-
riod disengaged vapors, which were precipitated in the form of snow,
the fusion of which during the summer absorbed a large part of the
heat, so that the temperature of the continent was sensibly diminished.
M. Escher de la Linth thinks that the fewne (FOhn) warm wind from the
sea could not. blow at a period when as we suppose the Sahara was a
sea. Switzerland must bave been then much colder.t Still other
hypotheses have been proposed, but not so much of the character of a
general and periodical cause.

The variations of temperature which occurred during geological peri-
ods is most frequently explained by the presence or absence of the Gulf
Stream. We have in fact seen that the oceanic currents as well as the
aerial currents are variable in their direction and in their intensity.
It only remains to explain why the marine currents as well as the winds
are more intense in the austral than in the boreal hemisphere; why all
the most important currents, and the Gulf Stream itself, have their
starting-pointin the three drifts of the Antarctic glacier, while the Arctic
currents are comparatively of little importance. We answer thatitis the
unequal distribution of water and the unequal size of the two glaciers
which produce this variable intensity of the currents in general; but to
what can we attribute the disproportionate extension of the austral
glacier and the predominance of water in the corresponding hemisphere?
This explanation of the unequal temperature of the two hemispheres
and of the oscillation of climates in geological epochs is not sufficient,
for one might as well take the cause for the effect of the change of tem-
perature.

Great progress, however, was made in the admission that the climatic
condition of the globe has not always been the same, and that the cold
which now prevails upon the austral hemisphere, formerly covered with
a stratum of ice a part of Europe and of Asia. It wasachamois-hunter,
of the valley of Bagne, named Perraudin, who suggested the idea to
Charpentier that the erratic blocks which incumbered the valleys might

*Phil. Magaz., August, 1864.
t Favre, Rech. Géolog., t. i, pp. 185-190.

336 THE REVOLUTIONS’ OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

have been transported thither by the glaciers at the time of their great-—

est extension.* Charpentier developed this theory, and to him is due
the honor of having introduced into science a fact now generally ad-
mitted. —

This new theory was supported by the authority of Professor Agassiz,
but immediately there was a division of opinion among glacialists; some
believed, with Agassiz, that a Siberian cold reigned throughout all
Kurope, and that all the northern part was covered with a cap of ice;
others, with Charpentier, admitted only glaciers of gigantic dimensions.
Sir Charles Lyell was one of the most active defenders of this theory,
which he developed in his numerous works.

Geologists are not in accord as to the number and duration of the gla-
cial periods. Some maintain there was a single period of cold; others
two or several, limited to a certain epoch, beyond which the existence
of ice was hardly probable. M. D’Archiact thought that the polar ice did
not exist beyond the Tertiary period. However, the fissures or flaws in
the Permian, Liassic, and Cretacean deposits, as well as the arrest of
animal and vegetable life, prove, it seems to us, that the climate under-
went great changes, not only during the Tertiary and Quaternary pe-
riods, but also during the above-mentioned formations. Climates have
varied very little since the Coal period, for the coal-beds are found in
the same zone to which turf-marshes are now almost exclusively con-
fined. In proportion as we advance toward the south of Europe, says
M. Lesquereux, we cease to find coal beyond the limits which contain
peat-bogs, and towards the north the thickness of the coal-beds is in
relative proportion to the thickness of the peat-deposits in the neighbor-
hood. The same fact may be stated for the austral hemisphere, and
neither coal nor peat is found between the tropics.{

It must, however, be admitted that notwithstanding this localization
of climates the temperature was less extreme in the two opposed seasons,
and there was greater moisture, on account of the preponderance of
water in the austral hemisphere. The same thing is repeated in the
Tertiary period; the European flora, analogous to that of New Orleans,
indicates a damp and marshy climate. The temperature, however, could
not have been much higher than it is now, or the existence of peat-
bogs would have been impossible. We know, moreover, the slowness
of the process of the cooling of the crust of the globe. If we calculate
the temperature of the latter for a supposed age of the Coal period, or
even an earlier, we find that the quantity of heat radiated into celestial
space, although necessarily greater than at present, could not sensibly
have influenced the modification of climate. As the radiation of the
central heat of the earth acted almost under the same condition as to-

* Favre, Rech. Géol., t. i, pp. 57, 178.

t Cours de Paléont. Strat., t. ii, p. 29.

¢ D’Archiace, op. cit., p. 403.

§ Dr, Oswald Heer, Flora Tertiaria Helvetia, t. i, p. 12; t. ili, p. 324.

‘s
¢
:
¥
c
E $ 22

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 337

day, and could not, consequently, raise the temperature of the atmos-

_ phere, we may say that the modification of climate depended in part

upon the distribution of seas and continents, but principally upon solar

_ heat, and the geographical position of aregion. Starting with these

facts we will endeavor to find the cause which may have changed the
climatic conditions and produced glacial periods.

The geographical position of a place has great influence upon the
nature of its climate; and this influence would be much greater if the
distribution of continents and of seas was uniform. Since this is not
the case the mean temperature of different parts of the globe, notwitb-
standing their geographical position, may be perfectly identical,
although in two distinct latitudes; and very different although in the
same position in regard to latitude. Proximity to the sea renders a
climate more uniform. Thus in Ireland, plants of Southern Europe
grow in the open air, which would freeze in the same latitude in Ger-
many. On the other hand, the summers of Ireland are rainy and even
cold enough sometimes for snow, when in Germany the vines ripen

upon the Rhine, and the summers are warmer than at Rome.

The continental climates are more extreme in the two opposite seasons,
which isshown by the enormous difference between the two limits of tem-
perature at Moscow, equal to about 70° Centigrade. The winters of Pekin
are as severe as those of Upsal, while the summers are as burning as

those of Cairo. Mr. Lyell thinks the conversion of the sea into dry

land, and the land into sea, the increase and diminution of the height
of the mountain-chains and of continents, the predominance of land or of
water in high and low latitudes, and, finally, a new direction given to the
currents of the ocean, such as the Gulf Stream, were changes of a nature
to modify the climates of the globe.* We cannot deny that a change in
the distribution of continents and of seas would be followed by an equal
change in climates, and Mr. Frankland has shown t that if the continents
were distributed about the poles, while the sea formed a belt around the
equator, the water, the most proper vehicle of heat, would warm the polar
regions at the expense of the equatorial zone; but the periodic return
of the same phenomena of refrigeration appears to proceed from laws
more simple and constant.

As the sun is the principal source of heat for all the surface of the globe,
certain causes, which modify its calorific intensity, equally affect the cli-

- matic conditions of the earth. This modification may take place in two

ways. First, the intensity of the solar heat may itself vary. In fact
it has been proved that the solar spots are subject to a periodic return,
and by enfeebling the calorific power of the sun, sensibly affect the tem-
perature of the terrestrial surface. There is nothing, then, untenable in
the supposition that the sun in its quality of a variable star was formerly
subject to greater physical perturbations, and that, consequently, the

* Lyell, Elements of Geology, vol. i, p. 287.
t Phil. Magaz., August, 1864.
338 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

production of a large number of spots diminished the radiant heat and ~
occasioned great cold. But this supposition, nevertheless, remains in the |

doubtful region of the merely probable, and can by no means be consid-
ered a settled fact. Secondly, it is quite otherwise as to the relative
position of the earth to the sun; for a change in this position can be
submitted to exact calculation, and the influence readily determined it
would exercise upon the fluid envelope of the globe, which, by its mo
bility, is the true regulator of climates.

The distance of the earth from the sun changes by virtue of the ec-
centricity of the terrestrial orbit, which has not been the same through-
out all periods, for it is diminishing now and will continue to diminish
for twenty-three thousand eight hundred and eighty years, commencing
from 1900 to increase again. Its smallest limit, according to Leverrier,
is 0.003314, and its greatest, 0.07775, a difference sufficient to impress,
by the alteration in the intensity of the sun’s heat, a distinct character
upon the organisms of the corresponding epochs.* When the eccen-
tricity is very great, the sun is sensibly nearer to the earth at the peri-

helion. The temperature will then increase in inverse proportion to the

square of the distance, while, for the same reason, the heat will diminish
at the aphelion. This change will also affect the quantity of heat which
the earth annually receives from the sun. If, in fact, the great axis re
mains invariable during all variation of eccentricity, the temperature
must diminish, by virtue of the law that the total amount of heat received
from the sun during a revolution of the earth is inversely proportional
to the small axis, for the small axis diminishes when the eccentricity
increases, and vice versa. But as the difference of the small axis of the
terrestrial orbit between its twoextremes is only 0.003 (as 997 is to 1,000),
this small quantity cannot sensibly affect climates, and it would not be
of any great consequence if it were omitted altogether. |

The value we place upon eccentricity is otherwise very important ;
for when it is at the maximum, the distance which separates, at the
aphelion, the earth from the sun is 32,706,262 leagues (20 for a degree),
and when at the perihelion its distance is only 28,176,478 leagues. The

difference, 4,529,784 leagues (15,000,000 miles), shows that the earth is ©
by that amount nearer to the sun at the perihelion than at the aphelion. —

The direct heat of the sun being inversely proportional to the square of ©

the distance, it follows that the quantity of heat received by the earth
in the two positions will be as 19 to 26.
If we now suppose that, according to the precession of the equinoxes,

the winter of the boreal hemisphere coincides with the aphelion of the |

terrestrial orbit to the period when the eccentricity is greatest, the
earth would then be 2,886,599 leagues (10,000,000 miles) farther off than
itisnow. In consequence, the direct heat of the sun would be dimin-
ished a fifth of its present intensity, and the difference between the
temperature of the two extreme seasons would increase double that

*H. G. Bronn, Handbuch einer Geschichte der Natur, t. i, p. 427, ¢.
\

' THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. dou

amount. If, on the contrary, under the same circumstances, the winter
_ coincided with the perihelion, the earth would then be 4,529,784 leagues
(over 15,000,000 miles) nearer the sun during the winter than in sum
- mer, and consequently the difference between the two seasons would be
_ almost annihilated in our latitudes. But as the winter of one hemis-
phere corresponds with the summer of another, it results that while one
hemisphere is subjected to the alternate influence of extremes of heat
and cold, the other, on the contrary, enjoys a perpetual spring-time, or,
we may better say, a uniform climate.

It is true that, according to J. Herschel,* the quantity of heat the earth

receives from the sun is proportional to the angle the earth describes
in passing over any part whatever of its orbit, or, which amounts to the
same thing, the sum of heat received between the vernal and autumnal
equinoxes is constant for two parts of the year, whatever may be the
eccentricity of the orbit. It results, then, that the greater heat of the
summers of one hemisphere are exactly compensated for by their short
duration, while the summers of the opposite hemisphere, notwithstand-
ing the great distance from the sun, receive, on account of their length,
the same amount of heat as the warm summers of short duration. The
saine comparison may be applied to the winters of the two hemispheres.
These considerations induced Herschel to deny all influence of the ec-
centricity and of the precession of the equinoxes upon the distribution
of solar heat upon the surface of the globe. And this is the cause of
the refusal of many geologists to recognize the connection which exists
between these cosmical phenomena and the variations of temperature
' which have taken place in geological periods.
But Humboldt observed that the temperature of the globe depended
as much upon thé quantity of heat radiated into celestial space as upon
_ the heat proceeding directly from the sun, and the principle of compen-
sation might be applied to the latter but not to the former. It isin fact
well known that the temperature of a place rises whenever the days are
longer than the nights, and falls, on the contrary, when the nights are
the longer.t Now the austral hemisphere has not only a more rigorous
climate, on account of the greater distance of the earth from the sun,
but the winter is also longer, and the number of its nights greater.
The length of the winter, the small quantity of heat received from the
sun, and the heat lost by radiation and not compensated for, contribute
to cool the hemisphere to such a point that the humidity produced by
the evaporation of the waters in the tropical regions is principally pre-
cipitated upon this hemisphere, which, by its coldness, acts as a con-
denser. The result is an accumulation of snow and ice in the temperate
and cold regions, which prevents the action of the solar heat by absorb-
ing a large portion for their fusion.

The direct action of the sun is also prevented by the precipitation of

*Transactions Geolog. Soc. Lond., 2d ser., vol. iii, p. 298.
tJ. Adhémar, Révolution de la Mer, 2d edit., 1860, p. 16.

340 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

the vapors coming in contact with the ice and snow; fogs and clouds
are besides formed which absorb heat from the sun, it is true, but they
easily lose it again by radiation because of their elevation and their —
position in a less dense atmosphere. One would suppose that the sum- |
mer rains were in themselves sufficient to melt the snow accumulated
during the winter; but such is not the case, for eight parts of water, at j
.
.
|

10° centigrade, are necessary to melt one part of snow, even when this
has commenced to dissolve. Professor Forbes has found that only the
fifteenth part of the snow of Norway is melted by the rains of summer,
which are theré very abundant.

If, then, at the time of the maximum of eccentricity the mean temper-
ature of winter fell to a fifth below the present mean, and if thelength —
of the day in winter was increased in proportion, it is probable that the
climate of Central Europe would unite all the conditions for producing —
the extraordinary development of the glaciers, indicated by the traces —
of their action. The heat of the summer increased a fifth would not —
prevent the insensible deterioration of the climate, and we have a beau- |
tiful example in the island of Georgia of the south, of permanent ice in
a latitude where in Ireland palms grow in the open air.* Navigators
have seen in Terre del Fuego and in the straits of Magellan, snow fall —
in the middle of summer, and it has been proved that the temperature
of this season rarely rises above 6° and almost never above 10°. ;

Such would be the condition of our climates, if, after the reaction
from great eccentricity, the winters coincided with the aphelion. This
state of things would not even be modified by the Gulf Stream; this
would prevent the congelation of the European seas, but not the detach- |
ment of icebergs from the glaciers which would have attained the level
of the sea, and the masses of ice floating around the islands and conti- —
nents would cool them considerably by their fusion. There are numer- —
ous examples of a remarkable coincidence between the presence of
floating ice in the vicinity of an island or a continent, and the return of ~
cold weather after the mildness of spring. Not long ago the inhabit- .
ants of Iceland were reduced to the utmost misery by the accumulation —
of floating ice, which, by the cold it occasioned, destroyed the harvests. —
Some exceptionally warm years following 1814 were the cause of the |
breaking up of theice of Greenland.t The floating ice descended upon —
the occidental coasts of Europe, which produced great cold, and in con- —
sequence the glaciers of the Alps increased in a most unusual manner.

But it is a question whether the Gulf-Stream and other currents will
always exist in their present intensity. In seeking the causes of oceanic —
currents, we find in the unequal temperature of the poles and of the ©

* Captain Cook landed on his second voyage upon this melancholy island, and he
says of it: “ We thought it very extraordinary that an island between the latitude of —
54° and 55° should, in the very height of summer, be almost entirely covered with
snow, in some places many fathoms deep.” (Captain Cook’s Second Voyage, vol. ii, p.232.)

tArago, Guvres, Rapports, &c., p. 118.

ia ee

4%
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 841

equator the principal motor of the liquid envelope of the globe. Now,
if the difference between these two temperatures was moderated, the
intensity and direction of the currents would be modified in propor-
tion. In fact, the austral hemisphere is the colder, and from the Ant-

__aretie pole proceed the principal oceanic currents. The grand current

of cold water which passes into the Pacific ocean is divided into two.
One arm passes by the Asiatic archipelago and joins a second current
of cold water, which expands itself in the Indian Ocean. These two
currents united, then pass to the west, around the Cape of Good Hope,
and join a third austral current which passes along the western coast of
Africa, and finally turns toward America, forming what is called the
equatorial current of the Atlantic. Near Cape Saint Roque this current
is divided into two; the principal branch enters the Gulf of Mexico and
forms, when it emerges, the current of warm water known as the Gulf-
Stream. The second branch passes along the coast of Brazil and is lost
in the south.

A modification of the superficial heat does not act directly upon the
intensity and direction of the oceanic currents, but rather upon the aerial
currents which favor them. As there is a close relation between these
two phenomena, an examination of their production will allow us per-
haps to understand the influence of the cosmic causes upon the climates
of the globe.

The cause of the aerial currents lies in the unequal density of the
upper strata and the lower strata heated by contact with the seas, and
_ still more by contact with the continents warmed by solar heat. The
‘lower strata, rarified by the heat, rise in the atmosphere, while the
ambient and cooler strata replace them, to be elevated in their turn
when they arerarified by the heat. This tendency of atmospheric strata
toward the line of the greatest heat continues to the poles, the cold of
which tempers the tropical climates, while the ascending air produces
currents inverse to the lower currents, and which go to heat the poles,
transporting to them at the same time the humidity proceeding from
the enormous evaporation of the torrid zone. But as the two hemis-
pheres are unequally cold, the air is denser at a less distance in the hem-
isphere which is in a glacial state; consequently the currents must be
more intense during the greater part of the year. This is in fact the
case. Now the trade-winds of the southeast blow with greater force
than those of the northeast, and the consequence is that the former
extend even to the fifteenth degree of north latitude, while those of the
northeast are very rarely felt south of the equator, and almost never
beyond the sixth degree of south latitude. The equator of terrestrial
heat depends entirely upon these aerial currents, for if we glance at an
isothermal chart, we will see that the equator of heat passes for three-
quarters of the terrestrial equator to the north of this line, and tor one-
quarter to the south. This shows in a sufficient manner that the solar
__ heat, accumulated at the south of the equator, is carried by the winds

342 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

and raises the temperature of the regions situated to the north of this
line, and that, consequently, notwithstanding the astronomical compen- —
sation of J. Herschel, one of the hemispheres is heated at the expense of
the other, by the intervention of the fluid envelope of the globe.

During the glacial period, the existence of which is no longer dis-
puted, the climatic state was reversed; the aerial and oceanic currents
(we will see in what condition) must have been stronger on the northern
coast. The principal motor of the Gulf-Stream must not only have been
less powerful, but the winds from the north being also more violent, the
current had to contend against the effect of contrary winds. Instead,
then, of dividing at Cape Saint Roque, the equatorial current could
pass entire into the South Sea, and along the eastern coast of South
America, to heat the Antarctic pole. .

But, excepting the periodical influence of the refrigerating causes
upon the climatic conditions of the earth and upon the distribution of
currents, it is impossible to know to how remote a period the action of
the Gulf-Stream extends; for a modification of the continents might
have here opened a new passage for the marine waters or closed another
which had for along time existed, creating thus the great variety in
climatic conditions, manifested to us by paleontology and geology
Thus the Madagascan flora seems to indicate, by its Indian character,
notwithstanding its proximity to Africa, that at a period quite recent,
aD oceanic current starting from India diverged toward Madagascar,*
the reverse of what takes place to-day.

If the Gulf-Stream were reduced only one-half, this alone would pro-
duce a lowering of the mean temperature of all the northern part of
Europe, and the glaciers would descend to the level of the sea. The
temperature, which would be lowered enough for such an extension of
the glaciers, need not fall more than 6° centigrade.

Not only cold but also humidity is necessary to the formation of large
glaciers, and also to the lowering of the mean temperature of the year;
for it is principally the snow accumulated during the winter which, by
forming, so to say, large stores of cold, prevents the solar heat from
raising the mean temperature.of the summer. It is, as we have said,
the upper currents, contrary to the trade-winds, which carry the humid-
ity with which they are charged, to the polar regions, where it is precip- —
itated in the form of snow.

The enormous evaporation from the tropical seas, estimated at more —
than five meters a year, produces oceanic currents analogous to the
aerial currents. The ambient and subjacent strata replace without ceas-
ing the evaporated water. This produces a general movement of the
cold water toward the equator of heat, which varies with the seasons. —
The waters may be either favored or impeded in this movement by the —
trade- winds, and the latter are generally impelled toward the hemis-
phere in which the mean temperature is highest.

PS eee eee ee

~— =

* Richard, Eléments de Botanique, 1864, p. 347.
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 343

When, according to the calculation of Mr. Croll,* 850,000 years before
. 1800, the eccentricity was nearly at its lowest limits, the difference be-
tween the temperature of the summer at the perihelion, and of the
winter at the aphelion, was certainly very great; but by virtue of the
compensation of intensity by duration, the glacial periods could not
have occurred. If, on the contrary, we consider what might be the in-
finence of these extremes of temperature upon the movement of the
fluid envelope, and upon the circulation of the liquid matter at the sur-
face of the globe, we must come to the conclusion that, on account of
the aerial and oceanic currents, and on account of the preponderant
precipitation of humidity upon one hemisphere, the terrestrial globe is
unequally heated on the two sides of the equator.

Before entering further into these considerations and showene that
the eccentricity of the orbit and the precession of the line of the apsides
are the principal causes of the geological cold periods, especially evi-
dent if we examine their influence upon meteorological phenomena, we
will endeavor to show how causes the most insensible may often, by
_ long accumulation of their influence, produce sensible effects, the origin
of which very often escapes us. Theory tells us that all surfaces inter-
cepting light and heat must reflect a certain quantity. The moon
reflects light, but the best electro-thermometer does not indicate with
any certainty the presence of reflected heat. This does not prevent
scientists from believing that the earth’s satellite reflects an amount of
heat in proportion to the light reflected, and that this heat influences
the mean temperature of the earth. Analysis of about 238,000 observa-
tions made during twenty-six years at Prague, by M. Ch. Zenger, shows,
first, that when the obliquity of the lunar orbit attains its maximum,
the mean of the annual temperature reaches its minimum (the baromet-
ric pressure in this case attains its greatest value); second, that the
variations of temperature (as well as of pressure) are periodical; the
duration of their period being half a lunar year (9.5 solar years); third,
the variations of temperature are more sensible during the winter than
during the summer months, for in the first case they are six times
greater than in the second.

From the time when the perfect equilibrium of the temperature of
the two hemispheres was first broken until our day, we must attribute
to slow and almost insensible causes the periodicity and alternation of
conditions favorable and untavorable for the organisms of the earth.
In order to appreciate the action of the cosmic causes we are consider-
ing, let us suppose that the eccentricity of the terrestrial orbit is at its
maximum, and that the winter of the northern hemisphere coincides
with the aphelion. If this case the length of the winter will be 199.5
days, and that of the summer 165.5 days. The reverse will be the case

*Phil. Magaz., February, 1867, p. 120.
t C. v. Zenger, On the periodic change of climate caused by the moon, Phil. Magaz., June,

1868, p. 483-439
344 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

for the opposite hemisphere; the length of the winter will there be 165.5
days, and that of the summer 199.5 days. But as the long summer will
receive the same amount of heat as the short summer, on account of the
distance from the sun, and as the same unequal distribution of the heat
of the winters is balanced by an inverse unequal proximity to the cen-
tral luminary, the sum of annual heat received from the sun is the same
for the two hemispheres.

In like manner, the intensity of the aerial currents should be equal in
the two hemispheres, if we except all accessory influence. Thus the
northern hemisphere has a very warm summer, while the winter of the
opposite hemisphere is of mean intensity. The difference which exists
between these two correlative seasons of the two hemispheres should,
by virtue of the compensation mentioned, be exactly equal to the dif-
ference which exists between the rigorous winter of the northern, and
the temperate summer of the southern, hemispheres. The aerial cur-
rents depend, then, entirely upon the course of the sun, for generally the
warmest place is that where the sun is at the zenith, and toward this
place or this line the currents will be directed. It is evident that wlen
the earth is at the equinoxes the two hemispheres are very nearly
equally heated, consequently the aerial currents will be of the same in-
tensity in the two parts of the globe. Let us suppose summer to com-
mence in the southern hemisphere, the northeast trade-winds will blow
from the beginning to the end of the season to the south of the equa-
tor, and displace, consequently, the line of greatest heat toward the
austral pole. The upper currents, which sweep over an extent greater
than the corresponding winds of the opposite hemisphere, will equally
transport a greater quantity of humidity toward the north pole, where
it will be precipitated, under the form of snow, on account of the great
cold which reigns there. This phenomenon will occupy 199.5 days.

Now comes the summer of the boreal hemisphere. Its burning heat
will contrast with the winter of the opposite hemisphere as tbe two pre-
ceding seasons, contrasted with each other; consequently from the spring
equinox to the autumn equinox, the southeast trade-winds will blow to
the north of the equator, as in the preceding case the northeast trade-
winds blew to the south of the equator, and for 165.5 days an equiva-
lent of humidity will be carried to the austral hemisphere. But these
vapors are, in the first place, warmer than those of the austral summer ;
then the temperature of the austral winter, which, moreover, is the
shorter, is elevated on account of the proximity of the sun. The
vapors, therefore, carried to the south by the upper currents are resolved
into rain instead of falling in the form of snow, as in the boreal hemis-
phere, and in consequence the solar heat of the next summer will be able
without interruption to heat the surface of the earth, and raise the mean
temperature of the climate. In the boreal hemisphere, on the contrary,
a part of the heat is absorbed by fusion of the accumulated snow and
ice, and the action of the sun weakened by the constant precipitations

La LSS ON IRR ADS a iT

oe

——
a

eer ane

EPO URLS

peers eee

| e =

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 345

of the vapors and by the formation of fogs. To recapitulate, the equator
of heat remains thirty-four days longer to the south of the terrestrial
equator, and for as many days longer the humidity of the torrid zone is
transported to the north, where the excessive cold of the winter con-
denses it and precipitates it in the form of snow. The vapors condensed
south of the equator are only very seldom precipitated in the form of
snow, and then only in high latitudes, the cold of winter being insufii-
cient to produce congelation. The accumulation of snow in the boreal
hemisphere and its almost complete absence in the temperate zone of
the austral hemisphere contribute in various ways to lower the total
heat of the boreal hemisphere. To the heat absorbed by the fusion of
the ice, by the interposition of fogs and clouds, we should add the re-
flection of the calorific rays from the snow. In fact, the winters becom-
ing more rigorous, the first result of this increase of cold will be the
depression of the equatorial line of snow-falls toward the equator; the
quantity of heat will not then be everywhere proportional to the sine of
the angie of incidence, for a part of the heat is reflected by the bed of
snow, an effect quite as important as the absorption by fusion of the ice
or by the interception of fogs.

Let us remark also that the mean temperature of the summer can
never rise in the presence of large quantities of ice and snow. Scoresby,
in his voyage to Greenland, observed this curious fact, that the pitch with
which his vessel was coated melted under the influence of the direct

rays of the sun, while the ambient temperature was below zero; a ther-

mometer exposed to direct radiation indicated 36° centigrade, and the
ambient air was at —6°, This fact, in appearance so strange, accords
perfectly with our ideas of the diathermanous properties of the air. Tyn-
dal states that perfectly dry air is almost entirely incapable of absorb-
ing direct heat. The air is then cooled by the contact with the ice, but
it is not heated by the sun, hence the low temperature. * If by evapora-
tion the air is charged with humidity, still its temperature will not in-
crease, for in proportion as it absorbs heat it immediately gives it up

again to melt the ice, and the ambient temperature will remain invari-

able. If a stratum of ice were transported to the equator, the mean
temperature would be lowered to a point not equal to that of Central
Europe.

Since, in accordance with what we have just said, the glacial periods
may depend upon a cause as general as the eccentricity of the earth’s
orbit, is there no way of determining the epoch of these extraordinary
cold nema? Messrs. Leverrier, Stone, and Croll have formed some
tables which indicate the value of the eccentricity at intervals more or
less remote. We recognize easily by them when the action of ice must
have been considerable at the surface of the globe, but we cannot tell
at what time the last great glacial period occurred. Was it between
80,000 or 240,000 years ago, or between 700,000 and 1,000, 000? If we

- »_ adopt the first of these figures as nearest our period, then the second.
346 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

glacial epoch should coincide with the Miocene formation. The eccen-
tricity then attained its maximum; it was 0.074664.

The deterioration of the climatic conditions of the globe is not con-
stant inits persistence upon a hemisphere during the entire continuance
of great eccentricity ; it alternates by the combination of the eccen-
tricity with the precession of the equinoxes. Let us consider the influ-
ence of the latter.

The precession of the equinoxes is produced by the attraction of the
sun upon the protuberant part of the earth, which tends to restore the
equator to the plane of the ecliptic, which would take place without the
rotation of the earth. At every.period of the year except at the equi-
noxes, every part of the equator above and below the plane of the eclip-
tic tends to fall into this plane, but at the same time a counteracting
influence exists in the diurnal rotation ; these two forces combined pro-
duce a resultant which cuts the ecliptic at a point much nearer than the
place where the intersection would have occurred if the protuberance
had not existed. The consequence is a displacement of the plane of the
equator; the poles describe upon the starry vault a circle completed in
about 25,900 years. This is the period of the precession of the equi-
noxes, if compared with the stars, but it is much less if compared with
the great axis of the earth’s orbit, which moves in the contrary direction.
It is then only 21,000 years.

It was in the year 1248 of our era that the first day of the boreal
winter coincided with the passage of the earth to the perihelion.*

From this time until 1869 the major axis and the radius vector of the -

‘Spring equinox approached 10° 40/39”. Observation showed that it
was also from this period that the heat of the boreal hemisphere com-
menced gradually to diminish, while that of the austral hemisphere in-
creased in proportion. It is certainly not merely a chance coincideuce
that in general the climate of Europe is deteriorating, that Greenland
is covered with ice, that the colony of Iceland is disappearing, that ice
encumbers the Spitzbergen Island, Bebring’s Strait, and Baffin’s Bay.
It should also be observed, that it was about this period that the gla-

ciers of the Alps commenced to extend more and more, and that the —

culture of the vine has disappeared in many localities of France. On
the other hand, to what must be attributed the diminution of the aus-
tral glacier, evident from comparison of the reports of Captain Cook
with those of modern travelers, if not to an amelioration of the climatic
eoudition of the austral hemisphere? Can we seriously attribute the
retreat of the line of permanent snow in the Cordilleras to an elevation
of this mountain chain ?

All these facts must convince the mind that in fact the climate of the
boreal hemisphere is deteriorating, while that of the opposite hemisphere
is gradually improving, commencing at an epoch which coincides very

*J, Adhémar, Les Révolutions de la Mer, 2d edition, p. 25.
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH 347

_ nearly with the time when the excess in the number of the days of sum-
mer and of autumn commenced to diminish.

If we admit that the precession of the equinoxes embraces a period
of 21,000 years, then for 10,500 years the seasons will be reversed by
relation to the perihelion. Our hemisphere will then be cooling during
9,779 years, the period of maximum cold, after which its temperature
will gradually increase until the maximum of heat.

‘M. Adhémar, in his remarkable work published in 1842, has endeavored
to connect this periodicity of the return of the extremes of cold and of
heat with the periodical return of the waters upon the continents. He
has attempted to prove that the idea of a universal deluge is justified
_ by the facts of science. He brings forward some very just considera-
tions to show that the periodical return of the waters is a very general
phenomenon which cannot be attributed to any local cause, such as, for
example, the irruption of the sea into a continental depression. The
almost universal traditions of a deluge with the inhabitants of both con-
tinents cannot be attributed to a common source, for they are found not
only with the semitic races, but with the Basques, the Celts, the Hindus,
the Mongols, and many African tribes. In America, especially, these
traditions are numerous and very varied, and often remarkable in their
coincidence with that of the Hebrews. Some races speak of several
deluges, but the greatest number mention only one. As to the extent
of the deluge the traditions vary. Sometimes it is a tribe, sometimes a
family, then all humanity which was destroyed, with the exception of a
single family or one couple saved on the trunk of a tree, on an arch, or
on the top of a mountain.*

The masses of bones found upon the hills and banks of Siberia equally
prove that animals were overtaken and engulfed by the waters, and
were covered with mud and saud. A proof has also been found in sup-
port of Mr. Adhémar’s view in the erosion of entire deposits such as
could have been produced only by currents of great rapidity. It has been
ascertained also, through researches made in Canada, that these currents
were directed principally from north to south. The periodic return of
the waters has produced in the basins subjected to it alternate fresh
and marine water.

If we examine attentively the unequal distribution of the continents
on the surface of the globe, their form pointed toward the south, the
depth of the austral seas which is at least three times that of the boreal
seas, we must acknowledge that the position of the waters which cover
the earth in relation to the solid portions is eccentric, and can beexplained
only by an unequal density of the different parts of the terrestrial mass, or
_ rather by the existence of a solid mass upon the austral pole, which by

its elevation produces a displacement of the center of gravity of the
earth, and consequently changes the level of the sea.

The solid mass which, according to Mr. Adhémar, produces this dis-

*Fr. Troyon, L’ Homme fossile, 1867, p. 140.
348 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

placement of the center of gravity of the earth, is athick stratum of ice:
and snow with which the southern hemisphere is covered. When the:
winters of the boreal hemisphere coincide with the aphelion, the snow
will collect upon that hemisphere; the austral glacier will melt, the
waters will return to our continents, aud will cover them to the depth of

——
Dia a

five or six hundred meters in the latitude of Paris. This elevation of -

the level of the sea will be double in the latitude of Greenland, and null
upon the equator.

M. Adhémar made the eccentricity of the fluid mass too great, sit
therefore, in his efforts to establish the time of the formation of the ole

cier, obtained exaggerated results. A cupola of ice from 20 to 40 leagues.
(from 69 to 138 miles) in thickness, occupying a space 400 miriameters.

in diameter, is difficult to imagine. We can, on the contrary, conceive

great density of the ice, on account of the strong pressure. The mass.

of ice is, in fact, less, as well as the supposed eccentricity of the fluid
envelope.

Still, the evident traces of water in localities at considerable heights
imply a great displacement of the fluid mass, and consequently great
accumulations of snow npon the pole. Thus the Alps must have been
submerged after they had acquired their present form. The traces of
water are seen in the lines of erosion upon the sides of the mountains,
the marine shells found at high levels, and the alluvial terraces. The:
highest line of erosion is found, according to M. Sharpe,* at an elevation
of from 9,000 to 9,100 feet. A deeply-marked line passes entirely
around the mountains. The sea must have remained for a long time at

this level. The elevation of the second line is about 7,500 feet. It is.

found in many parts of Switzerland, and was observed by M. Forbes.
The third line is at a height of 4,800 feet. Analogous lines are found in
Scotland, Sweden, and upon some of the African islands.

The circumstance, according to Mr. Adhémar, which most contributes.
to the cooling of a hemisphere is the greater duration of the nights as

compared with the days. At present the year of the boreal pole is.

composed of 4,464 hours of day and 4,296 hours of night, while the re-

verse is the case at the austral pole. If we consider the year as asingle-

day, the sum of duration of the nights surpassing the sum of duration:
of the days of the austral hemisphere, there will be loss of heat by radia-

tion which is not compensated for by the solar heat. The reverse is.

the case in the boreal hemisphere; the sum of the days there is greater
than that of the nights, therefore there will be conservation of heat..

The difference of temperature between the two hemispheres will be —

equal to the heat lost by radiation in a hundred and sixty-eight hours,
plus the heat received from the sun in the same length of time; that is.
to say, this difference is equal to three hundred and thirty-six times the:
quantity of heat the earth received from the sun or loses by radiation.
in an hour. When the eccentricity was at its extreme, this difference

* Quart. Journ. Geolog. Soc., 1855, t. xii, 46, p. 102-123.
a THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 349 .

- qnust have been four times greater, and this inequality of beat received
and lost by radiation, combined with the cther atmospheric causes of

which we have spoken, would produce a considerable cooling of one
hemisphere, which would be followed, as a consequence, by great
_ extension of the polar glacier. The humidity necessary for the accumu-
lation of the ice is furnished, as we have seen, by the upper aerial cur-
rents contrary to the trade-winds. The precipitation of this humidity
- necessitates renewed currents, and the entire glacier, when it attains
_ certain dimensions, acts as a drain upon the neighboring atmosphere
with force in proportion to its size. The long-continued precipitations
of the humidity in the form’of snow, unless a considerable portion melt,
- must at last increase the glacier to such a degree that it will influence
the center of gravity of the earth, and produce a change in the position
of the fluid matter of the globe.

The height of the accumulation necessary to produce this change
might be calculated, were the volume of the waters known, their eccen-
tricity, the extension of the two glaciers, the center of gravity of the
earth, and that of the fluid mass. But as only a very uncertain esti-
mate can be made of the mean depth of the seas, the result of such an
attempt can only approximate reality. M. Adhémar compares the vol-
ume of the austral glacier to a stratum of ice, 20 leagues in height and
extending uniformly like a cap over the sphere, having for its base the
seventieth parallel. As the glacier at the outside edges is rarely less
than a thousand yards in height, we may suppose that near the pole it
is double that thickness. This enormous stratum of ice, which effaces
the flattening of the earth at the poles, would be represented upon a
globe, of the radius of a meter, by an elevation of 0™.0214.

Were we to reduce this mass one-half, one-quarter, or even more, its
action would still be sufficient to produce a submersion of a large part
of the continents of the boreal hemisphere, if on the return of the con-
ditions of cold the north pole was covered with a cupola of ice anal-
ogous to that of the south pole. As these conditions of temperature
change every 10,500 years, by virtue of the precession of the equinoxes,
it must be at the end of this period of time that the waters are removed
from one hemisphere to the other. This removal commences with the
melting of the greater glacier and the increase of the small one. This
action is at first very slow, but it progressively acquires great rapidity,
and when, in the general breaking up of the ice, the lower stratum which
rests upon the bottom of the ocean is carried away, the waters are dis-
persed with such velocity that the sedimentary surface is deeply fur-
rowed and large blocks are transported to a great distance. It is easy
to see that thus great currents must be produced twice from the north
to the south, and twice from the south to the north, in the period of
21,000 years.

In all the hypotheses of M. Adhémar, the only conjectural point is the
thickness of the austral glacier; the other facts are so evident that they
350 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

can be admitted without difficulty. As to the unequal temperature of
the two hemispheres, we must cease to attribute it to the unequal distri-
bution of the waters; for the earth is undoubtedly in the best condition
to retain its heat when there is a preponderance of the sea, as conti-
nents lose more heat by radiation.

The hypothetical character of a mass of ice so considerable, disap- _
pears, if we take into account the effects of the ancient cupola of ice
which covered all Lapland, Northern Russia, Iceland, a part of North —
America, and Siberia. Some geologists, among others Professor A gas-
siz, affirm that a cupola of ice covered, during the glacial period, the
largest part of our hemisphere, and that the erratic boulders of Central
Europe are only the moraines of this immense glacier, which would
justify in a certain point of view the celebrated remark of Humboldt,
that the earth is formed by the union of two mountains by their base.

The objections made to the hypotheses of M. Adhémar cannot lessen
its scientific value. Far from sharing the fate of many theories pro-
posed to explain the great geological cold periods, it on the contrary
gains more and more upon the minds of those who attentively examine
the circumstances of the production of these phenomena. But while
acknowledging its merits, the necessity of certain modifications should
be recognized. Thus we may admit that the displacement of the center |
of gravity of the earth takes place every 10,500 years ; but, as the pres-
ent eccentricity of the earth’s orbit is not great, the changes of tempera-
ture of the two hemispheres is not sufficient to produce great accumu-
lations of ice upon one of the poles.

The configuration of the continents cannot then change much by the
removal of the waters from one hemisphere to the other. It is only
great eccentricities of orbit which can produce a general cooling of a
hemisphere and accumulation of polar ice sufficient to produce any con-
siderable displacement of the waters. Then the oceans invade the conti-
nents and cover them to heights corresponding to the lines of erosion
observed by M. Sharpe.

The savans who have irvestigated the action of ice during the Silu-
rian formations of the old red sandstone of the Cretaceous period, &c.,
have at the same time established the consecutive existence of condi-
tions very favorable to the development of organic life. The characters
of the plants and of the animals indicate a climate warm and uniform,
which contrasts strangely with the severity of the climate of the glacial
periods. Moreover, this uniform climate did not reign only in the tem-
perate regions; even in the more elevated latitudes its influence pre-
vailed. Of this the coal-beds of the island of Disco, alternating with _
deposits of clay, the submarine forests of the coast of Greenland, the
fossil remains of vegetation found in Spitzbergen and upon several ice-
covered islands of North America, are sufficient proof.

In the instances mentioned, we cannot suppose that the vegetable
debris were transported by marine currents, nor that the combustible

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 351

deposits were formed at the mouths of great rivers; for in several

places in the island of Disco trunks of trees more than 30 centimeters
(12 inches) in diameter have been found buried in the earth, and some-
times in a vertical position, which proves that these trees have vege-

tated in latitudes where now a stratum of permanent ice covers the

barren rocks.
To show that climates were really at one time milder than they are

now, we may give as an example Iceland, which possessed formerly a

rich flora and magnificent forests. Now the dwarf birch, the weeping-
willow, and a few more or less hardy shrubs are the only remains of the
ligneous vegetation. Greenland also, as we know, was once completely
free of ice and covered with the verdure from which it derives its name.

At certain periods the Polar Sea must have been not only entirely
free of ice, but also quite warm, for we find in its deposits corals, Hucri-

nites, and other Mollusca, whose living representatives inhabit warm

seas. The Carboniferous limestone, the, coal-beds, and especially the

- magnesian limestone of the high latitudes, are also witnesses of a warm

and uniform climate, which extended to arctic regions, now the most
desolate. As further proof, in Prince Island, at Wilkie Point, at 70°20/
of north latitude and 119° 40’ of west longitude, Captain MacClintock
found oolitic rocks, containing an ammonite (Ammonites MacClintocki)
and other oolitic shells. At Katmay Bay, near Behring’s Strait, we find
the following oolitic fossils: Ammonites Wossnessenskii, Ammonites biplex,
Belemnites, Paxillosus, Unio liassinus. Sir E. Belcher found in the island
of Exmouth, 77° 16/ latitude north and 98° 20/ longitude west, upon an
elevated bank 570 feetlong. (175™. 28), above the level of the sea, bones
which Mr. Owen recognized as belonging to the Ichthyosaurus.* To pro-
duce such effects the mean temperature should, according to M. Heer, be
elevated 16° centigrade, for we find in the Miocene flora of Spitzbergen
the beech, the plane-tree, the hazel-tree, and other species identical with
the fossils of Greenland, and he thinks the poplar and pine once grew
even upon the north pole. The Sequoia Langsdorfii is the most com-
mon tree of Ataukerluk Bay visited by M. Heer. The Sequoia sempervi-
rens is the recent representative of these fossil trees. It does not, how-
ever, extend beyond the fifty-third degree of north latitude; for a mean
summer temperature of from 15° to 16° centigrade is necessary for its
existence. Fruits ripen only at a mean temperature of 179 to 189, The
cold of winter cannot descend below one degree.

To what must these great changes of climate of the polar region be
attributed? The eccentricity explains a part of the phenomenon, for
we know that, according to the precession of the apsides, sometimes it
produces conditions favorable to the extension of organisms, sometimes
it cools the hemisphere to such a degree that a large part of these
organisms are destroyed. Notwithstanding this alternation of uniform
climates and extreme climates produced by the eccentricity, this cause

*J. Croll, Phil. Magaz., June, 1867, pp. 426, 427.
352 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

is insufficient to explain completely the exceptionally favorable condi- —

tions these polar regions have sometimes experienced. Other causes
must have concurred to produce this result.

The change which the obliquity of the ecliptic undergoes has for a
long time attracted the attention of geologists and physicists, but it has
generally been concluded that this cosmic cause could not sensibly
modify the mean temperature of the terrestrial zones. M. Croll* has
examined this subject with unusual intelligence, and has come to the
conclusion that in fact the change of obliquity of the ecliptic will not
sensibly influence the temperate zone, but there will result a slight
change in the tropical climate, and that the effect will be considerable
upon the temperature of the polar regions.

These conclusions have been drawn from the following considerations:
According to Laplace, the obliquity oscillates 1° 23/ 34” from two sides
of the obliquity in 1801. The quantity of heat received by the equator
from the sun in our day is represented by 365.24 thermal days, by the
poles 151.59 thermal days. When the obliquity attains its maximum,
24° 50! 34”, the quantity of heat received by the equator will be 363.51
days, and by the poles 160.04 days. The equator will then experience
a decrease in the quantity of heat represented by 1.73 thermal days,
and the poles an addition of 8.45. When the obliquity of the ecliptic
reaches the maximum, the quantity of heat received by the poles will be
greater by an eighteenth than that it now receives; in other words, the
poles will then receive as much heat as the 76th degree of parallel re-
ceives at the present time. :

The greater obliquity would not change sensibly the mean tempera-
ture of the polar winters, although the cold zone (as well as the tropical
zone) might be more extended. For, after the disappearance of the sun
below the horizon, its rays are almost completely intercepted, so that a
decrease of 1° 20’ 34” would not modify sensibly the temperature of the
poles. In the temperate regions the sun would to the same degree be
less elevated during the winter, which would slightly increase the cold.
The quantity of heat that the poles receive during the summer would
be, on the contrary, enough increased to modify the mean temperature of
the polar summer. In fact 8.45 thermal days in addition to an eighteenth
of the total quantity of heat received from the sun, would raise the
mean temperature 7° or 8° centigrade.

If to this direct augmentation of the solar heat we add the constant
transfer of heat toward the poles and of cold toward the equator, we will
obtain results which will explain in a satisfactory manner the elevation
of temperature of certain geological periods. It is the fluid envelope of
the globe which most contributes to the equalization of temperature;
the aerial currents transport to the poles a certain quantity of heat, but
much less than that carried by the oceanic currents. The Gulf Stream
alone transfers to the polar regions a quantity of heat equivalent to that
received by 320,000 square leagues at the surface of the equator.

* Phil. Magaz., June, 1867, p. 130.

PS ee
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 353

According to the estimate of M. Meech, the annual mean of heat
; received by the polar zone and upon a surface taken as unity, is the 454
- thousandth part of the heat received upon the same surface at the
equator. As the quantity of heat transported by the Gulf Stream is
- equivalent to the heat received by a surface of 659,344 square leagues
of the Antarctic regions, and as the surface of these regions is 830,000
square leagues, the amount of heat transported teward the polar regions
by the single oceanic current, is nearly as great as the heat received
- directly from the sun by all the glacial zone. The quantity of heat
transported by the current is to the quantity of direct heat as 15 is to
18. The two quantities are completely equalized, if we take into account
the absorption of heat in the atmosphere, which ought to be greater
because of the obliquity of incidence.

The Gulf Stream does not transfer all its heat to the poles; it yields
up a certain quantity in the temperate regions; but, on the other hand,
this current is not the only one, and the combined action of all the
oceanic currents united to that of the atmospheric currents, can con-
siderably augment the action of the eccentricity and obliquity of the
orbit and free the poles, at certain periods, of the ice which covers
them. When the obliquity of the ecliptic was at the maximum and an
eighteenth more of direct heat fell upon the poles, the effect was to
modify the severity of the cold of the hemisphere under ice, and to fa-
-cilitate on the other hand the melting of the snow upon the hemisphere
which enjoyed a uniform climate. If a great obliquity coincided with
the other cosmic causes which diversify the climates of the two hemis-
pheres, their co-operation could produce these exceptional conditions of
temperature, the influence of which upon the organic and inorganic
world of different periods is well established.

CONCLUSION.
MAN.

Science can find no particular circumstance which has marked the
appearance of man; nor can she more definitely fix the period when
this king of creation, a title humanity is pleased to assume, entered
into the possession of his domain. It has sometimes been supposed
that certain great changes in the conditions of existence which were
fatal to a great number of mammalia, at the same time prepared the
conditions for the appearance of the human race.

For a long time it was a disputed question whether man preceded the
later glacial phenomena; that is, if he might be found in the fossil state.
Cuvier positively denied this; he would not admit that man was con-
temporary with the great mammals of the Quaternary period, and all
his school, strong in the authority of their master, refused for a long
time to accept opposing, although well-established, testimony.

Archeology prepared the way for the solution of this grave problem

§ 23
354 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

by laborious investigation of the ancient remains of the implements of
human industry. We distinguish among these a Stone age, when only
instruments of silex were used, indicating by their rude form the savage
condition of the primitive tribes; then followed the Bronze age, which
manifested a growing civilization by the working of metals and the
preparations of alloys of copper and tin; and lastly the Jron age, which
commenced with historic times and continues in our day.

At these different periods man was contemporary with a great nuin-
ber of now extinct animals, as is proved by the remains of his industrial
implements, found mingled in the same strata with the bones of these
animals. °I’rom the time when Esper discovered, in the cavern of Gelen-
reuth (Franconia), human bones with those of extinct mammalia, until
our day, proofs of this kind have been so multiplied that the existence
of fossil man is now one of the best established facts of science. Be-
sides the discoveries of F. Frere, of Buckland, of Tournal, of Joly, M.
Lartet discovered, in 1860, in a cave of Aurignac (Haute-Garonne), hu-
man remains mingled with the bones of animals which they had proba-
bly cooked and eaten there. M. Garrigou, of Tarascon, found some
jaw-bones of the cat of the caves (Felis cultridens) polished and orna-
mented by the hand of man.

The most important discovery in favor of the antiquity of the human
race was made in 1863 by M. Boucher, of Perthes.. This was the famous
human jaw-bone found at Moulin-Quignon, near Abbeville, in a place
where previously numerous implements of quartz had been discovered.
A lively discussion ensued among savans, who came from all sides to
examine minutely into the authenticity of the discovery; and, a fact
worthy of remark, the most incredulous yielded to the evidence pre-
sented. Only M. Elie de Beaumont positively denied the deposit in

which it was found to be Quaternary. He thought it an alluvium quite ~

modern. A more recent discovery, made in 1865 by MM. Lartet and
De Vibraye, proves that man was contemporary with the Hlephas primi-
genius. Upon a fragment of a tooth of the elephant with a mane, found
in the caves of Dordogue, we readily distinguish the contour of this
animal traced with a point evidently by contemporary man. The de-
posit was in this case diluvial.

If the discoveries of late years add some pages to the history of man,
still the unresolved problem of the origin of the race remains with all
its difficulties. ‘‘ Man,” says M. Troyon,* ‘appeared in America with
the Quaternary period. He was established in several parts of Europe
at the time of the retreat of the great glaciers; was witness to the pow-
erful action of the diluvial waters. Hidden in the depths of caves or
established upon the edge of the retiring seas, he saw disappear gradu-
ally from the center of Europe the cave-bear, the rhinoceros, the mam-
moth, the stag with gigantic horns, the reindeer, and the removal to
other climates of various species of animals.” But as to the origin of

* L’ Homme fossile, 1867, p. 178.

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 355

the human race, as to the history of its infancy, it is lost in the night of
the past, and we can only accept the assertion of M. de Quatre-fages,*
proved by the contradictory results of the researches of the many dis-
tinguished savans ‘engaged with these questions, that science has not
even commenced to solve this important problem.
It has been attempted to estimate at least the antiquity of man of
the age of the deposits which contain human implements. The Tiniére,
a stream which empties into the lake of Geneva, has at its mouth a cone
formed by the torrent which, having been cut transversely by the rail-
road, was observed by M. Morlott to consist of strata corresponding to
the three ages of man. [From the thickness of these strata, and from
other local circumstances which must have influenced the formation of
_ the cone, we arrive at an age of 10,000 years for the three strata. This
estimation is not exaggerated, since these strata represent only a part of
the deposit formed during each age; for a large portion must have been
carried away by contemporary erosion.
_ The skull found in the alluvion of Mississippi implies, it is claimed,
an age of 50,000 years. An analogous age of man is indicated by the
peat-bogs of Denmark. The lower strata of these bogs contain the
remains of the Scotch pine, the middle show a predominance of the oak,
- which in the upper is replaced by the beech. Man preceded the oak; he
inhabited this country when the Scotch pine formed vast forests, as is
proved by the traces of cutting instruments found in the trunks of the
pine trees preserved in the bogs, as well as by the flint instrument
found in the same stratum with this conifer.t  .

We ought to say that all these estimates are relative, as well to
the mode of sedimentation of the alluvion as to the formation of the
peat-bogs, which may modify them considerably; still we may with
safety conclude that man is much more ancient than we have been
accustomed to believe.

' Without entering into the question of the unity or diversity of the
origin of the human race, let us consider what influence man has exer-
cised upon the organic and inorganic worlds. When the first genera-
tions appeared, man, few in numbers, confined his activity to the
search for food, for means of shelter, and defense against the attack
of animals. In proportion as the number of men increased, and fruit,
game, and other alimentary resources began to fail, man was impelled
_ to greater exertion, in order to supply his needs and to protect himself
from the variable influence of external condition. He learned to store
his provisions, and to capture animals, which in time became tame, and
so were laid the foundations of agriculture and domestication, the two
powerful elements of progress and well-being of the human race. Since
then man has made such progress that he now uses, to bring him into

fe
*Origine des spécies animales et végétales, Revue des Deux Mondes, t. Ixxx, 1569, p. 672.
+ Bull. Soc. Géolog., 1860, second series, t. xviii, p. 829.
t Fr. Troyon, 1’ Homme fossile, p. 175.
356 THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.

the closest relations with nature, the same elements whi ch formerly were
an obstacle to his development.

In the course of afew hundred years he has developed an almost unlim-
ited power of action, has accomplished more than could be produced by
the other animals even during millions of centuries. Has he not raised
the pyramids, built magnificent temples, tunneled entire mountains,
raised enormous walls, erected monuments, cut through isthmuses, and
disputed the possession of the land with the encroaching waves of the
ocean? Has he not plowed the soil with iron, and are not the organic
and inorganic world at his service ?

Truly, to judge from his first efforts, man is destined to act a grand
part upon the terrestrial globe, and although we cannot refute the asser-
tion of M. d’Archiae that up to the present time there is nothing to
prove that man is the end or last fiat of creation, revertheless he unites
in his nature such qualities that perfection outside of his race seems
almost inadmissible. In proportion as the mind is developed, as the
tendencies of man are refined and his activity becomes more in accord
with his nature, in the practice of what is right and just, progress is
made, and the great difference between the actual and the ideal man
diminished.

Of what nature will be the modifications which the presence of man
will produce in the configuration of the earth’s crust? His antecedents
allow us in some degree to imagine, but in all his efforts he will have to
struggle against the effects of superior powers. Facts show us that
upheavals and other great revolutions of volcanic nature become more
and more rare in proportion as the earth advances in age; but what
they lose in frequency they gain in intensity, so that we may doubt
whether the Himalayan chain is the highest expression of their power.

The earth—will it ever become uninhabitable? Some savans do not
hesitate to predict for it a destiny similar to that of the moon.*

It is true that increasing diminution of the fluid envelope may be con-
sidered as certain, but this diminution is extremely slow, and percepti-
ble only after long intervals. We can nevertheless foresee that as the
thickness of the atmosphere becomes less, cold will conquer all the globe.
Oceans will be transformed into solid ice, and eternal snow will envelope
the continents. Will organisms continue to exist under such cireum-
stances? Wedo not dare to answer in the affirmative, although it is
well known with what marvelous tractability organisms adapt them-
selves to circumstances produced by a slow change. But we can with-
out hesitation affirm that if organized beings are destined to disappear
from the surface of the globe by the influences of exterior causes, the
most perfect, and humanity at the head, will go first, and the lower or-
ganisms remain the longest.

But this assuredly will not happen until nature has exhausted all her
resources of combination; until matter, so to say, is tired of her con-

* See the interesting conclusion of M. Frankland, Phil. Magaz., May, 1864, p. 431.

ee ae

as

Peale = 5 ey OR ema
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EARTH. 307

stant activity. A long repose will then follow the agitations of life, and
the monotonous course of events will not even be interrupted by the
periodical return of the orb of day. The brilliancy of the sun will also
pale, while oniy the soft light of the stars will illuminate the frozen
planet once ourearth. As the finite is lost in the infinite, the earth, with
its companions the planets, and the sun its guide, has only an ephem-
eral existence, and is of little moment in the eternal fecundity of the

skies.

THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER.

By DanieL Kirkwoop, LL. D.,

Professor of Mathematics in the University of Indiana.

PREFACE.

The discovery of the minor planets between Mars and Jupiter has
opened to astronomers of the nineteenth century a new and highly in-
teresting department of research. ‘The wide diffusion of these planetary
masses; the interlacing and approximate intersection of their orbits;
the peculiar relations between some of their periods and that of Jupiter,
the great disturbing force immediately exterior; and, finally, the bear-
ing of these recently-discovered facts on the cosmogony of our system,

7

eae ae A ee ee

all suggest important problems whose solution may require years of —

observation and research.

The views presented in the following paper Lave been briefly stated at

different times* and sustained by such facts as were available at the
time of publication. So rapid, however, has been the recent progress
of discovery, and so remarkable the accordance of accumulated facts
with the theory announced when but half the asteroids now known
had been observed, that a revision of the whole snbject, including the
latest discoveries, has been deemed desirable. The tabular elements
adopted are taken from the Berliner Astronomisches Jahrbuch for 1877,
except where more recent results have been obtained from the Astronom-
ische Nachrichten.

THE ASTEROIDS.

«

1. It is proposed (1) to arrange the planets between Mars and Jupiter
in the order of their discovery; (2) to tabulate their elements in the
form most convenient for purposes of comparison; and then, (3) by a
discussion of these elements in their mutual relations, as well as in
their relations to Jupiter, the planet by which their motions are chiefly
disturbed, to exhibit the evidence they afford in regard to the formation
and development of the planetary system.

* Proc. of the A. A. A. 8. for 1866; Meteoric Astronomy, chap. xiii; Monthly Notices
of the R. A. 8., vol. xxix; and Proce. of the A. A. A. S., for 1875.

358
Date of dis-

covery.
“CESS 5-356 H ase aCe EC ECE 1801, Jan. 1
JPPULSS) jee eeSS ceo soeeceree 1802, Mar. 28
San Oreeacies asamp cm cccencans 1804, Sept. 1

ieygeia ----.-.---------.---- 1849, Apr. 12
Parthenope -.-------.-----=- 1850, May 11
DMIOUOTIA oe cong seniewes === 1850, Sept. 13
DAG IE oc. 5h Se Dec Eeee 1850, Nov. 2
LOG oo. ee nee eee Se Eanes 1851, May 19
LoL Dn ie Oe oS Sr 1851, July 29
IPSVONGie tess Jenn nin ences = 1£52, Mar. 17
MRA clo ciates <= owen wo == 1852, Apr. 17
Melpomene ......---.------- 1552, June 24
1) cE as eee 1852, Aug. 29
OO Gli eee 1852, Sept. 19
Uisissiits) <2 See epee aes 1852, Nov. 15
WalbtipOle snc ee an<---~--.- 1852, Nov. 16
BRNO eo acn<ana=>-=--%- 1852, Dec. 15
VUE 68 0 1853, Apr. 5
ORO se seta sis = won nioe == 1853, Apr. 6
IPTGSOUPINOs2-2 v= 5a=-ivas--=- 1253, May 5
TOG 08) 6 oe ee aces eee sees 1853, Nov. 8
IRR MBH ena se a a he 1854, Mar. 1
PACE ee cee men nmi 1854, Mar. 1
(UT Sit ec Sep SoS Eeeeeeaes 1854, July 29
HE PMEON UDO) so civ cnineee => =~ 1854, Sept. 1
LEU 0 a een eee 1854, Oct. 26
Oly HINA) «<=. - 22. ---- 1854, Oct. 28
(Chit) So) pepe eee Sea 1855, Apr. 6
Leucothea .-..-.-..--.....-- 1855, Apr. 19
Sie) Sa eee 1855, Oct. 5
(S23) oe? Soo S ee eee eee 1855, Oct. 5
Pe eee citwratninyarsk 1856, Jan. 12
1256, Feb. 8

ai ciom, sain 1256, Mar. 31

1856, May 22

1256, May 23

1857, Apr. 15

1857, May 27

1857, June 28

1857, Aug. 16

1857, Sept. 9

1857, Sept. 15

1257, Sept. 19

1857, Sept. 19
1857, Oct. 4
1858, Jan. 22
1258, Feb. 6
1858, Apr. 4

Calypso. ---

Mieeandra : .| 1858, Sept. 10
RAGIN see ania aie acinne .| 1858, Sept. 10
Mnemosyne 1859, Sept. 22
apie Te ees eee ee SEES 1860, Mar. 24
Seas see wn=- nani ee- == 1860, Sept. 12
LUT ee Se Bee Seon pe ees 1360, Sept. 15
ON ee ccs aco ones e as os 1860, Sept. 19
TOLD 4 Ao pee Se OC Re BISD EET 1860, Oct. —
JTree STG) pS nee espe enepeses 1861, Feb. 10
PARI PENG) sao m a. - -\----2---- 1861, Mar. 4
Cybele... ......-. -.------2-6- 1861, Mar. 8
TUT? 6 Done Seon Bene 1861, Apr. 9
DA an iinenine im anisncesens 1861, Apr. 17
Hesperia.-.-...--..---------- 1861, Apr. 29
Blea nto a mann ne cine -ansens 1861, Apr. 29
BANE PEM ese] = .-s0------- = 1861, May 5
Heronis....-.--..-.+-------- 1861, May 29
Cee coon eco c mn cisicnicine 1861, Aug. 13
Clytie :-- .....------------- 1862, Apr. 7
Galatea...-..-----------+--- 1862, Aug. 30
1862, Sept. 22

peal

Noy. 15

3, Mar. 15

BeReCERE eee 1863, Sept. 14

THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER.

TaBLE I.—The asteroids in the order of their discovery.

Name of discoverer.

Piggzlessecteeeccket ace cacasccscs aan
OIDBYSe seeeenie sete a eae een cence 1
ard wit soe seen eres a= 5 =a nn

Graham
De Gasparis
De Gasparis
Mindy oes Siaeesas se aseene anes’

WENGARDANISteeees sos Sees sean 3
Min die nea nese ene eee ene 4
De Gasparis ---.........---- ==. 4
De Gasparis .....,.--------------- 5
Wimgthenvenccsctes os es once asec === 1
nNOS er: Cee Cones cass sce cc er eaae at 5
Hain G pee ee sees coe ae oe eee as 6
De Gaspavris) 22.5... <s0cee0-~-~--

Goldschmidt - ae

De Gasparis
Chacornec
Luther
Hondyiss cee cease cs secant 9
Uphill) eee SS oe Saar es eee wean 3
Marth
Hind
Ferguson
GGldschmidteenenet ces eee 2
Chacornac
Chacornac
Wither ce atesene ==
Goldschmidt
jipuiitars ake oe SpCRe enone docue 5
Chacornac
Chacornac
olaschini@ueeeees see ess aae ans oof |

| Goldschmidt .--..-<..--....---.--- 5

Pogson
Pogson

Pogson
Goldschmidt
Luther
Goldschmidt
Goldschmidt.<<..-....--..----=.- 10
Ferguson ..-..-------+----+--++---- 2
Weannentee sess asso ee sone nase si =e
Goldschmidt .......--...----.---- 11
Luther. ....---2+-+-+-+----e2s222-- 1

www we ves w eee eee eeees

Searle

ee ee

Chacornac .-..
Ferguson
Goldschmidt ......-.-.-----
Forster
De Gasparis
Tempel .....-------------++---22*
Tempel
Pe Mintle enc... ssc enon cana s==

Pogson

Schiaparelli hd Siele bacteraemia
Luther
Goldschmidt .....-----.---------- 14
C. H.F. Peters
Luther

Peters ates acn senate eee naeec omc 3
Luther
Watson). == .-055--45~-= *AePaceccd 1

359

Place of dis-
covery.

Bremen.
Lilienthal.
Bremen.
Driesen.
Driesen.
London.
London.
Markree.
Naples.
Naples.
London.
Naples.
London.
Naples,
Naples.
Bilk.
London.
London.
Naples.
Paris.
London.
London.
Naples.
Marseilles.
Bilk.
London.
Bilk.
London.
Londox.
Washington.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Bilk.
Paris.
Bilk.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Paris.
Oxford.
Oxford.
Paris.
Paris.
Oxford,
Paris.
Bilk.
Paris.
Paris.
Washington.
Nismes.
Paris.
Bilk.
Paris.
Albany.
Bilk.
Bilk.
Paris.
Washington.
Chatillon.
Berlin.
Naples.
Marseilles.
Marseilles.
Cambridge,
U.S.

Br atillon.
Clinton.

Bilk.
Cambridge.
Marseilles,
Clinton.
Copenhagen.
Clinton.
Bilk.

Ann Arbor,
360

THE ASTEROIDS BEIWEEN MARS AND JUPITER.

TABLE I.—The asteroids in the order of their discovery—Continued.

Name,

Sappho
Terpsichore -..-.
OL OIE PS dade sanademeddceac

Antiope
45)|S)I0 Gee -aathoseboseadado-
Undina
NDE AE RO seeepencopboDoaane
Aurora

ee ee

izle

eee eee ee

@hymien@, 1: e225 c2qie- Sea:

Iphigenia
AMA THER naheesncaneee esa ee
Cassandra

Hermione.
Gerda
Bruahilda
Alcestis
Liberatrix
WAL) Yi RS se ee a ora

Cyrene
Sophrosyne ..... ao De abonceee
Teil thi, Sooo Soe ss oEooSesesoeE

TOlOSA meee oa suse aesss

eee ee ee es

Lucina ...... Sosooccs5 AAaces
Protogeneia .....ssc-ac-n0-
Gallia

Se eee

Se ee

AE nicnise ane oe sace eon Ses

Bertha..... sesrsgosodsosiccc
Scyla
Xantippe ...-. Mecepecceeseee
Vel amt aneeeinctee ei antares
Coroniseecrcessescersces seco
AUMWidrmcrseneeeerieweccsseat

Date of dis-
covery.

1864, May 2)
1864, Sept. 30 |

1864, Noy. 27
1865, Apr. 26
1265, Aug. 25
1865, Sept. 19
1866,Jan. 4
1866, May 17
1866, June 15

.| 1866, Aug. 6

1866, Oct. 1
1866, Nov. 4
1867, July 7
1867, Aug. 24
1867, Sept. 6
1867, Nov. 23
1268, Feb. 17
1868, Feb. 17
1868, Apr. 18
1868, May 28
1868, July 11
1868, Aug. 15
2. 22
1868, Sept. 7
. 13
1868, Sept. 16
1868, Oct.
18x, Nov. 17
1869, Apr. 2

10 |

1869, Oct. 9 |

1870, Apr.
1870, Aug.
1870, Sept.
1871, Mar.
1k7i, July 24
1871, Aug. 6
1871, Sept. 8
1871, Sept. 12
1872, Mar.
1872, Apr. 3
1872, Apr. 10
1872, May 12
1872, Aug. 1

19

1872, Aug. 1|

1872, Aug. ¢
1872. Sept.
1872, Noy. 5
1872, Nov. 5
1872, Nov.
1873, Feb. 5
1873, Feb.
1873, May
1873, June 13
1873, Aug. 16
1873, Sept.
1874, Feb.
1874, Mar.
1874, Apr.
1874, May
1874, Oct.

1874, Oct.

1875, June 4
1875, June 4
1875, June 8
1875, July 11
1875, Aug. 7

1875, Nov. 6
1875, Nov. 8
1875, Nov. 22
1875, Dec. 1
1876,Jan. 4
1276, Jan. 26

12}

15 |

24 |

19 |
14 |

ees
BOLSON I. . Geko ies henaicaa'e es epeenice i)
MSmpeleccecs s- setiaeaeccmsceodsnes 4
Pater 2sec2 ttt docs collec ace 15
De Gasparis ....- .....- Bierce ce 9 |
Dg tiere ee sccee tee sae 14
POUT pee t onc eee saccsceeneescees 4

Name of discoverer.

Borelly .2ssecec cee senna wisas see ee
IPOters = sete secet ace soos eeeeeoe ee 6
Wratsor'23 22 esa b. s5.4 eee 6
Wisitson' 42 4o- tacts ones canoe sees 7
Watson 2isc,- tor ean52cose. Joes Sos 8
Watson 2225 secon sae -aceeee esas 9 |
Porson) 285. seee ds cos ce se teecee nc 7
EMmther:. so.cect terse es cacclen oe 17 |}
POters.2ocsioree hoe ates caccCanee 9 |
Borelly, asthe Ateneo cee eee 3) |
Peters. 2954 -csebee ces ccescnnes 10 |
Peters: |.2 255 tks cos niette coesex 11
Gather tecectsoessasedecss soseass 18
Peters) case see cbse Je. ene 12
WiatsSonl seese Jacccenceeece ces ances, 10
P6tOrs ses dodeh cack msdewilewecae. 13. |
Borelly fas oesk scececwssas ser cee 4
WUT SL Mas se edsee bee tee deen cele 19
IWiATSONGI Sas Aecek Sainte cenneees 11
Barely Se sissoseveesere ee ssceere 5
WiStSON Wace stack ce renee eee 12
Peters... 22sec eeecesscncsssece er 14
Peters: \sicccicceoutsae bocce sce cae 15
IRETOIS so-omcisines vam mrsicioeciecnoee 16 |
iIPROsSpercuklenty: soseeec- ess acenne 1
PaUlVHOn yy: cae ce sicnceescccsessce= 1
Rrosper Henry 3-2 s0-c-ccnecanens 2
WYVISTSODS eee eeere Y a ticiottelnacieeaiate 13
IPO tARS eeeeete aac inaeraenerae aoe 17
POterS % cotiesis setae ete aeeee 18
IP Bbenee ths casera access ees 19
Watson

Watson...-. a ninitetstisivaencineceas
Luther

Peters

Palisa

Palisa

Perrotin

Watson

PaISa skis ssdanes se acenmecclecs see 3
Prosper Henry

IPANISpste esses coitasitcine seloatscee ces
Palisa

IPOTEtS bee aes = ee see se

Peters

Borelly
SchaihOrere.so2) scnosct esac eeeee
ProsperbHonry <s.ossccscesec estes 4
22 Gyo nis Bae a ee eee sae
MV hs S56 Sos Secppc baosceecdcee
Tew hsOn ~ 2 Bboasoshpoqosse so anassss5

Paul Henry.

Das Siteetaic weiaeminiaiac es

Prosper Henry..... qaeosogssesn00+ 5
PAISR yet eaeceis acaba wines es 8
Paligayees «= Sacco Shei neeeweuccee 9
Borelly essed arose sonoseeosasssas5 7
Knorre ..... Aoosnbosadeesaoect eisionte

Paul Henry........ Sogcesseceesese 3

| Place of dis-

covery.

| Madras.

Marseilles.

Clinton.
Berlin.
Madras.
Clinton.
Marseilles.

| Bik.
| Marseilles.

Clinton.
Ann Arbor.
Ann Arbor.
Bilk.
Marseilles.

| Marseilles.

Clinton.
Marspilles.
Ann Arbor.
Ann Arbor.
Clinton.

| Ann Arbor.

Ann Arbor.

| Aun Arbor.

Ann Arbor.
Madras.
Bilk.

' Clinton.
| Marseilles.

Clinton.
Clinton.
Bilk.
Clinton.
Aun Arbor.
Clinton.
Marseilles.
Bilk.

Ann Arbor.
Marseilles.
Anv Arbor.
Clinton.
Clinton.
Clinton.
Paris,
Paris.
Paris.

Ann arbor.
Clinton.
Clinton.
Clinton.
Ann Arbor.
Ann Arbor.
Bilk.
Clinton.
Pola.

Pola.
Touiouse.
Pekin.
Pola.

Paris.

Pola.

Pola.
Clinton.
C)inton.
Marseilles.
Vienna.
Paris.
Toulouse.
Ann Arbor.
Pola.

Paris.

Pola.

Paris.

Pola.

Pola.
Marseilles.
Berlin.
Paris.

THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER. 361

TABLE I.—The asteroids in the order of their discovery—Continued.
a a SS

+, Date of dis- + : is-

No. ame. covery. Name of discoverer. sige ea
a ee PSVGy Habs) 21 | Peters sosmesictancaas cot sscceucock 23 i ‘
BMIMAUNONG 5 sce eam sccec te oenmee TEGT ADT Us|) WitssOlteeaatetop tous «cece create 18 perce et

Sen uaUrentia-.--...-.--...-.--- 1516; Apr. 20'| Prosper Henry cescsscnososesleces 6 | Paris.

MN PETISONG- coc cesce es ce ec een. LUAU ey PLO Lat aide) DI) as ane booSoces Seep peeeouee 3 | Toulouse.

oo | LES Soe a ee PerG duly 12(|\ePaull Henry:-sscee eee ceesecccnsors 4 | Paris.

ReEIIPNOTOIOY 2 <-- -- 25. cone anne They GHOs an aE) ARR Te: hse Ceicc Sooriedao Jone SOBEEOL 24 | Clinton,

Sen rNOUOPe...-----5.-25--.00-- Heo eA Pro POlOrs ceccaasouememeebitctcs cece 25 | Clinton.

Oo) LORSTID OSS SERA SOB Ses Se aes 187i) Aups 28 Petersisceatcccseor ce veteotacecoes 26 | Clinton.

BEPBIESED WU 8 = a cic--<- oc cacen sens 1876, Sept. 28 | Watson.............. a SDoRa HSE 19 | Ann Arbor.
| eS eS SS ees 1876, Sept. 28 | Prosper Henry ..............--..- 7 | Paris.

4 | aS cece ScacS Besse oRasees LSC Canoe li berrotint.+o- od sect os aoe nae 4 | Toulouse.
0 | ee eer TSit) ani) DOLGINY, cons sed cmee cn ceete se ae 8 | Marseilles.

oe soos S5'6ec0 S68 ebeSeeepepsepe TS GeveUse top bOLellyre.a-cecteesmoetee seme cee 9 | Marseilles.

REMARKS.

1. The numerals following the names of discoverers indicate the
number of asteroids detected by each. Dr. Peters, of Clinton, N. Y.,
has discovered twenty-six ; the greatest number first seen by any one
observer.

2. The numbers discovered in the several months are as follows:

Peewee rondo. 5. 10. | May....-..3.-..+ 14.|. September. :...c.. 30
nese c. no. 1) | JUNG..0.-.3.-.08 7’ October... 20.32. i
eMeMeescr cso... Ld | July.-..... diapeaee p.m h OV eHIDOIe at ey Lo
Mess. a. ae | August.........-.- 20°| December:- 3:22. 3

This obvious disparity is readily explained. The weather is favor-
able for night-watching in April and September; the winter months
are too cold for continuous observations; and the small numbers of
June and July may be referred to the shortness of the nights.

TABLE II.

_ NoTe.—d, represents the mean distance; P, the period; u, the mean daily motion; ¢, the eccentricity;
i, the inclination; 7, the longitude of the perihelion; and (), the longitude of the ascending node.

ELEMENTS OF THE ASTEROIDS.

be e i | 7 | Q
|
uv ° / oO / | ° Uy
1086. 331 0. 1567 oe 32 54 110 18
1084. 950 0. 1694 3 28 277 58 204 35
1040. 147 (, 1198 5D 24 307 58 207 49
1039. 335 0. 0465 416 0 54 93 35
1020. 120 0. 2176 10 9 Livan 150 4
1019. 781 0, 2002 8 37 355 18 Q18 44
1014. 933 0, 1132 9 41 307 12 186 9
994, 835 0. 2188 8 23 301 39 205 35
986. 694 0. 1739 1 35 87 59 93 51
984. 488 0. 1490 4 41 93 17 159 0
979. 698 0. 1305 5° 3 326 35 354 35
977. 670 0, 0884 we 250 57 103 29
976. 864 0. 2360 9 22 339 20 327 28
975. 475 0. 0672 9 57 174 43 175 3
974, 500 0. 1266 2 6 31 46 308 12
. \ 909. 766 0.1749 Q1 31 242 38 1e8 3
“00! |e STL TG Vil ee a 2.3760); 1337. 72 968. 81 0. 1328 9 10 312 56 18 33
ron AMMIAIGHOS..-cucceccnecee- 2. 377 1338. 28 968. 405 0. 0879 3 198 58 123 12
115 | Thyra ..... lsddcmaineceme 2.379 1340. 67 966. 644 0. 1940 11 35 43° 7 309 5
eee tae ccc eicinwciccsaa, 2.3795) 1340. 63 966. 643 0. 1005 9 41 326 17 331 48
PIPILIN Ga aseacnnccctsccess 2. 386 1346. 38 962. 581 0. 2305 5 28 41 23 259 48
MOM ONIN oe oe cciccccncecesn= 2. 387 1346. 72 962, 339 0. 1233 5 36 (pe 68 32
Pee OE OLMNAN fae eccc ce ences 2. 387 1347. 17 962. 02 0. 1054 218 227 23 292 36
BOM FICOG = ce cae cscece score 2.393 | 1352, 43 958, 273 0. 1838 3 35 98 36 192 5

362 THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER.

TABLE II.—Zlements of the asteroids—Continued.

No Name d 1g B | ec | a T
d a“ Ol: : DO’ ¥F
63) | AMSONIRE Soceiccmeleie es 2. 398 1356. 29 955, 545 0. 1239 5 48 Q70 25
95 | PNOCOa crescinccecosscen.. 2. 400 1358. 46 954, 022 0. 2554 QL 35 302 48
QOn VASLUI ac tice seins sil 2. 409 1365, 82 948. 883 0. 1429 0 41 99 7
131 |) Walateseyasce<iciceces ans 2. 420 1375. 21 - 942, 399 0. 0814 4 39 258 26
67: ASIA Sapte see wale cta cco 2. 420 1375. 38 942, 282 0. 1866 5 59 306 35
44 NN SIb nate © stow sce soa ine 6 2. 422 1375, 82 941. 180 0. 1507 3 42 a Ta Uh etsy «
OUIWEVE DG rere Gesicv ccciwce ws 2. 425 1379, 32 939. 595 0. 2011 14 47 15 16
CSU SBGRITER EE cotnpiccsses's's == 2. 430 1383. 64 936. 662 0. 0259 Da 191 46
PSD) ME SDUN ee cicicin ccie'cic.c oS 2, 432 1384. 92 935. 797 0. 2036 2 18 318 45
PISO EPIC OMIR, Skins aces ce <a 2. 433 1386. 57 934. 679 0. 0456 Qa 338 9
2 Chis eee eee 2. 435 1388. 29 933. 554 0. 1621 3.9 327 4
AEST AT EO ictoie kiarcieinim eigtsis'e a= 2 2. 436 1388. 31 933. 509 0. 1638 7 49 ibe ts}
PPB R I AVICUCOR eee wcinc jc sinia 2. 440 1392. 08 930. 979 0. 1061 2 56 347 46
BOM ENGIG ce stice canccucd eer teers 2. 440 1392. 22 930, 906 0. 2256 8 35 317 58
POM MH OUtUNE (ooccc cee ancieimis lor 2. 441 1393. 43 930. 076 0. 1594 1 33 sl 33
Hon PHOT Y HOMO) cscs cece 2. 444 1395. 24 928. 874 0.1945 4 37 44 22
POST OLOSB a csi ci ctorsileigtatcle 2. 444 1395. 34 928, 805 0. 1582 3 14 3LL 238
11 | Parthenope...-..---....-- 2. 453 1403. 17 923. 622 0. 0994 4 37 318 2
aly (aiid BV Pe Ee a hee eS 2. 462 1420. 13 912. 590 0. 1293 5 36 261 37
AGREES ne ceee se cisin leia cece, 2. 526 1466. 79 883. 564 0. 1642 217 354 14
Soe Aa eet ese saa cecces 2. 551 1488, 22 870. 841 0. 1805 16 11 353 26
1670 Pees ee Soe see ee 2. SDL 1488, 22 870. 841 0. 0651 14 QL 98 37
Ost Oh Bae ea eee a eee 23502 1489, 52 870. 079 0. 3206 24 48 2 46
297) Amphitrite)... <0: 6s=<ss 2. 554 1491, 31 869. 035 0. 0742 yf 56 23
134 | Sophrosyne...-.-------- 2.567 | 1502.36 862. 573 0. 1172 11 36 66 52
ATH AVG DM bse e Sorte eerste See icc Q5575 1509, 25 858. 705 0. 2286 4 51 8 31
ASH WMO Aine sie ceisec es ewe 6 e's Pays 1510. 59 857. 945 0. O871 16 32 120 10
in PALMS Bi tece ms areierapicisimciniaei= 2.579 1512, 41 856. 910 0. 1853 5 19 134 57
MLSs) CANth Bas. see ec toes ces 2. 580 1514. 02 856. 000 0. 0837 5 47 | 122
Hots SAbundantia) «- escaceacn- 2. 582 1514. 42 855. 775 0. 0998 oe 215 57
AOU ME elena Sn. 2 Asa ac eee e's 2. 585 1518. 00 853. 752 0. 1386 10 11 327 15
MOM POG ANITA. «cease -lcsccs an 2. 586 1518. 64 853. 392 0. 2199 11 50 109 12
Soa eeOMONASoscastenee sce 2. 587 1520. 08 852. 588 0. 0830 4 46 193 22
OT AN PING han once cise rch 2. 589 1522. 06 851. 477 0. 1087 12 8 80 22
UG TS 8 b's) 62 ese ae ieee Seana 2. 590 1522. 13 851. 436 0. 1627 9 8 180 19
LG SACO res occ cass cose eth Cant h 1524. 83 849. 928 0. 1052 4 57 108 42
AiNeMoeletesc sss cece ceeeceee 2. 597 1528. 68 847. 790 0. 2363 8 2 294 37
PSO ALTA eon cecs wens create c 2. 601 1532. 15 845. 870 0. 3820 20) 10) 152 11
ROU MBANOPOA a ceenm caesar ess 2. 614 1543. 56 &39, 614 0. 1826 1L 38 299 49
Of Cay DSO ssa anise = mers cia’ 2. 621 1550. 12 836. 064 0. 1301 Dei 92 47
UO eOlananwente. Jaeke NS Se 2. 623 1551. 82 835. 147 0. 2053 8 39 121 9
124 FANCeRLe acon acncaccst oe 2. 630 1557. 60 832, 049 0. 0785 2 56 245 42
25) |ebhaliaitiecs see leke ee: 2. 63L 1558. 37 831. 638 0, 2299 10 14 123 58
Lp PULMOMIAG sees Gee cere ies 2. 644 1570. 04 825. 455 0. 1872 11 44 27 52
Dial PUES ees cena wdoaebic cess 2. 644 1570. 31 825. 317 0. 1758 Set 66 26
GosiPMaigee-e ers cecedes eres 2. 649 1575. 29 822. 706 0. 1655 3. 9 46 21
OM VALOIS. «oc cc cela ceisler 2. 652 1577. 44 821. 586 0. 2852 2 48 10 9
SBM MLO meen she nnce sea cemee 2. 654 1579. 15 820. 693 0.1913 11 53 322 35
26) |PETOSOrpiNe...-..> se s06 >. 2.656 | 1581. 09 819, 685 0. 0873 3 36 236 25
HOD PMGIPIAIN SoS ainjcms vic ale cles oc 2. 658 1586. 32 816. 985 0. 3035 5 4 354 39
MBAOLYMOecsaecnececs aceoes 2. 665 1589. 29 815. 459 0, 0419 2 24 57 55
SPMIKCLODND coe asiniciecncresiciecs'2 2. 668 1591. 70 814, 222 0, 2580 11 45 65 35
CMIMINO Mesa cca ccm accsaxe 2. 668 1591. 99 814. 077 0. 2579 13 1 54 50
Mon BIGDEVOIGO oc c02 sins <lc =< 2, 672 1595. 42 812. 388 0. 3060 Gy il 335 33
MMOLE PA Cee aoc ke ness « 2. 672 1595. 56 812. 253 0. 1345 2 28 60 23
RC ASSaN OTA pene cman cece « 2. 676 1598. 76 810. 629 0. 1404 4 55 153 «6
Gh PAR OS]inG eens eit von, 2. 678 1605. 16. 808. 021 0. 1271 119 125.36
344) \CATCO nae iew ree deeis cic ne 2. 686 1608. 30 805. 819 0. 1073 5 27 148 41
O84 WanthG enc ce coe ene oseons 2. 689 1610. 39 804. 774 0. 1889 15 33 147 39
230 BVO MUO ise. conecer ose 2. 693 1614. 26 802. 846 0. 1136 6 27 Zia
145%) AGSONRe eae cemee eee 2. 694 1614. 97 802. 489 0. 2126 14 24 118 8
LOOM Melicitas)sorewsseceerete 2. 695 1615. 96 802. 001 0. 3002 8 3 56 1
53 | Concordia 2. 700 1620. 82 799. 596 0. 0426 yy? 129 10
OB TIELOLAs cov ae geieceaee cones 2. 701 1621. 78 799. 123 0. 0803 5 24 oe 43
140 | Siwa........ 2. 707 1626. 72 796. 693 0. 1979 3 10 304 33
146 | Lucina...... 2. 708 1627. 44 796. 342 0. 0672 12 42 237 38
55 | Alexandra 2.709 1628. 90 795. 627 0. 1-97 11 47 294 16
AUN |) LETT eC eee ey ee re 2. 709 1629. OL 795. 575 0.2232 11 33 341 32
UME LEIS Levera'ain a\cic,c.cicimeimcleiins Q. 712 1631. 67 794. 277 0.1189 8 37 i7 de
LOG MPRMODODC.-<5-0 ccc ecnee= 2. 720 1638. 46 790. 980 0. 2386 11 41 30 52
ADMD CLIG, |ojn's v.oociecicene coe 2. 720 1638. 44 790. 996 0. 0826 6 35 228 54
a Lyd Arendal strain «ie.els nia swine 2. 726 1643. 69 788. 468 0. 0672 5 58 329 28
BH PCO deen eles vis deeccic's oe 2. 743 1659. 53 780. 942 0. 1530 6 57 101 20
SOM WATAIANED ca eten nese cecces 2. 745 1661. 32 7280. 102 0. 3023 18 42 42 44
12 INGMESIS | senna sows cise - 2.750 1665, 74 7728. 030 0. 1257 6 15 12 21
1437 | PAGMIR eet eet ieo eis s<.ce ooo 2. 752 1668. 00 776. 989 0. 0666 11 32 84 7
93 eMaMmenviaiees eeitoc cre nnc- 2.754 | 1669.04 776. 495 0. 1405 8 37 274 44
160'|) Una parereeetaven cen ci 2. 754 1669. 52 776. 271 0. 0637 3 32 191 16
Oi GNTOD Gs ecanen te cetmetseie cic > 2.756 | 1670.98 775. 594 0. 1732 23 19 221 17
O06 ))|: ,. Pandora cee oandarcicussss 2. 760 1675. 15 773. 663 0. 1429 w@AS 10 36
41") Daphne weseeenecesescos 2.760 | 1675. 23 773. 625 0.2704 '. 16 0!_ 219 59! — 179 13
HD pa Se
Ries) eS eee

(Cen) 2 See
LIGTIETECy pe apap
hencothea... 2c... <5...
PEMUIEONULA Sacees cesses a
IDS yb es ee

SORE Se
Protogeneia..-...-......
UGGREIOV ope «cis oun oicca.<-
IBADG eee cheek ees 5

MINE ee oe sees cS,
Pl aes sero 2 arene wa’c os
Huphrosyne.-.-s<- <.---.
Glymeney co. coc. ceea.
Mnemosyne....-..-......
PONG ea = Aaa = =

Cybele....... :
PORWiGnGsoos..45lc5..-'
Shi ee
(Chih 55s Si es
DIG Ee

ad
1679.
1620. <
1681.
16281.
16835. *
1626.
1690.
1693.
1693.
1695,
1708. ¢
Lise
1760.
1967.
178.
1786. ¢
1812. ¢
1823.
1877.
1284.
1884,
1888.
1289,
1890.
1917.
1931.
1932.
1945.
1959.
1977. ¢
1978, 2:
1984.
1594. §
2005.
x006,
2012, §
2018.
2018, 7
2021.
2022,
2022.
2024. §
2028.
2028.
2036.
2038.
2039.
2043.
2047.
2051.
2051.
2076.
Q101,
2109.
2110.
2111,
2210.
2267.
2299,
2317,
2351,
SY BE
2453.
2867.

Sesessesss

coscessss

Sressssssssssssssesssssssssssesssssssesssssssoos

TABLE IL.—Zlements of the asteroids—Continued.

a

—

—
DPIPOWNW ITAA DDM HK WMWMWWUWH -10

or

®

wo

_

_
oe

me?
or

_

PY) od rw) b= 29
BOOSH KRP AROMRUNNGDWNWOWNW
uo a _
~ to) ww

ee 2]
wo
©

_
wrooe
or

THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER.

363

T 2
o 7 | fo
132 25 26 59
Joncas 64 26
149 38 80-47
305 34 | Q77 54
121 53 | 172 A7
2 29 157 27
122 23 | 144 44
345 14 | 45 1
8B 26 | 197 53
39 37 145 18
240 36 | 41 44
115 32 | 353 37
48 42 | 2 45
342 25 9 12
240 57 138 1
312 30 | 4 20
59 38 | 66 35
eur 150 36
108 19 | 187 12
34445 334 11
352 45 | 207 55
355 10 | 282 49
48 46 | 349 39
202 25 355 49
147 44 38 15
QOLe Lia 117 16
155 58 | 246 11
163 10 | $22 50
248 0 321 16
31 59 244 24
31 40 290 42
308 3 128 12
107 32 129 49
29 44 88 5
70 27 185 13
212 52 342 52
100 40 135; 20
84 43 252 29
282 24 304 1
38 36 125 49
20 18 146 8
80° .0)] 4L 29
144 8 35 49
301 37 71 26
238 17 285 28
93 26 ol St
151-21 100 54
58 22 44 21
55 4 200 15
26 58 63 24
45 33 4 39
sak 27 102 52
173 49 doe 17
32 39 170 7
208 38 178 55
168 41 37 35
101 24 31 23
5 43 209 36
92 47 212 14
260 36 158 50
0 56 77 0
335 17 76 2
112 50 175 41
285 2 228 20

DISCUSSION OF THE FACTS CONTAINED IN TABLE II.

_ pletely disproved by more recent discoveries.
. roid ring, as at present known, is greater than the entire interval between

3. The theory of Olbers—The hypothesis that the asteroids are the
_ fragments of an exploded planet was proposed by Dr. Olbers in 1802.
_ While the known members of the group were but few in number, this
bold conjecture seemed highly plausible; it has, however, been com-

The breadth of the aste-
O64 THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARKS AND JUPITER.

the orbits of Mercury and Mars. Even the least distance of Hilda ex-

ceeds the greatest of Harmonia by one hundred and twenty millions of —

miles. Itis, therefore, no more probable that the asteroids have all been
produced by the disruption of a single planet, than that Mercury, Venus,
the Earth, and Mars originated in a similar manner. The relative dis-
tances of Hilda and Flora, together with those of the four planets interior
to the latter, are represented in the following figure.

1. Orbit of Hilda.

2. Orbit of Flora.

. Orbit of Mars.

. Orbit_of Earth.

. Orbit of Venus.

. Orbit of Mercury.

4, The small mass of the asteroids.—In taking a general view of the solar
system, we cannot fail to be struck by the remarkable fact that Jupiter,
whose mass is much greater than that of all the other planets united,
should be immediately succeeded by a region so nearly destitute of
matter as the zone of asteroids. Leverrier, without attempting to deter-
mine the mass of the minor planets, infers from the motion of Mars’s
perihelion that it is certainly less than one-fourth of the earth’s mass,
or 5555 Of Jupiter’s. Prof. Stephen Alexander estimates the mass at
sasteia Of the mass of the sun.* In other words, its ratio to the mass
ot Jupiter is that of 1 to 5180. We find, also, analogous facts in the
secondary systems. Jupiter’s third satellite, the largest of the number,
is nearly four times greater than the second. Immediately within the
orbit of Titan, the largest satellite of Saturn, occurs a wide hiatus, and
the volume of the next interior satellite is to that of Titan in the ratio
of 1 to21. In the Uranian system, the widest interval between adjacent
orbits is just within the orbit of the bright satellite Titania. No other
secondary planet of our system contains so much matter in proportion
to its primary as our own moon. Did this powerful mass prevent the
formation or permanent existence of interior satellites ?

5. The foregoing facts suggest the inquiry, What effect would be
produced by a large planet on interior masses abandoned by a central
spheroid? As the phenomena in all instances would be of the same
nature, we will consider a single case—that of Jupiter and the asteroids.

The powerful mass of the exterior body would produce great pertur-
bations of the rings or gaseous masses thrown off from the equator of
the solar spheroid. The disturbed orbits, in some cases, would thus at-
tain considerable eccentricity, so that the matter moving in them would,
in perihelio, be brought in contact with the equatorial parts of the cen-
tral nebula, and thus become reunited with it. The extreme rarity of
the zone between Mars and Jupiter, regarded as a single ring, is thus
accounted for in accordance with known dynamical laws.

o> Ol R Co

* Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, No. 280, p. 33.

st ~: ascii

THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER. 365

_ 6. Distribution of the asteroids—As long since as 1857, when the
number of known asteroids was less than 50, it was inferred from phys-
ical considerations by the author of this paper that great irregularity
must obtain in the distribution of these bodies, and that gaps or chasms
would be found in those parts of the zone where the periods of asteroids
would be commensurable with that of Jupiter. To verify this theory every ~
addition to the group was watched with interest. In 1866, when the
number had increased to 88, and the agreement between theory and ob-
servation had become quite marked, the attention of astronomers was
called to the coincidence by a paper read at the Buffalo meeting of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science. The comparison
of fact and hypothesis has been continued to the present time; and itis
now proposed to show that recent discoveries have confirmed the theory
of an irregular distribution.
Assuming the equation

tNa—U n° =0,

where #, 7’, are any integers,

n,=the mean daily motion of a planetary mass between the orbits of
Mars and Jupiter,

n’ =the mean daily motion of Jupiter=299/.1286,
and assigning values at pleasure to 7 and i’, we shall find those portions
of the asteroid zone in which the periods would be commensurable with
that of Jupiter. The following table contains all such instances when
w—i <5. The consideration of less simple cases of commensurability
may be omitted.

Corresponding
| Values of na. | distances from
| the sun.
|
}

(1.) When i —i=1, i=1, and 7 =:2, or 2 periods of an asteroid —1 of |
a Mtn EI tee ee iets cinin wc scan calc siscjeceesetsccncacuccaeceuse 998’, 2572 3. 27
(2.) ’ —i=2, we hay? two cases:
Oi) 633 0, 0 se thet Sap cee a aE eae ee ar ame |  897’7, 3858 2. 50
RCE oto Se Sse hes AUS: ce onn-cieddkesbateseceet 498", 5477 3.70
(3.) When 7 —i=3, there are three cases:
SRR 2 IONE ne aot. cidpinincas ccc aeiesienec ce astescsehincasee sees | 747", 8215. | 2. 82
OS) 7 sek SS) nace SRI SR eae ae Saree 523.4750 | 3 58
(€) i=5, RO rege vse le tar ae eceriae eens casooeseehetaene cs | 478", 6058 | 3.t
(4.) When 7! —i=—4, we have also three cases : }
(2) i=3,-==7 697", 9667 | 2.95
()) t=5,= 538", 4315 | 3.5
0) 27411 470". 0592 | 3. 85

These particular portions of the zone will be separately considered.

7. At the distance 3.27—which falls between the orbits of Bertha
and Johanna—a planetary mass would make precisely two revolutions
_ while Jupiter completes one. It is obvious, therefore, that all its con-
junctions with that planet, for an indefinite period, must occur in the
same parts of its path. Consequently its orbit would become more and
more eccentric, until, if the nebulous ring had considerable density, the
disturbed matter would be brought into contact, either in aphelion or
perihelion, with masses having somewhat different velocities. The plan-
366 THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER.

etary nucleus formed in this manner would be at some distance from
the primitive orbit of the particle disturbed. A gap or chasm would ~
thus be produced at the distance 3.27, or wherever the period of an
asteroid would have to that of Jupiter a simple relation of commensur- ~
ability. It may be objected that the mutual attractions of those primi-
tive masses were too inconsiderable to result in the formation of plane-
tary nuclei. But even granting the force of this objection, the fact still
remains that the orbits of asteroids at the specified distances would in-
crease in eccentricity till the masses in perihelio would reunite with the
central nebula. In either case, therefore, chasms would be left in the
primitive annulus. Let us now inquire whether the facts presented in
Table IL sustain the conclusions derived from physical considerations.

Sr le mean distance ot Golda! Gets eM eee eee eeee - =3.9505
Phat of: Wlora: fc coe eh ke ee ee OR ee
Breadth-of gone ses fod el eS Oa eee =1.7491

As small bodies in the remoter parts of the ring are more difficult of
detection, the zone will be considered under three divisions of equal
breadth. The innermost section, A, extending from 2.2014 to 2.7844,
contains 115 of the 169 asteroids whose elements are known; the mean
interval between the consecutive orbits being 9.00511. Now the inter-
val at the distance 2.50—between Thetis and Hestia—where an asteroid’s
period would be one-third of Jupiter’s, is 0.0643, the widest in the section
and about twelve times the meaninterval. The middle section, B, extend-
ing from 2.7544 to 3.3675, contains 47 minor planets, the average interval
between their consecutive orbits being 0.01268. The widest of these gaps,
which is 0.1, or eight times the mean, is found at the distance 3.27,
where an asteroid’s period would be half that of Jupiter. Finally,
the most remote section, C, extends from 3.3675 to 3.9505, includ-
ing seven known asteroids. The mean interval in this section is 0.0972.
The widest hiatus (between the orbits of Camilla and Hilda) contains
the distances 3.58, 3.70, 3.80, and 3.85. The second in extent (between
Sylvia and Camilla) contains the distance 3.51, where nine asteroid
periods would be equal to five of Jupiter.

The nine distances * at which the periods of minor planets would have

‘simple relations of commensurability to the period of Jupiter are thus
found in the widest chasms of the zone. The result may be somewhat
modified by future discoveries and by the more exact determination of
orbits. The general features of the ring, however, depend on too wide
an induction of facts to be regarded as merely accidental. The marked

‘irregularity of distribution throughout the cluster is presented at one
view in the following table:

Tnterian co tne distance RAD eee ees so eae 2 asteroids.
Prom etn. 2.25 tO Zig ee ees Coke een 7 asteroids.

Prom eee ee 2.35 to 2:40. 6 See i te eee 32 asteroids.
* See table in 6.

THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER. 367

INTO cts soy 5 PA ii Ne ac ote oe ys Oe ee Aer - 93 asteroids.
REIEOM). ...'-........ PEAY STE dsicsine were ee me Phen Seas 26 asteroids.
ES eA ARGOS LD iis 2h Elan a %ehere tebe bi nicte & w wow eae 28 asteroids.
MEEOMde ns . 2.10 (0.2.80 .2....5.05.- Ae Ee oe 19 asteroids.
ee SUSE 2.00. ee wk Glow ace lacked eceeccucs 6 asteroids.

0 Peni OO: tc. ob alba Se ete soo. cee LO staroure,
NS. 124 3.05 tO SelB 6st boot Ue ee wk .. 19 asteroids.

IS eee LO TOL GLO. 215 C2 -s ao Se cee owe ctetiae sale. 9 asteroids.
IN et) LOO 24. aa css oc nck te ve Sdcemel lac 1 asteroid.

Meairom ........-. RGU Naika iohis, Carn Ades tiara 3 asteroids.

a PREM TUOOR ETON CIs Acar t ee. Sg) alk eee ee 2 asteroids.

Exterior to..... TRI aS Chat eyheh Sieieres ate (sl 1's EPS I eee 2 asteroids.

In three portions of the ring the clustering tendency is here distinctly
evident. These are from 2.35 to 2.45, from 2.55 to 2.80, and from 3.05
to 3.20. We have thus an obvious resemblance to the rings of Saturn;
the partial breaks or chasms in the asteroid zone corresponding to the
well-known intervals in the system of secondary rings. It may be re-
marked, moreover, that all but one of the nineteen asteroids between
2.75 and 2.85 are found in the inner half of the division ; the outer half
containing the distance at which five periods of a minor planet would
be equal to two of Jupiter.

THE ECCENTRICITIES.

9. The mean eccentricity of the asteroids is 0.15683, while that of
the eight major planets is 0.06025. It is worthy of note, however, that
Mercury’s eccentricity (0.20549) is even greater than that of the minor
planets, and that the mean eccentricity of Venus, the Earth, Mars,
Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune is but 0.03949. Of the asteroid
orbits the least eccentric is that of Lomia, 0.02288; the most eccentric,
that of Athra, 0.38200. As with the orbits of the old planets, the
eccentricities vary within moderate limits; some increasing, others
diminishing. The average, however, will probably remain very nearly
the same. The facts above noted indicate that the form of the orbits
of Mercury and the asteroids was influenced by special causes. The
mean eccentricities in the several parts of the asteroid zone are as fol-
lows:

ERI ty Oe) eS ss a a ait ee ante yal Maa) > oly ee eee 0. 16307
Ey 2S sa 5 foe ss wpa eae eels on ss 0 od eee 0. 15644
ral Ty AS 270 5 cl sinola e's oc «.0!2's ~'0 EE eee 0. 14930
A Ls ee ee.) ds aS OL LS a na oo ee 0. 13094
tO. OG eS yes SL SSR a oo og ee ee 0. 16286
EEGs) <i), ee TSR cpeete ews = « ole'sia'e aie’ el aber alee pet ae ata 0. 17210
rom...-2.75 to 2.85... .- Bee 5 sai 3 dpa Sap ee 0. 15474
Siena ae 280 0 2.95.5... 0. 2. 2 os ee annie de meenew ener sss 0. 18859
VEO a0 dita Unde clcc sc adecse team ann ep Sere 0. 26182

From....3.05 to 3.15..... ee a= BE Re OC fsb eeagree sans Oa heer
368 ‘THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER.

roms = 3:15 40 tape ee eine eee od Meath ae osaneince: O1S000m
Pxterior: to). i... DED Sea ate eV (co /afeopeiars ia eye 8 eee eee Siewece . 0.13014

Two maxima are observed ; the first from 2.55 to 2.75; the second —
from 2.95 to 3.05. The orbits are least eccentric in the outer portion of
the zone.

THE INCLINATIONS.

10, The mean of the inclinations of the asteroids now known is 8° 5/,
one degree greater than that of the sun’s equator. The least inclined
orbit is that of Massilia, 0° 41’; the most inclined, that of Pallas,34° 42’.
The mean inclinations in different portions of the ring are given below:

(e) i
Paperior te. 2. - ace . a Neal Ae seed seh ls ayes cle Setter, th thea renderttess 3s as 4 40
From 2 2:95 to’2:35' .\. . se eect nesta at Mia oa 6 52
sii) Tiby sates ak HO 2° a a ei iy ae AAR A ARM eT ahh sini lateyi ah les i 2 6 34
EG Re eA ONO LOO tt sce eee cee Sys uiadeahie re Sab nas te 4°107
Rom: os ito eG fae UP AORN ee err et tens seks cee eee 19) ag
pom 2 OES tO IS oe oe Ot a ae eins OA en
Peat 1s UO is = Sree ice wie. a atc cereale Sone ae ee eee eae 11 50
UCIT ERR AES GMb 4 er ne ore aera a aaRiN Coed a. 7 19
SGN cA AON DAOD* Sa) 38s hss Cai ee ha oP SR ne 8 54
arom << SOS |. od fees Bistro fsb be ene sheh Se 7 45
Brome. os OOO: Vk. Te a aes oo Se = a ee (tae |
Exterior to...... EDD Neveca sole lee vale nis esta octal ei ie) Seageeepege nev N= eae 6 oie

The maxima are from 2.55 to 2.65, and from 2.75 to 2.85. Ten aste-
roids, one in seventeen, have inclinations greater than 20°. When we
cousider the great number of these bodies, together with the fact that in
their primitive, gaseous form their dimensions must have been much
greater than at present, it seems not improbable that collisions may
have occurred between comets and asteroids. The masses of the former
are doubtless in some cases comparable to those of the latter. In the
event of such impact, therefore, the direction of the planet’s motion
might be very much modified. Possibly the rare instances of great in-
clination may thus be explained.

THE DISTRIBUTION OF PERIHELIA.

11. The longitudes of the perihelia of the asteroidal orbits are distrib-
uted as follows:

Hata: 02 to waO@gen. cnt es Ve baal oc eciee ww Sue ee ee 19
Maem  torcG0 Gas... sosch eect ee 25 Aes eC ee 25
Prom eGO tO. 90. vi ks ce wie eo piece es ip «ete eae ee 13
Parma: CO T20) oe sce a cei ee Pe EC a er 17
Pena Oe tod D0 |... cece cues EEE et ee who
EGOR? UDOT GOUSO, » 5. 5,~ 0 = ci oale eaten eels > a isin aan ee a ysgeteaalae

Mpony LEO’ PHOLZLO! oe. oe cco ale Bee mle eak Sieh cee Pe ena ee 8

Aa Te a ey ee

eS a,
z

THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER. 369

Ce |: 2 ne a a ea a WU AS, 5 Boo i 8
ON gl aS oh ae ea Po er aad sas 15 te as ae
DOO ITOT GUO... she. cos ee oe ee SEAN Shc SS See ew 7,
OPEN NE a ae een bbbios io a
Pemeae tO'OG0 .. 6... 0.2. elle Se ee PE 19

In the semicircumference from 300° to 120° are 115 perihelia, and in
the remaining 180° only 55; the clustering tendency being obvious in
the region adjacent to the perihelion of Jupiter.

THE SIMILARITY OF ADJACENT ORBITS.

12. An examination of Table II affords evidence of a similarity more
than accidental between adjacent orbits of the asteroidal group; a re-
semblance pointing to a common.origin. The orbits in some cases so
nearly intersect that a future collision is by no means impossible. The
striking similarity in the magnitude, form, and position of certain orbits
will be seen by the following comparisons:

I.—FORTUNA AND EURYNOME.

Fortuna. Eurynome.
ou Li rr ABE ae ee ee 2.4415 2. 4436
SoS ee ae 1393443 1395424
fonugitade of perthelion:...........0....--.. 31° 3/ 44° 22!
Longitude of ascending node ...... sev Tee 211° 27’ 206° 24’
ERMAN 05) SF wg a cl en aioe! sree is wale 0. 1594 0. 1945
PINES. foie MGA Soe os oe OLS ct RED 1° 33/ 4° 37
IL—FIDES AND MAIA.
, Fides. Maia.
Distance’.... - - Ls ape Beene ects date 2. 6440 2. 6495
ee set we os eee = lecdae) ROMO re 15751.29
Monsitude of perilielion -........-......----- 66° 26/ 46° 21’
Longitude of ascending node ..........------ 8° 21’ 8° 17’
ES ee ee eee 0. 1758 0. 1655
0 SS hae eee eee aoe 3° 5!
IlIl.—CLOTHO AND JUNO.
Clotho. Juno.
_) oi 1) SS eee eee 2. 6679 2. 6682
Tg a eee. eres re 1591.70 15914.99
Longitude of perihelion ......-.----.-------- 65° 35/ 54° 50!
Longitude of ascending node ......---------- 160° 44’ 170° 53!
Hecentricity . ...-~ .- 2-2. oe ee eee ene ee eens 0. 2580 0. 2579

Inclination ..... Bae SEN oe Pasch orwsw, oso RS eee 11° 435/ 13° 1/
g 24 '
370 THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER.

IV.—SIRONA AND CERES.

Sirona. Ceres.

SISTANCE. 2 a clip ees wi otic ht ee Sea 2. 7661 2. 7673
ACEUIOU sain ee tte ee ein sn ag oe eee 16804.3 16814.4
LOVNLIMOG GE POLIBellON, . 05 32. cele et etait 152° 53/ 149° 33!
Lomeitude or ascending node. 2. eos, ene 64° 26/ 80° 47!
PIC COMIRDONOU ale a\</2 = + a1 oes nig mene icing a) tee ; 0. 1439 0. 0765
DOUMMAON sec. =~ ce eek ene sae eye eee ee eee 11° 35! 10° 37/

V.—URDA AND GERDA.

In the American Journal of Science for February, 1877, Dr. Peters,
the discoverer of these asteroids, calls attention to several striking
coincidences between the elements of their orbits. The mean distance,
inclination, and ascending node of the former are very nearly identical
with those of the latter. “The fact of two planets moving in the same
plane, with the same time of revolution, having also the line of apsides
in common,* but with a widely different eccentricity,” as Dr. Peters
justly remarks, *‘is worthy of note.” The results of further observa-
tions will be looked for with interest.

CONCLUSION.

13. When the nebular hypothesis was proposed by Laplace, but four
minor planets had been discovered. According to that hypothesis those
new members of the system had been formed by the breaking up of a
nebulous ring into fragments so small that no one had sufficient attrac-
tive force to unite the others about its center as a single spheroidal
mass. After the number of asteroids had been largely increased the
celebrated Plana regarded their phenomena as confirming, if not dem-
onstrating, Laplace’s theory. ‘The double fact,” he remarks, “of the
multitude of those bod:es and of their circulation in the same direction
around the sun, is now too imposing to admit an explanation of their
origin and formation different from that developed by Laplace, in his
Systeme du Monde.”t

But the form and extent of the zone of the minor planets, as well as
the known facts in regard to Saturn’s rings, seem to require a modifica-
tion of Laplace’s theory. Throughout the greater part of the interval
between Mars and Jupiter an almost continuous succession either of
very narrow rings or of extremely small planetary masses appears to
have been abandoned at the solar equatcr. The entire cluster, distrib-
uted throughout a ring whose outer radius exceeds the inner by 160

*The longitudes of their perihelia differ by nearly 180°.

+ Note sur la Formation probable de la Multitude des Asteroides qui, entre Mars et
Jupiter, circulent autour du Soleil. Par Jean Plana. Presentée le 2 Mars, 1856, &
VAcadémie Royale des Sciences de Turin.

RS

¥
THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER. 371

millions of miles, could not have originated, as supposed by Laplace,
jn a single nebulcus zone the different parts of which revolved with the
- game angular velocity.

The process of planetary separation, both exterior and interior to the
zone of asteriods, was probably similar to that indicated above. The
nebular hypothesis, in this view, assigns an obvious cause for the origi-
nal formation of planetary nuclei in such positions that their periods
would be nearly commensurable with that of the disturbing body. As
these nuclei would receive accretions of matter from portions of space
both exterior and interior to their respective orbits, their distances from
the central body, during their planetary growth, would not be liable to
great variation.

If anything can be inferred from the similarity of adjacent orbits
pointed out on a previous page, it is that the minor planets so related
were derived from the same nebulous ring or mass, and that the pertur-
bations to which they have been liable have not yet wholly effaced this
evidence of a common origin.
ETHNOLOGY.

THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES FROM PORTO RICO IN THE
NATIONAL MUSEUM, AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

By QOrTts T. Mason.

The remarkable beauty and finish of the stone implements of Porto
Rico and others of the Antilles Islands are not wholly unknown to
students of American Archeology. Now and then a small collection
has found its way to London, Copenhagen, or New York; but they
had never been collected in sufficient numbers for a comparative study
until this important gift was bestowed on the Smithsonian Institution.
For the convenience of description, the specimens may be separated
into the following classes: pottery, celts, smoothing-stones, mealing-stones,
stools, discoidal and spheroidal stones, beads, cylinders, amulets, rude
pillar-stones, mammiform stones, masks, and collars. In some of these
classes the objects are so similar to those found in other parts of Amer-
ica and throughout the world, that the briefest description will suffice.
In others the number of specimens is so large, and the objects so rare,
as to merit the most careful scrutiny and description. Whether from
accident or design, there is not in all the collection a single flaked or
chipped implement or weapon. Indeed, I have searched im vain in the
National Museum for flaking or chipping from a Carib area. Although
the historians of the voyages of Columbus mention arrows pointed with
stone, they more frequently speak of bone, teeth, and shells as the
materials used. Herrera, in speaking of their celts, says that they exca-
vated their canoes with flintimplements. (Herrera, Stephens’s Transla-
tion, i, p. 60.).

POTTERY.

There is not an entire vessel in the collection, all of tbe specimens
being fragments of variously shaped, coarse, red pottery, well baked,
one or two pieces being glossy on the surface. (Figs. 1 and 2.) Nearly
all of the ornamentation is produced by animal forms luted on. The
most of these are monkey heads adorned with scrolled, circular, and
fluted coronets, and by deeply incised lines, often forming very ingeni-
ous patterns. Others bear human faces, all grotesque, and the figures
of mythological animals. (Figs. 3-7.) In one of them a W-shaped
wreath or festoon is luted on the outside. (Fig. 8.) A fragment of the
bottom of a cup or jar deserves especial mention, on account of the inge-
nious labyrinthine design traced on it by a deep furrowing, produced
evidently by a sharp instrument when the vessel was soft. (Fig. 9.)

This bold, deep tracing is characteristic of all the ornamentation on the
372
Fic. 4.—Handie from the edge

Fic. 1.—Fragment ot a jar. }
of a dish. 4.

Fic. 5.—Handle from the
side of adish. 4.

Fic. 6.—Handle from the
edge of adish. #4.

Fic. 3.—Handle from the edge Fic. 7.—Handle from the

~

i ( } ?
ST: Pere ye ys es aren, eee Pee wD
Fic. 8.—Fragment of pottery, with wreath
luted on. #4.

Fic. 11—Celt and handle

1

Fic. 9.—Bottom of a vase with the patter.
of polished jadeite. ¢.

traced init. 4.

SSS =:

yet

=)

tt!
ps
ANNAN
FG. 10.—Polished, oval-sectioned 11G.12.—Celt of jadeite in a han-
celt. +. dle of wood, Turk’s Island. }.
Te

ETHNOLOGY. Ste

pottery. Precisely similar fragments are in the National Museum from
San Domingo, and, indeed, many of the pieces from southern Central
America closely resemble them in quality and material.

CELTS.

The celts, one hundred and thirty-five in number, are of the very
highest order of workmanship, being beautifully shaped, and many of
them the wost highly polished stone implements in the National Mu-
seum. The material is fine grained, and varies in color from black to
nearly white, many of them being of a jadeite green. In shape, nearly
all of them belong to Evans’s third class, or oval-sectioned, and the
great majority resemble his figure 75 so closely that I feel sure he is
right in hesitating to believe the celt figured in his work to have been
made in Scotland. (Fig. 10.)—(Evans, Stone Imp. p. 118. The use
to which these polished celts was put, or, more correctly speaking,
the manner of hafting them, is graphically illustrated in the accom-
panying sketch of a celt inserted in a mortise in a handle of hard red
wood and found in a cave in Caicos or Turk’s Island, by Mr. George J.
Gibbs, and kindly lent by him to be cast and engraved. (Fig. 11.)
A still more interesting and precious relic, from the same locality, and
found by the same gentleman, is that given in figure 12, which repre-
sents a celt in the handle, the whole being gracefully carved out of a
single piece of jadeite.

A beautiful ax, similarly carved from a single piece, is figured and
described in Jones’s Aboriginal Remains of Tennessee.—(Smithsonian

- Contributions, No. 259.)

Those interested in comparative archeology will take great pleasure
in comparing these with figures 91, 92, and 93, of Evans’s Ancient Stone
Implements. This mode of hafting suggests that these oval-sectioned
celts, set in their handles with the edge in a line with the haft, were
rather battle-axes than industrial tools, although this is mere conjecture.

The celts in the Latimer collection vary in section from cirenlar to oblong
elliptical, in length from 1.75 to 12 inches, in width from .75 to 6.5
inches. The chord of the edge is often oblique to the axis of the stone.
Some have almost semicircular edges; of others the edge is nearly a
straight line. A few are so unique as to deserve especial mention. The
figures in the margin represent, throughout this paper, the number of
the specimen in the ethnological collection of the National Museum.

16893. A large, mottled, greenish, flat celt, pointed at the butt, frac-
tured. Length 11.2, width 6.5, thickness 1.95 inches. Mr. Gibbs also
sends drawings of two large flat celts, similar to this one and the three
following, trom Turk’s and Caicos Islands. The occurrence of these
large polished celts over so wide an area, corresponding in fact to that of
the Caribs in Columbus’s day, coupled with the frequent allusions of
Herrera, Peter Martyr, and others to dug-out canoes, shaped like trays,
and capable of holding from one to one hundred and fifty persons, leads
Stab. THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES.

us to a conjecture as to their use, and reminds us of the Indians of the
northwest coast, where similar crafts are still made with stone imple-
ments. Some of the different methods of hafting are illustrated in Dr.
Charles Rau’s. work on the archeological collection in the National
Museum.—(Smithsonian Contributions, No. 287, Appendix.)

15899. A large, dark-bluish, flat celt, with the butt abruptly rounded
and edged; that is to say, both ends are edged nearly alike. The sides
are quite sharp and nearly parallel; length 9.34; width 5.5, and thick-
ness 1.75 inches. Fig. 13.

16900. A dark slate-colored flat celt, pointed at the batt. Length
10.8, width 5.2, and thickness 1 inch.

16901. A reddish-brown flat celt, pointed at the butt. Length 9.5,
width 5, thickness 1.55 inches. .

There is a flat celt in the collection from Guiana, from which the fore-
going large celts cannot be distinguished.

16978. Asmall, almost cylindrical, greenish-black celt, highly polishes
and having two ae edges, one at either end.

16965. A small polished celt, with the blade very much expanded at
the edge.

16868. A dark reddish specimen, rough and pecked on the sides, 2 AS
if to aid in hafting.

16974. A small and beantifully polished, nearly cylindrical celt, edged
at both ends, bat the edges are not in the same plane. (Fig. 14.)

16931. A dark-greenish celt, with flat sides, and the butt quite
squarely truncated. (Fig. 15.)

16938. A flat-sided celt, somewhat resembling No. 16931.

16870. This specimen has a rough indentation around it, as if to aid
in hafting.

8031 .A large, dark-red, ed broad-edged celt, with a
deep encircling groove, asif for a handle. This is the only stone celt or

ax that furnishes a clear example of grooving for any purpose. (Fig. 16.)

17039. A flat paddie-shaped stone, grayish-white, the blade circular,
the handle slender and tapering. (Fig. 17.)

SMOOTHING AND SHARPENING STONES.

It is to be understood, in speaking of these objects as smoothing-
stones, that we do not know what they were used to smooth, or whether
they were used for any such purpose. We use the name for conveni-
ence of classification, and shall readily change it as soon as their
function is ascertained.

17034. A polished flat stone, subtriangular, one side being quite
straight, the other flaring out near the base. The lower edge is slightly
curved, about half an inch wide, and exceedingly smooth.

17035. This is very similar to the last named, but the sides are more
symmetrical. (lig. 18.)

Pe 2g * eg eee: 2 29h, Lege eet eee

te at eh 6 Oe
j

mi

.

Fic. 14.--Two-edged polished

Fig. 13.—Massive polished celt. Nearly 4. celéce

} Fic. 16.—Grooved celt, 4.

Fic. 15.—Flat-sided truncated celt
aI

Fay mr)

9098-5 AIT JOOUTG—

zis

Fic. 17.—Paddle-shaped celt.

4

By SES

F1G. 19.—Boot-shaped smoothing-stone. 4.

Fic. 21.—Animal-shaped stone stool. 4.
,
4

ETHNOLOGY. 375

17036. Similar to the last two, but more triangular; the sides are
scarcely curved.

- 17037. A somewhat pestle-shaped specimen, but twisted like a horn ;
the shaft is crooked, the lowest part bulbous, and the bottom tolerably
smooth. Rougher than the foregoing. ’

17038. A boot-shaped specimen, the top bent forward and pointed, and
the toe coiled upward. It is somewhat smooth on the sole. (Fig. 19.)

17055~57. These are small slender stones, such as are called whet-
stones or sharpening stones by writers on stone implements.

MEALING IMPLEMENTS.

These will be treated of as the upper and the nether millstone, or simply

‘as the upper and the lower stone. They are nearly or quite all of vol-

canic material, and resemble in shape and wear implements used for
grinding various kinds of food in Central America. Some of the pestles
still have a burnished, oily appearance on the lower end, as if caused by
the preparation of chocolate, for whicb, probably, many of them were
employed. The various vegetable substances used by the natives of the
West Indies are given in Herrera, and are referred to frequently in
Irving’s Columbus. These stones are so characteristic of this region
that I will describe each one briefly.

Upper stone.

17031. A short bell-shaped pestle, having a double ridge and an in-
tervening furrow around the upper end.

17032. A rough bell-shaped pestle, with a rude haman face on the
top. Precisely similar ones are found in San Domingo, (Flint Chips,
pp- 227, 230, 231;) buat, in many cases, the human face is replaced by
the head of an animal. (Fig. 20.)

17040. A light-yellowish stone, in the shape of a cross, probably a
worn-out pestle. The top is notched.

17066. A small almost-cylindrical pestle.

17067. A conoid, oblong pestle.

17068. A very small conoid pestle, 1.5 in. in height.

17073. A napiform muller, side cylindrical; diameter 4 in., height
1.5 in.

17074. Anoblong flat stone, resembling a muller, and having a groove
all around the side like a hat brush.

77110. A massive, light-colored, polished limestone pestle; the base
is almost cylindrical, but the upper part is a four-sided prism.

Lower stone.

17061. A small, hemispherical, bowl-shaped mortar, with a swelling

or prominence at one point on the rim.
17062. A small, oblong, dish-shaped mortar, deeply concave.
376 THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES.

17063. A boat-shaped mortar or dish, sharp at each end, deeply con-
cave. A very beautiful and unique specimen. Length 16.5 in., width 8.2
in., height 4.75 in.

17064. A semi-ovoid, deeply concave, tray-shaped mortar, 17 by il
inches.

17065. Small cup-shaped mortar, similar to the paint mortars from the
United States. Herrera repeatedly mentions the painting of their
bodies black, white, and red by the Indians of the West Indies.

17077. Asmall four-legged metate, slightly dished in the middle, but flat-
bottomed. This specimen resembles Fig. 8, on page 229 of Flint-Chips,
aud may have been a stool, the wavy elevated rim precluding the use of a
muller, and a flat bottom rendering the use of a pestle quite improbable.
I shall speak of this subject more fully a little further on.

17078. A massive three-legged metate, of a porous, dark, volcanic

stone. It is slightly sagged and depressed on one edge, and elevated at
one end. They have a backward slant, so as to resist the pressure of
the person operating at the higher end. Length of slab 21 inches,
width 14 inches.

17079. A massive three-legged metate, similar to the foregoing, but
the surface is nearer a plane. The dimensions are the same.

STOOLS.

The single specimen under this head, (No. 17076,) Fig. 21, has been
classed, hitherto, with metates. It is a thin and deeply-sagged slab of
grayish sandstone, and stands on four short legs. Atthe less elevated end
three projections are neatly carved to represent the head and fore-feet
of a turtle. The eyes are deeply sunken as if for the insertion of pearls
or jewels. The higher end is abruptly elevated about six inches, and is
crossed by a band ornamented with a scroll which occurs with certain
modifications on other objects. There is a decided warping or twist in
the upper surface, the ornamentation of which, as suggested by Dr.
Rau, renders the idea of its having been a metate doubtful. In Fig.
22 another view is given of the stool, which shows some of its char-
acters to better advantage. The following quotation from Stephens’s
translation of Herrera (Herrera, Stephens’s Translation, i, 55) fully es-
tablishes its use: ‘*When the ship was ready to sail (from Cuba) the
Spaniards returned on the 5th of November with three of the native In-
dians, saying they had traveled twenty-two leagues and found a village
of fifty houses, and that they contained about 1,000 persons, because
a whole generation lived in a house; and that the prime men came out
to meet them, led them by the arms, and lodged them in one of-the new
houses, causing them to sit down on seats made of a solid piece of wood in the
shape of a beast with very short legs and the tail held up, the head before with
eyes and ears of gold, and that all the Indians sat about them on the
ground.” This object being of stone, there might still have been room

Mh i ltrs a anna Apa eee ye
Fic. 22.—Upper view of Fig 21.

Fic. 23.—Wooden stool from a cave in Turk’s and Caicos Islands. +.

“SPULIS]T SOILD PUL SAINT, WOIZ [00}8 VAPOOAA—"FZ “DIST

i

9

qi)!

(|
"
Dy

Se

SS

eS

——_ ss
SSS SS

=<
= =} | Sse=\ 5

=a SS SSS FH =

Frc. 26.—Ornament in relief on the
upper part of Fig. 23. 4,

Fig. 25.—Upper view of Fig. 24

Fic. 27.—Head-ornament of Fig. 24. 4.

eae ee 2

ETHNOLOGY. ote

for doubt but for the timely arrival of confirmatory evidence while the
engraving was being executed. Prof. William M. Gabb has sent to the
National Museum, with the joint compliments of himself and Mr. D. R.
Frith, of Turk’s and Caicos Islands, two wooden stools, fac-similes of
those spoken of in Herrera. (Figs. 23 and 24.) Fig. 25 is an attempt
to restore Fig. 24, which has been mutilated, not by the tooth of
time, but by the hatchet of the vandal. These objects are made
of a very hard dark wood, and are just fitted to an ordinary man
when reclining as in a hammock, from which the pattern of a stool is
possibly derived. These two specimens were found in a cave. The
stone stool described above is a fac-simile, except in size, of those sent
by Professor Gabb, the scrolled ornamental band across the stone stool
being represented in one of the wocden ones by an elaborate scroll-
work in relief. The mathematical accuracy in this and other drawings
is no exaggeration of the originals, In the wooden objects, as in the
stone one, the eyes excavated for precious stones are plainly visible,
but the jewels are wanting. (igs. 26, 27, and 28.) Fig. 26 is the
tail ornament of Fig. 23, and is somewhat effaced. Figs. 27 and 28
are the head ornament and scrolled band of Fig. 24. The use of
these stools of state is frequently mentioned by the historians of the
voyages of Colunibus. (Irving’s Columbus, i, 194, 234.) One of the
proviuees of Cuba paid tribute in them. (Stephens’s Herrera, i, 63, 74.)
Especial thanks are due to Professor Gabb and Mr. Frith for the timely
opportunity of illustrating what was previously a rather dark ‘text to
me.
©PHEROIDAL AND DISCOIDAL STONES.

It is impossible to tell the uses to which these stones were put.
It is something to know that they show signs of use, and testify that in
the Antilles, as elsewhere in the world, nature has gently led her child-
ren by the hand, furnishing them with their simplest implements ready-
made, and thereby imparting the first lessons of civilization.

17046. A small kidney-shaped pebble, with natural perforations.

17034. A small egg-shaped bowlder, similar to those used by the Da-
kota Indians ip their flail-like war-clubs.

17058. A spindle-shaped pebble, covered with a deposit of iron. It
seems to have been used in grinding paint.

17069. A spherical stone, diameter 3.6 inches.

17070. A similar stone, 2.75 inches in diameter.

17071. A rough spheroidal stone.

17072. A discoidal granite pebble.

17131. A massive spheroidal stone, diameters 8.95 and 10.2 inches. A
small perforated disk of soft material like soapstone, and carved to re-
semble the spindle-whorls found in various countries is shown in Fig, 29.

BEADS.

17042. An oblong syenite bead, not perforated.
17043. A similar bead to the foregoing. The hole not coming out as
378 THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES.

designed, a second perforation was attempted. This is a fine specimen
of perforation, 2.4 bylinch. (Fig. 30.)

17044. A small oblong bead, unfinished, showing the strize of the
preliminary grinding.

17053. A string of seventy small chalcedony beads, about the size of
peas. They are quite perfectly rounded and perforated—some of them in
two directions. This is the most remarkable sample of aboriginal stone
polishing and drilling that has ever come under the observation of the
writer. It is exceedingly doubtful whether another collection of so many
witnesses to savage patience and skill has been found anywhere in one
specimen. We are here reminded of the “eight hundred beads of a
certain stone called ciba, given by Guacanagari to Columbus on his
second voyage.”

1705960. Slender cylinders of quartz, 5.5 by .6 inches:

AMULETS AND STONE IMAGES.

Very little is known of the religion of the Indians living on these
islands. Herrera mentions that a sailor of Columbus reported the seeing
of a man with a white tunic down to his feet on the island of Cuba,
(Stephens’s Herrera, i, 131,) and that an old Indian reported a cacique
of a certain island who was clad like one of the Catholic priests.
(Stephens’s Herrera, i, 134.) Two chapters (Herrera, Dec. 1, Book iii,
chap. 3, 4,) are devoted to the customs and worship of the Caribs, but
little light shines from them upon our stone images. As in many other
instances, an accurate description may prove to be the key of the enigma.

17047. A small lizard-like figure of a black slaty material. The head
and tail are broken off; the feet are doubled against the body, repre-
sented as covered with scales. Frequent references are made to lizards
and alligators in the old chronicles. (Fig. 31.)

17048, 749, and 50. Small kneeling figures made of white marble. The
arms and legs are represented as pinioned back and the shoulder-blades
are perforated for suspension. These and the two following seem to
have been worn as amulets. (Tig. 32.)

17051. A small kneeling human figure, having the back of the neck
perforated. The face is that of an animal, although it is somewhat mu-
tilated and indistinct. (lig. 33.)

17052. A small erect human figure of green jadelike material, per-
forated through the head from ear to ear. (Fig. 54.)

The inhabitants of Hispaniola, on the authority of Friar Roman, (Ir-
ving’s Columbus, I, 390,) had small images of their gods which they bound
about their foreheads when they went to battle.

The larger stone images or pillar-stones seem to be out of place, when
ranged by the side of the elaborate polished objects. They are strikingly
similar in rudeness and in general design to some brought from Central
America by the Hon. E. G. Squier. The only feature that seems to rise
above the most savage simplicity of design is the fact that in some of

;
t
a
<
s
ta

©

>
G.%

?.
+ a

¢,

">.
76

“2

20)
i.

5€ -.
TRS

Fig. 30.—Perforated Fig. 31.—Lizard-shaped
carved stone. 3. bead. 4. Amulet. 4.

€ ts

Se tose

Fig. 32.—Amulet of Fic. 33.—Amulet. 3. Fic. 34.—Amulet of
marble. 4. greenish stone, 4.
Wa ig De
Pees On

VE AG mee nid

%)

5,

ETHNOLOGY. 379

those from both districts a human face is carved on the stomach of the
human figure represented by the whole stone. According to Friar .
Roman, (quoted in Irving’s Columbus, I, 390,) each cacique had a temple
or house apart where an image of his Zemi, or tutelary deity, carved of
wood or stone, or shaped of clay or cotton, generally in some monstrous
form, was preserved.

17125. An irregular slab, having a rude face in relief on one side.
Seven parallel lines extend from the chin downward, as if to imitate a
beard; 16.1 by 7.5 inches.

17126. A fish-shaped bowlder, 28.5 inches long. On the narrow end
is a sitting human figure, having the hands clasped under the chin and
the feet doubled up with the soles together. On the stomach is a circle,
seeming to have been designed to represent a human face.

17127. A boot shaped slab, on the broad end of which is a rude human
face, crowned with a chevroned band across the forehead.

17128. An irregular kite-shaped slab, bearing on one side a human
face. On the right side of the face are two hieroglyphic marks, the one
in the shape of a heart, and the other resembling a cleaver with two
small furrows running from the edge. Now and then a heart-shaped
stone implement turns up in our collection; but we are not to suppose
that the American aborigines used this to symbolize the human heart
itself or the domain of Cupid.

17129. A rude slab of yellow stone, 28.5 by 13 to 10 by 6 inches. On
the flat face is a human figure very roughly furrowed out, bearing on
its stomach an inverted face. Ona the top of the slab a circle is furrowed
out. The carving on this and the foregoing slabs was apparently done
by pecking out the depressions with stone chisels, leaving the eyebrows,
nose, and lips in intaglio.

17132. An ingenious figure of a human female head and breasts in
coral; the natural spheroidal swellings on the material forming the head
and breasts.

17142. A stalactite bearing a rude carving of a human face.

17150. A fragment of a pillar-stone, the face of a man deeply carved
in its surface.

17281. A rude pillar-stone, 41 inches in height, the upper part being
a kneeling figure with its face upturned, its huge mouth open, and its
hands clasped under the chin. Two circles are carved on the back.

MAMMIFORM SIONES.

These strange and beautiful objects present, in more than one-half of
the specimens, the image of a human figure lying on the stomach,
with the face more or less upturned, the mouth open, and the coun-
tenance wearing a tortured look. The other end of the stone rep-
resents the lower extremities of the body, so doubled up as to expose
the soles of the feet against the rump. On the back of the pros-
trate form is a conoid prominence, beautifully rounded up, straight

a
380 THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES.

or slightiy concave in outline in front, a little convex in the rear,
. Sweiling out on one side slightly more than on the other, and descending
more or less lower than the top of the head and of the rump so as to
form anterior and posterior furrows. . The whole appearance cannot fail
to remind the student of the legend of Typhoeus killed by Jupiter with
a flash of lightning, and buried beneath Mount AStna. Though no one
could use this resemblance as an argument in favor of early communi-
cation between the Greeks and the primitive people of Porto Rico, yet
the Typhoean legend has been found in many lands, and it is quite possi-
sible that a similar myth may have been devised in various places to ac-
count for voleanic or mountainous phenomena. The Antilles are all of
volcanic origin, as the material of our stone implements plainly shows.
I am indebted to Prof. 8S. F. Baird for the suggestion that, from the sea,
the island of Porto Rico rises in an abrupt and symmetrical manner,
highly suggestive of the mound in the mammiform stones, so that
with the aid of a little imagination we may see in these objects the
genius of Porto Rico in the figure of a man, a parrot, an alligator, an
albatross, or some other animal precious in these regions where larger
animals are not abundant, supporting the island on its back. The Ty-
phoean figure undergoes many modifications in the series examined, and
doubtless, if the specimens in other collections could be placed by the
side of these, many more interesting results could be reached. The
human face is often replaced by the head of a bird or of some other ani-
mal, but the feet when distinguishable are always human. The bottom
of the stone is in striking contrast with the upper surface. While the
latter is nearly always exquisitely polished, the former is always very
rough, either from use or never having been finished. The bottom is
sometimes flat, sometimes convex, but most frequently sagged up in
the middle and hollowed out into a cymbiform cavity. In such eases
the object rests unsteadily upon the chin and knees, the under side of
which is polished by wear. In quite a number of them the prostrate man
cannot be clearly made out, his head and lower extremities being pre-
sented by simple swellings or knobs. <A variety of details is noticeable,
which will appear in the following description of the objects, since I have
been unable to tind two precisely alike.

16980. A highly polished specimen of marble. There is a wide head-
band across the forehead of the figure, ornamented with chevrons and
hemispherical cavities. The right side is the fuller, the bottom concave
and rough, and the apex slightly battered. This batteriug is doubtless
an accident, as none of the others exhibit it. Length 10.3, width 4.5,
height 5.3 inches. (Fig. 35.)

16981. This specimen is of a light-bluish material. The head and
breast of an albatross replace the human head. On either side of the
breast and on either side of the front of the mamma is a cup-cutting.
The furrows at the base of the mamma in the front and rear are wide
and deep. The bottom is warped up and hollowed out. Length 11.95,
width 4,5, and height 4.9 inches. (Fig. 36.)

Fic. 33.—Mammiform stone, Fic. 39.—)
frout view. 4.

ammiform stone, upper view. 4.
ETHNOLOGY. 381

16982. This specimen is of a dark volcanic material. The face and
feet are both well turned up. The anterior and the posterior furrows are
deep, the left side buiged out, and the bottom slightly hollowed.
Length 11.6, width 4.3, and height 5.65 inches. (Fig. 37.)

16983. A rough specimen made of dark voleanic stone. The head and
feet are close to the mamma, leaving very slight intervening furrows.
The bottom is hollowed out. Length 7.3, width 3.6, and height 3.7
inches.

16984. A large specimen, made of white marble. Across the forehead
is a chevroned band, the triangular spaces of the chevrons being filled
with straight lines parallel to the lines of the chevron consecutively.
The right side is fuller than the left, and the bottom slightly hollowed.
Length 12.3, width 5.9, and height 6.35 inches.

16985. A dark volcanic stone, broken. The head has a high ridge
running above the forehead, making a deep furrow between it and the
mamma. The bottom is quite flat. Length 11.1, width 5.5, and height
7.7 inches.

16986. A rough specimen, made of volcanic stone. The face and feet
are much flattened out, and the anterior and posterior furrow are broad
and shallow. The left side is fuller than the right. The mamma is
slightly winged, or angular, on the sides, front, and rear. The bottom
is nearly flat, and very rough. Length 8, width 3 55, height 3.8 inches.

16987. A dark-colored specimen, of volcanic material. The head is
grotesque and high-ridged, making the front furrow deep. Across the
thighs isa chevroned band. The feet are twisted around so as to bring
the toes against the rump. The right side is fuller than the left. The
bottom is warped up and hollowed out. There are four shallow cylin-
drical depressions on the mamma on a level with the furrows, one on
either side of the anterior and posterior portions. Length 11.65, width
4.6, height 4.05. inches. (Fig. 38.)

16989. A very smooth bluish-gray specimen. The head resembles
that of a parrot, and there is a perforation through the beak. The
thighs of the prostrate figure are ornamented with chevrons and dotted
circles. The right side is fuller than the left, and the bottom elevated
and hollowed out. Length 6.85, width 3, height 3 inches. Although
this is a very smooth specimen, the different style of illustration adopted
by the artist exaggerates this feature unduly, in comparison with others
which are hatched in the engraving. (Fig. 39.)

16990. A polished specimen, made of mottled black and white marble.
The head and posterior portion are very much flattened out, making the
furrows long and shallow. The left side is fuller than the right, and the
bottom is elevated nearly an inch, and hollowed out. Length 10.75,
width 4.3, height 4.1 inches.

16991. A rough voleanie stone. The human figure is not visible in
this spezimen, the ends being simple knobs, between which and the base
of the mamma there are slight furrows. The bottom is flat. If we were

°
382 THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES.

looking for the evolution of higher from lower forms, this stone would
typify the lowest grade, or possibly the starting-point in the departure
from a conical implement. Length 7.9, width 3.4, and height 4.2 inches.

16992. A light-bluish specimen. The head and feet are quite close to
the mamma, making the furrows narrow and shallow. The right side is
fuller than the left, and the bottom smooth. epee 8.2, width 4,
height 4.45 inches.

16994. A dark, mottled, volcanic stone. The face has been very much
battered by time. There is an elevated band across the forehead, mak-
ing the furrows narrow and deep. The right side is fuller than the left,
and the bottom elevated and hollowed out. Length 7.95, width 3.4,
height 4 inches.

16695. A light-blue voleanic stone. The furrows are almost wanting,
and, as in a specimen previously mentioned, the feet are reversed. The
bottom is very roughly hollowed out. Length 5.6, width 2.4, height
3.6 inches.

16996. This specimen is made of yellowish white marble. The fur-
rows are broad and shallow. The right side is fuller than the left, and
the bottom hollow. The plane of the bottom is also twisted or warped,
due probably to the original form of the stone. Length 108, width
4.6, height 4.55 inches. |

16998. A dark voleanic specimen. The head-band abuts on the mam-
ma, leaving a very slight furrow in front, but the posterior furrow is
deeper. On the sides of the mamma are cup-cuttings. The bottom is
elevated and hollow. Length, 6.15, width 3.2, height 2.7 inches.

17000. Of mottled marble. The head fosertiids that of a hog or pec-
cary, but is grotesque. The feet are human; the furrows are broad aud
deep; the left side is fuller than the right, and the bottom is deeply
hollowed. Length 12.55, width 5.5, and height 5.3 inches. (Fig. 40.)

17001. A smooth specimen, made of volcanic material. The furrows
~ are broad and deep, the right side swelled out, and the bottom elevated
and hollow. Length 8.55, width 4.15, height 4.4 inches.

17602. A rough specimen, made of marble. The furrows are narrow
and shallow, the left side full, the bottom elevated and slightly hollowed.
This specimen is much weather worn. Length 8.5, width 4, height 4.6
inches.

17003. A fine specimen, made of white marble. The face is well exe-
cuted, the head-band being wide and ornamented with eup-euttings and
frets. The feet are broken off. Instead of a cymbiform cavity in the
bottom, there is a deep cup-cutting, around the border of which is a
perfectly circular furrow. This object has been battered by secondary
use aS a pestle. The dimensions are estimated. Length 12.8,width 4.4,
height 3.75 inches.

17004, Of a rough volcanic material. The head resembles that of a
hog or peccary. The furrows are deep. There are two deep cup-cuttings
at the feet. The left side is full and the bottom elevated. Length 9.65,
width 4.4, height 3.5 inches.

; aus s \ } ui
NAL ae Ra Pasieuhies
PResIaay 00 AMR
Reo hog de AGL BH) 4p
Nate] til ates

s ps
ty ‘ ant
; ath FSi ce it

‘ ayer
n iby SPOR WN"
iy

i) ee

a i
it

Af - ra ; a Srl vei RMY HEA, f
; Die teastee es ATL) A ; ‘ | ‘ P WY, Hate tf

PPMP APS ALOT rye!
Ne ee a Oe
PTs. '6 & oe oe }
i it wl)
a Go er
ath ta al ai

Fic. 40.—Mammiform stone, quarter view. 4.

Fic. 41.—Mammiform stone with owl- Fic. 42.—Highly-polished mammi-
shaped head. 4. form stone. 4.

RUE

FG. 43.—Mammiform stone with Vie. 44.—Mammiform stone, with alligator
frog-like ornament. 4. Y head. 4.

Fic. 45,—Head of a mammiform stone, Fic. 46.—F oot of a mammitorm stone,
upper view. About 4. upper view. 4.

=

ETHNOLOGY. 383

17005. A dark specimen, of voleanic material. The head resembles
that of an owl or parrot. The furrows are deep, the right side full, and
the bottom flat. Length 4.95, width 2.9, height 2.95. (Fig. 41.)

17006. A dark specimen, of volcanic material. The head resembles
that of a parrot. The furrows are broad and shallow. The left side is
full, the bottom slightly elevated and hollow. Length 6.3, width 2.55,
height 2.95 inches.

17007. A smooth reddish specimen, of voleanic material. The head
is like that of a peceary. The furrows are wide and shallow, the left
side full, and the bottom well elevated and deeply hollowed. Length
11.35, width 5.2, height 4.8 inches.

17008. A light-colored specimen, of volcanic material. The furrows
are wide and deep, and the bottom hollow. The length 10.9, width 5.3,
height 5.5 inches.

17009. A small mottled specimen, of dark voleanic stone. The face is
slashed with deep lines. The furrows are deep, the right side full, and
the bottom pecked in the middle and worn quite smooth at the ends.
Length 5.8, width 2.1, height 2.2 inches.

17010. Ahighly polished specimen, made of a dark green stone, similar
to the material of the most beautiful celts. The ends and top taper out
finger-like. The human face is carved on the front of the mamma.
The bottom is elevated and roughened, but not hollowed. This is a
highly finished and unique specimen, departing quite widely from the
typical form, and resembling no other in the collection. (Fig. 42.)

17011. A curious specimen, made of mottled flinty limestone. The
projecting ends are entirely wanting. The front of the mamma or cone
exhibits a grotesque human face. The rear is carved to represent a
frog, whose nose forms the apex of the stone, and whose back and hind
legs, drawn up, fill the remaining surface. The fore legs pass down the
sides of the cheeks and under the lower jaw of the human face in front.
This is traly a marvel of aborigina! art, and may be set down as the
best specimen of this class in the collection. (ig. 43.)

17012. A small specimen, of white marble. The grotesque head
resembles that of an alligator. The feet, as usual, are human. The
thighs are ornamented with chevrons and circles. The furrows are
narrow and shallow, the left side full, the bottom unusually cymbiform.
Length 4.85, width 2, beight 2.75 inches. (Jig. 44.)

17013. A small smooth specimen, of yellowish marble. This is a
very plain object, without carvings of any kind. Length 2.75, width
1.35, height 2.3 inches.

17014. A small rough specimen, of mottled volcanic material. The
feet are broken off. The furrows are shallow, and the bottom hollowed
out. Length 3.6, width 1.75, height 2.05 inches.

17015. Head of a mamiform stone, of volcanic material.

17017. The head of a mammiform stone, of white marble. The head-
band is ornamented with chevrons and three cup-cuttings. This was
384 THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES.

undonbtedly a very beautiful implement. (Fig. 45.) The absence of
duplicates in such a large collection is somewhat striking, and yet testi-
fies to the richness of fancy in the artists. This figure, however, is
almost identical in material, physiognomy, and the shape and orna-
mentation of the head-band, with the head of number 17003.

17018. The foot of a marble mammiform stone. The feet are finely
expressed ; indeed, they are the best-looking pair of feet in the whole
lot. The thighs are ornamented with chevrons and cup-cuttings. This
may have been the foot of the object to which the foregoing number
was the head, or more probably to the broken specimen described as No.
17003. If not, it is a relic of a very finely wrought implement. (Tig.
46.)

MASKS.

It requires a slight stretch of the imagination to call the objects
included in this class masks. The only ground upon which we do so is
their resemblance to many of the false-faces or masks worn in panto-
mimes. These, of course, never could have had any such use. Three
of them are somewhat similar to the objects just described. The
bottoms are hollowed out, there are furrowed depressions at the base of
the prominence, and the mammiform elevation is grotesquely observed,
being replaced by a face, the Aztek nose forming the apex of the stone.
The Typhoean figure is sometimes present.

17988. Mask of gray volcanic material. The head and foot are
simple knobs. The forehead and cheeks are furrowed and the bottom
elevated and very hollowed. Length 8.65, width 4.8, height 6.25 inches.
Fig. 47.)

17993. Mask of mottled voleanic stone. The ends are simply rounded
and the bottom hollow.

16997. Mask of a reddish-brown volcanic stone. The prostrate man
is present, the mouth of the mask being toward bis head.

Five of the masks, 17020, 17021, 17023, 17024, 17025, are more or less
grotesque human faces, with cleat-like projections on the back, scarcely
admitting of a doubt that they were designed for fastening to a handle
or pole. (Fig. 48.) Indeed, if we were allowed to follow up the clew,
these cleat-like projections might throw much light upon the furrows
found at the base of the mamme of the mammiform stones, hinting
that these, too, might have served in some way or other as insignia or
club-heads. But where all is conjecture we shall have to possess our
souls in patience.

Three of the masks, 17029, 17030, 17031, are flat kite-shaped stones
with the human face carved partly in relief on one side. (Fig. 49.)
The following table gives the dimensions in inches and decimals:

17029. Length 5.1, width 4.15, thickness 2 inches.

17030. Length 7, width 4.45, thickness 1.85 inches.

17031. Length 5.9, width 3.75, thickness 1.35 inches.

There is one mask, discoidal in form, from the periphery of which two —

|
|
Fig. 47.—Profile of mammiform mask. About }.

HUN
A ane

HAM

Fic. 42.—Mask with projections for Fic. 49.—F lat kite-shaped
attachment. 4. mask. 4.

Fic. 51.—Right-shouldered massive collar. 4.

Fic. 52.—Gourd-shaped panel of a massive collar, with its ornament. 3.

Oe
ae) ea ee ae

ETHNOLOGY. 385

cylindrical knobs proceed, looking, again, very much like attachments
for a handle. 17022 is a very rude mask of marble.

COLLARS.

The objects commonly called collars receive their name from their
resemblance to horse-collars, and not from any knowledge we have of
their use. There were thirty-five of them in the Latimer collection,
but some were exchanged and sent away before this description was
written. Four of them are yet in the rough state—so rough, in fact,

that we cannot positively affirm that they were destined for collars,

(Fig. 50.) None of the characteristic marks of the collars are visible.
Assuming this as their probable end, they serve to show what an im-
mense amount of Jabor it must have taken to reduce a stone of such
great size and hardness to the slender and graceful finished object. The
accompanying table gives their dimensions in inches:

= = = = 7s
e. a. Se So. og
ag ad as aa eo
Number. & Bp B tp KS hcg Ba
2a og oa O-m pd
Az a, Ee alle ae
R I 3) 4 jee fx

9, 5)]) 15.3 7 4.55

10.2 16.9 7 5.5

8.4 17.7 (Ae 5.3

11 17 6.5 3.9

Of those that are finished there are two classes—the massive oval,
and the slender oblique-ovate, or pear-shaped collars. The latter are
far more highly polished and ornamented than the former, and some of
the ornamental patterns on the massive forms are reproduced but more
elaborated on the slender variety, notably the gourd-shaped ridge sur-
rounding the panels. One of these objects is figured in “ Flint-Chips,”
p. 231, but it is either wrongly drawn or represents another class

entirely different from any in the Latimer collection. Another is said
_ to be engraved in Mem. de la Soc. du Nord, containing Mr. C. Rafn’s

report on the “Cabinet d’Antiquitées Américaines 4 Copenhagen, 1858,”

but I have not seen it. In Scribner’s Monthly, August, 1875, are four
- woodcuts of collars pretty faithfully drawn. Both classes are marked
_ by the presence of a projection or prominence resembling a knot on the

outside of the upper limb of the circumference. This projection, always

_ midway between the anterior and the posterior margin, is sometimes on

the right side and sometimes on the left. This circumstance gives rise
to two subclasses, the right-shouldered and the left-shouldered. The

other marks which, by their peculiar forms, or by their presence or ab-
sence, give individuality to the different specimens are: the shoulder ;
the shoulder-ridge, or fillet; the boss, or swelling at the bottom; the

right panel; the left panel; the panel ornament (always most elaborate
on the side opposite the shoulder); the marginal prominences of the
shouldered side; the panel border, or scroll; and the marginal ridge

S25
and furrow. The marks will be better understood by the accompanying
figures 51, 53, 55,59. The material of which they are all made is a
voleanic stone of different color and texture. 4

386 THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES.

1. Right-shouldered massive collars.

17104. The shoulder resembles closely a knot of a tree, and about six
inches below there is another swelling as though the knot entering above
came out at this point. There is no transverse ridge beneath the shoul-
der. The right panel is a plain moon-shaped chamfer pecked on the
stone. The left panel is a gourd-shaped space inclosed in a bead-like
ridge, and has its wide end extending quite around the bottom of the
collar to the chamfer so as to form a quasi-boss.

17107. The shoulder of this one is inverted bell-shaped. The shoulder
ridge is a transverse swelling. The right panel is a parallel-sided cham- |
fer. The left panel is gourd-shaped and ornamented with herring-bone
furrows. The bottom of the collar is very much enlarged by the lower
Margin of this gourd-shaped panel. (Fig. 51.)

17108. The shoulder is bell-shaped, and beneath it is a narrow trans-
verse ridge uniting at its extremities with the marginal ridges, which

-extend quite around the upper half of the collar. The right panel is an
oval chamfer. The left panel is gourd-shaped, and is ornamented with
lozenges, chevrons, and triangles, prettily designed to fill up the space.
(Fig. 52.) This is an exquisite specimen of design and execution, and
as well as many others already examined, and to be examined, indicates
marked progress in the division of labor.

17109. The shoulder is a mere swelling, without any definite outline,
and the shoulder ridge is wanting altogether. . The right panel is a slight
chamfer, the left panel a deep-furrowed triple chevron. A rather plain

object.
2. Left-shouldered massive collars.

17105. The shoulder of this collar is a mere swelling out, as it were,
of the stone. The shoulder-ridge is likewise a transverse elevation
beneath the shoulder. The left panel is a parallel-sided chamfer extend-
ing from this transverse swelling quite to the bottom of the collar, where
it is bounded by a transverse ridge or quasi-boss. The right panel
is the gourd-shaped pattern ornamented by an oblong spiral ridge.
The gourd pattern in’ this and other massive collars reappears in the
slender variety, where it is represented by a somewhat quadrilateral
panel having a looped ridge extending beyond the anterior margin.

SLENDER OBLIQUE-OVATE COLLARS.

The slender collars, which compose the greater part of the set, are
more highly elaborated in every respect than the others, and differ from
them so much in weight and finish as to suggest a difference or function.
(Figs. 53, 55, 59.) Where so little is known concerning them, however,
this is more than we can affirm.

a.
Fig. 55.—Right-shouldered slender
collar. +. collar. 4.

Fic. 54.—Left pancl, panel-ornament, panel-border, and boss of a right-shouldered
slender collar. About 4.

Neen Fe > UT Bt peaw nl il os mela! ate Alans ni ee Se ee ee ee eee i
ETHNOLOGY. 387
1. Right-shouldered slender collars.

- 8029. (Fig. 53.) The shoulder is distinctly bell-shaped, having a
pecked chamfer on its outward portion. The transverse shoulder-ridge
is quite prominent. The right or plain panel is inclosed in a, quadrilat-
eral ridge which bears on the middle of its anterior and posterior sides
a very marked swelling. This is a constant feature on the anterior and
posterior margins of the panel on the shouldered side, whenever this
panel is present. The face of the panel is iudented with an oval depres-
sion or cup-cutting. The left panel is bounded by a border-ridge, and
ornamented by a large ring in the center, on either side of which a hu-
man leg drawn up is represented. (Fig. 54.) The anterior margin of this
panel, which I have called the panel border, is a double scroll.

80303. The shoulder is well expressed and the sboulder-ridge wide.
The right panel is enclosed in a broad ridge with the swellings on the
margins, and has a plain center. The left panel is inclosed in a double
ridge and furrow looped and perforated at its upper anterior corner.
This is also quite plain, although the double scroll is found on the mar-
gin. This and the foregoing specimen were given to the National Mu-

- seum some years ago.

17080. (Fig. 55.) The shoulder is bell-shaped, and the encircling
shoulder-ridge abuts upon the shoulder so that no line separates them.
Theright panelisinclosed within aridge with the swellings, and hasan oval
cavity pecked deeply into its central space. The left panel is inclosed
by a ridge with the loop in its upper anterior corner, and is ornamented
by an elaborate winged sun-pattern. (Fig. 56.) The panel border is a
wide scroll.

17085. The shoulder is quite prominent, its upper circular face rolled
outward. The transverse shoulder-ridge is carried all the way around
the stone. Theright panelis inclosed by a ridge with the prominences,
and is rough-pecked over its interior space. The left panel is inclosed
by a ridge, and was formerly well ornamented, but it is now nearly worn
off, whether by use or time I cannot say. The panel border is a delicate
double scroll, having two of the volutes perforated. The boss, which
in most of the slender collars is an immense swelling, oblique to the
plane of the stone, is in this specimen rolled out like a pouting lip.

17087. The shoulder is bell-shaped. The transverse shoulder-ridge
borders three sides of the shoulder—that is, it turns up along the mar-
gins of the collar. The right panel bas the ridge and prominences but
no ornament. The left panel is inclosed in a ridge looped on the upper
anterior margin. The panel border is slightly scrolled, but much worn.
The boss is ridged up on the inside of the specimen.

17088. The shoulder is a mere swelling with a slight transverse ridge,
The prominences are present on the ridge of the right panel, which is orna-
mented with a shallow oval depression. There is no ornament on the
left panel. This is a very plain specimen and rudely polished.
388 THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES.

17089. The shoulder is bell-shaped, and the shoulder-ridge passes
quite around the stone. The right panel is inclosed within a ridge with
the prominences; its ornament is an oval depression whose edges are
slightly in relief. The left panel is inclosed in a looped ridge, and is
without ornament. The upper transverse portions of the panel-ridges
encircle the stone as in Fig. 55.

17091. The shoulder is bell-shaped and grooved. The right panel has
the prominences and oval depression. The leit panel is wanting.

17092. Shoulder bell-shaped, and the transverse ridge beneath it encir-
cles the stone. Theright panel having the marginal prominencesisrough-
ened on its face and ornamented with a ring and dot. The left panel
is much worn. The panel border is a double scroll. The boss and
upper transverse panel-ridges encircle the stone.

17099. (2). A fragment containing boss and panels. The right panel
with the marginal prominenuces and oblong oval depression. The left

panel has a perforation in the marginal loop of the inclosing ridge.

2. Left-shouldered slender collars.

8028. The shoulder a slight rough swelling, without the subjacent
transverse ridge. The left panel has the marginal prominences and
a double chamfer on its face. The right panel is wanting, a simple
transverse ridge marking the upper extremity, from which the stone
gradually expands toward the boss.

8030. The shoulder is bell-shaped and well rolled out. The transverse
shoulder-ridge is wanting, but the furrows on either side of the shoulder
converge gradually, and give the appearance of the overlapping of the
two ends of a hoop. The left panel is inclosed in a double ridge with
the marginal prominences and is ornamented with a deep oval depres-
sion. The right panel is inclosed in a ridge with a perforated loop on
its upper anterior margin, and is ornamented with chevrons, whose tri-
angular spaces are filled with incised lines parallel to the sides of the
chevron consecutively. The panel border is a double scroll with a
small human face represented between the scrolls. It has been said
that the human face is not seen on the collars. This is the only excep-
tion in this collection if the fragment to be mentioned next is not a por-
tion of a collar. (Fig. 57.)

17026. A fragment containing the boss and a part of a right panel.
The panel ornament is a large-featured human face. The end of this
fragment is notched and perforated, as if for secondary use. (Fig. 58.)
J am not positive about thisfragment. If it is not a portion of a collar,
it is a class by itself; and if it is, it is not like any other in the class
as represented by the Latimer collection. Two objects somewhat simi-
lar are engraved in Scribner’s Magazine for August, 1875, but as I have
not seen the originals I cannot speak with certainty as to the resem-
blance between it and them.

17081. The shoulder is bell-shaped, and hollow on the top. The

ite

os

Fic. 57.—Right panel of a left-shouldered slender collar. 4.

‘

Fig. 58.—Supposed boss and panel of & Fic. 59.—A left-shouldered slender col-
slender collar. 4. lar, showing the shoulder-swelling,
the boss, and the panel-border. +.

Fic. 60.—Right panel and scrolled border of a left-shouldered slender collar. 4.
‘a ETHNOLOGY. 389

‘shoulder-ridge encircles the stone. The left panel has the marginal
_prominences and the oval depression. The right panel is ornamented
_ with lozenges and triangles surrounding a circular depression in the
center. The boss and the transverse panel-ridges encircle the collar.

17082. (Fig. 59.) The shoulder is well set off from the stone, and is sub-
_tended bya very shallow ridge. The left panel has the marginal promi-
nences and oval depression. The right panel is inclosed in a ridge
looped at the upper anterior corner, which is continued to form a part of
the panel marginal scroll. The panel is ornamented with a dotted cir-
cle at each end, inclosed in a sigmoid ridge, the ends of which expand
gracefully to fill the triangular spaces between the sigmoid, the circles,
_ and the border-ridge of the panel. (Fig. 60.) The boss is ridged up on
_ the inside. :
17083. The shoulder is bell-shaped, having its transverse ridge nearly
- encircling. The left panel has the prominences and oval depression.
There isno right panel. The lower end of the specimen is roughly
pecked.

17084. The shoulder is not very prominent and is continuous with
_ the transverse ridge. The left panel with its prominences very plainly
executed. The right panel is a smooth space ineclosed in a ridge which
runs into the boss at the lower corners.

17086. The shoulder well rounded out and winged on the margins, the
shoulder-ridge abutting on the shoulder and encircling the stone. The
left panel has the prominences and a small oval depression. The right
panel is inclosed in a double ridge and furrow, and ornamented with
chevrons and parallel included lines. The panel-border is an elaborate
double scroll, with triglyphs in the center of each.

17094. The shoulder slight and flattened, and abutting on the shoul-
der-ridge. Theleft panel has the prominences and a slight oval depres-
sion. The right panel is a looped ridge ornamented with lozenges and
triangles. The panel-border is a double scroll with small triglyphs.
The boss is ridged on the inside.

17095. The shoulder is bell-shaped, and subtended by a wide and
encircling shoulder-ridge. The left panel has the prominences, and an
- oval chamfer in theeenter. The right panel included in a looped and per-
forated ridge is plain in the center. The panel-border is an elaborate
- double scroll. The transverse panel-ridges and boss encircle the stone,
and the furrows of the panels are repeated on the inside of the collar.
A truly unique and beautiful specimen.

17096. The shoulder is very slight, and has its transverse ridge encir-
cling. The left panel has the prominences and oval depression. The
right panel is an unornamented surface inclosed in a double ridge and
furrow. The transverse panel-ridges and boss encircle the stone.

17098. The shoulder is slight and much flattened, and is subtended

by a narrow shoulder-ridge. The left panel has the marginal promi-
nences and a chamfered interior spave. The right panel is wanting and
the boss small. This is a very rude specimen.
390 THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES.

17099. (1.) A fragment of a collar. The left panel is present and has
the marginal prominences and a smooth interior surface. A short por-
tion of the right panel remaining indicates a plain surface inclosed i in a
ridge looped on the upper anterior corner.

17099. (2.) A fragment of a collar, consisting of a boss and a left panel,
the latter with the prominences and a deep oval depression.

17106. The shoulder is bell-shaped, with cup-cuttings on its sides. The
shoulder-ridge is extended upward along the margins of the shoulder
on either side, and thence quite around to the upper transverse ridge of
the right panel. The left panel has the prominences, and its interior
space smooth. The right panel is smooth and inclosed in a ridge
looped at the upper anterior corner. The panel-border is a double scroll
fretted on the sides with cup-cuttings in the volutes. This is somewhat
transitional in form between the massive and the slender.

Dimensions of the collars in inches.

c) 2 2) (>) ' at
ce re 2 bs = es Stale
oo og 2 2 ye) ~ ae ©
SET AE enn hee ee ee
Bamber. ies) morfess by Seely | ee)" eet
q q qa =m) =| oe ie
S| Bey jes pcs Ole tet oles Ee eaaes
al al a= P=) oa oo oO (3)
A ) H H SI a A A
UOA Ren stree selects palace ees eter c 17.5 14 2.15 Pe} ori 2:3 4 4
aeLO Sie crnietes coteta oe 6 aleintn cians io eeieia- L5 14 ONS: 3.15 CAA) bas) 4 4
MOSS ase couse ene e cose oe bee eee. 17 18) 2.45 2.45 2.45 PLB} 3.8 38
DTG ic Saja jnte diate wis ole's set eSeaes secs 18 14.5 2.8 3.1 Q5, as) 5 5
WHOS te occcce tenses coe eee cre Tee Dee WG) 15 ee ib97) 2.2 2.9 4 4
9029s oo Sot ins eeicce an cas eweakice aes 18.1 11.4 1.4 14 1.35 3.3 1275 3.6
Gla h: Aisce Seg ndonagbosoceeeeEoue ivGa) 12 135 5 IS) 1.4 2.95 A) By it
BOBO Ma aeeoccocent sect eee eae 13 ll 1. 25 nat) dea 33,5) ii eat
i OBObe acces son acie Ueens bee ators 18 12.5 lS pial 1.35 eas) 1.9 3.5
MOB Ta ctrteron fad ecroateee sateen Se toie at nee 13 1. 45 1.9 1. 45 3. 45 2 3: 1
OBB E sees ios sit woe Ge tiatte sic sc 16.8 ib leat 1,25 1, 5D 1.45 3.8 1.8 3. 75
M089 Soca c ccs ke wacwee iene ene: 16 11.2 1.4 1. 45 1.4 2. 45 1.6 2.9
PROG tes conic caselcsoaseateeeccesces 17 by ayes iis} Loo) ile 2.9 als 3.5
POO 2 ars fae Se wt Seats ese 18.7 12.2 1, 45 1555 115) 3.1 2 4.05
Bh OO els sie Sisiwieso injole wiais ae lace a wie lela elec! 15.9 11.6 1,35 1.45 1.45 2, 05 nA 2. 65.
TRUELY) ioe a eee eee eR BS eee CS oe eh BAe. he pena ease ta SND 5 eee 3.8
BO RB rear fanlaoaiscieccemnavsiscc.cie oppo 18. 4 12.3 1.4 1.4 a5) 3.6 1. 65 3.15
MOBO Rte ae ciwnccncacecscoeulae 17.6 1.5 12 ao) 1.5 By 1. 65 Sia
TO a a ae SOROS DOS OEE DOO Eee (eke eee Wate eee nlc acinar Ieee te Ienael: ois a ty eee 3.8
a ly (25 Gaps ets Sa SSS Se a ee 17 12 1.4 1. i a 2.9 1.8 2.9
RUG ee tees eae sinc atic alnccemolciSes ep) 11 a 125) 1.35 2. 85 1.95 3. 25:
MIOESE Mos eee ee saclecrcee skew coced a Wri 11 levee 503 BGh) 2.9 5 yf 3.2
W084. 2 aseb wee cerie ceca tise sie ciate eins 16.4 11. 4 fT iS} 1. 65 2. 85 1.6 3.2
T708GS io Soc 2 cs ccteesetecet en cece ees 17.5 ih eis 1.25 pa ilagr| 3. 2 de ahi)
LINAS ss esa dhe race k ddan sees 15.9 109% 1.2 1. 25 1. 35 2. 85 ii ¢ ae
TIO9D ees oo ead cea aotel ma ontcie sie 17. 95 12 1.4 1. 45 1.6 3.8 1.8 4
MYO9G! sats. feedat cee tceeer eens 16.1 10.9 Ba ls TZ 35 aise 1.8 3.3
POR Se a ha see eee me ate neem 1 ly Bo | 11. 45 i Pea) co iy 5 2,15 ee 2. 95
LY099 (4) ccc cdth Seana scemamene bee de scilicesGertllsctieotoliieeeenen bees acck| aeaee eee S45 ieee 22 3. 15
O09 (2) re cee | ene | oie ee, || Pee | Dec il bagel dhe 3 3.45
WOLOG: Se locccwsn ces eatacdo seers omen 18 13 1% ibarl 2. 05 2. 95 3 4.5
CONCLUSION.

The objects which I have described are all from Porto Rico, and, to-
gether with a collection of interesting antiquities from other parts of
the world, which do not come under my province, were bequeathed to
the Smithsonian Institution by Mr. George Latimer. This generous
benefactor of the Institution was of an English family who migrated to

ETHNOLOGY. 391

America in 1736. His father was a merchant in Philadelphia, where
his son George was born in 1803. Having often visited the West Indies
as a supercargo, he became attached to the country, and, in 1828, en-
tered the mercantile commission businessin St. Thomas. He afterward
removed to Saint John’s, Porto Rico, where he remained until near the
time of his death, which occurred in Paris August 2, 1874, from the ef-
fects of a surgical operation. He was an honored citizen, and for many
years was consul-general of the United States for the island. He was,
at the time of his death, consul for Holland and Austria, and had been
created by the King of Spain a “Knight of the Order of Isabella.” Mr.
Latimer has left no written descriptions of the objects and the localities
of their discovery. His nephew, Mr. W. H. Latimer, writes: ‘I believe
he was prompted in the beginning by curiosity, but with increase of
materials and knowledge of the subject came also a greatly increased
interest, that spared neither pains nor expense in the augmentation of
his treasures. Visiting personally any neighborhood where his labors
were likely to be rewarded, and calling to his assistance many others
in different parts of the island, he added constantly to a collection which
he highly prized as the only one of importance existing of the aborigi-
nes of the island. Some of the specimens were found in caves, but the
greater part were turned up by the plow and hoe, when new lands
were put under cultivation, but I cannot specially localize them or say
whether any were found in graves or in shell-heaps.”

According to Sir John Lubbock’s classification, the makers of these
objects were a purely neolithic people, and, according to Mr. Morgan,
they were not savages, but were in the “middle status of barbarism.”
In addition to the fruits of nature, they prepared maize and cassava and
fermented drinks. They lived in round and square houses, with thatched
roofs, grouped in small and large villages. They made pottery, the
boldness and truthfulness of whose ornamentation attest their division
of labor. In a warm climate very little clothing was needed, yet they
spun and wove cotton cloth. Their implements of industry, so far as
we have recovered them, are, I repeat, the most beautiful in the world,
Their canoes, especially in Porto Rico, were exquisitely wrought, with
the sides raised with canes, daubed over with bitumen, and not flat, but
with a keel. (Stephens’s Herrera, i, 340.) Their pastimes were the di-
versions practiced by our own Indians, consisting principally of mock
fights, in which oftimes many were wounded or killed. Their artists
were prodigies in design and workmanship, as the finer forms which I
have described attest. Their social life is little understood, but proba-
bly resembled in all respects that of the Florida Indians at the time of
the discovery. The absence of all flaked or chipped stone implements
may be accounted forin several ways. The siliceous rocks which take
the finest chipping are not found here, and in many of the islands
shell (Strombus gigas) is the only available material for any implement.
Neither are the large animals here which require such hard and fine
392 THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES.

points for their destruction, nor sharp knives and scrapers to cut them
up and to tan their hides, which would be useless for clothing in this
climate if they had them. In the second place, many of the woods
are extremely hard, and with charring take a very fine point or
edge, sufficient to pierce or cut fish, birds, or men. We are not to lay
too much stress, therefore, upon the absence of rude stone implements,
especially as the collections from these parts are as yet very meager.
Still it is quite possible that the civilization of the Caribs and of their
hereditary enemies was introduced from the mainland, and the absence
of chipped and flaked tools, if further demonstrated, will be sufficient
evidence of this.

As to the place of most of these objects in an anthropological museum
we are sufficiently informed, but concerning the use of the masks, the
mammiform stones, and the collars, we are entirely in the dark. Some
of these rare objects are figured and described in Flint-Chips, with
references to Latham, Wilson, to Cherminier and Guesde’s collection
from Guadeloupe at the Paris Exposition, to Schomburgk, Poey, and
Cato, (Flint-Chins, pp. 223-240.) I have seen but cannot recall the
title of an account of the Copenhagen Museum by Valdemar Schmidt,
in which one or two figures are given. In Scribner’s Monthly for
August, 1875, Dr. J. B. Holder figures and describes a collection in
the American Museum in Central Park, New York.

As to whether they were the work of the Caribs and of their more
peaceful neighbors there may be a difference of opinion. The fact that
the peculiar forms here enumerated are found throughout the ancient
Carib area; that the stone seats resemble in form and ornamentation
those made of wood and used by persons of distinction mentioned by
the early historians of Columbus’s voyages, and recently discovered by
Messrs. Gabband Frith; that the celts are like those used in Polynesia
and on the northwest coast of America, where large dug-out canoes are
still in use; all these lend great force to the opinion that these are
Carib or Arawak implements, and not the relies of an older civilization
driven out by them. However, my own mind is very far from a positive
opinion on this point.

Some suggestions of possible function arise in the mind concerning
these doubtful forms, when we come to handle a great number of them.
The rough under-surface of the mammiform stones suggests the grind-
ing of paint, incense, spice, or some other precious material, and the
natives are said by the historians to have been fond of aromatic sub-
stances. Against this it may be urged that they are too costly for
mortars ; that some are hollowed underneath, some are flat, and some
are convex; and that though very rough on the under side, the rough-
ness seems to be that of an original pecking, excepting at the chin and
knees of the Typhoean figure, where the stone is worn smooth. The
furrows at the base of the mammeé seem to indicate the custom of lash-
ing them to a staff as ensigns, or to dash out the brains ef a victim or

a eS er

ETHNOLOGY. 393

anenemy. There is no mention, however, so far as I am acquainted, of
the natives performing human sacrifices. This lashing theory is strength-
ened by the fact that on some of the masks which closely resemble the
mammiform stones there are cleat-like projections, evidently to be
lashed toa handle. There are no grooves worn in the furrows by a
lashing that I could discover. The bulging to one side of the mamma,
some to the right, others to the left, hints at their use in pairs. Their
elegance of design and variety of execution in conformity with an ideal,
characterize these as the highest type of sculpture with stone imple-
ments in the world.

The collars are quite as puzzling. Their right and left shouldering,
and the more exquisite finish of the panel opposite the shoulder, when
the panel is present, seem to prove that they were to be used in pairs.
Their gradation in ornament, the presence or absence and the form of
certain conventional parts, seem to speak of distinctions of some kind.
Some very interesting indications of the manner in which humanity has
elaborated its culture, guided by the leading-strings of nature, are given
in the course and construction of the ridges and furrows which consti-
tute the ornaments of the panels and the marginal ornaments. There
are no sharp and deep corners, but the furrows wind about in curves
returning into themselves, or run out into some deeper furrow, simply
because a man working with astone tool cannot make a sharp and deep
corner. Some of the designs on these panels and marginal ornaments
are very ingenious, as may be seen by the patterns given in Figs. 52,
54, 56, 57, and 60. The same characteristic is noticeable in the scroll-
work of the wooden tools, and in Fig. 45, Such is the form of these
relics of an extinct race; but whether they were the regalia of sacrifi-

cial victims, of military heroes, of ecclesiastical worthies, or of members

of some privileged caste, who marched i» double file through the streets
of Porto Rican villages long since decayed, will perhaps forever remain
amystery. (Stephens’s Herrera, i, 62.)

One of the objects of this perhaps too detailed description will be
accomplished, if thé light thrown upon this neolithic people by the
Latimer collection shall guide some future explorer among their anti-
quities, if haply he may be able to decipher their meaning.
394 THE PREHISTORIC ANTIQUITIES OF HUNGARY,

THE PREHISTORIC ANTIQUITIES OF HUNGARY.

AN ADDRESS DELIVERED BY PROF. F. F. ROMER AT THE OPEN-
ING OF THE INTERNATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL CONGRESS, HELD
AT BUDAPEST, SEPTEMBER, 1876. .

From the Matériaux pour L’ Histoire Primitive et Naturelle de V Homme.—tTranslated
for the Smithsonian Institution by Charles Rau.

In addressing you for the purpose of considering the two allied
sciences—anthropology and archeology—upon which the labors of this
congress will be based, I can hardly overcome a feeling of embarrass-
ment. You doubtless expect that, in my position as secretary-general,
I should unroll before you a picture of what Hungary bas done for those
sciences, since most of you never have visited our country, nor have
read the Hungarian works treating of them.

Here, as in Europe generally, it was almost considered a disgrace to
pay attention to the barbarous nations, so far as their history before and
after the great migrations is concerned. Only the study of the classical
archeology of the Greeks and Romans was in vogue. Prior to the day
when prehistoric archeology became a universal science, no one cared
for the forms and decorations of the weapons, utensils, and trinkets of
the so-called barbarous populations, but, in most cases, only for the
precious materials of which they were made. The cemeteries and the
tumuli, with their contents as simple and primitive as the men who used
them, were, without any criticism, attributed to the great Roman peo-
ple, even in parts of the country where the Romans never had been.
The defensive works of prehistoric times, such as trenches, ramparts,
and castles, were ascribed to them, and even on our geographical maps
of that period one can see these works marked as Roman trenches, Roman
fortifications, &c. In the catalogues of the National Museum, likewise,
the arms, utensils, and ornaments of the barbarians have been assigned.
to the Romans.

Hungary has not had, like other countries, official archeologists ap-
pointed to attend to the preservation of the discovered objects. Only
foreign savants, who in past centuries paid attention to such matters,
have written on the antiquities of this country; and it must be stated
that they spoke of them in a manner betokening the utmost simplicity
of conception. Thus, they have affirmed in serious discourses held be-
' fore academies, that gold grows naturally in the vineyards of Tokay,
because there have been found in that locality objects made of gold
wire, which presented no longer their original shape, having been
altered and distorted by roots growing on the same spots. The bones
of mammoths were at that time taken for those of giants, nummulites
passed for grain, porous basalt for petrified bread, &c.

It is no matter of sarprise, therefore, that during that period the

|
i

ETHNOLOGY. 395

country people pa.d no attention whatever to the relics they constantly

met almost everywhere, and sometimes in enormous quantities, while

cultivating the ground. In plowing up our ancient cemeteries, re-
peatedly and at various depths, they have destroyed the funeral urns;
but neither their fragments and contents nor the skeletons discovered
in the more regular burying-places excited their curiosity or tempted
them to closer examinations. When'they found articles of bronze they
sold them like old iron or applied them to their own use, after they had
been transformed by the blacksmith according to their notions. How
many objects have thus been lost which would have served to elucidate
the condition of an unknown people that has passed away long ago!

Our predecessors only collected flint articles, which they broke into
pieces of proper size to be used for striking fire. The stone axes or
‘‘thunderbolts,” to which they attributed in their superstitious minds
the virtue of curing various diseases of men and beasts, were likewise
preserved by them, and the myths attached to these implements are
here the same as in other parts of Europe. Wherever people speak of
thunderbolts the superstitions to which they have given rise are so in-
veterate and general, and the belief in their supposed powers appears
so firmly rooted, that no stronger proofs of their high antiquity could be
adduced.

This is all I can say concerning the opinions which the objects per-
taining to remote prehistoric ages have elicited among our compatriots,
even in the present century!

What has been done within the last forty years, since the brothers
Augustus and Francis de Kubinyi and my distinguished predecessor,
Mr. John Erdy, commenced the study of our antiquities, was commu-
nicated by me to the congress at Paris in my sketch of the prehistoric
times of Hungary, in which I have summed up from memory, and in a
very succinct manner, all that relates to this epoch.* To this I have
only very little to add at present.

Prior to the Universal Exposition at Paris, in 1867, several of our

foreign colleagues had visited our archeological museum. ‘They fully

appreciated our articles of bronze and precious metals, which then al-
most exclusively constituted our prehistoric collections. The museums
of the neighboring countries were not ahead of us in that respect, con-
sidering that the study of classical archeology prevailed everywhere at
that period. Nothing was bought or exhibited but choice specimens of
classical antiquity, or such as were made of precious metals, and their
number sufficed to satisfy the interest of the curious.

The resources of the National Museum being very limited, most of
the specimens were the gifts of good patriots, and they were depos-
ited without order or system, occupying the places assigned to them by
the generous donors.

A new eta for these studies and for our collections dates from the in-

* See Compte-rendu de la II® Session & Paris, p. 321, ete.
396 THE PREHISTORIC ANTIQUITIES OF HUNGARY.

auguration of constitutional government in Hungary. The members of
the diet, convinced that much was still needed to raise us to the level
of the nations who had preceded us in the cultivation of prehistoric
archeology, were judicious and patriotic enough to vote the sums re-
quisite not only for the purchase of classical objects, for putting our col-
lections in better order and cataloguing them, but also for the acquisi-
tion of specimens illustrative of ‘prehistoric archeology and for a
rations in the interest of that science.

It is very remarkable that the new development of the kingdom co-
incided with the Paris Exposition, where a retrospective section for the
study of industries reaching back to the remotest times was, for the
first time, added to the objects representing the achievements in mod-
ern art and ingenuity. It cannot be denied that the large number of
Specimens of stone, clay, bone, bronze, &c., exhibited on that occasion,
excited the desire to collect analogous objects in our own country, and
the labors of the International Anthropological Congress, then in ses-
sion at Paris, served to strengthen this resolution. Thence arose new
ideas and new plans for enlarging the scope of our National Museum.
After the Universal Exhibition at Paris, the spacious hall, hitherto ex-
clusively used for exhibiting the numismatic collection, was provided
with glass cases, which already contain a remarkable collection ; a large
portion, however, embracing new acquisitions and interesting fragments
had to be deposited in drawers. When this congress is over, the new
additions, which are quite numerous, will be placed in an adjoining
hall. They chiefly comprise objects of stone, the number of which in-
creases very rapidly.

I had the pleasure of showing at the Paris congress the first obsidian
nucleus obtained from Transylvania. Until then objects of obsidian
were generally thought to be of Mexican origin, because none from
other countries were known, excepting a few found in Italy. This dis-
covery was followed by another. I found in the mineralogical cabinet
of our museum a much larger nucleus, and later I was really surprised

to discover in the museum of the college of Debreezin our largest obsid-.

ian nuclei, which had all been collected in the neighborhood of the
celebrated mountain of Tokay, where obsidian occurs in considerable
quantities. Farther east the objects and fragments of obsidian become
more and more scarce. We are now able to preparea map showing our
obsidian finds, which are already numerous and increase from day to
day. This map will be made more perfect after the congress, and will
assist in engendering in our country a higher appreciation of all that
our honored guests deem worthy of their attention. But our obsidian
flakes are by no means equivalent to those of flint, so frequently met in
the north and west of Europe; and without attempting to ascribe to
them a too remote antiquity, we will simply state that they often occur
associated with objects of bronze, as proved by the discoveries made by
the counselor of mines, Mr. Henry Wolf, on the island of Bodrog

Pe ee ee eee

. ot)
— ee
ETHNOLOGY. 397

(Bodrogk6z.) The conchoidal fracture of our obsidian is more curved
than in the Mexican mineral; our knives are usually not so long and
straight, our arrow-heads less elegant and regular than those made of
transatlantic obsidian or of Danish flint. The occurrence of large
nuclei, from which the last flakes suitable for knives have not been de-
tached, may be owing to the fragility of obsidian implements, which in-
duced the head of the tribe or the family to preserve these nuclei, in
order to have the material for the fabrication of knives and arrow-heads
always on hand.

The implements of which we have spoken were for a long time the
only ones found in Hungary. It was a general belief that no chipped
flints existed in our country, because none of them had any where been
noticed. Yet this supposition arose solely from the ignorance of the
value of the objects, and from the want of a word to specify them. Our
peasants found them frequently and called them “ fire-stones,” (pierres
@ feu.) When this indicative word had been discovered, and, moreover,
when specimens of chipped flint had been sent from Denmark to some
of our friends of archeology, attention was aroused, and chipped fliuts,
and even nuclei, were found in several counties. In a few years, I am
confident, we shall be cognizant of their existence in all parts of the
country where siliceous materials occur, and hence our museums may
be gradually enriched with such specimens, just as our improvised
exposition was increased by the knives from the extensive collection of
Miss Torma. So great has been our progress in securing and inter-
preting objécts of chipped flint, which were still very rare, and much
sought for, some months ago.

At present a new field of studies opens before us, and we shall soon
have to relinquish the erroneous, but widely diffused, idea that during
the epochs when stone played everywhere such an important part, Hun-
gary was not yet inhabited on account of being covered by the waters
of the sea.

Up to this day we know only a few well-authenticated celts of pol-
shed flint. One of them was found in the county of Szaboles, the others
in that of Lipt6; yet how many more will be discovered when we have
learned to look for them, and when our peasants have been made
acquainted with their value. As for other polished stone implements,
we possess chiefly objects of serpentine, not only in considerable num-
ber, but also of very elegant appearance. This is sufficiently demon-
strated by the old specimens of the National Museum, as well as by the
late acquisitions of Baron Eugene Ny4éri, the Key. Canon Francis
Ebenhiéch, the Rev. Vicar Stephen Mibdldy, and by the material which
our compatriots, who take pride in showing you their best and most inter-
esting pieces, have put here on exhibition. Yet all these interesting
objects were neither looked at nor preserved prior to the successful
researches made throughout the kingdom.

You behold, however, only isolated specimens ; for it was not feasible
898 THE PREHISTORIC ANTIQUITIES OF HUNGARY.

to deprive the museums of their entire collections; and the private
persons who were desirous of contributing their share in rendering the —
exposition more perfect had to abstain from sending all their objects, —
considering that the corridors of the National Museum, which alone
were at our disposal, are already too narrow for a really complete exhi-
bition representing the entire kingdom.

Objects of stag-horn and bone occur in prodigious number in some
counties, more especially among the remains of repasts, and they are
fashioned with a degree of skill which could only be acquired by long
practice in the leisure hours of savage life. One may see, for instance,
at Magyarad, at Szihalom, at Tészeg, at Szelevény, and at Csépa, objects
of deer-horn and bone by the hundred and thousand, while articles of
bronze and ‘iron are but singly and sporadically met in these localities.

Our characteristic bronze articles are known throughout Europe: it
has been sufficiently demonstrated that they are distinguished by pecu-
liar forms. The numerous utensils, weapons, and ornaments of bronze
bear witness that the Danubian countries had a civilization of their
own, a fact becoming still more apparent by the quantity of the raw
material and the number and size of the objects of copper. Is it neces-
sary, gentlemen, to recall to your memory that these very articles of
bronze and copper induced you at Stockholm to choose the capital of
Hungary as the place of meeting for this year?

It is known that among semi-savage and warlike nations the noha
indulges in an excessive love of show. Their horsemen carry nearly all
their treasure on their persons and horses, and hence they exhibit an
extravagant taste in their offensive and defensive weapons, as well as
in their armlets, fibula, necklaces, diadems, and horse-trappings, all of
which are profusely embellished with spirals, with bells of different
forms, with pendants presenting the shape of funnels, &c. Certain
tubes, often overloaded with the ornaments peculiar to our districts,
also should be mentioned.

In addition to the weapons and ornaments, there are utensils of cop-
per and bronze, designed for digging the ground, for felling trees, and
for cutting crops and brushwood. You will further see the metallic
raw material, numerous fragments collected for being melted, ingots,
molds, and unfinished objects, all of which are indicative of work per-
formed in loco. Indeed, hearths for melting metals are not rare in our
country.*

* During the fourth session of the congress, September 7, Mr. De Pulsky spoke of a
copper age, which, he thinks, can be traced in Hungary. He believes that many imple-
ments in the National Museum, which are supposed to pertain to the age of bronze,
consist in reality of copper. Nine of those instruments having been analyzed, it was
found that they contain no trace of tin. Some consisted of pure copper, corresponding
to the native copper of Hungary; others contained a little silver, like certain copper
ores found in the same country. The implements in question most frequently resemble
either the hatchets of woodcutters or the pickaxes still used by miners. These forms
differ, according to Mr. De Pulsky, from the types characteristic of the bronze age, and

ETHNOLOGY. 399

And as for fabrics of clay, are there anywhere found vases of this
epoch which show more finish, more elaborate ornamentation and
stranger shapes than those of ancient Pannonia? Or are there in other
parts such quantities of those cones and pyramids of clay, hitherto
considered as weights used in weaving? They probably also served as
supports for cooking-vessels, considering that they are often blackened
by smoke, and, moreover, have been met amid ashes and charcoal.
Some of our vessels exhibit forms so singular and extraordinary that
their application thus far has not been explained. The small vases and
other diminutive objects in the rich collection of my friend, Baron
Bugene NyAari, deserve our special attention, the more so since nearly
all of them have been obtained from the same place, namely, his fam-
ily estate at Pilin. Whocan decide whether these miniatures consti-
tuted toys for children or were symbolic in character? Perhaps they
represent on a small scale objects too costly to be abandoned forever.

The almost unique clay stamps, showing a variety of tasteful pat-
terns,* and the small terra-cottas, representing animals, mostly sheep,
oxen, and hogs, leave much room for speculation concerning their uses,
especially when found with the remains of repasts.

Among the articles indubitably made in the country, we often meet
products of the industry and art of remote regions, as, for instance,
pearls from the Indian Ocean, beads of unwrought or polished amber
from the Baltic Sea, and others of cut glass, which must have been de-
rived from more civilized nations. These last-named relics betoken a
commerce with the coasts of far-distant countries, and the character of
their occurrence proves that they were family hoards brought together
during a long lapse of time.

Those pagan monuments, the gigantic embankments and ditches dis--
posed in two or even three parallel lines, which are met throughout the
kingdom, inform us that it was once inhabited by warlike and quite
numerous tribes, or by valiant proprietors who kept their large herds
within immense and inaccessible inclosures. The power of these ancient

hence he concludes that an age of copper, forming the transition from polished stone
to bronze, must be claimed for Hungary.

This view, however, was not shared by Mr. John Evans. He observed that among
the two hundred objects thought to consist of copper, only nine or ten had been ana-
lyzed. Yet if they were all composed of copper, there would be no sufficient ground for
establishing a copper age. If such an age had existed, its types would resemble more
the forms of the stone age than those of the bronze period. The pierced copper imple-
ments of Hungary certainly bear an analogy to a certain class of drilled stone articles ;
but the latter, Mr. Evans thinks, are referable to the bronze age rather than to the
times during which stone was exclusively used. He concludes that the Hungarian
copper tools belong to the bronze age, but were made in moments when tin—a metal
not found in Hungary—could not be obtained.—[ Translator. ]

*To judge from wood-engravings, kindly sent by Professor Romer, these relics resem-
ble the stamps which the Mexicans used for impressing ornamental marks on their
cotton cloth. They also employed stamps in decorating their vases before they were
baked.—[ Translator. ]
400 THE PREHISTORIC ANTIQUITIES OF HUNGARY.

people, and their association in secure places of habitation of great ex-
tent, can furthermore be inferred from the enormous tumuli which one
sees scattered widely apart over the country, and which, for this reason,
have been considered as lookouts for sentinels, or as hills upon which
the Turkish viziers pitched their tents; for our people ascribe everything
of a strange character to the Turks. Yet these mounds, so different in
construction and character, stood originally by the side of villages or
camps, amid large forests which no longer exist. Even in our time
mounds are met in the primeval forests, from Bakony to Sz4zhalom, near
Bakonybél, at Tatika, and in other extensive timbered regions of our
country.

Arriving at the period of iron, that which lies nearest to our own
time, it must be confessed that our relics composed of that metal are
less numerous than those of bronze and even of stone, although these
latter belong to more remote times. This fact will not surprise you
when you learn that until now objects of iron have been totally neglected,
Being in most cases corroded by rust and broken, and resembling, more-
over, very often the implements of the present time, they were generally
undervalued, not only by the common people, but also by the more
instructed, who chiefly prize objects composed of precious metals,
especially when they are well preserved and present elegant and extra-
ordinary forms. Thus it has been until now; but in future these
underrated relics, which are of such importance in their bearing on
archeological questions, will be carefully collected and preserved.

This is all we can say in reference to our progress in archeological
studies.

As for anthropology, it must be confessed that this science has not
been cultivated among us to the extent it deserves. We have not yet a _
noticeable collection, and those of our savants who pursue that study
must exert themselves, in order to keep pace with the anthropologists of
other countries. We expect much, however, from the intimate inter-
course that will spring up during this congress.

In general we may state, without self-praise, that for several years the
interest of our countrymen has been increasing. Archeological publi-
cations are dispersed throughout our literature; museums multiply in
the counties in a manner highly satisfactory to the triends of our science.
I find everywhere collectors of antiquities, and the taste for original
research is growing, as can be inferred from our improvised exposition.
Thus we are entitled to the hope that henceforward our compatriots will
preserve what they find, and that we shall soon possess all the material
required for our studies.

It is true, we have no megalithic monuments; we cannot show you
kitchen-middens or lacustrine habitations. They are either wanting in
our country, or, if they exist, have not yet been discovered. On the
other hand, we can place before you all that has come to light in our
country within these last years. The liberality of our museums and the

a inaiiceails
t

ETHNOLOGY. AOL

noble patriotism of our colleagues enable me, I am happy to state, to

fulfill the promise given you at Stockholm, namely, to gather in our
National Museum all or nearly ali objects scattered over Hungary that
might serve to facilitate the study of our bronze age, the most interesting
task before us. What I promised two years ago is now an accomplished
fact. It is left to you, honored colleagues, to discuss the important
question to what people or peoples we are indebted for the objects which
characterize so strikingly the development of our country.

I have prepared a table indicating the number of relics and the ma-
terials composing them. Our exposition embraces nearly 31,500 objects,
of which 22,000 belong to the museums and private persons of this
country, and 9,000 to the National Museum.

This total comprises—

Objects of ordinary stone, flint, and cbsidian.................. 9, 400
PeeeeemEOMSNGG ALONG. - 60° -. 0... oe ee ce ee ee 2, 800
SP MIP NE UNA ass 5 on as aes ace eens ees ews 560
eimcns Of Done... . =... ..... Meee hs aes = Soe SCR ae ee 1, 600
IIE INEM Fee asec a cad es oe oc edn oes won ewe Gene seas 3, 300
EAI IND Tee le ss le 3 8 ins pe olcin'e Suwon sees 190
ee Ub DL SE is ane eo ee 7, 630
IEEE Ee cial win's wos wwieleis cis nei ocinwe ce ae hati 9 U7,
Trinkets and objects of gold and silver.........-...........-. 1, 800

From the composition of this table, and its incompleteness, it may be
inferred that there are yet great gaps, and that the necessary minuteness
is still wanting. Finally we shall obtain definite results, and the science
will be cultivated among: us as in other countries of Europe. In fact,
we have had no time for preparing ourselves as thoroughly as we might
have wished. Most of the works of our compatriots, written+in the
Hungarian language, arrived so late that it was not possible to translate
them in time to be submitted to the congress; but as you doubtless
desire to acquaint yourselves with the character of the studies pursued
in our country relative to its antiquities, and as our own interest imposes
upon us the duty of giving you full information, we shall present a com-
plete résumé in our forthcoming report, which will reflect our labors like
a true mirror.

S 26
402 JADE.

JADE.

A HISTORICAL, ARCH OLOGICAL, AND LITERARY STUDY OF THE MIN-
FERAL CALLED YU BY THE CHINESE:

By S. BLONDEL, of Paris.
[Translated by Dr. E. Foreman. ]

If among mineral substances there is any one which particularly
deserves attention, it is jade. Fora long time cabinets of mineralogy
possessed this precious material in only humble specimens, acquired,
however, at very high prices; but now, owing to closer relations between
western nations and those of the extreme east, Chinese antiquities have
become less rare, new and important collections of them have been
formed, and the museums of Europe have been enriched with the most
splendid works of art and pieces of the choicest quality. We therefore
believe that if would be useful to oriental archeology to publish this
memoir on jade, a mineral so highly valued by amateurs, and one whose
curious history is so little known.

The jade, so common in the Indies and in China, as we all know,
varies between a greasy white, or the color of old ivory, and a deep
olive-green color, depending on the oxides of iron and of chrome which
enter into its composition. Of all the various pebbles it is the hardest
and heaviest, being fine-grained and compact in texture. Its polish, at
the same time that it is attractive, always exhibits to the eye and sense
of touch a greasy sensation, giving the appearance of inspissated oil
or of wax. Although its more ordinary color is some shade of green,
the classical variety is of a milky whiteness and nearly opalescent.
In this.case its limpidity, its fine texture, and tenacity are so great, that
to the hand of the workman it feels as if glazed, qualities which make
it sought after for the execution of valuable works. Pale green jade is
likewise often used for cutting vases of every form and those orna-
mented with elegant reliefs. Its shade of color is uniform and agreeable,
and it has a close, fine grain, susceptible of a high polish. Some pieces,
having molecular peculiarities and a cloudiness which gives the stone a
dull tarnished aspect, are employed in making vases of large dimen-
sions, or even bracelets. Jade is sometimes even black, but not on
that account much undervalued; it is sometimes clouded, and speci-
meus are seen which recall the crystalline watering sometimes seen on
tin or zinc which have been acted on by dilute acids. ‘ But,” says M.
Albert Jacquemart, ‘of all kinds the two most rare are the orange
jade, of which examples are known in Europe, and the imperial jade, a
gem beyond price, worthy of being ranked with the finest emerald when
of a fine green, and which, of variegated green and white, produces an

effect superior to the richest agates. Ancient authors likewise speak of —

specimens of a citron yellow, deep blue, turquoise blue, and red. If it

8
i
ETHNOLOGY. 403

_ be, as the eminent English mineralogist, Kidd, supposes, that such varie.
ties have really existed, their localities are exhausted or lost.
As regards the orange jade, M. Jacquemart hesitates about recogniz-
‘ing it, and refers to a sale-catalogue, where a vase, supposed to be made
of it, is stated to be an oriental sardonyx of an amber-yellow color.
The old oriental travelers believed jade to be a variety either of
‘marble or of agate. Abel Remusat, in a curious dissertation, supposes
the jade to be the celebrated stone Hasch, or the ancient jasper, which
has been, in all ages, brought from the Himmalaya Mountains into
Asiatic countries. Theophrastus, who was learned in minerals, unites
‘jasper and emerald under one species. Dionysius Periegetes describes
it as a green transparent substance, comparing it with air and water for
translucency, all of which is rather applicable to aqua-marine, although
his commentator, Eustathius, calls attention to the word used by
Dionysius. The pseudo Orpheus, of whom we have an apocryphal
poem on precious stones, probably alluded to this kind of jasper when
he speaks of it as the color of spring; which can bear no other interpre-
_ tation than of a green tint. Finally, Dioscorides says positively that
certain jaspers bear a resemblance to emeralds, others to a erystal, the
_ Callais, which is a stone of a pale green or sea-green hue. Pliny, the
naturalist, affirms that jasper is of the color of the emerald, and that
itis worn as an amulet in all eastern countries.
| The separation of jade and jasper into different species is somewhat
_ modern, as M. Clement Mullet judiciously remarks ; that it was effected
only about 1647, when the third edition of Boetius was published, for
it is seen in the treatise of Jean de Laet d’Anvers, concerning gems
and stones, at the end of the volume, that jade is treated of as jasper.
Now, however, the two minerals are regarded as entirely distinct. Jade
is a silicate of alumina and lime, and jasper is a variety of quartz.
The white variety, called oriental jade, is the hardest of all. It
melts when in fragments without any flux, and is readily fused. Chemi-
cal analysis presents the following composition :

Pra

— ae

eo

ey

ses calcu a ee RP OE ad el a 58. 50
DEHOWERIAS eel ss. kk. Boe ee oo ete e a ee erae ons Cet eae 31. 00
a cyte eR ASSO eR CO la 10. 00
eS LTR Se eS aS A ae eG 5. 50
nrmmnrmeatt so ese re Oe On eC ee 2.75
SE RUMP MEDTITIVG Ot 4) ae oe ke aka oe oe een te eee se cine 5. 00
nner, ot peewee ee Oi got eee eee 2.00

:

| The specific gravity of the principal varieties, according to M. Damour:
s EMEA AUG sce. canis ce ~ 0:- aun ~in,5)niveg.c 6 dela aay a OO
NNN cna ie aw insalafe m2 ye Yim'u nj 5/n, nite m n> a ey cimin Rai Naat hs = 3. 003
MR ANN sh an mw 2 = nin 9 2g = sn ape 3. O17
i» Jadeite, grayish-white, and of pearly aspect............-.....- 3. 344
Mevadeite, bluish-gray variety....---.-  -.s-2-ecveececece ase 3. 336
» Jadeite, emerald-green, or imperial jade.............-...-..---- 3.338

404 JADE.

One of the principal beds of this mineral, known in China by the —

name of Yu, is found at Tai-Thong, in the province of Chenn-si. The
larger part, however, comes from the city of Khotan, in the canton of
Yarkande, of ancient Chinese Turkistan, and is brought from Tartary
through Bokhara. In that country there are entire mountains composed
of. it, and the purest pieces, precious for their beauty as for the fine-
ness of grain, are found in the seams of the highest pinnacles. It is
said that the mountain Mirdjai, in the principality of Khotan, is entirely

formed of jade. The mineral presents itself in various localities, but.

the finest specimens are obtained from the very summit; a workman,
provided with the requisite tools, climbs the rocks, detaches small
masses, which roll down to the base.

It is impossible to explain the etymology of the word Yu. The only
statement to be made with any confidence is that the word is of the
highest antiquity. According to Abel Remusat, it is found in the LiKi,
chapter phrengi, in that part of chi-king or book of verses entitled Ta-ya,
and also in Yih-King, or book of transformations, at the definition of the
hexagramme Ting. We close these remarks of the learned orientalist

by saying that Chou-King, or Book of the Annals, indicated by the words"

Ta-yu and Y-yu the rarer as well as the more common jades.

The high prices brought by jades even in China has caused a kind of
chalcedony to be much sought after, called by Bridgman, in his Chinese
Chrestomathy, chalecedony-chrysoprase, and which the shrewd Canton

merchants sell to foreigners for the true jade. There are two kinds ot —

it. One, of a feeble green color, is called fi-tsoui-yo or fi-pi-yu, and is
brought from Yunan. The price appreciates as the color is more lively
and of a more chatoyant apple-green tint. The other variety is a deep
clouded green, and is known by the name hi-lai-kao-yo or hi-le-tchao-yu.
It is brought from Kansouh.

From the earliest times the Chinese have attached a high value to
jade. The Li-Ki, or Memorial of Rites, a canonical book in the Celestial
Empire, in which the yu is compared to the subtile matter composing a
rainbow concreted and fixed in the form of a stone, gives a proof of its
venerable antiquity. The philosopher Koung-fou-tseu, (Confucius,) who
lived five hundred years before our era, explained to one of his disciples

why this stone, endowed with extraordinary qualities, possessed iu —

ancient times the merit of being the subject of the meditations of sages
and to be the symbol of virtue. One day the disciple Tze-kun inquired
of his divine master, ‘‘ May I dare ask you why the sages esteem the
jade, and hold in light reverence the stone huen? Is it because the jade
is very rare and the other stone quite common?” Koung-fou-tseu replied,
“It is not because the mineral huen is abundant nor because the jade
is scarce that the latter is valued, but because from all time the sages
have compared virtue to jade. In their eyes the polish and brilliant
hues of jade represent virtue and humanity. Its perfect compactness
and extreme hardness indicate exactness of statement; its angles or

——
corners, which are not incisive, however sharp they seem, are emblem-
atic of justice; the pearl-like jades, suspended from the hat or the gir-
dle as if falling, sepresent ceremony and politeness; the pure sound
which it emits when struck, and which suddenly stops, figures music ;
as it is impossible for the ugly shades of color to obscure the handsome
ones, or for the fine colors to cover up the poor ones, so loyalty is pre-
figured; the cracks which exist in the interior of the stone, and can be
seen from the outside, are figurative of sincerity ; its iridescent luster,
Similar to that of the rainbow, is symbolic of the permanent; its won-
derful substance, extracted from mountains or from rivers, represents the
earth ; when cut as knei or as chon, without other embellishment, it in-
dicates virtue; and the high value attached to it by the whole world,
without exception, is figurative of truth.” The Chi-King, or book of
verses, Says in confirmation of these analogies, ‘‘ When I meditate on
that wise man, his thoughts appear to me like the jade;” whence the
value affixed by him to this gem.

As we shail have occasion to notice, the Chinese are firmly convinced
that jade possesses many physical properties, which, according to the
Chou-wen of Hin-chin, may be reduced to these: The yu is a very hard
Stone, unchangeable, sonorous, difficult to work, and possessing a soft
luster. The author of Pe-hou-thong adds further that when dried at the
fire it loses nothing of its weight, and is not any heavier by being
moistened. For this unchanging quality it is that the sege was right
in his estimate.

Modern Chinese partake with their ancestors a passion for this gem,
and their authors employ its name figuratively and for comparison when
they wish to indicate anything white, fine, or perfect. ‘‘ When you ex-
pire I am tempted to think that your soul is jade,” (i. e., white,) says the
poet Kao-tchi-ti in a piece in which he celebrates apple-trees in blossom,
a poetical composition which is reproduced in the Encyclopedia Youen-
. Kien-loui-han, and quoted by the author of Yu-kiao-li, or the romance of
the two cousins. We may likewise read in the Fen-loui-tseu-kin, ‘The
cold penetrates your clothes of jade; you haveaskin of jade and bones
of jade.”

And again, Li-thai-pé, one of the greatest poets of the age of Thung,
the seventh century before our era, to give an idea of the skill of some
musicians whom he was celebrating, said they had flutes of gold and of
jade, as was said by the Greeks, when speaking of an eloquent speaker,
‘he bas a mouth of gold,” Chrysostom being so called. ‘ How long does
the possession of gold or jade abide with us?” likewise demands the same
poet, in his song of regrets. ‘‘A hundred years at the farthest,” be an-
swers sadly, “the limit of the longest hopes. To live and then to die,
behold that is all that is vouchsafed to men. Regret has*come, regret
has come.”

The Memoirs of Chi-i, or Things Neglected or Omitted, comprise some
moral sentiments relating to the stone of which we are speaking,

ETHNOLOGY. : 405
4

’
A0G 6: JADE.

as sung by Tsi-koung : “ Pattern after shining virtue, be like jade, be like
gold.” The author of the Chinese comedy entitled the Pledge of Love
describes nectar as the liquor of jade. ‘My brother,” speaking to his —
hero Han-fei-king, “ speak to me no more of wine, for behold, when you —
possess the liquor of jade, or any of those fruits which confer immortality
on such as taste them, I shall not take it.” In another comedy, the
Accomplished Waiting-woman, the pretty Fan-sou likewise makes a
charming comparison, while walking in a park with her lady friend:
“The willows wave their silky verdure, whose pearly streams loosen and
fall down like a shower of stars in this limpid pool. They are beads of
jade thrown into a crystal basin.”

The Yu-kaio-li already quoted, a Chinese romance of the middle of the
fifteenth century, uses the same comparison to prove that the conceited
Sou-you resembles a rich man rather than a poet, ‘covered all over
with gold and loaded with jade ;” literally encased with gold and en-
veloped in jade, he seems tosay, look at my brilliant raiment. Although
preceded and followed by many servants, there was nothing striking
about him but his vestments. Finally, in chapter xix of another
romance, the Choui-hout-chouen or History of the Banks of the River, a
young musician is named Yo-lan, or “the jade chrysanthemum ;” and in
the Pe-kouei-tchi, or History of the Sceptre of Jade, referring to an infant
child named Hong ‘as that child has such beautiful eyes, the name
should be given him of Mei-yu,” meaning as handsome as jade, which
recalls a passage in the Mirror of the World, “The natnre of yu is ©
like the comeliness of a young girl.”

By the foregoing it is seen that nearly all the jade worked up in
China comes from Khotan. This city is pointed out by the historians
of the Central Kingdom by the name of Yu-thian, meaning the jade
country, being a part of the ancient Turkistan, now called Alt Hissar
or- Hexapolis, from the six principal cities observed there. We give
here what is found relating to it in one of the numerous Notices of
Khotan, appended to the history of the Chinese Dynasties. ‘ The
source of the Yellow River is in the country of Yu-thian, and it is in
the mountains of that country where there is the greatest quantity of
yu. There is a river flowing out of it, which, on reaching Yu-thian, —
separates into two branches, the most eastwardly of which is called the
river of White Yu, that flowing to the west is called the river of the
Green Yu, and the most westerly of all is named the river of Black Yu. —
In all three of them this mineral is found, but the colors differ. The
river to which the Chinese notice refers is Khotan, or Youroung- —
khachi. Instead of parting into three branches, it is made up of three
separate rivers which have their origin in the Mouslagh Mountains, or —
mountains of ice, on the north, a region rich in jade ;” hence the names —
of white, green, and black jade, which the rivers bear to the present —
time.

Another notice asserts that the jade of Yu-thian is of five colors, —

ETHNOLOGY. 407

““ white, like lard, yellow, like chestnuts cooked in the steam of boiling
water, black, like varnish, red, like a cock’s comb or painted lips;” but the
green and transparent variety, more or less deep colored, is by far the
most common. That of a whitish hue partakes of nine shades or grada-
tions of color, from the finest to the commonest. During the years
siou-an-no, the notice adds, there was at the palace a standard of compari-
son for all the various tints and shades of jade to which all specimens
were subjected when acquired for the emperor, just as now there is a
standard for estimating the different degrees of purity in gold, and es-
tablishing its value.

This collection of notices is not the only work in which are found ac-
counts of different colored jades. The Chi-kung, a book of verses, a
collection of odes and songs dating previous to the sixth century before
ourera, and arranged by Confucius, speaks of a celestial blue jade ; and
according to Chi-tchin, who quotes from the Tai-phing-yu-Kian, there is
found at Lant-hian a lamb-like jade, which is the color of pastel-blue,
whence it appears that the country has received the name of Lan-thian,
signifying the pastel country. The author also undertakes to describe
the sources as follows: The white yu is found at Kiao-tcheon; the red
yu in Fou-yu, a part of Corea; the green yu in the land of I-leon, or
Eastern Tartary; the pale-green yu in Tai-tseou; the black yu in
the western part of the land of Chou, toward Thibet. The Tcheox-li,
when speaking of the coronet of the emperor, says, further, that a band
around the upper part is composed of six colors, and twelve pendants
complete. All of these pendants are composed of twelve pieces of jade
of five colors. Finally the Li-Ki, or book of ceremonies, distinguishes
jade as flesh-colored, yellow, white, red, cinnabar, and deep maroon;
but, as the yu was a chief ornament of the imperial dress, and as it is
to this occasion that the Li-Ki refers, we are led to infer that the word
yu comprised other and different kinds of precious stones, since, at the
present day, there are not found any specimens which correspond in
color to those mentioned in this ancient canonical book.

Now let us return to the jade mine.of Kho-tan. The Chinese have
resorted to this city for their supplies of the mineral from very ancient
times. The notices, quoted above, furnish sure proof of the antiquity
of these beds. One of them, on the history of the dynasty of Soung,
relates, in fact, that the embassadors of the King of Yu-thian sent, in
the third year of Kian-te (965,) a tribute consisting of five hundred
pieces of jade and five hundred pounds of yellow amber. The city of
Yu-thian was moreover annually subjected to this impost levied by the
Son of Heaven, as the author of the same notice declares that a year
was never suffered to pass without the exaction and payment of this
tribute.

Finally, in the course of the years Tai-kouan, about 116770, the Chi-
nese desiring to execute some embellishments, a large mass of jade was
demanded of the King of Khotan. He sent an embassador with a letter,
ss

408 JADE.

a copy of which is inserted in the anecdotes relating to Yu-thian, con-
taining the following curious extract: ‘‘ May the high sovereign of all
places over which the sun rises deign to cast his eyes on his five hundred
western kingdoms, The He-Han (Lion) lord of five hundred kingdoms,
several and combined, addresses himself to the venerable lord of ail
places within sunrise—deign to look at the four quarters of the uni-
verse. I, A-Kieou, prince of four parts of the world, from whom you
have demanded a consignment of yu, I have applied myself to the very
utmost to comply with your request, but it is very difficult to find pieces
which have, as you desire, a tchi and a thsun in length, (=0.335 milli-
meters.) I have ordered my officers to go upon the banks of the river
to search for such a mass, and as soon as it is found I will hasten to
offer it to you.” It was believed at first, remarks the author of whom
we borrow these details, that this reply was merely evasive; but some
time afterwards a mass of yu was in fact brought in which measured
more than two tchi (0.610 millimeters). Its color was similar to lard,
and in all antiquity nothing comparable to it had ever been seen.

The life of Thai-tsou, which forms part of the same collection, more-
over, mentions a globular mass of yu weighing 120 kilograms, and
Father Cabot declares that he had seen at the Emperor’s palace an uncut
piece of jade still more curious by reason of its extraordinary weight.
‘Tt looked,” says he, ‘as if one man might carry it, but on trial being
made it resisted the attempts of four persons to remove it.”

The treatise on yu informs me that there are two particular kinds of
jade—one from the mountain and the other from the river. That from
the mountain is ordinarily veined brown, and has somewhat the appear-
ance of wood ; that of the river being veined blue, having more agree-
able shades of color and being more wavy. The first is found mostly
in China; at Khotan, however, it is from the rivers that the greater
part of it is collected. The stream contributing most abundantly has
been called the river of jade. We read in the narrative of Ping-kiu-
hoci, who went on a mission to the kingdom of Yu-thian (Khotan,)
that “the river of jade has its origin in the mountain Kouen-lun.
After a course of one hundred and thirty leagues it reaches the frontiers
of Yu-thian.”

One of the notices of the city of Khotan, written under the dynasty of
Thang, in 632 of our era, states that ‘‘ as soon as they see the locality at
night, fully lighted up by the moon, the people plunge into the river to
search for the fine pieces.” Another notice, anno 938, states that ‘‘ in the
autumn of every year, when the river is at its lowest stage, the King goes
out to seek for the mineral. After he is served the common people are
permitted to collect it.”

It is at Yarkand, near Khotan, that this jade-fishery now goes on, the
proceeds being held at such a high value that a monopoly of it remains
with the government. The fishery is carried on in the presence of offi-
cers, accompanied by a detachment of soldiers. Twenty or thirty

_——
ETHNOLOGY. 4G9

divers, forming a line, plunge together into the water, and when one of
them discovers a piece of jade he throws it on shore. A drum is then
beaten and a red mark is made on a piece of paper. The fishing over,

' the inspector examines all the pieces and assesses their value. Some

masses reach as high as forty centimeters. The city of Yarkand sends
every year to Khotan, whence it is dispatched to the court of Pekin,
from four to six thousand kilograms of jade. In this amount is not in-
cluded the cut and sculptured pieces, nowhere more skillfully executed
than by the lapidaries of Akson, which is the actual capital of Chinese
Tartary, by those of Kashgar, and also by those of Yarkand itself, the
former capital, where working in jade engages the most hands.

The variety of jade of which we have been speaking is what is called
yu by the Chinese, and is designated by Leman as white oriental jade,
being white, with a faint greenish or olive shade of color, and of which
mineral deposits are known to exist in Japan and India. A very rare
sort also is found in China, but not of first-rate value. We now speak
of the emerald-green or imperial jade. Of the latter, exquisite speci-
mens were to be seen at the Louirette sale, 1864, but it was almost en-
tirely unknown prior to the French expedition to China. This hand-
some stone was included in the collection of the Duke de Morny, form-
ing the base of a fire-screen framed or mounted in bronze gilt. It was
also seen worked up in spheres, rings, and many forms of jewelry. M.
Edouard Fould possesses a large and handsonie vase of emerald-green
jade, a piece not less remarkable for its size than the quality of the
stone, (1869.)

The pretended jades of Europe, America, and Oceania, which are
sometimes called the jade of Saussure, and now receive the name of
jadeite or nephrite, are only some inferior sorts of compact feldspar
under which name Haiiy placed them.

Among the latter which usurp the reputation of true jade, we may
mention the dull-green jade. It is received from Sumatra, South
America, and New Zealand. The natives pretend that they fish it up from
their lakes, already fashioned into vases; that it is plastic like clay, be-
coming on exposure to the air as hard as flint. They make of it vases,
hatchets, casse-tétes, as well as statuettes. The name of jade ascien or
axinien is derived from them. When it is of a leek-green color, which
is really the shade which characterizes orthose-teldspar or Amazon stone,
it takes the name of nephritic jade or rather nephrite, because it was
for a long time held as a specific in cases of nephritic colic. The latter
variety of feldspar is widely diffused in Russia and Greenland. By
reason of its imaginary benefits, and the marvelous cures performed by
it, this kind of jade obtained celebrity in Europe. Plates of it were cut
into fantastic shapes, representing animals, a heart, lozenge, &c.
It was then suspended on the person and especially from the neck.
Voiture, in one of his letters, addressed to Mademoiselle Paulet, states

that, in his time, persons afilicted with gravel had also recourse to these
410 JADE.

bracelets. ‘Ifthe stones which you have presented to me cannot break
those which trouble me, they will at least enable me to bear the pain
with patience; and since it has procured me this happiness, I should
never complain of it.” He proceeds to say that these stones will searcely
fail to become a scandal to her, for when he opened the letter containing
them before one of his friends, he blushed as scarlet as the ribbon on
which they were strung, thus compromising the donor. “ But having
read your letter over, I soon saw that what appeared to be a love token
was aremedy, and that the bracelet was not sent to a suitor, but to a
sick man.” It isnot our purpose here to hold up to ridicule the virtue
ascribed formerly to gems worn as amulets.

The white jades originating in Europe come from Turkey, Poland, and
sometimes Switzerland, It isemployed in making the handles for dag-
gers and sabers. If we are to believe Arlak-hel, of Tauriz, author of a
small treatise on precious stones, written in common Armenian, of all
kinds of jade that which is veined is but little sought after except by the
Turks, who prefer it to others.

Millin mentions some hatchets of compact feldspar found in the graves
of ancient Gauls; these are of the same nature as the ornaments of
jadeite of the stone age exhibited at the Museé de Saint Germain, and
of which examples have been discovered by M. l’Abbe Cochet, in the
Merovingian tombs of Normandy.

Referring again to the true or oriental jade, we have said that it pos-
sesses extreme hardness; in fact, the mineral scratches glass and even
quartz. The Chinese and other orientals work it from choice, and with
a delight at overcoming difficulties, which would make us doubt its
hardness, if against this incredulity we did not set over the traditional
patience of the Asiatic workmen. It is unnecessary to employ diamond-
powder in these works, since emery-powder is quite equal to cutting it
into any required shape. The ancients valued this stone highly, but in
the middle ages it does not seem to be referred to, all knowledge of it
being probably lost. It would seem never to have been worked more
extensively than in our time, since finished articles come to us frequently
from India and China. Haiiy, the mineralogist, relates that the In-
dians are skillful in the art of cutting jade, and expresses his wonder at
the lightness and delicacy of sculpture which they elaborate from so
hard a material, and what may be compared with works executed in
alabaster or other less resisting material.

It is declared in the Notices of Khotan “that the yu is very hard to
cut, and that neither steel nor fire make any impression upon it.” The
Abbé Grosier, in his remarkable work on China, also afiirms that the
tenacity of fine sorts of jade is so great that the same processes are
used in cutting and polishing it as for agate and precious stones. The
harder the stone is to cut the more lustrous will be the polish it receives.
As thousands of days do not suffice to finish certain pieces of work, the
artists of the emperor follow each other in succession in the palace

|
|
ETHNOLOGY. 41]

workshops, and, although operating day and night, still nine and ten
years are sometimes consumed on one piece. The expense of executing
such works, joined to the original cost of the material, enhances the
cost of fine works’in jade to an enormous sum. And besides, this stone,
so costly, if it be a little thin, will break like glass if let fall to the
ground.

Some mineralogists are of the opinion that the Chinese and Indians
work the’ jade into shape before it becomes permanently hard; that is
to say, when it is brought fresh from the quarry; and further declare
that it is their custom to subject it to a suitable degree of heat after the
work is finished, by which it is made still harder. This assertion ap-
pears to be very questionable, especially as it is in direct opposition to
the authors whom we have quoted, who wrote from what they saw with
their own eyes, and constitute now the best authority on the subject.
This error appears to have been propagated by a passage in Hoai-nau-
tseu, a Chinese historian of the eleventh century before our era, which
has been misunderstood or badly interpreted, in which that writer re-
lates that the yu of the mountain of Tchong was heated in a lime-kiln for
three days and three nights without any alteration in its color or luster
being observed. This does not assert, however, that the Chinese lapi-
daries submit to the operation of fire all the works which leave their
hands. This author only seeks to show, by the trial named, that the yu
is unalterable by heat or moisture. Besides, the methods employed in
India to cut this refractory mineral is strong evidence in favor of our
opinion.

“At the Exposition of 1854,” (London,) says Baron Charles Dupin,
when reporting on this exhibition, “‘ the perfection of the work as well
as the designs, which the stones cut at Lahore presented, were highly
admired.” They were executed by a method of which we give a descrip-
tion, obtained from Mr. Summer, resident at Cambay. The rough gem
is fixed upon the steel axis of a lathe and cut away until its form ap-
proaches that of a sphere; itis then polished by means of a composition
of gum lac and corundum. (Granular corundum is the next hardest
mineral after the diamond; emery, which the ancients called smyrris,
from the Hebrew word smir, being a variety of it. It is found in Ben-
gal, Ceylon, and especially in China, where its use as an abrading ma-
terial dates back to the earliest times. It is the mineral used in polish-
ing the diamond.) Cups or vases or other art objects are worked out
according to fixed designs by means of the lathe. The first polish is
obtained by friction with common polishing-stones. The concave part
is fashioned by the help of a pointed tool armed with a diamond, which
_ perforates to the depth of 6 millimeters over the whole surface, so as to
present the appearance of a honeycombed structure. These innumer-
able circular holes are afterward broken into one and the surface leveled.
This process is repeated for the purpose of deepening the cavity, 6 milli-
meters at a time, until the desired shape of the interior of the cup is
412 JADE.

gained. The final poiish is given by a revolving mold, which fits the
interior cavity, these molds having the same composition as the polish-
ing plates commonly used with a lathe. At the Exposition of 1851, we
beheld fine antique cups of crystal, of jade, and of agate sent from La-
hore. The surfaces of some were plain, without any ornament. We
can imagine that these cups, of making which the exact process is un-
known, have been cut and polished after the method we have described
as practiced at Cambay. Other cups and vases from Lahore were en-
graved with skill, and some of them were encrusted with precious stones.

Let us devote a few sentences to the numerous objects of art and
vertu executed in jade by the Chinese from the earliest times. If we
open the Chi-King, it will be seen that the princes and high mandarins,
before the sixth century of our era, wore rich girdles, to the ends of
which were attached precious stones. In ancient times, when a man of
distinction wished to receive his friends in an honorable manner, his
first care was to provide them with pendants of precious stones to dec-
orate their girdles. Thus a wife says to her husband, ‘“ Offer precious
stones to thy friends when they come. They will wear them hanging
from their girdle. Salute thy friends by offering presents to them.”
The prince Tcheou Koung, author of the Tchou-li, or the Fixed Eti- —
quette of Tcheou, says, likewise, in his sixth book, that the officer who
presided over the jade-magazine was charged with preserving the jades
belonging to the imperial vestments ; and the jades of the imperial gir-
dle refers, according to a commentator, to twelve bits of jade which dec-
crate the imperial cap, and also, according to Licou-yng, the plume of
the bonnet, and other precious stones. The jade of the girdle, after
another commentator, indicates a piece of white jade attached to a silk
girdle worn by the emperor.

These jewels, it seems to be certain, were no other than jades or yu.
Ouang-po, a poet of the seventh century of our era, speaks of them in
these terms: ‘‘At the girdle of the king were dancing beautiful gems
of jade.” At this time also the color, form, and dimensions of these

“gems varied according to the rank of the person who wore them.

La-thai-pe, a poet of the eighth century, informs us how the workmen
of his time were skilled in making every description of jewels in jade.
We can judge by the following verses, which he puts in the mouth of a
wife: “‘ These swallows of jade, the ornaments of my hair, were worn on °
my head on the day of our marriage. I offer them to you now as a
souvenir. Do not fail to wipe them softly with your silken sleeve.”

The most ancient objects of art executed in jade are perhaps the in-
struments of music called king’s or sonorous stones, guitars, and dif-
ferent forms of flute. They have even cut the jade into bells. ‘We
have seen,” says P. Amyot, ‘‘in the palace of the reigning emperor a
guitar of nearly three feet and of a fine green tint.” According to
Tcheou-li, these musical stones were much in use during the dynasty of
Tcheou, which was twelve centuries before our era. We may consult

ETHNOLOGY. 413

-

in this respect the above-named treatise of P. Amyot, the pilates of
which represent many very ancient musical stones, sculptured in per-
fection, and bearing rings cut out of the same chief mass.

The Chinese comedy, entitled ‘‘The Accomplished Soubrette,” informs
us that the sonorous stones serve likewise as abydraulic clock. ‘Observe
that the drop of water falls on the clepsydra of sonorous jade,” as Fan-
son says to Pe-min-tchong.

In the first chapter of Choui-hou-tchouen, or History of the Banks of
the River, a comic romance exceedingly relished in China, a Cescription
is given of a feast given by Siao-wang, governor of the imperial palace,
to the Prince Touan. That description is, in many respects, very curi-

- ous, and shows to what extent objects of art sculptured in jade were

sought for in the twelfth century of our era. At the second course
it is related “that the Prince Touan, rising from the table by chance,
passed into the library, where he saw, on the bureau of the governor, a
paper-weight, representing two small jade lions, most admirably sculp-

‘tured. As works of art, in fact, these works were perfect both in the

polish and design. The Prince Touan, who had taken up these two small
lions to examine them with care, and could not relinquish them, hold-
ing them in his hands, he fell into an ecstasy whilst contemplating them,
and exclaimed without ceasing, ‘“‘ It is a master-piece ; most wonderful.”
“T have, besides, a crayon-holder,” says the governor, having noticed
that the prince took such pleasure in looking at his paper-weights, “it
is in jade, and represents a dragon, and the same artist sculptured it.”
If we are to credit Father Mailla, all these details are of high historic
fidelity. Tchao-ki, Prince of Touan, who became emperor under the
title of Hoei-tsong, is represented as a prince naturally curious and a
lover of rare works well executed. A trifle of this kind held his atten-
tion for whole days. The courtiers, who had observed this weakness in
their monarch, searched through the country for the most interesting
paintings, the most curious cut stones, and the rarest mechanical works,
to offer them to the emperor.

It is principally in the execution of vases of jade that the skill of
Chinese artists shines forth. The quantity of them to be met with is
immense, from flasks, in which they keep snuff, to drinking-cups and
incense-burners, all showing to what perfection the art of cutting, sculp-
turing, and polishing hard stones in China has attained.

Among the drinking-cups we-would mention principally the kia,
vases made of precious stone for containing wine. A cup of this kind
of the period of Tcheou, 1122 B. C., was made known to the world, dur-
ing the last century, by the Emperor Khien-loung, and is described in
his “Ancient China,” by M. G. Pauthier. The poet Tsiu-tsan seems to
allade to this class of cups when he says, in his “Improvisation before
the Flowers,” “the perfume of these poor flowers penetrates into the
cups of jade and is embalmed in the wine of autumn.”

With those may also be ranked the vessels or dishes for service at
414 JADE.

festivals, and which are shaped so as to receive the meats. There is
mention made of these vessels in ‘The Two Educated Girls,” where the
author of this pretty romance gives a description of an imperial ban-
quet: ““At the end of some instants the music of the dragon and the
phoenix is heard, and at once is served in vases of jade the most refined
ineats.”

Some of these vessels are of very large dimensions. A poem of
Pei-y-tchi, entitled ‘‘ The Measures of Jade,” makes mention of two vases,
broken by Fan-tseng, each of which would contain a teou, that is to say,
large enough to contain one million two hundred thousand grains of
millet, which is a capacity certainly very uncommon. Pei-y-tchi thus
expresses his indignation: ‘‘In his time no good counsel was listened
to; what apology did Fan-tseng make for these great vessels of jade?

His brilliant polished blade leaped from its seabbard pure
as water, brilliant as an icicle, and the transparent pieces of the pre-
cious stone flew round like flashes of light.”

To conclude our statements as to the rare skill of the orientals in the
difficult art of working in jade, we quote a passage from the Notices of
Khotan: “In the first year Kian-tchong of the reign of Te-tsoung,
(780,) one of the officers of the palace, named Tehou-jou-yu, was sent
into the country of Yu-thian to seek for the stone yu. He succeeded in
obtaining a tablet, five clasps, a magnetic ear-ornament, three hundred
small pieces for girdles, forty hair-pins or skewers, thirty boxes, ten
bracelets, three rods, and a hundred pounds of uncut masses.” He
loaded this precious freight on camels and returned; but, being de-
ceived by false information, he took the wrong road, and was plun-
dered by Hoei-he. <A little while afterward all the abovementioned
objects came on the market.

Of all the works of art, the most interesting, beyond all question, are
the jade figures affixed to the magnetic chariots, which were invented,
according to the historians of the Chinese Empire, by the Emperor
Hoang-ti, 2637 years before our era. A valuable work on Chinese an-
tiquities, in twenty-four volumes, entitled Poh-kou-thon, or illustrated
descriptions of antiquities, preserved in the private collections of Chi-
nese amateurs, contains, in the part Kou-yu-thou, which is entirely occu-
pied with works in jade, some fifty objects, among which we may dis-
tinguish the figure of a personage which the Chinese editors refer back
to the dynasty of Chang, from 1783 to 1134 before Christ. The figure
represents the man of the magnetic chariot elevated in the front of the
car, pointing with extended finger to the south (Tchi-nan-kiu) and sculp-
tured out of yu or jade. The man, turning on a pivot, extends his right
hand in the direction of the south, or that point of the compass oppo-
site to the north magnetic pole. It is important to have concealed in
the figure a strong magnet, which always points to the north, and the
man’s arm is thus directed to the south, which is the sacred aspect of the
heavens among the Chinese.

|
{
.
‘
ETHNOLOGY. 415

To comprehend the patience and the incredible resources of oriental
workmen, one has but to cast his eyes upon certain antique pieces in
the Morny collection, as described by M. Albert Jacquemart. For ex-
_ ample, a jade has been fashioned into an open chalice, surmounted by a
squatting Buddhist figure, or Hindoo. The cup is supported by three
_ eagles with extended wings, each one holding in its beak the figure of
a lamb cut out of the same mass; their talons rest upon scroll ornaments
which re-enter the base, and, terminating by three balls, serve as a stand
for the whole. The whole work stands out so distinctly and the under-
cutting is so deep, that one fears to see it fall to pieces at the slightest
touch. Two small vases, one of them without mounting of any sort and
the other hanging in its Kia-tse of carved wood, appear more wonderful
still; besides the body of each vase and its lid, there is worked out from
the same mass of jade two movable rings, attached below to the handles
of the vases, and above to a cross-piece in shape of a yoke, on which is
clasped a gilded or enameled bat, which forms the point of suspension.

If we contemplate the mechanical difficulties of every kind which at-
tend the working in this hard and tough stone, to be honey-combed
‘with the diamond-pointed drill and polished with emery, we may begin
to appreciate the merit of such complex works and the time which is
expended on them, for, as we have already observed, almost the entire
life of a man is required to reach a good result by the laborious and
patient Chinese.

‘The Tchou-li, or etiquette regulations of Tcheou, twelfth century B.C.,
preserves for us some ancient usages relative to jade. Thus the great
administrator-general, Ta-tsai, serves as an assistant to the emperor in
some details of official receptions, as “‘ the homage of jade and precious
stuffs, the offerings of jade presented, the jade throne, and the jade vase.”
The orientalist, Edouard Biot, to whom we owe the first translation of
this important code, adds the following comment: “The rare produc-
tions which princes bring from their kingdoms as offerings to the sov-
ereign are placed in jade vessels. The seat or throne of jade supports
the emperor as he sits on the hassock or cushion. When he rises, the
seat of jade is set forth as a mark of honor, and those who have come
to pay their homage are invited to drink from the vase of jade. In the
case of funerals, the same officer attends to receive presents in jade made
to the defunct prince and the piece prepared to be placed in his mouth.”

The treasurer, Ta-fou, has special functions to assess the value of the
first-class objects of gold and jade. Next to him is the officer placed
over the magazine of jade, (infou,) and charged with keeping gold, jade,
and all other precious articles which are the property of the emperor.
The yu-jin, those who work on jade on the palace, are also under his
direction.

A few words now upon artificial jades. According to the words of
Telfaschi in his “‘ Kitab-al-Ahdjar,” or ‘‘The Book of Flowery Thoughts on
Precious Stones,” a Persian treatise in Arabic, the “ yeschm,” (Persian
416 JADE.

name for jade,) which is found in commerce, is of two sorts, one being
truly a mineral, and the other produced by art. The mineral jade is
yellowish, of the aspect of old ivory. It is hard and shining, and is a
natural product. But the impossibility of distinguishing the real from
the artificial jade causes them to be held at the same price. It is sup-
posed that all the vases found in commerce are of the natural yeschm,
which gives them their exorbitant value.

According to this passage we might infer that artificial jade was not
to be found in Persia, But it is found in China. The fourteenth book
of Tcheou-li expresses indignation at the counterfeits and commercial
frauds already well known, twelve hundred years before our era, a
testimony fully confirmed by the chapter of imperial regulations (Wang-
tchi) in the Ti-Ki or code of ceremonies. .

Teng-you en-yang also, a commentator on the ritual of Tcheou, who
flourished in the time of Ming, declares that adulterations abound in
everything. The common dealers dampen the rice and mix hemp with
silk, the pedlers make jade out of common stones, the shopkeepers
imitate antique objects with modern materials and sell the new for the
old.

The Arabian writer, Mahommed ibn Mansour, author of the “ Djeouar-
Nameh,” or The Book of Precious Stones, declares that in China false jades
(yescheb) are manufactured, but can be distinguished from the natural
stone by a slight smoky odor. ‘If a vase of the true yescheb is broken
it may be repaired with counterfeit material which can with difficulty
be distinguished from the real, and Telfaschi declares likewise that
artificial jade is made in China by the combination of many substances.
Vases so made are imported into Arabia. I have not seen any such in
Egypt or Syria.” He expresses himself with complaisance relative to
some successful attempts he has himself made for this purpose in the
country of the Pharaohs. It is understood that this artificial jade is a
kind of glass known as rice paste. In China and Japan they manufacture
this as a very hard enamel, but at the same time quite fusible, of which
there is a chemical analysis by Klaproth.

These statements are sufficient, as we think, to place amateurs on
their guard against counterfeits, which in both the East and the West
are being more and more practised in all departments of curious and
antique works.

Among Chinese monuments of art of the first rank which exist in
Europe, we must first notice the admirable works in jade belonging to
the crown of France kept at the Garde Meuble. An inventory prepared
in 1791 mentions a grand oval cup, or vase, in greenish jade, of the esti-
inated value of 72,000 frances ; also a round cup in white jade of 12,000
franes. Unless we are deceived, these cups are now exhibited in one of
the rich glazed cases of the Gallery of Apollo, Museum of the Louvre,
Nos. 630 and 637.

The great Paris Library, in its cabinet of antiquities, possesses also

* SO TS yaar aor re SE Se NP A ee eee ee Pe ee Te Meee, ee eae ee Te ee

ETHNOLOGY, 417

a skiff or gondola in green jade, presented in 1114 to the monastery of
St. Denis by Suger, who bought it for 60 mares of silver from the money-
lenders with whom Louis VI had pledged it ten years before.

We must also mention the fine jades of the British Museum in Lon-
don, those of the Chinese Museum of the Louvre and of Fontainebleau,
of the Museum of the Hague, of the Japanese palace at Dresden, and
the superb pieces, cut and uncut, in the Museum of Mineralogy at the
Jardin des Plantes and the Ecole des Mines, in Paris. Among the private
collections, that of M. Montegay, formerly attached to the Chinese
mission, those of MM. Negroni, Pourtales, and especially of Due de
Morny, lately dispersed, included rare objects of this nature; and ex-
tremely curious specimens may also be seen in the cabinets of MM.Count
Choiserd, Count Blou, Marquis Hervey Saint Denys, Admiral Page,
Viscount Ch. de Montauban, and others.

The amateur last cited possesses a cup dating from Nien-hao, 1736-95,
and showing this inscription: ‘ Fang-kou, similar to the antique.” It
is very difficult to distinguish copies from originals, as M. Albert Jacque-
mart says on this subject, when treating of sculptured works in an un-
changeable mineral, preserved by privileged classes, often devoted to
religious uses and reproduced in the same invariable design. The Em-
peror Kien-loung, the restorer of the ancient splendors of China, has
contributed not a little to this end, and increased the difficulty, as he
was pleased, according to written testimony, to have accurate copies
made of old types of work, and to express all inscriptions in the charac-
ters known as ta-tchouan.

The art of sculpturing in jade, as to its origin, is referred back to the
most remote ages in the East, especially in China. Archieologists en-
large upon these antiquities of the Celestial Empire, upon the infinite
delicacy of the work, as due to the patient assiduity of a man who is
never interrupted, and in whose estimation time is of no value. An ex-
ample is found in a narrative of a voyage made by the Arabians in the
ninth century. ‘‘ The Chinese,” says the Arab author, “ are of the num-
ber of God’s creatures having the greatest manual skill in all that relates
to design, the art of working, and every species of handicraft, not being
surpassed in this respect by any nation. In China a man will execute
by manual dexterity that which no person could believe to be possible.”
But unfortunately this industry instead of now advancing is every where
on the decline. Many important secrets of the skilled workman are lost,
and at this date the most skillful are unable to attain to the perfection
and finish so much admired in works of antiquity, so that the desire on
the part of rich Chinese to procure ka-toun or real antiquities is much
restricted.

As to the true principle of esthetics, several authors, Ghirardini at’
their head, have concluded that with the Chinese the plastic arts and
rules of absolute beauty are uncomprehended. The English embassa-
dor, Staunton, confirms this view by declaring that the Chinese copy

Ss 27

al
418 ANTIQUITIES IN GUATEMALA... ‘*

natural objects in a servile manner and do not possess any sense of the —
beautiful. These severe criticisms might appear exaggerated if in his ~

Asiatic miscellanies M. Abel Remusat had not pronounced the same

judgment. According to him, in fact, the sculpture which the Chinese .
bestow on objects of small dimension is only conspicuous for an extreme ~

finish, and fails entirely in the direction of elegance or correctness of

form. He adds: “ They are faithful and minute copyists, but their taste —

is often fantastic, vicious, and far-fetched.”

ANTIQUITIES IN GUATEMALA.

By Hon. Gro. WILLIAMSON,
United States Minister to Central America.

The locality examined, which I took to be the remains of a place of wor-
ship, was in the coffee-plantation of the haciendaof Don Pedro Aycinena,
near the city of Guatemala, and has been cultivated for nearly fifty years.
It is a quadrilateral of four unequal sides, which appears to have been in-
closed by an earthen wall or embankment about 10 or 12 feet high. The
longer sides run from north to south and are 150 feet in length; the
shorter sides run from east to west and are 90 feet long. On the west
side, in a direct line with the shorter sides, are four small mounds prob-
ably 20 feet high, The one nearest the northwest corner is the one I
caused to be opened. In the north end of what I shall designate for
convenience No. 1, was found, many years ago, a piece of wrought stone
somewhat in the shape of a crocodile’s head. It is now in the possession
of the owner of the hacienda of Naranjo, Don Pedro de Aycinena.

After deciding that the embankments had not been a Spanish or
Indian fortification, and after taking the advice of my companion, the
Duke de Licignano, I decided to open the mound nearest the northwest
corner. It was cut down to the level of the surrounding ground by
cross ditches from north to south and east to west. Nothing was
found but the head of a small stone idol, the edge part of a greenish

stone hatchet, and a great quantity of broken pieces of obsidian and —

pottery. It was impossible to reconstruct any vessel of the pottery, but

judging from the thickness of many of the pieces and from the large —
size of solid cylindrical parts that appeared to have been handles, it —

occurred to me this pottery might have been burial vessels like those

sent to the Institution from Nicaragua last year by Dr. C. H. Berendt.

The earth which composed the mounds and embankment seemed to ©
be like that of the surrounding surface, but after carefully searching —

around within a considerable radius from the center of No. 1, I could

not discern any place from which the earth appeared to have been —

excavated.
The next place I examined, No. 2, is in the same field, and exactly in
Large Mounds
iy s“e
a ays Fn
Sin-sided’ stone si peated i S
in the center esas
of this Mound 3%¢

Small Mounds
Se

il clout ZOOL
moumlshaped-

Six-sided

ANTIQUITIES IN GUATEMALA.

Norr.—Nos. 1 and 2 referred to in the description are on the west side of the high
mountain ridge.

os ae ee ee

ETHNOLQGY. 419

shape like the first described. The mounds of No. 2 are on the east
instead of the west side and are much smaller. The size of No. 2 is 120
feet by 60 feet.

The results of No. 1 were too unsatisfactory to induce me to make
any excavation of No.2. In the mean time I had examined No. 3, about
three miles distant from No. 1, and on the other side of a high mountain
ridge, which at that place runs tongue-shaped into the plain of Guatemala.

No. 3 was larger than either of the others, and has the mounds now
much reduced in height by continual cultivation and washing on the
west side. These are a!l the rectilinear works or embankments that I
have found or been able to hear of in the plains of Guatemala. No. 3,
however, is peculiar in this, that it commands a view of a small plain,
partly inclosed by nature and art, which has some mounds and stones
in it that are certainly singular if not interesting. This plain, partly
inclosed as stated, is in the form of a parallelogram, with its long sides
running north and south or nearly so.* Itcontains some curious stones
placed, evidently by design, in north and south lines, or nearly so, and
most if not all of them roughly wrought. I had been anxious to see
this, but had been deterred because I had heard it was almost inaccessi-
ble. One of the stones is a corner post in a street of the city, and two
others I had seen and examined in the yard and cattle lot of the hacienda
of Naranjo. Upon inquiring where they had been brought from, I was
told that the spot was about three miles in a straight line from Guate-
mala, but impossible to reach on horseback from the city, as impassable
‘“barrancas” or cafons intervened. It was noticed the stones seen
had all been wrought into six-sided posts or columns and were of a
dark-colored species of granite. |

In the partly inclosed -plain there are three rows of stones still
standing in the ground. On the east a large isolated hill rises from
the plain to a height of probably 300 feet, which is so much the shape of
an artificial mound that its size and an examination of its surface
only prevent me from believing it is the work of man’s hands.

On the north side are several large mounds. On the west is an unu-.
sually large oblong-shaped mound facing the hill or mountain on the
east and opposite to it. The distance of the bases apart is about 600
yards.

On the right and left of this oblong-shaped mound is a continuation
of smaller mounds, two of them apparently connected with it, and the
others disconnected. This range of mounds extends a distance of sev-
eral hundred yards, so as to form, as I think, the west side of the inclo-
sure.

On the east side is higher natural ground than the plain, and on the

southeast side, with its shorter side toward the plain, is the rectilinear
__ SE ee ee ee See

*The variation from a due north and south line, according to my compass, was
about 5° to the west, and this variation seems to be uniform in all the mounds and

lines of stones herein mentioned.
42() ANTIQUITIES IN GUATEMALA.

figure with high earthen embankments, which I have designated as !

No, 3.

In the rear of the hill, in the plain of Guatemala, is a very deep bar- ~

ranca, and in the rear of the oblong mound is also a very deep barranca,
which separates the plain from the mountain ridge. ’

But to return to the stones. The line on the outline sketch marked
thus, a, a, a, a, represents the six-sided stones. They are about 8 inches
in diameter and appear to be set deeply in the ground. But four of them
are now left standing. They are about 40 feet apart and are on the side
next to the hill O. On the next line, 60 feet toward the west, are five very
large stones, rudely worked, if worked at all, of quite a large size, and
standing above the surface about an average of 5 feet. They are
marked on the sketch J, b, b, b, b. These are about 100 feet apart. About
125 yards from this line of stones 0, b, b, b, b, are four wrought stones.
They are directly in front of the central mound on the west of the plain,
which I have marked X in the sketch. The line is nearly parallel to
the others spoken of. It is marked ¢,d,e,f. This line is probably not
more than 60 feet long. The stone on the north end of the line ¢ is small
and not more than 18 inches above the surface. The next (d) is larger
and about 24 feet above the surface. The next (e) is very large, and
stands about 54 or 6 feet above the surface. It must weigh several tons.
I think it is about 1 foot thick, 4 feet wide, and probably 10 feet long.
It does not stand perpendicularly, but is slightly inclined toward the
east. The next stone in this line is f. It is also very large; quite as
large as stone e. It has a hole cut about the center of it, nearly 3 feet
from the surface of the earth. This hole is just large enough to admit
the insertion of a small man’s shoulders and the passage of the head.
That part of the hole toward the east is cut so that the face has to be
horizontal when the head is passed through, and there is a notch or cut

|
|

in it, so that if the head were once passed through ; the insertion of a —

piece of wood or stone in the notch would render it impossible to move
or withdraw the head.

On the same side (east side) there is a working which, if the stone was
so used, would make the blood flowing from the neck of a person whose
head was passed through the stone, and was beheaded in that attitude,
distribute itself nearly all over the lower part of it. I thought this
place might have been used for the purpose of human sacrifices, (at one
time common in Central America,) and for what were called religious

services. It seemed probable that an excavation of the oblong mound —

X, directly in the rear of these, would yield something interesting. i re-
gret to say this expectation was not realized. It was cut through from
east to west, but nothing was found except broken pieces of obsidian
and crockery.

The plain of the stones is called by the Indians, ‘‘ The palace of Mon-
tezuma.” They say it has been there “always,” but that many of the
six-sided stones have been dug up and carried away.
RRR

ETHNOLOGY. 431

el

So far as I can learn, the English minister who accompanied me on
my first visit to the place, and myself, are the first foreigners who have
visited the spot. This ruin is not mentioned in any work on Central
America that I have ever had access to; but there is a tradition that a
large Indian population lived around the base of the high mountain
ridge shown in the sketch.

COLLECTIONS OF HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS IN GUATEMALA.
By Dr. C. H. BERENDT.

The city of Guatemala having been for nearly three centuries the
seat of the colonial government of the ‘ Kingdom of Guatemala,” (com-
prising parts of actual Mexico and the other Central American republics, )
a vast amount of documents has been accumulated and carefully pre-
served by the various departments of administration, by the municipal-
ities, and in the convents and churches. After the separation from the
mother country, and with the suppression of the monastic orders, they
have become the property of the government and of the public libraries.
Their extent and importance are but imperfectly known, but, to judge
from what scientific travelers occasionally report, from what we glean
from the works of the few native scholars which have reached the sci-
entific world abroad, and from what I have seen myself during a month’s
sojourn in the-capital, it is safe to say that they contain many rare and
unique documents whose study would considerably extend our knowl-
edge of the history of this continent, particularly regarding the periods
of the conquest and of the Spanish dominion, and also of the condition
of the country and people before the conquest. I heartily concur with
Mr. Williamson in the wish that these treasures, by carefully-made
copies, might be made accessible to other students besides those who
happen to visit this country. There is a particular reason for wishing
that such may be done soon, as else it might be too late. The actual
government of Guatemala, wide awake as it seems to be to the material
progress of the country, is strangely neglectful with regard to the pres-
ervation and utilization of those scientific treasures. At the simple
request of a foreigner, a German residing in Nicaragua, a considerable
amount of most valuable original documents have lately been given
away, with astonishing coolness, as so much waste paper, to the Nica-
raguan government, which never asked for them nor will care to pre-
serve them. It is to be feared that invaluable sources of information
may thus be lost forever if not saved from perdition by transcripts
made in time.

The MSS. to be found here are scattered through a number of archives
and public and private libraries. Of important works one volume be-
longs to one individual, another is found at another place; of some only

parts or fragments are remaining. The principal collections are—
se
422 COLLECTIONS OF HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS IN GUATEMALA.

1. The National Archives, containing the archives of the colonial
administration, carefully arranged and kept for many years by Don
Juan Gavarrete, but now in incompetent hands. It is this collection
from which some fifty fascicles relating to Nicaragua, (they comprise
original reports from the local authorities, from residing judges and
visiting functionaries, from bishops, curates, and missionaries, &c., cov-
ering, in uninterrupted succession, the period from 1560 to 1821, more
than 1,200 documents in ail,) have been given away, and are now rot-
ting in their boxes at Managua, where the dampness and the destruc-
tive insects which abound at that place must soon destroy them. No
catalogue exists of the remainder.

2. The Archives of the “ Audiencia” (the high court of justice dur-
ing the Spanish reign) in the palace of justice. They are in the great-
est confusion, and, in the opinion of those who have had access to them,
have never been revised.

3. The Archives of the Municipality. They contain the municipal
records from the oldest times, besides a few valuable manuscripts, among
them the original of Bernal Diaz’s “‘ Historia Verdadera,” the author
(whose existence Judge Wilson holds to be a myth) having been a mem-
ber of the municipal council of the city of Guatemala.

4. The Library of the University. A catalogue by Don Antonio
Batres exists in print, which, though a poor work, full of blunders and
inaccuracies, gives at least some idea of the rich contents of that vast
hall. I hope a copy has been sent to the Institution, as promised to me
by the author.

5. The Library of the ‘‘ Sociedad Economica.” A catalogue of the
‘“‘ethnological sections” (comprising also the historical works) by Don
Juan Gavarrete, is printed in the last February and March numbers of
the paper published by the society, and separately in a quarto pamphlet.
Both have been sent to the Institution, if I am correctly informed.

Works which I would recommend to have copied first are those by
Jimenez, of which, as far as I remember, no transcripts exist outside

of the city of Guatemala. The ‘‘Recordacion Florida,” by Muiiez y Guz-’

man, of which one volume in manuscript copy is in the Lenox Library ;
the anonymous “ Historia de la Provincia de San Vicente Ferrer de
Chiapa y Guatemala,” comprising the “ Isagoge apologético,” so often
quoted by Pelaez; Bernal Diaz’s ‘Historia Verdadera,” (the printed
editions being considered defective both in correctness and complete-
ness—a copy is actually being made for the Mexican government;) the
writings of many ecclesiastical authors, such as Cano, Molina, Montoya,
Cortés y Lara, Goicoechea, &c.; the records or memoirs written by In-
dian authors in Indian languages, among them the manuscripts quoted
by Brasseur under the name ‘* Memorial de Tecpan-Atitlan, &c.

With regard to the permission to be obtained from the government
and special managers of the mentioned collections for searching and

copying manuscripts in those archives and libraries, I have no doubt it
*

'

\
ETHNOLOGY. 423

would be willingly granted. The person recommended by Mr. William-
son for making the transcripts (Don Francisco Gavarrete) is fully com-
petent for the task as to the works written in the Spanish language.
A translation into English seems not advisable. Whoever wants to
study the history, ethnology, linguistics, &c., of Spanish-American
countries, must, from necessity, understand the Spanish language, and
if he does not, he ought to begin by learning it. The work of copying
the writings in Indian languages requires a scholar conversant with
them and accustomed to decipher the often illegible old manuscripts,
or the copies would be worthless... The same may be said with regard
to the arduous task of selecting from the unknown contents of those
archives such as would be worthy of the trouble and expense of copy-
ing; it would require a person familiar with the literature of this spe-
cialty, particularly the various Spanish, Mexican, and other printed col-
lections of historical documents, to avoid copying writings which already
exist in print.

Regarding excavations to be made in the neighborhood of the city
of Guatemala, I have no opinion to give as to the probability of their
success. In the wide valley-plain around the city, and particularly to
the west, at the foot of the mountains of Mixco are many small mounds,
some of them grouped together, forming lines here, squares there; and
antiquities (principally clay and stone implements) are occasionally
found. Some of these mounds may be of a sepulchral character, and in
that case they may contain interesting objects of antiquity. There is
certainly a great deal of work still to be done in American archeology,
and no part of the continent has so great an interest for the student as
the region inhabited by the nations of the Maya-Quiché family, for bear-
ing testimony of the highest pre-Columbian civilization of this continent.
The distinguishing features of antiquities belonging to this group are
far from being satisfactorily established, and any additions to our knowl-
edge in this regard would be highly acceptable. But the difficulties in
reaching results from partial researches upon a ground which has been
inhabited successively by tribes of various nationalities and different
degrees of civilization, and, on the other hand, the tendency of the
day, by which the prehistoric man of the old world absorbs all the
interest and attention of students, even in institutions which are ex-
pressly dedicated to American archeology, are great obstacles in our
way, and convince us that the time has not yet come—as certainly it
will and must come—for a co-operative and successful working of this
branch of American science. If, however, the Smithsonian or any other
museum or academy were willing to defray the expenses of digging for
antiquities, I think there might be named hundreds of other places in
Central America more likely to give returns than the neighborhood of
the city of Guatemala. Mr. Osbert Salvin, the ornithologist, dug up
one or two of those Mixco mounds not more than a year ago, but, as I
am informed, he found nothing therein of antiquarian interest.

*
424 PRE-HISTORIC MOUNDS OF GRANT COUNTY, WISCONSIN.

OBSERVATIONS ON THE PRE-HISTORIC MOUNDS OF GRANT COUNTY, WIS-
CONSIN.*

By MoseEs StronG M. E., Assistant State Geologist.

During the course of my geological examination of the lead region
of Wisconsin in the summer and fall of 1874, my attention was directed
to the numerous and remarkable tumuli which are found in the valleys
of the Mississippi and Wisconsin Rivers, and on the adjacent bluffs.

The entire number of mounds, of which this article treats, may be
classified in three kinds, according to their form.

Ist. The round mounds.—They are perfectly round or circular at the
base, and are dome-shaped or conical, according to their height, which
varies from 3 to 15 feet. By far the larger number—probably as many
as four-fifths—are less than 5 feet high, and are spherical segments,
with an average diameter at the base of about 25 feet. The conical
mounds usually exceed this diameter and height, and are always
rounded off at the apex; whether this was by design, or is a modifica-
tion due to the lapse of time, it is difficult now to decide. Some of the
largest attained a diameter of 50 feet and a height of 15 feet. Again,
many of the round mounds were so low as almost to escape observa-
tion, and sloped so gradually into the ground on which they were
thrown up that the true diameter could not be exactly ascertained. No
traces were seen of ridges or trenches surrounding any of the round
mounds, such as are described in other localities, as at Hutsonville, Ils. ;
nor were there any terraces on their sides, or any appearance of a plat-
form on their summits. All the circular mounds were perfectly p!ain
and simple in their structure.

2d. Oblong mounds.—These tumuli are invariably straight and of
various lengths, from 50 to 300 feet. They are seldom more than 4 feet
in height, and will average about 24 feet high and 15 in width. They
always slope gradually at the ends to the ground. Sometimes these
mounds are found ina long straight line, and, at others, in parallel
rows; but a systematic arrangement is always apparent. Excepting
in their length, there is less variation from a uniform standard seen in
the oblong mounds than in any other kind. .

3d, Effigy mounds, or those having animal forms.—These are the
most singular and interesting of all; perhaps for the reason that it is
most difiicult to find any theory which rationally accounts for their ex-
istence. They are found of all dimensions as regards length; being
from 50 to 200 feet long, and are usually a little higher and wider than
the long mounds. Their average height is about 4 feet, and their width
25. They usually represent animals lying upon one side, with the head
up, ‘and legs apart, as ifin motion. Representations of the human form
were not observed, although such exist north of the Wisconsin River.

* Extract from the report of the Wisconsin Geological Survey of 1873-74.

niin
ETHNOLOGY. 425

Three instances of the representation of birds were observed, and one
of an animal like a lizard.

That these mounds were intended to represent animals can be seen at
a glance, but what particular genus of animal is seldom so evident. In
general, all that is plainly seen are the head, neck, body, and legs of an
animal. Sometimes there are added to them, ears, horns, or a tail, the
two latter being quite infrequent.
Localities of the mounds.—The following description of the several

localities where mounds were seen, with a few explanatory remarks, will
convey an idea of the former works of the mound-builders, and the sites
selected by them for their tumuli.

1. 8. E. 4 of N. E. 4 of sec. 36, T. 4, R. 2 E.—Five straight mounds,
each about 50 feet long, situated in a direct line coinciding with the
axis of a low ridge on which they are built. This ridge is the terminus
of a long divide between two branches of the Pecatonica River. The
mounds are about 200 feet from the eastern branch and about 30 feet
above it. As a dwelling-site it would have been very convenient.

2. S. W.4 of sec. 25 and N. E. 4 of sec. 26, T. 4, R. 2 E.—Proceeding
in a northwesterly direction from the preceding locality, and following
the crest of the same dividing ridge, numerous long mounds are seen
lying parallel to the axis of the ridge. This land is now under cultiva-
tion, and the mounds are nearly obliterated.

3. N. W. 4 of sec 22, T. 7, R. 4 W.—On the summit of a bluff at the
junction of the Green and Wisconsin Rivers a straight mound was ob-
served ; it is 200 feet long, 2 feet high, and 6 feet wide. From this point
a beautiful view of the valley isobtained. No other mounds of any kind
were found near it.

4, N. W.4 of sec. 25, T. 7, R.5 W.—At the mouth of Dry Hollow
and near the bank of a bayou of the Wisconsin River, are a number of
mounds, both long and round, scattered abont without any apparent
order of arrangement.

5. S. W. 4 of sec. 26, T. 7, R. 5 W.—Proceeding down the valley of
the’ Wisconsin to a deserted farm known as the “ Schlundt place,” sev-
eral long mounds were seen on the road, lying parallel to the foot of the
bluff, and a few yards from it. At the Schlundt house, one long and
three round mounds were seen, one of which is quite conspicuous for
its size. It has the form of the frustum of a cone; the diameter of
the base is 40 feet, the diameter of the upper surface 28 feet, and the
height 4 feet. In the center of this mound a cottonwood tree 17 inches
in diameter is growing. The appearance of the mound indicates that it
has been cut or worn down several feet, to make its upper surface level;

and that the tree was subsequently planted, perhaps for shade. The
mound is constructed of sandy clay, which, however, contains much
less sand than the adjacent ground. The material of which the mound
is constructed may have been brought from the bluff, which is not far
distant. About 100 feet south of this large mound, is a small circular
426 PRE-HISTORIC MOUNDS OF GRANT COUNTY, WISCONSIN.

mound, 15 feet in diameter, and 3 feet high. Thirty feet east of the
small mound is a straight one 77 feet long. Following the road for
about a quarter of a mile west of the ‘‘Schlundt place,”
a mound was discovered which is showu in Fig. 1. It
is situated immediately on the bank of the Wisconsin

tiver, and about 50 feet from the foot of the bluff.
This mound is the only one of its kind seen. It is per-
haps intended to represent a bird with its wings and —__
tail spread, as shown by the circular expansion at the G=a-
rear end. If this is its design, it is not nearly so well
proportioned as the other bird mounds which were
seen, none of which, however, had their tails spread. Fig. 1.

6. N. E. 4 of sec. 2, T. 6, R. 5 W.—Making a short detour from the
valley of the Wisconsin, up the valley of a small stream on which the
village of Millville is situ-
ated, we find the singular
mound shown in Figure 2.
It is situated in a meadow
owned by Mr. Kidd, the
miller, and about 300 feet
south of his house. The
mound lies on the level
ground, with its limbs
pointing to thecreek, which
is distant but a few yards.
The meadow has been under
cultivation for a number of
years, so that the mound is
much reduced in height,
although it can still be dis-
tinctly traced. The remains
of several others were ob-
served, but they are so ob-
literated by cultivation that
their forms can no longer be identified. As it lies upon the ground the
effigy is not particularly suggestive of any known living animal. The
fore limbs are the longest, and each longer than the body, while the
neck has been omitted in the construction of the animal. Altogether, it
is one of the most singular effigies seen, and the only one of its kind.

7. Center of sec. 15, T. 7, R. 5 W.—This locality was formerly known
as Warner’s Steam Mill, and is situated on the bank of the Wisconsin
River. Here is a strip of bottom land half a mile wide, lying between
the bluffs and the river, on which a large number of small circular
and conical mounds were found scattered about without any apparent
law of distribution. No straight or effigy mounds were seen.

8. 4 post sees. 5 and 8, T. 6, R. 5 W.—On the new road from Millville

Bionhe.
ETHNOLOGY. 427

to Bridgeport three straight mounds were found, from 100 to 150 feet
long. The mounds lie at the foot of the bluff, and parallel to it, about
15 feet above high-water mark, with a bayou of the Wisconsin in front
of them and but a few yards distant. Nothing particular was noticed in
their mode of distribution.

9. S. E. } sec. 14, T. 6, R. 6 W.—Quite an extensive group, consisting
of an animal form, three oblong mounds, and a number of small round
mounds is to be seen at this locality. They are situated about halfa
mile above the Wisconsin River bridge, at Banfill, on a raised, level
piece of land, near the foot of the bluff. The land was formerly under
cultivation, but not for a sufficiently long time to injure the appearance
of the mounds. ‘The effigy-mound is quite large, and appears to be the
central figure, around which the others were grouped, and was probably
the first earthwork constructed. It is quite large and well proportioned,
with the head thrown up and forward and the legs bent forward and
backward. It seems designed to represent some animal in a springing
or jumping posture. At the intersection of the body, neck, and fore-
limbs, a hole was sunk 6 feet long by 3 wide, by Messrs. Rice, Mitchell,
Thompson, Haven, and myself. Nothing was found, except that the
mound was constructed of a very hard and compact clay, quite homo-
geneous throughout, and apparently the same as the underlying soil,
into which we penetrated about 18 inches.

Abandoning operations on the effigy-mound, we next excavated one
of the circular mounds by means of a trench about 2 feet wide, carried
in from the circumference to the center on the same level as the adjacent
ground. On reaching the center a human skeleton was found, the bones
of which were so brittle and crumbling that no perfect ones could be
obtained. During the exhumation the following facts were observed.
The process of burial had been as follows: The body was seated on the
level ground with the face to the west, and the legs stretched out in the
same direction, but not separated, the knees not being at all drawn up.
The body and head were erect and the arms placed by the sides. The
mound was built up around the corpse in this position. Since then the
process of decay, by removing the soft internal parts of the body, had
permitted all the bones of the skull and body to fall down into and on
the pelvis, where most of them were found confused and mingled together,
compacted in a hard dark clay, from which the bones were separated with
much difficulty. Parts of the tibia, femur, pelvis, ribs, and skull were
recovered, together with parts of the jaw-bones, and numerous teeth.
The jaw-bones and teeth were in the best state of preservation of any
obtained, the teeth being especially so. Several loose teeth were found
belonging to the upper jaw, and the lower jaw still retaining most of its
teeth. They indicated an adult individual, and were, without exception,
flattened and worn smooth on their grinding surfaces.

The clay of which the circular mound was constructed was somewhat
difterent from that excavated in the effigy mound. The upper part of
428 PRE-HISTORIC MOUNDS OF GRANT COUNTY, WISCONSIN.

the circular mound for about 18 inches, consisted of a sandy clay, which
was easily removed with a shovel alone. All below this consisted of a
very compact clay, containing but little sand, so hard

that a pick was necessary, and the point would not |
penetrate more than an inch or two ata stroke. So

great was the difference in the compactness of the 3

clay in the two mounds excavated, that it occurred

to me that the circular mound might have heen Y
stamped or rammed, or otherwise compacted at the
time when it was built; perhaps for the purpose of f
protecting the corpse against the attacks of prowling ros
animals.

I do not think that the most skeptical person could
regard this as an intrusive burial of a date more %
recent than the formation of the mound. It bears N
no internal evidence of ever having been disturbed ; 7
and externally the mound precisely resembles all the
others in this vicinity, and hundreds of others in
different localities which we are accustomed to at- mt
tribute to the mound-builders. S106

10. S. E., 4 sec. 19 W., 4 of sec. 20, S. W. 4 sec.
17, S. E. $ see. 18, all in T. 6, R. 6 W.—AII these
several localities appear to be component parts of one

1000 Foot

$00

grand chain, series, or procession of mounds. This 5 ed
procession may be said to begin near the residence rs!

of Hon. Robert Glen, not far from the line between
sections 19 and 30, of T. 6, R. 6 W. The first seen
are the four round ones, in the orchard near. the
house, (Diagram I.) They seem to be in a manner
set apart from the rest, as quite adistance intervenes
between them and the first long one, and they are
the only ones of the circular kind. :

Figures 1 and 2 (Diagram I) represent two effi- |
gies, slightly different in shape and size. From their :
appearance on the ground no resemblance to any
particular animal could be detected. Pursuing a .
northeasterly course, quite a remarkable series of
long straight mounds is found, effigy and circular 3
mounds being entirely absent.

It will be noticed that the mounds are situated in
a continuous line, and not in several parallels, or
grouped about, as in some other instances. This
line conforms in its irregularities exactly to the crest
of the ridge, so that they command an extensive view
on both sides of the ridge. These mounds, with one eins a
or two exceptions, have all been under cultivation; which has somewhat

“800

200
1 n

oO) 4-> 100°

tiat

ETHNOLOGY. 429

diminished their height and sharpness of outline, but has not otherwise
injured them or rendered them difficult to find.

Proceeding along the crest of the ridge, nothing is seen for about half
«a mile, until the first of the
mounds (Fig. 3, Diagram II) is
found followed by Figs. 4 and 5
at short intervals. Figs. 3 and
5 are somewhat similar, and not
unlike Fig. 2 of Diagram I. Fol-
lowing Fig. 5 is a row of twenty
round mounds; each about 25
feet in diameter, 5 or 6 feet high
and about 25 feet apart. They
are arranged in straight lines,
conforming to the crest of the
ridge. The long north and south
row of eleven mounds, when
viewed from the south end, pre-
sents a peculiarly striking and
impressive appearance. At the
northern end of this row of
mounds the ridge turns abruptly
to the west, and a change in the mounds also takes place. No more
round mounds are to be found, but more animal structures, of which
may be observed the following peculiar arrangement. As all the effigies
at the south end of the circular mounds are headed away from them,
so also those at the northern end appear to be departing trom them in
a westerly direction.

Proceeding westward along the ridge, Fig. 7 (Diagram II) is seen,
which is reproduced on a larger scale in Fig. 3. The animal represented
by this mound appears to have a short tail and horns, and is probably
designed to represent some species of deer. It is one of the few efligy
mounds in which we can trace a resemblance to some particular animal.
It will be seen that its feet are turned to the south, in an opposite direc-
tion toall the others. Two hundred feet west of Tig. 7 is Fig. 8, the only
long mound in this procession. A long interval now occurs in which no
mounds of any kind are found, until at the extreme end of the ridge
Figs. 9 and 10 are found. From this point, a beautiful view of the Mis-
sissippi and Wisconsin Rivers is obtained.

It will be seen from an inspection of Diagrams I and II, that as the
effigies Figs 9 and 10 by themselves close the series on its western end,
so is the series in Diagram I closed on its southwestern end by the
effigies, Figs. 1 and 2. Whether this is merely accidental, or the work
of design, is difficult to determine. There seems to be a certain uni-
formity of distribution among the mounds on this ridge as if it were an
arrangement according to a preconceived plan or custom. It is seen in

Fig. 3.
430 PRE-HISTORIC MOUNDS OF GRANT COUNTY, WISCONSIN.

the location of all the long mounds by themselves; the same is the
case with the circular ones, and the effigies also are located in groups.
Nor does the presence of the long mound, Fig. 8, Diagram II, or the
round ones near the residence of Mr. Glen appear to conflict with the
general unity of design; as the former may have served some special or
temporary purpose, and the latter may have been constructed subse-
quently to the rest.

The mounds represented on Diagram II, have never been cultivated,
but most of them are situated in almost impenetrable thickets of brush
and young timber, which renders them very, difficult to find and trace
out.

11. N. E. 4 sec. 17, T. 5, R. 6 W.—The group or groups of mounds,
represented in Diagram III, are situated on the Mississippi River bot-
tom. They are the first specimens of the circular mounds anywhere
observed. Their diameters vary from 20 to 50 feet, and they are from
5 to 15 feet high. The mounds are situated on a low sandy ridge, a
few feet higher than the adjoining grounds, which are not far above
high-water mark. It will be seen that they are built in straight lines
consisting of three or four mounds each, the lines making angles with
each other, to conform to the higher portions of the ground. The
mounds appear to be constructed of a sandy loam, although, as no
excavations were made, it is impossible to say of what material the
inside is composed.

In two or three of the mounds near the southern end of the group,
excavations had been made which were evidently of a recent date,
probably within a few months. The excavations were shallow holes,
_ about 18 inches deep, sunk in the tops of the mounds; a large quantity
of human bones and teeth had been exhumed from them in each
instance. They were still lying scattered about on the summits of the
mounds, and a number of them were collected. The bones were well
preserved and firm in their texture, and the teeth, some of which were
as sound and solid as any in a living person, had the grinding surfaces
worn flat and smooth, similarly to those before mentioned.

The fine state of preservation of the bones, so different from those
found in the mound previously described, together with the circum-
stance of their being found so near the surface, leads me to think that
they are not the bones of the original mound-builders, but rather that
they are intrusive burials; that these mounds have been resorted to
:2 comparatively recent times by a- different race for burial purposes.
Unfortunately no crania (except some small fragments) were found, —
which might have been of assistance in determining this question ; and
my limited time did not permit me to make any excavations.

- 12. 8S. E. 4 sec. 17, T. 5, R. 6 W.—Following the course of the Mis-
Sissippi about a quarter of a mile southeast of the preceding locality,
numerous long mounds were seen arranged in several rows parallel to
each other and to the river. They are situated in the cultivated fields
ee > =
oy, yong, mae %, - = NULL TPT
* idl anny ”, cat UN Hy, “Yy jain” Ww Ny
awit NA) y” \ ) = 4 Y
» LPL Gil
sw Bem < S uy,
\S = My, .
Ry Ss “
y

ras

" s
1m

"ny
a" 4

"
fi Mmmm ry est

%

“ nnn

590 1000 Feet.

©
BUD

DraGramM II.
2 iti Le
Fe
as, ne rns ma

=. arenes tit shet a ai

ae ; ‘, ay oa Ta lo Beaty i Guiee Wy, fies

ay nae

Oh ae ue be ues .
“aa oe

Po ie E yan aera cv he
4
oa
4 a]
eed * n i
Pen
a5 ee ‘

f
if
ue Bs °
ALY
i
. bd . 7 f 4 ¢ "
4 s re
Ld i Ae ‘
M co
‘ae ‘ » y
‘
‘ ¢

DIAGRAM III.
4 H i, ia

ETHNOLOGY. 431

and are nearly obliterated. At the time these localities were visited
the valley was covered by a crop of standing corn, which rendered it
difficult to find them, and it is probable that many exist which were
not noticed. No circular or effigy mounds were found in connection
with them.

13. S: E. 4 sec. 21, T. 5, R. 6 W.—Continuing down the valley we
come to a group in which the three kinds of mounds are well repre-
sented. They lie upon the alluvial bottom, quite near a bayou of the
Mississippi, and none of them are more than 8 feet above high-water
mark, while those in the southern part of the group are not more than
3 feet. In this group, where all kinds are represented, there seems to
be a separation of the long and round mounds from each other. There
is nothing of peculiar interest in the occurrence of the long and circular
mounds, but we have here two quite singular effigies. The central one
of the group is evidently intended to represent a bird with the wings
spread, in the act of flying; the head is directed to the south. The
wings measure 94 feet each way, from the center of the body to their
extremities, and the length of the tail is 65 feet. It is quite a large and
well-formed effigy, and is different from the other bird mounds in
having an angle in the wings.

Situated at the northern end of the group is the most interesting
effigy-mound anywhere observed. A description of it by Mr. Warner,
of Patch Grove, was published in the Smithsonian report of 1572, page
416. It is known as the ‘Elephant Mound, ” and as it lies upon the
ground it resembles an elephant or mastodon much more closely than
any other animal, and the resemblance is much more perfect in this in-
stance than in other effigies. This mound, in common with all the rest
in the group, has been under cultivation; and on account of its size
special efforts have been made with plows and scrapers to bring it to
the level of the adjacent field. Its size alone has protected it. These
efforts have resulted in diminishing its height, increasing its width and
general circumference, and rendering its outline somewhat indistinct,

’ go that it was difficult to make exact measurements.

14. N. E. 4 sec. 17, T. 3, R. 5 W.—A short distance below Cassville,
near the bank of the Mississippi, are three animal mounds. Several
long mounds were seen in the vicinity but no circular ones. One of
them is probably intended to represent some kind of a lizard or saurian,
another is a bird with extended wings, and the third is uncertain, but,
in common with the first, is remarkable for having a round head, a pecu-
liarity not observed in any other effigies. The first-mentioned is a large
and symmetrical mound, and is the only one of the kind observed. The
mounds are very well defined, and are some of the best-preserved ef-
figies seen.

15. S. 4 sec. 30, N. E. 4, sec. 31, N. W. 4, sec. 32, T. 3, R. 4 W.—This
is a long, high ridge, having its general direction a little south of east.
Upon it is the most extensive representation and fullest development
432 PRE-HISTORIC MOUNDS OF GRANT COUNTY, WISCONSIN.

"

of the mound system anywhere observed. Circular, straight, and effigy
mounds extend along the crest of this ridge for a distance of nearly |
two miles in uninterrupted succession. The mounds are so extensive ~
and numerous that my time did not admit of making even the most
general survey of any but the effigies. One of them is a perfectly sym-
metrical cross, the opposite parts corresponding exactly in length. It
is difficult to conceive what its object could have been, or of what it is
symbolical. Another, from its long tail, slender body, and small head,
may have been designed to represent some one of the feline species. A
third and fourth exhibit quite a remarkable formation in the extremities
of the limbs.

Civilization has not as yet encroached on this locality, except to a slight
extent at the eastern end, which is beginning to be cultivated. Most of
the earthworks are doubtless in the condition in which they were left
at the time of their desertion by their builders. It is probable that in a
few years all the land will be under cultivation, and the mounds oblit-
erated. Perhaps a few dollars would be judiciously appropriated in
making these grounds—burial grounds, perhaps—the property of some
scientific society, and thus preserve them from further destruction.

From observations of the mounds at all the foregoing localities, we
arrive at the following conclusions in regard to their distribution :

1. The circular mounds are frequently found in one locality and the
long mounds in another; or if both kinds are found in the same group
they are usually separated.

2. When the number of mounds does not exceed five or six, they are
usually of the same kind.

3. The effigy mounds are never found unaccompanied by either long
or circular mounds, and are usually attended by both.

4. All the mounds appear to have been made by scraping up the sur-
face soil; either from the ground immediately adjacent or from a neigh-
boring hill. In no place was any appearance of excavation seen.

5. During the Champlain period the valley of the Mississippi under-
went a depression of at least 50 feet, during which period it was filled
with a stratified drift, of which occasional patches still remain along
the sides of the bluffs. To this there succeeded a period of elevation,
in which most of the valley drift was removed. The situation of some
of the mounds so near the present high-water mark shows that they
were not built until after the completion of the last elevatory movement,
which probably took place within the recent period.

The mounds themselves reveal that order and government must have
prevailed to some extent among the race which built them, but afford
no clew to the time in which they lived.
ETHNOLOGY. 433

DEPOSITS OF FLINT IMPLEMENTS.

By J. F. Snyper, M. D., of Virginia, Cass County, [linois,

The custom of concealing in the ground surplas articles of food, ap-
parel, weapons, &c., for temporary safe-keeping, is common to all no-
madic tribes. On this continent it was eed by the pre-historic
races, was in vogue among the Indians first observed by Europeans,
and is still the method by which the hunter-tribes of our western ter-
ritories preserve such property or stores as cannot be readily transported
in their hunting expeditions or are not wanted for immediate use. The
anonymous Portuguese chronicler of De Soto’s expedition to the Missis-
Sippi makes mention of this custom prevailing among the Indians of
that day ; and we read_ in Strachey,* “ Their corne, and (indeed) thire
copper, hatchetts, howses, beades, perle, and most things with them of
value, according to their owne estymacion, they hide, one from the
knowledge of another, in the grownd within the woods, and so keepe
them all the yeare, or untill they have fitt use for them, as the Romains
did their monais and treasure in certain cellars, called, therefore, as
Plinye remembers, favissoe ; and when they take them forth they scarce
make their women privie to the storehouse.”

The early French *‘voyageurs” and traders among the Indians soon
learned from them the advantages and security of this sort of store-
house, and frequently had recourse to it, and cached provisions, am-
munition, or other stores too cumbersome to carry along with them, or
which they intended to secure from beasts and Indians, as reserves for
future use. Many of their deposits were never recovered. In some in-
stances they were forgotten; in others, the persons making the cache
returned by some other and remote route; and in some cases they so ef-
fectually obliterated all external signs of ipie subterranean storehouse
that they were unable to find it again.

The same ideas and the same mishaps occurred to the ancient occu-
pants of our country. The same necessities in life are apt to suggest
to the human mind in all localities, in similar circumstances, identical
or analogous modes of relief. The motive of the aborigines for hiding
in the ground stores of weapons, implements, and utensils is plainly
discernible in a large majority of their ancient deposits. 1t was sim-
ply the safe-keeping of the property for future use. ‘The ground was
their only liable repository. The builders of the mounds frequently
stored in the earth many perishable articles of which we now find but
slight traces or none at all, there remaining, in these primitive store-
houses, such objects alone as were wrought from more durable mate-
rials. Of this class of deposits—the ordinary ancient cache—I will give

* The Historie of Travaile into Virginia, Britannia ; by William Strachey, printed
for the Hakluyt Society.
s 28
434 DEPOSITS OF FLINT IMPLEMENTS.

a few instances before referring to certain extraordinary deposits of
rare and peculiar flints.

A few vears ago, at Bluff City, in Schuyler County, Illinois, some
hogs confined ina pen, at the foot of the bluffs, rooted out of the ground
a deposit of sixteen stone axes or celts, all of which bore marks of con-
siderable use. They were made of hard, compact diorite, and varied
in size from 6 to 16 inches in length and from 2 to 7 inches in width.
Considering the probable uses to which these tools had been applied,
and the location of the deposit, in a spur of the bluff near the (Illinois)
river, it was plain that here, in ages past, a canoe had been constructed.
The work completed, the tools were cached at the foot of the bluff, until
they should again be needed for similar work.

The finest Indian mound in the State of Illinois is situated three
' miles northeast of the town of Lebanon, in Saint Clair County, not far
from the western border of Looking- ore, prairie. In shape it is a trun-
cated pyramid, or rather a parallelogram, measuring at its base 400
feet in length and 250 feet in width, and rises in perfect proportions to
the height of 50 feet. The angles are still sharp and well defined, and
the top level, comprising (approximately) an area of 80 by 150 feet,
which doubtless served as the base of some elaborate wooden structure.

In the summer of 1843 the proprietor of the land, Mr. Baldwin, in
sinking a well near one corner of the mound, found, a few feet below
the surface, packed closely together, eighteen large flint spades. These
implements were broad flat pieces of white or grayish-white flint,
measuring, the smallest 9 inches in length by 5 inches in width; the
largest, 15 inches by 7. They are nearly an inch in thickness in the
middle, neatly chipped to an edge all around, flat on one side and
slightly convex on the other. One end of each flint is broader than the
other, and the broad end is symmetrically ronnded, and polished as
smooth as glass by long-continued use in sandy soil. The narrow end
is rough and not so neatly finished, showing no marks of wear, and was
in all probability, when the implement was in use, fastened in some
sort of handle. It cannot be doubted that these flints were in part the
tools used in making the mound ; and when the great work was finished,
they were stored away in the ground until again needed.

Prof, Charles Rau, in the Smithsonian Annual Report for the
year 1868, (pp. 401-403,) gives an interesting account of a deposit of
agricultural flint implements and other objects found in the grading of
a street in East Saint Louis, Saint Clair County, Illinois. The speci-
mens from that deposit, as stated by Professor Rau, show no marks of
wear, and were probably never used, but constituted the stock in trade
of some enterprising artisan or trader who utilized the sand-bank for a
warehouse and place of safety for his merchandise. The same author,
jn the Smithsonian Annual Report for 1872, (pp. 402-403,) describes a
deposit of hornstone disks, almost circular in shape, which were found
in the southeastern portion of the same county, in the summer of 1869.

q
,
b.
¥
é
3
,

aa. . eee ee ee
ETHNOLOGY. 435

They were buried near the bank of a small ravine, within a few miles of
the Kaskaskia River; and, from the wear and hard service of which
they bear signs, it is inferred that they constituted a “kit of tools” cached
until further needed.

The author of ‘Antiquities of the Southern Indians” informed me
that he has frequently found these disks also about old Indian ecamping-
grounds, along the water-courses of Georgia. Consequently they must
have been tools in common use by tribes inhabiting a wide range of ter-
ritory.

The deposit briefly noticed, on the authority of Dr. P. R. Hoy, in
Lapham’s “Antiquities of Wisconsin,”* consisted of about forty disks,
searcely differing in any respect from those last mentioned, and exhibit-
ing the same unmistakable indications of hard usage. One of these
flints from a peat-bog near Racine, Wis., was given to me by Dr. Hoy,
who told me that the specimen, though equal in size to any of the forty
others found with it, was different in shape from the rest, having one
end broader, while all the other specimens were nearly round or oval.

Mr. John P. Jones, of Keytesville, Chariton County, Missouri, com-
municated to me some particulars of three deposits of flint implements
which at various periods of time were brought to light in the neighbor-
hood of his home. The first was a store of spear-heads and arrow-
points, several hundreds in number, which he was too late to secure or
satisfactorily examine. The weapons were all new, a fact conclusive
that here had been the arsenal of a tribe, or the secreted stock in trade
of another primitive American merchant. Better fortune attended Mr.
Jones in the discovery of a second deposit, consisting of seventeen new
flint knives, as the greater number of them fell into his possession.

A third deposit, described by Mr. Jones, was discovered in the valley
or “second bottom” of the Chariton River, and contained about fifty
small, flat, ovoid, pointed flints. They had been stuck into the ground,
point down, in concentric circles, and were then covered with earth,
forming over them a low, flat mound 12 or 18 inches in height by 5 or
6 feet in diameter. These implements had been in use for a long time
before receiving their final interment. Some were gapped on the edges,
and all were to a certain extent polished.

The deposits of stone implements in the ground, to which I have re-
ferred, are but a few representative instances of the kind from a great
number discovered in all parts of the United States. In the cases I
have cited, the intention of the person making the deposit is at once
apparent. The property was placed in the ground to hide and thereby
to secure it. Those implements found which bear the marks of use are
such as were not at the time needed, and were hidden away until again
wanted, or for safe-keeping during the temporary absence of the owner.
The new or unused articles, it is presumable, were the stores of traders

|

* Published by the Smithsonian Institution. 1855. Pp. 8 and 10.
436 DEPOSITS OF FLINT IMPLEMENTS.

or manufacturers who deposited their wares in the ground to conceal
them until they could dispose of them to advantage.

In the “Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley” is mentioned a
strange class of deposits of stone implements and other objects, differ-
ing in the motive of interment from the simple caches which I have de-
scribed. The interest of that valuable work culminates in the chapter
devoted to “sacrificial mounds,” the arrangement and contents of
which exhibit the plane of religious thought attained by the mound-
builders. The “altars” of burnt clay; the votive offerings, through fire,
of their choicest works in stone, copper, mica, and shell, doubtless to-
gether with many articles of less durable materials which were con-

sumed by the intense heat; the cremation of human bodies; the heaping:

of earth upon the glowing mass; and the introduction of strata of sand
in the enveloping tumulus, with the outward covering of coarse gravel,
together constitute a record wonderful and unparalleled. Certainly the
most plausible solution of this interesting problem rests in the view
ascribing the origin of this class of monuments to ideas of propitiation
or devotional fanaticism. In either case we feel tolerably certain of the
fact that the inclosures of the so-called sacrificial mounds were intended
by their constructors to be final. We have here no stores of hidden
goods to be withdrawn at pleasure, for use or traffic, but a deposit of
objects made in accordance with some superstitious rite or religious no-
tion, and designed to remain there undisturbed to the end of time.
Associated with the sacred mounds which covered the burnt offerings,
and in the same inclosure, Squier and Davis, (page 158, l. ¢.) describe
one which contained no burnt altar, but in the place of it a great num-
ber of curiously-wrought disks of black flint, which appeared to have
been buried without the accompaniment of fire, but with the same pre-
cision, and covered by the same strata of sand and outward layer of
gravel as were the clay altars of the other mounds with their treasures
of polished implements, utensils, and ornaments. The account given by
Mr. Squier of this deposit, on page 158, “‘ Ancient Monuments,” &c., is
as follows: ‘Another singular mound, of somewhat anomalous charac-
ter, of which a section is herewith given, occurred in the same inclosure
with the above. It is remarkable as being very broad and flat, meas-
uring at least 80 feet in diameter by 6 or 7 in height. It has two sand
strata, but instead of an altar there are two layers of disks chipped out
of hornstone, some nearly round, others in the form of spear-heads.
They are of various sizes, but are for the most part about 6 inches long
by 4 wide, and three-quarters of an inch or an inch in thickness. They
are placed side by side, a little inclining, and one layer resting imme-
diately on the other. Out of an excavation 6 feet long by 4 wide not
far from six hundred were thrown. The deposit extends beyond the
limits of the excavation on every side. Supposing it to be 12 feet
square, (and it may be 20 or 30,) we have not far from four thousand of
these disks deposited here. If they were thus placed as an offering, we

eS ee we

— ——
ETHNOLOGY. 437

can form some estimate, in view of the fact that they must have been
brought from a great distance and fashioned with great toil, of the
devotional fervor which induced the sacrifice, or the magnitude of the
calamity which that sacrifice was perhaps intended to avert. The fact
that this description of stone chips most easily when newly quarried,
has induced the suggestion that the disks were deposited here for the
purpose of protecting them from the hardening influences of the atmos- |
phere, and were intended to be withdrawn and manufactured as occa-
sion warranted or necessity required. It is incredible, however, that so
much care should be taken to fashion the mound and introduce the
mysterious sand strata, if it was designed to be disturbed at any subse-
quent period. There is little doubt that the deposit was final, and was
made in compliance with some religious requirement. An excavation
below these layers discovered traces of fire, but too slight to be worthy
of more than a passing notice.” It may be here noted that the disks in
this deposit had never been used.

In the year 1860 a similar deposit of hornstone disks was discovered
in this vicinity, in the town of Frederickville, in Schuyler County, on
the west side of the Illinois River. This locality was a favorite abiding-
place of the Indians, and the center of a dense population. Relics of
their works are still found in abundance throughout this region. A
small ravine near the foot of a bluff, one day, after a heavy rain, caved
in on one side, and the displacement of a large quantity of earth in con-
sequence exposed to view a few strange-looking flints. They had been
buried about 5 feet below the surface of the hillside, laid together on
edge, side by side in long rows, forming a single layer of unknown ex-
tent. The discovery of such novel objects attracted some of the villa-
gers to the place, who dug out about thirty-five hundred of the unique
implements, and, their curiosity satisfied, abandoned the work without
reaching the limits of the deposit. rom diligent inquiries of persons
who were present at the time, I learned that the flints had apparently
been placed in an excavation made for the purpose at a point of the
bluff above the highest water-level, and about two hundred yards from
the river-bank. No traces of fire above or below were seen, and no pe-
culiar arrangement of the superincumbent earth was noticed, nor was
any mound or other mark of any kind discernible over or about the
place to designate their hiding-place. It was several years after this
occurrence when, in 1871, I first heard of it. Several visits to the place
were rewarded with but a few badly mutilated specimens of the disks
which I obtained from the citizens; the rest of the large number had
disappeared. At length I found in the possession of Mrs. Charles Far-
well (whose husband owns the premises where the deposit was found)
ten of the flints, two of which she kindly gave me. The stone of which
these disks are made is a dark, glossy hornstone, undistinguishable from
the disks of the sacrificial mound in Ohio, and, like that deposit, these
Frederickville flints had been buried without having been used.
438 DEPOSITS OF FLINT IMPLEMENTS.

On the eastern bank of the Illinois, below the confluence of the
Sangamon River, and four miles below Frederickville, is the city of
Beardstown, in Cass County. Immediately on the bank of the river at
this place can yet be seen the remnant of a large mound of artificial
construction, which formerly rose 30 feet or more above the level of the
surrounding country, and afforded from its summit an uninterrupted view
for miles up and down the river. This fine monument has succumbed
to the progress of modern civilization, and almost entirely disappeared:

In the summer of 1872, I received intelligence that a deposit of the same
sort of flints had been found at Beardstown. In excavating a cellar fora
new building on Main street, the laborers had reached the depth of 4 feet,
when they struck the flints, and soon threw them all out, about a thou-
sand in number, a large portion of which I secured. The disposition of
the flints in this deposit was different from that in the Ohio mound, and
that of the Frederickville deposit also. These were imbedded in the
bank of the river, above the reach of highest water, and about 300
yards up the bank of the stream from the large mound. An excava-
tion about 5 feet deep had been made through the sand to the drift-clay,
and, instead of being placed on edge, as in the two other deposits, a
layer of the disks had been placed flat on the clay, with points up
stream, and overlapping each other as shingles are arranged on a roof.
Over the first layer of flints was a stratum of clay 2 inches in thickness ;
then another layer of flints was arranged as the first, over which was
spread another 2-inch stratum of clay, and so on, until the deposit
comprised five series or layers of flints, when the whole was covered
with sand. The area occupied by these buried flints was an ovoid,
corresponding in outline with one of the implements, and measured
in length about 6 feet, and in width 4 feet. But the apex, estimated to
be one-third of the area, was cut off by’ the cellar-wall of the store-house
which been erected there twenty years previously to this date. On
inquiry I learned from an old citizen who was present when the cellar
was dug, that the deposit of flints was then discovered, and about five
hundred of them were thrown out; and that the discovery at that time
attracted but little attention, “for,” he remarked, “Indian flints and
stone axes were as common here then as brick-bats are now.” No traces
of fire were visible, nor had there been within the recollection of the old-
est settler of the place any mound or other external object to mark the
place of deposit. The flints from this lot are identical in material, color,
style of execution, and general outline and dimensions with those I have
seen from the deposits at Frederickville and Clark’s Work in Ohio.
None of these bore any marks of wear or use. <A few of them are almost
circular in shape. Some are rough, but the majority are very accu-
rately proportioned and neatly finished, which we may accept as
proof that the implements were manufactured by several artisans,
who possessed unequal degees of skill. Their average length is 6

ETHNOLOGY. - 439

inches, their width 4 inches, and they are three-fourths of an inch
anna in the middle. Their average weight is one and a half pound.
The fixed pattern which they are all intended to approximate is an
ovoid with pointed apex and regularly curved base. Many of
them are flat; others are a little concave on one-side and convex on the
the other, though a very large majority of those I have examined are
equally convex on both sides, and all are carefully chipped to a sharp
edge all around. They were all made from globular or oval nodules of
black or dark-gray hornstone, which were first split open and each part
again split or worked down by chipping to the shape and size required,
In several of the specimens the first fracture of the nodule forms the
side of the implement with but slight modification beyond a little trim-
ming of the edges. Many of them retain in the center the nucleus
around which the siliceous atoms agglomerated to form the nodule. In
a few the nucleus is a rough piece of limestone; in others it consists of
fragments of beautifully crystallized chalcedony, surrounded by regular
light and dark circles of eccentric accretion, and the exterior of the
rock was encrusted with a compact, dra'y-colored calcareo-siliceous coat:
ing balf an inch in thickness, which in some of the specimens has not
been entirely removed. Nearly all the Beardstown disks were rough-
ened and discolored with patches of calcareous concretion almost as
hard and solid as the flint itself, indicative of undisturbed repose in
their clay envelopes for a great period of time. The raw material of
which these objects were wrought was imported from some locality re-
mote from their hiding-place. An Illinoisan myself by birth, I have
nowhere in this State, during thirty years’ observation of its geology,
found any number of hornstone nodules in any of its strata. Among
the disks of the sacrificial mound at Clark’s Work, Ohio, nodules of
hornstone were found,* but nane, so far as I could ascertain, were
met with in the Frederickville deposit, and I am certain there were
none with the Beardstown flints. The nodules of hornstone found
buried at East Saint Louis, near the deposit of agricultural flint imple-
ments,t are the same in texture and color as all the disks. Nodules of
‘this variety of flint, I am informed, are quite common in some parts of
‘Indiana, and I have often seen them in Southwestern Missouri.{ Mr.
Squier thinks the Ohio disks drew their supplies of flint from a locality
known as “Flint Ridge,” which extends through Licking and Muskingum
Counties in that State. “This ridge,” he says, ‘extends for many miles,
and countless pits are to be observed throughout its entire length, from
which the stone was taken. These excavations are often 10 or 14 feet
deep, and occupy acres in extent.”

The buried flint nodules of East Saint Louis are the only ones of the

*Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, chapter xili, page 214.

tSmithsonian Annual Report for 1868, page 403.
t See remarks on “ Old Diggings,” pages 98 and 205 of 1 and 11 Annual Reports of

the Geological Survey of Missouri, by G. C. Swallow, State geologist, Jefferson City,
1855.
440 . DEPOSITS OF FLINT IMPLEMENTS.

kind I have ever heard of in this State. In all my hunts for Indian
relics I have met with no such masses of flint here; nor have I seen any
place where fragments or ‘‘ chips” of this stone would indicate, by their
quantity, the site of a workshop that turned out hornstone disks from
the crude bowlders. Consequently, I infer that the buried implements.
of Frederickville and Beardstown were imported ready made, and not.
manufactured in this region from imported masses of stone.

Unlike all other stone implements, these have been found only in
large deposits, singularly uniform in size, material, shape, and work-
manship, and presenting the further remarkable feature of being buried
new; thus far not one of them having ever been found isolated or bear-
ing marks of use.

A deposit of flints, somewhat approaching the disks in size andshape,
was found a few years ago near Trenton, N. J. Dr. Abbott, who
described them in the American Naturalist (vol. iv, 153-5) and pre-
viously in the Proceedings of the Academy of Sciences, Philadelphia,
(1863, page 278,) styles them “‘hatchets.” His description of them in the |
Naturalist is as follows: “ Prominent in this list stands the magnificent :
brown jasper specimen, (Fig. 22.) There we have a carefully-chipped.
hatchet, well edged on all sides, of a nearly perfect oval outline. Its
greatest width is 32 inches; greatest length 6 inches, and its greatest
thickness scarcely 3 of an inch. This specimen is one of a hundred and.
fifty that were discovered in plowing a piece of newly-drained meadow
near Trenton, N. J. The one figured is somewhat shorter and broader
than the others, which might have been hatchets or lance-heads.”

The description and drawing given by Dr. Abbott in the Naturalist,
would answer well for many of my Beardstown disks; and the similarity
of the two sets of implements is strengthened by the parallel fact that
none like his have as yet been found isolated.

The explanation first suggested to account for the astonishing number
of flints in the sacrificial mound at Clark’s works, was that it constituted
merely a magazine of “ roughly blocked-out spear-points,” convenient to
be withdrawn and finished at leisure, and buried, in order to keep the
stone damp and the more easy to chip. But this hypothesis fails to
account for certain peculiarities of their occurrence. For what purpose
they were made, and why buried in such vast numbers and with such
care, are points yet undetermined.

Among these flints, occasionally one is found longer and narrower
than the others, and very much resembling in form some of the flint
hoes used in the cultivation of maize by the Indians down to the days
of the early French missionaries.* It is probably this chance similarity
which has led Dr. Patrick to regard all the hornstoné disks of the three
deposits as agricultural tools. If they were designed for agricultural im-
plements, or for weapons of war or the chase, or for tools to be used in
any of their mechanical arts, it is evident that they had not yet passed

* Du Pratz “Histoire de la Louisiane.” Paris, 1758. Vol. ii, p. 176.

ETHNOLOGY. 441

into general use, as all yet discovered were new, and none have been
found isolated, as we find specimens of all other objects of stone used by
the people, who we feel certain also made and deposited the disks.

The most rational theory in explanation of the disks in the mound at
Clark’s Work is, that they were deposited there in obedience to some
superstitious or religious idea; especially when viewed in connection
with the strange contents of the other mounds in the same inclosure.
But why similar disks, which we have the best reasons to believe were
from the same locality and made by the same people, should be trans-
ported to the banks of the Illinois River, and there receive final entomb-
ment, is not so easy of interpretation.

Until further research has thrown additional light upon the origin
and design of these curious flints, they are entitled to be ranked among
the most interesting and problematical of aboriginal stone implements.

ANCIENT MICA. MINES IN NORTH CAROLINA.
By C. D. Smirn, of Franklin, N. C.

Among the remains found in the mounds of the Mississippi Valley,
mica has been mentioned. While some of it was perhaps used for
ornamental purposes and as mirrors, it is a probable conjecture that
it was largely used in the religious rites of the mound-building race.
That found over the faces, or breasts, or over the whole skeletons had,
no doubt, attached to it something sacred in the minds of the race.
The supposition that much of the mica found in those ancient mounds
was employed in the religious ceremonies of the race, suggests the high
value placed upon it, and the immense labor employed in procuring it,
as well as the great distance to which it was transported, sustain the
idea that there was more than an economical or commercial value
attached to it.

Prof. Charles Rau suggests that the mica found in the western mounds
was probably obtained along the southern spurs of the Alleghanies.
This is, I have no doubt, correct. For here we have ancient diggings
which were open excavations. Some of these excavations are of large
proportions, and must have employed a large force and a series of years
in their accomplishment. I have not seen the slightest trace of mining
work for any metallic substance or ore. There are a great number of
these ancient excavations, and they were evidently all made in mining
for mica, with the exception of a few madein soapstone beds, where the
aborigines no doupt obtained the material for their stone pots. The
largest of the excavations in steatite which I have seen are in Tallapoosa
County, Alabama. There are several ancient mica diggings in Mitchell
County, North Carolina. Gen. T. L.Clingman, some twenty-five or thirty
years ago, supposing that these old diggings were the work of De Soto
in search for silver, had one of the old pits opened, and instead of finding

442 ANCIENT MICA MINES IN NORTH CAROLINA.

silver, he found a vein containing large crystals of mica. When mica was
brought into use among us and assumed an economic value, subsequent
working on the vein settled the question as to the object of the ancient
miners. This minehas been avery profitableone. Thereare several other
old diggings in Mitchell County, some of which have been opened and
valuable mica veins foundin them. Itis manifest that the ancient miners
understood their business well. Indeed, they seldom committed a mis-
take. In every instance which has come under my observation, where
they did work along the mica zone, mica veins have been found by
opening the old works. It is also a noteworthy fact that where the old
excavations are extensive, the veins yield usually large crystals of firm
mica of good cleavage and in every way of excellent quality. The mica
that they procured in their mining operations has been removed except
the refuse, such as our people generally reject. I have one case to the
contrary. In that case the micahad been taken one hundred feet perhaps
and buried. It was found to the amount of several cart-loads. It had
been packed down with great regularity in an excavation. In this county
(Macon) there are a dozen or more of these old diggings known to exist.
Most of them have been opened within the last six or seven years and
operated upon by our present mica miners. I have had two of these old
works opened, one of them upon my own farm. I have watched the
developments in these ancient excavations with unusual interest, and I
think I see very clearly corroborative evidence that the people who did
this ancient work had no implements superior to stone. They only
operated upon such veins as contain a decomposed and consequently
soft feldspar.

I have observed another interesting fact. Wherever there was a
hard point in the vein they worked over it, and then descended again.
If they had known the use of metallic implements, it seems that they
would have removed such points. The ancient works on my own farm
are the most extensive I have yet seen, and are therefore worthy of
description. The vein, as 1 have proved by my drifting upon it, has a
general strike of N. 739 W.,S. 73° E. So far, however, as I have drifted
upon it, it runs in a zigzag along this general strike. The old exca-
vation commences at a small branch and runs at a right-angle from it
into a ridge that juts down with a gentle slope. The dump-material
has been thrown right and left for the first hundred feet. I tunneled
in diagonally and struck the vein 60 feet from the branch, and have
drifted along it 40 feet. Here we reach an immense dump-rim, 65
feet higher than the level of the branch, and which seems to have been
thrown back upon their works. It forms at this end a circular rim to
the continued excavations higher up the ridge. The whole length of the
excavation from the branch to the upper end of the cut is about 320 feet.
The material removed from the upper part of the cut was carried up
the hill as well as down it. The dump on the upper side of this upper
part of the cut, and at the widest point, is about 25 feet above the pres-

ETHNOLOGY. b 443

ent bottom of the excavation, and at this point dump and excavation
measure about 150 feet across. At the upper end of my tunnel the
old digging has been carried down about 30 feet below the surface. If
the excavation at the point just mentioned was carried as deep as the
work at the upper end of the tunnel, it would make the dump-heap on
the upper side 55 feet higher than the bottom of the old works. I have
been thus particular, in order to show that with mere stone implements
it must have required a series of years and a large force to have accom-
plished such results.

I shall make special mention of but one other of these old diggings
in this county. The vein, as recently worked by the Messrs. Brooks,
yielded excellent mica that was of peculiar interest because it contained
in every crystal internal markings in deeper and lighter shades of the
coloring matter showing the hexagonal form. It has the appearance
of having been photographed in the plates of mica. I found one crys-
tal in possession of the proprietors that was revolved upon itself,
which, being split up and adjusted, formed a hexagonal crystal and
showed the entire hexagonal in the internal markings. May we not
suppose that such markings deeply impressed the idolatrous race who
used it ? ;

The ancient miners seldom attempted tunneling after the mica, and
where there is any evidence of such work it is more like burrowing in
than cutting a tunnel. There is one such hole a few miles from Frank-
lin, but it does not exceed 15 feet in length. In one of the old diggings,
about four miles from Franklin, an old shaft was discovered and opened
last spring, at the bottom of which two irons were found, evidently the
shanks of a windlass, an old Spanish ax, and an iron gad. This work
was done, perhaps, by De Soto, as his journal leaves us to infer that he
passed through this mountain region. Moreover, the pick-marks in this
old shaft have sharp angular outlines which distinguish them from the
blunt marks of the stone implements as seen in the old diggings. This
shaft was assuredly not the work of the race who made the excavations.

/

A DOUBLE-WALLED EARTHWORK IN ASHTABULA COUNTY, OHIO
By STEPHEN D. PEET.

There is in Ashtabula County, Ohio, an earthwork which has some dis-
tinguishing peculiarities. It consists of a double-walled circle, erected
on an elevation of land near Pymataning Creek in Wayne Township.
It is known in that vicinity by the name of “ The Fort.” It covers only
a portion of the so-called island, but the walls run along the contour of
one end, while the land on the south extends on the same level to twice
the area on the outside. The height of the elevation is but 8 or 10 feet.
444 DOUBLE-WALLED EARTHWORK IN ASHTABULA CO., OHIO.

It was formerly surrounded by a marsh or bayou of the creek, but this
is now underdrained and tilled.

A beautiful growth of beach and maple is found on the island, and
trees two feet in diameter stand in rows upon the ridge of the earth-
work. The banks gradually rise from the lowland, and the approach to
the wall is easy, over a plane on a level with the inclosure. There are
two walls and three ditches. The outer wall is 5 feet high from the bot-
tom of the outside ditch. The inner wall is but about 24 feet in height.

The outside ditch is 24 feet deep from the level, and the inner ditches. —

are, at present, but slight depressions. The width from the outside to
the middle ditch is 19 feet, and to the inside, 35 feet in the extreme.
From the top of one wall to the top of the other it is 144 feet. The
inclosure contains about 13 acres, is 250 feet across in one direction and

300 feet in the other. The outer wall extends in a tangent toward the:

creek, from the inclosure to the water’s edge, leaving a space on the

water side with a single wall. This space between the two arms of the
outer walls extends in a tongue of land which follows a bend of the

river, but the length of either arm is but about 100 feet. The whole

length of the outer wall, from the water’s edge around the inclosure to:

the water’s edge, is about 750 feet. ‘The inclosure was probably a forti-
fication or a stockade. Possibly the inner wall marks the line of the

stockade, and the outer wall and ditch may have served for defense; or
the inner wall may have served for the protection of those who were:

behind the outer. It seems most likely to have been a place for per-

manent encampment. The beauty of the spot is remarkable. The fine:

growth of forest trees, the meadow ‘across the brook, the occasional

copse that dots the lowland on the other side, the gentle slopes in the-

distance, the massive trees that cover the hillsides, and the running
stream stealing around the island and through the meadow, make a
lovely spot. It is just the place for a happy and contented Indian com-
munity. The fish in the stream, the wild animals in the forest, the fruits
of the wildwood, the chestnuts and hickory-nuts that still abound,
with perhaps the corn-fields that may have flourished in the vicinity,
would furnish food in abundance.

There are discovered on the banks near the island “hearths” or
“‘ovens,” which may have been the sites of the tents that were once in-
habited by the race now departed. It is probable that the inclosure
belonged to the Indians; but to those tribes which roved here long
before the white man came. There is no tradition in regard to it, and
the natives here at the time of the first white settlement knew nothing.
of its history.

J

ee ee eo ae ee
ETHNOLOGY. 445

ON AN ANCIENT IMPLEMENT OF WOOD.

By E. W. Extsworrn, of Last Windsor Hill, Connecticut.

On a mild day, early in December, 1876, I was walking along the east
shore of Connecticut River, at a place about six miles above Hartford,
where for several years the river has been cutting the bank during
seasons of freshet.. This eroded bank is from 12 to 15 feet high, meas-
uring perpendicularly upward from the ordinary low-water level of the
river. This bank, for about two-thirds its height, measuring downward,
is composed of the soft, sandy loam which is the prevailing soil in all
our low-lands contiguous to the river. Below this loam, at this particu-
lar point, and extending in depth below low-water mark, is a hard bed
of blue clay. This clay-bed extends along the shore only a few rods.*
I have never seen similar clay elsewhere, near the river. Its most
noticeable peculiarity is that it is permeated with vegetable material,
which is entirely absent from the loam above it. Stones are very scarce
both in the loam and subjacent clay; but the clay is full of leaves, twigs,
sticks, roots, stumps, trunks and branches of trees, acorns, and frag-
ments of bark. The larger specimens of wood, which happen to be
exposed near low-water line, are sound, smooth, and hard. Some of
them, on being cut into, show a grain like pine, although no resin is
perceptible in the knots; others are apparently oak. The acorns are
very fragile and crumbieata touch. Some fragments of bark are unmis-
takably from yellow pine. One trunk of a tree shows charring. The
larger wood, wherever it has been exposed to sun and air long enough
to become partially dried, is scored, cracked, and checked by shrinkage-
fissures. I noticed the top of one stump almost as cellular as a honey-
comb. Among the smaller material I found slender roots with bud-like
projections at long intervals. They were well preserved, but I did not
identify them. About two feet above the level of the water, and about
one-third imbedded in the clay, the implement of wood which is the sub-
ject of this paper attracted my attention. It was evident at a glance
that its figure was not one of natural growth, but as a sample of wood
its characteristic marks were identical with those of other wood simi-
larly fixed in and projecting from the clay. The ground being frozen, I
could not immediately obtain it, but the next day I returned with a
hatchet and dug it out. Now that it is thoroughly dried, its weight is
four pounds and ten ounces. The shrinkage-fissures have become con-
siderably deeper and more dehiscent since the drying. The handle and
head of the mallet are of one piece. The form of the head is approxi-
mately a straight cylinder, from the center of one end of which projects
the handle, somewhat curved.

*Perhaps the clay-bed extends along the shore below the water-line, and also out into
the river. This is the remark of Professor Rau, and is very likely a correct supposi-
tion. It has not yet been confirmed nor disproved by exploration.
446 ON AN ANCIENT IMPLEMENT OF WOOD.

Illustration No. 1 is a profile view of the implement. No. 2 is a view
of the end of the head. The entire length is 21
inches. Length of the head, 114 inches; length
of handle, 93 inches; diameter of the head, meas-
ured in a plane coincident with the curve of the
handle, 5 inches; at right angles to that plane, 54
inches. In the plane coincident with the curve of
the handle the middle of the head is indented and
battered at two diametrically opposite places, and
at those places only, as if by use of the mallet in
driving some other tool presenting a surface for
impact of not more than 2 or 3 square inches. The
diameter of the head through these battered places
is 4inches.* The average diameter of the handle
is one inch andahalf. It is noticeable that the
handle is not season-cracked in proportion to the
head. The prevailing color of the head is a reddish-
brown, a tint due, in some measure, to the presence
of oxide of iron. The handle has been superficially
charred, and is mostly blackened thereby, though
the brown wood shows through in places. On the
head is no trace of charring. The kind of wood of
which the implement is made is doubtful. It is
often difficult to identify a wood when the weight
and color of the sample are so changed as to afford
noindications and the normal hardness is uncertain.
In the present instance, the structure of the fiber is
the only reliable guide. The texture of the sap-cells,
both to the unaided eye and with optical helps, is
suggestive of white cedar and of spruce. The fiber
of the head is straight and free from knots, except
one near the handle. In the handle there are two
knots, and the fiber mostly follows the curve of
that part. The wood is not now harder than white
pine, and probably was a soft wood when new.

Illustration No. 3 gives some idea of the appear-
ance of the locality of the find. It is, however,
sketched from recollection only, as the next day €
after I obtained the relic snow came and prevented \
farther examination.t On my first visit to the
place, and before [ found the mallet, or suspected

* Professor Rau has suggested that the mallet was used for driving stone celts. This
is probable, both from the form and position of the indentations in the mallet and the
known character of the material in celts. Any workman who had expended the labor
necessary to make a celt, would have had the discretion to use a mallet of wood, rather
than one of stone, for driving it. Many celts, moreover, are battered at their butt-ends,

t Down to the present date there has been no time, since the discovery of the imple-

——— a
oo ™
|
;

ETHNOLOGY. : 447

that the débris of wood cropping from the clay might be of other than
modern growth, one trunk of a tree, which projected over the water at
a low angle, just above the water-line, attracted, by its peculiar form, a
passing glance. It produced a quick transient impression of having
been artificially wrought for some purpose. Being in quest of game at
the time, I gave it no thought as to what it was or how it came there.
Afterwards I returned to it with awakened interest, and made a careful
examination.. It projected from the frozen clay, a straight trunk, about
5 feet long and 14 inches in diameter. Its outer end was irregularly
broken and splintered. The lower side of the log was of natural cylin-
drical form, but destitute of bark. The upper side was flattened into a
Shallow trough, about 10 inches wide, and 3 to 4 inches deep, with flat
bottom and flat sides. Take a common wooden lead-pencil and split it
along the glued seam; pry out the slip of black lead, and the piece of
wood which contained it will resemble the log described. The log would
be different in these respects, that the groove would be wider in propor-
tion to its depth, and the edges would be rounded and not sharp. The
wood was sound and smooth, and on being chipped presented a grain
like pine. If this tree was a windfall and came to its present form and
position by natural causes, this smooth, true groove is an anomaly to
be accounted for. Timber naturally splits into longitudinal flat sections;
not accurately, of course, but approximately. Sometimes, however, a
cleft will follow one of the annual rings, in which case a gouge-shaped
shell is produced. Buta natural cleft that would form a groove with
flat bottom and sides, smooth, and free from splinters, would be very
rare. A groove formed by decay would present a rough and unsound
surface. If, on the other hand, we assume that this groove could not
have been fashioned thus shapely by natural cleavage, the theory of -
human workmanship is not substantiated by any manifest design.

The log being only about 14 inches in diameter, does not contain the
necessary timber for a dug-out canoe. It offers some show of human
handiwork, and yet the evidence is unsatisfactory. There is no such
obscurity about the mallet, whereof the age and origin are uncertain,
but not the artificial fashion and design. It is a mallet. Whatever its
age may be, itis difficult to evade the evidence that it had a burial
coincident with that of the forest growth with which it was associated,
and that that forest growth is ancient. At first view, the evidence
might appear to be all the other way. What is there along the alluvial
banks of this portion of Connecticut River that can tarry long enough
to become ancient? Everything within reach of the stream is traveling
southward. Any castaway of the farm or factory, if it can float, is lia-
ble to come from Vermont or Massachusetts to our shores, to be lodged
ment, when a good view of the locality could be had. The melting of the snow was
foliowed by arise in the river, and the clay is now below the water-line. In a view,
photographically correct, the geological features of the place would be more masked
by grass, shrubs, and stumps of modern trees, adhering to sods fallen from the top of
the bank.—( March 27, 1877.)
448 ON AN ANCIENT IMPLEMENT OF WOOD.

and dislodged, concealed and revealed, at the caprice of the stream.
Fences are elusive, trees are vagrant, the soil is erratic. The river has
a mortgage on every farm contiguous to itself, and when it purposes
foreclosure, resistance on the part of the occupant would cost him more
than the value of the land. Within the period of my remembrance, the
locality where the mallet was found lay several rods inland from the
river-bank. The intervening soil has gone. An island, nearly opposite,
of considerable size, and partly cultivated, was carried away by ice in a
single freshet. Meantime the opposite shore has advanced upon the ~
bed of the stream. In view of all this shifting, is not the question of
antiquity ruled out? Can we have assurance that this mallet has not
come, say from Vermont, long since that State was named? We can,
and by a plain inference. Everywhere along this portion of the river,
wherever bars and flats are deposited, wherever the fluvial forces are
constructive, the deposit is homogeneous—the same loamy sand, vary-
ing only in this, that in quick water, and at low levels, it is coarse
and nearly clean sand; while in the gentlest currents, and at the high-
est levels, it is the finest loam. In this obvious manner all the erratic
soilis graded and shaded. The chief constituents are constantly the
same—sand and clay intimately mingled in ever-varying proportions.
This material the restless river is forever building up and cutting down;
and anything modern, that could once have floated, is liable to be found
in it. But the mallet, and the forest growths, the age of which we are
considering, have cropped from a bed of clay, having definite outlines
and very limited extent; and the migratory loam is superimposed, and
has no share in the contents of the clay. The isolation of the clay is
the insuperable difficulty in the way of regarding it as a river-deposit ;
and it must be older than the loam, because the law of gravity forbids
the growth of such formations except from beneath upward. Clay is
assignable to the drift period, when glacial and diluvial forces crushed,
carried, and dropped the soil of the continent. Half a mile across the
lowlands, east from this clay-bed, in the hill-sides, is clay in place, hor-
izontally laminated, without mixture, perfectly free from organic re-
mains or mineral waifs. The clay in which the mallet was found is a
degraded clay, the wash and settle of higher clay in place. In it, the
mallet and the tree-growths have been mired and ingulfed. Probably |
from the clay-hills which are now standing, or from others which have
disappeared, rivulets of rain, freighted with mud, and pushing toward
a place of drainage, have brought this clay hither. The river did not
bring it, but has since brought the loam, and covered the old formation
with the new.

My inferences are:

Ist. That the isolation of the clay-bed is evidence that it is not a river-
deposit.

2d. That the products of vegetation, and other impurities contained
in the bed, indicate that it is not clay in place, but that this bed has

ETHNOLOGY. 449

been washed from neighboring beds by water following a depression
leading to the river.

3d. That the intimate mixture of the products of vegetation with the
clay, shows that the burial of those products was coincident with the
formation of the bed.

4th. That the mallet, having been found partly imbedded in the clay,
and having presented characteristic marks of condition identical with

those of other associated wood similarly placed, its burial was coinci-

dent with that of the other wood.

5th. That the clay-bed, and its contents, are an older formation than
the loam, but not so old as the unmixed clay in the neighboring hills.

6th. That the extremely low point in the present valley, at which this
clay-imbedded vegetation now lies, indicates that the ancient Connecti-
eut Valley was here somewhat deeper than the present, and that the
river has been slowly elevated by soil washed from the highlands and
distributed along its course.

7th. That the clay-bed is a landmark, the existence of which proves
that the river, however it may have meandered in past ages, has never
before run over the locality described since the loam period.

With regard to the preservation of wood, secluded from atmospheric
changes in permanently wet soil, the fact that wood so placed will en-
dure indefinitely is too well known and attested to need elucidation
in this place.

CENTENNIAL MISSION TO THE INDIANS OF WESTERN NEVADA AND CALIFORNIA.

By STEPHEN POWERS.
ITINERARY.

Under dateof August 21, 1875, I was appointed by the Honorable Secre-
tary of the Interior a “special commissioner to make a collection of
Indian manufactures, &c., illustrative of Indian life, character, and
habits on the eastern slope of the Sierras, and also in California, for the
Centennial Exhibition of 1876.”

Proceeding on my mission as soon as possible, I arrived at Pyramid
Lake Indian reservation, Nevada, September 29, 1875, and remained
there four days. This reservation is in chargeof the Rev. C. A. Bateman,
of the Baptist Church, and contains about 700 Indians, most of whom
were absent, by permission, collecting articles of aboriginal food, prin-
cipally pine-nuts. The reservation, aside from desert wastes, contains
about 1,500 acres of irrigable land at the head of the lake. The soil is
of alight, sandy character, and is difficult of irrigation, on account of
the length of tke ditch required, and the consequent evaporation and
seepage of the water.

The Indians on this reservation belong to the nation commonly known
as the Piutes, (they pronounce it in three syllables, Pi-Gi-tes;) but in their

8 29
450 INDIANS OF WESTERN NEVADA AND CALIFORNIA.

own language this branch of them is known as “ Coéyuweeweit,” from
codyuwee, a species of sucker which formerly constituted their principal
food-supply. They were not an aggressively warlike race, though in an
early day they gave the white settlers considerable trouble, and fought
with them some bloody battles. They lived in conical-shaped lodges,
constructed of tule and bound with willow wands; they also made of
the same material rude rafts, consisting of three bundles of tule lashed
firmly together, with which they navigated the lake for fishing pur-
poses. They caught fish with nets of milkweed fiber, with hooks of
bone and greasewood fastened to throw-lines, and with bone or horn
spears, principally with the latter. To this day the quantity of fish which
they take by the latter means is sometimes remarkable. I saw two In-
dians come in with two large horse-loads, at least 200 pounds, the pro-
duct of twenty-four hours’ labor. In winter Wadsworth affords a ready
market for all the fish offered, and a single Indian has been known to
sell $25 worth of fish per day for a short time. They were good hunters;
but their bows and arrows (partly owing to lack of material) are de-
cidedly inferior to those of the California Indians. They caught a great
many hares with nets; and they ate ground-squirrels and ground-hogs;
also grasshoppers, prices! and some other species of insects. I also
collected about twenty kinds of seeds and roots which they consumed
in their season. The suckers from the lake constituted certainly one-
half of their food, game perhaps a quarter, and vegetable products,
principally pine-nuts, another quarter.

The men wore breech-cloths of rawhide, deer-skin leggings (in winter)
reaching to the groins, and moccasins; the women, waistbands or short
petticoats of milkweed fiber, moccasins, long deer-skin dresses, (in win-
ter,) and skull-caps of willow-work.

The Piutes are a well-formed race, with bolder features than those of
the typical California Indian, noses more prominent at the root, complex-
ion lighter, and less tendency in youth tosuperfluous fat. Some of them are
wonderfully agile dancers. Most of their games are sedentary, and they
are all, both men and women, fatuonsly fond of gambling. They enjoy
practical jokes keenly, and some of their games are comical and pro-
duce much laughter. The work of their women is less severe than that
of the acorn-eating trikes of California, and they always were and still
are much more chaste than the latter.

The present condition of the Piutes is not satisfactory. The preva-
lence of ophthalmia and blindness among them, owing partly to change
of habit and food, partly to filth and Bancieal disease, partly to un-
known causes, is alarming and disgusting. The four reservations in
Nevada are without a surgeon, while each of the three in California has
one. As above noted, many of them earn large amounts of money in
the season by catching and selling fish; but professional gamblers of
their own race come down from yan rtd City and Carson and play
cards with them until the greater portion of it is absorbed. The isola-

— 2

ETHNOLOGY. 451

tion of the reservation prevents bad white men from visiting it to any
extent; on the other hand, the few whites owning hay-ranches along
the Truckee set them a poor example of thrift and industry, and, as
usual in the vicinity of reservations, are ready to prejudice them against
the agent and his subordinates. The enormous amount of sawdust
formerly thrown into the Upper Truckee was destructive to the fish ;
and, on the other hand, the citizens complained that the agent, or the
Indians, by his permission, built fish-dams in the river, which totally
prevented the fish from ascending from the lake to points where they
would be accessible to the settlers. The irrigating appliances have not .
been managed well; a number of ditches have been constructed or
attempted at various times, which began too low down to give the water
sufficient elevation to irrigate any considerable amount of territory.
Consequently the amount of cereals produced (no vegetables are raised)
has been small, and the supply precarious; and the Indians have had
to replenish their larders largely from their own resources—from their
earnings in the fisheries or from aboriginal products. I judge that not
more than half of their yearly consumption has been produced on the
reservation.

Many of these Indians labor willingly for the whites, and they fre-
quently solicit and obtain permission to go off the reserve and hire
themselves to the ranchmen about Reno and in Carson Valley, or to work
in the lumber-mills and chutes, for which they receive from $1 to $2 or
$2.50 a day, according to the season and the emergency. Indeed, a very
large proportion of the very small amount of agricultural labor done in
Nevada is performed by the Piutes. In the towns and mining camps
many are employed in washing clothes or washing dishes. A Piute

man dislikes to wash clothes, but he will wash dishes quite readily.

The disposition of the whites toward these unfortunate people is
generally friendly. Indeed, with the indiscriminate generosity charac-
teristic of the Pacific Coast, there is too much readiness to give them
cast-off clothing and fragmentary victuals from hotels and restaurants,
instead of furnishing them an opportunity of turning an honest penny
by labor. Consequently, numbers of them are seen about the streets
of most towns in Western Nevada, in a condition of filth and ragged-
ness, incessantly playing cards—a nuisance and an eyesore.

Hard by, in the suburbs of the town, they have their wretched habita-
tions, consisting chiefly of sage-brush piled up in a circle, and from
these they come to town early in the morning, and return at nightfall.

From Pyramid Lake I returned to the railroad, went to Reno, and
thence to Susanville, Lassen County, California, arriving there October
6th. There are only a few Indians around this town, and all these belong
to Big Meadows and Indian Valley, the aboriginal inhabitants of Honey
Lake Valley being now extinct. The line between the Piutes and the
California Indians was near the north end of Honey Lake; nowadays
the Californians range freely wherever they will, but no Piute dares
452 INDIANS OF WESTERN NEVADA AND CALIFORNIA.

show himself near Susanville, for, on account of their early atrocities,
there are a number of men in the town who have taken an oath to shoot
a Piute at sight. The Indians near Susanville are nearly related in lan-
guage.and customs to the tribe living on the Sacramento from Chico
to the Cosumnes River, and do not require further description here.

Returning to Reno on the 11th, I remained there and in Carson City
three days, to collect articles from the Washoes, though I did not have
good success, for they are poor in aboriginal objects. They are a lower
race in every respect than the Piutes. They are undoubtedly an offshoot
from the California Indians, (being related to them in language,) and
colonized Western Nevada by crossing the Sierra from California; but
were afterward driven back toward the mountains by the Piutes, who
seem to be later arrivals. Their habitat is confined to the Upper
Truckee and Carson Rivers, and Lake Tahoe, Sierra Valley, and a few
smaller summit valleys north of the latter, though these elevated local-
ities were occupied only in the summer. They were allowed by the
Piutes to descend the two rivers for fishing purposes, for a limited sea-
son, to a point below their proper boundaries. Although a race of
mountaineers, they are darker than the Piutes, shorter in stature, and
feebler in battle. Even in winter they seldom had anything that could
be called a house, as they lived in a pile of sage-brush, built up hollow
and protected on the windward side with skins and blankets. Along
the stream, for fishing purposes, they set willow poles in the ground, bend
them over, and covered the frame with thatch.

As to their relations with the whites, the remarks above made of the
Piutes apply here. They have no reservation, and there are not over
200 of them, a wretched remnant.

On the 15th I left Virginia City for Walker River reservation, and
reached it on the afternoon of the next day. There are about as many
Indians on this as on Pyramid Lake reservation, but as it is only a sub-
agency it is under the control of a farmer, Mr. George Frasier, who
reports to Rev. C. A. Bateman quarterly. The land on this reserve is
almost totally incapable of irrigation; at least nothing in that line is
attempted except a small garden, which is cultivated by the post-trader.
Neither are there any cattle belonging to the reservation, though a great
part of it is grazed over by stock belonging to citizens. Notwithstand-
ing these drawbacks the Indians are in a more satisfactory condition
than those at Pyramid Lake; they are less exposed to corrupting influ-
ences, and are less diseased, and more contented. They are good hunt-
ers, and every autumn after the pine-nut harvest is ended they have a
custom of organizing a grand rabbit-hunt or drive, in which nearly the
whole tribe participate, and hundreds of hares are caught or shot;
their flesh is dried for winter consumption, and the pelts. are cut into
narrow strips and dried to be made into blankets for winter use. This
* branch of the Piutes is called ‘“‘ Ahgyweit” or ‘“* Ahgy-tecitteh,” (trout-
eaters,) from ahgy. This fish is a very important article of their food.

ee ee een

a, ae

_

ETHNOLOGY. 453.

Pine-nuts rank second in importance. Every tribe has its own pine-
nut district, on which it is unlawful for another to encroach; for in-
stance, the Carson River Piutes are entitled to all the pine-nuts on
Como Hills; those on Lower Walker River to the product of Pine-nut
Valley, &c. They frequently cache their supplies in the gravel of a
high knoll or hill; it rains so little in Nevada that they receive no detri-
ment.

In the winter and spring they dwell on the high gravelly headlands or
the mesas to escape the flooding of the streams and the gnats and mos-
quitoes; but toward autumn they are accustomed to remove down to
the lowlands and make their rude wickiups of brushwood among the ~
shading willows and cottonwoods.

As I said above, the Piute women are accounted comparatively vir-
tuous. Theft also is not so common as among the California Indians.
Frontiersmen relate that if they happened to come upon a white man’s
camp during his absence they would sit down and patiently await his
return, lest, if anything should chance to be missing, their tracks might
accuse them and bring them to grief, though innocent.

Returning from Walker River to Virginia City and Carson, on the
25th I left the latter for Lone Pine, in Inyo County, California, On the
27th I reached Independence and remained two days. All the Indians
in Owen’s River Valley belong to the Piute nation distinctly, though
there never was any solidarity or community of feeling in this nation, and
the different sections or tribes were sometimes at bitter feud with each
other. They have the same general habits as the Piutes of Walker and
Pyramid Lakes, but are perhaps somewhat lower in the scale of intelli-

-gence and morality. In the case of the Washoes we have a tribe who

have crossed the summit of the Sierra Nevada, migrating eastward ;
but here we find that the Piutes of Inyo County, locally called Monos,
(or by the California Indians Monachees,) have crossed the sierra in the
opposite direction, and pushed their invasion of California nearly down
to the edge of the great San Joaquin plains.

Among the articles composing their food-supply are the edible worms
or larve found on the shores of Owen’s Lake, and which spring from
the eggs of a fly belonging to the genus Ephydra, but whose species
does not seem to have been yet determined. Some are eaten raw, and
are of a rank and oleaginous taste; others are made into soup. Among
other things it is said that these Indians formerly ate a kind of mush or
panada made from the seeds of the jimson weed, (Datura meteloides,)
from which the poison was extracted by long steaming under ground.
They also ate snakes of different kinds. The reptile was, while yet
alive, impaled lengthwise on a stick and held writhing over the fire
until broiled.

I collected here a few fragments of pottery made by a prehistoric
race; and there are several inscriptions at different points from Bishop
Creek to Owen’s Lake, and in the caiions east of this lake, reaching
A54 INDIANS OF WESTERN NEVADA AND CALIFORNIA.

within 15 miles of Death Valley, perhaps half a dozen in number, and
some of them scattered along several miles on the cafion walls. I got
a copy of one of them, and Dr. O. Loew, of Lieutenant Wheeler’s party,
showed me another, in which he thinks he has detected five Chinese
characters. In my copy, however, there was nothing of this sort.
These inscriptions are said to be largely geographical, depicting rivers,
mountains, catons, &e.

After a couple of days in Lone Pine, I left, on the 30th, for Bakers-
field, where I arrived November Ist. After a delay of two days, I pro-
ceeded to Tule River reservation, reaching it November 4th. I found
this reserve in charge of Rev. J. B. Vosburgh, of the Methodist Church,
-and on it about 300 Indians, classified as 'Tules, Tejons, and Manaches,
(Monachees.) The two first named, as revealed by their language, are
substantially the same; the third (of whom I believe there are now
none on the reservation) belong to the Piutes. The Tules, living along
Tule River, cannot be said to have any general name. Every village
has its special designation. The Tejous, living at Fort Tejon, have also
a number of villages or camps, but are known as Tinnlinie, (Coyote
Holes, the name of the locality.) All the Indians from Fresno River
to Fort Tejon speak substantially the same language, and are one na-
tion, so far as one can use the word among the California Indians; but
they have no solidarity whatever, and, for lack of a comprehensive name,
I shall call them “ Yokuts ”—a word which denotes people or Indians.

The tribes on King’s River construct a peculiar kind of lodge. It is
made of tule in the shape of a tent, with two sides to the roof and two
gable-ends, and a number of them are set along in a row, side to side,
and a continuous awning of brushwood is built along the front. The
captain of the band occupies one end lodge, and the medicine-man the
other. This sort of a village at a distance bears a striking resemblance
to a military encampment. This is only where tule is plenty. In the
mountains the conical hut of poles or the thatched willow-pole lodge is
found. i

Acorns constitute the principal staple of their vegetable food. They
are gathered in autumn in large quantities and cached on the spot, or
in the vicinity of their dwellings in granaries made of wicker-work
about the size and shape of a hogshead, and thatched with grass or tule.
These are set in the forks of a tree or on forked stakes planted in the
ground, so as to be above the reach of rodents and other animals. Sal-
mon are caught in the Fresno and San Joaquin with a number of differ-
ent nets, weirs, bone-spears, &c. A booth is sometimes built over the
water and closely roofed in with brushwood so as to be dark, and the
fisherman, lying on his face and peering down through a hole, readily
sees the fish passing beneath and transfixes it with a spear. In King’s
River, and in the other streams making into Tulare Lake as well as in
the lake, were caught lake-trout, chubs, and suckers. Sometimes

in catching fish in a running stream, the fisherman takes a kind.

-
-
i

:
q
a
’
ETHNOLOGY. 455

of basket-trap in his mouth, and silently floating down the current,
catches the fish as they ascend. On the lakes and sloughs, and on Iower
Kern River, they employed a species of canoe made of tule, with flat
triangular bottom and flat sides, with a sharp prow, and about 10 feet
long. Their original clothing is almost totally disused, and specimens
of it are now difficult to obtain; but it was exceedingly scanty, and con-
sisted chiefly of breech-cloths for both sexes, with hareskin robes for
winter-wear or for bedding. In summer the men and children went

quite naked.

These Indians have been subject for many years to the influence of
the Spanish missions on the coast, and they have acquired from the
Mexicans all the arts and tricks of horsemanship, while many of them
are skillful vaqueros. The men have learned to: make fancy bridles
and whips of horse-hair—girdles, sashes, and the like; and the
women execute very beautiful -embroidery for shirts and feminine
garments; and they look with contempt on some of the coarse annu-
ity goods which are distributed among them. They are housed far
better than the Indians of any other California or Nevada reservation,
in comfortable, though ill-lighted, structures of adobe, and they have
clean-swept floors, clean bedding, with bedsteads to keep them off the
ground, plenty of clothing for the climate, and apparently enough to eat.
If the reservation belonged to the Government (it is leased) so that
it could have, as it has not now, control of the irrigating appliances,
these Indians would be very well established; but as it is, they feel
restless and uncertain, and do not make as good “improvements” as
they would if they felt more sure of their future.

With the industries they have acquired also some of the vices of the
Mexicans, and murders are much too frequent on the reservation; the
Indians are fond/of horse-racing, gambling, and drinking ; and in this
they are encouraged by bad men in the vicinity, who sell them liquor.
Indeed, the sentiment of the whole community is hostile to the reserva-
tion rather than otherwise, so that the agent cannot procure conviction
and punishment for this offense.

Leaving this reservation on the 8th of November, I went to San
Francisco, where I was unavoidably delayed until the 17th. Thence I
went to Ukiah City, Mendocino County, and proceeded on to Round
Valley reservation, which is under the control of Rev. J. L. Burchard,
of the Methodist Church. It is at present inhabited by about 950
Indians. Mr. Burchard, I am happy to state, is a very efficient offi-
cer, has a pretty thorough comprehension of the aboriginal nature,
and has accomplished reforms and improvements which are quite re-
markable. I visited this reservation something like four years ago, and
am consequently enabled to make comparisons and state progress ; and
I can say that the latter has been very creditable, especially in the de-
partment of manners and morals. Mr. Burchard has thoroughly eradi-
cated that most universal and persistent of all savage vices—gambling;
456 INDIANS OF WESTERN NEVADA AND CALIFORNIA.

by the removal of the garrison, and by his vigorous measures in forbid-
ding the women from visiting town, and bad whites from coming on
the reservation, he has greatly abated social vice and the consequent
disease; all plural wives have been put away, and most of the Indians
have been married by the forms of the church ; no profane language is
heard, the Sabbath is well observed, and stealing is much less frequent.
A church is organized, numbering about 130 members, who are regarded
as intelligent and sincere Christians; there are frequent prayer-meet-
ings and Sunday schools, in which the Indians take an active part;
there are five men licensed to exhort. The whole reservation has been
consolidated into a little confederacy, with a form at least of independ-
ent government; the chiefs of the tribes constitute a senate, and two
delegates from each tribe make up a house of representatives—both to-
gether being “ the congress of the Round Valley United States Indian
reservation.” They meet about once a month, and listen to the reading
of, and vote upon, laws for the regulation of their every-day affairs.
There is an Indian judge, who hears and summarily disposes of all
cases brought before him ; also an Indian marshal, who makes arrests
and imprisons the culprits according to the findings and sentence of
the judge. The Indians take considerable interest in all these proceed-
ings; but whether they would long maintain the church, the Sunday-
school, and the “congress,” if left to themselves, may well be questioned.
Their material condition is not so good as their moral and spiritual.
There are very few lumber cabins on the reserve, although the Govern-
ment owns a saw-mill on it. The majority of them still sleep on the
ground, and you will frequently see a good bedstead shoved aside, and
and the perverse old aborigine making his bed on the earth, as his ances-
tors did before him. They have not been taught to make floors and chim-
neys to any considerable extent. Most of the rancherias are built on
low ground in the valley, and one at least on an old Indian burying-
ground, so that the exhaiations are unhealthy and productive of
disease. In their native state the Indians, though there was a large
population in the valley, always placed their lodges around the edge of
it, on the first little bench of the foot-hills, where the atmosphere is
salubrious. They would build there now, if it were made convenient for
them to do so.

The long-standing differences with the settlers in the vicinity, and the
consequent restriction of the area of the reservation, have not a little
impaired its usefulness and unsettled the minds of the Indians. They
have long been looking forward to the time when they should receive
land in severalty, whereon they could build their own houses, cultivate
a few acres, keep some stock, and live a somewhat independent and
assured life like white men. ‘Hope deferred maketh the heart sick.”
The Indians are unable to comprehend the intricate and complicated
processes of government; and they do not understand, when they were
promised land so long ago, why the Great Father does not take it away

~~ a

ETHNOLOGY. 457

from the citizens and give it to them; and they are weary and sick of
hearing promises which are never fulfilled. Nothing but the strong
influence of Agent Burchard over them, and the faith and courage of
the more intelligent among them, have succeeded in preventing out-
breaks and collisions between the Indians and the trespassing settlers.

Leaving this reservation December 6th, I returned to Ukiah City, and
remained until the 11th.

All the Indians of Russian River Valley may be grouped into one
nation and called the Pomos, being closely related in language; but
they are, as usual, divided into a great number of petty bands and vil-
lages. For the most part they construct a lodge of willow poles, set
in the ground and bent over, forming an immense round or elliptical
frame, which is covered with thatch. It is often large enough to con-
tain several families, who dwell together in the patriarchal fashion.
These huts are abandoned in the spring, when the inhabitants betake
themselves to open wickiups for the dry season; in the fall, when they
return, they burn dowa these last year’s structures and erect new ones
on the ashes. This is their way of cleaning house. In the summer
they live right among the willows where the shade is thickest, often
with nothing but a few pieces of brushwood tied overhead. On the
coast, where the redwood is found, a common style of wigwam is coni-
cal-shaped, and composed entirely of enormous slabs of redwood bark.
They use about the same articles of aboriginal food as the Tules and
Tejons above described, acorns and salmon constituting the staples.

Russian River Valley, the most beautiful and picturesque in the State,
once contained a dense population, as is evinced by the ruins of ancient
towns and by the testimony of the earliest pioneers. The old Indian
town of Sanél, situated near the American town of the same name, once
contained, judging by the regular streets laid out at right angles, and
the numerous assembly halls which are indicated by the large circular
embankments, 1,500 inhabitants. In 1847 it still numbered about 500
souls, though it had been subjected already several years to the prose-
lyting raids of the Spaniards. But now they are reduced to a wretched
remnant, and some tribes are nearly or quite extinct. Occasionally a
ranchman has twenty or thirty ‘“‘ bound” to him under the laws of the
State, and they live on his ranch in a state of dependence, doing occa-
sional small services, forming a reserve force for the neighborhood
exigencies in harvest, and receiving cast-off clothing and remnants of
unserviceable or unmarketable food from the ranchman’s granaries and
cellar. He allows them to cultivate a small patch of land by the side
of the stream, where it can easily be irrigated, on which they produce
squashes, watermelons, and a little corn. Two of the staple crops of
Russian River Valley are hops and potatoes, and in the season of
harvest of these two products hundreds of Indians, old and young,
get remunerative employment on the ranches. Farmers sometimes
send long distances to Round Valley reservation, and apply to the
458 INDIANS OF WESTERN NEVADA AND CALIFORNIA.

agent for a score or more of Indians for this purpose; and a short leave
of absence is granted them, if not inconsistent with the interests of the
reserve.

Returning to San Francisco, I was again delayed a few days, and left
the city on the 18th of December for Hoopa Valley reservation, via
Sacramento and Redding, at that time the quickest route. I reached
the reservation, after some hardships, December 24th, and remained only
two days. This reservation contains about 700 Indians, and is in charge
of Rev. J. L. Broaddus, of the Methodist Church. This is the number
of Indians belonging here, but more than one-third of them were in the
mountains, frightened away by the rumor that they were to be removed
forcibly from this reservation, and transferred to Round Valley.

The majority of the Indians here are Hoopas; most of the remain-
der are called Redwoods, and are closely related to the former in lan-
guage and customs. Both these and the two tribes on the Klamath
River, as well as some others in Northern California, seem to belong to
the Athabascan races rather than to the California Indians. They are
a much finer people than the latter, lighter in color, faces more oval,
cheek-bones not so broad and prominent. <A very interesting discovery
is that the Hoopa language is very closely related to the Navajo of New
Mexico. There is very little doubt that the vigorous and warlike tribes of
Arizona, Nevada and Oregon migrated southward from some unknown
source in the North, and on the great Shasta plains on the north of
Mount Shasta, encountered, centuries ago, tribes belonging properly to
those known to-day as the California Indians, whom they eventually
drove out to the south of the great mountain or else exterminated.
This is not the place for giving in detail the facts which sustain this
conjecture. At the time when the gold-huntery arrived in the country,
this southward migration was still going slowly forward, the more vigor-
ous northern race beating back the southern; and the Wylackies, the van-
guard of the migration, had nearly reached the headwaters of Eel River,
having, within the American period, displaced a tribe on Mad River, and
driven them as homeless vagabonds over into the Sacramento Valley.
Consequently we find among the Hoopas and the Klamath River tribes
evidences of a northern origin. They excavate inside of their house a
cellar or pit four or five feet deep which points to a long occupation
by their progenitors‘of a much more rigorous climate than the Califor-
nian. The sweat-house (used also as a club-house and assembly-hall) is
wholly underground. They are better hunters and bolder watermen
than their southern neighbors; their women are more virtuous; their
men less generous and hospitable, and more avaricious.

The arable land on this reservation (about 700 acres) is barely suf-
ficient in extent for the maintenance of its present inhabitants, and as
it has to be cropped every year without intermission, to do this, the soil
is steadily deteriorating, and a few years more must witness its total
exhaustion, when the Indians will have to be dispersed. Il] manage-
ETHNOLOGY. 459

ment by previous agents has dissipated a considerable part of the re-
sources of the reservation. The herds have been sacrificed, the soil has
been depleted, and the Indians who ever think of the future behold the
approach of the time when they must disperse to the mountains, or sub-
mit to eviction, or be exterminated. The first of these alternatives
would not be wholly unwelcome to them; but a great majority of them
would choose war, and would wage it relentlessly rather than submit
to the second. The citizens of this region know this well, and they are
unalterably opposed to any attempts at removal of the Indians. There
is a vast reserve of salmon-fishing grounds on the Klamath and Trinity
Rivers, as well as acorn-bearing forests along their banks, which will
not for years, if ever, be occupied by the whites to anything near their
capacity for sustaining population; which are so useless for civilized
dwellers, and so congenial and productive to savages, that it would be
a pity ever to remove either the Klamaths or the Hoopas to any other
region. All! the Indians in the upper half of California could be health-
fully lodged and bountifully fed along the Klamath River, and that al-
most wholly on the aboriginal products.

I returned to San Francisco January 7th, 1876, and was detained there
until the 20th, at which time I was enabled to start for home.

I will conclude this itinerary with a few words on the California Indi-
ans in general. Physically considered, they are superior to the Chinese,
at least to those brought over to America. There is no better proof of
this than the wages they receive for labor, for in a free open market
like ours a thing will always eventually bring what it is worth. China-
men on the railroad receive $1 a day and board themselves; Indians
working in gangs on public roads receive 75 cents a day, sometimes $1,
and their board—the whole equal to $1.25 or $1.50. But on the north-
ern ranches the Indian has $1.50 to $2 a day and his board, or $1 a day
when employed by the year. Farmers trust Indians with valuable
teams and complicated agricultural machinery far more than they do
the Chinese. The Indian endures the hot and heavy work of the
ranch better than even the Canton Chinaman, who comes from a hot
climate, but wants an umbrella over his head. In a fight between the
Chinaman and the Indian, the Indian will always be the victor.

The Valley Indians are more willing to labor and are more moral than
the Mountain Indians, because the latter have better opportunities to
hunt game and can pick up small change and old clothes about the
mining camps.

An erroneous impression generally prevails as to the physique of the
California Indians, because the Americans have seen only the wretched
remnants of the race, the inferior lowlanders, whereas the nobler and
more valorous mountaineers were early cut off. Old pioneers, especially
on the upper waters of the Trinity and the higher foothills of the Sierra,
have frequently spoken with enthusiasm of giants they had seen in
early days, weighing 180, 200, and even 250 pounds; tall, fine fellows, not
460 INDIAN FORTS AND DWELLINGS.

gross, but sinewy, magnificent specimens of free and fighting savagery.
On the other hand, the desiccation of body in old age, especially in the
women, is something phenomenal. Inawigwam near Temecula I have
seen an aged man who certainly would not have weighed over 50 pounds,
so extraordinarily was he wasted and shrunken; many others have
nearly equaled him. This fact accounts for the repulsively wrinkled
appearance of the aged, that which has made them so odious in the
eye of superficial writers and fastidious tourists. There is probably
no other race so excessively fat in youth, and so wrinkled in old age.

The California Indians are rapidly wasting away, and all, except.
perhaps a few of the Mission Indians, are practically beggars and vag-
abonds on the face of the earth. They are not gypsies at all, for they
are attached to the place of their birth, and never willingly leave it except
for a brief period. By a great majority of the people they are looked
upon as cumberers of the ground. They are allowed camping-grounds,
itis true, but these are grudgingly given. The great ranchers of the
plains permit them to glean wheat in their harvest-tields; but in the
mountains, where the farmers are poorer, they frequently forbid them
even from gathering the acorns which are their staff of life. The gen-
eral sentiment toward them is one of pity, mixed with one of impatient
tolerance or open disgust; they are felt to be in the way. They ought
to be all gathered on the reservations, where they could be thoroughly
segregated from the whites and kindly cared for. It does not come
within my province to make recommendations as to the locality of these
reservations, or the best manner of collecting the Indians or providing
for them after collected ; but if it should be desired, I could give decided
Opinions on these questions.

INDIAN FORTS AND DWELLINGS,
By Dr. W. E. DOYLE.

When in 1869 the present site of Fort Sill, Indian Territory, was se-
lected by Generals Sheridan, Hazen, and Grierson as the best location
for a military establishment in all this section, it was found occupied by
a number of earthworks of a circular form and about forty feet in diame-
ter. These were at once conjectured to be the remains of the village
last occupied by the Wichitas before they left the mountains which
bear their names. General R. B. Marcy, who explored the Red River of
Louisiana in 1852, says of this abandoned village of the Wichitas:
‘““ Here they lived and planted corn for several years, and they have ex-
hibited much taste and judgment in the selection of the site for their
town. It is situated at the eastern extremity of the mountains, upon a
plateau directly along the south bank of the creek, and elevated about.
one hundred feet above it, commanding an extended view of the country.
towards the north, south, and east. From its commanding position it is
:
;

_—

i ee

OO ——— a a

oe

ETHNOLOGY. A61

well secured against surprise, and is by nature altogether one of the
most defensible places I have seen.”

When the lines of Fort Sill were being laid out in 1869, some officers
of the command were discussing the capacity of the Indian for constructr
ing defenses, and to settle the question a sketch of the works was made.
It was found upon examination that no better disposition of the earth-
works, for purposes of defense, could have been made by the most skill-
ful military engineer. Es-sad-dowa, the old chief of the Wichitas, had
previously informed me that each of these earthworks surrounded one
of the peculiarly constructed grass houses of that people, and that at
this town a big battle was fought with the Pawnees thirty years ago.
He said arrows would not penetrate the woven walls of the houses, unless
shot at close range, and they were almost bullet-proof; but when this
village was built only a few of the Indians of that section had guns,
and it was therefore built as a defense against assailants armed with
bows and arrows, lances, and tomahawks. The interior of these
circular works appeared to be about a foot and a half lower than
the level of the plateau, but Es-sad-dowa informed me that originally
the depression was three feet.. The bank which surrounded the depres-
sion seemed to vary from a foot to a foot and a half in height, but he
assured me that
it was originally
about two feet;
this would make
about five feet of
earthen protec-
tion for the de-
SS : fenders of the

—— SS == ee house, aS shown
in Figure 1. He further said that the houses were all wet on the ap-
proach of an enemy in order to prevent the thatch being fired by brands
attached to arrows. The women and children were protected, also, by
the embankment. Es-sad-dowa stated that this mode of constructing
houses for defense was known to the Wichitas from their earliest tra-
ditions, and that this town was probably the last of the kind that
would be built, as they were originally designed to answer the wants of
a people who had no horses. ‘“ Now,” said he, “‘ what could we do with
our horses (they have large herds) in places like this? The people who
came to fight us would come mounted. We could not keep our horses
in our houses, and if we sent them off with a small party they might
be overtaken and captured. It would be better to abandon the town.
lead the horses up a cafion in the mountains, and defend the entrance,
When the Pawnees came.we had to send our horses off to the Coman-
ches, all but one or two in each house for the survivors to escape on, if
defeated, and to follow up and observe the enemy if he retreated.”
These are nearly his words as I translated them. The Pawnees were

462 INDIAN FORTS AND DWELLINGS.

defeated, and some of their bones and a skull perforated by arrows were
found in 1870 by officers of the Tenth Cavalry.
By referring to Figure 2 the advantage of the disposition of the forts

will be seen. The Figure 2. ‘
bank along Med- rN
icine Bluff Creek Ss ;
is about 100 feet S
high, that over $ ss ee |
the bottom where = NS ;
the corn-fields = YS C) q
: s S$ .
were located is y sr .
about 80 feet, 40) |
and that on the’ eau :
opposite side of we ©)
the plateau about SS

60 feet. A path
comes up the
short hollow from
the corn-fields,
and there is a
spring below the
_ high creek bank.
A naked bar ex-
tends on the op-
posite side of the
creek. The corn-caches are in the center of the villages. According to
Es-sad-dowa the Pawnees, to the number of 500, attacked them in the
manner shown by the line with dots. This enabled every fort to fire
and cross-fire on their line, and as there were about 400 men, women,
and children in the forts, and as about 275 of this number could handle
the bow and were firing on the line, the Pawnees, after getting inside
the town, and unable to penetrate any of the houses, were repulsed
with considerable loss.

The Pawnee tribe, of which the Wichita is an off-shoot, formlery
constructed houses nearly similar to those above described and also
subterranean habitations. Of the latter, Col. A. G. Boone, the veteran
frontiersman, told me that in 1825, Figure 3.
when going to the Rocky Mountains ——= eae
with Ashley’s trapping party, they == :
came across quite a large village of = =

\Y
Fortified camp of the Wichitas.

SS

———S

Pawnees on the Platte. He described
the houses as being about eight feet in
diameter, neatly lined with grass and
buffalo robes, and each forming the ——
habitation of a family. He made a SSS oe
section view of one of them, as shown in Figure 3.
ETHNOLOGY. 463

The Comanches say that the Kiowas formerly lived in holes in the
ground. It was the ordinary custom of all the Mississippi Valley tribes,
when small parties were caught away from their villages by their ene-
mies, to dig holes, in which to protect and defend their women, &e. All
the early French and English writers tell of this custom, and Lewis and
Clarke, Pike, and Long, all speak of it.

Lieutenant Pike thus describes the Pawnee houses in 1806, « First,
there is an excavation of a circular form made in the ground about 4
feet deep and 60 feet diameter, when there is a row of posts about 5
feet high, with crotches at the top, set firmly in all around, and horizon-
tal poles laid from one to an other. There is within this inclosure a row
of posts ten feet in height forming a circle about 10 feet in diameter.
The crotches of these are so directed that horizontal poles are also laid
from one to another; long poles are then laid slanting, like rafters from
the lower poles over the upper, and meeting nearly at the top, leaving
only a small aperture for the smoke of the fire to pass out, which is
made on the ground in the middle of the lodge. There are then a
number of small poles put up around the outer circle so as to form
a wall, and wicker-work run through the whole. The roof is then
thatched with grass and earth is thrown up against the wall until a bank
is made to the eaves of the thatch, and that is also covered with earth
one or two feet thick,and rendered so tight as entirely to exclude any
storm whatsoever and make them extremely warm. The entrance is
about 6 feet wide, with walls on each side, and roofed like our houses in
shape, but of the same materials as the main building. Inside them are
numerous little apartments, constructed of wicker-work, against the wall,
with small doors; they have a great appearance of neatness, and in them
the members of the family sleep and have their little deposits.” At the
time Pike gave the above description, (1506,) the Pawnees were in three
villages: the Grand Village, (3,130 souls,) on the Platte; Republican
Village, on Republican Fork of Kansas, (1,618 souls ;) Pawnee Loups,
on Loup Fork, 1,485 souls, (the latter on the late Pawnee reserve.)
This latter is the village Professor Hayden saw in 1867 and believed to
be of great antiquity. It wasabandoned at the time when the small-pox
scourged the Pawnees so terribly.

I have found stone arrow-points, lance-heads, skin-dressers, &c., at
numerous points through the Indian Territory, Northern Texas, and
Kansas. The stone skin-dresser is still used by all the tribes who dress
buffalo robes, &c., and is of the same style as those found all through
the West. Hayden says he has been unable to learn from the Indians
how far back they used stone arrow-points; that those he asked would
point toward heaven and say, ‘‘ The Great Spirit only knows; we don’t.”
1 have failed to find a single one of the tribes west of the Mississippi
among whom there are not traditions regarding the stone arrow-
heads. Ten Bears, the old (Yamparica) Comanche chief, told me that
he used them. Nemmuro, a young Comanche, showed me in 1870 the
464 INDIAN FORTS AND DWELLINGS.

place at the west end of the Wichita Mountains where he said his father
and grandfather and other Penatechkas obtained stone for arrow and
lance heads. At this place, and in fact all through the Wichita
Mountains, there is plenty of white quartz and jasper. Col. A. G. Boone
and Jim Bridger have told me that all the Indians in the mountains and
the southwestern Indians—that is, Shoshones, Utes, Apaches, Navajoes,
&c.—had nothing but stone-pointed weapons as late as 1830. The Mex-
icans had made it a rule not to sell fire-arms to the Indians; so while
the Upper Missouri Indians were well supplied with arms by the traders
of the British Northwest Company and the Lower Missouri Indians by
the American traders, the southwestern tribes were but poorly supplied
with fire-arms as late as the above-mentioned date.

In the report of Don José Cortez, of the Spanish Royal Engineers, to
the King, made in 1799, he says: ‘The Comanche nation is doubtless
the most numerous of the many people that are known to exist in the
vicinity of our most distant provinces of North America. They are
commanded by a general and a lieutenant-general, chosen from among
themselves, with the consent of the governor of New Mexico and the
approval of the commandante of the internal provinces. These Indians
are intrepid in war, bold in their enterprises, and impetuous in action.
They are at peace with no other people than the Spaniards, and main-
tain a constant war with all the other neighboring nations.” I once
made a statement of these facts to Mah-wey, (Shaking-hand,) chief of
the Castcha-techka (Buffalo-eater) band, and asked him how it was that
the Comanches were so reduced in numbers. He explained it by saying
that their enemies, especially the Osages, Pawnees, and Sioux, all had
fire-arms, and cut them down in every encounter, and that when the
Shawnees, Delawares, Kickapoos, Chickasaws, &c., all well armed, got
into their neighborhood, they worsted them in nearly every encounter.
He said the only successes they could gain would be by charging
mounted.

The tribes which followed the buffalo had generally no fixed habitations,
and therefore built no mounds for burial purposes or defense. Conse-
quently, through all the great buffalo range an absence of mounds and
earthworks is noticeable. In conversations with old Indians and old
trappers like Boone and Bridger, I have obtained their views regarding
the capacity of the Indians of the present century for defense. Boone
Says they understood making works thoroughly. He cited the fact that
where Osages or Kaws are caught in the buffalo range by Cheyennes,
Comanches, &c., they always get into the buffalo-wallows for defense.
They know that a bank makes a cover and protection; they know the
value of cross-firing on an enemy, and from these observations they could
easily deduce plans for defensive works. But as in the days of stone-
pointed weapons the arrow would carry only about 80 to 100 yards effect-
ively, the attacking party would only have a short charge to make, and
if of superior numbers, could easily carry ordinary breastworks. For

ETHNOLOGY. 465

this reason the large mounds were built. From their tops the arrows
would carry farther, and by having piles of stones on top they could
shower them on the besieger. Furthermore, no dashing charge could
be made, and the defenders would have the advantage in using their
lances against assailants clambering up. He further said that he does
not believe the long earthworks, the remains of which are now two and
three feet high, were ever intended for defense. He said (and Bridger
has told me this also) that when they first got to trapping in the Rocky
Mountains, fifty years ago, they frequently came across inclosures in
the valleys, sometimes covering as much as 100 acres, for capturing
game. These generally had an opening of several hundred yards wide
and the entrance narrowed down to a pen of three to five acres. These
were used by the Shoshones, Utes, and other Indians for driving game
into to kill, their short-range arrows being a poor dependence on which
to obtain the deer and antelope. Boone says that during the Black
Hawk War they found (in Illinois) numbers of the lines like breast-
work, and it was the opinion of all the old Indian men and the frontiers-
men that these works were built for the purpose of obtaining game.
Unlike the Shoshone and Ute inclosures, these earthworks, had numer-
ous openings or spaces where no breastwork was built. This was for
the game to pass through to be killed by parties outside. Take, for
instance, a herd of buffalo grazing in the neighborhood of one of these
embankments, set as they generally are near the brow of a bluff. Each
of the openings is at the head of a hollow leading down to the river
bottom, (as is nearly always the case.) Men are stationed on each side
of the openings with bows, and arrows, and lances. A party then gets
in rear of the buffalo herd and starts it toward the work. The buffalo
rush forward until checked by the embankment ahead, when they rush
toward the openings and are shot and lanced as they pass out. ‘ This,”
says Boone, “‘is the only conclusion we ever came to regarding them.
They were always situated too far from the river to be considered as
being constructed to defend its passage, and then Indians could climb
the bluff at any othey point just as well, and attack the work from the
rear. ltlad they been intended for defense, they would have been con-
structed in such a shape as to be defensible on all sides.”

I have never fcund any pottery in the section formerly inhabited by
the tribes who follow the buffalo, and doubt very much whether they
manufactured any. All the corn-raising Indians made and used pottery,
but the nomads, living almost exclusively on flesh, used it but little, if at
all. Even now, with pots and kettles within reach, meat is but rarely
boiled. Broiling is their favorite way of cooking their meat, and the
dried meat requires no cooking.

S 30
466 THE SIOUX OR DAKOTA INDIANS.

THE SIOUX OR DAKOTA INDIANS,
By Cou. ALBERT G. Brackett, U.S. Army.

To those who take an interest in the aborigines of America, a visit to
the Sioux or Dakota Indians is full of novelty. They are the most
powerful tribe or nation of Indians on this continent, and have always
been noted for their freedom of action, impatience under restraint, and
bravery in battle. There are twelve confederate bands of the Sioux or
Cut-throats, named respectively the Ogalalla, Brulé, or Ishango; Yank-
ton; Minnecoujou or Minneconjou ; Uncpapa; Yanktonnais, Cut Heads;
Santees ; Tetons; Sissetons and Warpetons ; and Ohanapa or Two Ket-
tles. To this number might be added the Blackfeet of the far north, or
Se-ash-ha-pa, so named from their wearing black moceasins. The most
powerful of these bands is the Ogalalla, and the greatest warrior is Red
Cloud, chief of this band. Sitting Bull, another renowned warrior and
chief, belongs to the Unepapa band. My personal experience is confined
to the Ogalallas, though I have met Indians of several other bands of
this nation. Their principal ground is in and about the Red Cloud
agency in Nebraska, and along the.White Earth River, a beautiful
stream of water embowered with trees, and surrounded with high lands
and sharp peaks.

We first hear of the Naudouisses or Naudonisioux, so called by the
Chippewas, from: the Jesuit Charles Raymbault, who went far to the
westward in 1642. The name Naudouisioux, being too long, was
changed by use to Sioux, by which name they are now known. The
bands on the Mississippi, or rather those who used to reside there, called
themselves Dakotas, while those of the plains now call themselves La-
kotas. The Jesuit Father Raymbault did not visit them in 1642, but
heard of their existence, and of their being, even then, a powerful tribe.
It was not until the year 1659 that the French traders discovered their
teepees or lodges. They dwelt for the most part west of the Mississippi
and the Red River, and extended from the Sask@tchawan in the north
to the lands south of the Arkansas. They were visited by the Francis-
ean Father Hennepin in 1680, and by Father Joseph Marest and another
Jesuit in 1687 and 1689. Father Hennepin himself suffered a short
captivity among them in 1680. Beingso far away their intercourse with
the whites was exceedingly limited, and it was many years before much
was known concerning them by the people of our country.

Captains Lewis and Clarke visited them in 1804 and in 1806, and in
the history of their expedition give a very fair account of them. The
names of the different bands are somewhat mixed up, and it is a difficult
matter for any one to understand much about them, as I find those who
speak the Dakota language perfectly, have but a vague idea of them.

As near as I have been able to ascertain the meaning of the names of
the different bands, they are as follows: Ogalallas, Thin Shirts; Ish-

ETHNOLOGY. 467

angos or Brailes, Fire Builders ; Minneconjous, Those who have a farm
near the water ; Yanktonnais, Arrow Shooters ; Tetons, Pointed Lodges ;
Ohanapas, Two Kettles; and Warpetons, Tea Drinkers. Of the Ogal-
allas there are several small divisions, among which are the Ke-ax-as,
or Cut Offs; the Waz-aze, or Branded Ones; and the E-tach-e-cha, or
Bad Faces. In former times all Sioux east and north of the Missouri
River were called Santees, and those west and south were called Tetons.
Of late years, of course, these names have become cenfused, the mem-
bers of the different bands wandering off and joining other Indians,
intermarrying, and forming new alliances.

In June, 1852, I visited a village of the Sioux on the Mississippi River,
at the head of Lake Pepin, called Red Wing, where Wa-cou-tah, their
chief, resided. The houses were permanently built of reeds and thatched
on top. Another large village, called Kaposia, then existed nearly op-
posite Saint Paul, Minn. The Indians I saw at that time were gen-
erally small men—bare-headed, their ears ornamented with steel bobs—
who would in no way bear comparison with the whites, either in stature
or manliness, though said to be capable of enduring great fatigue.
While fishing at Lake Calhoun in 1852, the party I was with was quite
successful in catching fish, which were cooked in a Sioux lodge by a
squaw. The cookery was of the most filthy and wretched kind, and it
took ne a long time to overcome the recollection of the horrible smell
of the viands after they were cooked.

At the Red Cloud agency in Nebraska there were in June, 1876, at
least eight thousand Sioux, besides fifteen hundred Cheyennes and a
thousand Arapahoes. These last-named Indians may be said to be
cousins of the Sioux, though their language is entirely different, and
they are obliged to communicate with each other by means of signs;
the sign-language being understood by many different tribes through-
out America. After a great deal of care and trouble, the savages have
been brought together at this place, where they are kindly cared for by
the Government, and some efforts are being made to teach them farming.
Just before my arrivgl, about a thousand Cheyennes had left for the
purpose of going on the war-path, and I could hear the drum, beaten
by the others, as they pounded it and sang all through the summer
night, sounding weird and wild enough. There are schools for the
younger members of the tribe, and a few of them appear to be advance-
ing somewhat in the way of education. To change the whole charac-
ter of an Indian’s ideas requires time, and too much must not be ex-
pected from these untamed sons of the western plains, whose ancestors
for hundreds of years past have hunted the buffalo. The land on which
the agency is located is not well adapted to agriculture, and it is not
easy to see how they are to become farmers, when they have no good
farming-land to work on in order to gain a knowledge of husbandry.

All about on the hills their canvas and buffalo-skin tents or teepees
stretched in every direction, some being by themselves, while others
468 THE SIOUX OR DAKOTA INDIANS.

were gathered together so as to form a kind of village. The frame-
work of the tent is made by putting up twenty or thirty lodge-poles, the
upper ends crossing each other and the lower ends resting on the ground
in acireular form. These poles are then covered with canvas or buffalo-
skins from which the hair has been scraped off. A hole is left in the
top where the poles join together, that serves as a chimney and allows
the smoke to pass out, the fire being built in the ceuter of the lodge.

Around this fire there are several compartments for the different
members of the family, in which there are good beds of buffalo robes
and blankets. The whole affair is very snug indeed, and is as warm
and comfortable in winter as need be. <A large flap serves as a door,
and when this is pulled down over the doorway or opening, all is cosy
within. Here the women do their cooking, and the Indians eat when-
ever they take a fancy, they having no particular bour for eating break-
fast, dinner, or supper. In their wild state buffalo and deer meat are
the principal articles of diet, but at the agencies they eat beef, corn, and
flour, and are remarkably fond of tobacco, coffee, and sugar. Some of
the squaws are good coffee-makers, and all of them know how to roast
meat to suit themselves.

Until recently the Sioux roamed over the buffalo grounds, and in sum-
mer laid in a plentiful supply of meat for winter consumption,-besides
robes enough for trade and bedding for themselves and families. These
robes are sometimes painted with considerable skill, showing pictures
of the sun, or of the warlike achievements of individuals. The robes
are divided into two kinds, the first known as split robes, which have
been cut open along the back of the animal when it was skinned, and
then sewed together, and the others are called whole robes, as they
have been taken off entire and then dressed. On the dressed side of
these robes the pictures are painted, which resemble very much the
efforts which a school-boy makes with his slate and pencil. Horses and
warriors in full war-gear furnish the great majority of subjects, and the
boasting Dakota is able by these pictures to impress upon his people more
forcibly than he could otherwise do it the exceeding courage of his exploits,
and the number of women and children he has butchered in cold blood.
There is no boaster and braggart on earth equal to a young Sioux war-
rior, and in his opinion no human being ever created can in any way
compare with him. Hven in the hottest weather be will strut about
with his buffalo robe wrapped around him, the hair being inside and
the painting outside, in order that less favored individuals may properly
admire his great beauty and gain a knowledge of his wonderful
prowess. Heat he does not feel, if he can properly impress spectators,
and he walks or rather shuffles along the most self-satisfied of human
beings.

The Sioux are armed with bows and arrows, knives, pistols, and the
most improved kind of breech-loading rifles and carbines. It ap-
pears that they use the bows and arrows on ordinary occasions, but,

ETHNOLOGY. 469

when at war, depend on their improved fire-arms. The arrows are mado
of straight, hard-wood sticks, feathered at one end and pointed with
sharp iron heads about 2 inches long. They can send these arrows with
such force as to drive them through the body of a buffalo. Years of
practice have made them very expert in the use of their bows, which
are really formidable weapons in dry weather, but when the bow-string
becomes damp they are not so serviceable. They all like large hunting
or scalping knives, which are used for almost every purpose, and they
would feel utterly lost without them. The squaws have wide belts in
which these knives are worn, the belts themselves being ornamented
with brass nails. This belt appears to be the badge of servitude among
all classes of Indian women. Sitting Bull, a warrior of the Ogalallas,
(not the great chief of that name, however,) had a long lance on which
he had placed three knife-blades, and when the Indians at the agency
became too unruly about the buildings he would use the lance to
a good purpose. On account of his lance he was sometimes called
Three Knives. He was one of the guards for the agency, and on sev-
eral occasions proved to be a genuine friend to the white people. There
was a guard of two Indians from each band at the agency, who acted as
policemen.

The Sioux like buckskin shirts and leggings, which are ornamented
with fringes of the same material. Blue blankets are much worn, and
the more heavily an article of dress is adorned with beads the better it
is suited to their tastes. Some of the buckskin coats are stiff with bead-
work, and are really beautiful. Large silver ornaments are also worn
on the necklaces, being shaped like circles, crescents, crosses, and stars.
Silver beads are strung together, and frequently are of great value.
These Indians do not retain the sealp-lock, but let the hair grow long’
allover the head, painting it with vermilion, and wrapping the long
ends in mink and marten skins. Many of them wear black hats which
they adorn with feathers, beads, and bright-colored bands. The moc-
casins are worked with beads and porcupine quills, brightly tinted,
and are sometimes very beautiful. The women wear garments made of
buekskin with long skirts. Their hair is allowed to fall down their
backs, and the place where it is parted on the top of the head is well
painted with vermilion. In painting the face, the Indian dandy exer-
cises all his ingenuity, and daubs on lines, circles, and curves in the
strangest possible manner. Bracelets, too, of brass wire are also worn
on all occasions, and ear-rings add luster to their wonderful toilets. No
people on earth take more pains in adorning themseves than the young
Indian bucks, and the greatest pleasure they enjoy is in admiring them-
selves in the looking-glasses which they always carry about with them.

An Indian thinks himself only half dressed without his horse, and
when he is mounted with his war-bonnet on is indeed a handsome sight.
This war-bonnet is an elaborate affair, made of the feathers of the eagle
fastened to long strips of red cloth, reaching from the top of the
470 THE SIOUX OR DAKOTA INDIANS.

head to the wearer’s heels. The feathers stand upright, adding greatly
to the apparent stature of the individual. Some of the Indians have
fine figures, but their features are large and heavy, and their complex-
ions dark and coarse. The noses of all of them are large and bulbous
and far from being handsome. Their eyes are black, cheek-bones high,
lips thick and heavy, ears large, hair very coarse, eyebrows and beard
carefully plucked out, and the skin of the face has many small inden-
tations, like those on the skin of an orange. The hands and feet are
finely shaped and small, and the limbs perfectly formed. In walking
they carry their heads erect, and move along in a springy sort of a way,
showing great bodily vigor and a healthy constitution. Ordinarily they
are cheerful in disposition, and apparently take life easy. In council,
however, they are very grave in demeanor, and move slowly, in the most
dignified manner; these councils are exceedingly dear to the heart
of every Indian. Wrapped in their blankets, they sit down, silently
waiting with the greatest patience until it is their turn to speak, and
then making use of the most flowery and picturesque language they
are able to command.

So far as I have been able to find out anytbing in regard to the
religion of the Indians, they are all what might be called Spiritualists. I
qaestioned Sitting Bull on this point, who told me that he frequently
saw the spirits of the dead on the bills round about; and all young war-
riors, whep they go through the fasting, prior to their initiation among
the braves, always see the spirits of the dead who have gone before
them. Iasked Sitting Bull whether he saw the spirits best in the night
or in the day time. He answered that it made no difference, as he
could see them as well at one time as at another. The spirits of all
warriors were seen in this way, as well as those of the women; but
those of very young children were taken little account of.

When an Indian dies, there is placed on the platform where the body,
rests, or near it, all of Hi arms, clothing, pipe, &c., and a good horse
is generally killed and left with his remains, in order that he may be
well mounted: in the spirit-land. When a rich man loses a relative, as
a beloved wife or favorite daughter, he sometimes, in the excess of his
grief, destroys all his property, including his lodge or tent, and kills all
his horses, leaving himself utterly poverty-stricken. For many days
he holds no communication with any one, but sits bowed down with
grief, and alone. He bears his sorrow in silence. The squaws, on the
other hand, howl and make the most dismal sounds, tearing their hair,
and gashing their bodies with knives. I have seen some Indians who
even cut off the joints of their fingers in the excess of their grief. When
Red Dog’s son died in March, 1872, he sat beside the body the whole
day, naked, with his flesh cut and slashed, and blood running from every
wound.

Of all the bands of the Sioux, the Yanktons appear to be making the
greatest progress in the way of agriculture, and are rapidly learning

’

ETHNOLOGY. AT1

how to take care of themselves according to the ideas of civilized men.
Whether the Indians will be happier after they become civilized is an
open question. They certainly were very happy when they were at
liberty to roam about as they pleased in search of the buffalo herds,
and enjoyed themselves as well as any human beiugs could while riding
over the plains, lords of the wide-stretching, grassy prairies. They
acknowledged no master, and moved about from place to place through
the long summer days. This is now changed. The Sioux are not
allowed to go south of the Platte River to hunt the buffalo, nor are
those who are near the agency allowed to leave their reservations except
in small numbers. The late battles which our soldiers have had with
them on the Powder, Rose Bud, and Little Big Horn Rivers were
to drive them to the reservations, and make them stay there. The
Ogalallas have little gardeus directly along the banks of White
Earth River, where they are trying to raise something; but it is ina
feeble sort of a way, and if any great good is expected from their farm-
ing operations they must be taken to.some place where they can have
ample fields, with good plows and horses. Some of them will make
good farmers, as they take an interest in farming, while others will only
surrender their wild ways with their lives.

I am convinced that the number of Sioux is greater than has gener-
ally been supposed, and the strength they have been able to bring into
the field against our troops has astonished every one. Thousands of
warriors have been seen mounted and armed, resembling more the
efforts of a well-trained army than the feeble attempt of a small nation
of savages. I have been at some pains to ascertain the whole number of
individuals in the Dakota nation, and find at the different agencies the
following result :

Cheyenne River agency in Dakota: .
_ Two Kettle, Sans Arc, Minneconjou, and Blackfeet Sioux.. 7,536
Crow Creek, Dakota:

diower Yanktonnais Sioux .--... 22... .ss.22.00-0- eles ei 1, 200

PRM SPH SIOUX 5)5.25 0. afore! 22 2 2d ners latiniel nis aiel= nia ofaminraraye 1, 800
Devil’s Lake agency, Dakota:

Sissetons, Warpetons, and Cut Heads ....--...-.-. debate 800
Flandreau agency, Dakota:

Pe Re TOIK. Fh a). Sefele, nhc)... ctalala's slainie «is sissies isa riest er pie 350
Red Cloud agency, Nebraska:

. RTM NI Wyse | 1s i i> hah raiw 4 os mibje lobo miei simmpoe wean 9, 136

Sisseton agency, Dakota:

Sissetons and Warpetons....-..----.+--++-- (hots tnua arate a 1,807

Spotted Tail agency, Nebraska:
Upper Brilés, Lower Brilés, Northern Brilés, and Minne-
Dremel. A. 2 Usa)... Mile dake Cae ae cena eters, te *. 9,610
Standing Rock agency, Dakota:
Upper and Lower Yanktonnais, Unepapa, and Blackteet
MEME Re coer ctor a!o) it ios in sath woe bee es ota eee 7,322
472 THE SIOUX. OR DAKOTA INDIANS.

Yankton agency, Dakota:

Manton) fess 6< sek ke Se ieee ete lode aeialehe See eer » 2,000

Seattered Sioux in(Dakota:::025 22. Co ee eee eee 3, 000
Fort Peck agency, Montana:

Yanktonnais, Santees, Sissetons, and Tetons .......-..... 4,126
Santee agency, Nebraska:

Santees Co Hea)... hee ee ea Lo ER eae 800

49, 537

Many of these Indians leave the agencies from time to time and roam
about among the mountains of the Big Horn and Rosebud Ranges;
others are very wild, and all efforts thus far have been unavailing to
pring them to the reservations.
For a savage tribe their number is very considerable, and far greater
than that of any other in the United States. As has been shown, the
men are good warriors, brave and determined, and if all were com-
bined they could make a great deal of trouble; but they do not work
together, and in several instances one band has not hesitated to attack
another. Their numbers are increasing, and they are much more nu-
merous than they were thirty years ago.
The Brilé chief Spotted Tail, or, as the Indians call him, Chan-ta-
gal-is-ka, is one of the foremost men of the nation, and for several years
past has been friendly to the whites. Red Cloud, or Mus-pa-a-tu-ta, is
also a famous chief, and these men, with Sitting Bull, may be said to be
the leading spirits of the Dakota nation. I have noticed that the In-
dians themselves call the Yanktonnais E-hank-to-wana, giving great
emphasis to the second syllable.

~O NA E NT Se

| Order of Congress to print extra copies of the report ..--........ ee ke ee
| Letter from the Secretary, submitting report to Congress..-......-- eg Ronen 3
List of Regents, committees, and members ex officio of the Institution.......... 5
Officers of the Institution and National Museum............ 0.222. ..---. ---- ee 6
EMeORmOnNeEROKESSOR HENRY, SECRETARY. «0. c6 s2scacccoces voecececcuce cece 7
ee ee rand on mae Wear art ac aos moe anid cin sinian pr debalsoaaeeee 14
FaTAONG ELON A Peete neinre anton Sais w! oes cero c ee eteele creme Sette te a se, ae x 15
TER ee chet mi aes aie RS AEN BS afons R  ee ee OL EO OO 23
EERE Meta tnise-(= Sa ola = a isin iayse)~ Sta > ols ESL: Se Side WG eS ole 24
RN aR NRNE ENN Dace te ots) = 3159/5 = =e Sp qeteyel = oferta stapes ini aibiwe /aicin ferme 26
DO eS 2 2S ee Ee ee cere eee Oo nin wns rene cece een ne won 26
peer BEPAEETRTEE PER HILTEL OS Sota a nine aici peo ia emwie sn is Bae ais aaine scenes 29
LAPP cocks sO SSGH SCE R USES ARGS A Rn A ie eae Re Dee Lik She att 30
LLDCS eds octet SSeS Sse a So ES OS eee ee Ge 32
RGM BL UDO ALON gee con c's «os cciae aaalslauie set Scale doe sos - aoe aces 37
ee aE Ee ae lan cr wi jn a cers pele ane Sees vbin ems ecetee ee sans 37

LO ELAS CURT Gee. Se Se oo a MIRA ee eee alee eS eee al 3
Fish Commission.......-- GbcmobdooSUsBoSda. chee Bade ne Tece Nee BS cde sees 37
ASAE PED WUE OIE i ie cota Re ear = annie a pa ach ad 38
Report of Professor Baird on the National Museum..--....-.....--..-- 338
Work done in the Museum and at Philadelphia.................---..- 4
scientific investigation of collections. ..--...----- ..---=c--.-s<0ie-cse 44
Distribution of duplicate specimens...---...--.------ aware sera aase 45
IBTeKeMiconauioniol the Museum) $.0 5.2 22 sco se as ence cilwaiscies ose vis 45
Nature of increased accommodations required.....--...-------------. 47
Government explorations and surveys..---.---.--+--- ---+ see. e-22e5 eee eee 47
APPENDIX’ TO THE REPORT OF THE SHCRETARY).----- -2-- sc0cce cece eecceseescce 64
Report of Professor Baird on the Centennial Exhibition ...-.. Lee eel ee 64

Appropriations by Congress for the Centennial Exhibition --.....-..-.---- éi
Awards decreed to the Institution at the Centennial Exhibition..---..--.- 81
Additions to the collections of the National Museum..-.--...----..--------- 84
Entries in Museum record-books to 1876.........--.-.<--.-----. «--------- 106
Distribution of duplicate specimens..........---- .--------- .---+------- 2. (206
Statistics of literary and scientific exchanges. .----..-.-.----------------- 107
International exchange of United States Government publications. ....-..- 107
Packages from Europe for distribution in America..-..-..---.------------- 108
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE....-..---0- -----+ +----+ 22-22 -----+ =: 116
Statement of condition of funds.-.. ..-... .-- 2-6 «----2 oo seen -- 20 ee oe 116
MTSE he le a Seo inie = «| soa enleinan lean een ehen sm once amen aein ab alnm 117
MPR POMOUMIOS: 2 = ~~ oo ence n nore e cnc n coe cin cwes conan s owes aseces occnena ss 117
Kiamilton bequest . ..--.- 2... 2-2. 22 - cee en ae conn ese nnn coca secee: cone cane == 117
Wirginia bonds ...... ~---- --- 20 .secee nee e ee nn ccce co ee seen cena nnceees ay il?
First National Bank deposit...... ..---. ---- --- 22+ eee e cence cee ene eee eee 118
Statement of expenditures in detail....---..---.----+-----+ +--+ ----5----- 118

473
A74 CONTENTS.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE—Continued.
IOI GUII QA Sricoas Ghos edains mene coon Sask soedmsose SoSROS Saeisne dodctiact
Generaliexpenses se incest ys strc cawinicie wincinice Seats winsiete toes teak eae eeeioe
Publications and researches. = s<cc)2 sce sac gee waa te cinee saa ein eee ere
eC ot tre): fee key Se rae TP Sh al eta Sy eee Re Be eae eae oe fice
Museuiny 82% sac. ceecieci tans mans coe b oases sae eae ric eis cease coe aie ee eee
FROVARINONUG: hae cw min tn ions sce as oel paedamee athe arate - ee eee eee ee
Hstimatestor/expenditures for l8iies.seece oe aeea seco eines eee iteenee
Eatimated ree@ipts iA. --=...elsgiooi ie Je OOS ess awed, Coeeeiceee ae ee
Provisional appropriations2sie JS 222i tee Soap ee caceuawece cece seceeeeke
National-Maseum’. 22425 [052/80 SPO so See Sea ee ie 8 ee

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.......----.---- .-s---e

Meeting of January 245 VOTG 22.) eisate Elatata lala ws torw sta e ar eae ae Cae eee et
Report of special committee on Museum......--....--.. .----------- 2+
Meeting -Pebruary ©, 1ST 0 aero roatesosers nie scene kreeeeesreteg eemee no SSeeee ee
Meeting February 6, LeVin22- 2 enw tenon oh rsta cen tecn wee emit onalseteetee
Memorial to Congress relative to a new building for the collections...-.. --
List of collections presented by foreign governments to the United States...

GENERAL APPENDIX.

Gay-LussAc, eulogy by M.Arago.2-s22 ccctes eect clsbo-see eeieok a a ete Bem eatae
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF Dom PEDRO II, EMPEROR OF BRaAzIL, by Anpriso

Bighorn e oss e = se teh ott eck se te acme inset pees eee See ee Bees sees
KINETIC THEORIES OF GRAVITATION, by William B. Taylor..-........-----.---
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE CRUST OF THE EarTH, by Prof. George Pile ihc
THE ASTEROIDS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER, by Daniel Kirkwood......-.-.--

ETHNOLOGY.-:---.- nae 3 VAT PRG 8 TA EPs Ree Oe

The Latimer collection of antiquities from Porto Rico in the National Mu-

seum at Washington, D.C. 0. 'T. Mason’ . 222. 3. scence sarees ate ‘e
The prehistoric antiquities of Hungary, by Prof. F. F. Pome: x22!
Jade. A historical, archeological, and literary study of the mineral called

yur by, the Chinese, by S: Blondéltzetse. 6 =a oss onieeeloaiese see
Antiquities in Guatemala, by Hon. George Williamson ..............-----
Collections of historical documents in Guatemala, by Dr. C. H. Berendt.--.
Observations on the prehistoric mounds of Grant County, Wisconsin, by

Moses). Stron oo: &.<). ccene ceric Ret ele oe eens soeteeierstiee eee
Deposits of flint implements, by J. F. Snyder, M. D...-.. .------------. -206
Ancient mica-mines in North Carolina, by C. D. Smith..-.-.----...-.-----.
Double-walled earthwork in Ashtabula County, Ohio, by Stephen D. Peet-.
Ancient implement of wood, by E. W. Ellsworth........-...---....--..---
Centennial mission to the Indians of Western Nevada and California, by

Stephen Powers = 22.744 -/5- $0225 sesso oie eee eeetense eater
Indian forts and dwellings, by Dr. W. E. Doyle-.....--2. s<c--0- sess -----

The Sioux or Dakota Indians, by Col. A G. Brackett...........----..-- or

Pio Ok Liles TRATIONS:

THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES:

Fig. 1.

—
me oomnra km WW

12.

. Fragment of a shallow dish
. Handle from the edge of a dish
teifandic from the edge of a dish . ..... 5... .22---- 208 wse0--- be ae
MeECMnGlesep Mm. tne SIGO1OL-2 GIS. Loess eke sane coees Chee oe ee eee
wiHandlevtrom the edge of a dish! ..2. 0.0. .2- ce. eo.
MUANMIOMTOMUNo Side Of a dish,2:.../2 2 222A eee ees ce ee ce
. Fragment of pottery, with wreath luted on.........-....-....-----
. Bottom of a vase, with the pattern traced on.............----..---
PLoushedwoval-secuioned Celt, 22.22, 5ono = sas se eona sea eee a ceeeee
. Celt and handle of polished jadeite ......-.----. ..+...<.--..-----

Fragment of a jar

ee ee ae er |

Celt of jadeite in a handle of wood, Turk’s Island ...........---.+-

MPAA VCERO USNC COL: -—. 6-0 Seco Saco cera wate Bockte se wae bein oeees
Swlwo-camred polished celtics. <5 <cjckoss sacidew en nase ane Sass) eee
mel we Se CR ELEDINCALGO \COl t= sal. (cinlae ois) iatlew ince nso a Se Sccase nee
MCE OGIO WACO! ber aetiat oS om sak ode oo ales case messes Socios ee
SM e-snaned  COlb= <5... seis cot Sms S ssinose ieee eUaldeesssscsusebaesee
SE SNIGOUMINS-StONC [2 sins as Jceia apes bgtcie eb -Kebaiew eval came eeoe ae
MEOoU-suaped SsMmonthing-stone. .-<- -2-- -\-s soeewicems aeons o eee ee ce
PBEM SHAN eMNOSGIO =+.-ta-0s< so'saanlan ie sele cin aia soos cca aces on meee
wanimacl-shaped stone stool . 2.5 ssctica2% Ses St Ulok sece a elcbite ee -
2. LODE HO AG) Ge Tae [ie a aa Te ee ae ee eee
. Wooden stool, from a cave in Turk’s and Caicos Islands....-.......
. Wooden stool, from a cave in Turk’s and Caicos Islands...-.....--.
pyGtaviawLlol Hic 24 nestored=s4-'-2 =~) ana cee ssemelan naceten = ome ae
j. Ornament in relief on the upper part of Fig. 23-.......--.---.------
BBE Ad -OFnamMenul Oly Hit O4 bo 22 socio elen anata tem aml n en) aiel slalom alate
. Scrolled ornament in relief of Fig. 24 -.-...........---.-----------
. Disk-shaped carved stone .....-..-..---- ---- ---- ---- ---< «---------
_ TBamigried | ysevile = - < aS A Sas 2S ca eee ee ohms ee coros
5 bio eG AeA Gee Se esos escr ea sebced seca ease SSeacoor
meAnivalet Of iar Dleme ee. os quene aoee ee ene ee inc ce mam wba aa aioe
. Jers Ate hoo BRB ASS tric SUD CBC SO pogo Boeoseren acc elise ks a
. Amulet of greenish stone .....-.------.--------------- +--+. ------
. Mammiform stone, with human face ......-.-.-.------------.-----
. Mammiform stone, with the head of a sea-bird .....----.---..-----
. Mammiform stone, upper view, warped ..-------------------------
. Mammiform stone, front view --------------+-----------------++--
. Mammiform stone, upper view -...------------------ --------+-----
. Mammiform stone, quarter view ..---..----.------------------+----
. Mammiform stone, with owl-shaped head -.----..-----------------
2. Highly polished mammiform stone --..------------ ----------+------
. Mammiform stone, with frog-like ornament --.--..------------------
. Mammiform stone, with alligator head -.....----. .---- Mee oer

475

ia]

We
oo oo 02 Oo OF

SS 289059 529 8
w WwW WwW W

wt
ie ie SS)

375

~

ie)

tS Go Ce CO

ie)

“a7 Qa
NNW WIAA nad

2
~
A76 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

THE LATIMER COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES—Continued.
Fig. 45. Head of a mammiform stone, upper view
46. Foot of a mammiform stove, upper view
4/Eronleyot asmammitorm mask sy---esee + soe ee eaee eee eee eee

48. Mask, with projections for attachment -.-...-.-.-.-

49.~E latikite-shaped mask <-ocsc\.cs se -ciee Soman ae cee eee eae ae eee

0s Unfinished: collar.’ ...5. 5-2. os 2s see ee eee eee aee Soe eee eee

51. Right-shouldered massive polis Seon cesar U Sete ee ae ee cele eee

52. Gourd-shaped panel of a massive collar, with its ornament - -- -

53) -Right-shouldered slendericollanzess: saa eee ee eee ee eee

54. Left panel, panel or ornament, panel-border, and boss of a right-
shouldered slender collar -. --

pd. Right-shouldered slender collar... 6... 525-3 see se eer ebep teen ee

56. Left panel of a right-shouldered slender collar, with its ornaments . -

57. Right panel of a left-shouldered slender collar .-........-.-.-----

58; Supposed boss) of a slender collanses-s-- eee eae eee see eenee oes

59. A left-shouldered slender collar, showing the oaks the
boss, and the panel-horders 2222-5 -e eae este ee seo eee

60. Right panel and scrolled border of a left-shouldered slender collar - -

we ee we ew te we tee ee es

PREHISTORIC MOUNDS IN WISCONSIN:
Bigs i Mound on Wisconsimenivern. <..jce~ssseeeeemeseee eee seein

72). Mound near: Millville, IWiste ce ace sents oe ee ee ae ara eee

Diagram 1. Map of chain of mounds in Wisconsin. -- :.

Kicw3.. Mound (ofanimal torman: Wisconsimess22 senses se ema ee eee

IDE CIMA) oob558 225505 32 spins cosa sdosdoes so eacese se ae

ANCIENT IMPLEMENT OF WOOD:
Hic. 1. Sketch of locality where found s2-2-2-scceseceeneee senses see near
2; hnplement}:. 2seseiccwdock eee asco

INDIAN FORTS AND DWELLINGS:
Bigs Li Cinculariworloswa sessment ese coer ata eels a eee
2.wHortined: camproftheswichitast: usa. ceeeeec ones eon aee een
BeICOPM=CACHES 2 a5 caster wis oe Fe See somo oleae arse ne ean eee eee

TINS Eo

Page.
Adams, Mr., assisted in arrangement of specimens..............--2----e-ce-e 66
ACA DLOPOSGG OX PlOTALIONS Of... 2... cc-. a saesicescectedeececndec RL el 26
enh) 0 GAG DUS Ree rn er Beare) foes 27
Agricultural Department, Centennial exhibit of........-......--...----..--. 74
Pirate vit cSu plied TOmreeravor -- 1.526 toa oa} con Sosa eae esi nin eee oe 67
PAEMAHOGESECOL SHOpNeM, IADOIS OL... 22... c.0n0 oscece sacnipoccccioseucaulpeds 17
American Net and Twine Company, contributions by...--.......-....-..-.-- 65
> _ thanks, 60:23 5s ere Sg Ce See 41
MPMBLICAnES OMe ale: DT has WOrk ON: . 2222: -- scene ee bsrige dee ensiees soG-o8 45
Anchor steamship line, thanks (aR SE ORR ATRRE NY “OR RR Tid acy AR 27
Anfrye, Captain, collections presented by-.--.-..----..----...---.- sprip sa hy aa hs ied 132
Animal heat, researches respecting......-....--.-.------ PETE OEE <7 24
Animal resources displayed at Centennial Exhibition...-....--....---.-.----- 10
Animal resources of the United States, classification of, publication of. ...--.. 19, 21
PAE SOE GALL OMR OM = aon oe as Seip nee ce oe we SINE mee Oe ieee we 19
Antiquities in Guatemala, by Hon. George Williamson..--........----.----- 418
Antiquities of Tennessee, publication of.......--..----. ea oe cetnemieaet 17
Pee PRN AOU se = osc oo 23 doce es ween case sens wai s eo ge Sane semielee 19
Appropriations by Congress for National Museum..... ..---.---. ----..---- ee dy LD
form @entenntall: displaye- 2-22 sates es aoa 9, 42
armen OmyeOUN GAY -IUNSSAG...~ = 2 o6 ooo = sa ne oreo saons 4 sane ees aeeme 138
Archzological exploration from Hamilton fund -...--...---.---------.------ 15
Architect of Treasury, Centennial exhibit of....--. re Jat Baltes Mepald leet 73
Argentine Republic, collections presented by .-....-...-.---..-+---+ .------- 131
Armory building, a depository of its collections...........--..---.--------- 68, 69
MIBGMMAC OLE. = os oe a was ee cae oleae = ele ecto ae aera a aera 46
Jv, SUNS, Olea te CRs EEE eee Sea eSe SIS ao Bee ncae Osan seo mrerrer 8
Asteroids between Mars and Jupiter, by Daniel Kirkwood-...-..--.---..----- 308
Astronomical discoveries, telegraphic announcement of....-.-----.---------- 25
Austria, collections presented by..-.-.----. .----------- ---+ --06 -2-- --20 <0 131
rare So. b., Assishant Secretary . 2. -52'-- =! -2)--22-5)oa5 are ens o-nels nee 6
Curator on Natlonal Museumise. so. ce aoa 2. se teens eaten 6
laibors.ol ai © enbenmial tees camel sen stele etate Sate aa eteat atet 9, 67
report of, on National Museum ....-.-...--.---.----------- re ASS
report on the Centennial Exhibition......--....---.------ 64
United States Commissioner Fish and Fisheries-.-.----..---. 37
Baker, Capt. J. G., donation from.....--.--.. +--+ s------- -222 e222 cane eee ne = 40
Baltimore and Potomac Railroad, thanks to.-..-....---..-----.------------- 43
Bancroft, Hon. George, member of executive committee ..---.---.------------ 5
Regent of the Institution......--...--.---.--------- A 5
report of executive committee ....-...---.------------ 122
ACS OLAS (ROC CNUs noes oe ae eee aime 123, 124, 129, 131

report of special committee on Centennial donations
to National Museum and memorial to Congress. .-... 129
Banta, Mr., supplied refrigerator ....--.-----------+----+--++++++e22eee- ee 67
478 INDEX.

Page
Barcena, Dr. Mariano, collections presented by.----- en Luet GPA OR Oe San 133
Barry, Sir Redmond, collections presented by- 22. == 222222) 2225-2. 2222s see 136
ipartels, Mr. collections presented by 22-24 oo sae ce oe ee eee eee 133
Batrachia and Reptilia, North American, check-list of..............-.------- 19
Baumbauer, Prot. von, acent of exchantess 2. sess ee eee eee eee eee eee 27
Baumhater, Dr. E. H. von, collections presented by .--222220....-22--. -.--- 133
Beadle, Dr. E7R.; supervised loan collection 222 22 a.4- 2 ate eee ee 65
Bean, T. H., assisted in animal and fisheries department at the Centennial ... ~ 42
Bechler, Gustavussexplorations Dy <2. 2-- 22s soo eee ee ee eee eee 55
Beleium, colluctions, presented? bys. S2ce secon soe ee es eee = eee ee 131
Berendt, Dr. C. H., collection of historical documents in Guatemala... ------ 421
Beroland Whicutenant report Ole se a, a en ee ee eae ree eee 48, 50
Bermuda, collections presented) by ose. ee coe oe aoe ee ee tee eee eee ees see 136
fishes of, catalocue af, publication of 2-22 ss24s5-4 es ese eeaeee ee ee LOT
BITS, INVESMMANONS Miss -- a eqe alee eee sne ea ns sees saat tee ee 44
ibirnie, Lieutenant, explorations by-ee--s2- sleet ee VEE Vee aN ee 49
Blacktord) iG supplied specimens t- ss aeeec eels eee a a etree 66
thanks to, for services during the Centennial SEES Se a at 40
Blake, Prof. William P., services at Centennial ..........-.-..-2:.-.-2--21--- 42, 64
arrangement of specimens 2/0225 Sao, Dee ste ae 66
collections made by: 22-4 Ss S2 a eseeee seas aoe eee 41
Bland; ‘Thomas, thanks tossi2o2 2 3232 Sens Ss a ee a eee 28
Blondel, S., relative to the mineral called yu by the Chinese. -...-.-..-.....- 402
Blyden, ProtsHdwabs letter from sos 7225 aoe pate ees eee ee ee eee 26
Board of Recents, journalof. 2222 2522.-- > saeco ae es cee eee ee se eee 12
Bossange, |G. agent of exchangves'<2222 --</.-2 ie see sobs aaa eee e See 27
Botany, Publ cablOM OU ise sacs agement eae ae cet a ene ys tele Bete 19
Bowers, Rev. Stephen; collections bytes. ose et oe ae ee w ee eee ee aee aeseee 39, 65
Brackett, Col. A. G., account of the Sioux or Dakota Indians --.....--....--. 466
Bradford & Anthony, contributions by.-c.2.c meine -elaaoeteee ee ee see 65
thanks tos2220 Soa Be Sees So Se eee see ene 41
BransfoRds DLA.) B).5 COLECHHONS DYcsacan. - 2 ete ates se Saas eee eee 40
Brazil, ‘collections presented hy. 2-2-0... 22 aceite ea eee ee eee toes 132
Brodhead? | collectionsimade byl. co saeerceciae eee ee ee ee ne

Brodhead, Professor, setyicesvotr-s-4-=-—- 2 s-eoe= eeee SRE ASRS SRR 64
Brown.) S.iG,, clerk imrcharcevoftreleh be te jeanne ete eee eee 6
Brugseh, E., collections presented by- 7222-22 ses 24 oo poe eee eee 132
Building for National Museum, resolution of Regents .-..---..-..------ a teee 124
Bulletinsrof National Museum)... 2. 5- son se sersin= = oe 2 Aeon eee Reenter 19
Bureau of Construction and Repair, Centennial exhibit of......-....----.---- 72
Bureau of Steam Engineering, Centennial exhibit of ...-...-.........------- 72
Bureau of Yards and Docks, Centennial exhibit of... ......-..-:-....-..-.-.. “ue
Canada; collections presented bye---eeasteceersaciieee oe eee eee ae eee 156
geological survey, agent of exchanges .---..--.----.--2------------- 28
Census Bureau, Centennial exhibit of-.........--22. 2-2. 5-2: A eS Ai aes wesc 73
Centennialawardst- 2+ .sasa0 nso. eosin nearer hl | ep SP eR see eee 81, 82, 83
[YORU DTG ese RB Se SRR So coeo Sasa cisohoseSagor ssoLtn cgodsdb coos 66, 80
donations to National Museum, resolutions of Regents relative to.. 124
Centennial Exhibition’ =: 222525 .cs22 cas =o eee er eee ene Ree eee =e eee 9
additions to Museum resulting from...--...---....--- 11
animal resources illustrated at -....2.22-. 2.12.2 .s22-. 10
appropriation of Congressifor.: .cL veces te Sess - 9,42

Baird, Professor, relationtto-..is2.. uGaesee cesce ses 9 -
TOpPOrbiones is Jesse satiee To 3he 22s 64

SPV Bo ee aoc dc eooe ecuoon ce ube Pees Soot 67

INDEX 479

Centennial Exhibition, collection of articles for........-.. 2.222.222.2202 .-e0- ae
completeness on opening day..........-..2---. w--c0e 71
RP Bir oc 5 sel seks eet he) So a 9
ethnological -braneh Of 2-=25:, 2 .~ <oeBks ce snxe anes 10
fish commission display ats. .....2...----.---seasenee 10,11
Indian Bureau combined with Institutier in ethnologi-
CAS ISD IB yous cs oe eae CS phe Se 10
mineral wealth displayed at....-....-.....-000ee-cee 9
of Government, account of ces. ee dae cokes «eles oe en 70
preparations fOr. ees so os eee. eee AZ ee 71
shipment.of specimens to «2225 ...0. 5. ~-me.seecs. bo coun 66
REMMaN VOL cate tsS 5.32 eet eee. GR Ee oe 71
work done by National Museum at ..........-...---- 42
Suemreamianoratory, work: done In. 2. 25. . 2/25 352c oe kan cocce co eces sccces 37
Chester, H. C., assisted in animal and fisheries department at the Centennial.. 42
igecoblecnons presemted Dy =... 602. 'sce5 Sek Skee a ceke cncgdeecch ox 132
University of Santiago, agent of exchanges -.----.-......-..---- .-0<-- 28
SP AMCOMPCHIONS Presen Lely DY 22's J <m< wo 2) ies oS eine cicnh «nwonsececatinc ace 132
Phieniapminor Study Of ..i. 2522 2/22 oclaceciciesslee Oe oranda See oy 19, 20
SrMnveneen-Georre: 5. explorations, Dy <= 2-22) 22s,0--as-seean~ beeses <--> cece 54
Christophersen, William C., collections presented by........-...---.----.--- 133
CURIE COs tURARKAHDO = 5. ~ snc sie setae cow sisccnladeicmesce sdmese cee 28
LIDS Ne yids CRS gaa he SS on eS ee ne aay fe Se ae a 19
SAGO enO ob. \WreskWOLK: OF) on is'ene nen cannes dclne sii SA aiSeags rego Sate ie me 13
Clymer, Hon. Hiester, Regent of the Institution ...-....-.-..-----.--------- 5
DEUSIOL, AS REC ONb = 2/2556 S23 S52 sacar ana ass 123; 124, 129; Isl
report of committee on Museum..........-.-.---.---- 128
Measisurvey.. centennial-exhibit, of. <...24- 022 \-s<se8 2. enisiseeneaeaesecesscce 73
Crip ltote )ames-b., Labors Of7. : i.e thse seach sts anl- bene meciec/e~ seis a ile
Spies oionsenminoen labors: Of .. o0. <6 obs cee ces sbelsmmene po ccecisebd -nple 17
Congress, appropriation of, for Centennial display ........-..----.-.-------- 9, 42
appropriation of, for fish'Gommission .5- 2522-32-56 l<cs.geasysce<s= 37
appropriation of, for National Museum -.-.-...-.....------------- 13, 120
memorial to, relative to new building for National Museum.-.-.-. ---- 129
Briain owAcw RANG DOTY Ol co c0o om aia oeien sexenicis nos Sestesepee sess ssosieene oes 49, 50
Reasiininom Natoce, publication. Of. .-)..-.25 Saeete seccanG ons Soetsesce=
Contributions to Knowledge, Smithsonian ....-......;---.------.----+ ------ 8, 15, 17
CM tan, LIN ne sD) Stone ci) Pi ae ae ea es aoe we cane eee 19,4
Coppee, Prof. Henry, Regent of the Institution.......--.-----..--...--------- 5
ACIS Ob ARMRe PON bein one ale a bise pe neeitee sae a2)= oem ale 123
Corcoran We Ws, acknowledoment, t05-j= 19 9-52 com sce a5 2se/-s9-2= nnn msn as 15
Pee ROL ey We, Lis. Ac. COLeCHIONG,WY 22-4 <5< oa9-s0-=caeee a <5 ena 40
Correspondence of Institution, nature of -..---...---- Sele ia se ee 26
Corresponding institutions, foreign. ..-... ...--..----.------------ sade a 28
Mame be toh, U..5. A... explorations:DY ..<+.<5-cennansen, ¥=pir ye are -ipsanee 56
WOTKS) Ofte settee seit ale este = leon oe een 19
INVestiCAhlON Of2.-< ose. son sa- mae =e enews ---= 44
on birds of valley of the Colorado......---..----- 63
Srittonden & Co., thanks to 2 ...2-. - 2. osc0e0 anos -e enn oo sns0 aammes anew-s-= 41
Crustaceans, publication on .... ..---- -----+ ----2+ vee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee es 19,20
Cunard Steamship Company, thanks to. .-...----. ---- -----+ «+--+ ---++----+ 27
Cushing, rank H., assisted in arrangement of collections. ...--------------- 42, 65, 66
Cuthbert, L. M., assisted in explorations ....--...---------------------+++--- a7
Dall, Prof. W. H., in charge of conchological division -....---.--------+----- 6
SOE OES sp oko oon doce Den ous ay eee eee ak eed eek ose mee
480 INDEX.

: Page.

Dana, Prof. J..D., Regent of the Institution cece... 2.16. ctlneweerenetas ace eee 7 5

acts.o1,,.08 Repent... Ge ctceee dep cea eae beanies tele ae aoe 123

Dannfelt, C. Jublin, collections presented by ...-.. .----. .---0+ -2- cee eee wees 134

D’Aristarchi Bey, G.. collections presented by.-=-----....--5-. <----. ----+--- 135

Da Silva Coutinho, Dr. J. M., collections presented by ....-...---...-------. 132

Daasi,, Joseph; collectionsspresented\ byocs-a-hereee ented peeeee cone ceceeeee 133

Dayvenport,s:, collections; presented Dye s-s.s cers sbiseee as taeeee eee eee eee 136

De Bielsky, General Charles, collections presented by -.---..-.-.---.---.---- 134

De Ja Cova, Leon,.collections presented. bua .ca--bueieee ce eeeisces aeac -vacce- 137

Denmark, Royal Society, agent of exchanges.......--.-...-.2..------------ 27

Department of Interior, Centennial exhibit of... 2,-2.2... ccc..00.---------. 13,74

Deposit of Institution with Library of Congress .--...-...----.--.--------- 8

CoreoranyArTtiGallery 2 2. ctweeesee csc alana 9, 37

Departmentiot A criculture spe sieene eee ean ee 9) 3%

Army: Medicale Museums 4-5 beepee eer eee 9, 37

Diebitsch, Hermann, clerk in charge of exchanges.....----- --2- ws<- -cer ence 6

Dom-Pedro Al, biographical sketchlotee eee ts ee eee ee eee eee 173

Donaldson, Thomas, assisting at the Centennial in mineral department .-.---. 42

assisted in arrangement oOf'specimensss.se sess ee eae 66

Centennialicollechion\byeee- esses ee eee eae eee eee

Donntions,-Centennial, value Ot. s26).. 26 setsseste ise Gee ee eeiee eee ene eerie 79
duplipates=: 252222 .5 2 sear cee ee ee ee 7

fubure, IMmerease Of. 2c: fe ne eres eee eaenicee 80

displayxof, room required for. = — cess. <n see eee ee eee 69

to: National-Museum 22.2 2 s2iesens mciccsdacce oe tee eosin ae eee 7

to the United States|\Government,.--/9.422 222+ sec eeee lens eoee eee | Cool

Dorsey, Rev. J. Owen, preparation of Indian vocabulary ..-.-.------.-----.-- 30

DiOultréemont, Count, collections presented by... - --- 222 2feeyaelosio5 eaten ae ee 131

Doyle, Dr. W. E., account of Indian forts and (lwellings...........---.-.--.- 460

Draper, Mr. Jassisted:iniarrancineispecimendes io. -- = =e eae ele eee ee 66

Dutton, Capt. Clarence: E.; exploration! byi-2 22 22 2 aiaclnn eae ele oe oe OSL
Earthwork, double-walled, in Ashtabula County, Ohio, Stephen D. Peet, rela-

LORY GRR OS eigen hee eho AO OIE EOAG Coa Aone tead pedo on cosas daanos 443
Hehinoderms; publicationvonsAec se. -e se sae -\a cece Oe teeta eto ee Oe)
Bdywards) NAN contributions by c-2 2 ceeens ees cm aa lone eae ea eee 40
Bducation, Bureau of, (Centennial exhibit Of. 222. 22s eeee ss senna 73
Hells; Rey:M.,on the Twana Indians... -sse\eos) ea seein a2 steele ee 35
Beypt,Couecvions: presented Dice -ee emcee eee eee eae aie eerie ee 132
Ellsworth, E. W., account of ancient implement of wood ....--..-..-..------ 445
Endlich, Dr. yo: explorations by: shes <= pareteere 2 = ee ete tee ine sesier= ayer 54

in charge of mineralogical division.. ~~~ SON ea eae mn el 6
WOOD OL inte roio win fomin.parercis s Ha ee estes kiss Se eens eee ete 19
Hnemeer Bureau; Centennial exhibit Of. 2... eee. - aslo teaeeene eee eee 72
Equipment, Bureau of, U. S. N., Centennial exhibit of.........---...--.-. ee 72
Ethnological branch of Centennial Exhibition.......-........-..----------- 10
display at the Centennial’ Exhibition. <.--. --.. ---2 2-25 --2- +o = 10, 42
instructions, by Georce Gibbs- pas eeee a. soe eae eens 35
Bthnology-- =~ -< 2. eingiee «oo -to oie =» = eels inlet ls = Rete is mee miei 32, 372
articles transferred to Dr. Hayden for publication. ...--..----.-.--- 35
collection in National. Mnseumi cos <-.-dabe s+ - 0 eae see eee 33
Dorsey, Rev. J. Owen, preparation of Indian vocabularies... ..---. 35

Dr: Charles Rau; workson!'s542ceh eee ayy oo eaeenele sees see ae 3
labors:of Institution’ 2.5 sie sancye cD cee ee osc estes Bea Sek ane 32
investigations Ini J5.5c)6 eens Onis alles ean eisai emis tela aeae 32

Powell; Major di. Wi.,<cOMeCtiONS Dy eae este sieeme isis sele aeelam tee ee 33
INDEX, ‘ 481

Ethnology, Schumacher, Paul, collections by...... .... sccees ceccce cane cecnce Be

Enidran vocabularies 65.2.0 Jo lloc cocdccce ce weeks Was couie co moces 35

Trumbull, Prof. J. H. eet Sieh OLS scatcocae 35

Powell, mrad J. W., arrangement of .......... 35

of Ponkalindianss.ca*see soc. Lteee ec cceae 35

Ethnography, American Indian, department of, formation of ........-...-.-- 8

RE MEMBES Citiette vial onion Sioem nce Cn eoa cote sce alancs weee Reo bene ue case ccee 119

Se ME MET NEE VOUCHONS 2's 3's Ula wfc waa! deals Uwc'slenie be semaiceceeceuce 121

fzehanpees, centers of distribution.......... J... .-.0 scdsdo- na cccccaccece 27

Marke tonto ai acl oasis be bot. sams tone wn PEER ae coee eee 27

JOS US 5 2 20) eh a ieee Ber Reena POE eee 27

REPRE Ee res SSO Binsa ee nods iad acelucbc sks sees Cade eee 26

MUBMEAINMATIO ES CTONGING 5.0%) s:sncu we aw ese. entinen biices aoe utes aes 107

PEPE DML EA ie a! are oo an om wees ain ws oR oR eRe es 4 ee ee ee 28

MrecreVecHinent COCUMCNUS: - - 2c 22 i cienan caro eeeeseweee une ces 29

Executive committee of the Board of Regents.... .....---22 .22--0 eeeces nee 5

BPLOIQE. Stas Sts = ode i aumse ance eurE ed mae deaeee 116

ordered by Regents to procure portrait of Prof. Henry.. 131

FOPORUROI PAC OPtOd a -52 cece ne aoe eee eeeioee waedidalrae 123

H=-omeloomembers of the Institution .... 2.2... 52.00 cecacs caccne veccee ccee 5

PE PeHETLEVOR OL PPMCSENSITGMDION . 5. sou sie cscess wccsec cece cece edee vesens 14, 117, 118

SIMMER RMEVEN Aer. = 22 0c 25 cain aos ccc ces tena ecucelvacwine vemewe Se 47

Exploration archeological, from Hamilton fund........ 2... .....------- eee. is

Ree ARPEONOSOG = -(n/-)-'. 6 Sek ose noe ceeet Won accen ee dee eae 26

Fabra, Col. F. Lopez, collections presented by .........--2.- -cese -cee eens ee 134

Ferry, Hon. T. W., ex-officio member of the Institution................-..--- 5

Poeeie Of» the TNShitaUtion v.ccse\oe os Pocejecccee sone amainas 5

Scisor as Regen t:..<<sac.6 ces stoeetiececine ae <-'tels Sue cies’ "124, 129, 131

Fialho, Anpriso, biographical sketch of Dom Pedro II.....-....--..----..--- 173

Pinances ot omithsonian Institution ....... 02... ..:scececasececces tees 14, 116, 117, 118

tSteN TUOnS Ub AHMED OSIb ss ..05 6 -ce0 coos ecee cccsee Sees seelsioacetie cece ence 118

Fish commission, appropriation for, by Congress...-....--...----..---+-e-- 37

Conccnmialexhibit Ol=sccacccscsesenscansse sees eect eee 10, 11, 75, 76

E TTR: TLS Sa a aR Ra ofo pw shoes vhs See paren et 37

Fishes of Bermuda, catalogue of, publication of......-..-..-.-.-----s-----++ 19, 21

specimens of, donated by Thomas J. Moore......---...--..--.-------- 40

Ree ar GOUEGLIONS DY 2.5.6 << 2 2 -- 201 6b Sees senna ease serene oneewens 40

Flint implements, deposits of, J. F. Snyder, relative to..-..-...------------- 433

Fliigel, Dr. Felix, agent of exchanges....-. 22. 02-22. 2202 cere cone ge cone eens 27
Foreign commissions to Centennial, collections presented by, to National Mu-

RG TINNIS Rete ote fol siete aja uiv'e win sain) serie tolnieis) eSsiateieumnenjate = =m aiais s1s)=iaime 28, 131

Foreman, Dr. Edw., assisting in ethnological department at the Centennial... 42

WOK CONGO -. -scabsercs asses apcctuecs jane ne sean oes amele 45

translation by...--. 2-2. e220 eee nne cone ono = cone cece cnee= 402

in charge of ethnological division.-.-.-.----------------- 6

France, collection presented by .....--.------ ----2+ see eee een ee cee nee tenes 132

Free freight, thanks to companies for..-.-----.---- ---+--+ +--+ +--+ 2-0 ree sees 27

French Transatlantic Company, thanks to.....--.---------- ---++-+++++ ++++-- 27

Gade, Gerhard, collections presented by..---------+ +--+ se--2e +2222 eeeeee ee 133

Gannet, Henry, topographical work by.----..----++---++----2+ sees rere eeee 53

Gay-Lussac, 2ulogy On...--. ---. .e eee veces cane ee cece ee cone cane ceeeneceees 138

Geology, publication on.--. ..-- ---- --- 20+ eeceeee eee cree cece eer teeene ceeecs 19

Germany, collections presented by ...-..--+ .--- +2200 eens ee ee cee nee ter neeee- 138

Gibbs, George, ethnological instructionS...... -----+---+ --0+ e220 seer eer eee ee 35

S 31
482 INDEX.

: Page
Gilbert, G. K., exploration ‘by =... 22. 2om = neeiece on ae ee eee ere ee 58
GillssProf. “Lh; laborsiof -cccese ee oe ARE CU ODOC ODOT ACRSA 7 mse aese pense aoe 19, 44
Goode, Prof. G. B , assistant curator of the National Museum..-.-. aninemn incite 6
catalogue of fishes of Bermuda............--..----...--. 1Ohet

classification of the collection to illustrate the animal re-
sources of the United. States. -2-+).-s-ses2cea- oe ee eee 19, 21
in charge of animal and fisheries department at the Cen-

Ue) VE RS SOO OOD OIGOO EO? OSOaeHOGNe Gag ¢sancdo d= 42, 65, 66 69
Government) 6X Han COS sews cis sm eieleeloeime le ele wel eee etee etait ae eee ere eee 29
Graves, Walter H., topographic work done by «...-. s-coc. +--+ seen sees 58
Gravitation, Kinetic theories of .....-.-- Midicala atelate claret eater ia CR erate 205
Gray, Asa; acts of, as Recents. oa. cc<mcchasee ion iniee im eee eee ara 123, 124 151
Rerent.of the Mnshivution os sce soe ao ete eee ieee 5
report of special committee on National Museum ..............-.. 124
NAO) 8 S08) se GO ORE ORe SOU BOC COI So aebD Faco onde cacaSo cagscccacds aoe 19
Great Britain, collections presented by - .-.. 2... - 2 enn scenes cone concen eecces 135
Griffin, Miss M. E., clerk in charge of distribution of publications....-....... 6
Groundssicaro Of pace ctccceiecie oiseurere sein are so ite ceies eis eee se cesinteteisiaiae lait aietteetare S
Guatemala, antiquities in, by Hon. George Williamson ...-.....---..----..--. 418
collection of historical documents in, by Dr. C. H. Berendt...--.. 421
Guyer, Edward, collections presented by.---.. .----6 «-22-< wcrc tena cone conene 135
Heron, HOA WOR Of. oee.cn ons ancce seo mae neo Seehiae sine & semea dese eae 19,20
Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte’s Island -.-- 2... .-...0---- secccs ene cone 7
Hamburg American Packet Company, thanks to .........----..-----.------- 27
la leyeomilioyey Weve tates ae eee amis Se SSoRoo Sebe HooeoD ceicbon ose sce bosses Sos 6 14, 15, 116, 117
Hamlin, Hon. H., Regent of the Institution...5..0s-..-<<cos scsneeecseeaece=s 5
ROTM, HIS) INGEN DS S35 Gang 0556 sono oddone Cros dsooss pode 123, 124, 131
Hammond, J. L., collections presented by ...--. ..--2. -----0 ees-e0 ee ariboase 132
Hare, Dr. Horace, researches Of .-.< 2.2. cc. wees coe e wace cere p eine oeeas wemmon 24
Mawar, collections presented ys.) sn leeise = cele aaa oer) eee et 133
Hayden, Prof. F. V., explorations by, account of...-.. sis taeat eeeredneess sess 52, 53
ethnological articles transferred to, for publication...... 30
Hays, Det W. 11., collections DY ~~. o2-e----)4- 0 eeeee eee ee eee 39
Heap, G. 1. .collectiens presented Dye ------ = =t-/2 4-29 ee See ee aa 135
Heat; researches... 2... .. es «= - 224 os ssceesceemeane=siel eee eee eee ee 24
Hector, James, collections presented by .----. 220.8 2. ooo cee cee oon 136
Henry, Prof. Joseph, Director of the Institution. .... ~.-. ~-.. .-2. ..eee2 wee nes 5, 6
letter to Congress transmitting report -...-.-..----.---- 3
duties of, as member of Light-House Board. ......-..-.. 37

portrait of, ordered Dy dxepentse n= SoSeeesem cece lesen 138
remarks to Regents relative to Naticnal Museum.....-... 123
report of, to Board of Regents - ...--....-<.------------ 7
Jessen, Wi AS Uren VERE Oi een COS Goes HEOood OCOSBA BRNS Boones SsbEES SSoce 4 173, 283
Henshaw, oils aWi, COUSCIIONG DY ~mc mechan acini seiieteee tee ole = tae eee ate eee 49, 50, 51
Hering; sDr:, collections roms sees ceo) eee ete etetalete oe a eels ere ete teeter 40
Herpich, Charles, & Coa.,.contribmtions by << -<4 sone <> ales eee ere) see 65, 82
Herron; OSe phi, J AULLOL eras eladelsjalseeteceretersioiat= sais siete sa fae ieee tates 6
Hill, Hon. Benjamin H., Regent of the Institution ..-:....-....-.--.-------- 5
acts of, as Rement. . --. temas «ce see a beeen 124, 181
Hitchcock, Professor, Services OL < <4 .a-ase=-eietea e--eee eee ee eee 64
Hitchcock, HR... collections presented, by -2-.-<)¢seec- 6+ + --s)- === eee eee elt 135
Hoepli; U., agentiof exchanges .2 0. once ce waeinee clince wate =eiae eee ate 7
Holmes, W.. H:, triangulations by, 2... -s-96 o-ssseiee+ (= sseiseeeleeee ieee oleae 53

Hooker, Dr. J...D.,. work Of 2 c)..2)s2s0 scncl sa haas's spelen dates Ro ea eee eee eee 20

INDEX. A83

Page.

AE le SL eS A a ASG EE Beas ee Ik 67
Maeunaly, premsvorie Antiquities of... fell etc cobs cee lke ee ceee cde cenee 394
Implement of wood, ancient account of, by E. W. Ellsworth. ...........----. 445
Indian Bureau, Centennial exhibit of. .....-- een aaa i i - papa ere ERE ek A 74
combined with Institution in ethnological display -.......... 10

ethnography, American, department of, formation of..........--...-- 8
forand dwellings, by Dr. W. E. Doyles: ..<.. cok... wccccc scenes cece 460
PemUaIeee i tte leas calc c\Jas sis wae se See Stade ss eee ae eee oeee 35
fnaiinsyavcount oF Wiowx Or Dakota .. 222. 2.05 ccs. ces foe ces cece tncced aces 466
Inman Steamship Company, thanks-to - 2... 2... co... woo cone cece ccne cena cece 27
SRE URT MITER MIIMEPEEIY eel coon 2cl-s.c 2 ajdnoocs ods Coes eeoelce caltmuan Seu eccees 19, 20
Institutions, foreign corresponding.........-... @ EUR OR ER Ten cerca oe eee 28
Rn nEa Meee OCHA S OS = 1in sa \a%s See Seale aS SS ee Se Renee oa eee eee eee 29, 107
MMM mG MOC WOU PLOSONLOG DY: o2ss-crcsess Sos ous eke eees eccke coneneeecue 133
Jackson il. photesraphic-work done by «2 Jos cc ticc ck cccccs cece hice ecccce * = BT
Jade. A study of the mineral called yu by the Chinese, by S. Blondel e seen 402
Papa, colechtons, presented: by =-:2 == [2.0 .oloee ee cee becca obbene secant cece 133
FADES PI OSSD Up WOLks Ole. sans oo) vera satich Since eaccliew cuidees aedeleecser © 17
ToALaawoimunorboard-orehegents': oo s.5. 2S aio. Seteidc ce ce ee te cece cece 123
Ane OER AESISLOM IN OX PlOLAblON:< = -\5 25 lacs won cceleciwe meee coceeiacccieccses 57
Foren roland sDOLRMY? Ol esi) cbc eben Jodo ee ee eocces Sestee seems cece esses 20
MATILDA HISTORY Ole aisha eiela cera aeeeinee cre ucletnee erecta 19

Kershner, Surgeon, U.S. N., work of.........--.... NA a OT aN A Yr oe 20
MOLD rend steel eno .Nes tw OLKS' OL. os Socio hse udec ccloenctete eoecineee ees 19, 20
HIE CMU COLIOM OM SPAVIURUION = sco <1 Josie eipe vie ele was cictweltoweencae cesmicseee 205
Kaneston Mr sacknowledament due toc...) 5-- 2 os ealee cn cone ers coco cneme 44
Kirkwood, Daniel, on the asteroids between Mars and Jupiter........-.--.-- 358
Kioekkenmocddinos,researches in .:--22 .c222222.2 tise coos cee sae cectecsee 35
Mose, Or. supervision of loan collection:=-2-= 2... s25--ccc ccs soccer escwe 65
Pe NEMvE etree oS sf 2 ns Sasso caekccdeccctcancoce se cocesemeccclesecne 37
and Ones. Wenboanial exhibit Of-5. 22. ssccsecc ncn.) nas> oc ccee nen ccs onecne ee 74
Latimer collection, description of, by Otis T. Mason..-..........-----+------ ve
Lawrence, George N., investigations Of... ..-... .--2-0 -- 2-0. eee enna ne ene ene 44
WONG Os eer cea Sand ae see acne Riccice see ccmnlas haces eer 19, 20

ied amelmormesponding clerk: 2-2: 25: 2.-.---- 6.00 case ces e ease sccelecees 6
Services ati the) Cenbenniall: ssscc ce ssiosce ole nteelcuicie aan co cteninl= €9

Lewis, Dr. James, investigations of: ... ....---- 2-2 2220 cone ene e none enon ee ee 45
Library of Institution, donations to..-.....-... 222-22 .-- 22. ee eee eee eee ween 30
deposited with Congress ....--.-------------.---+---- 8

TH ANNOT Of OLMIN gee e sae ats a eal cee ole ea ellen ima 8

Pig eomse BOAre 2-62.22 3) Sos. ee een eae baer neon coon e nce nese cane 37
Contennialexaibitvofeeso eee ce ae tastes atiae sateloaaelene ie tk

a aTIRISENL CU LENT Ie tee eee a, owicceer a ae CSch dare ce telcis seiseisic cise aelehs 65, 66
Lockwood, Lieut. George M., duties of...-.. 2S UE ASE ee OSS) Se: 50
Loew, Dr. Oscar, in charge of .chemicai laboratory ....-------------+-------- 37
TOPOL Ole ce = -c 2 ocd scence ome cenls once cweeinn a becunsisanni= 49

Lyman, B. S., collection by .---..-.---- -------- coer oe = cece ee eee eee ene eee ee 40
Mackay, Angus, collections presented by .....--- .--.------+- +--+ +--+ e+++--++ 136
Maclean, Hon. John, member of executive committee.....--------+------+--- 5
Regent of the Institution........---.---+---+---+----- 5

Macomb, Eicutenaut, explorations by =... <-------2<-cscee nce e seonamcteneess 49
iidheiro, Lourengo, collection presented by ...--- ---------+ ---+----+++2---- 34
Mammals, publication on .......-...-------- Res See hae cares 19

Map of the United States constructed by W. ti ‘Michaladn Bee ce Ha Stee 21, 22
484 INDEX.

Page

Marcou, Prof. Jules, report: Of . .. = — - st 25% cssiseete eae Soe ee ee ee eee 49

Marshall, Lieutenant, meteorological methods, &c ............---------.---- 49

Mason, ‘Prof. 0.2, labors 06.2001. sos eens eens Mees aoe es Saee eee ee eee 44

description of the Latimer collection of antiquities-...-... 372

Maury, Mr., collections;madeiby. cence: cemecoe eee +e ee eee ere caaeeee 41

McCrary, Hon. George W., Regent of the Institution .............----..-.--- 5

acts of, a5 Regent é ce soe esol. eee 123, 129, 131

Medical Department, Centennial exhibit of ...-..-.---. -22. ss2 22. eee noe one e- 72

Medicine and Surgery, U. 8. N., Bureau of, Centennial exhibit of ........---- 72

Meigs, General M. C., furnished plan for a new Museum building ...-..-...--- 13, 47

Memorial to Congress respecting donations from Centennial .............--.- 129

Meteorology, researches in .......----..---- eiSiarsiowctis dimly MDE tos Hise amano 24

Mexico, collections presented. DY <2. sac n)ee ocean owen Sele cee eee ee eee 133

Geographical Society agent of exchanges.....-..-- Be Ge eee ce 28

; southwestern, birds of, publication of ------).2 5-22 0--2- -o eee ese eee 19, 20

Mica mines, ancient, in North Carolina, by C. D. Smith.:....-......--...-.-- 441

Migerka, Dr. Francis, collections presented by .----..----------------------- 131

Miller, ‘Dr. contributions Dy) o- = <ccecic,- on eicisicicre coin cic eicitelae eon See ee eet eiaens 65

Mineral wealth displayed at Centennial Exhibition.......-....---.---------- 9

Mintzer, William A., contributions to Museum .--..-..---..-...--------------- 39, 40

Miscellaneous collections: Smithsonian. 22 Jos... 22s. coe ce eeeeieeee ease bees tee 8,15

Mollusks, publicationvon): oo c<cecsiecncecticenceiseereoetncee eeeeeeecenaeaeer 19, 20

Montana, collection front .ooe oe com eemeas en ontan cme alana iu meister seeiaeiceieaes 65

Moore, Thomas) J., fish presented: Dy: =< <2 -\- a= -s-elsertele nics eee eenleeseeeeienete 40

Morris, Augustus, collections presented by ...... ..--.. -.-20c eeen ence saeaae ee 36

Morrison, Lieutenant, explorations! by 22 <2 2 .\0)-- sosees seus -oeeiece se oeen ame 50
Mounds, prehistoric, in Grant County, Wisconsin, observations on, by Moses

SLOT Se Re oe Pe Pee aa eee ee eeeoot cps ee beet ekecaS canto sds 8 424

Miller, Frederick, arent of exchanges -- << -sic-censoe rea see sels eiiweeeeeeisnce 27

Musenum= National So ocioncesclecdeis scene saneease eee eh eee eee eee ge-- 38

additions to......... whe ciaajerd aos cele male neenarsces Seer 39, 42, 84

resulting from Centennial Exhibition........- il

appropriations by Congress for..<.--- -3-- dean -ce--cence--- 1o,220

bulleting Of: asco wees ean wecd scene mals ee eae ae wie cemetere 19, 65

Centennial exhibit of 225.0) eesetiat 26 eee eee eee 75

distribution of duplicate specimens..-.-....--..--...--.--- 45,106

enlargementiol, 2... <<\.sicese0c ontecsieteleawseneeee eters 8, 69

ethnolopical collection ines s-—4- - ee eee eee eee tees ee 33

finances. of ja 0c eh asic ceatee eam Gace eee eee eee 120

histeryiof...2 - 0% cissjoascleserieoeies ss see soca e eoeemoeeees 38

modifications desirable of connection between Smithsonian
Institution and «.:.35-.c5ssesteelowes Jase aeetson ae eee LL oo wes:

new building of, resolutions of Regents respecting.--.-...- 13

required forz-2acpece.c vce eaeeee teasers 11, 47

for, plans, proposed). .-5 2 -csoeeeseaee see eee 13, 47

action of Congress respecting ..--..----..--- 13
Object! Of 6.22. sScaiec ec cele saceiee tes eee See ee Gee ees 12
Officers| Of .< -.< 5s) tsasieinncs nneeee eet cee sates knee eee 6
present.conditionjof =... 32--5,-c oer e. S. oeee ee eee eee - 45
Professor Baird’s; reportjon 2s eases) sae eee ee eee eres 38
report of special committee on)... --. 62-2525 cece eece- 128
resolution of Regents relative to.-.. .... 220.2. 2. enn -- 123
scientific investigation of collections...........-......---- 44

work done in, and at Philadelphia...................-..-- 42

INDEX. 485

Navy Department, Centennial exhibit of .... -... 022. 0.0. cece cece sens ene 73

Ordnance Bureau, Centennial exhibit of.....-.... 2... <2... 22 cece cecece 72
Netherlands, collections presented by .......... 33
Neptune, researches respecting................ USe eee oe eeraeerere
PMR RCO MENTOR eT ONT Se) airs coytieron.- 6 in ah= Siem ce/oan Ret sce hice ane ee

- = - 65
See rel On, TESGALCHES OF = <2. - sae le esas dics weed ceus caccuclce< 17, 23
New South Wales, collections presented by ...-.. 2.2. 0.2. ..---0 veccee cceeee- 136
New York and Brazil Steamship Company, thanks to.................-..---- 27
and Mexico Steamship Company, thanks to -.................-... 27
New Zealand, collections presented by..............-...-- : ‘ 136
Nichols, J. H., donation by - So Boe ses «chee 41
Nicholson, W. L., map of the fieaied States cae ne Be os cate oerbe icc we 21, 22
iaeria, Thaddeus donation by ....-...-- Be are ea a osc ASaae 41
North Baltic Lloyd Steamship Company, iene ia Salsieiwla bin ceeeick oto e eeinerae 27
Noni Garona. ancient Mica-MiINGS in ~..sg...-.5c cee ce acess cece ce cece ve 441
Nortau German Lloyd Steamship Company, thanks to..........-...........-. 27
Norway, Royal University of, agent of exchanges....-...........--...---20- 27
PC OHOCHORAIDLESAH UCM | DY. ~ i <= (ees eos ewe eens costes pans ccaces clseccse 133
Mista ene ne ALTON MGM SOUM «(55.50% - cine os wes a Ss os cote se oc ce occece ec cdeeiec 6
eee ie Sm GhsOnian Mnstifotion -... 2-2. 2.02 concen cscceececenstenece- 6
Ohio, Ashtabula County, double-walled earthwork in, account of ........--.. 443
Oldendorff, Dr. Ernesto, collections presented by.......-.. .--202 e220 weno cone 131
Odlogy, publication on...-.....-. ale acim a aieietnne aloe e ee winac ates Sactiooe orien oe 19
Orange Free State, collections presented by ...-...----..--..--.------------ 134
Grinance Boreau, Centennial exhibit of .... ...--2.-s--e.coccs eccecsceecenes 72
ree ey SD TC HONGO Maas oc) --0feace-c~sssieneis oh Sucaictsae sacses ceseas.ce 19
aE EOE WOT OF. 6 a5 =) 2c 5 os ccec ence boc nes ccncws aneceeacenns es 19, 20
Ontereudxc- A.A“ collections presented. by -.-- --5--- 2-2 --6< scecesecce ns 136
Pacific Mail Steamship Company, thanks to...-..--.....-.. 2-2. eee een eens Pf
Pacific Steam Navigation Company, thanks to..-.....-..---..--....-.------ 27
EPI OSDO HS PARIGOLMISL) <o\.0- 0.21 -0/nnnis ce ee csce Soccae ccee ceweshcscneeces 6
Panam ana POs CoOMmpany PAN KS GOs. = <<< 0,cc\05 ses na oc peee enon cree cecis.ce 27
Parker, Hon. Peter, Regent of the Institution... .........--..---------0.2.00- 5
member of executive committee. ........-....-..-.--- 5
Crean OP ON be cwe-itoe St soe sooo n oon 123, 124, 129, 131
TeportoL executive committee... 2. 522. acdsee com coon 122
Pe memieonice WC onennial Exhibit, OL .. 2 15./--eiso ce eos. cece bona Ses eise cscs sce vie:
Layee Ou ietHoOwaArg. \OnALION) DY a=) 00 cincece sce tec estes -eeeiceacine se 36
Peee ir, 8G. explorations by....--.-..,---02- -<+-se-0-- - aaa 53
Peet, Stephen D., account of aad: walled earthwork in Dichtainda County,

Snel een alana se occa eietn So calcie/eblcie'secalec Wea sejeeeules = 443
Pansien-OiHice) ©entennial Gx hiDibiOl. ...<c..oe--i6- cs econ sno clae snc cone couees 74
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, thanks to ..---...---..------------+-+-++-- 43
Peru, collections presented by...-.. BSE SA cA Soot CAS aeGceerne comer fecnee 134
Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad, thanks to.....---..------ 43
Photographic laboratory, work done in .. .....----.------ 2-222 eens canescens 37
Pilar, Prof. George, on the revolutions of the crust of the earth...... Sashes 283
Planetary motion, general integrals of........--. .----- ---- 22 eo e won nee -- 17
Peayr Poupo, agent Of Cxchanges .. 12-20 c. 2 - ence ccae none cece qecens ces 28
On kAMnOIanS, VOCADDIATY OF oo. ca0 scnns cose cccess oo cccn --cma=eninans enon es 39
Portrait of Professor Henry ordered by Regents......--..--..-.------------- 131
Portugal, collections presented by ..---. .----2 seceee o- enn ne ee ce ee ee ee coon ee 134

Royal Academy of Sciences, agent of exchanges..-...--....-------- 27

Post-Office Department, Centennial exhibit of .........-..-------.---------- 73
486 INDEX,

Page
Powell, Prof: JW, explorations DV eos acer scape ae alate eel ee trees 58
publications Of=-- i222 22 pines ana we eae b eee eee ee 62, 63
collections Dy s.--\eecn=a scenes <p oes eeeiye se Seale e Uae e Ooo MD
arrangement of Indian vocabularies by ...--.. ---..----- 35
Powers, Stephen, account of the Centennial mission to the Indians of Western
Nevada and Califormis. 222.5. hee cee nee 449
collections DY ton 2-ce~- sce eecie ceo css ease eeLeeer coe 39, 65
Publications of Smithsonian Institution...........-......-...--- ekp atipeutl s 8,15
rules for distribution of............-- 16
Quartermaster Department, Centennial exhibit of .-.....----.- aoisiapyecictamiare’s 72
Queensland; collections) presented Dy ---)-.- maa) eneaeee eles eee 136
Rau, Dr. Charles, arrangement of ethnological collections................-.- 65,66
in charge of ethnological department at the Centennial.... 42
relative to the era eet collection in the National
IDA SSR Ba Soe isidcae HOOSSS AdcA Aebosc nods coon aogacae . 33
translation DY scce- sees eee lene Jas dinlie eotah btetejeisiele ciate niente 494
WOLK Of ti tcccpees eee soles eae as See le a) eepee a eee earner eee 18
on the American ‘stone age..-.---.- =. 2. ne nee 45
Receipts and expenditures of the Institution ...-..........---. ---.-----.-.-- Ty,
Regents, Board of, executive committee OfS sasciee ie be eo caneeer ie aetee eee eeees 5
LS V0 eae COR SOnrAaa Ses 45, SOc 5as BOs BUS6 Gocesaade Seer ckosonesse 5
resolutions of, respecting a building for National Museum......-..-. 13
Reis, Jayne Batalho, collections presented by......--.. ..--26 e---00 ee25 22-2 134
Renshaw OM ge. exp lOLablON WW yieree re earls ae ete elem tatee ate neta tee tee 58, 59
Repayments to the Institution. ~~ 22. 22 -< ose. cea) -nisciseee sicmacle nam soles 119
Reports, annual, of Smithsonian Institution......-...-.---.-..-------------- 8, 15, 23
fopory Of 1670; (Contents OL. -ee sca coin - = =H ecient einen ae ee 23
Professor Baird on Centennial Exhibition ...........-...-.--.----- 64
National Museam. 7. oon eee ee cimeeeme eee 38
Professor Henry to the Board of Regents... -... .---«.---s-----s-- 7
Professor Henry’s letter to Congress, transmitting ......---..--..--.-- 3
of special committee on National Museum. REAR Se ademas Bomeee passa 124
printing of, ordered by: Conpress).--- <4. oa. ae onece eee ee eeeee 2
Reptilia and Batrachia, North American, check-list of..........-........----- 19
Reptilessinvestigabion" ors assccc. fsesene ce es clas are t moles eee eet ee eee ee 44
hesearchesiin astronomy -222 5 oaa:- soon eee Se eee ee ete e shee ceieeeieeeEeeee 23
by “Professor NEwComb ss secce 5 coer =e close See eee eee eee 23
Tespecting Unanus =5~ ccc sisele cemtee tae ls | sis ae ies aie aoe ae ae eae 234
Neéptume,:.25.220.1ctmatesmccmeccusise coats seinem mre sees 23
animal Heats. oc 2s. seeies..sis-cinilec esses e eceeeeeae 24
In"mMeteOrOlOgy: 52-6. f2ce Secewee es eee tise e aioe sale meester ee eee 24
by (ProbyHi@siW 0d <<. 2 cecccs -s ote sieeas cece eee hee ee eee eee 24
by Drvttornes Hare -2 ou. cose senieeee <=. eee eee eee 24
Resolution of Congress respecting printing of report .--.-.-.--.-..-.-.------- 2
Regents to appoint committee to prepare memorial to Congress
relative to Centennial donations to Museum...-...- .- 128
relative to new building for National Museum.-......-- 123
adopting report of committee on memorial to Congre:s- 129
ordering portrait of Professor Henry..-.-..--.-----.---- 131
relative to report of special committee on Museum. ..- - 120
respecting a building for the National Museum.......-. 13
Revenue Bureau, Centennial exhibit of.................---.-.----- Se ake ote 73

Revolutions of the’cerust.of the earthe. oe... ssece = cscs cee eee bee oes eee 283
Rhees; William), ‘chief clerk® 222. ocsses-esineeats sc close ete eee ene eeteetae 6

INDEX. 487

Ridgway, Prof. R., in charge of ornithological division... ..........-.---.--- rf 6
IUVeAHIBRONS'Of....s24 pocscs Sece ec oscene sso ee dakebbwteae At
iuley, Charles W., collections presented by -... .... 2s... -- 20 eccacscncecccune 34
edeniiatiVeEStiGatlon in ....-. .- 02. --.--- -205 coe SS Eee ae 44
pranks le.s TOPOLG Of... f<25.5c sida sicocw ess wee cece s aes we ncee cee 49
Petes EMG Renee. 2a. a Sins sce omen soc es cs cele Seance seu cuejeneamene = 20
Pann acoueciions presented Dy... <<... ..2-ss--ecs cee ces wdc ce caceeevecses oe 134
Sandford, Col. H. B., collections presented by............ ---. 1.2.2. -------- 135
Sargent, Hon. A. A., Regent of the Institution... ..............--2. eee ee 5
report of committee on Museum................---.---- 128
BschwOl, a9) Regent << 5.. sees. -5- se uideesnicoeee we ees 124, 129, 131
Eee PUL COME DUUONS DY .<scas Sols o- coe wie cio scc mou tiectsesincclesesancues 65
Schmidt, Dr. stellar outburst observed by .... 2.2. 2-25 cose ecencs smeces woccce 95
SGN ATHENS EAd UD OUR OL. 4 ce onicinrsnicw ve ceas snus vidacdeecesceeceeset aces 17
SaMMeGHereadl, aricles LOTNIShed . DY <<<... cacccscceceewccmecincsceccces oe : 33
; COMEEHIOUSIDY. coc. cca csec sas sscees-cccneeaenteee ce eeeee 39, 65
researches in Kjoekkenmoeddings.........--. .---0. .----.- 35
Selwyn, Prof. A. L., collections. presented by...... ..---- secece weccee ence ones 136
Shippen, Edward, collections presented by.... ...-.. 2 ---- seecee eee esccee se 132
SNE Rees TROT V ICON Ol occ os cc none cree se ene wee sane eck beeen =ss= 64
Bian COUOCHIGHS PreSONLed. DVi.ss so.)---- boos +0 ac oat concen accuse accecsleceoe- 135
Signal Service United States Army, Centennial exhibit of.... -......-......- 72
Sioux or Dakota Indians, account of, by Col. A. G. Brackett.......--...----- 466
SRD HUOLGPTADNOD. -- 8... aes wee acces enecneeccans sasecwlensa= a 6, 37
Smith, C. D., relative to ancient mica mines in North Carolina .............. 441
SII. Sis Ty Qe (Chl SSE AS Se SASSO MCE C eee Ese Sean ee Cee Emeric mn 19, 20
seare MPSA ETE) Wet epee aif, oa se clontinjanore Oana oe ayeico cow o sinew cies ee weinicemice 116
PRE ASOLO Liesremte a atorst tee she teotoe tral «mis afainene wlemieine ales on ceaietees 8
PREM SUALO) Olate are oceans neta aro) ane a= Pe mee sisal a 14
Smithsofian building, proposed extension of...-.......---.-------+----------- 125
inna, TNA COS Olsson = a scelanacleo a= oes oe ece ones sens 14, 116
Gunpenntal exbibitiOf coo. oss cos soceee snes woeenclnccsinenslen== 74
Snyder, J. F., on deposits of flint implements- ...-...----.-----.-----..----- 433
Solar system, certain harmonies of the, statement and exposition of.......-.. 17
South Australia, collections presented by. ..--....-----------+--------+------ 136
Spain, collections presented by-...... .--- ------ ---+ ---- eo eo = ee eee eee eee 134
Royal Academy of Sciences, agent of exchanges--...--..---+.+--.---- 27
MET ranepariation Of... 2... -<'-. -2.2 22 s-e2cn esc aecancienssere-se 68,75
Stellar outburst observed by Dr. Schmidt ...-....-..----------- »----+ ------ 25
Stevenson, Hon. J. W., Regent of the Institution........---.---.------------ 5
CHS Ol, FSUNC LOM Ge wince cr = ae nea a a ela 123, 124, 129, 131
Streets, Dr. Thomas H., investigations of ...--....---------- -----++--+-+ +--+ 44
Strong, Moses, observations on prehistoric mounds in Grant County, Wiscon-

Ree ee Fe ee onc aeeinecn) occ ncue.su.cinninj=ns=n=)anivepain= amcae's 424
Sumichrast, Francis E., collection of birds by....-- gee oso Soe coeinee see 19, 20
Surveys of the Territories, Centennial exhibit of...-.-.---------------------- 7
Swan, James G., collections made by -.-----.--------------+ +--+ --+--+ +--+" 39, 65

Je tain eee DNS SeRes Gees BUCS LOO TerG Be oatesepersncenaise Sc 17

Sweden, Royal Academy of Sciences, agent of exchanges.....--------------- 27
collections presented by ..----. -- ------ +--+ 22 22-2 ee ee ee ee et ee ee ee ee 134
Switzerland, collections presented by. .----.------ ---+ +--+ -+-+++ +--+ -0++---- 135
Symons, Lieutenant, explorations by--.----.----------------+-----+-+++++--++ 49
Tasmania, collections presented by. .---------------------++ +--+ -s2+++ +--+ 136

Taylor, William B., Kinetic theories of gravilation.......----.----+---++--++ 26, 205
488 INDEX.

; Page
Telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries..................+.-- “95
Temperatane tabless....< 223. Stes scanas «ocsistoalnow cae naa s oe ee eee one 17
Tennessee, antiquities Of 25255 so6 caso aoe dea accu. cee eaeeiene tee eee ante oe 17

Thompson;:P rot. N..H;;,explorations\by- s-c-2-< se sels ote See eee 5
Thompson, Mr., assisted in arrangement of specimens. ..........-.-.-.------ 66
Tillmann, Lieutenant, explorations 5. ..20.o2s¢ 24.02 424 2os su dees cen eeeeees 49
Tracy, José Carlos, collections presented by ...-...-.. .---2- seeec- eonee- ones 134
Treasury Department, Centennial exhibit of _....... .... 0200. .---eeoeee ues, 73
Trumbull, Prof. J. H., arrangement of Indian vocabularies .............-..-- * 35
Tsukmichi, Lieut. Gen. Saigo, collectinns presented by...........-...-------- 153
Tunis, collections presented ‘by: .: 2.2. 225.2 5S eth eek ee ce eee 135
Turkey, collections presented by: 2. 25252 225/25 222 Se eee 135
Turner, Miss J..A.; clerk in charge/of library *2. 222) 2. 2esenee ee ae ee 6
Turner, Lucien: M., collections py... ....--.% 2.25 oe oe ae ae ee oe ee 39
DLwane Indians. . sj. cescasseeniecns eins c cm se ine Cowseeeee tee eee eee 35
Uranus, researches respecting. :-.5..-5 5. J2.cscecco shes aes SEE eee ee ee 23
Venezuela, collections presented by .22252.2-caceceeee see aneeeeeeenae eee 137
Verrill, A: E., SVOrK of Cocco Sscisa dc wowace aoe aaa eee eee oh 19, 20
Victoria, collections presented by-.--.- 1022-52 cLee2 case tee eee ee eee 136
WAT GIN a DONS Ylere Seve Soe eco lee ole ea cette ce he ees ae 14, 15, 116, 117
Waite, Chief-Justice M. R., Chancellor of the Institution................---- 5
ex-officio member of the Institution -..........--. 5
acts) of, a8 Regents. 25.2220 eeecesc cece p eee 123, 124, 131
WarDepartment, Centennial exhibitof.s-o-22 ssc ceeceece cence tee eeeneeee 72
Ward, L. F., on botany of valley of the Colorado... .... 2.520. -22-ce0e ccc nee 63
Ward, Henry A., preparation of skeletons, &c., for the Centennial, by.-.--.-... 42, 46
Watking; 1. ji6:\Co: arents of exchanges ..-.-<0.-cccse.seuckweecs voce ee 27
Welch, -H.®., icolleesions presented by ..--is.o20- -- 65 secs caaccueeb omens 136
Wesley, William agent of exchanges... ca. 0sa-ssck Ree ee 27
Wharton, Joseph, extibit by <2. 3. .2c~ one aren 4 Pawes cae CE ee eee 65
Wheeler, Lieut. George M., explorations by, progress of .......-..-----. .---- 47
collections of, transferred to Museum .........-.- 39, 40
Wheeler, 0..D;, explaration by... 5. -2..c.eewerenocet acount e ieee eee ee 59
White, Prof. C. A;, explorations#hy sso. Saone tees ee ee Pe ee ee 55, 56
Whitehill, Mr., collections made under supervision of..........-..-.--.------ 65
Wilcox, Mr., supervision of loan collection ~.:. 25.22.65... 25 .esee ob See Go
Walder, General J. H., donation by 22.0.o5s2\- 3. oon 22 eee eee 41
collection fromilennessees- =. cea - ee ee aan eee 65
Williamson, Hon. George, relative to antiquities in Guatemala ............-- 418
Wilson; 'N, .Di,sexploration by «<< s2 scsi atte sauen ooo ee eee ie eee 52
Wilson, John;S:; acknowledgment due to..... 2.502200 loads dees sen cee eee 44
Winds of the globe, publication of. -..5:<<:- teas. seeeemee res eee meee 16

Wisconsin, Grant County, prehistoric mounds in, observations on, by Moses

ETOH S Soo cota eemiesemi ce Damme we Sok sew een coe eeE Ee eee eee tie ee ere eee 424
‘Woerkof, Dr: Alex:, labors 00556 ice... 45. cateeenln =e eee eee ae oemne eae 17
Wood, Prof... C.,researches Of 6-c.0.02. s se cies seee oe eee ceca eae eeee 24
Woolman, M., collection made under supervision of ....-.--...--------------* 65
Yarrow, Dr.) H:.C., researchesof.neaen <a <cancs< seeeee eee eter Geta comes 49
Yonng, Clarence B;,book-keeper Sev oie h.c3 2s ce eee len eaten ee eee 6
ae Ko
ae ee

f
Me

—

a 7 S VFe

/
,

Wi Ae oR, A ; ‘ ONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES ray

—— §s FSD

‘
4 s
( é
‘
4 i
‘ i
>
»
)
} )
)
ib
) 5
, p J
\
3
, ae S
) AN, BY ’ , ) ‘
‘ V4 bY
vag Gs > '
\ NEG §
{ ’ yay
) ‘ " wan
‘ \ " :
\ Ah 1, ay} ‘
via 5 % \!
oh ‘ by eta \
i; Ate 4 y
yi ‘
yas
a 4} \
V6 oh
4 }
\
‘ VA
, ‘ .
a Abas .
' a tie, ’ 4
‘ V4 Mat tt
ea) rn \

wiekikeinwt tee ® dy ep We win ale:
>) ahah tatat tet tutte? « A ry ‘e dite
iQ@ag eda edaaida ne i ee i at, wae
aa ‘ .. a” at a" mS at ‘ gts a ” Wale | tetas fees te
“yee ciate veata : wel’ «, as # 6058,
Pte a4 44 4a ci ehh Seta Heat at le
“aed es woke 1g 8, 188 hy “Me a ‘. ‘. fe eietigtigt ati’,
I Nate ks ‘ql hr are be as ‘e et 484 4 4, ct «i *
ie “tet as ae yt >, ae . * 7 ans 44
age ‘ea aaa aged @ ae aie
‘i wee ce £% rh a «@ aeons

ae fee ag ad ag g .
v ‘ 4 ak 4 gag € aie ag age ft Gg e

a ee ke < a 7 te Ao jy & Ai 2 a “y 4 2 a & : &; i } “Sey 5
aCe a ek ec RO” oe 8 ee
| a ee 4 eae a ey 5

N
¥

&
Lt « o

gee ge & eee ee a eg
‘igtetate a a" A AS # 8 08 88 ee 4 a eo

‘ a is iia, Sis. Sa 7 a *
“s “8 Ae 8 ea Gg gs

~
ee &

| 8 ‘ Paver eee
et & “8 F ‘a4 4 hae aoe |
/ & & 8 “et ana” rn se & ®
- cc one a at" Ae aa « ity! * o om cn ‘« ®
ve € ¢
ua @ 6 @8 4 ‘yf ri « a ‘a wy. “yk
Ad 44 6 6 Ae oo {4¢dtg “ a ae ee 2
| : i . P. « ‘, of of a Ya wR TNT

é 4 @ oo ee OR Be Oy
Fi “* eK * @& &

ek elie og, i, 7" & ®, 4% a & . 4 y d Me a *
cae eae eit cies: a
pn hae oe . a's ean
ang A. 4 ‘. af < ae

\ ‘ , -
: é
;
4. ” 7
— ; 4
53 :
7
3 -
te 7
.
® k
. 2
-— -
‘
.
‘ y
‘ dei
\

NE gE or oe oe

ae

