aoe 2

a Bo 29s me rey

a“
on
a

: 3 Lal e

tek Aa Das Bor.

ee Tee ae Oe
“aga? aes mee * eet sis

yesh, fe
_ 4 7 st Ee, Poon
at - oe! are io Pree apt
‘ 7 te iw “ial a: + *e¥,
cit . ae ‘
a . fear. aa GES,
gg SO ypu ED go PE ines
SP batisy ora sone BES, aes
f : 4 P - mh
ip oi ages Fe ess elas
- ys oe ‘EPe

=

lie

ove

Meat

hy ele
Lae oi PM

ep a
“}

at F

Annual Report of the Board of Regents

of the

SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

PUBLICATION 4149

Showing the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of the

Institution for the Year Ended June 30

1953

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1954
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN InstTITUTION,
Washington, December 31, 1953.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1953. I have the honor to be,

Respectfully,
LronarD CARMICHAEL, Secretary.

pg eS EES SSS

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office,
Washington 25, D. C. - Price $3.75 (Cloth)
CONTENTS

Page

fist ofoticials senate Wb hastee ewe ee ee ee eee eee Vv

Goneralesba terme nh eee eee ee ea ee at 1

Bibles Mastialolis Win Qn tig ase ee ee ee ee ee 5

The Boardiof Regents::22.2-2-2- 22 -224t Jeol o6- 22 ae see sek =- =e. s 5

fnuction, OL New Secretary. .a- 555. 4-52 56.652 eee 6

Minivan 5 SUL ee oe Be oe Se US eR SSeS Ss eSSeee See sed se 6

Appropriations_-_.--------------------------------------------- eh

Sin SEG COTS Oe eee ae a an a ERE ees a So ener 7

Twentieth annual James Arthur lecture on the sun__------------------ 8

Jennes Sitiorantts ROT DAS ee et ee Bsa Se set es ee See se se 9

Termination of the Institute of Social Anthropology------------------- 9

Renovation of National Collection of Fine Arts_----------------------- 10

Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution______- 10

Mibtanye one ee eee cone naan ane Sa ee eee 13

DE Ur bey LC SRE L CO TLS oe ee eee ee eee i elas 13

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum----------_- 14

2. Report on the National Gallery of Art_....--------------- 74a)

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts------------ 38

“= Report om the Preer Gallery of Art“-=22—2- = <5 = 48

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology------------- 60

6. Report on the International Exchange Service-_-_---------- 93

7. Report on the National Zoological Park___.--------------- 102

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory - ---------------- 121

9. Report on the National Air Museum- --_----~------------ 126

10. Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area____-_----------- 141

fieReport ou thelibraty "se 5) oe oo. seceenee eee ea 148

{Je eRepore om PubNCAMOUS = 2. see enn ne ane eee 152

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents_-_----------- 159

GENERAL APPENDIX

Science, art, and education, by R. E. Gibson__-_.--------------------- 169

Recent progress in astronomical photography, by C. E. Kenneth Mees_-- 205

Radioisotopes—New keys to knowledge, by Paul C. Aebersold ---------- 219

The push-button factory, by Frank K. Shallenberger__-_---------------- 241

The science of musical instruments, by E. G. Richardson-_-------------- 253

Genetics and the world today, by Curt Stern-.--.-_------------------- 263

Climate aud race, by Carleton Coon]” 2 225.2 -- 222-222-2522 45=- 277
Vegetation management for rights-of-way and roadsides, by Frank E.

Helens ee alee e es 1) Uae ee a osu eee eee Soe Sena 299
Applied systematics: The usefulness of scientific names of animals and

plantasby Waldo is, sebmith. 22 SJ2se 2 ee 3 2 2 a= S222 2- = 323

The geological history and evolution of insects, by F. M. Carpenter-__---- 339
IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Page
The coelacanth fishes, by Errol White_._.---------------------------- 351
Barro Colorado—Tropical island laboratory, by Lloyd Glenn Ingles_-_---- 361
Norsemen in North America before Columbus, by Johannes Brgndsted.-- 367
The mountain village of Dahr, Lebanon, by Raymond E. Cristie sse— 407
The problem of dating the Dead Sea Scrolls, by John Oxtreverss: 32. 425

Kinreizuka—The “Golden Bells Tomb” of Japan, by Motosaburo Hirano
and Hiroshi Takiguchi- ------------------------------------------ 437
The archeology of colonial Williamsburg, by Thomas J. Wertenbaker__-. 447

The story of the Declaration of Independence desk and how it came to the
National Museum, by Margaret W. Brown------------------------- 455

Charles Bird King, painter of Indian visitors to the nation’s capital, by
John. GC. Bwers: <2si oe eb eek eet oe eee 463

LIST OF PLATES
Secretary’s Report:

Plate Viet 2 = 26 ose ee ee ee ee See ae ae 6
Plates 2, 3._..-----------------------------------------=-=---- 54
Plates 4, 5..-----------------------------------------~-------- 70
Plates:6, 7... 22cecec. hon sone Oe 102
Astronomical photography (Mees): Plates 1-6------------------------ 214
Radioisotopes (Aebersold): Plates 1-4__-.---------------------------- 230
Science of musical instruments (Richardson): Plates 1-3__------------- 262
Vegetation management (Egler): Plates 1-6_------------------------- 310
Geological history and evolution of insects (Carpenter) : Plates 1-3_----- 342
Coelacanth fishes (White): Plate 1_..-------------------------------- 358
Barro Colorado (Ingles): Plates 1-6--------------------------------- 366
Norsemen in North America before Columbus (Brgndsted): Plates 1-10-- 390
Dahr, Lebanon (Crist): Plates 1-8__--------------------------------- 422
Dead Sea Scrolls (Trever): Plates 1-8....---_------------------------ 430
Kinreizuka (Hirano and Takiguchi): Plates 1-4_--.------------------- 446
Colonial Williamsburg (Wertenbaker): Plates 1—-4--------------------- 454
Declaration of Independence desk (Brown): Plates 1-5_---------------- 462

Charles Bird King (Ewers): Plates 1-8._-.--------------------------- 470
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1953

Presiding Officer ex oficio—Dwiaut D. E1sENHOWER, President of the United
States.
Chancellor—F rep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Dwicut D. HiSeNHOwER, President of the United States.
RicwHarp M. Nrxon, Vice President of the United States.
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States.
JoHN Fostrr DuLLES, Secretary of State.
Grorce M. HuMpHREeY, Secretary of the Treasury.
CHARLES BE. WILSON, Secretary of Defense.
Hersert BrowneE Lt, JR., Attorney General.
ArtHur BE. SUMMERFIELD, Postmaster General.
Douatas McK 4y, Secretary of the Interior.
Ezra Tarr Benson, Secretary of Agriculture.
Sinclair WEEKS, Secretary of Commerce.
Martin P. DurkIn, Secretary of Labor.
Oveta Cutp Hospy, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Regents of the Institution:
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
RicHarp M. Nrxon, Vice President of the United States.
Rosert A. Tart, Member of the Senate.
CLInton P. ANDERSON, Member of the Senate.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
Joun M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives.
Leroy Jounson, Member of the House of Representatives.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
VANNEVAR BusH, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Rosert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D. C.
JEROME C. HUNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts.
Executive Committee——Roberr V. FLEMING, chairman, VANNEVAR BUSH, CLAR-
ENCE CANNON.
Secretary.— LEONARD CARMICHAEL.
Assistant Secretaries.—Joun E. Grar, J. L. Keppy.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Mrs. Lou1se M. PEARSON.
Treasurer.—J. D. HOWARD.
Chief, editorial division.—PattL H. O£HSeERr.
Librarian.—Mkrs. Leva I’, CLARE,
Chief, accounting division—THOMAS F. CLARK.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—L. L. OLIVER.
Assistant Superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHARLEs C. SINCLAIR.
Chief, personnel division.—JacK B. NEWMAN.
Chief, publications division.—L. BH. COMMERFORD.
Chief, supply division —ANTHONY W. WILDING.
. Photographer.—¥. B. KESTNER.
VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—A. REMINGTON KELLOGG.
Chief, office of correspondence and records.—HELENA M. WEISS.
Editor.—Joun S. LEA.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, J. E. Anglim, exhibits
preparators; W. W. Taylor, Jr., collaborator in anthropology.

Division of Archeology: Waldo R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., asso-
ciate curator.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. O. Ewers, C. M. Watkins,
associate curators; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator.

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.

Associate in Anthropology: Neil M. Judd.

DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY :
Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief exhibits preparator ;
C. H. Aschemeier, W. M. Perrygo, E. G. Laybourne, C. 8. East, J. D.
Biggs, exhibits preparators; Mrs. Aime M. Awl, scientific illustrator.

Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, H. W. Setzer, associate curators ;
Charles O. Handley, Jr., assistant curator; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator ;
Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator; Samuel A. Arny, museum aide; Alexander Wetmore, research
associate and custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collections; Arthur C.
Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; EH. A. Lachner, associate
curator; W. T. Leapley, Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aides.

Division of Insects: Edward A. Chapin, curator; R. E. Blackwelder, W. D.
Field, O. L. Cartwright, Grace E. Glance, associate curators; Sophy Parfin,
junior entomologist; W. L. Jellison and M. A. Carriker, collaborators.

Section of Hymenoptera: W. M. Mann, Robert A. Cushman, assistant
custodians.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; Frederick M.
Bayer, associate curator; Mrs. L. W. Peterson, museum aide; Mrs. Harriet
Richardson Searle, Max M. Ellis, J. Percy Moore, collaborators; Mrs.
Mildred S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea.

Division of Mollusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison,
R. Tucker Abbott, associate curators; W. J. Byas, museum aide; Paul
Bartsch, associate.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo-
rator.

Associates in Zoology: T. S. Palmer, W. B. Marshall, A. G. Béving, C. R.
Shoemaker, W. K. Fisher, Austin H. Clark.

Collaborator in Zoology: R. S. Clark.

Collaborator in Biology: D. C. Graham.
SECRETARY’S REPORT Vil

DEPARTMENT or Borany (NATIONAL HERBARIUM) :

Jason R. Swallen, head curator.

Division of Phanerogams: A. C. Smith, curator ; FE. OC. Leonard, E, H. Walker,
Lyman B. Smith, associate curators; Velva BE. Rudd, assistant curator;
FE. P. Killip, research associate.

Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.

Division of Grasses: Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator; Mrs. Agnes Chase,
¥. A. McClure, research associates.

Division of Cryptogams: C. V. Morton, acting curator; Paul S. Conger, asso-
ciate curator; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological
collections and honorary curator of Fungi; David G. Fairchild, custodian
of Lower Fungi.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY :

W. F. Foshag, head curator; J. H. Benn and Jessie G. Beach, museum
aides.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, acting curator; E. P.
Henderson, G. S. Switzer, associate curators; F. E. Holden, museum
technician; Frank L. Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustav A. Cooper,
curator; A. R. Loeblich, Jr., David Nicol, Arthur L. Bowsher, associate
curators; W. T. Allen, museum aide; J. Brookes Knight, research associate
in paleontology.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection; J. B. Reeside, Jr., custodian of Mesozoic collec-
tion; Preston Cloud, research associate.

Section of Paleobotany: Roland W. Brown, research associate.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle,
associate curator; F. L. Pearce, A. C. Murray, exhibits preparators.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry, J. P. Marble.

Associate in Paleontology: R. S. Bassler.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES ;

Frank A. Taylor, head curator.

Diwision of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, acting curator.

Section of Civil and Mechanical Engineering : Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Marine Transporation: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Electricity : K. M. Perry, associate curator.

Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.

Section of Land Transportation: 8. H. Oliver, associate curator.

Division of Crafts and Industries: William N. Watkins, curator; Edward A.
Avery, William E. Bridges, and Walter T. Marinetti, museum aides ; F. L.
Lewton, research associate.

Section of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator, in charge.

Section of Wood Technology: W. N. Watkins, in charge.

Section of Manufactures: Edward ©. Kendall, associate curator, in
charge.

Section of Agricultural Industries: Edward C. Kendall, associate cura-
tor, in charge.

Division of Medicine and Public Health: George B. Griffenhagen, associate
curator; Alvin E. Goins, museum aide.

Division of Graphic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator; J. Harry Phillips, Jr.,
museum aide,

Section of Photography: A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator.
vill ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY:
Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator.

Divisions of Military History and Naval History: M. L. Peterson, associate
curator; J. R. Sirlouis, assistant curator; Craddock R. Goins, Jr., junior
historian.

Division of Civil History: Margaret W. Brown, associate curator; Robert
Leroy Morris, museum aide.

Division of Numismatics: 8. M. Mosher, associate curator.

Division of Philately: Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate curator.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:
F rep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
Joun Foster Duttes, Secretary of State.
Grorce M. Humpurey, Secretary of the Treasury.
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
SAMUEL H. KREss.
FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
CHESTER DALE.
PAUL MELLON.
President —SAMUEL H. KRESs.
Vice President.—FERDINAND LAMMoT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director.—Davip E. FINLEY.
Administrator.—Hagry A. McBriDg.
General Counsel.—_HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—JOHN WALKER.
Assistant Director.—MacciL.t JAMES.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.—THoMAS M. Breas.

Curator of ceramics.—P. V. GARDNER.

Chief, Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service.—Mrs. JouHn A. POPE.
Echibits preparator.—ROWLAND Lyon.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. WENLEY.

Assistant Director.—JoHN A. POPE.

Assistant to the Director——Burns A. STUBBS.

Associate in Near Eastern art.—RIcHARD ETTINGHAUSEN.
Associate in technical research.—RutTHERFORD J, GETTENS.
Assistant in research.—HArRoLp P. STERN.

Research associate.—GracE DUNHAM GUEST.

Honorary research associate.—Max Lorar.
SECRETARY’S REPORT IX

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director.—MATTHEW W. STIRLING.

Associate Director—F8anNK H. H. Roserrs, Jr.

Anthropologists.—H. B. Cotiins, Jr., PHILIP DRUCKER.

Ethnologist.—JoHn P. HARRINGTON.

Collaborators.—FRANCES DENSMORE, RALPH S. Sotecki, Joun R. Swanton, A. J.
Waning, Jr.

Scientific illustrator.—H. G. SCHUMACHER.

River BASiIn SuRVEYS.—F'RANK H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE
Chief.—D. G. WILLIAMS.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—-WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant Director—EB8NEsT P. WALKER.
Head Animal Keeper.—_F Rank QO. Lowe.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—LoYAL B. ALDRICH.
DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH :
Chief.—WIitL1AmM H. Hoover.
Instrument makers.—ANbDREW KRAMER, D. G. TALBERT, J. H. HARRISON.
Research associate.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:
Chief.—R. B. WiTHROW.
Plant Physiologists —WILLIAM H. Kuein, Leonarp Price, V. B. Etsrap, Mrs.
AtLice P. WITHROW.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Chairman.
Lr. Gen. LAURENCE C. Crataie, U. 8. Air Force.
Rear ApM. T. S. Comps, U.S. Navy.
GROVER LOENING.
WILLIAM B. Strout.
Head curator.—Pavt BH. GARBER.
Associate curator.—R. C. STROBELL.
Manager, National Air Museum Facility. W. M. Mate.
Museum aides.—STANLEY Potter, WINTROP S. SHAW.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

Resident Manager.—JAMES ZETEK.
bw bs Sime iwapnte
i ;

Sh ‘esha

Mii wy wh meat WM
a aa
0 ih 2 t

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution

LEONARD CARMICHAEL
For the Year Ended June 30, 1953

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GenTLEMEN : I have the honor to submit a report showing the activi-
ties and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches
for the fiscal year which ended on June 380, 1953.

GENERAL STATEMENT

My duties as the seventh Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
were assumed on January 2, 1958. Thus, during approximately half
the year covered by the present report the Institution was under the
able direction of its eminent former Secretary, Dr. Alexander Wet-
more. Detailed statements covering the work of the several bureaus
and divisions of the Smithsonian during the full year are presented
elsewhere in this report.

I should like first to express my deep appreciation to the Honorable
Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution, to the
chairman of our executive committee, and individually to our regents,
all of whom have most unselfishly performed many services essential
to the effective operation and progress of the Institution during the
year covered by this report. I wish also to thank Dr. Wetmore for
the great assistance he has given me as his successor, and the entire
Smithsonian staff for the cooperation they have extended to me as
the new occupant of the office of Secretary.

The Smithsonian has many pressing needs and unsolved problems,
but it is fortunate in possessing a staff that is in an outstanding degree
professionally qualified and is superlatively loyal to the best interests
of the Institution. Many former employees, some long retired, return
regularly to carry on research and follow the progress of the Institu-
tion with keen interest. Ina striking way present and past staff mem-
bers correctly feel that they truly belong to the old and distinguished
Smithsonian family. In this respect and in many others I find the
Institution similar to a great university.

The Smithsonian is unique because it is the Nation’s principal re-
search center in a number of basic scientific and cultural fields. Be-
cause of its unequaled natural-science collections, which contain a vast
number of “type specimens,” it is a continuing repository of standards

1
phe ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

for much work in biology and geology. In its collections of history
and technology, of aviation, and of the fine arts the Smithsonian has
special distinctions and responsibilities in maintaining a proper and
complete record of our national achievements and of preserving in
trust for the Nation valuable gifts from its citizens. Its expeditions
and researches in anthropology in our own and other American coun-
tries have brought to light much of the past that was hidden and have
preserved much that would otherwise have been lost. Its researches in
solar radiation continue to be a principal source of special information
in a field of growing practical importance. Its library of more than a
million and a half titles is one of the world’s great repositories of
published scientific information and by far the greatest in the Western
Hemisphere. Through its extensive publication program, its inter-
national exchange service for scientific literature, its museum exhibits
and traveling exhibitions, and in the answering of thousands of indi-
vidual inquiries yearly the Smithsonian is surely a world center not
only for the increase of knowledge but for the proper diffusion of
exact information.

~ In some ways, this means that the Smithsonian may be thought of
as a living encyclopedia that is always being kept up to date. Re-
search workers connected with industrial development as well as
scientific investigators all over the country continually call upon our
expanding collections and records for the identification and descrip-
tion of plants, animals, minerals, and unknown or puzzling objects of
human workmanship, especially works of art, and for information
pertaining to our other fields of scholarly interest.

In these first months of my service as Secretary it has become clear
to me that the Smithsonian has, through its more than a century of
service, won a special place in the hearts and minds of American citi-
zens from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Taking all our buildings to-
gether, more than 8,200,000 visitors entered our various halls last
year. It is reported at the USO information desk in Washington’s
Union Station that 9 out of 10 members of the Armed Forces inquire
for the Smithsonian Institution. A Gallup poll of last summer, at-
tempting to sample the opinion of the estimated 35 million adult
Americans who have visited Washington at least once, indicated that
except for the Capitol and the White House, the Smithsonian Insti-
tution is regarded as “the most interesting thing for a visitor to see
in Washington.” Car and bus loads of individuals from the Pacific
Coast States and from every other part of the Nation come day after
day to the Smithsonian. These visitors are of all ages. Many of
them are impressionable high-school seniors on what may well be their
one trip to Washington. It is thus borne in upon everyone connected
with the Smithsonian Institution that our exhibits must be prepared
in such a way that they will most effectively tell these eager and
SECRETARY’S REPORT 3

earnest visitors the story of America’s national history and of the
rise of the industrial and scientific greatness of America. These fu-
ture leaders of our Nation cannot help being wiser in all that they
do concerning our country if they see in our halls examples of the
ingenious productions of the great inventors and leaders of the past.
The very fact that other countries of the world in recent years have
voiced their pride in their eminent inventors indicates something
of the importance of emphasizing America’s great inventive contri-
butions of human society in building our own Nation’s morale.

This year certain facts were presented to the Congress concerning
the fundamental needs of the Smithsonian Institution. Without ex-
ception, the press comments on these statements from all parts of the
country agreed that the Smithsonian has a significant place in our
Nation’s life and that its work should be adequately supported.

The history of the Smithsonian makes clear how the present finan-
cial situation of the Institution has arisen. Almost all our endow-
ments were given for various specific purposes. Therefore, little of
the income from the invested funds of the Institution is available for
alteration or growth from year to year. In this connection, it is a
pleasure to report that a few small funds from bequests have come
to the Smithsonian during the current year. Those who are con-
nected with the administration of the Smithsonian are delighted at
any time to discuss with prospective donors the means by which their
gifts can support the general work of the Institution.

The bureaus of the Smithsonian which are financed in varying
degrees by congressional appropriations have developed through the
years in an uneven way. In general, it may be said of the continuing
activities of the Institution that instead of expanding in the last 20
years, which have seen so much growth in many activities of the Fed-
eral Government, the Smithsonian has financially remained static or
even in some respects has retrogressed. A comparison of the situation
in 1934 and in the present year is illuminating. In the period since
1934 the national collections in charge of the Smithsonian have in-
creased 130 percent. The number of visitors to our 5 exhibition
buildings on the Mall have increased by more than 150 percent and
our correspondence in answering scientific and other questions has
grown several times that amount.

In spite of this growth in work load, the total number of man-
hours per week available at the Smithsonian has actually decreased
during the past 20 years. In cash, the appropriations for functions
other than personnel is $11,000 less than it was in 1933. This means
that in purchasing power the Smithsonian has had its funds cut more
than in half during this period.

The Honorable Charles R. Jonas, Member of Congress from North
Carolina, in a published news report to his constituents this year com-
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

paring our national expenditures for military affairs with those at
the Smithsonian, said in part, “So there are two of our outstanding
national collections—the study at the Smithsonian of man’s construc-
tive progress, and the study at Aberdeen of man’s destructive prog-
ress. In both cases we can marvel at and feel proud of American
ingenuity and energy ... But at Aberdeen, there is mixed with
our pride a certain sadness and shame that American thought and
wealth must of necessity be spent on a collection of terrible weapons
to use against other men. Billions for war, pennies for cultural life
. what a tragic arrangement of accounts.”

The Smithsonian is not an “inflated agency,” but rather one that
in recent decades has not been permitted to perform for the citizens
of this country its many basic functions as well as it would have been
able to do if it had been given more financial support. During this
time, however, the loyal but numerically declining staff of the Insti-
tution has carried on approximately 150 percent more work than was
required of their more numerous predecessors.

All who are interested in the welfare of the Smithsonian must,
therefore, it seems, be prepared to explain its unique and fundamental
place in American life to all responsible individuals, both inside and
outside our Government, who can assist in its development. I am
happy to report that appropriations made to the Smithsonian for
the fiscal year 1954 will allow the Institution to take some first steps
in the long-overdue rehabilitation of its exhibitions and in the needed
renovations of certain of its buildings. Funds to continue modern-
ization and renovation will be most urgently needed in the succeeding
years. In the near future plans must also be made for new buildings
to relieve the now almost intolerable overcrowding of our present
structures.

In its basic charter the Smithsonian was established, as Smithson
its wise donor directed, to provide for “the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” The importance of these functions in the
welfare of a nation becomes more clear with each passing year. Can
anyone doubt that the sensible and constructive growth of our free
institutions is based upon a clear knowledge by most of our citizens
of the factors that have made our past achievements and activities
possible? Our American conception of social progress is based on a
realization that advancement is founded on a willingness to take
advantage of improvements in the existing way of doing things. We
do not intend to have here the destructive and self-defeating chaos
produced by revolutionary upheavals. We must thus insure as wide
a dissemination as possible of a knowledge of the past achievements
of our Nation and of its natural resources.

It is symbolic of the mission of the Smithsonian that what has
been called “the No. 1 Museum Item of America,” the great flag Fran-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5

cis Scott Key watched as he wrote the “Star-Spangled Banner,” is
proudly displayed in our halls. In this dangerous time of the world’s
history, when free institutions continue to be challenged by totalitarian
ideologies, a true knowledge on the part of our citizens of the story
of our country’s rise to preeminence is important. This amazing na-
tional growth is illustrated in many Smithsonian exhibits. Thus the
honored old Smithsonian Institution provides today one of the means
by which a forward-looking American can pass on to new generations
a true understanding of our free heritage as a society that stands
for liberty under law.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The Institution suffered a great loss during the year in the death
of two of its most valued regents. Eugene E. Cox, member from the
House of Representatives, died on December 24, 1952, and to fill the
vacancy created the Speaker of the House appointed Representative
Leroy Johnson, of California, to serve until the fourth Wednesday in
December in the second year succeeding his appointment. The death
of Harvey N. Davis, which occurred on December 3, 1952, created a
vacancy in the class of citizen regents, but this had not been filled at
the end of the year.

When the opposite political party becomes the majority party, it
is required that one of the members of the Board resign. Senator
Walter F. George, therefore, submitted his resignation to the Vice
President since he was the most recent Democrat to be appointed to
the Board of Regents. This vacancy was filled by the appointment
of Senator Robert A. Taft, of Ohio, on March 9, 1953.

On January 20, 1953, Vice President Richard Nixon became an ex
officio member of the Board to succeed the Honorable Alben W.
Barkley.
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

The roll of regents at the close of the present fiscal year was as
follows: Chief Justice of the United States Fred M. Vinson, Chan-
cellor; Vice President Richard Nixon; members from the Senate:
Clinton P. Anderson, Leverett Saltonstall, Robert A. Taft; members
from the House of Representatives: Clarence Cannon, Leroy John-
son, John M. Vorys; citizen members: Vannevar Bush, Arthur H.
Compton, Robert V. Fleming, and Jerome C. Hunsaker.

On the evening of January 15, 1953, preceding the annual meeting,
an informal dinner meeting of the Board was held in the main hall of
the Smithsonian Institution, with the Chancellor, Chief Justice Vinson,
presiding. This followed a custom established in 1949 at the sugges-
tion of Chancellor Vinson, who believed that an evening meeting each
year would help the regents by further acquainting them with the
scientific and scholarly work of the Institution. Several research
workers representing different departments of the Institution were
present and gave brief firsthand accounts of their recent studies to the
Board members.

The regular annual meeting of the Board was held on January 16 in
the Regents Room. The Secretary gave his annual report covering
the activities of the Institution and its bureaus. The financial report
of the executive committee was presented for the fiscal year ended
June 30, and this was accepted by the Board. The usual resolution
was passed authorizing expenditures of the income of the Institution
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1954.

INDUCTION OF NEW SECRETARY

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, psychologist and former president of Tufts
College, who had been elected seventh Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution by the Board of Regents at its meeting on April 9, 1952,
took office on January 2, 1953. Special induction ceremonies were
held in the Regents Room, with the Honorable Harold M. Stephens,
chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals, administering the
oath of office. Dr. Carmichael succeeded Dr. Alexander Wetmore,
biologist, who retired after serving 28 years with the Institution, since
1945 as Secretary. Dr. Wetmore, as research associate, is continuing
his scientific work with the Smithsonian.

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian
private funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee
of the Board of Regents, page 159.
Secretary's Report, 1953.

PLATE 1

*$9381S poqUL) 24} 0} Jopessequiy ysrug ‘suryeyy
IaZOY MG pue feayuuoy Adyjog yoivasay asuajaq sUleiig Jo uewIeYyS 4yfoIsyI09D uyof mg fuonysuy

UBIUOSYUWEG 94} JO AlejaIDEg “JavyowWIeD pieuosy “I(] :3Yy3l1 0} YaT “ust Zuowe a8pajmouy Jo vorsnyip
pue asPaIU! 94} JOJ,, UOIINITIsUT ay} papunNoy O8e sivak FZ] Jsanbaq asoym ‘uOsyIG souref Jo quIO} ay} 12
peAdv|dsip aq 03 pojuesaid sem yoef uous) Ysiqg ve uaymM “¢céy] ‘FZ ouNf ‘uoINIsUT UeIUOSYIUIG ey Ie saTUOUTaIE_D

aL
Hite 7
_) 688197 3NMf ATV! VONTD IVG3IG OHM ©

NOSHLINS S3IWYP

SECRETARY’S REPORT 7

APPROPRIATIONS

Funds appropriated to the Institution for the fiscal year ended June
30, 19538, total $2,419,500, obligated as follows:

MaNGOCMNIONG oo eee kena eee a ee eet ee es $57, 289
AWM LEGS FATES INE LO Weyl E UT Se urn ee 765, 514
JSP REP H DL Case Ve eoa ley enUCeheyy atd OY tab aKa) COP ene ay 59, 454
Astrophysical Observatory__-------.----------------------------- 119, 840
National @oluection 1OL Mune) Adi sie = eee te ae ee ee ee 43, 619
National Paine MUSCHMS: = — == 2Snes .. es Bene ee eae 145, 242
WanwdleZoners10lOcicaleA Teg ee eee eee ee ee ee ee 7, 000
International Wxchange ServilC@h sass. nena ae ee ee ee 65, 664
Maintenance and operation of buildings______________-__-__--------- 864, 945
ther, Sonera SCEviCeses =e ee eee Se ae eee ee 290, 528
Dm olbemiael ee SSS 405

"OLE ee eee tee Se en ae ee eee 2, 419, 500

In addition $1,428,050 (of which $13,825.80 was unobligated) was
appropriated to the National Gallery of Art, and $615,000 was pro-
vided in the District of Columbia appropriation act for the operation
of the National Zoological Park.

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds
by transfer or grant from other Federal agencies, as follows:

From the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, $24,287.37 for the
operation of the Institute of Social Anthropology through December
31, 1953.

From the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, $122,-
700 for archeological projects in connection with the River Basin
Surveys.

From the National Science Foundation, $6,000 to supplement Smith-
sonian funds for the transportation of exchange publications through
the International Exchange Service.

VISITORS

Visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings during the year
1952-53 again topped all previous records, totaling 3,429,429, or 3,392
more than the previous year. April 1953 was the month of largest
attendance, with 535,832; August 1952 was second, with 475,102.
Largest attendance for one day was 44,583 for May 9, 1953. Table 1
gives a summary of the attendance records for the five buildings.
These figures, when added to the 3,231,450 estimated visitors at the
National Zoological Park and 1,647,470 at the National Gallery of
Art, make a total number of visitors at the Smithsonian Institution
of 8,308,349.

284725—54——2
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

TABLE 1.—Visitors to certain Smithsonian buildings during the year ended June
30, 1953

Smith- Arts and Natural
Year and month sonian | Industries| History ae Baling Total

Building | Building | Building

| | | | |.

1952
ae ee ae 73, 580 196, 035 83, 429 29, 122 7, 968 390, 134
US Gee nee ee Seaman 84, 587 245, 475 100, 092 35, 097 9, 851 475, 102
SepcermNeresss ese aeeence ae 45, 340 107, 327 53, 678 17, 755 6, 283 230, 383
@etober-..25- sna.cs.t sso 222se3 37, 107 90, 921 60, 933 14, 494 5, 127 208, 582
NOVeGMDer 2-220) aks ananeas 30, 512 66, 385 45, 746 12, 482 3, 858 158, 983
Meramberss-<ssccncsoos =e 19, 479 42, 224 33, 076 8, 472 2, 623 105, 874

1958
(Eine eee eee eee 25, 555 59, 076 46, 302 11, 990 3, 182 146, 105
IW) p ge Ae eat oe eee eee 29, 885 74, 429 43, 350 12, 386 3, 495 163, 545
I (Ces ee ee 35, 812 89, 224 53, 442 13, 557 4, 595 196, 630
JNjoy a eae eee ae ee ae 92, 510 289, 714 113, 078 31, 568 8, 962 535, 832
I ee 80, 047 222, 349 111, 340 25, 756 8, 247 447, 739
Jone Sees ee eso esa ence 68, 855 183, 454 86, 309 24, 785 7,117 370, 520
Total a--s os sen eeea 623, 269 | 1, 666, 613 830, 775 237, 446 71, 308 3, 429, 429

A special record was kept of groups of school children visiting the
Smithsonian. The count showed that 207,420 school children came in
5,041 groups, or about 40 to a group. These are enumerated by month
in table 2.

TABLE 2.—Groups of school children visiting the Smithsonian, 1952-63

Groups Children
1952:
uly: sabe oe ee er oa a eee Stee Sie 91 2, 188
August 9.22005 2b eore ee ee es Stes 94 2, 337
September’! 1 etek SON AED ph MOR Aaa Ae 2 ee 76 2, 066
October s +4252 ween le ot Se ok abe 210 6, 292
NOVeIMmbens {aoe rts a. 2 ois LCR re ime eee 276 7, 947
December on222e ees 22.2222. ee eee 77 1, 7238
1953:
January 2. 6.4.25 ees. SE eee 178 4,127
Fe bruany. 2.22 e eee ol. tee ee eee 225 5, 658
March 22... Ot eee Ae oe age 426 14, 179
3) 0g 1B IN I IR a TY cL 1, 393 76, 193
MSY bo SOL) OR 2 ee ae 1, 414 61, 471
VATIO co 20 re ee eee ee ee Ee a eee 581 23, 239
Motaliiti. . Sh Ae SBS se 5, 041 207, 420

TWENTIETH ANNUAL JAMES ARTHUR LECTURE ON THE SUN

In 1931 the Institution received a bequest from James Arthur, of
New York, a part of the income from which was to be used for an
annual lecture on some aspect of the study of the sun. The twentieth
Arthur lecture was delivered in the auditorium of the Natural History
Building on the evening of May 21, 1953, by Dr. C. E. Kenneth Mees,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 9

director of the research laboratories of the Eastman Kodak Co.,
Rochester, N. Y. The subject of Dr. Mees’s address was “Recent Ad-
vances in Astronomical Photography.” This lecture will be published
in full in the general appendix of the Annual Report of the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for 1953.

JAMES SMITHSON’S TOMB

Ceremonies were held on the afternoon of June 24, 1953, in con-
nection with the rededication of the tomb of James Smithson, founder
of the Smithsonian Institution, which is located in a small chapel
near the north entrance of the Smithsonian Building. Speakers for
the occasion, which marked the 124th anniversary of Smithson’s death
in Genoa, Italy, were Sir Roger Makins, British Ambassador to the
United States; Sir John Cockcroft, Chairman of the Defense Re-
search Policy Committee of Great Britain; and Dr. Leonard Car-
michael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The Ambassador
and Sir John, on behalf of the British people, presented a Union Jack
to be displayed with the Stars and Stripes beside the tomb as a
“symbol of international understanding.”

The next day following the ceremonies William W. Johnson, of the
Treasurer’s Office, was presented with a certificate of award for his
original suggestion that Smithson’s crypt be redecorated.

TERMINATION OF THE INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

At the end of the calendar year 1952, the activities of the Institute
of Social Anthropology came to an end with the termination of grants
from the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, Department of State,
under which the Institute had operated. This agency was created in
1943 as an autonomous unit of the Bureau of American Ethnology to
carry out cooperative training in anthropological teaching and re-
search with the other American republics as a part of the wartime
program of the Interdepartmental Committee for Cooperation with
the American Republics. Its first director and founder was Dr. Julian
H. Steward, who was succeeded in 1946 by Dr. George M. Foster.
Summaries of the work of the Institute have been included each year
within the report of the director of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology. One of the lasting monuments of the agency is the 16 mono-
graphs in the Smithsonian series entitled “Publications of the Institute
of Social Anthropology,” the final number of which appeared in 1953.
Several anthropologists remaining on the Institute of Social Anthro-
pology staff on December 31, 1952, were transferred to the Institute
of Inter-American Affairs.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

RENOVATION OF NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

A complete rearrangement of the paintings and art objects in the
National Collection of Fine Arts was completed in May under the
supervision of its director, Thomas M. Beggs. The collection, housed
in the Natural History Building, consists of several major bequests
to the Nation through the Smithsonian. Terms of the bequests some-
times require that the collections be preserved as entities, although
they often consist of paintings quite miscellaneous, both in subject
matter and style. Compliance with these terms sometimes has been
difficult, especially with the limited space available for exhibition of
constantly increasing material. This problem has been solved by the
rearrangement in which paintings from the different collections repre-
senting various nationalities are grouped in adjacent alcoves without
breaking up the integrity of any collection.

Nucleus of the rearrangement is the Harriet Lane Johnston collec-
tion, bequeathed to the Nation by the niece of President James
Buchanan and First Lady of the White House during his administra-
tion. It was this bequest, quite typical of the Civil War period taste
in art and containing such relics as the Bible used by President
Buchanan at his inauguration, that started the original National Gal-
lery of Art. This collection is maintained in its entirety in the new
arrangement. This is also true of the Ralph Cross Johnson, John
Gellatly, and Alfred Duane Pell collections. Other large collections
are represented by only a few examples. These include the William
T’. Evans collection, the Henry Ward Ranger bequest, and the A. R.
and M. H. Eddy donation.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF THE
INSTITUTION

National Museum.—The collections of the National Museum in-
creased by more than 1,607,000 specimens during the year, a million
more than the previous year, bringing the total catalog entries to
34,764,250. Some of the year’s outstanding accessions included: In
anthropology, more than 300 chipped-stone artifacts from Dauphin
County, Pa.; 2,000 potsherds from Transjordan and Palestine; and a
fine collection of ceramic ware representing New England folk pot-
tery; in zoology, more than 1,000 mammals from South West Africa,
about 2,400 bird skins and skeletons from Colombia, 14,000 fishes from
Bermuda and the Caribbean, 14,000 ladybird beetles, and 3,200 iden-
tified polychaete worms; in botany, 45,000 plant specimens from
Ecuador and Colombia; in geology, an array of minerals, gems, and
meteorites, 500,000 Arctic Foraminifera, and several excellent fossil
vertebrate remains; in engineering and industries, about 500 radio and
electronic devices and a collection of lithographic materials and equip-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 11

ment; and in history, a fine lot of laces, linens, and jewelry from Mrs.
Woodrow Wilson, a dress of Mrs. Harry S. Truman for the First
Ladies collection of gowns, and 93 pistols for the modern firearms
series.

Members of the staff conducted fieldwork in Panama, British
Guiana, South West Africa, Thailand, Tahiti, Mexico, Fiji Islands,
and many parts of the United States. The Museum issued 18
publications.

National Gallery of Art-—The Gallery had 1,647,470 visitors dur-
ing the year, an 8-percent increase over 1951-52. In all, 1,408 acces-
sions were received, by gift, loan, or deposit. Works of art accepted
included paintings by A. V. Tack, Manet, Berthe Morisot, Sir William
Orpen, Leonid, John Kensett, Cranach, Van Dyck, P. Gertner, A.
Benson, and B. Bruyn; a bust of Whistler by Sir Joseph Boehm; and
several groups of prints and drawings. Nine special exhibitions were
held. Traveling exhibitions of prints from the Rosenwald Collec-
tion were circulated to 17 galleries and museums in this country and
1 in Canada. Exhibitions from the “Index of American Design”
were given 58 bookings in 21 States and the District of Columbia and
also in Germany, Austria, Italy, Greece, Turkey, and Palestine. Over
43,000 persons attended the Gallery’s special tours and the “Picture
of the Week” talks, and 14,000 attended the 39 auditorium lectures on
Sunday afternoons. The Sunday evening concerts in the west garden
court were continued.

National Collection of Fine Arts—The Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion met on December 2, 1952, and accepted for the National Collec-
tion 8 oil paintings, 1 sculpture, 5 pieces of modern glass, and 4 ceramic
pieces. An addition of $5,000 was made to the Barney fund. The
Gallery held 18 special exhibitions during the year. The Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service circulated 32 exhibitions, 20 in the
United States and Canada and 12 abroad.

Freer Gallery of Art-—Purchases for the collections of the Freer
Gallery included Chinese painting, bronzes, metalwork, jade, lacquer,
and pottery; Persian paintings, pottery, and manuscripts; Indian
paintings; and Japanese pottery. More than 71,000 persons visited
the Gallery. In May the Gallery adopted a new plan of keeping open
to the public on Tuesday evenings, with occasional lectures.

Bureau of American Lthnology.—The anthropologists of the Bu-
reau staff continued their researches, Dr. Stirling on mid-American
archeology, Dr. Collins on the Eskimo and Arctic anthropology, Dr.
Harrington on Indian linguistics and the California Indians, and Dr.
Drucker on the ethnology of Mexico and the northwest coast of
North America. Dr. Roberts continued as Director of the River
Basin Surveys, and Dr. Foster as Director of the Institute of Social
Anthropology (to the time of its termination on December 31).
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

International Exchange Service—aAs the official United States
agency for the interchange of governmental, scientific, and literary
publications between this country and other nations of the world, the
International Exchange Service during the year handled 1,021,938
packages of such publications, weighing 855,102 pounds. This was
20,324 packages and 29,475 pounds more than the previous year. Con-
signments were made to all countries except China, North Korea, and
Rumania. Toward the end of the year, a grant of $6,000 was received
from the National Science Foundation to supplement funds for the
transportation of exchange publications that otherwise would have
been delayed.

National Zoological Park.—The Zoo received 810 accessions during
the year, comprising 1,797 individual animals, and 1,731 were re-
moved by death, exchange, et cetera. The net count of animals at the
end of the year was 2,741. Noteworthy among the accessions were 2
Barbary apes, a Formosan civet never before exhibited in the Zoo, 3
East Indian monitor lizards, a young flat-tailed otter from Brazil, also
the first of its kind to be exhibited here, and 2 of the rare Allen’s
monkeys. In all, 247 creatures were born or hatched at the Zoo during
the year—95 mammals, 119 birds, and 33 reptiles. Visitors totaled
approximately 3,231,000.

Astrophysical Observatory.—The manuscript of volume 7 of the
Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory was completed and sent to
the printer late in the year. Mr. Hoover completed a thorough study
of the silver-disk pyrheliometer. Two of these instruments were built
in the APO shops for other institutions. Solar-radiation studies were
continued at the Observatory’s two field stations—at Montezuma,
Chile, and Table Mountain, Calif. Research carried on by the Divi-
sion of Radiation and Organisms concerned mainly physiological and
biochemical processes by which light regulates plant growth and
the mechanisms of the action of the auxin-type growth hormones, and
several scientific papers were published.

National Air Museum.—Providing adequate storage facilities for
the space-consuming material awaiting a National Air Museum build-
ing continues to be a serious problem. Twenty loads of material were
brought from Park Ridge, Ill., to the new storage facility provided at
Suitland, Md. The Museum staff has helped in the celebration of the
Fiftieth Anniversary of Powered Flight, participated in many special
aeronautical events and exhibits, and inspected material for possible
accession, besides taking care of the collections. The Museum re-
ceived 32 accessions (totaling 112 specimens) from 28 sources. Full-
sized aircraft received included a Douglas DC-3 transport plane that
had traveled 814 million air miles, the Hacalibur III in which a series
of historic flights were made, the original Hiler-copter, and a German
Messerschmitt Me 163 rocket interceptor. At the end of the year
SECRETARY’S REPORT 13

manuscript of a new edition of the Handbook of the Aeronautical Col-
lections was nearly completed.

Canal Zone Biological Area.—New diesel generators installed at the
station now insure an adequate supply of electric current. A number
of other necessary improvements were made. During the year 700
visitors came to the islands, a hundred more than the previous year;
57 of these were scientists who used the facilities of the island to
further their various researches, chiefly in biology and photography.

LIBRARY

Accessions to the Smithsonian library totaled more than 68,414
publications during the year, these coming from more than 100 foreign
countries. One of the most notable gifts of the year was a large and
valuable collection of books and periodicals on philately presented
by Eugene N. Costales, of New York. At the close of the year the
holdings of the Smithsonian library and all its branches aggregated
941,328 volumes including 584,295 in the Smithsonian Deposit at the
Library of Congress but exclusive of incomplete volumes of serials and
separates and reprints from serials.

PUBLICATIONS

Eighty-one publications were issued under the Smithsonian imprint
during the year. (See Appendix 12 for complete list.) Outstanding
among these were: “Primitive Fossil Gastropods and Their Bearing
on Gastropod Classification,” by J. Brookes Knight; “Structure and
Function of the Genitalia in Some American Agelenid Spiders,” by
Robert L. Gering; “Dresses of the First Ladies of the White House,”
by Margaret W. Brown; “The Generic Names of the Beetle Family
Staphylinidae,” by Richard E. Blackwelder; “Life Histories of North
American Wood Warblers,” by A. C. Bent; “Catalog of the Cycle
Collection of the Division of Engineering, U. S. National Museum,”
by Smith Hempstone Oliver; “The Indian Tribes of North America,”
by John R. Swanton; “La Venta, Tabasco: A Study of Olmec Ceramics
and Art,” by Philip Drucker; and “Prehistoric Settlement Patterns
in the Virt Valley, Peru,” by Gordon R. Willey. In all, 177,675 copies
of Smithsonian publications were distributed during the year. The
galley proof of the ninth edition of the Smithsonian Physical Tables

was being read by the compiler, Dr. W. E. Forsythe, at the end of
the year.
APPENDIX 1

Report on the United States National Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condition
and operations of the United States National Museum for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1953:

COLLECTIONS

Specimens incorporated into the national collections totaled 1,607,911
(more than twice the number received last year) and were distributed
among the six departments as follows: Anthropology, 10,540; zoology,
211,677 ; botany, 82,984; geology, 1,275,140; engineering and industries,
2,008; and history, 25,562. The unusual increase is attributable chiefly
to the accessioning of a large number of small fossils, including 750,000
Permian invertebrates and 500,000 Arctic Foraminifera. Most of the
other accessions were acquired as gifts from individuals or as transfers
from Government departments and agencies. The Annual Report of
the Museum, published as a separate document, contains a detailed list
of the year’s acquisitions, of which the more important are summarized
below. Catalog entries in all departments now total 34,764,250.

Anthropology.—A collection of 315 chipped-stone artifacts, includ-
ing fluted projectile points and other man-made objects that suggest
a Paleo-Indian culture, from the Shoop site, Dauphin County, Pa., is
of particular interest. The Carnegie Institution of Washington, in
continuation of their generous cooperation, donated a collection of
potsherds representing type objects from excavated sites in the Maya
area.

Through an exchange with the Denver Art Museum, the division of
ethnology acquired two ceremonial bundles that were formerly used
by northern Blackfoot Indians in the rites for tobacco planting. A
rare and valuable Chinese Lamaist robe, of dark blue silk and embel-
lished with over-all couching of braided silk and embroidery in metal-
lic gilt, was presented by Maj. Lee Hagood who had acquired it in
Shanghai in 1918. Objects recovered from historical sites of villages,
trading posts, and factories in Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, New
York, and Massachusetts and other New England States were received
from various donors. Of outstanding interest and usefulness to the
collector and student of early American ceramics are 189 pieces of red-
ware, stoneware, and other types of New England folk pottery pre-
sented by Mrs. Lura Woodside Watkins. These pottery fragments
excavated from sites of New England potteries in existence between

14
SECRETARY’S REPORT 15

1687 and 1880 were assembled by Mrs. Watkins as a study collection for
use and illustration in her “New England Potters and Their Wares.”
Another important addition, presented by Mrs. Florence Bushee of
Newbury, comprises 320 fragments and whole specimens of glass and
ceramics excavated by the late Charles H. Danforth at the site of the
Boston and Sandwich Glass Co. factory at Sandwich, Mass.

A cast of the Hotu IT skull excavated in Iran in 1951 was donated
by the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research and
the American Institute of Human Paleontology.

Zoology.—More than 1,000 mammals collected by Charles O. Hand-
ley, Jr., in the Kalahari Desert region of South West Africa, while
serving as a member of the Peabody-Harvard expedition under the
leadership of L. K. Marshall, were added to the collection. Nearly
500 small mammals were received from various units and members of
the military services stationed in Korea and Japan. As transfers the
Museum received 47 mammals of Madagascar from Lt. Vernon J. Tip-
ton, United States Army Medical Service Graduate School; and a
series of rodents from the Marshall, Gilbert, Phoenix, and Tahiti
Islands from investigators working under the auspices of the United
States Geological Survey and the Pacific Science Board of the Na-
tional Research Council. Dr. Henry W. Setzer, while giving instruc-
tion on the preparation of specimens for purposes of documentation
to members of a U. S. Army medical unit, obtained 156 mammals in
Panama.

On the termination of fieldwork in Colombia by M. A. Carriker, Jr.,
whose collecting has been financed for several years by the income from
the W. L. Abbott bequest, 2,174 skins and 225 skeletons of birds were
forwarded to the Museum. The Abbott bequest also provided funds
for the purchase of 349 skins of birds from Northern Rhodesia. Dr.
Harry M. Smith presented 386 skins of birds taken in northern Burma.
As transfers the Museum received 58 Alaskan bird skins from the Pub-
lic Health Service’s Arctic Health Research Center at Anchorage and
49 skins and 20 skeletons of birds from the Office of Naval Research
taken in the vicinity of Point Barrow, Alaska.

Collecting on various islands in the Pacific Ocean, chiefly in the
Marshall and Gilbert Islands and the Tuamotus, under the auspices of
the Pacific Science Board by Joe T. Marshall, Edwin T. Moul, and J.
P. E. Morrison, and of the United States Geological Survey by F. R.
Fosberg, resulted in the transfer of 365 lizards to the Museum.

More than 14,000 specimens of fishes obtained by Dr. William Beebe
in Bermuda and the Caribbean area were presented by the New York
Zoological Society. Other important accessions recorded were some
1,500 fishes from the Blue Dolphin North Atlantic expeditions under
the leadership of Comdr. David C. Nutt; 528 fishes from the Gulf
of Mexico and the coast of Washington transferred by the United
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

States Fish and Wildlife Service; 67 paratypes of Mexican fishes from
Dr. José Alvarez; and 582 fishes from the Red Sea collected by Dr.
Eugenie Clark. As exchanges there were received 144 fishes, including
32 holotypes and paratypes, from the University of Hawaii, and 161
specimens, representing 100 species of Indian fishes, from the Zoologi-
cal Survey of India.

The Korschefsky collection of ladybird beetles, comprising over
14,000 specimens and containing 1,445 named species representing 206
genera, was acquired by purchase by the Smithsonian Institution, thus
increasing the usefulness of the reference series for this family of
beetles. As a result of the gift of 539 termites, comprising 96 species
hitherto unrepresented in the collections, of which 65 were represented
by type material, by Dr. Alfred Emerson, University of Chicago, the
national collections now contain representatives of more than 1,000 of
the 1,800 known species.

Over 38,200 identified polychaete worms were presented by Dr.
Marian H. Pettibone, of the University of New Hampshire. As
transfers from the Pacific Science Board, the Division of Marine In-
vertebrates received 3,412 forms of marine life found on Raroia Atoll
in the ‘l'uamotus; 3,980 invertebrates collected on the northern Mar-
shall and Gilbert Islands from the United States Geological Survey ;
and more than 10,000 identified peneid shrimps and some 500 miscel-
laneous crustaceans and other marine invertebrates of the Gulf of
Mexico from the Fish and Wildlife Service. About 800 holotypes and
paratypes were added to the marine-invertebrate collections by the
donors who described the new species.

Mollusks from atolls in the northern Marshall Islands, Onotoa Atoll
in the Gilbert Islands, Raroia in the Tuamotus, and localities in the
Fiji, Cook, and Society Islands were transferred by the Pacific Science
Board and the United States Geological Survey. Approximately
2,000 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks from Stewart Island,
New Zealand, were presented by Miss Olive Allan. A representation
of almost all known races and colonies of the colorful tree snails
(Liguus) of Florida, totaling 1,680 specimens, was received from
Ralph H. Humes. Dr. George R. LaRue, University of Michigan,
one of the leading American parasitologists, presented 1,200 lots of
tapeworms and digenetic trematodes. Nearly 100 echinoderms from
Onotoa Atoll collected by Dr. P. E. Cloud, Jr., and 707 from the
Marshall Islands collected by F. S. MacNeil were transferred by the
United States Geological Survey.

Botany.—An important addition to the South American collections
resulted from the transfer to the National Herbarium from the herb-
arium of the National Arboretum, United States Department of
Agriculture, of 45,000 botanical specimens collected in Ecuador and
Colombia by the staffs of the Cinchona missions. The Division of
SECRETARY’S REPORT V7

Plant Introduction and Exploration, United States Department of
Agriculture, transferred 704 specimens from Turkey and South Africa
and 968 specimens from southern Brazil. Australian plants collected
by L. R. Specht while participating in the National Geographic
Society—Smithsonian Institution-Commonwealth of Australia expedi-
tion to Arnhem Land were presented by the Australian Government.

Gifts included 283 plants of the table mountains of Venezuela from
the New York Botanical Garden; 1,693 Virginia plants from H. A.
Allard; 498 specimens, mostly from the Amazon region, from the
Instituto Agronomico do Norte, Belém, Para, Brazil; and 446 Colom-
bian plants from the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota.

As exchanges, several large collections were received, of which refer-
ence may be made to 2,070 specimens, mostly from Cuba, from the
Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm; 1,312 specimens from the
Komaroyv Botanical Institute, Academy of Sciences, U. S. S. R.; and
579 specimens from the Belgian Congo from the Jardin Botanique
de l’Etat, Brussels.

E. P. Killip collected 2,281 plants for the Museum on Big Pine Key,
Fla., and the Isle of Pines, Cuba. Fieldwork by Dr. Ernest R. Sohns
in Guanajuato, Mexico, added 875 specimens to the herbarium.

Geology.—Noteworthy gifts received include an exhibition group of
datolite crystals from Joseph §. Rapalus; uranium minerals from
Utah from George Dix; and a large polished slab of rhodocrosite of
rich rose color obtained in Argentina from Ellis Clarke Soper.

A fine crystal of gadolinite from Norway, an aquamarine (beryl)
crystal from Russia, a large specimen of vanadinite from Mexico, sev-
eral groups of unusual cyrtolite crystals from Colorado, and a milarite
crystal from Switzerland were added to the Roebling Collection.

Included among the additions to the Canfield Collection were a large
and unusual cruciform twin crystal of quartz from Mexico, a group of
quartz crystals from Madagascar, an emerald crystal from Austria, an
opal from Australia, and a large green tourmaline crystal from Brazil.
The Chamberlain bequest provided funds for the purchase of a 28.8-
carat green apatite from Burma and a 17.3-carat pink scapolite cat’s-
eye from Ceylon. A very unusual golden beryl cat’s-eye from Mada-
gascar, weighing 43 carats, was acquired for the gem collection by
exchange. Dr. Stuart H. Perry continued his interest in the meteorite
collection by donating a sample of the unique Soroti, Uganda, meteor-
ite; other meteorites, mostly from the United States, were acquired by
gift or purchase.

As gifts, the Museum received Permian gastropods from the Florida
Mountains, N. Mex., Miocene mollusks from Bogachiel River, Wash.,
Cretaceous and Tertiary Foraminifera from Egypt, Cretaceous inver-
tebrates from Texas, Permian invertebrates from Sicily, Devonian
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

fossils from Iowa, Tertiary invertebrates from Trinidad, and Foram-
inifera from the Gulf of Mexico.

Through funds provided by the Springer bequest, the Museum ac-
quired 11 type specimens of Carboniferous and Ordovician crinoids
and 45 metatypes of other Ordovician crinoids from Oklahoma. The
Museum purchased under the Walcott bequest Mesozoic invertebrates
from the Austrian Alps and Tertiary and Mesozoic brachiopods from
Sicily. Fieldwork financed by the same bequest resulted in the col-
lection in Mexico of 900 rock samples containing Foraminifera by Dr.
A. R. Loeblich, Jr., and Dr. David H. Dunkle, and 10,000 invertebrates
by Dr. G. A. Cooper, Arthur L. Bowsher, and William T. Allen in
New Mexico, Texas, and Missouri.

Six transfers were received from the United States Geological Sur-
vey, among which were specimens sorted out from the deep-sea cores
obtained in the North Atlantic. Another transfer, received from the
Office of Naval Research, contains the type specimens of fossil woods
from the Cretaceous of Alaska described by Dr. C. A. Arnold, of the
University of Michigan.

One of the largest accessions, 500,000 Arctic Foraminifera, includes
materials obtained during cruises of the U. 8S. S. Albatross vessels
under the command of Capt. R. A. Bartlett and Comdr. David C.
Nutt, and specimens obtained by Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., under a grant
from the Office of Naval Research.

New and interesting specimens have been acquired by exchange, in-
cluding many genera and species of Foraminifera not hitherto repre-
sented in the collections, 158 invertebrates from the Triassic of Eng-
land and the Tertiary of Germany, 355 Austrian Triassic brachiopods
from the Naturhistorisches Museum, and 69 Paleozoic and Cenozoic
brachiopods from Japan from the National University, Yokohama.

Transfers from the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys include,
among others, a nearly complete skeleton of the fossil reptile Champ-
sosaurus from the Paleocene of North Dakota, a plesiosaur skeleton
from the Upper Cretaceous of Wyoming, and some 70 specimens of
mammals from Oligocene and Miocene strata of the Canyon Ferry
Reservoir area in Montana, all collected by Dr. T. E. White. An im-
portant assemblage of Paleocene mammalian jaws and teeth from the
Bison basin in central Wyoming as well as several small collections
of mammals from Hocene beds of the Powder River and Wind River
basins in Wyoming and from the Eocene and Oligocene in Montana
were transferred by the United States Geological Survey. Lower and
Middle Cretaceous fishes were collected in Mexico by Dr. David H.
Dunkle under the income of the Walcott bequest. An excellent col-
lection of cetacean and other mammalian remains from the Miocene
of the Chesapeake Bay region made by the late Dr. R. Lee Collins
was presented to the Museum by his wife.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 19

Engineering and industries.—Nearly 500 electronic and radio de-
vices collected and preserved by the late L. C. F. Horle, radio pioneer
and engineer, were presented by Mrs. Susan Horle. Of equal inter-
est is a small planing machine reputed to have been used to plane
bamboo for the filaments of early Edison lamps, presented by Dr.
Vannevar Bush. Allen Pope presented a gasoline engine made about
1898 by his father, Harry Pope, to power an experimental] automo-
bile. An apparatus for taking core samples of the ocean bottom,
perfected by Dr. Charles S. Piggot and received from the Carnegie
Institution of Washington, has considerable historical significance
inasmuch as the subsequent development of this instrument has vastly
extended knowledge of the ocean floor.

From Dr. Selman A. Waksman the Museum received the original
shaking machine and innoculating needle used by him in the experi-
ments that resulted in the discovery of the antibiotic streptomycin.

Another outstanding accession was the gift by the Lithographers
National Association, Inc., of 142 lithographs, plates, and other tech-
nical materials which will be used in preparing a display of the his-
tory and techniques of offset lithography. José Ortiz Echagiie, a dis-
tinguished Spanish pictorial photographer, presented 15 of his carbon
fresson process prints. Six prints by the English pictorialist, the late
Alexander Keighley, were received from his estate.

A scale model of the Fourdrinier papermaking machine was pre-
sented by the Hammermill Paper Co., and one of a modern cotton
ginning mill constructed at the United States Cotton Laboratory,
Stoneville, Miss., was transferred from the United States Department
of Agriculture. A pictorial quilt of Fort Dearborn, made about 1815,
was received from Mrs. John H. Snyder.

As exchanges, the Museum acquired 20 specimens of woods of
Thailand from the Royal Forest Department, Bangkok. Study sets
of the woods of New Zealand, Sarawak, and Iriomote Islands were
also added to the collection.

History.—Of particular interest among the accessions was the gift
by Mrs. Woodrow Wilson of the laces, embroidered linens, and a large
gold, diamond, and Jalique glass brooch presented to her when she
accompanied President Wilson to Europe in 1919. The collection of
dresses of the First Ladies of the White House was augmented by the
dress given by Mrs. Harry S. Truman to represent the administration
of President Truman, 1945-1953. A black crepe dress worn by Queen
Victoria of the United Kingdom about 1880 was given to the costume
collection by Mrs. Langley Moore, of the London Museum of Costume.

The Department of Justice transferred 93 pistols needed to com-
plete the series of modern firearms in the division of military history.

Further additions to the Straub collection of gold and silver coins
were made by Paul A. Straub.
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

The Post Office Department transferred to the division of philately
3,198 recently issued stamps which had been distributed by the Uni-
versal Postal Union. Gifts of stamps also were received from the
Governments of Monaco, Philippines, Netherlands, Nicaragua,
Czechoslovakia, Poland, Australia, and Norway, and from the United
Nations Postal Administration. Outstanding additions to the phil-
atelic collection were as follows: 12 volumes of stamps of Convention
States of India from an anonymous donor; carrier stamps and rare
foreign stamps from Philip H. Ward, Jr.; Nesbitt dies and postal
fiscal stamps of Austria-Hungary from B. H. Homan; and United
States precancels and Bureau print precancel errors from John R.
Boker, Jr.

EXPLORATION AND FIELDWORK

At the invitation of Princeton University, Dr. Waldo R. Wedel,
curator of archeology, participated from July until September 1952 as
the representative of the Smithsonian Institution in the interpretation
of the archeological aspects of a site near Cody, Wyo., occupied nearly
7,000 years ago by aboriginal hunters of buffalo. Ninety-five archeo-
logical sites located in the Upper Essequibo, the Rupununi savannas,
and the coastal area of the northwest district of British Guiana were
surveyed and excavated in the interval between October 1952 and
April 1953 by Dr. Clifford Evans, associate curator of archeology,
under a Fulbright research grant, funds provided by the Smithsonian
Institution, and grants from other sources to the coinvestigator, Dr.
Betty J. Meggers. At the request of a field party of the United States
Geological Survey working in the Monument Valley-Comb Ridge
area of northeastern Arizona, Dr. Walter W. Taylor, collaborator in
anthropology, visited 41 sites, from 17 of which sherd collections were
assembled for subsequent study. At the close of the fiscal year John
C. Ewers, associate curator of ethnology, was conducting field investi-
gations of Assiniboin Indian arts and crafts on Fort Peck and Fort
Belknap Reservations, Montana.

During the last half of the year 1952, Charles O. Handley, Jr., assist-
ant curator of mammals, observed and collected mammals in the
Kalahari Desert region of northeastern South West Africa while
assigned to the Peabody-Harvard ethnological expedition. Following
arrival at Walvis Bay on July 1, 1953, the party, under the direction
of L. K. Marshall, proceeded to Windhoek which served as a base
for the 6-months investigation of the primitive Bushmen residing in
the desert south of Okavongo River. Maun in Bechuanaland was the
easternmost locality visited. In June 1953 Mr. Handley also made a
short field trip to the Dismal Swamp of Virginia to obtain additional
data for inclusion in a memoir on that swamp sponsored by the Vir-
ginia Academy of Sciences. At the request of the Army Medical

SECRETARY’S REPORT At

Services, Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of mammals, was
given a detail in January and February 1953 to proceed to the Canal
Zone of Panama to give instruction to members of the 25th Preventive
Medicine Survey Detachment on the collection and preparation of
study specimens of mammals involved in the parasitological and epi-
demiological investigations of tropical diseases, and on the comple-
tion of this assignment he devoted a few days to the study of the fauna
of Barro Colorado Island.

During May and June, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, research associate,
assisted by W. M. Perrygo of the National Museum, carried on field
studies on the distribution of bird life in Panama in continuation of a
program begun several years ago. The work this year covered an area
in the southern part of the Province of Veraguas, extending from the
National Highway that crosses western Panama down through the
great tracts of swampy forest that le back of the southern coast. The
series of specimens obtained give valuable comparative material from
an area that previously had been poorly represented in the National
Museum collections. Field observations were highly interesting, since
the middle of May marked the beginning of the rains, whereas most
of the earlier studies had been made during the dry season of the year.
Many of the resident birds exhibit marked difference in habit between
the two periods. Though most of the great host of migrant birds from
North America that winter here leave for the north by May, numerous
records were obtained of several species of which there are groups of
younger individuals that have not yet attained breeding status but
that remain in these tropical areas through the summer season when
the older members are on their northern nesting grounds. Orni-
thological fieldwork in Thailand by Herbert G. Deignan was made
possible by grants from the Guggenheim Foundation and special
research funds of the Smithsonian Institution. He arrived at Bangkok
on October 8, 1952, and 12 days later departed for the hills west of
that city accompanied by Robert E. Elbel, Mutual Security Agency,
and three native assistants. Collections were made in Kanchanaburi
province during October and November. Fieldwork in Prochnap
Khiri Khan province, which is situated in southwestern Thailand
between the Gulf of Siam and the Tenasserim Mountain range, was
completed on December 31, 1952. The field party worked during
January 1953 in the mountainous areas of western Nan and northern
Lampang provinces on the Thailand-Laos frontier. On F ebruary 9,
1953, Deignan arrived at Chiang Rai, capital of the northernmost
province, and from there proceeded to the Mekong River Valley and
made collections at Chiang Saen Kao in the region where the bound-
aries of Burma, Thailand, and Indo-China meet. After returning to
Bangkok on March 20, Deignan devoted a week to fieldwork in Ratburi
province, which is situated betwen the provinces of Kanchanaburi and
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Prochnap Khiri Khan. The field party then proceeded late in March
to the forested area near Ban Hua Thanon in Khlong Klung Valley,
province of Nakhon Sawan, where fieldwork in Thailand was termi-
nated on May 4, 1953.

Traveling by air from Washington, D. C., Dr. Joseph P. E. Morri-
son, associate curator of mollusks, arrived at Viti Levu, one of the
Fiji Islands, on June 11, 1952, and continued the flight on the same
day to Tahiti by way of the Cook Islands. Following 10 days of col-
lecting on Tahiti, the team for the study of coral-atoll ecology or-
ganized by the Pacific Science Board was transported, through the
courtesy of the French Government, some 450 miles by schooner to
Raroia Atoll, where field studies and collections were made from
June 26 to September 7, 1952. Members of the field party were
brought back to Tahiti by the same French schooner. Following
another week of collecting on Tahiti, Dr. Morrison proceeded by air
to Aitutaki in the Cook Islands and Viti Levu, the season’s work being
completed on September 23 at that locality.

Fieldwork by three parties engaged in search for invertebrate and
vertebrate fossils was financed by the income from the Walcott bequest.
Dr. G. A. Cooper, curator, Arthur L. Bowsher, associate curator, and
W. T. Allen, aide, division of invertebrate paleontology and paleo-
botany, commenced the season’s work on July 9, 1952, at Adair, Okla.,
where they spent 2 days collecting Mississippian fossils while en route
to Pine Springs Camp in the Guadalupe Mountains of western Texas.
Blocks of invertebrate fossils were quarried from the Permian reef
limestone near Guadalupe Peak. On July 18 Cooper’s party pro-
ceeded to Silver City, N. Mex., to obtain Devonian fossils and thence
to other Devonian localities in the vicinity of Kingston, Mud Springs
Mountains, Derry, the San Andreas and Sacramento Mountains near
Alamogordo, and the Mimbres Mountains. Blocks of silicified upper
Pennsylvanian limestone were also collected in the southern part of
the Sacramento Mountains. On the return trip stops were made July
29 to August 2, at Ponca City and Tulsa, Okla., to collect Permian
invertebrates, and in Missouri for Mississippian fossils.

From the middle of September until mid-December, associate cura-
tors Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., and Dr. David H. Dunkle searched for
Jurassic and Cretaceous invertebrates and Mesozoic and Tertiary
vertebrates in eastern and southern Mexico. They made initial col-
lections in the extensive Cretaceous beds in Coahuila and Tamaulipas
and later continued the fieldwork in Puebla, Oaxaca, and Chiapas.
In the course of this trip, which traversed the Sierra Madre Oriental
from the vicinity of Monterrey to beyond the Isthmus of Tehuantepec,
they collected Foraminifera, mollusks, and brachiopods from the
Mesozoic deposits and vertebrates from an Upper Cretaceous forma-

SECRETARY’S REPORT 23

tion in Tamaulipas, Lower Cretaceous deposits near Tlaxiaco, Oaxaca,
and a Tertiary occurrence near Guanajuato.

The recently discovered occurrence of Paleocene mammals in the
Bison Basin near the divide between the Red Desert and the valley of
the Sweetwater River in south-central Wyoming by a field party of
the United States Geological Survey led Dr. C. L. Gazin, curator of
vertebrate paleontology, with the assistance of F. L. Pearce, to com-
mence an intensive search for additional materials.

A grant from the National Science Foundation enabled Dr. A. C.
Smith, curator of phanerogams, to proceed from Washington on
March 6, 1953, to Fiji, where it is his intention to continue botanical]
field studies until January 1954 on the upland regions on south-central
Viti Levu as well as on Ovalau, Taveuni, and Ngan.

Dr. Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator of grasses, devoted several
weeks in October and November 1952 to collecting grasses in Mexico,
mostly in the State of Guanajuato.

EK. P. Killip, research associate in botany, continued his critical
studies of the plants of Big Pine Key, Fla., and was engaged also
for several months in collecting plants on the Isle of Pines, Cuba.

Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator of the department of his-
tory, participated in May 1953 in the underwater investigation of the
site of a Spanish ship sunk off Plantation Key, Fla. Evidence found
on the wreck proved this ship to have been one of a fleet com-
manded by Admiral de Torres which, according to documents pre-
served in the Casa Lonja in Seville, Spain, was wrecked on a nearby
reef during a hurricane on July 15, 1733. Hand grenades, cannon
balls, swords, flintlock muskets, silver coins, and pewter utensils were
recovered at the site. This fieldwork is carried on under a grant
of funds from E. A. Link, of the Link Aviation Corp.

VISITORS

During the fiscal year 1953 there were 3,120,657 visitors to the
Museum buildings, an average daily attendance of 8,549. This is an
increase of 17,006 over the total of 3,103,651 visitors in the previous
fiscal year. ‘The 207,420 school children included in this total arrived
in 5,041 separate groups. Most of them traveled by bus, and some
came from localities as far distant as Montana, North and South
Dakota, Texas, and Mississippi. Small groups of schoolchildren are
not recorded. Almost two-thirds of all the visitors entered the
Museum buildings during April to August, inclusive. April 1953 was
the month of the largest attendance with 495,302 visitors; August
1952 was the next largest with 430,154; and May 1953 was third with
413,786. Attendance records for the buildings show the following
numbers of visitors: Smithsonian Building, 623,269; Arts and Indus-
tries Building, 1,666,613; and Natural History Building, 830,775.

284725548
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

During the year five office rooms assigned to the division of crafts
and industries in the Arts and Industries Building were reconditioned,
the work involving the construction of concrete floors, the painting
of the office rooms, and replastering of one wall. Steel racks were
constructed for housing 1,170 drawers, which provided accessibility to
3,860 cubic feet of anthropological materials hitherto located in essen-
tially dead storage.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

The vacancy in the division of medicine and public health was
filled on December 8, 1952, by the appointment of George B. Griffen-
hagen as associate curator.

Respectfully submitted.

Remineron Ketxuoce, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
Report on the National Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trus-
tees, the Sixteenth Annual Report of the National Gallery of Art,
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1953. This report is made pursuant
to the provisions of section 5 (d) of Public Resolution No. 14, 75th
Congress, 1st session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51).

ORGANIZATION

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secre-
tary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. The five general trustees con-
tinuing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1953, were
Samuel H. Kress, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Chester
Dale, and Paul Mellon. The Board of Trustees held its annual meet-
ing on May 5, 1953. Samuel H. Kress was reelected President and
Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Vice President, to serve for the ensuing
year. Donald D. Shepard continued to serve during the year as
adviser to the Board.

All the executive officers of the Gallery continued in office during
the year:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer.
David E. Finley, Director.

Harry A. McBride, Administrator.
Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.
John Walker, Chief Curator.

Macgill James, Assistant Director.

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the
annual meeting May 5, 1953, were as follows:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, Fred M. Vinson, chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, vice chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Leonard Carmichael.
Paul Mellon.

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, George M. Humphrey, chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, vice chairman.

25
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.
Chester Dale.
Paul Mellon.
ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, chairman.
Duncan Phillips.
Chester Dale.
Paul Mellon.
David E. Finley.
PERSONNEL

On June 30, 1953, full-time Government employees on the staff of
the National Gallery of Art numbered 304, as compared with 301
employees as of June 30, 1952. The United States Civil Service
regulations govern the appointment of employees paid from appro-
priated public funds.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1953, the Congress of the United
States appropriated for the National Gallery of Art $1,428,050, to be
used for salaries and expenses in the operation and upkeep of the
Gallery, the protection and care of works of art acquired by the Board
of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident thereto, as au-
thorized by section 4 (a) of Public Resolution No. 14, 75th Congress,
1st session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51). This sum in-
cludes the regular appropriation of $1,240,550 and a supplemental
appropration of $187,500 for the replacement and repair of refrigera-
tion equipment used in connection with the air conditioning.

From the regular appropriation the following expenditures and
encumbrances were incurred:

Personal services._--_------------------------------~---------- $1, 108, 950. 60
Printing and reproduction__----------------------------------- 5, 222. 31
Electricity, supplies, equipment, ete---------------------------- 126, 347. 59
Unobligated balance_---~-----~-------------------------------- 30. 10

pte 22s oot Se ee ere ae eee 1, 240, 550. 00

From the supplemental appropriation the following expenditures
and encumbrances were incurred :

Replacement of 3 refrigeration machines___--------------------- $170, 398. 00
Repair of motors, etec------------------------------------------- 3, 806. 30
Unobligated balance__------—---------------------------—------- 18, 795. 70

i Ws] 57 ee ee eee 187, 500. 00
SECRETARY'S REPORT 27

ATTENDANCE

There were 1,647,470 visitors to the Gallery during the fiscal year
1953, an average daily attendance of about 4,538. ‘This is an increase
of 124,874 over the number for 1952. Since March 17, 1941, when the
Gallery was opened to the public, to June 30, 1958, there have been
21,931,488 visitors.

ACCESSIONS

There were 1,408 accessions by the National Gallery of Art as gifts,
loans, and deposits during the fiscal year 1953. Most of the paintings
and a number of the prints were placed on exhibition.

GIFTS

PAINTINGS

The Board of Trustees on July 21, 1952, accepted from Mrs. Augus-
tus Vincent Tack the gift of a portrait of President Truman, painted
by her husband, which will be held for a National Portrait Gallery.
On October 21 the Gallery received the gift of a painting from Samuel
L. Fuller, entitled “Portrait of a Lady,” by Salviati, which had been
accepted by the Board of Trustees on December 6, 1950. On Novem-
ber 8, the Board accepted the bequest by the late Mrs. Charles S.
Carstairs of three paintings: “Head of a Woman,” by Manet; “The
Sisters,” by Berthe Morisot; and a portrait of herself by Sir William
Orpen. The gift of a painting by Leonid entitled “Faraduro,” from
the Avalon Foundation, was accepted by the Board of Trustees on
December 3, 1952. On February 9, 1953, the Board accepted from
Frederick Sturges, Jr., the painting “Newport Harbor, 1857,” by John
Kensett. On March 30, 1953, the Board accepted a bequest of the
following seven paintings from the late Adolph Caspar Miller:

Artist Title

@ranache 2.) 2 = ATOM oo ee eel ie eee Madonna and Child.

SVGSLTN SID Cg oe 5s ee ee — Portrait of a Young Man.
PeteriGertner see ie ala ne ete ere ee Portrait of a Young Man.
Peter, Gertners 222 st Oe ae ee eo ke ie ee Portrait of a Lady.
AMDTFOSIUSHBENSOM! eb sane mies > al ee ee Portrait of a Man.

PASTY AT) TCS UTS TNS OTT ae enh a re sem Portrait of a Lady.
LSB a0) =) Weal BY 0) 0 nee edna gee ager a eg Portrait of a Man.

SCULPTURE

On October 21, 1952, the Board accepted a bequest by the late Albert
BK. Gallatin of a bust of Whistler by Sir Joseph Edgar Boehm which
will be held for a National Portrait Gallery. On December 3 the
Board accepted a gift from the children of the late Mrs. Otto Kahn
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

of a terra-cotta bust of an old man, Florentine School, second half
of fifteenth century.

PRINTS AND DRAWINGS

On October 21, 1952, the Board of Trustees accepted 693 prints and
drawings from Lessing J. Rosenwald to be added to his gift to the
Gallery. On December 3 the Board approved the addition of 96 prints
by Alphonse Legros to the gift of George Matthew Adams. On
December 30 the Board accepted a gift from Rush H. Kress of an
early sixteenth-century German manuscript choral in two volumes.

EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART

On October 21, 1952, the Board of Trustees accepted the offer of
Lessing J. Rosenwald to exchange the following five prints by Van
Meckenem for superior impressions of the same works : “Christ Before
Caiphas,” “Scourged,” “Pilate Washing His Hands,” “Christ Shown
to the People,” and “Crucifixion.” On May 5, 1953, the Board ap-
proved Mr. Rosenwald’s offer to exchange the following three prints
for superior impressions: “The Spinner,” by Van Meckenem ; “Vir-
gin with the Pear,” by Durer; “Madonna and Child Standing on a
Crescent Moon,” by Altdorfer.

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN

During the fiscal year 1953 the following works of art were received
on loan by the National Gallery of Art:

From
Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.: Artist
Wie (Olas IDnp yee ee es Bellows.
i DGlevAOY TEE le oe ee ee Bazille.
He POWtHN CU ee ee oe a ee ee Marquet.
TPheiLet el ee ee ee ee Bonnard.
Wyo oie et Oli a ee ee eee Derain.
MilessDoram Maa rise. 2 eee Picasso.
Dining in the Garden___-_-__--------------------- Vuillard.
Jacques-Louis David_-_-------------------------- Rouget.
INTO 2 ei Be ee ee ee De la Fresnaye.
SR Miia RSS eee Modigliani.
Witayerendefes 1 8 WAS Se eee Monet.
Wirerebnsy aioe ped eb ope ee Matisse.
Putnam Foundation, San Diego, Calif.:
Gi Bartholomew 2 =e ae eee ee ee Rembrandt.
Meathror the wVireini se a oe ee ee Petrus Christus.

Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C.:
16 objects of pre-Columbian art.

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED

'The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal
year 1953:
SECRETARY’S REPORT 29

To
Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.: Artist
Un) PEW evry David.
Housesiof Parliament’=. 222222222222 -= 522 SSns— Monet.
Mrass@hester Dales 2. 2 aoe es Bellows.
Mrss Thomas) Palmer: ()2-- se ee Feke.
Portrait of a Lady. in. Red=-—..---.—-..2.--._+-=—- Theus.
PR el Va vy ee a os eS King.
Borntraitiotiapboyse c= = ee Rousseau.
The Windmill. = 22 er ee ee ee Ryder.
Bice teuanOSCANG e025 ee ee Oudot.
Womaniwith) a Turban. 2-— 22 ae eee Matisse.
MHEG OUrmM ete <2 =e eT ae el Sa Picasso.
Fernand Stuyck del Bruyére, Belgium :
Wal yer ye aa Sa ee Henri met de Bles.

WORKS OF ART LENT

During the fiscal year 1953, the Gallery lent the following works of
art for exhibition purposes:

To
The Chattanooga Art Association,
Chattanooga, Tenn.: Artist
Q2PAMETICATIENOLELAL tS === eee aes oe ene ee Various.
The Mint Museum, Charlotte, N. C.:
QO WAMeEricCany POLEralisenses a4 beeen epee ee eee eee Le Various.
Randolph-Macon College, Lynchburg, Va.:
TSA ericant porLhaltsee seo eee ne ee ae Various.
American Federation of Arts, New York, N. Y.:
Mirae a Leset foe oe Beedle ase b ll patie Oe 2 eS Gilbert Stuart.
Virginia Museum, Richmond, Va.:
Bulls/of Bordeaux (series) of 4)i-2--. 2 22542. Goya.
The White House, Washington, D. C.:
Aretic: Three-Toed) Woodpecker=-2 222222 ee J. J. Audubon.
@rehardyOrigle ea es ae ee a ee ee J. J. Audubon.
Tes ays May AO i ee ee Childe Hassam.
Portraibrol wuincolne 22s) ee eee eee ee Volk.
AJM ake airy O1b0Y 0) bc ee ew EE oe eee eS ES Lambdin.
Newport arbor, 1857-2 +2. ee Kensett.
Mandscapes: 2a ee Harpignies.
Nathaniel jeawthorne= so ase ae eee ee Emanuel Leutze.
LD YAN At ee Oley co) «yee oie ey ee PLO Ue ee John W. Jarvis.
ATIGTC Wh OACK SOD eee eee ee se Ralph Earle.
General Washington at Princeton_.—-—-_-___-__________ Charles Polk.
THOMAS SH OS ATE EAT COs ViGTLECE)) ee ae eee eee ste ee E. Vail.
Blair-Lee House, Washington, D. C.:
Len yn Clay a es ee Healy.
Wiraniklin@ieience ss. a ee Healy.
\Wiabbtichny 1eenrAy Letina mc) ee ee eee Lambdin.
A Kaveh ola eds) 021) be en eee Lambdin.

PRUE ORR Eh fy Childe Hassam.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art
during the fiscal year 1953:

Lithographs by Toulouse-Lautrec. Selected from the Rosenwald Collection.
Continued from previous fiscal year through August 3, 1952.

American Portraits from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art. August
10 through September 28, 1952.

Demonstration of Techniques. Watercolor renderings from the Index of
American Design. October 5 through October 7, 1952.

American Antiques. Watercolor renderings from the Index of American
Design. October 9 through October 19, 1952.

French Drawings, Masterpieces from Five Centuries. From the Louvre, other
French museums and private collections. Sponsored by Smithsonian Traveling
Exhibition Service. November 2 through November 30, 1952.

Twentieth-Century French Paintings From the Chester Dale Collection.
Opened November 22, 1952, to continue indefinitely.

Japanese Painting and Sculpture, From the 6th Century A. D. to the 19th
Century. Sponsored by the Government of Japan. January 25 through Febru-
ary 25, 1953.

Nuremberg and the German World, 1460-1530. Prints and books from the
Kress and Rosenwald Collections. March 15 through July 12, 1953.

19th- and 20th-Century Paintings from the Edward G. Robinson Collection.
May 10 through June 24, 1953.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

Rosenwald Collection—Special exhibitions of prints from the
Rosenwald Collection were circulated to the following places during
the fiscal year 1953:

Chattanooga Art Association, Chattanooga, Tenn.:
Collection of Master Prints.

July 12—-August 4, 1952.

University of Alabama, University, Ala. :
Toulouse-Lautree Prints.

August 1952.

Detroit Institute of Arts, Detroit, Mich. :
18th-Century Venetian Art.
September-October, 1952.

Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Md.:
“The World Encompassed”—4 maps.
October 7—-November 23, 1952.

Academy of Music, Philadelphia, Pa.:

3 Blake prints, to accompany premier of Virgil Thompson’s themes from
Blake’s “Songs of Innocence and Experience.”
October 10, 1952.

Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.:
“Graphic Art by 20th-Century Sculptors”—12 drawings.
October 11—December 7, 1952.

Society of the Four Arts, Palm Springs, Fla.:

2 Oudry Drawings.
November 15--December 12, 1952.
SECRETARY’S REPORT él

Religious Art Committee of Student Body, Union Theological Seminary, New
York, N. Y.:
4 prints.
November 30—December 16, 1952.

John Herron Art Institute, Indianapolis, Ind.:
18th-Century Venetian Art.

November 1952-—January 4, 1953.

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, Lynchburg, Va.:
Collection of Master Prints.

December 1952.

Virginia Museum, Richmond, Va.:
Goya-Tauromachia prints.
January 1953.

Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio:
Music Manuscripts.

January 11—March 1, 1953.

Pierpont Morgan Library, New York, N. Y.:
“Landscape Drawings and Water Colors; Breugel to Cezanne”—7 drawings.
January 30—April 11, 1953.

Philadelphia Art Alliance, Philadelphia, Pa. :
Selections from Recent French Acquisitions.
February 9—March 1, 1953.

Denver Art Museum, Denver, Colo.:

“Art Tells the Story”—1 Blake print.
March 1-April 28, 1953.

Vancouver Art Gallery, Vancouver, British Columbia:
French Impressionism, Drawings and Watercolors.
Mareh 23-April 19, 1953.

Tyler School of Art, Elkins Park, Pa.:

Hobby Show for Abington Hospital Benefit.
April 15, 1953.

Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Minneapolis, Minn.:
19th-Century Monotypes—5.
May 5-June 30, 1953.

Index of American Design.—During the fiscal year 1953, 25 travel-
ing exhibitions of original watercolor renderings of this collection,
with 58 bookings, were sent to the following States and countries:

Number o;
State or country exhibitions
JsXVEGY OF: 6 0: We ppp as eke hy Saree 9 A EN lr i 33
PVE ATISRE: 23th Sa en eee IML Oy oe ey) Reo 1
Gonneeients Joo eee hen ery a ee 1
Distrietof' Columbia Su 2 wos Oriya tiie ie 9
Dngig + fet tT eh td sees oh brere 2
Tyne ee ee es i 1
ROW sn ee ne ne eee Le tee ese 6
KONGUGK yy to say eee Pen OR eee 1
TOUISTATIAY Nott) Mie AR els eet ae 8 hl erga 1
Midine 2Ula_ 36 COU LE Ge PA) Bie icc 1
Marylarids:( 42) wegenieta ced!) ow AF. en bee 3
WICUiay So re ee aR Be 1
INVISRISRIP YES eo ee ie A ee ee SS 1

NEW UCIECY Go. Sate ee Ne tee ON ee 2
2
bo

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Number o,
State or country exhibitions
INew York.) 2250. eae ee ee 4
NorthiCarolinat =... {hu eeeee eh re ae 5
OHIO! See 3 oe eer ee 4
PODS yl Vans 5 ak eee ee re oe 1
South: Caroling: 2205. ak 5 ae eee eee eee 1
"PENMNCSSCE qos oes ee ee a 2
VAP OYTIS ie os ne ee ee 1
WVU CONSE ope ote ee ee 1
Gree (spe cake een ee era ses a RS 1
Dy gia =e i Pe cea ih iy i aps a ae 1
Palestine: scons te ee ee ee ee 1
oD Dol 21, ALA, te al a el ad NE ese oe = 1
Western? Germany a2 20. 2-2 See ee ee 1
Western Germany and Austria__.____--_---- 1

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

The Curatorial Department accessioned 927 gifts to the Gallery dur-
ing the fiscal year 1953. Advice was given regarding 285 works of art
brought to the Gallery for opinion, and 60 visits to other collections
were made by members of the staff for either expert opinion or in con-
nection with offers of gifts. About 1,200 inquiries requiring research
were answered verbally and by letter. On August 10, 1952, John
Walker, as representative of the United States Government on the
occasion of the Centennial Celebration of the German National Mu-
seum of Niiremberg, gave an address before a large audience. Charles
M. Richards conducted two courses in art history under the auspices of
the Department of Agriculture. Miss Elizabeth Mongan gave a series
of lectures on prints at Beaver College, Swarthmore College, and the
Tyler School of Art. Mr. Richards served as an “expert on art” and
lecturer at the Career Conference held at George Washington Uni-
versity. He also attended the annual meeting of the American Associ-
ation of Museums at Buffalo, N. Y., and an organizational meeting
of the Southern Conference of Museums at Raleigh, N. C. Miss
Katharine Shepard was sent as a delegate from the Washington Society
to the annual meeting of the Archaeological Institute of America in
Cleveland. Perry B. Cott was elected vice president of this Society.
Mr. Cott served on the following committees: Fine Arts Committee,
Washington Cathedral; Advisory Committee for Fulbright Awards
in Fine Arts; Committee for the Inaugural Medal; Committee for the
Protection of Cultural Property. Mr. Cott arranged a schedule of
tours of United States museums for visiting foreigners under the
International Exchange of Persons Division, Department of State.
Erwin O. Christensen was one of five judges at the Army-Wide Li-
brary Publicity Contest. Mr. Christensen was chairman of the session
on “European and American Art” at the Howard University Festival
of Fine Arts this spring, and he also made examinations and wrote
SECRETARY’S REPORT 33

reports on the Morosini and Negroli helmets in the Widener Collec-
tion. William P. Campbell was one of three judges at the “Neigh-
borhood Art Show” in Fauquier County, Va.

Special installations were prepared for the French drawings exhibi-
tion and the exhibition of Japanese paintings and sculpture under the
direction of Mr. Cott. He also supervised the installation of new
vitrines for the Robert Woods Bliss Collection of pre-Columbian art.

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART

Necessary restoration and repair of paintings and sculpture in the
Gallery’s collections were made by Francis Sullivan, resident restorer
to the Gallery. Thirty-one pieces of furniture in the Widener Collec-
tion were shipped to New York for repair and conditioning; these were
returned to the Gallery in October.

PUBLICATIONS

During the year Huntington Cairns contributed an article on
“Symbolism and the Language of Jurisprudence” to the forthcoming
volume “In the Beginning Was the Word: An Inquiry into the Mean-
ing and Function of Language,” and reviews of “The Theodosian Code
and Novels” and “Law, the Science of Inefliciency,” by William Seagle,
to the Library of Congress United States Quarterly Book Review;
“The Note-Books of Matthew Arnold,” edited by Lowry, Young, and
Dunn, to Poetry Magazine; and “Feeling and Form,” by Susanne
Langer, to the Virginia Quarterly Review. He also delivered a series
of lectures at the Johns Hopkins University on “The Theory of
Criticism.”

In November a new book, “Great Paintings from the National Gal-
lery of Art,” by Huntington Cairns and John Walker, was published
by the Macmillan Co.

Nine articles by John Walker on paintings in the Chester Dale
Collection appeared in the Ladies Home Journal.

Mr. Christensen contributed an article, “A Page from the Sketch-
book of Martin Van Heemkerck” for the Gazette des Beaux-Arts.

Other publications by the staff during the fiscal year 1958 include
the following:

“Objects of Medieval Art,” Handbook No. 3 in the National Gallery
of Art series by Erwin O. Christensen.

A catalog entitled “Twentieth-Century French Paintings from the
Chester Dale Collection” was prepared by William P. Campbell.

A book for hobbyists entitled “Early American Design: Toleware”
was written by Mr. Christensen. He also wrote the book “Early
American Wood Carving.”

A monograph on Giovanni Bellini’s “Feast of the Gods” is being
‘revised by Mr. Walker and a sixth edition of the catalog, “French
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Paintings from the Chester Dale Collection,” is being prepared by
Mr. Campbell.

During the fiscal year 1953 the Publications Fund added four new
color postcards and a new 11- by 14-inch color reproduction to the list
available and 6 additional new 11- by 14-inch color prints were on
order. Nineteen new monotone postcards and four new Christmas-
card color plates were produced. At the time of the opening of the
exhibition of 'wentieth-Century French Paintings from the Chester
Dale Collection a stock of 18 color and monotone postcard subjects
was also acquired from the Art Institute of Chicago and distributed
here. Eleven more large collotype reproductions of paintings at the
Gallery distributed by a New York publisher were placed on sale, and
this company also produced the first 6 of a new series of 11- by 14-inch
plate-size color reproductions of our works of art.

A new set of playing cards, Wedgwood plates bearing a picture of
the Gallery building, a stock of “Famous Paintings” calendars includ-
ing many Gallery paintings, and the book, “Italian Painters of the
Renaissance,” by Bernard Berenson, illustrated with numerous Gal-
lery paintings, were also made available. The 1952 A. W. Mellon
lectures of Jacques Maritain in published form were placed on sale as
well as four other books by National Gallery of Art staff members.

Exhibition catalogs of the French drawings, Robinson, and Japanese
shows were distributed, and over 20,000 postcards of Japanese works
of art were sold here during the latter exhibition.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The attendance for the general, congressional, and special tours and
the “Picture of the Week” totaled 43,544, while the attendance at 39
auditorium lectures on Sunday afternoons was approximately 13,068
during the fiscal year 1958.

Tours, lectures, and conferences arranged by appointment were
given 202 groups and individuals. ‘The total number of people served
in this manner was 4,701. ‘These special appointments were made for
such groups as representatives from leading universities and museums,
groups from other governmental departments, high schools, college
students, women’s clubs, Sunday-school classes, and a number of for-
eign visitors. This service also included the training of Junior
League volunteers who thereafter conducted tours for art students in
the Washington high schools and a training program for members of
the Arlington American Association of University Women who
served as volunteer docents and conducted tours in the Gallery for all
the Arlington public-school children in grades 2 through 6.

The staff of the Education Office delivered 17 lectures; 22 lectures
were delivered by guest speakers. During March and April Sir Ken-
neth Clark delivered the second annual series of the A. W. Mellon
SECRETARY'S REPORT 35

Lectures in the Fine Arts on the theme, “The Nude: A Study of Ideal
Form.”

During the past year, 113 persons borrowed 3,327 slides from the
lending collection. Seven copies of the National Gallery film were cir-
culated on itinerary with 106 bookings completed. In the coming
year, 18 copies of the film will be placed in audiovisual libraries in as
many different States so that they may have the maximum distribution
with guaranteed good treatment.

Hight more sets of the “Christmas Story,” a mimeographed lecture
illustrated by 34 slides, were made up and circulated with approxi-
mately 1,882 people viewing the slides.

The printed Calendar of Events, announcing all Gallery activities
and publications, is distributed monthly to a mailing list of 5,100
names,

LIBRARY

Books, pamphlets, periodicals, photographs, and subscriptions pur-
chased out of the fund presented to the National Gallery of Art by
Paul Mellon totaled 306 during the fiscal year 1953 ; 83 were purchased
out of the fund given by Harold K. Hochschild. Gifts included 270
books and pamphlets, while 718 books, pamphlets, periodicals, and
bulletins were received from other institutions. Outstanding among
these gifts were 50 books presented by Lessing J. Rosenwald.

Although the Library is not open to the public, it is possible for stu-
dents of art and persons with art questions to use the services of the
Library. During this fiscal year the Library staff handled 1,480 refer-
ence questions, and there were 635 readers other than the Gallery staff
who used the Library.

The Library is the depository for photographs of the works of art
in the collections of the National Gallery of Art. During the year
425 persons other than the Gallery staff came to purchase prints, and
215 mail orders were filled.

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

During the fiscal year 1953, a total of 7 new exhibits containing
304 renderings were completed. Index material was studied during
the year by 572 persons representing special research interests, de-
signers, groups interested in the material for publications, exhibitions,
and slides, and to get a general idea of the collection as a whole.

A total of 859 photographs of Index renderings were sent out of the
Gallery on loan, for publicity, and purchase. A gift of seventy 2-x-2’’
slides of Index material was made by Dr. Konrad Prothmann.
Twenty-two sets (consisting of 1,435 slides) of 2-x-2’’ slides were
circulated in 26 States, Italy, and England.
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

' MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS

The usual work in connection with the care and maintenance of the
building and its mechanical equipment and the grounds was continued
throughout the year. Flowering and foliage plants grown in the
moats were used in the garden courts.

In order to provide additional storage space for the Publications
Office, a new concrete floor was laid in an unfinished area at the west
end of the ground floor.

A partition, stainless steel sink, and print washer were installed in
one of the darkrooms of the photographers’ laboratory in order to
increase the efliciency of that department.

The elevators were inspected by a representative of the District
government, and also by a representative of the Hartford Accident &
Indemnity Co., and found to be in good mechanical condition.

The high-tension switchgear, together with the safety relays and
protective devices, was examined and tested by the Potomac Electric
Power Co.

Refrigeration machine No. 4 was thoroughly checked and the neces-
sary adjustments made in order that it would be in first-class operating
condition when the heavy summer load of air-conditioning would be
placed upon it.

With funds appropriated for the purpose, a contract was entered
into with the Worthington Corp. for the replacement of three refrig-
eration machines. Two of the machines were in operation by June
93, 1953, and the work of installing the third machine is now under
way.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

A total of 38 Sunday evening concerts were given during the fiscal
year 1953 in the West Garden Court. The National Gallery Or-
chestra, conducted by Richard Bales, played nine concerts at the Gal-
lery with additional performances at the United States Naval
Academy at Annapolis, Md., and in the Corcoran Gallery of Art.
Two of the orchestral concerts at the National Gallery were made
possible by the Music Performance Trust Fund of the American Fed-
eration of Musicians. During April, May, and June, seven Sunday
evenings were devoted to the Gallery’s Tenth American Music Festi-
val. Thirty-two compositions by thirty-one American composers
were played. Most of the concerts were broadcast in their entirety
by Station WCFM, Washington, and the Continental Network. A
new feature of the series was the addition of the Church of the Ref-
ormation Cantata Choir to the National Gallery Orchestra at two
concerts which presented both classical and contemporary composers.

The photographic laboratory of the Gallery produced 14,013 prints,
402 black-and-white slides, 1,156 color slides, and 127 color trans-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 37

parencies, in addition to 2,130 negatives, X-rays, infrared and ultra-
violet photographs.

During the fiscal year, 2,358 press releases were issued in connection
with Gallery activities, while 142 permits to copy paintings, and 224
permits to photograph in the Gallery were issued.

OTHER GIFTS

Gifts of books on works of art and related material were made to
the Gallery by Paul Mellon and others. Gifts of money were made
during the fiscal year 1953 by the Old Dominion Foundation, the
Avalon Foundation, and Harold K. Hochschild.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery has been made for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1953, by Price, Waterhouse & Co., public
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination of
the accounting records maintained for such funds will be forwarded
to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

Hounrineron Cairns, Secretary.
Dr. Lronarp CaRMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts

Sm: LI have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1953:

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The 30th annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was
held in the Regents Room of the Smithsonian Building on Tuesday,
December 2, 1952. The members present were: Paul Manship, chair-
man; Alexander Wetmore, secretary (member, ex officio) ; John Taylor
Arms, Robert Woods Bliss, Gilmore D. Clarke, David E. Finley,
Lloyd Goodrich, Walker Hancock, George Hewitt Myers, Archibald
Wenley, Lawrence Grant White, Andrew Wyeth, and Mahonri Young.
Thomas M. Beggs, Director, and Paul V. Gardner, curator of ceram-
ics, National Collection of Fine Arts, were also present.

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the reelec-
tion of David E. Finley, Paul Manship, Eugene E. Speicher, and
Archibald Wenley for the ensuing 4-year period.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Paul
Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Leonard
Carmichael, secretary. ‘The following were elected members of the
executive committee for the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman,
Robert Woods Bliss, Gilmore D. Clarke, and George Hewitt Myers.
Paul Manship, as chairman of the Commission, and Leonard Car-
michael, as secretary of the Commission, are ex officio members of the
executive committee. Dr. Alexander Wetmore, retiring Smithsonian
Secretary, was added to the list of emeritus members of the Commis-
sion.

Dr. Wetmore reported to the Commission that a bill (H. R. 8216)
had been introduced in the House of Representatives “to establish as
a branch of the Smithsonian Institution an American Academy of
Music, Drama, and Ballet, for the education of selected pupils in all
the various phases of these arts, and for other purposes, as part of a
National War Memorial (to include a theater and opera house).”
A similar bill was introduced in the Senate (S. J. 105).

Mr. Beggs presented his annual report to the Commission, and said
that special emphasis had been given to exhibitions during the year.
He reported the completion of the renovation of the first-floor galleries,

38
SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

the reorganization of the permanent exhibition of the Harriet Lane
Johnston, Ralph Cross Johnson, John Gellatly, and Pell Collections,
and the preparation in progress of a new catalog and handbooks of
the collections. Responsibility for scheduling the monthly foyer
exhibitions in the Natural History Building, including those of scien-
tific materials, was transferred by the Secretary to the National
Collection of Fine Arts.

Mr. Beggs also described other activities of the National Collection
of Fine Arts: The Third Annual Exhibit of the Kiln Club of Wash-
ington, representing accomplishment by local craftsmen under Paul
V. Gardner’s direction; the exhibits of paintings by Edwin Scott and
Alice Pike Barney, indicating new uses of the Barney Fund; the Art
and Magic in Arnhem Land Exhibit, shown first in the Natural His-
tory Building and now being circulated by the Smithsonian Travel-
ing Exhibition Service; the exhibition of “French Drawings of Five
Centuries,” lent by the French Government, first shown at the Na-
tional Gallery of Art by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition
Service, followed by showings at the Cleveland Museum of Art, the
City Art Museum of St. Louis, the William Hayes Fogg Art Museum,
and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, before its return to France.
Mr. Beggs reported that the contract with the Department of State
for funds for the preparation of exhibitions to be sent abroad in 1953
and 1954 had been renewed.

The following objects were accepted by the Commission for the
National Collection of Fine Arts:

Oil, The Stephen Children (Theodore Brower, Cornelia, John, and Esther
Amelia), attributed to a brother of President Madison. Gift of Amelia R.
Lowther.

Oil, Man in White (Dr. Henry Sturgis Drinker), by Cecilia Beaux, N. A.
(1863-1942). Henry Ward Ranger bequest.

Oil, Portrait of Dr. George F. Becker (1847-1919), geologist, by Fedor
Encke (1851-7). Gift of Mrs. George F. Becker. Accepted for the National
Portrait Gallery.

Marble, General Philip H. Sheridan (1831-1888), by Thomas Buchanan Read
(1822-1872). Gift of Benjamin Bell. Accepted for the National Portrait Gal-
lery.

Wive pieces of modern glass: Gazelle bowl and base (crystal glass designed
by Sidney Waugh and made by Steuben Glass, Inc., Corning, New York) ; vase
(8 inches high), ashtray (smoke crystal glass with cut flutings), globular vase
(614 inches high with crystal glass engraved fish decoration), all designed by
Gerda Stromberg and made at Strombergshyttan, Sweden. Gift of Mr. and
Mrs. Hugh J. Smith, Jr.

Ceramic, bottle, 14 inches high, St. Ives pottery, stoneware, Tenmoku glaze,
designed by Bernard Howell Leach. Gift of the artist.

Ceramic, bottle, 16 inches high, stoneware, Sgraffito decoration, designed by
Paul D. Holleman, Roxbury, Mass. Gift of the Kiln Club.

Two award-winning pieces from the Third Annual Exhibition of Ceramic
Art, 1952: bottle, hand-modeled, ivory matt glaze, by Alta C. Fuller, winner

284725—54 4

40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

of the B. F. Drakenfeld award; and bowl, wine-red glaze, by Lisle Pursel,
winner of Winthrop Ceramic Supply Company award. Gift of the Kiln Club.

STUDY COLLECTION

A ceramic sculpture, Toad, designed by Ollie Palmore Long,
gift of the Kiln Club, was added to the study collection.

TRANSFERS ACCEPTED

Four watercolors were transferred from the division of birds on
March 13, 1953: Cardinal, Towhee Bunting, and Purple Grackle, by
John James Audubon; and Rose-breasted Grosbeak, by Joseph B.
Kidd, after Audubon.

Three oils were transferred from the division of graphic arts on
March 25, 1953: Indian Summer, by Jaspar F. Cropsey, N. A.; Octo-
ber, by Robert C. Minor; and November, by Jervis McEntee, N. A.

LOANS ACCEPTED

Miniature, James D. Simons, attributed to James Peale, was lent
by Miss Henrietta Simons, Charleston, S. C., on July 19, 1952 (with-
drawn by owner on September 5, 1952).

Seventeen miniatures were lent by Mr. and Mrs. Ruel P. Tolman,
Washington, D. C., as follows:

Man with Red Hair, by Alvan Clark (1804-87).

Unknown Gentleman, by Robert Field (ce. 1769-1819).
Unknown Gentleman, by Thomas Flatman (1633/7-88).
Unknown Gentleman, by Sarah Goodridge (1788-1853).

John (or Uriah) Vaughan, by Christopher Greiner (fl. 1837-64).
Robert Parker, attributed to Henry Inman (1801-46).
Unknown Young Lady, attributed to Henry Inman (1801-46).
J. B., by Raphaelle Peale (1774-1825).

Self Portrait, by Sarah Peale (1800-85).

Unknown Lady, by John Ramage (1748-1802).

Self Portrait, by Edward Savage (1761-1817).

Unknown Man, by Richard M. Staigg (1820-81).

Nancy de Villers, by Carolyn D. Tyler.

Miss Mary Angell, by Carolyn D. Tyler.

Klizabeth Moore, by Carolyn D. Tyler.

Mr. W., by an undetermined artist.

Unknown Man, by an undetermined artist.

Six pieces of modern glass were lent by Mr. and Mrs. Hugh J.
Smith, Jr., Scarsdale, N. Y., on April 11, 1953.

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS

Table, French, 18th century (P. 220), was lent to the American
Federation of Arts, Washington, D. C., on July 10, 1952, for an
indefinite period.

Venetian plate, of the Cozzi period, c. 1780 (P. 497), and a soup
SECRETARY’S REPORT 41

tureen, dated Turin, c. 1775 (P. 801), were lent to the Detroit Institute
of Arts for an exhibition of Arts of Venice in the 18th century, from
September 28 to November 1, 1952. (Returned November 14, 1952.)

Two portraits, by Charles Hopkinson—Nikola P. Pashitch and
Prince Kimmochi Saionji—were lent to the Century Association, New
York City, for an exhibition of work by Charles Hopkinson, from
December 3, 1952, to January 4, 1953. (Returned January 22, 1953.)

Oil, Caresse Enfantine, by Mary Cassatt, was lent to the Munson-
Williams-Proctor Institute Art Gallery, Utica, N. Y., for an exhibi-
tion of expatriates, Whistler, Cassatt, and Sargent, from January 4
through 25, 1953. (Returned January 30, 1953.)

Oil, The Storm, by Ludwick Backhuysen (with seven oils by Edwin
Scott from the Smithsonian Lending Collection), was lent to the
United States District Court of the District of Columbia on December
15, 1952, for a period of 4 years.

Two oils, Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory,
by Thomas Moran, and Moonlight, by Albert P. Ryder, were lent to
the American Federation of Arts on January 12, 1953, for an exhibi-
tion of 19th-century American paintings to be circulated in Germany.

Two oils, An Abandoned Farm, by Ernest Lawson, and Laguna,
New Mexico, by Albert L. Groll, were lent to The White House on
February 6, 1953, for an indefinite period.

Oil, Westward the Course of Empire Takes its Way, by Emanuel
Leutze, was lent to the Denver Art Museum for an exhibition, “Art
Tells the Story,” from March 1 through April 26, 1953. (Returned
May 6, 1953.)

Oil, At Nature’s Mirror, by Ralph Blakelock, was lent to the
American Federation of Arts on February 138, 1953, for their traveling
show “American Tradition 1800-1900,” through May 1953. (Returned
May 29, 1953.)

Two oils, Roses, by Walter Shirlaw, and The Signing of the Treaty
of Ghent, Christmas Eve, 1814, by Sir Amedee Forestier (with 4 pastels
by Alice Pike Barney, and 5 oils by Edwin Scott, from the Smith-
sonian Lending Collection), were lent to the United States District
Court of the District of Columbia on February 18, 1953, for a period
of 4 years,

Oil, Portrait of Wyatt Eaton, by J. Alden Weir (with 5 oils by
Edwin Scott, from the Smithsonian Lending Collection), was lent
to the Department of Justice on March 12, 1953, for a period of 4 years.

Bronze, Bust of Hon. Elihu Root, by James Earle Fraser, was lent
to the National War College on March 13, 19538, for a period of
4 years.

Oil, Portrait of Dr. George F. Becker, by Fedor Encke, was lent
to the National Academy of Sciences on April 17, 1953, for a period
of 4 years.
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Four oils, Sea and Rain, by George H. Bogert; Evening Glow,
Mount McIntyre, by James Henry Moser; The Vintage, by Alexander
Rene Veron; and Conway Hills, by Frederick B. Williams (with a
watercolor, Hill and Lake, by James Henry Moser, from the Smith-
sonian Lending Collection), were lent to the Department of State on
April 23, 1958, for a period not to exceed 4 years.

Oil, Portrait of Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd, by Seymour M.
Stone (with 4 oils by Edwin Scott from the Smithsonian Lending
Collection), was lent to the Bureau of the Budget on May 13, 1953,
for a period not to exceed 4 years.

Three oils, Col. William Shakespeare King, by George Catlin;
Hon. Salmon P. Chase, by James Reid Lambdin; Rustic Dance, by
Jean Antoine Watteau; and two marble busts, Hon. Charles Evans
Hughes, by Moses W. Dykaar, and Gen. Philip H. Sheridan, by
Thomas Buchanan Read, were lent to the United States Court of
Military Appeals on June 11, 1958, for a period not to exceed 4 years.

Four watercolors by William H. Holmes, My Old Mill, Holmes-
croft, Near Rockville, Maryland; A Maryland Wheat Field; Over the
Maryland Fields; and the Normal Rock Creek about 1910 (with 1 oil
by Edwin Scott, from the Smithsonian Lending Collection), were
lent to the Bureau of the Budget on June 25, 1953, for a period not to
exceed 4 years.

LOANS RETURNED

Two oils, Portrait of George Washington, attributed to William
Winstanley, after Gilbert Stuart, and The Signing of the Treaty of
Ghent, Christmas Eve, 1814, by Sir Amedee Forestier, lent March 22,
1949, to the Department of State, were returned January 19, 1953.

Three oils, Conway Hills, by Frederick Ballard Williams; The
Meadow Brook, by Charles P. Gruppe; and Sea and Rain, by George
H. Bogert, lent March 14, 1946, to the Department of the Treasury,
were returned February 12, 1953.

Oil, December Uplands, by Bruce Crane, lent June 27, 1950, to the
Executive Office, Council of Economic Advisers, was returned Febru-
ary 26, 1953.

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION

One oil painting, Paris, 1910, by Edwin Scott (1863-1929), was
added to the Alice Pike Barney Memorial Collection on April 11,
1953.

The following paintings were lent for varying periods:

Tuskegee Institute, Tuskegee Institute, Ala.:
August 15, 1952:
Old Man with Pipe, by O. W. Roederstein.
Soldiers of the Empire, by Indoni.
Tangier, by L. Garcia.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 43

Ballerine, by Alice Pike Barney.
Captain Wheeler, by Alice Pike Barney.
Laura Alice in Big Hat, by Alice Pike Barney.
Laura in Fichu, by Alice Pike Barney.
Laura with Blue Scarf, by Alice Pike Barney.
Marie Huet, the Painter, by Alice Pike Barney
Martha, by Alice Pike Barney.
Matsu and Puss, by Alice Pike Barney.
Self Portrait in 1924, by Alice Pike Barney.
Self Portrait with Palette, by Alice Pike Barney.
The Brass Kettle, by Alice Pike Barney.
Woodsprite, by Alice Pike Barney.
Young Girl with Fichu, by Alice Pike Barney.
Department of Justice, Washington, D. C.:
September 25, 1952:
Marie Huet, by Alice Pike Barney.
R. D. Shepherd, by Alice Pike Barney.
White Paradise, by Alice Pike Barney.
Chambre des Députés Ne. 3, by Edwin Scott.
Femmes prés des Escaliers No. 1, by Edwin Scott.
Place de la Madeleine, by Edwin Scott.
Quai de la Seine, Eglise St. Gervais, by Edwin Scott.
Scene Italienne prés de la Fontaine, by Edwin Scott.
March 12, 1953:
La Madeleine No. 2, by Edwin Scott.
Maison de Millet, by Edwin Scott.
Notre Dame, by Edwin Scott.
Place St. Germain-des-Prés, by Edwin Scott.
Porte St. Martin No. 2, by Edwin Scott.
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Washington, D. C.:
December 15, 1952:
Bateau de Péche, by Edwin Scott.
Eglise de Ville, by Edwin Scott.
Homme au Chapeau Rouge, by Edwin Scott.
Honfleur Fishing Boats No. 1, by Edwin Scott.
Saint Roche, Rue St. Honore, by Edwin Scott.
Téte de Femme, by Edwin Scott.
The Seine at Paris (L’Institute), by Edwin Scott.
February 18, 1953:
Ali Kuli Kahn, by Alice Pike Barney.
Camille Gorde, by Alice Pike Barney.
Jimmy Davis, by Alice Pike Barney.
Old Actor, by Alice Pike Barney.
Cote aux Environs de Cherbourg, by Edwin Scott.
Porte de Cherbourg, by Edwin Scott.
Porte St. Martin et Hnterrement, by Edwin Scott.
Ships at Anchor, Cherbourg, No. 1, by Edwin Scott.
Ship at Anchor, Cherbourg, No. 2, by Edwin Scott.
Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa.:
Mareh 3, 1953:
Chambre des Députés in a Mist, by Edwin Scott.
Saint Roche Church, by Edwin Scott.
The Madeleine at Dawn, by Edwin Scott.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Department of State, Washington, D. C.:
April 23, 1953:
Hill and Lake, by James Henry Moser.
Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D. C.:
May 18, 1953:
Boulevard St. Germain (Prés St. Germain-des-Prés), by Edwin Scott.
Chambre des Députés No. 1, by Edwin Scott.
Place de la Concorde No. 1, by Edwin Scott.
Saint Germaine des Prés No. 3, by Edwin Scott.
June 25, 1953:
Saint Germaine des Prés No. 2, by Edwin Scott.

ALICE PIKE BARNEY MEMORIAL FUND

An addition of $5,000 to the fund established in 1951 by Miss
Natalie Clifford Barney and Mrs. Laura Dreyfus-Barney, in memory
of their mother, for the purpose of encouraging the appreciation and
creation of art in the United States, was received in January 1953.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

According to a provision in the Ranger bequest that paintings
purchased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from
the fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger bequest, and assigned
to American art institutions, may be claimed during the 5-year period
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, 2 paintings
were recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art Commission at its
meeting on December 2, 1952.

No. 62. Manin White (Dr. Henry Sturgis Drinker), by Cecilia Beaux, N. A.
(1863-1942), was accepted by the Commission to become a permanent accession.

No. 5. The Orange Bowl, by Anna S. Fisher, N. A. ( -1942), was returned
to the Rhode Island School of Design, Providence, R. I., where it was originally
assigned in 1921.

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National
Academy of Design in 1952, have been assigned as follows:

137.

Title and Artist
Yorktown Heights (watercolor),
by Warren Baumgartner, N. A.
(1895- ).

Assignment
Suffolk Museum, Stone Brook,
Long Island, N. Y.

138. Pirates Alley, New Orleans, by Guy Philbrook Art Center, Tulsa, Okla.
Pene Du Bois, N. A. (1884- ).

139. Night Fair, by Martin Jackson Mead Memorial Museum, Amherst
(1871- ie College, Amherst, Mass.

140. Tide Water Creek, Oreg. (water- William A. Farnsworth Library
color), by Theodore Kautzky, and Art Museum, Rockland,
NeA: Maine.

141. My Studio, by John Koch (1910- Society of Liberal Arts, Joslyn Art

). Museum, Omaha, Nebr.
142. Still Life with Leaves, by Roger Berkshire Museum, Pittsfield, Mass.

Kuntz.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 45

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Thirty-two exhibitions were circulated during the past season, 20
in the United States and Canada and 12 abroad, as follows:

UNITED STATES AND CANADA
Painting and Drawing

Title Source

Contemporary Swiss Paintings_----- Hidgenoessische Kunstkommission of
Switzerland ; Dr. Heinz Keller, Curator
of Kunstmuseum in Winterthur.

Finnish Paintings and Seulpture____ Fine Arts Academy and finnish-American
Society in Helsinki; Finnish Legation
(Heikki Reenpaa).

French Drawings, Masterpieces from Mme. Jacqueline Bouchot-Saupique; M.

Five Centuries. Georges Salles; French Embassy.
German Drawings and Watercolors_._ Dr. Charlotte Weidler.
Seven Cuban Painters___--_--------- Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston;
Pan American Union (José Gomez
Sicre).

Graphic Arts
Children’s Books from Fifty Coun-

tries I. U. S. Office of Education and State
Children’s Books from Fifty Coun- Department.

tries IT.
Modern Swedish Bookbindings___--_ Swedish Association of Master Book-

binders; Swedish Institute in Stock-
holm; Swedish Embassy.

Woodcuts by Antonio Frasconi__--__-_ Print Club of Cleveland; Cleveland Mu-
seum of Art; Weyne Gallery.

Design
Furniture, Costume, and Textiles___-_ Index of American Design, National Gal-
lery of Art.
Design from) Britain==—2=—-=-—22==22= Council of Industrial Design; Dollar

Exports Council; British Embassy.
Architecture

NeW. GiDEarics 2) Gee 2. ee ee
The Re-union of Architecture and American Institute of Architects.
Engineering.

Textiles

Swedish *Textiles22) 222.2)) 22s Swedish Embassy; Swedish Homecraft
League; Friends of Textile Art.

Ceramics

Artists and Potters of Vallauris I._..}Rene Batigne, Director, Museum of
Artists and Potters of Vallauris II__- Vallauris, France.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Folk Art
Norwegian Decorative Painting___--_ Norwegian Artists Guild; Norwegian
Hmbassy.

Our Wide Land i: on Index of American Design, National
Pennsylvania German Arts and Gallery of Art

Crafts.
Ethnology
Art and Magic in Arnhem Land_----- Smithsonian Institution, Department of
Anthropology.
ABROAD

Influences on American Architecture (Gropius).
American Wallpaper.

Contemporary American Textiles.

Containers and Packaging.

The World of Paul Revere.

The City of New York.

Aspects of the American Film—Fourteen Directors.
Mississippi Panorama.

Fashion and Color Photography.

Carl Schurz.

These displays were scheduled as an integral part of the programs
of 77 museums and galleries, located in 29 States, the District of
Columbia, and Canada. Catalogs were published for each, including
the exhibit of the “French Drawings of Five Centuries,” lent by the
Government of France. This exhibit was first shown at the National
Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., and then sent to Cleveland, St.
Louis, Boston, and New York City, before its return to France. The
catalog, prepared by Mme. Bouchot-Saupique, curator of drawings at
the Louvre, was privately printed, with an introduction by Mrs. Anne-
marie H. Pope, chief of the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition
Service.

INFORMATION SERVICE

In addition to the many requests for information received by mail
and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office numbered 1,432.
Examination was made of %73 works of art submitted for
identification.

Washington art groups and local chapters of national civic organi-
zations were served during the year by National Collection of Fine
Arts staff members who judged art exhibitions and competitions, and
addressed meetings on subjects in their special fields.

Introductions also were written to catalogs of exhibitions published
by organizations showing in the foyer gallery.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 47

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS
Thirteen special exhibitions were held during the year:

July 2 through 30, 1952.—An exhibition of Swedish textiles, arranged in co-
operation with the Swedish Embassy by the Potomac Craftsmen, consisting of
195 ceramics, rugs, textiles, books, and paintings.

August 7 through 27, 1952.—An exhibition of 55 oil paintings, “Reveries of
Paris,” by Edwin Scott, from the Alice Pike Barney Memorial Collection. An
illustrated catalog was printed with private funds.

August 7 through 27, 1952.—An exhibition of 14 portraits in oil, “Citizens of
Japan,” by Marguerite S. Hardesty. An illustrated catalog was privately
printed.

September 5 through 28, 1952.—The Third Annual Exhibition of Ceramic Art,
sponsored by the Kiln Club of Washington, consisting of 225 pieces (117 by local
artists, 39 by invited American artists, and 69 loaned by various Washington
Embassies and Legations as representative of the work of their national artists).
Demonstrations on the potter’s wheel were given twice a day four times a week.
A catalog was privately printed.

September 5 through 28, 1952.—The Second Regional Exhibition of the Wash-
ington Sculptors Group, consisting of 50 pieces of sculpture. A catalog was
privately printed.

October 9 through 29, 1952.—Norwegian Decorative Painting through One
Thousand Years, held under the patronage of His Excellency, the Ambassador
from Norway, Wilhelm Munthe de Morgenstierne, consisting of 96 large mounted
photographs, and 55 pieces of ceramics. <A catalog was privately printed.

November 9 through 27, 1952.—The Fifteenth Metropolitan State Art Contest,
held under the auspices of the D. C. Chapter, American Artists Professional
League, assisted by the Entre Nous Club, consisting of 308 paintings, sculpture,
prints, ceramics, and metalcraft. <A catalog was privately printed.

December 7, 1952, through January 4, 1958.—The Tenth Annual Exhibition of
the Artists’ Guild of Washington, consisting of 50 paintings and 9 pieces of
sculpture.

January 11 through 28, 1958.—Contemporary Indian Art and Crafts, sponsored
by the Government of India, organized by the Academy of Fine Art, Calcutta,
and the All-India Association of Fine Art, Bombay, consisting of 863 items. A
catalog was privately printed.

March 5 through 29, 1953.—The Sixty-first Annual Exhibition of the Society of
Washington Artists, consisting of 83 paintings and 16 pieces of sculpture. A
catalog was privately printed.

May 10 through $1, 1953 —The Twentieth Annual Exhibition of the Miniature
Painters, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D. C., consisting of 221
examples. <A catalog was privately printed.

May 22, 19538—At the request of Representative Charles R. Howell, of New
Jersey, the model of the 1939 prize-winning design for the Smithsonian Gallery of
Art, by Hliel Saarinen, was placed on exhibition in the lobby of the Natural His-
tory Building.

June 7 through 28, 1953.—The Fifty-sixth Annual Exhibition of the Washington
Water Color Club, consisting of 135 watercolors, etchings, and drawings. A
catalog was privately printed.

Respectfully submitted.
Tuomas M. Breas, Director.
Dr. Lnonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
Report on the Freer Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit the Thirty-third Annual Report on
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1953.

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase were as follows:

52.28.

53.9.

53.8.

53.63.

53.64.

53.69.

53.71.

53.72.

53.73.

BRONZE
Chinese, Northern Wei dynasty (A. D. 386-535). Standing Buddha image
of gilt bronze on a low four-legged platform ; removable mandorla deco-
rated with flames and floral patterns cast in low relief. 0.359 x 0.144.
(illustrated. )

. Chinese, Shang dynasty (ca. 1525-1028 B. C.). Cast socketed dagger-ax

of the type ch‘ti ko. Decorations in relief and intaglio; patination mala-
chite with spots of cuprite. 0.236 x 0.068.

JADE
Chinese, Shang dynasty (ca. 1525-1028 B. C.). Very light, translucent,
greenish nephrite ornament mask. Carved in relief and incised. Rear
side pierced with six holes for fastening, and a central hole running
from top to bottom. 0.046 x 0.041 x 0.006.

LACQUER

Chinese, Chou dynasty (ca. 3d century B. C.). Brown lacquer bowl with
decorations overlaid in red and flat lacquer. 0.055 x 0.271.

Chinese, Ming dynasty, Wan-li period (A. D. 1573-1619). Red lacquer
box with cover ; decorations carved in relief and countersunk decoration
carved in black and tan intaglio. 0.132 x 0.323.

Chinese, Ming dynasty, Yung-lo period (A. D. 1403-1425). Red lacquer
box with cover; decorations carved in relief and countersunk intaglio.
0.079 x 0.266.

Chinese, Ming dynasty, Hsiian-té period (A. D. 1426-1435). Red lacquer
box with cover; decorations carved in relief and countersunk intaglio.
0.045 x 0.098.

MANUSCRIPT

Persian, mid-16th century (A. D. 1557). A leaf from Yisuf-u-Zulaikha by
Jami. Persian text in black nasia‘liqg in two columns. Text inlaid in
larger leaf of rose color with designs in gold (ibexes, deer, birds).
0.254 x 0.151.

Persian, mid-16th century (A. D. 1557). A leaf from Yisuf-u-Zulaikhad by
Jami. Persian text in black nasta‘lig in two columns with two-line
caption in red. ‘Text inlaid in larger leaf of rose color with arabesques
and animal designs in gold. 0.253 x 0.151.

Persian, mid-16th century (A. D. 1557). A leaf from Yéisuf-u-Zulaikha by
Jimi. Persian text in black nasta‘lig in two columns with two-line
caption in red. Text inlaid in larger leaf of rose color with animals
in landscape and birds in floral rinceaux. respectively. 0.254 x 0.150.

48

SECRETARY’S REPORT 49

53.74. Persian, mid-16th century (A. D. 1557). A leaf from Yasuf-u-Zulaikha
by Jami. Persian text in black nasta‘lig in two columns with two-line
caption in red. Text inlaid in larger leaf of rose color with animals
in landscape and floral and arabesque rinceaux, respectively. 0.254 x

0.151.
METALWORK

52.29. Chinese, Ming dynasty, 15th century. Gold jar with cover; studded
with 21 settings for semiprecious stones of which 7 are empty; both jar
and cover decorated with incised pattern of dragons among clouds.

0.092 x 0.091.
PAINTING

52.25 Chinese, Ytian dynasty. Ch‘ien Hsitian (A. D. 1235-1290). MHandscroll
entitled “K‘o fang t‘u.” Ink and faint colors on paper. Artist’s signa-
ture and 8 seals on painting; 1 inscription and 12 seals on mount.
0.251 x 1.034.

52.27. Chinese, dated in correspondence with A. D. 1464, Ming dynasty, Usi
Ch‘ang (A. D. 1888-1470). Handscroll entitled ‘Hsiao-hsiang-kuo-yii.”
Bamboos in ink on paper. Two inscriptions and seven seals on paint-
ing; title, two inscriptions and nine seals on mount. 0.290 x 7.800.

52.31. Indian, second half of 16th century, Mughal, school of Akbar (A. D. 1555-
1605). Illustration from a dictionary (unidentified): “Ruler holding
court in a tent encampment and investing retainer with gold kaftan.”
Color and gold. On verso: 85 lines of black nasta‘liq writing, captions
in red. Wide border with birds and plants in gold. 0.288 x 0.1238.

52.82. Indian, second half of 16th century, Mughal, school of Akbar (A. D. 1555-
1605). Illustration from a dictionary (unidentified): “River scene—
Ruler and attendants in main boat and smaller boat in foreground from
which a man is being drowned.” Color and gold. On verso: 35 lines
of black nasta‘liq with captions in red. Wide gold-painted border with
Indian figures in floral setting. 0.231 x 0.125.

52.33. Indian, second half of 16th century, Mughal, school of Akbar (A. D. 1555-
1605). “Audience scene in a palace pavilion during which an old
courtier kisses the hand of an enthroned young prince.” Colors and
gold. Wide border with crude animal scenes to fit painting into an
albam. 0.242 x 0.129.

52.34. Indian, second half of 16th century, Mughal, school of Akbar (A. D. 1555-
1605). Illustration from a dictionary (unidentified): ‘Preparation
for the hunt in the palace courtyard.” One line of nasta‘liq writing on
top. Delicate color tints and gold. On verso: 35 lines of nasta‘liq
writing in black, captions in red. Wide gold-painted border with Indian
figures in stylized landscape. 0.216 x 0.122.

52.35. Persian, 14th century (A. D. 13841), Mongol (1l-Khin period), Inju school
(Shiraz). Page from a Shah-ndadma manuscript showing “Rustam lift-
ing Afraisiyab from the saddle.” Painted with colors and gold, writing
in black proto-nasta‘liqg in six columns between red columnar lines.
0.086 x 0.171.

53.12- Persian, first half of 17th century (between 1598 and 1643). Period of

53.60. Shah ‘Abbés, school of Isfahan. By Riza Abbasi (Rizfiye ‘Abbasi), and
other artists. Album of 60 drawings.

53.61. Persian, early 17th century. Period of Shah ‘Abbas, school of Isfahan.
“Lamentation over the dead body of Christ.” By ‘Ali Rizi (‘Abbiisi)
after Perugino. Color and gold. Three gold-painted borders, the last
and widest one with animals in rinceaux on blue ground. 0.210 x 0.152.
50

52.12.

52.14.

52.16.

52.17.

52.19.

52.20.

At ak a

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

POTTERY

Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Figurine, mortuary, of a man
on horseback; fine, whitish-buff clay, fired medium hard; transparent
glaze, with fine crackle, over areas of brown and green on white sur-
face; man’s head, hands, boots, and saddle blanket unglazed and
painted. 0.935 x 0.340 x 0.117.

. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Figurine, mortuary, of a woman

on horseback; fine, whitish-buff clay, fired medium hard; transparent
glaze, with fine crackle, over areas of brown and green on white sur-
face; woman’s head unglazed and painted, also other small areas.
0.431 x 0.376 x 0.148.

Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Figurine, mortuary, of a Negro
groom, left hand restored; fine, whitish-buff clay, fired medium hard;
transparent glaze, with fine crackle, over green robe with brown lapels
and brown boots, hand white; head and neck unglazed and painted.
0.207 x 0.067.

Chinese, Ming dynasty, Hsiian-té period (A. D. 1426-1485). Bowl with
conical sides and foliate rim; fine white porcelain; transparent glaze,
high-fired; decoration in underglaze cobalt blue, fruit and floral sprays
inside and out; six-character Hstian-té mark on base. (Pair with 52.17.)
0.079 x 0.227.

Chinese, Ming dynasty, Hsiian-té period (A. D. 1426-1485). Bowl with
conical sides and foliate rim; fine white porcelain; transparent glaze,
high-fired; decoration in underglaze cobalt blue, fruit and floral sprays
inside and out; six-character Hsiian-té mark on base. (Pair with
52.16.) 0.078 x 0.227.

. Chinese, Ming dynasty, Ch‘eng-hua period (A. D. 1465-1487). Bowl with

plain, slightly flaring rim; fine white porcelain; transparent glaze,
high-fired; decoration in undergiaze cobalt blue, large lotus sprays
inside and out; six-character Ch’eng-hua mark on base. 0.070 x 0.151.

Chinese, Ming dynasty, Hung-chih period (A. D. 1488-1505). Dish with
plain straight rim; fine white porcelain; transparent glaze, high-fired ;
decoration of dragons amid clouds incised in the paste and covered with
brilliant green enamel which shows a fine crackle; six-character Hung-
chih mark on base. (Pair with 52.20.) 0.044 x 0.215.

Chinese, Ming dynasty, Hung-chih period (A. D, 1488-1505). Dish with
plain, straight rim; fine white porcelain; transparent glaze, high-fired ;
decoration of dragons amid clouds incised in the paste and covered
with brilliant green enamel which shows a fine crackle; six-character
Hung-chih mark on base. (Pair with 52.19.) 0.044 x 0.215,

. Chinese, Ming dynasty, Chéng-té period (A. D. 1506-1521). Jar of the

type cha-tou; fine white porcelain; transparent glaze, high-fired, inside
and on base; decoration of dragons amid clouds incised in paste and
covered with green enamel on a ground of yellow enamel; four-character
Chéng-té mark on base which is perforated by four symmetrically placed
drilled holes. 0.113 x 0.146.

Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 690-1279), Ying-ch‘ing type. Vase with
broad rounded shoulder and cylindrical neck; coarse-grained white
porcelain with earth adhesions; transparent glaze with faint bluish
tone and fine crackle; decoration, in relief under glaze, carved lotus
pattern below a row of stamped patterns on shoulder, horizontal fluting
on body. 0.202 x 0.127.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 51

52.23. Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C—A. D. 220). Vase, small, of hu shape
with flaring flanged rim; reddish-buff clay with sand tempering, fired
medium hard; green glaze with pale iridescence and fine crackle, all
over; decoration of horizontal lines in relief and intaglio, three tri-
angular spurs on flat base. 0.131 x 0.107.

52.24. Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C—A. D. 220). Vase, small, with broad
shoulder, contracted mouth and low, thick rim; reddish clay with
sand tempering, fired medium hard; green glaze with pale iridescence
and fine crackle, all over; decoration, none. Two triangular spurs and
remains of a third on flat base. 0.118 x 0.149.

52.26. Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C.-A. D. 220), Ytieh ware. Basin with
rounded sides and horizontal flaring rim; clay not visible, but probably
fine gray stoneware; thin, transparent, mat glaze, with slight greenish
tinge, all over; decoration stamped and incised in clay; four animal
masks with rings applied in relief outside. 0.086 x 0.356.

52.30. Chinese, Shang dynasty (ca. 1525-1028 B. C.). Gray pottery vessel of the
type hwo, decoration incised and in relief. Replica of 42.1, a bronze huo.
0.193 x 0.213.

53.1. Chinese, Ming dynasty, Hsiian-té period (A. D. 1426-1435). Bowl with
plain, straight rim; fine white porcelain, brownish mottling on footrim;
plain, transparent glaze; decoration in underglaze blue; garden scene
with figures outside; plain white inside; six-character Hsiian-t@ mark.
0.070 x 0.191.

53.2. Chinese, Ming dynasty, Hsiian-té period (A. D. 1426-1485). Bowl with
plain straight rim and convex center; fine white porcelain, fired pale
orange on footrim; plain, transparent glaze; decoration in underglaze
blue; floral border and lotus panels outside, scroll border, floral wreath,
and interlocking festoons with arabesques; six-character Hsiian-té mark.
0.060 x 0.152.

53.3. Chinese, Ming dynasty, second half 15th century. Vase of mei-p‘ing shape
with straight neck ; fine white porcelain, scattered black flecks on base;
plain, transparent glaze; decoration in underglaze blue, clouds on neck;
overlapping petals and pendent leaves on shoulder; landscape garden
with figures, stylized lotus panels. 0.228 x 0.144.

53.4. Chinese, Ming dynasty, late 15th century. Bowl, shallow with plain,
slightly flaring rim ; fine white porcelain ; plain glaze, faintly gray, trans-
parent inside; decoration in colored glazes, turquoise five-claw dragons
on deep blue ground with white flecks, plain inside. 0.088 x 0.148.

53.5. Chinese, Ming dynasty, second half 15th century. Bowl with plain, straight
rim ; fine white porcelain; plain, transparent glaze; decoration in under-
glaze blue; cash diaper band at rim, nine dragons amid waves outside ;
one dragon in waves inside. (Pair with 53.6.) 0.073 x 0.132.

53.6. Chinese, Ming dynasty, second half 15th century. Bowl with plain,
straight rim; fine white porcelain; plain, transparent glaze; decoration
in underglaze blue; cash diaper band at rim, nine dragons amid waves
outside; one dragon in waves inside. (Pair with 53.5.) 0.075 x 0.132.

53.7. Chinese, Ming dynasty, Chéng-té period (A. D. 1506-1521). Dish with
plain, straight rim; fine white porcelain; plain, transparent glaze;
decoration in underglaze blue and overglaze yellow enamel; blue flowers
op yellow ground; six-character Chéng-té mark. 0.045 x 0.213.

53.65. Chinese, Ming dynasty, Yung-lo period (A. D. 1403-1424). Bowl of thin
white porcelain with floral decorations traced in the white body under
the glaze and scarcely visible except as a transparency. 0.100 x 0.201.
52

53.66.

53.67.

53.68.

53.10.

53.11.

53.70.

52.15.

Total

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, K‘ang Hsi period (A. D. 1662-1722). Porcelain
bowl of solid aubergine color, with cloud and dragon decorations carved
in body under the glaze; six-character mark of the K‘ang Hsi period
incised on unglazed foot. 0.091 x 0.128.

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, K‘ang Hsi period (A. D. 1662-1722). White
bottle-shaped porcelain vase decorated with lotus-leaf design in relief
around base; six-character mark of the K‘ang Hsi period in underglaze
blue on base. 0.200 x 0.069.

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, Ch‘ien Lung period (A. D. 1786-1795). Bottle-
shaped famille rose vase decorated with enamels in the mille fleur design ;
six-character mark of the Ch‘ien Lung period in red on base. 0.128 x
0.067.

Japanese, late 17th century, Kakiemon. A chrysanthemum-shaped deep
porcelain plate decorated with vitrifiable enamels. 0.282 x 0.054.
(Illustrated. )

Japanese, late 17th century, Kakiemon. An oval-shaped porcelain bowl
decorated with vitrifiable enamels; black lacquer cover. 0.089 x 0.193 x
0.150.

. Persian, 10th century. Platter, shallow, wide-rimmed, on low ring-foot.

Two Kufic inscriptions in black-brown on white slip. The clear glaze
shows a fine crackle in places. Inside of foot unglazed, revealing the
light reddish clay. Broken and put together in ancient times (three
bronze rivets) and again recently. Greater part of outer edge and small
area on wide margin made of plaster. 0.468 x 0.060. (Illustrated.)

Persian, 10th century. Bowl, shallow, on solid foot. Knot design in center
and festooned edge are in deep brown slip on white glaze pitted in parts
and occasionally chipped off along edge. Broken and put together, but
only very small pieces missing. 0.324 x 0.067.

STONE SCULPTURE

Chinese, Northern Ch’i dynasty. Standing figure of a Bodhisattva in high
relief against a flat background; right hand holds a lotus bud, left hand
a flask. Traces of color. 1.034 x 0.417.

number of accessions to date (including above) —--__-___________ 10,794

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS

Cleaning and restoration of 24 American paintings were completed
by John and Richard Finlayson, of Boston. The Gallery has obtained
the services of Takashi Sugiura as picture mounter, assigned to the ori-
ental collections.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions totaled 141 as follows:

American art:

Mi pehM es) 2 hk Le ER, ee Dee a Oe 2
Ol paintingseaU SS SEO Nae A Se aes et a eee 19
Watercolor paintings.222 = !62 2 Oh See ea ae 2 eee 9

SECRETARY’S REPORT 53

Chinese art:

IBTONZEL® Srl reer LE 8 cy tees ea ye eee aa elie Ak Sines 2;

Goldee rs Bee eee ee ee eer ee gd See eae BE oes 1

SES) SS I ee a al ae Fe Een me SD aE il

5 EAEICCD REVS i estat Se at NS NS SL Re ath ba 2

} SE Wiel eb kegs Mae) Re te POU eee Sea ara Saree ares eal BS 2a ph Se ee aly

Potterycand porcelainess =. ies ak ee er ee hia 30

Woody Sculptures: 2 28 a 5 eve ape ae eS he cp eel i te 2
Japanese art:

IBTONZEWSCulp tres a 5 er a a a a a al

ARE Sa CT SH ss a a ee ale a a ee et 2 42

BECO 2) (Gis aie Dem reLOnmeenE g Ye RY CE SPRBO je UOT Er [CD eee TENE Tata ws Loe eee 10
Sassanian art:

SU Vier So ct nes ee EI OSCE a fa RIE pk aod 3 RL lly ee 2
Venito-Islamic art:

DB 2 MSPS i See ae Fea SN ee DR DE 1

LIBRARY

Accessions of books, pamphlets, periodicals, and study materials
totaled 885 pieces, making a total of 31,905 books and pamphlets, of
which 18,303 are in Chinese, 6,682 in Japanese, and others in Arabic,
Armenian, Hindi, Sanskrit, Tibetan, and Turkish, as well as in the
Western languages. The above total does not include study material.
One of the year’s outstanding gifts to the library was the Horyiiji
Kondo hekiga shi reproductions from the Tokyo National Museum.

In addition to the work of expanding the card catalog and revision
of the oriental books catalog, 976 publications and scrolls were cata-
loged, 229 parts of serial publications were entered, 3,522 cards were
added to the catalogs and shelf lists. A total of 509 items were bound,
labeled, repaired, or mounted.

Bibliographic references of the American paintings owned by the
Gallery were coordinated with the catalog cards and the Gallery folder
sheets. Work on indexing of both the English and Japanese editions
of the Japanese periodical Kokka continued, and the project is more
than half complete. The compilation of abstracted material in the
field of art and archeology in cooperation with the associate in tech-
nical research has consumed a great deal of time. This publication is
intended to be the principad guide to all recent literature on technical
abstracts of art and archeology, beginning with published sources for
1943, through December 1952. It is intended that the completed
abstracts will be published in the near future as one of the series of
Occasional Papers of the Freer Gallery of Art.

PUBLICATIONS

Three publications of the Gallery were issued during the year:

Pope, John Alexander: Fourteenth-century blue-and-white. A group of Chinese
porcelains in the Topkapu Saray1 Miizesi, Istanbul, 1952. Occasional Papers,
vol. 2, No.1. (Smithsonian Publ. 4089.)
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Pope, John Alexander: Ming porcelains in the Freer Gallery of Art. May 19538.
Gallery Book I: A selection of etchings, drypoints, lithographs and lithotints by
James McNeill Whistler (1834-1903).

Papers by staff members appeared in outside publications as
follows:

Wenley, A. G.: A hsi tsun from the Avery Brundage Collection. Archives,
Chinese Art Society of America, vol. 6, 1952.

. Exhibition of Japanese painting and sculpture. Bulletin, Vereeniging
van Vrienden der Aziatische Kunst, Derde Serie, No. 1, June 1953.

Ettinghausen, Richard (contributor) : Bibliography of periodical literature on
the Near and Middle East, vols. 19-22. The Middle Hast Journal, 1951-52.

Gettens, R. J.: Science in the art museum. Scientific American, vol. 187, No. 1,
pp. 22-27, July 1952.

. The bleaching of stained and discoloured pictures on paper with sodium

chloride and chlorine dioxide (with French translation). Museum, vol. 5,

No. 2, pp. 116-130, 1952.

. La technique des “Primitifs Flamands.” Studies in Conservation, vol.

1, No. 1, pp. 1-29, October 1952. (With P. Coremans and J. Thissen.)

REPRODUCTIONS

During the year the photographic laboratory made 3,814 prints,
242 glass negatives, and 1,125 lantern slides. Total number of nega-
tives on hand, 10,044; lantern slides, 7,067.

BUILDING

The general condition of the Freer building is good, and the main-
tenance and operation have been satisfactory, but the galleries and
much mechanical equipment need renovation.

The major projects of the cabinet shop have been the completing
and putting in service of eight new exhibition cases and the over-
hauling of the shop for the oriental picture mounter. Miscellaneous
odd jobs in connection with the maintenance of office and Gallery
equipment, crating, etc., continue as usual.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4: 30 every day except
Christmas Day, until May 25, 1953. Since that date the hours on
Tuesdays have been from 2 to 10. The total number of visitors to
come in the main entrance was 71,308. The highest monthly attend-
ance was in August, 9,851, and the lowest was in December, 2,623.

There were 1,703 visitors to the office during the year.

HERZFELD ARCHIVE

The Herzfeld material continues to be used by experts in Near
Eastern archeology throughout the world.
Secretary’s Report, 1953.—Appendix 4 PLATE 2

52.28

Recent Addition to the Collection of the Freer Gallery of Art.
Secretary's Report, 1953.—Appendix 4

Sei

53.10

Recent Additions to the Collection of the Freer Gallery of Art.

PLATE 3
SECRETARY'S REPORT 55

AUDITORIUM

On May 26, 1953, Mr. Pope gave the initial lecture in the 1953-54
series at 8:30 p. m. in the auditorium on “The Ming Dynasty and Its
Porcelains” (illustrated). Attendance, 521. In addition, the audi-
torium was used by four outside agencies.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects sub-
mitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects in
the fields represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Persian,
Arabic, and Indian materials. Reports, oral or written, and exclu-
sive of those made by the technical laboratory on specimens (listed
below), were made upon 4,925 objects as follows: Belonging to private
individuals, 2,040; belonging to dealers, 1,142; belonging to other mu-
sermns, 1,743. In all, 503 photographs of objects were examined and
790 oriental language inscriptions were translated for outside indi-
viduals and institutions. By request, 8 groups totaling 343 persons
met in the exhibition galleries for docent service by staff members;
and 1 group of 9 persons was given docent service in the study-storage
rooms. There were 25 distinguished foreign visitors who studied
the collections.

Work done in the technical laboratory included the characteriza-
tion of an organic red pigment found on a number of Chinese objects

within and without the Freer Collection, and the analysis of a copper-
corrosion product in ancient Egyptian bronzes which is to be described
as a new mineral. Examinations were made of 29 objects from the
Freer Collection, and 56 from outside sources. Many of these bore on
the two problems mentioned above. Also work was continued on the
collection of material for Abstracts of Technical Studies in Art and
Archeology. The laboratory equipment was augmented by the instal-
lation of a comparison microscope, a chemical balance, and an X-ray
viewer.

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery
by staff members:

1952

Oct. 15. Mr. Pope addressed members of the Oriental Ceramic Society, in Lon-
don, on “Some Blue-and-White in Istanbul.” (Illustrated with
photographs.) Attendance, 100.

Oct. 24. Mr. Pope addressed a joint meeting of the members of the Svenska
Orientsillskapet and the Féreningen Keramikens Viinner, in the
Nationalmuseum, Stockholm, on ‘Chinese Porcelains from the
Ardebil Shrine.” (Illustrated with photographs.) Attendance, 90.

284725—54——_5
56

1952
Oct. 29.

Oct. 30.

Nov. 6.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Dr. Ettinghausen addressed a joint meeting of the members of the
Middle East Institute, the Oriental Club, and the Washington So-
ciety, Archaeological Institute of America, at Dumbarton Oaks, on
“Islamic Miniatures and the West.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 120.

Mr. Pope gave a public lecture in the Kunstindustriemuseum, Copen-
hagen, on “Chinese Porcelains from the Ardebil Shrine.” (Illus-
trated with photographs.) Attendance, 40.

Mr. Pope addressed members of the Association Francaise des Amis
de VOrient (in French), in the Musée Guimet, Paris, on “Chinese
Porcelains from the Ardebil Shrine.” (Illustrated with photo-
graphs.) Attendance, 100.

While in London, Mr. Pope gave the following lectures at the Uni-
versity of London under the auspices of the Percival David Founda-
tion of Chinese Art and the School of Oriental and African Studies,
as follows:

Nov. 12.

Nov. 18.

Nov. 25.

Dee. 11.

Dee. 16.

1953
Jan, 5.

Jan. 15.

Jan. 16.

Feb. 6.

Feb. 8.

Feb. 8.

“The Introduction of Chinese Porcelain into Europe.” (Illustrated
with photographs.) Attendance, 70.

“Chinese Porcelains from the Ardebil Shrine.’ (Illustrated with
photographs.) Attendance, 50.

“Chinese Porcelains from the Ardebil Shrine.” (Illustrated with
photographs.) Attendance, 55,

Dr. Ettinghausen addressed members of the Middle East Institute,
Washington, D. C., on “Islamic Art.” (Illustrated.) Attendance,
20.

Dr. Ettinghausen lectured at the University of Michigan, in Ann
Arbor, on “Great Art Monuments in Iran, Afghanistan, and India.”
(Illustrated.) Attendance, 101.

Dr. Ettinghausen lectured at Dumbarton Oaks, Washington, D. C., on
“Tran and Her Historical Monuments.” (Illustrated.) Attend-
ance, 170.

Mr. Wenley addressed the annual dinner of the Smithsonian Board of
Regents, giving a brief account of his trip to Japan as chairman of
the committee for the Japanese Loan Exhibition. (Illustrated.)
Attendance, 26.

Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at the Iranian Hmbassy in Washing-
ton, D. C., on “Iranian Architecture.” (Illustrated with Dr. Etting-
hausen’s own slides.) Attendance, 85.

Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at the Foreign Service Institute, State
Department, Washington, D. ©., on “Islamic Art.” (Illustrated.)
Attendance, 24,

Mr. Stern gave a public lecture at the National Gallery of Art, Wash-
ington, D. C., on “The Exhibition of Japanese Art.” (Illustrated
with borrowed slides.) Attendance, 350.

Mr. Stern gave a lecture to the District of Columbia Library Associa-
tion at the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., on “The
Exhibition of Japanese Art.” (Illustrated with borrowed slides.)
Attendance, 175.
Feb. 24.

Mar. 23.

Mar, 24.

Mar. 25.

Mar. 28.

Apr. 8.

Apr. 8.

Apr. 9.

Apr. 10.

Apr. 16.

June 17

June 18.

June 23.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 57

Mr. Pope gaye a lecture at the John Herron Art Institute, Indianapolis,
Ind., on “The Introduction of Chinese Porcelain into Europe.”
(Illustrated.) Attendance, 110.

Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at The Mosque, Washington, D. C., on
“Near Eastern Art and Facilities for Its Study in Washington, D. C.”
(Illustrated with borrowed slides.) Attendance, 220.

Mr. Pope gave a lecture at the Chinese Art Society, China House, New
York City, on “Chinese Porcelains from the Ardebil Shrine.”  (Illus-
trated.) Attendance, 60.

Mr. Gettens gave a lecture at the Chemistry Club, Trinity College
(Catholic University), Washington, D. C., on “Artificial Coloring
Materials of the Ancients.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 25.

Mr. Stern gave a lecture at the Center for Japanese Studies, Rackham
Amphitheatre, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, on “The
Traveling Exhibition of Japanese Art Treasures.” (Illustrated.)
Attendance, 220.

Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at the Science Society, Dartmouth
College, Hanover, N. H., on “Archaeological Travels in Afghanistan
and India.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 100.

Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at the Frick Collection, New York
City, on “Islamic Miniatures and the West.” (Illustrated.) At-
tendance, 185.

Mr. Pope gave a lecture at the American Oriental Society, Catholic
University, Washington, D. C., on “Tentative Identification of Cer-
tain Barly Persian Collectors of Chinese Porcelain.” Attendance, 40.

Mr. Stern gave a lecture at the American Oriental Society, Catholic
University, Washington, D. C., on “Hokusai’s Hyakunin-isshu Ubaga
Etoki, or Poems of a Hundred Poets Explained by a Wet Nurse.”
(IUustrated.) Attendance, 40.

Mr. Stern gave a lecture at the American Oriental Society, Hotel
Washington, Washington, D. C., on “The Hxhibition of Japanese
Painting and Sculpture Currently Touring the United States.”
(Illustrated.) Attendance, 60.

Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at the Cleveland Museum of Art,
Cleveland, Ohio, on “Archaeological Travels in Iran, Afghanistan
and India.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 250.

Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at the Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore,
Md., on “Archaeological Travels in Iran and Afghanistan.” (Tllus-
trated.) Attendance, 90.

Mrs. Usilton gave a lecture at the 48th annual meeting of the American
Association of Museums (Librarians’ Section), Buffalo, N. Y., on
“Selling Your Museum Library to Your Board of Directors.” (Illus-
trated.) Attendance, 20.

Mr. Gettens gave a lecture at the 48th annual meeting of the American
Association of Museums, Buffalo, N. Y., on “Current Art Technical
Literature: An Abstracts Project.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 85.

Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at The Cultural Attachés’ Group,
United Nations Club, Washington, D. C., on “Art and Nature in
the Near East.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 38,
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Members of the staff traveled outside of Washington on official
business as follows:

1952
July 7- Mr. Wenley went to Japan to serve as chairman of the committee
Sept. 23. representing five American Museums in which the Japanese Loan

Exhibition is being held. This committee was sent to advise with
the Japanese Government concerning the contents of the exhibition.
Sept. 23- Mr. Pope, in Europe, carried out further research on problems related
Dec. 22. to the Chinese porcelains from the Ardebil Shrine; visited museums
and collections and consulted with scholars and connoisseurs in
London, Glasgow, Stockholm, Copenhagen, and Paris.

In addition, 5 members of the staff made a total of 18 trips outside
of Washington on official business.

Members of the staff held honorary posts and undertook additional
duties outside the Gallery as follows:

Mr. Wenley : Research Professor of Oriental Art, University of Michigan.

Member, Board of United States Civil Service Examiners at
Washington, D. C., for the Smithsonian Institution.

Member, Board of Trustees, Textile Museum, Washington,
D. C.

Member, Council of the Far Eastern Ceramic Group.

Member, Board of Trustees of the Hermitage Foundation,
Norfolk, Va.

Member, Visiting Committee, Dumbarton Oaks Research
Library and Collection.

Member, Smithsonian Art Commission.

Member, Consultative Committee, Ars Orientalis.

Chairman, Louise Wallace Hackney Scholarship Committee
of the American Oriental Society.

Mr. Pope: Member, Board of Governors of the Washington Society of
the Archaeological Institute of America; the Board met
at the Freer Gallery of Art, on July 23, 1952, and on May
13, 1953.

President, Far Hastern Ceramic Group.

Art Editor, Far Eastern Quarterly.

Member, Editorial Board of the Archives of the Chinese
Art Society of America.

President, Southern Association of Exeter Alumni in Wash-
ington.

Accompanied 5 students and 1 teacher from the Garrison-
Forest School, Baltimore, Md., through the Japanese exhi-
bition at the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C.,
February 12, 1953.

Dr. Ettinghausen: Research Professor of Islamic Art, University of Michigan.

Near Eastern editor of Ars Orientalis.

Member, Editorial Board, The Art Bulletin.

Trustee, American Research Center in Egypt.

Member, Comitato Internazionale di Patronato, Museo Inter-
nazionale delle Ceramiche, Faenza, Italy.

Member, Editorial Advisory Committee, Studies in Art and
Literature in Honor of Belle DaCosta Greene.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 59

Dr. Ettinghausen: Editor, A Selected and Annotated Bibliography of Books
and Periodicals in Western Languages Dealing with the
Near and Middle East with Special Emphasis on Medieval
and Modern Times; published by the Middle Kast Institute,
1952.

Went to the Georgetown Branch of the District of Columbia
Public Library to examine and advise about the exhibition
of 30 Egyptian paintings by Youssef Sida; wrote the Fore-
word in the Catalogue of the Exhibition of Modern Paint-
ings by Youssef Sida under the Patronage of H. E. the
Egyptian Ambassador, July 17-19, 1952.

Mr. Gettens: Associate Editor, Studies in Conservation, published for the
International Institute for the Conservation of Museum
Objects.

Abstractor for Chemical Abstracts, American Chemical
Society.

Mr. Stern: Assisted in the preparation of the catalog of the Japanese
Loan Exhibition; also in the installation of the objects
in the Exhibition, National Gallery of Art, Washington,
D. C., November 1952-January 1953.

Respectfully submitted.
A. G. Wentery, Director.

Dr. LEONARD CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology

Sir: I have the h nor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 19538, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which provides “. . . to continue independently or
in cooperation anthropological researches among the American In-
dians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection
of the United States and the excavation and preservation of
archeologic remains.”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

On January 28 Dr. M. W. Stirling, Director of the Bureau, left
for Panama on the fourth National Geographic Society-Smithsonian
Institution archeological expedition to Panama. From February 13
to March 1 the expedition was in Darién where 2 weeks were spent
on the Sambu River studying the little-known Choco Indians. The
fact that their territory was opened for settlement only 2 years
ago offered unusual opportunity to study the beginnings of the ac-
culturation process. Following this, Dr. Stirling spent a month in
archeological work on the islands of the Gulf of Panama, with head-
quarters on Taboga Island. Excavations in shell-midden sites were
conducted on Taboga and Taboguilla Islands and a large burial site
in a rock shelter on Uraba was investigated. He spent the first half
of April on Almirante Bay in the Province of Bocas del Toro where
he examined midden and cave sites and made test excavations. He re-
turned to Washington on April 20.

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Director of the Bureau,
was occupied most of the year with the management of the River
Basin Surveys, of which he is Director. In August he went to Lin-
coln, Nebr., to inspect the headquarters of the Missouri Basin project,
whence, accompanied by Ralph D. Brown, chief of the Missouri Basin
project, and Dr. Gordon C. Baldwin, archeologist from the Region
2 office of the National Park Service at Omaha, Nebr., he proceeded
to the Harlan County Reservoir project in south-central Nebraska
where he visited the excavating party from the Laboratory of An-
thropology of the University of Nebraska, under the direction of
Dr. John L. Champe. The work at the Harlan County Reservoir was

60
SECRETARY’S REPORT 61

a cooperative undertaking between the Laboratory of Anthropology
and the Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage Program. While there
the party examined several sites which had been excavated during the
summer or were then being dug. From Dr. Champe’s camp the party
proceeded to Medicine Creek Reservoir, near Cambridge, Nebr., where
E. Mott Davis of the Nebraska State Museum, University of Nebraska,
was carrying on another cooperative project, excavating a site con-
taining material belonging in the Early Man category. From Medi-
cine Creek Dr. Roberts and his associates went to Denver, Colo., where
they conferred with officials in the regional office of the Bureau of
Reclamation. From Denver they went to Laramie, Wyo., where they
examined and studied a collection of specimens from excavations
carried on by Dr. William Mulloy of the University of Wyoming
at the Keyhole Reservoir. The latter work was also a cooperative
project. From Laramie the party went to Cody, Wyo., where it spent
2 days at the Horner site where a joint party from the Smithsonian
Institution and Princeton University, under the leadership of Dr.
Waldo R. Wedel and Dr. Glenn L. Jepsen, was collecting interesting
new evidence on one of the early hunting groups in the Plains area.
From Cody, Dr. Roberts and his companions went to Billings, Mont.,
to confer with regional officials of the Bureau of Reclamation about
the various projects underway or contemplated in that portion of
the Missouri Basin. At Billings the party was joined by John L.
Cotter from the Washington office of the National Park Service.
From Billings, they went to the Garrison Reservoir in North Dakota
where they inspected the excavations being conducted by River Basin
Surveys parties at the site of Fort Berthold IT and an early his-
toric Indian village on the top of a small butte near Elbowoods,
N. Dak. The group then went on to Bismarck, N. Dak., where it
examined and studied materials which had been collected by a party
from the North Dakota State Historical Society at the site of the
Indian village which was adjacent to Fort Berthold II. From Bis-
marck the party proceeded to Jamestown where the River Basin Sur-
veys were excavating a village site and some mounds in the area
to be flooded by the Jamestown Reservoir. It then proceeded to
the Oahe Dam of the Oahe Reservoir near Pierre, S. Dak., where
two River Basin Surveys groups were digging. One of the latter was
at work in the remains of a fortified village a short distance above
the dam while the other was occupied at an earlier site some miles
upstream. From Pierre, Dr. Roberts and his associates went to the
Fort Randall Reservoir where another River Basin Surveys party
was digging in two sites. En route they stopped and inspected a
site where the University of Kansas had carried on a cooperative
excavation project during the earlier part of the season. From Fort
Randall the group returned to the headquarters at Lincoln where
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

several days were spent in examining and studying collections coming
in from the various field parties. At that time Dr. Roberts assisted
Mr. Brown in preparing plans for the termination of the various field
parties and for the fall and winter work at the laboratory in Lincoln.

Dr. Roberts returned to the field office at Lincoln in September
following the accidental death of Mr. Brown, and for a period of 2
weeks took charge of the operations there, supervising the termination
of the field projects and the return of personnel and equipment to
the field headquarters. At that time he also reviewed and edited a
number of preliminary reports on reconnaissance surveys, and ap-
proved them for mimeographing and distribution.

In December Dr. Roberts went to St. Louis to attend the annual
meetings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
and gave the retiring address as chairman of Section H, speaking on
the subject “Progress in the Inter-Agency Archeological and Anthro-
pological Salvage Program in the United States.” In May he at-
tended the meetings of the Society for American Archeology at
Urbana, Ill., taking part in a number of discussions pertaining to the
work in the Plains area. Later in the month he went to Lincoln,
Nebr., to take part in a meeting of the Missouri Basin Inter-Agency
Field Committee. In January he completed a manuscript, “Earliest
Men in America, Their Arrival and Spread in Late Pleistocene and
Post Pleistocene Times,” for the International Commission for a
Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. During the year Dr.
Roberts received an alumni award from the University of Denver for
distinguished service in the field of American archeology.

Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropologist, continued his Eskimo studies
and other Arctic activities. He continued to serve as a member of
the National Research Council’s Committee on International Relations
in Anthropology and was appointed a member of the Permanent
Council of the International Congress of Anthropological and Ethno-
logical Sciences, to participate in planning for the next session of the
Congress, to be held in Philadelphia in 1954.

As a member of the Board of Governors of the Arctic Institute of
North America Dr. Collins attended several meetings of the Board
and of the executive committee held in Montreal, Ottawa, and Wash-
ington. As chairman of the directing committee of the Arctic Bib-
liography, he continued to supervise the operation of this project and
made arrangements with the Department of the Air Force for support
of the work during the present and coming fiscal years and for the
publication of the material assembled in 1952 and 1953. The Arctic
Bibliography is being prepared for the Department of Defense by the
Arctic Institute under contract with the Office of Naval Research. It
describes, and indexes by topic and region, the contents of 24,000
publications in all fields of science relating to the Arctic and sub-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 63

Arctic regions of America, Siberia, and Europe. About 40 percent
of the material is in English, 30 percent in Russian, and the rest mainly
in Scandinavian, Finnish, German, and French. The first 3 volumes
of the Bibliography, of approximately 1,500 pages each, will be issued
as a publication of the Department of the Army in July 1953. A
fourth volume of the same size, representing the work of the past 2
years, was turned over to the printer at the end of the present fiscal
ear.

; Dr. Collins participated in the preparation of a Program of His-
tory of America, which the Comision de Historia of Mexico is or-
ganizing under the sponsorship of the Rockefeller Foundation. In
January he attended a meeting in Havana at which plans for the
program were discussed, and prepared a paper on the subject assigned
to him—the Arctic Area—which summarized existing knowledge of
the archeology, ethnology, physical anthropology, and history of the
Eskimo and Indian tribes of the American Arctic.

On June 23 Dr. Collins and his assistant, William E. Taylor, were
flown by the R. C. A. F. from Montreal to Cornwallis Island in the
Canadian Arctic Archipelago to conduct further archeological ex-
cavations for the National Museum of Canada and the Smithsonian
Institution. The principal objective of the work is to obtain addi-
tional information on the prehistoric Dorset culture, traces of which
were found there, with Thule culture remains, by Dr. Collins and Mr.
Taylor in 1950 and 1951.

The beginning of the fiscal year found Dr. John P. Harrington, eth-
nologist, engaged in the preparation of a study of the Abenaki In-
dians of Maine, Quebec, and formerly also of Vermont, who speak the
nearest related living language to the extinct tongue of the Massa-
chusetts Indians, in whose language the Eliot Bible was written. The
two tongues were so closely akin that an Indian speaking one could
with a little practice have understood the other. A complete treatise
on the Abenaki has been assembled, including unique lists of the terms
referring to their culture, and the material awaits completion of the
typing to make it ready for the printer.

On December 20 Dr. Harrington proceeded to Santa Barbara, Calif.,
where he continued his studies of the Chumash Indians of the Santa
Barbara Channel region. In 1542 the Cabrillo Expedition visited
these shores, and, contrary to the custom of the time, put on record
about 42 place names, nearly all of which can be identified. Atl the
sites along the coast were visited. The coming of Cabrillo antedated
that of the Pilgrim Fathers to what is now Massachusetts by nearly
80 years, and the Indian words written down are far older than any
others recorded in California. During the four centuries which have
elapsed since Cabrillo came, the language has evidently changed but
little. Through good fortune Dr. Harrington was able to locate the
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

long-looked-for chapel of Saxpilil and to identify the site of the vil-
lage of Coloc. On April 20, 1953, he returned to Washington.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Philip Drucker, anthropolo-
gist, was in Washington continuing his studies of Meso-American
archeology. During the latter part of the summer he began prepara-
tions for an acculturational study in southeast Alaska. On Septem-
ber 30 he left Washington for Juneau, Alaska, where he began his
investigation of the development and function of the highly interest-
ing intertribal organization of Alaskan Indians known as the Alaska
Native Brotherhood. In November he had the good fortune to be in-
vited to attend the annual convention of this organization at Hoonah,
Alaska, in the role of an observer. On the first of December he re-
turned to Washington and began preparation of a report on the study
just completed.

Shortly after the first of the year Dr. Drucker went to Mexico, D. F.,
where he conferred with officials of the Mexican Government and ob-
tained the necessary permits to enable him to carry out a program
of archeological reconnaissance in the Olmec area of western Tabasco
and southern Veracruz. This research project was sponsored jointly
by the Smithsonian Institution and the Wenner-Gren Foundation for
Anthropological Research. At the end of January he departed for
the field where he continued his investigations until the middle of May.
He returned to Mexico City to make arrangements for the exportation
of the ceramic samples collected in the course of the survey, the study
of which should make it possible to identify as to culture affiliation
each of the 70-some-odd archeological sites discovered and tested in the
course of the trip. On June 10 he left for Washington, D. C.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS?
(Report prepared by Frank H. H. Roserrs, Jr.)

As in previous years the investigations of the River Basin Surveys
were carried on in cooperation with the National Park Service and the
Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior, the Corps of
Engineers of the Department of the Army, and various State and local
institutions. During the fiscal year 1952-53 the work was financed
by a transfer of $122,700 from the National Park Service to the Smith-
sonian Institution. Included were $111,065 for investigations in the
Missouri Basin and $11,635 for all other areas where projects were
underway. An additional $50,294 in carryover of previous funds was
also available for the Missouri Basin, making a total of $161,359 for
that area. The over-all total for the fiscal year, including an unex-
pended balance of $3,390, was $172,994. That amount was approxi-

1 See article by Dr. Roberts in 1951 Smithsonian Report, pp. 351-383, for a 5-year summary
of the River Basin Surveys work.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 65

mately 26 percent less than for the preceding year and necessitated a
corresponding reduction in operations.

Field investigations consisted of reconnaissance or surveys for
locating archeological sites and paleontological deposits that will be
affected by construction work, or are located in areas that will be
flooded, and the excavation of sites that previous survey parties had
observed and recorded. Following the trend of the preceding year
there was much greater emphasis on excavation because the survey
parties had in large measure caught up with the general program and
there were fewer proposed reservoir areas requiring preliminary
study. Reconnaissance parties visited 6 new reservoir basins located
in 3 States. Further surveys were made in 7 reservoir areas where
some preliminary studies had previously been carried on. They were
in 5 different States. At the end of the fiscal year excavations were
completed or were underway in 6 reservoir basins in 4 States. During
the course of the year there were nine excavating parties in the field.
Four of them were in areas where there had been no digging previously.
The other five continued investigations at reservoir projects where
work was started during prior field seasons. A paleontological party
collected materials and made geologic studies in 4 reservoir basins in 3
States. By June 30, 1953, reservoir areas where archeological surveys
had been made or excavations carried on since the start of the program
in 1946 totaled 241 in 27 States. One lock project and four canal
areas were also investigated. The survey parties have located and
recorded 3,469 archeological sites, and of that number 852 have been
recommended for excavation or limited testing. Preliminary ap-
praisal reports were completed for all the reservoirs surveyed, and
where additional reconnaissance has resulted in the discovery of fur-
ther sites supplemental reports have been prepared. Some of those
finished during the fiscal year, together with others completed toward
the end of the previous year, were mimeographed for limited distribu-
tion to the cooperating agencies. In the course of the year 23 such
reports were issued. The total number distributed since the start of
the program is 172. The variance between that figure and the total
number of reservoirs investigated is partially attributable to the
fact that in a number of cases a whole series of reservoirs occurring
in a basin or subbasin has been included in a single report. Other
completed manuscripts had not yet been mimeographed at the end of
the year. Excavations carried on during the year brought the total
for reservoir projects where such investigations have been made to 42
located in 17 different States. The results of certain phases of some
of that work have appeared in various scientific journals, and Bulletin
154 of the Bureau of American Ethnology, River Basin Surveys
Papers, containing 6 reports, was ready for release on June 30, 1953.
Detailed technical reports on 10 additional excavation projects have
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

been completed and are ready for publication. Paleontological sur-
veys have been made in 121 reservoir areas. Archeological work has
also been done in 88 of them and the remaining 33 will eventually be
visited by archeological parties. The total of all reservoir basins
surveyed, including those where archeological studies are still to be
made, is 273.

The reservoir projects that had been surveyed for archeological re-
mains, as of June 30, 1953, were distributed by States as follows:
Alabama, 1; California, 20; Colorado, 24; Georgia, 4; Idaho, 11; Ihi-
nois, 2; Kansas, 10; Kentucky, 1; Louisiana, 1; Minnesota, 1; Missis-
sippi, 1; Montana, 15; Nebraska, 28; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota,
13; Ohio, 2; Oklahoma, 7; Oregon, 27; Pennsylvania, 2; South Da-
kota, 9; Tennessee, 3; Texas, 19; Virginia, 2; Washington, 11; West
Virginia, 2; Wyoming, 21. Excavations have been made or were
being made in reservoir basins in: California, 5; Colorado, 1;
Georgia, 4; Kansas, 3; Montana, 1; Nebraska, 1; New Mexico, 1;
North Dakota, 4; Oklahoma, 2; Oregon, 2; South Carolina, 1; South
Dakota, 3; Texas, 7; Virginia, 1; Washington, 3; West Virginia, 1;
Wyoming, 2. Only the work of the River Basin Surveys or that in
which there was direct cooperation with local institutions is included
in the foregoing figures. Projects that were in direct cooperation
with the National Park Service or were carried on by local institutions
alone are not included because complete information about them was
not available.

The River Basin Surveys continued to receive extensive and helpful
cooperation during the year from the National Park Service, the
Bureau of Reclamation, the Corps of Engineers, and various State
and local institutions. Detailed maps of the reservoirs under investi-
gation were supplied by the agency concerned and at a number of
projects temporary office and laboratory rooms, as well as dwelling
facilities, were provided. For survey work in Tennessee guides and
transportation were furnished by the Corps of Engineers and the same
source made transportation available at a series of excavations in
Georgia. The work of the River Basin Surveys men was made much
easier by the assistance of the field personnel of the other agencies and
their accomplishments were much greater than they would have been
without that help. As in other years, the National Park Service
functioned as the liaison between the various agencies both in Wash-
ington and in the field. Through its several regional offices it secured
information about the locations for dams and reservoirs and data on
their construction priorities. The National Park Service also was
mainly responsible for the preparation of estimates and justifications
and procurement of funds for carrying on the program. The en-
thusiastic cooperation of Park Service personnel was a definite aid in
all phases of the operations.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 67

The main office in Washington directed and supervised the work in
the east and south, while that in the Missouri Basin was under the
supervision of a field headquarters and laboratory at Lincoln, Nebr.
The materials collected by survey and excavating parties in the east
and south were processed in Washington. Those from the Missouri
Basin were handled at the Lincoln laboratory.

Washington office—The main headquarters of the River Basin
Surveys continued under the direction of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts,
Jr., throughout the year. Carl F. Miller and Ralph S. Solecki,
archeologists, were based on that office, although Solecki was trans-
ferred to the Missouri Basin Project early in July and continued
there until October when he returned to Washington. Late in No-
vember he was granted leave of absence to accept a Fulbright Scholar-
ship for archeological investigations in Iraq. He was appointed a
collaborator of the Smithsonian Institution and from March until
the end of June conducted excavations financed jointly by the Iraq
Government and the Smithsonian Institution.

At the start of the fiscal year Mr. Miller was in the office working
on material obtained the latter part of the previous year at the John
H. Kerr Reservoir (Buggs Island) on the Roanoke River in southern
Virginia. During July he spent several days inspecting a site near
Cambridge, Md., where a large mound attributable to the Adena
culture was being destroyed by a housing development. In August he
made a brief survey of the Demopolis Reservoir basin on the Warrior
River in Alabama and checked on several sites in the Grenada Reser-
voir on the Yalobusha River in Mississippi. In October he took part
in the Southeastern Archeological Conference held at Macon, Ga.,
and in November made all arrangements for the annual meeting of the
Eastern States Archeological Federation which met in Washington.
During the autumn months he completed his technical report on the
excavations that he made at the Fort Lookout Trading Post site in
the Fort Randall Reservoir basin in South Dakota while on loan to
the Missouri Basin Project the previous year. He also finished cer-
tain revisions in the completed technical report on work at the Alla-
toona Reservoir on the Etowah River in Georgia. He revised a paper
on Indian pottery types of Pissaseck, Va., for publication in the
Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences. Late in December
Mr. Miller visited the Bluestone Reservoir on New River near Hinton,
W. Va., to ascertain the exact status of the reservoir pool and what the
situation was with respect to sites that had been recommended for
excavation and testing when a survey was made of the area in 1948.
During January and February he studied materials from his exca-
vations at the John H. Kerr Reservoir and worked on his technical
report for that project. From March 9 to June 6 he conducted exca-
vations at four sites in the Jim Woodruff Reservoir area on the Flint
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

River in southern Georgia, and gave a number of talks on the River
Basin Surveys program before local groups both in Georgia and
northern Florida.

Dr. Theodore E. White, geologist, divided his time between the
Washington office and the Missouri Basin. From November 12, 1952,
to March 30, 1953, he was in Washington, cleaning, cataloging, and
identifying the small mammals he had collected during the field sea-
son. In addition he identified three lots of bone from archeological
sites in the Columbia Basin and one lot from a site excavated by a
cooperating agency in the Missouri Basin. He completed a series of
five papers on “Observations on the Butchering Technique of Some
Aboriginal People” and was a joint author, with C. M. Barber, of a
sixth. All have been submitted for publication in American An-
tiquity. He also finished a manuscript, “Endocrine Glands and Evo-
lution, No. 8,” for the journal Evolution. Two other papers, “Lith-
ology, Distribution and Correlation of the Alachua Formation of
Florida” and “Lithology, Distribution and Correlation of the Bone
Valley Formation of Florida,” were submitted to the Committee on the
Nomenclature and Correlation of North American Continential Ter-
tiary. Three papers by Dr. White were published during the year.
They were: “A Method of Calculating the Dietary Percentage of
Various Food Animals Utilized by Aboriginal Peoples,” American
Antiquity, vol. 18, No. 4, pp. 396-98; “Collecting Osteological Mate-
rial,” Plains Archeological Conference News Letter, vol. 6, No. 1, pp.
3-7; and “Studying Osteological Material,” ibid., pp. 8-15.

Alabama.—An archeological reconnaissance of the Demopolis
Reservoir basin on the Warrior River made August 5-7, 1952, showed
that although archeological remains are present in the area they
would be little affected by flooding in the bottomlands. No excava-
tions were recommended for the project.

Georgia.—During the period from March 9 to June 6, 19538, surveys
and excavations were carried on along the Flint River, in southern
Georgia, in a portion of the area that will be flooded by the Jim Wood-
ruff Dam situated in the Apalachicola River, just below the junction
of the Flint and Chattahoochee Rivers, in northern Florida. Carl
F. Miller completely excavated 2 sites, partially excavated 2 others,
and located 25 sites not previously listed by the University of Georgia
when it made the preliminary survey there. One of the excavated
sites, Montgomery Fields (9Dr10), was basically Weeden Island in its
relationships but contained a number of traits not previously reported
for that culture. The floor pattern of a fairly large rectangular struc-
ture that had been formed by individual posts, each set in its own hole,
was uncovered, and outlines of a number of small circular structures
suggesting the same type of construction were found. The large
feature probably was a dwelling, while the smaller ones were either
SECRETARY’S REPORT 69

sweat houses or menstrual huts. ‘There were some 30 midden or roast-
ing pits associated with the house remains. One dog burial was found
but no human remains. Underlying the Weeden Island material was
a nonceramic level characterized by stone artifacts in which projectile
points were the predominant form. The latter differ from previously
known types from preceramic levels in the area and may indicate a
separate culture. A slightly different variant of Weeden Island cul-
ture was found at the Lusk Springs site (9Dr21), which was thor-
oughly tested but not completely excavated.

The second site was on the south bank of the Flint River 214 miles
east of Hutchinson’s Ferry Landing. An extensive deposit of shells
located there had been recorded as a single site (9Dr29) but actually
proved to be two (designated Aand B). Unit A was found to contain
a straight Weeden Island II component, while Unit B represented a
Weeden Island I component with an underlying deposit of Santa
Rosa-Swift Creek materials. About 150 yards east of 9Dr29 early
spring floodwaters in the Flint River exposed another small site
(9Dr37). The deposits at that location were widely scattered and had
very little depth. From various eroded pits and subsequent test dig-
ging, however, a series of Deptford, Swift Creek, and Weeden Island
I potsherds were recovered, which makes possible the placing of the site
in the cultural sequence for the area. During the course of his surveys
Mr. Miller joined in the search for the historically significant location
of Apalachicola Fort or Cherokeeleechee’s Fort at the junction of the
Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers. That town was established in 1716
by the Apalachicola when, as a result of the Yamasee war, they moved
back from the Savannah River in South Carolina to the territory they
had formerly occupied in southern Georgia. Their chief at that time
was named Cherokeeleechee or “Cherokee Killer,” and his town fre-
quently goes by the same designation. Not many years later the group
withdrew to a new location farther up the Chattahoochee. Mr. Miller
tested one site tentatively identified as that of the fort but did not find
evidence to support such a possibility.

During the period that Mr. Miller was working in the Jim Woodruff
area Joseph R. Caldwell, archeologist of the National Park Service,
was digging at a productive site on the Chattahoochee River known as
Fairchild’s Landing. Considerable new material was found there in
a series of stratified shell deposits. Several phases of the Weeden
Island culture are represented, and at one end of the site were some
early historic remains. Caldwell’s data and those of Miller should
serve as cross checks and definitely establish all Weeden Island charac-
teristics for the area. In the region adjacent to Fairchild’s Landing
Mr. Caldwell observed evidence of a possible historic Indian site which
may represent one of the several “Fowl Towns” mentioned in various
documents. Mr. Caldwell also took part in the search for Apalachi-
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

cola. Dr. Mark F. Boyd, of the Florida Historical Society, through
an agreement between the National Park Service and the Society,
made a historic-site survey of the whole reservoir basin, working in
conjunction with Miller and Caldwell in a number of instances. Dr.
Arthur Kelly, of the University of Georgia, cooperated in all the
recent activities, giving Caldwell and Miller the benefit of the knowl-
edge he obtained while making a general survey of the Jim Woodruff
area in previous years. He also helped Dr. Boyd with his historic-
sites investigations.

During June excavations were carried on by Ripley P. Bullen in
the small portion of the Jim Woodruff Reservoir lying in Florida,
under a cooperative agreement between the National Park Service and
the Florida State Museum of the University of Florida. Mr. Bullen
and his party dug one site near the dam, finding four superimposed
occupation levels separated by sterile zones. The bottom level yielded
quantities of lithic materials and definitely represented a preceramic
culture. The next higher cultural layer contained sherds from fiber-
tempered pottery, fragments from steatite vessels, and numerous stone
artifacts. The latter, Mr. Bullen reported, constitute many times the
number of previously documented worked-stone specimens from the
fiber-tempered period in all Florida. The third occupation level was
found to belong to the Deptford cultural horizon. The upper layer
contained village remains of the Fort Walton period. Associated with
that occupation were four “specialized” pits containing charred ker-
nels of corn. The evidence from the site will be extremely important
to Florida archeology because it is the first place that a fiber-tempered
complex has been found in situ in west Florida and is only the second
place where undisturbed Fort Walton village material has been avail-
able for extensive study. Investigations at three other sites produced
materials that will help in filling the gap between the Deptford and
Fort Walton periods at the large site. One of the three indicated a
Weeden Island period and another a Kolomoki complex. That is the
first time “pure” Kolomoki remains have been found in Florida.

Mississippi—The Grenada Reservoir area on the Yalobusha River
in Mississippi had been surveyed for archeological remains during a
previous fiscal year by the University of Mississippi operating under a
cooperative agreement with the National Park Service. Upon the com-
pletion of that survey 4 of the 51 sites found were recommended for
excavation. To determine whether digging there was more essential
than in some other areas, several of the sites were examined during
August 25-27, 1952. It was finally decided that the meager funds
available for digging might be used to better advantage in districts
where less was known about the cultural manifestations, particularly
so since there is a considerable number of sites in the Grenada basin
that will not be affected and can be investigated at some future date.
PLATE 4

Secretary’s Report, 1953.—Appendix 5

*suolqeiodo sha

Yiievo LC JO S9de1T,

ed

Ang ulseg Joary Aq uoNvoo] Jey ie paraaooun o1oM apested Zuipunosins pur sospoy
N ‘PotV HOArasay WOStiiey) 9Y} UI 931Ng Sole A\-IYSIN Jo doq uo a8eT[1A uvipuy JO SUIvUIOYT

PEATE >

.—Appendix 5

*s Report, 1953

Secretary

‘ginqoid yo sauso09 yy311 Jaddn ur dures Aqed platy
-IpUI aINsojIuUa JO JoyUVO sso1ov dias JIL
ye suonseq jo suonro0yT ‘“{] Pp

‘apeur sem ydeizojoyd usyM pojeAvoxa aq 0} [[9S8 vole Sayed
‘umoys Apivapo are apesited ayy yo siausoo aysoddo Ajjeuoseip OM
jOYWagq WO Jo os ay} ye skaaing ulseg JIATY 9Y} JO SUOTIVALIXS OY} JO MOTA [LLIOV

SECRETARY’S REPORT 71

Missouri Basin—The Missouri Basin Project continued to operate
throughout fiscal 1953 from the field headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr.
Ralph D. Brown served as chief of the project from July 1 to Septem-
ber 7, when he died as the result of an accident. On September 22,
Robert L. Stephenson, who had been on leave from the River Basin
Surveys’ staff, returned to active duty and was assigned to the super-
vision of the project, serving as acting chief throughout the remainder
of the year. In the interval from September 7 to 22, Dr. Frank H. H.
Roberts, Jr., was in direct charge of the Lincoln office. Activities dur-
ing the year were concerned with all four phases of the salvage pro-
gram. There were preliminary surveys; excavations; processing of
the collections obtained from the digging, analyses and study of the
materials, and the preparation of general and technical manuscripts
on the results; and the publication and dissemination of scientific and
popular reports. Most of the work was in the second and third phases.
Much of phase 1 was finished in previous years and phase 4 will not get
into full swing until more of phase 3 is completed. At the start of
the year there was a permanent staff for the Missouri Basin Project
of 20 persons. In addition there were 4 temporary part-time em-
ployees assisting in the laboratory. Through July and August and
part of September 6 temporary assistant archeologists, 60 temporary
student laborers, and 25 local nonstudent laborers were employed in
the field. During the summer season 11 of the regular staff were also
engaged in fieldwork. As the surveys and excavations were brought
to a close the temporary employees were gradually laid off and by the
first of November only the permanent staff of 20 and a temporary
draftsman-illustrator were on the rolls. In May it became evident
that a much more limited budget would be available for 1954 and that
a reduction in force would be necessary. Consequently by the close of
the day’s work on June 30 the staff had been reduced to 11 persons.

On May 18 and 19 the Interior Missouri Basin Field Committee,
consisting of representatives from all the agencies of the Department
of the Interior concerned with the over-all Missouri Basin program,
held its 61st regular meeting at the River Basin Surveys’ head-
quarters on the campus of the University of Nebraska, at the invitation
of the Missouri Basin Project and the Laboratory of Anthropology of
the University. The first session was devoted to routine business, but
during the evening of May 18 the members visited the Surveys’ labo-
ratory located in the business section of Lincoln and heard Mr.
Stephenson explain in detail the mechanics of the field and laboratory
work of the salvage program. A series of exhibits of fossil speci-
mens, objects from historic sites, Indian-site artifacts, and methods
of pottery reconstruction was used to illustrate portions of Mr. Steph-
enson’s talk. The visitors were also shown the entire process of han-

284725546
yi. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

dling materials from the time they arrive from the field until their
analysis and study have been completed and the covering report has
been written. Most of the session on May 19 was devoted to a pre-
sentation of the work and results of the Inter-Agency Archeological
and Paleontological Program. Howard W. Baker, regional director
of the National Park Service, Region 2, at Omaha, Nebr., served as
chairman. Frederick H. Johnson, secretary of the independent-
advisory Committee for the Recovery of Archeological Remains,
sketched briefly the general background and importance of the re-
covery program and explained the activities and purpose of his com-
mittee. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., then discussed the Smithsonian
Institution’s part in the program as a whole, both from the standpoint
of the Missouri Basin and other areas throughout the country. Dr.
Gordon C. Baldwin, archeologist, Region 2, National Park Service,
explained the part his organization has played, told what had been
accomplished as of that date, and outlined the needs for the future in
a 6-year program. Robert L. Stephenson told about the plans for
the remainder of the fiscal year in the Missouri Basin and explained
the reasons for the proposed projects. Dr. C. Bertrand Schultz, di-
rector of the Nebraska State Museum of the University of Nebraska,
summarized the work that his institution had been carrying on as a
cooperative effort in the paleontological phase of the investigations
and stressed the need for such studies in a proper understanding of the
Missouri Basin. Dr. John L. Champe, director of the Laboratory of
Anthropology, University of Nebraska, commented on the status of
archeology in the Plains area before the salvage program was started
and spoke about the current activities from the viewpoint of the
cooperating institutions. The historical aspects of the program were
presented by Merrill Mattes, regional historian of the Region 2 office,
National Park Service. He outlined the historical background for
the area, described the current activities and the methods used in mak-
ing the studies, and made clear the relationship between that subject
and those discussed by the other speakers. As a result of the session
the members of the Committee undoubtedly left Lincoln with a much
better understanding of the salvage program and its aims.

During the year 10 field parties operated in the Missouri Basin.
One of them made a series of extensive tests in 4 archeological sites,
while 7 were primarily occupied in conducting full-scale excavations
in 19 sites. In connection with that work, however, some reconnais-
sance was carried on in the areas where their investigations were
underway. One of the parties was concerned mainly with archeo-
logical surveys and another with paleontological studies. The exca-
vations were in 2 reservoir areas in North Dakota, 2 in South Dakota,
and 2 in Kansas. The survey party operated in 5 reservoir areas in
Kansas, 3 of them being covered for the first time and 2 being revisited
SECRETARY'S REPORT 73

for further checking. The paleontological party worked in 1 reser-
voir area in Montana, 1 in North Dakota, and 1 in South Dakota. It
also visited another project in North Dakota to examine a specimen
reported from the Upper Cretaceous deposits there. During July
and August 1952, 3 aerial photographic missions were flown over 12
reservoir areas. In all, 5,000 air miles were flown and 62 objectives
were photographed. The latter included excavated archeological
sites, sites to be excavated, dams and reservoir construction features,
and the general topography of the areas to be covered by the ground
surveys. The plane used was the personal property of one of the
staff archeologists and the pictures were taken by the staff photog-
rapher.

The reservoir basins where reconnaissance work was carried on
were: The Kirwin, on the north fork of the Solomon River, where 4
additional archeological sites were located and recorded; the Webster,
on the south fork of the Solomon, where 3 were found; Tuttle Creek,
on the Big Blue River, with 118; Glen Elder, on the Solomon River,
with 17; and Wilson, on the Saline River, with 18. On the basis of the
evidence obtained, it is apparent that no additional studies will be
needed in the Kirwin and Webster areas. At Tuttle Creek, however,
there is important material and 10 of the sites have been recommended
for future excavation. Included in the 10 are 4 historic sites which
are of special significance with respect to the early exploration and
settlement of that section of the West. Of the 17 sites recorded for
the Glen Elder, 6 small ones gave evidence of being extremely im-
portant because they contain materials thus far not observed in the
area and they have been recommended for complete excavation. At
the Wilson Reservoir 6 of the 18 sites were found to be significant
from the standpoint of their relationship to one of the pre-Columbian
cultures which thus far is imperfectly known. ‘Two of the sites are
caves, probably containing dry materials, and should yield types of
artifacts rarely preserved in open sites. One of the recommended
sites may prove to be of considerable importance because materials
there are eroding from a terrace bank and appear to belong to one of
the early occupations in the Plains area. Parties working in the Fort
Randall Reservoir basin in South Dakota located 2 new sites, while
those operating in the Oahe basin in the same State found 180. At
the Jamestown Reservoir in North Dakota 3 new sites were found.
The total of new sites observed and recorded in the Missouri Basin
during the fiscal year was 339.

In the Garrison Reservoir basin on the main stem of the Missouri
River above Bismarck, N. Dak., 2 field parties conducted archeological
excavations in 3 of the 147 known there. During July and August
and part of September one party dug in the remains of Fort Berthold
II. The work at that location falls into the historic category, but it
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

is important because the fort was established in connection with the
large Mandan-Hidatsa-Arikara village, called Like-a-Fishhook, which
was occupied from about 1845 to 1890. The remains of the Indian
village were studied by parties from the North Dakota State Historical
Society under a cooperative agreement with the National Park Service,
but much information was needed with respect to the fort and the
evidence it might contain bearing on the relationships between the
Indians and the Whites. Fort Berthold was originally built in 1858
as a trading post and was known as Fort Atkinson. Its name was
changed in 1862, and from 1863 to 1867 it served as a military post.
Later it became the agency for the three tribes living in the adjacent
village. While there is fairly extensive documentary evidence about
the military and trading post, there are many gaps in the record and
the archeological excavations contributed information which will help
to complete the story of the activities there. About 75 percent of the
fort, including the stockade line and two bastions, was excavated.
Plans call for further work there during fiscal 1954.

In July and August one party excavated the site of a fortified
village on the top of a small butte on the north bank of the Missouri
about 10 miles above Fort Berthold. The site is known by the name
Night-Walker’s Butte in the Bull Pasture because there is an Indian
tradition to the effect that a Hidatsa chief by the name of Night-
Walker broke away from the main tribe and led his band to the top of
a butte where he built a village. Two other sites in the area are also
in somewhat similar locations, and which of the three actually was the
Night-Walker village is open to question. Nothing found during the
excavations throws any light on the problem. The floor areas of 27
earth lodges were uncovered; 29 fire pits, 26 cache pits, 10 roasting
pits, and 2 sweat lodges were dug; and approximately three-fourths of
the stockade which encircled the edge of the butte was traced. Ma-
terials found there suggest that the village was built about or shortly
before 1800. The excavations were completed and the detailed tech-
nical report on the results was well in progress at the end of the year.

In September the party that worked on the butte investigated the
remains of an earth lodge across the river from the village site. It
was called Grandmother’s Lodge and was the traditional dwelling
place of one of the Mandan or Hidatsa supernatural beings who was
believed to be the patroness of gardens and crops. The ceremonial
lodge, which was only partially excavated, appears to have been rec-
tangular in floor plan and may be older than any other lodge thus
far reported for that area. At least one additional lodge and prob-
ably several others are present at the site and further work is planned
for it during fiscal 1954. That particular location provides an ex-
cellent opportunity for comparing evidence obtained through archeo-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 75

logical investigations with the legendary story which is a part of
the myths of the Indians in that district.

At the Jamestown Reservoir on the James River in eastern North
Dakota one field party continued excavations started toward the close
of the previous year. By the end of the season in September it had
dug in 5 of the 28 known archeological sites which will be flooded by
that reservoir. Two of the sites were burial mounds attributable to
the Woodland culture, one was a campsite consisting of a series of
boulder-lined depressions strung along the crest of a low bluff, one
was a burial pit exposed by a power shovel in the borrow area directly
west of the dam, and the other comprised the remains of an Indian
village. The floors of four circular houses and a small sweat lodge
were uncovered at the latter location. The site covers more than 2
acres and only about 10 percent of it was investigated. A few metal
objects and the potsherds found there suggest that the village had
Mandan affiliations or at least trade relations with that group and
that it was occupied during the first half of the eighteenth century.

In the Oahe Reservoir Basin in South Dakota two parties continued
investigations started toward the end of the preceding fiscal year.
Excavations were carried on in 4 of the known 318 sites in the basin.
At the Black Widow site (39ST3), the location of an extensive earth-
lodge village of many scattered houses, about 30 miles upstream from
the dam on the west side of the Missouri, evidence of two occupations
was found. One period was prior to contact with the whites and
the other was during the eighteenth century. During July, August,
and September numerous cache pits, a refuse mound, and extensive
areas of village surface were dug and four house floors were cleared.
Three of the houses belonged to the early period, while the other was
of the later occupation. The fourth house was superimposed upon
cache pits of the early occupation. All four houses were circular in
outline but there were conspicuous architectural differences between
the three older examples and the one late form. Materials from the
site suggest that the older level had its closest affiliations with the
Myers site (89ST10), where the South Dakota Archeological Com-
mission did some excavating in 1949, and with one of the three com-
ponents in the Cheyenne River site (89ST1), which was partially
excavated by a Missouri Basin Project party in the summer of 1951.
The later period of occupation appears to be Arikara, although his-
toric documentation for the site seemingly is not known. The same
party exhumed a single flexed burial which was about to be destroyed
by erosion at a multicomponent site (89ST23) not far from the Black
Widow site. Part of the skeleton was missing and there were no
mortuary offerings accompanying it.

The second excavating party concentrated its efforts in the imme-
diate vicinity of the dam. It completed excavations started at the
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Indian Creek site (39ST15) the previous year, made a series of tests
at the Mathison site (39ST16), and did extensive digging at the
Buffalo Pasture site (39ST6). At the Indian Creek site, which lies
on the line of the proposed discharge channel for the Oahe Reser-
voir, two house floors were cleared. One, probably a ceremonial struc-
ture, was 50 feet in diameter. It contained a raised earthen platform
or altar, covered with mud plaster, along the wall opposite the entry-
way. Beside the altar was a buffalo-skull shrine. Only about 1 per-
cent of that site was excavated, but since it was evident that there
would be some delay in the construction of the discharge channel,
further efforts were deferred until a later field season. The Mathi-
son site, also on the line of the discharge channel, is stratified and the
tests showed it contains data on several different Indian periods, In
addition it probably was the location of Fort Galpin, one of the fron-
tier posts. Most of the activity during July, August, and early Sep-
tember was at the Buffalo Pasture site 1 mile upstream from the right
wing of the dam on the west bank of the river. A large fortified
earth-lodge village had been located there. Four earth lodges, the
cross section of the defensive ditch or moat, and over 210 linear feet
of the palisade wall inside the moat were excavated. One of the lodges
proved to be a ceremonial house and contained an excellent example
of an altar with bison-skull offerings. Although only about 8 percent
of the site was excavated there was an unusually large yield of arti-
facts. Included in the materials are over 100 restorable pottery ves-
sels, which is a rare find so far as the Plains area is concerned. The
material and information from Buffalo Pasture rounds out and helps
to clarify that obtained from two sites, Dodd (39ST30) and Phillips
Ranch (39ST14), between it and the dam which were dug during
previous seasons.

While the River Basin Surveys parties were working in the Oahe
area in the summer of 1952 the South Dakota Archeological Commis-
sion and the W. H. Over Museum of the University of South Dakota
carried on excavations at the Thomas Riggs site (39HU1) under a
cooperative agreement with the National Park Service. On two pre-
vious occasions the W. H. Over Museum had worked there but had not
completed its investigations. During the 1952 season its party, under
the leadership of Dr. Wesley R. Hurt, Jr., excavated the remains of
five houses and dug a long trench through the village area. Evidence
found there indicates that the village was occupied at about A. D.
1500 and that it probably did not have more than 200 inhabitants at
any one time. Just what the relationship between it and later Ari-
kara or Mandan communities may have been is still to be determined.

The two parties, one for Indian and one for historical sites, working
in the Fort Randall Reservoir basin continued the operations started
toward the end of the preceding year. During the field season excava-
SECRETARY’S REPORT Ti

tions were carried on in 6 of the 53 known sites which will be inun-
dated. At the start of the year the Indian-site party was centering its
activities in village remains where considerable digging had been done
the previous field season. At that location, the Oldham site (39CH7),
there was evidence for three periods of occupation. The latest was
an earth-lodge village with palisade and moat where most of the
digging was done during the 1951 season, the middle period was an
earth-lodge village with a palisade but no moat, and the earliest was
an occupation level underlying both of the others. At the start of
the 1952 field season, in May, activities were centered on the portion
of the site representing the middle period. Beginning with the new
fiscal year attention was turned to the area where there was some over-
lap between the remains of the last two periods. During the course
of the digging 2 earth lodges, 3 drying tacks, 2 infant burials, 270
feet of stockade, including 1 bastion, 76 pits, most of which were cache
pits, and numerous fire pits were uncovered. Tubular copper beads
were found in one of the infant burials. The specimen yield from the
site was great and study of the material shows that when the results
are completely tabulated there will be much new information about
the material culture of the people who inhabited that area. The mid-
dle period apparently correlates with what is known as the Great Oasis
Aspect in Minnesota. Although less than half of the site was ex-
cavated, sufficient data were obtained to warrant stopping the work in
August and moving the laborers to a new location. The latter, the
Hitchell site (89CH45), consisted of the remains of a semipermanent
village characterized by circular, hutlike, pole-framed structures
which probably were covered with skins or brush. The site was
stratified and preliminary analysis of the materials from it indicates
that it was related to the latest and the earliest periods at the Oldham
site. While work was underway at the Hitchell site some of the
laborers, under the supervision of a field assistant, dug 1,698 feet of
test trenches at the Pease Creek site (839CH5) several miles down-
stream. The evidence revealed by the trenches shows that there were
two occupations. The latest was by a group using the location mainly
as a camping area, while the earlier presumably had a more permanent
type of settlement. Pottery found there suggests Upper Republican
and Nebraska cultural influences. The artifact complex as a whole
is unique in the Fort Randall area. During the summer season addi-
tional testing was carried on at a campsite (39CH51) where some
digging had been done during a previous year. Those investigations
completed the studies at that location. The activities of the Fort
Randall Indian party were brought to a close in late September.
During July the historic-site party completed the excavation of
the Fort Whetstone site (89GR4) on the west bank of the Missouri
River near the mouth of Whetstone Creek. The palisade was traced
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

and the outlines of the buildings that stood inside the fortification were
followed. Exact dimensions of the fort and buildings were obtained,
as were some of the constructional features of the interior of the build-
ings. All wooden structures had been burned, and evidence indicates
that the post was destroyed shortly after abandonment in 1872. About
90 percent of the site was excavated and no additional work will be
required there. A number of discrepancies found between the various
features revealed by the digging and a plan of the fort drawn in 1871
raised a number of puzzling historical problems. About 500 yards
northwest of the fort the remains of a “Missouri Dugout” were found
and excavated. At the end of July the party moved to the Fort
Randall site (89GR15) on the west bank of the Missouri River half a
mile southeast of the Fort Randall military post. Work there showed
that the remains were those of a brick kiln, which probably belonged
to the period of Fort Randall I. The remains of the kiln and features
associated with it were completely excavated and the party left the
Fort Randall Reservoir area at the end of August, proceeding to the
Kirwin Reservoir in Kansas.

During the 1952 field season work was also carried on in the Fort
Randall area by the Nebraska State Historical Society and the Uni-
versity of Kansas under cooperative agreements with the National
Park Service. The Historical Society party under the direction of
Marvin F. Kivett continued excavations in two sites (89LM26 and
39L.M27) located along the highway a short distance east of Oacoma
and about 2 miles west of Chamberlain, S. Dak. Some digging was
also done at a site (389L.M81) 1014 miles upriver from Chamberlain.
The work at the first two locations, which was completed, showed
evidence of a historic Siouan occupation underlain by an earth-lodge
village belonging to what has been called the Fort Thompson focus.
The third site was found to have three components, historic Siouan,
a level producing a simple-stamped type of pottery which has not yet
been culturally correlated, and an earlier Woodland occupation. The
University of Kansas party under Dr. Carlyle S. Smith spent a third
season at the Talking Crow site (839BF3) about 314 miles below Fort
Thompson, S. Dak. During the three seasons at the site 9 houses were
completely excavated, 4 were partially excavated, and 14 were tested
to obtain their dimensions and samples of materials from them.
Stratigraphic tests were made in three refuse mounds, trenches were
dug across the surrounding fortification on four sides of the site, two
long trenches were cut through areas between the houses, and numer-
ous other test pits and trenches were dug. From the data obtained it
appears that the site had four components. The latest was Siouan
dating from shortly after the Civil War. Prior to that was the last
occupation by earth-lodge-building people, probably the Arikara,
during the period when European trade goods were beginning to
SECRETARY’S REPORT 79

appear in the area. Preceding that was an occupation which just
antedated the introduction of trade goods. The earliest occupation
was definitely prehistoric in age and its cultural affinities seem to
have been widespread. The latest component appears to correlate
with one phase of Kivett’s Oacoma sites and with the Indian Creek
site in the Oahe area. The one just preceding seems to equate with
an older phase at Kivett’s sites and with the latest component at the
Oldham site. The next to the oldest component correlates with the
older level at the Black Widow site in the Oahe area, but there is still
some question as to the relationship of the first occupation at Talking
Crow.

In the Kirwin Reservoir basin in Kansas the historic-sites party,
which had moved from the Fort Randall area, spent the period from
September 2 to 20 excavating the remains of Camp Kirwan, an old
frontier post located on the right bank of the Solomon River in Phil-
lips County. The site (14PH6) was completely excavated and the
palisade line was traced as an intrusive trench in the soil.

An archeological party spent 3 weeks in June 1958 testing sites at
the Tuttle Creek Reservoir in Kansas. During that period work was
carried on at four sites; three of them were in the spillway construction
area, and one in the general construction area for the dam. Two of
them had been severely damaged by the cut for the spillway, while the
others were in immediate danger of destruction by further activities.
One of the sites in the spillway line (14P014) was an earth and stone
mound approximately 26 feet in diameter with a maximum height of
11% feet. The mound contained a burial pit with skeletal remains oc-
curring at two levels. The original interment of at least three bodies
apparently had been dug into to make room for subsequent burial of
three, possibly four, more bodies. In both levels there was one articu-
lated skeleton in a semiflexed position. Stone implements, copper
beads, and fragmentary bits of copper sheeting were found with the
bones. At some distance from the pit the remains of an extended
burial without a skull were found. It had no accompanying mortu-
ary offering. Indications were that the skull had been removed by
some earlier digger and also that the interment was a later intrusion in
the mound. In general appearance the mound suggested relationship
to others in the Tuttle Creek, Glen Elder, and Wilson Reservoir basins.
They have not as yet been assigned to any culture but may well have
Woodland affiliations. The extended burial possibly is attributable to
the Kansa, as it had certain similarities to others found elsewhere
which presumably were made by that tribe. Furthermore, materials
collected from two occupation areas nearby indicate a late occupancy,
and since a historic Kansa village is known to have existed in the
immediate area it seems likely that they may also have lived at those
locations. As a matter of fact, the two sites (14PO012 and 14P013)
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

may represent parts of a single large occupational area as one is on the
eastern edge of the spillway and one is on the western edge of it and
both have been extensively damaged by construction activities. Ma-
terials collected during the digging there consist of buff-colored pot-
sherds with gray shell-tempered paste and punctated decorations,
small] triangular-unnotched projectile points, an abundance of stone
scrapers, a conical copper bangle, and some bits of sheet metal. The
fourth site tested (14RY10) is on the west side of the Blue River. It
was buried under considerable flood-borne silt but the exploratory
trenches indicated the former presence of an earth lodge and other
village features. Potsherds from the house area suggest that a cul-
tural transition was underway at that location. It was not possible
to do any extensive digging there, but at the end of the fiscal year
plans were being made by one of the local institutions to continue the
investigations as a cooperative effort. It was necessary for the River
Basin Surveys party to close down its work on June 26 and return to
the headquarters at Lincoln.

The paleontological field party completed its activities at the Key-
hole Reservoir in Wyoming on July 1, 1952, and left the following
day for the Canyon Ferry Reservoir in Montana. En route, at the
request of the National Park Service, it visited the South Unit of the
Theodore Roosevelt National Monument to examine some paleontolog-
ical material found in that area. From July 5 to August 3 the party
explored exposures of the Oligocene and Miocene deposits in the
Canyon Ferry Basin. Some 75 specimens of small mammals were
collected, adding greatly to the knowledge of certain groups, particu-
larly the rabbits and small dogs of the Miocene. During the period
the paleontologist also identified the Tertiary sediments in a number
of localities in the Toston Basin for a mapping party of the United
States Geological Survey. From August 9 to 30 the party explored
the exposures of the Paleocene Fort Union formation in the Garrison
Reservoir near Elbowoods, N. Dak. Specimens are exceedingly rare
in that formation, and because of the uncertain correlation of the
deposits the value of those found is materially increased. During
that period the nearly complete skeleton of Champsosaurus, an alli-
gatorlike aquatic reptile, was collected. Exposures of the Oacoma
member of the Upper Cretaceous Pierre shale in the vicinity of the
Oahe Dam were explored from September 2 to 10. A number of
specimens of marine reptiles were found but they had been exposed
too long to be worth collecting.

The paleontological party returned to the field in June, and from
June 1 to 7, 1953, at the request of the National Park Service made a
paleontological survey of certain areas in the Badlands National
Monument. From the 9th to the 27th it continued explorations of the
Oligocene and Miocene deposits of the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area.
SECRETARY’S REPORT Sl

Initial flooding of the reservoir made it necessary to visit several
localities by boat. About 100 specimens of small mammals, rabbits,
rodents, and marsupials were obtained. Of special interest is a very
small rabbit, details of the teeth of which suggest that it may be
ancestral to the cony or pika, the tiny rock rabbit which lives high
in the mountains. If such should prove to be true these are the
earliest known specimens of that group of rabbits found anywhere
in the world. The Canyon Ferry Reservoir basin, which will not be
available for study another season because of the impounded water,
has been the most productive, both in the number and variety of
species, of any locality in the area and is the only one thus far that has
produced a sizable Middle Oligocene fauna in the Intermountain
Basins. On June 27 the party moved to the Fort Peck Reservoir in
Montana for the purpose of examining a plesiosaur (marine reptile)
skeleton found in the Upper Cretaceous Bear Paw shale by a member
of the Fish and Wildlife Service. At the end of the year the party
was at Fort Peck.

During the year 18 preliminary appraisal reports were completed,
mimeographed, and distributed to the cooperating agencies. One
supplemental report, on the Fort Randall Reservoir, was completed
and ready to mimeograph. Fourteen short articles on specific sub-
jects in Plains archeology were completed and printed in various
publications. Six appeared in the Plains Archeological Conference
News Letter; four in the Proceedings of the Nebraska Academy of
Sciences, 63d annual meeting; one in American Antiquity; one in the
Americana Annual; and two in the Missouri Basin Progress Report,
issued monthly by the Interior Missouri Basin Field Committee.
Thirteen additional articles were completed and had been accepted
for publication by various journals. Nine reports were completed
and were ready to submit for publication. They included three tech-
nical papers on excavations in the Garrison Reservoir area, one on an
excavated site in the Oahe area, one on historic sites dug in the Fort
Randall basin, one on excavations in the Kirwin Reservoir, one gen-
eral paper on the subject of articles of white manufacture as exempli-
fied by the materials from various sites in the Missouri Basin, and two
on work in the Northwest done by a member of the staff prior to his
joining the Missouri Basin Project.

The laboratory at Lincoln processed 161,036 specimens from 339
sites in 9 reservoir areas and 1 unassignable site. A total of 22,570
catalog numbers was assigned to the series of specimens. The work
in the laboratory also included: Reflex copies of record sheets, both
negatives and prints, 12,629; photographic negatives, 2,281; photo-
graphic contact prints, 11,474; enlargements, 5’’ x 7’’ to 20” x 24’,
4,082 ; photographs mounted for files, 6,374; transparencies mounted in
glass, 1,182; drawings, tracings, and maps, 126; specimens drawn for
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

illustration, 504; completion of restoration of pottery vessels, 32;
vessels or rim sections restored, 84.

Temporary interpretative displays showing the scope and results
of archeological investigations in the Missouri Basin were installed
in the windows of the laboratory in the business section of Lincoln
in November 1952, and in the windows of a large Lincoln department
store in February 1953. A special display illustrating and interpret-
ing the archeology of the Oahe Reservoir area was installed for the
Corps of Engineers by the Missouri Basin Project in the registration
building for visitors at the Oahe Dam observation point. Special
archeological and paleontological displays were prepared for the
meetings of the Interior Missouri Basin Field Committee held at the
headquarters and laboratory in May.

Paul L. Cooper, consulting archeologist, was in charge of one exca-
vating and survey party in the Oahe Reservoir basin from July 1
until October 16. He supervised the digging at the Black Widow
site and toward the end of the season participated in the reconnais-
sance work. During the fall and winter months in the laboratory he
correlated the records of the Oahe reconnaissance with previous
records, summarized information from published and unpublished
sources of varied nature, made use of data obtained from excavations
by the Missouri Basin Project and other agencies, and prepared “An
Appraisal of the Archeology of the Oahe Reservoir.” He also worked
on a summary report of the activities of the Missouri Basin Project
during the calendar years 1950 and 1951. This is concerned with
investigations in 42 reservoir areas, the work of 2 full-season survey
parties and other shorter-term parties, the activities of a paleontolog-
ical party during 2 field seasons, and the excavations carried on by
12 full-season parties in Indian and historic sites in 6 different reser-
voir basins. The specimens obtained from the Black Widow site
received preliminary study and a provisional classification was made
of the pottery found there. Mr. Cooper participated in the Tenth
Conference for Plains Archeology at Lincoln in November and at-
tended the sessions of the Society for American Archeology at
Urbana, Il., in May.

Robert B. Cumming, Jr., archeologist, was in charge of the Indian-
site excavations and survey in the Fort Randall Reservoir area in
South Dakota from July 1 to September 26. He supervised the dig-
ging at the Oldham, Hitchell, and Pease Creek sites. During the
months at the laboratory in Lincoln he made analyses of the material
and data obtained during the 1951 and 1952 seasons at the Oldham
site and prepared a technical report on the results of his investigations
at that location. In addition he completed a supplementary report for
the previously issued “Appraisal of the Archeological and Paleon-
tological Resources of the Lower Platte Basin,” and finished the first
SECRETARY’S REPORT 83

draft, with an accompanying map showing the location of all sites
found to that date in the reservoir area, of a supplementary report
on the Fort Randall basin. From June 10 through 17, 1953, he super-
vised the work of the excavating party in the Tuttle Creek Dam area
in Kansas. Mr. Cumming presented a résumé of the 1952 field work
at the Tenth Conference for Plains Archeology in November.

From July 1 to September 15 Franklin Fenenga, archeologist, was
in charge of an excavating party in the Oahe Reservoir area and
also took part in additional surveys in the general vicinity of the dam.
He directed the digging at the Buffalo Pasture, Mathison, and Indian
Creek sites. In August he installed a special display to interpret the
archeology of the Oahe Dam area in the observation building main-
tained by the Corps of Engineers at a spot overlooking the east wing
of the dam. During the remainder of the year, at the Lincoln head-
quarters, he completed appraisal reports on the archeology of the
Gavins Point Reservoir in Nebraska and South Dakota and for the
Middle Fork Reservoir in Wyoming. He also completed a detailed
technical report on the results obtained at the Indian Creek site and
had finished approximately 75 percent of the report on the Buffalo
Pasture Village by the end of the fiscal year. He presented three
papers on archeological field methods before the Seminar on Plains
Archeology at the Laboratory of Anthropology of the University of
Nebraska. He took part in the Tenth Conference for Plains Arche-
ology and was reelected to a third term as editor of the Plains
Archeological Conference News Letter by that group. He presided
as president at the anthropological section of the 63d annual meeting
of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences and presented a paper, “The
Ice-Glider Game, an 18th-Century Innovation in Northern Plains
Culture.” He also prepared an article, “The Weights of Chipped-
Stone Projectile Points, a Clue to Their Functions,” for publication
in the Southwestern Journal for Anthropology. While in the field
he addressed several organizations, telling about the work of the
River Basin Surveys, and during the months in Lincoln acted as
preceptor of the Indian Project of two groups of Campfire Girls.
Because of the curtailment of funds for the Missouri Basin Project
it was necessary to terminate Mr. Fenenga’s appointment in a reduc-
tion-in-force action on June 30, 1953.

During July, August, and early September Donald D. Hartle,
archeologist, was in charge of the excavations at the Night-Walker’s
Butte site and Grandmother’s Lodge in the Garrison Reservoir area.
In September he also measured and photographed a modern dance
lodge in the Santee Bottoms. Throughout the remainder of the year
he was at the Lincoln headquarters where he completed the detailed
technical report on the excavations, carried on during 2 previous
years at the Rock Village site (32ME15). He completed a series
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

of notes on the work at Night-Walker’s Butte, the Grandmother’s
Lodge, and the dance lodge, and presented a summary report on his
summer’s work at one of the sessions of the Tenth Conference for
Plains Archeology. As a result of the reduction in force, made neces-
sary by curtailed funds, Mr. Hartle’s employment was terminated
on June 30, 1953.

George Metcalf, field and laboratory assistant, was a member of
the Fort Berthold excavating party in the Garrison Reservoir area
from July 1 to September 26, 1952. In addition to taking an active
part in the digging at the fort he spent several days guiding the
paleontological party to exposures noted during the previous year’s
surveys and in checking on the location of archeological sites reported
by local residents. Mr. Metcalf also assisted in the investigations
at the Grandmother’s Lodge site. After returning to the Lincoln
headquarters he prepared the material from Fort Berthold II for
cataloging, made an analysis of the artifacts from the Night-Walker’s
Butte excavations, studied and prepared descriptions of specimens
from the Star Village site (32ME16) dug the preceding year, and
started work on a description of the remains of the last Arikara earth
lodge, a task at which he was engaged until the end of the fiscal year.
During the winter he also prepared book reviews for the North Dakota
Historical Quarterly and for Nebraska History. Mr. Metcalf’s em-
ployment was terminated on June 30 through the reduction-in-force
program, but on July 1 he was to take a position as a museum aide
in the division of archeology, United States National Museum.

On July 1, 1952, John E. Mills, archeologist, was occupied with
an excavating party at the site of the Whetstone Army post in the
Fort Randall Reservoir area in South Dakota. He completed that
work on July 25 and moved his party to the Fort Randall brick-kiln
site where he dug until August 29. During August he also made a
reconnaissance, visiting the sites of the Lower Brule Indian Agency,
Fort Lower Brule, and Fort Hale for the purpose of planning possible
future excavations at those locations. In September he took his party
to the Kirwin Reservoir area in Kansas and dug the site of Camp
Kirwan. From October through June Mr. Mills was engaged at head-
quarters analyzing materials and preparing reports on the results of
his investigations. He completed technical papers on “Historic-Sites
Archeology in Fort Randall Reservoir, South Dakota,” and “Exca-
vation at Camp Kirwan, Kansas.” In addition he completed manu-
scripts on the results of work which he did before joining the staff
of the Missouri Basin Project. They were: “Quantitative Analysis
of a Columbia River Shell Mound,” and “Cultural Continuity at
Nootka Sound, Vancouver Island.” In September he addressed the
Kirwin High School on the subject “Smithsonian Institution River
Basin Surveys” and in May presented a paper, “Ethnohistory,” before
SECRETARY’S REPORT 85

the Nebraska Academy of Sciences. Mr. Mills requested leave of ab-
sence in May to return to the University of Washington to complete
his studies for an advanced degree in anthropology. Such was
granted, but in the reduction-in-force program it was necessary to
remove his name from the rolls as of June 30.

At the start of the fiscal year J. M. Shippee, field and laboratory
assistant, was at the headquarters in Lincoln. He spent several days
assembling data for use in making an aerial survey and on July 15
and 16 flew with Ralph S. Solecki over five reservoir areas in Kansas.
On July 23, under the general direction of Mr. Solecki, he started a
ground survey of the Tuttle Creek Reservoir and was in that area
until September 8. From that date until October 4 he assisted in the
survey of the Glen Elder, Kirwin, Webster, and Wilson Reservoir
basins. On his return to the laboratory he helped to complete the
survey sheets and maps for the 156 new sites found, aided in the
analysis of specimens, the identification of photographs, and the prep-
aration of exhibits. He wrote an outline summary of the results of
Solecki’s work for presentation at the Tenth Conference for Plains
Archeology. In November he also gave an illustrated talk before the
Kansas City Chapter of the Missouri Archeological Society. On June
10, 1953, Shippee went to the Tuttle Creek Reservoir as assistant to
Mr. Cumming and after the latter’s return to Lincoln on June 17,
was in charge of the excavating party for the remainder of the project.
Mr. Shippee’s employment was terminated by the reduction in force
on June 30,

G. H. Smith, acheologist, was in charge of the party digging at the
site of Fort Berthold II on July 1 and continued to supervise those
excavations until the end of the season on September 23. Returning
to the headquarters at Lincoln he spent the time from September 26
to June 30 working over materials and writing reports on his field-
work. He completed the detailed technical paper on the results of the
investigations made during a previous year at Fort Stevenson in the
Garrison area. He also finished a brief report on the excavation of
Fort Berthold II intended primarily to indicate progress at the site
as of the end of the fiscal year. A manuscript consisting of a descrip-
tive account of glass beads, some 8,000 in number, recovered at Fort
Berthold was written and accepted for publication by the Central
Texas Archeologist. A summary account of the history of the
Niobrara River Basin was prepared for submission to the Bureau
ot Reclamation for use in the revision of the Niobrara Basin report
of that Bureau’s Region 7 office. At the Tenth Conference for Plains
Archeology Mr. Smith reported on the work at Fort Berthold IT
and also presided as chairman at a session devoted to Plains Ethno-
history. Mr. Smith resigned, effective June 19, to attend the American
School of Research, Athens, Greece.
oe

86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Ralph S. Solecki, archeologist, was transferred to the Missouri
Basin Project early in July. During the period from then until Oc-
tober 4 he was in charge of the surveys of the five Kansas reservoirs
and in July and August flew three aerial photographic missions over
other Missouri Basin areas. After completing the aerial missions
Mr. Solecki prepared an article, “Photographing the Past,” which ap-
peared in the September issue of the Missouri River Basin Progress
Report. While at the Lincoln office during the latter part of October
and early November appraisal reports on the five Kansas Reservoir
surveys were completed by Mr. Solecki.

Robert L. Stephenson, acting chief of the Missouri Basin Project,
devoted a major portion of his time to managing the operations of
the project. However, he was able to prepare a series of summary
statements on the past 7 years of Missouri Basin Project activities
in detail, reservoir by reservoir. He also did extensive work on a
technical report of the excavations he supervised during previous
years at the Whitney Reservoir on the Brazos River, Hill County,
Tex., and made some analysis of notes and materials from the Acco-
keek site in Maryland. He served as chairman of one section of the
Tenth Conference for Plains Archeology in November, attended the
annual meeting of the Society for American Archeology at Urbana,
Ill., where he presented a paper, “Accokeek: A Middle-Atlantic Cul-
ture Sequence,” and acted as a discussant for two other papers. He
served as chairman for an informal conference of Plains archeolo-
gists held at the Lincoln headquarters in April, and was host for the
meeting of the Interior Missouri Basin Field Committee meeting in
May. At the end of the fiscal year he was on a tour of inspection
of the Missouri Basin. While in the field he visited White’s paleon-
tological party at Canyon Ferry Reservoir in Montana.

At the start of the fiscal year Richard Page Wheeler, archeologist,
was in charge of the survey and excavation party at the Jamestown
Reservoir in North Dakota. He continued his investigations there
until September 26 when he returned to the headquarters at Lincoln,
Nebr. Throughout the remainder of the year he worked on a major
technical report summarizing the results of excavations and surveys
made by himself and others in the Angostura Reservoir, S. Dak., and
in the Boysen and Keyhole Reservoirs in Wyoming, between 1946
and 1951. That report was virtually completed at the close of the
year. In addition he prepared a paper, “Plains Ceramic Analysis:
A Check-List of Features and Descriptive Terms,” which was pub-
lished in the Plains Archeological Conference News Letter, vol. 5,
No. 2. He also wrote an interim report, “Appraisal of the Archeo-
logical and Paleontological Resources of the Jamestown Reservoir,
North Dakota: Supplement,” which was mimeographed and dis-
tributed to the cooperating agencies. At the Tenth Conference for
SECRETARY’S REPORT 87

Plains Archeology in November he gave a résumé of the Jamestown
investigations and read a paper on the preceramic subsistence patterns
in the Great Plains. On May 1 he presented a paper on Dakota
mounds and earthworks at the 63d annual meeting of the Nebraska
Academy of Sciences. In the late spring he collaborated with Dr.
Donald J. Lehmer on a paper, “Time Horizons in the Northern Plains.”

Dr. Theodore E. White, geologist, was in charge of the paleontolog-
ical field party during all its operations. As previously noted, work
during the 1952 season was in the Canyon Ferry, Garrison, and Oahe
reservoir areas, and in June 1953 the party returned to the Canyon
Ferry Reservoir in Montana for additional collecting. From Sep-
tember 15 to November 6, 1952, and from April 2 to May 380, 1953,
Dr. White was in the laboratory at Lincoln. During those periods
he was occupied in identifying osteological material collected by the
various archeological excavating parties. Dr. White’s other activities
were discussed in connection with the operations of the Washington
office.

Cooperating institutions —Various State and local institutions co-
operated in the Inter-Agency Salvage Program during the year.
Most of those activities were on the basis of agreements between the
agencies and the National Park Service, but in a few cases State
groups carried on independently, although correlating their efforts
closely with the over-all operations. The Ohio State Archeological
and Historical Society continued to assume responsibility for all
reservoir areas in that State. The Indiana Historical Society in-
cluded surveys of potential reservoir areas in its general program for
archeological research in Indiana and made periodical reports on the
results of the investigations. Institutions working under agreements
with the Service and the projects undertaken were: California Arche-
ological Survey, University of California, Berkeley, made surveys of
the proposed Trinity, Lewiston, Mooney Gulch, Red Bank, Oroville,
Nimbus, Ice House, Union Valley, Pilot Creek, San Luis, and San
Lucas Reservoirs of California and the Humboldt River and trib-
utaries in Nevada, and started excavations in sites in the Nimbus and
Red Bank areas; the Carnegie Museum of Pittsburgh excavated in
the Conemaugh Reservoir area on the Conemaugh River in Pennsyl-
vania; the Florida State Museum of the University of Florida dug a
number of sites in the portion of the Jim Woodruff Reservoir basin
located in Florida; the University of Kansas continued excavations at
a site in the Fort Randall Reservoir basin in South Dakota; the Uni-
versity of Missouri excavated in the Pomme de Terre Reservoir on
the river of the same name and at the Table Rock Reservoir on the
White River in Missouri; Montana State University dug several small
sites in the Garrison Reservoir area in North Dakota; the Nebraska

284725—54——_7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

State Historical Society worked at three sites in the Fort Randall
basin, South Dakota; the University of Nebraska Laboratory of An-
thropology continued excavations in the Harlan County Reservoir on
the Republican River, Nebr.; the University of Nebraska State
Museum made archeological excavations in the Medicine Creek Reser-
voir in western Nebraska, and on a volunteer basis did paleontological
work in several Missouri Basin projects; the State Historical Society
of North Dakota continued excavations in the Garrison area; the
University of Oklahoma worked at the Tenkiller Ferry Reservoir on
the Illinois River and at the Keystone Reservoir on the Arkansas
River in Oklahoma; the University of Oregon excavated in sites near
The Dalles Dam on the Oregon side of the Columbia River; the Uni-
versity of South Dakota worked in the Oahe Reservoir basin in South
Dakota; the State College of Washington investigated an early site
in the Lind Coulee, Wash.; the University of Washington excavated
at the Wakemap Mound site on the Washington side of the Columbia
in The Dalles Reservoir basin; and the University of Wyoming con-
tinued its digging at the Keyhole Reservoir on the Belle Fourche
River in Wyoming.

INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

In the spring of 1952 the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, De-
partment of State, which had made a grant to the Institute of Social
Anthropology to enable it to carry on its functions from January 1,
1952, to the end of the fiscal year with the understanding that the
Smithsonian anthropologists would be available for program anal-
yses of technical aid projects, decided to utilize anthropologists
on a permanent basis. A request was made that plans be prepared
to transfer ISA personnel to the Institute of Inter-American Affairs
on July 1 and bring to a close the ISA activities as such. Late in
June 1952, however, the Institute of Inter-American Affairs ex-
tended its grant to the Smithsonian Institution for an additional 3
months, so that there could be an orderly transfer of personnel, and
provided $15,725 to finance the ISA until September 30, 1952. Before
that date it became apparent that further time would be needed, and
the grant was extended to December 31, 1952, and an additional $15,-
725 made available. The total funds for the 6-month period were
$31,450. The activities of the Institute of Social Anthropology ended
on December 31, 1952.

The period from July 1 to December 31, 1952, was one of retrench-
ment and the closing down of projects. In Washington Dr. Foster
was occupied in terminating the work of the Institute, in the planning
of anthropological aspects of the program in the Institute of Inter-
American Affairs, and in the preparation of four article-length manu-
scripts on contemporary cultures in Latin America for publication
SECRETARY’S REPORT 89

in anthropological journals. Dr. Kalervo Oberg, who had returned
to the Washington office in June, prepared reports on the cultural
problems encountered by technical aid programs in Brazil, and read
and commented on Institute of Inter-American Affairs reports, as
requested. He described Servicio programs in Brazil at the annual
meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
at St. Louis, Mo., in December.

In Mexico all former Institute of Social Anthropology programs
were terminated and the activities of Dr. Isabel T. Kelly were inte-
grated with those of the Mexico City offices of the Institute of Inter-
American Affairs. Her assignments, all made from that office, in-
cluded trips to Monterey and Veracruz. In Colombia, beginning July
1, the work of Charles J. Erasmus was directly integrated with the
Bogota office of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and all
assignments, including program planning, routine office work, and
field work in fisheries and agriculture were made by that office. Dr.
Ozzie Simmons was in Peru on July 1 awaiting transfer to Chile by the
Institute of Inter-American Affairs. There was unexected delay in
the shift, however, and as he had not been assigned to an Institute
program in Peru he made use of the time in terminating basic field
studies in the Cafiete Valley which, when published, will add to the
knowledge of contemporary Latin American culture and will be a use-
ful adjunct to program planning in the Institute of Inter-American
Affairs. Dr. Donald Pierson resigned his position in Brazil on June
30, 1952, and subsequently returned to the United States.

Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen, of the Smithsonian Institution editorial
staff, continued to edit Institute of Social Anthropology manuscripts.
Publication No. 18, “The Tajfn Totonac,” by Isabel T. Kelly and
Angel Palerm, was released on September 22, 1952. Publications No.
15, “Indian Tribes of Northern Mato Grosso, Brazil,” by Kalervo
Oberg, and No. 16, “Penny Capitalism: A Guatemalan Indian
Economy,” by Sol Tax, were released for distribution on April 2 and
June 16, 1953, respectively.

On December 31, 1952, the employment of Dr. George M. Foster,
Director, was terminated through a reduction-in-force action; and
anthropologists Isabel T. Kelly, Charles J. Erasmus, Ozzie Simmons,
and Kalervo Oberg were transferred to the Institute of Inter-Ameri-

can Affairs.
ARCHIVES

An apparent increase in public interest concerning American
Indians, particularly those of the West, has resulted in greater
demands on the large photographic collections. For the period from
March 1 to June 30, 1953, 288 prints, together with data concerning
them, were furnished in response to 104 requests.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

During this same period 77 manuscripts were consulted, and 12
orders for microfilm and photostatic copies were filled.

Numerous gifts of photographs and manuscripts were received
during the year. New linguistic materials accessioned included a
portion of a Ponca-English vocabulary and a number of hymns
translated in the Omaha language. This material, prepared in 1872
by J. O. Dorsey, was presented to the Bureau by Mrs. Virginia Dorsey
Lightfoot. A portion of an English-Choctaw vocabulary prepared
by Cyrus Byington about 1860 was presented by Donald D. McKay.
The Historical and Philosophical Society of Ohio presented a news-
paper of 1874 in the Creek language.

ILLUSTRATIONS

The time of the illustrator was spent in preparing and executing
illustrations and maps for Bureau and River Basin Surveys publica-
tions and for research associates, and making posters, graphs, charts,
diagrams, and maps, and repairing and altering illustrations for the
editorial division and other departments of the Institution. Floor
plans and front elevations also were executed for the Smithsonian
planning committee.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

There were issued 1 Annual Report, 5 Bulletins, and 3 Publications
of the Institute of Social Anthropology, as follows:

Sixty-ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1951-1952.
ii+ 30 pp. 1953.
Bulletin 145. The Indian tribes of North America, by John R. Swanton. vi+726
pp., 5 maps. 1952.
Bulletin 150. The modal personality structure of the Tuscarora Indians, as
revealed by the Rorschach test, by Anthony F. C. Wallace. viii-+-120 pp., 1 pl.
8 figs. 1952.
Bulletin 151. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 38-42. ix-+507 pp., 37 pls., 25 figs.,
7 maps. 1953.
No. 33. “Of the Crow Nation,” by Edwin Thompson Denig. Edited, with
biographical sketch and footnotes, by John C. Ewers.
No. 34. The water lily in Maya art: A complex of alleged Asiatic origin, by
Robert L. Rands.
No. 35. The Medicine Bundles of the Florida Seminole and the Green Corn
Dance, by Louis Capron.
No. 36. Technique in the music of the American Indian, by Frances
Densmore.
No. 37. The belief of the Indian in a connection between song and the
supernatural, by Frances Densmore.
No. 38. Aboriginal fish poisons, by Robert F. Heizer.
No. 39. Aboriginal navigation off the coasts of Upper and Baja California,
by Robert F. Heizer and William ©. Massey.
No. 40. Exploration of an Adena mound at Natrium, West Virginia, by
Ralph S. Solecki.
No. 41. The Wind River Shoshone Sun Dance, by D. B. Shimkin.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 9]

No. 42. Current trends in the Wind River Shoshone Sun Dance, by Fred W.

Voget.
Bulletin 153. La Venta, Tabasco: A study of Olmec ceramics and art, by Philip

Drucker. x-+257 pp., 66 pls., 64 figs. 1952.

Bulletin 155. Prehistoric settlement patterns in the Virii Valley, Pert, by
Gordon R. Willey. xxii+453 pp., 60 pls., 88 figs. 1953.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publication No. 18. The Tajin Totonac. Part
1. History, subsistence, shelter, and technology, by Isabel Kelly and Angel
Palerm. xiv-+-369 pp., 33 pls., 69 figs., 18 maps. 1952.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publication No. 15. Indian tribes of northern
Mato Grosso, Brazil, by Kalervo Oberg. With appendix entitled “Anthro-
pometry of the Umotina, Nambicuara, and Iranxe, with comparative data from
other northern Mato Grosso tribes,” by Marshall T. Newman. vii-+144 pp.,
10 pis., 2 figs., 3 maps, 14 charts. 1953.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publication No. 16. Penny capitalism: A
Guatemalan Indian economy, by Sol Tax. x-+230 pp., 6 maps, 19 charts. 1953.

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal

year:

Bulletin 152. Index to Schooleraft’s “Indian Tribes of the United States,” com-
piled by Frances S. Nichols.

Bulletin 154. River Basin Surveys Papers: Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage
Program. Nos. 1-6.

No.1. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley Development Program: Summary
report on the Missouri River Basin Archeological Survey in 1948, by
Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 2. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley Development Program: Summary
report on the Missouri Basin Archeological Survey in 1949, by Waldo R.
Wedel.

No. 8. The Woodruff Ossuary, a prehistoric burial site in Phillips County,
Kans., by Marvin F. Kivett.

No. 4. The Addicks Dam sites:

I. An archeological survey of the Addicks Dam basin, Southeast Texas,
by Joe Ben Wheat.
II. Indian skeletal remains from the Doering and Kobs sites, Addicks
Reservoir, Tex., by Marshall T, Newman.
No. 5. The Hodges site:
I. Two rock shelters near Tucumcari, N. Mex., by Herbert W. Dick.
II. Geology of the Hodges site, Quay County, N. Mex., by Sheldon Judson.

No. 6. The Rembert Mounds, Elbert County, Ga., by Joseph R. Caldwell.

Appendix. List of River Basin Surveys reports published in other series.

Bulletin 156. The Iroquois Eagle Dance, an offshoot of the Calumut Dance, by
William N. Fenton, with an analysis of the Iroquois Eagle Dance and songs, by
Gertrude Prokosch Kurath.

Bulletin 157. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 48-48.

No. 43. Stone Monuments of the Rio Chiquito, Veracruz, Mexico, by Mat-
thew W. Stirling.

No. 44. The Cerro de las Mesas offering of jade and other materials, by
Philip Drucker.

No. 45. Archeological materials from the vicinity of Mobridge, S. Dak., by
Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 46. The original Strachey vocabulary of the Virginia Indian language,
by John P. Harrington.

. No. 47. The Sun Dance of the Northern Ute, by John Alan Jones.

No. 48. Some manifestations of water in Mesoamerican art, by Robert L.

Rands.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Publications distributed totaled 38,596, as compared with 21,505 for

the fiscal year 1952.

COLLECTIONS

Ace. No.

188983. 7 ethnological specimens from States of Washington and California, and
from the Amazon Basin; 120 archeological specimens from Texas,
México and Panama.

195312. (Through Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.) Plesiosaur skeleton and spine of
hybodont shark from Graneros formation, Newcastle member, in Key-
hole Reservoir area, Crook County, Wyo., collected in June 1952 by Dr.
Theodore E. White, River Basin Surveys.

195942. Approximately 74 fossil vertebrates from Oligocene and Miocene de-
posits of Canyon Ferry Reservoir area in Montana, and 4 mollusks,
collected August 1952, by Dr. Theodore E. White, River Basin Surveys.

195943. Skeleton, without skull, of fossil reptile from Tongue River member of
Fort Union formation in the Fort Garrison Reservoir area, North
Dakota, collected in September 1952 by Dr. Theodore EK. White, River
Basin Surveys.

197275. Archeological materials excavated by field party under Franklin Fenenga
at Slick Rock Village, Tulare County, Calif., River Basin Surveys.

197689. 144 specimens from Georgia including deeply weathered flint artifacts
from Macon Plateau, Bibb County, and 1 lot of chips, probably from old
Oconeetown, Milledgeville, Baldwin County.

197886. Bones of 2 species of birds from State of Washington. River Basin
Surveys.

198525. 613 archeological surface specimens from Bufaula Reservoir, Onapa and
Canadian Reservoir areas, southeastern Oklahoma, collected August
and September 1948 by David J. Wenner, Jr., River Basin Surveys.

198526. 380 archeological surface specimens from the Eufaula (Gaines Creek)
Reservoir, southeastern Oklahoma, collected July and August 1950 by
Leonard G. Johnson, River Basin Surveys.

198527. 54 archeological surface specimens from Optima Reservoir, North
Canadian River, Texas County, Okla., collected August 1950 by Leonard
G. Johnson, River Basin Surveys.

MISCELLANEOUS

Dr. Frances Densmore, Dr. John R. Swanton, and Dr. Antonio J.
Waring, Jr., continued as collaborators of the Bureau of American
Ethnology. On November 14, 1952, Ralph S. Solecki was named
collaborator in archeology.

On February 24, 1953, Mrs. Margaret C. Blaker joined the staff of
the Bureau as archives assistant.

Information was furnished during the past year by members of the
Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the American
Indians, past and present, of both continents. The increased number
of requests from teachers, particularly from primary and secondary
grades, from Scout organizations, and from the general public, indi-
cates a rapidly growing interest in the American Indian. Various
specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them fur-
nished for their owners.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Straiina, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
Report on the International Exchange Service

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1953:

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency for
the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and lit-
erary publications. The International Exchange Service, initiated
by the Smithsonian Institution in the early years of its existence for
the interchange of scientific publications between learned societies and
individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries, serves
as a means of developing and executing in part the broad and compre-
hensive objective, “the diffusion of knowledge.” It was later desig-
nated by the United States Government as the agency for the trans-
mission of official documents to selected depositories throughout the
world, and it continues to execute the exchanges pursuant to conven-
tions, treaties, and other international agreements.

The number of packages of publications received for transmission
during the year increased by 20,324 to the yearly total of 1,021,938,
and the total weight of the packages of publications increased by
29,475 to the yearly total of 855,102 pounds. The average weight of
the individual package increased to 13.38 ounces, as compared to the
13.18-ounce average for the fiscal year of 1952. The publications
received from both the foreign and domestic sources for shipment are
classified as shown in the following table:

Classification Packages Weight
Number Number Pounds Pounds
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad ___ Lipids Sie eee Me oa ae QL TOO! Ieee a= ek
Publications received in return for parliamentary docu-

WMIONG 2 oe oes oak a nance Soon sees coeeeed en seeass|-sseeesneaes CP ee eee 20, 588
United States departmental documents sent abroad _--- 196,438 Glee Se ee QBIORB {tps Be
Publications received in return for departmental docu-

MGMGS = 22> soso soe saseten ss beseech ot Bee Pe Ee ee MORE | eee Se 22, 793
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent

EO) gy: (6 aes Se A EP Se ee es 6 ee een ee UGS 53 |aeae aoe 2165036) | Hoes seee eee

Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications re-
ceived from abroad for distribution in the United

Btatestitres eee reco ee eee ae eee 66)'202)\3|2-.-s2s525-2 112, 510
TOC = ates sane eee ote ee ee 931, 937 90, 001 699, 211 155, 891
== |

Grand itotals- 22222. 2827 225 set ot ee 1, 021, 938 855, 102

The packages of publications are forwarded to the exchange bureaus
of foreign countries by freight or, where shipment by such means is
impractical, to the addressees by direct mail. The number of boxes

93
94. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

shipped to the foreign exchange bureaus was 2,649, or 409 less than
for the previous year. Of these boxes 802 were for depositories of
full sets of United States Government documents, these publica-
tions being furnished in exchange for the official publications of for-
eign governments which are received for deposit in the Library of
Congress. The number of packages forwarded by mail and by means
other than freight was 205,666.

Owing to the insufficiency of funds for transportation it was neces-
sary to suspend shipments to the foreign exchange bureaus on March
15. Fortunately, the Institution was able to secure a grant of $6,000
from the National Science Foundation for the transportation of ex-
change publications. This was made available to the International
Exchange Service in the latter part of May, and between that time
and the end of June $5,110.18 was expended for the shipment of
98,945 pounds that would otherwise have been delayed pending the
receipt of the appropriation for the fiscal year of 1954. The remain-
ing amount will be used in July pending the availability of the new
appropriation. The grant made it possible for the International Ex-
change Service to effect delivery of these important scientific publica-
tions to the foreign addressees at least a month earlier than would
otherwise have been possible. It not only eliminated the necessity for
additional storage space, decreased handling, and lessened the prob-
able percentage of error in transmission, but also obviated the neces-
sity for a great deal of correspondence regarding the nonreceipt of
publications.

Transportation rates continue to increase and are primarily respon-
sible for the 235,422 pounds of publications that remained unshipped
at the end of the fiscal year.

No shipments are being made to China, North Korea, or Rumania.
Publications intended for addressees in Formosa and formerly sent
through the Chinese Exchange Bureau at Nanking are now forwarded
by direct mail.

Regulations of the Office of International 'Trade, Department of
Commerce, provide that each package of publications exported bear a
general license symbo] and a legend “Export License Not Required,”
and the International Exchange Service accepts for transmission to
foreign destinations only those packages of publications to which the
general license symbol and legend have been applied by the consignor.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
by the Exchange Service for transmission abroad in return for the
official] publications sent by foreign governments for deposit in the
Library of Congress is now 105 (63 full and 42 partial sets), listed
SECRETARY’S REPORT 95

below. Changes that occurred during the year are shown in the
footnotes.
DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Divisi6n Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto,
Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SourH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Vicrorta: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
Austria: Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna.
Be.taium : Bibliotheque Royale, Bruxelles.

BrAzit: Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Bure@aria: Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia.

BurMa: Government Book Depot, Rangoon.

CanapDa: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

Manirogpa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Quesec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CryYLon: Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo.
CHILE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Ministry of Education, National Library, Nanking, China.’
Peipine: National Library of Peiping.*

CotomsBla: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Biblioteca Nacional, San José.

Cusa: Ministerio de Hstado, Canje Internacional, Habana.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: National and University Library, Prague.

DENMARK: Institut Danios des Exchanges Internationaux, Copenhagen.

Eeyet: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.

Finuanp: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.

FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GrerRMANY: Offentliche Wissenschaftliche Biblothek, Berlin.
Parliamentary Library, Bonn.

Free University of Berlin, Berlin.’

GREAT BRITAIN:

Encianp: British Museum, London.

Lonpon: London School of Heonomics and Political Science. (Depository

of the London County Council.)

Huneary: Library of Parliament, Budapest.

Inp1a: National Library, Calcutta.

Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi.

InponrEsIA: Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta.

IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

IsRAEL: Government Archives and Library, Hakirya.

Ivaty: Ministerio della Publica Istruzione, Rome.

JAPAN: National Diet Library, Tokyo.’

Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Hxteriores, Departamento de Informaci6n para

el Eixtranjero, México, D. F.
1 Shipment suspended.

2 Added during year.
® Receives two sets.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo.

PAKISTAN : Central Secretariat Library, Karachi.

Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.

Puuirrines: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

PoLanp: Bibliothéque Nacionale, Warsaw.

PorrueaL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

SPAIN: Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid.

Swepen: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

TuRKEY: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education,
Istanbul.

Union oF SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Union or Soviet Soctatist Repustics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115.

Unrtep Nations: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.

Urvavay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Yuaostavia: Bibliografski Institut, Belgrade.’

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.

ANGLo-EeyPTiAn Supan: Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum.

Borivra: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

Minas Gerais: Directoria Geral de Hstatistica em Minas, Belo Horizonte.
British Guiana: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA:

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

BritisH Cotumsia: Provincial Library, Victoria.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John’s.

Nova Scotra: Provincial Secretary of Novia Scotia, Halifax.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.

Dominican Repusiic: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo.
Ecuavor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
Ex SALVADOR:
Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
GREECE: National Library, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Harri: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS;
Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IceLAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:
BrHar AND Orissa: Revenue Department, Patna.
Bompay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Department
Bombay.

j
SECRETARY’S REPORT ; 97

INnpra—Continued

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUDH:

University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
Secretariat Library, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow.
West Benes: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly
House, Calcutta.

Inan: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.
Iraq: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA; Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew.
Lrespanon: American University of Beirut, Beirut.
LipertA: Department of State, Monrovia.
Mataya: Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur.
MATa: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
NicaraGua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PAKISTAN: Chief Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Lahore.
PANAMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panam4.
PARAGUAY: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asuncién.
ScoTLaND: National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh.
Sram; National Library, Bangkok.
StnecaporE: Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore.
VATICAN City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad 92 copies of the Federal Register
and 102 copies of the Congressional Record. This is an increase over
the preceding year of 5 copies of the Federal Register and 8 copies
of the Congressional Record. The countries to which these journals
are being forwarded are given in the following list.

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER

ARGENTINA:

Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.

Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.‘

Boletin Oficial de la Republica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruc-

cién Publica, Buenos Aires.

Camara de Diputados Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA:

Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.

New South Wates: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.

QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.‘

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
BRAZIL:

Biblioteca da Camera dos Deputados, Rio de Janeiro.

Secretaria de Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro.®

AMAzoNAS: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Mand4os.

Bauta: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sao Salvador.

Espirito SANTO: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.

Rio GRANDE Do Sut: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Porto Alegre.

SERGIPE: Biblioteca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracaju.

. SAo PavLo: Imprensa Oficial do Estada, Sao Paulo.

‘Federal Register only.
® Congressional Record only.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:

Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
Cryton: Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.*
CHINA:

Legislative Yuan, Taipei, Taiwan.’ *

Taiwan Provincial Government, Taipei, Taiwan.
CUBA:

Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.

Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Habana.‘

Biblioteca Marti, Camara de Representantes, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Library of the Czechoslovak National Assembly, Prague.
Ecyrr: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.”

Et SAtvapor: Library, National Assembly, San Salvador.
FRANCE:

Bibliothéque Assemblée Nationale, Paris.

Bibliothéque Conseil de la République, Paris.

Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Varis.

Publiques de l’Institut de Droit Comparé, Université de Paris, Paris.*

Research Department, Council of Europe, Strasbourg.°

Service de la Documentation Ktrangére, Assemblée Nationale, Paris.*
GERMANY:

Amerika-Institut der Universitit Miinchen, Miinchen.®

Archiv, Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.

Bibliotek der Instituts fiir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitit Kiel, Kiel-Wik.

Bibliothek Hessischer Landtag, Wiesbaden.” *

Der Bayrische Landtag, Munich.* *

Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.*

Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.®
GREAT BRITAIN:

Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London.‘

House of Commons Library, London.°

Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London,

Royal Institute of International Affairs, London.‘

GREECE: Bibliothéque, Chambre des Députés Hellénique, Athens,
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Haiti: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.

Honvpuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
INDIA:

Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.‘

Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.*

Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.

Legislative Assembly Library, Trivandrum.?°

Legislative Department, Simla.

Parliament Library, New Delhi.‘

Servants of India Society, Poona.”*

IRELAND: Dail Hireann, Dublin.
IsRaEL: Library of the Knesset, Jerusalem.’
ITALY:
Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome.

®* Three copies.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 99

ITaLy—Continued
European Office, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
Rome.‘
International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.‘
JAPAN: Library of the National Diet, Tokyo.
Korea: Secretary General, National Assembly, Pusan.
LuxEMBOURG: Assemblée Commune de la C. E. C. A., Luxembourg.’
MExIco:
Direcci6n General Informacién, Secretaria de Gobernaci6n, México, D. IF.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, México, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
Baga CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CuHr1aPas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutiérrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoAHUILA: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
Cotima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
DurancGo: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
GUANAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
GuERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JaLisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicuoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacfn,
Morelia.
MoreLos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
Nayarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nuevo Lr6n: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacia de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
PUEBLA: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QUERETARO; Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.
San LulIs Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
Sr1naLoa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacén.
Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
TaBasco: Secretaria de Gobierno, Sessién 8a, Ramo de Prensa, Villahermosa.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TLAXCALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
VerAckUz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober-
nacién y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucaTAN ; Gobernador del Estado de Yucat&n, Mérida.
NETHERLANDS: Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague.‘
NEW ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo.
PAKISTAN: Punjab Legislative Assembly Department, Lahore.
PANAMA: Biblioteca Nacional, Panama City.?*
Peru: Camara de Diputados, Lima.
Potanp: Ministry of Justice, Warsaw.‘
PorTUuGAL: Secretaria de Assembla National, Lisbon.*
PORTUGUESE TIMOR: Reparticio Central de Administracio Civil, Dili.‘
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva.‘
International Labor Office, Geneva.*?
Library, United Nations, Geneva.

7 Two copies.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

UNION OF SoUTH AFRICA:
Care or Goop Horr: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
UNIon or Soviet Soctatist Repusiics: Fundamental’niia Biblioteka, Ob-
shchestvennykh, Nauk, Moscow.’
Urvevay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE SERVICES

Exchange publications for addresses in the countries listed below
are forwarded by freight to the exchange services of those countries.
Exchange publications for addresses in other countries are forwarded
directly to the addresses by mail.

LIST OF EXCHANGE SERVICES

Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna.

Betaium: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de Belgique,
Bruxelles.

Cuina: Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking.”

CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Bureau of International Exchanges, National and University
Library, Prague.

DENMARK: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale,
Copenhagen K.

Eeypt: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulag, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies, Snellmaninkatu 9-11, Helsinki.

France: Service des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale, 58 Rue
de Richelieu, Paris.

GERMANY: Notgemeinschaft der Deutschen Wissenschaft, Bad Godesberg.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 83/84 Berwick Street, London,
W.1.'

Hungary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

InpIA: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationary, Bombay.

INDONESIA: Department of Cultural Affairs and Education, Djakarta.

IsRAEL: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

IraLy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Publica Istruzione,
Rome.

JAPAN: Division of International Affairs, National Diet Library, Tokyo.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

NEw SouTH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des changes Internationaux, Bibliothéque de ]’Uni-
versité Royale, Oslo.

PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

PoLaND: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortuGaL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

® Between the United States and Hngland only.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 101

Rumanta: Ministére de la Propagande Nationale, Service des Echanges Inter-
nationaux, Bucharest.’

Soutn AvusTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationary Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisici6én de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote-
cas Publicas, Ministerio de Educacién Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.

Swepen: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwITzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Palais Fédéral, Berne.

TASMANIA: Secretary of the Premier, Hobart.

TuRKEY: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving,
Istanbul.

Unron or SoutH Arrica: Government Printing and Stationary Office, Cape Town,
Cape of Good Hope.

UnNIon or Sovier SoctaLtist REPUBLIOs: Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin
Library, Moscow 19.

Vicroria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

YUGOSLAVIA: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
D. G. Wiit1ams, Chief.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7

Report on the National Zoological Park

Sm: Transmitted herewith is a report on the operations of the
National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1953.

This year showed a considerable increase over last in accessions to
the Zoo. In all, 810 accessions, comprising 1,797 individual animals,
were added to the collection during the year by gifts, deposits, pur-
chases, exchanges, births, and hatchings. Among these were many rare
specimens never before shown in this Zoo. The addition of new kinds
of animals enhances the value of the collection, which is maintained
not only for exhibition but also for research and education, thus foster-
ing the Smithsonian’s established purpose of “the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge.” Opportunities for research are afforded students
of biology, particularly vertebrate zoology, as well as artists, pho-
tographers, and writers. Methods of study that do not endanger the
welfare of animals or the safety of the public are encouraged.

Services of the staff included answering in person or by phone,
mail, or telegraph questions regarding animals and their care and
transportation; furnishing to other zoos and other agencies, public
and private, information regarding structures for housing animals;
cooperating with other agencies of Federal, State, and municipal
governments in research work; and preparing manuscripts for
publication.

The stone restaurant building, which was constructed in the Park
in 1940, is leased at $46,212 a year. This money is deposited in the
United States Treasury. The concessionaire serves meals and light
refreshments and sells souvenirs.

THE EXHIBITS

Animals for exhibition are acquired by gift, deposit, purchase,
exchange, birth, and hatching, and are removed by death, exchange,
or return of those on deposit. Although depositors are at liberty to
remove their specimens, many leave them permanently.

As in any colony of living things, there is a steady turnover, and
the exhibits are constantly changing. Thus, the inventory of speci-
mens in the collection on June 30 of each year does not show all the
kinds of animals that were exhibited during the year, for sometimes
creatures of outstanding interest at the time they were shown are no
longer in the collection at the time the inventory is made.

102
Secretary's Report, 1953.—Appendix 7 PLATE 6

Upper right: Allen’s monkeys. These two were the first specimens of their kind to be
exhibited in the National Zoological Park and, with the exception of two others received
at the San Diego Zoo at about the same time, the first to be exhibited in the United States.
They are extremely rare, less than a dozen specimens having heretofore been in zoos or
museums anywhere in the world.

Lower left: Young Brazilian flat-tailed otter. This is the first one to be exhibited in the
National Zoological Park, or, possibly, in the United States. These are large otters that
inhabit streams of the Amazon Basin. ‘The feet are as fully webbed as the common
river otter, and the tail is flattened in a peculiar manner.

Photographs by_Ernest P. Walker.
Secretary's Report, 1953.—Appendix 7 PLATE 7

Right: Frilled lizard of Australia, in a defensive attitude but without its frill or ruff being
fully extended as it is when the lizard is annoyed. ‘This and another specimen were the
first to be exhibited in the National Zoological Park. On the limb beneath, an Australian
bearded lizard. On the throat are large folds of skin which the animal extends when
angry to produce a threatening appearance.

Lower left: European midwife toad. The female lays her eggs in a strand somewhat like
beads strung on accord, The male then wraps them around his body in front of his hind
legs and cares for them until they hatch.

Photographs by Ernest P. Walker.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 103

The United States National Museum is given first choice of all
specimens that die in the Zoo. If they are not desired for the
Museum they are then made available to other institutions or scien-
tific workers. Thus the value of the specimen continues long after
it is dead.

ACCESSIONS

GIFTS AND DEPOSITS

The Zoo has been particularly fortunate in having friends who have
showed their sincere interest by bringing in specimens, or arranging
for acquisitions from foreign countries. During the year, the follow-
ing have made valuable contributions to the collection :

Lt. Col. Robert Traub, Chief, Department of Entomology, Medical
Service Graduate School, Walter Reed Army Medica! Center, Wash-
ington, D. C., supplied animals from Malaya, Borneo, and Korea.

Thomas McKnew, of the National Geographic Society, interested
Sir Gordon H. A. MacMillan of MacMillan, Governor and Com-
mander in Chief of Gibraltar, in presenting two Barbary apes.

Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, of the United States Naval Medical Research
Unit No. 3, Cairo, Egypt, and George Malakatis, gave reptiles that
they had obtained in Egypt.

Dr. Donald J. Pletsch, of the World Health Organization at Taipeh,
Taiwan, sent a fine, tame civet (Paguma larvata taviana), a form
found only on the island of Formosa. This was the first of its kind
exhibited in the Zoo.

Dr. Egberto Garcia S., Director of the Department of Public Health
of Ecuador, sent two large Galapagos turtles.

The Honorable Carlton Skinner, Governor of Guam, gave three
Kast Indian monitor lizards.

Forest Bartl, of Edgewater, Md., presented a specimen of the
beautiful eclectus parrot, a native of the Papuan Islands and rare in
collections.

Mrs. Helen B. Irwin, Washington, D. C., gave a beautiful sulphur-
crested cockatoo.

Paul M. Menendez and Bernard F. Salb, both of Washington, D. C.,
each presented a white-armed marmoset.

The National Institutes of Health deposited a chimpanzee.

The Round Table Kennels, of Middletown, Del., presented 12 young
blue peafowl.

Dorothy Schenck, Willimantic, Conn., gave a ball python.

The United States Fish and Wildlife Service, through various mem-
bers of its staff, continued to assist during the year in maintaining
an interesting collection.

284725—54 8

104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

J. E. Bannister, St. Leonards, Md., went to considerable effort to
bring to the Zoo a scarlet king snake, one of the more beautifully
marked of North American snakes, and very rare in this region.

The Philadelphia Zoological Gardens gave two Arctic foxes.

Dr. E. Raymond Hall and Richard P. Grossenheider, of the Uni-
versity of Kansas, presented two Point Barrow lemmings; these are
rare in collections because they do not ordinarily thrive in capitivity.

W. W. Dornin, Phoenix, Ariz., personally collected and shipped to
the Zoo representatives of 13 species of reptiles of the southwestern
United States.

Superintendent Curtis Reid, of the District of Columbia Jail, and
William Stokes gave a Virginia deer that had been raised from a
fawn at the jail.

Mrs. Fred J. McKay, Arlington, Va., gave an American crocodile.

This year, as in many years past, various individuals have deposited
in the Zoo animals to which they desired to retain title. These
specimens are most acceptable additions to the exhibits. Depositors
are assured that the animals will receive routine care, but the Zoo
assumes no responsibility for their return or no obligation to replace
any that do not survive.

This year a group of 42 mammals and reptiles was deposited by
Gordon Gaver, who operates an animal exhibit at Thurmont, Md.,
during the summer. He deposited his specimens with the Zoo
in the fall and removed them in the spring.

A similar procedure has been adopted by M. A. Stroop, of New
Market, Va., who deposited 68 specimens with us this year.

There was a decided increase in the number of spectacled caimans
(Caiman sclerops) received as gifts, due to the fact that Florida is
now prohibiting exportation of baby alligators and so dealers are
selling instead young spectacled caimans from Central and South
America, and many of these eventually reach the zoos.

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

(Deposits are marked *; unless otherwise indicated, addresses of donors are
Washington, D. C.)

Aben, Jerry, 8 golden hamsters, *golden | Anderson, Mrs. M., 2 cardinals.

hamster. Animal Rescue League, woodcock.
Abramson, Karen, Alexandria, Va., 2 | Animal Welfare League, Arlington, Va.,
Pekin ducks. skunk.

Adair, Ralph, Chevy Chase, Md.,| Army Medical Service, through Col.
opossum, Robert Traub, *2 rajah tree rats,

Psi oa Arlington, Va., Pekin *2 wood rats, *2 Asiatic squirrels,
: *2 southern Asiatic squirrels, *2

ape acc te hte est Berdmore’s squirrels, *6 Siamese
Alston, Hezekiah, Pekin duck. rats, *4 large spiny-backed tree
Altman, Franklin O., Takoma Park, Md., rats, *1 lesser bandicoot rat, *4
2 domestic rabbits. Allegheny wood rats, *2 raccoon

Alvard, Kathy, robin. dogs.

SECRETARY’S REPORT

Arons, Mrs. H. C., Silver Spring, Md.,
white rabbit.

Ashton, Francis, 3 rabbits, 3 guinea
pigs, hamster, painted turtle,
opossum.

Ayer, Lorraine, domestic rabbit.

Baber, James M., squirrel monkey.

Babst, Carol L., black rabbit.

Baden, Mrs. G., robin.

Bailey, George, Pekin duck.

Baker, James, chain or king snake.

Baker, Judd O., alligator.

Baker, N. B., Alexandria, Va., 3 Pekin
ducks.

Bannister, J. E., St. Leonards, Md., scar-
let king snake.

Bargmann, Louis, Arlington, Va., pilot
black snake.

Bartl, Forest F., Edgewater, Md., eclec-
tus parrot.

Belintende, 8S. J., Silver Spring, Md.,
summer tanager.

Benn, Mrs. W. G., Falls Church, Va.,
pine lizard, blue-tailed skink.

Bennett, Mrs. Robert, Silver Spring,
Md., 4 guinea pigs.

Berliner, Steve, coot.

Bernstein, Ed, *white-throated capu-
chin.

Berryman, Mrs. R. M., false map turtle.

Berthold, Alfred, Chevy Chase, Md.,
Cumberland turtle.

Betz, Thomas, black widow spider.

Bigio, Fred, 3 tree frogs.

Blackman, Robert, Arlington, Va., 4
false chameleons.

Bond, Danny, 2 rabbits.

Bower, Clayton, Fort Howard,
fighting fowl.

Brady, Thomas, timber rattlesnake.

Breed, Harold A., Clifton, Va., copper-
head.

Breslin, G. L., 2 Cook’s tree boas.

Brickham, Marguerite H., Annandale,
Va., 2 hamsters.

Brill, Mrs. Alice, Eastpine, Md., 5 gray
squirrels.

Broadhurst, Joe, and Kern, Gary, 2
water snakes, snapping turtle.
Brockdorff, P. F., Silver Spring, Md.,

horned lizard.

Broodwater, Bobby, Hyattsville, Md.,
pilot black snake.

Brown, Mrs. Clark E., Chevy Chase, Md.,
robin.

Brown, George Jr., Silver Spring, Md.,
rabbit.

Brown, Lynn R., Bladensburg, Md., and
McCrory, V. BH., Alexandria, Va.,
*hawk-billed turtle.

Brown, Mrs. Ray, *Pekin duck.

Brucker, W. B., Long Beach, Calif.,
*Pacific rattler.

Brunhouse, Mrs. Helen, 2 pickerel frogs,
alligator, 3 red-lined turtles, 3 Cum-
berland turtles, geographic turtle, 2
green frogs, 2 common newts, ham-
ster.

Ma.,

105

Buck, Sally, Garrett Park, Md., alli-
gator.

Burgess, Pamela, Pekin duck.

Burke, William L., Alexandria, Va., 16
opossums.

Burrows, Mrs. Inez C., Takoma Park,
Md., opossum.

Bushnell, Guy, water snake, 8 bullfrogs.

Caldwell, William Jr., 2 Pekin ducks.

Calvert, Miss Ann, Pekin duck.

Campbell, Harold F., Bethesda, Md., 5
fighting game chickens.

Camp Detrick, Frederick, Md., copper-
head.

Cardozo High School, spectacled cai-
man.

Carew, H. E., Silver Spring, Md., cotton-
tail rabbit.

rece . Hdgewater, Md., brown capu-
chin.

Carson, James, Arlington, Va., burrow-
ing snake.

Carter, C. Glen, Silver Spring, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Cartner, Mrs. Helen, wood thrush.

Castell, Bill, Arlington, Va., spectacled
caiman,

Charles, rank, Takoma Park, Md.,
domestic rabbit.

Christel, Mrs. C. J., domestic rabbit.

Clapp, Dr. Stewart, Kensington, Md.,
barred owl.

Clark, Mrs. Austin, snapping turtle.

Clarke, Mrs. Mary Hlizabeth, Silver
Spring, Md., skunk.

Clarke, Mrs. Peggy, Landover, Md., *2
Indian pythons, *3 Florida king
snakes, *alligator, *Indian rock
python.

Cleary, Mrs. Mary D., domestic rabbit.

Clow, Mrs. Kenneth A., Chevy Chase,
Md., domestic pigeon.

Coffin, David M., Silver Spring, Md.,
opossum.

Coleman, Elizabeth Ann, *Pekin duck.

Colison, C. W., domestic rabbit.

Collady, 8. F., 2 white rabbits.

Connelly, Mare, Falls Church, Va., 2
Pekin ducks.

Connett, Mrs. W. B., Fairfax, Va., South
American turtle.

Connolly, John Alfred, copperhead.

Cook, Martin Thomas, ring-necked
snake.

Coray, Mrs. J. B., robin.

Corbet, Pat, Silver Spring, Md., tree
frog.

Cordle, Farman E., Vienna, Va., *rhesus
monkey.

Covan, Mrs. W. C., Arlington, Va., white
rabbit.

Craig, Col. Malin, Jr., Chevy Chase,
Md., mourning dove.

Cramer, Corliss, Arlington, Va., sparrow
hawk.

Crawford, William E., East Riverdale,
Md., king snake.
106

Cross, Miss Ann G., Sweet Briar, Va.,
ringed aracari toucan.

Crowley, Mrs. H. G., blue jay.

Crowley, Mrs. Thomas B., Kensington,
Md., skunk.

QOzizauskas, Hdward, domestic pigeon.

Dale, C. K.., *wood turtle, *2 box turtles,
*3 pilot black snakes, *water snake,
*keeled green snake, *ringneck
snake, *worm snake, *queen snake,
*mole snake, *2 blue-tailed skinks.

Daniel, Wayne L., Kensington, Md., 2
guinea pigs.

Dann, Douglas B., Jr., Alexandria, Va.,
snapping turtle.

Danneman, Hi, Silver Spring,
Pekin duck.

Dante, Robert, 2 golden hamsters.

Darnell, Basil, opossum.

Davis, Frank A., Silver Spring, Md.,
albino corn snake.

Davis, Col. Homer, Arlington, Va., 2
Pekin ducks.

Davis, Malcolm, painted bunting.

Davis, Mrs. R. F., Takoma Park, Md.,
pilot black snake.

Dawson, John Henry, Bethesda, Md.,
guinea pig.

Deddo, Tony Nick, sooty mangabey.

DePrato, Jack, Langley Park, Md.,
water snake.

DePrato, Jack and Joe, Langley Park,
Md., gopher tortoise, pygmy rattle-
snake, *young anaconda, wood toad,
ground skink.

Dickson, J. T., horned lizard.

Dillon, Tandy N., Silver Spring, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

DiMaggio, Andrea, pilot black snake.

District of Columbia Jail, through Su-
perintendent Curtis Reid and Wil-
liam Stokes, Virginia deer.

Dopp, H. G., Bladensburg, Md., red fox.

Dornin, W. W., Phoenix, Ariz., 2 gila
monsters, chuckwalla lizard, 3 Cali-
fornia horned lizards, chain king
snake, 3 bull snakes, LeConte’s
snake, 2 garter snakes, ribbon
snake, 18 rattlesnakes, including
Western diamond-backed rattlers,
red diamond-backed rattlers, side-
winders, Mohave rattlers, Pacific
rattlers.

Dowad, Charles, alligator.

Drumheller, Ralph P., District Heights,
Md., opossum.

Dunn, April, Pekin duck.

oa D. M., Takoma Park, Md., guinea
pig.

Dunn, Mrs. H. H., Takoma Park, Md..
white-throated capuchin.

Ecuador, Department of Public Health,
through Dr. Egberto Garcia S., Di-
rector, 2 Galfiipagos turtles.

Eddy, Chip, opossum.

Edelon, Mrs. E. J., Jr., Port Tobacco,
Md., barn owl.

Edwards, Joan, 2 Pekin ducks.

Md.,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Erwin, Mrs. Helen B., sulphur-crested
cockatoo.

Evans, Radie, Potomac, Md., *2 lions.

Evans, S. W., *5 desert tortoises.

Ewing, Mrs. F. W., Kenwood, Md., 2
Muscovy ducks.

Faquih, Khaled, robin.

Faust, Mrs. Mary D., domestic rabbit.

Felix, Mary Katherine, Pekin duck.

Ferguson, Robert, Chevy Chase, Md.,
Cumberland turtle.

Ferguson, Mrs. Robert, *ferret.
Kinney, Mr. and Mrs. Edward G.,
Waynesboro, Pa., 2 red foxes.
Fisher, Mrs. J., Alexandria, Va., red-

bellied woodpecker.

Fisher, Sydney N., gray squirrel.

Flanagan, Mrs. Matthew, spectacled
caiman.

Ford, Douglas O., Kensington, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Yoster, Bonnie, Pekin duck.

Fowler, Mr. and Mrs. S. Robert, West
Beach, Md., *alligator.

Fratt, N. D., Arlington, Va., spectacled
caiman.

Freedenberg, Norman, Pekin duck.

Friedman, Seymour, Mount Rainier,
Md., Pekin duck.

Fruland, Roddy, Falis Church, Va.,
screech owl.

Gault, Albert, Paradise fish, 5 blue
acaras.

Gaver, Gordon, Thurmont, Md., *Javan
macaque, *2 water snakes, *king
cobra, *brown water snake, *2 regal
pythons, *2 South American boa
constrictors, *African python, *In-
dian python, *ball python, *rain-
bow boa, *king snake, *Indian
cobra, *gray rat snake, *corn snake,
*§ alligators, *2 eastern diamond-
backed rattlesnakes, *2 timber rat-
tlesnakes, *2 copperheads, *12
water moccasins.

Geier, Mrs. John, 8 opossums.

Gelwicks, Maj. Harold G., Arlington,
Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Gibbs, Mary, 2 white mice.

Gibson, Mrs. William, Bethesda, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Gideon, Bobby, Arlington, Va., boa con-
strictor.

Gilden, Mrs. J. E., Arlington, Va., com-
mon pigeon.

Gilpin, Kenneth B., Bethesda, Md., rac-
coon.

Ginsburg, Jerome, milk snake, garter
snake, smooth-scaled green snake.

Glazier, Dr. Manuel, Newton, Mass., 2
chameleons.

Glenn, Mr. and Mrs. Robert A., squirrel
monkey.

Godfrey, H. R., Hyattsville, Md., spotted
catfish, 40 flag-tailed guppies, four-
horned snail, 12 Siamese fighting
fish, 1 short-tailed shrew, 2 catfish.
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Goodnough, Mrs. C. W., Arlington, Va.,
robin.

Gordon, Keith W., Pekin duck.

Gottlieb, Mrs. Joanne, blue jay.

Greco, Mrs. Joseph, Hyattsville, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Grieve, Wesley I., Vienna, Va., 4 bantam
fowl.

Griggs, John A., 8 painted turtles,
spotted turtle, 2 musk turtles, queen
snake.

Grillo, Mrs. Berta J., 2 Pekin ducks.

Groshon, E. N., Hyattsville, Md., Pekin
duck.

Grusd, Duley, domestie rabbit.

Haennie, Carol Anne, Bethesda, Md.,
box turtle, Pekin duck.

Hall, Dr. E. Raymond, and Grossen-
heider, Richard P., Lawrence,
Kans., 2 Point Barrow lemmings.

Hall, M. W., barred owl.

Hall, Tommie C., Arlington, Va., 2
barred owls.

Hall, W. L., Pekin duck.

Hanagon, John G., golden eagle.

Handy, Benjamin H., III, Arlington,
Va., horned lizard.

Hansen, Mrs. Ira H., Arlington, Va.,
robin.

Hansion, John, flicker.

Hanson, Charles L., Alexandria, Va.,
*Central American boa.
Harig, J. M., Arlington Va.,

monkey.

Harry, Charles William, Arlington, Va.,
*broad-winged hawk.

Hassett, B. C., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin
ducks.

Hay, Michael, Pekin duck.

Haynes, Mrs. Evan A., Pekin duck.

Henderson, Mrs. Agnes, box turtle.

Hendricks, Frankie, guinea pig.

Herbert, Robert, red fox.

Hewitt, Paul, Falls Church, Va., pilot
black snake.

Hogan, Bart, Bethesda, Md., Eastern

rhesus

skunk.

Hogan, Mrs. Viola, Bethesda, Md., grass
parakeet.

Hohensee, B. G., Great Mills, Md., bar-
red owl.

Hoke, John, *2 common iguanas, *2
Central American boas.

Horton, Ruth, red-lined turtle.

Hough, Royce, 3 Cumberland turtles.

Houston, Robert H., 2 Pekin ducks.

Howard University, *9 pigeons.

Hubert, Mabel, eastern skunk.

Huff, Herbert, spotted salamander.

Hughes, David, 2 horned lizards.

Hutchins, Mrs. Dorothy, Alexandria,
Va., 3 Pekin ducks.

Hutchins, Trafton and Paula, Pekin
duck.

Hutchinson, Jim, Arlington, Va., Ameri-

. can crow.

Traneta, Mrs. Pedro, Silver Spring, Md.,
cottontail rabbit.

107

Irons, Donald W., Lewisdale, Md., 3
Pekin ducks.

Irwin, Mrs. Helen B., sulphur-crested
cockatoo.

Jacobs, Mrs. L. P., Arlington, Va., 2
Pekin ducks.

Jani, Gary, horned lizard.

Jenkins, Herschel, Mosley, Va., 5 cop-
perheads.

Johns, Mrs. Jerrold, Bethesda, Md., blue
racer snake.

Johnson, Eugene R., domestic rabbit.

Johnstone, Delight and Kathy, white
rabbit.

Jones, Mrs. A., 2 ring-necked doves.

Jones, Robert M., 2 Pekin ducks.

Kahn, Hermine, Arlington, Va., Pekin
duck.

Kane, Gerard J., Kensington, Md., Pekin
duck.

Karchner, Donald, green guenon.

Karn, Norman, Arlington, Va., 2 hog-
nosed snakes.

Kefauver, David, blue jay.

Keller, Gary, Silver Spring, Md., Pekin
duck.

Kelley, Mike, Silver Spring, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Kenn, Gary, water snake.

Kerkom, Mrs. William 8B., mourning
dove.

Ketchum, Harry W., Silver Spring, Md.,
domestic rabbit.

Key, Mr., Bethesda, Md., copperhead.

Kiger, Carol M., Westhaven, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Kilsheimer, Linda, 3 Pekin ducks.

King, Francis, domestic rabbit.

Klaben, Mrs. R., spectacled caiman.

Klein, Barbara Ann, black rabbit.

Klinger, R. L. raccoon.

Knapp, Earl L., 2 domestic rabbits.

Kneessi, John, South American caiman.

Knott, John E., Arlington, Va., DeKay’s
snake.

Koff, Mrs. M. Polle, Silver Spring, Md.,
domestic rabbit.

Krumke, Karl
caiman.
Kuntz, Dr. Robert EK. and Malakatis,

George, Cairo, Egypt, 25 worm
snakes, 3 sand boas, horned viper.
Lacey, Dale, red-bellied turtle.
Lamb, Mrs. Geo. P., 2 Pekin ducks.
Langer, W. C., Silver Spring, Md.,
Pekin duck.
Large, Mrs. BE. E., yellow-naped parrot.
Lawrence, Jane, *eastern mockingbird.
Lawrence, Mrs. Jane, robin.
Lawrence, Lt. Rex D., 2 spectacled
caimans.
Lee, Jackson D., Arlington, Va., rabbit.
Leek, Jackie, Pekin duck.
Lehman, J. W., Los Angeles, Calif.,
*mole snake.
Leva, Leo Marx, blue jay.
Levin, Jerry, Pekin duck.

K., II, spectacled
108

Liebert, Mrs. John, Bethesda, Md., 2
rabbits.

Linkins, Bernard R., Silver Spring, Md.,
blue jay.

Litoff, Louis, horned lizard.

LoCastro, Frank J., alligator.

Locke, Frederick W., robin.

Lockhart, Lt. Col. Eugene E., Carlisle,
Pa., 13-lined ground squirrel.

Loftis, James Robert, Pekin duck.

Long, Clifford E., Alexandria, Va., 3
Java finches.

Long, Mr. and Mrs. M. G., McLean, Va.,
Chinese golden pheasant.

LoPresti, Sammy Joe and Vinny, and
Wilson, Harry and Kendall, red-
bellied turtle.

Lose, Mrs. W. C., Chevy Chase, Md.,
4 domestic rabbits.

Lucas, Ethel M., domestic rabbit.

Lund, E. A., Ishpeming, Mich., raven.

Lyle, Evelyn, Herndon, Va., opossum.

Lynn, David, 2 Pekin ducks.

MacMillan of MacMillan, Sir Gordon
H. A., Governor and Commander in
Chief, Gibraltar, 2 Barbary apes.

Madden, Judge J. Warren, pilot black
snake.

Mainhart, Howard, Bethesda, M4d.,
domestic rabbit.

Malakoff, Leon, 2 Pekin ducks.

Manning, Kenneth M., *Pekin duck.

Marsh, Francis, alligator.

Marshall, John G., anolis lizard.

Marth, Leonard E., Silver Spring, Md.,
2 Pekin ducks.

Martin, Mrs. R. B., Newport News, Va.,
2 woodchucks.

Mask, Dudley L., Hyattsville, Md.,
domestic rabbit.

Master, Sieber F., Arlington, Va., Cum-
berland turtle.

Masters, Carl, Beltsville, Md., water
snake.

Matter, John M., Arlington, Va., 2
Pekin ducks.

McCorkle, Miss, 2 horned lizards.

McCreight, William, College Park, Md.,
hog-nosed snake.

McFarland, Mrs. Nina, robin.

McGreevy, Leo, 5 domestic rabbits.

McKay, Mrs. Fred J., Arlington, Va.,
American crocodile.

McKeldin, Lt. Col. James R., opossum.

McKenny, Mrs. W. E., Silver Spring,
Md., 3 Pekin ducks.

Meggers, John C., eastern skunk.

Menendez, Paul M., white-armed mar-
moset.

Messenga, Missy, domestic rabbit.

Meyer, Hanny, weasel.

Meyer, Robert J., Silver Spring, Md.,
opossum.

Miller, Mrs. Beatrice, hamster.

Miller, C. R., Bethesda, Md., Pekin duck.

Miller, Roger, Silver Spring, Md., spec-
tacled caiman.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Miller, W. T., Ancon, Canal Zone, yel-
low atelopus frog, small tree frog.

Mills, Mrs. W. M., Silver Spring, Md.,
domestic rabbit.

Monagan, Kathy, gray squirrel.
Montgomery, C. R., Sarasota,
*2 Indian rock pythons.

Moore, Mrs. B. E., Pekin duck.

Moore, Mrs. Bessie, 2 mockingbirds.

Morris, Roland, ferret.

Morrison, Mrs. James, 4 white rabbits.

Muir, R. D., 2 Pekin ducks.

Munday, Charles H., Sterling, Va.,
3 gray foxes.

Murpby, Carl D., Norbeck, Md., 2 garter
snakes.

Naber, R. H., 2 gopher tortoises.

National Capital Parks, Superintend-
ent, copperhead.

National Institutes of Health, Be
thesda, Md., *chimpanzee.

Newton, J. O., Jr., 2 rabbits.

Noble, Patricia, and Candee, Joan, wild
rabbit.

Novack, Mrs. W., Takoma Park, Md.,
2 canaries.

O’Brien, P. G., Silver Spring, Md., Pekin
duck.

O’Connor, Adele R., 19 canaries, 2 spice
finches.

O’Hare, Patty, Bethesda, Md., grass
parakeet.

Orrison, Mrs. A. B., rabbit.

Oxenberg, Jerome, 2 domestic rabbits.

Pantili, Mrs., Takoma Park, Md., east-

Fla.,

ern skunk.

Paranich, Mrs. J. A., Hyattsville, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Paulin, W. B., Arlington, Va., Pekin
duck.

Payne, L. E., Falls Church, Va., rac-
coon.

Pearson, Billy, Silver Spring, Md.,

white rabbit.

Pemberton, Mrs. F. D., Alexandria, Va.,
Pekin duck.

Philadelphia Zoological Gardens, Phila-
delphia, Pa., 2 Arctic foxes.

Pletsch, Dr. Donald J., Ping Yong,
Tiawan, kitsume or civet.

Porter, Mrs. Martha, domestic fowl.

Potter, W. Taylor, Silver Spring, Md.,
screech owl.

Powers, Patricia, alligator.

Pratt, Richard A., Arlington, Va., Pekin
duck.

Presley, T. W., Arlington, Va., hamster.

Pryce, Wendy, Arlington, Va., Pekin
duck.

Pumphrey, D., Bladensburg, Md., *2
black racers.

Ragan, Rodney, Silver Spring, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Rauh, Carl, 4 American anolis.

Raver, Dean, Bethesda, Md., Pekin
duck.

Ray, H. A., Arlington, Va., skunk.

|

—"
SECRETARY'S REPORT

Reinoehl, Mrs. Elmer S§8., domestic
Pigeon.

Reiser, C. L., Cottage City, Md., horned
lizard.

Reutiman, EH. R., Arlington, Va., rabbit.

Revelee, Robert and William, Canadian
goose.

Rhue, Bond, domestic pigeon.

Robbins, Larry, Silver Spring, Md., 2
water snakes.

Robinson, Mrs. Mark T., 2 Java spar-
rows, grass parakeet.

Roebuck, Marion C., Falls Church, Va.,
3 Pekin ducks.

Rogers, Mrs. Charles, Silver Spring,

Md., Pekin duck.

Rohwer, Dru, Arlington, Va., fish
hawk.

Ronnie, J. C., Silver Spring, Md.,

screech owl.
Rothbard, Charles, Pekin duck.

Rothrock, W. L., diamond-backed
turtle.

Round ‘Table Kennels, Middletown,
Del., 12 blue peafowl.

Royer, Jon, Bethesda, Md., *copper-
head, 3 ferrets, 2 ring-necked
doves.

Russel, Robert, *Nias wattled mynah.

Russel, W. F., Hyattsville, Md., white-
nosed guenon.

Russell, Warren H., Arlington, Va.,
domestic pigeon.

Ryan, James T., Jr., 2 rabbits.

Ryan, John E., Arlington, Va., *squirrel
monkey.

Salb, Bernard F., white-armed mar-
moset.

Sams, Mrs. Clifton, domestic rabbit.

Sapp, Chris and Vincent, Bethesda,
Md., opossum.

Sargent, Virginia W., Garrett Park,
Md., domestic pigeon.

Satterfield, Mrs. W. J., Silver Spring,
Md., yellow-bellied turtle.

Sayre, Rev. Francis B., cacomistle.

Schenck, Dorothy, Willimantic, Conn.,
ball python.

Scher, Mrs. Irene, 2 Pekin ducks.

Scherer, Charles, 8 hamsters.

Scherer, James, Java finch, Chinese
goose.

Schmid, Paul, Bethesda, Md., *corn
snake, *rat snake, *pilot black
snake, *black racer, *2 garter
snakes.

Schriner, frank, box turtle.

Schrum, Ted, Mount Rainier, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Schuld, J. G., 2 Pekin ducks.

Schwartz, Greta, spectacled caiman.

Searls, Loyes, *2 white mice.

Selby, William E., coatimundi.

Self, Edward C., Glenwood, Ga., spec-
tacled caiman.

Sheas, James H., domestic pigeon.

Shelldrake, T. W., 5 opossums,

109

Shipley, Carl, western porcupine.

Shirey, William N., Frederick, Md.,
copperhead.

Shoemaker, Mrs. Charles G., Bethesda,
Md., 2 domestic rabbits.

Siemel, Sasha, Green Lane, Pa., *2 jag-
uars, *2 anacondas.

Sills, Mrs. R., grass parakeet.

Simpson, Mrs. Berry, Alexandria, Va.,
2 Pekin ducks.

Sipes, Richard, Alexandria, Va., keeled
green snake.

Skelly, Mrs. Ed, Augusta, Ga., fox
squirrel, pilot black snake, gopher
tortoise.

Skinner, Hon. Carlton, Governor of
Guam, 3 Hast Indies monitor liz-
ards.

Smith, C. W., 2 domestic rabbits.

Smith, Mrs. Paula, Falls Church, Va.,
robin.

Smith, Ronald E., water snake.

Souder, Virgil B., Deerwood, Md., 5
copperheads.

Spears, Mrs. Loma, Takoma Park, Md.,
10 Pekin ducks.

Spirlet, Gilbert, Takoma Park, Md.,
sparrow hawk.

Staight, David, Alexandria, Va., garter
snake.

Starkey, R. B., Bethesda, Md., alligator.

Steadman, C. R., brown capuchin.

Storitz, Ned, Silver Spring, Md., cotton-
tail rabbit.

Stroop, M. A., New Market, Va., 9
American alligators, *sulphur-
breasted toucan, *2 red, blue, and
yellow macaws, *17 alligators, *4
boa constrictors, *anaconda, *10
pilot black snakes, *10 water moc-
ecasins, *timber rattlesnake, *2
eastern diamond-backed rattle
snakes, *copperhead, *yellow bull
snake, *indigo snake, *2 yellow
chicken snakes, *milk snake, *3
water snakes, *pine snake, *king
snake.

Stroup, R. W., College Park, Md., Pekin
duck.

Stubbs, Lee, Bethesda, Md., 2 Pekin
ducks.

Tackett, J. Anderson, green tree frog.

Tansley, Doris, Takoma Park, Md., spec-
tacled caiman,

Taylor, Mrs. M. C., Falls Church, Va.,
alligator.

Taylor, Robert, 2 Pekin ducks.

Teagle, Roy, *10 bull frogs.

Thomas, Mrs., Riverdale, Md., 2 Pekin
ducks.

Thomas, R. B., Jr., Sandy Spring, Md.,
2 sparrow hawks.

Thomas, Mrs. William R., Silver Spring,
Md., domestic rabbit.

Thompson, Loren L., Arlington, Va., 2
copperheads, box turtle.

Thornton, Abigail, Pekin duck.
110

Tracewell, Mrs. C. E., Chevy Chase,
Md., robin.

Trimble, James L., Pekin duck.

Triplet, William S., .\rlington, Va., 2
Muscovy ducks.

Troobnick, Doris, Burke, Va., pilot black
snake.

Trott, Fred P., Pekin duck.

Twiford, Mrs. Nan B., 4 grass para-
keets, 8 canaries.

Tyler, E. D., Jr., Alexandria, Va., 2
barred owls.

United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice: From Blackwater National
Wildlife Refuge, Cambridge, Md.,
1 red-headed duck, 2 ring-necked
ducks, bald-pate duck, 2 pintail
ducks, 2 blue-winged teal, green-
winged teal, 2 black ducks, 2 blue
geese. From Bluepoint, Long Is-
land, N. Y., cardinal, 2 indigo bunt-
ings. From Newburyport, Mass.,
golden-eyed duck. From Orlando,
Fla., bald eagle. From Washing-
ton, D. C., through Robert O. Hal-
stead, 2 whistling swans. Through
Mr. Seth Low, osprey.

Uransky, Mrs. Gayna, Arlington, Va.,
spectacled caiman.

Valore, Mrs. Patricia T., white rabbit.

Vanchura, Samuel M., sparrow hawk.

Van Weckhardt, Mrs. Greve W., wood-
cock.

Vasquez, Alberto, Arlington, Va., *go-
pher snake, ‘California garter
snake, *10 western swifts, *ground
lizard, *3 alligator lizards, *3 pond
turtles.

Vieth, Janie, domestic goose.

Voigt, Fred and Sally, Arlington, Va.,
2 Pekin ducks.

Votey, Charles H., tree boa, *2 red,
blue, and yellow macaws.

Wade, J. L., Bethesda, Md., domestic
rabbit.

Waldrop, Robert, Bethesda, Md., *king
snake.

Waldrop, Robert S., Jr., Bethesda Md.,
*black snake.

Walker, H. P., Silver Spring, Md., 2
white rabbits.

Walker, Lewis Wayne, Pacific Beach,
Calif., 2 Tortuga rattlesnakes,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Walkup, Joe, Landover, Md., tarantula,
brown scorpion, spiny-tailed iguana.

Ward, Lt. Charles R., Hyattsville, Md.,
lesser scaup duck.

Warner, Mrs. Sturgis, 3 Pekin ducks.

Wasuta, F. R., Alexander, Va., Pekin
duck.

Watson, J. Harold, spectacled caiman.

Weaver, L. E., red fox.

Weckerly, Ida, hamster.

West, David W., Chevy Chase, Md.,
domestic rabbit.

White, E. J., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin
ducks.

White, Richard O., Jr., Hyattsville, Md.,
brown king snake.

Wiengen, Albin, Alexandria, Va.,
*skunk.

Wilkerson, David R., rabbit.

Wilkins, Mrs. John H., 3 grass para-
keets.

Willard, Mr., rabbit.

Willey, Don, Arlington, Va., horned liz-
ard.

Williamson, Robert B., *blue jay.

Willingham, Maurice, Alexandria, Va.
3 horned lizards.

Wilson, Mrs. HB. R., Hyattsville, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Wilson, Susan, Arlington, Va., Pekin
duck.

Wilt, J. Bernard, 4 ribbon snakes, garter
snake, indigo snake, 2 Florida water
snakes, Florida king snake, 3 racers.

Withrow, Robert, skunk.

Witt, Bill, Arlington, Va., black widow
spider, DeKay’s snake.

Wood, Col. Frank, Arlington, Va., 2
Pekin ducks.

Wood, Glenn N., Mount Rainier, Md.,
horseshoe crab.

Wrenn, Raymond, Wheaton, Md., tiger
salamander.

Xanten, Bill, 2 rabbits.

Yatsevitch, Mrs. Gael, Chevy Chase,
Md., garter snake,

Yingling, Mrs. Milton L., Silver Spring,
Md., 3 wild rabbits.

Yokum, Otis, Pekin duck.

Young, Teddy and Stephen, 2 Pekin
ducks.

Young, Tina, Takoma Park, Md., domes-
tie rabbit.

Zumstein, Mrs. Jessie S., crow.

PURCHASES

Among a number of interesting specimens obtained by purchase

were:

Two Allen’s monkeys (Adlenopithecus nigroviridis) , which were the
prize acquisition of the year, as they are among the half dozen exceed-
ingly rare primates of the world. They are not conspicuous animals,

SECRETARY’S REPORT 111

but are active and entertaining, and give scientists and others their
first glimpse of this extremely rare form.

A flat-tailed otter (Pteronura brasiliensis), the first of its kind
to be exhibited in the Zoo. It was a young of the large river otter
of Brazil that is fairly well known in its native habitat but so far
as 1s known has not previously been exhibited in the United States.

Two wombats had been ordered as a pair, but on arrival one was
found to be the rare hairy-nosed wombat (Lastorhinus latifrons),
an even more desirable specimen than the common wombat (Vombatus
hirsutus) that accompanied it. This is the first hairy-nosed wombat
exhibited in this Zoo.

Two lesser pandas (Adlurus fulgens), the first in the collection for
many years, were received in June. These relatives of the raccoons
are uncommon in collections largely because of the difficulty of getting
them to eat the food that can be provided. One of these has apparently
adapted itself to conditions in the Zoo and appears to be thriving on
its favorite food, bamboo leaves and shoots, plus pablum and eggs.

Four young gibbons (ylobates) constituted one of the most enter-
taining exhibits in the park. All are still in their immature buff-
colored coat but are gradually acquiring the markings char-
acteristic of the adults so that definite identification can later be made.

A fine pair of cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) were received. These
large, graceful, long-legged, spotted cats are the swiftest of all four-
legged animals and are frequently tamed and trained for hunting.
Their feet are unique among those of cats in that they resemble the
feet of dogs in not having retractile claws.

A choice pair of young tayras (Tayra barbara) are so active in
their cage that they have greatly interested the public. These giant
weasel-like creatures of South America are dark brown with gray
heads and have a striking cream-colored marking on the throat.

A pair of giant Indian squirrels (2atufa indica) also provide excel-
lent entertainment by playing in their big wheel and displaying their
brilliant coloration of rich reddish brown and buff.

Three young South American tapirs (7apirus terrestris) were pur-
chased. The appearance of young tapirs in contrast to the adults
is particularly interesting. The young are longitudinally striped with
rows of whitish spots on a dull brownish-gray background, whereas
the adults are almost black.

A. young female black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis) was bought
as a possible mate for the male which has been in the Zoo 114 years.

A beautiful specimen of Wilson’s bird-of-paradise (Schlegelia
112 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

wilsoni) was secured through the kindly interest of W. J. C. Frost,
of the Zoological Society of London.

Two shipments of African sunbirds collected by John Seago were
received. These little feathered jewels, representing three species,
were the first ever exhibited in this Zoo.

Three specimens of the showy Cuban trogon (Prinotelus temnurus)
were obtained.

A golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos), which had been captured in
the Tennessee region, was turned over to the Zoo by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service. Golden eagles are rather rare in the
southeastern United States and so this specimen is of more than
ordinary interest.

Of particular interest in a shipment received from Australia were:

Two examples of the very rare Australian frilled lizard (Chlamy-
dosaurus kingii). These are the first ever exhibited in this Zoo.
They are large lizards and unique in having around the neck a fold
of skin that can be extended to project outward from the neck like a
ruff when the animal is excited. The red coloration in the ruff makes
a striking display.

Six bearded lizards (Amphibolurus barbatus), so-called because of
their peculiar habit of distending the loose skin of the throat to form
what appears to be a beard.

Three beautiful specimens of the poisonous banded krait (Bungarus
fasciatus), relatives of the cobras, were received.

A specimen of the false cobra (PArynonax sulphureus), not pre-
viously exhibited in this Zoo, was purchased.

With the growth of the Washington metropolitan region there has
been a constant increase in the number of local wild creatures found
helpless and rescued by kind people, and turned over to the Zoo. Some
of those that seem to have a fair chance of survival are liberated, and
some are exchanged for material that is needed for the Zoo. During
the past year there was a total of 191 such accessions. Also, ducks
and rabbits given to children at Easter time that have outgrown their
homes are turned over to the Zoo. This gives unduly large accession
and removal lists, but to receive, care for, and place such creatures ap-
pears to be a proper function of the Zoo.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

Conditions under which animals are kept on exhibition are usually
not favorable for breeding or raising young. However, occasionally
young are born or hatched that are of outstanding interest to the pub-
lic, and are valuable as additions to the group, or for exchange.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 113

The following were produced in the Zoo during the fiscal year :

A baby female giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) , the fifth born here,
was a choice addition to the herd.

A pygmy hippo (Choeropsis liberiensis), the thirteenth for this Zoo.

A gaur calf (Bzbos gaurus), the tenth of this species born in the
Park.

A vulpine phalanger (7'richosurus vulpecula) was born to one of
the females in the group that were obtained from Sir Edward Halls-
trom in November 1951.

The pair of Kinabalu tree shrews (Z’wpai montana baluensis) that
were deposited with us by Lt. Col. Robert Traub, gave birth to young
three times during the year. Unfortunately the mother killed the
young within a few hours or a few days. However, by these births
the gestation period has been determined as not more than 21 days.
Colonel Traub is much interested in the ability of these animals to
produce young in captivity, as it indicates that the food mixture that
was developed by the Assistant Director of the Zoo and which was
described in the Annual Report of the Zoo for 1950 is satisfactory for
tree shrews as well as other shrews and bats. Colonel Traub, who
has been engaged in work concerning certain human diseases, thinks
it possible that tree shrews, which are believed by some zoologists to
be a primitive primate type, might be suitable animals for laboratory
studies of the diseases of man. Therefore, the successful keeping
and rearing of tree shrews in captivity might be of considerable
importance.

The little herd of Chinese water deer (Hydropotes inermis) was
increased by the birth of three sets of twins. These small deer are of
particular interest because of their habit of living in swampy areas
in their native haunts and because of the fact that the males lack horns
but have considerably enlarged canine teeth.

Another slender-tailed cloud rat (Phloeomys cumingi) has been
born to augment the family group of this very rare Philippine high-
altitude relative of the rat. This species has more the appearance of
an opossum than of a rat.

Another young was born to the group of pacas (Qwniculus paca).
These are large, conspicuously marked rodents that are always a satis-
factory exhibit.

Twice during the year a pair of African porcupines (Hystria ga-
leata) produced a single young. It was interesting to witness the
remarkable maneuvers of the parents and the older young one to pro-
tect the newborn.

A pair of crested screamers (Chauna torquata) hatched and raised
one young.
114. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Following is a complete list of the births and hatchings:

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name

Aipnerilagonus 2 2222525 223 2eS Aspe To x52 at 5 8 Sot ee
Ammotragus lervia...-.-----=-=-- ROMA eo ee a a ee
Aieles vellerosus__.....--..=.---2.- Mexican spider monkey _-_---------
Bithas anise 2c 206 aes See Gaues: ee 2 ect e ee Soe
Beier {Watt Parkicattles. =.
Pees a a Ce ee Lp West Highland cattle___.....-_---

Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus X
CAG. DUGETUINTUS.- ne Green guenon X vervet guenon_-_-_-
Cervus canadensis__.-.......-=--- Bike. le eee See eee
Germs ainnon? soe 2. a ee Japanese deer 4522 st os
Ghoeropsts labertensis. = ee Pygmy hippopotamus___...-..-_--
Choloepus didactylus__._._..-------- wo-toed. sloth: 342 2 se
Guniculus pacnte’ 2.2 ae he eee Bac Peery core sete eaaee
rown fallow decr— 2S. one ee ee
Dama dama___------------------ {Wate fallow. décr 32 =. Sue rears
Prqus: nas Chelee soon Pb ee Grantis zebra). 8ete 5% 8 a eS
Erethizon epixanthum.....-------- Western porcupme!_--2-- ee
Felis concolor X Felis patagonica._._ Hybrid puma__-_----------------
Prelssil60 44 mie he Be ee iON e Seo = ae ee ee
Betis Whiten ne en ee = Bengal tiger=— 2s sass — ee ee
Giraffa camelopardalis__._-------- INubisn giraffes. sla 22° hace ee
Hydranotes tnenmts= == Chineseswater deere ==. 4—- ==
J ERE TRA TLE ELT TT tl ee pp ts Adrican POLCUpInG — see ee ee
ama glamas.. eet & -— rel fe Iblamatls 224 ies Ee ss. eae
Tema naces = ass oe a AIPSC82 252-1 5 oe eee Lat
Leontocebus rosalttal=-— —~ 22 ee Silky Mn aMNOset ee ee
Mephitis mephitis nigra__..------- Hastern:skunks242¢ 2922 4e5eh os ie
Mustela eversmanni_-__----------- Wepre t 52-2. ee See ae eee ae
Muyocastor*coypus. 822 ee Coy Rte nee ee eee ne Se eee
Odocoileus virgintanus_.---------- Virginiaideen-<satiiest ae ee Rees
POO ROMOAGYAS ne ee Hamadryas baboon ===_.=.=22=-—==
PRIDCOMUS CUMING Ee ee Slender-tailed cloud rat__._-------
Procyontiotor = 22 eee eee Ractoons Uns 22 ae ee
ROUT OU OCUS OGY G eee = nas ee arid See =e ees 2 eee ee eee

Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus
meddendorijise A 482 ee Ey brid beans eet st 6 te et ee
Trichosurus vulpecula_____...----- Mulnine phalangveri22—- === ass --5
Tupati moniana baluensis___.------ Kinabalu tree shrew= 22222222 222s
Dissusvharst Dales =: sis e352 ks 2p 5 518 ees Grizzly bear___--- eid Ak bh op ey

BIRDS
Malian? dirok: ty) steer oe! en ee
Anas platyrhynchos_ -_----------- {White mallard duck_._._.._...---
Brant ‘canudensie.= 22° bs = 5 CRIIAtin POORGL 8 ee ee ee
Chauna torquaia. 222s. 2k Crested seresmersf th 9 soe Sea et,
Larus novaehollandiae_-___--------- STAG ot a | REE SO es eee
Lonchura leucogastroides__-------- Bengali nen. ees eee ee
Nycticorax nycticoraz hoatli__._.--- Black-crowned night heron --------
IPGUGIOTISIGLUS a ee eee Peafowl= 2 222 aa eer es OS ee
Streptopelia tranquebarica_-__------ Blue-headed ring dove_-----------
Taeniopygia castanotis.__.__._------- Zebra finch: £22223 ee
FORA TURE = 2S White-winged dove_--------------
REPTILES

I Te) a ns Seo eee eee ae T6608. 6S ce ak
BOG CNN a = ene eee Central American boa_..--.-------

MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS

Maintenance and repair work at the Zoo suffered considerably dur-
ing the fiscal year 1953 owing mainly to shortage of funds for the
hire of personnel. Being forced to absorb the salary increases, the

SECRETARY’S REPORT 115

Zoo had to reduce greatly the use of temporary labor and also had to
leave vacant positions of personnel concerned with maintenance work.

The installation of zone heat regulators in the small-mammal and
reptile houses was completed. These provide even and adequate dis-
tribution of heat, so necessary to the health and well-being of the
animals housed in these buildings.

In addition to the daily work of cleaning cages, buildings, and
grounds and making minor repairs, the construction and maintenance
department is constantly engaged in making necessary improvements
for the proper care of the animals and the safety of visitors to the
Park. The following are some of the more important projects under-
taken during the year:

In the bird house, glass was installed in the upper half of the fronts
of 34 cages to replace wire that had deteriorated. Nine cages outside
of the monkey house were extensively repaired and new partitions
between the cages installed. A 2,000-gallon water tank was installed
in the basement of the reptile house to supplement the 1,000-gallon
tank, which has never been adequate. Concrete floors were laid in 6
cages In the antelope building and in the 3 buildings housing the
zebras, wild horses, wild ass, and Scotch cattle. The series of cages
between the reptile house and the small-mammal house were given an
extensive overhauling, and five new cinder-block shelters for the ani-
mals were built, replacing the old wooden ones no longer usable.
Small concrete shelters were constructed in the American waterfowl
pond to replace the decaying wooden ones. The slope of the moat
back of the bears was faced with concrete to prevent erosion and the
resultant stoppage of the drain.

The fight to eradicate poison ivy in the Zoo grounds is being con-
tinued. This plant pest has been almost completely eliminated in
those parts most frequented by the public, and control measures are
being extended to more remote sections to keep it from returning to
areas used by visitors. Otherwise the long-established policy of leay-
ing the woodlands undisturbed is being followed.

Over a period of years there has been a gradual increase in the
amount of trimming of trees necessary along the roads, walks, and
paths, and in the exhibition area. Because of disease or age, some of
the trees are dying and must be cut down. Others must be trimmed
to remove dead or broken limbs which might fall and injure people
or animals, or damage automobiles or structures.

Temporary policemen were employed this year to assist the regular
police during days of heaviest attendance or when the force was short-
handed. This has been a highly satisfactory arrangement and much
more economical than employing additional full-time policemen
when the permanent personnel now authorized is adequate for a large
proportion of the time.
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

As in previous years the Zoo received gifts of various kinds of
food that could not be sold for human consumption but was suitable
for animals. Some of this material was turned over to the Zoo at the
suggestion of District of Columbia food inspectors. This helps con-
siderably to hold purchases to a minimum.

Through the office of United States Marshal W. Bruce Matthews,
food that had been condemned by the courts was sent to the Zoo for
the animals. This consisted of 1,544 pounds of frozen shrimp, 291
pounds of chickens, 170 pounds of peanut butter, and 570 pounds of
pecan halves.

Tn a few instances such materials as rice, flour, and beans unaccept-
able for human use have been purchased at low prices from General
Services Administration or commercial firms.

The National Institutes of Health, Navy Medical Center, and Army
Medical Center gave the Zoo mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, and
other animals no longer suitable for their purposes.

The practice has been continued of picking up from grocery stores
in the vicinity of the Zoo quantities of discarded green material such
as beet tops, celery stalks, and the outer leaves of cabbage, cauliflower,
and lettuce. This provides an abundance of greens for the animals
and helps reduce purchase of such foods.

COOPERATION

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts
with other Government and State agencies, private concerns and
individuals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result
the Zoo receives much help and advice and many valuable specimens,
and in turn the Zoo furnishes information and, whenever possible,
specimens not needed.

In 1950 Dr. Willard H. Eyestone, veterinary pathologist of the
National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Md., requested permission to
examine animals that died at the Zoo in order to obtain information
regarding cancer and other diseases affecting human beings. Accord-
ingly arrangements were made to notify Dr. Eyestone of all deaths
of animals in the Zoo and give him an opportunity to perform autop-
sies, if he desired. The following two paragraphs are from a brief
report on the results of this work:

Over 250 autopsies have been performed since 1950. Among them six cancers
have been discovered. The most striking pathological change common to any
group is found in the thyroid gland of carnivores, in which all gradations from
the slightest proliferative growths to spreading cancer have been seen. Most
deaths are caused by infectious agents, including bacteria, fungi, and the animal
parasites. Some deaths are the result of degenerative diseases of old age.

A summary of the interesting highlights covering the Zoo autopsies was pre-
sented before the Washington Society of Pathologists on October 8, 1952. Simi-
lar reports are planned for the future, besides the publishing of scientific papers

iden ake
SECRETARY'S REPORT 17

in research journals concerning the pathologic data obtained from the examina-
tion of the Zoo animals.

Special acknowledgment is due to the United States Dispatch Agent
in New York City, Howard Fyfe, an officer of the State Department,
who has frequently been called upon to clear shipments of animals
coming from abroad. This he has done, often at great personal in-
convenience, and the animals have been forwarded to Washington
without the loss of a single specimen.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

Replacement of antiquated structures that have long since ceased
to be suitable for the purposes for which they are used is still the prin-
cipal need of the Zoo. The more urgently needed are:

A building, to be situated in a central location, to have toilet facili-
ties, a first-aid room, police headquarters, and, incidentally, with
basement space for a gardener’s headquarters and storage for the
gardener’s supplies and small equipment. The few old, dilapidated
toilet facilities in the Park have not been adequate for many years
and are now in such a deplorable state from normal deterioration and
as a result of vandalism that it is difficult and unduly expensive to
keep them in a sanitary condition.

A new administration building to replace the 148-year-old historic
Jandmark now in use as an office building but which is neither suitably
located nor well adapted for the purpose.

A building to house antelopes and other medium-sized hoofed ani-
mals that require a heated building.

A fireproof service building for receiving shipments of animals,
quarantining them, and caring for those in ill health or those that
cannot be placed on exhibition.

A new ventilating system for the bird house.

Lesser items of equipment that are needed are a vacuum pump for
more efficient and economical operation of the heating system in the
reptile house; a band saw to replace one that is more than 40 years old;
and an air compressor for general use about the Park.

The enclosures and pools for beavers, otters, seals, and nutrias, in
the ravine, need to be reconstructed. Owing to lack of funds for
upkeep and consequent deterioration, this area has become unsightly
and inadequate for the proper care and exhibition of these animals.

Experience with the young Indian elephants makes it appear prob-
able that it will be necessary to construct an elephant-proof fence
around the outdoor yard now occupied by these elephants.

The job of cleaning up the grounds is a major undertaking. Using
all available manpower, it usually takes 5 to 10 days to pick up the
trash and restore the Park to a fair degree of presentability after
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Easter Sunday and Monday. Because of the shortage of help, clean-
up work has of necessity been reduced to a minimum, with the result
that the Zoo has been criticized by correspondents and the press for
the condition of the grounds. Two permanent additional laborers are
needed for proper maintenance, removal of broken or fallen tree
limbs and other safety hazards, and repair of walks, guard rails, and
other structures, for the protection of the public.

In addition, temporary manpower is needed to supplement the regu-
lar personnel at certain times of the year. These periods are during
the summer, when vegetation is growing vigorously and must be kept
under control, and when the greatest number of visitors are coming
to the Park with a corresponding increase in trash left on the grounds;
and in the fall and early winter, when leaf removal is necessary to keep
the fire hazard at a minimum and prevent leaves from clogging drains.
Also, additional help is needed during the summer, when certain con-
struction and repair work can be carried on more advantageously than
at other times.

By employing men temporarily when actually needed to handle the
peak workloads, work can be performed satisfactorily at considerably
less cost than by increasing the permanent personnel. For several
years this was done but the practice had to be abandoned during the
past year as available funds had to be used to absorb the salary in-
creases authorized by Congress, to pay for accumulated annual leave
of retiring employees, and contribute to Federal social security for
indefinite employees. For employment of temporary help an addi-
tional appropriation of $9,000 is needed, to be allotted as follows:

Mechanical *department=2— 2222222 See aoe oe eee oe ee eee $5, 000
Gronundsidepanrtments22s S20 ae eee ae eee See ee ee ees 3, 000
Policedepartment=22—— =~ =o ao eee eee ee ee eee 1, 000

Also, $1,000 is needed for the Zoo’s contribution to the cost of social
security for employees not under civil service.

There is need for a veterinarian to assist the animal department in
selecting suitable foods, presenting foods to the animals in a satisfac-
tory manner, practicing preventive medicine, and performing autopsies
to determine causes of death.

The steadily increasing popularity of the Zoo, as a source of both
entertainment and education, has developed such a volume of requests
for information that there is now need for an additional scientist to
share the load of answering queries and to assist in other administra-
tive work so that the Director and Assistant Director can devote more
time to general supervision of the Zoo.

To comply with the requirements of keeping property and inventory
records, in accordance with the program laid down by the General
Services Administration, by authority of Federal Property and Ad-

SECRETARY'S REPORT 119

ministrative Services Act of 1949 (Public Law 152, 81st Congress,
approved June 30, 1949) General Regulation 100 of the General Ac-
counting Office, and Budget-Treasury Regulation No. 1, there is need
for three additional clerks.

VISITORS

The estimated number of visitors to the Zoo was 3,281,450, which
was 63,119 less than for the year 1952, a decrease due mainly to several
rainy or threatening weekends in the spring.

Hstimated number of visitors for fiscal year 1958

DUI (LOD Aaa ee Soo 000) | Hebrugry.--- 22 ee 101, 500
AUR US tee ere ee ee ee At SeSOON Marches 22. SS Poe 211, 600
September_..______.-_-_-__-___ 346), 000) April 2s So) 2S ees ooh eee 353, 000
October ete setae 1) PAG F100) Mia toe eh el Wh aly now 467, 000
INovembert. tithe take BLS OO fads UNTIL 2h ae a a 377, 300
Decemberi - 45 ena 65, 800 —_
JANUAT YA OOS) 73, 150 eh BY SF he et aN i i 3, 231, 450

Groups came to the Zoo from schools in Mexico, South America,
Japan, and 30 States, some as far away as Maine, Florida, Kansas, and
Wisconsin. There was an increase of 36 groups and 3,681 individuals
in groups over last year.

Number of groups from schools

Number } Number Number } Number
Locality of groups | in groups Locality of groups | in groups
Alabama. es wt Seas aeeae 22 7 Mississippizs= 322-22 2 158
Connecticut. ae 12 GLO eM issoiri: OS ses ee ee 2 56
Delaware eters aes Sees 17 769 || New Hampshire..._-.---.---- 120
District of Columbia____--___ 114 Bi 837. ||\\INew Jersoye euse ee se tee oe 1% 1, 210
Onl Rees St seis ee eee a 222) NOW: VODKe. ace Sena eee 72 6, 811
Georgia: 32.45 esa oot 61 7,679 || North Carolina_..-.-..--.---- 213 9, 261
PIUnOleee ene. tke Tite 2 G34 OHIOES sa 2 Oe EER PE 53 2, 485
Indiana se aes oe 2 oa el 13 729 || Pennsylvania._......--..--.-- 261 14, 159
TO Wa ste Soe a a SE i 16 |} South America_._-.--....-..- 1 40
DA DAN eee ee 2) Be aw 1 29 || South Carolina...._._._..-.__ 53 1, 876
Kansas 28 SUN rt aii 2 ioe 1 o2) || Dermessed snes tase oe RTE 62 2, 864
Kentucky eit ate 19 G7 Moxne ese oe es eT 1 19
Singhs see See ESS 13 GBSit| | varelnise ss ween teen ee eres 516 27, 738
Maryland: a2 ote 611 36, 701 || West Virginia_..........-..-- 45 3, 902
Massachusetts__...........__- 1 Wiis Constr Get ee a 2 111
it, ee a ee ae 1 28 ES SSS
Michigan shee Vet Se if 470 Motalees sss cant oe ee 2, 227 127, 553
Minnesota)! eas 3 132

About 2 p. m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
and listed according to the State, Territory, or country from which
they came. This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the
Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of attendance, by
States, of people in private automobiles. Many of the District of
Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring

284725—54——__9
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

guests from other States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1953 is as
follows:

Percent Percent
Maryland fee. 32 20k a eee a Ohio! 2. =o ao eS ee 1.8
Winginigoce 22.2 ee Oo GT SNOW) Jd CPSCY_ 225 ae 16
Washinetons DD: (C2222. 22= = 2OTS | West Vireinige== 22. ee 1.4
Pennsylvania’ =. 222° Sees ee 4°83 | Massachusetts: =. 223" 2S SSeS ial
New) Vorkss.te5. 3.26 ee 3 POL ORIG Bits eet ne clnal
North Carolina.=.=...=———+~-~~- 2. 2 ii Califormig=. 23228 a ae 1.1

The cars that make up the remaining 12.1 percent came from every
one of the remaining States, as well as from Alaska, Canada, Canal
Zone, Cuba, England, Germany, Guam, Hawaii, Honduras, Japan,
Mexico, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.

On the days of small attendance there are cars parked in the Zoo
from at least 15 States, Territories, the District, and foreign countries.
On average days there are cars from about 22 States, Territories, the
District, and foreign countries; and during the periods of greatest
attendance the cars represent not less than 34 different States, Terri-
tories, and countries.

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION

Species va Species =
Class or sub- gt Class or sub- ipdiv ia:
species species
Mammals: 22 = 2 ea ee, 210 699) ||; Arachnidsis=2)2-0 2555222 2 oe 2 3
Birds eee nee ae eee ee 307 1.111") | "Insects! srrssss cae ee eee 1 100
Reptiles. 2s se ee ees 129 BLS i Meoliwske! 2c ee oe eee 1 2
AMI DHIDIANS 2 ec eeea sta eoce— 23 87
fete Cee Coie Vita 2258s. Ee 21 221 otal eee oes tke ee 694 2, 741
SUMMARY
Animalsion. hand July. 1, 1952 — sae e me ee ee eee 2, 675
Accessions: GuUrINe the Veata = -5-s2— =. ee ee ee ee ASA AN Osten of C8 1, 797
Total number of animals in collection during the year________-_-- 4, 472
Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of animals
OTA CLE TOO SI a CC a ee eee in Bub
In-collection on-dune 30; 19032262 e as = a ee eee 2, 741

Respectfully submitted.

W. M. Mann, Director.
Dr. Lzonarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 8
Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the oper-
ations of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 19538.

The Astrophysical Observatory comprises two divisions: the orig-
inal division of astrophysical research devoted to solar radiation prob-
lems, and the division of radiation and organisms established in 1929
to study the effects of radiation on organisms. Funds available for
the Observatory included an allotment of $119,841.10 from “Salaries
and expenses, Smithsonian Institution, 1953,” and $2,500 from private
funds of the Institution. At the end of the fiscal year all equipment
and buildings were in satisfactory condition.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

Two high-altitude observing stations, on Montezuma, Chile, and
Table Mountain, Calif., have continued in operation. The goal of
the two stations is to obtain complete solar-constant observations by
the long or short method, or both, on each day presenting a sky suffi-
ciently clear and uniform for satisfactory results.

The principal and most time-consuming event of the year was the
preparation of volume 7 of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory. The completed manuscript, covering the work of the division
of astrophysical research during the years 1939 through 1952, was
submitted to the editor on April 29, 1953. The following are the
main subjects included:

1. Studies of the characteristics of the silver-disk pyrheliometer.

. Recent tests of the Smithsonian standard water-flow pyrheli-
ometer.

. Ultraviolet and infrared corrections to the solar constant.

. The scale of the solar-constant record.

. Instrumental developments.

. Summaries of total sun and sky radiation, and the relative
energy in ultraviolet, visible, and infrared regions, as meas-
ured at Camp Lee, Va., Miami, Fla., and Montezuma, Chile.

7. Description of the method of Dr. Oliver R. Wulf, of the United

States Weather Bureau, for determining the amount of ozone
above Table Mountain, Calif., from regular solar-constant
bolographs.

bo

o> Or Pe CO

121
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

8. Summary of 13 years of solar-constant determinations. This,
added to 17 years published in volume 6 of the Annals, forms
as nearly as possible a homogeneous record covering 30 years,
based upon the scale of the original Mount Wilson work.

Work in Washington.—William H. Hoover, chief of the division,
in April 1953 completed a study of the silver-disk pyrheliometer
under carefully controlled conditions of temperature, timing, shutter
operation, and source of energy. This important work, together with
a report of new calibrations against the standard water-flow pyrheli-
ometer which Mr. Hoover and Mr. Froiland made in September 1952
on Table Mountain, is described in a paper to be published in the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

Preliminary to certain laboratory tests of new equipment, the ob-
servatory siderostat was completely overhauled by Mr. Talbert and
Mr. Harrison. This excellent instrument, built by Grubb of Dublin
over 60 years ago, is now fitted with a synchronous motor instead of
clock drive, new bearings have been installed, and the instrument
carefully adjusted. A new sliding house of aluminum protects it from
the weather. Inside the laboratory a light-tight housing has been
built around the spectrometer to reduce stray light.

Last year’s report referred to cooperative work with the United
States Weather Bureau in an effort to improve the method of cali-
brating the Eppley pyrheliometers in use by the Bureau. This co-
operation has continued and the results will shortly be published un-
der the auspices of the Weather Bureau.

The Smithsonian standard scale of radiation, established in 1913
and widely adopted, has been further disseminated during the year
by the sale, at cost, of two silver-disk pyrheliometers, built and cali-
brated at the Institution, as follows:

8. L. 91 to the Observatory, India Meteorological Department, New Delhi,
India.
8. I. 92 to the University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.

All the galley proof of the Ninth Revised Edition of the Smith-
sonian Physical Tables has been received from the printer.

An important paper by Dr. C. G. Abbot, research associate, sum-
marizing all his findings concerning the effect of solar-radiation
changes upon weather, was in press at the close of the year.

Andrew Kramer, instrument maker of the Observatory for nearly
61 years, retired on June 30, at the age of 84. His record is unique.
Not only was his work outstanding, but his kindliness and cooperative
spirit endeared him to many Smithsonian employees.

Work in the field—At Montezuma, Chile, the series of tape ex-
posures made under contract with the Office of the Quartermaster
General was continued during the year. Daily measurements are
made of the total sun and sky radiation as received upon a horizontal

SECRETARY’S REPORT 123

surface and as received upon the exposed tapes which are mounted at
an angle of 45° facing north. After a predetermined quantity of
solar radiation has fallen upon the tapes they are returned to the
Philadelphia Quartermaster Depot for a study of the amount of de-
terioration of the textiles due to humidity and to the amount of radi-
ation received.

Seismographic records have been maintained for some years at
Montezuma for the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. The
Survey recently sent to Montezuma a new modern seismometer, with
accessories, which is now being installed. It is expected that greatly
improved earthquake records will result.

At Table Mountain, Calif., Hoover and Froiland obtained a very
complete series of comparisons between the Smithsonian double-tube,
water-flow, standard pyrheliometer and substandard silver-disk
pyrheliometer S. 1.5. These comparisons confirm the results of three
previous determinations made at Mount Wilson in the years 1932,
1934, and 1947. This confirmation of the permanence of the constants
of the instruments is very gratifying since the 1952 comparisons are
entirely independent, being made at a different station and by different
observers.

The filter form of pyranometer, mentioned in last year’s report as
sent to Table Mountain for testing, proved to have a troublesome drift
under field conditions. It was returned to Washington for altera-
tions. At the close of the year a new series of tests was in progress at
Table Mountain.

The instrument installed last year by Mr. Hoover to measure the
optical quality of the sky continues to serve as an independent means
for judging the steadiness of the sky during observations. It has now
been altered to register through a Beckman photopen recorder, thus
eliminating the process of daily removing and developing a photo-
graphic record.

Owing to a temporary shortage of personnel, progress in the ozone
studies referred to in last year’s report was somewhat delayed. This
project is being resumed as rapidly as possible.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
(Report prepared by Dr. R. B. Wirnrow, chief of the division)

The research of the Division has been concerned chiefly with in-
vestigations of the physiclogical and biochemical processes by which
light regulates plant growth and the mechanisms of the action of the
auxin-type growth hormones. While most of the sunlight absorbed
by plants is used in the production of food materials through the
process of photosynthesis, a small part of the light energy is required
for the production of chlorophyll and in the initiation of photochemi-
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

cal reactions which control the development of the various organs of
the plant. In the absence of light and in the presence of adequate
food reserves, higher plants fail to develop normal leaves and stems,
and in the dicotyledonous plants the hook that forms in the stem
of the germinating seed never completely disappears.

Dr. W. H. Klein and V. Elstad have continued investigations of the
effect of light intensity and various growth regulatory chemicals on
the opening of the hypocotyl hook in Black Valentine bean. A new
set of subirrigated growth chambers has been constructed which
yield plant material of very great uniformity. By the use of a special
green fluorescent safe light employing a filter transmitting light be-
tween 520 and 610 millimicrons, it is possible to remove the hooks
from the plants and make measurements on them without producing
any detectable light effect. The hook sections are placed in petri
dishes containing a small amount of water and exposed to various
light and chemical treatments. A 24-hour exposure to very weak red
light in the region of 650 millimicrons at an intensity of 0.01 micro-
watt per square centimeter produces a 45° opening in a 24-hour period ;
in the dark there is no significant opening of the hook in this period.
The rate of opening of the hook is proportional to the logarithm of
the light intensity. It appears that this organ is a very useful tool
for the bioassay of photochemically synthesized growth factors.

The auxin group of hormones such as indoleacetic acid opposes the
effect of the light. The effect is proportional to the logarithm of the
concentration of the auxin over a very wide range and the test appears
to have a sensitivity nearly equal to the classical Avena test, but is
a much simpler one to execute.

Thus far no pigment system has been extracted from plants whose
absorption spectrum can account for the regulatory effect of the longer
wavelengths in the visible spectrum. In order to obtain information
as to the absorption spectrum of the pigment system, work has been
started by Dr. Withrow, Dr. Klein, and Mr. Elstad on determining
the effectiveness spectrum of the stem-hook response and the synthesis
of anthocyanin in bean stems. A system of 10 interference filter mono-
chromator units has been constructed, each of which employs two
interference filters in tandem for isolating a narrow band of wave-
lengths about 20 millimicrons wide. Each monochromator unit has
a separate source and cabinet, and the whole system is in a room
maintained at constant humidity and temperature.

Dr. W. D. Bonner and L. Price have initiated a systematic bio-
chemical study of various fractions from dark-grown and far-red-
irradiated bean seedlings with the objective of finding those
biochemical systems that are associated with the light-initiated re-
sponses. Estimations of the activities of various enzyme systems have
shown no significant differences between the dark- and the light-

SECRETARY’S REPORT 125

treated seedlings. The systems that have been studied are the ascorbic

acid and polyphenol oxidases involving the copper proteins; catalase

and peroxidase involving the iron proteins; and various components
of the cytochrome enzyme systems.

Research by Dr. Alice P. Withrow on the effect of plant growth
regulators on salt exchange of plants has indicated that high salt—low
carbohydrate plants lose salt more rapidly when treated with ammo-
nium 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate and that low salt-high carbohydrate
plants absorb salts less rapidly under the influence of this growth
regulator as compared with untreated plants.

Studies have been initiated on the effect of plant-growth regulators
on the respiratory processes in mitochondrial preparations of bean
seedlings and rat livers.

The following research papers by members of the staff have been
published during the past year:

Withrow, R. B., Klein, W. H., Price, L., and Elstad, V. Influence of visible and
near infrared radiant energy on organ development and pigment synthesis in
beanandcorn. Plant Physiol., vol. 28, pp. 1-14, 1953.

Withrow, R. B., and Price, L. Filters for the isolation of narrow regions in
the visible and near-visible spectrum. Plant Physiol., vol. 28, pp. 105-114,
1953.

Withrow, R. B., and Elstad, V. Water-cooled lamp systems with refluxing
aqueous filters. Plant Physiol., vol. 28, pp. 384-338, 1953.

Withrow, R. B., and Withrow, Alice P. A linear recording ac conductance
bridge for measuring salt exchange in plants. Physiol. Plantarum, vol. 6,
pp. 444-450, 1953.

Respectfully submitted.

L. B. Avpricu, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9

Report on the National Air Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 380,
1953:

GENERAL STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS

The care of the stored material in the national aeronautical collec-
tion continues to be the principal concern of the staff. Aircraft and
components that are awaiting provision of an adequate building for
the National Air Museum comprise more than two-thirds of the total
collection, and although there are several renowned aircraft among the
35 exhibited in the Smithsonian buildings in Washington, there are a
number that are regarded with near-equal esteem and are of great value
in depicting aeronautical progress among the 74 being preserved at
Park Ridge, Ill., and those others being retained for the Museum at
naval bases and in scattered places.

As stated in last year’s report, the Air Museum had been ordered
to vacate the storage facility at the Air Force Base at Park Ridge.
Therefore, at the beginning of the fiscal year, efforts were made to
establish near Washington a storage base for the material to be moved.
The urgency of this move was somewhat relaxed as the result of an
inspection of the storage area by an official of the Budget Bureau who
was so impressed by the efforts of the Museum personnel to preserve
its material and at the same time comply with the requirements of
the Air Force that he directed that more consideration be given the
needs of the Museum. The Air Force finally agreed that the Museum
could temporarily remain on the base. However, this does not solve
the problem because the space assigned to the Museum—30,000 square
feet in Building T-6—is inadequate, and most of the aircraft will still
have to remain outdoors. A storage base was started at Suitland,
Md., about a mile beyond the District of Columbia line, but lack of
funds to complete the project still leaves the Museum with inadequate
storage space.

In spite of these difficulties progress has been made at Park Ridge
in caring for the stored material there, and the facility at Suitland
has been developed sufficiently to take care of 20 loads of material
brought in from Park Ridge. Details of these operations are given
in later portions of this report.

126

SECRETARY’S REPORT 127

Although every effort has been made to keep up the other functions
of the Museum at the Washington office, the maintenance of exhibits,
public services, research, and planning have reluctantly been given
less attention owing to reduction in personnel and enforced priority of
other projects. Normally the staff includes an administrative head,
a curator, and two associate curators. With the retirement last year
of the former head of the Museum and the addition of his adminis-
trative duties to those of the curator, plus the continued absence on
naval duty of one of the two associates, there are now only two persons
to do the work previously assigned to four.

Because the Fiftieth Anniversary of Powered Flight is being cele-
brated during the calendar year 1953, the National Air Museum has
experienced a very busy period, with many requests to assist the
national anniversary committee, State organizations, industrial units,
airlines, aeronautical groups, and others who have joined to mark the
progress of a half century of human flight. This concentration of
interest in past accomplishments since the marvelous flight by the
Wright Brothers in 1903 has brought due recognition to the National
Air Museum as the authoritative source of records of the past. The
staff has frequently been called upon to furnish data on historic air-
craft, biographies of noted airmen and engineers, photographs and
descriptions of aeronautical events, drawings of airplanes, and other
material. Authors have come to the Museum to consult the staff
and to examine the library and reference files; teachers have requested
assistance in planning courses; students have sought help in meeting
assignments; and compilers of textbooks and pictorials have found
much needed data. As opportunity permitted, the staff worked on
the Museum’s own feature exhibit that is to further honor the Wright
Brothers and mark the anniversary. This will be put on display dur-
ing December 1953 and will emphasize the fact that the Wright
Brothers not only invented the aeroplane but also developed it to a
practical form and in addition taught others to fly.

As part of its function in distributing aeronautical knowledge, the
Museum issued a number of texts on airmen and aircraft for free dis-
tribution to correspondents, students, and others, and as the fiscal year
closed the ninth edition of the “Handbook of the National Aeronau-
tical Collections” was being prepared.

ADVISORY BOARD

Although there were no formal meetings of the Advisory Board
during the fiscal year, the Board members gave generously of their
time to advance the projects of the Museum. Informal conferences
were held at which the problems of the Museum were discussed, con-
structive suggestions made, and progressive action planned. Dr.
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Leonard Carmichael, present Secretary of the Smithsonian, succeeded
former Secretary Alexander Wetmore on the Advisory Board upon
the latter’s retirement December 31, 1952.

STEPHENSON BEQUEST

The bequest of George H. Stephenson, of Philadelphia, provides
for a sculptured figure of Gen. William Mitchell, as a gift to the
National Air Museum. Arrangements for procurement of the
statue have been in charge of the Director of the Smithsonian’s Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts and officials of the National Gallery
of Art and the Fine Arts Commission. During the year a number
of prominent sculptors were considered for this undertaking.

SPECIAL EVENTS AND DISPLAYS

Throughout the year the National Air Museum participated in
many special events and exhibits and arranged several special dis-
plays:

Three occasions commemorative of the beginning of the airmail
service—the forerunner of commercial aviation—are noteworthy.
On August 12, 1952, the 84th anniversary of the date the Post Office
Department took over operation of the airmail, All American Air-
ways (now Allegheny Airlines) presented to the Air Museum a scale
model of the Stinson SR-10 airplane used by that airline for airmail
pickup service from 1939 to 1949. This took place at a luncheon
given by that airline to several officials of the Post Office Department,
the Smithsonian Institution, the Air Museum, and about 50 persons
of prominence in aeronautics. Whereas August 12, 1918, was the
date when the Post Office began operations with its own pilots and
planes and assisting personnel, airmail service on a permanently
scheduled basis had been inaugurated on May 15, 1918, by the Signal
Corps Aviation Section as a military experiment. The anniversary
of that date in 1953 was observed by the Aero Club of Washington.
The head curator of the Air Museum, who had been present at the
original occasion, pointed out to members of the Club the location
from which the first mail planes took off; he also composed the text
of a marker, which was turned over to the National Park and Plan-
ning Commission, to commemorate that event and mark the location.
On May 24, 1953, the Indiana State Society gave a luncheon at the
National Airport in honor of Robert Shank, who was one of the
original four pilots hired by the Post Office when that Department
took over the airmail service from the military. Three weeks earlier
Governor George N. Craig of Indiana, Representatives Charles A.
Halleck and Charles B. Brownson, and E. C. Gaertner, a member of
the Society, had visited the Museum in order to see the airmail exhibit

SECRETARY’S REPORT 129

and better acquaint themselves with the personal story of Robert
Shank. They were shown the Museum’s Curtiss JN-4 airplane,
similar to one in which the early airmail was flown, and models of
other types flown by Shank and his fellow mail pilots. Upon request,
several of these models were shown at the Society’s luncheon, together
with a series of photographs, taken in 1918, of airmail events. The
head curator of the Air Museum described these models and photo-
graphs and spoke from personal recollections of early airmail service.

Another noted pilot, Roscoe Turner, was honored August 14, 1952,
when he was presented with the Distinguished Flying Cross. The Air
Museum assisted with an exhibit in the Pentagon Building of aircraft
models representing types flown by Turner.

At the annual banquet of the Aero Club of Washington on Decem-
ber 17, to mark the anniversary of the Wright Brothers’ first flight,
the Museum provided a Wright engine of 25 horsepower to serve as
a contrast to a modern jet engine of about 5,000 pounds thrust. At
this banquet the Museum also helped with preliminary arrangements
for the presentation of the Robert J. Collier Trophy, symbolic of out-
standing achievement, to John Stack, engineer of the National Ad-
visory Committee for Aeronautics.

At the meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution on January 16, 1953, the Air Museum exhibited the rocket en-
gine popularly known as Black Betsy. This is the prototype of those
that powered the first manned supersonic flight and established cur-
rent records for altitude and speed.

During February, in conjunction with the National Collection of
Fine Arts, an exhibition of watercolors by Lt. Col. H. H. Sims of the
Air Force was shown. These had been painted during visits to vari-
ous interesting parts of the world, in connection with his assigned
duties. At the end of March a special exhibit was held in the D. C.
National Guard Armory illustrating the many uses of magnesium.
One of the first aircraft to employ this remarkably light metal was
the Northrop Black Bullet, XP-56, made for the Air Force in 1948,
and now in the Air Museum collection. It was among those stored at
Park Ridge but was brought to Washington for this showing and then
placed in storage at Suitland. During April, by courtesy of the West-
inghouse Electric Corporation and the Navy Bureau of Aeronautics,
a cutaway operating example of the J-34 jet engine was shown in
the Aircraft Building. This type powers the Navy’s Douglas F3D
Skyknight and the McDonnell F2H Banshee, used in Korea.

The Museum participated in or assisted with several television pro-
grams during the year.

SURVEY

In determining the whereabouts and suitability of material re-
quired for the national collection, either as evidence of current prog-
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

ress or to fill in historical and technical gaps, most of the inquiries
and negotiations can be conducted by mail, but in many cases personal
visits by members of the staff are desirable to learn the story behind
the material under consideration and attend to the many details in-
volved in securing it for the Museum. The following trips were made
in this connection.

July 8, by the head curator, to the Glenn L. Martin Aircraft Co. at Middle
River, Md., to inspect models of the PBM and JRM aircraft.

August 11-15, by the associate curator, Robert Strobell, to Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio, to determine progress being made on models of
Wright Brothers’ aircraft and examine data on the aerial torpedo of World
War I.

October 5-7, by Mr. Strobell ,to Great Neck, L. I., N. Y., and Wood-Ridge, N. J.,
to obtain data on guided missiles, determine progress on instrument exhibit, and
examine and select photographs of Curtiss aircraft.

May 4-6, by the head curator, to Langley Field, Va., to attend an inspection
of the laboratory of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics and de-
termine the availability to the Museum of displayed material.

June 26-27, by the senior exhibits worker, Stanley Potter, to Indianapolis,
Ind., to discuss methods of delivering and disassembling the Boeing 247-D air-
plane being considered for transfer to the Museum by the Civil Aeronautics
Administration.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF EXHIBITS

New material received this year covers 2 wide range—from items
representative of past accomplishments to objects showing recent de-
velopments. These form a permanent record of progress and
outstanding achievement.

Of the full-sized aircraft received, an impressive gift is the Douglas
DC-3 transport airplane presented by Eastern Air Lines through its
president, Edward V. Rickenbacker, with the helpful assistance of
Beverly Griffith. Before World War II the DC-3 was used on airlines
throughout the world. During that war this type, appropriately
named the Sky Train and known as C-47 to the Air Force, R4D to
the Navy, Dakota to the British, was used in every theater of opera-
tions and is still giving the same reliable passenger service. The air-
plane presented by Eastern Air Lines has flown 8,517,000 miles, and
carried 213,000 passengers. Since its purchase in 1937 and until its
retirement, it had been in operation on an average of 1014 hours per
day.

The Lacalibur IIT airplane in which a series of remarkable flights
were made, was presented to the Museum by Pan American Airways.
This is the P-51 Mustang, made by North American Aviation, Inc.,
and powered with a Packard Rolls-Royce Merlin engine. Trans-
continental records were made in it by Paul Mantz in 1946 and 1947,
and in 1951 Charles Blair flew it nonstop from New York to London
at a record speed averaging 446 miles an hour, and made the first solo

SECRETARY'S REPORT 131

flight across the North Pole from Bardufoss, Norway, to Fairbanks,
Alaska, 3,260 miles in 101% hours.

Another important accession was a German Me 163, known as
a rocket interceptor, used by our adversaries in World War II.
The Museum was also fortunate in receiving as a gift from Hiller
Helicopters the XH-4, the original Hiller-copter devised by Stanley
Hiller in California in 1944, and one of the first successful types to use
contrarotating blades. The control stick from a much earlier
helicopter, the one designed by Dr. George DeBothezat and Ivan
Jerome and constructed by the Engineering Division of the Army Aix
Service at McCook Field in 1922, was presented by Mr. Jerome, to-
gether with photographs, drawings, and other data.

Many types of aircraft that cannot be represented in the Museum
by full-sized examples are illustrated by scale models. Two models
received this year are almost as large as some full-sized planes. These
were received from the Glenn L. Martin Co., one being the quarter-
sized PBM Naval Mariner patrol plane and the other a quarter-sized
model of the JRM Mars long-range flying boat. The PBM model
was made in 1987, as a flyable test unit to determine the characteristics
and performance of the large craft which was then only on the draw-
ing boards. It proved to be a very valuable and prophetic means of
“working out the bugs” at reduced expense. The JRM model was
made for testing in the large-scale wind tunnel at the Langley Me-
morial Laboratory of the National Advisory Committee for Aero-
nautics, and through such testing revealed the probable performance
of the type, again saving the time and cost of determining this infor-
mation by full-scale experiments. Another acquisition is the original
test model of the Northrop Flying Wing, a skillfully made light-
weight miniature, about 3 feet in span, which was hand-launched and
glided to test the lift and stability of a type from which developed the
large B-35 and B-49 bombers of our Air Force. It is exhibited in the
Museum beside photographs of its huge descendants. One of the
earliest configurations of the delta design was devised by Michael E.
Gluhareff of Sikorsky Aircraft in 1939, starting by experiments with
light balsa-wood glider models which demonstrated the utility of the
dartlike pattern. His tests the next year were even more convincing,
and in 1941 he designed a pursuit interceptor for the Air Force of that
delta-wing shape. That was before the current era of jet power,
and he planned to use contrarotating pusher propellers. Concentra-
tion by Sikorsky Aircraft upon the helicopter program prevented
continuation of the experiments with this design at that time, but
today delta-winged aircraft have been successfully flown in Germany,
America, and England, and are recognized as especially adapted to
salving the problems encountered at supersonic speeds.

Other scale models of full-sized aircraft received this year represent
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

the Wright Brothers’ first glider of 1900, the Gallaudet D4 of 1918
—one of the advanced types produced by the Gallaudet Aircraft Cor-
poration for the United States Navy during the first World War—and
the McDonnell Phantom FH-1, a current type of Navy fighter em-
ployed in Korea. M. A. Krieger donated an excellent scale model of
the V—1 German buzz bomb. A full-sized specimen of this weapon,
which caused such destruction in England during World War IJ, is
in the Museum’s collection, but is not exhibited for lack of space. The
Army and Navy Club of Washington presented to the Museum an
automatic pilot from an actual V-1 which fell in the vicinity of the
United Service Club in London. The Navy has added this year to the
Museum’s series of small airplane “recognition” models which show
the characteristics of ex-enemy and other foreign aircraft, as well as
current United States types. These are used in the Navy for training
purposes, and are of value in the Museum for preserving the record of
service types.

Two very famous power units have been added to the Museum’s
“Engine Row” this year: The Pratt and Whitney R-4360-35 Wasp
Major engine, number 1 of the four which powered the United States
Air Force Boeing B-50 bomber Lucky Lady IJ when it made the first
nonstop world flight, taking off from Fort Worth, Tex., February 26,
1949; and the famous Black Betsy, a four-tube liquid-propellent rocket
designed and built in 1940 by Reaction Motors, Inc. In great contrast
to the complicated fuel system of these modern engines is a little
“puddle carburetor” sent in by a friend of the Museum who had found
it among some relics of pioneer flying. Several propellers were re-
ceived; also a unique electric generator showing the application of
the airplane type of propeller to power production. This wind-driven
generator was developed by H. R. Stuart and E. N. Fales in 1922,
and came into commercial use a year later.

Mementos of famous flyers provide personal associations which in-
crease interest in the collections. Two exhibits of this nature have been
added to the group of World War I airplanes. One was prepared with
the cooperation of Capt. Edward V. Rickenbacker and includes
his uniform, scale models of his Nieuport 28 and Spad 18 airplanes,
records and photographs of the members of the 94th Squadron which
he commanded, and photographs of enemy aircraft which they en-
gaged. This has been placed near the Spad fighter. A panel record-
ing some of the accomplishments of Col. Harold H. Hartney, who was
commanding officer of the First Pursuit Group which captured the
German Fokker D-7—now in the Museum—has been installed near
that plane. The first world-flight flagplane, Douglas Cruiser Chicago,
now has beside it, in a case containing a scale model of his Cloudster, a
portrait sculpture of the aircraft designer, Donald Douglas. This
was given by the artist, W. F. Engelman, of Florida, who also pre-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 133

sented his sculpture of Admiral Richard E. Byrd, which has been
placed with instruments and other material recalling the polar fights
of that great explorer. Woodward Burke, famous pilot who test-flew
some of the Brewster Naval fighters during World War II, was one
of the first to develop a pressure-bearing garment for aviators which
aided in controlling the abnormal passage of blood during aerial
maneuvers at extreme speeds. This elementary “G-suit,” so named
because it restricts the effects of gravity, has been given to the Museum
by his widow. In the memorial exhibit to Amelia Earhart has been
placed a small American flag, a gift from the family of ex-Mayor
Malcolm E. Nichols of Boston, carried by Miss Earhart on her first
flight across the Atlantic in the Fokker airplane Friendship, 1928.

The Navy’s P2V Lockheed airplane, 7ruculent Turtle, which estab-
lished the current nonstop distance record, flying from Perth, Aus-
tralia, to Columbus, Ohio, about 11,822 miles in slightly over 55 hours,
is being held for the Museum by the Department of the Navy until
space can be provided for its display; in the meanwhile the “How-
Goes-It-Board” used on that flight has been placed on exhibit. That
is the navigator’s sheet on which the plan of the flight was drawn up,
and which was consulted by pilot and navigator as the flight pro-
gressed. The Navy has also presented parts of two historic wind
tunnels, recently decommissioned at the Washington Naval Gun Fac-
tory. In these tunnels scale models of many of the Navy’s earliest
and most renowned aircraft were first tested. Individual listing of
the year’s accessions is given in the final pages of this report.

The two exhibits workers of the Museum, in addition to assisting
with unloadings and other operations at the Suitland storage area,
received and placed much of the material above described and in addi-
tion made improvements in existing displays. The parts of the orig-
inal John J. Montgomery gliders of 1905 and 1911 were mounted in
new frames, thereby improving this exhibit. The Naval Curtiss F9C-2
Sparrowhawk fighter of 1935 was completed by addition of its over-
head hook-on gear supplied by the Navy Department Bureau of
Aeronautics. The scale model of the U. S. S. Pennsylvania, which
had been reconstructed to show the landing deck on which Eugene
Ely made the first landing followed by a take-off on January 18, 1911,
was provided with a more attractive base on which photographs of
the event are mounted and in which a slide projector recounts the
story of the evolution of aircraft carrier operations. The showing
of scale models of aircraft used in World War II was improved;
changes and additions were made in the impressive lineup of air-
craft engines in the Aircraft Building. The famous aeronautical
trophies were placed in larger cases, and material showing the his-
tories of these trophies and their presentations was added, making
the display more attractive and of greater educational value.
134 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

STORAGE

The difficulties experienced during the year in operating the Park
Ridge, Ill., storage facility and in establishing the one at Suitland,
Md., have been reviewed in the general statement. In spite of these
problems, considerable progress was made in the operations at Park
Ridge.

Because the shipment of the stored material to Washington is the
final objective of the storage facility, the principal project at Park
Ridge is the disassembly, preservation, and boxing of aircraft, en-
gines, and other materials. During the year 9 full-sized airplanes
were taken apart to their major components, given preservative treat-
ment, and boxed, bringing the total of airplanes so prepared to 72 and
leaving but 10 presently scheduled for such treatment. Several of
these, however, are large aircraft and will present serious problems in
disassembly because they are foreign types for which little or no
breakdown data exists, and, having been constructed for immediate
and nearby combat operations they do not have the disassembly fea-
tures common to American aircraft. Of the aircraft boxes formerly
built, 17 were repaired and weatherproofed, 100 were sprayed with
protective material, 4 were provided with new skids, and all were
weighed to obtain data for final shipment. In the latter operation,
the assistance of the State of [Illinois Traffic Police, who lent their
large scales, was particularly appreciated. Of the engines, 140 were
given cleaning and preservative treatment, and boxes were constructed
for 8, while all the engine boxes were checked for ventilation and a
number of new lids constructed. In the final weeks of the fiscal year,
when 20 truckloads of boxes containing components were shipped to
Suitland, all those boxes were examined, repaired, their contents
given cleaning and preservation treatment where necessary, the closed
boxes banded, the material prearranged in load lots, and finally loaded
on the trucks. In addition there were times when the two carpenters
were required to construct office space or enclosures and shelves for
tools, supplies, and equipment, and when the three mechanics had to
stop their aircraft work in order to repair the crane, forklifts, and
other handling equipment and vehicles. The guards frequently vol-
unteered a helpful hand, and the manager, Walter Male, to whom
much credit for the efficient operation at Park Ridge is due, appor-
tioned his time so that he was able to visit the plant of Airwork Cor-
poration at Millville, N. J., where they kindly explained to him their
techniques for preserving aircraft, enabling these methods to be added
to our processing. Mr. Male also visited Wright-Patterson Field at
Dayton, where he searched for data on foreign aircraft in order to
better care for those in the Museum collection; and, at the Naval Base
in Mechanicsburg and other places, learned about their methods of
storing aircraft, and related operations.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 135

At Suitland, continuing with the erection of the prefabricated But-
ler buildings, the remaining 4 of the 6 purchased last year were assem-
bled on concrete bases by late November. The 6 buildings provide a
total of 24,000 square feet and enabled the Museum to accept custody
of 3 of the 4 full-sized airplanes received this year and of the 2 large
Martin models; but of very great assistance was the storage of the 20
loads of components shipped from Park Ridge. This operation saved
double handling of those 3,000 boxes which, had Suitland been unavail-
able, would have had to be moved again from one building to another
at Park Ridge, stacked in vitally needed space, and otherwise cared
for. As it is, they are now near their final destination, some have
been inspected, and a few of the more interesting specimens that can
be accommodated are being prepared for exhibition.

Within the Smithsonian buildings in Washington where there have
been two rooms devoted to aeronautical storage, the congestion has
been greatly relieved by transferring material to Suitland; these
rooms are being prepared as extensions of the reference-file space, and
for keeping handling equipment and exhibition supplies.

ASSISTANCE TO OTHER AGENCIES

A large portion of the time of the staff is required in answering
requests for information. During this anniversary year this public
service has increased greatly in volume and variety, and many projects
that are part of the general effort to make this an outstanding year
in aeronautical progress have been aided by the Museum. One under-
taking that will be of great permanent value is the compilation by
the Division of Aeronautics of the Library of Congress of two volumes
intended to be a complete record of the work by the Wright Brothers.
The Museum made available its exhibits and files to the staff of that
division. Other departments of the Government have their Anniver-
sary projects: the Civil Aeronautics Administration is preparing ex-
hibits featuring famous flights, the Office of Education is compiling
lists of aeronautical material for distribution to schools, the Navy’s
Bureau of Aeronautics assembled several displays showing historic
and current developments, and the Air Force for Armed Forces Day
prepared impressive shows. All these projects received help from
the Museum. Some units of the Government in need of assistance in
connection with current work were the Department of Justice, wishing
construction details on cockpit harnesses, parachute hardware, and
engine starters; the Air Force, asking for the loan of ex-enemy aircraft
in order that the crews who were to examine the shot-down planes of
our adversaries in Korea could be indoctrinated in foreign techniques,
and requesting help in preparing educational and historical displays
for student airmen. The Navy received descriptions of helicopter

284725-—54——_10
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

developments; the State Department asked for help in preparing
articles on aeronautical subjects for use in foreign broadcasts and
papers; and the Weather Bureau was supplied with photographs of
famous flights for which that Bureau had supplied vital meteorologi-
cal information. The artist Allyn Cox required accurate details of
the Wright Brothers’ first aeroplane and facts about the air pioneers
Langley and Chanute for incorporation in the frieze which he is
completing on the rotunda wall of the United States Capitol. Several
schools, including the Northrop Aero Institute and the School of
Aeronautics in Denver, requested and received help from this Museum.
The Institute of Aeronautical Sciences sent its curator to the National
Air Museum to study exhibition procedures and methods of recording
material; and drawings, photographs, and data on aircraft were ex-
changed to mutual advantage with museums in California, France,
Holland, and England. Slides for lectures were supplied to B. L.
Whelan of Sikorsky Aircraft recalling early days in aviation, and to
Capt. Ralph Barnaby, USN Ret., describing the gliders of the Wright
Brothers. The head curator gave 11 lectures during the year on vari-
ous phases of aeronautics and the work of the National Air Museum,
speaking to Reserve units of the Navy and Air Force, airline groups,
and to the American Society of Civil Engineers at their national
meeting in Chicago, September 5.

IMPROVEMENTS IN REFERENCE MATERIAL

The documentation of the aeronautical collection is an important
phase of museum work and must be maintained together with the
preservation of the specimens. Without such documents as original
correspondence records, descriptions of technical details and perform-
ance, drawings, photographs, and related texts, the labeling of speci-
mens and the furnishing of information about them would be difficult
and perhaps inaccurate. With each accession the Museum endeavors
to obtain such data as opportunity permits, and seeks to procure
books, magazines, catalogs, and other literature pertinent to the
general history of aeronautics. Frequently other persons studying the
history and development of aircraft and patriotically interested in
improving the national collections will give or exchange with the
Museum from their collections. Some material has been received
from bequests.

From the Air Force, 170 boxes of technical orders were received.
These cover such subjects as maintenance of aircraft, instructions for
disassembly and overhaul, pilot’s operating instructions and other
operational data, and area very valuable source of information. These
documents are being screened in order to extract data relative to the
collection. The General Services Administration, Department of
Archives, has generously supplied from its files a number of photo-

SECRETARY’S REPORT 137

graphs of aircraft, and many aircraft manufacturers have responded
to requests for photographs of their current and earlier types. Having
established a periodical library during the previous fiscal year, the
Museum has endeavored to maintain these aeronautical publications
current and to add missing issues. To assist the Museum in filling
requests for information on current aircraft the magazine Aero Digest
very generously gave 500 reprints of their March 1953 Directory num-
ber which featured a complete listing of types now in production.
Maj. Kimbrough Brown of the Air Force, during his recent duty in
Europe, collected much valuable information for the Museum and as-
sisted with its incorporation into the files upon his return to this coun-
try. Bell Aircraft supplied material for the improvement of the Mu-
seum exhibition of the supersonic X-1 and another local exhibit. The
Air Force Association assisted in supplying a catalog of the paintings
by Col. H. H. Sims exhibited during February. The Museum is par-
ticularly indebted to Charles Taylor, the mechanic associated with the
Wright Brothers, who worked on the construction of the engine for
their first airplane and helped to build and repair many of their
aircraft. From his recollections he has been most helpful in answer-
ing questions about the engine, construction details of Wright aircraft,
and events of those wonderful days.

The following lots of reference material have been separately
acknowledged and entered:

Mrs. Gretchen Schneider Black, Fort Worth, Tex.: The Eddie A. Schneider
Memorial Library consisting of 67 books, 35 pamphlets, and a painting.

Division of Military and Naval History, U. S. National Museum: A collection
of 18 books from the Gen. John J. Pershing Library.

Mrs. M. S. Gilpatric, New York, N. Y.: Four scrapbooks, a poster, an insignia
of the First Aero Squadron, photographs, ete., collected by her son, Guy Gil-
patric, renowned pioneer flier and World War I aviator. These are largely
descriptive of the aircraft flown by him, and his piloting experiences.

J. C. MacCartee, Sr., Osteen, Fla.: A collection of 64 photographs taken by
him at College Park, Md., during 1911 and 1912, showing early aircraft and
flights, principally those in Wright Brothers’ airplanes, and by notable military
pilots of that era.

Joseph Nieto, San Antonio, Tex.: Four 3-view scale-dimensioned drawings of
famous aircraft, drawn by himself.

North American Aviation, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif.: A collection of 36 photo-
graphs, enlarged and framed, of types produced by this company.

James J. Sloan, Aero Historical Society, Van Nuys, Calif.: A group of 11
3-view scale-dimensioned drawings of aircraft, including several unique types
of World War I.

Stanford University Libraries, Stanford, Calif.: A collection of 60 bound
volumes of aviation periodicals.

RESEARCH

The quantity of work involved in other phases of the Museum pro-
gram limits the amount of time that can be devoted to personal re-
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

search by the staff, but as opportunity permitted, several projects
were advanced.

Anticipating that the Fiftieth Anniversary of Powered Flight
would be celebrated during 1953, the Museum intensified the collect-
ing of photographs and other material relative to the Wright Broth-
ers. Persons who had taken pictures of the Wrights and their air-
craft and pupils in America were generous in sharing them with the
Museum, but it was difficult to find photographs taken when the
brothers were in Europe. Persistent correspondence by the associate
curator finally located several helpful sources in England, France,
Germany, and Holland and, thanks to such cooperation, the Museum’s
collection is now one of the most complete. This material has been
of great service to many publishers, writers, artists, modelmakers,
and others, and selections will form part of the special Wright dis-
play being planned for December of 1953.

Efforts were continued throughout the year to procure authentic
documents and drawings about America’s early work in the guided-
missile field. Extensive material was obtained describing the Dayton-
Kettering developments during the First World War, but little has
been received about the Long Island-Sperry efforts.

ACCESSIONS

This year the National Air Museum received 32 accessions from 28
sources totaling 112 specimens. Those from Government departments
are recorded as transfers; others were received as gifts except as
noted.

Arr Force, DEPARTMENT OF, Washington, D. C.: German Messerschmitt Me 163
rocket interceptor, used in World War II to oppose operations of American
and English bombers (N. A. M. 763). (Through Pratt & Whitney Aircraft)
The Pratt & Whitney R-4360-35 Wasp Major aircraft engine, Serial No.
P-675, from the B-50-A bomber Lucky Lady II which made the first nonstop
flight around the world, February 26—March 2, 1949 (N, A. M. 753).

ALLEGHENY AIRLINES, Washington, D. C.: Scale exhibition model 1:16 of Stinson
SR-10 airplane of type used by the predecessor company, All American Air-
ways, from 1939 to 1949 for airmail service, featuring a unique pickup-in-
flight system (N. A. M. 758).

ARMY AND Navy CLus, Washington, D. C.: An automatic pilot from a German
V-1 flying bomb which came down in the vicinity of the United Service Club,
London, England, World War II (N. A. M. 757).

Avuaustine, Dayip, Landover, Md.: An airplane propeller of Micarta, a com-
pressed resinous material, in use about 1928 (N. A. M. 782).

Burkes, Mrs. OLiviA BENDELARI, New Hope, Pa.: An aviator’s restrictive garment
for maintaining pressure on parts of the body to reduce effects of inertia
during extreme maneuvers at high speeds. Devised by her husband, Wood-
ward Burke, test pilot, who gave his life in 1945 during development of a
Navy jet fighter (N. A. M. 765).

BastTern Arr Lines, New York, N. Y.: Douglas DC-3 airplane No. 164, con-
structed 1937, and veteran of over 814 million air miles (N. A. M. 766).

SECRETARY’S REPORT 139

EMSCHWILLER, LT. WILLIAM M., U. S. M. C., Hyattsville, Md.: Scale exhibition
model 1:24 of the McDonnell FH-1 Phantom, a current type of Naval jet-
powered airplane (N. A. M. 752, loan).

ENGLEMAN, WILLIAM F., Miami, Fla.: Two portrait busts, one of Adm. Richard
E. Byrd, Naval pilot and polar explorer, and one of Donald W. Douglas, noted
aircraft designer and manufacturer (N. A. M. 755).

GARBER, PAUL Epwarp, Washington, D. C.: Five kites, one a reproduction of that
used by Benjamin Franklin 200 years ago in his experiments with lightning,
and four of Chinese origin in outlines of a butterfly, fish, bat, and bird
(N. A. M. 761).

HarTney, Mrs. Harotp, Washington, D. C.: Material associated with the military
and aeronautical accomplishments of her husband, the late Col. Harold
Hartney, commander of the First Pursuit Group, World War I (N. A. M. 767).

HEkgRING, M. G., Washington, D. C.: An aircraft propeller, wooden, two-bladed,
from an Aeromarine—40 flying boat, about 1921 (N. A. M. 779).

Hitter Heticorrers, Palo Alto, Calif.: The XH-44, origina! Hiiler-copter de-
signed and constructed by Stanley Hiller in 1944; it has two 2-bladed conitra-
rotating rotors (N. A. M. 769).

HUBBELL, CHARLES, Cleveland, Ohio: Scale exhibition model 1:16 of the Wright
Brothers’ first glider, 1900 (N. A. M. 771, purchase).

HUNDEMER, CHARLES, Baton Rouge, La.: A mixing valve or “puddle carburetor”
used on an airplane engine of the period 1908-1910 (N. A. M. 780).

JEROME, IvAN, Massapequa, L. I., N. Y.: Original control stick from the helicopter
constructed by the Engineering Division of the U. S. Army Air Service, McCook
Field, Dayton, Ohio, 1922, designed by Dr. George DeBothezat and Mr. Jerome
(N. A. M. 768).

Kickert, Howarp, Arlington, Va.: An aircraft propeller, wooden, 2-bladed, of
early design, used with a low-horsepower engine (N. A. M. 772, loan).

Krircer, M. A., Dallas, Tex.: Scale exhibition model 1: 24 of transparent mate-
rials showing construction of a German V-1 buzz bomb as used against Eng-
land, World War II; with associated data (N. A. M. 781).

Martin, GLENN L., Co., Middle River, Md.: Two quarter-sized models of Martin
flying boats, one being the flying model with which characteristics of the Navy
PBM Mariner were predetermined; the other the wind-tunnel model of the
Navy JRM Mars, long-range patrol and cargo plane (N. A. M. 774).

Mopet Buiupers, Inc., William Chaffee, President, Chicago, Ill.: Two scale ex-
hibition models, 1: 16, illustrating the Nieuport 28 and Spad 13 airplanes flown
in World War I by Capt. Edward V. Rickenbacker (N. A. M. 760, purchase).

Navy, DEPARTMENT or, Washington, D. C.: Parts of two wind tunnels recently
decommissioned at the Naval Gun Factory in Washington; the earlier was the
8-foot square-throat wooden tunnel built in 1914; the other circular, of metal,
was constructed about 15 years later (N. A. M. 776). The “How-Goes-It-
Board” used by pilot and navigator of the Navy’s Lockheed Truculent Turtle
which established the world record for nonstop distance, 11,822 miies, October
1, 1946 (N. A. M. 777). (Through Reaction Motors, Inc., Rockaway, N. J.)
The original Black Betsy rocket engine which served as prototype for the
engines that powered the first manned supersonic flight by the Air Force’s
Bell X-1 and the Navy’s Douglas D-558-2, which has flown higher and faster
than any other manned aircraft (N. A. M. 754). A collection of 48 aircraft
models, scale 1: 72, of recent and current types; used for training in aircraft
recognition (N. A. M. 751).

NicHots, Martcorm E., THe Famizy or, Boston, Mass.: A small American flag,
-carried by Amelia Earhart on her first flight across the Atlantic Ocean, with
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Wilmer Stultz, pilot, and Lew Gordon, mechanic, in the Fokker seaplane
Friendship, June 17-18, 1928 (N. A. M. 762).

NorTHrRop AIRCRAFT, INc., Hawthorne, Calif.: Experimental glide model of the
flying wing, used for the original test of this configuration (N. A. M. 778).
Pan AMERICAN AIRWAYS, New York, N. Y.: The airplane Hzcalibur III in which
Capt. Charles Blair made a transatlantic record flight and the first nonstop

solo flight over the North Pole, 1951 (N. A. M. 775).

RICKENBACKER, CAPT. Epwarp V., New York, N. Y.: The uniform worn by him
in World War I with records and photographs of members of the 94th Squad-
ron which he commanded (N. A. M. 759).

Roperick, Harry M., Oakland, Calif.: Compressed-air-powered experimental
model airplane, 1909 (N. A. M. 773).

SHortT, Roxor V., Madison, Conn.: Scale exhibition model, 1:16, of the Gallaudet
D-4 Navy seaplane, 1918, an advanced pusher biplane design (N. A. M. 756,
purchase).

Sikorsky ArrcraFt, Division of the United Aircraft Corp., Bridgeport, Conn.:
Scale exhibition model, 1: 16, of the proposed delta-winged fighter designed by
M. E. Gluhareff in 1941 (N. A. M. 770).

Sruart, H. R., and Fauss, E. N., Washington, D. C.: Original wind-driven electric
generator, equipped with a propeller similar to the airplane type, developed
jointly by the donors in 1922 (N. A. M. 764).

Respectfully submitted.

Paut E. Garner, Head Curator.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 10

Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area

Sir: It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report
of the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30,

1953.
BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

The major accomplishment at Barro Colorado Island during the
year was the installation of two 15-KVA Diesel-driven generators.
This required the construction of a concrete foundation, to which the
generators had to be anchored, and a well-ventilated building to house
the units; the installation of large instrument panels and insulated
pipes for overhead distribution; and procurement of necessary acces-
sories for operation. Although the annual operating cost of the
generators amounts to about $1,650, the benefits to be derived from a
constant flow of current are inestimable; and being able to operate
the refrigerator, deep freeze, dry cabinets, and dehumidifiers 24 hours
a day, thereby eliminating spoilage, will result in considerable sav-
ings. Also, an adequate and uninterrupted supply of electricity
should attract many more investigators who need current at all hours.

The pit for the rainwater reservoir, west of the new laboratory
building, was completed, and the reinforcing steel and form lumber
were cut to size. Because of deficient rainfall, there was not enough
water to mix the concrete, and so this project was not finished.

Shelving was added to the large (original) laboratory building for
a collection of reptiles and amphibians, largely from the island, and
for the extensive collection of Central American fruits, mostly from
Panama, obtained by the resident manager during his years of study
of fruit flies of the genus Anastrepha. Dr. and Mrs. E. R. Dunn, of
Haverford College, put most of the reptile and amphibian specimens
in new jars and relabeled them.

An electrically heated plant drier was built and has already been
put to good use by scientists.

It was necessary to build an extension to the dock at the island, and
also to the covered area for the launches. Both launches required
minor repairs to the hulls, and the engine of one needed replacement,
of parts. A large, well-built cayuco was obtained, for use with an
outboard motor, in order to police the island more adequately.

The trails are in good condition, but some of the markers need to
be replaced.

141
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

The Fuertes house and the houses at the end of Drayton trail are in
excellent condition. The old main laboratory is in good shape, except
for minor repairs, and can accommodate at least 20 scientists a day.
The Chapman house can still be used as a laboratory building, and
with a minimum of repairs should serve well for 5 years or more.
The buildings occupied by the warden-caretaker and the cook are in
good condition; the one used by the laborers needs some repairs. The
plywood building at the tower was primarily a test for termites and
resin glues, and can still be used as a shelter.

MOST URGENT NEEDS

Most urgently needed is the rainwater reservoir. It is hoped that
the concrete for this can be poured early in the next fiscal year and
that funds will be available to cover it with concrete slabs, add the
necessary pipes, and divert the runoff from the aluminum roof into
the tank. Also, a new 2-horsepower electric motor to run the pump
must be purchased. With this reservoir we should have adequate
“safe” water to last through even a dry season.

Next in importance is the need for electric wiring in the new build-
ing, water service for the lower floor, the installation of sinks, tables,
and shelves, so that at least the two main laboratory rooms (each ac-
commodating four persons) can be made available to scientists; and
the installation of exhaust fans, shelves, and other equipment in the
photographic dark room. Dehumidifiers will have to be purchased;
these are very necessary to prevent deterioration and corrosion from
the high humidity.

With these things accomplished, the library, herbarium, and index
cabinets can be transferred from the Haskins building to the new
building, and the kitchens moved to the fireproof Haskins building.
Purchase of an electric water heater for the kitchen, an urgent need,
has been approved.

SCIENTISTS AND THEIR STUDIES

The primary purpose of the Canal Zone Biological Area is to pro-
vide a safe and accessible area for scientific research in the lower
humid tropics in the Americas. Probably nowhere else in the world
can be found the combination of unspoiled tropical jungle and health-
ful laboratory surroundings. Here scientists find a profusion of
plants and animals and are able to carry on a wide variety of special
studies.

During the 1953 fiscal year, 57 scientists came to the island. The
high cost of transportation prevents many from coming and also, in

SECRETARY’S REPORT

143

many cases, curtails the length of stay. A list of the season’s in-
vestigators, with a brief summary of their interests, follows:

investigator
Ajello, Dr. Libero, U. 8. Public Health Service,
Atlanta, Ga.
Anderberg, T., Sweden.

Andrew, Dr. Warren, Bowman Gray School of
Medicine, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Ansley, Dr. Hudson R., Columbia University,
New York, N. Y.

Bloedel, Prentiss,
Berkeley, Calif.

Blomberg, Dr. Rolf, Sweden and Heuador.

University of California,

Boberg, Walter, Sweden.

Bradley, John ©. Waterbury, Conn.
Bromfield, Louis, Malabar Farm, Lucas, Ohio.
Buchanan, Charles, Puerto Rico.

Burk, Gordan, Scripps Institution of Oceanog-
raphy, La Jolla, Calif.

Chamberlain, Mrs. Florence, Des Moines, Iowa.
Clark, Dr. Walter, Hastman Kodak Research
Laboratories, Rochester, N. Y.

Crookchewit, Hans, Amsterdam, Holland.

Drury, Dr, William, Harvard University, Cam-
bridge, Mass.

Dunn, Dr. and Mrs. H. R., Haverford College,
Haverford, Pa.

Hisenmann, Dr. Eugene, New York, N. Y.

Erickson, Clarence O., Paramount Pictures,
Hollywood, Calif.

Geysa, Vanita yon, Illinois.

Goelet, Dr. Robert, New York Zoological Society,
New York, N. Y.

Goodale, Dr. Robert L., Boston, Mass.

Graham, Dr. BH. H., U. S. Soil Conservation Sery-
ice, Washington, D.C.

Griffin, Dr. Donald R., Cornell University,
Ithaca, N. Y.

Hartman, Dr. Frank M., Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio.

Heim, Roger,
Paris, France.

Museum of Natural History,

Principal interest or special
study
Environmental factors.

Member of Blomberg expedi-
tion. (See Dr. Rolf Blom-
berg.)

Land mollusks.

Sex determination in centi-
pedes,
Orientation in bats.

Color photography, stills, and
sound recordings; intensive
study of tropical wildlife.

Member of Blomberg expedi-
tion. (See Dr. Rolf Blom-
berg. )

Mollusks.

Tropical flora and birds.

Bird survey and habitats.

Mammals and birds.

Bird survey and nests.

Review of Eastman Kodak ex-
posure tests; color photog-
raphy and sound recordings.

Birds.

Forest topography as affecting
bird life.

Amphibians and reptiles and
rearrangement of island col-
lection.

Continuation
bird studies.

Appraisal of island for motion
film of army ants.

Continuation of her painting.

Birds, mammals, and flora.

of long-range

Bird studies.
Wildlife and flora.

Orientation in bats.

Continuation of studies on
adrenals of birds and mam-
mals,

Fungi and environment.
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

Investigator
Henry, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R., Washington
Star, Washington, D.C.
Hiestand, Dr. Norman T., Los Alamos, N. Mex.

Hodgson, Dr. Edward S., Barnard College, Co-
lumbia University, New York, N. Y.

Kelly, Dr. Junea, Alameda, Calif.

Kerr, Miss Charlotte, U. S. Embassy, Panama.

Koronda, John, Michigan State College, East
Lansing, Mich.

Loegering, William I., IICA Turrialba, Costa
Rica.

Lundy, William E., Assistant Paymaster, Panama
Canal.

MacLeish, Kenneth, Life Magazine, New York,
INGE We

Martin, Dr. George W., State University of Iowa,
Iowa City, Iowa.

McGinty, Thomas, Florida.

Miller, Melville W., Vermillion, S. Dak.

Monros, Dr. and Mrs. F., Instituto Miguel Lillo,
Tucuman, Argentina.

Morris, Robert C., U. S. Bureau of Entomology
and Plant Quarantine, Gulfport, Miss.

Murie, Dr. Olaus J., Wilderness Society, Moose,
Wyo.

Nadler, Aaron M., Brooklyn, N. Y.

Olsson, Dr. A. A., Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia.

Parsons, Dr. James J., University of California,
Berkeley, Calif.

Perrygo, Watson M., U. S. National Museum,
Washington, D. C.

Prescott, Dr. George W., Michigan State College,
East Lansing, Mich.

Rimmer, David, Malabar Farm, Lucas, Ohio.

Scattergood, Dr. Leslie, U. S. Legation Mission.

Setzer, Dr. Henry W., U. S. National Museum,
Washington, D. C.

Soper, Dr. Cleveland C., Tropical Research Lab-
oratory, Eastman Kodak Co., Panama City,
Panama.

Steward, Richard, National Geographic Society,
Washington, D. C.

Stirling, Dr. and Mrs. M. W., Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

Principal interest or special
study
To collect data on plants and
animals for press releases,
General biology, color photog-
raphy, and sound recordings.
Behavior of leaf-cutting ants.

Continuation of bird studies.

Observations on birds and
mammals,

Algae.

Plants and ecology.

Continuation of studies on
birds and mammals.

Appraisal of animal life in
rain forest of American
Tropics.

Fungi.

Mollusks.
Birds, mammals, and flora.
Coleoptera.

Termites.
Animal footprints.

Intensive collecting and study
of Psocidae.
Paleontology.

Grasses.
Birds.
Algae.

Birds and plants.
Tropical flora.
Mammals.

Deterioration and corrosion of
photographic equipment and
supplies. Gave technical ad-
vice and help on Diesel gen-
erators.

Photography.

General biology and reconnais-
sance.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 145

Principal interest or special
Investigator study
Swift, Lloyd W., U. S. Forest Service, Washing- | Wildlife and flora.
tones C:
Weber, Dr. Jay A., Miami, Fla. Mollusks.
Weldon, A. L., State University of Iowa, Iowa | Fungi.
City, Iowa.
Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Smithsonian Institu- | Birds, and general inspection
tion. of the plant.

VISITORS

There were about 700 visitors to the island during the year. Most
of them came in small groups, and quite a number stayed overnight or
for a few days. Among these were Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, and
photography clubs; groups from schools in Panama City, Colon, and
elsewhere; from colleges, and from the University of Panama. There
were also a number of groups from the Armed Forces, the United
States Embassy in Panama, many technical and specialized missions,
and branches of the Point-4 Program.

DONATIONS

The resident manager donated to the library a complete series of
bound volumes of the Journal of Agricultural Research; a series of
Natural History magazines, complete to date; many miscellaneous pub-
lications; and a quantity of laboratory glassware, chemicals, and other
supplies.

RAINFALL

In 1952, during the dry season (January to April) rains of 0.01 inch
or more fell on 36 days (98 hours), and on 203 days (744) hours during
the 8 months of the wet season.

Rainfall was 9.26 inches below the station average for 28 years—an
excess of 1.09 inches during the dry season and a deficiency of 10.35
inches during the wet season. March was the driest month, 0.11 inch,
and October the wettest, 16.96 inches.

TABLE 1.—Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, O. Z.

Total Station Total Station
Year inches average | Year inches average
ee eee hae NQ4 SS Ti diene ieee OS Qian Ns 115. 47 110. 94
1926522 ek 118. 22 TTS. 5 Gi O40 ese 86. 51 109. 43
UO A7 (mesa Ta ae 116. 36 114, 68) 1941___________ 91. 82 108. 41
1928 Os 2S ERY, 101. 52 DIA SSA Derr 111. 10 108. 55
LO 29 ieee Uae) a 87. 84 LOGTOGIPIOS See ee 120. 29 109. 20
NOSOL 2 an er (AS S/ LOT OO A Au tae ee 111. 96 109. 30
UGS Pe Be ee ey 123. 30 LO4S GON NOAA Ga. ks eee). 2 120. 42 109. 84
TOG Lew 2 113. 52 TOS UG MG4Guies see 87. 38 108. 81
12 fe fo peti Aine Das TOURS LOS SANG 4 eo ee 77. 92 107. 49
1984. ee Tear tel 122. 42 LO7HOS| MOAB ie 3 83. 16 106. 43
UGS Sr eae sane! 143. 42 TVORSH 10402 eee Ay 114. 86 106. 76
G3 6 eee 93. 88 HOSFOS O50 = ee 114. 51 107. 07
1 1 See a 124. 13 OM eRe pile a ee 2 MPA 107. 28

BOS8 225 hee ber 117. 09 110362) R962... 225-255 97. 68 106. 94
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

TaBLE 2.—Comparison of 1951 and 1952 ae Barro Colorado Isiand, C. Z.

(inches
Total Accumu-
Month SS SSS] iii Years of | Excess or | lated excess
average record deficiency or defi-
1951 1952 cisney
Jantiarye- 2) pee ey By Pip al 2. 40 div 27 +0. 63 +0. 63
MO DTNAGY aan oe eee 3. 76 .39 1, 26 27 —.87 —
arene 5) 22 ae eee .30 -1l 1,20 27 —1.09 —1.33
Atri) Sete BN ees 8. 53 5. 3.04 28 +2. 42 +1. 09
[ee eee ae 12.19 12.39 10.89 28 +1. 50 +2. 59
Aili 161 eee oes Se Sh ao ie 10. 94 11.76 1, 40 28 +. 36 +2. 95
PUG ee sa ee nS 5.37 6. 11. 28 28 —65. 27 —2
AU STIStS = he Sep ee fe es 11,29 9.11 12.16 28 —3.05 —5.37
September. yt 2. 9. 62 11.13 10.06 28 +1. 07 —4,30
October!’ SIA fener ee ys. 19. 43 16. 96 13. 52 28 +3. 44 —. 86
November... 9 Sige 16.15 9. 50 19.10 28 —9. 60 —10. 46
December! ea7222 _. be 3. Ss 12. 93 12. 46 11. 26 28 +1. 20 —9
Wear=' 22). ae Se 112. 72 97. 68 106.:94) 2225s 23134 fy ee cee —9. 26
Diryj season - 4 sepa n TT De 14. 80 8. 36 VACA Pees eS ee eee ae +1. 09
WiGUSOASON sso. 2s - ee 97. 92 89. 32 £22 al ey A ee ae i eee ee See —10.35

The maximum yearly rainfall of record on the island was 143.42
inches, and the minimum 76.57 inches. The maximums of record for
short periods were as follows: 5 minutes, 1.30 inches ( a new record) ;
10 minutes, 1.65 inches (a new record) ; 1 hour, 4.11 inches; 2 hours,
4.81 inches; 24 hours, 10.48 inches.

During 1952 the maximums were: 5 minutes, 1.30 inches; 10 minutes,
1.65 inches; 15 minutes, 1.71 inches; 380 minutes, 2.15 inches; 1 hour,
2.86 inches; 2 hours, 3.48 inches; 24 hours, 4.48 inches.

FISCAL REPORT

Trust funds during the 1953 fiscal year amounted to $11,255.03, as
follows: Balance from fiscal year 1952, $264.03; fees from scientists,
$2,501.16; fees from visitors, $2,177; table subscriptions, $1,900;
Smithsonian Institution private funds, $2,800; donations, $1,180;
miscellaneous, $482.84.

Items paid from trust funds are: Wages of warden-caretaker and
laborers, food, office expenses, and miscellaneous items for upkeep and
repairs. Wages amounted to 58.2 percent of the expenditures, and
food and kitchen needs 35.8 percent, a total of 94 percent. At the
close of the 1953 fiscal year there remained a balance of $437.74 in the
trust funds.

The Smithsonian Institution allotted $7,033.29 from Government-
appropriated funds. Approximately 60 percent of this was expended
for supplies from Panama Canal Storehouses, the major items being
$614.63 for lumber; $198.98 for gravel; $490.88 for cement; $192.94
for water lines and toilets; $390.77 for reinforcing steel, pipe, etc., for
the water reservoir; $550.90 for the overhead installation of the
Diesel generators; $493.66 for Diesel fuel; $72.08 for lubricating oil;

SECRETARY’S REPORT 147

$114.64 for the dock extension ; $346.62 for the extension of the sheds
for the launches; and $60.78 for materials for the launches.

The other 40 percent covered such items as gasoline, ice, freight,
telephone, and rentals; repairs to launches ($214.74) ; transportation
of the two Diesels to the Isthmus ($190.74); parts, filters, repairs,
and maintenance inspections for the generators ($370.96) ; and shelv-
ing ($255.86).

The rates for scientists and visitors now in effect are $3 a day per
person for 1-day visitors, $4 a full day for scientists from institutions
that support the laboratory through table subscriptions, and $5 a full
day for all others. A 1-day visit includes the use of the launch to
and from the island, the noon meal, and the guide in the morning.
A full day for scientists includes three meals and lodging.

The following institutions continued their support to the laboratory
through the payment of table subscriptions:

AB AUS E00 TN ESCO GL Et oe ere ee ee ee ee eS — $1, 000
New (York ‘Zoological Societyi22 2: 08. 2h) i) 2B) oe ees ek POs) 300
American Museum /ofiNatural: Historys2s estes eens See eee 300
Smithsonian) institutions. 2a 8 I 300

It is gratifying to record again donations from Dr. Eugene Eisen-
mann of New York, Dr. Robert L. Goodale of Boston, and Dr. Robert
Goelet of New York.

Those contemplating a visit to this unique spot of the Americas
should communicate with the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, Washington 25, D. C., or with the Resident Manager of the Canal
Zone Biological Area, Drawer C, Balboa, Canal Zone.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Thanks are due to the Panama Canal Company, particularly the
Dredging and Commissary Divisions and the Storehouses; the Canal
Zone Government, especially the Police Division; and the officials and
employees of the Panama Railroad for their wholehearted cooperation.
Without their generous and unfailing assistance, the Area could not
function so successfully.

Respectfully submitted.

JameEs Zerex, Resident Manager.

Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 11

Report on the Library

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1953:

More than 100 foreign countries, including dominions, colonies,
and protectorates, were represented among the 68,414 publications
that came to the Smithsonian library, many of them through the
International Exchange Service, during the past year. Of these pub-
lications, all except 734 books which were purchased, and the serial
parts of the 430 journals for which the library subscribed, came
either in exchange for Smithsonian publications or as gifts. The
acquisiiton by exchange or gift of so large a proportion of the im-
portant additions, mostly serials, to the library each year is made
possible by the cordial cooperation of issuing agencies all over the
world and by the generosity of many friends. The constant inflow
of these records of scientific and cultural advance is the lifeblood of
research, and the library is the pipeline through which this indispen-
sable material is channeled to all parts of the Institution.

The postwar years have seen many changes among scientific and
other journals, but “births” continue to outnumber “deaths”; and
in spite of wars and other vicissitudes the continuity of a surprising
number of the series of publications issued by long-established insti-
tutions and learned societies has been unbroken. So eternal vigi-
lance is necessary not only to see that important new serials are ob-
tained but also that missing parts of old ones are procured as promptly
as possible. This is especially true of complicated irregularly issued
foreign serials, often published in very small editions which quickly go
out of print. To meet the larger number of these needs, 573 new
exchanges were arranged during the year, and 7,073 volumes and
parts were obtained by exchange to fill gaps in existing sets or to sup-
ply individual publications on special subjects.

Of the many gifts presented to the library by generous friends,
the Eugene N. Costales philatelic library was one of the largest.
Together with the many rare nineteenth-century publications on
philately that Malcom MacGregor added to his previously reported
gifts, these were especially important additions to the library’s fast-
growing collection of philatelic literature.

Extensive as are the exchange relations of the Institution, there
are many books and periodicals in its subject fields that can be ob-

148

one eee ee eeeE—E—eEE—EEEEEEEEEEeEeEEeEeEeEeEEE ee eeeeaaaaaaEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeOoororororeoeeeererrrrrr e_ OO EE OE EL
SECRETARY’S REPORT 149

tained only by purchase. In the face of limited funds, rising prices,
and the unceasing and increasing output of scientific and technical
literature, careful screening is imperative. Of the many books re-
quested during the year only 734 could be bought. About half the
allotment of funds had to be earmarked for subscriptions to periodi-
cals; and as usual allowance had to be made for the purchase of the
annual volumes of reference books on special subjects.

The library has no interest in acquiring rare books as such, but occa-
sionally it is possible through one of the Institution’s special funds to
acquire a much-needed rare work. Notable among such during the
year was the purchase out of the Frances Lee Chamberlain fund of the
extremely rare Gastropoda parts, by W. Wenz, of the “Handbuch der
Palaozoologie,” for the division of mollusks. At present, this is the
only complete and original copy of this very important work, pub-
lished in seven parts in Berlin in 1938-44, known to be in this country.
The stock of some of the parts was almost completely destroyed during
the war.

Additions to the Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress,
mostly parts of serial publications, numbered 5,840, of which 261 went
to the Langley Aeronautical Library. Other publications sent to the
Library of Congress, counted but not individually cataloged or entered
here in the serial records, were 2,250 doctoral dissertations, chiefly from
European universities, 5,507 documents, mostly from foreign govern-
ments, and 14,231 miscellaneous pieces of literature, from all over the
world, on subjects of little or no immediate interest to the Institution.

Many publications on subjects in the special fields of other Govern-
ment agencies were transferred to those agencies, the largest number
being 4,104 pieces sent to the Armed Forces Medical Library, 881 of
which were medical dissertations.

Every effort was made to keep additions to the library’s collection of
duplicates to a minimum; 14,326 pieces sent to the United States Book
Exchange for exchange credit reduced the collection somewhat but
still made no appreciable visible impression on the whole.

Statistics of the catalog section show that 3,185 books were cataloged,
22,625 periodicals entered, and 31,761 new cards added to the catalog
and shelf lists and that more than 110,000 cards were handled in the
task of merging the two formerly separately maintained main catalogs.
This merging of records points continually to the large amount of
greatly needed cataloging or recataloging to be done, notably of special
collections, which have previously been sketchily recorded, or not cata-
loged at all.

Funds for binding permitted only 700 volumes to be sent to the
Government Printing Office bindery, and so the large backlog of bind-
ing continued to increase. In the library, 1,527 books were expertly
repaired.
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

The 8,641 loans recorded during the year show only a fraction of
the use of the library’s collections. Many more than this number of
books were consulted in the reference room and in the stacks of the
main and branch libraries, while the annual use of publications on the
highly specialized subjects of the different divisions of the Museum,
shelved in their sectional liabraries, could certainly be counted well up
in the thousands. Intramural circulation of the 3,370 publications,
mostly parts of periodicals, assigned to the sectional libraries for fil-
ing this past year, would alone, in terms of use, need to be multiplied
by several times that number.

Beside the use of books within the Institution, the library serves,
and is in turn served by, outside libraries through interlibrary loans.
During the year, 82 different libraries throughout the country bor-
rowed 965 books from us for the use of local scientists and other
serious students. In addition to the many books borrowed from the
Library of Congress, a large number of which were Smithsonian De-
posit copies, 891 were borrowed from other libraries, chiefly from the
library of the Department of Agriculture.

The reference and informational use of the library was especially
heavy, and more than 27,000 questions, many of them in response to
letters and telephone calls from outside the Institution, were answered
in the reference and circulation section.

The virtual closing of the branch libraries because of understafling
made it extremely difficult to give more than token service from them
to the staff of the Institution; and special arrangements had to be
made to serve the visiting scholars who needed to have access to the
material housed in them. The scattered, inconveniently arranged,
and overcrowded housing of the library throughout the Institution,
worsened by the hundreds of volumes needing binding or repair, has
long since become a chronic and increasinly serious condition, for
the full relief of which a practical solution is yet to be found.

SUMMARIZED STATISTICS

ACCESSIONS
veins | Tolle
Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress - ---- 82 584, 295
Smithsonian main library (includes former Office and
Mitiselnnl Dratiches) ee ae cee eee ee eee ae 2, 142 289, 787
Astrophysical Observatory (includes Radiation
GreAnISIOS)s <<) ete ee ee oe ek ae 62 14, 102
Bureau of American Ethnology ---.----------- 282 35, 350
NationaljAir Museum =) S22 eee 2 ee ee 18 306
National Collection of Fine Arts_.....--.------ 599 13, 284
NHLIONAY ZoDlORicnY Park-. sore. Los See ei fie eee a 4, 204

TOGA a ian sed ek Se te ek ee 3, 185 941, 328

SECRETARY’S REPORT 151

Cataloged volumes only have been counted in the records of current
accessions, and no incomplete volumes of serial publications or sepa-
rates and reprints from serial publications are included in any of the
totals.

EXCHANGES
Newexchangesiarramng edie secs se 00 ee ae re ee ee ee ea 573
189 of these were for the Smithsonian Deposit.
Specially; requested! publications received. 222) eee 7, 073

999 of these were obtained to fill gaps in Smithsonian Deposit sets.

CATALOGING
IO EULTNGS eR er) Seed tees eR ta BA AA RAIN PN cod oP lst OL AN A 3, 185
Cardstadded\to catalogs-and shelfilists.2 2.00 2000) | oe el 31, 761
PERIODICALS
Eeriodicaly parts enteredssn2 2s sesame phe oe ah ee ea ELS 22, 625

5,758 were for the Smithsonian Deposit.

CIRCULATION

HoausiotPMooksiand perlOdlCalsae. eee! Seen ae Re eee 8, 641
Circulation of books and periodicals in sectional libraries is not
counted, except in the division of insects.

BINDING

Volumes sent to the Government Printing Office bindery___________ edad a 700
Molumics repaiced inthe Wibrarysu G0.0 See ek aio ey eer eee 2 eee 1, 527
Respectfully submitted.
Lema F. Crarn, Librarian.
Dr. Lronarp CarMICHAzL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

284725 —54-—--11
APPENDIX 12

Report on Publications

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publica-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches for the year
ended June 30, 1953:

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution are in two cate-
gories—those issued from federally appropriated funds (particularly
the publications of the National Museum and the Bureau of American
Ethnology, and the Smithsonian Report) and those issued under in-
come from the Institution’s various endowment funds (Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, publications of the Freer Gallery of Art,
and special publications). Eight regular series are issued, plus six
others that appear less frequently. Publications are distributed free
to more than a thousand libraries, both in this country and abroad, as
well as to a large list of educational and scientific organizations and
specialists in various fields. The Smithsonian publications program is
a major part in the Institution’s endeavor to fulfill the diffusion-of-
knowledge function prescribed by its founder.

During 1952-53 the Institution published 23 papers in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections and title page and table of contents
for 1 volume in this series; 1 Annual Report of the Board of Regents
and pamphlet copies of 20 articles in the Report appendix, 1 Annual
Report of the Secretary, and 1 special publication.

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report of the
Director, 13 Proceedings papers, 3 Bulletins, and 1 paper in the series
Contributions from the United States National Herbarium.

The Bureau of Amercan Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report, 5
Bulletins, and 3 papers in the series Publications of the Institute of
Social Anthropology.

The National Collection of Fine Arts issued 6 catalogs; and the
Freer Gallery of Art published 1 paper in the Occasional Papers series.

At the end of the year practically all the galley proofs of the tables
in the ninth revised edition of the Smithsonian Physical Tables had
been received from the printer.

Of the publications there were distributed 177,675 copies, which in-
cluded 11 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge, 50,185 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections, 31,317 volumes and separates of Smithsonian
Annual Reports, 1,988 War Background Studies, 4,582 Smithsonian

152

SECRETARY’S REPORT 153

special publications, 49 reports and 142 sets of pictures of the Harri-
man Alaska Expedition, 41,111 volumes and separates of National
Museum publications, 30,281 publications of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, 8,315 publications of the Institute of Social Anthropology,
2,817 catalogs of the National Collection of Fine Arts, 583 volumes
and pamphlets of the Freer Gallery of Art, 9 Annals of the Astro-
physical Observatory, 2,554 reports of the American Historical Asso-
ciation, and 3,731 miscellaneous publications not published by the
Smithsonian Institution (mostly Survival Manuals).

In addition, 22,851 picture pamphlets, 97,922 guide books, 119,881
natural-history, Smithsonian buildings, and art postcards, 14,825 sets
of photo cards and picture postcards, 18 sets and § prints of North
American Wild Flowers, and 4 volumes of Pitcher Plants were
distributed.

The 1953 allotment from Government funds of $92,320 for printing
and binding was entirely obligated at the close of the year.

SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

VOLUME 117

No. 12. Two aboriginal works of art from the Veracruz coast, by Philip Drucker.
7 pp.,3 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 4091.) Aug. 26,1952. (20 cents.)

No. 13. Primitive fossil gastropods and their bearing on gastropod classification,
by J. Brookes Knight. 56 pp., 2 pls., 10 figs. (Publ. 4092.) Oct. 29, 1952.
(60 cents.)

No. 14. New and unusual species of brachiopods from the Arbuckle group in
Oklahoma, by G. Arthur Cooper. 35 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 4093.) Sept. 23, 1952.
(50 cents.)

No. 15. The foraminiferal genus Triplasia Reuss, 1854, by Alfred R. Loeblich,
Jr., and Helen Tappan. 61 pp., 8 pls., 11 figs. (Publ. 4094.) Sept. 9, 1952.
(60 cents. )

No. 16. Solar variation and precipitation at Peoria, Illinois, by C. G. Abbot,
18 pp., 8 figs. (Publ. 4095.) Sept.3,1952. (30 cents.)

No. 17. A generic synopsis of the lizards of the subfamily Lygosominae, by M.
B. Mittleman. 385 pp. (Publ. 4096.) Nov. 4, 1952. (50 cents.)

No. 18. The lower Eocene Knight formation of western Wyoming and its mam-
malian fauna, by C. Lewis Gazin. 82 pp., 11 pls., 6 figs. (Publ. 4097.) Dee.
9, 1952. (§$1.00.)

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 4134.) [May 27] 1953.

VOLUME 119

No. 1. Cambrian stratigraphy and paleontology near Caborca, northwestern
Sonora, Mexico, by G. Arthur Cooper et al. 184 pp., 31 pls., 9 figs., 2 charts.
(Publ. 4085.) Aug. 6, 1952. ($3.00.)

No. 2. Permian fauna at El Antimonio, western Sonora, Mexico, by G. Arthur
Cooper et al. 111 pp., 25 pls., 3 figs. (Publ. 4108.) June 25, 1953. _($2.50.)
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

VOLUME 121

No. 1. Geology of the San Jon site, eastern New Mexico, by Sheldon S. Judson.
70 pp., 5 pls., 22 figs. (Publ.4098.) Mar.5,1953. ($1.15.)

No. 2. The birds of the Islands of Taboga, Taboguilla, and UravAé, Panama, by
Alexander Wetmore. 32 pp., 3 pls. (Publ. 4099.) Dec. 2, 1952. (35 cents.)

No. 3. A revision of the Colombian species of Monnina, by Ramon Ferreyra.
59 pp., 7 figs. (Publ. 4100.) Feb.3,1953. (50 cents.)

No. 4. Structure and function of the genitalia in some American agelenid spiders,
by Robert L. Gering. 84pp.,72figs. (Pubi.4101.) Mar.17,1953. (80 cents.)

No. 5. Solar variation and precipitation at Albany, N .Y., by C. G. Abbot. 16 pp.,
6 figs. (Publ. 4103.) Jan. 27,1958. (30 cents.)

No. 6. Sponges of the Alaskan Arctic, by M. W. de Laubenfels. 22 pp., 12 figs.
(Publ. 4104.) Mar. 19,1953. (30 cents.)

No. 7. Some Recent Arctic Foraminifera, by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., and Helen
Tappan. 150 pp., 24 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 4105.) Apr. 2, 1953. ($2.00.)

No. 8. Western Atlantic scorpionfishes, by Isaac Ginsburg. 103 pp.,6 figs. (Publ.
4106.) May 28, 1953. ($1.10.)

No. 9. A new Devonian crinoid from western Maryland, by Arthur L. Bowsher.
S pp., 1 pl., 1 fig. (Publ. 4107.) Apr. 16,1953. (20 cents.)

No. 10. The Tillodontia: An early Tertiary order of mammals, by C. Lewis Gazin.
110 pp., 16 pls., 38 figs. (Publ. 4109.) June 23, 1953. ($1.50.)

No. 11. Geologic background of Iyatayet archeological site, Cape Denbigh, Alaska,
by D. M. Hopkins and J. L. Giddings, Jr. 33 pp., 4 pls., 7 figs. (Publ. 4110.)
June 11, 1953. (50 cents.)

No. 18. Regarding Washington, D. C., precipitation and temperature, 1952 and
1953, by C. G. Abbot. 7 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 4180.) Mar. 3, 1958. (10 cents.)

VOLUME 122

No.1. Long-range effects of the sun’s variation on the temperature of Washington,
D.C. 14 pp.,5 figs. (Publ. 4131.) May 12, 1953. (25 cents.)

No. 3. The metamorphosis of a fly’s head, by R. E. Snodgrass. 25 pp., 7 figs.
(Publ. 4133.) June 25, 1858. (30 cents.)

ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1951.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of the
Board of Regents for 1951 was received from the printer October
7, 1952:

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1951. ix + 449 pp., 69 pls., 16 figs. (Publ. 4062.) 1952.

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publs. 4063-
4082) :

Stormy weather on the sun, by Walter Orr Roberts.

An appraisal of cloud seeding as a means of increasing precipitation, by Henry G.
Houghton.

On Winstein’s new theory, by Leopold Infeld.

Some results in the field of high-pressure physics, by P. W. Bridgman.

Ultrasonics, by Arthur R. Laufer.

The industrial applications of atomic energy, by M. L. Oliphant.

Some prospects in the field of electronics, by V. K. Zworykin.

The new chemical elements, by Saul Dushman.

)
SECRETARY'S REPORT 155

The insides of metals, by Carl A. Zapffe.

Atomic weapons against cancer, by E. N. Lockard.

Enzymes: Machine tools of the cellular factory, by B. A. Kilby.

The fauna of America, by Austin H. Clark.

The mechanics of snakes, by Alfred Leutscher.

Hormones and the metamorphosis of insects, by V. B. Wigglesworth.

Utilizing our soil resources for greater production, by Robert M. Salter.

The carbon—14 method of age determination, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.

River Basin Surveys: The first five years of the Inter-Agency Archeological and
Paleontological Salvage Program, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.

Artificial lighting in America: 1830-1860, by C. Malcolm Watkins.

The development of the halftone screen, by Jacob Kainen.

The artist and the atom, by Peter Blanc.

Report for 1952.—The Report of the Secretary, which will form part
of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents to Congress, was issued
January 8, 1953:

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report of

the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30,
1952. ix + 175 pp., 3 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 4102.) 1953.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Dresses of the First Ladies of the White House, by Margaret W. Brown. 149 pp.,
70 pls. (85 in color). (Publ. 4060.) [Aug. 19] 1952. ($6.00.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum continued under the
immediate direction of the editor, John S. Lea. Ernest E. Biebig-
hauser was added to the editorial staff on January 5, 1953, by transfer
from the Public Health Service. The Museum issued during the year
1 Annual Report, 18 Proceedings papers, 3 Bulletins, and 1 paper in
the series Contributions from the United States National Herbarium,
as follows:

ANNUAL REPORT

Annual Report for the year ended June 80,1952. iv + 103 pp. [Jan. 15, 1953.]

PROCEEDINGS

VOLUME 102

No. 3306. The sipunculid worms of California and Baja California, by Walter
Kenrick Fisher. Pp. 371-450, pls. 18-39. July 8, 1952.

VOLUME 108

No. 3311. Two new naucorid bugs of the genus Ambrysus, by Ira La Rivers.
Pp. 1-7, fig. 1. Feb. 12, 1953.

No. 8312. Two new scale-mite parasites of lizards, by R. BF. Lawrence. Pp.
9-18, figs. 2-7. Mar. 10, 1953.

No. 3313. Notes on the biology and immature stages of a cricket parasite of the
genus Rhopalosoma, by Ashley B. Gurney. Pp. 19-34, pl. 1, figs. 8 and 9.
- Mar. 10, 1953.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

No. 3314. Photuris bethaniensis, a new lampyrid firefly, by Frank A. McDermott.
Pp. 35-37. Feb. 26, 1953.

No. 3315. Distribution, general bionomics, and recognition characters of two
cockroaches recently established in the United States, by Ashley B. Gurney.
Pp. 39-56, pl. 2, fig. 10. Mar. 10, 1953.

No. 3316. Biting midges of the heleid genus Stilobezzia in North America, by
Willis W. Wirth. Pp. 57-85, figs. lland12. May 15, 1953.

No. 3317. Beetles of oedemerid genus Vasaces Champion, by Ross H. Arnett,
Jr. Pp. 87-94, fig. 18. . Apr. 30, 1958.

No. 3318. Scarabaeid beetles of the genus Bradycinetulus and closely related
genera in the United States, by O. L. Cartwright. Pp. 95-120, pls. 3 and 4, figs.
14-16. June 5, 19538.

No. 3319. The chrysomelid beetles of the genus Strabala Chevrolat, by Doris
Holmes Blake. Pp. 121-134, fig. 17. June 5, 1953.

No. 3320. American biting midges of the heleid genus Monohelea, by Willis W.
Wirth. Pp. 185-154, figs. 18 and 19. June 17, 1953.

No. 3321. A review of the beetle family Cephaloidae, by Ross H. Arnett, Jr.
Pp. 155-161, pl. 5, fig. 20. May 15, 1958.

No. 3322. The fresh-water triclads (Turbellaria) of Alaska, by Roman Kenk.
Pp. 163-186, pls. 6-8, figs. 21-25. June 5, 19538.

BULLETINS

200. The generic names of the beetle family Staphylinidae, by Richard BH. Black-
welder. iv +483 pp. July 21, 1952.

203. Life histories of North American wood warblers, by Arthur Cleveland Bent.
Pp. xi + 734, 83 pls. June 15, 1953.

204. Catalog of the cycle collection of the Division of Hngineering, United States
National Museum, by Smith Hempstone Oliver. Pp. vi + 40, 24 pls., 1 fig. May
26, 1953.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM
VOLUME 30
Part 5. Studies of Pacific Island plants, XV. The genus Hiaeocarpus in the New
Hebrides, Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga, by A. C. Smith. Pp. i-v + 523-575. [May
8] 1953.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

During the year the Bureau issued 1 Annual Report, 5 Bulletins, and
3 papers in the series Publications of the Institute of Social Anthro-
pology, as follows:
ANNUAL REPORT

Sixty-ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1951-1952.
ii + 30 pp. [Feb. 6] 19538.

BULLETINS

145. The Indian tribes of North America, by John R. Swanton. Pp. i-vi + 1-726,
5 maps. [Nov. 10] 1952.

150. The modal personality structure of the Tuscarora Indians, as revealed by
the Rorschach test, by Anthony F. C. Wallace. Pp. i-viii + 1-120, 1 pl. 8 figs.
[Oct. 9] 1952.

151. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 338-42. Pp. i-ix + 1-507, 37 pls., 25 figs., 7
maps. [Mar. 16] 1953.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 157

No. 33. “Of the Crow Nation,” by Edwin Thompson Denig, edited, with bio-
graphical sketch and footnotes, by John C. Ewers.

No. 34. The water lily in Maya art: A complex of alleged Asiatic origin,
by Robert L. Rands.

No. 35. The Medicine Bundies of the Florida Seminole and the Green Corn
Dance, by Louis Capron.

No. 36. Technique in the music of the American Indian, by Frances
Densmore.

No. 37. The belief of the Indian in a connection between song and the super-
natural, by Frances Densmore.

No. 38. Aboriginal fish poisons, by Robert F. Heizer.

No. 89. Aboriginal navigation off the coasts of Upper and Baja California,
by Robert F’. Heizer and William C. Massey.

No. 40. Exploration of an Adena mound at Natrium, West Virginia, by
Ralph 8. Solecki.

No. 41. The Wind River Shoshone Sun Dance, by D. B. Shimkin.

No. 42. Current trends in the Wind River Shoshone Sun Dance, by Fred W.
Voget.

153. La Venta, Tabasco: A study of Olmec ceramics and art, by Philip Drucker.
Pp. i-x-+1-257, 66 pls., 64 figs. [Dec. 17] 1952.
155. Prehistoric settlement patterns in the VirG Valley, Peri, by Gordon R.
Willey. Pp. i-xxii + 1-453, 60 pls., 88 figs. [Apr. 10] 1953.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

No. 13. The Tajin Totonac. Part 1. History, subsistence, shelter, and tech-
nology, by Isabel Kelly and Angel Palerm. Pp. i-xiv + 1-369, 33 pls., 69 figs.,
18 maps. [Sept. 22] 1952.

No. 15. Indian tribes of northern Mato Grosso, Brazil, by Kalervo Oberg. Pp.
i-vii+1-144, 10 pls., 2 figs., 3 maps, 14 charts. [Apr. 2] 1953.

No. 16. Penny Capitalism: A Guatemalan Indian economy, by Sol Tax. Pp.
i-x + 1-230, 6 maps, 19 charts. [June 16] 19538.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Contemporary Swiss paintings. (Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service). Illustrated. [July 1952.]

Reveries of Paris, by Edwin Scott (18638-1929). Illustrated. [August 1952.]

French drawings. (Smithsonian Institution Traveling Hxhibition Service.)
Illustrated. [November 1952.]

Pastel portraits by Alice Pike Barney, and Paintings of Paris by Edwin Scott.
Illustrated. [November 1952.]

Art and magic in Arnhem Land. (Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service.) Illustrated. [November 1952.]

Design from Britain. (Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.)
Illustrated. [May 1953.]

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
OCCASIONAL PAPERS

VOLUME 2

No. 1. Fourteenth-century blue-and-white: A group of Chinese porcelains in the
Topkapu Sarayi Miizesi, Istanbul, by John Alexander Pope. 85 pp., 44 pls.
[July 1] 1952.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are by him communicated to Congress, as provided by
the act of incorporation of the Association. The following report
volumes were issued during the year:

Annual Report of the American Historical Association, 1950. Vol. 2. Writings

on American history, 1948. xxxiii + 462 pp. [Oct. 31] 1952.

Annual Report of the American Historical Association, 1951. Vol. 1. Proceed-

ings and list of members. 207 pp. [Apr. 14] 1953.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Fifty-fifth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, on January 28, 1953.

Respectfully submitted.

Paux H. Oruser, Chief, Editorial Division.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Report of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution

For the Year Ended June 30, 1953

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d—
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim,
freights, insurance, and other incidental expenses, together with pay-
ment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld
during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the
amount of $550,000.

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general
work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest, plus
savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present year.

ENDOWMENT FUNDS

(Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution)

Partly deposited in the United States Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested
in stocks, bonds, and other holdings

Fund Investment speenis
Parent fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings) --.-_-_.__- $728, 977. 24 $43, 726. 13
Subsequent bequests, gifts, and other funds, partly deposited in the U. S.
Treasury and partly invested in the consolidated fund:
Abbotts wi. Ja:special fund ites 8 Sue ee ep Mri eae 5, 270. 00 52. 00
Avery, Robert 8. and Lydia, bequest fund__._...__.____.._______________ 57, 267. 18 3, 031. 80
Hndowment fund 22 os 2 oo See ee eee hake ge ete elon 387, 154. 40 19, 612. 18
Habel spr 8s bequest: funds ==. 06s Dee So I 8 500. 00 30. 00
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund_._.__________________ 4,405. 40 223. 12
Hamilton, ames pequest fund. 2-92 o le oe ee hs Le) 2, 942. 20 172. 42
Henry, Caroline sibequest (Und acc oon oe eee es ea a Aled 1, 324. 81 67. 09
Hodgkins TP homes G: (general gift) 2 so: ase ee ee Pe 149, 182. 04 8, 640. 91
Porter, Henry, Kirke, memorial funda 204. on ee ee 313, 713.17 15, 891.75
Rhees, William Jones, bequest fund_-.___-...____.____.._..-__-_.-__-___ 1, 108. 21 61. 67
Sanford Goeorperki.smemorialfond-o see se ee 2, 075. 12 115. 87
Witherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund___..-...._____._______ he eal 141, 360. 51 7, 160. 86
otal Ae vue Meroe led eel h | IAP n a Oe DEMON mR Tee a Tr Mery Oke We 1, 066, 303. 04 55, 059. 17
Grand sto tell bees: seaey Es tee EE eal ae hee 1, 795, 280. 28 98, 785. 30

_—_—_——_—

159
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions to date,
are listed below, together with income for the present year.

Fund Investment | p,, ote me

Abbot, William L., fund, for investigations in biology ----------------------- $114, 655, 51 $5, 786. 26
Arthur, James, fund, for investigations and study of the sun and annual lec-

tureion same. 22 tlle ts Ae oe ee a Le Se ee eon 43, 808. 44 2, 219. 20
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna of

countries other thane: United: States eases s sees men ae ee eee eee 54, 880. 05 2,779. 99
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird------------ 26, 373. 56 1, 335. 98
Barney, Alice Pike, memorial fund, for collecting of paintings and pastels and

for encouragement of American artistic endeavor_-.--.---------------------- 26, 477. 87 1, 341, 25
Barstow, Frederick D., fund, for purchase of animals for Zoological Park- - -- 1, 095. 17 55. 49
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield collection of

minerals: os) 2222) se ee eee ee ee eee eee 41, 895. 57 2, 122. 29
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection and pro-

motion of researches relating to Coleoptera__...--------------------------- 13, 730. 13 695. 53
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea

collectioniof cemis'andomollusks sooo 22 oe ee ee eee 30, 846. 83 1, 562. 61
Dykes, Charles, bequest fund, for support in financial research ----.---------- 47, 166. 59 2, 388. 99
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, fund, for preservation and exhibition of the
™ photographic collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr------------------------ 11, 906. 67 603. 17
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of light-

ing objects... 22 fee o ke ee oe ee Se ie cose eee ee one eeeeee ees 7, 199. 12 364. 67
Hitcheock, Albert S., library fund, for care of the Hitchcock Agrostological

A a i ep te Se le RI es Nes A ale ha 1, 728. 46 87. 56
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge in

regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air_._---------------------- 100, 000. 00 6, 000. 00
Hrdlitka, AleS and Marie, fund, to further researches in physical anthro-

pology and publication in connection therewith_........--..--------------- 34, 747. 61 1, 675. 31
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove__.---------------------------- 20, 967. 27 1, 062 16
Long, Annette and Edith C., fund, for upkeep and preservation of Long col-

lection'of embroideries, laces;‘and textilesta_ 2-2 ee 594. 78 30. 12
Maxwell, Mary E., fund, for care and exhibition of Maxwell collection_-_-_-__- 21, 485. 60 1, 088. 36
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of art for use

and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts_.-.__......----------_- 20, 763. 96 1, 051. 81
Nelson, Edward W., fund, for support of biological studies__..______.______- 5, 290. 60 147, 43

Noyes, Frank B., fund, for use in connection with the collection of dolls
placed in the U. 8S. National Museum through the interest of Mr. and Mrs.

UNO VCS eer ee arate IR cet ane Uy Argo IML FR Te Gt RWS LEU 2 be SVR sk oie ao ne RR 1, 052. 40 53. 33
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell collec-

BN ONTN ae en ae ee Us ee a ea oe Aci ah era ee tae ee SE ph eee 8, 119. 55 411.31
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institution when

MN CIDAL AMOUNTS LOS chs 00s oct eee re ee ee 155, 971. 69 7, 757. 27
Rathbun, Richard, memorial fund, for use of division of U. S. National

Museum containing Crustacea.) 20a 11, 650. 56 590. 19
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology, in memory of Asher

pa = so Se SO 8 ee Le ee 31, 440. 75 1, 692. 52
Roebling Collection fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling

colléctioniof ininerals) so: hoe. eon ase a ee eee 132, 200. 95 6, 696. 88
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and chem-

USGI y soak Je OL 2 ee ee ee ee 102, 854, 58 5, 210. 36
Smithsonian employees’ retirement fund....-....-..-.-.<-.---.----cccoeeee 30, 221. 14 1, 590. 59
Springer, Frank, fund, for care and increase of the Springer collection and

NUTS ery eae a a et A gt a 19, 643, 49 995. 06
Strong, Julia D., bequest fund, for benefit of the National Collection of Fine

BATES spit ol (oS Ae I a eo ole ee ee ae eee ie Mee en 10, 952. 22 554. 79
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for development of

geological and paleontological studies and publishing results thereof-_...__- 486, 060. 81 21, 419. 18
Walcott, Mary Vaux, fund, for publications in botany_..-_._._._---.-_------ 63, 407. 02 3, 212. 10
Wounger, HeleniWalcott, fand, held!in‘trust-_-¢-2---.2----.- 69, 077. 72 3, 120. 88
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria_____.___._------_- 1, 039. 05 52.65

TOG ity 2 Si YS La Oe a BSL rcs ky) eR OR ee ee 1, 749, 305. 72 86, 162. 30

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT 161
FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave
funds for construction of a building to house the collection, and
finally in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and
securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment
fund for the operation of the Gallery.

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by
20,465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis & Co. As this stock advanced
in value, much of it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the
fund now amounts to $6,951,703.80 in selected securities.

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purposes__.__________-_-____- $1, 795, 280. 28
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer endow-

TART Geen a sm eer re Nae as aN IT ds gina LO ile 1, 749, 305. 72
Total invested endowment other than Freer endow-

POV TN Ge earn at a iyo a Shs es as era on ER ee Ue eles oP 3, 544, 586. 00

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes_...__._________ 6, 951, 703. 80

Total invested endowment for all purposes____________ 10, 496, 289. 80

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as

authorized in the U. S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591___._______ 1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost

or market value at date acquired):

Bonds cae AOR Ae Meu 0 let a 2 $873, 194. 93
PLOCKS 12 .c is eg cc NORM ge 1, 558, 447. 71
Real estate and first-mortgage notes_______ 6, 071. 00
Uninvested capital 0.2.22 eke a ae 106, 872. 36

2, 544, 586. 00

Total investments other than Freer endowment__-_____ 3, 544, 586. 00
Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired):

PES Chg shy 5 hl a ep $4, 012, 1380. 08
Pp Gless sees Pei a atk Es 2, 925, 890. 21
Uninvestedcapitalss.. --2 n e ee 13, 6838. 51

6, 951, 703. 80

Potal snvestments 2) 2-2 oe ee ete IO) 406) 2RO4 SO
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL

YEAR 1953+
Cash. balance on hand June.30, 1959. | 2 eee ee ee $511, 063. 79
Receipts, other than Freer endowment:
Income fronvinvestments= 252-5222 saa $207, 174. 39
Gifisidand contributions 2S 22s. ee. ee 120, 932. 05
Booksand!publications==< - 24-3 =" eas 42, 325. 07
Miscellaneous: 5. i's, 20 sl pete oe ee oo ee ee 30, 612, 65
Proceeds from real estate......--..---.+--.-- 8, 643. 96
Payroll withholdings and refund of advances
6) 3) [all ie hie Pacer wt Sea Sepals Ha A ae tm os 375. 05
Proceeds from other stocks and bonds (net)____ 102, 912. 53
Total receipts other then Freer endowment------------ 512, 975. 70
Receipts from Freer endowment:
Interestiand dividends=322 ee wae ab see Se $326, 453. 31
Proceeds from sales and purchases (net) _~___-- 13, 477. 04
Total receipts from Freer endowment----------------- 339, 930. 35
POtal. 2 ee aE hag eg OS oan SAG rst nh a 1, 363, 969. 84
Disbursements other than Freer endowment:
AGIAINISt Pa CLOT Ee yas 22 eee ee ne eee nae $95, 643. 45
1 E401] 6) EGF; GA 10) 0 Y= fey et i a LVS NS he eee ee 28, 196. 50
UAV 8) 1 ey eee ER er Re A PM MNT a ge gS as 855. 51
Custodian fees and servicing securities_______- 1, 260. 72
UNITS CONSID OUS 2c eto el ot ie ed ps ea 2, 213. 40
Riesearchesestt Sse el Saye nee ee Se 194, 674. 67
= ERetirement systems se 24 thts wee ee 2, 768. 34
U.S. Government and other contracts (net) -_-_ 571. 63
Purchase and sale of securities (net)____._____-_ 130, 637. 20
Total disbursements other than Freer endowment------- 456, 821. 42
Disbursements from Freer endowment:
Salaries: 2 Sanu eu teri eile! lich ane Soe late ae be $108, 485. 59
Burchasesitonarcicollection: so 54554224 134, 955. 00
Custodian fees and servicing securities ___----- 10, 494, 99
Miscellaneous tee Saal ea shee 20, 041. 87
Total disbursements from Freer endowment--_-_-_-_----- 273, 977. 45

Disbursements of current funds for investments in
U.S. Government bonds:

Purchases 45 265 =e ee ee a Be $798, 746. 76
Soldronredecmed et es ee ee eee 699, 406. 13
Total disbursements of current funds for investments in
= 8. Government bonds (net)- ss. oe eo eee 99, 340. 63
otal'dishursementsasc2 6 er aw Oe ee ee 830, 139. 50
@ask balance dune sO) 195922. 0 2 ee ee ee ee eee 533, 830. 34
TRG iY biped Ree Hel on dk Bekins see hl ee 1, 363, 969. 84

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the admin-
istrative charge of the Institution.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT

ASSETS
Cash:
United States Treasury cur-
TOUUMCCOUMG see ye $369, 195. 19
In banks and on hand_____-~ 164, 665. 15
533, 860. 34
Less uninvested endowment
STEN GYO4; Wis yh SCL Ae pa ee ORD 120, 555. 87
Sa Lo OAsee
iravel.and other advances. 3.369255. yeh as 16, 252. 81
Cash invested (U. S. Treasury
TOPE) a Melody iy: woh pen nT shed pote Ck ah yey lig 699, 594. 60
Investments—at book value:
Endowment funds:
Freer Gallery of Art:
Stocks and bonds_______-_ $6, 938, 020. 29
Wninvested cash.) he a es 13, 688. 51
——__—_ 6, 951, 703. 80
Investments at book value other
than Freer:
Stocks and bonds_______- 2, 431, 642. 64
Real-estate and mortgage
TOLER Eten un as mee cal 6, 071. 00
Uninvested cash_________ 106, 872. 36
Special deposit in U. S.
Treasury at 6 percent
INUCTES bs sete oy seeks te 1, 000, 000. 00

3, 544, 586. 60

11, 625, 441.

UNEXPENDED FUNDS AND ENDOWMENTS
Unexpended funds:
Income from Freer Gallery of Art endowment_____________
Income from other endowments:
1 EST iL (C02 6 eM a 2S Rn (A $246, 696. 79
RESIGN a ee AU Ne ade cee pee 126, 323. 90

1, 129, 151,

Endowment funds:

BreerGalleny jofvArti). 2.) 4 patil pe By $6, 951, 703. 80
Other:
IVEStriCCed eye ae a ae $1, 749, 305. 72
eEnOrtl eee ek ee 1, 795, 280. 28
——————————_ 3, 544, 586. 00

163

$1, 129, 151.

10, 496, 289.

$477, 020.

373, 020.
279, 110.

10, 496, 289.

11, 625, 441.

88

80
68

89

69
30

88

80

68

The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the
Washington banks and trust companies has been continued during the
past year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $871.17.
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1953

In many instances, deposits are made in banks for convenience in
collection of checks, and later such funds are withdrawn and deposited
in the United States Treasury. Disbursement of funds is made by
check signed by the Secretary of the Institution and drawn on the
United States Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the
Institution.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following:

Brittain Thompson.

Laura D. Barney, additional gift for the Alice Pike Barney memorial fund.

Rose Banon.

Robert M. de Calry.

Guggenheim Foundation, grant for Honey Guide Bird Publication.

EH. A. Link, Link Aviation Corporation, additional gift for historical research
(marine archeology).

Dr. R. C. Moore, for illustrations fund for Foraminifera.

National Science Foundation, for research, Descriptive Flora of the Fiji Islands.

National Science Foundation, grant for foreign exchanges.

Edward W. Nelson, for biological studies.

National Geographic Society, for archeological work in Panama.

Research Corporation, for Canal Zone Biological Area.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1953:

Salaries and Expenses y ewer ates teee Sie see erar ee ee $2, 419, 500. 00
Nationale Zoological Parke ee aa ee eee ee ee 615, 000. 00

In addition, funds were transferred from other departments of the
Government for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution as follows:

Working fund (transferred to the Smithsonian Institution by the
IMStiULe oh Inter Ami erie Ate ats) ese a ee eaten eee $24, 287. 37
Working funds, transferred from the National Park Service, Interior
Department, for archeological investigations in river basins
tniTroughout, chewsUnited) States= = ==! es =e nee ee eee 122, 700. 00

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support
of the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island
in the Canal Zone.

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds follows:

WasHInatTon, D. C., September 8, 1953.
To THE Boarp OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution,
Washington 25, D. C.:

We have examined the accounts of the Smithsonian Institution relative to its
private endowment funds and gifts (but excluding the National Gallery of Art
and other departments, bureaus, or operations administered by the Institution
under Federal appropriations) for the year ended June 30, 1953. Our examina-

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT 165

tion was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and
accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

The Institution maintains its accounts on a cash basis and does not accrue
income and expenses. Land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art,
living and other specimens and certain sundry property are not included in
the accounts of the Institution.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly the posi-
tion of the private funds and the cash and investments thereof of the Smith-
sonian Institution at June 30, 1953 (excluding the National Gallery of Art and
other departments, bureaus, or operations administered by the Institution under
Federal appropriations) and the cash receipts and disbursements for the year
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied
on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.

PEAT, Marwick, MrTcHeELL & Co.

Respectfully submitted.
Rosert V. FLemine,
VANNEVAR Busu,
CLARENCE CANNON,
Executive Committee.
GENERAL APPENDIX

to the

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1953

284725—54-—--12
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Genrrat Apprenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
staff members and collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a
general character or on special topics that are of interest or value to
the numerous correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report of 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1953.

Reprints of the various papers in the General Appendix may be
obtained, as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Edi-
torial and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washing-
ton 25,.D. GC:

168
Science, Art, and Education’

By R. E. Gipson

Director, Applied Physics Laboratory
The Johns Hopkins University

“The old order changeth, yielding place to new,

And God fulfills Himself in many ways,
Lest one good custom should corrupt the world.”
Tennyson—WMorte d’ Arthur.

Extensive changes in the scope and character of scientific research
have taken place during the past 75 years. Scientific research began
as a private activity of interest to a few inquiring minds, pursuing
knowledge for its own sake and their own esthetic satisfaction. It
has grown to be an activity of widespread public interest cultivated
for results that have an immediate and far-reaching effect on eco-
nomic, social, political, and military thought and action. This change
has proceeded at an ever-increasing rate. Its extent may be appreci-
ated when we consider the large sums of money now devoted by the
industries and government of this country to the support of scientific
research, and remember that only 40 years ago Moseley thanked
another college at Oxford for the loan of a vacuum pump that made
possible his classical experiments in the X-ray spectra of the elements.

For reasons we shall explore later, it was inevitable that science
and scientific research should emerge into a dominant role in modern
technology and that concomitant changes should occur in the outlook
of educational and research institutions. The enrichening effect of
technology on our material civilization is unquestionable, and the
continued extension of the role of science in technology is imperative,
if we are to ae Team 0G in a world of keen economic and

Bs Sa) (A Ta ety ew Wek mers wees | US ae ek =n dn Us a 4h~ ee

continued extension of ‘the role of science in technology is imperative,
if we are to ae pesmi ey 1 in a world of keen economic and

Bs Sa) (A Ta ety ew Wek mers wees | US ae ek =n dn Us a 4h~ ee

continued extension of ‘the role of science in technology is imperative,
if we are to ae pesmi ey 1 in a world of keen economic and

Bs Sa) (A Ta ety ew Wek mers wees | US ae ek =n dn Us a 4h~ ee

continued extension of ‘the role of science in technology is imperative,
if we are to ae pesmi ey 1 in a world of keen economic and

Bs Sa) (A Ta ety ew Wek mers wees | US ae ek =n dn Us a 4h~ ee

continued extension of ‘the role of science in technology is imperative,
if we are to ae pesmi ey 1 in a world of keen economic and

Bs Sa) (A Ta ety ew Wek mers wees | US ae ek =n dn Us a 4h~ ee

continued extension of ‘the role of science in technology is imperative,
if we are to preserve ascendancy in a world of keen economic and
