a 3 ee. ma bs @ F£
MAAR AR AS ACMA MRA AN RRA
“eeee es ee, RAAASALA AAD AAAS ® |}
eatatet allah y? CFA AAD ee ¥ , ahh
PERERA RARE vw of UE
Fee eS ® ae ee eee ee
ROPER PR & wD *e “ cA. ep B ts i's ‘
ORR AAR AAA ACRE
RAARANMA BSED hl we F, *» ee Be 2 . A. eet Po
f oe ee Pw wp eo » PP Fee ee Se ee
OOOO PPD RD DD DD e's
oF vo R ED RR JAA, | ‘ e wii
ke oe. oP PP PPP Ms o ® .. PROF
errewe 4 ee eb} se eee Oe & Pe We
2 2 f ee a eP , y _*.F ve 9 ® @ @ eee. yp PG.
Cee eee eA CREAR
i CP 6 PP Pe P ss * » Pr beD eee wee Ow
eee a eee fe is ve x, a a CODUDOOOOOR KH f
SUPERS O RDO he? Pe bh he ee bb ee et
3 URE E F & P ® a . vo LAA eee eee
a” TPP ee ww ew a ‘, PP eee we we Pw PD
PRP SRP Pw HF io ae CARAS RAAA ARMA OC
WER S@ WO we wy in ® eR we Be ew dy we
¥ BUEMREP YP OR Pe ew I a) matey ahah? } whl -
3 ma ‘J Pe Pb ee wy oe ee Oe ee ee
pee COPED & & ww & bo Ms AAR ARN
p P e [AR EAA AS » wee b ® @8e fF PP we FG
i PEP Bh ¥. ee FP a eo me «oe ee Pee Pe wig
AAR ARAM. ye » P me ,” \ ee ee
& RRR ERE R @ & mw cx eo LAA ee OAR G
Pash staat ahaMpPatet sho? Pas & * & ® F 3 (2
CPR PEED ew hw .. nA. » oy ® >» ee ® io |
A RAAAMAL SD SD * 2 “fe ® eee il
&- ., PPP DB DB » »” o ‘e i *y ee eo eee
fA, PPLE DED DED BD * a » / gig'd’s ee J oe ® he Ph yt
Sn » yh + * * @ @ OF &H
eh CN ee WS poe eee Re 8 Be Dy et
¥

ie

e fa ul a be a ' @ | oe oe. a8 ¥ f - . 3 * | . fp g
¥ SY we * n . 2 8 & * » A * © e whee
ys b! J ate mPa wt reyes J *,P . ée » whe eel
nD al ahs" A. . _* * * A he ow we bop t
on oe a SCC |
* 2 ® @ ww er we

fe . . ed o “a ‘i <7 . cx » *y ae ee eee ee
Ps oe prarararara Py yy? al
ee ee Pee a a aha a eta ate ahs
A of AS. ee ee
ey rh, A Ae Oe eee |

t e } i] ie te a. ‘ye ce ‘ey : =o i |

we . OOO LEGS ® een te man
iad , ¥ fk R ieee b

”
ne
e
:

:

vo
Ya
ng hs L >
mei i iw sat ,, te r *
J ; a8 -
LA. “ee ® &
iy ie A we se »

on a a

= “ha
et os: Sek ste ee J oe .
I SRR ers ING rer st Sd,
Ihe Pas lg
Bye if Pals ; f ee
Wy” foi

V4 ’ aa a a
S.J A BD

@) |\%

#2
ieee a 7
i} y

/
” hae aie!
—_ a): . vO i ie
«ee A ‘

fy
\

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOA DOr REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SHOWING

9

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION

THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1901.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1902.
jG Dy) boa Ba Oe ae
FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

ACCOMPANYING

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Institution for
the year ending June 30, 1901.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., January 30, 1902.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents, to
submit to Congress the Annual Report of the operations, expenditures,
and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June
30, 1901.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

S. P. LANGLEY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Hon. WiiutAM P. FRY,

President pro tempore of the Senate.

Ilr

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1901,

SUBJECTS.

1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of January
23, 1901.

9. Report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, and
receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30, L901.

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1901, with statistics of exchanges, ete.

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These
memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1901.

IV

Cron NS EneNe Se

Page.

Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to

CST Garestls 2 She eo BS Sa cise Hive area ere Ser eres ia Ill

General subjects of the Annual Report..........--------------------------- IV

Wantenistol Ue MMepOLl se ecse esc s-c oe sane coos = oa oe een alee sass Vv

ILists Olt IAW eS a es ce ade eds qecceHons Hen ASD OOS SOeeoesereceoscrs VIII

Members ex officio of the Establishment..........-------------------------- xi

Regents of the Smithsonian Institution ....-.-----.------------------------ XII

PROCEEDINGS OF THE Boarp OF REGENTS.

Spatedumecinesanilanry, 25, 1O0l > 22.52 2.02. s5- cose += in -e- == = XIII

Report oF THE ExecutTivE Committee for the year ending June 30, 1901.
Conditiononthedund July WOON 222 oo ec. Ss Solin aes ee aise eso ase XXV
Receipts and expenditures for the year.........------------------------ XXVI
Appropriation for International Exchanges ---.----- See eee XXVII

Details ovexpenditunes Ol same. -2 2 oases see sani we = si = ew XXVII
Appropriation for American Ethnology --.-.-.--------------------------- XXVUI
Details ot-expenditures ol Same... =... 22-2 22-=---2-8s2-+-- 3-3-5--5-- X XIX
Appropriations for the National Museum..........--------------------- EXGX
Details. ol expenditures: Ofsames=-28-~ ss] oso o2- ee 85 Heenan LOO
Appropriation for Astrophysical Observatory -....--------------------- XLVIU
DemiUpomexpenditunes Oisame. sho 5.222. S22 sels hec eels 2! XLVI
Appropriation for Observation of Solar Eclipse....-.-.----------------- RATE
Details ot expenditurestol samen =o 1S2 2-222. So 55 22 se 5-52 -- 2 Sse XLIX
Appropriation for the National Zoological Park.......------------------ eaLEX:
Details-or expendituresyetisame=.222 04-5222 - 2252S ss-sa2 e252 + Se i L
CCAD TOM AHO meen ae eerie Sanne n ee Sais. Peete at le SS LIV
Geoerulysniimm anypoee Bee ane tes oe Second Ste eas Ss senses Sie 8e LVI
Acts aNd ResoLutTions oF ConeGress relative to Smithsonian Institution, ete.. | LVI

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

PT SALE TEI SONUANT UN SITU TRO Neat ome na ee ee ete n= ays a sieia = oe Sala oie insta cellemsi= 1
eps stablishimenbme es eee yaks ast SA cos. Beat Re walang eld oo 1
iByoreiad | vont | Rs rers ost mk SOON eee gO eS LE > ee ee a ee 2
NP PUILEMIE trOlmReCENtsa=c- 3.2 Sees aro lc ee Sense de see si il
ENGIN S tral OMe epee ak airs fees sete eyes Sieve aia raleisin Seer 7
Tey NCGS eS Se See es Se eg Se Ree ee eee ee ear 8
nan CCS eee ae nn Be SIG Ae Ire Sno mae SG.wls Soa tee se 8
TRES@RIRER US Se seu AN a ee ees ee ee ee er 11

Ito eons eee as So ae Senna Saraioecit ~ om a\eae ise eS 11
[SEATS RST eee Se ee eee 15
MmgIMIONS eee eerie oo ao cia 5 jain = 2a cae 2 eae eee e = s2-~ 2s ac ssin 18
VI CONTENTS.

THe SMITHSONIAN INstrruTiIon—Continued. Page.
Publications: = 252. $225.0 222222 tee Se cee oni seo See oe eae ae eee 18
Weilbrany = arte co ee tee c ee ee an cies 4 coe ae a snipe ee eee eee 21
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature....-.........-2-2---2-:- 23
Correspondence.....2.. 222532 seo tt check coe ee eek =e ee ee ee eee 25
EX poOsitlOns..2.22- 2222505522 ssh betoonieg oe Se eise eee ee eee eee 26
Miscellaneous =. 2... 3-2 falc so asee 32 So aie eee ee ae eee eee 26

National. Museum 22... -. 25:2. 22 ict. sees s Ses oe ee eee eee 29

3ureau of American Ethnology. 222.552 22.522 ae eee ee eee eae 36 -

National’Zoological Park... 2.222... sic- 32 eee ei ee eee eee 38

Astrophysical Observatory 2. 2222.22. 22.2 sl ess. 5 Ree eee oe eae ee eee 44

International Pixchangeéss 27. s2.ji2 22/2. se See ee Bee oe ee 48

INGcrology ..stsc. iin Sos. ods soe eS ee ee et ee nee 5]

Appendixes:

I. Report on the United States National Museum... -..2...22-223255- 53
II. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology --.....----.----.---- 65
III. Report on the International Exchange Service ......--.<:.2.2--.--- 85
IV. Report on the National Zoological Park -2-27 23) e- ee eee 105
V. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory ..- 22. =. 2 s42s-2 = essen eee 119
VI. Report.of the Librarian -.. 2. 2.32.23) 5.2585 cose oe eee ee 126
VII. Report. of the Editor; .-.-..22.s82¢-c5-c eee a cceseet eee ee eee 129

The Smithsonian Institution.............45-22.. 60-222 eee ee 145
Some Recent Astronomical Events, by,C. G. Abbot. 2.2... si hacc22 22 sence: 153
A:-Model of Nature, by A. W. Rucker....:22.2.235225- ee ee eee 171
A Century of the Study of Meteorites, by Oliver C. Farrington........-..--- 193
Recent Studies in Gravitation, by John H. Poynting >..3-2- =) 32 ee 199
On Ether and Gravitational Matter through Infinite Space, by Lord Kelvin - 215
On Bodies Smaller than Atoms, by: J.5J.-Thomson ..... 4.252622 ee = =e 231°
The Exploration of the Atmosphere at Sea by Means of Kites, by A. Law-

rence Roteh.. ......-.--- 2st: suche oo eenk ote eee 245
solid Hydrogen, by James Dewar . 2... .222:. 2-0). 45222 oe eee 251
Utilizing the Sun’s Energy, by Robert H. Thurston - 2.2... .2ss2 see 263
The New Radiations—Cathode Rays and Réntgen Rays, by A. Dastre ....--- 271
Wireless Telegraphy, by G..Marconi...<..2- 2200-02200: ote ee 287
Transatlantic Telephoning, by William A. Anthony ................-.-.--.. 299
The Telephonograph, by William J, Hammer.....2- 2. 3.2.22. 3sseee eee 307
Color Photography, by Sir William J. Herschel 2...222-3) 2.225 5- 22 eee 313
The History of Chronophotography, by Dr. J. Marey-....:.---..-------.-<- 317

The Aims of the National Physical Laboratory of Great Britain, by R. T.
Glazebrook
Emigrant Diamonds in America, by William Herbert Hobbs ......---------- 359

Bogoslof Voleanoes, by C. Ear Merriam . 22.20.2222. s2<c/3 tee eee 367
The Antarctic Voyage of the Belgica during the Years 1997, 1898, and 1899, by
Henryk Arctowski .......0..22....¢.-..00.02.0 00-2 = eee 377
The Sea in the Life of the Nations, by Alfred Kirchoff..<... 1.222.222 senee 389
Forest Destruction, by Gifford Pinchot and C. Hart Merriam......-.-------- 401
Irrigation, by FE. H. Newell... .. 2.2.02. .2.-2-.. sen ee eee 407
The Palace of Minos, by Arthur J: Evans.-...-..... __2¢ See 425

The Engraved Pictures of the Grotto of La Mouthe (Dordogne), by Emile
Riviere oo. ieee eet ~ 0c hee ont oe ee tee ee 439

ne

eee

CONTENTS.

aceviunGor brimitive Man, by Hranz Boas... .2..2.2..52.0-2.--0-s-0-+-eee
Traps of the American Indians—A Study in Psychology and Invention, by

ODS US Sn So Se Re eee es ee
The Abbott Collection from the Andaman Islands, by Lieut. W. E. Safford,

Se wD Soe lt Bk ee eee eee ee ee
The Development of Illumination, by Walter Hough .......................
Order of Development of the Primal Shaping Arts, by W. H. Holmes... --
Beemietanoculytrioert hk. Walkers .2o2 22525 2 Jac. bes ee ee cee eee ete 2
The Possible Improvement of the Human Breed under the Existing Conditions

Dilaiweanide sentiment. pyekrancis GaltOnis. 22.55.2522 5522 255 onan se so eel oe
ive wire WalkoCeremony in Tahiti, by S..P. Langley.-.-:....s....-00222.20
ereloinsrar Nature, Dy So. Wangley soo. 2 oe ecb eed cece snes ee alee:
The Children’s Room in the Smithsonian Institution, by Albert Bigelow Paine-
Balrand is biystolosical Uses, by A. Dastre.:.2..- 2.2.2.2 2c2cc.csseccconde
Santos-Dumont Circling the Eiffel Tower in an Air Ship, by Eugene P. Lyle, jr-
Automobile Races, by Henri Fournier and others ........................-.
The Erection of the Gokteik Bridge, by Day Allen Willey ................--
fine. GreatcAlpine Dunnels, by Francis: Fox..°.-..-<2.2..2225-2....2.22.2222
The Mutation Theory of Professor De Vries, by Charles A. White ...........
ihe Dinosaurs, or Terrible Lizards, by F. A. Lucas........2:...:-.-22----2
The Greatest Flying Creature, by 8. P. Langley, introducing a paper by F. A.

Lucas on the Great Pterodactyl Ornithostoma..........-..........--...--
The Okapi; the newly discovered beast living in Central Africa, by Sir Harry

Slo ROR SU Ds eee ee SR EIR gaa ed, a
Observations on Termites, or White Ants, by G. D. Haviland ............---
nowy andermeslouthe Watetsbiialo .......5--.-.--20--.2-eeee- eee eee
On the Preservation of the Marine Animals of the Northwest Coast, by William

Pepa OP riVvahe OOS; ON ul Ate PANIAIOM a ame se es.5 2s thee a assess ele n wees

The National Zoo at Washington, a study of its animals in relation to their

natural environment, by Ernest Thompson Seton..........-..------------
The Submarine Boat, by Rear-Admiral George W. Melville........-...------
Commemoration of Prof. Henry A. Rowland, by T. C. Mendenhall......-.-.-
LAS Ou bi AS:

Page. Page.

SECRETARY’S REPORT: History or CHRONOPHOTOGRAPHY

Pate clean Pee as ones 14| (Marey):
Platestity as a2 sete ose 31 Plate: 02 27 Bases Se eee 320
Plated as: 2 ere eee 40 Plated =... 2342p ee 329
iPlatect V a2 eek 2 see soe 49 Plate Glia. s aes ee 330
Plates Vesa sete ee 66 PlatevhVis 22a. a ee eee 331
Plates Vile se Seg eee ree 70 Plate Vici aus oo ee eee oan
PlateaVW) Sees Soe ase So ee 108 Plate Vals sa5 43.252 oe eee 333
Plater Vhs s. 32 42 See estes ae 109 Plates Vall 22s eeeee ee eee 334
Bate yliXes Shes phe. ee ose 110 Plate Vas 5-8 ee eer 335
Plate ck, ek, Xa Ses oe Sse 124 Plate txos: =2 4.3 e eae 340
Blate SU 22 ..sh.nse8ss-5=- 125 | NatTionaL PuysicaL . LABORATORY

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: | (Glazebrook):

Wiaieile.). <2 teste ee 145 — Plated cnt ee eee 344
Plate Ut 22e ec. a hese te cree 146 Phiten 351
Elate ed RSG = ie Se ae Ay oe Emrarant Diamonps (Hobbs) :
Plate IV cesses 8 Pies op re so
4 ak ape eg Ba ; Platews.c22 24h2 eee eee 362
Plate. Wile Ss 2.0% atrial ae orevais 150 Plate Lilt. oc oe 264
Principal Events tx Astronomy y ;

(Abbot): BoGosLtor VoLcANOEs (Merriam):
PI oa eed Pe ae AOE 154 Plate I s222 2-2-0555 oo=o eee 23
Plate II (Heliotype)...------ 156 Plate Mone: taer ba eee age
Plater ae fae hn ee re Send 156 Plate Ill: :.. 2055 Sys 372
Plate IV (Heliotype) ..------ 158 | VoyaGe or THE BeExaica (Arctow-
Binion tee aes ee 162 | Ski):
Plate Wilace os foots heey 168 Plate I.....---..------------ 378

Use or Kites at Sea (Rotch): Plate U1. 32- > 232 380
Plasele cet ee 246 Plate LEE: 32 = Sse eee meen eee 382
latent ose ens ye eee 248 Plate [Nica sosee aes see 383

Urinizinc Sun’s Enercy (Thurs- Plate Vi - 2-22 22- 22-2 eee oere 384

ton): Plate Vil oe. oa eee 386
Plates seed =. Pah eee 268 Plate Vile. 2323 eee 388

WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY (Marconi): | Forrsr Destruction (Pinchot):

Leite ol Siete, sez See MO oe ee 287 | Plate [eset cee Sons Soe 401

Trans-ATLANTIC TELEPHONING | Plated y.s23) 4:2 eae eee 402

(Anthony): | Plate Li 32.222 ae ee ee 403
Pintedie er eee 304 | Plate LV sé. Se Se 404
Plate: We 22222 aa Sener 305 | Irrraation (Newell) :

THE TELEPHONOGRAPH (Hammer) | Plate 422 Aeon 410
Ese ee ee 308 | ‘Plated =n eee 412
PlateskE (colored) 223222 22 312 Platetils A: Seasste aes ae 414

Cotor PHoroaraPpny (Herschel) : Plates) Woes ee eee 417
Plate Ih(colored’) 22-422 222-2: 314 PlatecV 24 oe eee 4i8
Plate II (colored) .....-.---- 315 Plate V¥ i. Re eee eee 420 ~
Plate III (colored) ----.----- 316 Plate Vill 22:2 32 32-2 Sees 422

Vill

LIST OF

TRAPS OF AMERICAN INDIANS (Ma-
son):
plateris ss 25s seer er ae
Axpporr CoLLECTION FROM
MAN ISLANDS (Safford ):
late eer te mce Soest e Se

ANDA-

DEVELOPMENT ILLUMINATION
(Hough):
Hebert Minas emcee sais.
FirE WaLK IN Tauniti (Langley):
Plate I
Leena) Gs ee ee pe ke ee

OF

CHILDREN’S Room (Paine):
Plated, (colored) = = ss. 32- fu...
Plates IT, III (colored)......-
Blate TNi(colored:)¥a2 22: = S<
Plate WV. (eolored)i2 2:22.22.
Plate VI (colored)
Piste Ville Velie aes 53 Jere
PALO ROM Sayin ey Sinine aes
Plates X, XI (colored)..-...-
Plates XIJ-X X

Circiine E1rren

sup (Lyle):

Plate I

Tower IN AIR-

IPI ON DCA ak Ee eee
HAC CR NG eee cee ee Sault SaaS:
AUTOMOBILE RACES:

Plate IV
Plate V

PLATES.

Page. | AUTOMOBILE RAcEsS—Continued.
430 Plabem Vile par set yoo: Lb ae Sa
431 | GREAT ALPINE TUNNELS (Fox):
432 Pelee wget tips en eee cs So
433 Jed Tey fl Liners yaa ea eee nee
434 J EA eve EDA) | Sa atk Fe a er

Plate eV ese siee etc s Se

Dinosaurs ( Lueas):

474 deo syd pe ee = tA ee ak ee

Plate ul Sas ee ne een Cee

Plate GIA eee Seen ae meee te cree
488 | ‘Platonic ste ee ee ee
490 GREATES? FLYING CREATURE ( Lang-
4g2 | ley):

Laie eee tae a eh Ue

Vea Ey Peguero

Plates III, TV (to face one an-
500 : :

Ob Me) eee eee et ae

Pl atesNee sate ee De hes los Oe
540 elertes Vilna Maer be Sou ee
54] | BIEN EP NIA S| Piet ore es A oe
542 | Tue Oxapt (Johnston):

iRnlaten ls (coloredh) = s3 ee eee
553 lex te polyresin ee a ee
554 Plates yseret ers See
555 | Termires, oR Waite Ants (Havi-
556 land):
557 Plates wa Wea ers ae ee
558 | WANDERINGS OF WATER BUFFALO:
559 | Wlatepli yes Sasa perce. Cy ae
560 | Some Private Zoos (Aflalo):
560 Rlatess tie sees aah ee

Bistes UNS iVe een REEL

Rlatest Va Vilie ee sere on Soa.
575 later. Villines sete meh
576 ; NationaL ZooLocicaL ParK (Se-
577 ton):
578 Plater. cer seas ac. as.cne =
579 Rola‘ evilel eer (em a me es
580 Plate sie = 42 see ee oe oe
582 latte min Viernes eer eo) 20 2
584 Plates Vas eee Soe et
586 aes Vel =e es en
588 lates eX NSIT eee ps oi

SuBMARINE Boat (Melville):

594. | 1 BART (eB (iter ea ty ye
596 | Rlatenll Saree her eee ce
606 | RowLtand Mermortau (Menden-
607 hall):
608 Platelet sacs eee sae

Ix

Page.
609

622
624
626

628

644
645
646
647
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE ‘‘ ESTABLISHMENT.”

Wiuuam McKin ey, President of the United States.
THEODORE RoosrEve.t, Vice-President of the United States.
Metyvitie W. Fuuer, Chief Justice of the United States.
Joun Hay, Secretary of State.

Lyman J. GaGe, Secretary of the Treasury.

Exravu Root, Secretary of War.

PHILANDER C. Knox, Attorney-General.

Cuarues Emory Smiru, Postmaster-General.

JoHun D. Lona, Secretary of the Navy.

E. A. Hircncock, Secretary of the Interior.

James WILson, Secretary of Agriculture.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

(List given on the following page. )

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION.
SamuE. P. LANGLey, Secretary,
Director of the Institution and of the U. S. National Museum.

RicHarp Rarueun, Assistant Secretary.

xI

REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846 (Revised Statutes,
Title LX. XIII, section 5580), ‘*The business of the Institution shall
be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents, named
the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the
Vice-President, the Chief Justice of the United States, three members
of the Senate, and three members of the House of Representatives,
together with six other persons, other than members of Congress, two
of whom shall be resident in the city of Washington and the other
four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of the same State.

REGENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1901.

The Chief Justice of the United States:
MELVILLE W. FULLER, elected Chancellor and President of the Board, Jan-
uary 9, 1889.
The Vice-President of the United States:
THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

United States Senators: Term expires.
SHELBY M. CULLOM (appointed Mar. 24, 1885, Mar. 28, 1889,

Dec. 18, 1895; ‘and. Mar-“7; 1901) 5. oe eee ee eee Mar. 3, 1907
ORVILLE H. PLATT (appointed: Jan. 18,1899) 2-2_2>. =. ss22=- Mar. 3, 1903
WILLIAM LINDSAY (appointed Mar. 3, 1899) .-.-2..-222- 322: Mar. 3, 1901
FRANCIS M. COCKRELL (appointed Mar. 7, 1901)...---.----- Mar. 3,1905

Members of the House of Representatives:
ROBERT R. HITT (appointed Aug. 11, 1893, Jan. 4, 1894, Dee.

20; 1895, Dec: 22, 1897; and Jan--4; 1900) 2s Se ee eee Dee. 25, 1901
ROBERT ADAMS, Jr. (appointed Dec. 20, 1895, Dec. 22, 1897,

anddan. 4, 1900)\.2 cou te. oe SO eee Dec. 25, 1901
HUGH A. DINSMORE (appointed Jan. 4, 1900)..--..-+--.-.-... Dec. 25, 1901

Citizens of a State:
JAMES B. ANGELL, of Michigan (appointed Jan. 19, 1887, Jan.

OM1L893, and Jans24,. 1899)\\ ok ts ee ee Jan. 24, 1905
ANDREW D. WHITE, of New York (appointed Feb. 15, 1888,

Mars, 19; 1894; ‘and. June 2; 1900)).2s222 Sacer eee June 2, 1906
RICHARD OLNEY (appointed Jan 24; 1900)ic222 22555. s-eeaee Jan. 24, 1906

Citizens of Washington:
JOHN B. HENDERSON (appointed Jan. 26, 1892, and Jan. 24,

BOS ae ccc d. 2c See ee dens Soe ee Jan. 24, 1904
WILLIAM L. WILSON (appointed Jan. 14, 1896; died Oct. 17,

1900).
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL (appointed Jan. 24, 1898) ----- Jan. 24, 1904
GEORGE GRAY (appointed Jan. 14, 1901) 22-2 --2e so eee Jan. 14, 1907

Executive Committee of the Board of Regents.

J. B. Henperson, Chairman. ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL.

Roserr R. Hirv.
XII

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS AT THE
ANNUAL MEETING HELD JANUARY 23, 1901.

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents, adopted
January 8, 1890, by which its annual meeting occurs on the fourth
Wednesday of each year, the Board met to-day at 10 o’clock a. m.

Present: The Chief Justice, the Hon. M. W. Fuller (Chancellor), in
the chair; the Hon. O. H. Platt; the Hon. William Lindsay; the Hon.
R. R. Hitt; the Hon. Robert Adams, Jr.; the Hon. Hugh A. Dinsmore;
Dr. J. B. Angell; Dr. A. Graham Bell; the Hon. Richard Olney; the
Hon. George Gray; and the Secretary, Mr. 8. P. Langley.

Excuses for nonattendance were read from the Hon. William P.
Frye and the Hon. J: B. Henderson, on account of illness.

At the suggestion of the Chancellor the minutes of the last annual
meeting were read in abstract, and there being no objection, they were
declared approved.

The Secretary announced the death on October 17, 1900, of Dr.
William Lyne Wilson, and stated that Mr. Henderson had very much
desired to present some personal remarks on the occasion, but that
his illness had prevented him from attending the meeting.

Mr. Bell then offered a series of resolutions, which will be found
under the heading ‘* Necrology,” on page 51 of this report.

The resolutions were adopted by a rising vote. Mr. Hitt then stated
that he had received a request from Mr. Henderson to ask the Board’s
permission to file later a memorial to be spread upon the minutes.
On motion, the permission was granted.

The Secretary read acknowledgments from Mrs. Margaret A.
Johnston and Mrs. Jennie T. Hobart of the resolutions adopted by
the Board on account of the death of Dr. William Preston Johnston
and of Vice-President Hobart.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

At the last meeting the Secretary announced that a resolution
appointing the Hon. Richard Olney a regent to succeed the late Dr.
William Preston Johnston had passed Congress, but was still in the
hands of the President. The President’s approval was given on the
day of the meeting, January 24, but it was then, of course, too late

to notify Mr. Olney and secure his attendance.
XIII
XIV PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The term of Dr. Andrew D. White having expired, he was reap-
pointed to succeed himself by a joint resolution of Congress approved
June 2, 1900.

The vacancy in the Board, caused by the death of Dr. William L.
Wilson, has been filled by the appointment of the Hon. George Gray,
through a joint resolution approved January 14, 1901.

The Secretary read a letter of acceptance from Dr. Andrew D.
White, at present United States ambassador to Germany.

The Secretary presented his annual report to June 30, 1900, calling
the attention of the Regents to the fact that it contained an account
of every important part of the affairs of the Smithsonian Institution
during the past year prepared by himself, but supplemented by full
reports from the gentlemen in charge of the various bureaus. He
would particularly call their attention, among numerous matters in the
report, to the subject of the Exchanges. He then detailed the facts
of the applications of the Institution through our ambassadors at
London, Paris, and Berlin, in the interests of the Government.

The Secretary spoke about the Zoological Park and the desirability
that the Government would place in that city of refuge for the van-
ishing animal races of the North American continent some specimens
of the giant animals of Alaska, which were now going the way that
the buffalo had gone. He then asked the attention of the Regents to
a subject of minor importance, but of some interest, alluded to in the
report under the title of the Children’s Room.

On motion, the report was accepted.

Mr. Hitt here said that he desired to bring before the Board the
knowledge of certain proceedings which had taken place at the Univer-
sity of Cambridge in England when the Secretary had received the
honorary degree of doctor of science. This had been conferred in con-
nection with an oration in Latin delivered by the public orator, and
which Mr. Henderson, whom they knew to be a scholar who loved the
tasks of scholarship, had translated into such English as Horace would
have used if he had to speak in that tongue. Mr. Henderson had
sent him a copy of this, and he now presented it to the Board with a
request that it be placed upon the minutes. Mr. Hitt then read the
following translation:

From across the Atlantic there has very recently been borne to us a man distin-
guished in the world of science—one who but lately has published a most interest-
ing and useful work on astronomy. In the city which is the capital of the greatest
transmarine republic many important duties are committed to his care: First, the
supervision of a great museum abundantly filled with objects of natural history;
next, the administration of an institution the most celebrated for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men; and, lastly, the control of an observatory with
instruments designed for the purpose of dissecting and analyzing the light of the
stars. It is said that below the red rays of the spectrum there are other rays, unde-
tected by the sharpest vision, but which, through the genius of this man, aided by
an instrument discovered by him and named a ‘‘bolometer,’’? have been gradually
developed and made plainly visible.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XV

No one will wonder that a man thus fond of communing with the stars should also
be moved by a great desire to fly from earth, so great indeed that, as if by wings
attached, he has actually been enabled to imitate the flight of birds for a distance
exceeding 3,000 feet. Not fearing, perhaps, the fate of Icarus, he may yet be able
himself to make good the vision of Horace, the poet:

“On strong but unaccustomed wings I fly,
And soar as bird and man through liquid sky.”’

Perhaps, impatient of this world’s affairs and longing for celestial ones, he may
well be emboldened to fly from earth and take his place among the stars.

I present to you Samuel Pierpont Langley. .

On motion, the Latin address of the public orator and the translation
of Mr. Henderson were directed to be placed upon the records.

CAMBRIDGE, October 11, 1900.

The following is the speech delivered by the public orator in pre-
senting Mr. Samuel Pierpont Langley for the degree of doctor in
science honoris causa:

Trans aequor Atlanticum ad nos nuper advectus est vir scientiarum in provincia
insignis, qui etiam de astronomia recentiore librum pulcherrimum conscripsit. In
urbe quod reipublicae maximae transmarinae caput est, viri huiusce curae multa
mandata sunt; primum museum maximum rerum naturae spoliis quam plurimis
ornatum; deinde institutum celeberrimum scientiae et augendae et divulgandae des-
tinatum; denique arx et specula quaedam stellarum lumini in partes suas distribuendo
dedicata. Luminis in spectro, ut aiunt infra radios rubros radii alii qui ocuiorum
aciem prorsus effugiunt, viri huiusce ingenio, instrumenti novi auxilio quod
Podouetpoyv nominavit, paulatim proditi et patefacti sunt. Nemo mirabitur virum
stellarum observandarum amore tanto affectum, etiam e terra volandi desiderio
ingenti esse commotum, adeo ut, quasi alis novis adhibitis, plus quam trium milium
pedum per spatium, etiam avium volatum aemulari potuerit. Fortasse aliquando,
Icari sortem non yeritus, etiam Horati praesagia illa sibi ipsi vendicabit.

‘‘non usitata nec tenui ferar
penna biformis per liquidum aethera.”’

Fortasse rerum terrestrium impatiens, rerum caelestium avidus, ausus erit e terris
“Volare sideris in numerum, atque alto succedere caelo.

Duco ad vos Samuelem Pierpont Langley.

In the absence of Mr. Henderson Mr. Bell presented the report of the
Executive Committee to June 30, 1900, which, on motion, was adopted.

The Chancellor stated that a vacancy existed in the Executive Com-
mittee, caused by the death of Dr. Wilson.

Senator Platt then offered the following resolution:

Resolved, That the vacancy in the Executive Committee caused by the death ot
Dr. William Lyne Wilson be filled by the election of the Hon. R. R. Hitt.

”)

On motion the resolution was adopted.
Mr. Bell then offered the following customary resolution relative to
income and expenditure:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1902,
be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by the Secretary,
with the advice of the Executive Committee, with full discretion on the part of the
Secretary as to items.

On motion the resolution was adopted,
XVI PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

* REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

In the absence of Mr. Henderson, Chairman of the Permanent Com-
mittee, the Secretary made the following statement:

The Hodgkins Fund.—Vhe Hodgkins Fund now amounted to about
$250,000, $208,000 of which was deposited in the general funds, the
remainder being held in first-class bonds. About $10,000 more was
held in New York to meet possible litigation, but the indications were
that the Institution would receive this also. There were also two
houses of small yalue which would probably net the fund about $1 600.

The Avery Fund.—This, as well as other matters of the kind, were
being looked after by the attorney of the Institution, Mr. F. W.
Hackett, who reports satisfactory progress. As to the value of this
Avery estate, the Secretary had requested an approximate valuation
from Mr. Fox, the real-estate agent who had charge of the property,
and who stated the same at about $26,000. Mr. Fox had written that if
the United States Supreme Court Building were placed directly north
of the Congressional Library the value of part of the property would
be greatly increased. This property, most of which was idle, was
yielding an income of something like $500 a year.

The Andrews Bequest.—Vhis matter had been laid before the Board at
its last meeting, and Mr. Hackett has reported that the estate would
probably amount to something like a million of dollars. No active
steps as yet had been taken in Ohio looking to an application of this
money for the establishment of an institution for the free education of
girls. It was by no means certain that the elaborate system formulated
in the will was capable of being put into successful operation. The
Secretary here quoted from Mr. Hackett’s report:

It may be needful before long to institute a friendly suit in New York to ascertain
under the laws whether the legacy be a valid one to the Ohio corporation, or rather
to the corporation that the will says shall be created in Ohio. I shall make this the
subject of a separate letter to you in a few days. Meanwhile, as a report to the
Regents of the progress making in this business, I will say that I am giving more or
less attention from time to time to the will and its legal aspects, and also am in touch
with the counsel for the executor.

The Sprague Bequest.—The Secretary now stated that he had the
agreeable duty of bringing before the Regents the fact of another
legacy to the Institution by Mr. Joseph White Sprague, whose last
place of residence was in the city of Louisville, Ky., but who died in
Italy in June, 1900. Under the provisions of his will, which had been
offered for probate, certain personal effects were bequeathed to rela-
tives, and all the remainder of his estate, both real and personal, to his
nephew, Seth Sprague Terry, in trust to convert the personalty into
money and distribute 85 per cent of the profits of the entire estate
among certain devisees named in the will, and their relatives, until
twenty years after the death of the last of said devisees, when the trust

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XVII

expired by limitation and all assets in the hands of the trustee were to be
conveyed to the United States of America to be held as a portion of the
funds of the Smithsonian Institution, and to be known as the ‘‘ Sprague
Fund.” One-half of the income of this fund was to be added to the
principal each year; the other half to be expended under the direction
of the Institution, in such manner as would ‘‘ best promote the advance-
ment of the physical sciences” by the giving of free lectures, proyid-
ing laboratory facilities for original scientific research, publishing the
results of such researches, or by awarding medals or other rewards
for meritorious discoveries. The half of the gross income authorized
to be expended annually in this manner was to be cumulative, and any
portion not expended during one year might be expended during any
subsequent year.

The Secretary continued that it had not yet been possible to obtain
an inventory of the value of the estate, but he might mention that in
a newspaper estimate it was represented at $200,000.

TWO-HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ROYAL PRUSSIAN ACADEMY OF
SCIENCES.

The Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences having invited the Smith-
sonian Institution to participate in the celebration of the two-hundredth
anniversary of its foundation, on the 19th and 20th of March, 1900,
the Hon. Andrew D. White, United States Ambassador at Berlin, and
member of the Board of Regents, was requested to represent the Insti-
tution on this noteworthy occasion. A suitably engrossed address,
conveying the congratulations of the Institution, and transmitted
through the Department of State to Dr. White, was presented by him
to the Prussian Academy and cordially acknowledged in terms of which
the following is a summary:

The Royal Prussian Academy expresses the most sincere thanks for the interest
the Smithsonian Institution has taken in the celebration of its two-hundredth anni-
versary. The expression of this friendly interest has added greatly to the success
and pleasure of these commemorative exercises throughout their entire course.

For a lasting memorial of this anniversary the Academy sends a description of the
festival, which it begs the Institution to place in its archives. This record will
derive its chief value from the addresses and memorials attached to it.

An interesting letter from Dr. White was laid before the Regents.
It described the exercises as having been of an exceptional interest.
They took place in the Royal Palace, where the King and Emperor
received the entire body of guests in state, surrounded by the high
functionaries of the Kingdom bearing the Royal insignia, while the
monarch from: the throne delivered a very interesting address of wel-
come. Later there were entertainments in honor of the delegates not
oniy by the King, but by the Chancellor of the Empire and others.
On the second day occurred a general reception in the great hall of

sm 1901——in
XVIII PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

the Prussian legislature, which was also very impressive. The whole
occasion was most interesting and everything was most admirably done.

The Secretary added that Dr. White had further said in conversation
that in all his experience as a minister to European courts he had never
seen so imposing a display of ceremonial magnificence.

MR. BELL’S RESOLUTION.

Under the head of unfinished business the Chancellor called up the
resolution offered at the last meeting by Mr. Bell.

Mr. Bell said that he thought the Institution could not afford to
remain silent on the subject of the great questions aroused by the
National University project, and that some expression of the good will
of the Institution at least might well be given. He, therefore, desired
to withdraw the resolution offered last year and to substitute for it the

following, which was satisfactory to the Executive Committee:

In order to facilitate the utilization of the Government Departments for the pur-
poses of research—in extension of the policy enunciated by Congress in the joint
resolution approved April 12, 1892:

Resolved, That it is the sense of the Board that it is desirable that Congress extend
this resolution so as to afford facilities for study to all properly qualified students or
graduates of universities, other than those mentioned in the resolution, and provide
for the appointment of an officer whose duty it shall be to ascertain and make
known what facilities for research exist in the Government Departments, and
arrange with the heads of the Departments, and with the officers in charge of Goy-
ernment collections, on terms satisfactory to them, rules and regulations under
which suitably qualified persons may have access to these collections for the purpose
of research with due regard to the needs and requirements of the work of the Gov-
ernment; and that it shall also be his duty to direct, in a manner satisfactory to the
heads of such Departments and officers in charge, the researches of such persons
into lines which will promote the interests of the Government and the development
of the natural resources, agriculture, manufactures, and commerce of the country,
and (generally) promote the progress of science and the useful arts, and the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.

After some discussion by the Regents, on motion the resolution was
adopted.
REMOVAL OF SMITHSON’S REMAINS.

The Secretary stated that he had received the following letter:

7 Via GARIBALDI,
Genoa, 24 November, 1900.
SAMUEL PrerpontT LANGLEY, Esq., LL. D., D. C. L.,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington.

Dear Sir: The Committee of the British Burial Ground of Genoa (of which, as
you are aware, Her Majesty’s consul is chairman), fully realizing how keenly you are
interested in all that concerns the resting place of the respected Founder of your Insti-
tution, has deputed me to write to you and lay before you the present position of our
cemetery.

It will lie in your recollection that when I accompanied you some years ago up to
the heights of San Benigno you were struck by the enormous quarry which was

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XIX

slowly but surely eating its way toward us from the sea through the rocky side of
the hill on which we stand, and the excavation has lately come so close to us that
the intervention of the consul became necessary to arrest further advance, on the
plea that our property would be endangered if the quarrying were carried on.

Actual blasting has in fact been put an end to for the present, and the cemetery
(although the boundary wall is now on the very edge of the excavation) remains
untouched, but the local authorities who are the owners of the quarry haye given us
to understand that they need more stone for their harbor works and are therefore
anxious to see our graves transferred from the position they now occupy, for which
purpose they would give us a suitable piece of ground in another part of the town
and would also undertake the due and fitting transport of the remains. Should our
answer be in the negative, it is intimated to us that in five years’ time, in 1905, the
term for applying the law for public utility (twenty years after the date of the last
burial) will have been reached, and we shall then have to give up of necessity what
we are now asked to yield as a concession.

Under the circumstances the committee have decided that it is their best policy, in
the interest of all concerned, to begin to negotiate at once for the transfer on a decor-
ous footing of the British Cemetery and all its tombs, and although some consider-
able time may elapse before this transfer is accomplished, yet it is evident that the
time has now come for us to ask you to prepare your decision as to what is to be
done with regard to the James Smithson remains. Are they to be laid with all pos-
sible care and reverence in new ground here, or are they to be conveyed to the
United States?

Awaiting the pleasure of your reply, I beg to remain,

Very faithfully, yours,
EK. A. Le MeEsurter.

The Secretary said that the cemetery referred to was not the cele-
brated Campo Santo of Genoa, but a very small one in the care of the
British consul and the English church, situated in an elevated and iso-

lated spot, and that no interment had occurred there for many years.

The Regents had formerly authorized the placing of a bronze tablet
on Smithson’s tomb, which had been done.

The Secretary here exhibited photographs of the tomb, showing the
bronze tablet in position. Recently word had been received that the
bronze tablet had been stolen, but orders had been given to replace it
by a marble one.

After some discussion, in which the desirability of bringing the
remains to this country was adversely considered, the following res-
olution, offered by Mr. Adams, was adopted:

Resolved, In view of the proposed abolition of the English cemetery at Genoa,
which contains the remains of James Smithson, that the Secretary be requested to
arrange either with the English church or with the authorities of the national bury-

ing ground at Genoa for the reinterment of Smithson’s remains and the transfer of
the original monument.

SECRETARY'S STATEMENT.

Experiments in Aerodromics—KEclipse expedition.—The Secretary
stated that in view of the lateness of the hour he would pass over
some of the matters about which he had intended to speak, among
XX PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

others the continuation of his experiments in aerodromics, which, with
the consent of the Regents, he was making for the War Department,
and of the results of the eclipse expedition of May, 1900, further than
to say in regard to the latter that they were of rather more than
ordinary importance; that they had left one or two interesting but
unsettled questions, particularly that as to the possibilities of the
observation of Intramercurial planets, which had determined him to
send out a small expedition to Sumatra to settle these questions on the
occasion of the exceptionally important eclipse of the sun in May of
the present year.

Ur of the Chaldees.—In October, 1899, Dr. Edgar James Banks, of
Cambridge, Mass., had written to inquire whether the Smithsonian
Institution would accept a collection of Babyionian antiquities, if such
could be procured. He stated that he hoped to be able to secure val-
uable material by excavating at the town of Mugheir, situated on the
Euphrates River, which, according to tradition, is the site of Ur of
the Chaldees, from which Abraham came. Being satisfied after inves-
tigation of the standing of Dr. Banks, and one of the Regents of the
Institution being among the vice-presidents of his association, the Sec-
retary accepted his proposition, which committed the Institution to
nothing but the receipt of the finds. One of the employees of the
National Museum would be of the party and would collect ethnological
and natural history specimens. Any prediction with regard to the
expedition must be premature, but it might be said that this site, if
correctly chosen, was one of the most importance for students of the
Bible and of ancient history yet to be examined, and that there was
reasonable expectation that the Institution would reap a reward.

Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress.— The Smithsonian
deposit was created originally by a relatively very large expenditure
from the proper funds of this Institution, nearly half whose income
went in this direction for several years. The money, the Secretary
was told, was spent at a time when such things were cheaper than
now, and well spent, for a varied collection of works, partly but not
exclusively scientific; but during the last twenty-five years the 1m-
mensely increasing demand upon the small fund of the Institution had
vaused it to add little to its library by direct purchase, though this had
continued to increase largely through the exchange system, chiefly in
the direction of scientific periodicals.

The Regents would remember the Secretary’s explaining to them
two years ago that by an informal arrangement made between Pro-
fessor Henry and the Library Committee, in 1866, the Library of Con-
gress was not required to keep the Smithsonian books together, but
merely to see that they had a proper mark indicating that they
belonged to the Institution.

These books, which Congress had assumed the care of, had been

eae ee

=e

oes sede ie wage. « «

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XXI

lying, it was too well known, in compulsory neglect and disorder, owing
to the lack of room in the old quarters in the Capitol, but since their
transfer to the new Library building they had been rearranged and
much had been done toward bringing into order this valuable Smith-
sonian deposit, which was in some respects the finest collection of  sci-
entific periodicals and reports of learned societies in the world.

Congress had last year made an increase in the working force of the

Library, and had provided for three persons, one custodian and two
messengers, to look after the Smithsonian deposit.
. The books had an entire ‘‘ stack,” which would hold 175,000 volumes,
and was called the ‘* East stack,” assigned to them, and besides this
one of the great halls, which was to be used for the books in more
immediate demand, and also as a reading room.

An appropriation of $30,000 was made, to be expended under the
Librarian of Congress, for fitting up this room, and while even this
large room would not be sufficient to bring together all the Smithso-
nian books, it would bring together most of the transactions of the
learned societies and scientific periodicals, which were among the most
valuable portions of the Library.

He desired to engage the interest of the Regents in procuring for
the expenditure, either through their Secretary or the Librarian of
Congress, a sum of in all not less than $50,000 for the joint purpose
of supplying the defects in the library due to its neglect for the past
twenty years, and to fill in the important sets of periodicals which
can not be secured by exchange. This money could not be spent rap-
idly, since many of the books could now be got only after long search,
and he presumed that it would take several years to supply the actual
losses.

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.—Yhe Secretary
said that he had not time to enter upon this subject at length, but he
would remind the Regents that the Smithsonian Institution had long
ago, under Professor Henry, proposed the scheme of a general cat-
alogue of scientific literature to the Royal Society of London for their
joint consideration.

The Royal Society, within the last two or three vears, had resumed
the project which had now grown to be a very large one. It had re-
cently called for and obtained the official aid of the principal govern-
ments of the world, and England, France, Germany, and other leading
European nations had made large appropriations to this great work.
It had been hoped that our own National Government would take its
share in this enterprise, but the Secretary regretted to say that it had
not done so, although the Department of State had earnestly recom-
mended it.

The Smithsonian Institution, which had been the original suggester
of this great plan, desired to be still associated with it in the measure
XXII PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

of its ability, and had caused a circular to be sent during the past sum-
mer to the libraries, universities, and scientific establishments of the
United States, and solicited support for this international project in
the name of the Institution. He was gratified to be able to say that
the response had been most hearty, and that 66 sets of this costly pub-
lication had been subseribed for here, which was a much more consid-
erable aid than had been rendered by the peoples of any other nations
apart from the national subscriptions.

The Secretary hoped that our Government would yet do something
for this. He was entirely willing that the work should be continued
provisionally under the Institution as suggested by the Secretary of
State, but while he believed that it was the wish of all American
scientific men that the work should be done here, he did not desire to
have the Institution appear as a solicitor of Congress for the necessary
appropriation while so many things of more immediate urgence to its
own interests were ungranted. He would temporarily continue a cer-
tain amount of the cataloguing as aid on the part of the Institution,
which was, in this respect, taking the duties of what was called in
Europe a ‘‘ regional bureau.”

SPECIAL STATEMENT SMITHSONIAN FUND AND MUSEUM.

Continuing, the Secretary said:

The Regents have received my printed official report, and as I hope that they have
read it I shall not dwell on its contents, but will speak now of certain subjects of
special concern. The real matter, to the Secretary at least, always lies in the actual
presence of the Regents, and his ability to bring to them his difficulties directly and
to obtain their guidance. I say this now not with reference to anything that presses
for present action, but to be sure that I know their wishes in the shaping of a policy
which causes me frequent official anxiety. I do not mean with reference to the
parent Institution, for there never was a time when its small means were productive
of more satisfactory results, or when it was better known throughout the whole
world than it is to-day, but I immediately speak of the bureaus which the Govern-
ment has put in its charge, and for the moment particularly of the Museum.

The Regents will remember that on the resignation of Acting Assistant Secretary
Charles D. Walcott, I asked them to authorize the removal of the restrictions on the
appointment of the Assistant Secretary, Mr. Richard Rathbun, so that he could be
assigned to other duties, especially that of Assistant Secretary in charge of the
Museum, with the aid of three Head Curators, and that I spoke of this as an experi-
ment upon which I would report later. It having been found impracticable that
Mr. Rathbun should give his chief attention to the parent Institution and _satis-
factorily administer the Museum also, I have recently made arrazgements by which
he could give his principal attention to the latter, and in this form, after two years’
trial, I can report favorably upon the plan.

I think it is working well for two reasons. The first is personal to Mr. Rathbun,
who has a fund of tact and patience, united with professional sympathy, which few
men possess in a greater degree.

The other reason why the present plan is successful lies, I think, in the nature of
the Regents’ own control, and here I want to revert to the fact that the Museum as it
exists has grown from the parent stem of the Smithsonian Institution, and grown so

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XXIII

fast that the child is tending to become larger than the parent. There are signs that
the Committee on Appropriations is at last coming to see the inevitable necessity of
enlarging the Museum buildings, and with this enlargement will come an increased
expenditure and a new era of responsibility for its management. With a million
dollars or more of annual expenditure the Museum will be more like other great
bureaus of the Government. I can say that I think the present system of adminis-
tration through the Regents is not only free from every suspicion of political influ-
ence, but through the method of election and appointment of its governing body and
officers, has an assurance of permanence and of unselfish administration which no
other method known to our Government affords.

The Secretary is, under the fundamental law, the Keeper of the Museum.
Although a scientific man himself, he is not disposed in this connection to fayor one
branch of science as against another. (At least, if I may speak for myself, I think I
am not.) While retaining in his own hands so much of the authority which the
Regents and the law have imposed on him as is necessary for a proper coordination
of all the interests of the Institution, and while personally passing upon all matters
of policy, relations with important foreign and domestic establishments and all
unusual or extraordinary expenditures, he has always managed the details of the
Museum administration through an Assistant Secretary. Such men as Baird, Goode,
Walcott, and Rathbun have successively filled this office, and in every instance not
only deserved the confidence of the Regents and the Secretary, but have gained the
confidence of the scientific community.

I think, then, that the present plan of administration is working well, but I desire
the Regents to bear in mind that an extension of the work to be done is likely to be
later demanded by scientific public opinion; that the time has nearly come when
Congress will look favorably upon it, and that when the time for this extension
actually does come I hope they will feel that their own just and impartial rule is the
best that the Museum is likely to have in the future, as it is that which has built it
up in the past, guaranteeing as it does deliberation and fairness in the selection of
the Museum officers and a stability in its policy.

There is something to be said with regard to each of the other bureaus, but the
Regents will find this set forth in the Report, particularly with regard to the Secre-
tary’s personal efforts made last year to extend the field of the Bureau of Exchanges.
I wish, however, before concluding these statements to the Regents, to revert to a
subject on which I have already asked their advice and which is of fundamental
importance.

The Chancellor remarked on a previous occasion that the time seemed to be coming
when the Institution would be more and more in the way of receiving gifts, like the
Hodgkins gift. I hope and believe that this opinion will be justified, and I have
had the pleasure of bringing some evidences of it before the Regents this morning,
but I ask them to bear in mind, with regard to the Smithsonian Institution, which has
been called an anomaly in our Government, that its best feature, and that which
makes it a happy anomaly, is that while the whole is in the care of the State, there
is an independent fund under the Regents’ control. Now I beg them to consider
that this all-important feature of independence is every year lessening in its character,
owing to the decreasing relative importance of the fund by reason of the changing
value of money, and the enormously increased wealth of the country around it.
Thus in 1850 the Smithsonian Institution’s fund was over $600,000. This was at the
time a noble foundation, but how relatively small it is to-day can be seen from the
greatly increased funds now in the hands of other institutions of learning. I have
written to the presidents of a number of the principal American universities in
existence in 1850 and asked the extent of their endowment at that time.

Fifty years ago, the President of Yale University informs me, the funds of that
great institution were about $300,000. At that time the Smithsonian Institution
XXIV PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

fund was over $600,000, or more than twice that of Yale. Now President Hadley
tells me that the invested funds of Yale are about five and one-quarter million
dollars. The Smithsonian fund is nearly what it was; that is, except for the Hodg-
kins legacy; it is about one-sixth that of Yale; which is saying that the Smithsonian
fund has relatively decreased in the proportion of 12 to 1.

Not to found this comparison on the solitary case of Yale, I have inquired in this
way of the Presidents of seven of our leading colleges and universities, and I have
answers from five: Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Princeton, and the University of
Pennsylvania.

Columbia reports an income of $11,000 in 1850, but no endowment. Harvard is
the only college or university which fifty years ago had a fund as large as that of the
Smithsonian Institution. The average fund of Harvard, Yale, Columbia, and Penn-
sylvania in 1850 I find to be about $450,000. The average fund of each of those
same four institutions to-day, as their presidents and treasurers report to me, is
about $8,600,000 (an average increase of nearly 2,000 per cent).

If some of the newer universities, as Stanford, and Chicago, whose funds are
believed to be collectively $25,000,000, are brought into this estimate, the result is
that while at the time of its organization the Smithsonian Institution, with one
exception, was very much wealthier than any university or college in the United
States, to-day it has about one-twelfth of the average property of those to which it
was formerly superior.

If there is any object that lies near my heart, it is that the Institution should
become so known throughout the country that gifts and devises which would
increase that part of its funds under the absolute control of the Regents should be
stimulated and increased. I am conyinced that it is but necessary that the whole
of the American people who have money to devise or give shall only know what
the Institution has done in the past and what it guarantees under the rule of the
Regents in the expenditure of funds in the future, to bring in such gifts in increas-
ing number. I will do anything I can personally to aid this, and while it is not
becoming that the Institution should wear the appearance of soliciting anything of
the kind, I should be very glad for any counsel] from the Regents as to the means of
aiding it.

The Regents informally discussed the matters suggested by the

Secretary, but, time preventing, took no action; and, on motion, the
Board adjourned.

te snares, 2 REN POL

AD

ee ee eed

——

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-
TUTION

For THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1901.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your Executive Committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Con-
eress, and the receipts and expenditures for the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, the U.S. National Museum, the International Exchanges, the
Bureau of Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, and the Astro-
physical Observatory for the year ending June 30, 1901, and balances
of former years:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Condition of the Fund July 1, 1901.

The amount of the bequest of James Smithson deposited in the
Treasury of the United States, according to act of Congress of August
10, 1846, was $515,169. To this was added by authority of Congress
February 8, 1867, the residuary legacy of Smithson, savings from
income and other sources, to the amount of $134,831.

To this also have been added a bequest from James Hamilton, of
Pennsylvania, of $1,000; a bequest of Dr. Simeon Habel, of New York,
of $500; the proceeds of the sale of Virginia bonds, $51,500; a gift
from Thomas G. Hodgkins, of New York, of $200,000 and $8,000,
being a portion of the residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, and
$1,000, the accumulated interest on the Hamilton bequest, making in
all, as the permanent fund, $912,000.

The Institution also holds the additional sum of $42,000, received
upon the death of Thomas G. Hodgkins, in registered West Shore
Railroad 4 per cent bonds, which were, by order of this committee,
under date of May 18, 1894, placed in the hands of the Secretary of
the Institution, to be held by him subject to the conditions of said
order.
XXXVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Statement of receipts and expenditures from July 1, 1900, to June 80, 1901.

RECEIPTS.
Cashion hand: July 15 19002 ates ses eras ee eee $76, 219. 07
interest.onmuna July I 1900" ssc a sees ee $27, 360. 00
Interest on fund January 1, 1901-.......-.----- 27, 860. 00
- d4, 720. 00
Interest to January 1, 1901, on West Shore bonds... .---.-- 1, 680. 00
—_—— $132, 619. 07
Cash*fromsales of publications 3222222. >= oo ee 188. 59
Cash. from repayments, freight, ete 22... 2/22 22 2 eee 10, 240. 80
j == 10,429. 39
Total receipts 2-2 cress as 2 eee See eo ee et 148, 048. 46
EXPENDITURES.
Suilding:
Repairs, care, and improvements.......-..-.- $6, 938. 39
En buen Arex ek eet ee tees 2,188. 01

$9, 126. 40
General expenses:

Postage and telegraph 22 4-2..49:5-e2 eee L560
Statlonery tx22 55-4250 8a eee eee 1, 174. 44
Incidéntals (fuels gas; ete.))-. 223. == Sse nee 4, 848. 20
Library (books, periodicals, ete.) ..22:.5--.- 2,581. 80
Salarieses. aos sn os fe Se ee raat eas 20, 566. 95
Generalzprinting +2222) ese eee 34. 85
Gallery of'art:2 ..<)., Soc oe nee See ere 408. 92
Meetings 0 f2-n42 52 Agosto ae eee eee 221. 37

29, 954. 20
Publications and researches:

Smithsonian. contributions... .- 2222 eee. 2 36. 85
Miscellaneous collections ...2....2.52..2-2-- 1 ef Perfo)
RREPOTtSe se wes lsc 12/ 32 ES a eh ere ee 1, 971. 63
Special publications --.2-45232 22s ee 222.50
Researches... oso. 1bo-e 2 ae eee 4, 686. 04
AMParatus = ..22.<.2. 2505 okt coe SS eee 1, 148. 10
Hodekins funds: ... i225 eee 4,473.51
14, 246. 36
Literary and scientific exchanges. ..25. <2.s6 Sone ee 5, 708. 24
— 59, 085. 20
Balance unexpended Jume30; 190/232 eS eae eee 83, 963. 26

The cash received from the sale of publications, from repayments for
freights, etc., is to be credited to the items of expenditure as follows:

Smithsonian.contnibutions| 2:22. 25452 22 Sees eee $24. 91
Mascellaneous collections < -.080.2 jcek5 2 eee ee eee 1388. 97
IREPOLUS= oo oe.c si eye Bae oe Seen ee oe eae 16. 41
Special publications |. 222-022-020. conte ee ee ee 8. 30
——— $188.59
PU RCMAMOCCS ESS). boon Ses irate 5 Se eee ga 9, 785. 44
Imerdentals 2. . <0 osc ened Sloce es IS eee 455. 36
10, 429. 39

expenses, $8,999.11 were paid for services, viz, $4,312.93 charged to building account,
$285 to furniture account, $2,151.06 to researches account, $1,250.16 to library
account, and $999.96 to Hodgkins fund account.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XXVII

The net expenditures of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1901, were therefore $48,655.81, or $10,429.39 less than the gross
expenditures, $59,085.20, as above stated.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise, are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of the
Secretary of the Institution, and all payments are made by his checks
on the Treasurer of the United States.

Your committee also presents the following statements in regard to
appropriations and expenditures for objects intrusted by Congress
to the Smithsonian Institution:

Detailed statement of disbursements from appropriations committed by Congress to the care

of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, and from balances
of former years.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1901.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriated by Congress for the fiscal year ending June °9, 1901, ‘‘for

expenses of the system of international exchanges between the United

States and foreign countries, under the direction of the Smithsonian

5 )
Institution, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employ-
, gs ] Y :
ees and the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, twenty-four
thousand dollars”’ (sundry civil act, June 6, 1900)........----.------ $24, 000. 00

DISBURSEMENTS.
[From July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

Salaries or compensation:

lEeCURAtOM MONS wAt HADSeOo mae ee eae was ne $1, 033. 32

letctine Curator, Samonths; atG225- 22. 2.225220. -62 = 2-2 1, 125. 00

1 chief clerk, {© months, at $175 ..---.---..-----.-.---- \ 2,149. 98
16 jdKOVSIUIOISY Rin Mea hes Sas ae ee Se eee Meee

leclenk-alnmonthsatnploWs os asses ete ene eee ae 1, 800. 00

IRClerke2am OMthsteatt planes ei ean ease ae 8 oe te 250. 00

1 clerk, pom as cart DUNG Gis. vas 22 aie ee oa \ 1, 450. 02
Rormiomiode ately ce kee eet nate ak eee

1 clerk, J6 TLOMG MS nate pl OO aa oi Saha eens See ae eelets \ 1, 249. 98
Vemmupmbhs sent SOG! SBt an Soak eek

1 stenographer, J11 months, at $90..........----------- \ 1, 090. 00
Niiomthe at 100.2 2052 ee ee PS

Pelerketo monthsmatipou. onc 22s soso ee te 960. 00

1 ee PE GODCOV IAN CYS 7 Co ee auee A POR Se eee | 570. 00
clerk*Gunomths patos. oss h aeons ee oeciee a

packer wie tionbis Tah. poo). 202 2222 Issel ieee tke 660. 00

1 workman, J6 months, at $50 ........----------------- \ 630. 00

Vemmohtisnai gone. ue foe eee ee hase: f

1 messenger, fil months, at pao Sota pes eg eee Se \ 310. 00
u MOMENI POOR yas ae ere ee as

ieegrer lo mouths, at p4-—-.. 522 ---22-5--2--2----5-s 540. 00

Metememierc0tdays tab pa) 5-222 = = 2<- je sh 22 ee = 60. 00

Peigrer st) days at phen). 22 ke ee hbitri ss 19. 50
XXVIII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Salaries or compensation—Continued.

i aborer;29:days) at Plco0 2 Sate 2 eee en ree $45. 50
1 laborer,222 days, at dlo0es seit bets S25 aah ere ees 33. 00
cleaner 166 days, at. dle. 2. eae ctee te ees 166. 00
Eagent, 12 months, at $91.66§ 2.2722 24.2202. genes 1, 100. 00
Tiagent; 12:months, at $10: . 2 eon: ea ete eee 180. 00
Iacent, 12. months, at $502 42222 225 -2e2 5 eee ee ee 600. 00
‘Total salaries or compensation: 522: 5 =2--sac esse pee= 16, 020. 30
General expenses:
BOXES fe cradcke oh ote ac eee eee $876. 50
Breieht)2 sco eyscc ee ote ene eee eee 3,000.12
Postage. 242 .ck os sta eiele Boe secs eee eee 225. 00
Supplies: +-. SS 22.22 al sass eer ese eee 63. 46
Stationery. =n. o..2ssenee eae Sec oe cee eee 29191
——— 5,043.99
Total disbursem énts —<ie a Dar Ae eee re $21, 064. 29
Balance July 1,190. s.t ots o53 32 een ee ae eee eee Sees 2,935. 71

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1900.

Balance July 1, 1900, as per last report. 23-2420 2 oe eee $2, 538. 83

DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:

IBOOKS)...4o Se See SE See eee ee $75. 63
BOX@S sacs ste 5 Sites ccs ee ee ee er et 146. 50
Preigh tii eh.c2 Boss ee es oe a ee 2, 156. 10
SOT VICES: mvs 2s cicctl Hee eo eee ee ee ee 10. 50
Stationery i 222stessie = 2s eee een eee 11. 16
Supplies < sc 2s eee =e s beet ee ae oe oe oon 85. 04
Total disbursements: < 2... -28 222 se Se ee ee eee $2, 484. 93
Balance July 1, 19002224...) S22 5253 ee Se eee 53. 90
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1899.
Balance July 1; 1900; as per last reports. 2 2232 See ee $1. 59

Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.

AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1901.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘‘ for
continuing ethnological researches among the American Indians under
the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries or
compensation of all necessary employees and the purchase of necessary
books and periodicals, fifty thousand dollars, of which sum not exceed-
ing one thousand five hundred dollars may be used for rent of building’
(sutidrycivaluact, June 6, 1900)... 5. 5.2.24... 56 Sos eee $50, 000..00

The actual conduct of these investigations has been continued by the
Secretary in the hands of Maj. J. W. Powell, Director of the Bureau of
American Ethnology.

extents OR. gy

|
|
|
{

a
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XXIX

DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation:

HWOIReECLOT le mmoOnbhissabipovONr-cs me kee ete ao heel e $4, 500. 00
1 ethnologist in charge, 12 months, at $333.33... ....... 3,999.96
iethmolocist jaimonthe ab p208sa05 sees. = sobs. nase 1, 458. 31
etanologist, 2 months; at p200% 2222025. 20s. else 2, 400. 00
Pethmolocist tl 2months, at plGG6.67 222252 22) 22 2, 000. 04
Wethmolocist Lz months at pl GG:O/ =. 2-20: 25s ee. 2, 000. 04
1 ethnologist, 12 months, at $133.33 ............2..-.--.- 1, 599. 96
ikethrolocist; i ZamonthsyatpliZoe ssosss2 5-52. taal eee 1, 500. 00
1 ethnologist, 12 months, at $125 .......--..--.2.-2...-- 1, 500. 00
iethmolocish. 2semonhiseat plo es. loses oe 312.50
1 assistant ethnologist, 1 month, at $100 -............... 100. 00
1 assistant ethnologist, 10 months, at $50.............--- 500. 00
Iellustratom si? months at plGGlOu oss. cose ke oe ae oe 2, 000. 04
1 ethnologic translator, 65 months and 6 days, at $150 _.. 1, 001. 60
(eclerkeroemOnmt he ay giao.) cee ot ee gia Dh kes 375. 00
clerk mb2smonths:cbral 02s oe eae eee Be ee ee 1, 200. 00
Heclerkaslamlomunsyreiiy pil Obes super wy: eee eee eee 1, 200. 00
leclerkesl2immonmbhs sat. pil O0-ps sees see Sea oe 1, 200. 00
HAClenksIANTVOMtMSmat Om anaes She mite wea 900. 00
le prooureadenelesmonhis atipiOee.. se ee. ae eae 900. 00
lassistant ethnologic librarian, 10 months, at $60; 2
IREYOUOUN ANSE Ee G0 See oe SAE pre aa ene Pee rece a 700. 00
ieamilleds laborer, | 2omonths, at /$O02s. 2. 2820 eS 720. 00
ismessencer) 2imonthevatipo0see. Sus Se Be ee 600. 00
Helabonerelemonthiewat pOOi selmi © eee sei See 720. 00
iglaborera lem Ombmsatipao ss eccen eee 540. 00
ilove. 4daye: at. pl OU). 22 pace eons ok ec ee 111.00
IPlaporer-eoekdla versal qlco Oke Sateen Soke) ay eco 42. 00
Mopal-salaries or compensation: 6. .5'..20 2... 2.<2 5s oo Get SU eee $34. 080. 45
General expenses:
OO Kig pee sey eee Cy reper Wie Ue. Be are ocak $822. 58
Drawanesandialllistrationst..-6. 55225252 4).-2- 407. 95
1 PSHE 1 SSeS Sa a Se Ig ees A 257. 93
iL TEAM n aera 8 SB 2 Sa gee, Ee og Re 94.53
1A (TOV EST ess SS ge ee 2,011. 00
Ni See llane Oust eae een oe ee 108. 65
Ojfiicestummniliiiiress ee aves pens Sei es ee oe 683. 33
GAIA D oe eee aS RE Ie Opn ena RD ne i eae as 10. 40
Postage ang telesrapiir. 36 9s. os hc, 2 = 72. 50
VaR Siete ES ar IS og BUSS SR RT ass ler ene ea Reh ene ee 1, 500. 00
GIO SOT Cees ee Ser Gey. he at 526. 35
BIRO CRIMI US ee alee a eae te De 2 3, 388. 78
SOOO megs eee ae ee 1, 238. 04
inavel ands teldkexpenseseen. s22 222s ses. ZI 82,
|. Ee 713984186
| Ravens bUrsemenisem 22. tse 5) S822 ee NS ee ee eee 47,315.31
| epee lanl ote tO ae stedet oe eee en al ee IS eas 28 2, 684. 69

XXX REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY, 1900.
Balance July 1, 1900, as per last report....-. --.-- -- $222.2 seis eee ea

DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:

BOOKS ioc crate op2db oo cs in Sat SE ee Se oe ee $645, 95
Drawings and wlustrations.. 2 ss. 22s see 49.51
Hrelgbite cc< sioct ean cece oe So Se eee See eee pase 67. 89
Office furniture ......--- ee em I eae 288. 50
Wight. 3.222.430. 20 24 nbeeh oe ane ta See eee 13.51
Miscellaneous .-.2.. 2.2. 2--eee lo ctcee eee eee 1.65
Negatives = 2.12.0. 54. <6 teven siden eee oe ee ee _ 12. 64
Postage and: telecraph’= 2... 222c.csct esses eee 21. 32
Rental: 22.2) .28,0.0.00 2S Soe eec base Ses ee a eee 83. 33
Special Services: 5.1.2 whe Ao ae esc ee eee ree 233. 00
SPEClIMeCNSH Ae 2. ee ee ee ere eet 285. 27
Supplies. 2.0 o'sn 5. Skewes Oe see be Se ee eee | sb ont
Travel and: field expenseSs=- 222.5222 -oes ess oe eee 17.50
Slatonery-2 -- 2.2 sas s.2 52 een EES aR a en ee 225. 32

Total disbursements: ..3.2 2. cote See eee ese ae ee eee

Balance July 1, 19012. 2s. sc22 2 ihe ee ee ee eee ee

AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY, 1899.
salance July i, 1900: as per last report--2=-osse822- se eee eee cee

DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:
Hrel@hteo: 2. .2se5s cok lel een cs cemaene Seeeee eee e

Balance: ..20Ss2% 22 55 6 heen os oe ee

$2,147.35

$0. 84

91. 64

Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the

Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, 1901.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901,
“for continuing the preservation, exhibition, and increase of the col-
lections from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the Govern-
ment and from other sources, including salaries or compensation of
all necessary employees, $180,000, of which sum $5,500 may be used
for necessary drawings and iilustrations for pubiications of the
National Museum”’ (sundry civil act, June 6, 1900).-...........----

EXPENDITURES.

[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

Salanies, ON COMpensavlon - --o.-.--ss.-2 see $158, 846. 45
Specialiisenyi ces Geta n 42 sae cera soe vee 4, 025. 76

MOtaAlGERVICeSe coe kee cee Sees re oe ee eee $162, 872. 21

$180, 000. 00

REPORT OF THE

EXECUTIVE COMMITTER. XXXI
Miscellaneous:
Drawings and illustrations .......-- Seeccu 162, 010,53
SU Osi ee a eee 4,617. 14
SLA OMCR Vee oe SeMEee Seti tae hart eal Se 1, 291. 37
(NEVIS SE aS Se aa eae Ss Site ot aren ae ee 1, 718. 98
nel oli een eees ae meres a Seren A 981. 85
MotalemMIscellanecOuUsme a Seat eee a ee ee $10, 619. 87
Morale) EM CURES Seem ra ee os sete he ee leas 5 Re Sena oe $173, 492. 08

Balance July 1, 1901

Analysis of expenditures for salaries or compensation, 1901.

Scientific staff:

1 assistant secretary, 8 months, at $258.

99
BMoo 5 seas oc esS =

isheadscuratonelc montis at p29 602.) ee sae ne
lmcuratons los OMUMs a tineo kaOOs ce sai See ere coe

1 curator,
1 curator,
1 curator,

12 months, at $291.66
ammonite at p200 Sect. eee be = eye No A
2 Prvomit las seu tine 2 Oa eee oe Seco eee

lgcuratoneleamonbhssatig200 se 22s ee eo ee!

1 curator,
1 curator,
1 assistant curator,
1 assistant curator,
1 assistant curator,
1 assistant curator,
1 assistant curator,
1 assistant curator,
1 assistant curator,
1 assistant curator,
1 assistant curator,
1 assistant curator,

1 second assistant curator, 12 months, at $100
’

1 aid, 12 months,
1 aid, 12 months,
1 aid, 12 months,
1 aid, 12 months,
1 aid, 12 months,
1 aid, 10 months,
1 aid, 12 months,
1 aid, 12 months,
1 aid, 12 months,
1 aid, 11 months,
1 aid,

Preparators:

12 months, at 5150

AO METS rehire vee eres spe es ee le aa
I ammomting abr pliiomce -sete = scene en a Dak

12 months, at $150
LP RMOMGH Ss atialy Oke wees te eee

12 months, at $150

6 months, at $150; 6 months, at 3130_-

IPimonthgvatolaosoo ae eee ae el:

iPamontharatialosrsoeee ee =e aoe
amon abspilo were Ses a aa

12 months, at $116.66
12 months, at $116.66

Altepil ell Gu Orestes eee eee eee Care)
at $100
at $100
at $83.33
at $83.33
54 days, at $3
at $75
at $75
at $50
Aiteg |) eens mean ertas Ms neat Per spur gi eA
lemonthrandelos days: atipoOlee se los 5S

OO OF
M2) tase 5 6 oSsbe sors see Se

iphotorrapher: 2 months at pli7vo. 222... 252.22-2--.5---
imeadeleraiemonthsatplOOQS. 22059 fs) 3422224.

1 modeler, 15 days, at

PO wicw ie wee ema eee ee ele ae ee ee ee =

Posreolorist, 12 months, at $902 22... 2.2.2 22s 2
1 chemical geologist, 4 months and 25 days, at $100... ...

1 preparator, 2 months and 41 days, at $75; 15 days, at

$2, 066. 64
3, 499. 92
3, 499. 92

1, 800.
1, 800. 00
1, 800.
1, 800.
1, 680.
1,599. 96
1,599. 96
1, 500.
1, 399. 92
1, 200. ¢
1, 399. 92

520
999. 96
978. 45
900. 00
900. 00
. 00
. 00
75. 00

2,100. 00
1, 200. 00
45. 00

e 1, 080. 00
489, 29

295. 40

6, 507. 92

$51, 649. 45
XXXII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Preparators—Continued.

= ap ganna ag

Ispreparaton 12 months wait peo se: se ate eae ee $1, 020. 00
ipreparaton, [2 monthsh ato ss. see a ee eg eee 1, 020. 00
il preparator, b2months; ‘atipS0). hss. - 22 ee eet 960. 00
Ibpreparator, (amonths, ab p(Oe tas Sse ere 525. 00
1 preparator, 6 months and 13 days, at $70.......-...--- 452. 50
1 preparator, 7 months and 8 days, at $60...........-..- 437. 14
i’ preparator,: 12 months, at) $40. as ee ee 540. 00
1 preparator, 6 months and 15 days, at $45............-- ZO ATT
1 acting chief taxidermist, | month and 8 days, at $125 -- 137.10
[staxidermist, 12 months,at p00 2. 5 se eee ee 1, 200. 00
l taxidermist. 12 imonthsat $90... ee eee 1, 080. 00
1 taxidermist, 1 month and 9 days, at $75.....2.-..-..--: 96. 77
| taxidermist, 12 months: at) $002525 5. 25. ee 720. 00
$13, 689. 97

Clerical staff:
1 chief clerk, 4 months, at $208.34; 8 months, at $208.33. 2, 500. 00

Ineditor, i 2rmonthseat b16i, a2 ses ee a eae eee 2, 004. 00
L chief of division, I2anonths, atinZ00t 2. = seeer- oe 2, 400. 00
ireristrar, 12 months sat:Gil Ole. aes ee eee 2, 004. 00 a
1 disbursine clerk, 12;months* at pluleiGie = a oe 1, 400. 04
1 assistant librarian; 12 months, a@t'$133:33-.. 2.22.2. 2... - 1,599. 96
1 stenographer, 12 months, at $166.66_.......--..------- 1,999. 92
lstenoerapher, 12: months at plo. see Se 1, 500. 00
lsstenoprapher, 12 months*at/ $906 2225 24s. eee 1, 080. 00
1 stenographer, 6 months, at $85; 6 months, at $75 .._--- 960. 00
1 stenographer and typewriter, 9 months and 11 days, at

$/5: 19 days, at $60; 23 days: at $2555.-25 =. see = eee 786. 50
| stenographer and typewriter, 11 months and 12 days,

Ob POO Ns555 0 Se cee OL ee ere 569. 35
1 stenographer and typewriter, 8 months and 5 days, at

$00.8 5. Ses ee oe Se een See oe ee eee 408. 06
1 stenographer and typewriter, 3 months and 28 days, at

BOO ao is sheets Se So ears ees ae ee Seale Sep ge 195. 16
1 stenographer, 2 months and 48 days, at $50..--.....--- 178. 39
1 typewriter, 6 months, at $85; 6 months, at $75.......-- 960. 00
typewriter, 12 months at $702.25. - 2) ee ee eee 840. 00
intypewriter, 12°:months: at $6pe steep see tee het eae 780. 00
1 typewriter, 10 months and 10 days, at $45...-..-...---- 464. 52
iFelerkes12 months. atiPil2be yaya 5 eee ee eer es 1,500. 00
ikclerk. 2 months;-at S1252 4. oye ae een tenes epee een 1, 500. 00
iclerknGumonths. abihiQbe. <6 a. a oiae ee ee eee ee ee 750. 00
Ieclenkasl2 months: abi Pilly) ss.) ee oe ee 250 le SS0500
ihclerk- sl? months ait pl O00. yo. a eee ee 1,200.00 |
Welerk. 2monthsvatiplOOss = a2. 22s] seen eee 1, 29000 oi ge
clerks 2pmonths vat plO0s .. a5. 222s ee eee ey 36600: OOF =
1 clerk, 6 months, at $100; 6 months, at $90_-__-. beeen Are ts we 140. 00 ee |
Wloka aPA anor dveeec| nt OE eee ese e ee oa 960. 00 S|
iclerksali2amonths:y ati OVD <0 oa2 82. ake ee no eee 900. 00
lxclenkeshoimonths: atibioc se... oe ee 900. 00
Inclerk U2 MoOnths abe (D.. 2  < ical 20 ee ee eee 900. 00
1 clerk and preparator, 12 months, at $75 _...........-.- ~ 900. 00
1 clerk, 6 months, at $75; 6 months, at $70.....-.......- 870. 00
i clerksl2amonths, ate pOOs se gee oe eee ee : 720. 00
1 acting property clerk, 12 months, at $60.._............ 720. 00

~
i

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE

Clerical staff—Continued.

ee ler kale naOnbOs die hoUee xe e ae gonna. eee eS 8G
1 clerk and preparator, 12 months, at $60 ..........._..-
iRGleTkeOmnonbnS eat POOR ee kos Soe eS ot
1 clerk, 6 months, at $60, 6 months, at DOOR Sass a es ee
lgclerkeulemmonthswat hoom. <5 tease) SS. a ee
imclerkeal months ab Powe <2... eco: cos eh ee.
juclerke “omonthssand: a2 days! at.pod'.. 0.22). sy. ee
CLT kom oom Ont hs athoOse 2 2228 eke ek a ee
[eCler ke amOnuns sabe layss oe ae bs late ee ee ie
iuclerk- lO:months and 260 days, at $90. ....-......22-...
1 clerk, 8 months and 83 days, at $50 ._-........-......-
HeClenkegl-emontOnuatetOPse oye es Sem sl St yess ke
1 clerk, 10 months and 57 days, at $40 ......-......._..-
Awolenkeml2mnOnthseati popes. cx see cot) Nae oo eS So
ielexk-sGumonthsandeZivdays! at $30) 2... -.. 2.5.22. 22 ee

1 copyist,

PORGA YS atmo Wee tek ak oh ede ee ue BC

icepyistalenmonths, ath20). ot. 5 2-6. ess NR ee
Buildings and labor:

1 superintendent, 9 months, at $250 ..........------.---

1 general foreman, 12 months, at $122.50......--.-..----

HerOnem an el AamMOmMu Mea pOO se 9 sees fk

IRCANDENLCI WS GAVSyataponssme lean cot ess oc ees. 8

1 acting captain of watch, 105 days, at $3......-........-
1 lieutenant of watch, 12 months, at $70 ...............-

1 watchman,
1 watchman,

at $1.50- - -
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,

1 watchman, 2

1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,
1 watehman,
1 watchman,
1 watchman,

amonthsrabpnooean- e sa ree
1 month, at $64; 6 months, at $60; 46 days,

PEM Ont sabe bOU se See ee sw ee
Dan Omi ssa Pole see ee a ae ee es
RV OMS Ali GOU Bees Nery ee a) Se
IBEmMonthseatepoUe wane ate eee sss ee
mmo muhe pata pOOMse aes an aoe eo eS
i Pannomibilnisesatepo Omen erty nce) eee cee oe
amnombhis*satzsO0 space ieee ce
Tearmomihe wat po Mesa ten oe cc elon = oe
IZ nroncheatpo0eet es eee se
8 months and 10 days, at $60 .......-.--.--
6 months and 67 days, at $60 ....-....-----

a Onsale poo scree soe see
ASTON Shep OOO Meee eats ery ees ese
12 months, at $55
TATION Cin DOE Ateneo eS ee aE aes

IPanvOmensatepoo=seeeiss asses. 22S
PAMNIOMtN Sab DOos series ee ae) eS
IPemomthe sates = sate oes ee.
10 months and 17 days, at $55 _..........-..
6 months and 17 days, at $55.--.-...------
4 months and 20 days, at $55 --..-..:-.----
4 months and 18 days, at $55 -.........---.
Pmonthand 9 days, at $00 2.522222 - 2. =:
EIN OMbAS al POS eee oe a nea cts ceists= ee

sm 1901——n1

COMMITTEE.

360. 00
660. 00
660. 00
660. 00
443.19
600. 00
600. 00
540. 32
536. 77
480. 00
474. 80
420. 00
200. 32

41.67
480. 00

1, 470. 00

660. 00
660. 00
660. 00
580. 16
360. 16
259. 29
255. 36

70. 97
480. 00

XX XITI

$47, 966. 97
XXXIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Buildings and labor—Continued.

skilled laborer, 7 months and 15 days, at $60 ....-...--
skilledJaborer 4 months: at 602-2222... esse eee oe
skilled laborer, 8 months and 99 days, at $55 ......----
skilled laborer, 9 months and 16 days, at $55 -.....----
skilled’ laborer, 12 months, at $50_..2-- 2. -- 22252525.
skilled laborer, 1 month, 15 days, at $50 -.......------
workman, 310 days, at 1.50.2... 4.2222 esses
workman, 205s days, at. pls002= sac0-4-s eee ere eee
laborer, 1 month, 46 days, at $50 ..-....25:5-- eA
laborer, 2:months; at: $002.2. 222+ see eee
laborer; 26. days, at $50)... 3.3.2.2. .csiee. wae eae es
laborer’, £2%months, at $4522 42. 2.- ee 5-2 eee
laborer, 1 month, 38 days, at'$45 -2... 2.25.2 222 a-2-208
laborer}, J. month; at: $45 522-62 8s ose eee eee
laborer, olidays; (at $40.22 S22 se ee ena eee
laborer, 12 months; at $40: 25s 2 eee ee
laborers 12/monthsyatib4 Oi ee see eee ee eee ae
laborer) 12;months; at. $405 22 See seers eee ae
laborer, 7 months, at $40; 131 days, at $1.50 .....-..--
laborer,-4. months atip40:.=e ee eee eee ee ae
laborer;4 months: at: $40 725-252 3 see ee eee
laborer, 3 months; 34 dayseat p40 S5sc=en eee ee eee
laborer, 2 months, 15 days, at $40; 247 days, at $1.50 ~~
laborer, 2 months,sat-p3os=- seer ee eee Vie ae ae eee
laborer, 9 months, 443 days, at $25.........-..-----.---
laborer, 2 month, at $202. 22-222 eee ee eee ee
laborer, 5 months; 17 days, ati$20- 2: 22.2 os ae ieee
laborer; 3 months, 27 days; at. $205.2e=5 ee ocean oe eee
laborer; 336; days, at $175. .o oan soe ee eee ae ae
laborer;-337 days, atrBli00S. 22222 see eee eee ee
laborer, 305:days, at $1082 ce eae eee eee eee
laborer, 304 days; at $1.75 = 22s eee ee
laborer,i292 days, at $1.75... tee ans ee ees
laiboner: 27 days, $i.75 <:2.4cch aoe tee eee eee
laborer.029% days, at Sil. 60. 452 2ee5- 5 ee eee
laborenwsa245. days, at $1.50.,.S.06--2eceer eae eee
laborenroli7>s days) at $l 005252. Ssee= eee ae ee
laborer, sold days, at $l. 5022 2252 eis seen ae eee
laborer; 3il2sadays, at: dlcp0- seek ee eee eee
laborer, ol2idays, at SL50 225.22 ae eee ee
laborervolgidays, at $l:502 255.6 sles eee ee eee
laboreryolZidays, at, $1.50)... 22 55.22 = oe eeee eee ete
laborermnol2idays, ati$l-50.2.< 225 on oe eee
laborer golOsdays, at. S150. 22. 22 eases eee eee
laborer.o09s days, at SIO0 5. - 222-2. eee eee eee
laborend263idays,at $1.50. 22.53 25 eee eee
laborers22iledays, at $l'-50.. s.2. Sse ee eee eee
laborers 5brdavswat: bl 00 22045 522. So ee ee ee
laborers l0bkdavs rat: $12 50> 5.22552) ye See ee
laborerwl0sidays vat: b1.002= <2. cee eco ee ee cee eee
Tulaborers104 daysat $1.50... 52.2 sc.22 occ e ene ee ee
IMaborercovudaysvatipleoOl. 5050" 46 oe een ae eee
Iilaborer,ildaystat $1200 222222... 22 5 Seer
JMlaboreryOlidays wat. pO! sS5- eemee- seas ee eee

PR a ee Se Cr Se Ce eC ee ee ee ee ee ne Oc ee a er ee ce ce ee ee ee ee

—

$450. 00
240. 00
588. 50
525. 86
600. 00

75. 00
465. 00
308, 25
125. 70

100. 00

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XXXV

Buildings and labor—Continued.

IL Veeoxayere VAS) COLE GASH CoH tt 31 Ue) 0 Ae eae nn $118. 50
MmlaborerroUdayer aueoloO ns oases etl Ss A Soe ale 75. 00
imaborertAzordayss abil 002222222 Sn. 2. ees peel yee: 69. 00
lmlaboreryteidays atc plo05s sara ee oS eas Sek 63. 00
TL Teahavarreties S38) GIENYSL ACTER SIC 0)E See ee este eee ee Se oe me 58. 50
; imlaborencsoidaysyab pl.o0k= sam Set sel fl fesci hase Sesc 58. 50
iplaporerssts dayaaglio0! ot 22.05. 22h. ek SU Sie a ed 51.75
mlaborersosscayS; abipl O0222 os a ate cele ne ccc cceee 51.00
IMA One wolsaday Sy aii plsaO seater nee Sl boc. cee 47, 25
MIA Oner eZ iACayS nat. pleO Ole Sos escee Se oas eo ease esos 40.50
imtaborerecilidays at ol-o0sei 22. aso a ec sec sk ne ens 31.50
iplabonerslO:days.ab pilsoOl. sos 80a a. Sane ass cet ceee os 28. 50
(MlabonrerelSsdays rat pleas 26 sae eerste ea Ses sea: 27.00
. miaborer pis .days at @lco0- <2 5.22250 nedecies ae oe. se oes 19.50
i MIATORC GAYS: At Pleo. soa s. eo No SoS. cece Sea 19. 50
| laborer "Gidays: atoll 50S 2s255 sel asese be Ss S 552 Bh sest ee 9. 00
| Imlaboreneoqaaysirat plio0es 262s. - et ensee osc eee ses 8.63
Iglaporereo way Sy abolo0 5 .ee ae coke acct eres occ eiSe 7.88
ilaporert > days. att $1505 o. a2. 55.204 4 Yeas 2. aoe 7.50
| Hplcborer 4days-sabiplsDOl ne sees ole Rie cieak oe 6. 00
laborer os days rabrol.o0) S50 fase cos sac e ee tc ce cacse 5. 25
1 messenger, 10 months, 25 days, at $60...........-.-.-- 648. 39
imessenger: 2o.days. at pros. 220.5 Sie ste see ose le 33. 39
t 1 messenger, 3 months, 20 days, at $35; 6 months, at $25. 278. 33
1 messenger, 6 months, at $35; 1 month, 15 days, at $25 - 247. 50
lmmessencer. O months, Ati plo ss -- 5. .- Senne aes tenes 125. 00
1 messenger, 1 month, 28 days, at $25 _-.........-.-..-.- 47.58
| lemessenver) 20 days atp20=5=="2 seas ese ee teres 16.18
| lemessencers month ati p20 ss cc ess. yess ae eee 20. 00
( attendant, t2amonths: at 40-2225. 262222 52..5.22 5.4 480. 00
Meathendaniteps liad ays wat oO essa eee eye eS 475. 50
HeaTeNdANt worm Gays, Al Pleo see esa Geises bade cs ee 37.00
| IantenOant..20 days Jatrol- sx). cities ayaes 2x d o'c oe oe 5 26. 00
Manicndant, leas cat, olun wes sess bsoe fesse Ge. 18. 00
HeanceN Gant oray.sira brpiligee ates a eee es hoe ee Sree 5. 00
featiiondanteordayeratipl, 20 30s a! oS. Lee sct ens ss 2.00
1 cleaner, 1 month, at $47; 1 month, at $41; 3 months, at
$36.50; 5 months, at $35; 2 months, at $38.....--.---- 448. 50
1 cleaner, 3 months, at $30; 2 months, at $33; 3 months,
at $31.50; 2 months, at $34.50; 1 month, at $36; 1 month
TED ONO erat oon hae eer ye sone ee Meer Se 392. 25
| icleaner pi2nmonths sat Poe 2. So nscen noe eee cee ae toni 420. 00
{ ieeteaner, 1 l-months, 29 days, at $35: ..2:.3:2-_--.-2.--- 418. 83
| MCLeAN CE OnmOnvns Abs paWe saan Sees lets Sacer cae cise 360. 00
fecleanerle months at bo0 lassen 525-56 ossecco esse ass 360. 00
1 cleaner, 10 months, 60 days, at $30..-...-----..------- 358. 07
ieclesner, 9 months, 83 days; at. $30.5..-......-.-.-.---- 352. 03
| iWeleaners 2 months, lovdaysatipa0. a. oes s2 2 oe Se ee eel 76. 00
| IEGLEAM eee uINONthS abr PaO La = sa seusel- aoe ona. oie Se 60. 00
ESE SECTOASIIE SG PASTA fer 3) hae i en 17. 75
$45, 540. 06

iotakexpenditure for salaries. <-.-...-+--<+-.<0--r---+e- ec 158, 846. 45
XXXVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, 1900.

RECEIPTS.

Balance as per report July 1, 1900)- ..- 2 S52 2 ten rece eee ree $9, 133. 82
EX PENDITURES.
[July 1, 1900, to June 380, 1901.)
Special SOY VICES. < oc. ccc nin om cic waitanton crete teiete eee $925. 02
Miscellaneous:
Sup ples $s « Seng ache he a eee olay reece fae $1, O16. 14
Stationery to22 so0 sexe ere ee ener 397. 07
Freight sce... ad eae Sats ae ee ee eee 385. 00
TYAVGL oh 05.3 dataset Dee eee eae ele See eee ree 296. 53
Specimens <\5 4. 2. Sets oe ko ee eee eee 5, 763. 18
Drawings 2!b..2 3s Secession eee 421.49
8, 277. 41
Total expenditures <.-.2. s9.2 Aso a aoe ae eee es $8, 802. 43
Balance: July 1, 190122 ane Sees setae ee oes ee cree 331. 38
PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, 1900.
Total statement of receipts and expenditures.
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation b7 Congress, act March 8, 1899... 25522 5252232522 $170, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.
{July 1, 1899, to June 80, 1901.)
Salaries or. compensation: .2..cise- see See $145, 476. 10
Special Serviced’ .....0 5. <sica- en eee eee 1, 751. 32
Motel, Services x: 2: ...cehc Se ee ee ee ae eee $147, 227. 42
Miscellaneous:
Drawings and illustrations .............-- 904. 99
SUPPMES st oe . .. Je od 3 Cee ere eee ee 4, 286. 47
SUVUONeRY oe. - .. sd hee Soe eee ee eee 1, 800. 82
Specimensisey. - . sas cocscc eee 10, 569. 52
eae liseee Ss «saci oe ee eee 2, 360. 06
| A eo Ld O RS es ee sr ee eg ae 2, 519. 33
Totalimiscellanéous =. 2-2: = Joao ae see eee 22, 441.19
Total expenditures). << ..cl..6cib nd cane cc cee eee eee $169, 668. 61
Balance July; 1901s... 2.02 2k ss. ee See eee 331. 39
PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, 1899.
Balance’as per Jastireport, July J, 19002... 20.2 ee see oes eee $1.53

_ Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 8090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XXXVII

NATIONAL MUSEUM—FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1901.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘for

cases, furniture, fixtures, and appliances required for the exhibition

and safe-keeping of the collections of the National Museum, including

$2,500 for furnishing new lecture room and including salaries or com-

pensation of all necessary employees”’ (sundry civil act, June 6, 1900). $17, 500. 00

EXPENDITURES.

[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

| ‘ , : ay
Regular. ae Total.
ae = f aL rey ME Ns | ee
Salaries or compensation ........--..---------++-- $8, 083.78 | $547. 50 |
Special services .........------- +--+ -2-++- +e eee eee 11. 50 =
Ra cee ese eee ae ee $8,095.28 | $547.50 | $8,642.78
Miscellaneous:
PX DIDIGLONACOSCS. eicias cnn cain = cease wane ees = =~ $95. 00
Sirona ae OL hOsae ne Soo sabsobc os os see nsaeSe seer 587.00 |
Drawers, trays, etc--..--- 22-0... o- ee eee sss 167.75
Frames and woodwork .............---------- 311. 65 225. 22
(QUINCE RES ose pardasecen be Core Soo cCOUeEE ASOD er 345. 43
[Shomohy hd Gon oa AAee a SAce GOURDS Se BROEe sch eee 388. 42 17.17
ARO ae ieee ee cee eistcierats atetaresminicscintelale 106.17
(OHM Tay Sanco GSdosbSSe ro Go SSE Aebe-cOScC os SEecooD 98. 45 47.13
(GHASCIGIES dabeuc clases oesnesodeanospd ac eaeeansed 60. 06
(Dalen nines SS nehe bn soese ose SoseouuoR sen spoSuseqse 947.19 82.39
Paints Ollss eles cnsece eon cece. ake eern= am 250. 70 188. 51
(OA a NAAN ADIN Ass Socata saninoeoeeseesE “ener. 752. 41
heather, rubber, and’ cork:.-..-..-..-.--.---- 209. 66 |
Ya Wales 1Ol CASCSE cece ee cece nem enn 41.75 50. 00
LUT DINP ae ane ee tes eiete seine eee eine alam nimn incase 998. 52
LE np Ye AD Sggeene 54 adap odeebs Sasa pereaesooeoace 26.16
Mortar and plaster......-....-----.-----------|-2++--+----- 3. 25
CTL S eee eee ce cone cf ectc le istetetatais!| [ni '-f= =/=misin.wiel= 480. 00
Stereopticon, Cte. ... 2... - ce cesescecee renee en|- ne == sere =- 331.00
POA ANISCO LAT COUS) a) sete ais aes ein oleerwiei<iel=(=imi= $5, 386.32 | $1,374.67 | $6, 780.99
Total regular expenditure...........------- $13, 481. 60
Total lecture-hall expenditure .............)------------ $1, 922.17
Motaliex pe MOMbULe we sete eeecie = soeeinloielein= =lnl=™| <\n~lnin'=]e,0'm'ain'=||[o\-le™= =m cin in) mei|nim = viciwiein sien $15, 403. 77
Tin Gwe iwlhy ala TROT 5 S56 see Seer Soe soso] sorscesases | Senoooreoono orotic oo $2, 096, 23
FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1901.
Analysis of expenditures for salaries or compensation.
1 superintendent of construction, 9 months, at ei Ds Sees eee ae aera $1, 147.50
i carpenter, 290 days, at $3 -.....-...------=----+-----------+-2-- 507: 870. 00
carpenter, 236 days, at $3\..-.-...---+---------------------+----+---- 708. 00
ienr penter, 204 Uays, Ab go. ---- Oe <2 2-2 22 aa we eee ene eee nee 702. 00
1 carpenter, 196 days at $3.....--...---------------------- 22-220 eee -- 588. 00
1 carpenter, 127 days, at $3 ....---------------------« Ere eee ho 381. 00
1 carpenter, 100 days, at $3 .......------------------- + +2222 er te rrr 300. 00
imeampenter, 90 days, at $o 22-----2-.----------2- <n ---Fo nee eens n ee 270. 00
Mmemrpenter, 78 days, ab $3 ..-------------2-2--------8-se-2 222 te rete 234. 00
@earpenter, 343 days, at $3 .....-..-----------------+52-2-2 0222-2 103. 50
apearpenter, 344 days, at $3 --.....------------------+---2----220-000-> 102. 75
mearpenter, 33 days,al po ....-..-.. -------42------- 2-222 0e ceo tees 99. 00
ivearpenter, 26 days; ab $3 ....------:-------\-s---------+-------++--->- 78. 00
imeappenter, 19 days, Abdo... .-----<--+-------2=-------2---2+--2-5-2- 57. 00
ivearpenter, 184 days, at $3 ...-.....----------------2- 2-2-2228 e cero 55. 50
Hearpenter, 14 days, at $3 ......-----.--------------=-----+2--+- 07-07 42. 00

XXXVIII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
iskilledi laborer; oO months. Ati b8aiod essere eee see ee ee $416. 65
1 skilled laborer, 1 month, at $72; 2 months, at $60 .:......-........-.- 192. 00
skilled laborer; Samonths 1L0idaysy at. Gb. eee ae ne es ee 431. 38
I skalied laborer, 104 days atip2c.= 222. Sa. Sees eg eee nee eee 208. 00
Ieskilleddaborer: (54 daysvati G2 sa, vase oe ce eee oe eee ep ne 108. 00
I skilled laborer; lOsdaysivat $22 ane sae eee see ee ae ee 20. 00
Tepainter, O-monbhs eatep Ose eee ie ee ee ee 375. 00
daworkman, 236:days}iat:@lo7b 2022 oe ee eee yee ae oe eee 413. 00
I laborer::49) days sat’ S150 see ee re 2 ee a eet ee en area 73.50
l laborer, 45:daysvat SSO 225 225 oe aes ee ee ee ee eee ie 67.50
I laborers 27-.days iat. Sls 522 se eee a eS nie Ree eee ee 40. 50
8, 083. 78
LECTURE HALL.
1 painter, 1 month, at! (o's saa a ee SO ae ee eens Ten eee 75. 00
i‘carpenter, 4o:daysiatibo (= jcreator s ee epee ern oe ee ee 135. 00
il carpenter, 127 days. at Pow) 22 costes aos aceon cen te eee 81.00
itanpenter, 20:days abies » soso ae ee tee oe eie oer ee ee eee 60. 00
itearpenter, USidays, ata a c4 ae es ee nS eee eee 54. 00
ieskilled laborer 27 days sat. 2) <2 te seo oe eyelets i ee ee 54. 00
Iskilled laborer, 24: days .at- G22 52. ok ane eee. Se ee ce hee oeeeees 48. 00
iMlaborer;2(.days,at Pl 505 oe. ce cyt ee re eee eee ee Se 40. 50
547. 50
FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1900.
RECEIPTS.
Balance as per report July, U900s2 2s een eee eee ee eee $575. 24
EXPENDITURES.
{July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]
Regular. | Galleries. | Total.
Miscellaneous: |
Drawers, trays, ete . OOE |S chistamae alec $7.50
IMTAM CS! oe eeee' a5-<1a1e = $141. 76 141. 76
Glass sige gsc. ae ese 28. 80 | 28. 80
MPa WAC r 2 2 2 siie.c nad jicicie cm aero eee ae eee eae 21.91 | 18. 62 140. 53
TRO OS Seats ace oo Sree Se ee OREO ee P4569 ll Sascntesdoeee 14. 65
ClO GR nese tvs oot aie cela ses Se Sie oe eee O22 Dye cesses nee 10. 25
GIass mars ees st re hes. Cadicrae oe sc eee eee Senna eee AI 224 eacttescice ae 41. 22
UM Dens Nat Ross sewiieeeece cetera acne mere 14. 44 97. 66 112.10
PASE sep escrayo a stiace-crr facies Se ele areas oe earns 205762)! ceceecees 20. 76
Officeturniture 32.5 422 scene ase cea eee eee 9.50") esse cies seers 9. 50
Trond brackets-.. 2258s 2. dee sctesc or se aineecemeseee De ddale sac sac eees 3.72
IPD OI eseractes aerate. Soper re feiaie rccere wate oor es er te spree SONOOU| SSeeter aera 30. 00
BV OUR Se Se 2 Sta .e Sars cisieie ee os ane jee ree cioemloneare nts 2:60". caeahoceisae 2.60
276.55 | 286. 84 $563. 39
Balance JulysLy L906; es.ce ssc dew ccemsocss neal een cin seme cals stem eeeene en Cem nee 11. 85

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. >. ©: G.90.4

FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1900.
Total statement of receipts and expenditures.
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation by Congress, act of March 3, 1899. ................-.-- $25, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.

[July 1, 1899, to June 30, 19 \1.]

| Regular. | Galleries. Total.
. .
Services:
Salaries or compensation .........:..:.......- | $7,853.77 | $3,918.50 |............
SDECIMUSCLVAC CSaeee a stecee ne tects emince ee ser Bilgt24 \asceceaqsaae lSSoosnbannce
Rotaliceryi comets eo ee. eee es ee eles 7,880.99 | 3,918.50 | $11,799. 49
Miscellaneous: |
ERD LlOMUCHSESE ane ae ceeeer oan eis canes sce S700) bec: aseeee ea eeyaaer a= |
DLOLAP ClCASES etyeree y= fere soe eee as aeleieieie sche iepeie =iete 538.50 | 1,587.00 | 2,987.50
DLAWETS TAVS welCs oe scite see sew ews olseeats noes 402. 40 2, 068. 50 2,470. 90
Hiram estandswoOodwOrkiee-aa-e cen css seose ce 2a: 282. 72 | 286.78 569. 50
CHIR SR Ase eee ape eee erties inte maianion seis saatels 1, 166. 57 | 778.20 | . 1,944.77
EVA CW BNC \ eso tes seine wien s SERENE ens ees 726. 86 | 647.95 1,374.81
POOLS see ere ae oe ee oe oe etcialeaicre aie Tne Taieis 151. 84 | 4. 60 156. 44
Gy ne ee ee Se epee rot Si) karla wae adiateie 68.56 14. 00 82. 56
Gldsshyarsiess eens masts een aaa enna 2648034| Renee ee: | 264. 08
etl DER aren coer seee eure cae nonecieaieces 1,189. 87 672.02 | 1,861.89
Paints wolletey aces ees ook coe cece cae j 537.61 4.00 | 541. 61
Officeurnivures so. Secn. Sos ce see Seenemeacero9 AATROO NS ie oeeae see | 442.00
leather and rubbers. sete -en- oe eee ewene 88. 45 8.16 96. 61
IPONVDTACK Ets. ecm ocean te ae oe acc eee WOSOOU uscsemect ee 75.09 |
Drawines fOr Cases. cssseccee see cece esses IMs) hi) eeosoesansae 143.75
Slatexcement etesecaae cee cc + schis sence de ee SOR DOM oe ceepaaare 35.50 |
MER Viele ete meee aee ne aac ee eee ne eat e ee AOOWE Seeeemee cas 2.00
MITT O LEU ae eres ce eee eee eases LOPSLON PSs acces 107.10 |
LE) OO ees Dean eS GS St Sere aroae ghebesee socmeese SOL005| 55 S222 == 30. 00
MOULD. piatqciasoncls mercies oe sists sie estes cel seis 260s aeene sas 2.60
Totalirec lan neeeasece ce sece cee ee | 14, 998. 44 |
Motalisalleries(s: = Iss geseus ae. Seen ee esos Weeeigesrcls.cee 9, 989. 71 |
MotaexpPEenGitULres) sesees seater woce ee sone Bee ce Costa Recaeemerere |Megarzresoeerel 124, 988. 15
Balan eer Tye Lael GOI ese ere ee ee Ne mee em OES Pall aes ee als | Perhe We mriclet 11.85
|
——— = ——————— -
!
| FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1899.
alone uly lO) as per dast report em. fo. 5266 lati cS esc ses- shee = $1.35

Balance carried, under provisions of section 3090, Revised Statutes, by the Treas-
ury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—HEATING AND LIGHTING, ETC., 1901.
RECEIPTS.

| Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘‘for
| expense of heating, lighting, electrical, telegraphic, and telephonic
service for the National Museum, including $3,500 for electric installa-
Hone on (sind ny Civilsact dune 6, TIO). - sa... sae ses oe Sse Pee oak $17, 500. 00
EXPENDITURES, REGULAR.
{July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

Salaries or compensation -........-...-- $6,097. 07
SWeCaliseR Vi Ces saan seer eee take. 64. 60

MROtaleSenvlCEShte see ee sa 8 et ic Bias Woe Side oe $6, 161. 67
XL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Miscellaneous:

Coaltandiswood 222442 aes eee $3, 531. 85
(Gage ree ee aS see eee S190
Rentaleor calls boxes] 2-2-3 == 100. 00
BHlectrical supplies. =-22222-22-223- 311. 44
Electricity-s: 226-8 soe eee eee ee 477.71
Heating supplies’ 28.2257 222 5. ee 501. 71
Peleorams 4: 2.5). lone eee ee 29.17
DPelephoneszess4.. see see ee ee 434, 65
Total miscellaneous, regular............... $6, 518. 43
Total regular expenditure: 35 522 2c cee eee $12, 680. 10

ELECTRIC INSTALLATION.

RECEIPTS.

Appropriation, ‘““* * * including $3,500 for
electric installation.’’

EXPENDITURES.
Salaries or compensation....-.--:..--- $858. 40
Dpecial Servicess 222-2255 27 ee eee 3. 00
Motal Services! Sie sce Ve ee see lS $861. 40
Miscellaneous:
Drawinesi. hes oaase aoa eee 55. 50 :
Supplies... 2. ssaaceee aoe eee 1, 631. 36
TOO Sees sees ttc = See 20. 14
Woodwork: 2. Sh: 30. he22 a ees 328. 30
Unravel? Ao eae see ane eae eer Sond
Total miscellaneous installation .........-- 2, 070. 41
Total installation expenditures.) -2222 4.222 eee $2, 931. 81
Notal:expendi ture isc. sceanceece ste ae oe oe ee ee ee $15, 611. 91
Balance: Jualy al, TOMS Sees aise ese epee een ree eet nee er 1, 888. 09
HEATING AND LIGHTING, 1901.
Analysis of expenditures for salaries or compensation.
imenoineer: a2 months, at p22. 0 oe ee ee eee ee $1, 470. 00
1 telephone operator, 5 months, 17 days, at $40; 169 days at
ESN lata, Op no oP UR th pera Te beheld a othe, 475. 44
fireman 2am onths, at p60) Seas. ce cee eee eee 720. 00
1 fireman, 12 months, at $55 ......- Ne. eM eS, An Te Reh a 660. 00
iskilledilaborer, 12 anonths: atigion-.. 55 eee eee 900. 00
iskilledslaborer; 12-months.jat S60e2 see ee eae eee 780. 00
laborers dOmsdays, at plas. 3% 5 eee ee eee 538. 13
Ilaborer (238idavs; at. ol 5022 2 ase eee eee 357. 00
laborer -2odaysratipleb0 s: ase ses hae See oe ee ees 37.50
1 coal passer: 106: days: at $1. 5072. 3... fo ee ee eee 159. 00

&6, 097.

O07

icf

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XLI

Electric installation:

1 acting electrical foreman, 5 months, at $83.33... .__... $416. 65
iskitleduaborerlesdavs rab poten a2 sh eee eee 54. 00
He OOKer ei Os Gays vabrblcoU ce ems ee ee eee ee hoe 119. 25
IMlabOrermedayeratolso0= Sate seek ote at Tt tks 111. 00
IIADOLER D2 CUyS abt plooO ee feos 5 ce 2 et. 8 aL: 78. 00
imlaponcret a tOcauystraltgpleol see suay te ook a ee 63. 75
iA Oneial OA Cave. atm OUS san = ete ele wo 15. 75

S858. 40
HEATING AND LIGHTING, 1900.

RECEIPTS.
PMeimeoas per Leport daly tl M900 Were obese oS el ele oe ei 2h $561. 96
EXPENDITURES.

[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

Miscellaneous:
(@oalacimc ay OOds snes tee, wey ep ee as te SE sa $17. 36
Cas eee eer ee Ee ee cata: Mattes sees Secs eek 83. 00
Rentalaohealllqiaxcee ames. escent een See esa 20. 00
LDU Sete G71 92051] Oy OL Ce Se Be Ss ie Gn a oe eee A Se 99. 05
TENS SUR oe pe 82. 99
lca MiGactp PILES men kee ee Sao 2 See SNE es oo Se lone 39. 00
diclegrams ape Aare ie FS a hin Se ee as Ss 20.75
“TMEIS1 0] 0G) VSI hea ee Lee) pn ate eis UR ener alate A ee ena 199. 79
MotalemniSeellaneQusse sass oe eae ea eS ls eos $561. 94
ALAM CyaiUiliyaile elo (Villers) Maer tees aw Pe LSE eg) WS ee eS . 02
Total statement of receipts and expenditures.
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation by Congress July 1, 1899 (act of March 3, 1899) -......-- $14, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.
[July 1, 1899, to June 30, 1901.)
Salainles OLE COMPCNSAtlOMn- aa sss Se eae ee aoe 56, 676.265
Spccinkservicess.o-.u.5 ee: pea ag RCE Se Lng 2 8. 00
MO balESeRVIGES ae me Ae = eae rarer) arn ems Sin 2 Fetes Sete 2 RS $6, 684. 65
Miscellaneous:
(Coaland nwioo diese oe at ere ase See 33, 666. 45
(GENE a Pate Sg OO ed ae eee A ae rte 1, 208. 10
Rentalvo teal boxes==-2 922228 2oe eh ee ee 2 120. 00
HT ecinicalgsitn whist ee ae ey ere 644. 45
Le Ciel L yaa eee sae een ner. See i 25k 332. 76
LaleR Hib ane? yl oy OMNES) She eo ees eee ey ee ae eee 723. 53
ele mram Sweet ae tee ee Cele SA Se ee 37. 60
TBE TO NCIS MNS oo ee ee Ae ee eee 582. 44
Motaleunscellanecousss2--- 24 5-525-.-2 pte et Sc oo, AOR 7,315 83
Roy Heri earey Srey mV ION EIST tes ees eae On $13, 999. 98
Balance, Julyle pLOOl ee ae oc = DSM Oe Beane tee ene ee eeeee . 02
|e

XLII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

HEATING AND LIGHTING, 1899.

Balance July 15, 1900; as perlastireportes2 =e = ser es eos see ee $0. O1
Balance carried, under provisions of section 3090, Revised Statutes, by the Treasury
Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901
NATIONAL MUSEUM—POSTAGE, 1901
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘‘ for post-
age stamps and foreign postal cards for the National Museum’’ (sundry
e1rvilsact Inne 6-900} =e ee a ee ee ge ee eee $500. 00
EXPENDITURES.
[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

Hor postage stammpsvamd: cards: 225 222 ssc ees ee ke eee os ee eee $500. 00
NATIONAL MUSEUM—PRINTING AND BINDING, 1901.
RECEIPTS,

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘‘for
the Smithsonian Institution, for printing labels and blanks and for the
‘Bulletins’ and ‘Proceedings’ of the National Museum, the editions of
which shall not be less than three thousand copies, and binding in half
turkey or material not more expensive, scientific books and pamphlets
presented to and acquired by the National Museum library’’......-..- $17, 000. 00

EXPENDITURES.

[July 1, 1900, to June 80, 1901.]

Bulletins’ot the Museum. 22. oe. = en Se ee eee $4, 945. 47

PBroceedines: of the Muse mri. mes oe se eee 8, 076. 74

] G72) 0 =) ks eae ome a ge = PE eet Oy eB yr ee ye a thd are 584. 82

Blankie 5. Sve cis opines Siar ea ote Paes he rs corte tans ne ae 252. 72

IinVeGlO DGS: S22. so ee See ee eee eee eee 44. 60

O21 go ce Sone eta EE abr ne ee Aa Reh Ae tye A ple 2 50. 09

Binding osa6 228 fa. 5 os ee Soe ee eee Eee eee 1, 412. 13

Congressional Record: 3.22322 se sac. 2 en ee ee ee 16. 00

Congressional: documents! 2 Sete Sree eee 188. 34

Report Sereee'- 82 <5: soho Nee ea ee een eee eee 7.61
Totalfexpenditurés | :!.- 42 = 2-6 se bee ce eels ose os oe ee eee $15, 578. 52
Balance: July: 1, 190s 852 eee ae eters eee ene es 1, 421. 48

NATIONAL MUSEUM—RENT OF WORKSHOPS, 1901.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘‘for
rent of workshops and temporary storage quarters for the National
Museum?” (sundry civil act, June 6, 1900) \S2 oe sees ase ne eee ee $4, 040. 00

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XLII
EXPENDITURES.
[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.)

Rent of workshops and storage quarters:

INO eo le NitathestreetssiwWisics aococacc 55s celeste ee $1, 999. 92
INGmClifmeventhestrectis Wis toss -05 5. se See teee eeee 1, 080. 00
NotslStlenthy streets arses oss Ye See. oo. ee 600. 00
Noe Gib’ Virsiniajavenue SW (rear). 222-222. -.-.25.)--4 360. 00
oo teulexcoem Gunes wer = ete yes Peo teen's pk Bek eae ene $4, 039. 92
Beau eearagere cl UTS TIAGO) Safe ch No ee re aR te eee Peat Neat 08
RENT OF WORKSHOPS, 1900.
PeamCer ad PEIATEDOL dityel, WOO) 22 oom Sas. os ee Bo ee cb tdeees $0. 08
AAT Gegilivzalt as 0 Wie eye ets tae ep evecare oe oe Es ee 08

RENT OF WORKSHOPS, 1899.
alan ceras per last reports Uy a, MOOK. le ee ee eee ee $110. 08

Balance carried, under the provisions of the Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—BUILDING REPAIRS, 1901.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘‘for
repairs to the buildings, shops, and sheds, National Museum, includ-
ing repairs of roof, and for all necessary labor and material’? (sundry
lvl Cl MOIUNe 1am (i) Ravens eat sea re J, SL BL ie oe sesh $15, 000. 00

EXPENDITURES.

[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

Balances Or-compensatlone: 1220. 2).252.2.5 2222.55 $7, 661. 44
SEClAIES CTU COME Serer ate peat eir cry scene 442.85
SUCORREU L SETAE Ae an Ie a a A ea pa eae $8, 104. 29
Miscellaneous:
serrazZoralCatilegil OOus es ere eee a $2, 037. 01
ILjunan\| kere Seay ae Ae ek ee eee eee 286. 57
Cement, erayel~ sand) ete 2) 225.8 2 Jb eis. 2 ele - 475. 60
lardiwareran datOOlsmm as semen = ne sens 170. 79
RAINS MOMS lO ns nes meyse se Sec os ce rss 2 229. 79
Skylhohtsandiyentilator== 5-2-4222 -2 25-55. -= 240. 00
Steel plates, angles, panels, etc..-..---..---:- 1, 122. 09
Drain os See nee eA ey rarhd iss ele Ses) Ale ce 281.50
BV OGHSI DY Me Mees ate. O52 re nse ee on. E 41. 26
INGA |e es ae ae ie A igri oa ie ee alae 52. 35
NVOOGWOl pee Reta ae erst a Oe ae St 242. 62
TRIOS ys ee eas ee ari tree ee Ahad Aer URS UO ae ea 59. 50
(GHEE) Sep ee AL sae Deen ink Slee | ee le ae 3. 80
Decorating walls and ceilings...........-.-.---- 767. 90
Motalemiscellameouseeessesen. oases oe) eee es oe 6, 010. 78
SireMinerenelinnirencd stan snes eee SR Poss a tle te $14, 115. 07

TRenl santos. dithi Ny all alo 0 edhe 5 eae eet a ge a ee 884. 93
XLIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

1 ‘superintendent; 2 -months#at$250 2222522 9 ee eee $500. 00
1 superintendent of construction, 3 months, at $127.50... - 382. 50
1 stenographer and typewriter, 22 days, at$2.............--- 44. 00
L-carpenter.i2342 days; at $3.25 2 ee Seo ee ee ee ee 702. 75
i-carpéntern,: 109 days ato oa o eee ce ee ee er 327. 00
Icarpenter; 1002 days, iat po: 7.2 ns 2 eat eee ees 317. 25
Iccarpenter; 80 -days,:at $3: s. 248.9 sess 2 ee eee eee te 240. 00
Teearpenter,-7S: daiys; “ati pov so Sese ee ee eee cee 234. 00
lixcanpenter, 26 days, /atipa. see 2 oe ee eens eee 78. 00
licarpenter, 2 days ab pa: nome ares eee a ee eee 36. 00
icarpenter, lO "daiysaiibog: aaa-= — 95-56 eee eee ee eee = 30. 00
Iscarpenter,; F:. days; at.ao' =: 22S eee See el eee 12.00
i bricklayer,.9:days;.atiots 5:2 Seek ee Ae ee 36. 00
Wbricklayer AO/d ay Sicat pay ates caer ick ee eee 36. 00
1 plumber; 48 days, atr$3:00°. 5 se ols eae aise See 168. 00
+ painter, Simonths, Wo Gays, at (G70) i222 anes ee = nee 262. 50
it workman, (8:days;auSL (o-s.2 se as. cae ei eee 136. 50
1 skilled laborer, 10 months, 42} days, at $70..........-..--- 795. 97
1 skilled laborer, 4 months, 19 days, at $65....-..-.....-.--- 301. 17
ivskulled= laborer 1245 days sat @2ec26 oa. seer eee 249. 00
ieskillledy laborer.4 months; atip00 22 2222 ae se ee ee 240. 00
i‘skilled laborer, 1183-dayswat $22.22 ees ere le 237.00
I skilled laborer; 945. days: satsh22 => 5s eee 2 ee ee ee 189. 00_
isskailedlaborer, 2-monuthe? ati $83.dou- 22255 eee Stee 166. 66
leskilled: laborer, 433 /dayvesatip2:s_ 32 soe we eee eee 87. 00
IL -skilled ‘laborer, 28 days at. $a. 22.22 sss roe eee es 84. 00
itskilled-laborer. 2b:days) at p2 os sere ee eee 50. 00
Jsskilled laborers 20e:days\atpo2/ 5° se 25 se a aoe ee ee 41.00
ieskilled laborenw45 days, atib2;) soe eee ee eee 9. OO
Helaborers /faedays, etoile, io) & a2 ee oe ees eee ee eee cee 135. 68
Iwlaborer Ole days sat Plc yc: eee ee ee ee do. 13
{laborer 2055 days ;atel (00 S222: Se se eee sa eee 389. 75
ilaborers225 days, atiplo0\ oe =e toe ae ae ee ee 337.50
IMlaborenwl/ARdays at dl o0te sees eee ee 261. 38
ilaborersSOrdayswati®L: 002 ss) ee ee eee ei eee 129. 00
li laborer, Sledaysyab.p1.005)5:24. 2 ono ee eee 121. 50
imlaborer Sl-days iat pl .50. Sosa. sas osc sa ee ee eee 121.50
laborer; 445 days;atipl.50s<5-2 252) eee ees eee oe 66. 75
Llaborer<30 days atoll. 50 55 ae ee oe 45. 00
i laborer: 4.dayevatipll:00- 4.25552 ase ee oe ee 6. 00
BUILDING REPAIRS, 1900.
RECEIPTS.
Balance:as per:report, dilly L900). a ae ee ep eae
EXPENDITURES.
[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]
Tron columns 72 yee er an eee, Seen ese ee $98. 45
Glass See 52 2.2 Uy see ees Tee rors te arp cee ere ee 4. 00
Miscellaneousswoodiworkees ae wer se aoe poe ee 60. 00
Cement, gravel; mortar plaster eases) ee eee 45,77

BUILDING REPAIRS, 1901.

ee a se

|
|

57, B61. 44

$251. 07

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XLV

TE LGW ROBIE RB ed eRe WR ie oi es Ae ee a $15. 50
PAs LORS so GaSe te Le etree ie ne a ea 1.50
ira valine Spein Gam laniGe warmers ase BASES ere in eee 25. 00
MMO SSE Beds ets Eth a lg it IN cd) Cn $200. 22
Beil amee re ilsvaylemel OO Ne eweeite ty cn ok Norbert ey METS 52 85
BUILDING REPAIRS, 1900.
Total statement of receipts and expenditures.
RECEIPTS.
mppropriation.by Congress March 3, 1899-0. So. see eee see ee $6, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.
[July 1, 1899, to June 30, 1901.]
Services:
SAEMIeS OM COMM CNSAULON see sap ee ai iets Fee ee = $1, 833. 55
Miscellaneous:
RCTMAZZOFILO OLSeme ee peer e ee ee Breer ee $2, 166.3
Cement, sand, mortar, lime, gravel, ete... ---- 299° 22
ERCURGIWEILE ete reer cere ye ea eh eR tn ae 58. 94
Jee hraM ESUEEH ONG LCG SIE ois etch ak oer gear eee ae 101. 82
SHESS St Re Sas Se i Sa ee i ae ae ee 162. 31
Sieelupbeamsgrandeanglesiss 2 ees Se es 457. 23
iron columns) 222-5) ..25. Stas elena Ht bahar ~ 98. 45
Drawings, decorating walls, ete.....-....---:-- BZN 2D
Clo thivandtpaperes ss seh emf seks eee 19. 88
JOeoras ehaolismavololrinksys See ee ee Sa ee gee ei 320. 20
PLGA Taree cae ENS eae ere ee eye = OR 65. 06
IBA CORSE oleh oe ore ae rings Ae lane ee epee Aer 13.93
EVAN Oyyala ee CLT: Gee eae me Oe) pe eet at ye Sen S ek 10. 00
Motaleimnccellancouss 6 =e ema ee ae ae es aioe 4, 165. 60
MRO talke xpem GUUUT ES a cetee am era spar ee ee ee ee ee Te Cus ee $0, 999. 15
IBraleavers dfulllyy, Wy TUCO SS ee os See rca are . 85
BUILDING REPAIRS, 1899.
ea Mee Aspe LE POL i) lye <lO0O rs Be wes yee AE S  e e's $0. 91

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the Treasury
Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—GALLERIES, 1899.
RECEIPTS.
PeEnICe, 2 OL Le poniclys 1) hOUOmse a eens ee Hoe ELSIE ool ee we $205. 79

EXPENDITURES.

[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

CET) fy Kaen Me aN Re RPO Sete, Se atk ag te OOPS) = iso Be $205. 12
NS aL ee ee eRe a ena ehh Se mS ae bk Sa ape 67

Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.
XLVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
GALLERIES, 1899.
Total statement of receipts and expenditures.
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation by Congress July sali89 Soe ae ee ee ee ee eee SLO, OOO. 00
EXPENDITURES.

{July 1, 1898, to June 30, 1901.]

AIATIESOrvCONM CTS Olle see ee ae ee eee eee Se $940. 56
Rian somevarches's\\'2 6 Sack eS os eee ne oe ee oe ee ae eae 1, 609. 38
Prom work!... 2.0252 2 Aki Sagas ee eee ne eee 3, 927. 39
Merrazzoiand manblenloor] ssee. seen ese eee ee eee 1, 295. 09
Mardware and tools’ 2820 a2 5 ee eye ee ee 54. 56
INEST Gat oo tin SR, ae 2S ee ee ge ere ees 108. 34
Cement, etes: i Peter ee es a 2 eRe ed ey sae Ole 234. 45
Drawings:and blue prints 254.405.2324 8 a= 5 tee ee 85. 00
ACIMORtISIN OS 2 Meo Peta er oh ck eee eee pore ares eee pe 61. 07
RANT fee Aten cea ke he ke SS cee ne a pe oe ee ee ee eg een ey 25. 65
STC Gees net the, Rs area et Re ee eee 46. 00
WiQOChW.OH KW Ae 5 oe ree Lo ioc a. fc meg a eye 156. 00
CAIN V AS chy oe a eee pte ks Ae eg eg TR Sey a See ey ee 29. 21
pkylicht.anduventilatorsy.. seis eee ee ee ee 1, 782. 20
Travels, fel vane oy esa eve crct er ie AN ee es te ee Sr 23.10
Sheets Peas Ge Se eae ek ees ee wey eee eee 21. 12
RAND C Wes 22-5, 2 oso ee eee ee hs NE faery Panos eet eee eg Teen 5. 25
Total expenditures! ss. 22 ek Se se yee ee ee $9, 999. 33
Ball a CG coe sere ee es ack ee Ra al Se 67

Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 38090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—BOOKS, 1901.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘for
purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals for reference in the
National Museum”’ (sundry civil act, June 6, 1900)....-...--.----.--- $2, 000. 00

EXPENDITURES.
[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals from July 1, 1900, to

JUTE! SON MG OM es see ee, Se ee Oe ee sea ee $1, 141. 96
Balance: July 1,, 1900.2. 23 he see Seeds Sees ele eee eee 858. 04

BOOKS, 1900.

RECEIPTS.
Jalance as. per reporbditaliy: 1 1900) 23 Se saves re ea eee $878. 72
EXPENDITURES.
[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]
For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals from July 1, 1900, to
June'30; W901 2 re ae es Se a a ee ee eee ee eee $848. 08

Balance July 1, -lOOI Sec ck sia ore ee alee ee ere 30, 64

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEFR. XLVII
BOOKS, 1900.
Total statement of receipts and expenditures.
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation by Congress nai blot ees es ieee ee BYE Ah ot ea et $2, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.

[July 1, 1899, to July 30, 1901.]

Kor purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals. ........-...2...----- $1, 969. 36
Balancerdimlingle SLO Ole reve ae seems Sees cae eae ceees se 30. 64

BOOKS, 1899.
RECEIPTS.
Eeienecerns perreport Julyel 1900) 222k. Soci. Sena Sees ecl $25. 08
EXPENDITURES.
[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals -.......---...--.--- $17. 25

Bera Meee yey es So ct I Fay 1 Sate AE Se a rac Pe cr peep a a ea ioe

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the Treas-
ury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.

BOOKS, 1899.
Total statement of receipts and expenditures.
RECEIPTS.
EApropriation by Congres duly 1808 2. aoe LS ol oes eee a $2, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.
[July 1, 1898, to June 30, 1901.]

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals ..........--.------- $1, 992. 17

1 BSI) SWAY RE eS 2 PE ta ART ERE Soe re ener ns Yee IR a 7.83
Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the Treas-
ury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—PURCHASE OF SPECIMENS, 1901.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘‘for
purchase of specimens to supply deficiencies in the collections of the
National Museum”’ (sundry civil act, June 6, 1900) ........-----.---- $10, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.
[July 1, 1900, to June 30, 1901.]

Hee OHaSe TOL STECKMICNS = - =e Soke ks kt cSt ks ee et ae $6, 941. 44

ES ALARICCE UL apie WL () keene eee tty se cere Cees bre nh tae Se Tost 3, 058. 56
XLVIII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1901.

RECEIPTS.

pee.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘for
maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory, under the direction of the

Smithsonian Institution, including salaries of assistants, the purchase 1
of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, printing and publishing 1
results of researches, not exceeding one thousand five hundred copies, |
repairs and alterations of buildings, and miscellaneous expenses, twelve |
thousand dollars’? (sundry civil act, June 6, 1900) .......--.---.----- $12,000.00 |

DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation:

Waid. si2imonths ati plone ease ae ee ae $2, 100. 00

iclerk> month saolZos ee cae = ae ee 125. 00

1 junior assistant, 12 months, at $110 .......-- 1, 320. 00 |

1 stenographer, 12 months, at $100 .........-- 1, 200. 00 |

1 instrument-maker, 9 months, at $80.......-- 720. 00

lichreman. 2 months satihaOh.) ses meet teees 600. 00 ]

1 photographer, 29 days, at $4.50.....-...-.-- 130. 50 |

5:carpenters; 22: days, al $35.22. +25 sgoee cee = 66. 00

2; painters, -6days, at p2.$0 22222 pe owe 16. 80

2 painters; 6days nat $24. se JS a_i eee 12. 00

1 skilled laborer, 43 days, at $70 per month -- - 10. 16

I laborer. b' days au Gl. fons .sss. Sen See 8. 75

6 laborers, 983 days, at $1.50 .........-- eee ae 147. 75

Iscleanen, 166idays satigil-- 222." oo aoe ee 166. 00
Potalisalariesiorcompensation=s2.---.e 5s sea. oe $6, 622. 96

General expenses:

JAP ATATUS.® << '2 te esi MS oR e 2 ep ee eerreeaaees ace $1, 417. 43

BOOKS 2 282 neo ee eee ee oer ene 98. 69

Electric power cto: tt sce teen eee eee 116. 70

Breiehit: 2 aseo oe oe oe. Oe ei eee eras 5. 00

RUG sce ee ie ee ee te recep ee ae 61. 80

Drawings and allustrations#-22525--5-52- sseee 16. 40

Thamber’ 222- {ees aseas. cee eee ec eee eae 19. 88

IRE POTTS Aoey seo ee cee ators eee er ee eR eee 3, 106. 34

Stationery, supplies, .ete= --o4.2- 5. a2so22a-=- 321.98

Mraveline expenses. -255 2 ose. er ee ee eeise se 133. 02

5, 297. 24

Motalidisbursemients..% = S52 ssa! = Ralls ee ee ee er $11, 920. 20
Balance duly 190M. 2a ee ee ee eee oer top ee ee eee 79. 80

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, 1900.

Balance July -1,. 1900, as. per last report.<- £25. . 2.22 2224. ee ee $1, 215. 78

; DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:

A PPARAbUS 2. a.5 Sect as oo SEL ee oe eee $880. 00
BOOKS snes he aie cers ete Rmistots ieee sre een eee ee ae 30. 42
Ereightio:. 3: Sasso. See Sees ae See ee ee 18. 86
Biel 2 ..sc cee a ests ete Ae oo se ee ee nee 27.30

Dra wiles avo ee ae hee See ef ee ere 20. 00

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XLIX

General expenses—Continued.

LEU BGE OS ONE Del ee Se ae es $54. 59

VLE VEL? Sesh hc oS ie STE OR ee 3. 36

Postarevand telepraphss ie. <2) oo yee. Sel 2s oe eens .99

SEINE RE ek Sates Sa so er a 6. 00

SUV GINES hc etait ole ee ee rr rr ed 154. 27

dravclingiespenses's) 5 =....25-se5° Se RAS See Sete 17. 00
IROLAMOISOURSCIMEMUGRE a = ko ee Ie Oe $1, 212. 79
Balan Cog uilivael po Otc reese ee eee es ve) No Pee pa 2.99

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, 1899.

Baamee adepen lash report, July 1) 19005...) 2.222222 elec lenses. dese $3. 97

Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.

OBSERVATION OF ECLIPSE OF MAY 28, 1900.

2
Eaiaicewulyel, M00 sas per last TEpOnt. 2200.02. 22 onde obec coe $1, 529. 20
DISBURSEMENTS.

General expenses:

ATUTODI ELS che teets RR RSs Galen eae aa $437. 64

Pre tiiwepene pee et mer te oe oN ye ci ko a 62. 75

SUC OI NESS SESE Se a ee ae ea 47.39

Melephione and telegraph. =<..2 2.2 +. 2 es oe ee 33. 48

Pramisporteitl Osa messes ool faa ee eer oc ore Se wine Ss ae tS 3. 00

raveluamduleldeexnenmses) = ose) ees oko 189. 20
SEGtalsdichuENe Me misie =e akan Meme a san Sans tek cei tee ss $773. 46
Ralemee soul I. WOE ase Cb eS ioe bee tone e oes aaa eae eee 750. 74

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1901.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, ‘‘for
continuing the construction of roads, walks, bridges, water supply,
sewerage and drainage; and for grading, planting, and otherwise
improving the grounds; erecting and repairing buildings and inclos-
ures; care, subsistence, purchase, and transportation of animals, includ-
ing salaries or compensation of all necessary employees, the purchase
of necessary books and periodicals, and general incidental expenses
not otherwise provided for, seventy-five thousand dollars; one-half of
which sum shall be paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia
and the other half from the Treasury of the United States; and of the
sum hereby appropriated, five thousand dollars shall be used for con-
tinuing the entrance into the Zoological Park from Cathedral avenue,
and opening driveway into Zoological Park, including necessary grad-
ing and removal of earth: Provided, That the unexpended balance of the
amounts, aggregating eight thousand dollars, heretofore appropriated
for widening, grading, and regulating Adams Mill road from Columbia
road to the Zoological Park entrance, is hereby reappropriated, to be
expended under the direction of the Commissioners of the District of
Columbia; and that the control of Adams Mill road is hereby vested
in the said Commissioners, and all proceedings necessary to purchase

sm 1901——1Vv
L REPORT: OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

or condemn the land necessary to widen said road as authorized by act
approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, providing
for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending
June thirtieth, nineteen hundred, and for other purposes, shall be
taken by said Commissioners’? (sundry civil act, June 6, 1900) ._...- $75, 000. 00

DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation:

1 superintendent, 12 months, at $225 _.._.._-. $2, 700. 00
1 property clerk, 12 months, at $150 -........- 1, 800. 00
(elerk.2° MONTHS Jat POO! 288 2 oases See ee \ 1, 200
lS montha tat S100..2. 2 ee es J ;
heopyist, 12 months, at p90]. = eee 1, O80. 00
eopvist oidays, at bl o0e eee. See eee 4.50
1 stenographer, 12 months, at $62.50..__..._-- 750. 00
1 head keeper, 12 months, at $100 _.......__.. 1, 200. 00
1 keeper, 12 months, at $60................-.- 720. 00
1 keeper, 12 months, at $60 ..............-...- 720. 00
I keeper: 2 anonths, av-$60'22. 222122225222. 720. 00
l keeper, [2 inonths: at p60). 22. - 32.2322 ee 720. 00
1 landscape gardener, 53 months, at $75; 2
months, 8: days, at p83-a0.c-2022-sseeeeee oe 601. 38
| assistant foreman, 6 months, at $60; 6 months,
FF 1) SO ee a ane as oe NT, Re oped eee on A 750. 00
1 watchman, -12 months, at $60..........:...- 720. 00
1 watchman, 12 months, at $60........._....- 720. 00
l watchman,J° months, at $50 “gh Tees ae l 630. 00
\6 months, at $552.42... 2.4... j
1 blacksmith, 12 months, at $75 ......:-....- 900. 00
1 assistant blacksmith, 12 months, at $60... _.. 720. 00
1 workman, 12 months, at $60............_... 720. 00
i workman, 12 months.vat $50) 4525222 so. 600. 00
l' laborer, 12 months, at h60bs-5 52 2. soe 720. 00
| laborer, 103 months and 9 days, at $50... ... 539. 52
1 laborer,4° months, at Po0...2.. 1.5.) ose ik 630. 00
\6 months, at pooee 2 eee as eee J
! laborer, 113 months,-at\ $5025, 22. 2 579. 00
1 laborer, 2; months and 12 days, at $20..:-.- 58. 00
Total salaries or compensation... ..24.2 222.2220 -s.- $20, 498, 40
Miscellaneous:
Buvldimes:s <2... 0228 eee ee ee ee 1, 392.39
Cine material wo 5265 Feo 8 Aan, see 78. 34
(amends. 2.78 ere eee Ss eee 363. 15
fencing, cage materials, etc. ....¢...--.-2--24 1, 099. 17
HOOC oe cok Sac eh ee ee Ge eee 8, 745. 45
ENS hile eecainc os ye es ee ee 457. 33
EUG So eo, Ti te Ty gn el, See 841. 33
Mumm preseason Sane Oe ere 243. 00
WwstratvOnsg ees kee ek Tete eS iy een 15. 00
Bol cal eYere ties mace ne eed ARE ee ee ET 5 Oe ape Bes le
Machinery, toolsGtem 2.0 22a ee eee 480. 53
Miscellaneous sees: ote ise) oe ee 837. 50
Paints: oils. Glass teteser 2525p eee 219. 32
Bostage andttelegraphit oss 22.0.6. See 174. 95

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Miscellaneous—Continued.

urebaserOmammalsen. fe. 6 Sec te oe $2, 634. 68
Road materials and grading .-..............-- 981. 61
SlalOMervesDOOKS ELC et Mee oa. he ase att 133. 63
ULVE VilllOw IAMS MCUC ena eo See awl e oe ee 622. 00
Qraveling and field expenses ~-.-...-.--=---:-- 454. 41
GU RECS 0) ENIRS CO Cini a dey te ee 13. 10
Water supply, Sewerage, etc = .2--22.2-2..-2-- DaLNoe
shotalemiscellamecoussee = 5- s ae ae ccs cei gee aa see $21, 460. 33

Wages of mechanics and laborers and hire of teams
in constructing buildings and inclosures, laying
water pipes, building roads, gutters, and walks,
planting trees, and otherwise improving the

grounds:
| ycarpenter, HOE Clbt bans 5oq Se nes ceoaoeree 168. 00
ivearpenter, 295 days; at $3... 222225. 2.22.24 88. 50
lhecarpenter, 29 days, atibo' 2.25. 2 Se oe 87. 00
iveanpenter,27 days,at bo... oles. Lec ee 81. 00
Iearpenter.<24 days; ate. 286 ee oe 72. 00
icarpenter, 14 days, apa 22 222262228 ee: 2 42. 00
iearpenter, 13 days, at $3 529.2222. 39. 00
icarpenter, 397 days, at/$3". 522 4.020. . 2s 2. 118. 50
Wearpenter; 29> days, at pose f225 252... 2 88. 50
iearpenter, 293 days; at: Go 222 Ge.) ot. 2 88. 50
iiccanpenter,, 24 days, at Po s.< io. feo ole ey! 72. 00
iweanpenter. 8 Caysr deo 2 ooo. ails df.) eo 2 24. 00
iicanpenter, 295 days: ab to.= 252 aa 64 Se 88. 50
tearpenter;, 2975 days, at $3 5222025522. 2 --= 892. 50
Popaimber<18idays, abt pore: See ode ay fee 54. 00

jlaborer, 5} days, at $1.50)
\painter, 71} days, at $3. j

i palMber a UAVS, eaibipe.<: Sei ane fy st. Sct 12. 00
iqpaiMters + Gays: sdb toe Ace ee! el 12. 00
iipainter Says auipacao: ss oss 22522 9. 00
Itinnmer. sop Cays..al po OU es oak N i  e 88. 12
i laborer, 365 days; at $2,002 2222225222252 912. 50
iabonen el2le day sheath p2.00 esse sei 302. 50
IMaboners28as dayewab p2 sere see Se ae 567. 50
IPlaborennaooldaycwmatta2no mee esas esa 730. 00
| iaborer co dayeratihers - sats vaste ahoe 2.2 12.00
| Regalia fll days, at $2..... \ sae
Borer 2642 days, at $1.50 [ree igre eoeire a
il \ynorlkanetos 10d) GENTS, Cin tM (Gee ocean ee oe ee oee 638. 75
Imboren loos ayse at pills (Ops 5s oa oe 234. 06
iglaboreryoGo daycuadtile(O sa5 S852 ee 638. 75
Iaboner, o4lgidaiyisy aitre lfOme= 2-9 see 597. 64
| lelaboner, 286) days, atrpl(One. = 27 - ssn Sa a 500. 50
| ilaborer a0 days, atPl (52.0220 ses. 25-52 530. 25
1 laborer, 253} days, at $1.75. . 2222. 2+--.<--- 443. 21
I laborer, 3653 days, at $1.50...:..=...:-.---- 548. 26
ilaborer.4 days at Slso0. 2s Ss cease 6. 00
iglaborenmre(Gsrdays, at ole 0) e255 55-225 =5 52-8 415.18

lwlaborer O¢s Gayswatipl. 502 3225 oso se Si. - 101. 64
LIT REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Wages of mechanics and laborers, etc. —Continued.
1 laborer, 365} days, at $1.50.......----.---- .. $548. 63
f190 days, at $1.50. .)

1 laborer \1791 days, at $1.75. ee 598. 68
1 laborer;.372 days; at $1.502222 3-2/5 .s2 s2ssaee 558. 02
1 laborer, 2824 days, at'$1.50° 22.2.0 S22 ese 423.77
I Taboreneziee days, atiol.b0 22222. eee 418. 14
laborer: 258. days; atiolio0= 42--2-ce oe eee 387. 01
1 laborer, 234} days, at.$1.50. 2-22-22... 2232. 351. 38
1 laborer, 228} days, at $1.50....-.- See ee 342. 39
1 laborer, 196} days, at-$1.50). ..2. <2. eno: 294. 37
1 laborer, 195} days, at‘$1.50.-. 242. sosee 293. 62
1 Jaborer, 171% days, at $1.50. 2.2.22: ..2-.--- 257. 63
1 laborer, 102% days, at $1.505.5 -2.25.-25..22 154. 13
1 laborer, 125} days, at $1,005. .-=.-.-..s:2..5 187. 88
1 laborer, 14% days; atiel.o0 2.2222 225 255. = oe 21.75
1 laborer, 254 days, at $1.50.........--..----- 38. 25
1 laborer; 81 days,at $1R00. 22252-22242. 2. = 121. 50
1 laborer, 100% days, at $1.50.-.......-..-.-..- 151.13
Iaborer, 199 days; at‘ $150. $22: e222 seeee 298. 50
i laborer, 23% days; at $150.2 22252222022) Sse 39. 63
i Jaborer, 339 dayswat'$l.00. 22-2520. 2ac2. c= 508. 50
1 laborer, 28} days, at $1.50....2....2.--22--- 43.12
I laborer, -23: days; at: $lo0-. 232 ase a eee 34. 50
1 laborer, 20 days, at-$i2502-222) > eee oe 30. 00
1 laborer, days, at. $1200.25. 42-20. seen. a 7.50
1 laborer, 103} days, at $1.50.........-.-.-.-- 154. 88
1 laborer; 313} days,at $l. 50b 2255. 22 ee 469. 88
J Jaborer, 944 days; at $1.50.2...-- 2 G2222--- 141.38
I laborer, 4 days; at $1550-. coesac ees ae 6. 00
1 laborer, 338% days, at'$1.50_-..:+.....2.2.-- 508. 13
1 laborer; (67 days, atrpl.o02 2222256. e oe 100. 50
laborer, 594 days; atceol.o0- sees eceseee eee 88. 88
: we flo days, at $1.25 nas
diasborer ee days, eal wee c eerste essteee 117.18
i laborer; 41 days; at $1.90. 4. Stee tee 61.50
tlaborer, 13, daysat$1;502 2225 tee ee ee 19. 50
laborer,78 days: at i502. aoe ee eee 12. 00
I Jaborer,,4 days, at $0020 oan 22 es eee ee 6. 00
Milaborer:2% days, atipill 00/25. 42s e eee 3.75
I Vaboren.2idays, atipillo0ee os i= = see eee 3. OO
1 laborer, 562idays, at $1.25 225255. eee ee 70. 31
(32 days, at $1.....- \ Ge oe

1 laborer \9561 days, at $1.25.f 7777-777 477. 33
Ijaborers W4sdays,-at $1.25225- = == eee 18. 12
Jelaborer; 36a daysyatol.20.. 2.2 sess seen 456. 25
1 laborer, 444 days; at. $125. <9 25 222 gees 55. 32
I Jaborer lt days atl 20. sas. ee eee 14. 06
I laborer, Alidaysvandil 25.2255) eee eee oe 14. 06
IMaborerps22idaysvati ples. - 2 32s eee eee 322. 75
Ilaborer<2637 days pati ple: oe eee 263. 75
Laborer, 2524 daysyatipl so secs -see eee eee 252. 75
Ilaborer6lsidaysyathp lee ee eer ser eer 61. 75
Jdlaborermbisdaysiateplisss sees ee ee 5. 75

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. LIII

Wages of mechanics and laborers, ete.—Continued.

5% days, at 75 cents
| laborer {4 SS \ 29 96
ORAS able ees, Sy Bie acts Lae $33. 32
iplaborermic days wabmoucentsic..25.25---..-2- 3.56
1 laborer, 12} days, at $1.50........- ae ae ns 18. 37

563 days, at Bes

1 laborer
30 days, at $1.50

tlaborer, 121g days iatel.o0...-.-....22....- 181. 87
imlaborerplesdayswabtipls2b: 20226022 2.5.25. = 15. 63
attendant 185 days, at 75 cents. .\ aes
eee 178 days, at $1_...... || eae LEIS
1 attendant, 278 days, at 75 cents........--.-.. 208. 50
IPattendant .athio Cents ese aes ee ee ace .75
iattendant,,.93 days\.ab 7o cents.--2--)---=-.- = 69. 75
attendant ieee days, at 75 cents) 307. 89
laborer 1223 days, at $1.....- J
* attendant, 26} days, at 50 cents......_.....- 13. 12
1 weeder, 188 days, at 75 cents.........-.---- 141.03
1 water boy, 121 days, at 50 cents .......----.- 60. 50
1 water boy, 2193 days, at 50. cents -.......--- 109. 89
1 water boy, 342? days, at 50 cents -.......-.- 171.38
1 water boy, 12 days, at 50 cents -......-....- 6. 00
1 water boy, 61 days, at 50 cents ............- 30. 50
1 water boy, 49 days, at 50 cents ..-..-.----.- 24.50
1 water boy, 282 days, at 50 cents _..........- 14. 37
1 water boy, 123 days, at 50 cents _-.......... 6. 25
1 wagon and team, # day, at $3............... 2.25
1 wagon and team, 223 days, at $3. .-......--- 67.50
1 wagon and team, 194} days, at $3.....-....- 582. 75
1 wagon and team, 53 days, at $3.-.....--.--- 16.50
1 horse and cart, 1553 days, at $1.50.....-.-.- 233. 62
1 horse and cart, 30} days, at $1.50.-.......-- 45. 37
| 1 horse and cart, 673 days, at $1.50..........- LOL. 25
1 horse and cart, 8 days, at $1.50............- 12. 00
| 1 horse and cart, 11} days, at $1.50.........-- 16. 88
| 1 horse and cart, 163 days, at $1.50........--- 24.75
| 1 horse and cart, 293 days, at $1.50.........-- 44.25
| 1 horse and cart, 172 days, at $1.50..........- 26. 63
1 horse and cart, 8 days, at $1.50 ...........-- 12.00
1 horse and cart, 7 days, at $1.50.....-.....-- 10.50
1 horse and cart, 7 days, at $1.50 .........--.-- 10. 50
Phore, ty daysatihlos200)). 222 2 2kz 2 oe 1.50
ishorse: 20/2 days, at ol centas. 202 6.2.2 5225 : 148. 88
stonebreaker, 137 cubic yards, at 60 cents -| 209. 71
laborerrcowdayssatipleoU ne .2 sea cee j
1 stonebreaker, 92} cubic yards, at 60 cents -- - 55. 65
1 stonebreaker, 343 cubic yards, at 60 cents - - - 20. 70
Rotalswacesion mechanics) ete--s--- 2-42 442 4252555 --- $23, 238. 98
Motaledishursements;-. s- 422. j2.52245525 = Pe ee ee oy ee $65, 197. 71

Sete nyel OO te yee ee hs es tances e caked seine ate 9, 802. 29
LIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. ¢:
y
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1900. 4
Balance July 15 *11900;-as:perilast. reportz==s-- eee ase = ee ees $14, 907. 46
Transferred to Commissioners District of Columbia (sundry
civiliact,.Junei6, 1900 )\ee: = = 22 ee eee ees 5, 000. 00

ay SORONT. 4G

General expenses:

BU INOS S28 ta = at ye Moe ee mete ee ee ee ee eee $115. 20
BOOKS. Ser st ed. 7: Sc, 2es. ie yo tee Oe 318. 65 }
Camerasiz..: 28595 2.2 22 set 2 eee oe Serene ie ees ee 445. 00
Hencing ‘and cage: muterial a2 =. aoe ssee= 4s eee 1, 046. 35 4
1 B/G 7076 [epee Marmemtran ine ct Ni 5 Maat Lier Bi tyr ples ee eo J Al nase 8 AN 1, 288. 92
Miele <2. Beige oe oe oe  ee e 145. 39
HMurmitures 2 2 Stee ok 2 Te ae yee a ene eee 60. 00
BEL bite 2 Se Se eg tee et ee eee ere, Tee 689. 13
Boing oY) cgeraneeeMee es me anergy sexe oneness Aan Nara eS ee 328. 83
Machineryetools\ete. ste 4:2 eh oo. a oe en ee 261. 97
Miscellaneous: 2.5 .5.S2ne oo ane ceo oe oe ee See ee 122. 87
Paints: coll. lass weber stags cc lasts cae ee ee 40. 97
Postage, telephone, and telegraph -. 2-22.02. 2.eec2-28 75. 94
Purchase of animals (25-6 20 oe ee ee ere 236. 00
Roadimaterial/and erading.= oes. 2. a2 eee ee ee 1, 338. 84
Specialiservices .0 2.2. see eee = ee ee ee ee 480. 00
Surveying, plans: Cte). 22-2 Saas = Se ee 984. 00
Traveling and field: expensesj225-5.222-20e tse 2 ose 629. 23
Trees.plants;- Cte. 2's Seles ee eee eee eee eee 710. 60
Wratersupply, sewerage, ete oe 2 besa te eee 195. 27
Total disbursements... 2.22.14... ence host eee = alee ee eee $9, 513. 16
Balancets 25 ....0 5. 220et ee So 42 eee eee eee 394. 30

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1899.

Balance July, 1900; asperlast report = 2222 oe ee eee $82. 31

DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:

(Bookss2 08 2. Sec 2322 ite se Phe eee ee ee ee ee $3.18
Miscellaneous ® .....24.5 2450 ee ee ee nee ee eee 13-67
Specialiservices: .. o=-sete. aoc corer ee See ee ee 50. 00
POStAGC aes crak ia ee See ee eee ee miele ce 2. 00
Total disbursements: ee 2oe ee ee eee ee ok eee $68. 85
Balanees 2.250. CMe We ee ee ee eee ee 13. 46

Balance carried under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 8090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1901.
RECAPITULATION.
The total amount of funds administered by the Institution during the year ending
June 30, 1901, appears from the foregoing statements and the account books to have

been as follows:
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

From? balance:ot last year, July 1,-1900 252225ses-2e=- sees $76, 219. 07
From interest on Smithsonian fund for the year ._...------- 54, 720. 00
From interest on West Shore bonds ....-........---.------ 1, 680. 00
From sales of publications: :2=-2 oy. c2. shes ect cea eee 188. 59
From repayments: olireight vets 2-2-5. 3-88. eee 10, 240. 80

$143, 048. 46

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE

APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS TO THE CARE OF THE INSTITUTION,

International exchanges—Smithsonian Institution:
Firomupalance an WS98—OOk a. ae see eee

American ethnology—Smithsonian Institution:
zy
Hromabalanceonl898—99)- 8 > hat oe

Preservation of collections—National Museum:
KromubalancelOr el eos —99 oe eat fe) Re ee

Heating and lighting, etc.—National Museum:
roms balan ceo 9809 ese acer a ae ae

Postage—National Museum:

From appropriation for 1900-1901 _-......------

Printing—National Museum:

From appropriation for 1900-1901 ....-....-----

Rent of workshops, etc.—National Museum:

Rirombubalanceron 1k98=998 5 es a eee

Building repairs—National Museum:

From balance of 1898-99... 2.2.2.1.2... 222.2:

Galleries—National Museum:

HroMmEodlancerOtetsoS—9 0s = aaa eee ee

Books—National Museum:

Purchase of specimens—National Museum:

From appropriation for 1900-1901 ......-......-
Astrophysical Observatory—Smithsonian Institution:
rom Wslance Ol leg8-O9-temar Tk a sat oe ee

Observation of eclipse of May 28, 1900:

Brom balance July deto00. <2 =< 22 fees Ses

National Zoological Park:

HronmbalanceOt Cos=O9 maarm sae te oe eee te

COMMITTER.

$1.59
2. 588. 83

24, 000. 00

92.48
2, 147. 35
50, 000. 00

1.53
)edlaysy fey

180, 000. 00

561. 96

17, 500. 00

251. 07

1, 215. 78

82. 31
9, 907. 46
75, 000. 00

$26, 540.

18, 076.5

LV

42

18, 061. 97

500.

17, 000:

2, 903.

10, 000.

13, 219.

1,529.5

84, 989.

. 16

80
00

~]
~j
LVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

SUMMARY,

Smithsonian Institutlons.vesssnccee eee see ee ee eee eee $148, 048. 46
EX CBRN GOR ids < siz aletecaie se wleelslete ere mine 57 /o DORIS aL Ie See eee 26, 540. 42
Ethmolowy: 2.2 esto vita g oes alee ot icicles eerie er ee as 52, 239. 83
Preservation.oMecollections....+sce sc sses «ee pete eee oe 189, 135. 35
Rurniturevandsnxeturediss.. nc cc see se eeclcee coat teen 18, 076. 59
Fleatinoandliehting. ose <0 cence eas ca cerecieeeis ese es mere 18, 061. 97
PORTAL Bei e.s/ae wad 6.000 Wlace’s cary ate n pibinte © aietncne octal eee 500. 00
Printing 2. q3-\occh<, Coe siw ere cee te meee ee eee eee eee 17, 000, OO
Rent or workshops. ..<+.> seve dectee ces a toerereeeseet eee: 4, 150. 16
Building vepalras. aco os ees eae eee so osent ot aeee ne 15, 251. 98
GalleTiOS'ets.c:c wales eo a0 eve tua ls Sree ne eee wins te Rie ee ee eae 205. 79
BOGS soeosicies & puctgia Sigle olece wie wip biole wales miei oe oie eae ie eee eee 2,903. 80
Purchase oLspecimensi; <2... cress ceeds weceae cc ee eee mee 10, 000. 00
Astrophysical Observatory. 32. .en.+ncee ceesicseerece es tere: 13, 219. 75
Observation of eclipse of May 28, 1900 ..........-.-...-..- 1, 529. 20
National. Zoolovical Park... t.4. 222 ac acev.ck bocce ate sees 84, 989. 77

596, 853. 07

The committee has examined the youchers for payment from the
Smithsonian income during the year ending June 380, 1901, each of
which bears the approval of the Secretary or, in his absence, of the
actine Secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services
charged were applied to the purposes of the Institution.

The committee has also examined the accounts of the several appro-
priations committed by Congress to the Institution, and finds that the
balances hereinbefore given correspond with the certificates of the
disbursing clerk of the Smithsonian Institution, whose appointment as
such disbursing officer has been accepted and his bond approved by the
Secretary of the Treasury.

The quarterly accounts current, the vouchers, and journals have been
examined and found correct.

Statement of regular income from the Smithsonian fund available for use in the year ending
June 80, 1902.

Balance Duly 15 TOOT. aic.ws cesicle «cave pieveieisteve peicerare mista srareincr tic aiorete anaes $83, 963. 26
(Including cash from executors of J. H. Kidder) .......----- $5, OOO. OO
(Including cash from Dr, Alex. Graham Bell)........-..-.--- 5, 000. 00

10, 000. 00

Interest due and receivable July 1, 1901..............----.-- 27, 360, 00
Interest due and receivable January 1, 1902........-.--...-- 27, 360. 00
Interest, West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1, 1901.. .... 840. 00
Interest, West Shore Railroad bonds, due January 1, 1902 -_- 840. 00
epee 186 000) 00
Total available for year ending June 30, 1902............-.---.-- 140, 368, 26

Respectfully submitted.
J. B. HenpeErson,
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,
Ronerr Rk. Hrrv,
vivecutive Committee.
Wasurinaton, D. C., January 14, 1902.

ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ETC.

{Continued from preyious Reports. |

[Fifty-sixth Congress, second session. ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Resolved by the Senate and Touse of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the vacancy in the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution of the class other than
members of Congress, caused by the death of William Lyne Wilson,
of Virginia, shall be filled by the appointment of George Gray, a resi-
dent of Delaware. (Approved January 14, 1901; Statutes, XX-XI,
1459.)

That facilities for study and research in the Government Depart-
ments, the Library of Congress, the National Museum, the Zoological
Park, the Bureau of Ethnology, the Fish Commission, the Botanic
Gardens, and similar institutions hereafter established shall be afforded
to scientific investigators and to duly qualified individuals, students,
and graduates of institutions of learning in the several States and Ter-
ritories, as well as in the District of Columbia, under such rules and
restrictions as the heads of the Departments and Bureaus mentioned
may prescribe. (Approved March 3, 1901; Statutes, XX XI, 1039.)

SmiTHSONIAN Deposit [Liprary or Coneress|.—For custodian, one
thousand five hundred dollars; one assistant, one thousand two hundred
dollars; one messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars; one mes-
senger boy, three hundred and sixty dollars;*in all, three thousand
seven hundred and eighty dollars. (Approved March 3, 1901; Statutes,
XXXI, 970.)

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

For expenses of the system of international exchanges between the
United States and foreign countries, under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution, including salaries or compensation of all necessary
employees, and the purchase of necessary books and periodicals,

LVII
LVIT1 ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

twenty-four thousand dollars. (Approved March 38, 1901; Statutes,
XX XI, 1146.)

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, CONTINGENT EXPENsES.—To pay the
account of the Smithsonian Institution for the transmission of mail
matter for the Treasury Department for the fiscal years as follows:

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and one, two hundred and forty-
four dollars and five cents.

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred, four hundred and fifty-three
dollars and fifty cents. (Approved March. 3, 1901; Statutes, XX XI,
1012.)

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

For cases, furniture, fixtures, and appliances required for the exhi-
bition and safe-keeping of the collections of the National Museum,
including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees, twenty
thousand dollars.

For expense of heating, lighting, electrical, telegraphic, and tele-
phonic service for the National Museum, including five thousand dol-
lars for electric installation, twenty-three thousand dollars.

For removing old boilers in the National Museum building, and for
the purchase and installation of new boilers, including material and
labor for necessary alterations and connections, twelve thousand five
hundred dollars.

For continuing the preservation, exhibition, and increase of the col-
lections from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the Govern-
ment, and from other sources, including salaries or compensation of
all necessary employees, one hundred and eighty thousand dollars, of
which sum five thousand five hundred dollars may be used for neces-
sary drawings and illustrations for publications of the National
Museum; and all other necessary incidental expenses.

For purchase of specimens to supply deficiencies in the collections
of the National Museum, ten thousand dollars.

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals for reference in
the National Museum, two thousand dollars.

For repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds, National Museum, includ-
ing all necessary labor and material, fifteen thousand dollars.

For construction of two galleries in the National Museum building,
five thousand dollars.

For rent of workshops and temporary storage quarters for the
National Museum, four thousand four hundred dollars.

For postage stamps and foreign postal cards for the National
Museum, five hundred dollars. (Approved March 3, 1901; Statutes,
XX XI, 1147.)

For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing labels and blanks, and
for the ** Bulletins” and ‘* Proceedings” of the National Museum, the

ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LIX

editions of which shall not be less than three thousand copies, and
binding, in half turkey, or material not more expensive, scientific
books and pamphlets presented to and acquired by the National
Museum Library, seventeen thousand dollars. (Approved March 3,
1901; Statutes, X X XI, 1187.)

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

For continuing ethnological researches among the American, Indians,
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries
or compensation of all necessary employees and the purchase of neces-
sary books and periodicals, fifty thousand dollars, of which sum not
exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars may be used for rent of
building. (Approved March 3, 1901; Statutes, XX XI, 1146.)

For payment of outstanding accounts for transportation incurred
during the fiscal year eighteen hundred and ninety-seven under the
appropriation ‘* North American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution,”
forty-seven dollars and sixty-one cents. (Approved March 3, 1901;
Statute, XX XI, 1018.)

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

For continuing the construction of roads, walks, bridges, water
supply, sewerage, and drainage; and for grading, planting, and other-
wise improving the grounds; erecting and repairing buildings and
inclosures; care, subsistence, purchase, and transportation of animals;
including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees; the
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, the printing and publish-
ing of operations, not exceeding one thousand five hundred copies, and
general incidental expenses not otherwise provided for, eighty thou-
sand dollars; one-half of which sum shall be paid from the revenues
of the District of Columbia and the other half from the Treasury of the
United States; and of the sum hereby appropriated five thousand dol-
lars shall be used for continuing the entrance into the Zoological Park
from Cathedral avenue and opening driveway into Zoological Park,
including necessary grading and removal of earth. (Approved March 3,
1901; Statutes, X X-XI, 1147.)

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

For maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory, under the direction
of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries of assistants, the
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, printing and
publishing results of researches, not exceeding one thousand five hun-
dred copies, repairs and alterations of buildings, and miscellaneous
expenses, twelve thousand dollars. That the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution is directed to report to Congress on the first day of
LX ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

the next regular session an entire account of all appropriations hereto-
fore expended by the Astrophysical Observatory, what results have
been reached, and what is the present condition of the work of said
observatory. (Approved March 3, 1901; Statutes, XX XI, 1146.)

BIRDS AND EGGS FOR SCIENTIFIC PURPOSES.

AN ACT To amend an Act entitled ‘‘An Act for the protection of birds, preservation
of game, and for the prevention of its sale during certain closed seasons, in the
District of Columbia.”’

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,

‘Src. 3. That for the purposes of this Act the following only shall
be considered game birds: The Anatidee, commonly known as swans,
geese, brant, river and sea ducks; the Rallidze, commonly known as
‘ails, coots, mud hens, and gallinules; the Limicole, commonly known
as shore birds, plovers, surf birds, snipe, woodcock, sandpipers, tat-
tlers, and curlews; the Gallinee, commonly known as wild turkeys,
grouse, prairie chickens, pheasants, partridges, and quails; and the
species of Icteridze, commonly known as marsh blackbirds and reed
birds or rice birds.

‘*That no person shall kill, catch, expose for sale, or have in his
or her possession, living or dead, any wild bird other than a game
bird, English sparrow, crow, Cooper’s hawk, sharpshinned hawk, or
great horned owl; nor rob the nest of any such wild bird of eggs or
young; nor destroy such nest except in the clearing of land of trees
or brush, under a penalty of five dollars for every such bird killed,
caught, exposed for sale, or had in his or her possession, either dead
or alive, and for each nest destroyed, and in default thereof to be
imprisoned in the workhouse for a period not exceeding thirty days:
Provided, That this section shall not apply to birds or eggs collected
for scientific purposes under permits issued by the superintendent of
police of the District of Columbia in accordance with such instructions
as the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution may prescribe, such
permits to be in force for one year from date of issue and nontrans-
ferable.” (Approved March 3, 1901; Statutes, X-X-XI, 1091.)

WORLD’S COLUMBIAN COMMISSION.

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring),
That there be printed three thousand five hundred copies of so much
of the report of the committee on awards of the World’s Columbian
Commission as is contained in the special reports upon special subjects
or groups as were prepared by expert judges authorized to act by the
World’s Coiumbian Commission, its executive committee on awards,

———————
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LXI

the committee on final report, or the board of reference and control,
of which one thousand shall be for the use of the Senate, two thou-
sand for the use of the House of Representatives, and five hundred
for distribution by the Department of State. (Passed Senate May 31,
1900; passed House March 1, 1901; Statutes, XX XI, concurrent
resolutions, 14.)

TENNESSEE CENTENNIAL EXPOSITION.

Resolved by the Senate and [House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That somuch as may be nec-
essary of the unexpended balance of the appropriation of one hundred
thousand dollars provided in section three of the Act to aid and encour-
age the holding of the Tennessee Centennial Exposition at Nashville
in eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, approved December twenty-
second, eighteen hundred and ninety-six, be applied to the preparation
of illustrations and the printing and binding at the Government Print-
ing Office of six thousand copies of the report of the board of man-
agement of the United States Government exhibit at said exposition,
under the direction of the chairman of said board. (Approved,
March 2, 1901; Statutes, XX XI, 1464.)

LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION.

AN ACT To provide for celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of the purchase
of the Louisiana territory by the United States by holding an international exhi-
bition of arts, industries, manufactures, and the products of the soil, mine, forest,
and sea in the city of Saint Louis, in the State of Missouri.

Whereas it is fit and appropriate that the one hundredth anniversary
of the purchase of the Louisiana territory be commemorated by an
exhibition of the resources of the territory, their development, and
of the progress of the civilization therein; and

Whereas such an exhibition should be of a national and international
character, so that not only the people of that territory, but of our
Union, and of all nations as well, can participate, and should there-
fore have the sanction of the Congress of the United States: There-
fore,

Beit enacted by the Senateand House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That an exhibit of arts,
industries, manufactures, and products of the soil, mine, forest, and
sea shall be inaugurated in the year nineteen hundred and three, in
the city of Saint Louis, in the State of Missouri, as herein provided.

Sec. 2. That a nonpartisan commission is hereby constituted, to
consist of nine commissioners, to be known and designated as the
‘* Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission,” who shall be appointed,
within thirty days from the passage of this Act, by the President of
the United States, and who shall also be subject to removal by him.
LXIil ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

Vacancies in said commission to be filled in the same manner as original
appointmerts.

Sec. 3. That the commissioners so appointed shall be called together
by the Secretary of State of the United States, in the city of Saint
Louis, by notice to the commissioners, as soon as convenient after the
appointment of said commissioners, and within thirty days thereafter.
The said commissioners, at said first meeting, shall organize by the
election of their officers, and they may then, or thereafter, appoint
such executive or other committees as may be deemed expedient, and
a secretary at a salary of three thousand dollars per annum; that in
addition to the salary of the secretary of said commission there is
hereby allowed, out of any money appropriated to aid in carrying
forward said exposition, the sum of ten thousand dollars per annum,
or so much thereof as may be necessary, for the purpose of detraying
the clerical, office, and other necessary expenses of said commission,

Src. 4. That said commission, when fully organized under the pro-
visions of this Act, shall appoint two of their number to act in con-
junction with a like number appointed by the Louisiana Purchase
Exposition Company, to constitute a board of arbitration, to whom all
matters of difference arising between said commissionand said company,
concerning the administration, management, or general supervision of
said exposition, including all matters of difference arising out of the
power given by this Act to the said company or to the said national
commission to modify or approve any act of the other of the two
bodies, shall be referred for determination; and in the case of the fail-
ure of said board of arbitration to agree upon such matters as may be
so referred, said board of arbitration shall appoint a fifth member
thereof; and in case of the failure of the said board to agree upon a
fifth member, such fifth member shall then be appointed by the Secre-
tary of the Treasury. And the decision of said board shall be final in
all matters presented to it for consideration and determination.

Sec. 5. That said commission be empowered, in its discretion, to
accept, for the purposes of the exposition herein authorized, such site
as may be ‘selected and offered, and such plans and specifications of
buildings for such purpose at the expense of and tendered by the
corporation organized under the laws of the State of Missouri, known
as ** The Louisiana Purchase Exposition Company.”

Sec. 6. That the allotment of space for exhibitors, classification of
exhibits, plan and scope of the exposition, the appointment of all
judges and examiners for the exposition, and the awarding of
premiums. if any, shall all be done and performed by the said Louisi-
ana Purchase Exposition Company, subject, however, to the approval
of the commission created by section 2 of this Act; and said com-
mission is hereby authorized to appoint a board of lady managers, of
such number and to perform such duties as may be prescribed by said

ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LXIIlI

commission, subject, however, to the approvat of said company. Said
hoard of lady managers may, in the discretion of said commission and
corporation, appoint one member of all committees authorized to
award prizes for such exhibits as may have been produced in whole or
in part by female labor.

Src. 7. That after the plans for said exposition shall be prepared
by said company and approved by said commission the rules and regu-
lations of said corporation governing rates for entrance and admission
fees or otherwise affecting the rights, privileges, or interests of the
exhibitors, or of the public, shall be fixed or established by said com-
pany, subject, however, to the modification or approval of said com-
mission.

Sec. 8. That said commission shall provide for the dedication of
the buildings of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, in said city of Saint
Louis, not later than the thirtieth day of April, nineteen hundred and
three, with appropriate ceremonies, and thereafter said exposition
shall be opened to visitors at such time as may be designated by said
company, subject to the approval of said commission, not later than
the first day of May, nineteen hundred and three, and shall be closed
at such time as the national commission may determine, subject to the
approval of said company, but not later than the first day of December
thereafter.

Sec. 9. That whenever the President of the United States shall be
notified by the national commission that provision has been made for
grounds and buildings for the uses herein provided for, he shall be
authorized to make proclamation of the same, through the Depart-
ment of State, setting forth the time at which said exposition will be
held, and the purpose thereof; and he shall communicate to the diplo-
matic representatives of foreign nations copies thereof, together with
such regulations as may be adopted by the commission, for publication
in their respective countries; and he shall, in behalf of the Govern-
ment and the people, invite foreign nations to take part in the said
exposition and to appoint representatives thereto.

Sec. 10. That all articles which shall be imported from foreign
countries for the sole purpose of exhibition at said exposition, upon
which there shall be a tariff or customs duty, shall be admitted free of
payment of duty, customs fees, or charges, under such regulations as
the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe; but it shall be lawful
at any time during the exposition to sell, for delivery at the close
thereof, any goods or property imported for and actually on exhibition
in the exposition buildings or on the grounds, subject to such regula-
tions for the security of the revenue and for the collection of import
duties as the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe: Provided,
That all such articles, when sold or withdrawn for consumption in the
United States, shall be subject to the duty, if any, imposed upon such
articles by the revenue laws in force at the date of importation, and
LXIV ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

all penalties prescribed by law shall be applied and enforced against
such articles and against the person who may be guilty of any illegal
sale or withdrawal.

Sec. 11. That it shall be the duty of the national commission to
make reports monthly to the President of the United States, showing
receipts and disbursements and giving a general summary of the
financial condition of said exposition, and a final report within six
months after the close of the exposition, presenting the results and a
full exhibit thereof.

Src. 12. That the national commission hereby authorized shall cease
to exist on the first day of January, nineteen hundred and five.

Src. 13. That the United States shall not in any manner nor under
any circumstances be liable for any of the acts, doings, proceedings,
or representations of the said Louisiana Purchase Exposition Com-
pany, its officers, agents, or employees, or any of them, or for the
service, salaries, labor, or wages of said officers, agents, servants, or
employees, or any of them, or for any subscriptions to the capital
stock, or for any certificates of stock, bonds, mortgages, or obligations
of any kind issued by said corporation, or for any debts, liabilities, or
expenses of any kind whatever attending such corporation or accruing
by reason of the same.

Src. 14. That there shall be exhibited at said exposition by the Gov-
ernment of the United States from its Executive Departments, the
Smithsonian Institution, the National Museum, the United States Com-
mission of Fish and Fisheries, and the Department of Labor, such arti-
cles and material as illustrate the function and administrative faculty
of the Government in time of peace and its resources as a war power,
tending to demonstrate the nature of our institutions and their adapta-
tion to the wants of the people; and the Bureau of the American Repub-
lics is hereby invited to make an exhibit illustrating the resources and
international relations of the American Republics, and space in the
United States Government building shall be provided for the purpose of
said exhibit; and to secure a complete and harmonious arrangement of
such Government exhibit a board, to be known as the United States
Government board, shall be created, independent of the commission
hereinbefore provided, to be charged with the selection, purchase,
preparation, transportation, arrangement, installation, safe-keeping,
exhibition, and return of such articles and material as the heads of the
several Executive Departments, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, the Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, the Commissioner of
Labor, and the Director of the Bureau of the American Republics may,
respectively, decide shall be embraced in said Government exhibit. The
President may also designate additional articles for exhibition. Such
board shall be composed of one person to be named by the head of each
Executive Department, one by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, one by the Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, ene by the

i,
{
|
|

pooh

ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LXV

Commissioner of Labor, and one by the Director of the Bureau of
American Republics. The President shall name one of said persons so
detailed as chairman, and the board itself shall appoint its secretary,
disbursing officer, and such other officers as it may deem necessary.
The members of said board of management, with other officers and
employees of the Government who may be detailed to assist them,
including officers of the Army and Navy, shail receive no compensation
in addition to their regular salaries, but they shall be allowed their
actual and necessary traveling expenses, together with a per diem in
heu of subsistence, to be fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury, while
necessarily absent from their homes engaged upon the business of the
board. Officers of the Army and Navy shall receive this allowance in
lieu of the transportation and mileage now allowed by law. Any pro-
vision of law which may prohibit the detail of persons in the employ
of the United States to other service than that which they customarily
perform shall not apply to persons detailed for duty in connection
with the said Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Employees of the board
not otherwise employed by the Government shall be entitled to such
compensation as the board may determine. The disbursing officer
shall give bond in the sum of thirty thousand dollars for the faithful
performance of his duties, said bond to be approved by the Secretary
of the Treasury. The Secretary of the Treasury shall advance to said
officer from time to time, under such regulations as the Secretary of
the Treasury may prescribe, a sum of money from the appropriation
hereafter to be made for the Government exhibit, not exceeding at
any one time the penalty of his bond, to enable him to pay the ex-
penses of exhibit as authorized by the board of management herein
created.

Sec. 15. That the Secretary of the Treasury is nereby authorized
and directed to place on exhibition, in connection with the exhibit of
his Department, upon such grounds as shall be allotted for the pur-
pose, one of the life-saving stations authorized to be constructed on
the coast of the United States by existing law, and to cause the same
to be fully equipped with all apparatus, furniture, and appliances now
in use in all life-saving stations in the United States.

Src. 16. That the Secretary of the Treasury shall cause a suitable
building or buildings to be erected on the site selected for the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition for the Government exhibits, as provided in this
Act, and he is hereby authorized and directed to contract therefor in
the same manner and under the same regulations as for other public
buildings of the United States; but the contracts for said building or
buildings shall not exceed the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars, which sum, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appro-
priated, to defray the expense of erecting said Government building or
buildings hereby authorized. The Secretary of the Treasury shall

sm 1901 Vv

LXVI ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

cause the said building or buildings to be constructed from plans to be
approved by said Government board; and he is authorized and required
to dispose of such building or buildings, or the material composing
the same, at the close of the exposition, giving preference to the city
of Saint Louis or to the said Louisiana Purchase Exposition Company
to purchase the same at an appraised value, to be ascertained in such
manner as he may determine.

Sec. 17. That the commissioners appointed by the President under
the authority of this Act shall receive as compensation for their serv-
ices and expenses the sum of five thousand dollars each per annum,
the same to be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury and deducted
from any money appropriated for said exposition.

Sec. 18. That no member of said commission or of said Government
board, whether an officer or otherwise, shall be personally liable for
any debt or obligation which may be created or incurred by the said
commission or by the said United States Government board herein
authorized.

Src. 19. That whereas the Secretary of the Treasury has certified,
under date of February sixth, nineteen hundred and one, that the Loui-
siana Purchase Exposition Company has presented to him proof to his
satisfaction that it has raised ten million dollars for and on account of
inaugurating and carrying forward an exposition at the city of Saint
Louis, Missouri, in the year nineteen hundred and three, to celebrate
the one hundredth anniversary of the purchase of the Louisiana Ter-
ritory; therefore there is hereby appropriated, out of any money in
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of five million dol-
lars, to aid in carrying forward such exposition, to pay the salaries of
the members and secretary of the national Commission herein author-
ized, and such other necessary expenses as may be incurred by said
commission in the discharge of its duties in connection with said
exposition, and to discharge all other obligations incurred by the
Government on account of said exposition, except for the erection of
its own buildings and the making and care of its own exhibits at said
exposition. That the money hereby appropriated shall be disbursed
under the direction of the said Louisiana Purchase Exposition Com-
pany under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of
the Treasury and upon vouchers to be approved by him: Provided,
That, except for the payment of the salaries and expenses of the
national commission, no part of said appropriation shall become
available until the sum of ten million dollars shall have been expended
by said company on account of said exposition to the satisfaction of
the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided further, That all sums
expended by the Government on account of said exposition, including
the salaries and expenses of said national commission, except for the
erection of its own buildings and the making and care of its own

pet ma

ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LXVII

exhibits at said exposition, shall be limited to and paid out of the
appropriation of five million dollars herein provided for such purpose.

Sec. 20. That there shall be repaid into the Treasury of the United
States the same proportionate amount of the aid given by the United
States as shall be repaid to either the Louisiana Purchase Exposition
Company or the city of Saint Louis: /rov/ded, That this section shall
not be taken or construed to give the United States a right to share in
the proceeds of said exposition beyond the actual amount appropriated
to aid in carrying forward said exposition.

Sec. 21. That any bank or trust company located in the city of
Saint Louis, or State of Missouri, may be designated by the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition Company to conduct a banking office upon the
exposition grounds, and if the bank so designated shall be a national
bank, upon such designation being approved by the. Comptroller of
the Currency, said national bank is hereby authorized to open and
conduct such office as a branch of the bank, subject to the same restric-
tions and having the same rights as the bank to which it belongs:
Provided, That the branch office authorized hereby, if the same shall
be a branch of a national bank, shall not be operated for a period
longer than two years, beginning not earlier than July first, nineteen
hundred and two, and closing not later than July first, nineteen hun-
«dred and four.

Sec. 22. That no citizen of any foreign country shall be held lable
for the infringement of any patent granted by the United States, or of
any trade-mark or label registered in the United States, where the act
complained of is or shall be performed in connection with the exhibi-
tion of any article or thing at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.

Src. 23. That the Secretary of War be, and he hereby is authorized,
at his discretion, to detail for special duty, in connection with the
Louisiana Purchase Exposition, such officers of the Army as may be
required, to report to the general commanding the Department of
Missouri; and the officers thus detailed shall not be subject to loss of
pay or rank on account of such detail, nor shall any officer or employee
of the United States receive additional pay or compensation because
of services connected with the said exposition from the United States
or from said exposition.

Sec. 24. That nothing in this Act shall be so construed as to create
any liability of the United States, direct or indirect, for any debt or
obligation incurred, nor for any claim for aid or pecuniary assistance
from Congress or the Treasury of the United States in support or
liquidation of any debts or obligations created by said commission.

Sec. 25. That as a condition precedent to the payment of this appro-
priation the directors shall contract to close the gates to visitors on
Sundays during the whole duration of the fair. (Approved March 3,
1901; Statutes XX XI, 1440.)
Rese) eT

OF

Sinema ean Gril BX,

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, L9OL.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.
GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to present herewith my
report showing the operations of the Institution during the
year ending June 30, 1901, including the work placed under
its direction by Congress, in the United States National
Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Interna-
tional Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, and the
Astrophysical Observatory. ;
Following the precedent of several years, I have given, in
the body of this report, a general account of the affairs of
the Institution and its bureaus, while the appendix presents
more detailed statements by the persons in direct charge of
the different branches of the work. Independently of this,
the operations of the National Museum are fully treated ina
separate volume of the Smithsonian Report, and the Report
of the Bureau of American Ethnology constitutes a volume
prepared under the supervision of the Director of that Bureau.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
THE ESTABLISHMENT.

By act of Congress approved August 10, 1846, the Smith-
sonian Institution was created an Establishment. Its statutory
members are the President, the Vice-President, the Chief
Justice of the United States, and the heads of the Executive
Departments. The prerogative of the Establishment is ** the

sm 1901——1 1
2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

supervision of the affairs of the Institution and the advice and
instruction of the Board of Regents.”

On March 4, 1901, the vacancy in the membership of the
Establishment which had existed since the death of Vice-Presi-
dent Hobart, on November 21, 1899, was filled by the election
of the Hon. Theodore Roosevelt to the Vice-Presidency. The
Hon. John W. Griggs resigned as Attorney-General and was
succeeded by the Hon. P. C. Knox.

As organized on June 30, the Establishment consisted of
the following ex-officio members:

WiuiiaM McKinney, President of the United States.

THEODORE Roosevent, Vice-President of the United
States.

MELVILLE W. Fuuuer, Chief Justice of the United
States.

JoHN Hay, Secretary of State.

Lyman J. Gace, Secretary of the Treasury.

Exiau Root, Secretary of War.

PHILANDER C. Knox, Attorney-General.

CHARLES Emory Situ, /ostmaster- General.

Joun D. Lone, Secretary of the Navy.

ETHAN ALLEN Hrrcncock, Secretary of the Interior.

JAMES Witson, Secretary of Agriculture.

BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board consists of the Vice-President and the Chief
Justice of the United States as ex-officio members, three
members of the Senate, three members of the House of
Representatives, and six citizens, ‘‘two of whom shall be
residents of the city of Washington and the other four shall
be inhabitants of some State, but no two of them of the
same State.”

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents
adopted January, 1890, by which its annual meeting occurs
on the fourth Wednesday of each year, the Board met on
January 23, 1901, at 10 o’clock a. m.

The following is an abstract of its proceedings, which will
be found in detail in the annual report of the Board to
Congress:

The Secretary announced the death on October 17, 1900, of
Dr. William Lyne Wilson, and said that he could not refrain

Pr

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

from expressing his own personal sense of loss at the removal
of one whose broad scholarship and large experience in public
affairs were joined to a disposition which made him at once the
most valued and sympathetic of counselors. The Hon. J. B.
Henderson, chairman of the Executive Committee, also made
some personal references to Mr. Wilson, which together with
the action of the Board in his memory will be found under
the head of ‘t Necrology.”

The vacancy in the Board caused by the death of Mr. Wilson
was filled by the appointment of the Hon. George Gray
through a resolution of Congress approved January 14, 1901.

The Secretary presented his report of the operations of the
Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, calling
especial attention to the subject of the Exchanges, in whose
behalf he had visited England, France, and Germany, and had
endeavored to secure better arrangements with those coun-
tries, and he hoped that from France and perhaps from Ger-
many fuller returns might be expected.

He also spoke of the Zoological Park and his desire that
the Government would place in that city of refuge for the
vanishing animal races of the North American continent, some
specimens of the giant animals of Alaska.

Mr. Hitt here brought to the attention of the Board the
oration which had been delivered upon the occasion of the
conferring of the degree of Doctor of Science upon the
Secretary by the University of Cambridge, England, which
Mr. Henderson, whom the Regents ‘‘knew to be a scholar
who loved the tasks of scholarship, had translated into such
English as Horace would have used if he had to speak in
that tongue.” It was ordered that the address of the public
orator and the translation by Mr. Henderson be placed upon
the record.

After the adoption of the reports of the executive and per-
manent committees which had been presented by Mr. Bell in
the absence of their chairman, Senator Henderson, attention
was called to the fact that a vacancy existed in the executive
committee, caused by the death of Dr. Wilson, and upon
resolution, the Hon. R. R. Hitt waselected to fill this vacancy.

The Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences having invited the
Institution to participate in the celebration of the two hun-
dredth anniversary of its foundation, on the 19th and 20th of
4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Mareh, 1900, the Hon. Andrew D. White, United States Am-
bassador at Berlin and a member of the Board, was requested
to represent the Institution on this noteworthy occasion. A
suitably engrossed address was transmitted through the De-
partment of State and presented by Dr. White to the Prussian
Academy, the acknowledgment of which, together with an
interesting letter from Dr. White describing the ceremonies,
were laid before the Board. Dr. White described the exer-
cises as having been of exceptional interest. They took place
in the Royal Palace, where the Emperor received the entire
body of guests in state, surrounded by the high functionaries
of the Empire bearing the royal insignia, while the Monarch
on the throne delivered an address of welcome. Later there
were entertainments in honor of the delegates, not only by
the King, but by the Chancellor of the Empire and others.
On the second day there occurred a general reception in the
ereat hall of the Prussian legislature, which was also very
impressive.

The Secretary added that Dr. White had further said in con-
versation that in all his experience as a minister to European
courts he had never seen so imposing a display of ceremonial
magnificence.

Under unfinished business there came up the resolution
introduced by Dr. Bell with reference to the utilization of
scientific bureaus of the Government for purposes of research.
The resolution in the form it had been offered at the previous
meeting was withdrawn by Dr. Bell and the following, which
contained some alterations intended to meet the views of other
members of the executive committee, was presented:

In order to facilitate the utilization of the Government
Departments for the purposes of research—in extension of the
policy enunciated by Congress in the joint resolution approved
April 12, 1892:

Resolved, That it is the sense of the Board that it is desira-
ble that Congress extend this resolution so as to afford facili-
ties for study to all properly qualified students or graduates
of universities, other than those mentioned in the resolution,
and provide for the appointment of an officer whose duty it
shall be to ascertain and make known what facilities for
research exist in the Government Departments, and arrange
with the heads of the Departments, and with the officers in
charge of Government collections, on terms satisfactory to
them, rules and regulations under which suitably qualified

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

persons may have access to these collections for the purpose

of research with due regard to the needs and requirements of

the work of the Government; and that it shall also be his
duty to direct, in a manner satisfactory to the heads of such
Departments and officers in charge, the researches of such
persons into lines which will promote the interests of the
Government and the development of the natural resources,
agriculture, manufactures, and commerce of the country, and
(generally) promote the progress of science and the useful
arts, and the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.

After some discussion by the Regents, on motion the reso-
lution was adopted.

The Secretary also brought to the attention of the Board a
letter received from Genoa indicating the necessity of remov-
ing the remains of James Smithson, interred in the British
burial ground at Genoa, to a new cemetery which was to be
chosen later on, and requesting to be informed of the wishes
of the Regents. After some discussion, in which the desira-
bility of bringing the remains to this country was adversely
considered, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, In view of the proposed abolition of the English
cemetery at Genoa, which contains the remains of James
Smithson, that the Secretary be requested to arrange either
with the English church or with the authorities of the National
Burying Ground at Genoa for the reinterment of Smithson’s
remains, and the transfer of the original monument.

The Secretary then made his customary statement to the
Board, remarking that, in view of the lateness of the hour, he
would pass over some of the matters about which he had
intended to speak, and among others about the continuation
of his experiments in aérodromics and the results of the
eclipse expedition of May, 1900, which had since been made
public. The observation of the eclipse had left one or two
interesting but unsettled questions, and he had determined to
send out a small expedition to Sumatra on the occasion of the
exceptionally important eclipse of the sun in May, 1901.

He brought to the attention of the Board the proposed
expedition to Babylonia under Dr. Edgar James Banks, who
had gone to Constantinople in the hope of securing permission
to excavate the town of Mugheir, which, according to tra-
dition, is the site of the Ur of the Chaldees from which Abra-,
ham came. The material results of such expedition, if any,
6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

which under Turkish law might be allowed to leave the country,
would be deposited in the Institution.

He also reviewed briefly the greatly improved condition of
the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library of Congress since the
new quarters had been erected, calling attention to the fact
that a sum of not less than $50,000 would probably be required
to supply the defects in this Deposit due to the lack of adequate
provision for it by Congress during the past twenty years,
and to fill in the important sets of periodicals which can not
be secured by exchange.

He reminded the Regents, in connection with the projected
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, that the first
step to such a catalogue had been taken many years since by
Professor Henry, that the support of the catalogue by private
universities and libraries in this country had been prompt and
eratifying, and that there remained but the supplying of the
material for the United States, for which he hoped Congress
would provide, and while waiting its action for carrying on
the work in the interim, he had made a strictly temporary
provision with the aid of the funds of the Institution. It was
not intended by him to recommend any permanent contribu-
tion from the Institution’s limited funds.

The Secretary then made a statement with regard to the
Museum and its needs, announcing that he had recently
arranged that the Assistant Secretary should give his personal
attention chiefly to the Museum; that he believed that the
Committee on Appropriations was getting to see the inevitable
necessity of enlarging the Museum buildings, that with this
would come larger responsibilities, and that this growth and
the confidence of the community and of the Congress were
due in a large measure to their belief in that impartial rule
of the Regents which has in the past guaranteed considera-
tion and fairness in the selection of Museum officers and sta-
bility in its policy.

Finally, the Secretary called attention to the fact that the
continued independence and usefulness of the Institution would
depend in a large measure upon the increase in its endowment.
When the Institution was established over fifty vears ago, its
fund of $600,000 was relatively a large one, twice as large as
that of Yale College, larger than that of Princeton, Columbia,
and the University of Pennsylvania, and only equaled by the
fund of Harvard. The Institution’s endowment has in the

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7

fifty years increased but from $600,000 to somewhat less than
$1,000,000, but the average endowment of the five universities
named is now about $8,000,000, indicating that in this regard
the Institution’s fund for scientific purposes is relatively unim-
portant compared with what it was fifty years ago.

The Secretary announced to the Regents the fact that sev-
eral new bequests had been made to the Institution, though
none of these were realized at present. While the Institution
has scrupulously refrained from even the appearance of solic-
iting funds, yet he felt that its own utility depended largely
upon the increase of the means which were directly at the dis-
position of the Regents. He asked for any instructions as to
the employment of means consonant with the position and
actual independence of the Institution for making its fitness
asa conservator and administrator of gifts and legacies known
to the general public, and he spoke of the desirability of a
wider circulation of the Secretary’s report and Appendix, to
which he had givenof late much personal care. A discussion
upon the subject arose, but the Board adjourned without taking
any action.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The Hon. Shelby M. Cullom, whose term of office as Regent
expired March 4, 1901, was on March 7 reappointed by the
President of the Senate, and the Hon. Francis M. Cockrell,
Senator from Missouri, was appointed to succeed the Hon.
William Lindsay, whose term as United States Senator
expired on March 4, 1901.

As organized at the end of the fiscal year, the Board of
Regents consisted of the following members:

The Hon. M. W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the United States,
Chancellor; the Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, Vice-President of
the United States; Senator S. M. Cullom; Senator O. H.
Platt; Senator Francis M. Cockrell; Representative R. R.
Hitt; Representative Robert Adams, jr.; Representative
Hugh A. Dinsmore; Dr. James B. Angell; Dr. Andrew D.
White; the Hon. J. B. Henderson; the Hon. George Gray;
Dr. A. Graham Bell; the Hon. Richard Olney.

ADMINISTRATION.

The Secretary’s time continues to be chiefly given to purely
administrative duties, while, during such increasingly limited
8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

opportunity as presents itself consistently with these, he en-
deavors not only to oversee its scientific investigations but to
give his personal care to them. His purpose has always been,
in regard to the former, to put upon those in immediate charge
of the bureaus of the Institution all the authority that is con-
sistent with his own responsibility to the Board of Regents.
He has already mentioned that the growth of those bureaus
has thrown upon the Institution a very considerable amount
of clerical labor pertaining to Government work, so that the
limited income of the Institution is drawn upon for matters
which should properly be provided for by Congress.

The Board has authorized the Secretary to lay these matters
before Congress, but the needs of other parts of the Institu-
tion’s service have seemed so pressing that he has as yet
deferred doing so in favor of such other demands.

BUILDINGS.

The renovation and rearrangement of storage rooms in the
south tower was continued during the year, and in the base-
ment additional space was arranged for the use of the inter-
national exchanges. Work was also begun toward the con-
struction of a tunnel between the Smithsonian and Museum
buildings for carrying steam pipes, with the intention of
centralizing the heating apparatus and utilizing new Museum
boilers for heating both buildings. Improvements in the
Museum building and in the buildings at the Zoological Park
are mentioned elsewhere.

FINANCES.

The permanent funds of the institution are as follows:

Jequest of Smithson, US46225-25= 5. eee See $515, 169. 00
Residuary lecacy of Smithson; (8670222 22 -eeesen. case oe 26, 210. 63
Deposits from savings of income, 1867............-.--..-.-- 108, 620. 37
Bequest of James: Hamilton, 1875 .....--..-2---..---- $1, 000
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895....-.--- 1, 000
2, 000. 00
Bequestof Simeon Habel) 1880 s3os52 ees an oe eee 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881.............-- 51, 500. 00
Giftiot Phomas G>-Hodeking 891s 52 2) 2 aaa 200, 000. 00
Portion of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894- - - - 8, 000. 00
Totalspermanent fund Ss-22.2 244 eee ee 912, 000. 00

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. g

In addition to the above permanent fund, the Regents hold
certain approved railroad bonds which form part of the fund
established by Mr. Hodgkins for investigations into the prop-
erties of atmospheric air.

The act organizing the Institution (sec. 5591, U. S. Revised
Statutes) was amended by act of Congress approved March
12, 1894, as follows:

The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to
receive into the Treasury on the same terms as the original
bequest of Jam es Smithson such sums as the Regents may,

from time to time, see fit to deposit; not exceeding with the

original bequest the sum of one million dollars: Provided,
That this shall not operate as a limitation on the power of the
Smithsonian Institution to receive money or other property
by gift, bequest, or devise, and to hold and dispose of the
same in promotion of the purposes thereof.

Under this provision the permanent fund of $912,000 is
deposited in the Treasury of the United States, and bears
interest at 6 per cent per annum. The interest alone is em-
ployed in carrying out the aims of the institution.

The unexpended balance at the beginning of the fiscal year,
July 1, 1900, as stated in my last report, was $76,219.07.
The total receipts by the Institution during the year were
$66,829.39. Of this sum $56,400 was derived from interest,
while the remaining $10,429.39 was received from miscellane-
ous sources.

The amount disbursed during the year was $59,085.20, the
details of which are given in the report of the executive com-
mittee. The balance remaining to the credit of the Secretary
on June 30, 1901, for the expenses of the Institution was
$83,963.26, which includes the $10,000 specifically referred to
in previous reports, as well as the interest accumulated on the
Hodgkins and other funds, which is held against certain con-
tingent obligations, besides relatively considerable sums held
to meet liabilities which may be expected to mature as a result
of various scientific investigations and publications in progress.

During the fiscal year of 1901 Congress charged the Insti-
tution with the disbursement of the following appropriations:

International Exchanges, Smithsonian Institution.....-......--- $24, 000

American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution ...............--- 50, 000

Astrophysical Observatory, Smithsonian Institution - - --- $12, 000
Observation of eclipse of the sun, May 28, 1900... -- 4, 000

16, 000
10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

United States National Museum:

PuIrMiture and fixtUTes! s 2s5 ae ee ee ee ee $17, 500
eatin ooseury lt onli Op pe ee ae ee 17, 500
Preservation Ofcollections-s5-22 sssene ee ee eee 180, 000
Purchase.of specimensia: 22 52 see ee es ee oe 10, 000
Postage: . <5 fectis eek Se Ae eee ree oe eee ee 500,
BOOKS 5.022 5220358 seeite seine eo ote reas 2, 000
Rent of workshops® ace eat Sa. = eee eee 4, 040
Repairs tor buildings eo. ee ae eee oe 15, 000
Past os eee eae ae ee te oe ee 17, 000

; $263, 540

National Zoological Park. V2. 2235.22 ee seer tae eee eee 75, 000

428,540 °

All the vouchers for disbursements made during the fiscal
year have been examined by the executive committee, and a
detailed statement of the receipts and expenditures will be
found reported to Congress in accordance with the provisions
of the sundry civil acts of October 2, 1888, August 5, 1892,
and March 3, 1899, in a letter addressed to the Speaker of
the House of Representatives.

The vouchers for all the expenditures from the Smithsonian
fund proper have likewise been examined and their correctness
certified to by the executive committee, whose statement will
be published, together with the accounts of the funds appro-
priated by Congress, in the report of that committee.

For carrying on the Government’s interests under the
charge of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year end-
ing June 30, 1902, estimates were forwarded as usual to the
Secretary of the Treasury. The following table shows the
estimates submitted and the sums respectively appropriated:

Appropria-

Estimates. tions.
International Heehangesss. nn J-saeccceociee sacs eeeee ssisee ce aeieral $24, 000 | 24, 000
AmericaniEthnologyiccesectcs-nt cance eee eee Cee eee 60, 000 | 50, 000
ASTLOPHYSicall ObServatoryy sas. cece: eee eee eee wees 6 Senos 15, 000 | 12, 000
National Museum:
Rurnitureiand Axturesicc nes.- sees se ee ae ee 20, 000 | 20, 000
Heating and Vighting®: 225 sonctee aaa oe ee a eee 23,000 | 23, 000
Now. boilers, 0:5. cle: ae cece ee een Ad ek ee 12, 500 | 12, 500
Preservatiomor collections. cass Suess one eee ee eee 180, 000 | 180, 000
Runchase Of Specimens -m--s ssae5 eee ee eee eee non | 25, 000 | 10, 000
IS1f0) <p aM othe SP ete AR GS AU ah Rg 7 0, | 2,000. 2, 000
Repairs to, buildingss:f2 acs eee ot eee eee eee | 19,500 | 15, 000
Galleriog =... .. vcs). eee ee | 2,500 | 5, 000
Rent of workshops .......-:.....- Sah co ee eee eRe Eee eee | 4, 040 | 4, 400
POStARE Stee nsec case eee ee eee eee ee ee ee | 500 | 500
Printing eee eens eee in heen SOAS AES Li eee | 17,000 | 17, 000

National ZoolopicalePank «cc. 2.228 soe cee Coen eee ee eel 120, 000 80, 000
« is }

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. |
RESEARCH.

It was a part of the original plan of the Institution that its
Secretary should not give his time wholly to administrative
duties, but should, as a student of nature, directly aid in its
scientific investigations. '

Research work in various fields of science has been contin-
ued by the Institution and its dependencies. The Secretary
has made some progress toward the solution of the problem
of mechanical flight, and in the Astrophysical Observatory
has continued work believed to be important, which is de-
scribed later.

Through the Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy the Institution has been enabled to carry on various bio-
logical and ethnological researches which will be found fully
described elsewhere in this report and need not be repeated
here.

HODGKINS FUND.

Among the many applications for grants from the Hode-
kins fund, it has been found practicable to approve several
which conform to the conditions of the bequest, and investi-
gations in various lines of original research are making satis-
factory advances as mentioned below.

In November, 1900, a grant was approved on behalf of
Prof. Wallace C. Sabine, of Harvard University, for the aid
of his investigations on sound, the particular phase of the
problem under investigation being the subject of loudness
and interference. This research requires apparatus of special
design, part of which is now complete and is satisfactory.

Professor Sabine, who had charge of the design of the new
symphony hall in Boston, has for several years given much
attention to the problem of architectural acoustics, or the
science of sound as applied to buildings. It is expected that
his complete report will be of much practical interest in con-
nection with this subject.

In December, 1900, Mr. C. Canovetti, chief engineer of the
city of Brescia, Italy, made an application for a Hodgkins

1 Resolved, That the Secretary continue his researches in physical science,
and present such facts and principles as may be developed, for publication
in the Smithsonian Contributions. (Adopted at meeting of the Board of
Regents January 26, 1847.)
12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

grant, at the same time bringing to my attention his experi-
ments which have been awarded prizes by the Société d’En-
couragement pour Industrie Nationale, of Paris, and by the
Reale Academia dei Lincei, of Rome.

As is customary, ‘he application received the consideration
of specialists in the branch of atmospheric research pursued
by Mr. Canovetti, and after the acceptance by him of the con-
ditions set forth in the Hodgkins circular, a moderate grant
was approved on his behalf in April, 1901, for experiments
now in progress, which will be reported on later.

Details of the progress to date of the research mentioned
in my last report as conducted by Dr. Victor Schumann, of
Leipzig, have been received. ‘The most noteworthy points in
the results so far refer, perhaps, to the relation of light and
electricity and to the probable insight into the nature of the
Roentgen rays to be gained in the course of this investigation.
The interest in this subject, in both popular and scientific cir-
cles, is now so widespread that permission has been given to
Dr. Schumann to announce independently in some journal in
his own country the discoveries made in the progress of his
research, reporting them at the same time to the Institution.
It is felt that this course will subserve the cause of science
by satisfying the immediate and general interest in this sub-
ject, and that it will also justly tend to establish Dr. Schu-
mann’s right of priority in his own researches.

The investigations of Dr. von Lendenfeld, of the University
of Prague, are still in progress, and it is anticipated that his
final report, which is now awaited, may furnish data availa-
ble for greatly improving the construction of the meteorolog-
ical kites now in constant use, and thus be the means of adding
materially to our knowledge of atmospheric conditions at high
altitudes, the practical application of which is of such general
interest and usefulness.

The interesting experiments in connection with kites and
with air currents at varying altitudes, which have been prose-
cuted for some time at the Blue Hill Meteorological Obser-
vatory by Mr. A. Lawrence Rotch, are still in progress, an
additional grant having been approved this year on behalf of
Mr. Rotch.

It will be remembered that the original grant mentioned in
my report for 1897 was made for the purpose of securing

_
+

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

automatic kite records at a height of over 10,000 feet, an alti-
tude which so lately as four years ago had never been attained.
Successive grants have since been made, and while it is due to
the persistence and skill of Mr. Rotch and his assistants that
his own extraordinary record of 14,000 feet has been surpassed
by him, it is a matter of gratification that the Hodgkins fund
of the Institution has in some way been associated with such
results.

Dr. Carl Barus, of Brown University, whose research on
ionized air, mentioned in my last report as having been aided
by a grant from the Hodgkins fund, has during the progress
of his investigation frequently summarized his provisional
results for the Institution. As in other cases, because of the
immediate interest attaching to this investigation, Dr. Barus
has been authorized to publish preliminary reports of his prog-
ress in the scientific journals. In April, 1901, this research
was completed and reported upon in detail to the Institution
so far as concerned the discussion of data accumulated since
the approval of the Hodgkins grant. This completed report
is now in course of publication in the Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Knowledge.

This research on atmospheric conditions, in investigating
the production of nuclei, determining their number per cubic
centimeter, their velocity, their association with ionization,
the effect of the presence of the electric field, etc., proves
interesting not only in its own methods and results, but
because of its agreement with the data obtained by other
investigators from different experiments and theoretically
different points of view.

The research of Prof. Louis Bevier, of Rutgers College, in
connection with the analysis of vowel sounds is steadily pro-
gressing. During the year detailed studies of several vowel
sounds have been made with results which agree well with the
conclusions arrived at through an entirely different method
by von Helmholtz in his analysis of German vowels.

The lower resonance detected in our vowel sounds by Dr.
Bevier, and not recorded by von Helmholtz save for **a,” will
later be the subject of detailed discussion which will endeavor
to establish and explain these facts. A further report upon
this research is awaited with interest.

In December, 1900, a grant was approved on behalf of Dr.
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Marey, of the French Institute, in aid of his experiments on
air currents. This research has been materially furthered by
the successful application of chronophotography, a field in
which Dr. Marey’s experiments have heretofore been note-
worthy. By this means it has not only been possible to ana-
lyze the movements of waves and currents of liquids which
are invisible to the naked eye, but even the displacements of
molecules.

From reports so far submitted, but as yet necessarily incom-
plete, it is believed that this research will aid materially in
the solution of various problems connected with the mechanics
of propulsion in fluids, at the same time rendering service
in solving practical questions of ventilation, etc. The illus-
tration indicating the method of making visible the course
of these otherwise invisible currents round an obstacle is
appended,

The reader, if he has not noticed the rare experiment of
successful machine flight of heavy bodies through the air, has
probably had his attention called at times to the extraordinary
difference between the performance of small steam vessels like
yachts or tugs, where with equal power one glides through the
water almost as though it offered no resistance, while another
labors in rolling a formidable wave before it. The same dif-
ferences occur in still more subtle form in the air. We can
not with the naked eye separately see, in either case, the cur-
rents that produce the effect, but by Dr. Marey’s most inge-
nious experiments we are enabled to obtain photographic
records from which we can study the forms which offer the
least resistance and see why it is. A single illustration, indi-
‘ating the influence of a very slight divergence from the best
forms in the case of the air, is here given.

Theexperiments of Prof. A.G. Webster, of Clark University,
on the propagation, reflection, and diffraction of sound have
achieved a result of practical value in the construction of an
instrument capable of emitting an accurately measured sound.
It is thus possible, in treating persons of defective hearing, to
decide with exactness as to the degree of deafness in a sub-
ject, and to say if the power of hearing varies at different
times. An instrument which furnishes the means of accu-
rately determining these points should prove of value in
medical treatment.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

A preliminary report has been received from Prof. William
Hallock, of Columbia University, New York, who, as before
stated, is conducting a research on the motion of a particle of
air under the influence of articulate sound. General investi-
gations allied to this subject, which are carried on in the
laboratory of Columbia University, although in no way aided
by the Hodgkins fund, have contributed helpfully to a knowl-
edge of the principles underlying these experiments, and espe-
cially to certain parts of the investigation referring to the
relation between the amplitude of vibration of an air particle
and the amplitude of vibration of a film, or dust particle,
suspended in theair. Dr. Hallock’s research wiil be continued
during the present year, when a final report is expected.

A third grant has been approved on behalf of the Journal
of Terrestrial Magnetism and Atmospheric Electricity, the
editor, as in the two previous years, sending to educational
establishments a specified number of copies of the Journal, in
accordance with a list approved by the Institution.

The conditions requisite to the approval of a grant from the
Hodgkins fund, and to which applicants give assent before
final action, are stated in the Hodgkins circular, a copy of
which was included in the report of last year. It may, how-
ever, be here repeated that should an investigation be of con-
siderable duration, a summary of progress is to be submitted
to the Institution at the end of six months, as well as a subse-
quent report recording the final results of a research.

These researches are, in the words of Mr. Hodgkins, all
devoted to the ‘‘increase and diffusion” of more ‘exact
knowledge in regard to the nature and properties of atmos-
pheric air in connection with the welfare of man,” and are
aided by the Hodgkins fund, it is hoped, in a manner which
their promoter intended when he made his gift to the Institu-
tion in the above words.

NAPLES TABLE.

Realizing that the opportunity for study in the Naples
Zoological Station is an especial advantage to students pre-
pared to do original work in embryological, histological, or
other fields, the Institution is desirous of granting the privi-
lege of the Smithsonian Table to all applicants so qualified,
and with this end in view the conditions, which are here
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

rehearsed, have been made such as can be easily complied
with. The appointing power rests finally with the Secretary,
but each request for the seat with its accompanying data is
referred as a preliminary step to the Advisory Committee
for recommendation, and this year,as heretofore, he has been
indebted to the committee for valuable suggestions in this
connection and has been very usually guided by their advice.

With a formal application for the table, addressed to the
Secretary of the Institution, a summary of the scientific his-
tory of the candidate is to be submitted, together with such
letters of recommendation as he may wish to place on record.
These credentials should contain a list of the original papers
which have been published by the applicant, and should be
accompanied by any data which would tend to establish a
rapability for original research, such as conducted by those
resident at the station. By an official decision, arrived at in
the interest of all candidates, the table is not assigned more
than six months inadvance of the date for which it is desired,
and no appointment is made for a longer period than six
months, although a student may apply for an extension of
time or for future reappointment. Few investigators have
so far desired to remain longer than six consecutive months
at the station, although a second appointment is at times
requested, and applications are not infrequently submitted
several months in advance of the period when it is in order
to take them up for consideration.

It should be again noted that Smithsonian appointees are
expected to report to the Institution at the termination of
their term of occupancy, or preferably at the end of each
three months, in case of a longer residence at the station.

The following appointments to the Smithsonian seat have
been made during the year:

Dr. P. C. Mensch, of Ursinus College, Collegeville, Pa.,
whose application was approved during the summer of 1900,
occupied the Smithsonian Table during November of the same
year.

Dr. F. L. Stevens, of the University of Chicago, was
appointed for May, 1901.

Dr. Burton-Opitz, of Rush College and the University of
Chicago, and later ‘* Voluntiir-Assistent” to Dr, Hiirthle in the

st,

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

physiological institute of the Royal University of Breslau,
received the appointment for three months during the sum-
mer of 1901.

Applications for the coming year are now receiving con.
sideration.

An extract from an open letter issued by Doctor Dohrn, the
experienced and always considerate Superintendent of the
Station, of interest to the newcomer in Naples, is given in a
footnote. The student who has been authorized to oceupy
the Smithsonian Table at the Station will do well to address
the Institution for fuller information which, for lack of space,
is not here given.'

‘Notre longue expérience nous met 4 méme de donner aux personnes
qui désirent se rendre pour la premiére fois 4 la Station Zoologique quelques
conseils qui leur feront épargner du temps et de l’argent.

1. Choix du matériel @ étude.—Veuillez informer le plus exactement que
yous pourrez |’ Administration de la Station Zoologique, ‘‘Stazione zoologica,
Napoli,’’ du jour de votre arrivée et de ce que vous désirez étudier, afin que
nous puissions préparer d’ayance, si cela est nécessaire et possible, le maté-
riel dont yous aurez besoin. II serait avantageux pour vous d’indiquer en
méme temps d’autres objets que vous auriez l’intention d’étudier pour le
cas ott le matériel viendrait 4 manquer temporairement. Si yous voulez
vous occuper @embryologie nous yous recommandons de consulter pour
votre gouverne les renseignements que nous avons publiés! sur la ponte
des ceufs, ete.

2, Outillage.—Vous trouyerez plus loin la liste détaillée de ce que nous
pourrons vous fournir en fait d’ustensiles, de réactifs, ete. Nous yous
prions de bien vouloir en tenir compte en faisant vos malles. Nous yous
conseillons de porter votre microscope avec yous, comme petit bagage, et
de ne pas le placer dans vos malles; évitez surtout de l’expédier. comme
colis, car souvent méme l’emballage le plus soigneux n’empéche pas les
accidents. Ayez les mémes précautions i l’égard de yotre microtome.
Lorsque les colis sont expédiés par chemin de fer il faut de quatre A six
semaines pour les colis ordinaires, de deux 4 trois pour ceux par grande
vitesse. Les instruments et les livres peuvent plus facilement entrer en
franchise s’ils sont emballés avec des vétements déja portés. I] faudra
toujours s’abstenir de mettre des cigares ou du tabac dans les colis ordi-
naires ou dans ceux par grande vitesse. Comme adresse il suffira que
vous écriviez votre nom suivi de ‘‘Stazione Zoologica, Napoli.’’ Ce sera
aussi la meilleure adresse pour vos lettres, ete. * * *

(b) Matériel a’ étude-—M. Lo Bianco ira s’informer réguliérement de vos

1Mitth. Z. Stat. Neapel, 1. Bd., 1879, p. 119 et suiv., 124 et suiv.; 2. Bd., 1881, p. 162 et
suiv.; 8. Bd., 1888, p. 385 et suiv.

sm £901-——9
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

EXPLORATIONS.

The Institution has continued to carry on various astro-
nomical, biological, and ethnological explorations through
the medium of the Astrophysical Observatory, the National
Museum, and the Bureau of American Ethnology, and has
also cooperated with the Executive Departments in these
directions. The details of most of these explorations are
given in the paragraphs devoted to the several bureaus.

During the past summer the Secretary, in a journey under-
taken at his private charges in search of rest, departed con-
siderably from the beaten route of travel by making a voyage
to the South Pacifie Ocean, where he visited the island of
Tahiti and was there particularly fortunate in witnessing the
celebrated ‘* fire-walk” ceremony which he has described in
an article in the general appendix to this report.

PUBLICATIONS.
The publications of the Institution represent the double aim

of its founder, that it should exist for (1) the ‘* increase” and
(2) the ** diffusion” of knowledge.

désirs et vous fera porter dés le lendemain a votre place les animaux et les
plantes les plus communes, en tant que possible. I] est fait exception pour
les dimanches et les jours de féte. I] faudra bien se rappeler que le matériel]
que nous fournissons est destiné exclusivement aux recherches et non pas
a la formation de collections étrangéres & vos études. * * *

(c) La bibliothéque est ouverte aux mémes heures que les laboratoires,
mais on la ferme a la tombée du jour.

Si vous voulez emporter un livre relié de la bibliothéque a votre place de
travail, vous n’aurez qu’A mettre 4 sa place un carton portant le numéro
qui vous est échu. On mettra Ad votre disposition douze de ces cartons
dans la bibliothéque d’en bas et six dans celle d’en baut.

Pour avoir les livres non reliés vous remettrez un recu au bibliothécaire.
Les journaux et les brochures qui se trouvent sur les tables de lecture ne
pourront pas sortir de la bibliothéque sans la permission du biblhothécaire.
Pour emporter les livres chez vous (qu’ils soient reliés ou non) yous devrez
toujours en délivrer un recu au bibliothécaire et vous serez tenu de les
rapporter le lendemain. Le bibliothécaire yous donnera les renseigne-
ments nécessaires pour que yous puissiez vous servir aisément de la biblio-
theque.

Vous nous obligerez en avertissant le bibliothécaire des irrégularités que
vous pourrez trouver dans les livres (feuilles détachées, planches déchirées
ou perdues). Ayez soin de tenir les livres hors de tout contact avee l’eau
de mer, et de ne pas les tacher avec des signes ou des notes.

Avant votre départ ayez la bonté de remettre tous les livres a leur place
et de demander au bibliothécaire s’il n’a pas par hasard quelque regu de
vous.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ws)

The series of Contributions to Knowledge are intended to
record results of original researches in science, for the
increase of knowledge. In this series there has been put in
course of publication during the year a memoir by Dr. Carl
Barus upon experiments in ionized air, a work which, as
mentioned above, was carried on with a grant from the
Hodgkins fund.

To the series of Miscellaneous Collections there have been
added a bibliography of chemical dissertations compiled by
Dr. Bolton, and an article on the ‘* Cheapest form of light,”
the latter being a reprint of a paper by the Secretary and
Mr. Very, originally published in the American Journal of
Science, for which there has been a continued demand.

There have also been added to the Miscellaneous Collections
two volumes containing the legislative history of the Institu-
tion from the announcement of the original bequest in 1835
to the year 1899. It is prepared by W. J. Rhees, of this
Institution. This work was published also in a Congressional
edition.

As year by year the publications of the Institution and of
its bureaus are increased in number it is believed that its
influence, not only in the ‘* increase” but in the ‘‘ diffusion” of
knowledge, is felt in a greater degree. This is manifest by
the greater popular demand for publications, particularly the
General Appendix to the Secretary’s Annual Reports, in
which the aim has been to consider the diffusion of knowledge
among the masses of the people, and to create a desire fora
better understanding of the important relations that exist
between scientific studies and the needs of our daily life.

It will be remembered that under the general printing law,
besides the limited document edition of the Smithsonian Re-
port distributed to certain designated depositories, only 3,000
copies are now published by Congress for the use of its mem-
bers, and 7,000 copies for distribution by the Institution, but
it is earnestly to be hoped that a larger edition will be author-
ized to correspond with the increased popular demand.

With regard to this larger edition, it may be said that it was
a custom, introduced by the first Secretary of the Institution,
Joseph Henry, of honored memory, to give a certain number
of timely articles of an instructive but wholly popular and
nontechnical character in the General Appendix to the Secre-
tary’s Report.
20) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The experiment was tried under his immediate successor of
publishing in place of these an annual résumé of the science
of the world, which undertaking was soon found to be an
impractical charge, if done on a desirable scale, and nearly
useless with anything less; and the present Secretary, believ-
ing, with Secretary Henry, that the Institution’s function for
the diffusion of knowledge was only less important than that
for its increase, resumed and extended the early plan of giving
short memoirs by writers of authority who are able to present
new facts in a nontechnical manner, thus furnishing a sum-
mary of the more important progress made in all departments
of science during the year elapsed, supplemented by a few
papers relating to more remote periods, as in. the case of
oriental research.

This summary has had the Secretary’s increasing attention
for the last two or three years, not only because of its intrinsic
importance, but since the Institution thus becomes more
widely known to those whose help it desires.

The Secretary has given an unusual amount of personal
care to the General Appendix of the Report for 1900,' which
contains 43 articles on various branches of science as enu-
merated on another page, in the report of the editor.

The Annual Report of the Institution for 1899 has been dis-
tributed and the report for 1900 has been put in type, but the
latter volume was not received from the Public Printer in
time for its distribution to the general public before the close
of the fiscal year.

There was also received from the Printer a delayed portion

'As the Report for 1900 marks the close of the century, considerable
space is given to reviews of the progress in various branches of science
during the nineteenth century, prepared by men distinguished in their
various fields. The subjects thus reviewed are astronomy, chemistry,
geology, physics, electricity, geography, biology, medicine, psychical
research, which, with an article on the ‘‘ Century’s great men of science,”
furnish in brief a picture of scientific activity of the last century.

China, which has figured so much in the public eye during the year
past, is given especial prominence. There is a brief sketch of the Pekin
Observatory, the looting of which created so much comment; an article by
the Chinese minister, Wu Ting-Fang, on mutual helpfulness between China
and the United States; Chinese folklore and some Western analogies,
and an exceptionally interesting account of the loot of the Imperial Sum-
mer Palace at Pekin in 1860. This latter is an abridged translation from

oo

_ Ts See
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

of the Museum Report for 1897, being a memorial volume of
Dr. G. Brown Goode.

In addition to the preceding publications by the Institution
proper a considerable number of works, chiefly on biological
topics, have been added to the Museum series. The Bureau
of Ethnology completed the Seventeenth Report, which has
been considerably delayed in publication, and progress was
made on the Eighteenth and Nineteenth reports.

The Secretary during the year transmitted to Congress the
Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the
year 1900, and also the Third Report of the National Society
of the Daughters of the American Revolution.

LIBRARY.

It will be remembered that the Institution, besides its
deposit in the Library of Congress, has retained in its own
building a limited number of scientific periodicals, together
with a small collection known as the ‘*Secretary’s library,”
dealing principally with works of art and pure literature,
and a still more limited one of books furnishing interesting
reading for the employees of the Taepeacion, which is desig-
nated as the ‘‘ Employees’ library

The detailed report of the fio ian will be found later,
but he states that there have been added during the year over
30,000 volumes, pamphlets, and charts, exclusive of the libra-
ries of the National Museum and the Bureau of American
Ethnology, but including all other branches. Of the acces-
sions, by far the greater part were assigned to the Smithsonian
deposit i in the Library of CONE ea

a es Sie Fes by Couns D enon Ww nO was on the 2a of the French
general during the Anglo-French Pecvedition to China in 1860 and an eye-
witness of the extraordinary scenes he describes. It appears to have
entirely escaped attention during the late crisis, although it has an inter-
esting bearing on recent events_and illustrates in a curious manner how
history repeats itself.

Aéronautics, which only in the last decade has been growing to be con-
sidered a science, has several articles devoted to it by M. Janssen, Lord
Rayleigh, Secretary Langley, and others.

Among the thirty or more other articles there may be mentioned, as
illustrating the variety of the subjects treated, papers on malaria and the
transmission of yellow fever, by Surgeon-General Sternberg; an essay on
Huxley, by Professor Brooks, of Johns Hopkins, and a paper on so practi-
cal a subject as incandescent mantles.
v2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The Secretary has lately arranged with the Librarian of
Congress that the Smithsonian set of any periodical of art or
science, or set of transactions of learned societies in that
Library, shall be considered and kept as a primary set, or, if
incomplete, shall, under this title, be supplemented by vol-
umes of any broken sets already in that Library’s possession.
If there still be duplicates in the Library of Congress, it is
understood that these and not the Smithsonian copies shall be
disposed of.

On the other hand, he has also agreed that in the division
of Government documents in the Library of Congress the
Smithsonian sets, excepting those which include special scien-
tific publications, shall be transferred to the main collection
of the Library of Congress.

No action has been taken with regard to the large number
of sets or single volumes on general subjects which do not
fall under the above heads, and these are left under the exist-
ing arrangements.

With regard to those which already form a portion of the
Smithsonian deposit, the Librarian of Congress has said, and
the Secretary has agreed to the justice of his representation,
that while it is abstractly desirable that the entire Smith-
sonian library should be kept together, there may be cases
where the general interests of the public will be served best
by taking a portion of these and classifying them with others.
It is understood in every case that all volumes belonging to
the Smithsonian deposit are distinctly so marked, carrying
with them, therefore, the evidence of their ownership.

This general agreement, which requires much detailed work,
will finally result in giving a more coherent character both to
the Smithsonian deposit and to the Library of Congress itself,
and is in the mutual interests of both establishments.

The Institution is indebted to the courtesy of the Librarian
of Congress also for establishing an arrangement whereby
twice a day books are brought to the Institution by the Library
of Congress and returned thereto. This has rendered possi-
ble the sending up of a much larger number of publications
than heretofore, no less than 200 boxes, each containing the
equivalent of 40 large octavo volumes, being sent up during
the past year. The possibilities in the direction of increasing
the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress and of

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

filling up deficiencies are unlimited, except by the very small
force that can be put upon this work; and both establishments
would be much benefited if a larger force were available.

The Smithsonian shelving in the Library of Congress is of
steel, iron, and marble, comprising 19,362 running feet of
shelves, while the bridges are mainly of steel and essentially
fireproof.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

The Regents, through their first Secretary, Joseph Henry,
appear to have originated this undertaking in a communica-
tion which he was authorized to make to the meeting of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science at Glas-
gow in 1855, suggesting the formation of a catalogue of
memoirs. The Smithsonian Institution had not the means of
carrying out the plan, which was referred to the Royal Society,
who approved it and secured a grant from the English Goy-
ernment under which 11 volumes have now appeared. In the
preface to the first volume we read ** The present undertak-
ing may be said to have originated in a communication from
Dr. Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.”

In March, 1894, the Royal Society issued a circular to
learned societies throughout the world proposing a great
international subject catalogue.! In 1895 the Department of
State received from the British ambassador an expression of
hope on the part of the English prime minister, Lord Salis-
bury, that the United States Government would be repre-
sented at a coming conference on this subject. The matter
was referred by the Secretary of State to the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, who recommended that the Govern-
ment should take such part and suggested the names of dele-
gates, a recommendation which was duly adopted. It is suf-
ficient now to recall that the seed which the Institution
planted has grown into this great enterprise, in which almost
all modern nations, except the United States, have taken an
effective part.

In the report for last year the Secretary stated to the Regents
the reason for the absence of an official delegate at the Third

'The reader who may care to look at the history of the subject is
referred to articles by the Librarian of the Institution, published in ‘‘Sci-
ence”’ on August 6, 1897, and on June 2 and 9, 1899.
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Conference on the International Catalogue of Scientific Liter-
ature, held in London June 12 and 13, 1900. It was learned
afterwards that Mr. Putnam, the Librarian of Congress, who
happened to be present in London, had private conferences
with some of the representatives, and greatly aided them in
reaching a conclusion. It was decided at that time to proceed
with the catalogue if 300 subscriptions, at $85 per annum, for
a period of five years, could be obtained, and the quota for
the United States was fixed at 45 sets. It being necessary to
secure these before the end of September, 1900, the Secretary,
as an evidence of the Institution’s good will, sent out a cir-
cular letter commending the project to American institutions
of learning. By the end of September the above number had
been secured, thus assuring the publication of the work in
England, and this number has since been increased to the
equivalent of over 66 sets, at $85 apiece, for five years, rep-
resenting a sum of about $30,000, the largest subscription
made to the catalogue by any single country, a fact which
abundantly demonstrates the interest felt in the catalogue on
the part of scientific men in the United States.

It is greatly to be regretted that no adequate provision has
been made for the cataloguing of the scientific literature of
the United States, which is to form a part of it. The Secre-
tary has provisionally undertaken to do this work out of the
private funds of the Institution, in what is feared will be an
inadequate way, since only two assistants can be allotted for
the purpose, and the Secretary has felt able to retain these
only to June 30, 1902. It has indeed been quite clear from the
outset that this work could not be made a perpetual charge
upon the small Smithsonian fund; but with a full recognition
of the importance of this project, the Secretary is still not
willing to have the Institution itself solicit aid from Congress
for it, while other interests already committed to the Institu-
tion are so inadequately provided for and demand its first care.

There is yet hope that some way may be found by which this
country may take its proper share in the community of nations.
In this great undertaking, which is now being carried on by
England, France, Germany, Russia, Italy, and Austria, the
Institution, which is not soliciting for itself any Congressional
aid, will be glad to see Congress place the work in any effect-
ive hands, or, if the Institution itself be designated, it will
do its part if Congress shall so direct and provide the means.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25
CORRESPONDENCE.

The correspondence of the Institution, next to its publica-
tions, furnish, perhaps, the most effectual means of diffusing
knowledge concerning matters of purely scientific interest,
as well as of disseminating information of a popular nature
on subjects coming within the scope of the Institution’s work.
The inquiries which come to the Institution from all parts of
the world embrace almost every conceivable topic, and the
major portion of the correspondence relates not to matters of
a routine nature, but to widely diversified subjects of scientific
investigation. Thus the expenditure of a very considerable
amount of time and labor is necessitated, as it is endeavored
in every instance to respond as fully as possible to the requests
for information, though where the subject of inquiry is
clearly without the scope of the Institution, the communica-
tions are referred to the branch of the Government service
having special cognizance of the matter or matters to which
they relate. Where the inquiries have particular reference
to the activities of the bureaus administered under the Insti-
tution, they are referred to the bureau concerned in each
case for attention and answer, unless they involve matters of
policy, in which event they are returned for the Secretary’s
action.

The plan adopted in 1890 of registering such letters as are
of sufficient importance to make a record of them desirable,
has been continued in operation during the year and has con-
stituted an efficient check against their loss or temporary
misplacement.

The increasing demand for publications of the Institution
has necessitated an increase in the amount of correspondence
relating to their distribution, though this has been consider-
ably reduced by the employment of printed forms. Aside
from the letters sent out relating to the operations of its sev-
eral bureaus, special correspondence has been conducted on
aérodromic matters and in the administration of the Hodgkins
fund. Since the Smithsonian bureaus were put under the
civil-service law and rules in July, 1896, there has been a
steady increase in the amount of correspondence relating to
civil-service matters, and this has added perceptibly to the
labors of the Institution.
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
EXPOSITIONS.

The Institution and its bureaus were represented in the
Government building at the Pan-American Exposition by an
extensive exhibit prepared under the general direction of Dr.
Fk. W. True, of the National Museum, who was designated by
the Secretary to represent the Institution on the Government
Board. Mention of this subject will be found in the reports
of the Museum and other bureaus.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Glasgow University.—The congratulations of the Institution
were extended to the University of Glasgow on the occasion
of its ninth jubilee celebration in June, 1901, and upon its
invitation thata representative of the Institution be appointed
to participate in the ceremonies, the Secretary designated Dr.
Theodore N. Gill to serve in that capacity.

Congress of Americanists.—In June, 1901, the Secretary
designated Maj. J. W. Powell, Mr. W. H. Holmes, and Mr.
F. W. Hodge to represent the Institution on the general
committee of arrangements for the International Congress
of Americanists, to be held in New York City in the autumn
of 1902.

Professor [enry’s laboratory notes. —During the long course
of scientific researches by Secretary Joseph Henry resulting
in his discovery of the electro-magnet, which is practically the
basis of the telegraph and of most of the electrical devices
of the present day, he kept minute notes of each day’s experi-
ments. While it has not seemed necessary to publish these
notes in full, it has appeared of interest that the most impor-
tant original memoranda showing his methods of work should
at least be made public, and after consultation with Secretary
Henry’s family a competent person has been placed in charge
of the compilation of these notes in a form that will make
wu good-sized octavo volume, to be illustrated by a consider-
able number of reproductions of Professor Henry’s original
sketches.

Nobel prize competition.—The Institution has been informally
advised that, in accordance with a bequest from Dr. Alfred
Nobel, the conditions of which are not dissimilar to those
under which the Hodgkins fund of the Institution is adminis-

NPR ye Sf tas series A

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27
tered, the Swedish Government has established a competition
designed to stimulate discoveries in the service of humanity.

As specified by the testator, the income from Dr. Nobel’s
fortune is to be distributed annually in very considerable
rewards, say $40,000 each, to those who during the past yeat
have rendered the greatest service to the world in the domains
of physics, chemistry, physiology and medicine, literature,
and in the work of fraternizing nations, reducing or suppress-
ing standing armies, and propagating peace congresses.

In view of its entire approval of the testator’s objects, the
Institution makes this mention of this subject, with which it
has otherwise no official connection.?

Santa Fe Palace.—On March 20 the governor of New
Mexico approved a joint resolution of the Territorial legis-
lature ‘‘asking for the establishment of a branch of the
Smithsonian Institution in the old-palace at Santa Fe, N.
Mex.” This resolution is as follows:

{House joint resolution No. 7.]

Whereas the building in the city of Santa Fe, known as
the Palace, is the oldest public building and the most historic

: ines Nobel ae at San Rome Dee ules 10, 1896. ae ill eed
that the interest on the capital bequeathed should be annually divided into
five equal parts to be awarded as prizes to those persons who should have
contributed most materially to benefit mankind during the year immedi-
ately preceding, as follows: One part to be given to the person having
made the most important discovery or invention in the science of physics;
one to. in chemistry; one do. in physi logy or medicine; one do. for the
most distinguished work of an idealistic tendency in literature, and one do.
to the person who shall have most or best promoted the fraternity of
nations and the abolishment or diminution of standing armies and the
formation and increase of peace congresses.

The contest of the will by the heirs at law is now over, and the statutes
under which the awarding of the prizes is to be made are formulated and
the first awards are to be made in 1902.

Under the statutes ‘‘It is essential that every candidate for a prize under
the terms of the will be proposed as such in writing by some duly qualified
person. A direct application for a prize will not be taken into consideration.

“The right to hand in the name of a candidate for a prize shall belong to

‘“(1) Home and foreign members of the Royal Academy of Science in
Stockholm.

‘(2) Members of the Nobel Committee of the Physical and Chemical
Sections.
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

edifice in the United States, having been the seat of govern-
mental power and the home of the executive officials of New
Mexico through all the changes in government for three cen-
turies; and

Whereas New Mexico itself is more prolific in archeological
treasures than any other part of the Union, and has already
contributed more largely than any other State or Territory to
the National Museum. and it is desirable that its peculiar ‘his-
torical objects should be preserved in one place, and amid
their natural environment, instead of being scattered all over
the world; and

Whereas the Territorial legislatures of 1882 and 1884
asked that this historic edifice be devoted to the preservation
of the antiquities of New Mexico, and two Secretaries of the
Interior have officially recommended that its permanent use
be that of a museum of the antiquarian collections of the
Southwest; and

Whereas, by inadvertence in the wording of the act of
Congress which donated public lands to the Territory for
educational and other purposes, passed June 21, 1898, the
palace property was included in the cession made by the
United States to Mexico, without any wish for such cession on
tue part of our people; and

evo is yee two houses of the fas legislature, each by a

‘*(3) Scientists who have receiv x a Nepal prize from ne Academy of
Science.

‘*(4) Professors, whether in ordinary or associate, of the physical and
chemical sciences at the universities of Upsala, Lund, Christiania, Copen-
hagen, and Helsingfors, at the Caroline Medico-Chirurgical Institute and
the Royal Technical College in Stockholm, and also teachers of the same
subjects who are on the permanent staff of the Stockholm University
College.

(5) Holders of similar chairs at other universities or university col-
leges, to the number of at least six, to be selected by the Academy of
Science in the way most appropriate for the just representation of the
various countries and their respective seats of learning.

‘“*(6) Other scientists whom the Academy of Science may see fit to
select.’’

At the time of Nobel’s death his estate was estimated to have a value of
from 30,000,000 to 35,000,000 kroner, which, if invested at 3 per cent,
would yield an annual income of from $240,000 to $270,000. Each fifth
would thus amount to $48,000 to $55,000. Since then 1,500,000 kroner
have, by agreement with the heirs at law, been set aside for the founda-
tion of Nobel institutes in Sweden; but at the same time the interest for
the intervening years since Nobel’s death has been accruing, so that the
exact value of each annual prize is not now known.

Inquiries concerning the Nobel competition should be Addressed to the
Council of the Nobel Foundation, care of the Royal Academy of Science,
Stockholm, Sweden.

i]

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

unanimous vote, passed a joint resolution asking the United
States to reassume ownership of said property, and that a
western branch of the National Museum be established at the
Palace: Now, therefore, be it

Resolved (if the council concur), That this legislature con-
siders that the appropriate future of the palace should be as
the home of the great collections of archeological and other
antiquities of New Mexico and the Southwest.

Resolved, That we request the authorities in charge of the
National Museum of the Smithsonian Institution to establish
a southwestern museum of the character hereinbefore indi-
cated as the palace property, with the ancient palace itself as
the center.

Resolved, That the Territorial board of public lands be
authorized and directed to convey said palace property either
to the United States or to the Smithsonian Institution, upon
the condition that a branch either of the National Museum or
the museum of the Smithsonian Institution be established and
maintained therein; that the palace building be preserved in
good order and without material ch: inges in its general struc-
ture and appearance forever; that the ‘New Mexico Historical
Society be allowed such space in said building as it may require
for the proper exhibition of its collection of New Mexican
antiquities and other objects illustrating the history of the
Territory as a part of said general exhibition; that the exhi-
bition rooms in said building be open to the public without
charge forever; and that no expense for arrangement or main-
tenance of said building and its contents be a charge on New
Mexico or any civil division thereof.

Inasmuch as the offer on the part of the Territory of New
Mexico, if accepted by the Smithsonian Institution, would
involve the transfer of valuable real estate in the city of Santa
Fe, the Secretary has held the question of acceptance for such
action as the Board of Regents may deem desirable.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The National Museum is visited annually by about a quarter
of a million persons, and each one seems to desire to examine
as many as possible of its treasures, now numbering nearly
5,000,000 objects pertaining to the : aninapallee ral, biological,
and geological sciences.

Through its publications and its correspondence the Museum
reaches everywhere, giving to the world information of a
technical or of a popular character concerning the American
and alien races of men and their habits, the life history of
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
animals and plants, and the structure and composition of the
earth.

The Secretary, in his report for 1888, called attention to
the inadequacy of the Museum building, which even then,
within seven years after its completion,- was found to be
wholly insufficient for the collections. The subsequent. his-
tory of the Museum has been a continuous recital to Congress
by the Regents of its increasing inadequacy.

The Secretary feels it his urgent duty to call attention to
the absolute need of an additional, more modern, building for
the National Museum, wherein may be properly exhibited
objects now packed in the present structure, and where may
be set up before the public, whose property they are, very
many objects of scientific, historical, and popular interest now
in storage quarters. ‘Too much can not be said in urging this
all-important matter, and it is hoped that definite action may
finally be taken by Congress.

The Secretary repeats here, what he already said in 1888,
that not only is large additional space required to relieve the
congested condition of the present building, but that the
appropriations have become utterly insufficient, even for the
proper care of the collections. It is hoped that Congress may
see fit to remedy these conditions and to give larger appropria-
tions this year.

The Secretary repeats also that it is not alone the lack of
space that is keenly felt, but the absolute inadequacy of the
appropriations in maintaining a corps of efficient assistants
to care for the collections. The accompanying table will per-
haps tell the story better than any amount of description.

If we take the five years extending from 1881 to 1886 as :
basis for comparison, the appropriations were at the rate of
$1,000 for the care of about 6,000 specimens. This was rep-
resented, at the time as insufficient, and divers expedients
were resorted to, such as the creation of honorary and unpaid
curators to perform the work. At present $1,000 are pro-
vided for the care of about 21,000 specimens, and proper care
at anything like this rate is simply impossible. The number
of specimens has increased nearly five times, while the amount
of money appropriated for their care has not doubled.

LO61-l88l

WNASNI) IWNOILVN SALVLS GSLINQ ‘SNOILVINdOYUddY GNV SNOILOATIOO 4O ASVSYNON| SAILVISY

91Z‘OlZ

020 ‘ZI

173'99l

008'97I
4

970‘19¢'e

12g ‘Ise?

600'000

N3WID3dS GNYSNOHL| SYVIIOG GNWSNOHL

HOW2 YWOs HOWD H3d HQ4 dIvWD

NOULWI 8 dOUddY |SNIWIDIdS 40 HIBWON

‘|| aLvid

SNOILWIHdOUdd¥
iO LNNOWY

SNIAWID4dS
JO Y38WNN

AOVYSAV

SUVW1100 00000! HO SNAWID3dS 000'091 =
a1vos

CC geet
OL
Tot mms 9 8!

“SN dd¥ JHL ONY SN3WIO3dS 4O YBGWAN FHL NIBMLIG OlLVY ZOVYFAV BHL
*SUYVBA BAIS 4O SAOIH3d AB
“ONIMOHS 318V4L

“LO61 ‘Hodey ueiuosuyIWS

PO a em

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

When Congress comes to appropriate for the increase of
space to over twenty times what it is at present (which amount
will be necessary to provide for our present collections on a
scale of space only commensurate with that now allotted, for
example, by the American Museum of Natural History), it
will be found that the Museum’s most valued property does
not lie only in the granite walls of its new building, if it have
one, nor in the cases, nor in the specimens, however import-
ant these may be, but in its possession of a corps of long-
trained and long-experienced workers.

This band of collaborators has continued its labors in most
vases while their duties have been growing more onerous and
their pay has remained practically stationary, because its
members are as a rule working for the love of their work
‘rather than for pay; but unless more adequate provision is
made now, the Museum, when Congress has granted new
quarters for it, will not be able to take into them those who
in the past have made it what it is, these men, its best posses-
sion, who are now going and who will have gone.

It is always to be remembered that the collections and
specimens referred to have not been purchased on any
digested plan, and though in themselves often very valuable,
are mainly derived from Government expeditions often organ-
ized for purposes other than collecting, from gifts, and from
other sources, and that their usefulness is always impaired
unless the gaps between them are filled. A small appropria-
tion was provided for this purpose—that is, chiefly the filling
of gaps in the collections, in 1898—but the amount available is
so limited and the deficiencies in the collection so great that
it will be impracticable to add any new series of objects at
present. It is hoped that Congress may hereafter grant
larger sums for this purpose and for such unique character-
istic American objects as are rapidly disappearing.

The Secretary does not wish to say that the National Mu-
seum, under this absolute denial by Congress of its indispen-
sable means of existence, has fallen to a second place among
American museums, but he would ask a comparison between
it and others which were once its inferiors.

Taking a single instance, that of the American Museum of
Natural History—the museum of the State of New York—
some statistics have been secured with regard to its size and
ow REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

cost of administration and contrasted with similar data bearing
upon this Museum—the museum of the whole United States:

Statistics of the United States National Museum compared with the American
Museum of Natural History.

; | American Mu-
National Museum. | seum of Natural

History.
Cubie feet incbuildin pat. 2224-4: seers ane ae 3, 600, 000 38, 000, 000
Numberofspecinvens 2-22 =-2 2 een ee sec ae 4,994, 672 | 2,300, 000
Space provided for each specimen -.---......-....-- fy Of 1 cubic foot. | 164 cubie feet.
ImCom ey 100s hese.) seen seer Seer eee eee $263, 540 | $230, 000
Salariesipaiditoeuratorsss- se 2s5-s- eee emeee eee e ee a22,199. 76 | $44, 000
Costiolbmildings'to date: tere je = asso eee $391, 400 | #4, 000, 000
Expenses for all purposes, 1901 ...-..- SS Sea AAC b $246, 824. 67 $230, 000

aTotal paid to entire scientific staff, $51,649.45.
> Balance of appropriation held to meet outstanding liabilities.

It has been possible during the year to arrange for a new
lecture hall in the Museum, a feature which for several years
seemed to be of public importance but which was of necessity
temporarily abandoned. The present hall is well equipped
for its use, being provided with a convenient platform, a
lantern stand, screen, chairs, and adjustable window screens.

Progress has been made in the installation of electric are
lamps throughout the Museum halls, and it is expected dur-
ing the coming year to complete the work so that the building
may be opened at night when occasion or order of Congress
should require it.

Much-needed improvements are being made in the heating
system by the installation of new boilers in the Museum and
the connection by a tunnel with the Smithsonian building,
rendering it possible to considerably economize the service
by heating both buildings from one center instead of by two
plants as heretofore.

Among other improvements of the year it may be men-
tioned that the last of the old temporary wooden flooring of
the Museum halls has been entirely replaced by permanent.
terrazzo pavement.

The report of the Assistant Secretary enumerates some-
what in detail the accessions to the several departments of the

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 30

Museum during the year, aggregating about 180,000 speci-
mens, among which may be here mentioned ethnological mate-
rial collected by officers of the Army and’ Navy in southern
California, British Columbia, and Alaska, some facsimiles of
ancient codices presented by the Duc de Loubat, and aborig-
inal objects of much interest from Brazil and other parts of
South America. Special attention is also called to the valua-
ble collection transmitted from the Far East by Dr. W. L.
Abbott, who has already contributed so largely to the Museum
as the result of his extensive explorations.

Among other newly acquired collections of interest are
objects of flint, illustrating the stone-shaping art of the primi-
tive Egyptians, presented by Mr. Seton-Karr, of London,
and a very full series of stone implements and other relics,
principally from Maryland, presented by Mr. J. D. McGuire.

The biological department has been enriched by collections
of special interest gathered by collaborators of the Museum
in various parts of the world, including marine zoological
specimens gathered in connection with the expeditions of the
Fish Commission steamers Albatross and Fish Hawk: in the
Pacific Ocean and the region of Porto Rico. It has been pos-
sible to secure by purchase upwards of a thousand specimens
of North and Central American birds, and by donation there
has been received a large number of the eggs and nests of
Philippine birds.

Among the geological additions of the year are several
thousand fossils from various regions, one of the most inter-
esting being a fairly complete skeleton of an adult female
mastodon from Michigan. ;

During the past twenty years it has been possible for the
Museum to distribute duplicate specimens to a considerable
number of institutions of learning in this country, and very
much more could be accomplished in this way were funds
available for the preparation of additional collections of this
kind. Wherever these series have been sent, they are highly
appreciated, and the demands from other institutions for simi-
lar contributions are constantly increasing.

It is all important that every object exhibited in the Museum
be suitably and permanently labeled, and while it is gratify-

sm 1901——3
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ing that much progress has been made in this work in recent
years, many specimens still remain with only temporary labels.
During the past year but little could be accomplished in this
direction, owing to the large demand upon the time of Museum
officials in connection with the preparation of exhibits for the
Pan-American Exposition, and also the present inadequate
facilities for label printing. Attention in this connection is
‘called to paragraphs below on the possible treatment of labels
so as to render them not only valuable for scientific classifi-
‘ation, but also instructive and interesting to the public.

The Secretary has endeavored each year to make some
advance in the direction of the Institution’s primary purpose
of the increase of original knowledge through observation and
research by the eminent men who are acting as its immediate
curators. What has been done in this way will be found indi-
rated in the Museum reports.

He is at this moment speaking, however, of only a sub-
ordinate, though not unimportant, portion of the Museum’s
work, that of instruction and entertainment, and toward this
end he has with personal attention brought together in one of
the halls of the Smithsonian building « small collection which
has been called ‘* The Children’s Room” (though it appears to
interest adults at least as much as children), comprising
objects of interest rather than of practical instruction. The
room itself has been made attractive by a careful choice of
color and design in the decoration of the walls and ceilings,
embodying illustrations of the life of animals and plants.

The objects displayed in the room include cages of living
birds, aquaria with fishes, and cases filled with those things
which interest children even of a larger growth.

As the Secretary stated in his last report, the classification
‘Sis not that of science, but that which is most intelligible to
the untrained mind,” and is intended for the purpose of
exciting the interest and wonder of the youthful visitor, in the
ultimate hope that this will stimulate a desire for knowledge
in natural history.:

The Secretary takes this occasion to express the hope that
this small special collection may have a possible use beyond
its immediately declared purpose. It is only within the last

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 355

~

few years that scientific men have begun to collect and publish
in methodical form the life histories of birds and other ani-
mals, and it is believed that they are beginning to take an
increased interest in reducing the results of their researches
to popular form for the entertainment and instruction of the
larger public, on whose support with Congress, the pecuniary
means for higher learning itself must also depend.

With regard to this, the Secretary will quote from a previ-
ous report to the effect that ‘‘if the first purpose of a museum
be for the increase of original knowledge by investigation
and research, its second purpose is to entertain as well as to
instruct.”

The Secretary has elsewhere quoted the definition of an
educational museum as ‘‘a collection of instructive labels,
each illustrated by a well-selected specimen.” | It is believed
that the National Museum of the Smithsonian Institution has
led in the practice of making its labels generally instructive;
and yet it may be properly asked whether the labels in the
collections even in our own Museum, or in almost any other,
are a collection of instructive labels for the general public.

The Secretary expresses the wish that still further progress
in this direction of instructing and interesting the public may
be made, and he suggests, as one legitimate means of doing it,
not any change in the present labels or in the Latin names of
the specimens, which should always remain, but an addition to
each, or at least to the labels of the more popularly interest-
ing specimens, giving briefly in English some characteristic,

>

and if possible some énteresting characteristic, of the specimen
in question.

Again repeating that the first purpose of the Museum is to
aid investigation and research, and that this will always have
his first attention, he recalls that there is a subordinate but
most valuable purpose, and he wishes to say now what has
been increasingly in his mind for vears, that he would feel he
had been promoting a most useful work if he could be the
means of inducing all museums to systematically add to exist-
ing labels (on at least all the most interesting or characteristic
specimens) something which would bring their subject within
the reach of the unlearned public.
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

To illustrate the very slight modification necessary to carry
the suggestion into effect, there is given below an example of
the usual label and of the modified form which, adding a
single sentence, furnishes additional information of a popular
character.

452
CRESTED FLY-CATCHER.
Great Yellow-bellied Flycatcher.
Myiarchus crinitus (L1y.)
fist. N. Am. B., 17, p. 334, pl. xliii, fig. 3.

Eastern United States and British Provinces,
but rare northeastward beyond the Connecticut

Valley; west to edge of the Great Plains; in
winter, Central America to Nicaragua,

452

CRESTED FLY-CATCHER.

Great Yellow-bellied Flycatcher.
Myiarchus crinitus (LINN.)
Hist. N. Am. B., II, p. 334, pl. xlili, fig. 3.
Eastern United States and British Provinces,
but rare northeastward beyond the Connecticut
Valley; west to edge of the Great Plains; in
‘winter, Central America to Nicaragua.
This bird ornaments its nest with the cast-off
skin of a snake, the purpose being apparently to
frighten off intruders.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Researches among the native American tribes have been
continued in the Bureau under the immediate supervision of
Maj. J. W. Powell, its Director. The operations of the year
were conducted in accordance with the act of Congress ap-
proved June 6, 1900, and with the formal plan adopted by
the Secretary June 19, 1900.

As heretofore, the work has been carried forward in such
manner as to aid in advancing the science of ethnology, and
the Director has given much attention to the development of a
classification of the native tribes on the basis of their normal
activities. It is thought that, in addition to its immediate

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

utility, this work will constitute an important contribution to
the sciences dealing with mankind.

Field work was prosecuted in Alaska, Arizona, California,
Maine, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Virginia,
and Wisconsin, as well as in British Columbia and Ontario,
Canada, and in Lower California and Sonora, Mexico. Addi-
tional data were received from correspondents and collabora-
tors in other sections.

One of the noteworthy expeditions of the year traversed
the arid regions of Arizona, Sonora, and Lower California
along new routes, and resulted in discovering the recent
extinction of the Tepoka Indians, in defining the western
boundary of the territory occupied by the Papagos, also in
the first scientific study of the Cocopas living in the Lower
Colorado River region. Among these Indians a collection
was made for the National Museum, portions of which were
subsequently used in the exhibit at the Pan-American Expo-
sition in Buffalo. The Cocopas were found to present vari-
ous features of interest both to scientific students and to
statesmen. The work of the expedition was facilitated by
several officers of the Republic of Mexico, including His
Excellency Senor Don Manuel de Aspiroz, the ambassador
from Mexico to the United States, whose courtesy it is a
pleasure to acknowledge. An extensive archeologic recon-
naissance was made also through central and southeastern
Arizona, where various ruins of ancient habitations were
examined. Linguistic records of great value were obtained
by a collaborator among the Haida Indians in British
Columbia.

Valuable collections were made or acquired during the
year—a typical series of stone implements from Georgia, a
collection of artifacts in stone and clay from southern Cal-
ifornia, the Cocopa collection already mentioned, and a series
of obsidian blades from California being most notable.

As during previous years, numerous photographs of abo-
rigines were taken both in the field and from Indian delega-
tions visiting Washington, and toward the close of the year
a number of kinetoscope views, or motion pictures, were

- obtained for purposes of study and record.

The work in the office covered a wide range of topics per-

taining to the characteristics and products of the aborigines.
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Among the reports prepared for publication, one embody-
ing a series of symbolic paintings of ritualistic character,
which may be termed a Codex Hopiensis from the tribe in
which it. was found, is of peculiar interest. Another report
of special note relates to wild rice as an aboriginal food
source, and touches on the utilization of this plant by white
settlers. The publication of the Report was continued with
some delay due to the time required for reproducing the illus-
trations accompanying the papers. The Seventeenth Report
and the first volume of the Eighteenth were distributed dur-
ing the year, while the second part of the Eighteenth was
finished to the point of binding; at the same time the Nine-
teenth Report was edited and proof-read.

The work of the Bureau during the year is described at
some length in the Report of the Director.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The Secretary recalls to the Regents that the primary pur-
pose for which they sanctioned the establishment of the Na-
tional Zoological Park was embodied in its name. It was to be
a ‘* National” one; and it was not for the City of Washington
only, but to be a means of preserving the great animals of the
country, and particularly of the North and West, which were
in danger of extinction; and it was to exist quite as much for
Idaho or Oregon as for the District of Columbia.

It is earnestly to be hoped that Congress will carry out the
plan originally urged upon it, of treating this park as it treats
the National Museum, that is, as something not existing for
the benefit of the District chiefly, nor properly to be main-
tained by the taxation of its inhabitants. In any case it is to
be known that while the National Park has been of a great
deal of incidental use to Washington as an admirable place for
health, recreation and entertainment, accessible to those who
‘an only go on foot, and offering such charm of scenery as no
other public park under such conditions possesses, yet that
one of the principal purposes for which it was founded—the
preservation from extinction of the national animal races—has
not been considered by Congress. About this the Secretary
‘an express himself no better now than he did in his report for

‘

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

1890, in which, referring to the history of similar attempts,
he s: ee

**In the early part of this century a naturalist traveling in
Siberia stood by the mutilated body of a mammoth still unde-
eayed, which the melting of the frozen gravel had revealed!
and to the skeleton of which lar ee portions of flesh, skin, and
hair still clung. The remains were excavated and transported
many hundred miles across the frozen w aste, and at last reached
the Imperial Museum at St. Petersburg, where, through all
these years, the mounted skeleton has justly been reg: arded as
the greatest treasure of that magnificent collection.

‘Scientific memoirs, popular books, theological works,
poems—in short, a whole literature—has come into existence
with this discovery as its text. No other event in all the his-
tory of such subjects has excited a greater or more permanent
interest outside of purely scientific circles; for the resurrec-
tion of this relic of a geologic time in a condition analogous
to that in which the bodies of contemporaneous animals are
daily seen brings home to the mind of the least curious observer
the reality of a long extinct race with a vividness which no
fossils or petrifactions of the ordinary sort can possibly equal.

** Now, Lamassured by most competent naturalists that few,
if any, of those not particularly devoted to the study of Ameri-
can animals realize that changes have already occurred or are
on the point of taking place in our own characteristic fauna
compared with which the disappearance from it of the mam-
moth was insignificant. That animal was common to all
northern lands in its day. The practical domestication of
the elephant gives to everyone the opportunity of observing
a gigantic cr eature closely allied to the mammoth, and from
which he may gain an approximately correct idea of it. But
no such example is at hand in the case of the bison, the
prong-horn antelope, the elk, the Rocky Mountain goat, and
many more of our vanishing races.

‘The student of even the most modern text-books learns that
the characteristic larger animals of the United States are those
just mentioned, with the moose, the grizzly bear, the beaver,
and if we include marine forms and arctic ene an animals
we may add the northern fur seal, the Pacific walrus, the
Californian sea elephant, the manatee, and still thane

** With one or two exceptions out of this long list, men now
living can remember when each of these animals was reason-
ably ‘abundant within its natural territory. It is within the
bounds of moderation to affirm that unless Congress places
some check on the present rate of destruction there are men
now living who will see the time when the animals enumerated
will be practically extinct, or exterminated within the limits
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the United States. Already the census of some of them
can be expressed in three figures.

**The fate of the bison, or American buffalo, is typical of
them all. ‘Whether we consider this noble animal,’ says
Audubon, ‘as an object of the chase or as an article of food
for man, it is decidedly the most important of all our Ameri-
can contemporary quadrupeds.’

**At the middle of the last century this animal pastured in
Pennsylvania and Virginia, and even at the close of the cen-
tury ranged over the whole Mississippi Valley and farther
west wherever pasturage was to be found. At the present
time a few hundred survivors represent the millions of the
last century, and we should not have even these few hundred
within our territory had it not been for the wise action of
Congress in providing for them a safe home in the Yellow-
stone Park.

** Now, for several reasons it has been comparatively easy to
trace the decline of the buffalo population. The size of the
animal, its preference for open country, the sportsman’s in-
terest in it, and its relations to the food supply of the West-
ern Indians, all led to the observation and record of changes;
and accordingly I have made special mention of this animal
in representing the advantages of a national zoological park
where it might be preserved; but this is by no means the
only characteristic creature now threatened with speedy
extinction.

‘The moose is known to be at the present time a rare animal
in the United States, but is in less immediate danger than some
others. The elk is vigorously hunted and is no longer easily
obtained, even in its most favored haunts. The grizzly bear
is believed to be rapidly approaching extinction outside of
the Yellowstone Park, where, owing to the assiduous care of
those in charge, both it and the elk are still preserved. The
mountain sheep and goat, which inhabit less accessible re-
gions, are becoming more and more rare, while the beaver
has retreated froma vast former area to such secluded haunts
that it may possibly survive longer than the other species
which I have just enumerated, and which are but a portion of
those in imminent danger of extinction.

*‘Among the marine forms the manatee still exists, but,
although not exterminated, it is in immediate danger of be-
coming so, like the Californian sea elephant, a gigantic crea-
ture, often of greater bulk than the elephant, which has
suffered the fate of complete extinction within a few past
years; at least it is uncertain whether a single individual
actually survives. The Pacific walrus, upon which a large
native population has always in great part depended for food
and hides, is rapidly following the sea elephant, and so on
with other species.

Smithsonian Report, 1901

PLATE Ill.

MODEL OF THE

N TIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
WASHINGTON, D. G ae

Sitwated in. Rock Greck valley, 1 north test of
ated Rock eck et ee

‘sean oe =
ES

Ta ee re

a =

= Sane

— >. oe

= > =

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

**This appalling destruction is not confined to mammals.
Disregarding the birds of song and plumage, to which the
fashions of the milliner have brought disaster, nearly all the
larger and more characteristic American birds have suffered
in the same way as their four-footed contemporaries. The
fate of the great Auk is familiar to all naturalists; but it is
not so well known that the great Californian vulture and sey-
eral of the beautiful sea fowl! of our coasts have met the same
fate, and that the wild pigeon, whose astonishing flocks were
dwelt upon by Audubon and others in such remarkable
descriptions and which were long the wonder of American
travelers, with the less known, but magnificent ivory-
billed woodpecker, and the pretty Carolina parrakeet, have
all become, if not extinct, among the rarest of birds.

‘Apart from the commercial value of its skins, the tax upon
which has paid for the cost of our vast Alaskan territory, the
singular habits and teeming millions of the northern fur seal
have excited general interest even among those who are not
interested in natural history. In 1849 these animals abounded
from Lower California to the lonely Alaskan Isles, and it had
been supposed that the precautions taken by the Government
for their protection on the breeding grounds of the Pribilof
Islands would preserve permanently ‘the still considerable rem-
nant which existed after the purchase of Alaskaand the destruc-
tion of the southern rookeries. But it is becoming too evident
that the greed of the hunters and the devastation caused by
the gener al adoption of the method of pursuing them in the
open sea, destroying indiscriminately mothers and offspring,
is going to bring these hopes to naught.

“For most of these animals, therefore, it may be regarded as
certain that, unless some small remnant be preserved in a semi-
domesticated state, a few years will bring utter extinction.
The American of the next generation, when questioned about
the animals once characteristic of his country, will then be
forced to confess that with the exception of a few insignificant
creatures, ranking as vermin, this broad continent possesses
none of those species which once covered it, since the present
generation will have completed the destruction of them all.”

During the eleven years that have elapsed since these para-
graphs were written, the writer has presented these consider-
ations every session, with the insistance it seemed to him their
importance deserved, until of late years he has had to feel
that the opportunity for saving this remnant, which was going
more and more each year, had in some respects finally gone.
The great Kadiak bear, the largest carnivorous animal upon
the planet, since the report above quoted was written, has been
driven farther and farther into the interior, until a specimen
49 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

is now unprocurable except by the fitting out of a costly expe-
dition, with the remote chance of obtaining a single adult,
though such an expedition will probably be more successful in
procuring the young.

Something much like this may be said of the giant moose
and of other of our semiarctic fauna. The buffalo is so
nearly gone, even from its shelter in the Yellowstone National
Park, that the stockade which the Institution erected there to
secure and ‘* gentle” part of the few buffalo remaining, is fall-
ing down without a single one ever having been in it. Taught
by the hopelessness of previous applications, the Secretary
has limited his request for this purpose to an immediate appro-
priation of $15,000, with the now faint hope of securing some
of the young of these vanishing creatures—the great bear, the
great moose, and the like. The Secretary is prepared to soon
abandon recommendations which have been urged for nearly
ten years, not only because they have been so far made in
vain, but because some term must be set in which they will
have too evidently grown useless from the disappearance of
the animal races in question.

As to the best means of securing the protection of these
‘aces, he has acquired in this long effort some practical knowl-
edge of the difficulties and of the simple but effective remedy
which can be applied. The subject is too large a one, how-
ever, to treat here, and he will only say that these creatures, if
secured and transported immediately from their native haunts,
are most unlikely to live under the conditions of civilization.
They are, on the contrary, very likely to live and even to per-
petuate their species if taken with care and kept surrounded
by the protection that experience and common sense suggest;
and both these mean the continuance of the present National
Zoological Park here under the eyes of Congress, but with a
simultaneous provision for first bringing up the wild animals
in a commodious place of confinement in the country where
they belong (one in Alaska, for instance), large enough to allow
them to live without a sense of captivity, on their ordinary food,
and in their ordinary climate. This place might be a small
ranch, where the things of vital importance after their capture
and security—namely, their being **gentled” and accustomed
to the sight of the keeper before being transferred to Washing-
can be carried out. Such a ranch can be established at a

ton

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

small cost, which will not be likely to be exceeded, and Con-
gress can be assured that it is not entering into an indefinite
future expense if this initial one be approved.

The Secretary will not leave this brief mention of the sub-
ject without stating that the walrus, perhaps the sea elephant,
some kinds of seal, and many other great aquatic mammals,
can equally share in this protection at a similarly small expense,
by simply preserving some locality where the walrus now
congregate, as, for instance, a known spot on the northern
shore of the Alaskan peninsula, or by establishing a more
special preserve in some landlocked bay, where they will
obtain their natural food and be properly guarded.

As to the local use of the National park, the beautiful region
set aside by Congress for it here has proved a fit place for
filling the objects of its existence, declared by Congress to be
** The advancement of science and the instruction and recrea-
tion of the people,” for here not only are the national ani-
mals, with others, preserved (in connection, it is to be hoped,
later with fixed sources of supply), from which the race could
be recreated if it died out elsewhere, but the National Zoolog-
ical Park has become a favorite resort of the nation’s visitors
to the capital, who find in its shades, along with such land-
scapes as no other city can show, object lessons of attractive
interest—for we must admit that we are all, adults as well as
children, interested in our animals, with an attraction which
no books about them can supply.

It has been possible to make some needed improvements in
the roadways of the park during the year, but many of the
buildings are almost falling down. ‘The need of means to put
a permanent shelter over the animals can not be overstated.
Mention has already been made in this relation of the aqua-
rium building, which consists of a literal barn, and which was
brought here until Congress could provide a special one; but
although several years have elapsed, none has yet been pro-
vided. The elephant house, a small wooden shed, put up as:
temporary expedient ten years ago, requires extensive repairs
to prevent it literally falling from rottenness.

The wooden fence placed around the park ten years ago,
and expected to last four or five years till a permanent one
was provided, has never been replaced at all, and has gone
_ beyond repair.
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

With regard to the birds, more is being done for the better
‘are of the larger ones. There has been designed and partly
constructed a large ‘‘ flying cage,” capable of including tall
trees within it, which is to be built near the present bird
house. The cage will be supplied with running water, and it
is hoped that some of the aquatic species may live within its
limits.

THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The most prominent feature of the year’s work has been
the distribution of the first volume of Annals of the Astro-
physical Observatory, to which attention was directed in
my report of last year. This special volume has been sent
to 1,500 Government depositories, observatories, learned
societies, and to eminent astronomers and physicists through-
out the world. The work will, it is believed, establish an
enduring reputation for the observatory from which it pro-
ceeded.

The eclipse expedition to Sumatra is spoken of more at
length in the detailed report of the Aid Acting in Charge,
which will be found in the Appendix. The special occasion
for this expedition arose with reference to the observations
made under the Government appropriation by the Institution
in the solar eclipse of May 28, 1900, at Wadesboro, N. C.
These, though valuable, were not in themselves complete, and
pointed to conclusions of particular interest which demanded
the opportunity of another eclipse to definitely perfect them.

Perhaps the most interesting of these was the incomplete
evidence secured ona single photograph of the existence of
several small planets within the orbit of Mercury, as indicated
in Plate XVIII of the last year’s report. Prof. E. C. Pick-
ering, to whom this photograph was referred for his expert
judgment, saw nothing in the appearance of the photographic
impressions of the supposed planets which would lead him to
pronounce them spurious. To make certain of their genuine-
ness would, however, required the evidence of another photo-
graph, and new photographs were only to be supplied by
another eclipse.

A second, not absolutely conclusive, observation of great
interest was that made by the bolometer on the heat of the
inner corona, from which, as stated on page 154 of the Smith-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

sonian Report for 1900, certain conclusions were drawn regard-
ing its temperature. These observations attracted widespread
interest and discussion among the astronomical public, and it
became of importance to verify and extend them if possible.

Hence it seemed to be desirable that an expedition should
proceed to the island of Sumatra to observe the long eclipse
there. The Institution did not, however, ask for a second
appropriation from Congress.

The United States Naval Observatory, which had secured
such an appropriation, had courteously offered to take one of
the Institution’s staff as a part of its own expedition. Since,
however, the Institution wanted the Sumatra work to com-
plete its own special work of the previous year, and since it
would involve the use of large special apparatus belonging to
it, it was deemed better that it shouldssend out a party of its
own, though on a most modest scale.

The party sent out from the Institution consisted of Mr.
C. G. Abbot, Aid Acting in Charge of the Smithsonian
Observatory, and Mr. Paul Draper.

Through the permission of the Secretary of War and by
the good offices of Brig. Gen. M. I. Ludington, Quartermaster-
General, transportation was secured to Manila and return by
the army transport service. The Secretary of the Navy con-
sented that the Institution’s expedition should be carried from
Manila to Padang and return in the same vessel with the expe-
dition of the United States Naval Observatory. My acknowl-
edgments are further due the Hon. F. W. Hackett, Assistant
Secretary of the Navy, for very effective aid in perfecting
these arrangements. Letters of introduction to Dutch ofti-
cials were obtained from the Department of State of the
United States, and from his excellency Baron W. A. F.
Gevers, minister of the Netherlands.

Mr. Abbot and Mr. Draper sailed on February 16 in the
transport Sheridan from San Francisco, arriving at Manila
on March 15, whence, seven days later, they embarked on the
United States naval transport General Alava, reaching Padang,
Sumatra, on April 4, from which point they proceeded to
Solok, a small town in the interior, which, though about
twenty-five miles north of the central eclipse track, was chosen
as having the best meteorological record of any part of the
island, and because of its location on a railroad. Nothing
46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

could exceed the kindness exercised by all the Dutch officials
of Sumatra to further the comfort and success of the observ-
ers. Free transportation was offered on all government rail-
ways, and observing sites placed at their disposal, with native
laborers for the installation of equipments. The Secretary
wishes to especially acknowledge the indebtedness of the
Institution to his excellency Governor Joekes, of Sumatra’s
west coast, to Heer Th. F. A. Delprat, head of government
railways in Sumatra, and to Heer C. G. Veth, United States
consular agent at Padang, whose efforts in behalf of the party
were untiring.

The little expedition reached Solok April 11 and passed the
time in constant drill, being strengthened by native help in
erecting instruments. On the momentous day (May 18) the
weather proved to be very bad over this portion of the island,
and caused the partial failure of the observations, though Mr.
Abbot and his companion may feel that while it was not in
their power to command success they have deserved it.

They returned under the same assistance from the Army
and Navy with which they went out, reaching Washington on
the 29th of July.

Attention is called to the progress reported by the Aid Act-
ing in Charge in perfecting devices to increase the actual
working sensitiveness of the galvanometer, which is an
indispensable companion to the bolometer the instrument
which perceives and measures excessively small variations of
temperature.

The bolometer, it will be remembered, was invented by the
present writer some twenty years ago as an instrument to
detect radiant heat in such small quantities as could be recog-
nized not even by the most delicate thermometer, and which
were so far beyond the reach of that instrument that the
thermopile could not register them. It may seem to the gen-
eral reader that the recognition of such excessively small
amounts of heat can not be of practical importance, but this
would be like saying that the human eye was an instrument
of no importance to the owner, since the amount of energy
which enabled it to see is so inexpressibly small.

The bolometer has been called ‘tan eye which sees in the
dark,” and it sees only by means of almost infinitesimally

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 4

small amounts of heat, but it now sees with these what neither
the eye nor the photograph can see. When the writer took
charge of the Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian
Institution the bolometer, with its attendant galvanometer,
could recognize a change of temperature of Jess than one-
hundred-thousandth of one degree Centigrade. With the
changes which he and others have since introduced in the instru-
ment and its attendant galvanometer, it can now recognize less
than one one-hundred-millionth of one degree. As much as
a thousandfold gain in sensitiveness has, then, been attained
over the former conditions, and a manifold further increase is
hoped for by the use of the more sensitive galvanometer
now being developed under the immediate care of Mr. Abbot,
the Aid Acting in Charge.

Even with this remarkable progress the bolometer is still
far less sensitive than the eye in its capacity to detect radia-
tions of wave-lengths suitable for eye observations, but, as is
well known, it has the great advantage that all rays affect it
equally, whether visible or not, and that hence it can see
where the eye can not.

In this little and inadequately installed Smithsonian Obser-
vatory the bolometer has extended the known spectrum to a
wave-length many times that known to Sir Isaac Newton, and
its use has spread from this country to every physical labora-
tory in the world where such researches are carried on. It is
growing more sensitive each year with continued improve-
ments, to which there seems to be no assignable limit, and
its future promises to be as full of value as its past.

The urban situation of the Observatory puts serious diffi-
culties in the way of investigations which, like the one just
referred to, require exceptional steadiness and freedom from
magnetic fluctuations. An astrophysical observatory should
evidently be located where smoke, lights, noise, traffic, and
heavy electric currents are at a distance. That the Smith-
sonian Observatory should still, after twelve years, be in its
present situation and with merely temporary wooden build-
ings for its home is indeed far from the expectations cherished
at its inception, a condition of affairs which the Secretary still
ventures to hope will be changed.
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The importance of the work accomplished by the Interna-
tional Exchange Service is constantly becoming more fully
understood, and the benefits derived from it in the inter-
change of the publications of the civilized world more ade-
quately estimated. The liberality of the American people in
gratuitously supplying their scientific literature to apprecia-
tive students of it, wherever they may be, and the provision
for its transmission at the expense of the United States Goy-
ernment and of the Smithsonian Institution jointly, creates
such an impression abroad that the Institution is often asked
for a description of the methods for recording and forward-
ing exchanges, with a view to enabling others to adopt its
system, which for accuracy, labor saving, and as a perma-
nent record for ready reference, years of assiduous study
have perfected into what it is to-day.

The term ‘‘ International Exchanges,” to those unaccus-
tomed to its application, may seem ambiguous, but the use of
the term is now universally accepted as applying to the
mutual exchange between Smithsonian correspondents every-
where of printed books on subjects of interest to the student
in any branch of human knowledge.

The Institution adopted the custom of voluntarily present-
ing its publications to learned societies in the year 1849, when
it sent a copy of Volume I of the Smithsonian Contributions
to Knowledge to each of one hundred and seventy-three for-
eign institutions. The recipients of these copies subsequently
sent their publications in exchange, and these reciprocal con-
tributions aided in forming the nucleus of the library of the
Smithsonian Institution.

As the Institution increased the publication of works on
scientific subjects, the exchange with its correspondents
abroad also increased, and the facilities for forwarding and
distributing the parcels soon led to requests being made by
other learned establishments in the United States for their
publications to be forwarded abroad by the Institution in the
same manner. The purpose of the donor of the Smithsonian
fund, ‘*the diffusion of knowledge among men,” could not, in
the minds of the Regents, be better promulgated than by

Smithsonian Report, 1901, PLATE IV.

HART REPRESENTING THE RELATIVE NUMBER OF PARCELS EX-

CHANCED BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER COUNTRIES
DURING THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1901. EXCHANGES WERE
CONDUCTED WITH 130 COUNTRIES. THOSE AGGRECATING LESS THAN
1000 PACKACES ARE OMITTED. THE AVERAGE WEIGHT OF EACH PARCEL
WAS 3 1-2 POUNDS. TOTAL WEIGHT HANDLED DURING THE YEAR
414,277 POUNDS.

Germany .
Great Britain .

France .

Austria-Hungary .

Italy

Russia .

Mexico .

Belgium

British America .

Switzerland

Argentina .

Netherlands .

Norway

Sweden.

Brazil

New South Wales
India

Japan

Victoria

Costa Rica

Denmark .

Spain
Chile

Each Cotumn Equat To 1,500 Packaces.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

devoting a part of the income of the fund to this purpose,
and from that time to the present the Institution has assigned
space in the Smithsonian building and has appropriated a con-
siderable part of its annual revenue to the support of the
system of International Exchanges.

The United States Government participated to a large
extent in the benefits of the exchange system of the Smith-
sonian Institution for many years without contributing to its
support, until the burden became so great that Congress in
1881 made an appropriation of $3,000 for the purpose, and
since then has made larger provision for the service from year
to year until $24,000 was granted for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1900, and a like amount was appropriated for the
last year.

Notwithstanding the support of Congress in aid of the
exchange service during recent years, none of the appropria-
tions have been quite adequate to the growth of the service
and to provide for improvements necessary to expedite
exchange transmissions, which, within the last two years, have
been unusually large. In order to accomplish these improve-
ments it has been necessary to substitute fast mail steamers
for the slower ones upon which the ocean transportation com-
panies usually granted the Institution the courtesy of free
freight, and in demanding the best possible facilities it has
been necessary in most instances to pay the customary rates.

The field covered by correspondents of the Smithsonian
Institution and the contributors and recipients of its ex-
changes is now represented by one hundred and forty-eight
countries, covering every part of the civilized world and
extending to several countries where enlightenment has only
commenced to manifest itself. In the latter are some of the
most appreciative correspondents of the service.

Outside the United States the Smithsonian correspondents
now number twenty-seven thousand five hundred and fifty-six
(27,556), and including this country there is a grand total
of thirty-five thousand seven hundred and five (35,705), an
ageregate increase of seventeen hundred and fifty-four (1,754)
during the year.

The parcels received for transmission this year number
one hundred and twenty-one thousand and sixty (121,060)

sm 1901——4
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

(many of which contained several separate publications), rep-
resenting an increase over the previous year of seven thousand
four hundred and ninety-seven (7,497). The relative amount
of exchanges with various countries is graphically shown in
the accompanying chart.

A total of sixty-two thousand three hundred and fourteen
(62,514), or more than half the number of parcels delivered
to the International Exchanges, were either received from the
departments and bureaus of the United States Government
for transmission abroad, or were received for them from
abroad, and constituted fully 75 per cent of the total weight
of all transmissions for the year. This branch of the service
is then of value to the Library of Congress and the depart-
mental and sectional libraries of every branch of the Gov-
ernment.

In his last report the Secretary presented an account of his
visit to London and Berlin during the summer of 1900 for
the purpose of impressing upon the British and German
Governments the desire of the Institution that they should
ach establish an international exchange bureau, or at least
arrange for the transmission and distribution of exchanges so
far as this country is concerned. ‘This work has been carried
on between the United States and each of these countries
from the beginning at the expense of the Institution, which
has paid all expenses, even to the employing of a salaried
agent in both countries. As yet fo definite action has been
taken by either Government.

Although subsequently to the conclusion of the Brussels
treaty in 1886, France had established an international ex-
change bureau, it had not provided sufficient means to conduct
it in a manner to insure prompt distribution of parcels. The
Secretary, accompanied by Mr. Henry Vignaud, of the United
States embassy, had an interview with Monsieur Liard, chief
of the libraries of France, who promised to recommend to the
French Chambers an increase in the appropriation for inter-
national exchanges. The Secretary is pleased to note that a
substantial improvement has recently been made in the time
required for the distribution of exchanges in France, and has
every reason to hope that the interests of the exchange serv-
ice at large are about to benefit by improvements introduced
at his request, on the eflicient recommendation of M. Liard,
in the French system.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

Whenever it has been possible for a representative of the
Smithsonian Institution to visit the exchange bureaus of other
countries, the information obtained concerning the systems
and customs practiced elsewhere and a personal acquaintance
with the officers in immediate charge of exchanges has been
of great benefit. As the official exchange bureaus of Italy
and Switzerland had never been visited by a representative of
the Institution, and as the agencies at Vienna and Budapest
had not been inspected since the autumn of 1897, Mr. W. Irving
Adams, chief clerk of the International Exchange Service, was
directed to visit and familiarize himself with all of them dur-
ing the last summer. His report, given in the Appendix,
conyeys the assurance that the cordial relations hitherto exist-
ing between these agencies and the Smithsonian Institution
will henceforth be more firmly established than ever; and an
increase in the contributions from Italy and Switzerland to
the United States Government institutions, especially to the
Library of Congress, is already apparent.

NECROLOGY.
WILLIAM LYNE WILSON.

At a meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution held January 23, 1901, the Hon. J. B. Henderson,
the chairman of the Exeentive Committee, made the following
remarks in memory of Mr. Wilson:

It is due to Mr. Wilson that a word of tribute to his mem-
ory should come from the Executive Committee of the Board
of Regents. His service as a member of the Committee was of
short duration, but long enough to endear him to those who
survive.

While Mr. Wilson possessed, in an eminent degree, the
power of speech—while indeed he was an orator, gifted with
the charm and beauty of genuine eloquence—his chief title to
remembrance will rest, not upon his words, but rather upon
what he did and what he was.

Non opus est verbis, credite rebus. Blessed with a liberal
education, he enjoyed it not alone, but became an educator of
usefulness and marked distinction. Asa lawyer he took high
rank, and placed himself among the most distinguished jurists
of his State. For twelve years he served an intelligent con-
stituency in the Congress of the United States, where his
record is marked by all that characterizes the highest order
of statesmanship—honesty, purity, devotion, and intelligence.

As Postmaster-General in the Cabinet of President Cleve-
land, he gave renewed evidence of ability and industry, and
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

also the highest assurance of capacity for the conduct of the
most difficult administrative duties.

With this but inadequate retrospect of what he did, let us
turn for a moment to what he was. In the first place, he was
what the poet justly designates as the ** noblest work of God,”
an honest man. Beyond the wisdom of the philosophers and
the classical lore of the universities, he had that pure and better
teaching, an educated conscience. And to thisunerring tribunal
he submitted the conduct of his life. And thus it was that
the observance of the golden rule brought him no burden, but
was a part of his existence. He esteemed his friend as he
esteemed himself. In the language of the Greek philosopher,
his friend was ‘‘another I.”

It has been said that great men are without ostentation and
selfish pride. If this be a mark of greatness, Mr. Wilson’s
gentleness and simplicity of character gave him the highest
place among the truly great. It is said, and said with truth,
that kindness is the only key with which the casket of the
human heart can be opened, Mr. Wilson had no enemies,
and his kindness and lovable character explain the fact.

Tennyson was right when he said,

’Tis only noble to be good.

Kind hearts are more than coronets,
And simple faith than Norman blood.

The Board adopted the following resolutions.

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution is called upon to mourn the death, on October 17,
1900, of William Lyne Wilson, a member of the board from
1884 to 1888 and from 1896, and a member of its executive
committee:

Be it resolved, That the Regents place upon record the
expression of their sense of loss in the passing away of a col-
league, the simplicity .and integrity of whose life gave to the
country a statesman of the first rank and to the people a noble
example. To the Institution he brought the twofold qualities
of the man of affairs andthe man of learning, while his atten-
tion to his duties was unremitting, even in sickness, and his
counsel was always most wise and helpful. As a college presi-
dent, as a leader in Congress, he was conspicuous for his
fidelity to the highest ideals. In his death the country has
lost a distinguished citizen, the Institution a wise counselor,
and the members of the board a colleague and friend, whose
especially lovable nature won the hearts of all with whom he
‘ame in contact.

Resolved, That this resolution be entered as a part of the
journal of the board and a copy transmitted to Mrs. Wilson.

Respectfully submitted.

S. P. LANGLEY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

es ein eee eh

APPENDIX TO THE SECRETARY’S REPORT.

APPENDIX I.
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Srr: I have the honor to report as follows regarding the condition and
operations of the National Museum during the year ending June 30, 1901:

While having as its primary function to preserve and classify the Goy-
ernment collections, to which large additions were made during the year,
the National Museum is best known to the public from its educational
side, and as a source of information on scientific subjects. As one of the
principal points of interest at the national capital, it is visited by large
numbers of persons from all parts of the country, the attendance during
the past year having been above 216,000, which is about the average.
Many thousands who have not the opportunity of coming to Washington
are benefited by its publications sent to them directly or accessible in the
public libraries. Upward of 700 lots of specimens were received at the
Museum for identification and report, besides some 8,000 letters requesting
information on a great diversity of scientific topics. The amount of dupli-
cate material contributed to educational establishments, large and small,
in various parts of the country, and used in connection with the exchanges,
has aggregated over 10,000 objects. At the close of the year scarcely any
of the regular educational sets of duplicates remained on hand, but a new
series of 100 sets of marine invertebrates was in course of preparation. It
has also been possible to grant facilities to many students for conducting
investigations along their special lines of research, and to others material
has been sent as loans, to enable them to carry on their work at their home
laboratories.

One of the most noteworthy accomplishments of the year has been the
fitting up, under the direction of the Secretary, for the special benefit of
very young people, of the main floor of the south tower of the Smithsonian
building, adjacent to the Bird Hall, which has been designated the Chil-
dren’s Room. The floor is of marble mosaic, with a border of Celtic design.
The walls have been painted in several shades of green and paneled, with
a view of some time adding pictures illustrating curious features of animal
and plant life. The ceiling is decorated with a trellis and vine, through
which are glimpses of sky and cloud, and of bright-plumaged birds.

The main exhibition consists of strange and attractive specimens of birds,
mammals, insects, shellfish, sponges, corals, minerals, and fossils, and
occupies two cases surrounding the room and built so low that even the
smallest child can examine the objects on the upper shelves. In the cen-
ter of the room is a large aquarium with fresh-water fishes, while hanging
from the ceiling are several brass cages with bright colored and singing

birds.
53
54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The object in planning this room has been to excite the wonder and
curiosity of children, to inspire them unconsciously with a love for nature,
and no feature has been admitted which might tend to defeat this purpose.
No Latin or technical labels puzzle the children, but every object is
described in the plainest language.

Organization and staf?.—The organization of the Museum, as modified in
1897, comprises an administrative office and the three scientific depart-
ments of anthropology, biology, and geology. Each department is in
charge of a head curator and is composed of several divisions, of which
anthropology has 8, biology 9, and geology 3, while there are also 18 sub-
divisions or sections.

Under the general direction of the Secretary, who is the keeper ex officio
of the Museum, administrative matters have been in the immediate charge
of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

At the close of the year the scientific staff consisted, besides the 3
head curators, of 18 curators, 12 assistant curators, 14 custodians, 10 aids,
4 associates, and 2 collaborators, making a total of 63 persons, of whom,
however, only about one-half were under salary from the Museum, the
remainder serving in a volunteer or honorary capacity, though nearly all
of the latter were in the employ of other bureaus of the Government.

The Museum has suffered the loss of one of its most valued collaborators
in the death, on September 15, 1900, of Mr. 8S. R. Koehler, Honorary
Curator of the Section of Graphic Arts, who since 1887 had rendered most
important services in building up the extensive print collection. He was
also connected with the Boston Museum of Fine Arts as curator of prints.

Dr. W. L. Ralph, custodian of the Section of Birds’ Eggs since the
death of Maj. Charles Bendire, has been made Honorary Curator of that
section, and besides giving generously of his time, he has, by liberal per-
sonal donations, greatly increased the size and value of the interesting
collections under his charge. Mr. F. A. Lucas, curator of Comparative
Anatomy, has been designated Acting Curator of Vertebrate Fossils. Miss
Harriet Richardson has been made a collaborator in the Division of
Marine Invertebrates, and Mr. Peter Fireman has received a temporary
appointment as chemical geologist.

Buildings.—Attention has been directed in each succeeding report to the
crowded condition of the two main buildings occupied by the Museum
collections, and to the necessity of increasing from year to year the extent
of the outside quarters required for storage and workshop purposes. Dur-
ing the past year Congress has again been called upon to provide for the
rental of an additional building. Inconvenient as it is to administer upon
the collections scattered and stored in this manner, the essential point is
the danger to which the material is thus subjected—material which can
not be replaced and which constitutes a record of the greatest importance
to the Government archives.

Among the alterations and improvements made in the Museum build-
ing, the most noteworthy has been the fitting up of a new lecture hall in
accordance with the provision of Congress, the room selected for the purpose
being the East North Range, at one side of the main entrance. The only
changes made in the room itself have been to substitute a terrazzo floor

a

sites Kinin Saieiiies

Sere lente ahi sain PRECIO NEON AE. LONE ESS PS AO ENE

P.

Cae

HA! #:
>

ping 1PM:

—»—~

>

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

for the old wooden one and to paint the walls and ceiling, which has been
done in very tasteful and pleasing colors. The furnishings consist of the
necessary platform, chairs, lantern, curtain, and stand, and adjustable
screens at the windows. It is expected that the facilities thus afforded will
often be utilized for the delivery of scientific lectures bearing upon the
rich and varied collections in the Museum.

Some years ago a number of electric arc lamps were temporarily installed
in the Museum building, the only attempt that had been made up to the
present time to light its exhibition halls. The sundry civil appropriation
act for 1901 carried an item of $3,500 for beginning a permanent instal-
lation of wires for lighting the entire building. This work is now well
under way and will be completed during the next fiscal year under an
additional appropriation sufficient to cover the small wiring and the pur-
chase of the necessary fixtures and lamps.

The roof of the Museum building, never entirely satisfactory, and
showing many weak points during recent years, has been repaired and
strengthened to the extent that its character warranted, under the advice
of a competent engineer, and it is hoped that it can be made to answer for
a few years longer.

It is noted with pleasure that the last of the wooden floors, with which,
through motives of economy, the Museum was originally provided, have
finally given place to a more substantial character of pavement. In antic-
ipation of the appropriation made at the last session of Congress for
improving the heating system, plans have been prepared for the instal-
lation of a pair of more powerful boilers, suflicient for supplying steam to
both buildings, whereby it is expected to obtain a more reliable and
economical service.

The furniture acquired during the year consisted of nine exhibition and
45 storage cases, besides 578 other pieces of furnishings.

Additions to the collections.—The new material received embraces 1,470
separate accessions, including about 180,000 specimens, and a census of the
collections at the end of the year shows a total of about 4,995,000 specimens
now catalogued in the Museum books.

The Department of Anthropology has received several collections of
interest: From the Indian tribes of the Great Plains and the Interior
Basin material of ethnological importance was obtained, consisting of
articles of dress, implements, products of industry, and weapons, gathered
by Capt. Paul B. Carter,U.S. A. A series of ethnological and archzeolog-
ical objects was collected from the Mission Indians of southern California
by Mr. Horatio N. Rust, with the special view of aiding the Museum
ethnologists in distinguishing between the arts and industries of the Indians
belonging to the Shoshonean and Yuman missions, and it therefore
becomes a type of southern Californian material already in the Museum.
About 150 specimens of costume, implements, utensils, and products
of the primitive manufactures of the Chilkat Indians in southeastern
Alaska were secured by Lieut. G. T. Emmons, U.S. N., and they have
been largely used in preparing lay figures, constituting a family group of
this tribe. To students of aboriginal American culture a series of seven
facsimile reproductions of ancient Mexican codices, or books, presented by
the Duc de Loubat, will furnish valuable information.
56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The anthropological department has likewise been enriched by material
relating to South American tribes. Thus, through the courtesy of Dr.
Orville A. Derby, director of the Geographical and Geological Survey of Sao
Paulo, Brazil, Rev. W. A. Cook collected for the Museum a large number
of ethnological objects from the Bororo Indians of Mato Grosso. These
Indians belong to the extended South American family, the Tupi-Guarani,
and their primitive mode of life as well as the picturesqueness of their
feather costumes and ornaments give a special importance to the collec-
tion, coming from an area hitherto but meagerly represented in the
Museum.

Material of the same general character was gathered by Prof. J. B.
Steere, of Ann Arbor, Mich., from the Pamamary Indians and other tribes
about the Upper Purus River in Brazil. The word ‘‘Pamamary”’ signifies
‘‘berry eaters,’’ and as Professor Steere made a special study of these peo-
ple on account of their wild habit of life, the objects have special worth
in the series of industrial products. These Indians have not been classi-
fied linguistically, but form an outstanding group. Through an exchange
with the Field Columbian Museum there was secured a selection from the
ethnological material pertaining to the various tribes on the Upper Para-
guay River exhibited by Dr. Emil Hassler and the Brazilian Commission
at the World’s Columbian Exposition in 1893. These are chiefly articles
of dress gorgeously decorated with feathers, the savages of that region
being very fond of arraying themselves with feathers of most brilliant
colors. There are also numerous specimens of textiles. The tribes rep-
resented by this large and varied collection are the Apiaca (Tupian),
Angaytes, Cadoca (Guaycurian), Cainguas, Chamacoco Brabos, Chama-
coco Manos, Cordovas, Cuximanapanas, Guanas (Arawakan), Guaranis
(Tupian), Guatos (Tapuyan), Lenguas (Lenguan), Matacos (Matacoan),
Omiris, Parecis (Arawakan), and Payaguas (Payaguan).

Some interesting ethnological objects from California, Alaska, Hawaii,
and the Fiji Islands were secured during the year, including various im-
plements and utensils illustrating the early tribes of the Pacific coast; and
especially conspicuous among them is a series of obsidian implements of
remarkable size and execution.

From Miss M. A. Shufeldt, of Morristown, N. J., the Museum has
obtained a series of ethnological material from China, Japan, and Korea,
associated with historical events in which her father, Admiral Robert W.
Shufeldt, U. 8. N., played an important part, many of the s';jects being
of considerable extrinsic value as well as of historical interest.

Among the objects received during the year from the Philippine Islands
may be mentioned those presented by Gen. James M. Bell, U.S. V.,
which include three pieces of Bicol armor, a signal torch, several spears,
bows and arrows, a war club, and a shield. Dr. W. L. Abbott, who for
so many years has enriched the Museum with the results of his extensive
explorations in the East, has now contributed a large and varied ethno-
logical collection from the Andaman and Nicobar islands, a particular
interest attaching to these groups for the reason that the inhabitants,
especially those of the Andamans, are among the most primitive of man-
kind. These people belong to the ‘‘ Negritos,’’ or small negroids of south-
eastern Asia, and are allied to the Semangs of the Malayan peninsula and

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ba

the Aetas of the Philippines. Dr. Abbott’s collections are therefore very
valuable, since they represent some of the very earliest stages of invention.

Two altars in combined Gothic, Renaissance, and Rococo style from a
church in Hildesheim, Germany, have been added to the series illustra-
ting ecclesiastical art, which it is hoped will be prepared for exhibition
before very long.

The American history collections have been considerably increased
during the year, perhaps the most noteworthy additions being swords,
pistols, medals, spurs, and shoulder straps contributed by Mrs. George W.
Morgan as personal memorials of her husband, General Morgan, who
received them in recognition of his services in the Mexican and civil wars.
Several telegraph instruments and insulators of historic interest were
donated by J. H. Bunnell & Co., of New York City, and one of the origi-
nal cylinders and other parts of the celebrated locomotive, the ‘‘Stour-
bridge Lion,’’ were presented by Mr. G. T. Slade, general manager of the
Erie and Wyoming Valley Railroad Company.

In the division of prehistoric archzeology 281 articles of flint from an
ancient Egyptian quarry, presented by Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr, of London,
are of special interest as illustrative of the quarrying and stone-shaping
art of the primitive Egyptians. The specimens consist entirely of ‘‘reject-
age,’’ or partially shaped failures and broken pieces that result from the
manufacture of knives and other implements by the flaking processes, and
closely resemble the rejectage from American flint quarry sites. A num-
ber of Babylonian seals and some inscribed earthenware bowls were
acquired durirg the year, many of the seals being rare and of great inter-
est, while the inscribed bowls are said to reveal a peculiar phase in the
development of religious ideas.

Among the accessions of prehistoric objects from localities within the
United States may be mentioned as of special interest the stone implements
and other relics, principally from Maryland, presented by Mr. J. D. McGuire,
of Ellicott City, Maryland, consisting of more than 7,000 specimens, and
perhaps the most important collection yet made in the Chesapeake region
as the result of the energies of one person. Also there was acquired the
Steiner series of more than 18,000 stone implements obtained from an
ancient village site on Big Kiokee Creek, Columbia County, Georgia. Mr.
Wm. H. Holmes, the head curator of the Department of Anthropology,
secured nearly 500 archaeological specimens from an ancient quarry in
Union County, Illinois. He describes these objects as representing not
only the rejected materials resulting from manufacture, including the vari-
ous forms of unfinished and broken implements and the flakage, but also
the tools used in quarrying and shaping, and in sharpening the implements
used and made.

In the Department of Biology several divisions report the receipt of ac-
cessions equaling or surpassing in interest and value those of the preceding
year. One of the most important accessions was from Dr. W. L. Abbott,
and included large numbers of mammals, birds, reptiles, mollusks, insects,
and marine invertebrates from the Natuna Islands, the Mergui Archipel-
ago, and the coast of Tringanu, Malay Peninsula. The value of this mate-
rial will be appreciated from the fact that as many as twenty new species
have already been noted among the mammals alone. The collections of
58 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Dr. E. A. Mearns were also important, being largely from type localities
along the Kissimee River and elsewhere in Florida, and comprised 600
birds and 300 mammals, besides birds’ eggs and reptiles, and also a fine
series of the skulls and skeletons of the soft-shelled turtle, Platypeltis spinifer.
He also contributed a series of the mammals occurring in Rhode Island.

Six important lots of marine invertebrates were transferred tothe Museum
by the United States Fish Commission, namely: the Ophiurans of the
Agassiz-Albatross cruise of 1891 to the Galapagos Islands and the west
coast of Central America; the Japanese crustaceans collected by the Alba-
tross in 1900; the corals obtained during the South Sea Expedition of the
same vessel in 1899-1900; a collection of crayfishes from West Virginia;
the crustaceans and echinoderms obtained by the Princeton University
Arctic Expedition of 1899, and the corals gathered in Porto Rican waters
by the steamer Fish Hawk in 1899. The Fish Commission has also depos-
ited in the Museum the types of the new species of fishes collected on this
latter expedition.

A valuable series of types of Hawaiian fishes collected by Dr. O. P. Jen-
kins, of the Leland Stanford Junior University, and Mr. T. I. Wood, has
been contributed by the former, while the university presented an inter-
esting collection of Japanese fishes.

Oriental shells, representing about 500 species and regarded as the most
interesting addition to the Division of Mollusks, were received from Dr.
W. Eastlake, of Tokyo, Japan. A collection of the shells of Haiti and
Jamaica, embracing oyer 200 species, was gathered by Mr. J. B. Hender-
son, jr., of Washington, District of Columbia, and Mr. Charles T. Simpson,
of the National Museum, Mr. Henderson generously paying the expenses
of the trip. Some Naiades from Central and South America were received
from Dr. H. von Ihering, of Sao Paulo, Brazil, and are of special value as
supplying many deficiencies in the Museum collections.

The Museum has been fortunate in acquiring the private collection of
Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of the Division of Birds, representing about
1,100 species of North and Central American birds, many of them in the
first plumages, and all in an exceedingly fine state of preservation. A rep-
resentative series of 56 birds from Singapore has been donated by Mr.
C. B. Kloss, and an excellent collection of the nest and eggs of Philippine
birds, accompanied in many instances by specimens of the birds them-
selves, has been presented by Capt. H. C. Benson, U. 8. A. Four Birds
of Paradise, including the rare Pteridophora alberti, a species with extraor-
dinary plumes, were also secured. Dr. W. L. Ralph has added to his
many acts of generosity by donating rare birds’ eggs, including specimens
of the eggs of the Everglade Kite and Henslow’s Sparrow.

The Division of Insects received several important accessions, the most
noteworthy of which includes more than 15,000 specimens of European
lepidoptera, a collection which was once the property of the late Dr. O.
Hofmann.

The National Herbarium has been enriched by the acquisition of the
collection of lichens belonging to the late Henry H. Willey, of New Bed-
ford, Massachusetts, a well-known specialist in this group of plants; also
of coilections of 917 plants from Georgia, 617 from Missouri, 500 from

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

Florida, and 813 from Mississippi and Florida. Messrs. William Palmer
and J. H. Riley, of the National Museum, gathered more than 300 plants
in Cuba, while Messrs. C. L. Pollard and W. R. Maxon, attached to the
botanical staff of the Museum, secured at least 1,600 specimens in Ala-
bama, Georgia, and Tennessee.

All the divisions in the Department of Geology have received important
additions, the Geological Survey, as in past years, being one of the princi-
pal contributors. Among the material transmitted by the Survey was a
type series of 386 specimens of asphalt and associated rocks, collected in
various parts of the United States by Mr. G. H. Eldridge, as well as some
rocks and ores from the Ten Mile District, and Silverton, Pikes Peak, and
Cripple Creek quadrangles, Colorado.

From the Geological Survey the following valuable collections of fossils
have also been received: Three hundred and seventy-five specimens of
pre-Cambrian invertebrate fossils, including species figured and described
by the Director of the Survey, Dr. Charles D. Walcott, in the Bulletin of the
Geological Society of America; a collection of 2,370 specimens from the
Cambrian, consisting mainly of brachiopods; 2,425 Ordovician fossils from
southern Nevada and near El Paso, Texas, and 114 Silurian and 1,550 Devo-
nian specimens from the Helderberg and Oriskany beds of Indian Terri-
tory and the higher Devonian of Colorado and New Mexico. <A portion
of the material last mentioned was described by Dr. George H. Girty in
the Nineteenth Annual Report of the Survey. Mention should also be
made of the receipt of large collections of Cambrian fossils from Russia,
Norway, Sweden, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland, obtained for the
Museum by Dr. Walcott and his assistants, Mr. M. Schmalensee and Mr.
S. Ward Loper. Mr. Schuchert, of the National Museum, made extensive
collections of Carboniferous, Silurian, and Devonian fossils in New Bruns-
wick, the Gaspé region in Quebec, western New York, Maryland, and
eastern Pennsylvania.

An excellent collection of cephalopod mollusks was acquired during the
year, and a remarkably fine slab of crinoid, Uintacrinus socialis, from the
Upper Cretaceous of Logan County, Kansas, was presented by Mr. Frank
Springer, of Las Vegas, New Mexico. There was also secured the Randall
collection containing upward of 3,600 specimens of Upper Devonian and
Lower Carboniferous fossils. A fairly complete skeleton of an adult female
mastodon was excavated in Michigan for the Museum. The skull of an
Elotherium and other vertebrate fossils from the Bad Lands of Dakota
were presented by Dr. J. R. Walker, of the Pine Ridge Agency. A nearly
complete, though composite, skeleton of the New Zealand Hmeus crassus
was purchased, and a series of Moa bones was acquired by exchange from
F. W. Hutton, of New Zealand.

Several valuable lots of fossil plants were received in exchange. Thus,
the University of Kansas transmitted 150 Carboniferous and Permian fossil
plants; 173 plants from the Middle and Upper Miocene and the Upper
Pliocene of Germany were received from the Natural Science Society of
the Museum Senckenberg in Frankfort, and a small series of fossil plants
from the Triassic of York County, Pennsylvania, was transmitted by
Prof. A. Wanner, of York, Pennsylvania.
60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The meteorite collection has been increased by purchase and through
exchange more than in any previous year. One of the most important
accessions was a stony meteorite weighing 2,049 grams, which fell at Felix,
Alabama, in May, 1900. It was collected by Mr. J. W. Coleman and trans-
mitted to the Museum by Mr. R. D. Sturtevant, of Augustine, Alabama.

Important donations of minerals were as follows:

A quantity of Georgia corundum in masses and crystals, by the Inter-
national Emery Company, of Chester, Massachusetts; a series of zinc ores
and associated minerals from Missouri, by Mr. F. W. Crosby; large speci-
mens of mohawkite and domeykite, with native silver, from the Wolverine
copper mine, Houghton County, Michigan, by Mr. Fred Smith; 6 nuggets
of platinum from Trinity County, California, by the Welsbach Company,
through its president, Mr. W. E. Barrows; a fine large nodule of priceite,
by Mr. W. C. Lake, of Harbor, Oregon, and 12 specimens of turquoise and
2 of opal, by Mr. H. P. Petersen, of Washington, District of Columbia.
Among other additions was a series of specimens of native silver and cop-
per from Houghton County, Michigan, and 3 samples of beach gold from
Cape Nome, Alaska.

Exploration.—Some of the most important accessions of the year were
the results of explorations carried on by members of the Museum staff
and by other scientific bureaus of the Government. Mention has already
been made of several collections secured in this manner.

Mr. W. H. Holmes, head curator of Anthropology, accompanied by Dr.
W. A. Phillips, of the Field Columbian Museum, examined the extensive
flint quarries in the vicinity of Mill Creek, Union County, Illinois, where
he obtained a large number of implements and quarry rejects. In June,
1901, Dr. Walter Hough began investigations in the Pueblo country in
conjunction with Mr. Peter G. Gates, of Pasadena, California, intending
to continue the work during the entire summer, chiefly at the expense of
Mr. Gates, the collections to be divided between him and the National
Museum. The collections made by Prof. J. B. Steere, of Ann Arbor,
Michigan, on the Upper Purus River, in Brazil; by Mr. William A. Cook,
near the headwaters of the Paraguay River, and by Lieut. G. T. Emmons,
U.S. N., in British Columbia and Alaska, have already been referred to.
The expeditions to the Philippines by Col. F. F. Hilder, and to Sonora,
Mexico, by Mr. W J McGee, both of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
for the Government board of the Pan-American Exposition, resulted very
successfully, and the material obtained will, it is understood, be transferred
to the Museum at the close of the exposition.

Dr. Roland Steiner continued his explorations of quarries, workshops,
and village sites near Grovetown, Georgia, and at the mouth of Shoulder-
bone Creek and on Little Kiokee River, where he procured many thou-
sands of specimens, all of which have been deposited in the Museum.

During a stay of four months in Florida, Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. A.,
gave his attention to the collecting of birds and mammals for the Museum.
Mammals were also collected in Italy, Sicily, and southern France by Mr.
Dane Coolidge, and in the vicinity of Peterboro, New York, by Mr. Gerrit
S. Miller, jr. Mr. W. H. Ashmead was detailed in the spring of 1901 to
obtain entomological material in the Hawaiian Islands, in conjunction with

a.

os: ca eg ei

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

an expedition sent there by the U.S. Fish Commission, and Dr. J. E.
Benedict accompanied the Fish Commission steamer Fish Hawk during an
exploration of the fishing banks in the Gulf of Mexico opposite Anclote
River, Florida. Mr. J. B. Henderson, jr., of Washington, who has on
many former occasions manifested his interest in the Museum, made at
his own expense a collecting trip to Haiti and Jamaica, taking with him
Mr. C. T. Simpson, of the Division of Mollusks. Much valuable mollus-
can material was obtained.

Messrs. Barton A. Bean and William H. King collected fishes at Key
West, Fla. The explorations in Cuba for the Pan-American Exposition,
begun in 1900 by Messrs. Palmer and Riley, also of the Museum staff,
were completed early in the year. Botanical explorations with interest-
ing results were conducted in the Southern States by Messrs. C. L. Pollard
and W. R. Maxon.

Important accessions through explorations by the Geological Survey
have already been alluded to. Mr. F. A. Lucas, of the Museum, and Mr.
Alban Stewart visited several localities where mastodon bones had been
reported, with the object of securing a skeleton for the Pan-American
Exposition. Only a single fairly preserved one was obtained, however, in
a locality in southern Michigan. Mr. Charles Schuchert spent consider-
able time collecting fossils in Canada, also in the vicinity of Buffalo, N. Y., in
Maryland, and in eastern Pennsylvania, the object of his inquiries being
to secure data for fixing more definitely the line separating the Silurian
and Devonian systems in America.

Exchanges.—Much material had been received through the exchange of
duplicate specimens with scientific establishments and individuals both at
home and abroad. In view of the small amount of money available for
purchases, this method of obtaining collections has become of considerable
importance, especially with reference to foreign countries, from which
gratuitous contributions are rarely to be expected and to which the scien-
tific explorations of this Government seldom extend. Transactions of this
character were conducted through the year with the following institutions
and individuals abroad:

Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England; Museum of Natural History,
Paris, France; Musée de St. Germain, Seine-et-Oise, France; Zoological
Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark; Museum Senckenberg, Frankfort-on-
the-Main, Germany; Royal Zoological and Anthropological-Ethnograph-
ical Museum, Dresden, Germany; Geological Institute of Kiel, Germany;
Museum of Natural History, Berlin, Germany; Zoological Museum of the
University of Upsala, Upsala, Sweden; Museum of the Imperial Academy
of Sciences, St. Petersburg, Russia; Royal Geological Museum, Leiden,
Holland; Royal Zoological Museum, Turin, Italy; Royal Botanic Gardens,
Sibpur, India; Australian Museum, Sydney, New South Wales; Canterbury
Museum, Christchurch, New Zealand; National Museum, Montevideo,
Uruguay; Museu Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil; National Museum, Mexico,
Mexico; Geological Institute, Mexico, Mexico; and with Mr. B. W. Priest,
Keepham, England; Mr. W. Kirkaldy, Wimbledon, England; Prof. Henry
Balfour, Pitt Rivers Museum, Oxford, England; Mr. Edward Lovett, Croy-
don, England; Mr. C. T. Druery, London, England; Prof. M. Gandoger,
62 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Anas (Rhone), Villefranche, France; Mr. E. Andre, Gray (Haute-Saone),
France; Dr. Krantz, Bonn, Germany; Dr. E. Schellwien, Provinzial
Museum, Konigsberg, Prussia; Dr. Fred. Berwerth, Vienna, Austria; Mr.
Carl Wohlgemuth, Bozen, Tyrol, Austria; Prof. W. C. Brégger, Univer-
sity of Christiania, Christiania, Norway; Mr. G. van Roon, Rotterdam,
Holland; Mr. Paul Narbel, Cour, Lausanne, Switzerland; Dr. I. Comabella,
Barcelona, Spain; Mr. W. R. Billings, Ottawa, Canada.

Installation.—The crowded condition of the two buildings occupied by
the National Museum prevents any extensive advances in connection with
either the exhibition or the working collection of specimens. Improve-
ments are constantly being made in methods of installation, in labeling,
and in the substitution of a better quality of specimens in the display cases
whenever such are received, but the growth of the Museum in directions
apparent to the public and the specialist has come practically to a stand-
still. There is room left only for storage.

One of the galleries allotted to the Department of Anthropology for
exhibition purposes has of necessity been cut off from the public and
made into a temporary laboratory. Considerable progress has been made
in this department in the preparation of case labels. Some changes have
been made in the section of Biblical Antiquities. The collections in the
section of American history and certain exhibits in the division of Pre-
historic Archzeology have been largely rearranged.

The South East Range, assigned to the exhibition of reptiles, amphibians,
and fishes, has been entirely renovated, a terrazzo floor having been laid
and the walls and ceiling appropriately painted. The installation, how-
ever, is not yet completed. Casts of fishes now occupy upright cases along
the west wall, while the reptiles and amphibians are shown in a series of
floor cases with sloping tops. Some South American and Old World species
in alcohol will shortly be added. A small series of deep-sea fishes, supple-
mented by colored figures, has been placed on exhibition. The exhibit
of game birds in the entrance hall of the Smithsonian building is being
entirely reconstructed, so as to illustrate, in groups, the parent and young
birds in an environment characteristic of their haunts. At the close of
the year four such groups had been finished. Owing to the imperfect
condition of the cases in which the large regular series of birds is installed,
it has been necessary to employ a taxidermist continuously in overhauling
the collection, in order to preserve the specimens from deterioration. These
cases, Which have been in use for about twenty-five years, are now neither
dust nor insect proof.

Perhaps the most important, or at least a most interesting work of instal-
lation completed during the year, is the Children’s Room, mentioned on a
previous page.

New labels have been prepared for the American mammals occupying
the large wall-case on the east side of the South Hall, and a series of
enlarged models, representing the structure of feathers, has been added to
the collection in the Division of Comparative Anatomy.

The display collections of the Department of Geology were never in a
more satisfactory condition than at present, and, except in the Sections of
Paleobotany and Vertebrate Paleontology, they are well arranged and

val

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

labeled. There is on hand, however, a very large amount of original
material, as represented in the Marsh collection of fossil vertebrates and
the Lacoe collection of fossil plants, which requires time for its prepara-
tion, but from which the exhibition halls will ultimately receive some of
their most novel and interesting features.

Publications.—The publications issued during the year comprise the
second volume of the Annual Report of the Museum for 1897, the Annual
Reports for 1895 and 1899, Volume 22 of the Proceedings, and Part 1 of
Special Bulletin No. 4, besides a large number of papers from the Reports
and Proceedings printed in separate form.

Volume II of the Report for 1897 contains a biographical account of Dr.
G. Brown Goode, the late Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution in charge of the National Museum, together with reprints of several
of his more important papers on museums and on the history of scientific
progress in America, and is illustrated with portraits of more than 100 men
who have been prominent in the scientific advancement of the country.
The Appendix to the Report for 1898 consists of a single paper by the late
Prof. E. D. Cope on the crocodilians, lizards, and snakes of North Amer-
ica, comprising 1,100 pages of text, with 37 full-page plates and 347 text
figures. The Report for 1899 contains five scientific papers based upon
collections in the Museum.

Volume 22 of the Proceedings includes papers numbered from 1179 to
1205, the Synopsis of the Naiades, by Mr. Charles T. Simpson, being espe-
cially worthy of note.

Part 1 of Special Bulletin No. 4 is the first of a series of papers on the
American Hydroids, by Mr. C. C. Nutting, professor of zoology in the
University of Iowa, and was issued early in the fall. It treats of the Plu-
mularidee, is in quarto form, and contains 34 plates.

Dr. W. L. Ralph has undertaken to continue the extensive work on the
Life Histories of North American Birds, begun some years ago by the late
Maj. Charles E. Bendire, U. 8. A., and of which two volumes have been
printed as Special Bulletins Nos. 1 and 3, and a circular (No. 50) soliciting
new and unpublished information on the subject has been prepared and
distributed to correspondents.

Pan-American Exposition.—At this exposition, which opened at Buffalo
on May 1, and will continue until the Ist of November, the three scien-
tific departments of the Museum are represented by carefully prepared
collections.

The exhibit in anthropology is intended to illustrate the native peoples
of America from North Greenland to Terra del Fuego. It consists pri-
marily of twelve groups of lay figures, each showing the several members of
the family of a representative tribe engaged in some characteristic pursuit,
and so arranged that in passing from one to the other the visitor may form
an intelligent idea of the appearance, condition, and culture of the original
inhabitants of the continent. There are also thirteen models illustrating
various types of dwellings from the far North to the extreme South, and
thirteen series illustrating those activities that seem best calculated to con-
vey an idea of the culture status of the races.

The exhibit made by the Department of Biology is limited to American
64 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

vertebrates,and includes a number of large characteristic American animals,
such as the Kodiak bear, glacier bear, Alaskan moose, white sheep, musk
ox, West Indian seal, the condor, bald eagle, boa constrictor, alligator,
Galapagos turtle, various large fishes, ete. Many of the specimens were
obtained especially for this purpose, andall are exceptionally well prepared.

The Department of Geology is represented by a systematic collection of
minerals, comprising 735 specimens; collections illustrating cave deposits,
concretionary structures, hot springs and geyser deposits, silicified woods,
and the rocks and soils of the Hawaiian Islands; a small case of native
elements; a collection of 450 specimens illustrating the development and
classification of the cephalopod mollusks, and a synoptic collection of eri-
noids, including about 300 specimens; a mounted skeleton of the gigantic
toothed diver, Hesperornis regalis, from the Cretaceous of Kansas; a life-
size restoration of the skeleton of the Cretaceous reptile, Triceratops prorsus,
from the Cretaceous of Wyoming, and a life-size restoration of Zeuglodon
from the Tertiary of Alabama. In addition there are two cases of bones
of the mammoth from Indian Territory and Missouri.

Library. —The additions to the library during the year numbered 1,038
books, 2,261 pamphlets, and 8,968 parts of periodicals.

Respectfully submitted.

RicHarp Rarupun,
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. S. P. Lane ey,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Aueust 1, 1901.

APPENDIX II.
REPORT OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Srr: I have the honor to ask attention to the following report of opera-
tions in the Bureau of American Ethnology during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1901.

These operations were conducted in accordance with the act of Congress
making provision ‘‘for continuing researches relating to the American
Indians under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution,’ approved
June 6, 1900, and with the formal plan submitted on June 9, 1900, and
approved by the Secretary on June 19, 1900.

The field operations of the regular corps extended into Arizona, Lower
California (Mexico), British Columbia, California, Maine, New Mexico,
New York, North Carolina, Ontario, Sonora (Mexico), Virginia, and Wis-
consin; while special work has been carried forward by agents or tempo-
rary collaborators in several additional States, Territories, and provinces.
The office work has comprised the collection and preparation of material
from most of the States and Territories, as well as from various other
parts of the American hemisphere.

The researches have been carried forward in accordance with an ethnic
system based chiefly on the work of the Bureau, though partly on the
observations and determinations of other scientific investigators in this
and other countries.

The ethnic system developed and adopted in the Bureau is based pri-
marily on the human activities—i. e., on what men do and think—rather
than on mere physical features. Proceeding on this basis, the habits and
customs of the aborigines receive first attention; and the tribesmen are
classed by their languages and dialects, by their forms of social organiza-
tion, by their systems of belief and opinion, by their arts and industries;
so that the classification affords a means of measuring the susceptibility of
the various tribes to civilization, to education, and to arrangement on res-
ervations in harmonious groups. The classification is thus essentially
practical.

The practical tribal classification rests on a definition of the activities
discovered among the aborigines and other peoples largely during the past
quarter century. The primary activities thus discovered are esthetic; and
intimately connected with these are the industrial activities involved in
maintenance and welfare. Equally important are the social activities
shaping the collective existence of families, clans, tribes, and confedera-
cies; and the relations are regulated by linguistic activities, which are
highly important and indeed fundamental. Coordinate with these activi-

sm 1901——5 65
66 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ties of arts and industries, laws and languages, are the activities connected
with opinion, belief, philosophy—i. e., the sophic activities. On weighing
all the factors it has been found that the most convenient classification of
tribes is that based primarily on language, as explained in previous reports;
and this mode of defining the Indian tribes, first proposed by Gallatin and
adopted by the Bureau on its institution, has now come into general use.

FIELD RESEARCH AND EXPLORATION.

Throughout the first quarter of the year the Director was in Maine,
reviewing observations on shell mounds and village sites in connection
with the researches in classification noted in other paragraphs; and the
work was resumed early in June. Limited collections were made, though
the observations and notes on the numerous survivors of the Abnaki Indians
proved of much interest and value.

An extended exploratory trip was made during the autumn of 1900 by
Mr. McGee. Early in October he proceeded to the field for the purpose
of completing researches relating to the aborigines of the Serian stock and
at the same time carrying forward studies of neighboring tribes. A party
was organized at Phoenix, Ariz., and moved southwestward to Gila Bend
and thence southward to the international frontier at Santo Domingo.
Here the outfit was admitted to Mexican territory through the courtesy
of Sefor Don Fernando Leal, at the obliging instance of Sefor Don Manuel
de Aspiroz, the ambassador from Mexico to the United States. In this
vicinity are several settlements of Papago Indians, including some of the
Arenefios of early literature and local tradition, and the opportunities for
study were seized. From Santo Domingo the party proceeded southward
to Caborca and thence westward to the coast of Gulf of California, where
the Tepoka Indians (collinguals of the Seri) were reported to live so late
as 1894, subsisting on sea food and finding potable water in the lagoons
and sand beds at the embouchure of the sand wash variously called Mag-
dalena, Santa Ana, Altar, Asuncion, and San Ignacio. On reaching the
coast the leader was disappointed to find the tribal remnant entirely gone—
probably through extinction, possibly through migration down the coast
to Seriland. Traces of the Tepoka habitations still remained, together
with shell accumulations and minor relics, corroborating the reports con-
cerning the tribe current at Caborca in 1894; and the visit served also to
clear up doubtful points connected with the geography and history of the
region. Failing thus to attain the primary object of the expedition, Mr.
McGee determined to visit the territory of the little-known Cocopa Indians,
reputed to live about the head of the gulf, and to this end endeavored to
follow the coast northward to the mouth of the Colorado. Finding this
entirely impracticable, he returned by a new route to Santo Domingo,
collecting useful data concerning the Papago Indians on the way; and
from Santo Domingo he proceeded west-northwestward over the old Yuma
trail (including a stretch of 90 miles now without water) to Yuma, and
thence southward to the Cocopa country. Here valuable collections, notes,
and photographs were obtained; and after some weeks the party returned
via Yuma and the Gila and Salado valleys to Phoenix, disbanding there
on December 20. The party comprised Mr. W J McGee, ethnologist in

te a hi Pea

pe

hee ee 3 oe

es

ivan uy

PAD ci abet Pi gad PN cease eh hy se EN Llobet eal A a A ah ee

Smithsonian Repott, 1901. PLATE V

Sioux FAMILY, IOWA TRIBE. AH-BLOH-COE-WAH-YE (STANDING ON
PRAIRIE), ALIAS JOHN GRANT, CHIEF, 1900.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

charge, as leader; Mr. DeLancey Gill, artist; Prof. R. H. Forbes, of the
Territorial University of Arizona (during part of the trip); Senor Aurelio
Mata, a Mexican customs officer sent from the custom-house at Nogales to
facilitate the crossing at the international boundary; John J. Carroll, of
Tempe, teamster; Jim Moberly, of Tempe, packer; Hugh Norris, of Tucson,
Papago interpreter, and Ramon Zapeda, of Tucson, Mexican interpreter.
The Bureau was placed under great obligations for free entry of the outfit
to the Government of the neighboring Republic through the officials
already named, as well as through Senor Don Eduardo J. Andrade, of
Yuma, custodian of the Andrade grant, covering the territory occupied by
the Cocopa Indians.

On August 11 Mr. James Mooney proceeded to the old Cherokee coun-
try in western North Carolina and adjacent territory for the purpose of
collecting additional data required for the completion of his series of papers
on the Cherokee Indians, and his field operations continued with success
until early December. On April 25 he made a reconnoissance trip through
eastern North Carolina and Virginia for the purpose of locating remnants
of aboriginal tribes still surviving in the wooded and nearly inaccessible
districts of that region; he revisited the Pamunkey tribe and discovered
considerable remnants of the Chickahominy, Mattaponi, and Nansemond
tribes.

On his appointment as assistant ethnologist (September 1), Mr. John R.
Swanton proceeded to British Columbia to undertake researches among
several northwestern tribes. His work proceeded successfully up to the end
of the fiscal year, when he was still in the field.

On October 1 Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt repaired to the region occupied by the
survivors of the Iroquoian tribes in northwestern New York and neighbor-
ing portions of Canada, where he began the collection and verification of
traditions and cosmogonic legends, and his work continued until about the
middle of February, when he returned to the office with valuable collec-
tions and records.

On April 15 Dr. Frank Russell was appointed as ethnologist and was
assigned to duty in Arizona; he immediately proceeded to the field and
began an extended reconnoissance of the southern and central portions of
the Territory. Outfitting with a team at Tucson, he passed around the
northern end of Santa Catalina Mountains and up San Pedro River (visit-
ing the caves and pictographs of the Santa Catalina range and the cliff
houses of the Galiuro range on the way) to Nugents Pass, where he entered
Aravaipa Valley. Here he found an interesting group of cliff houses.
Thence he proceeded, by way of Eagle Pass, to Gila Valley, where inter-
esting archeologic observations were made. Pushing on southward he
traversed the eastern slopes of Chiricahua Mountains and the western
slopes of Swisshelm Mountains, and examined the easterly canyons of
Huachuca Mountains. Next he traversed portions of the Babacomori,
Sonoyta, and San Rafael valleys about the Mexican boundary; thence he
returned by new routes to Santa Catalina Mountains and Tucson, arriving
about the end of May. In the course of the trip he discovered various
ruins hitherto unknown, some of new types. Several of the ruins were
surveyed, and limited collections were made. On June 11 he proceeded
68 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

northward from Tucson, crossing the Gila near Florence, skirting the base
of Superstition Mountains, and traversing Tonto Valley; a number of
cliff houses and other ruins were discovered, but the journey was not com-
pleted at the end of the fiscal year.

In June an arrangement was effected with Mr. O. P. Phillips and the
Armat Moving-Picture Company, under which Mr. Phillips proceeded to
New Mexico and Arizona for the purpose of making motion pictures rep-
resenting the industries, amusements, and ceremonies of the Pueblo and
other tribes, it being anticipated that such pictures would prove of especial
service for purposes of immediate research as well as for permanent record
The preliminary reports indicate that the work has been successfully
initiated.

Throughout the fiscal year Dr. Willis E. Everett remained in Alaska,
pursuing his avocation of mining engineer, but availing himself of oppor-
tunities for observing the native tribes and recording their languages and
other activital characteristics. Several reports indicating progress in the
collection of such material were received in the course of the year.

Dr. Robert Stein, who spent the winter of 1899-1900 on Elsmereland,
primarily for purposes of geographic exploration, but incidentally to make
search for traces of aboriginal occupancy in the interests of the Bureau,
reported via Dundee, through the courtesy of masters of whaling vessels,
late in the summer of 1900. He found no traces of Eskimo or other settle-
ments in the territory traversed by him, comprising the eastern coast
of Elsmereland, and his negative evidence is of service in investigations
relating to the distribution and migrations of the Eskimo. At the time
of the last report he was preparing to cross Baffin Bay to Upernivik, on the
western coast of Greenland, with the expectation of extending his pre-
vious observations on prehistoric Eskimo settlements along the unexplored
coast.

During the autumn Miss Alice C. Fletcher found it necessary to revisit
Oklahoma for the purpose of completing the ritual of the Pawnee cere-
mony, known as the Hako, of which the greater portion was collected
during the last fiscal year. In connection with the collection of this mate-
rial she was fortunate in obtaining also much additional information touch-
ing the ceremonial and ritualistic life of this highly interesting and little-
studied tribe.

OFFICE RESEARCH.
WORK IN ESTHETOLOGY.

In addition to administrative duties in the office and the field work noted,
Mr. McGee engaged in researches relating to the primitive symbolism
found among the American aborigines and other lowly peoples. Certain
symbols are of nearly world-wide distribution, and extend into several
stages of culture—e. g., the swastika, or fylfot, appears on all of the conti-
nents except Australia, and its culture range extends at least from higher
savagery into the lower strata of civilization. Before the extremely wide
range of such symbols was ascertained various inquirers were led to regard
the swastika as an evidence of cultural identity, and hence of the original

Le

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

unity of the peoples among whom they were found; but since they have
been observed among highly diverse peoples in different stages of culture
and on remote continents this interpretation has been modified or aban-
doned in large measure, and students have set themselves to the task of
tracing the development of the symbols in particular cases. The recent
researches have shown that the symbols of quatern character, like the
swastika, express or reflect modes of thought especially characteristic of
lower (but not lowest) culture, yet extend well into civilization and enlight-
enment. Atthe same time the researches bring to light such diversities in
the nature and applications of the concepts expressed by the symbols as to
indicate, if not demonstrate, independent development. Thus, quatern
symbols abound among the Papago Indians of Arizona and Sonora, as well
as among several neighboring tribes, yet the Papago concept is distinct, as
shown by its extension to time as well as space, this extension carrying
such archaic features of ritual and ceremony as to indicate increasing inde-
pendence of the concept in the generations traced backward. The neigh-
boring Zui Indians have a more highly differentiated concept, e. g., in
that their ‘‘cult of the quarters’’ involves six directions (zenith and nadir
in addition to the cardinal points), yet the symbol retains the original
quatern form, with two added elements so placed as to destroy the sym-
metry of the figure. These instances of diversity in symbol, and still
greater diversity in meaning of the symbol (or in the primary concept),
might be multiplied almost indefinitely; they merely give some indication
of the development of simple Lbf=F quatern symbols and of the complex
and protean magma of thought out of which they have been developed by
simple processes and in easy steps. Incidentally the examples marshaled
by Mr. McGee corroborate and extend the law of activital coincidences for-
mulated in an early report of the Bureau; but the applications of the recent
study are numerous and useful, especially in their bearing on symbolism
in general and on the development of systems of counting. The results of
the study are incorporated in the Nineteenth Report in the form of a brief
paper entitled ‘‘ Primitive numbers.”’

During the earlier portion of the year Dr. Fewkes arranged for publication
a series of graphic representations of the personages composing the Hopi
pantheon, together with full descriptions of the pictures and a discussion of
characteristic paraphernalia of the personages represented. The representa-
tions are in outline and color and well illustrate the early stage in the devel-
opment of graphic art reached by the more advanced among the aboriginal
tribes; hence they throw strong light on the codices and other pictorial
essays of the more southerly tribes, especially those of Mexico, Central
America, and Peru. The pictures were executed by a native artist, who
was also a priest in the hieratic or sacred organization through which the
tribal mythology is maintained, and each picture is a faithful reproduc-
tion of ancient representations handed down through many generations.
The material has been assigned for publication in the twentieth annual
report; the original drawings will be used as copy and will be reproduced
in slightly reduced facsimile. The work is deemed an important contri-
bution to knowledge of the aborigines in several respects. It illustrates
the motives and conventions of aboriginal art in both form and color; it
70 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

reveals the réle of symbolism in primitive art with remarkable clearness;
it illustrates with satisfactory completeness the nature and structure of a
typical barbaric pantheon; and since the symbols and conventions (and,
indeed, the personages represented) are of great constancy in primitive
thought, it affords a series of types available for use in identification and
comparison of a wide range of symbolic representations among the Pueblo
and other tribes, not only in ceremonies and sacred paraphernalia, but in
the decoration of fictile ware, basketry, woven fabrics, ete.

Later in the year Dr. Fewkes was occupied with a systematic study of
the collections made by him in Arizona and New Mexico during 1896 and
1897, the study being carried forward with special reference to the sym-
bolic decoration of the fictile ware. All systematic investigators of the
decorative devices used by primitive peoples have been impressed with
their constancy, i. e., with the exceeding slowness of modification. They
have also been impressed with the dependence of the modification on
external forces and conditions rather than on the spontaneous internal
factor so prominent in the art of advanced culture. Recognizing these
characteristics of primitive art, Dr. Fewkes undertook to define the sym-
bolic (or esthetic) types prevailing among the peoples of Walpi, much as
a naturalist might define types of aninal and vegetal life for the establish-
ment of species, genera, and orders, and for tracing the lines of vital
development in a distinctive environment. His symbolic types were based
on specimens observed among the tribesmen or obtained from sites by
their ancestors during the historical period; and he soon found that the
types served to indicate what may be termed a ‘‘symbolie province,”’ i. e.,
a region throughout which the symbolic devices were similar, but in which
they differed essentially from those of other regions. In this way he
defined an ethnic district and established standards for the guidance of
future investigation and also for the localization of ill-labeled specimens
in museums; for many collectors have been content to label specimens of
symbolic pottery, ete., ‘‘ Arizona,’’ ‘‘ Pueblo region,”’ or by other large and
indefinite political or natural divisions, thereby confusing important sym-
bolic distinctions and ethnic districts. As his investigations of the symbolic
types progressed, Dr. Fewkes became more deeply impressed than any
predecessor with the persistence of motives and the regularity of their
evolutional lines; and he conceived, in a definite and constructive way,
the possibility of tracing prehistoric migrations by means of the decorative
symbols, i. e., of employing symbolic devices as prehistoric records, read-
ing from them the tale of tribal movements before the coming of Coronado.
He conceived the possibility of coordinating the archeologie record as
taught by symbols with tribal traditions, and the double advantage of
mutual verification between tradition and symbolie record. Proceeding in
accordance with these ideas, he obtained from living Hopi traditions of a
former residence of their ancestors at a locality which they called Homo-
lobi; and by excavations identified this site and verified the traditions,
extending his knowledge of the evolution of the symbolic types; for the
Homolobi collections (now in the National Museum) are not only abun-
dant in decorated ware, but notably rich in symbols susceptible of inter-
pretation. Subsequent exploration brought him to the site of a ruin on

Smithsonian Report, 1901

SHAHAPTIAN FAMILY, NEZ PERCE TRIBE.

CHIEF JOSEPH,

1900.

PLATE VI,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1

Chevlon Creek, where excavation revealed another stage in the same
general line of symbolic development, which corroborated the vague and
shadowy tradition that Hopi clans once inhabited this site. He later
sought a locality noted in the vaguest of all the migration legends still
current, and he was gratified by finding near Chavez Pass the archeologic
record of this stage in migration inscribed in symbols related to the higher
type from the more northerly localities. Beyond this point ruins which
mark traditional halting places in migration were not located; beyond it
the symbolic development has not yet been traced; but there is good
ground for anticipating that when Dr. Fewkes resumes the field he will
obtain still earlier records of the prehistoric movements and development
of this branch of Pueblo peoples. The work is deemed of much impor-
tance as a verification of aboriginal tradition, as a means of verifying other
migration legends, and as a most promising introduction to the practical
interpretation of history unwittingly recorded in graphic symbols. Inci-
dentally, the work corroborates the earlier conclusion reached in the
Bureau, that the Pueblo peoples are a resultant product of Southern cul-
ture and Northern blood; yet the significant details throw new light on
the entire problem. The report is elaborately illustrated by colored pho-
tographs of the ware from the several localities examined; it was practi-
cally ready for the press at the close of the fiscal year.

WORK IN TECHNOLOGY,

The earlier accounts of exploration in the territory occupied by the
Cocopa Indians seemed to indicate that the tribesmen occupied the coast
of Gulf of California and were of maritime habits; but in the course of the
expedition led by Mr. McGee it was definitely ascertained that the folk
are essentially agricultural and confined, at least so far as habitations are
concerned, to the interior. The industrial condition of the tribe was found
to be of much interest. The tribal habitat comprises the Lower Colorado
Valley from the international boundary southward to the head of the gulf,
together with a few tributary valleys descending from the Cocopa Moun-
tains on the west. The main valley is broad and diversified by distribu-
taries, or bayous, of which the most important is Hardy River, or ‘‘ Hardy’s
Colorado.”’ There are also several fairly permanent basins, filled by the
annual floods and slowly evaporated during succeeding months, and
the greater part of the broad bottom is swept by the freshets. Within
the region lie a number of ‘‘mud volcanoes,’’ apparently analogous to the
‘‘mud lumps’’ of the Lower Mississippi, which have attracted much
attention by reason of their novelty, though they are quite subordinate
to the general features. The entire district affords the closest American
parallel to the valley of the Nile, not only in physical conditions, but in
the influence of these on human conditions. Like northern Africa, the
general region is one of extreme aridity, the rainfall (averaging less than
2 inches yearly during the last quarter century at the typical station of
Mammoth Tanks) being negligible; while the habitable district is well
watered by annual freshets of remarkable regularity in period and height.
These freshets not only flood but fertilize the riparian lowlands; they
control directly the local flora and somewhat less directly the local fauna,
12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and they regulate the movements, most of the industrial habits, many
of the social customs, and much of the mythology of the human popu-
lation. During the greater part of the year water is obtainable only
from the shrunken river, on whose banks grow most of the seed-bearing
and root-yielding plants available as food, so that the people are led to
oecupy the lower bottom lands. Here the cultivated crop plants are sown
in soil soaked by the flood and enriched by its silt deposit, to grow and
ripen rapidly under the subtropical sun; here habitations are erected, nat-
urally of light and temporary character, and here the small and scattered
villages characteristic of the tribe grow up during each late summer and
early autumn. The chief crop plants are corn (maize), beans, peas, squashes,
and melons, and it is noteworthy that most of these represent the aboriginal
plant stocks brought under cultivation in pre-Columbian times. Fishing
and hunting the abundant waterfowl, as well as other game, contribute
to the tribal subsistence, and during recent years part of the corn, beans,
and peas is carried on horseback to Yuma, where it is bartered chiefly for
appareling. Karly winter is the time for ceremony with the attendant
feasting, and by early spring when the greater and less portable part of
the annual crop is consumed, the families prepare for the annual migration
to theshigher lands, where they await the rise and subsidence of the ver-
nal flood. On its passing they return to the low grounds, to rebuild and
plant on the last year’s farms or elsewhere according to the changes wrought
by the freshet or the chance of death and mortuary observance. Naturally
an agriculture depending so largely on chance conditions is improvident,
comparatively unproductive, and incapable of sustaining any considerable
or concentrated population, so that its tendency combines with that of
annual migrations to stifle the home sense and to scatter the members of
consanguineal groups and thus to affect the social organization. The recur-
rent floods also affect the ceremonies and attendant faiths of the tribes-
men in various ways; e. g., they control mortuary observances and have
undoubtedly led indirectly to the custom of burning the bodies of dece-
dents in and with their houses, distributing their property to nonrelatives,
and incidentally destroying adjacent houses and other property. This dis-
persive social factor combines with that growing directly out of the agri-
cultural methods, and not only prevents the development of village life
with the concomitant institutions, but perpetually impoverishes the tribe.
Thus the Cocopa Indians present an industrial paradox, for while they
occupy one of the garden spots of the Western Hemisphere, whose natural
freshets might be so utilized as to sustain an enormous population, they
subordinate themselves to the environmental conditions and remain one
of the poorest and most hopeless of the American tribes.

During the earlier part of the year Dr. Albert E. Jenks (then a correspond-
ent of the Bureau) revised his memoir on The Wild Rice Gatherers of the
Lake Region (in press as part of the Nineteenth Annual Report, as noted
in the last report), incorporating some of the results of recent researches.
On June | he was appointed to the position of assistant ethnologist in the
Bureau, and was assigned to work related to his previous researches. He
at once took up the subject of birch bark, with the aboriginal industries
depending on this natural commodity of a considerable fraction of the

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 73

North American continent. One of the most important products of the
birch-bark industry is the canoe; and this, like other industrial products
of consequence, exerted a powerful influence on the lives of the producers.
Through one of those harmonies of nature on which the progress of man-
kind so largely depends, much of the birch-bearing region of North
America (a zone stretching from Maine to Washington State and Alaska,
and extending from below the Great Lakes nearly to the treeless Arctic)
is also the region of late Pleistocene glaciation, and hence of glacial lakes,
swamps, and labyrinthine streams; so that throughout the period of abo-
riginal development an ideal canoe material coexisted with illimitable
functions for the canoe in the way of travel and transportation. Under
the natural combination, joined to native intelligence and skill, the lakes
and streams became routes of passage, and by reason of the lightness and
strength of the material, and the lowness and narrowness of the ice-molded
divides, portages were easy, so that the routes passed from lake to lake,
river to river, and drainage system to drainage system, practically across
the continent. Under the stimulus of facility the birch-canoe makers
became travelers and explorers; energetic hunters and fishermen explorcd
new waters and carried tribal knowledge into new regions; ambitious
scions struck out into the remoter wilderness to make conquest over the
unknown and often to establish families and clans, and eventually tribes,
in new localities; so that in course of time the paddlers of the light canoe
carried their kindred, their dialects, their faiths over the greater part of
the vast region defined by the birch tree and the glacial waterways. Most
of the canoe men belong to the Algonquian stock, most of the remainder
to the Athapascan stock; and the recent researches render it clear that
their water craft was a leading factor in determining their wide distribu-
tion, their success in making conquest of the continent up to the plane of
aboriginal standards. The detail results of the work are in preparation
for an early report.

In tracing the joint lines of migration and esthetic development noted in
other paragraphs Dr. Fewkes became impressed with the fact that among
the ancestors of the Hopi Indians the esthetic standards were much more
permanent than the industrial standards. Throughout the entire course
retraced by his researches—a course covering several distinct treks, alter-
nating with periods of stable settlement, the whole covering some centu-
ries—the symbolic devices inscribed on the fictile ware remained constant
or underwent only slight and easily traceable modifications, while at each
successive settlement new materials were utilized in the pottery making, the
manufacturing processes and the final forms of the ware being manifestly
adjusted to the character of the material. The discovery that the indus-
trial activities (which directly measure the conjustment of man and
environment) are the most progressive of the entire series is not, of course,
novel; still less is it novel to learn that the especially conservative esthetic
concepts, which are at once hereditary and prophetic, as shown by Groos,
outlive whole generations of contemporaneous industrial concepts; yet the
example is notably apposite and instructive, largely by reason of the free-
dom of the folk fromexternal interference, with the consequent simplicity
and integrity of the record. The details are incorporated in Dr. Fewkes’s
report on operations of 1896-97.
74 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In the course of his reconnoissance of central and southern Arizona Dr.
Frank Russell gave especial attention to the architectural features of the
ruins, and defined a number of types, of which one or two are new to
southwestern archeology. The work was still in progress at the close of
the fiscal year.

WORK IN SOCIOLOGY.

A portion of the year was employed by the Director in reviewing the
abundant data in the Bureau archives relating to aboriginal institutions,
and in systemizing the principles of sociology in the light of these data.
One of the lines of inquiry, rendered important not only by inherent
interest but by current problems growing out of the recent expansion of
the territory of the United States, relates to slavery among the primitive
peoples, and the researches render it clear that the relationships so desig-
nated vary widely with intellectual plane or culture grade—indeed, the
social subordination of lower culture is so unlike the slavery of civilization
that the application of the same designation to both institutions is quite
misleading. In the slavery of civilization the slaves are not only aliens
but chattels, whose personal ownership is definitely established and main-
tained through laws relating to tenure, bequest, conveyance, ete., but in
savage society, in which personal proprietary rights are inchoate or non-
existent, in which the tenure inheres practically or absolutely in the
group, in which bequest is hardly, if at all, recognized, and in which
thrift sense is lacking and property sense involved with mythic factors,
such slavery is simply impossible. True, there are many recorded in-
stances of slavery among lower tribes, but most of these rest on casual or
superficial observation, or on other testimony stopping short of inquiry
into the precise nature of the relations between the supposed slaveholders
and the supposed slaves, while the convenience of the common term for
the expression of social inequality has contributed to mislead recorders
and (still more seriously) readers. To understand the so-called slavery of
savagery it is necessary to grasp the mode of social organization charac-
teristic of that culture grade. As shown chiefly through the researches
among the American aborigines, such organization is based primarily on
consanguinity (actual or imputed), and secondarily on age; and the rela-
tions growing out of these factors are kept constantly in the mind of every
member of each clan and tribe by habitual forms of address. So the con-
stituent individuals of a given clan are fathers and mothers, sons and
daughters, brothers and sisters, and these relationships are constantly
indicated in salutations, and even in ordinary conversation (the precise
relationship to the speaker being commonly expressed also by a pronomi-
nal element). At the same time it is constantly borne in mind that father
and son, mother and daughter, are not coordinate, the former being the
superior by reason of greater age; similarly brethren are classed as elder
brothers and younger brothers, while the female kindred of the same
generation are classed as elder sisters and younger sisters, and the elder
are always deemed superior, the younger inferior, in rank. By simple
and practical extension of the system, the relative ages of all persons in
the clan are kept in mind; and since, according to the universal usage of

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

savagery (so far as known), superior age confers authority, there is a
practically simple, though theoretically complex, regimentation running
through the entire clan, whereby the eldest person commands all and
obeys none, while the youngest person obeys all and commands none, and
each other person is entitled to command and bound to obey in the direct
proportion of relative age. This regimentation is complicated by various
factors, such as adoption, and (especially) what may be called promotion
and demotion, 1. e., advancement in ‘‘age’’ (rank) by common consent in
recognition of prowess, etc., with correlative reduction in ‘‘age’’ as the
penalty for cowardice, etc., so that the actual age relations may be com-
pletely lost; yet the imputed relationship serves practical purposes, and
the organization is maintained with unimpaired efficiency by means of
relationship terms. The same system is extended from the clan to the
tribe, in which the several clans are ranked in the order of ‘‘age”’
(of course imputed), and eventually to the tribes united in confederacies;
so that at last the system reaches every member of the tribal confederacy
and each is entitled to command or bound to obey any other according to
the relationship expressed in the form of salutation and constantly kept
alive in conversation. True, uncertainties and differences of opinion may
arise, especially between the remoter individuals and groups; commonly
these are settled by more or less prolonged deliberation and discussion, or
‘council,’ though some of the bloodiest wars of Indian history grew out
of such misunderstandings; yet even the appeal to force and arms but
serves as a means of settlement of the dispute, for the conquerors thereby
become the elder and the conquered the younger in primitive thought.
So, too, when stranger tribes meet, both are constrained by universal
tribal law, and proceed to council or war, as the case may be, for the pur-
pose of fixing the relative ‘‘age,’’ with the consequent right of command,
and in some cases the question may remain open for centuries (as between
the Apache and the Papago) and lead to interminable warfare. Now,
the conquered tribe may merely retire from the field of dispute, leaving
what both conceive to be the verdict of superhuman potencies beyond
reach of continuous execution; but if the contestants are actually related,
or if the conquest is complete, they commonly remain in association, the
survivors of the conquered families being absorbed or more formally
adopted into the conquering tribe, and perhaps distributed among the
families of that tribe, whereupon all the captives become subordinate to
each and all of the conquerers, to whom thenceforth they owe obedience.
Commonly it is this condition of obedience on the part of a certain class
or group to the commands of another class or group which impresses
observers and leads to the records of slavery among primitive folk, though
the institution involves no ownership of human chattels, no rights or
duties save those connected with a system of rank correlated with relative
age, actual or imputed. The institution might better be styled wholesale
adoption, or collective adoption, than slavery. Among the American
aborigines the captives, or adoptees, are usually assigned an ‘‘age’’ corre-
sponding with the time of their entry into the tribe, so that they are com-
pelled thereafter to obey all children then living, and are entitled to com-
mand all children subsequently born into the tribe, and there is thus a
76 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

fixed way whereby they attain in time the rank of the conquerors. More-
over, the method of promotion permits any ‘‘slave’’ (1. e., captive-junior)
to attain ‘‘age’’ by the display of prowess, industry, skill, generosity, or
other attributes appealing to the sentiments of primitive men. Among cer-
tain other peoples, the custom of collective adoption appears to be so modi-
fied that the captives remain juniors not only to members of the captor
tribe born anterior to the captivity, but to all others, and it is this modi-
fied institution which matures in actual slavery with the development of
property-sense; but even in this case there are (at least in the early stages)
devices for the manumission or liberation of, or the acquisition of rank by,
captives (or captive-descendants) of exceptional abilities. The several
primitive customs grade into the institution of slavery proper in ways
which are of much interest, but which need not now be followed; it suf-
fices to emphasize the important distinction between the captive subordi-
nation of primitive peoples and the real slavery of some civilized nations.

In the course of his researches among the Cocopa Indians Mr. McGee
discovered several industrial factors of dispersive tendency, 1. e., factors
tending to weaken home ties and family bonds and to scatter the families
and clans; and naturally these factors are reflected in the social organiza-
tion. The tribe is now distributed over an area of several thousand square
miles, extending from the international boundary on the north to the head
of salt water (of Gulf of California) on the south, and from the eastern
border of the Colorado bottom to the base of Cocopa Mountains; and within
this area are seven subtribes, of which some, and perhaps all, are really
clans, each organized under a subchief and all definitely united under a
head chief, the present incumbent of this office being a man of parts, an
orator of ability, and a leader of much shrewdness, commonly known as
Pablo Colorado. Now, naturally (and necessarily for the maintenance of
tribal integrity) the dispersive factors are counteracted and balanced by
connective factors; and while it is probable that some of these remain
undiscovered, a few others of no small significance were detected by Mr.
McGee. As already mentioned, the mortuary observances include sacri-
fice of all the immediate belongings of decedents, for immediately after the
death of a tribesman his personal possessions—horse, saddle, weapons,
implements, apparel, grain and other food stuffs, bedding, dogs, ete.—
become public and are distributed among nonrelatives in the order of
arrival, while any unclaimed residue is burned with the body and house.
Several social consequences attend this industrially improvident proce-
dure. In the first place, the largess is an incentive to maintaining connec-
tion between the scattered families and clans and to lively (albeit morbid)
interest in the state of health of invalids, thrifty producers, and other
members of the tribe; again, the actual mortuary distribution brings
together scattered tribesmen and their families and unites their interests
in ceremonies of affecting if not imposing character; and finally the mate-
rial sacrifice commonly leaves dependents (widows, children, and perhaps
agelings) to be supported by the informal public bounty of tribal life, or
perhaps to be distributed among scattered families in such manner as to
strengthen sentiments of communality and to keep alive the sense of com-
munity in interests. This factor is prominent in the customs of the tribe,

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ud

and its influence is direct and easily traceable. A less direct factor of sim-
ilar tendency is found in the marital custom, or rather in the observances
preceding and preparing the way for marriage. The girls’ puberty feast
is, indeed, one of the most imposing and widely heralded of the tribal
ceremonies; commonly it brings together representatives of all the subtribes
or clans; and the proceedings are conducted with extreme formality and
dramatic impressiveness. The principal ceremony lasts through a night.
following a day of preparation and followed by another day of final feast-
ing, accompanied by games, ete. The central episode is the temporary
burial of the novitiate; a shallow pit is excavated, and in this a fire is made,
as fora fish bake; after the earth is thoroughly warmed the remaining fuel
and coals are removed, the girl is placed in the pit and buried to the neck
with the earth thrown out in making the excavation; there she spends the
night, and in the morning is extricated and brought before the assembled
tribesmen as a woman; and commonly a match is made with a repre-
sentative of some more or less remote branch of the tribe. Through the
ceremony community of thought is maintained in most effective fashion,
and through the resulting union family sentiments are united to the extent
that a common consequence of marriage is the breaking of a new path,
often many miles in length, through the ]uxurious herbage of the annually
flooded bottom land. The formal organization of the Cocopa tribe is in
large measure esoteric, so that it can be ascertained fully only after pro-
longed and intimate acquaintance with the tribesmen, but the preliminary
investigation serves to show that the field of inquiry is one of promise.

In his comparative study of myths, Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt has found
various references to social customs of such sort as to indicate clearly cer-
tain archaic institutions of the Iroquoian Indians. Thus the Onondaga
legends illumine the legislative and executive customs of the tribe, and,
while ostensibly giving traditional warrant for the customs, they really
picture a somewhat earlier stage in the development of institutions than
that found by the Caucasian pioneers. In this tribe all matters of public
policy, especially the selection of chiefs and the discontinuance of war,
were first considered by the elder women in fairly definite clan councils.
Their conclusions were formally communicated to a male spokesman,
usually the elder brother (actual or putative) of the elder woman, and by
this spokesman, with others of similar character from the other clans, the
opinions of the mothers were brought before the exclusively masculine
tribal council for debate and final decision. In this way the women sitting
in clan council constituted the primary legislative body, while their broth-
ers sitting in tribal council formed a senate or final legislative body whose
decisions were binding on the executives of clans and tribes; so that the
social organization may be classed as adelphiarchal (like that of the Seri
Indians described in earlier reports) in principle, though largely patri-
archal in detail. As among the Seri, too, the maternal features of the
legislation were paralleled by recognition of large maternal rights in
material possessions—e. g., throughout the Iroquoian tribes the control or
nominal ownership of lands was in the women as the collective and _per-
petual mothers of the tribe. These and other points of general interest
are set forth fully in Mr. Hewitt’s memoir, which has been assigned to
the Twenty-first Annual Report.
78 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

WORK IN PHILOLOGY.

Throughout a considerable part of the year the Director was occupied in
developing and applying the system of linguistic classification foreshad-
owed in the last report. Primarily, languages are devices for the expres-
sion of thought; secondarily, they are mechanisms for shaping thought.
The simplest languages are emotional and largely demonstrative, compris-
ing not only articulate vocal utterances, but inarticulate sounds, gestures,
facial expressions, etc., and these spontaneous expressions of feeling and
thought grow into the four leading lines of linguistic development. The
simplest of these is gesture language (or sign language), which arises largely
in pantomime, but matures under favorable conditions in highly complex
systems such as those investigated by the late Colonel Mallery and more
recently by Maj. H. L. Scott (whose studies were unfortunately interrupted
by the Spanish-American war). <A far more important line of linguistic
development is that of oral speech, and the activities of expression have
been so long and so vigorously exercised in this line as to have developed
a series of special organs differing widely in refinement of function and
delicacy of structure from those of lower animals. By means of these
organs the speaking animal, Man, makes mastery of sound, which is
created at will and reduced to vocables, notes, sentences, in such manner
as to convey ideas of the utmost complexity with hardly perceptible loss
of meaning; and with the development of words and sentences lexicology
and grammar arise, while etymology and sematology gradually acquire
importance. The third line of linguistic development is that of written
language, which first involved manual adaptation, together with a revolu-
tion in mode of thought, and afterward involved the invention of that long
series of mechanical devices now forming the sign and measure of higher
intellectuality. The last line of linguistic development is that represented
by characters expressing quantitative values; it may be styled logistic lan-
guage. Although based primarily on the rich records of aboriginal Amer-
ican languages preserved in the archives of the Bureau, the system of
linguistic classification has been shaped by extended comparisons with the
various languages of Europe and Asia, together with some of those of
Australia, Africa, and Polynesia. The system has been freely discussed
with students and has been published in preliminary form for the purpose
of eliciting further suggestion and criticism; it is expected that the matter
will be incorporated in full in an early report.

In connection with the linguistic classification, the Director has con-
tinued to study the recorded languages of the Mexican and Central Amer-
ican tribes, with a view to the classification of these tribes by linguistic
affinities in a manner corresponding to that already adopted for the Ameri-
can tribes north of Mexico (and published in the Seventh Annual Report) .
In this work he had the constant assistance of Dr. Cyrus Thomas, whose
familiarity with the literature of the southern districts of North America
proved invaluable. Before the end of the year a preliminary classifica-
tion was made and mapped; but it is deemed unwise to submit the matter
for publication pending reexamination of various critical points. It has
been the good fortune of the Bureau to see the classification and mapping

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

of the tribes north of Mexico adopted widely, and it is naturally desired
that the continuation of the work southward shall be equally worthy of
acceptance.

Dr. Albert S$. Gatschet continued the arrangement of the comparative
Algonquian vocabulary, and also carried forward his analysis of the com-
plex structure of the Peoria language. In both directions his progress
was considerable and his results of much value, not only as an aid in for-
mulating the linguistic classification above described, but to the collabo-
rators of the Bureau and students generally.

Dr. Franz Boas continued the arrangement of linguistic material for
publication at intervals throughout the year. In addition, he revised the
proofs of his memoir entitled ‘‘ Kathlamet Texts,’’ submitted just before the
close of the last fiscal year and transmitted for publication in bulletin form
early in the present year. By reason of the highly technical character of
the matter, composition was necessarily slow and proof reading laborious;
but the matter is now all in type.

The Natick Dictionary, compiled from the Eliot Indian Bible by the late
James Hammond Trumbull (noted in the last report), is still in the
printer’s hands, though nearly ready for publication.

In connection with the collection of Iroquoian myths, Mr. Hewitt has
continued recording the vocables and working out the grammatic structure
of the languages spoken by several Iroquoian tribes. Some of the results
of the work will appear in his memoir on comparative mythology now
practically ready for the press; others are in condition for incorporation
in future reports.

As already noted, Mr. John R. Swanton spent the entire year in collect-
ing linguistic material in British Columbia. The languages of this district
give promise of special importance in their bearing on questions of tribal
migrations and intertribal relations. Mr. Swanton has not yet taken up
the preparation of his material for publication.

The work on the Diccionario de Motul, described in the last report, is
still under way. A considerable portion of the manuscript in Maya and
Spanish was transcribed by Miss Jessie E. Thomas during the year, and
Senor Andonaro Molina, of Merida, Yucatan, is engaged in furnishing an
English translation and in extending the vocabulary through personal
acquaintance with the Maya tongue.

WORK IN SOPHIOLOGY.

As indicated by the contents of previous reports, the Director has for
some years been engaged in developing a system of anthropologic classifi-
cation designed primarily to serve as a basis for the researches in the
Bureau, though it is hoped that the system will be of use to the students
of the Science of Man throughout the world. It was through the partial
development of this system that recognition was led first to discrimination
of the human activities and later to the definition of the five groups of
activities observed in the researches and described in recent reports.
During the last five years several of the groups or categories of activities
have been formulated and characterized with some degree of fullness. The
treatment began with the arts, or esthetic activities, and proceeded to the
sO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

industries, or technical activities, and thence to the institutions expressing
social activities. During the past year the characterization was extended
to languages, or the activities designed for expression, as already set forth,
and toward the end of the year the last and most complex of the activital
groups, i. e., the sophic activities involved in opinion, together with myth,
faith, and the more refined and ennobling products of mentation, was
taken up. Fair progress was made in the analytical work, and it is antici-
pated that definite results will be reported at an early day.

During his Southwestern expedition Mr. McGee found opportunity to
witness certain ceremonies of the Yaki Indians, which were of interest
partly because the tribe has been little studied, partly by reason of the
prominence of zoic motives in the vocalization and instrumentation, as
well as in the gestures and movements of the ceremonial dance. In por-
tions of the ceremony each actor impersonated an animal. He wore a head-
dress (not extended into a mask, as among more northerly tribes) consisting
of a scalp, with ears, horns, and other appendages of the animal kind, and
leggings abundantly decorated with claws or hoofs of the same animal. He
carried a rattle or flute, used to imitate the voice of the tutelary or the
sound of its movements, while he imitated its notes of alarm, fright, pain,
and pleasure with his own voice, and mimicked its corresponding move-
ments; yet in other parts of the ceremony the same actors passed by care-
fully graded stages into the strictly conventional movements of a dance
involving collective action of considerable complexity. Briefly, the cere-
mony seemed to be characterized by a remarkable combination of symbolic
and conventional features, indicating an exceptional range from the primi-
tive impersonation to the formal figures and movements attending moder-
ately advanced culture.

Mr. James Mooney continued his researches relating to the mythology
of the Cherokee Indians, making good progress in the collection of
additional material in the field, as well as in the extension of compari-
sons between the myths of the Cherokee and those of other tribes and
peoples. The application of comparative study to primitive mythlogy
is proving highly instructive and useful. In the infancy of ethnologic
research students were frequently struck by the discovery of activital
parallels, or similarities, among more or less remote peoples, and were
led thereby to infer previous contact, or even closer relationship, between
the peoples; but as study progressed and new parallels were discovered,
even among the remotest peoples of the earth, the verity of the inference
came to be questioned, and finally the law of activital coincidences was
formulated as a convenient generalization of the facts connected with
independent development of devices produced in the constant adjust-
ment of the intelligent organism to its environment. At first the law of
activital coincidences rested chiefly on industrial artifacts; then it was

found to have equal support in the esthetic products of various peoples;

next it was found to have still stronger and more direct support in institu-
tions, i. e., in the devices and features of social organization; while certain
features of language were found also to indicate the extent and efficiency of
coincidental interaction between mind and nature in shaping the activitat

Bnd ah ios

we Opa 44 dee Lie +

> J ene

FS Aes

shies

Pte AS els eee J ek pe es eat IERIE a SA A Nee Sols

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Sl

products. Hitherto most investigators of mythology have been content
with discrete studies and explorations, or, at most, with exoteric parallels.
Accordingly many of them have stopped with the inference of former
contact or kinship on which the students of industrial artifacts rested a
quarter century ago, i. e., their studies were such as to bring out resem-
blances among the mythic systems examined, but not such as to detect
and properly emphasize the essential differences. Now, Mr. Mooney’s
comparisons, although not exhaustive, are sufficiently general to permit
discrimination of the exoteric coincidences from esoteric motives in the
myths. Accordingly they clear the way for the application of the law of
activital coincidences to primitive mythology, if not to sophiology in gen-
eral. The greater part of the material completed for publication has been
incorporated in the memoir on ‘“‘ Myths of the Cherokee,’’ mentioned in
the last report.

Another comparative study of myths has been carried forward by Mr.
J. N. B. Hewitt; and this investigation is noteworthy in that the compari-
sons are confined to a limited group of confederated tribes (of the Iro-
quoian stock) and in that the features compared are in exceptional degree
esoteric. The myths were obtained at first hand and carefully recorded
and verified in the aboriginal terminology, after which literal and free
translations were made, so that each chapter of the work is at once a
linguistic record and the best obtainable version of the ancient traditions.
Now, it is noteworthy that most of the similarities found thus among the
several Iroquoian myths are rather external than internal, rather superfi-
cial than essential, and, concordantly, that the more important differences
are primarily internal, i. e., more directly connected with concept and
motive than with ritual andemblem. The voluminous material was prac-
tically ready for the press at the close of the fiscal year and has been
assigned to the Twentieth Annual Report.

During the closing months of the year Dr. Fewkes was employed in
summarizing his own observations and those of others in the Pueblo
region, with the object of presenting an outline of Pueblo mythology. As
noted in earlier reports, the Pueblo region is arid, and hence infertile and
harsh as an environment for human inhabitants, and the harshness of
environment is curiously reflected in highly differentiated beliefs and cere-
monies, so that the Pueblo region as a whole may, perhaps, be regarded
as a sophie province, i. e., a province defined by a distinctively typical
series of myths and faiths. Good progress was made in the work, which
was not, however, completed at the close of the fiscal year.

In addition to the inquiries connected with the classification of the
languages of Mexico and Central America, Dr. Cyrus Thomas gave con-
tinued attention to the hieroglyphic records of the inscriptions and sculp-
tures of Yucatan and interior Mexico, materially supplementing and
extending his paper on calendric systems, now in type as a part of the
Nineteenth Annual Report. He made some progress also in the prepara-
tion of a final memoir on the codices.

Although seriously handicapped by ill health, Mrs. Matilda Coxe Ste-
venson continued the preparation of her memoir on the ceremonies and

sm 1901——6
82 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

myths of the Zuni Indians. A portion of the manuscript was submitted
for editorial revision in May, and the remaining chapters were reported as
nearing completion at the end of the fiscal year.

As noted in the last report, an exceedingly valuable acquisition was
made through Miss Alice C. Fletcher in the form of the Pawnee ritual
known as the Hako; but on arranging the material for printing certain
breaks were found which seemed of such importance as to warrant post-
ponement of publication pending further efforts in the field to complete
the ritual. Accordingly Miss Fletcher revisited Oklahoma, and afterward
brought her principal informant to Washington, where the record was
finally completed. The ritual is remarkable for extent and completeness,
for the clear light which it throws on archaic customs and beliefs, and for
the systematic and harmonious development of the musical and terpsicho-
rean features. The original record was obtained by aid of the grapho-
phone, and this record was then written in words and musical notation,
and afterward verified by repetition. On the whole the ritual is one of the
most complete ever acquired by the Bureau, and is in every way worthy
to be regarded as a type of aboriginal ritualistic production. The final
arrangement of the material was nearly complete at the close of the
fiscal year, when the work was interrupted by Miss Fletcher’s temporary
absence from the city.

DESCRIPTIVE ETHNOLOGY.

During the earlier portion of the year Mr. F. W. Hodge continued the
preparation of the Cyclopedia of Native Tribes in connection with edi-
torial work, his progress in both lines being highly satisfactory. On
January 31 he resigned his connection with the Bureau to accept a posi-
tion in the office of the Secretary. The Cyclopedia material was then
turned over to Mr. Mooney, who has made some pregress in preparing it
for publication.

During the earlier months of the year Col. F. F. Hilder was, by tem-
porary transfer, engaged in making collections in the Philippine Islands
under the auspices of the Government Board of the Pan-American Expo-
sition. After his return he resumed his duties as ethnologic translator
and continued the transcription, translation, and annotation of an early
Jesuit manuscript history of Texas, obtained through the instrumentality
of the Bureau, but now preserved in the Library of Congress. The sketch
was found rich in important ethnologic data, and the anonymous author
was identified by Colonel Hilder, through collateral information, as Padre
Morfi. The work was nearly completed when brought to a premature
end by the sudden death of Colonel Hilder on January 21.

COLLECTIONS.

As usual, the several collaborators engaged in field operations made more
or less extensive collections for purposes of study and for ultimate transfer
to the U. 8S. National Museum. The largest collection of the sort was
made by Mr. McGee among the Cocopa Indians. It comprised domestic
utensils of wood, stone, and clay; several bows with arrows; war weap-
ons; complete suits of women’s apparel; cradles; decorative and symbolic

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

objects of shell and bone; flutes, rattles, etc., together with the chief veg-
etal food products used by the tribe, the collection being sufficiently
complete to permit the construction of one or more life-size groups. The
most elaborate war weapon is of interest in that it is designed to serve at
once as standard and spear and in that the sharpened point for the latter
use is at the inner end of the shaft, so that the weapon illustrates the cen-
tripetal movement of lowest culture rather than the centrifugal arm
movement characteristic of advanced culture. Smaller collections were
made by Mr. Mooney among the Cherokee Indians, by Mr. Hewitt among
the Iroquoian Indians of Canada, and by Dr. Russell in Arizona. A num-
ber of collections were obtained also by purchase under the more imme-
diate direction of the Secretary. Among these may be mentioned the
Steiner collection of stone implements from Georgia, which comprises a
large number of types and of which a portion was obtained during the
last fiscal year. Another collection of special note was obtained from Maj.
H. N. Rust, of Pasadena, Cal.. It comprises several types and numerous
examples representing the stone artifacts of southern California. Adyan-
tage was taken also of the opportunity to acquire a number of the remark-
ably faithful Indian portraits executed by Mr. J. H. Sharp, of Cincinnati.
A particularly instructive collection of obsidian blades (including the
largest known specimen) was also obtained during the year through Mr.
Nathan Joseph, of San Francisco, while a few particularly fine pieces of
aboriginal Alaskan workmanship were obtained from Lieut. G. T.
Emmons. <A small collection of basketry produced by the renegade
Apache at Palomas was picked up by Mr. McGee, together with several
pieces of Pima basketry made near Maricopa. A small but noteworthy
object obtained was an authenticated Sitting Bull belt of beaded elk skin;
and half a dozen small collections of stone implements and weapons were

secured.
PROPERTY.

The property of the Bureau is practically limited to (1) office furniture
and apparatus, (2) ethnologic manuscripts and other original records,
(3) photographs and drawings of Indian subjects, (4) a working library,
(5) collections held temporarily by collaborators for use in research, and
(6) undistributed residue of the editions of the Bureau publications. The
fiscal year witnessed little change in the amount or value of the office
property. The accumulation of manuscripts and other records of original
work progressed steadily; about a thousand photographic negatives,
together with several hundred prints and a number of drawings, were
added to the collection of illustrative material. The library maintained
normal growth chiefly through exchange, and the number of back
reports was considerably reduced through the constantly increasing public
demand for ethnologic literature. Mr. J. Julius Lund continued in charge
of the property as custodian.

PUBLICATION.

Mr. F. W. Hodge continued in charge of the editorial work until his
resignation took effect, as already noted, after which this work was con-
ducted by Mr. H. 8. Wood. The first part of the seventeenth report and
84 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the first part of the eighteenth report were received from the Government
Printing ‘Office during the year, and these, with the second part of the
seventeenth report, have been distributed. | he second part of the eight-
eenth report was not delivered up to the end of June, while neither of
the two bulletins of the new series was quite complete; and the nineteenth
report, though nearly all in type, was not yet ready for the bindery at the
close of the year.

Mr. De Lancey Gill remained in charge of the illustrative work, preparing
copy forand revising proofs of the numerous illustrations for the eighteenth
and nineteenth reports. He also made photo-portraits of some two hun-
dred Indians, chiefly members of delegations visiting Washington in the
interest of their tribes, and developed a considerable number of negatives
made by the several collaborators in the field.

NECROLOGY.

On January 21, 1901, the Bureau suffered a grievous loss in the death of
Col. F. F. Hilder, ethnologic translator. Colonel Hilder was a student of
ability and remarkably broad experience, and although his formal con-
nection with the Bureau began only on July 1, 1898, he had made himself
a place among the most valued and trusted members of the corps. A more
extended account of his career will be transmitted later.

I have the honor to be, yours, with respect,
W J McGes,
Acting Director
Mr. S. P. Lana.ry,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

AppENDIXx ITI.

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF THE INTERNATIONAL
EXCHANGE SERVICE FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30,
1901.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report upon the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service for the year ending June 30,
1901:

The equipment of the five rooms in the south basement of the Smith-
sonian building, which have been used exclusively by the International
Exchange Service during the last eight years, consists of such furniture
and appliances as are necessary to the work, chiefly among which are tiers
of upright bins opening in front and occupying nearly all the wall space of
two rooms, into which packages of publications for distribution abroad are
temporarily placed until a sufficient quantity has accumulated to constitute
a shipment to the respective distributing bureau of each country. ;

Much space is required for geographically arranging and for recording
parcels, for which purpose several large counters are arranged in the center
of each of three of the rooms which are devoted to this part of the work.

There are also cases containing indexes and acknowledgments and a
card record of all packages sent to and received from each correspondent,
correspondence files, library shelves for current directories of the principal
cities of the world, desks, copying presses, typewriting machines, etc.

The property acquired during the year consisted principally of boxes,
packing materials, stationery, and other necessary supplies, costing in the
aggregate $2,339.53.

The rooms assigned to the Exchange Service have for a long time been
inadequate to the increasing demands, but no additional space was ayail-
able until the recent changes in the heating plant of the Institution made
it possible to add 360 square feet to the shipping department. This alteration
made it necessary to change the brick walls, construct an area window,
lay new flooring, and build additional bins. These expenses and those
incurred on account of laying new floors in the entire suite of exchange
offices during the early part of the present fiscal year were borne by the
Smithsonian Institution, and no part of them were paid from the Congres-
sional appropriation for support of the International Exchanges.

Considering the fact that almost every fast steamer leaving New York
for foreign ports takes a consignment of international exchanges from the
Smithsonian Institution, it is not surprising that there should be some
losses every year. During the last twelve months, however, there has
been but one instance of either loss or damage, and the year’s record is
therefore one of the best in this regard.

890
86

REPORT OF THE

SECRETARY.

The event above mentioned occurred in February last, when two cases
of exchanges destined for correspondents in New South Wales were dam-

Diagram illustrating
height of packing boxes,
resting one upon an-
other, used in transmit-
ting exchanges from the
United States to foreign
countries during the fis-
eal year ending June 30,
1901, as compared with
the height of the Wash-
ington Monument.
Height of monument,
555 feet; height of boxes,
2,775 feet.

azed_ by fire and water in the hold of the steamship
Castano while loading at her pier in Brooklyn, N. Y.
The cargo was subsequently discharged and the two
cases returned to the Institution, but upon exami-
nation their contents were found to be unfit for use,
and the United States Government publications
were sent to the Superintendent of Documents to
be rebound, and duplicates were substituted. The
contributors of the miscellaneous scientific publica-
tions were each notified of the facts, as is customary
in such instances, and were asked to supply dupli-
cates. In almost every instance they complied.

The operations of the Exchange Service during
the year are graphically shown in the accompanying
statistical tables. They show a marked increase
over the transmissions of the preceding year.

The number of correspondents in the United
States has been increased during the year by 428 and
those in other countries by 1,326. The total num-
ber of correspondents in the United States is now
8,149 and in all the rest of the world 27,556, or a
grand total of 35,705, the number of countries par-
ticipating being 148.

During the year 121,060 packages of publications,
weighing 414,277 pounds, were received for transmis-
sion, being an increase over the previous year of
7,497 parcels and 4,286 pounds in weight.

The sum of $24,000 was appropriated by Congress
for the support of the International Exchanges,
being the same as appropriated for the preceding
year. <A special effort is continually being made to
improve the transportation facilities, and fast mail
steamers are selected to carry exchanges to all parts
of the world when practicable. An unavoidable
delay is always encountered when discharging the
cargoes of vessels, and freight is often detained for
several days at the ports of debarkation, owing to
the confusion and inadequate terminal facilities.
This difficulty has been overcome to some extent
by forwarding small consignments of exchanges by
express instead of by freight, thus receiving more
prompt attention.

Mr. John C. Williams, deputy collector of the port
of New York, was designated on January 30, 1900,
to represent the Institution in the matter of clearing
exchanges received from abroad, vice Mr. John

Quackenbush, deputy collector, who asked to be relieved on account of

advancing years and increased official duties.

The efficiency and prompt-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

ness with which Mr. Williams has since performed these duties are highly
satisfactory, and his valuable services are much appreciated by the
Exchange Service and its correspondents.

Although the universal system of exchanges is now supported in many
countries by official recognition and Government aid, there are some which
have not yet established official bureaus for the purpose, among the most
important of which are Great Britain, Germany, and Austria-Hungary.
The free interchange of publications between the United States and each
of these countries is considered so important that the Institution has for
many years provided for the entire expense of conducting exchange rela-
tions with each, even to employing salaried agents for the purpose. Messrs.
William Wesley & Son, in London, Dr. Felix Fliigel, in Leipsic, and Dr.
Joseph yon Koroésy, in Budapest, Hungary, represent the Institution in the
matter of exchanges between this and their respective countries. While
the entire burden of expense for this service has been upon the Institution
for nearly fifty years, the good to the scientific world would perhaps seem
an ample reward, but it is feared that the time is not far distant when an
equitable division of the expenses must of necessity be insisted upon.

The services of many professional men and of many educational institu-
tions throughout the world which have been cheerfully and gratuitously
given in aid of the service are much appreciated, and while it is not possi-
ble to mention each name in this limited space, it is hoped that they will
consider this expression of appreciation as particularly applicable to them.

The war in South Africa has necessitated the discontinuance of sending
to Pretoria the official publications of this Government, but the recent
issues are held in reserve by the Institution until such time as they may
be safely forwarded.

Arrangements for distributing contributions for miscellaneous corre-
spondents in Japan are still incomplete, and, acting under instructions
received through the Japanese minister to this capital in October, 1896,
only such exchanges as are destined for governmental institutions and
individuals officially connected therewith are accepted for transmission.

As yet no action has been taken in China, as far as known to the Smith-
sonian Institution, with a view to establishing an exchange bureau, and
at present only such parcels as are addressed to the imperial customs
service and to correspondents in Shanghai are accepted. These are again,
after a temporary interruption, distributed by the Zi-Ka-Wei Observatory
at Shanghai.

Since the Biblioteca Nacional at Quito, Ecuador, consented to act in the
capacity of exchange distributing agent in January, 1900, eight cases of
exchanges have been sent by the Institution to the port of Guayaquil, but
no exchanges have as yet been received from Ecuador except by post.
This absence of reciprocal benefit is perhaps due to the difficulty of trans-
portation between Guayaquil and Quito, which it is hoped will be over-
come in due time.

While in Europe unofficially during the month of July, 1900, Mr. F. V.
Berry was instructed to investigate the transportation of exchanges to the
United States, and the terminal facilities in London, with a view to both
the expediting of consignments and, if possible, the reduction of expenses.
88 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Mr. Berry’s report showed. conclusively that the methods employed in
transporting exchanges between London and New York could not be
improved upon, and that any attempt to hasten the distribution of parcels
throughout Great Britain would greatly increase the expense beyond the
limit that the institution was able to allot to this branch of the service.

Mr. W. Irving Adams, chief clerk of the International Exchange Serv-
ice, was instructed by the Secretary to visit Italy, Switzerland, Austria-
Hungary, and such other countries in Europe as he might deem expedient,
with a view to the general improvement of the service at large, and
through personal contact to establish more intimate relations, if such were
possible, with the several exchange bureaus and agencies in those countries.
Mr. Adams sailed from New York on May 15, with the expectation of
being absent about three months. His report, although covering a part of
the next fiscal year, is here given:

OcroBER 9, 1901.

‘Str: In accordance with your instructions to proceed to Austria-Hun-
gary, Italy, Switzerland, and such other countries as, in my judgment, might
be advisable, for the purpose of promoting the interests of the international
exchange service, I sailed from New York on the 15th of May last, de-
barked at Antwerp, Belgium, May 26, and at once proceeded to Vienna,
Austria.

“ dAustria-Hungary.—The K. K. Statistiseche Central Commission, Schwarz-
enberggasse 5, Vienna, was designated as the exchange agency for Austria,
at the instance of Dr. Edward Suess, president of the Imperial Academy
of Sciences, and as a result of my visit to Vienna in 1897. Previous to
that time all contributions from this country for Austria-Hungary were
distributed through the agency of the institution in Leipzig, Germany,
and the importance of establishing independent agencies in Vienna and
Budapest was made doubly apparent, inasmuch as the agency at Leipzig
was becoming overburdened with work, and, furthermore, the returns
were not as large as it was thought they would be if separate agencies were
established. This theory has been substantiated by facts, and the contri-
butions from Austria-Hungary have gradually increased from year to year.

‘*Prof. Karl Theodore yon Inama-Sternegg, the president of the K. K.
Statistische Central Commission, is much interested in the exchange
service and is disposed to render every assistance possible. He cheerfully
assented to all the changes which I proposed to him and even volunteered
to make a personal effort to procure the official publications of his Goy-
ernment and the municipal publications of the city of Vienna for the
Library of Congress and to send them as early as practicable.

‘The freight charges for transporting exchanges from Vienna to Ham-
burg, and vice versa, have seemed to be excessive, and it was my purpose
to ascertain if consignments could not be made by rail to Trieste or Fiume
and thence by steamships to New York, which regularly touch at Adriatic
and Mediterranean ports. I found upon inquiry that while the latter
course might save the Institution perhaps $50 to $75 per annum, the time
consumed in transit, owing to the fact that the steamers in the Adriatic
service are exceedingly slow, would be nearly three times as great, and

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

that the efficiency of the service with Austria-Hungary would thus be
seriously impaired. I learned, further, that merchants usually shipped
their goods to the United States from European Atlantic ports whenever
time was an object to be considered.

“Under the circumstances noted above, I beg to recommend the continu-
ance of the practice of sending exchanges to Vienna and Budapest via Ham-
burg for the present, at least, or until such time as an official exchange
bureau supported by the Imperial Government of Austria-Hungary shall
be provided for.

““Dr. Joseph yon Korésy, director of the statistical bureau of the city of
Budapest, was appointed agent for the Institution for the distribution and
forwarding of exchanges at the conclusion of my visit to Hungary in 1897,
and has since served in that capacity. Prior to my arrival at Budapest
Dr. Ko6résy had been ill for several weeks, but was then convalescent and
had resumed his official duties.

“Dr. Julius Pikler, his assistant, personally attends to the distribution of
exchanges, and keeps a record of all parcels received and forwarded. For
this service Dr. Pikler receives each year from the Smithsonian Institution
300 kronen—equivalent to $60. On account of his faithful and efficient
performance of duty, I beg to recommend that his compensation be
increased to 500 kronen, or $100 per annum.

“The bureau of statistics has for many years been located in a large
building known as the ‘‘ Redoute,’”’ but during the month of September
was to have been moved to the city hall, where the library of the bureau,
numbering 27,000 volumes, and the official library of the city will be con-
solidated and placed under Dr. Korosy’s charge.

“Tn response to my request, Dr. Kérésy promised to procure, if possible,
copies of all the publications of the city of Budapest for the Library of
Congress, though he feared that they could not be obtained for several
months, but would be eventually. He fully realizes the importance of
exchanging publications with foreign countries, especially with the United
States, but regrets that other officers of the city government do not place
the same value upon a mutual exchange, and for that reason little provi-
sion is made for surplus copies.

‘‘While in Budapest I made the same inquiries with regard to reducing
the expenditures for transportation of exchanges that I did in Vienna, but
met with a similar expression of opinion, which led me to favor a continu-
ance of the present custom of using the route to and from Hamburg on
account of better service, though the freight rates are considerably higher
than by Adriatic ports.'

1Since my return to Washington I learned that Dr. Kérésy addressed a
letter to the Secretary bearing the date of July 11, in which he refers to
my visit and to the matter of inland freight on exchanges. He proposes
to ask the State railways of Hungary to transport exchanges between Buda-
pest and Fiume without charge, and will also attempt to obtain a conces-
sion from the ministry of posts and telegraphs to enable exchange parcels
to be forwarded free of postage. Concerning this concession, however, he
has little hopes for success.
50) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

‘‘From Budapest it was my purpose to next go to Venice, but as the most
direct route took me through Vienna I availed myself of the opportunity
of personally conveying my compliments to Dr. Suess, a foreign associate
of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States and the president
of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Austria. The International Ex-
changes owes much te the efforts of Dr. Suess in promoting its interests in
Austria, as he was instrumental in arranging for the aggncy in Vienna as
now constituted, and his personal acquaintance with many eminent sci-
entists in the United States and his visits to this country from time to
time have served to make him an interested student of America’s progress
in science.

‘Ttaly.—Although my principal official duties in Italy were confined to
the Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele in Rome, I was favored with
the promise of complete sets, so far as they were available, of the munici-
pal publications of the cities of Venice, Bologna, Florence, Rome, Naples,
Genoa, Turin, and Milan. The sincerity of these promises is proven by
the fact that large consignments from Florence, Rome, and Genoa have
already been received and deposited in the Library of Congress, while ad-
vices are at hand that other collections are on the way.

‘Tn exchange for these valuable contributions it is understood that the
Library of Congress will send to the libraries of the cities above mentioned
such publications of this Government as from their nature will be of interest
to municipal governments generally, and, among others, to include the
reports upon Commercial Relations, Commerce and Navigation, District of
Columbia, and the Department of Labor, the Statistics of Railways, Con-
sular Reports, and Statistical Abstracts.

“Count Domenico Gnoli, director of the Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio
Emanuele at Rome, assured me that all the official publications of the
Kingdom of Italy which were available and not possessed by the Library
of Congress would be supplied, and, in my presence, he gave instructions
to that effect.

‘““The International Exchange Service of Italy—Ufficio degli Scambi
Internazionali—is located on the second floor of the National Library Build-
ing, and is approached by a stairway on the left of the main entrance and
independent of the grand staircase leading to the Library. The space
occupied as the office for the exchange service consists of one long room
well lighted and well adapted to the purpose.

“The relationship of the Italian Exchange Service to the Biblioteca
Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele is similar in some respects to that of the
international exchanges to the Smithsonian Institution.

‘‘Signor Cavaliere Giovanni Garayini, the chief of the bureau, showed
me many courtesies and gave me every possible opportunity to familiarize
myself with his methods, which, though systematic and complete, do not,
on account of the limited requirements, demand the same detail necessary
to ready reference as is practiced by the Institution.

“The sum of 5,000 lire is annually provided by the National Library for
conducting exchanges, and the charges on contributions by Italian corre-
spondents for foreign. dstribntion are preneid by the bureau to ports of

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9]

debarkation in other countries in accordance with the conditions of the
Brussels treaty concluded in 1886. The distribution of exchanges in Italy
is not made with the same dispatch that is considered by the Institution as
of the utmost importance in forwarding parcels to addresses in this country
after their arrival from abroad. Instead of being allowed the right to
frank exchanges through the mails, a privilege enjoyed by the Institution,
all parcels received for each city in Italy are forwarded to a single address
in that city by freight and are then distributed by local means. This cus-
tom, which was doubtless instituted in the interest of economy, it seems
impossible to improve upon until the allowance for the transportation of
exchanges shall be substantially increased, which, however, can not be
expected in the immediate future.

‘The proffer of Signor Garavini of his hearty cooperation with the Insti-
tution at all times, to the end that a mutual exchange of publications, both
governmental and scientific, may be made more general and effective
between Italy and the United States, coupled with the many favors
bestowed upon me unsolicited, and the assurance that he would hold him-
self in readiness at all times to serve the Institution in any capacity, were
reassuring of the esteem in which the Institution is held in the Kingdom.

“* Switzerland.—After concluding my work in Italy I proceeded to Switzer-
land and visited the cities of Zurich and Bern, in both of which I received
assurances that all their municipal publications would be sent to Washing-
ton, through the Swiss exchange service, as early as practicable.

“Mr. H. Angst, the British consul-general for Switzerland, is the director
of the Swiss National Museum, which is located in Zurich. Mr. Angst was
especially obliging and offered me every facility for examining many parts
of the building to which the public is not admitted, including the shops of
the workmen and preparators.

‘““This museum is new, complete in every detail, and occupies a most
desirable position in the center of the city, facing a beautiful park. The
architecture of this building is unique, especially with regard to the
arrangement and finish of the rooms devoted to Swiss history, which are
made to conform to the age contemporary with the articles of furniture,
implements, customs, and arts, which are appropriately installed in them.
In order to make the construction of these rooms conform to the many
interesting epochs in Swiss history it was necessary to dismantle many
monasteries, churches, and chateaux, but this has been done with a mini-
mum of expense and with a view to perpetuating the beauties of historical
architecture, instead of losing all semblance of ancient customs with the
decay and abandonment of old buildings which have been discarded for
more modern structures.

‘“The Swiss international exchange service, conducted by Dr. Gurtner, is
a division of the bibliothéque fédérale centrale, Bern. For many years it
has been the custom of Dr. Gurtner to send Swiss exchanges for correspond-
ents in this country to Dr. Fligel, the agent of the Institution at Leipzig,
Germany, and in time they were reforwarded with the German exchanges
to the Smithsonian Institution. This arrangement caused a duplication of
work and was not in accordance with the conditions of the Brussels treaty.
92 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

I therefore suggested that it would be preferable to send future Swiss con-
tributions direct to New York, prepaying freight thereon to that port in
the same manner as the Smithsonian sent this country’s exchanges for
Switzerland to the port of Hamburg free of expense. Dr. Gurtner informed
me that there would be no objection to making this change, and I am
pleased to report that the new arrangement has already gone into effect,
the last consignment from Bern being sent direct to New York.

“The gracious compliance with my requests in other cities for copies of
their municipal publications was repeated in Bern, and the volumes which
I asked for are expected soon. The official publications of the Swiss Fed-
eration will, however, be delayed for a time on account of the fact that each
of the twenty-two cantons of which the confederation is composed retains,
by law, certain rights concerning the publication and distribution of official
documents and each cantonal council must act upon the request which will
be made to it from Bern.

“Although the population of Switzerland is small in comparison with
some of the countries of Europe, it is relatively among the foremost
patrons of the International Exchange Service.

‘““The French bureau has improved its methods so materially since my
visit to Paris in 1897, and especially so since the Secretary had an inter-
view with Monsieur Liard, chief of the libraries of France, last summer,
that I did not think it advisable, or, in fact, necessary, to make any sug-
gestions to the director of the bureau. I called, however, as a matter of
courtesy.

“Throughout my entire journey, wherever it was necessary for me to ask
the official assistance of the consular officers of the United States, and in
the case of my call at the embassy in Paris, I was, without exception,
offered every facility at the command of this Government’s representatives
abroad to aid me in accomplishing the work prescribed in my official
instructions.

“‘T returned to the Institution on August 28, having been absent from
Washington three months and fourteen days.

““Very respectfully, yours,
““W. I. Apams, Chief Clerk.”’

“Mr. 8. P. LANGLEY,

“Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.’’

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

fiscal year 1900-1901.

93

Tavular statement of the work of the International Exchange Service during the

Number of Sees June 30,
] D>.
ee ee
ages ages Foreign MOMesn Foreign) Domestic mesticad- ArORGl
handled. handled.) socie- cay indi- indi- dresses.
- ties, |S0cteties. | iduals| viduals. |
1900. |

eee Beck Teva || SUCUET ee cecal ete Auk Ree ise eee eR esgeie a Se ete [ot set eed
AMieuUst2 cs --a:- FIORE) | PSB LST loyal Ee Sl [Ee ee cee lea esehe aed Riis es nl Le AU
September ....- PSS H8) |) US e8S) |e Sess: le sasssdbosl sbaoennn pds Sebene |Seeaesnbee sddeccds
October 222.62. ORS al OSO Ue eE eee te eman |e feiss Seas ec ees malle sweat cea ascetics
November ..... ZK SS (ec dee val cieperel a) cu ees ics a2 = (telajecstears etic cee Sse] HOSE ese Re rss
December...-.. IGP AY Bil tRisin ace eosellae suebeece | GSecesed Saos Cosas) eee Bete ae

1901. |
VAMUATY) c= osm OMG 2s SD SOAUM Peete as sesacom ase | Seca: ce laemce eae seccce ce cic|sisew amet
February ...--- pA On ee Dons 2a ereaetlenistkine'se een a os Ss als calncelec soo. : SA eeece os Merceears
Miaire hee ee ser RAO Mee PaO OO Wesmesacryeinc) cases u caciee | Se case | SA ae Stas eee
SAE NTS. Tig ETS ahaa. Neg | eet a pe ee enn ae ea ee
Bere Fae FELIPE) | Rao A eg ee ee Rea
Fe a eee 8,721 | 30,343 \aoctotealdeostesdse| Sens cnc Sacos as Sbo)Saahopcce\lEacaoaad
ROTH esse swe 121,060 | 414,277 | 11,295 2,996 | 16,261 | 5, 153 | 31,367 | 1,'757

Increase over

1899-1900 - . - 7,497 4, 286 450 275 876 153 2, 742 1]1

1901.

1 Decrease.

The following table shows the number of packages of exchanges handled
and the increase in the number of correspondents each year from 1894 to

1894-95. | 1895-96.|1896-97. 1897-98. 1898-99. ‘1899-1900 1900-1901
|
Number of packages received.107,118 | 88,878 | 81,162 84, 208 | 97, 835 113,562 | 121,060
Weight of packages received, |
PDOUMU SE ee cee eee ee 326,955 [258,731 |247,444 301,472 817,883 | 409,991 | 414,277
Ledger accounts: t | |
Foreign societies ......... 8,751 | 8,022 | 9,414 | 10,165 | 10,322 | 10,845 11, 295
Foreign individuals ....-. 9,609 | 10,878 | 12,013 | 12,378 | 13,378 | 15,385 16, 261
Domestic societies. .....-- 2,014 | 2,115 | 2,445 |) 2,583 | 2,596 | 2,721 2, 996
Domestic individuals ....) 3,034 | 3,899 | 4,136 4,382 | 4, 673 | 5, 000 5, 153
Packagestodomesticaddresses) 29,111 | 34,091 | 23,619 | 21, 057 | 30, 645 28, 625 31, 367
Cases shipped abroad........- 1,364 | 1,043] 1,300 | 1,330 | 1,500 | 1,768 1, 757

o4

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

CORRESPONDENTS.

The record of exchange correspondents at the close of the year contained

35,705 addresses, being an increase of 1,754 over the preceding year.

The

following table gives the number of correspondents in each country and
also serves to illustrate the scope of the service:

Number of correspondents of the International Exchange Service in each country
on June 80, 1901.

CORRESPONDENTS.
pg es aa Total.
ine als.

AFRICA.
AIP Origin diss Bie ace cee 20 28 48
AMP Ola: sana ecmete ce 1 Seer 1
AAZOLCS | Sse vlosei sce k 5 14 19
Beira cc. tees snepseen|oeecee 1 1
British East Africa .. 0 1 1
Canary Islands...... Dei seer 1
Cape Colony. ..=< 2.55. 40 71 111
Cape Verde Islands. a|eseees 5 5
We ypbtiz. Seen seaesses 27 51 78
French Kongo... 2 2ac|6 sen se il 1
(GAT IG, 2 errs! arcvess oss ate lteter 2, 2
Gold Coast. <2 pena: scale oeece 2 2
Gorée-Dakar e222. clencceee 3 3
Kongo Free State....}....... 3 3
ag osiaz times edee 2D il 3
WUD ET aie sh- i aaeences 2 5 7
Lourengo-Marquez ..)...-.... 2 2
Madagascar 2..2..... 2 7 9
Madeinai: =. s-.seeaee 3 6
Ma WrItiusy soe ci cktcies 11 a 18
IMONOCCO sass te. mee sec Sees 10 10
Mozambique, 32 22...5....2- 1 1
INatalee a Sess 13 15 28
Orange Free State...|....2.. 1 1
R6UMIOM 223282222222 Qi eos 2
St. elena an eo sees 2 2 4
Sierra Leone ........ AL 3 4
South African Re-

DUDICE eases cee cee 13 10 23
Mumises: 2 seas soe 6 tf 13
LED ZAD AT ee cece elulee ec 6 6

AMERICA (NORTH).

Gamadanmesssnene decal. ay 463 720

Central America:
British Honduras 33 ii 10
Costa Rica: ...... 25 31 56
Guatemala ...... 40 53 93
Honduras’ <2. -5 22 9 27 36
Nicaragua....... 12 35 47
San Salvador.... 14 11 25

CORRESPONDENTS.
See es vais Total.
So letiss
AMERICA (NORTH )—
continued.
Greenlands2 = 2.5.0... Dik tere oe 2
Mexicoig22* © f2meeos 140 138 278
Newfoundland ..-...- 2 17 29
St. Pierre-Miquelon. . 2 fe 4
United States........ 2,996 | 5, 158 8,149
West Indies:
Ample sees cacl|soceaee 1 1
AMIEISUS. cece erat ee 5 4 9
Bahamas. 25.2.2 2 10 12
Barbadose. sca: 9 10 19
Bermuda-.:.:... 4 18 17
Buen-Ayrersco22 =o -8o<5 aL iil
CUD aie cesee ee 42 81 123
Curacao s. 22-2: 1 4 | 5
Dominica, 2-222: 2 7 9
Grenadaiz-- 2... 2 5 ui
Guadeloupe. ...- y 5 7
FL BT Gis 5s rece 6 16 22
JAMAICA. aes eeaes 13 32 45
Martinique...... 2 5 7
Montserrat.ccessd|oneceme 2 2
IN Ghat Bemenaeceual aocenoe 1 | 1
Porto RicOz =. 4 10 14
St. Bartholomew |....-.. 2 2
St. Christopher -. 1 4 5
Db Crome an cance 1 2 3
St-Hustatius. sciences 1 1
Sb, Martinis. 5-clnaaaaee 2 2
St LUciaveecaaeee 2 4 6
St. Thomas ...... af 3 4
St. Vincent ...... 1 2 3
Santo Domingo. . 2 10 12
TNODAEOr = eeees bseswies 1 1
Adah one trKolume Als 14 11 25
Turks Islands ... 2 5 7
AMERICA (SOUTH).
ATE CIMTIMA Heese ce 128 119 247
IBOLBVAG ie ac acenee ese 16 11 27
Brazil soo ee secon ees 115 136 251

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95

Number of correspondents of the International Exchange Service in each country
on June 80, 1901—Continued.

CORRESPONDENTS. | CORRESPONDENTS.
t
Pa : i- ' i-
suse Meaiitrer| arbre |e ees vid | Total.
als. als.
Eee
AMERICA (SOUTH)— AUSTRALASIA—CON-
continued. tinued.
Pritish Guiana .-.---- 14 9 O80 asm ai aieeem ee = 2-1 = 16 17 33
@hile se. 36 .225---45-'- 76 80 T1515) Il) Wal RoE) = Sao bocosue 86 sy 203
Colombia. .-.--------- 32 47 79 || Western Australia... 16 22 | 38
Dutch Guiana. ..---- 3 2 5 OEE
Meuador.---.-------- 13 20 33
Rolland Islands. ...|.---:-- 6 6 IANISEIL Aes ee reece 665 920) 1,585
French Gui ona eee 1 2 3 Belgium.....-..----- 314 354 668
PeeetAY.... 00222252 14 9 93 || Bulgaria -...-------- 13 14 27
“ae ae 36 58 94 Menmavkesss-\ss-eer 102 152 | 254
WMUeUBY- = 222. ------ 39 25 64 France ...-.-------=-- 1,559 | 1,340 3, 399
WiGitevale heeeeseeeees 32 39 71 Germany -.---------- 2,234 | 2,990! 5, 224
Gibraltar ........----|------- 4 4
aia Great Britain......-. 1,872 | 3,887 | 5,759
Arabia ....-.--------[------- 7 Ue erceco ee eee 38 36 74
ote). <== == <<. 2-nc|-5°°5 2% A Tel Teelamds: <2 2hceeec TO) |e4 128 24
British Burma ...-.-- Wi A\Rssones of TRAlye ee eee 751 759 1,510
British North Borneo }- ------ sl eens oe onedae 9 3 12
Celebes...-.---------|---007° a ttl wresltate) @ kee esos Ea 20
Ceylon --..---------- ze iB oe Netherlands. ..-.---- 184 244 428
Ching -..------------ AN 82, 122) Norwayns-2--0-<2--0- TES. | eetOBs lk gael
Wochin China. -.---- Pilates 4 |! portugal ....-2-.---- 98| 70| 168
(CHOW SESE SDSS asa : 3 || Roumania.......---- 30 5d 85
Bees Oooo asa oF : A Rinsalan 2 .<scee eas = 442| 690 | 1,132
French East Indies. 1 | exer ye Week See 19 13 39
Hongkong.....------ lng ge 27h Sains ae nce nse 162| 161| 328
Ti@VOhiGh aRepscepeseages 198 183 Belt Peer ae ee ees ee 165 289 454
1 LDCS ee oC ear 119 | 282 | 401 |! switzerland ......--- 316 | 508| 824
UE Sa aa ao | and eee Wacker ene ee oes BSH 70) euelOS
IXOWES: SoeeSeReHBasees i 6 7
“ope SEA ee eee 1 1 POLYNESIA.
Perel Aries cass ses 3 8 11 | Bismarek Archipel- |
Philippine Islands -. 9 13 22 HHO) E Geenmadeoradene|Ocorsac 1 1
Portuguese India. .-. il | Rsasaeo 1 || Fiji Islands..-...---- iL 4
Shieh) eneeneeeaees TP reeset 1 || Hawaiian Islands ---) 23 40 63
SSE: Bopp BOaBeneegeee 4 15 19 || Marshall Islands --...|------- 1 it
Straits Settlements - - 10 12 22 || New Caledonia. .--- Blears 2
STOTT Dee eae e OnE BEBeeae 3 3 || New Hebrides. ...--- atl eee ers i!
AUSTRALASIA. SBI O aio ooo eGo ee ds 5 5
“NewSouth Wales... 80] 113] 198 EO ae pee oe |e S 2
New Zealand ......-. EMR IES eee a eae eet = z
Queensland ......... 83 46 79 International ---.--- BU eaceend 34
South Australia ..-.-- 40 62 102 GWG Saag ance oe 14, 291 |21,414 | 35, 705

eee

96

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

The following table shows the number of packages forwarded and re-

ceived by the several branches of this Government during the year.

By

comparison with the last report it will be observed that there has been a
slight increase in the number of packages transmitted abroad and an
increase of 5 per cent in the number of packages received. The contribu-
tions credited to the Library of Congress were forwarded in accordance
with the act of Congress approved March 2, 1867.

Statement of Government exchanges during the year 1899-1900.

Packages. Packages.
Name of bureau. Pecan Sent Name of bureau. ee Sent
for— ra for— | sas
American Historical Associ- Hydrographic Office.....-... 163 |\eeee oe
Ch (0) ¢ eee eee mee eS See tirs 8 20 | Interstate Commerce Com-
Astrophyical Observatory. .-.- 6 5 MMISSION(s. See cclsses eee 19 297
Auditor for the State and Isthmian Canal Commission.|......- 1
other Departments, Treas- Library of Congress......... 7,015 | 24,370
ury-Department.-2.<-2:22s:|sos22-5 843 || Life-Saving Service.......... 3 104
Board on Geographic Light-House Board ........-. 4 115
NAMES 222i ie Sacer e ee eeeleee cass 208 || Marine-Hospital Service..... 14 104
Bureau of American Eth- National Academy of Sci-
NOIOPY et scoaosessse ose sees 224 | 1,320 CNCOS) 2p Peet Ae Soe eee ices 88 36
Bureau of American Repub- National Museum .........-. 316 | 3,029
IGS ise. steele eat ee ee cece 10 13 || National Zoological Park ... Gilee esas
Bureau of Education ........ SSP | oss: Nautical Almanac Office .... 34 161
Bureau of Medicine and | Naval Observatory ........-. 138 675
SUIgery st sate soe focusses Dal See cieae Navy Department ........... 21 il
Bureau of the Mint.......... 11| 397 | Office of the Chief of Engi-
Bureau of Navigation ....... 14 18y||'» TNCerS asset cesee see seer 29 124
Bureau of Statistics, Treas- | Office of Indian Affairs...... Grleceeorte
ury Department..-......--. 71 4,360 | Ordnance Office, War De-
Bureau of Steam Engineer- | MON Gis Ses Se eres ello ce Deere Dl oases
ing, Navy Department ..... SY Pare ed oe || Patent Office ...........--... 102 | 1,253
Census OMe: sees i el I ates | President of the United
Civil Service Commission.... Y il eee | States --. 222-25. - <<. 225. 7 eeose5
Coast and Geodetic Survey... 103 828 | Record and Pension Office,
Commissioners of the Dis- | | War Department ..........|...-..- 162
trict of Columbia .......... 2 13 || Senate of the United States .|....... 1
Comptroller of the Currency. 5 11 Smithsonian Institution..... 2,147 | 4,157
Department of Agriculture..) 1,096 | 5 | Superintendent of Docu-
Department of the Interior. .| 23 HGON|) « IMEI tS esas eco ee sae eoeecuee 1 134
Department of Justice.....-. Boy eeee or | Surgeon-General’s Office
Department of Labor.....-.. | 37 O6 iil |i 2 (CAtremy;) eee eee eee ae 159 290
Department of State......... | 13 10 || Treasury Department -..-...-- 6 8
Entomological Commission. A a ee ree War Department -... 2. sce. a2 62 151
Fish Commission .........--- ("85 397 || Weather Bureau ............ 129 | 1,136
General Land Office ........- 6 |...--.- l mote te ee ee 12, 904 | 49, 410
Geological Survey ..-..-..--... 602 4, 062

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97

RELATIVE INTERCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS BETWEEN TH UNITED STATES AND
OTHER COUNTRIES.

Following is a comparative statement of exchange transmissions by pack-
ages between the United States and other countries during the years 1900
and 1901:

Comparative statement of packages received for transmission through the Inter-
national Exchange Service during the fiscal years ending June 30, 1900 and
June 80, 1901.

: 1900. 1901.
Country. Packages. Packages.
For— From— Hor—>)|, Hrom—
eae. _
; PAM OD IY ie ea or oe ae SS os Said Sees Sate seas eee: 96 8 113 | 74
OES Sree eee Rtg fs eR oe ate eee ooo ee Wasa oe 2 Bul e ames © ee
PIOUS ee ate asia ee oe ae oe ae eee SESE Sh ae damerorc Pag re ate rs
ATID DUD Se Ss 2 Ate of gee ed ee Oise seewees Dil pstnseo ess
PREM INNEY DANS oe Classen fae Seca ae Some eee 3, 127 308 2, 374 392
PMPs (MA ELMO LAY: ae ee Sect eens aee naeeleticinee 4, 387 2,125 | 4,531 2,518
| UTR OSA, eS ede Sa Se ed ey Ne (ie eeoeSeaocs 14 eto ee
BHM MASP ee. Mesto seeks Se sans heecin es sha eane hl beogSopDas a by Cp eees as
er RCS ae < Aare ot ee aan ee eeee stones cee 7 1 | WA Feeeaeeste
i “ elbetenorin 5.) 5 9 ete oe re aay oe en ee 2,148 1, 564 2,301 1, 792
PEABHID CIMA Sete ey Sn ao Bete oie Sloe Selec @ Saree eae 74 fe oie eO AES 1 ES eee eer
a uA oat So Soe see See acs see eects ie see oecaes Saye
Borneo): +..-.- S558 GSS Soca Soe sean asentoEE aces Baocascede [eceeceeeee ye ee es
TREN 3 oe ee ee ee 1,385 | 803 | 1, 440 715
TE atin AATaT VS a CE a A 95479) “1,396 |) 2582 706
) PIES UNIN Mae seni = ee see cio nee eee ee n= als 1 |} 1 | AG eA aaa ee
‘ = HE, ETT Ne is Boneetinee 57 1
ESTED ERS La 78 WCC Y 00 (0 0 a Bale. cesscee | VDA Ree lsnscas
| THAME rN has ee Ses sie es ce pees Sees 63 1 | 72 88
PaVTEOT NR SARS elvis Sar cea ie ace a Pe cs elseis ois |e atc mane cisinnces 6s |Roee eee
MECIONOS IS otic ola e ek oe Basese eee SSS ocon| Rem aeemase |eSebeae cine I | Pes can ene
“OLDE (OPOLTOT Oh ei ER eeeet Sa 210 8 274 1
MP MVCTOCMGANGS So. > ee eee Selene te hate e sce Ue saeciec cess fesis sous ee Dears eer
CST OUT TR oie Se ges pei eee are ae ace erate eto SS ch) PESREAS Gee 5 | See ee
UIRETGY. 2 cob ogee Se a Se Ee re eee 1, 106 211 1,090 1
“CLE TITIET), 2s el ee ep = 238 173 249 141
LALETED OEE i a a a a Ss ee a eae 704 14 657) |She2 ae =552
ULSD SCE SE gs ape a 922 178 784 673
DMD 32 Se ee ee a 196 22 233 25
EESTI Oar a a it IIs teeta ese 1 geen a
OU) CATES) 5 2 Soe Sore ee ee ee ee ee eee lene ee ase 34 Sea eee
osc E a ae aa 1, 067 | 266| 1,054 186
PENTRU ote om SARE Te oe oes Mele okitinns De eee alesse ee
«NIE Es GTS ye ar 7 eer ad S| oa Sze waters
LLAMAS? c22 8 300 Se TAVIS Ff oat Tis Soleo ener
BACT nese 0c e tS tea See ea ee OG) sbeebs 1B bee eR seS
‘ EDM sea) TET Ey Vo ie le Fi (ie Pete baat Sele
HOT TESTERS CTS oN eS 2 ee eee Bie nee eee
sm 1901——7
98 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Comparative statement of packages received for transmission through the Inter-
national Exchange Service, etc.— Continued.

1900. ~ i901.
_ Country. Packages, Packages.

For— From—
FOTMOSa, 2252 ets Salata seine cee amare eee aaleroie cael Ilesoceaesere
Wran CG) tac aca = cee e Soe c eee Seewe ee SEE oases 7,178 3, 458
Brench Cochin (Chinas 22. s2cecesaees =< nc= seers mW ape ny ee
French" Guiaia’e coo... seccc ee seen we Leet o Setetceet lock cetiee see erase
German ye h2e soso. Be Aeris soa. s Ose ODT eee 12,576 6,189
Gibraltennt.- 9s Set-w accents cec ee teen eee anes Dhl | Spee te
GYena Gal ss 24) eco ae ten weer celle aes eee eee Gries sscese se
Great, Britain and Ireland: >... 22st s22.c5-- ose] = 10, 848 8,950
GTC CC sec eccine conse aoe eek ss water MESSER | 20S all ene sees
Greenland t.- 22. ee ones Bee eee eee 2. ||, eee stee ee Be See eee S
Guadeloupes). ce.225 ce eect. iteeeece vee emeenies 2)\ thee cies hl Weceeccee.
Guatemalan. .fe2.. sees ae see erence essere 14a ceecleateee 129) eee esos
GUIneS . ei see. 5. Sos Jka ates Ss Seaneoe See eee s| eee cte ns Seemeanees 3 |G. ee eee
aitiics ce oed oe he oe ee nee = eee ee eee OGOF Hw asine ea OLOM he see seer
HawallanvlslandSeneceac ssc s eae nee ee 71 8 945 }e Soe see
Honduras’: S520 Frc. ce bose setc toes see eee eee 41 267 51 23
Honekon gies cae se ae nao eee Pe aoe aoe 82)" Fasn eco 76nlGea oes
Neelam a facts cc scsi cts eee ne asa seee eee 35 il 44 1
DE OKOG ¢: Wiegand Oat SIRE ya ONS, Strid ie 2 | 1,371 154 1, 410 159
MGR Ves raven ce ae Se Secale eee ee ee eee ee | 3, 862 992 4, 340 1,275
JAMAICH Sweet eens eet a eee te ete eeeaioee See WAGs, | Soe aies ere 90 eerie
JAPAN. ceetie ok as fase clwesiee eee See eee terete ster 1, 394 20 1, 533 18
VUNG te irene terse Ieee a ae wan seme ees 151 124 203 144
12400) (=) HA EOS ater a er ns ice: ae AIPSE RS Ie 9) }| |Sro strerc asso 20h le eeeaesaes
HAP OS Awa aas tees crete eee aoe meee oe ete e ie ermereeremter Del Ns Sei ccuss alwsie a A jelte eae eee
Liberal. 2305-6 cccn5t5 5k at teak essen eae ee Sai leecssee ee COE SECS
Luxemberg she ces acee Osc eee acces Soest eeeeeeens oil eases cette isn GeeeosccS.
Madagascar: onstactes c-cjne sec ates otc ree sires BL eave erie ADS sonnets
Madeirai:.ic2ccsie Sso2ce 552m siecoeess tensaacee eee 3 el eee | B lecieceteeete
Malltais ci <2 earn Sh Set cece ees eee ees BDul Gosseesee 23 2
Martinique: 200! tnd oo0.- Since sees ocek se eee eee Bi Renee aeaee Bgl Sere eee!
Matiribius: sas esa 5 Se eee Bil eee ee ee Ba Ns pee ol
Mexico 22 Sis. Gee Soe) eee eee | 1,641 4,099 1,719 | 3; 720
MONUENESTOn same Boneonsoro secas bo. cseEsue | Ween esdonag joshonc sods oacbocc coe
Miomtserrat: jae site pre para ea te naam ete atte arnieteree ee eel tes LAP ee A
MOLOCCO!.2. ase eee nema ence eee 1 |---------: 45 crabs eee
Natal) sock cs AS SScek see on aoe Sema eae eae ee 46 5 58 3
Netherlands). : 22ct82 422 ease ees ect eee 1, 662 533 1,847 7123
Nevis) sivs- 2 sone Bie saciace gelsae oe cee sete sacl eeancs ee son) scise eee sae ds?) (a2 Soe
New Caledonia, 22-2 een eeen- 2 oes sae eee nae Lo tiek sat neg | SERS see eel oe eens
Newfoun@land):::2¢2ci.c.cect ie ccese ene cease Slalssccsaense PY Gi eases:
New. Hebrides ssi: 222522. e202 occ oes see noose : Vl esasase's legen Sena | Genoese
ING w Southewialesnec case essen ose eee seas 1,390 360 1,584 229
Nei Zealangts25cetee cece sees cece ci core 834 5 821 12
INDO ye De pean en Bnet Sat AR ae ern eons CSO urS te on lab sce 58) esceec sce
IN OIWWEY: siete wis ciao Sa ict ce Dee ve ne here ye 1, 287 383 1, 292 999
PATA URVnee ees cee ees enee came teheeeeee eres 39 : 13 73 40

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 99

Comparative statement of packages received for transmission through the Inter-
national Exchange Service, etc.—Continued.

1900. 1901.
Country. Packages. Packages.
For— | From—-|} For— From—
See bee eee sean eone on omae obosse sosonrocesce 272) Pe SRomase 20) os guaecete
ROAD po aS SSR ESS aes kaa So cee se odeequeueedos 724 25 723 15
Philippine Islands .-......-.---.----------------- DSi eee eee Gli eeepc:
POULOURIC OMe eee Coe eccrine heres anata stele LO! webs ae58 AGN cea sees
ROGUE Ae ee aaa ies = sie actrees =i ennisiein Qn Bretesieses ai O14 See saceece
a (ASE soe node deca setae aces oc geen eaMeamaD SAG ee ee Sian ee seek oe
FAITE OTIBNE Sone aes ee ey ie AE ah Melos. Shatae OnE Gee eee
Toute habt) oo eA ae hee one eam eodeeec Ones snoe 189 101 175 87
TRGB 22 8 cases eee ce des ase oon Sete ap aertecaa be 2,951 779 3, 213 2,277
MIB arUnOlOMe Wie ees oot ae ae ee 10 Bees ascee loocdsepoes Bec seacee
Si. CROSS CA saageatsode= ene ne aseecastearsonecasens ES |e epoerceort-1 P| Ee a eens Beles
SL IDNR ape assed sabsee ees dneseeeseeoteeeses| Soceecoods booscoocne Wile ciyare csi
Su, IGT saa Se Se a eer eee eee Di ibs ets otis Giles ase ceo
Sin RMU ocate Subtes nob csepeccerasesecasseesenreres | eo siceace Sil Meeeees ces
Si), MIGiR Oh Se ees AES eeeeenonemescaonenmaccn Le leone eee Pal se rarer re
SimGierre and Migquelom= oss: 62> 2a8 see e= aoe = el aisi-= || = em Diez ere gers
Sti, RUHR gseccos eo she cates ae eeoo ae eeeeedsoasaee AM eeicre seee r= DQ lsagekweeee
‘Sit, Wile a 0 3 ec sen ee rh oogsce soa esse en aneoe ae Bilossoosasas Me Cote Se
Scuttle sSaec c oeeeloes Snare ae pu Sane ener ee Aaeosar 1 NpSoosbaos LBs ee snetees
Sn De bias eee Be setae fae ett ote Leta Balieecsase ce Da st ESS
SIO MOONE OM sea emer face isoe eee at il eecenecsce 1 al eee
Sta SI Eyer Ses ae ne ace ee een ene : 53 24 77 7
SUS), oe ee ee eS ee Seater 36 1 S38) zeae sane as
STOTT, . ce Se RSS EA ENCCEE REC Se See ae ea Pee Biig\|aesectceee ay Eyl eee
SUSE: ILROIYG pe sek ta aean gee cooeseneoanaeseos tosses Pd ae aes . 1
Serie GG REE es eon neta shee iene eae cere iV Sapesssene dha yak SD
SouthwAtricanvRepubpliGn: 22 sc o520022 525-2222 - | 594 104 ay: Va Daa
SeRIGL AAR i UG ea On S6 aaa oee acerca Sa eeaaree spec 781 39) ena 92
SUNRLIR) cascgonde See ede ae ee Bans oe tse Se Bee ae cooes 18 Pies See 1219} | eee
BETAS SeLPLeIMeGNUS: o- 592A eee ean se cele 34n|esl eee 46 1
Synvtin ial ee eet e eee er e a 1 eee ee Sl eee ae
SUSU 5 Ses ee ee the ee ee ea en a eg | 1,916 493 1,909 292

Switzerland........... a ee Ney | 2,120 726 2,431 686

5 SAS OSE DO CBRE COOL Ree Eee naar aEIas TW |e we se QO ae cee ee
“TESTU ES Ro ey ge tne Se ar 644 2 691 2
5 bates eR a a epee Seniesa 26% |\S2e22ce2 oe 1h ed cee
TUBING |e 5 A te RB eee te et SRR era Seer ets rT Oe eee CORES. Aes
PR Aas see ape ae soo go SSS Deserts sae 15 1

J Scie SSE eRe 2 5a os eI eS ie atin eA eer 6215. Sass HOOs|Saesesecee

“UTI TIS TVG ER 2 ae eae Dhl Recetas Grissesereces
TW atieGl GAUEERG 5 Ze i se eee eer er tere ete 98,625 | 76,264) 31,367 81,310
‘UNDE, 6 oe Sepa ee te Dea ee poe aCe See arene ae 817 116 817 129
“/ QRIAICIEM. gute aad ce See ae erence Seoereenie 699 al 660 tececehees
“RELA Je se elle se ee 1,101 517 1,190 312
NUE UPATISETR Ia eet Sem x So es oe Done ses alae OOS [Beech tae 656 335
SQRTWAN SDE ae SESS oe A eA ek ee Of ihe Be a eae Seleee emer

100 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The following is a list of the Smithsonian correspondents acting as dis-
tributing agents, or receiving publications for transmission to the United
States, and of countries receiving regularly exchanges through the Insti-
tution:

Algeria. (See France. )

Angola. (See Portugal.)

Argentina: Museo Nacional, Buenos Ayres.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Wien.

Azores. (See Portugal. )

Belgium: Commission Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Brussels.

Bolivia: Oficina Nacional de Inmigracién, Estadistica y Propaganda Geo-
grifica, La Paz.

Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

British Colonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London, England.

British Guiana. (See British Colonies. )

British Honduras. (See British Colonies. )

Bulgaria: Dr. Paul Leverkihn, Sofia.

Canada: Packages sent by mail.

Canary Islands. (See Spain.)

Cape Colony: Superintendent of the Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Universidad de Chile, Santiago.

China. (Shipments suspended for the present. )

Yolombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficino de Depdsito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, San José.

Cuba: Dr. Vicente de la Guardia, Habana.

Denmark: Kong. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

Dutch Guiana: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

East India: India Store Department, India Office, London.

Egypt: Société Khédiviale de Géographie, Cairo.

Fiji Islands. (See British Colonies. )

France: Bureau Francais des Echanges Internationaux, Paris.

Friendly Islands: Packages sent by mail.

Germany: Dr. Felix Fligel, Wilhelmstrasse 14, Leipzig-Gohlis.

Gold Coast. (See British Colonies. )

Great Britain and Ireland: William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex street, Strand,
London, England.

Greece: Prof. R. B. Richardson, Director, American School of Classical
Studies, Athens.

Greenland. (See Denmark..)

Guadeloupe. (See France. )

Guatemala: Instituto Nacional de Guatemala, Guatemala.

Guinea. (See Portugal. )

Haiti: Secrétaire d’ Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Hawaiian Islands: Foreign Office, Honolulu.

Honduras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hungary: Dr. Joseph von Kordésy, ‘‘ Redoute,’’ Budapest.

Iceland. (See Denmark. )

Italy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

eR tN Noe ee eR SEE

Oe 4 eek

ae

Sete eek eS

7

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 10]

Jamaica. (See British Colonies. )

Jaya. (See Netherlands. )

Korea: Packages sent by mail.

Leeward Islands. (See British Colonies. )

Liberia: Care of American Colonization Society, Washington, District of
Columbia.

Luxemburg. (See Germany. )

Madagascar. (See France. )

Madeira. (See Portugal.)

Malta. (See British Colonies. )

Mauritius. (See British Colonies. )

Mexico: Packages sent by mail.

Mozambique. (See Portugal. )

Natal: Agent-General for Natal, London, England.

Netherlands: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Den Helder.

New Guinea. (Sce Netherlands. )

New Hebrides: Packages sent by mail.

Newfoundland: Packages sent by mail.

New South Wales: Government Board for International Exchanges,
Sydney.

New Zealand: Colonial Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet, Christiania.

Paraguay: Care Consul-General of Paraguay, Washington, District of
Columbia.

Persia. (See Russia. )

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

Philippine Islands: Packages sent by mail.

Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Queensland: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.

Roumania. (See Germany. )

Russia: Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque
Impériale Publique, St. Petersburg.

Saint Helena. (See British Colonies. )

Santo Domingo: Packages sent by mail.

San Salvador: Museo Nacional, San Salvador.

Servia. (See Germany. )

Siam: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

South African Republic: William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex street, Strand,
London.

South Australia: Astronomical Observatory, Adelaide.

Spain: Oficina para el Canje de Publicaciones Oficiales, Cientificas y
Literarias. Seccion de Propiedad Intelectual del Ministerio de Fomento,
Madrid.

Straits Settlements. (See British Colonies. )

Sumatra. (See Netherlands.)

Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

Sweden: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.
102 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Tasmania: Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart.

Trinidad. (See British Colonies. )

Tunis. (See France.)

Turkey: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston,

Massachusetts.

Turks Islands. (See British Colonies. )

Uruguay: Oficina de Depdsito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, Montevideo.
Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Carscas.

Victoria: Public Library, Museum, and National Gallery, Melbourne.
Western Australia: Victoria Publie Library, Perth.

Zanzibar: Packages sent by mail.

The distribution of exchanges to foreign countries was made in 1,757
cases, 282 of which contained official documents for authorized deposito-
ries, and the contents of 1,475 cases consisted of Government and other
publications for miscellaneous correspondents. Of the latter class of
exchanges the number of cases sent to each country is given below.

Argentina! <3 5" 221 ee anes 30 | New South Wales: 22.22 = 15
AMSA sot stee See ae, eae Gi Netherlands see > 22 eee ee 40
Belov: 2 Set ie a eee 490 (News Zealand *s 2-252. df
BOMVIae Ba ee a ere 2 | ‘Nicaragua, “1c. Aceh ee 3
Brag tio 2S eet aioe eee 20 NOEWAY cos. hoe. oe 5 ees 25
BritishiColoniessceee = = = 4s4 TS WParapiaye. <5 5 3.26 eens BAAS LP
Gape Colony = 224 ssc 2s55- 225-5 2 PORWr eo tee es eee ee eee 10
Chinas Shee eee a 4) POL Sia Se face ae oe eee (7)
Chile e025 ee cee ee es 15ycPortipal 228.64 2" Sy eeuaes 18
@olombiasiue. eee cece cee 6 | Queensland. = 252s (sie 10
Costaihicas. 2 Seer en ante as 6|-Roumaniae ee ee aoe ee (*)
Guibas teehee one eee 2 UBSES a2 eo eee = Se nee eee 62
Denmark) 2... 26. eet oll iSalvadontss =) so ee eee 3
Dutch! Goianay2 22. 4s osee ee (¢) |iSantto: Domiung-o:22 22 hess 1
Bast india = 5-2-4 18). Serviaie - as. 25. =e ee (*)
Bey tro. ot tee see pee estee te 27) SOLAN. SoS een ee eens See ee ()
France and Colonies. .--..----- 164| South ‘Australiais: 2.22 eee = 8
GErmanyeewee 5. on ee ee 248 | South African Republic. -...--- (®)
Great Britain and Ireland ~.-- - BSOS TS Pale. ees ee ene eee ees 19
GTECCER Se ne eee 1’ Sweden sen Oe oe eae 43
Guatemalan seer eee eee 2 eS WAIZCTIANG! 2 an see ae eee ae 43
1 0 A ea ieee trie Se oe Same San Bat (2) eSiy rl aete eee cs 2 epee nee re eerie 2,
Honduras: s2- eee eee Ty Ras ania 22 hose ee ere CG)
Hungary’ S20 es ee ee eee Yo: Turkeys Selene Sees actrees 2
STA eU Vi Sue ee Meal oe eo ee EUG UE, eee en Bee 8
Jia patie « Soe Gee ne eee See 25. Vienezuelas 25s s> a Se eee q
WMexicos.3. sao eas eee (7) |. Wictoria es sccm se ne eee 10
IN evtallld ones An iege eee ern (@) | Western Australias == =a see" 10

1 Included in transmissions to Netherlands.
* Packages sent by mail.

* Included in transmissions to Great Britain.
* Included in transmissions to Germany.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1038

The following is a list of depositories of regular sets of United States
Government publications forwarded abroad through the International
Exchange Service on July 10, October 6, November 23, 1900, and on Jan-
uary 23, April 1, and May 20, 1901:

Argentina: Library of the Foreign Office, Buenos Ayres.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Wien.

Baden: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg.

Bavaria: K6nigliche Hof-und Staats-Bibliothek, Miinchen.

Belgium: Bibliotheque Royale, Brussels.

Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Buenos Ayres: Library of the Government of the Province of Buenos

Ayres, La Plata.

Canada: Parliamentary Library, Ottawa.

Canada: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Chile: Biblioteca del Congreso, Santiago.

Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, San José.
Denmark: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

England: British Museum, London.

France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

Germany: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

Greece: National Library, Athens.

Haiti: Secrétaire d’ Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.
Hungary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

India: Secretary to the Government of India, Calcutta.

Italy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Roma.

Japan: Foreign Oftice, Tokyo.

Mexico: Museo Nacional, Mexico.

Netherlands: Library of the States General, The Hague.

New South Wales: Government Board for International Exchanges,

Sydney.

New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Departementet for det Indre, Christiania.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: Konigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

Queensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russia: Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg.

Saxony: KoGnigliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

South African Republic: Department of Foreign Affairs, Pretoria.!
South Australia: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Seecion de Propiedad Intelectual del Ministerio de Fomento,

Madrid.
Sweden: Kongliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.
Tasmania: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

‘Shipments subsequent to August 1, 1899, suspended.
104 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Turkey: Minister of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

Uruguay: Oficina de Depésito, Reparto y Canje Internacional de Publica-
ciones, Montevideo.

Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Victoria Public Library, Perth.

Wiurttemberg, Kénigliche Bibliothek, Stuttgart.
Respectfully submitted. F. W. Hones,

Acting Curator of Exchanges.
Mr. 8. P. Laneiey,
_ Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

de &

APPENDIX IV.

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE NATIONAL
ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Str: I have the honor to herewith submit the following report relating
to the condition and operations of the National Zoological Park for the
year ending June 30, 1901:

At the close of that period the approximate value of the property
belonging to the park was as follows:

BeeneShOn Animndalgere see ere le eh cease ae $63, 000
mmicines for administrative purposes -.-..--:------.--2+------- 14, 000
Oimcesurniture, books, apparatus; etez----.-----2s2-2-.4---25-4- 4, 000
Macuinery, tools, and implements -/...52:----2-2.55-e.eeeh-Lt- 2, 200
MERC CH ans Oud OOT IM CLOSURES aaa) — 2 eS aes sees ee 25, 000
Roadways, bridges, paths, rustic seats, etc ........-.-.--------- 74, 000
NR esl i ey hg Ad ae ee ant ee eee Se I 1, 000
Ree eA ees Sa Lb eee d sie ets 800
Emails in Zoological collection-..<. 2-22-2522 aes. oon 8 ae 36, 000

A detailed list of the animals in’ the collection is appended hereto.
They may be classified as follows:

Indige- | 5,_..- Domesti-
Yani Foreign. anvaal. Total.
MISERIES ee en a asim Sixt sieicie fei wisne Soci semeae sneia sec 382 77 78 537
SLY AIN OPE ETT foe So is ators Saye eee cle Sie Ssh oS oe 129 40 56 225
LST TGS Gs SS RES SSE ak ee Se ie 91 Pay) tees, OR At L 116
{UOTE Seal OES Sas el ie ei tO ee eee 602 142 134 878

The accessions of animals during the year have been as follows:

"PARE SETI WE A a cates cat paras ae eg ig oa a el ee 131
REE eNO COUC COU rob 2 an Sa Oe ee Ree ets ss 104
SLL ne es Ee RI pet ein IR ed a ea 9
Received in exchange..-.....-....-- rik ae si ale es Sh SO ME a 28
mara National Zoological Park --.. ©... 2. .i..22..2-22.2---------. 46

ENED ss Saree ic ap a RE a 318

The cost for purchase, collection, and transportation of these acces-
sions has been $4,000. Besides this there has been spent for books
photographs, apparatus, and office furniture the sum of $1,100.

1 105
106 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The appropriation for the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year
1901 was as follows:

For continuing the construction of roads, walks, bridges, water supply,
sewerage and drainage; and for grading, planting, and otherwise improv-
ing the grounds; erecting and repairing buildings and inclosures; care,
subsistence, purchase, and transportation of animals, including salaries or
compensation of all necessary employees; the purchase of necessary books
and periodicals, and general incidental expenses not otherwise provided
for, seventy-five thousand dollars; one-half of which sum shall be paid
from the revenues of the District of Columbia and the other half from the
Treasury of the United States; and of the sam hereby appropriated five
thousand dollars shall be used for continuing the entrance into the Zoolog-
ical Park from Cathedral avenue and opening driveway into Zoological
Park, including necessary grading and removal of earth: Provided, That
the unexpended balance of the amounts, aggregating eight thousand dol-
lars, heretofore appropriated for widening, grading, and regulating Adams
Mill road from Columbia road to the Zoological Park entrance is hereby
reappropriated, to be expended under the direction of the Commissioners
of the District of Columbia; and that the control of Adams Mill road is
hereby vested in the said Commissioners, and all proceedings necessary to
purchase or condemn the land necessary to widen said road as authorized
by act approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, proyid-
ing for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending
June thirtieth, nineteen hundred, and for other purposes, shall be taken
by said Commissioners. (Sundry civil act, June 6, 1900. )

From this the following improvements have been made in the buildings
and grounds during the year:

Temporary bird house.-—A much-needed structure to accommodate struthi-
ous and other large birds. As it was deemed inadvisable to expend money
for a permanent structure at this time, a cheap frame construction was
used, the sides of which were treated with pebble-dash and the roof made
of asphalted felt covered with crushed slag. The interior work of the
house is better in quality than would be expected from the exterior, the
cages being commodious, of good material, with neat finish, and each sup-
plied with direct sunlight from a skylight. It is heated by a steam boiler
already in the possession of the park, haying been formerly used in the
principal animal house. The building being very low is easily heated dur-
ing winter, but is very hot in summer. Its internal appearance is quite
satisfactory, and the birds have been much more healthy since they have
been transferred to it. Kor diving birds two aquarium tanks were intro-
duced, in order that their evolutions under water might be seen by the
public. This extremely interesting feature might be enlarged with great
advantage. To be effective the water supplying the tanks should be per-
fectly clear and limpid. This can only be done by means of a good filter,
The cost of this bird house was $3,500.

Flying cage.—Another structure relating to birds has been devised and the
construction begun during the present year. This is a large flying cage, 158
by 50 by 50 feet. It is intended to supply the cage with running water,
and it is hoped that herons and other aquatic species may nest within
its limits. The total cost of this structure is estimated at $6,200, only a
portion of which will be expended from the appropriation for 1901.

The principal animal house.—The roof of this house was repaired and a
portion of it replaced. Additional heating coils were placed at the north
end, and the outside range of cages was repainted; all at a total cost of $500.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. LOT

Office building.—The old building in which the office of the park is placed
has been, up to the present time, in a very ruinous state. In order to
restore it to something like its pristine condition, the entrance hall and
large room connecting with it were finished witha brick floor and suitable
windows, the entrance hall on the second floor repaired, one of the chim-
neys entirely rebuilt, and an extra flue constructed. Several bookcases
were built in the library room, furniture was purchased, and several small
alterations made to the outside of the building. The total cost of this
work was $2,200.

Aquarium.—It being evident that the present temporary aquarium
building can be maintained in proper condition but a short time, it was
thought necessary to prepare plans for a new and much more satisfactory
structure. These plans, which are very elaborate and complete, were
prepared by Messrs. Hornblower & Marshall, at a cost of $500.

Bridge near Quarry road entrance.—Under the appropriations for the
District of Columbia, Congress made the following appropriation:

For construction of a bridge across Rock Creek on the line of the road-
way from Quarry road entrance, under the direction of the Engineer
Commissioner of the District of Columbia, twenty-two thousand dollars,
one-half of which sum shall be paid out of the revenues of the District of
Columbia. (Sundry civil act June 6, 1900.)

In accordance with this provision, a bridge of concrete, made according
to the ‘‘ Melan”’ system, was constructed in the Zoological Park, taking
the place of the wooden bridge of a composite character which was built
when the park was first established.

Incidental to the construction of this bridge, the water main that was
hung upon the old structure had to be removed and relaid at the bottom
of the creek. The cost of this work was $450, which was defrayed from
the appropriation for the National Zoological Park.

New paddocks.—Increase of the collection has made it necessary to con-
struct several new paddocks during the year, one being for the Rocky
Mountain sheep, another for moose, another for the Newfoundland caribou
and mule deer.

It was found necessary to separate the buffalo paddocks by double
partitions, in order that the males may not fight through the partition
fences.

Water pipes were laid to the camel paddocks, and also to provide pools
and shower baths for the bison and other animals during the heated
months of summer.

Repairs to boundary fence.—The fence which had been removed along the
west and south side of the park, to allow grading and improvement of
roads in the vicinity, has been reset during the year and a considerable
amount of repairs have been made to the fence in other portions of the
park. The total cost of these repairs was $300.

Macadam walk.—Many visitors to the park enter from the western side.
The board walk which had been constructed to lead from Connecticut
avenue extended to the central portion of the park, through a shady ravine,
became so decayed and unsafe that it was necessary to replace it. It was
removed and a macadam walk laid. Other walks of less extent were

108 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

made where urgently needed. The expenditure for this purpose was
about $700.

Driveway from Cathedral avenue.—It will be noted from the language of
the appropriation for the park that the entrance formerly specified to be
made from Woodley road is now to lead in from Cathedral ayenue, a
street recently constructed along the western side of the park. An appro-
priation of $5,000 was made, which included the necessary grading and
removal of earth. In pursuance of this provision of law, work was done
on the small dam made over Rock Creek near the site of the old Adams
mill in order to secure the banks against high water and to permit the
stream to be safely forded. An illustration showing this ford is herewith
appended. From this point a fill is being made to connect this driveway
with Cathedral avenue. The heavy fill made by the District authorities
along the line of Cathedral avenue made it necessary to construct a rude
retaining wall at one important point to prevent detritus from washing
down and filling up the road. The amount appropriated by the act,
$5,000, has been used upon the driveway, and the work will be continued
during the next fiscal year.

The raw slopes of earth that will remain after this driveway is completed
should be planted at once with suitable shrubs and trees, in order that they
may be kept from serious erosion and to avoid the unsightly appearance
which they would otherwise present. |

Repairing roadways.—The driveway from the Adams mill entrance,
which is more used than any other road in the park, has been reshaped
and resurfaced with crushed limestone. This driveway assumes addi-
tional importance from the fact that the District authorities have at last
graded a carriage way from Columbia road to the park entrance, thus
making the driveway in the park more easily accessible.

The main driveway throughout the park, from Quarry road to the west-
ern entrance, has been dressed with gravel, and the whole at a cost of $400.

The Klingle road, which skirts the north side of the park, having been
repaired and raised by the District authorities, it became necessary to reset
the park fence and raise the grade of the driveway connecting with it.

The cutting of Cathedral avenue through the western edge of the park
made it necessary to remove a considerable number of evergreen and other
trees and shrubs formerly set in that locality for the purpose of a screen.
These trees were reset during the hot summer months along the roads and
walks in different parts of the park and the shrubs around the office build-
ing. Considering the extremely unfavorable weather when the transfer
was made, this planting was fairly successful. A considerable amount of
stock was transferred from the nursery to permanent localities, and the
care of the natural forest of the park has been continued as necessary. The
total cost of this work during the year was $900.

Children’s room at the Smithsonian Institution.—A small exhibit of fishes
and birds belonging to the National Zoological Park has been installed and
maintained in the children’s room at the Smithsonian Institution. The
total expenditure for this purpose was about $400.

Sundial.—The sundial purchased in London by the Secretary from a pre-
vious appropriation was set up on the lawn near the animal house, at a cost
of $100.

“WA SaLv 1d

N 3HL NI GuOS

“MYVd AVvVOIDO100Z IVNOILV

"1061 ‘Hoday uRluosYyIWS

